

I
X
<B*2****
mf
\&&F
'
rf~'
jmp ct
$&&«* °
>■.'*
saw
OWARD
*
£H
iV
E LE DIA L
Battery-operated Models.
Pioneers of battery set perfection, Howard this year
offer an extensive range of even more improved models
for country use —vibrator, air-cell and battery operated.
Each one has been specially designed for battery economy
and is ' FULLY safeguarded by the exclusive Howard
Protective System
Prices from
£23/10/-
Again Howard scores the radio scoop of the year! In 1 935 electrically-
welded, ball-bearing Tuning Condensers! In 1936—hermetically-sealed
I.F. Transformers! In 1937—fu1l protective system and written guarantee
on “B” Batteries—and now Howard again brings you the latest sensational
advantage of radio designing—the two-speed Teledial, exclusive to
Howard and a standard feature.
On
This exclusive advantage gives fingertip control
of local stations PLUS 15:1 ratio bandspread
micro-tuning for delicate reception of distant
stations. Moreover, every 1938 Howard has a
special “Piano-Finish” cabinet—increased selec-
tivity—greater sensitivity—and a host of other
exclusive features. You need these features for
full enjoyment of 1938’s big broadcasts, so you
need a Howard—arrange to see them soon.
A/C MODELS
A complete range of
models for every pur-
pose —-Consoles and Table Sets in striking modern
cabinets, and guaranteed to give outstanding perform-
ance. Yet Howard value is immediately evident, for
the prices range from as low US
A|C, D/C RANGE Kt:
current areas, the Howard 1938 range of Universal
sets gives you powerful tone and performance previ-
ously impossible. Again prices are
from as low as .
20 Gns.
Available on Easy Terms —Enquire from
Sydney —
CARNEGIE & SONS
334 George Street,
ELVY'S
397 George Street.
Melbourne —
CARNEGIE’S
PTY., LTD.,
106 ELIZABETH ST.
GLEN’S
240 COLLINS ST.
Brisbane —
CARNEGIE BROS.
64 Queen Street.
Manufactured & Distributed by
HOWARD RADIO PTY.,
LTD., Vere St., Richmond,
Victoria.
jh
Leaders in
COMBINATION SETS
Everything in musical entertainment that you
could wish for! The famous Howard Combina-
tion sets are truly luxury instruments! Yet they
are no more than the price of an ordinary radio.
The Mayfair Console illustrated above is a 5-
valve Dual Wave with Automatic Volume Con-
trol, plus the world-famous Garrard radiogram
equipment. Enclosed in a magnificent “piano-
finish” cabinet, it
priced at
£37/10/-
■7i
%
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3033.
Wednesday, March 30, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
AT THE FISHER EXHIBITION.
Looking over the recent Fisher Library exhibition
of Australian literature —part of the sesqui. celebrat-
ing—left an impression of viewing a collection of the
published books of Bulletin contributors. Certainly
Bulletin writers and BuLLETiN-published work were
strong in the collection, particularly in such sections;
as the Australian Short Story and Novels of the
’Nineties. The range went back from such recent
serial- or book-publishings as, A House Is Built „
Coonardoo and All That Swagger to days before the
paper took on its pink jacket.
Librarian H. M. Green divided his exhibition into
four periods. The first (1788-1850) ended six years
before J. F. Archibald, one of the two founders of
The Bulletin, was born at Kildare (Vic.), and in
the same year as John Haynes, the other founder, first
saw the light in the Hunter River (N.S.W.) district;
The Bulletin began its career in 1880. The first
period in the Fisher exhibition was given over to the
publications of the Howe Press, imaginary voyages,
ancient maps, books dealing with the convict system
and early descriptive and historical works.
First table in the second section was occupied by
“verse, plays, essays and fiction of the age of Kendall.”
Kendall died two years after The Bulletin started,
but the earliest files contain samples of his writings.
Brunton Stephens, who, with Kendall and Gordon,
comprised “the trinity praised in the ’seventies,” had
practically ceased to write, but Archibald occasionally
used his contributions. George Gordon McCrae
(friend of “Orion” Horne and Marcus Clarke, a
founder of the Yorick Club, and father of Hugh
McCrae), another in the section, also wrote a little
for The Bulletin.
Tom Heney—one of the last jobs he did was to
help judge the 1928 Bulletin novel competition—
and Phil Holdsworth were others represented in this
section. When Holdsworth lived in Sydney his frock-
coat, high hat and spats were the pride of Potts Point,
but were regarded with suspicion by Victor Daley and
his colleagues.
The rest of the second section was mostly repro-
ductions of portraits done in color (Longstaff’s Henry
Lawson and a self-portrait of William Macleod, among
them), a portion of Angus and Robertson’s “Rogues’
Gallery,” books of black-and-white art (the show in-
cluded Phil May, “Hop,” Low and Norman Lindsay, the
four greatest Bulletin cartoonists) and original manu-
scripts. Louis Becke, who wandered about the Pacific
with Bully Hayes, was represented among the manu-
scripts by a neat page of “copy.” What a joy he
was to old-time Bulletin foreman compositor Bill
East! East, though, once declared that of all Bulletin
contributors his prize for good printer’s copy would
be awarded to “Banjo” Paterson, and for the worst
to Price Waning. Jack Abbott would probably win
the prize for the best nowadays.
The table which marked the beginning of the
third period (1890-1920) was labelled “The ballad and
some other popular verse and the work of some
women poets.” Excluding eight anthologies—all of
which are packed with gleanings from The Bulletin
—there were almost 100 books on the table and about
50 poets represented. Forty-five of the poets were, or
still are, regular Bulletin contributors.
All the well-remembered balladists and popular
versifiers were there —Lawson, Paterson, Ogilvie, Brady,
Farrell, Boake, Dyson, C. H. Souter, Dennis and so
on. Many to-day know Thos. E. Spencer’s “How
McDougall Topped the Score” —it is in The Bulletin
Reciter, by the way, along with many other rollicking
ballads —but few know any other of Spencer’s comic
effusions. It would be hard to pick up a copy of
G. H. Gibson’s Ironbark Splinters nowadays, but once
every bush-hut knew his “My Mate Bill.” As soon
as there was a Bulletin, Gibson, under the nom de
plume of “Ironbark,” began writing verse for it, and
though his output was never large he made writing
Bulletin verse a good habit for nearly 40 years.
Similarly, there can’t be many copies of Ernest
Favenc’s Voices of the Desert, Cuthbertson’s Barwon
Ballads, J. P. Bourke’s Off the Blue Bush and Louisa
Lawson’s The Lonely Crossing knocking about to-day.
As for the pictorial side of this section, what a
chance the caricaturist of three to four decades back
missed! Certainly there are some excellent caricatures
of Henry Lawson, “The Banjo” and Ted Brady in
existence, but they were not in the Fisher Library
exhibition. Low’s sketch of “Dryblower” Murphy
was the gem of the display. There should have been
drawn at the time it happened one of John Farrell in
frock-coat and top-hat sitting on the kerbstone in King-
street talking to a lamplighter. John was leader-writer
on the “Daily Telegraph” at the time. Nor is there one
of Jim Ryan (once known to Bulletin readers as
“Narranghi Boori”) in Chinese costume eating chop-
suey. That happened when Jim was mixed up with
a Sydney Chinese paper. As far as is known, Robert
Crawford, who once delivered a pound of steak instead
of a packet of his poems to The Bulletin, never had
his likeness committed to Bristol-board. He Was a
bantamweight who sported a black beard and a bowler
hat, and would have made a corking caricature.
The table displaying “The poetry of the ’nineties”
—a nice distinction here —had more than a score of
Bulletin names among about 30 poets on parade.
That inseparable pair in the ’nineties Victor Daley and
Roderic Quinn were appropriately together.
The scholar poets—among them Chris Brennan,
J. Le Gay Brereton, J. B. O’Hara, Jas. Hebblethwaite
and Bernard O’Dowd, a quintet of Bulletin
worthies —were grouped together. Near at hand were
books by Hugh McCrae, David McKee Wright,
Arthur Bayldon and John Shaw Neilson.
Curiosities included J. A. Andrews’s Teufelswelt.
Andrews was an ardent anarchist, and once published
a book, Poems of Freedom, with the inscription:
“Printed and published by the author, J. A. Andrews,
491 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, SLAVELAND.”
If the visitor had compiled beforehand a list of
the contributors to the Christmas numbers of The
Bulletin during the past 30 years and had thrown
in recent Bulletin book publications, serials and
novel-competition winners he would have found more
than half of the names appearing and reappearing
during the course of his stroll around the fourth sec-
tion of the exhibition.
Then there were Angus and Robertson’s “Rogues’
Gallery” and some Bulletin caricatures of literary
personages. The eyes have been picked out of The
Bulletin’s collection of caricatures, but some fine ones
still remain—Hugh McCrae’s A. G. Stephens and
George Finey’s Brian Penton among them.
A hundred and more poets, story-tellers and
novelists who have climbed The Bulletin stairs
carrying their latest masterpiece were included in the
Angus and Robertson Gallery, a collection of photo-
graphs, most of them autographed by the sitter. May
Moore’s camera never caught a better likeness than
the one of Henry Lawson, his face puckered in heavy
folds, his hair unbrushed and his moustache un-
.trimmed. What a contrast to the neat portrait of
Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) looking very much like
a shy curate from one of his stories! How neat, too,
did the spick-and-span Arthur Adams look, and Frank
Morton, son of a Baptist grocer, but a Bohemian if
ever there was one. “Banjo” Paterson, looking the
hard-headed judge of horseflesh he is; Bertram Stevens
—“The Gentle Anthologist”—pensively sucking a
pipe ; picturesque Fred Broomfield—Archibald’s “Man
with a Book” —were another lifelike trio of Bulletin
hands.
W. E. FIIZ HENRY.
Authors in Australia.
The author one who produces independent
creative literary work—is regarded in Australia as a
species of broken-down journalist; one unable to
obtain steady work on a newspaper. In England the
position is the reverse ; the journalist is one that lacks
the talent to be an author.
In England the author finds himself better off
than the journalist. He may live on the Continent; or
he may live cheaply in lovely country in the English
provinces, near a market town with good libraries,
municipal orchestra and repertory theatre ; and, inci-
dentally, in this town he will be able to buy many
kinds of Australian and Maoriland goods at half the
price he pays here. For serious work he is paid any-
thing from three to three hundred guineas per thou-
sand words.
In Australia the position is exactly reversed ; the
journalist is beyond comparison better off than the
author. The Australian journalist is paid quite as well
as his English confrere.
It may be possible for an author to make a living
in Australia by creative writing, but I doubt it. The
award that guards the scarecrow author is drawn up
entirely for the convenience of the journalist; pay-
ment adequate for spare-time journalism is far from
adequate for practising authors. Nor are editors
always helpful to Australian authors; some are reason-
able, others emphatically are not. The latter have
three favorite methods of dealing with unsuitable MS.:
(a) Wipe fountain-pens or splash ink on them.
(b) Ruin MS. by forcing them into envelopes of
wrong shape.
(c) Lose them.
The only redress, if your MS. comes under sec-
tion (c), is to write an indignant letter. In that case
the editor is hurt and tells you that he has to deal
with so much syndicated matter that Australian stories
cannot expect individual attention.
It may be asked, why should a young and hard-
working country be expected to support authors? A
volume could be written in reply to that question. For
the purposes of this article it is only necessary to say
that in England authors are recognised and encour-
aged ; in Australia they are not.
The author, of course, relies on the support of the
public to the same extent as any other merchant; if
he doesn’t sell his wares, sooner or later he goes out
of business. The public presumedly gets what it wants,
and it is not the fault of editors if it wants sport and
sensation and literary heart stabs and gun shots from
overseas. When editors can advertise a short story by
Helen Simpson or an outback article by lon Idriess
then authors will be able to remain in Australia. A
firmly rooted Australian literature will attract world
attention —may even, indeed, persuade people over-
seas that Australia is not the dull, tedious and color-
less country that abroad it is so often pictured.
Once I blamed Australian authors for going abroad.
Overseas I have listened dubiously to Australian
authors and painters and cartoonists and sculptors and
actors telling me how impossible it was for an artist
to make a living in Australia. I still think it a tragedy
both for Australia and Australia’s artists that our
writers and others are forced overseas to gain recog-
nition and a living ; working in Australia they would
be happier and their art more vital and more interest-
ing. But one cannot blame them for going.
F. RHODES FARMER.
North Australian Canvas.
With the story of the development of the novel
in Australia runs the story of our novelists’ discovery
of the continent. Region after region is added to the
area whose life may be seen through the art of creative
literature: Tom Collins’s Riverina, Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard’s Westralian jarrah lands, Miles Frank-
lin’s Monaro, Vance Palmer’s Queensland coastal life.
The latest addition is the Northern Territory, “dis-
covered” by Xavier Herbert in Capricornia (The
Publicist Press). The size of Herbert’s book, 250,000
words, is related to the size of his landscape. There
can be few aspects of Territory life that are not
glanced at, but the central theme is the relations
between white men and blacks and half-castes. The
closer Herbert is to this theme the better his work.
He writes of stockmen, prospectors, Chinese store-
keepers, railway-fettlers, wild blacks and the half-
castes around townships and stations with great vigor
and insight. He brings to his account of their various
relationships a sense of the humor of life as well as
of the pathetic and tragic. His colored people are not
vague abstractions. Fat Anna, Herbert, Cho Sek
Ching ; the half-caste girls Tocky O’Cannon, Christo-
bel and Constance Differ; the blaak men Peter Pan,
Bootpolish, and the police-tracker, Ginger, are all
individuals, their fates governed by their own char-
acters and circumstances. Capricornia is a story of
the individual tragedies attendant upon the clash of
color, almost, it seems, upon the evolution of a new
race, for it makes clear that White Australia, in the
increasing number of northern half-castes, has a home-
grown color problem on its hands.
Members of official circles and the more sophis-
ticated elements of the Northern Territory scene are
stencil-prints rather than fully developed characters.
They are the personifications of social forces as seen
from the novelist’s standpoint Dr. Boyles, Rev.
Prayter, Trooper McCrook, Judge Pondrosass. Some-
times Herbert uses this method effectively in other
connections, as with Cullapride, the large white
donkey that Cho Sek Ching was unable to break in.
The natural scene is well done. Tim O’Cannon’s
peregrinations one bright and dewy morning and Nor-
man’s attempt to travel in the wet season convey the
very smell of Northern Territory earth.
Xavier Herbert’s entire life seems to have been
a qualification for his job. Born in the northern part
of Westralia, he was familiar with half-wild blacks
during his boyhood. He qualified as a pharmacist at
Melbourne University, but was more interested in
writing than in drugs. He had some success with
short stories. The tropics called, and he went to
North Queensland, and later worked his way through
some of the islands. Followed a spell as hospital
dispenser at Port Darwin, where he took up the study
of anthropology. Then inland as stockman, railway
fettler and prospector. Back to the coast as a diver
with the Japanese pearlers ; then to London, where he
had a crack at scenario-writing and made a start on
Capricornia. Australia again, after cycling across
Europe, and a job in journalism in Sydney, with work
on his novel as time allowed. The novel finished, he
rolled his swag and tramped back to the Territory,
where, until recently, he was working a tantalite-
mining lease on the Darwin River.
Another Slant on Babbitt.
When the Nobel Prize for Literature was awarded
to Sinclair Lewis in 1930 one critic wrote that it was
a studied insult to the American people ; as if the
Swedish Academy had looked upon a malicious cari-
cature and said, “What a magnificent likeness, how
deeply true,” and Babbitt had forthwith become a
portrait of the typical American citizen.
But time seems to have been as mellow as
old brandy under Lewis’s bridge since then. In
his new novel, The Prodigal Parents (Cape),
Babbitt has a heart of genuine golden honey.
His name this time is Frederick William Corn-
plow, and he has the slickest little motor busi-
ness in Sachem Falls, N.Y. He also has a wife,
Hazel, as “honest as bread and butter,” whom he
loves in the good old American way, and two mon-
strous new-style American children, Sara and Howard.
He is the great American father, a comic little
man, noble and pathetic in his devotion to his grace-
less and demanding children. He is nipped merci-
lessly between Sara’s strong-mindedness and Howard’s
weak-mindedness. They both have the “gimmes”
equally strongly. Cornplow is brave, good and
pathetic. “He recalled that for more than thirty
years he had been slapping almost unslappable backs,
taking buyers to cafes when he had longed for his
slippers, enduring more talk about the weather than
there had been weather.”
Lewis has tried to turn Babbitt into a King Lear.
His children leave Goneril and Regan at the starting-
post. In fact, all the people in the book under forty
are despicable, from the Communist Gene Silga, whom
we first see picking the pockets of his friends after
a motor-car accident, to the nitwit young of com-
mercial Sachem Falls, who decide to give up being
“aristocrats” and become intellectuals. Annabel,
Howard’s wife, is the possible exception. She has
the sense and good feeling to leave him.
Twice Cornplow and his wife try to escape in
flight from their children. Once they are brought
ignominiously back. To prevent her father retiring —
and so reducing the family income—Sara does not
hesitate to sool an expensive psychiatrist on to him.
The end, however, is happy. Sara gets salvation
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
FAMOUS LOW
Wt
PRICES
H
mm
wm
Hi ■'
2 gag
i '
>
<-
i ' %
%
i W
■
Q
mm
I ’ .1
! n \
m
mm
m
I i
! i
It ?
u ’
I I «S
• r
I ‘>V
_____
illiii SIIHIi
£1
KK . $
wm
mm
mm
L
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
JUMBUK
(REGD.)
m
T
#£cd.
UNDERWEAR
GUARANTEED AND RECOMMENDED BY
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of winter.
Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long-staple pure woollen yarn
—the soft, down-like surface of the fabric is flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its native
warmth, the stored-up virtues of our country’s glorious sunshine.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is guaranteed pre-shrunk, and the wide range of sizes stocked
enables every man, woman and child to obtain a comfortable fit.
220 X -“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool, lightweight.
Sizes, inches ' 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6 14/9
Underpants 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/3 14/6 15/9
Trunk Drawers 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/- ——
330X— “Jumbuk” Natural All Wool, medium winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 11/9 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/9 17/- 18/6 20/- 21/6
Shirts, L.S. . . 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/-
Underpants 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6
Underpants, f leg ... 12/6 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/6 17/9
Trunk Drawers 12/3 12/9 13/9 14/9 16/3 17/6 —-
440—“ Jumbuk” Natural All Wool, heavy winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 14/3 15/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/6 21/9 23/3
Shirts, L.S 15/9 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 22/-
Underpants 15/3 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- ?0/- 21/6 22/9 24/3
All—“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets.
In Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style, self bound neck and armholes. Sizes, 34 to 44
inch chest. Prices, each
750 —“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton, lightweight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 7/- 7/9 8/3 9/- 10/- 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/-
Underpants 7/9 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/9 12/- 13/3 14/6
Trunk Drawers 7/3 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6 —.
25X —“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton, winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 8/6 9/- 9/3 9/9 10/9 11/9 12/9 13/9 15/-
Shirts, L.S 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
Underpants 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/9
OTHER MAKES OF UNDERWEAR
70P1—Fleecy Lined Underwear, warm winter weight undershirt's with short sleeves,
underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. In Natural shade,
medium weight. Price 3/6
In Fawn shade, heavy winter weight. Price 4/9
70P2—Natural All Wool Underwear, soft finish. Undershirts with short sleeves,
underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. In light weight all
wool. Price 5/6
In winter weight all wool. Price 7/6
In super quality heavy all wool. Price 8/11
70P3—Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear, soft finish. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest
or waist. Undershirts with short sleeves, or underpants to ankle. In light weight
wool and cotton. Price 4/11
In medium weight wool and cotton. Price 5/11
In heavy winter weight wool and cotton. Price 7/6
70P4—Brown Cotton Underwear. A stout durable make in a soft (unbleached)
finish.
Sizes, inches .. . . 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Shirts, short sleeves 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/6
Underpants 5/6 5/9 6/- 6/3 6/6 7/- 7/6
70P5—Men’s Flannel Undershirts, in reliable quality flannel, full fitting. In Natural
and Dark Grey. Prices S/11, 7/9, 8/6
In Cream Flannel. Prices 7/9, 8/11
In Navy Blue Flannel. Price 8/11
In Cream, Natural or Dark Grey, athletic style, no sleeves 6/11
Natural or Dark Grey. Extra O.S. fitting. Price 9/11
Natural or Dark Grey, 12 inch double back. Price 9/6
Natural, Cream or Dark Grey with long sleeves, button wrists . . . .
• Men's Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)


A Likeable Romanticist
Charlie
BY JAMES HACKSTON
ILLUSTRATED
BY SHELLEY .
it I ’M going to buy a horse and trap, Mother.”
This remark of my father’s would have
I suggested, at most other periods of our life,
hopeless insanity on his part, and my mother
would have either wept or laughed; but at this
particular time the remark was received soberly.
My father had struck it rich for the time being
and had fifty-five pounds clear, counting in that part
of it that should have gone to the man at the store
and sundry other creditors. He was in his seventh
heaven of delight. He had done things in a big way
this time. The poor return from his last crushing
had been sufficient reason for him to load his next
lot of quartz into two trucks and send it to the city.
“No more of those thieves up at the battery
cleaning my gold off the copper plates at night,” he
said. “They can get drunk on somebody else’s gold
after this, not mine.”
Of course it was all very expensive and it cut
down his return, but he didn’t worry about that. It
felt fine to be able to say that he had sent his quartz
all the way to a city plant to be crushed. It was
something to skite about up on One Stump Hill; it
added to his prestige.
No doubt my mother felt that a horse and buggy
would be nice to go for a drive in now and again,
for she never saw past her own door; but she was too
well aware of our general circumstances to be rash.
“Do you think it would be wise, Walter?” she
asked. “You know we could wait a little while longer,
couldn’t we, until we get more on our feet?”
“There is no time like the present,” said my
father. “And it’s time a man like me drove to town
and back instead of having to walk along the roads
like a blackfellow. It belittles a man to always be
seen plodding along in the dust on foot, with his
parcels on his back like a hawker. You must remem-
ber, Mother, I am an Englishman. A good horse
and trap would look well for us all, and it would
give me standing as a man of the district. So long
as I am seen shuffling along on foot men won’t take
me at my proper worth.”
This long speech settled it. He had made up his
mind.
NOW my father always went the whole hog and
to hell with the circumstances. He was going to
own the finest bit of horseflesh for miles round.
Nothing on the road must look better or be too fast
for it. It had to outpace and “pass everything.”
Two weeks later the finest-looking animal one
could wish for arrived at our humble tumbledown
home. It did not belong to our poverty-stricken little
white-clay washout of a farm. It made our place
look shabby and dusty. Its shining glossy coat put
to shame our decrepit-looking shed. Even the horse
itself seemed to sense that it had come a cropper in
its social standing. It snorted at us, rolled the whites
of its eyes and pawed the hard clay.
“Isn’t he a beauty?” said my father, who knew
nothing at all about horses. “Look at the lines of
his neck; see the girth of him. A noble animal! ”
We all stood round at a safe distance, gazing,
awed and frightened, at our magnificent property.
“What do you think of him, Mother?” asked
my father.
“It looks very fierce,” she said. “Is it a race-
horse?”
“Fierce?” said my father, smiling. “Why, he’s
as tame as a lamb ; and I bet he could win a race,
too.” And he went gingerly up to the horse to pat it.
“Steady there, boy,” he cooed. “Whoa there, my
beauty. Look at that!” And he attempted to place
his hand on its neck. The horse put its ears back,
snorted like a dragon and reared. My father jumped
back ; then, regaining his nerve, attempted to stroke
its mane. But this time there was such a wild display
of freshness that the man who had brought it and who
was holding it by a halter had to quieten it.
“It doesn’t like you, Walter,” said my mother.
“It will,” he said ; “and I’ll make it obey me in
the end.”
“Ever handled a horse?” asked the man.
“No,” said my father, “but I’ll soon get to know
his ways. I think I’m going to be very good with
horses.”
The man smiled as he led the animal away to a
paddock that my father had arranged to keep it in.
“You’ll have to do the place up to make it in
keeping with your new horse, Walter,” my mother
smiled.
“That’s all right, Mother,” he said. “From little
acorns oak-trees grow, you know.”
“Little acorns! ” exclaimed my mother. “It
doesn’t look like a little acorn to me. I should say
it’s more like a full-grown oak by the look of it.
How much did you pay for it?”
My father, as usual when he had to break things
gently, began to rock backwards and forwards on his
feet. “Well, how much do you think?” he asked.
was quite enough for my mother. She
knew then that he had paid a lot for it. “Ten pounds,
Walter,” she guessed.
“Ten pounds!” he repeated in surprise. “Ten
pounds for a horse —a real horse, not a crock or a
cart-horse!” He raised his voice in outraged amuse-
ment. “For a horse like that!”
“Yes,” she said, “for a horse like that. Well,
how much?”
“Add fifteen to the ten and you’ll be nearer the
mark,” he said.
“Twenty-five!” she gasped.
“Twenty-five,” he said. “You’ve hit it. And now
I must buy some chaff—must keep him in fine fettle,
you know —and a buggy, a second-hand one for the
time being, until I can afford a brand-new turnout.”
“Twenty-five,” my mother kept on repeating,
“twenty-five, twenty-five.”
“Yes,” said my father, “twenty-five. And his
name’s Charlie.”
'T" HE chaff arrived a little later —nothing less than
' a ton —and then a second-hand buggy, which we
put in the tumbledown shed where our seven fowls
roosted.
My father repainted the buggy, with thin gold
lines round the wheels and a brilliant red on each
hub. “Flash, isn’t it?” he asked. “That’ll make those
old wagonettes on the road look like scrap-iron and
packing-cases.”
As usual, I was drawn into the business. I had
to keep the buggy polished and free from dust and
dirt and also see that our seven fowls did not roost
on it. Unfortunately the fowls took a fancy to it
and defied me. Many times by candlelight I fought
valiantly to protect our gorgeously painted buggy.
As for Charlie, that noble animal led us quite a
dance. The first day my father decided to put him
in the buggy was a gala day. The buggy was wheeled
out of the shed and pulled out to the front of the
house, beside the road, where there was a good get-
away. Then the harness, which my father had also
bought second-hand and which he had oiled and
polished, was taken out and deposited in the buggy.
Then the whole family, including my mother and our
half-bred sheep-dog, marched to the paddock where
Charlie was imprisoned. My father had with him a
long length of rope.
He tied one end of the rope to a post near the
corner of the fence. “You see,” he said, “when we
get him into the corner here I’ll run the other end
of the rope across to the other side and tie it; then
we’ll have him cornered.” Then we all went off to
hunt Charlie. As soon as we located him my father
issued his instructions and allotted each of us our
separate tasks. My mother was left behind to do
her bit near the rope end of the tussle. I was sent
forward to play Charlie from the rear, and my father
and my young brother were to play on the wing.
As soon as Charlie saw us he threw his head
high in the air, snorted and went off like the wind ;
but we stuck to our job and gradually but slowly
edged the indignant quarry nearer and nearer the
corner. Then he broke through our cordon and went
hell-for-leather back up the paddock. Sometimes
my father would charge at him like a bull at a gate,
and sometimes I’d perform like a windmill. It all
depended on how near we had Charlie into goal.
In goal my mother waved her apron and did excellent
work for the home team. After two hours we got
Charlie into the corner, and while he was rolling
the whites of his eyes at us in an insulting manner
I ran across with the rope and hooked it round the
post.
“Bravo!” called my father. “We’ve got him!”
We had to get the halter on him next, and this was
not done until my father had crooned several horse
lullabies. The procession then started off homewards,
my father nervously leading the suspicious horse and
the rest of us breathlessly tailing behind.
When we arrived home we were all reallotted
our stations with the harness and the buggy. Each
of us had our appointed task to perform, and our
system had to work with clocklike precision. My
father flamed red in the face and swore terribly.
However, we got the harness on somehow.
First I held the horse’s head while it pawed the
ground and snorted, then my father took it and we
adjusted buckles and straps. In this way the moment
arrived when all was set for my father to get into
the buggy. Very stealthily he got up, and while I
held the halter my mother passed the reins up to
him.
“Steady there, Charlie,” said my father coaxingly.
“Now you, Mother, stand clear. Take that child
away. All get away. Now you,” and he glared at
me, “have you got hold of the halter? Well, undo
it gently, now!” All this while Charlie was blowing
and spouting like a whale and churning up the white


dust like a fire-engine. Then I slipped the halter and
stood back, my father shook the reins, and like an
arrow our noble steed shot off down the road with
my father hanging on to the reins like grim death.
He had gone, and we all stood in a terror-stricken
row and watched the flickering wheels flash and
glint in the sun as they rattled down the road.
My mother looked very pale. “I hope to God
nothing happens to him,” she said weakly, and we
all wondered jf we would ever see Father alive again.
He had given us instructions to wait and watch
him drive past when he came back, and it was not
long before he returned, coming up the road at
great guns and like a potentate of some kind, so
lordly did he look. As he flew past he turned towards
us and gave us a smile of triumph, as much as to
say “What do you think of your father now? Aren’t
you all proud of me?”
Coming back on his return journey he passed the
old German storekeeper who lived beyond the range
and who was jogging quietly along home with his
wagonette and pair. It was one of those proud
moments my father had banked on* and with a shake
of the reins he sent Charlie past his first rival like
a whirlwind ; then he pulled up right in front of our
door.
We next had to go through the campaign of un-
harnessing Charlie. Orders and commands were
again issued and the family sprang to their tasks,
each to his or her appointed buckles and straps. It
was a proud man who led his horse into the yard.
“A bucket of water, my sonny,” he commanded,
and I grabbed a bucket and started to run for the
dam.
“I said water, not soup,” he said ; “water out of
the tank.” And I filled the bucket from our precious
galvanised-iron tank. “A horse like this should have
the best,” he added. “Dam-water is only fit for cart-
horses.”
O ROM then on, whenever my father wanted to
drive to town we all went through the same
manoeuvres and Charlie gave us the same trouble. He
never quietened or became tame. He was always
fierce, fiery and furious. Every time we harnessed
him he pounded the earth and snorted fire' ; and each
time my father drove off my mother wondered if she
would ever see her husband alive again.
And how pompous he became! One day he
came home in a swagger mood.
“Well, my sonny,” he said, “I showed that school-
master of yours, who says he’s an Oxford man, my
back to-day. Oxford man my foot! Petticoat-lane’s
about his mark. Didn’t he show his buck teeth when
I flew past him! Used to drive past me on the road
and never offered to give a man a lift. I took the
wind out of his sails to-day ; and you should see
them stand and stare in the main street when I drive
through the town. I can tell you, Mother, that
twenty-five pounds I gave for Charlie was the best
investment I ever made.”
Unfortunately our circumstances did not keep
pace with Father’s flash turnout, but he went on
enjoying Charlie up to the last. Much chaff had been
consumed and many people’s horses had been made
to look like crocks, but that was all the good the
horse did him or us. Another successful crushing
would have kept our ship and Charlie afloat, but the
rest of the quartz that my father mined would not
have paid for truckage, so and it hurt his pride
terribly, too —it had to go to the local battery again.
Finally, the output from the mine was so poor that
it wouldn’t have paid my father to have
it crushed. Bad luck came with a run,
and it was not long before my father
saw his old enemy Needy Circumstances
coming up over his horizon again.
Charlie had to be content with grass now,
and dam-water too. It was the beginning
of the end —the end of our horse.
“God strike me dead if I can do anything right!”
exploded my father. Necessity began to stalk us, and
the need for cash threw its gaunt shadow over our
home and household.
Charlie would have to be sold. My mother said
so.
“Sell Charlie!” said *my father agonisingly.
“Why, Mother, that would be a calamity. Lose my
prestige! Walk the roads again! I’d rather sweep
the gutters than that.”
“But there are no gutters here to sweep,” my
mother said.
“Fancy having to sell my horse—the only thing
I have in the world!” he sighed.
“You could get enough from the sale of the horse
and buggy,” continued my mother, “to make a new
start.”
“The horse and buggy?” he gasped. “You
don’t mean to say, Mother, that you want me to sell
the buggy and the harness as well, do you? No!
Like hell, brave boys! If I’m compelled to sell the
horse I shall certainly keep the harness and buggy
and buy a cheap horse for the time being, because
I swear by the strength of my right arm”—and he
struck the table a terrible blow —“I shall never tramp
the roads again.”
“Well, sell this horse and buy a cheap one,” she
said coaxingly.
He took in a deep breath. “It’s like selling my
own brother, Mother, but I’m not a man to deny my
wife' and family. I’ll sell him, but I’ll whip the cat
over it, I know, until my dying day.”
NT O more was said about it, but a week later a man
* rode out to see him. The family peeped out
through the windows at him, and I could see that he
was the sort of man who bought horses. Anxiety
was written deeply in the furrowed lines on my
mother’s forehead.
I went with my father and the man to the
paddock. “Now,” said my father in a whisper to
me, “when you chase Charlie down to the corner
give him a good start and make him gallop well; I
want this man to see him at his best.”
With the help of the man on horseback we
managed to rope Charlie off without as much trouble
as we usually had, and then the prospective buyer
and seller came to business. The man slid his thumb
and forefinger smoothly along and down his long,
drooping moustache to its thin end and said nothing.
My father also stood off and said nothing. After
much silence and inspection of the horse the man
said in a dry voice, “What do you want for him,
boss?”
My father did not like being called boss. He
would have preferred being called sir, but he let the
“insult” pass.
“I gave thirty pounds for him,” he lied.
“Thirty!” said the man. “They robbed you.
I’ll give you twenty, cash down, now.”
My father threw his chest out and smiled con-
temptuously. “Twenty! I’d rather send him to a
city zoo to be fed to the lions than sacrifice a horse
like that for a paltry twenty pounds.”
“Well, what do you want for him?” the man
asked.
“Thirty-five pounds, and not a stiver less,” said
my father.
“Well,” said the man, “he’s not worth it, but I
want a horse like that to pull in a drag, and I’ll give
you twenty-five.”
“Thirty - five is the
figure,” said my father.
“Well, look here,” said
the man, “I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll give you
twenty-seven, and we’ll call it a bargain.”
“Thirty-five pounds,” my father repeated, “and
not a stiver less. There’s not a man living who can
say he.beat me down.”
The would-be buyer got on his horse. “I’ve made
you a good offer,” he said. “Think it over and let
me know,” and rode off.
“When I say a thing I mean it,” my father
retorted. “Good afternoon.”
“I like his cheek,” he said as we walked home.
“Charlie’s worth fifty pounds if he’s worth a penny.
I’m sacrificing him at thirty-five.”
When we got back to the house my mother was
waiting for us. “Well?” she asked anxiously.
“No business, Mother,” my father answered;
“I’m too fly for these horse-sharpers.”
“No business?” she repeated, crestfallen. “Didn’t
he make you an offer?”
“Oh, yes, he made me an offer, all right—offered
me a paltry twenty-seven pounds.”
“Twenty-seven pounds!” my mother gasped.
“And you refused it! Good gracious! How much
do you want fdr the horse?”
“Thirty-five pounds, and not a stiver less,” he
said determinedly.
“But you only gave twenty-five for him,” she
said limply.
“Yes, but I’ve improved the horse since I got
him, and whoever buys him will have to pay my
price.”
My mother sighed and flopped into a chair. I
thought she was going to faint.
“Now then, Mother,” and he patted her on the
head, “you must not thwart me. You must help me.
If we are to sell Charlie we must get all we can. The
man knows that he’s worth thirty-five pounds and
more ; and, what is more, I’ll bet my last bottom dollar
that he’ll come back again and pay my price; mark
my words, he will. Just hang on and wait a while and
everything will come all right; but you must be
patient; you must help me, you understand.”
“All right,” my mother agreed. “I hope what
you say comes true.”
J T was just about this time that the spasmodic Red
* Range race-meeting was due to be held. This
meeting was a rough-and-tumble bush affair which
was always held in a paddock at the back of the
Cross Roads Hotel. With the approach of the meeting
my father had an idea.
“Do you know, Mother,” he said, “I’ve a good
mind to race Charlie in the Red Range Cup when it
comes off.”
“The Red Range Cup?” she said. “But Charlie
is not a racehorse.”
“Isn’t he?” said my father. “I’ll bet he can beat
anything round about these parts.”
“And what is the prize?” she asked.
“Oh, the prize,” he said offhandedly. “Oh, that’s
not much. It’s not that I’m thinking of. The
prizemoney doesn’t matter. It would probably go
in shouting for the mob. That is what generally
happens to the man who wins it.”
“Well, what do you want to win the race for if
it’s not worth anything? You don’t want to go
shouting for people,” she complained.
“I know I don’t. But I’ve got my head screwed
on all right, and make no mistake about it. There’s
those drunken fellows up at the battery. They ride
down to see that yellow-haired barmaid on damned
fine horses, and if I could beat all that mob with
Whenever my father wanted to drive to town we all went through the same manoeuvres.


Charlie, just think what a testimonial it would be to
him. It would put his stock up, wouldn’t it?”
“Well,” she asked, “and what then?”
“Why, don’t you see, Mother, it would make an
impression on prospective buyers and would help me
to get my price. You know, men will pay a good
figure for a buggy-horse that can win races as well.”
“All right,” she said. “I said I’d help you. Go
ahead ; do as you like. But who will you get to ride
Charlie?”
“I’ll ride him myself,” said my father solemnly.
“They all ride their own horses.”
“You’ll ride him yourself?” she laughed. “You
can’t ride.”
“Can’t I?” he said boastfully. “Just you wait
and see.”
“But you’re too heavy. You’ll break the horse’s
back.”
“Oh, no, I won’t,” he declared. “Why, Charlie
could win with an elephant on his back and not turn
a hair.”
“And what will your colors be?” she smiled.
“Now, don’t be funny, Mother,” he frowned.
“This is no laughing matter; it’s a matter of life
and death to us.”
“Life and death?” She nodded. “Yes, you
might break your neck.”
“Don’t you worry about my neck. It was the
selling of Charlie I was referring to. God knows we
need the money bad enough now.”
K A Y indomitable parent borrowed a saddle and
IVI bridle —he’d have bought them had he had the
bare cash —and built a makeshift stable to put Charlie
in. This was to save having to chase him every time
he wanted to ride him. Then some chaff, on credit,
arrived. Passers-by soon noticed my father riding
about the roads, and, being a man of great determina-
tion, it was not long before he was giving Charlie
practice gallops round the paddock at the back.
1 We all went over one morning to watch him, and
he galloped towards us so furiously that my mother
came near to collapsing with fear for his safety.
On the day of the race he rode off full of con-
fidence, and the family saw him off. He left with
never a thought in his head as to whether my mother
could go on providing food indefinitely or not. Win-
ning the race was uppermost in his mind, and the
glory of it was as attractive to him as the alleged
fact that to win the race would help sell Charlie.
My mother looked very worried. I walked to the
meeting to watch his foolish escapade.
Scattered round the hotel were the usual gigs,
wagonettes and jinkers. Many saddle-horses were tied
to posts. A lot of drinking was going on inside and
outside the hotel, and I noticed that the men from the
battery had been doing more than their share.
“I’ll give those loafers a surprise,” my father
muttered under his breath.
The races were run round the paddock, which
was full of stumps, fallen logs and dead trees ; the
going was rough. Quite a number of the men were
drunk, and in the earlier races had ridden their horses
whether drunk or sober. Some fell off and some took
off over logs, and of these some came down ; but
everybody only laughed. It was a real picnic meeting
in every sense of the word. By the time the big race
came round things had become willing. There had
been two fights in the hotel backyard, and some of
the riders were all-out to it in the grass. My father
touched no liquor. He was out to win.
Nine horses started in the Cup. Luckily for my
father, one of the men from the battery who rode
one of the district champions, and who could ride
better when drunk, they said, stopped in the bar and
refused to ride in the Cup or allow anybody else to
ride for him. “It’s too hot,” he said. “I’m not going to
knock my thoroughbred about for nothing.” I wished
afterwards that he had started and won the race.
Poor Charlie! I know now that his snorting and
his fireworks were worse than his kick. ,1 also know
that my father must have got him cheap, and that at
that time he was worth much more than the twenty-
five pounds he gave for him. But my father was too
heavy and too ruthless to ride any horse in a race.
As for the race itself, it was in keeping with the
spirit of the day. Some of the riders fell off, two
dropped out, and it was not long before my father had
things all his own way. He took the first part of
the race carefully and kept his mount in check until
the time came for him to take the lead. When he
did get in front he lost his head and went out to
win by the longest distance possible. As soon as he
knew that he had the race won he went all-out to
increase his lead, and continued to send his mount on
at its top up to the last stride. He gave it no let-up.
He was going to give them all a surprise. He would
make a name for his horse. What a testimonial it
would be! He would ask fifty pounds for him now.
And so he rode the poor thing like a maniac, taking
every ounce out of its willing strength, straining it to
the last effort. No sooner had he got out of the
saddle and stood off to admire his white-lathered
champion than a wild, fearful look came into Charlie’s
eyes, a sudden tremor ran through his body, he
attempted to rear, sagged, and then toppled over.
“Must ’ave strained ’is ’eart,” said one of the
men i “the ’orse is dead.”
I WEPT a little, and my father was taken off to the
' bar to drown his sorrows ; but the drink he had
therfe made no impression on him.
We walked along in solemn silence until we
came near to our home. Then he spoke. “This has
been a terrible blow to me, my sonny. But all you
know is that Charlie won, and no more than that —
do you hear? Keep your mouth shut. I’ll tell
Mother, when she asks where Charlie is, that I’ve
left him down in the hotel paddock for a while—do
you hear?”
“Yes,” I replied.
“And to-morrow morning I’ll tell her I’m taking
you up to One Stump Hill with me, but we’ll dodge
back along the back road. I want you to help me
bury Charlie.”
“Well,” said my mother when we arrived home,
“I see you’re still alive, Walter. What happened?
Did you win?”
“Yes, I won,” said my father wearily.
“You don’t look too happy about it, then,” she
said. “How much did you win by?”
“Oh, I forget,” he said casually. “Er —quite a
distance, Mother.”
“Surely you know how much you really won
by,” she complained.
“Yes, of course Ido ; but I wasn’t thinking. I’m
a bit tired after such an experience, and I think
I’ll go and lie down for a while.”
“Now you will be able to sell Charlie, won’t
you?” she smiled.
“Y-e-es,” he said.
“Where is Charlie now?” she asked, looking at me.
“In the paddock,” I answered.
“Yes, in the hotel paddock,” my father repeated.
“The race took a lot out of him, and as there is some
good grass there and he needs a bit of extra-good feed
I’ve left him there for a while to give him a chance
to put on a bit of condition.”
My mother swallowed the lies and my father
went and lay down heavily on the bed.
In the morning we left ostensibly to go to One
Stump Hill. We took the pick and the shovel and
went off up the bush. As soon as we got out of
sight we doubled back and made tracks for the hotel
paddock, where we dug a hole and buried Charlie.
It was a sad day for us, and once I thought I saw
tears in my father’s eyes.
“God Himself must have me set,” he sighed.
“You don’t know what this means to me. If ever a
man was cursed, then 1 am, and now I’ve got to
make up a cock-and-bull story to tell your mother
next week. I couldn’t bear to tell her that the race
killed him ; she’d never forgive me.”
I felt sorry for my father.
“Don’t forge| that you have been up on One
Stump Hill with me to-day, and see that you don’t
make a slip about it,” he cautioned me.
On the way back home he walked ahead of me,
and I could hear him muttering to himself all the
way, “Twenty-seven pounds, cash down. Twenty-
seven pounds. God, what a fool I was!”
The silence between us was broken only when
we got near home. As we doubled back through the
trees we saw that there was a horse tied up to the
post beside our tank.
“There’s a visitor home,” said my father. “I
wonder whose horse it is.”
“I can’t see properly yet,” I said, “but it looks
like the horse the man who came to buy Charlie
rode.”
“Just a minute,” said my father, throwing down
the pick and shovel. “Let us make sure. Go and
have a look, will you?”
I went forward and had a
good look, then came back.
“Yes, it’s his horse,” I said.
Beads of perspiration
began to pop out all over my
father’s forehead. “He’s come
back about Charlie,” he
gasped. “Here’s a nice kettle
of fish if ever there was one. The Devil himself has
come to mock me.”
All the color had gone out of his cheeks by the
time we arrived at our front door.
t (OOD day, .boss,” said the man as we entered.
“Heard you won the Red Range Cup. Con-
gratulations. The missus just told me about it.”
“Yes, Walter,” said my mother, smiling.
“And,” said the man, “we’ve been discussing your
horse.”
“Oh,” said my father, drawing the full length of
his sleeve across his forehead.
“Yes. I s’pose you wouldn’t take twenty-seven
pounds for him now?”
“No —most emphatically,” said my father, and his
voice was full of hopeless anger and mortification.
“Thirty, then?” said the man, leaning back on the
chair and surveying my father with an amused and
contemplative look.
My father stepped back and leaned against the
wall.
“No,” he said angrily.
“You’re hard,” said the man, “but I’m in a
reckless mood to-day. If I offer you thirty-three
pounds will you come off your high horse —that’s a
joke—and call it a deal?”
“No,” said my father, and his face was getting
red again.
“By Jove,” said the man, “you Englishmen are
hard to beat, all right!”
“We are,” he replied grimly, and I could see that
he was getting ready to finish the interview and send
the man away.
“I’ve discussed this matter with the missus,” the
man said, and turned to my mother.
“You asked me to help you, didn’t you, Walter?”
my mother said very quietly.
“Yes, Mother,” my father stammered; “and
you’ve done your best. But even though you may
think I’m mad for refusing thirty-three pounds for
Charlie,” and his voice faltered, “I know what I’m
doing.”
“You still want thirty-five?” the man broke in.
Dazed-looking, my father forced his chest out
again. Across his features there ran a panorama
of conflicting emotions, of hope and fear, as a man
in a dream.
“Yes,” he said desperately.
There was a very long silence ; then my mother,
who had been standing in front of the mantelpiece
with her hands behind her back, and who had not
moved from her position all this time, stepped forward.
My father, taking the pause as the end of the
bargaining, shook himself like a terrier.
“And now,” he said as haughtily as he could,
“if you don’t mind I think we’ll call the conference
off. I’m very tired, and I’m sure you will be glad to
be off.”
“Just a minute, Walter,” said my mother; “and
please do not be so hasty. I’ve been waiting to tell
you the good news all this while.” And on her face
was a benign expression of happiness—and love.
“Good news! ” my father exclaimed wonderingly.
“Yes,” she said. “The gentleman has bought
Charlie at your own price.” And she went up to
him shyly, like a young girl. “And here is his cheque,
Walter.”
We walked along in solemn silence. I felt sorry for my father.


A Neat Sketch
Boat for Lim
BY E.P.D
DRfllUMft BV JOHn miLLS
TO have dealings with old Jim was to understand
why Christ loved sinners.
The worm-eaten thing that he called his
flattie at last gave way to the tide, which crept
up and made her impossible. She lay upturned before
his old shack, in tune with everything around. And,
irresistible as a child, her owner limped round on his
war-worn leg to ask for the loan of Jonathan Dale’s.
The mere fact that Jim was reduced from sea to
earth seemed to cry out that all was not right with
the world and must be rectified, so that Jonathan
was pervaded with the >warmth of his own public
spirit as he watched the old man row off to his nets,
set for flounders on the far shore of the burrowing
arm of the harbor where life had finally cast him up.
These set-nets served as an interlude to dragging
and as a curb to Jim’s impatience. Despairing of
his launch, in a state of preservation matching that
of his flattie, he had been restricted in his selection
of a mate by this necessary qualification of possession,
so that he had tied himself to a timeworn, shaky
old obstinate who would work only one tide, elements
permitting at that. Their respective homes being
separated from each other by several miles of sea,
Jim’s boat was in constant use.
The loan of Jonathan’s, he explained, was just
for the matter of a fortnight or three weeks while he
built himself a new one.
Now winter was approaching, when firewood
must be thought of. The improved farming and
clearing of scrub from the land around drove the
needy to the driftwood from the bush rivers thrown
up by the tide. A chill south-easter sent Jonathan,
a suppliant, for his boat, to gather in throughout two
days the hundred and one odd piles of wood heaped
up by him during the summer on the foreshore, safe
from the encroaching tide.
Jim was graciousness itself.
“Don’t know when I’ll get that boat done, Mr.
Dale,” he said. “Can’t get the timber from the mill.
They’re only cuttin’ rimu at the moment. Goodness
knows when they’ll get on to kauri. And then it’ll
have to season.”
“Oh. Oh, well, the sea’s your living ; it isn’t
mine. That’s all right.”
Jonathan had a brief frantic morning at his
wood, since Jim needed the boat in the afternoon and
next morning. After that, gales and the neaping tides
did not suit for wood-gathering.
\\ /ITH the next full moon Jonathan’s wood-supply
* “ had gone up in smoke. He returned, a suppliant
once more.
“Well, I was wantin’ her badly this afternoon,
Mr, Dale, My mate, he’s been took ill and I’m left
with no one ; and just paid out on two new nets. It’s
a fair devil.”
True enough, they hung there, dejected as fishing-
nets are wont to look, yet the only modern suggestions
amidst a sea of ancient history.
“What are you going to do about it —a mate I
mean?”
“I was goin’ to row across to Don Shorter over
there to see if he could come with me for a day
or two. But you could have her Saturday mornin’.
We shan’t be fishin’ then.”
So Jonathan carried home an armful of firewood,
and repeated it on several slow journeys.
The shortest day passed. To celebrate the
occasion a burst of mild springlike weather stirred
the blood to activity. Jonathan felt the call to wander
after the cramped wet days. Closed in by trackless
creek-slushed hills, he had the sea for highway.
He footed it along the beach to Jim’s shack.
“Well, yes, Mr. Dale, I’m fishing all I can now
the weather’s took up again. If you can wait a little
bit longer. I’ve got the timber now. I’ll be startin’
on her next week, but at present Joe Hodgson’s got
his dinghy on the slip, and I shall have to wait till
he’s done.”
A fortnight later Joe Hodgson’s boat was still
on the slip.
The statement hurried on the birth pains of a
suspicion conceived at their last interview. It emerged
into the light of day when pure accident took Jona-
than past Joe Hodgson’s shack. It was in a dead-end
bay where he had been only once before. There
was neither boat on the slip nor signs of timber.
How rotten of old Jim! Jonathan felt too
contemptuous to end the farce there and then to his
own comfort. Let Jim end it himself or strike the
rock that lay under a mug’s softness ; deep under it
might be, but, by God, it was there!
The farce, however, continued; Jonathan was
interested, amused irritated sometimes, disgusted
sometimes, but interested always. Neither of them
broached the subject.
September came and went. The first day of
October brought a letter from Bob Hyde, Jonathan’s
pal. His holiday was due in three weeks and he
wanted to put it all in fishing with Jonathan. That
meant the boat every day. Good. The joke was
wearing thin.
Jonathan footed it round to Jim once more
and stated his case 'naturally, courteously, but with
a quiet assertion of possession.
Jim was quick to register the change of tone.
His eyes intensified a whole shade of their blue.
Watching him closely, Jonathan could see the latest
concoction, only half-brewed, being stirred behind
them. .
“When is he cornin’? In three weeks? Oh, I’ll
get her built before then. But Alf Goodenough’s let
me down a treat. Gone and sold my timber. Yes,
every bit of it. Cheek of it! He’s played the same
trick on two others—Mrs. Heath and Joe Hodgson.
And they aren’t cuttin’ kauri at present. Good-
ness knows—but p’haps I’ll be able to borrow Joe’s.”
Jim was wriggling, sitting on his hands, his gaze out
to sea.
Jonathan turned on his heel. The whole miser-
able story over again from the very beginning. And
Mrs. Heath and Joe Hodgson were his cobbers
wouldn’t give him away. Goodenough too, perhaps.
And, anyway, Jim knew he wouldn’t ask.
A THREATENING shower came flooding down.
■'* From the shelter of a tree Jonathan surveyed the
despised Jim and his surroundings—the crazy one-eyed
launch at which he tinkered indomitably, took, out
even yet with his nets and towed home invariably;
the miserable shack with its sack-strewn pillowless
bunk, its sack blankets ; Jim himself, ill-clad, patched,
underfed, his leaking gumboots squelching. And new
serviceable nets hung with the touch of skilled pre-
cision ; the tar and tannin, the stout, well-cared-for
cables. The actual insignia of his calling were of the
best and well tended.
Oh, damn! What was he beside old Jim, who’d
been battered in two wars and was still fighting?
What had he done? What woqld he ever do?
Weren’t lies all a part of life if you’d lain as close
to her bosom as old Jim had? He ran back and
dived into Jim’s shack for shelter as the downpour
increased.
“How’s your mate these days?” he asked, know-
ing that the old fellow had at least one foot near the
edge of the grave.
“Oh, him! He hasn’t been out with me for a
month.” Jim’s voice conveyed all the disgust he
felt on his own account
and then took on the en-
tirely human note, with all
its element of relish. “He’s
been took ill again. I
reckon he’s about done
for. Real bad he is. I
just get who I can. Don
Shorter come with me last
week, and Joe Hodgson’s
cornin’ next. After that
goodness knows ... I’ll
find somebody.” There
was no thought of the
spare time being useful for
boatbuilding.
“How would it suit
you if my cobber and I
dragged with you? He’s
pretty good on the job.
He once put in a whole
season trawling.”
Jim was like a child.
“When does he come
exactly?” he asked ; and
on being told the precise
date he worked out ab-
sorbedly to the half-hour
the times of the tides and
arranged to come just
before the ebb on the
morning after Bob’s
arrival.
But the day before
Bob was due Jim rowed round, calm with a sublime
assurance. “I’ve brought your boat back, Mr. Dale.
You can use my nets if you like when the gentleman
comes J shan’t be able to come with you.”
His offhanded attitude rattled Jonathan at once,
urging him to repress surprise or curiosity.
“Thanks,” he said shortly. “We’ll certainly use
them. Won’t you be fishing yourself at all?”
“Not for a while,” said Jim, his eyes wide and, it
seemed to Jonathan, aggressive.
“You can get on all right without the boat, then?”
Jonathan’s tone was dry.
“Oh, goodness, yes,” said Jim, as though the
loan of it had never been of any special consequence
to him. “I’ll be working up in town along with Joe
Hodgson. I’ve”
“Right,” said Jonathan shortly. “Leave her just
where she is.” And he turned on his heel. He was
finished with old Jim.
CD OB arrived. They had a delightful fortnight
with the retrieved boat and Jim’s nets. Eating
their breakfast of flounders three days before Bob
was due to leave, they were hailed boisterously from
the sea. Scanning its blue morning calm through the
trees they saw a boat, white as a gull’s breast, red as
its bill and dainty legs, and in it the disreputable,
exulting figure of old Jim.
“What do you think of my new boat?” he
shouted. “Eh? What do you think of her?”
Jonathan’s thoughts were a good deal more
colorful than his mild words. After a due and
admiring inspection they spent the day in her.
Over the third cup of tea that evening Bob said
drily, “That timber of yours was a good while taking
its present shape.”
“My boat?” Jim threw his lame leg over the
other, wriggled his body and sat on his hands. “Why,
I’ve got Alf Goodenough to thank for that. I’ve
told you that all along, Mr. Dale, haven’t I, now?
Eh, haven’t I? These people think they know
your biznis better nor you do yourself, Thought I
hadn’t got the money to pay for it. Well, neither I
had, cash down ; and I’m not the only one.”
Jim’s leg whacked back again as he gave a
Judgment-Day snort on the justice of modern dealings.
“So I jes’ kep’ quiet and showed ’im.” Jim’s
body was working fortissimo ; the table shook under
the beat and rattle of his matchbox.
“I could have had the old-age pension years ago.
Course I could. But d’ye think I’d take it from this
Government? Not me! They’re the same lot wot
said this leg ’ere was nothin’ to do with the war.
Why, I knows it was. There’s many a one knows
it was. D’ye think I was goin’ to accept an old-age
pension with twenty years’ arrears of war pension
owin’ me? Not me!
“But jes’ this last month or two they’ve brought
in a bill for ex-service men over a certain age. Oh, I
know they jes’ wants my vote”—the Judgment-Day
snort came again—“but I can claim on the Boer and
Great War. Now, that’s a different thing alto-
gether.”
He jogged his chair and sat back in it. “But
Goodenough should’ve known better. I told ’im
I had the money, even if I couldn’t get to it jes’ at
the moment. ’E’d no biznis not t’ believe me. So
I jes’ waited. Then I shows ’im. ‘Where’s my timber?’
I says. ‘Where’s the cash?’ he says. ‘How much
d’ye want?’ I says. ‘Two-ten,’ he says. ‘Done!’ I
says, and scattered it in notes an’ silver all over the
desk ’e keeps in the corner.”
Old Jim thrashed the table, tattooed the floor
and, throwing himself back in his chair, bared the
toothless cavity of his mouth in salty laughter.


through marriage, and Howard, after being rescued
from his tenth failure and collapse, promises to
reform.
Cornplow sums up the whole painful situation:
What can a parent that isn’t more’n average bright
do for his children? May he leave them alone?
If I only knew! Do we always lose the people we
love; only keep the people that we don’t plague with
loving? I guess those are the real wars —men against
women —parents against children—and not all this
monkey business in Europe.
There is a good deal of this smudgy man-in-the-street
thinking, not because Sinclair Lewis cannot do any
better, but because it is necessary to bring out the
pathos and innocent nobility of Cornplow. The whole
book is sacrificed to that end. Sara and Howard are
made positive grotesques in their selfishness and
ingratitude so that the reader will not miss one tittle
of Cornplow’s apotheosis. The facade of Lewis’s
realism, built up in the earlier books, still stands, but
the spirit of realism has moved out. Only the shell
of The Prodigal Parents is hard-boiled.
It is the shell that provides the entertainment.
Lewis expresses himself with cogency and vivacity ;
his sales talk, his thumbnail portraits, his domestic
interiors (“Sara had redecorated the room in plum
color and dull gold, rich as mince-pie and sombre as
the thoughts of a defeated Congressman”).
The book is written in a sort of continuous
American wisecrack made up on a base of genuine
wit. As entertainment it is excellent, as a criticism
of life it won’t hold either water —or honey.
James Hanley Short Stories.
James Hanley’s sea-stories in Half an Eye
(Bodley Head) fit together to give a complete picture
of life on the sea from the angle of the stokehold
and the forecastle. They are pictures of life rather
than anecdotes, biting and insistent.
The first, “The Tale,” which acts as a prelude
to the rest, is an exception. It is a very delicate study
of youth and age. A very old man, a veteran of
Trafalgar, tells a ten-year-old boy the story of the
battle. It comes out in tattered fragments, shadowy,
incoherent, but for each, at the opposite ends of life,
it stands for the splendor of achievement. For one
it is the consummation, for the other the lure of life.
The story is touched with mystery. Life is a mystic
circle in which the tenderest youth and the most
remotfe old age are drawn together in the eternal
legend of the human spirit. It is beautifully and subtly
done.
The stories that follow are very different in con-
tent, but, surveying the book as a whole, it becomes
clear that the notes struck in “The Tale” recur again
and again. The motif of victory is constantly repeated,
the instinctive human worship of victory. Always
there is the sense of a hard impact between man and
his environment, struggle, urgency, all that comes
between the idyllic childhood and satisfied age of. the
first story.
Some of the pieces are very short. “The
Swimmer” is no more than an account of a sailor’s
swim of three miles to shore from a wreck in
heavy seas. It is an epic in little of the will to survive.
“Fog” recounts the last moments of a man acci-
dentally left behind on a sinking ship in a fog. Other
stories are long. “The Last Voyage” is the tragic
story of a fireman grown too old for his work, warned
by doctor and mate that he will not be signed on
again, and having no other means of keeping himself,
his wife and three children. “Shadows Before Sunset”
is a compressed novel concerning a man who deserted
his wife to return to the sea.
The technique of story-telling is also varied. It
is obvious that the most direct and terse forms of
narration suit Hanley’s gifts best. When he gives
himself a lot of rope, as in “Jacob,” the story of an
old sailor taken to hospital with a broken leg and
fretting for his ship, he loses power. When he attempts
an involved manner, as in “Shadows Before Sunset,”
the effect is murky and unsatisfactory. “Shadows
Before Sunset” is one of those stories in which the
author takes a plot, explodes a bomb in the middle
of it, and then presents the reader with the scattered
limbs. Hanley tells the same story very much better
in “The Sea,” which covers four pages instead of 45.
The heart of the book is the long story “Victory.”
It is set in war-time. The passenger liner Corinthian,
renamed AO2, is put under Admiralty orders, camou-
flaged, ballasted with sand and sent out to an unknown
destination. Three hundred men fight for the seven
jobs going aboard her, but at the last minute five
of the seven lucky ones desert. Within twenty-four
hours of leaving Liverpool she is torpedoed and sinks.
The crew take to the boats. They are scattered in a
storm and every man lost. The title harks back to
the name of Nelson’s flagship. There is a subtle
glancing connection between the idea and ideal of
sea warfare a hundred years ago and now. This is
the author’s bitter conception of victory up to date.
The story is a masterpiece in a style that is abrupt,
powerful and living. It is like a piece of orchestration.
But it is no inhuman piece of mechanism. The tragedy
is no less moving because it is on a communal instead
of an individual scale.
Half an Eye is a book for those who can appre-
ciate masculine strength of style and who do not
require to be coddled emotionally.
Memories of Puccini.
After the first performance in England of “Manon
Lescaut” Bernard Shaw hailed Puccini as the “heir
of Verdi.” Shaw’s English compeers had already
awarded the succession either to Leoncavallo for
“Pag.” or to Mascagni for “Cav.,” but the Irishman
was right. The other fellows were flashes in the pan.
Puccini went on from strength to strength.
In Puccini Among Friends (Macmillan), Vincent
Seligman, while ostensibly presenting a series of letters
from Giacomo Puccini to Sybil Seligman (the author s
mother), gives, in effect, a new biography of the com-
poser, which, though it owes a good deal to Adami
and Specht, is informed by a greater degree of in-
timacy with its subject. The Seligmans and Puccini
were close friends of very long standing, and, in corre-
spondence with Mrs. Seligman, “Jack, as he some-
times signed himself, wrote from his heart. He reveals
himself as a queer mixture —as frank as a child in
his likes and dislikes; modest-minded, despite his
fame; terribly sensitive; as inflexible as a rock where
his work was concerned, but incapable of sustaining
a grudge. He quarrelled furiously on occasion with
almost all the people connected with his operatic
career—most terribly with his librettists, who could
never quite give him exactly what he wanted ; and
of course with publishers, conductors and singers.
But these people remained his friends.
Though Puccini was, as Shaw predicted, the heir
to Verdi in the sense that he kept Italian opera alive
after Verdi scored the last bar of “Falstaff,” and even
added to its prestige, his career, his life and his
methods of working made no parallel. Verdi was
of peasant stock ; Puccini of middle-class birth. Verdi
early knew sorrow, losing his young wife and two
children within a few short weeks. With the excep-
tion of one tragic incident, which came towards the
latter end of his life, Puccini’s domestic life was
happy. And, whereas Verdi cared little about the
H. M. Green, who arranged the Fisher Library exhibi-
tion of Australian literature at Sydney Uni., was
appointed Fisher Librarian in 1921, after 13 years in
journalism. He has written and lectured extensively
on Australian writers and their work, and his “An
Outline of Australian Literature” is the most complete
work on the subject. He also has.two books of verse
to his credit —“The Happy Valley” and “The Book of
Beauty.”
quality of a libretto, could dash off an opera in forty
days (as in the case of “Rigoletto”), and more often
than not orchestrated it during rehearsals, Puccini had
to have his script finished to the last comma, .exactly
to his ideas, before he could start to pen a single
bar. Note the leisurely gait of his muse “Manon
Lescaut,” 1893 ; “La Boheme,” 1896 ; ‘ Tosca, 1900 ,
“Butterfly,” 1904; “Girl of the Golden West,” 1910 ;
the “Trittico” (“Rondine,” “Sister Angelica” and
“Tabarro,” three one-acters), 1918 ; and “Turandot’
(posthumously produced), seven years later.
“The Girl of the Golden West” was laid aside
for a year owing to Puccini’s domestic tragedy, already
referred to. There was a little maidservant in his
household, Doria, devoted to both master and mistress.
Lying tongues carried tales to Signora Puccini, in-
tensely jealous by nature (she used to put anaphro-
disiacs in her Giacomo’s victuals whenever any ladies
were to call). Thenceforth life was a misery for all
concerned. Signora hounded the poor girl literally
into her grave (she took poison), whereupon relatives
took suit, and Puccini’s wife was mulcted in a sub-
stantial amount of damages and sentenced to a term
of imprisonment. Giacomo bought her off (that can
be done in Italy), and after a period of separation took
her back —a chastened and wiser woman.
Puccini’s love of motoring is touched upon —he
was never happier than when tearing about in the
latest Lancia —and there are same frank anecdotes
about some of his friends—Caruso, for instance. The
great tenor would have had more engagements if he
had condescended to study acting. He once gave a
positively splendid performance as Canio in “Pagliacci,”
but that wasn’t acting. Enrico’s wife had just run
away with his chauffeur! Caruso had a habit, when
not singing himself, of indulging in quite audible
remarks about the singing of his colleagues. Also
he was an inveterate practical joker who delighted in
sewing up sleeves and filling hats with water just
before their owners had to appear on the stage. No
wonder managers weren’t wildly enthusiastic about
him.
Puccini died in 1924 of cancer of the throat.
X-ray treatment checked the cancer —but destroyed
his heart. He died with his fingers making motions
of writing. He was striving in his mind to finish the
last pages of “Turandot.”
Screen-story Competition.
Cinesound’s judges, having read the stories entered
for the Screen-story Competition, report: No story
suitable for moving-picture purposes. Cinesound has,
therefore, exercised its right to withhold the prize.
However, this section of the competition may
not have been wholly fruitless, as is indicated by this
letter from Ken G. Hall, producer-director of Cine-
sound Productions, Ltd., and one of the judges:
“A reading of the entries for the Screen-story
Competition has brought forward no story quite suit-
able for filming. Therefore it has been decided to
withhold the prize.
“With regard to the story ‘Crash Pilot,’ by
Andrew Stewart, although it is not quite what Cine-
sound is looking for, in my opinion the competition
has brought forward a potential writer for the screen.
We are now in communication with Mr. Stewart with
the hope that he can be induced to write for us.
“Mr. Frank Harvey, our scenario supervisor, has
read closely the work submitted to the competition,
and it is his opinion that many of the writers show
talent, but lack the essential quick action so vitally
necessary in telling a story on the screen.”
The story commended by the judges as showing
possibilities for film purposes —Andrew Stewart’s
“Crash Pilot” —will be published in next week’s
Bulletin. A Maorilander, the writer is well known
to Bulletin readers. His most recent stories, “Picks
on the Wall,” published in December, and “The
Beacon” in February, well illustrated his feeling for
the dramatic.
The Bulletin awards, announced 16/3 / ’3B
were:
First Prize (30), “Mail-run East,” by Gavin
S. Casey.
Second Prize (£l5), “Quiet Lies the Land,”
by E. Mary Gurney.
Third Prize (£5), “Angel,” by Steve Bennett.
Brief Story Prize (£5), “Five Silver Pieces,”
by E. Dithmack.
This completes the competition, and all entries
which were accompanied by stamps will be returned.
Reviewed Briefly.
Verse . . .
History Through Verse : A. W. Black (Barker).
To help Smith Minor learn his history ; covers Eng-
land from 1066 to Edward VII. in clever, chirpy verse.
Like this:
In Henry the Seventh, fourteen eighty and five,
We see the first king of the Tudors afrive.
Gunpowder, used freely, caused Oh! such a rumpus,
And someone invented the mariner’s compass,
Which led to Columbus effecting a very ca-
Pacious discovery, namely America.
General . . .
Australia Up to Date: Cumberland Clarke (The
Mitre Press). An illustrated handbook of Australia
designed for overseas readers. Friendly in tone, and
on the whole well-informed.
Ostrich Heads: K. L. Milne (F. W. Preece and
Sons). An anti-war booklet by an Australian pacifist
who is not so pacific that he would have us take an
enemy attack lying down. We’re to hope for the best
but prepare for the worst. . His style is rambling, but
he gets there.
Wilson’s Sydney and Suburban Street Directory
(Wilson’s« Publishing Co.). This useful handbook, now
in its 36th year, gets fatter every issue. A feature of
the current issue is the rapid growth of the Illawarra
suburbs, necessitating the inclusion of 10 additional
maps for the district. Warringah shire is another
growing area which -has had extra space allotted.
/ Wanted to Ttavel: John Gibbons (Robert Hale).
Author was a research worker at the British Museum
when a Catholic newspaper financed him to walk
to Lourdes through 600 miles of rural France. He
made a book out of the trip, and commissions from
newspapers and publishers showered on him. Since
1929 he has visited 27 countries in four continents and
written 15 travel books. Latest is a summing-up of
his experiences and observations. It wanders leisurely
all over the map both geographically and in a literary
sense. Gibbons likes Sweden and Finland for their
tidiness, but declares that you can get more fun in
Spain or Italy. The southern States of U.S.A. he
discovered to be intolerant localities, Estonia a
place to avoid. Notwithstanding such forthright find-
ings, there is an appealing modesty about the book.
“A.P.S.” (Rangoon): Dealing with a book by
Ralph Bates — Rainbow Fish— the Red Page reviewer
stated that “each of these and others at the end of
hope come to the last resort of lost men —the sponge
fishing fleet in the Aigean.” This is rough on a won-
derful lot of hard-working men. Sponge-fishing is
practically a monopoly of the inhabitants of Kyme,
one of the Dodecanese, the Greek islands at present
under Italian rule. Every able-bodied man on the island
is a sponge-fisher. The children learn to dive as they
learn to walk. In the fishing season there is not a
male of working age—and they start young in the
boats —left on the island. They used to work entirely
without any apparatus other than a heavy stone to
help them sink. Now they are beginning to use
diving gear. Nowadays the AEgean is practically
“fished out,” and they go to the coast of. Africa for
their sponges, still called “Turkish.” The local trawlers
occasionally pick up odd sponges in their routine
work, but there is now no regular sponge-fishing in
the AEgean. At no time was sponge-fishing in the
AEgean a resort of lost men. On the contrary, it was
a job Tor very carefully-trained men in perfect con-
dition.


/
m
m
W@£B6f:
( -
mzm
• $ -If# A
.. At
w - .4 j
SS5i
MR
iSltili'
V
mrnmi.
■■
iL.
i\
To forecast and provide for public needs in the coming years
is an important factor in every efficient business organisation.
Especially is this so in the wireless industry.
In the research laboratories of Amalgamated Wireless scientists
and technical engineers are engaged in furthering wireless
science—continually unfolding improved methods in all phases
of wireless development.
The work of the A.W.A. scientists and research engineers is
having a marked effect on the development of broadcast trans-
mission and reception, and of wireless communication at sea,
on land, and in the air, and its results will be even greater in
the coming years.
It is this spirit of progress, this far-seeing policy of harnessing
wireless to new tasks, of scientific planning for requirements
years ahead, that has built up A.W.A.’s prestige as leaders of
the wireless industry in Australia.
V.
AMALGAMATE D WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


M -
mmm
I
■
■
••
HP
m
. ‘:
BSE?
py**/* *•" *'*g
Ip'W :»Wf ?’ #t' , ' gjS
: : .*
■BiIIHHI
:.■:. ■
■ '
■
M
,
m i
.
■
V.J
:
MM
W
m
ms
■
gnKHfc
&
■
-i”
m ■'
i / JK#
1 :>
i§
■p
Sil
I
E ;
■
m
m
m
ym
mm
, &
***§«>u> pxts
para
a
m
w
m
*
W 0
m
MHi
MH
Mi
- , 5
'.O.
■
: ii
a
.
ws\


MEDIEVAL INTERRUPTION.
“But have you never heard that crusading went out five hundred years ago ?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ails.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Bctrrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambtan
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
FOR NON-INTERVENTION.
The repetitions of history, startling as they can be
in times like the present, are never exact in every
particular. The Russian Revolution which began in
1917 is, up to a point, very like the first French
Revolution which began in 1789, even in the matter
of Lenin-worship—Jacobins tried to make a god of
Marat, and, when “his carcass” had been “ejected from
the Pantheon,” sang hymns in praise of Robespierre—
and its leaders have also taken the bloody path trodden
by the Paris Commune in 1871. But although there
has been conscious imitation, it is no perfect copy of
either.
Similarly, there was a world war in the first part
of the nineteenth century, and there was another in
the first part of the twentieth century; and when each
was over the winners entered into an alliance charged
with the loftiest sentiments and designed to guarantee
them the peaceful enjoyment of their conquests. Here
again there are important differences.
The winners of the world war which ended in
1815 were the Emperors of Russia and Austria and
the Kings of England and Prussia. Three of them
had their alliance signed, sealed and delivered three
months after Napoleon quitted France.
It was a most grandiloquent document. “Con-
formably to the words of the Holy Scriptures, which
command all men to consider each other as brethren,
their Majesties the Emperor of Austria, the King of
Prussia and the Emperor of Russia” undertook to
“remain united by the bonds of a true and indissoluble
fraternity,” and “on all occasions and in all places”
to “lend each other aid and assistance.” Inviting their
“subjects and armies” to regard them as “fathers of
families,” their Majesties promised to lead their
children, “in the same spirit of fraternity” with which
they themselves were “animated,” “to protect Religion,
Peace and Justice.”
In case there were mockers about, this assurance
was repeated. The three potentates solemnly declared
that “the present Act has no other object than to
publish, in the face of the whole world, their fixed
resolution... .to take for their sole guide the precepts
of Justice, Christian Charity and Peace.”
Then came a general invitation, with conditions:
“All the Powers who shall choose solemnly to avow
the sacred principles which have dictated the present
Act.... will be received with equal ardor and affection
into this Holy Alliance.”
The Pope and the Sultan of Turkey were excluded
from the general invitation, and on the advice of Castle-
reagh the Prince Regent begged to .be excused. “With
these exceptions all the European sovereigns”—and
there were heaps of European sovereigns in those days
—“appended their names.”
The winners of the other world war embodied
their Holy Alliance in the Covenant of the League of
Nations. Like the Emperors and Kings, they tacked it
on to peace treaties in which the losers were ordered to
pay the cost of the war in the shape of cash indem-
nities and cession of territories —albeit their demands
were more exacting than those of the nineteenth-
century monarchs, and, though they remembered the
principle of nationality when setting up Czecho-
slovakia and Poland and strengthening Rumania and
Yugoslavia, they decided that it should never apply
to Germans.
The language of their covenant was not as high-
flown as that of the Holy Alliance, but the effect was
much the same. In Article 10 they undertook “to
respect and preserve as against external aggression the
territorial integrity and existing political independence
of all Members of the League” ; in Article 16 they
agreed to boycott and bash any “covenant-breaking”
Member resorting to war.
Thirty-two States whose representatives had
signed the Treaty of Peace with Germany became
parties to the Covenant, and 13 other States were
asked to accede to it—which they did. The losers
were not among them, and the President of the United
States, like the Prince Regent in 1815, stood out.
In process of time the losers were allowed in,
though Germany did not stay long. The U.S.A. has
remained out. The events of the last few years,
dating from the admission of the Red Republic which
instructs its disciples to lie and hate and promote
world revolution by class war, has shown how very
wise our American friends were.
The invocation of “sanctions” against Italy pro-
duced a state of war in which Britain was left to
carry the baby; no other member of the League
moved a ship, a gun or a man. The hazardous experi-
ment failed, as it was bound to fail. Since then
Germany, Japan and Italy have left the League, the
representatives of Red Spain and Red China have
demanded League wars for the protection of their
“political independence,” and a similar demand is
expected to come from Czechoslovakia. Meanwhile
the “political independence” of Austria, another
member-nation, has been extinguished, seemingly with
the concurrence of at least 80 per cent, of the
Austrians. At all events, the change was accomplished
without any fighting, which is more than can be said
for the separation of Belgium from Holland, 16 years
after it had been incorporated in that country, princi-
pally by the parties to the Holy Alliance.
Our British forefathers were as wise in their genera-
tion as the Americans have shown themselves in ours.
Seven years after they refused to join the Holy Alli-
ance, the Bourbon King of France “asked to be
allowed to march into Spain, as the mandatory of
the Powers, for the purpose of putting a stop to things
perilous alike to himself and all Europe.” Another
Bourbon, a very bad specimen, was King of Spain,
and a civil war was in progress. The mandate was
sought at the Congress of Verona. “In spite of the
vigorous protest of Great Britain, it was granted
by the majority of the Powers,” and “on April 7,
1823, the Duke of AngoulSme, at the head of a
powerful army, crossed the Bidassoa and restored
order”—after a fashion. (There followed, the historian
records, “an orgy of cruel reaction” and “a series of
convulsions which lasted till 1874.”) The Left Wing
French want to do this very thing to-day, though
the French of the Right object.
George Canning, who was Foreign Secretary in
1823, objected very strongly. It was then that he said
“If France has Spain, it shall be Spain without the
Indies,” and then, by recognising the Spanish-
American republics, Mexico and Colombia first, that
he “called into existence a New World to redress the
balance of the Old.” His name is revered in Latin-
America to this day, and from his foreign policy
Britain derived, and still derives, immense benefits.
And the pith and marrow of his foreign policy
was non-intervention. “Noh-intervention” plus “the
patronage, if not the actual support, of national and
liberal movements in Europe” (Encyclopedia Britan-
nica). “Moral” support is preferable, for Canning was
no interventionist as we know the breed. Unlike Mr.
Attlee, Mr. Churchill, Mr. Lloyd George and the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” he never proposed to stake
the existence of the British Empire on armed crusades
here, there and everywhere. When the French invasion
of Spain in 1823 seemed to threaten Portugal, he sent
troops to that country to occupy “the well-known
heights of Lisbon.” But the protection of Portugal
and* of the sea-routes at which an unfriendly Power
seizing that country could strike was a vital part of
the British defence system; and it is the same to-day.
Mr. Chamberlain made that clear in his speech
in the House of Commons last Thursday. Britain,
he said, has “treaty obligations” to Portugal, and to
Iraq and Egypt also, and it is committed to defend
France and Belgium “against unprovoked aggression” ;
but Czechoslovakia —no! Even if France should be in-
volved in a Czechoslovakian war —France, Russia and
Czechoslovakia on the one side, Germany and perhaps
Poland and Hungary on the other—Britain will not
bind itself to come in. For a “prior guarantee”
would mean handing an order for the mobil-
isation of the British Army, Navy and Air
Force and those of the Dominions to the
ruling racial group in “an area where our vital
interests are not concerned in the same degree as in
France or Belgium” ; and it might mean dragging the
Empire into war to back Soviet intrigue and Czech
oppression of a minority nearly half the population
of Australia. So there will be no prior guarantee.
Let the Czechs settle their differences with their Ger-
mans. To the U.S.S.R. Britain has no commit-
ments (this, though not expressly stated, was
clearly implied), and the British Government will not
accept the U.S.S.R. Government’s invitation to a
conference which, by “aggravating the tendency” to
range one group of Powers against another, would
be “inimical to peace.”
“Peace,” the Prime Minister said, “is the greatest
interest of the Empire. Our object must always be
to preserve the things that we consider essential with-
out recourse to war, because we know that in war
there can be no winners.” Rearmament has been
forced on his Government, chiefly by the folly of
those who are now crusaders and warmongers ; engage-
ments have been entered into ; Britain’s signature is
still on the League Covenant, and, abysmally as the
new Holy Alliance has failed, great numbers of good
people, as well as foolish and dangerous people,
believe that it can still be made a success. Subject
to the pressure of these facts, and in a situation still
doubtful —for “there has been a profound disturbance
in international relations” —Neville Chamberlain has
returned to the foreign policy of George Canning.
And thank God for it!
Health—-or Only Healing?
“We expect to have our national-insurance project in
operation next January,” said Treasurer Casey to the A.N.A.
conference at Sorrento (Vic.). A doctor who has made a study
of the subject has written this article for The Bulletin.
The board which will organise and administer the
National Health and Pensions Insurance scheme is to
include an economist, a public-service expert and an
actuary, with a statistician as secretary.
From this it is reasonably clear that the Aus-
tralian Government regards the undertaking as essen-
tially—perhaps exclusively—one of finance. The
apparent assumption is that once this aspect is agreed
upon it will only be necessary to adopt the English
scheme, possibly with minor modifications, and
all our present troubles of social and economic wast-
age due to ill-health among wage-earners will steadily
disappear. Sickness benefits, medical benefits, mater-
nity benefits, widows’ and orphans’ pensions, unem-
ployment insurance, old-age pensions, all will be
provided for. What more can anyone want?
Before such a scheme has been in operation for
long, many people will be wanting a lot more. Sick-
ness benefits under the English scheme range from
9s. to 15s. a week for men and 7s. 6d. to 12s. for
women. Maternity benefits are £2 if the husband
only is insured, £4 if both are, or the wife only. Widows’
pensions (granted where at least 104 contributions
have been paid before the husband’s death) are 10s.
a week, with ss. for the first child and 3s. for others
under 14. Orphan pensions are 7s. 6d. The old-age
limit is 10s. after 65 for those insured continuously
for the five preceding years, 10s. after 70 for the
uninsured, subject to property and income deductions.
Maximum unemployment benefit is 17s. a week for
a man, 15s. for a woman, with 9s. for each dependent
adult and 3s. for each child.
Compared with such Australian standards as at
present apply, most of these figures are low, and reflect
a lower standard of living.
The central medical service of the English scheme
is concerned only with reporting on local administra-
tion of the general undertaking and preventing malin-
gerers from securing medical benefits to which they
are not entitled. It makes no attempt to reduce the
days of sickness and loss of time among the insured ;
it takes no account of preventive medical work; it is
content with a routine of exclusively financial inspec-
torial duty.
Local action comprises general-practitioner service
for the insured, at the patient’s house or the doctor’s
surgery, with certain limited optical and dental bene-
fits. The insured person has the right of selecting his
own panel doctor, but if his illness requires hospital
treatment the benefit does not cover it, and his
relations with the selected doctor end whilst he remains
there.
The standard of general-practitioner treatment is
lower in England than it is in Australia, where, in
the large centres at least, it covers such matters as
laboratory and X-ray diagnosis. In Australia it is
the usual practice to send to hospital any patient who
is at all seriously ill.
Hospital-mindedness is widely spread among us
and is increasing. Queensland has spent millions
during the last few years in providing public hospitals
on a very large scale, under what amounts to a system
of direct Governmental control. Westralia has a far-
flung Government hospital and medical service. Tas-
mania is about to instal a free medical service in
country districts. It is highly unlikely that the respec-
tive Governments will agree to their incorporation in
the new undertaking without argument and conditions.
Battle has already been joined over the terms on
which the medical profession will be prepared to
co-operate. The same question was a major obstacle
in the way of the inception of the English scheme until
Lloyd George overcame it. He appointed the leaders
of the medical opposition to good positions under
the new department. That astute stroke is not likely
to be repeated in Australia, and it is less likely
that the Australian general practitioner will be con-
tent with the rates of payment which satisfy his
English counterpart. His willing co-operation is essen-
tial from the outset, and he knows it.
All these grave problems await solution before
the scheme can be regarded as even tentatively in
actual being. They are almost wholly problems of
preventive medicine in its higher applications. Yet no
provision has been made for co-opting expert know-
ledge of the very matters which will make or mar the
vast undertaking.
The merely healing standard of the English
scheme, now 27 years old, and inaugurated at a time
when preventive medicine was comparatively little
understood, is totally inadequate, even if the board
should succeed in adjusting the position between
doctors, hospitals and patients. For attainment of
any real and lasting national benefit the aim must be
towards steady and systematic improvement of all
agencies which can be applied, within the limits of
insurance benefits, to lessen the necessity for healing.
Prevention is better than cure, and cheaper.
The Commonwealth Department of Health has
given long and ample proof of competence. The Council
of Health and Medical Research links it intimately
with the general medical profession, the State medical
services and all major health activities and conditions
throughout the Commonwealth. Its laboratories and
trained officers extend from Darwin to Launceston,
from Rockhampton to Kalgoorlie. Its entire organ-
isation and outlook are those of preventive medicine
administered on a national basis.
The plain and obvious solution is to place the
whole of the medical activities of the insurance
scheme under that department on a basis which will
ensure effective professional service for the insured,
within the limits of insurance benefits, and application
of the knowledge and opportunities thus gained for
improvement of the health of the individual and
the nation. No extra expense need be involved;
indeed, large savings may be expected from the
avoidance of overlapping and from expert control of
technical detail. But in one step the main work of
a great national undertaking would be raised from
the ignoble level of mere routine repair-healing to one
of active health-promotion and sickness-prevention.
Australia should not be content with anything less.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Defence Programme.
The Prime Minister chose the broadcasting stations
instead of Parliament as a medium through which to
give out his new defence policy. Parliament is not
sitting. That it should be resting when momentous
things happen and important decisions have to be
made is nowadays taken for granted.
In the last Budget, £11,531,000 was provided as
the year’s defence expenditure: £6,000,000 was
to come out of revenue, £2,500,000 out of
loan, and the rest out of trust funds. The Govern-
*ntenc*s t° spend £43,000,000 in three years,
and £24,800,000 will be additional expenditure.
Of this the Navy is to have £7,780,000. Two
new cruisers of the Sydney type, completed in 1936, are
to be bought from the British Government. Albatross,
the Australian-built seaplane-carrier, is to be handed
over to the U.K., and two sloops and three local
seaward-defence vessels are to be laid down in Aus-
tralian dockyards. All this is better, but the addition
to the R.A.N. of a battle-cruiser like the first Aus-
tralia would be better still. '
Coast defences are to be strengthened ; and they
need strengthening. Particular attention is rightly
to arw i n - On the military side another
£5,500,000 is to be spent. But it is not intended to
increase the C.M.F. strength beyond 35,000.
Lastly, £8,800,000 is to be provided to “complete
the Salmond scheme of aerial defence” within three
yeais. The Salmond scheme was framed nearly a
decade ago, when Germany had no air force. It
will give us the same number of machines as were
thought necessary before the world rearmed; but the
Government has a strong conviction” that it will
enable the R.A.A.F. to “make a major contribution
to the solution of the problem of defence.”
Man-power? It seems to be regarded as a minor
matter. It wasn’t so regarded when the A.I.F. covered
itself with glory. In October the Commonwealth
Ministry and Commonwealth Opposition and their
newspapers were protesting that they hated national
service above all other things, and would never, never
bring it in. The Bulletin then wrote: “Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Curtin will readily tackle any aspect of
defence except this essential matter of adequately-
trained man-power, without which there is no
defence” ; and, unfortunately, this remains true.
Good-bye, John Thomas!
Mr. Lang has lost another election for Labor; and
Labor may as well abandon hope if it lets him have
the opportunity of losing any more.
The verdict of the N. S. Wales State electors
shows that they consider the indictment against Mr.
Lang as telling as ever; and, broadly considered, not
the least important count in it is that he has made
election-winning too easy for the other side.
Now, as in 1931, Langism is the other side’s main
asset. In Commonwealth and State alike it can
succeed at the polls merely by raising the cry that
it “saved the country from Lang,” and suggesting
that it is the only alternative to another period of
misrule as mad as 1931-32. And it is not good for
the country that parties and performances should be
so judged. The boasted achievements of the Stevens
Government would have been reviewed in a much
more critical spirit if Mr. Lang had been out of the
way.
For the fourth time in a little over 10 years “the
Big Fellow who put the bailiff in on the ‘Labor Daily’ ”
has had a Labor opponent in Auburn. In 1927 it was
the late Mr. Minahan, M.L.A.; in 1932 it was
the late Mr. Coleman, who had been Federal Labor
member for the district of which Auburn is part; in
1935 it was Mr. Chifley, who had been M.H.R. for
Macquarie and Mr. Scullin’s Minister for Defence.
Last week it was Mr. Hooke, of the Sydney Trades
and Labor Council, who was a Lang Chairman of
Conciliation Committees in the interest-default days,
when Mr. Lang boasted that “the Revolution is here.”
Mr. Lang beat Mr. Hooke, and an Auburn
disciple, Mr. Lamb, regained the neighboring elec-
torate of Granville for the Cause. And there
may be a remote chance of recapturing Peter-
sham, which used to be a soft thing. But Mr.
Heffron got in again for Botany, and expects
to be in the proud position of leading an Anti-
Lang Labor party of four (4). Apart from Granville
and Petersham, the Ministerial electorates were com-
fortably held, in a number of cases by increased
majorities. The Country party’s vote was noticeably
strong. So for the third consecutive Parliament Lang
Labor will have less than a third of the Assembly
seats.
Towards the end a comic touch was imparted to
an otherwise dull campaign. The “Daily Telegraph”
discovered that it had given the nation “leadership,”
and invited the part that lives in Ryde to show its
appreciation by rejecting Mr. Spooner, the Minister of
Works. In an article spread over three columns it
presented a number of characteristic “D.T.” reasons
WHY MR. SPOONER SHOULD GO. The part of
the nation that lives in Ryde responded by giving
Mr. Spooner, who had two opponents, a substantial
absolute majority. Doubtless it remembered the news-
paper’s impudent demands for a Russian alliance and
for “positive action against Japan.”
Queensland's Election.
State elections have ah air of unreality nowadays.
The occurrence of three within a fortnight must
increase doubts expressed where thinking men for-
gather as to whether these business-disturbing affairs
are necessary to Australia. On such occasions such
Australians are apt to envy Britain, South Africa
and Maoriland, which get along with one Parliament
apiece, and thus dispense with the cost of electing
six provincial Parliaments, paying an excessive number
of politicians, and maintaining the privileges (travel
on the nod is one), duplicated measures and over-
lapping departments which their presence and pomp
demand.
Queensland’s Forgan Smith Government, which
is going to the country next Saturday, has greater
claims on Australian nationalists than either the
Government at Adelaide, which has been defeated, or
the Government at Sydney, which has succeeded. In
its local-government legislation Queensland Labor has
provided against the time when local governing bodies
will take over functions now discharged expensively,
and necessarily with no great amount of knowledge,
at Brisbane.
All the same, for a diversity of reasons, the Labor
Government is finding the going heavier than it did
three years ago. While claiming that unemployment
is below pre-depression figures, it has levied unem-
ployed-relief tax on the depression scale. The Premier
has been reminded on a hundred platforms and in
hundreds of leading articles that he promised
reduction of this tax with reduction of unemploy-
ment,, and a cut of a penny in the pound can scarcely
be said to amount to fulfilment. In fact, there is
obvious dissatisfaction with the Government on this
point. Then a Protestant Labor group has appeared,
and when this happened in New South Wales it gave
the A.L.P. heaps of trouble.
The Opposition, once strong for “united action
against the common enemy,” is now in two wings,
Country party and U.A.P.; and each is promising
tax-reduction at a great rate. The Government is
expected to win again, but it will be a miracle if the
Government retains its present majority. Still political
miracles have happened in Queensland.
Yampi Sound and Dual Control.
For upwards of 30 years Yampi Sound, nor’-east of
Broome (W.A.), has been in the public eye as a
potential producer of iron ore. After many proposals
had fallen through, an Anglo-Australian co. was
authorised by the Westralian Government and Parlia-
ment to mine the deposits and sell the proceeds of
their mining to the Japanese, who anticipated taking
about 1,000,000 tons of ore p.a.
The question of export was raised in the Com-
monwealth Parliament in March, 1937, but the Prime
Minister brushed it aside. He then saw no reason
why iron ore should not be exported.
In March, 1938, however, the Commonwealth
Geologist, Dr. Woolnough, reported that “only two
iron-ore bodies or groups of bodies of large extent,
high grade and easy access are known in Australia —
Yampi Sound and Iron Knob.” He estimated the
reserves in these two localities at “100,000,000 and
150,000,000 tons respectively,” and recommended the
“limitation and even prohibition of uncontrolled
exploitation.”
Mr. Lyons announced that action would be taken
when the S.A. and Westralian Governments had been
consulted. Then came the news that prohibition of
uncontrolled export was imminent. Export, it seems,
is to be under permit, and “an immediate detailed
survey” of iron resources has been ordered. Why
wasn’t this done before?
The operating company’s representative, Mr. H.
E. Vail, remarks that only last month the Common-
wealth Government committed itself to the statement
that it was unlikely to intervene to prevent export of
Yampi ore:
Had assurances not been given, the huge expendi-
ture already incurred would not have been undertaken.
It shows what can happen when two authorities
can meddle in national matters. And the supply of
iron ore is a national matter. No matter where
deposits lie, continuance of supply affects industry in
every State, transport in every State and the defence
of every State. But this doesn’t seem to have dawned
on Canberra till it was confronted with the estimate
or guess of one (1) geologist.
Britain's Oldest Ally.
The expressed astonishment of cable “experts” at
the revelation that Britain “might automatically have
to fight for Portugal” if Portugal were the subject of
unprovoked attack is merely another symptom of their
ignorance. Britain and Portugal are very old allies',
and only in Mr. Anthony Eden’s time have their
relations been clouded.
Whenever the Portuguese Army has needed
reorganisation in recent centuries, a British mission
has done the job. Such a mission was appointed in
1803, and Australia might have had its history
changed by the appointment, since Lachlan Macquarie
was offered a seat on the reorganising board. Had
he accepted, his career would certainly have been
changed.
Portugal is vital to Britain for sea-defence. Dur-
ing the Great War the Royal Navy was able to use
the Portuguese harbors almost as if they had been
British, and the use of St. Vincent in the Cape Verde
Islands as a coaling station for African-squadron
cruisers was invaluable.
Only once has Portugal been allowed to come
under the domination of a Power other than Britain
during a serious conflict, and Britain nearly paid
heavily for it. That was in Queen Elizabeth’s day.
Spain was in the ascendant, and the Spanish Armada
was assembled and fitted out in the Tagus. Britain has
never forgotten.
Shed-to-ship Charges.
With all the “orderly marketing,” little official atten-
tion has been paid to the shed-to-ship charges levied
on farm produce. To the extent that they are
unreasonable, such charges are taxes on the farmers,
and such taxes have been levied at Fremantle for
upwards of 30 years. There the State Government is'
responsible; it winks at steep dues in order to get
bloated Harbor Trust surpluses for the State Treasury.
In Victoria the position is different. There the
Harbor Trust people have the latest in cranes and
other equipment at Port Melbourne, and the railway
authorities can run produce almost to the ship’s side.
Shipowners have contributed to efficiency by provid-
ing vessels easier to load and unload. Nevertheless
charges at the wharves have been creeping steadily
upwards.
If the additional costs were going to waterside
workers they would be more patiently borne. But
the wharfies maintain in court that they are getting
less pay than they received some years ago. Tax-
payers maintaining the public port and railway utili-
ties that enable fewer men to load and unload more
cargo in an hour than was formerly shifted in two
hours are entitled to know the reasons for increased
wharf charges. Neither the Harbor Trust nor the
Vic. Railway Commissioners can be held responsible.
With the price of wheat down, this matter is
increasingly important to wheatgrowers, and it is
assuredly one for inquiry by a Parliamentary Select
Committee —not a royal commission. The interests
collecting wharf-handling and stevedoring dues should
certainly welcome such an inquiry if in the result it
would silence critics.
Debunking a Flapper-press War.
Flapper-paper writers who have been urging Aus-
tralia to intervene in the war in China —“fall in behind
President Roosevelt,” as one genius put it —are advised
not to read an editorial in the “Saturday Evening
Post” of January 22. It makes short and deadly
work of all their pretty pictures.
The “Post” points out that it is traditional prac-
tice in China to make soldiers—or what pass for
soldiers—out of scum. After the country was
“liberated,” soldiers “ganged up,” and this situation
arrived:
China was overrun with war lords, brigands and
their soldiery. A coolie of a higher type than his fellow-
war lord, Chlang Kai-shek, had made himself the head
of a so-called Government and dictator. He and his
associated war lords sent their soldiers from the human
junk piles of China against the best representatives of
Japan’s young manhood, equipped, trained and directed
by Japan’s best brains. We have seen what has hap-
pened. But seeing is not believing, as far as many
observers are concerned.
The last observation certainly applies to the
flapper-writers aforesaid. To them the “Post’s” “coolie’ -
is the Chinese Napoleon and the soldiers made out
of scum are “acknowledged masters of mobile warfare
over a shifting front.” And if Australia had fallen
in behind President Roosevelt, it would now be enjoy-
ing the inestimable assistance not only of these Com-
munist warriors but of the ladies of the Legion of
Death. Also the politics of the war would be under
the omniscient direction of Madame Chiang Kai-shek
and the ladies of. her Cabinet. What a heap of
excitement we missed!
A Lesson from the Pontine Marshes.
Since Roman times the Pontine Marshes have been
one of Italy’s wastes. They lie a few miles to the
south of Rome, swampy, malarious land which used
to be the haunt of robbers. Draining them has been
a project almost as eternal as Rome. Appius Claudius
made the first-remembered attempt. Now, after the
lapse of 2250 years, it has been done.
Eighteen main drainage plants, with over 300
miles of main and secondary drains, have been put
in. Ten million cubic metres of banking material
have been heaped in the right places. Eight hundred
miles of roads and farm approaches have been laid
down, and over 150,000 acres brought to the stage
which allows of their being populated. Towns,
hamlets, 3200 dwellings, lighting, power and sanitation
have been provided. Malaria has been wiped out.
And only 20 p.c. of the Pontine lands are not under
crop or grazing.
It is a lesson to this country. Australia may have
no swamps which it would be worth while to tackle
immediately, but there are areas of land that would
repay large-scale improvement, which could be done
by corporative effort.
Here and there on the landscape of more .settled
N. S. Wales and Queensland, individual farms stand
out which, by dint of the enthusiasm of the owners,
have been made to carry five sheep to the acre where
only one or two could be carried before. The remain-
ing farms in those districts often need, if not reclaim-
ing, at least transforming.
The Queensland Land Administration Board
decided that depression-time would be a good time
to lend money to farmers and graziers who would
carry out improvements on approved plans. But its
proposals were pigeonholed.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“D.E.”: I had almost given up trying
to decide whether the U.A.P. or Lang
Labor election stuff was the more fatuous
when Granny “Herald” and J. J. Graves,
of the Inner Group, settled the matter
for-me. Graves prepared and Granny
published a full-page advertisement
adorned with a huge photograph of Lang
trying hard to beam—he doesn’t beam
easily—on a young couple in a corner
of a flat patently in the five-guineas-a-
week class. The lady’s head —Labor’s
Great Leader’s, too —was set against flat-
window curtains in the latest style. Her
hair was expensively waved ; her frock
was of figured silk, and a jewelled pen-
dant hung from her dainty neck. The
young man sported a Hitler mo., and
was obviously Royal Sydney or Killara
and addicted to sixteen-guinea suits.
Their rapt expressions indicated that the
Hope of the Downtrodden was getting
their votes; and the rest was explained
by the type —the biggest and blackest
that money could hire. He was getting
their votes for Family Endowment.
For Widows’ Pensions. Above all, for
Increased Basic Wage (£4 2s. 6d. per
Week Minimum).
* * ♦ - *
“Sixenate”: Some queer legal points
have cropped up in a Sydney eviction case.
Landlord left the key of the house next
door ; and in good faith Mrs. Nextdoor,
receiving a deposit, let some people who
said they had taken the place go in. No
rent was forthcoming, and the landlord
gave the intruders notice to quit. It was
not obeyed ; and in court the solicitor
for the defence raised, successfully, the
point that the occupants were not tenants
but trespassers; it would be necessary
for the landlord to go to a higher court
to recover possession. This would cost
landlord at least £25, and might take as
long as four months. But while the
owner was glumly worrying over this
position the occupants did a moonlight
flit.
* * * . *
“Tovarisch”: lam glad to see that the
usual propagandist has not failed to drag
“Deutschland fiber Alles” into the Aus-
trian controversy as an anthem of defi-
ance and world ambition, because it
appeals to my sense of humor. The air
is a lugubrious hymn tune of Haydn’s—
the same as that of the old Austrian
Imperial national anthem —and when it
is sung by a large crowd the singers
sound as if they had been kept standing
in the rain all night on their way to a
sunrise execution. Even if it were the
most belligerent song in the world, the
air would kill it, but in material it is up
to the ordinary national-anthem stan-
dard. It begins by proclaiming that, when
all Germans from the Meuse to the
Memel and from the Adige to the Baltic
are united in brotherhood, Germany will
be superior as a country to anything in
the world—not ruler of the world, as bad
translators tell us. Then it goes on to re-
mark that German womanhood, German
loyalty, German wine and German song
will continue to maintain in the world
their ancient and lovely sound, urging
on the German people to noble achieve-
ment their whole lives long. And it fin-
ishes with this titbit of verse, which is
just about as literary in its native tongue
as in the translation:
Unity and right and freedom
For the German Fatherland!
Thereto let us all be striving,
Brotherly, with heart and hand.
Unity and right and freedom —
These of fortune are the bond —•
Flourish in this fortune’s splendor,
Flourish, German Fatherland!
After that, everybody says “Hoch!” in
a relieved tone and reaches for his beer.
There isn’t even a prayer to “scatter our
enemies” or “frustrate their knavish
tricks” in the darn thing. But most Con-
tinental national anthems are in the same
street, in sentiment and literary quality,
except “The Marseillaise” and Norway’s
anthem, Bjornson’s “Ja, jeg elsker dette
landet,” which is a fine lyric.
* * * *
“Tham”: Pressmen reprimanded (B.
23 /3/’38)? I, too, learnt in M.L. not to
write up dilapidated objects from a
romantic angle when I referred to the
sideshow fraternity as “modern gipsies.”
Angry houpla-booth and popcorn people
stormed into the office protesting that
they were running “a legitimate busi-
ness,” andj though they calmed down
when I pointed out that the romantic
“Were travellirn' all ri ' , Bill , but. We don sheem to be gettin' anywheres !”
touch was good publicity, nothing could
persuade the tight-rope ladies that it
wasn’t the deadliest of insults to write of
their “dusty” caravans. Had a similar
nasty moment when the members of a
small-town croquet club threatened to
drop their subscriptions if I continued to
publish their doings as those of the
Blankford Women’s Croquet Club instead
of the Ladies'.
“Stoo”: I like the friendly spirit of the
notice they have on the ticket windows
at Wynyard station, Sydney: “Coins
suspected of being counterfeit will be
tested, and may be damaged.” It would
outrage my artistic sensibilities to have
any of the dud two-bobs I manufacture
returned to me with official toothmarks
on them, and I voice the thanks of the
profession for the tip.
•i* 'k
“Kellick”: The wave of teetotalism
which the cables tell us is submerging the
British Navy hasn’t reached the R.A.N.
The new canteen at Jervis Bay started
with a stock of eight 18-gallon barrels,
16 nine-gallon kegs and 300 doz. bottles
of beer, and the lot was sold out in four
sessions, each of two hours’ duration.
* * *
“Bungster”: “Such’s” depiction of the
cricketer spiling the barrel (B. 9/3/’3B)
would have drawn caustic comment in
my old home north of the Grampians.
There spiling was a serious business, not
to be undertaken by a novice. Each
home had its own spiler, a proud man
who jealously guarded his job, and felt
shame if he spilled a drop. And that
was with stuff that was bursting to
escape. One hit only was allowed—a
miss meant half a barrel wasted and
everything within yards saturated. If
immigration is resumed Australia is likely
to see a revival in the vogue of home-
brewed beer, law or no law. Then a
declining art will be resuscitated.
* * * *
“Lex”: “Bill O’Costs” (B. 16 /3 / ’3B)
can’t be familiar with the High Court
rules, offspring of Griffith, C.J., or his
professional blood would have evaporated
ere this. If he will refer to Order 55,
Rule 6, he will find that the august
C.J. directed notices to be “stuck up”
on the notice board in the Registry. It
was suggested to ’Sonah that “affixed”
would read better, but he would not alter
his draft. “Stuck up” sounds a lot less
legal to me than “handed down.”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: One of those lively
incidents which do more to disprove the
contention that the presence of British
troops is now unnecessary in India than
all the hot air spilled by Indian Congress
agitators: By an unfortunate chance the
Moslem feast of the Mohurrum and the
great annual Hindu festival of Kali fell
on the same date this year. The result
was that the British forces in most of
the principal cities of Northern India had
to be called out and the loss of life was
considerable. The Mohurrum, an annual
celebration of the deaths of Hassein
and Hussein, murdered nephews of
the Prophet, is always good for
an all-in go between the rival Moslem
sects of Sunni and Shiah, which
hold different opinions as to how to
keep the festival. But the Hindu fes-
tival involves much carrying of idols,
abhorred of Islam, through the streets,
and there is no doubt that both Shiah
and Sunni this time sank their own dif-
ferences and hopped into the idolators.
In these cases it is impossible to employ
Indian troops or police, since they are
either Moslem or Hindu. The affair had
to be another item in the day’s work of
those upholding the prestige of the Sirkar.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The gamble of the law
has been well illustrated by a case in
S.A. A well-known society woman
slowed down her car to turn in to the
Adelaide Oval, and a cyclist who was
just behind ran on into the rear of it
and was killed. On the claim by his
widow for damages, the cardriver was
not even called on to state her case, no
negligence being proved. Yet, the widow
being able to go on to the High Court,
a fresh trial was ordered there, and this
time negligence has been held proved,
with damages £ll2O, plus costs of both
trials.
* * * *
“T.”: The disreputable section of the
British press got another rotten advertise-
ment when the printers, publishers and
chief literary perpetrator of a magazine
called “Night and Day” were ordered to
pay £3500 damages for publication of a
libel contained in an alleged review of the
film “Wee Willie Winkie,” which has been
seen in Australia. The plaintiffs were
two film companies and Shirley Temple
she was awarded £2OOO damages, and the
film concerns £IOOO and £SOO. The
article was described by Sir Patrick Has-
tings, K.C., as one of the most horrible
that could be written about a chad or
nine,” and Lord Chief Justice Hewitt
added that it was a gross outrage. As
a student of the British press from boy-
hood, and an admirer of dailies, week-
lies and monthlies that preserve its tradi-
tions, I have regretfully to record that I
have never known its disreputable sec-
tion to be so large, slanderous and dan-
gerous. Sly innuendo, foul abuse and
wicked lying are part of its stock-in-
trade; and some of the most flagrant
examples are cabled to Australia,
* *. * *
“Dhas”: Junior officers on court-
martials (B. 23 /3 / ’3B) are still afraid to
venture an opinion contrary to that of
their superiors. Maorilanders in the Eng-
fish Air Force have told me that the
courts are a farce for that reason. The
worst feature of them, though, is that,
when the findings are promulgated, the
dailies at home seize on the verdict as
news, and military offenders, often for
a dereliction that would be trivial in civil
life, are subjected not only to the service’s
severe discipline, but to the crueller pun-
ishment of publicity. A case in point,
that of an Australian in the R.A.F. who
donged an officer at a party, has made
front-page news in Sydney dailies. Pub-
lishing that is sheer savagery, and is as
ridiculous as the fuss that is being made
about drinking in the force. Of course,
they drink when they’re off duty ; but the
standard of physical fitness demanded of
them is so high that they don’t get a
chance to do themselves any harm.
• J ‘ : * * %
“D.A.”: I read this the other day: —
The accused is sworn to tell the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth; and im-
mediately he begins to utter lies by the
wholesale. His weak intellect seems to
have been possessed and disordered by
one idea —that if he should confess a great
deal more than was expected, and make
himself out much more guilty, he should
perhaps obtain his pardon.
An account of a confession during the
latest purge in Moscow? Not quite;
the scene is Moscow, but the time just
over 200 years ago—in fact, an account
of the trial of Prince Alexis before his
father, Peter the Great, written by John
Lothrop Motley in 1845. Another ex-
tract that must even to-day find a re-
sponsive chord in the minds of people:
In Russia, then and at this day, there
is not even the fiction of a people. Peter
had a correct idea of the proper sources
of civilisation; he knew where and how
to collect the seeds; but he forgot there
was nobody to civilise.... He undertook
to civilise a State in which there was but
one man, and that man himself. He had
already annihilated the only class that was
not composed of slaves... .If, instead of
contenting himself with slaves who only
aped civilisation, he had striven to create
a people capable and worthy of culture,
his work would have been more durable
and his fame more elevated.
The man who wrote these things about
Russians has been dead 60 years!
CURVES.
“For the past three years Fashion has decreed
straight lines, but now, for 1938, she has suddenly
decided that curves are beautiful.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The boyish figure’s suddenly demoded;
That quaint delusion for which women
thinned
By dieting is happily exploded,
Gone to the discard, whistled down the wind.
The female of the species—Heaven bless her
And give her all the kudos she deserves
For yielding to the master minds that dress
her —
Has got the bulge upon her predecessor
By going back to curves.
Think you, when went three goddesses to
grapple
With one another on Mount Ida’s sward
For naked beauty’s prize, the golden apple
Which Ate tossed on the Olympian board,
That spareness in the dainty competition
Would not have quite perturbed the umpire’s
nerves?
Be sure they all arrived in prime condition,
Anticipating in the competition
Full marks for shapely curves.
There’s grace in poplar-trees to be detected,
And charm in poles supporting lamps and
wires,
But scarce the sort of symmetry expected
In the anatomy- man most admires,
The comely contour that grows more enchant-
ing
The more from angularity it swerves.
And now—good-bye to slimming and to bant-
ing—
They’re on the map again, straight lines sup-
planting—
A woman’s curves.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Rokko”: The Court was listening to
the details of a domestic argument, and
one of the complaints made by the lady
was that he hadn’t “spoken to me for a
year.” Counsel, fixing a severe eye on the
husband, inquired the reason for his met-
ing out such treatment to his wife. The
little man was understood to say that he
had occasionally spoken to her in the
time under notice. “When?” snapped
counsel. “It was when she paused,”
mumbled the small man unhappily. “I
sometimes used to say ‘ls there any
dinner to-night?’”
* * * *
“Aileron”: When a few months ago a
heady cable told of the invention of a
new type of helicopter which could rise
direct from the ground and hover at
walking speed, it seemed something of a
dream, but German reports and moving
pictures show the thing to be an actuality
which must revolutionise private flying.
The contraption looks like a reversion
to the ideas of Victorian-era flying-
machine imaginers—an ungainly, bat-
like beast with subsidiary wings which
flap like a bird’s, but there is no doubt
about its performance. It rises straight
"Toss us up the soap, joe!"
up, flies frontways, backways and side-
ways at any speed, hovers, almost station-
ary, within 18in. of the ground, and lands
in its own length. A cinematographed
demonstration was given in Berlin re-
cently in a closed hall with a woman pilot
who manoeuvred the craft with the ease
and certainty hitherto reserved for high-
power cars. In fact, it looks easier to
bring it down on the front lawn of
Emoh Ruo than it would be to park the
ordinary car, since fences and gates
matter nothing to it. As a keen amateur
fisherman, I expect to order one soon. A
craft in which I can soar into the blue
high enough to see where the fish are
and then come down and hover a few
inches off the waves
while I bag them is
what I have been
looking for for years.
“X.T.”: My heart
goes out in pity to
the unfortunates who
become Lud Mayors
of great Australian
cities. Take Brisbane’s
Right Worshipful—
the poor fellow has
become so overworked
with conferences, the
“tabulation of next
year’s loan require-
ments” and his “en-
deavor to address as
many election meet-
ings as possible” that
he is seriously con-
sidering the appoint-
ment of a “stand-in”
or vice-Mayor to help
him meet visitors and
act at conferences.
Australian Mayoral
hosp ita 1 i t y must
surely be the most
vicarious in the world.
There are some cities
which it is impossible
to visit as a member
of the Woop Woop
Yabbie Fishers’ Club
or the Wee Bolla-bolla
Hopper Board without being lined up
before a rabbit-skin ; but the appointment
of a vice to review the honored guests
suggests a lack of Mayoral imagination.
A little thought might have resulted in
a Mayoral world tour to enable personal
study of how they manage these things
in, say, London, where the civic head of
the largest and most independent city in
the world appears to be able to carry out
his highly hospitable office without depu-
tising.
* * * *
“Scotia”: Mention of a Sydney medico
who is forsaking his scalpel to become
a barrister (B. 16 /3 / ’3B) reminds that
there have been two Australian coroners
who were fully-fledged lawyers and
doctors. They were the late Dr. R. H.
Cole, for donkeys’ years Melbourne’s
Coroner, and Dr. W. Ramsay Smith, who
filled the bill in Adelaide until his death
recently. Dr. Smith, by the way, was
also a doctor of science.
“Mako”: Quite true that any method
of working greenstone must be both
slow and expensive. Expense was not a
consideration with the old Maoris who
fashioned the meres of the chiefs from
the kahurangi, the highest-grade green-
stone, as time did not enter into the con-
tract, and one man’s lifetime was never
long enough to finish the work he had
“Pop those back under the bonnet, Arthur — l'm driving Myrtle to town!"
begun. The famous mere of Te Whero
Where, now in the British Museum, was
computed to be at least six centuries
old when that bloodthirsty old ogre
neatly slew 250 prisoners of war with
it one fine morning, and it had even then
suffered five interments with ancestral
bones. Its transparent knife-edge was
rubbed by hand to its present perfec-
tion, and legend says hundreds of Maoris
had a hand in the rubbing, through prob-
ably 20 generations.
* * * *
“Perry”: Mention in The Bulletin
of that Goulburn Cathedral dispute
recalls that there died not long ago
a Goulburn resident who, as a child,
took an active part in the curious drama.
She was pressed into the service to go
by night and convey a bottle of soup
to the chief actor, Captain Rossi, then
suffering self-imprisonment in the
cathedral. It was thought that a child
wandering round would not attract as
much attention as an adult, and the little
girl, armed with a tube, went to a side
door and through a keyhole deployed
the nourishment to the hungry prisoner.
*****
“Wang”: Jones, arriving at his home
in Footscray at 1 a.m., was feeling for
his latchkey when he saw a flash of
light through the fanlight and
heard, a stealthy sound on the
other side of the door.
“Cripes!” he muttered, his
mouth near the keyhole, “th’
missish mush be waitin’ up
f me. I’ll —hie —sneak round
t’ th’ back, an’ lemme shelf
in quiet there,” and he tip-
toed gently away from the
danger zone. A couple of
minutes later the front door
was stealthily opened, and a
man, carrying a big bag,
stepped out and hurried down
the garden path. As he
emerged from the gate heavy
hands grasped him, and he
found himself struggling with
a policeman and the sup-
posedly too-convivial Jones.
The latter’s wife and family
were holidaying at a place
100 miles away.
“Fi. fa.”: Trespass isn’t a cause for
action unless damage or injury can be
proved against the trespasser. That emi-
nent Judge Sir Henry Hawkijis made
the Common Law of the matter very
clear, and was wont to illustrate it to the
landowning laity in the course of his
country walks. In a new district he
would inquire concerning properties on
which trespass action was threatened, and
on that of the pepperiest would stroll
leisurely about until ordered by the pro-
prietor to get off the bleddy place or be
jolly well hove off. Handing the irate
one sixpence and his visiting card, he
would then sit down and request the
landowner to order his servants to convey
him with all reasonable comfort, safety
and expedition to the nearest public high-
way. Otherwise he' intended to stay
where he was as long as he liked.
“Poker Pete”: Mary Borden, in her
novel Action for Slander (the screen ver-
sion is now showing in Sydney), has a
pretty poor knowledge of poker. The
whole basis of the plot is a charge that
Major Daviot discarded two cards,
bought two and picked up the discards
with the “buy” from which he made his
hand. When the hands were shown he
won with four threes, and it was then
that he was accused of making the hand
from seven cards. Now he paid about
£2O to “buy,” and the obvious assump-
tion is that he had something to start
with—nobody but a lunatic would pay
that much with nothing in hand. If he
had three threes there was the chance of
getting the fourth from the legitimate
“buy,” which is what happened. But if
he had two threes and had kept a
“kicker,” his discards could not possibly
have been any use to make a hand of
four threes. But nobody, from the other
players to the major’s counsel, mentioned
the obvious fact that in no circumstances
could the discards have improved the
major’s hand.
* * * *
“Alpha”: The officers who have never
learned to apply dubbin and Brasso (B.
16 / 3 / ’3B) could do with a taste of French
army discipline under the First Empire.
Even as a cadet at Brienne, Bonaparte
revolted against the batman system, and
submitted an unpopular memorial to the
authorities suggesting that the sprigs of
the nation’s military aristocracy should
apply their own pipeclay. When the
opportunity came his way later on, he
saw to it that his notions were put into
action, and, judged by results, the effect
upon morale was good. Australian
officers, except in permanent garrisons, de-
velop the anti-cleaning complex in annual
camps, but have to attend to their own
spit-and-polish throughout the year, un-
less their wives do it for them.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Queensland’s first traffic-
case under the Air Navigation Act was
tried before a Brisbane magistrate on
March 15. The complaint was laid by
the Civil Aviation Board, and set out the
offence as one of having failed to keep
the Archerfield aerodrome on the left
whilst flying at 2300 ft. or under within
It miles of it, also of having turned to
the right when under ground control
without being so directed by the control-
ling officer. Evidence showed that the
control-officer’s signals were disobeyed.
The defence was that no other ’planes
were on the ground, a thunderstorm was
approaching and the pilot’s action caused
no danger. Fined £4, plus £6 7s. costs.
IN VINO VERITAS.
In vino veritas. And you may bet
The author of that famous Latin line
Had known innumerable whistles, wet
With good old Chian or Falernian. wine,
Loosened until convictions were conveyed
In naked words with no superfluous gas,
In short, until a spade was called a spade.
In vino veritas.
1 ruth, at the bottom of a well may hide,
Where to discern her is a ticklish task.
She’s much more easily identified,
l fancy, at the bottom of a cask.
Tis there, disdaining ambiguities
And elbowing aside conventions crass,
She claims the right of saying what she please.
In vino veritas.
Tis said that wit is out when wine is in,
Which may be an indisputable fact,
But, used in this connection, “wit” is kin
Not half as near to wisdom as to tact,
Diplomacy, discretion—briefly aught
Of all that vast and ever-growing mass
Of verbal methods for concealing thought.
In vino veritas.
There’s truth in wine; indeed, a proper skinful
Of any beverage you may select
That Bungs dispense and wowsers reckon sinful
Is apt to have a similar effect.
You’d hesitate, assuming you were sober,
At calling anyone a blatant ass,
But truth will out, with not a rag to robe her,
As readily with rum as brown October.
In vino veritas.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


KMy throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
10 for 9 D
20 for 16
D 383
I
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
§ir
"••V,
m
i m
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. Labor definitely arrived in
1910, when it carried the Senate and won
17 seats in the House of Reps.—there
were 27 electorates then, and in one
Labor threw its support to old Bill Lyne.
Until Lang came along it could claim,
even in the war years, that it represented
45 p.c. to 60 p.c. of the N.S.W. electors.
Now, three successive State elections
have left it with less than one-third of
the Assembly representation. It is all
Lang’s doing.
From three columns of self-praise in
the Sydney “D.T.”:
Australian people are long-suffering be-
cause they lack leadership. We have tried
to give you this leadership. Jake politics,
for example.
Yes, take politics. Foreign politics. In
the last few months the “D.T.” has bar-
racked for (1) a Russian alliance ; (2)
an “alignment” of “the democracies”
(the U.S.S.R. included) against “the Fas-
cist Powers,” and (3) “positive action”
(i.e., war) “against Japan.” Australia
could get better leadership from a bell-
man.
All Sydney is laughing at the “D.T.”
and its pretensions to “leadership.” On
Friday it came out strong against
Minister Spooner: “a dangerous man who
treats public opinion with contempt” ; a
politician with “the temperament of the
dictator” ; “obstinate in defeat” ; “queru-
lous under criticism” ; “adamant—yet in-
effectual.” Spooner had compelled beach
brats who pose for flapper-press photo-
graphs to expose themselves a little less.
So
His period in politics must be regarded
as having been unduly prolonged, and
destined soon to end.
Ryde gave Spooner an absolute majority
of 1200 or 1300. The “D.T.’s” man got a
whole fifth of the votes. And on Monday
it hadn’t a word to say.
Very fortunately for Queensland
Labor, the Industrial Court, which has
nothing to do with politics, delivered a
basic-wage judgment last week and
raised the pay for men 3s. a week to
£4 Is., and for women 2s. to £2 3s. The
Premier hopped in with the announce-
ment that if his Government was re-
turned next Saturday basic-wage men
would be exempt from all income tax.
That, of course, had everything to do
with politics.
The 39 seats in S.A. Assembly are to
be occupied by 15 Liberals, 13 Indepen-
dents, nine pleged Laborites and two
Ind. Labs. How long they will remain
so occupied and who the minority Pre-
mier will be three months hence nobody
knows.
The S.A. and N.S.W. election results
strongly suggest that the wowser vote
has become a power again. So Queens-
land Labor had better be prepared for
squalls.
The Swiss Navy will not be available
for any future experiment in “sanctions,”
the Federal Government and Parliament
having “reaffirmed” that Switzerland is
“independent and neutral.” The declara-
tion of neutrality, though faithful to
Swiss tradition, is inconsistent with the
League Covenant, and is in effect another
knock to the League, already weakened
by the extinction of Austria. But the
words “Switzerland remains aloof from
foreign quarrels” have a proud ring. Pity
the Empire couldn’t say the same.
A departure from precedent was noted
when Bukharin and his 17 associates,
real or alleged, were “liquidated.” They
were shot in the back. Previous Old
Bolshevists got it in the back of the neck.
Sydney’s anti-Italian dailies have found
a new way of getting home on their
aversions. Nowadays immigrants from
Southern Europe are more Greek than
Italian, though the fruit-shop and eating-
house trades must be rather crowded.
Parties of both having arrived in Sydney
by the same steamer the dailies made a
point of announcing that the Greeks
were “clean” and “orderly” (the Italians
were “domineering”), and that the post-
ing of a “Don’t Spit” notice printed in
Greek and Italian was regarded as an
insult by the Hellenes —they, it was im-
THE PARACHUTE THAT DIDN’T OPEN.
plied, never spit. These dailies were not
so profuse with their praise (and dis-
praise) 20 years ago, when British and
French bluejackets were treacherously
shot by a Greek mob at the Piraeus.
The day before he left Melbourne for
London, Menzies discussed the Senate-
vacancy matter with Dunstan. He said
his opinion, supported by another. Mel-
bourne counsel, was that the Victorian
Parliament could constitutionally appoint
a successor to Jack Barnes, who died
before he could take his seat. So Par-
liament will make its choice —or the
choice of the Trades Hall —and objectors,
if any, may go to the High Court. The
question of making the Constitution clear
on this point and many others is post-
poned indefinitely.
Queensland Premier Forgan Smith
made two trips to London in search of
the International Sugar Conference. He
tracked it down on the second occasion
and returned with the intelligence that
everything would be all right. Without
blaming Foggy at all the Sugar Producers
said at their annual conference that every-
thing is all wrong: the “net price realised
under the new conditions has been most
disappointing,” and all the increase has
gone to shipping companies. And now
the basic-wage increase lets them in for
another £200,000 a year.
Curtin didn’t speak for Lacey or Lang
in the campaigns those worthies lost;
“urgent private business” intervened.
The member for Fremantle gets shrewder
as he grows older.
Mexico is a member of the League of
Nations, and if Uncle Sam grabs
Tehuantepec as an offset to the theft
of American oil properties the Greasers
will be entitled to ask the League to
make war on him by virtue of Articles
11 and 16. In the words of an Ameri-
can boxer whom Australia remembers,
“Sam ain’t frettin’.”
A.B.C. blundered badly when it re-
fused to let the South Australian Inde-
pendents’ Campaign Committee put the
case for Inds. over the air while permit-
ting Heffron to maunder for an hour
and a half in Sydney on the ground that
he led a party. The S.A. Inds. polled
more votes than either Liberals or Labor-
ites, and got 13 men in ; whereas Heff-
ron’s “party” contested only six seats
and may win two. A.B.C. can’t afford
to make these mistakes.
Wireless contributes to the misinfor-
mation of the public on foreign affairs.
National stations seem to be at the service
of any professor who has a bee in his
bonnet about a Russian alliance or who
wants to rock it into a “Fascist Power,”
and cables—“Cronk-News” and all —are
beefed out, with commercial-station inter-
pretations by some cocksure announcer
or one-eyed daily newspaperman. And
“the news of the week” is “dramatised”
by one particular chain. A recent' per-
formance closed with the statement that
“Spain and Czechoslovakia have become
the focal points of Europe, and the
British Government will have to decide
what it is going to do in the event of
any further Fascist aggression.” This
impertinence has been answered by
Neville Chamberlain.
Early election figures disappointed
S.A. Labor-leader Lacey so much that
in an unguarded moment he said he
would rather quit public life than back
a Government of Independents. Other
Laborites are now growling that “Lacey
spoke too soon.”
Another knight has gone where Park-
hill went and Pearce is to go in June —
Herbert Hudd, the S.A. Minister of
Works. He is a returned soldier, so
shifting him was not easy, but Connor,
an Independent, accomplished it in the
Alexandra electorate with 26 votes to
spare. A knighthood has become a dis-
tinct political liability.
On a Monday that seemed milder than
usual, a 6ft. 7in. Under-Secretary, one
Lennox Boyd, apologised in the Com-
mons for having said that he didn’t
think Chamberlain would guarantee
the frontiers of Czechoslovakia when
half the people of that country
wouldn’t defend them. He explained that
he was new to the job, and Chamberlain
benevolently added that the young man
was not a party to the deliberations of
Cabinet. It shows how British procedure
differs from Australian. In Australia
honorary and assistant Ministers, so
called, are admitted to Cabinet meetings,
though technically not members of
Cabinet. And Parliamentarians would go
on strike if they were asked to sit regu-
larly on Mondays.
“France First” seems nowadays to be
the motto of Churchill and Lloyd
George; but perhaps the Welshman has
twisted again. Visiting Paris, doubtless
in expectation of French gratitude for
his attitude, he was attacked by th,e
“Matin,” which reminded him bitterly of
what Foch said about him. This is what
Foch said, although our Glorious Press
didn’t trouble to look up the quotation:
He changes his mind as easily as he
changes his shirt. More often, if anything; .
shirts can be turned inside out. I am
astonished that England allows such a man,
so devoid of all the qualities most appreci-
ated by the English, to shape the destiny
of so great a nation. If he were given his
own way, he would drag England straight
to Bolshevism; and not only England but
the whole of Europe.
Foch spoke just before Lloyd George
settled himself by backing the Greeks
against the Turks.
Nowadays there is a Wall-street slump
every time the President makes a speech.
A week ago he “blamed the selfishness
of a few citizens for retarding national
progress and prosperity,” and repeated
that “a third of the population is ill-fed,
ill-clad and ill-housed.” This Republicans
repeatedly deny, challenging the Presi-
dent to furnish proof, which never is
furnished—the President is not keen on
statistics. And what he calls “the busi-
ness recession” they attribute to his New
Deal and his speeches.
“In 1938 Mr. Winston Churchill would
be willing to become the soul of a new
Grand Alliance against the Germans,
the Italians and 4 the Japanese.” That
appeared in “Twelve Thousand Miles
from Tipperary” (B. 16/3/’3B). Eight
days afterwards Churchill blithered for
“a stand against the Dictators now,” and
argued that “Anglo-French action would
rally Yugoslavia, Rumania, Bulgaria,
Greece and Turkey beside Czecho-
slovakia.” “A Grand Alliance,” com-
mented Sir John Simon.


HEAVY GOING.
" Quick • .
THE 80SS HAS TAXSKi
A PIT "


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ECONOMY DEPENDS ON
SPARKINGPLUGS
4 }
<4/
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
<3
33
ECONOMY always results when new Champions are
installed. These better plugs give stronger sparks. They
get the full value from the fuel. Thus, fuel goes farther
and you soon save more than the cost of the plugs.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
RE‘VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some April birthdays:
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), Primate of Aus-
tralia, 68, and A. C. Davidson (Bank of
N.S.W.), 56, on Ist; Rabbi Freedman (Perth),
64, Speck Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, 68, and
veteran journalist Fred Broomfield (Sydney),
78, on 2nd; Dean Aickin (Melb.), 69, and E. C.
Riddle (formerly of Commonwealth Bank), 65,
on 3rd; Wing-Commander Frank McNamara
(first Aus. airman to win V.C.), 44, and J. S.
Rosevear, M.I-I.R. (Dailey), 46, on 4th; T. J.
Collins, M.H.R. (Hume), 52, on 6th; Brig.-Gen.
Iven Mackay (Syd.), 56, on 7th; artist Arthur
Streeton, 71, on Bth; former Prime Minister
J. C. Watson, 71, on 9th; poet Bernard
O’Dowd, 72, on 11th; Dr. Wm. Maloney,
M.H.R. (Melbourne), 84, and ex-S.A. Senator
O’Halloran (now M.H.A.), 45, on 12th; Justice
Douglas (Q.), 55, and Tas. Gov. Ernest Clark,
74, on 13th; Speck Hon. Min. Dr. F. J. Gaha,
44, on 14th; Stanley Bruce, 55, Maj.-Gen. Gordon
Bennett (Syd.), 51, and Q. Premier Forgan
Smith, 51, on 15th; Gen. Chauvel, 73, and Col.
E. F. Harrison, former M.H.R. for Bendigo,
58, on 16th; H. C. Brown (Federal Auditor-
General), 64, and author Vernon Knowles, 39,
on 17th; Wm.- Dixson (founder of Dixson
Gallery, Syd.), 68, and Archbishop Head
(Melb.), 64, on 18th; Tas. Senator J. B. Hayes,
70, on 21st; Prof. Charteris (Syd.), 64, and
Clifford Hay (N.S.W. Premier’s Dept., Syd.),
60, on 22nd; Q’land Senator Cooper, 47, Capt.
F. J. Bayldon (Syd.), 66, Prof. W. J. Dakin
(Syd.), 55, and Judge Macindoe (Vic.), 55, on
23rd; Tas. Senator Grant, 60, on 25th; Col.
White (Min. for Customs), 50, and singer
Florence Austral, on 26th; knight Henry Brad-
don (Syd.), 75, W.A. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell, 72,
Prof. W. E. Agar (Melb.), 56, on 27th; Jus-
tice Dixon (High Court), 52, on 28th; knight
Geo. Julius (Industrial Research Council), 65,
and Prof. E. G. Waterhouse (Syd.), 57, on 29th;
Justice Evatt (High Court), 44, and Capt.
Edgar Johnston (Controller of Civil Aviation),
42, on 30th.
Though Maoriland is Labor-governed,
no fuss was made about admitting Felix
Von Luckner, whose exploits in the See
Adler made Fernland very uneasy in
war-time. At Auckland a returned
soldiers’ club gave the German visitor a
CLOUSTON and RICKETTS, who estab-
lished the London -to-M.L.-and - back
record—10 days 20¼ hours.
fraternal welcome. Luckner reciprocated
with cheery reminiscences of the Rhine
occupation, when the Maorilanders
brought food to a starving population.
The British Official History of the War
treats Luckner very cordially—“seaman-
like chivalry”; “bold, calculating and
adventurous”; “a kindly, courteous
gentleman” are some of the phrases of
its account of him—and this, coupled
with the fact that advertisements for his
lectures wind up with the disarming
statement “Children 6d. to matinees;
and they’ll love the Count,” goes to ex-
plain why he draws good houses.
Fred J. Broomfield, of Sydney, who
on Saturday will celebrate his seventy-
eighth birthday, subbed and wrote
leaders for The Bulletin of the eighteen-
eighties, and he has been a contributor
for more than 50 years. In historical
lore, his mind and his library are an Aus-
tralian treasure-house.
L. J. McConnan, chief manager of
the National, becomes chairman of Vic-
torian Associated Banks this year. Son
of a Presbyterian parson, McConnan used
to be manager of the National’s Sydney
branch, and before that had an exten-
sive trek among the bank’s branches.
Off to England, Europe and America,
B. R. Richardson, 37-year-old head of
the Richardson-Cox Advertising Service,
which has spread from Melbourne
throughout Australasia inside 12 years.
A keen yachtsman, his interest in the
Tumlaren class, introduced to Australia
this year by the Royal St. Kilda Yacht
Club, is leading him to visit Knud
Reimer, the craft’s Swedish designer.
Bob Richardson hailed originally from
Kerang (Vic.), and had a couple of years
on the land and another two with the
Vic. Producers’ concern at Beulah before
getting into advertising.
Dr. R. A. Hope Michod, who recently
died in Brisbane, was Australia’s first real
flying doctor. For many years he prac-
tised at Longreach (Q.), and from the
time that ’planes first became available
there he used them to visit patients in
the outlying parts of the district. He
was one of the founders and original
directors of Qantas, Ltd., and from 1923
to 1926 its chairman. Moving to
Brisbane, he was for years presi- ,
dent of the Queensland Aero Club. *'
Three club ’planes dipped in a last
salute to him, and Hudson Fysh, manag-
ing director of Qantas Empire Airways,
said of him that no man had done
more for aviation in Queensland.
An old Brisbane hand has passed out
—J. K. Stewart, 71, who formed with his
father in the ’nineties the Queen-street
wholesale clothing firm of Alexander
Stewart and Sons, on the foundation laid
by the older business of Stewart and
Hemmant, The Stewarts were among
the most ardent supporters of Australian
manufacturing during an importing era.
J.K. took a serious part in the affairs of
the Presbyterian Church, and was a
foundation member of the Queensland
University Senate.
Dead in Melbourne, E. A. Kendall,
chairman of the Milk Board. Kendall
served as veterinary officer with the Vic.
Mounted Rifles in S’Africa and with the
veterinary service during the Great War,
from which he returned as a lieutenant-
colonel, with the C.M.G. His father was
the pioneer of veterinary education in
Australia.
A distinguished legal career closes with
the death of Francis Cumbrae-Stewart,
D.C.L., sometime Garrick Professor of
Law at Queensland Uni. A Maorilander,
he spent his boyhood in Vic., and gradu-
ated in law at Oxford in 1887. Within the
next three years he was admitted as a
barrister of the Inner Temple, and of
N. S. Wales, Vic. and Queensland. He
edited the Queensland Law Reports for
a year, and later became registrar and
librarian of Queensland Uni. The Gar-
rick Professorship came his way in 1925,
and he occupied the chair for 11 years.
He took silk in 1927, and was the
author of many legal textbooks. A
son is a. barrister in Melbourne, in
which city the professor spent his last
years.
J. D. G. Medley, who becomes vice-
chancellor and executive head of Mel-
bourne University, has had an unusual
training for the job. Born in Oxford,
son of a tutor and Fellow who afterwards
became professor of history at Glasgow,
he became head boy at Winchester, took
a first-class in literce humaniores at New
College, Oxford, was chosen as a Fellow
of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, at
23, but went to the war instead of into
college, and saw his first fighting in
October, 1914. He served throughout the
war, and finished up after the armistice as
a transport service officer on Eric
Geddes’s staff. Related to the Gibbs part-
ners in Gibbs Bright, he entered the
firm and was co-manager in Sydney and
manager in Adelaide. Then he took on
the job of turning Tudor House, Moss
Vale (N.S.W.), into a first-class prepara-
tory school, and from its headship he
steps into the vice-chancellorship.
General James Guthrie Harbord, visit-
ing Sydney as delegate to the Radio Con-
vention, was Pershing’s chief of staff in
France. He retired from military life
16 years ago and is now a leading figure
in New York’s business world —chairman
General HARBORD.
of the board of Radio Corporation
(U.S.A.) and a director of N.B.C.
C. K. Gamble, who succeeds E. A.
Callanan in Sydney as head of Vacuum
Oil’s Australian business, is no stranger
to Australia. Between 1927 and 1934 he
lived in Melbourne, and he has travelled
in every State. Born in California,
where his father, a Fellow of Queen’s
College, Belfast, had emigrated to found
public schools on the English model,
he graduated at the University of. Cali-
fornia, and then started out on a
business career which has since taken
him to Europe, Asia and Australia. He
resigned a post in Greece to enlist with
the first American contingent for France,
and was for 18 months' with the Field
Artillery.
Over from Westralia, H. J. Herz is
having a look at the Melbourne where
he went to school, and where his father,
the late Julius Herz, was a leading
musician of the ’eighties. Julius founded
the Melbourne Royal Liedertafel, and
son H.J. remembers that his rocking-
horse was once raffled for £BO to swell
the funds of the society. Now in his
seventies, he is still an active and well-
known figure among the pastoralists of
the Gascoyne district.
Reginald Dorman-Smith, president of
the British National Farmers’ Union,
who is in Australia for the Empire
Farmers’ Conference, is still in his
Major Sir REGINALD DORMAN-
SMITH.
thirties, an Irishman who went into the
army via Harrow and Sandhurst, and re-
tired half a dozen years ago to become
a squire near Farnham, Surrey. At 31
he was a county alderman, and two years
ago found a seat in the Commons. With
him are Cedric Drewe, another M.P., an
old Etonian who served in the R.F.A. in
France, J. H. Wain, a former president,
Cleveland Fyfe, general secretary, who is
an authority on milk marketing, James
Picken, Scottish N.F.U. president, and
R. W. Haddon, editor of the “British
Farmer and Stockbreeder.”
Adelaide has lost one of its most popu-
lar personalities in Frank Downer, at
74. Of the famous S.A. legal family,
and brother-in-law to Chief Justice
Murray, he was best known as a sports-
man, being in his time M.F.H., captain
of polo, committeeman of S.A. Jockey
Club and winner of several Hunt Club
cups. Till his last illness, his manners
gave the lie to his years, and he was
over 70 when allowed, in view of his
long record, the odd privilege of being
the last to ride round the steeplechase
course at Morphettville before the jumps
were toned down from their old severity.
Though born in Ireland and ordained
at Maynooth, Dr. John Barry spent the
whole period of his ministration in Aus-
tralia. After 17 years as a parish priest
in Vic. he became Administrator o*f St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, and
Chancellor of the Diocese in 1917. The
Goulburn crozier came to his hand in
1924, and his 14 years’ tenancy of the
see was marked by the erection of
many fine churches, convents and schools,
while he did notable work in his diocese
for the Society of the Holy Name.
Bishop Barry is dead at 63.
The Queensland R.S.L.’s nomination
for Australian representative at the un-
veiling of the Villers Bret, war memorial
is F. E. Trotter, an Anzac who enlisted
in the 6th Battalion (Vic.) in 1914, served
through the Gallipoli campaign, had a rest
to recover from a wound, but was well
enough to win the M.M. at Broodseinde
Ridge in October, 1917. He got his com-
mission in 1918. A State income-tax
officer, he has been hon. sec. of the
R.S.L., Queensland south-eastern district,
for some years, and is largely responsible
for the annual organisation of the Anzac
march in Brisbane.


PfKWfRfiP
X-.ylvXvXX
w.v/amsw
wmm
wm
Wv
8:3
P
A®
0
CF
SS::
0
"o'
$
0
0
S'
TV
*«£?
K
:
29
y
0
v
*
Oi
«TK
<X
!
M
Ask please
, &r SSS’s
lea- se
?
STATE EXPRESS ???
VMwwvm %'UmmiJM dWJ
745»-2.*9-6d.: 18-l/-:{/27-l/6. Also Flat Fifties// Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat never wasted
time on girls, and I was astonished when
he suddenly evinced a keen interest in
the old-maidish daughter of the publican
in a western Riverina (N.S.W.) townlet.
The lady was not averse to Mat’s atten-
tions, though she could have given him
10 years. We’d cut out a clearing job,
but I couldn’t get him away, and, as I
wanted to see the Melbourne Cup that
year, left him to it. He joined me in
S.A. three months later. “Where’s y’
wife?” I demanded. “Ain’t got one,”
he admitted sheepishly, adding: “I was
just a bit lucky. All set t’ marry ’er, an
I finds out her ole man only has the pub
on lease!”
* * * *
“Arc”: In all this controversy as to
whether the Malays used bows or not
(B. 16/3/’3B) no one seems to have
noticed that the Polynesians, placed by
ethnologists far ahead of the Papuan or
Melanesian —both bow-users —have never
discovered the weapon which reigned for
ages as the king of them all until it was
supplanted by villainous saltpetre. If
there is one solid argument against the
theory that the Polynesians settled the
Pacific Islands either from Indo-Asia or
Central America it is the fact that they
did not bring with them the bow univer-
sally used in those countries. Ignorance
of the bow also discounts the theory
that the Australian abo. derives from the
Indian aboriginal tribes represented
to-day by the Santals, Gonds and Bhils,
all bowmen, coming to Australia before
the Malaysian land bridge subsided.
* * * *
“Double Express”: Where did Ted
Scorfield get his notion that lions are
shot from elephants? His drawing (B.
16/3/’3B) depicting a sportsman charg-
ing a lion with fixed bayonet after his
elephant had bolted is set in an Indian
scene complete with turbaned beaters.
India owns a tiny flock of lions tucked
away in a remote corner of a little State
and cherished by the Maharajah as the
brightest jewels in his treasury. Even
royalty has been refused permission to
shoot one, and rightly so, since you can
travel from the Indus to west of the
Suez Canal before meeting others out-
side a zoo. In East Africa, in some parts
of which lions are shot as casually as
rabbits, the job is done on foot and some-
times from horseback after the quarry
has been brought to bay with dogs. A
tiger would have rounded off Ted’s draw-
ing nicely, but perhaps he hadn’t enough
ink for the strines.
“Dei Jong' : Am attracted by
“Quebe’s” statement (B. 16/3/’3B) that
he once saw a baboon grab and carry
off an impala buck (an antelope as big
and heavy as any baboon) for his larder.
Natural history notes of this kind are
an education to the average Australian
knowing nothing more exciting than
koalas and jackeroos. But in Uganda I
can claim to have seen an even more
surprising instance of animal daring. I was
with an expedition organised by Count
von Spoopendyke, who afterwards wrote
an account of the affair in three volumes,
to capture the then little-known moun-
tain gorilla. One day a native came
rushing in to say that a gorilla had
grabbed one of his cows and was making
off with it under one arm. When we
came in sight of the brute we found he
had added a fine young native woman to
his bag and was carrying her under his
other arm. Seeing us gain on him he
made for a huge tree. We were sure he
would have to make a stand here or
drop his burdens before trying to escape
by climbing. Nothing of the sort.
Knowing we dared not shoot because of
the girl, the cunning beast calmly stood
on his head, and, using his hind legs—
which, after all, were but auxiliary arms
“Each to her taste , girls ; hut I still say he's not a
patch on our last husband! ”
complete with hands —climbed the tree,
from which he looked down on his pur-
suers with unutterable scorn.
* $ * $
“Filldee”: If “Ida D.” (B. 9/3/’3B)
thinks any fungus that peels cleanly from
outer edge to middle is edible she’s head-
ing for trouble ; and I should know. I
collected half a dishful of fungi mas-
querading as mushrooms —they peeled as
mentioned, were pink or brown below the
waterline and apparently the real thing—
prepared and fried them within a few
hours, made a meal and then an hour or
two later wished I hadn’t. After the doc.
had settled gastronomic disturbances a
careful investigation revealed that the
fungi, although mushrooms to all out-
ward appearances, possessed an individual
aroma, and since then I’ve always relied
on my nose when gathering breakfast in
cow pastures.
❖ ❖
“Nor’-west”: “Leschenault” is right
(B. 23/2/’3B) —the old typewriter did miss
a beat when it gave Dongara as 60 miles
north of Rottnest. That light-buoy came
ashore at the actual distance of 160 miles
north of the Isle of Girls. But he was
unlucky in not picking up anything better
than a few battered kero.-tins. Last time
I was along that beach I could have
presented him with the fairly complete
remains of a fine wooden schooner, the
Alex. T. Brown, of Seattle. Her splendid
pitch-pine masts alone were worth the
taking —if there had been any means
of transport. .Scattered‘along the beach
farther north lay thousands of feet of
first-grade jarrah scantling—the deck: cargo
of some north-bound schooner probably,
Then, again, that part of the sea is the
clearance ground for Europe-to-Fre-
mantle boats; for weeks we made our
fire exclusively from driftwood, smashed
cases, hatch covers, etc.—jetsom carried
by the current and cast ashore. But that
was all in the winter; possibly the
season influences the beachcomber’s har-
vest.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Bower-birds are strictly
protected in Queensland, but the Bris-
bane Museum recently accepted a female
specimen which had been captured and
killed by an entirely unauthorised collec-
tor. A party of Brisbane motorists,
crossing the Bunya Mountains, came
round a bed just in time to see a large
hawk swoop, strike the bower-bird close
to the ground and rise with it in its
talons. Shouts and horn-blasts alarmed
the marauder into dropping the victim,
but fatal damage had been done.
* * „ * , . ,
■Centre-cut Sam : Old-timer has
stone-cracking to rights (B-9/3/38). It s
possible for the uninitiated to belt at a
piece of stone with a spoiler for quarter
ot an hour without getting any results
save a pile of chips or splinters. Comes
an experienced hand, who turns it over
to a different angle, taps it and it breaks
like an egg. Incidentally, the most able
stone-splitter I’ve run across was not
more than sft. in his socks and about
as broad as a match-stick with the wood
shaved off. It’s the knack that counts,
not brawn. Concerning splinters, saw
one slice half an inch
off the ear of an un-
wary bogger, another
travel about 40ft. and
leave a sizable gash in
a miner’s most neces-
sary adjunct at mealtime, and one piece
of quartz that spun from beneath an
adjacent spoiler punched a neat hole in
a carbide lamp about a foot from my
elßow.
* * * Sfc
“Passiton”: Tell “Splodger” tnat the
next time he does a perish (B. 9/3/’3B)
he’ll suffer less when he comes to water
if he soaks the whole of his body in the
stuff; if it is only a puddle let him get
his feet into it, and if they’re too big
he should dabble a soaked rag all over
himself. The skin is covered with thou-
sands of tiny pores, every one of which
acts as a mouth to suck up moisture when
the system needs it, and to sweat it out
otherwise. I dried out years ago way
back while heading east by a short cut
with an old bushie who thought the risk
worth while, and when we finally did
strike a waterhole he led and I followed.
We spread ourselves flat out in the stuff,
and though it was more like whitewash
than water, both in color and consistency,
and hot at that, it formed the best com-
bination of drink and bath I’ve ever had,
and did all that the clearest of water
could have done.
;Jc * 4* •f'
“Runa”: Respect for an ancient piece
of Maori lore communicated to the an-
cestors of a M.L. station-owner by the
natives in the early days of pioneering
saved numbers of valuable horses from
a cataclysm recently in Hawke’s Bay. The
old warning stated that when a distant
hill was obscured from sight by a black
mist an inundation of the near-by val-
leys might be expected. When t e i
became invisible in conditions as
down by the ancient tale, the present
station-owner decided to take no ris %
and, though secretly doubting the °
prophecy, he had the stock moved o
higher ground. During the night tne
worst flood for 41 years came down, sur-
rounding the homestead and covering the
property with a roaring torrent of water,
Had the horses, including numbers or
foals, been left on the lower ground not
one could have been saved.
* * * *
“Kernow”- Afraid the Council can’t
patent ri ghts to “Kerriki” (B.
| v his tent _ ventilator As long
' 1 - armv hell-
as writer can remember the raj »
ie nt has been fitted with just s
tors as he describes. And tey 5 ;
made for cold climates. The word tug
originated among constant inhabitants o
tents without ventilators. No other word
means as much. It implies all that wet
greatcoats, wet blankets, smelly leather
equipment, articles of footwear not out-
side the tent canteen breath and the
, ( ; close proximity, one
carcass to a seam can conve y
P imag i nat ion. The public bene-
who first put ventilators in tents
1 er»rr..iripri in mvsterv
»™st remain shrouded in mystery.
* * *
“C. 8.”: A fossicker here on the Ta
(N.Q.) went into Chillagoe and staye
for the night with a family he knows,
Before he turned in the lady or the house
appeared with a saucer of milk, which
she put down on the antbed floor, re-
marking: “With so many mice about
the snakes are pretty bad. But there’s no
need to worry—there aren’t many death-
adders around here —they’re most blacks
and browns —but this’ll fix them.” Sure
enough, next morning there was a 6ft.
brown dead beside the saucer. The
irresistible lure of milk, plus the addition
of cyanide, accounted for an average of
four a week. But the fossicker was glad
to get back to the safety of the tinfield
again.
* * * *
“Dionan”: It looks as if the whale
is doomed. Those that escape the electric
harpoons of the Jap and Norwegian fleets
will be wiped out by their natural enemy
the killer-whale, which has not been
worried by the harpooner. Watch the
next whale go north through the Barrier
and count the killers on his tail, round
his mouth, hanging to him like salesmen
to a lottery winner. Scarcely a whale
gets through to its destination.
* * * *
“Flight”: The quickest thing ever I've
seen in action is a blue crane (white-
fronted heron). Slinking along like a
shadow when stalking anything in the
shallows, he doesn’t make even a ripple,
and, such is the formation of his clenched
talons, they carry no water to drip and
disturb a quarry. When within striking
distance he sways, his head weaving like
a snake about to strike, and oozes for-
ward imperceptibly; fie continues his
mesmeric dance until he knows within
a fraction of an inch just where he is—
and Bluey can measure things which
would be beyond the power of an ordi-
nary footrule. His actual strike is like a
flash.
ROUGHRIDING.
When the rodeo was over and the boys had all
got back—
Those who went to ride the outlaws and the
steers —
They forgathered for a beano at the pub of
Sandy Mac,
And were blending boastful blather with their
beers
Till old Whalan rose and snorted through the
meshes of his beard:
“Ar, y’ brag’ll make me stummick sick; see
here,
Not a mother’s son amongst yer fer ten lovely
quid,” he sneered,
“Can stay put while 1 count ten on Sandy’s
steer.”
How they rushed the bait of Whalan, first with
banter, then with bile,
As they banged their pots and mocked him
with a laugh:
“We’ve got Dan the Demon with us, and we’ve
seen him ride in style;
An’ y’ can’t say he can’t ride a milker’s calf.”
“Cripes, that ‘calf’ will beat your Demon or
the devil out of hell;
And I’ll give him a surcingle for a grip.
Pass the stakes across to Sandy; let him be the
judge as well;
An’ come out an’ see your Demon take a tip.”
Wild and lean, a fearsome snorter, stood the
steer securely tied,
Until Dan the Demon shouted “Let him
rip! ”
Then that bucking, bawling bovine, as if blind,
went through the side
Of old Sandy’s pub, urged on by spurs and
whip,
For the side door gave him entrance to the
bar, whence Sandy fled,
And he joined the crowd now choking in
their glee.
When he heard the bottles crashing, Sandy
groaned and held his head:
“Dan the Demon and the steer’s the end of
me!”
Two old drunks sat up and wondered if the
things they saw so clear
Were but jimjams jumping through their
fevered brain —
Horse with horns and screeching rider in a
whirling world of beer!
Then they lay back in their slumbers once
again.
Some outside cheered Dan the Demon and
some others cheered the steer
As they glimpsed their progress through the
parlor door,
’Mid the exodus of inmates looking anxious to
the rear
That from every exit now began to pour.
When some bettor shouted, “Whalan, what’s
the count? Can’t you say ‘When’?”
As the steer and rider ripped from room to
room:
“Well, if Dan the Demon’s riding that there
steer till I count ten,”
Whalan said, “he’ll ride from now till crack
of doom !”
N.S.W.
E. J. GORMAN.


“Wang”: “A cobber o’ mine wus th’
best bird-imitator I ever heard,” remarked
Long Alec ; “but ’is gift brought us a
gutser once. We wus trampin’ along th’
road just on sundown when we spots a
woman at a farmhouse about a quarter
of a mile away standin’ in a yard
chuckin’ her arms about. ‘Feedin’ th’
fowls,’ ses Bert, me mate. ‘We’ll dump
our knots here, an’ wait fer dark; if
we can’t hoist a few googs an’ a pullet
or two somethin’s wrong.’ It’s practi-
cally dark as we lurched across, but we’d
just got inside th’ poultry yard when th’
damned dogs started barkin’, bringin’ th’
cocky to th’ back door. ‘Quick,’ I ses
t’ Bert, ‘do a bit of imitatin’; it’ll make
him think everything’s all right down
here.’ Then Bert gives th’ most lifelike
imitation of a rooster crowin’ I’ve ever
heard. Cripes! th’ way that cocky an’
his family charged down on us wus some-
thin’ surprisin’. They had us before we
could get outa th’ yard. Bert’s imita-
tin’ wus all right, but he’d picked on th’
wrong sorta bird t’ imitate. Yair, that
cocky kept only Muscovy ducks!”
* * * *
“No. 1”: We bought 1200 acres of a
subdivided A.A. Company holding. Over
four acres of this were covered with the
most complicated yards and crushes that
the mind of man could devise. Sheer
size of the old-time musters was not the
“Pardon ME, but you're reading the BURIAL service!"
reason, for the biggest pen would hardly
hold more than a cow-cocky’s summer
milkers. Mechanically, the scheme was
perfect, for any beast could be shep-
herded from taws to any given part of
the yard in under two minutes. Appar-
ently some expert in the Old Dart hired
the bloke who designed the Hampton
Court labyrinth and got him to draw up
a plan he thought suitable to Australian
conditions. Anyhow, we
pulled most of it down
anc j built 300 chains of
boundary fence with the
timber, split-rail at that.
* * *
“Megaptera”: For 300
miles north from the
bor(J( , r; a huge migratjon
of flying-foxes has been
occurring in coastal S.Q.
nrup pathorina nnint eppme
ine gathering point seems
be somewhere about
Moreton Bay, probably in
the immense swamp-pro-
tected permanent roosts
Bribie and Moreton
Islands. Fruitgrowers
haven’t been particularly
trniihlod a nnssihlp rancp
troubled, a possible cause
being an unusually profuse
flowering season of tea-
tree and honey-bearing
fucalypts, also heavy fruit-
Ot native ngs. What-
ever the reason, it is some-
thing important from the
flying-fox point of View,
as roosts many years old
and scattered over thou-
Sands ° f ?9 uare mi ‘ es have
been suddenly and com-
pletely deserted without
any interference by shoot-
; n „ nr nfhorwisp flvpr
or otherw i se - ver
same area, too, an Un-
usual invasion of houses
by small black ants carrying pupae has
been noticed. Is the Council, game for a
weather-prophecy or even an explana-
tion?
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Would the Common-
wealth Director of Fisheries please tell
us fishy blokes whether there’s any
chance of making a bit of money out of
the shark livers that we chuck away with
the rest of the brute when we get him in
nets or on lines? Canadian fishermen
have recently found that prices jumped
from nothing to eight dollars a ton for
previously valueless dogfish, and to five
cents a pound for their livers. The de-
mand arose when a vitamin-oil manufac-
turing firm in the U.S. found itself cut
off from its previous Asiatic sources of
supply by the China-Japan trouble. Also,
is any work being done to ascertain the
actual commercial vitamin-yielding values
of the commoner Australian sharks and
rays, or of such migratory fish as sea-
mullet and salmon?
* * * *
“Pab D.”: Dunno much about bird-
ology, but I avoid mopokes as I would
a crooner. In enterprising youthfulness
once scaled a gum intent on capturing
what appeared to be an ailing owl or
something. At closer range the bird’s
cold unwinking stare braked my enthu-
siasm a little, but moved a bit nearer,
and, not noticing any signs of hostility,
stretched out a tentative arm. The fowl
made one vicious jab, I fell about 12ft. in
a hurry, and the bird emitted a mourn-
ful “more-pork” and went into a trance
again.
* * * *
“Bull-dust”: Next time you want a
free drunk feeling without drinking, take
a walk up Lake Callabonna (S.A.) way.
Sooner or later, by one of the mound
springs, you’ll strike a “spQnge.” The
“ Damme, I'll sack the lot of ye if y' deown't go more sparin' on the
dynamite."
world will sway up and down as you walk
across it. The patch of ground on which
you are standing (anything from a table-
top to a half-acre) will be bouncing up
and down like a slow-motion wire mat-
tress.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Piangil Pete” recked
little of time or the law, which seldom
reached its long arm into the Murray
River bend that was Pete’s home. He
took fish of any size, shot wild duck
and skinned kangaroos when he felt like
it. One day he slipped. He was pulling
into the bank with a load of duck in the
boat when the trooper stepped from
- behind a tree. In a trice “Piangil”
dropped ducks and gun overboard.
“Jump in and fetch them out,” was the
cold order. “P.” demurred. “I’ll make
it hot for you if you don’t,” was the
uncompromising threat. Pete dived over-
board, retrieved the gun, then the half-
submerged birds. The trooper carefully
selected a brace of the plumpest ducks,
mounted his horse and rode gravely
away. It was only when he consulted
the calendar that “Piangil” discovered
the season had been open a week. He
always knew the date after that.
* * * *
“Western”: A perusal of Frank
Clune’s Dig confirms a previous
opinion that O’Hara Burke was about
the last man in Australia for that job.
Consider John Forrest on his first ex-
pedition. Not yet 25 years of age, with
two companions, Hammersley and
Monger, equally young, a ticket-of-leave
farrier and two natives,
he left Perth on April
14, 1869, to search for
Leichhardt’s bones.
Ten pack- and six
riding-horses constituted
the “plant.” North-
east the direction,
through country which,
after the first 100 miles,
was totally unknown.
Hostile tribes, vast mud
and brine lakes, water-
less plains, denuded
mountain ranges all
were encountered, the
final outward camp
being made 30 miles
east' of Laverton (still
the extreme frontier of
the W.A. goldfields).
Then return, most of
the way by a different
route so that the Gov-
ernment should get full
value for its money.
Not even a horse lost
in 113 days of travel,
during which over 2000
miles were covered.
Forrest at once recopi-
mended the t.-0.-l. farrier for conditional
pardon for “exemplary conduct.” Later
he re-traversed Eyre’s route along the
head of the Bight. Later still right across
from Geraldton to the O.T. line —all done
without camels and without loss of life.
* * * *
“Tham”: Maoriland animals know
when a ’quake’s due as well as when a
flood’s on the way (B. 16/3/’3B). When
the big Napier ’shake occurred I was
in the Taranaki backblocks, about 200
miles away, helping to drove sheep.
Minutes before my mate said “I think
I’ve been smoking too much; I feel
giddy,” and I replied that I was feeling
the same way, the canny jumbucks had
started to lie down. Funniest illustration
I had of how ’quakes affect livestock
was when one hit Hawera at about two
o’clock one morning. I tore out into the
street just in time to see a neighbor who
had been sleeping in his singlet decide
that even in a ’quake that was hardly
correct attire and dash back into his
house. Then a youth came rushing up
to me screaming “Look! Look!” He
was seeing ghosts, and as he fled in panic
up the road I laughed myself back to
sanity at the old white rooster which,
head down and wings stretched wide,
was licking along after him for parts
unknown.
*.* * *
“Stoo”: Wild pigs in Maoriland
emulate the S’African baboons (B.
16/3/’3B) in abduction and slaughter.
Not only do they eat the young lambs,
usually leaving the skins and forelegs
as evidence, but I’ve known them tear
to pieces a living cast ewe. Farmers say
that the brutes know when a ewe is going
to lamb and follow her about. Stalking
one notorious lamb-killer one morning,
Factually watched the boar chase a ewe
along a ridge until it was trapped in a
lawyer-bush. When we raced to the
scene we found the ewe dying, and her
just-born lamb half devoured.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: The amateur fisher-
man who spends half an hour getting
a few small bream ready for the pan,
annoys the wife by scattering scales all
over her clean kitchen and scrapes inches
of skin off his hands with the scaler
ought to take a look at the real experts
in the business. It needs a lot of learn-
ing, but a good Brisbane market fish-
cleaner will do a tray (401 b.) of tailer
in seven minutes, mullet in 15 minutes
and whiting in 20 minutes, if the fish
are in good condition for the work. If
wind-dried they take longer—a wind-
dried mullet is the very devil for sticking
scales. Average pay is from Is. to Is.
6d. a tray. Line fishermen get pretty
good at gutting and cleaning snapper,
mackerel and other hooked kinds. It
is always done —though not scaling—
before sending to market. Although the
loss in deadweight runs up to 25 p.c. for,
say, a cod, they keep fresh, pack and
travel best that way.
Jfc Jfc H*
“Fisher’s Ghost”: The cow-cocky audi-
ence roared with laughter at the gazette
which showed Swiss dairymaids with one-
legged stools fastened to their ample pos-
teriors going round a paddock and milk-
ing Strawberries as they came to them
instead of sending a dog and a boy to
round them up into bails first. The joke
is probably the other way round. For a
start, the Swiss is not caught for the cost
of a yard and bails. Not possessing them,
his milk and premises are not such a
lure for flies. Finally, there is less to
jar and jangle Strawberry’s nerves, free-
dom from inter-bovine brawling, and less
occasion for loss of human temper, once
the initial handling is completed with
heifers. Cows .show their appreciation
of the peaceful life by yielding more
milk, and that is the object of the game.
A NASTY SHOCK.
I see,” remarked Andy the Magsman, “that
some cove around Albany way
Got a shock when ’is ’and touched the water
near a giant electrical ’ray.
To the green it’s a nasty sensation, though I’ve
damn’ near forgot ’ow it feels,
For I’ve ’andled not only these stingrays, but
some thousands of ’igh-voltage eels.
“It’s a fact, though yer mightn’t believe it,
but I started an industry, once,
Usm’ wrigglers for current, and, strike me! I
cleaned up reel ’andsome for munce.
It was while I was scratchin’ fer ‘color’ and
campin’ along the Burnett
That I first got the notion to use ’em, and
after a bit I was set.
“First of all, though, I goes inter trainin’ to
5 git gradu’ly used to the jolts;
’Twas in Bundaberg power-’ouse I started, till
I took up to six thousand volts.
Next I lures ev’ry eel in the river to a big
netted trap that I’d made;
Then I wires ’em all up an’ connects ’em with
cables I’d already laid.
“Soon me dynamo’s spinnin’ like one thing
; with them slimy ones inter their stride;
Ev ry omestead an’ camp on the river with
power an’ light I supplied.
Well, I got that much juice that I’m thinkin’
of gettin’ right inter the trade
By sellin’ in bulk to the council, when a hor-
rible bloomer I made.
“I’d been feedin’ them eels proper tucker, but
some goat of a cocky one day
Sends some spinach along an’, Law blimey! it
settled their hash right away.
Yair, it knocked ’em all rotten. I tell yer, I
was bloomin’ well fumin’ an’ mad,
For the iron in it caused a short circuit, which
blew ev’ry fuse that they ’ad!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
m
i
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
■ r Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Dee., Loss. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£, £ £> £ £
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
1930.. 83,595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334.937
8 p.c.
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
16 p.c.
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937.. 157,543 24,000 120,000 13,543 387,491
There were 791,497 cars, lorries and
motor-cycles on Australian roads at
June 30, 1937, an increase of 48,600
compared with a year earlier. The
numbers continued to grow right up to
the end of Goodyear’s financial year
(Dec. 31), and turnover in tyres and
tubes by the organisation was main-
tained in every department in which no
actual increase was reported. Output of
rubber tyres for tractors became a con-
siderable item.
There are two Goodyear cos. in Aus-
tralia. The manufacturing co., in which
the public holds 300,000 prefs., con-
trols a Victorian-registered marketing
subsidiary. The trading figures are
amalgamated in the published accounts.
Just after the first quarter of the public
co.’s last term the price of plantation
rubber, which had gone nearly to Is. in
London about the 1937 “rearmament”
Budget time, fell heavily following the
New York gold-price scare, and, though
it was only a scare, rubber, like most
other commodities, has kept depressed
since. At the end of 1937 it was down
to 7|d.
Concern about stock values was the
reason for a slip of £32,878 in the profits
of Goodyear and its Vic. subsidiary last
term. At £157,543 the showing repre-
sented 17.8 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 20.2 p.c. in the preceding
term. After paying the prefs., in which
Australian investment interest is con-
fined, a 16 p.c. div. was declared on the
ords. (all held by the American Good-
year Co.), compared with 4 p.c. in the
preceding term. There is usually very
little relation between the Australian
co.’s annual earnings and annual divs.
This is a comparison of the aggregate
balance-sheet figures of the two Aus-
tralian cos. (factory and sales sub-
sidiary) :
1930. 1936. 1937.
Pref. capital . . . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital .. . . 500,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear, U.S.A. . . 549,420 39,872 154,850
Other liabilities .. 111,942 110,053 168,245
Freeholds, plant, etc... 811,437 437,605 414,451
Stocks . . . . 443.464 637,345 769,565
Book debts . . . . 226,756 229,701 295,793
Cash, etc. . . . . 314,575 71,922 83,208
Java subsidiary .. 197,300 197,300
Apparently the factory co. has been
stocking up with crude-rubber at the
low prices recently prevailing. In value,
manufactured goods and raw products
combined stood £132,220 higher in the
accounts last balance day at £769,565.
The factory co. has a rubber subsidiary
of its own in Java (shareholdings valued
at £197,300), which commenced produc-
tion in 1935.
Last term the Australian cos. owed
the American parent £114,978 more, and
other creditors an additional £58,192.
Freeholds and plant dropped £23,154 net
(depreciation has been adequate), debtors
rose £66,092, and cash, etc., lifted
£11,286. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£825,471) improved £36,428.
The 300,000 8 p.c. prefs. issued by the
main co. represent a popular investment.
The div. has never been in danger, and
the capital is adequately secured —net
tangible backing, on written-down book
values, amounted to £4 17s. lOd. last
balance day. At 325. a share the return
is 5 p.c., and the div. isn’t subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
r -> ■ Divs. Nominal
Net « Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.*
1936.. 31,625 1500 23,514 ) . ao . on 9qH
Written off intangibles, £2717 j 4,894 99,448
1937.. 64,436 6000 23,542 ) ocm ioi oqo
Written off intangibles, £3899 j 49,990 141,444
* Goodwill ( £164,387) not treated as asset herein.
This is the holding co. through which
Electricity Meter Manufacturing Co. and
New System Telephones Pty., two Sydney
concerns with London affiliations, welded
their interests in 1934. Lately the organi-
sation has given a very good account of
itself, thanks largely to continued im-
provement in conditions generally, the
tariff, new building activity and aggres-
sive competition in the flat busi-
ness. In order to reduce the outside debt,
the holding co. put out 100,000 new prefs.
and 75,344 ords. (all but a fraction of
the latter were taken by an English co.)
during the last quarter of 1936.
The meter co. (paid capital £294,344)
turns out electricity meters, visible petrol
pumps, Philco radio equipment and frac-
tional-horsepower electric motors for
refrigerators from its factory at Camper-
down, near Sydney, and is affiliated with
Parkinson and Cowan, Ltd., and
Measurement, Ltd., both of London.
The telephone co. (paid capital £100,500)
sells or hires on long-term contracts the
inter-communicating telephones made by
its principals (Telephone Manufacturing
Co., London), and also handles many
of the meter co.’s products, as well as
those of Siemens and Halske, London.
The table shows the net trading result
for the whole organisation, not the posi-
tion disclosed by the holding co. only.
The sharp spring of £32,811 in last year’s
net earnings (they more than doubled,
reaching £64,436) reflects the boom con-
ditions in the building trade, etc., which
bumped up the turnover of the manufac-
turing co. The £64,436 was enough to
pay the holding co.’s pref. div. and show
12.4 p.c. on its ord. capital as against
6.4 p.c. for the previous term. But the
ord. div. was kept at 5 p.c., money being
wanted in the business to help finance the
larger turnover. The £34,894 of the
year’s profit that remained reduced the
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books to £43,154.
Although discerning shareholders will
not quarrel with the board’s policy of
financing expansion of the business out
of current earnings, and thus strengthen-
ing the support for capital, failure to
make a larger distribution to the ords.
disappointed the market, which shortened
its bid for the fully-paid pound shares
from 265. Id. before publication of the
accounts to 245. 6d. last week-end. At
the lower figure the return is 4 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis or 4.9 p.c. should the
div. be lifted to 6 p.c. The prefs. at
245. 3d. yield 4.9 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £5 4s. Id. prefs. and 17s. lOd.
ords.
As for the current term, the immedi-
ate outlook is bright enough. The trade
order book is full, and the co. will get
a little benefit from expenditure in con-
nection with the new defence programme,
having just received “a substantial con-
tract for the manufacture of munitions,”
but the long-term possibilities of the scrip
depend largely upon activity in construc-
tion of flat, office and other buildings.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the holding and two operating
cos., after eliminating inter-company
accounts:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital* .. .. £394,944 £570,288 £571,218
Paid capital, etc.f .. 5,144 7,064 7,426
Sundry creditors . . 143,220 81,062 118,421
Loans, etc., .. .. 83,000
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 154,000 152,875 163,451
Stocks .. .. .. 200,527 184,187 247,339
Debtors, balances, etc. 195,009 237,384 243,334
Cash and deposits .. 29,343 26,237
* Owned by holding co. t Not owned by holding
co. or its subsidiaries. J From overseas shareholders.
To carry an extra £63,152 of stocks,
and add £5950 to debtors’ balances
and £10,576 net to fixed assets, the
board had gone outside for an extra
£37,359 when the books last closed. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£398,489) was £28,637.
Obviously much depends upon the sound-
ness of stocks and debtors’ balances.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1928.. 21.324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles, £32 .. .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. .. 9,114
1929.. 39,590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38.654
Added Intangibles, £59 .. .. 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added Intangibles, £9O .. .. 47,486
1931.. 10,429 10 p.c. Nil = 8,005 2,424 49.910
Added Intangibles, £8 .. .. 49,902
1932.. 14.830 14.4 p.c. Nil = 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added Intangibles, £64 .. .. 52,638
1933.. 24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. = 21,250 3,328 55,966
1934.. 32.331 7} „ 7f „ „ 19.375 12.956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7f 7§ „ ~ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Intangibles disappear, £196 .. .. 79,567
Insurance policies surrendered,
£2OOB 77,559
Written off, £2900 .. .. .. 74,659
1936.. 20,931 7$ p.c. 7J p.c.= 22,822 72,768
Added Intangibles, £3O .. .. 72,738
1937.. 31.857 7| p.c. 75 p.c.= 24,412 7,445 80,183
Pref. div. subject 224 p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
With slump and domestic and some
other troubles out of the way, this 17-
year-old again promises to give a satis-
factory account of itself. From a
modern and efficient plant at Boundary-
street, Sydney, it turns out a variety of
hosiery, underwear and other artificial
silk fabrics. Selling branches have been
established at Melbourne and Brisbane,
and there is a small manufacturing sub-
sidiary at Wellington, Maoriland. The
management has also given a lot of
attention to marketing through news-
paper and other advertising, and an effi-
cient costing system enables a tight hold
to be kept upon outgoings.
It was delay in completion of the
new mill building and installation, of new
plant that interfered with the 1936 profit.
Still, it is to increased efficiency, mechani-
cal and otherwise, that the Australian
manufacturer has to look for reduction
in costs that will enable him to win satis-
factory profits in a highly-competitive
local market. Last year saw further im-
provement in the volume of sales, which,
with savings resulting from the new
equipment and from greater concentra-
tion of manufacturing activities, enabled
the management to show £6566 more
gross profit (£148,012). Including £20,792
(up £1746) for depreciation, exes.
(£116,155) were got back £4360, despite
an increase in labor costs, owing to a
new Federal award and cost of living
adjustments, leaving the net result £10,926
better at £31,857. This was enough to
pay the prefs. their full contract rate (10
p.c. = £8333) and show 10.3 p.c. on ord.
capital. Actually an all-round 7f p.c.
was paid as against 7f p.c. for the pre-
vious term. Under the N. S. Wales In-
terest Reduction Act the prefs. are en-
titled to advance with the ords. from
7} p.c. to their original contract rate. The
£7445 that remained lifted the lay-by
£80,183 in excess of goodwill, etc.
(£10,287), not treated as an asset herein.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in movements in balance-sheet
figures:
1929’. 1934. 1936. 1937.
£ £ £ £
Ord capital) 7q ( 166,667 226,227
Pref. capital} “ 49,/,)J \ 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928
Overdraft - • 43,171 27,483 45,718 53,666
Creditors . . 94,940 40,163 26,324 40,721
Freeholds .. 40,472* 45.626* 120,148 123,547
Plant .. 135,934 142,732 158,990 162,722
Stocks . . 180,527 127,689 133,572 150,993
Debtors . . 85,239 97,770 85,463 97,147
Cash, etc. .. 1,352 2,722 481 474
Investments . . —■ 10,777 11,000
* Less mortgage.
On fixed assets £7131 more was spent
than was written off. To do this and
carry an extra £17,421 of stocks and
£11,684 of debtors’ balances, the co.
leant upon sundry creditors for an extra
£14,397, and added £7948 to the over-
draft. Stocks of raw materials were
built up owing to a possible stoppage of
supplies from overseas. Including stocks,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£122,299) was £6754.
The Maoriland subsidiary, to which
the parent has transferred some of its
fabric knitting plant, thus sidestepping
the Dominion’s new tariff, made a profit
in 1937, and hopes to make a better one
this year. No hint is given as to when
and to what extent this offshoot may be
expected to contribute to the pool.
Although trading conditions have re-
mained favorable since the close of ac-
counts, international developments have
made the future uncertain, costs are on
the up-grade and competition seems likely
to get more rather than less keen. The
market therefore prices the pound ords.
at 225. 6d., at which figure the return is
6.9 p.c. on a 7f p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis, the prefs. at 245. lOd. yield
6.3 p.c. The net tangible cover is £4
13s. 7d. prefs. and 275. Id. ords.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised. £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 ~ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 ~ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932 46,736 6 , 30,000 7,500 j 17g6 33 B(J6
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 )
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 ) , 7 .
Reserved for' bad debts, £7500 ) ’
1934.. 49,915 p.c. =32,500 7,500 ) 40 441
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO 5 4910 44,441
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 .. 162,441
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 I Ifi7 „„„
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO t 4000 10/,99 °
1936.-56,645 74 p.c.= 37,500 7,500 1 fiR ,, , 7 „
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO f ’
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205,282
With anchors out in all directions, the
co. enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in
S. Aus., where a long, hot summer and
other things enabled the management to
write the best profit yet. Among the
other things a good season and high
prices bumped up returns from primary
products, while the State’s secondary in-
dustries handed out nearly a million
pounds more in wages than they did in
1936, and unemployment, now around
5 p.c., is about half what it was in 1929.
Moreover, of recent years the co. has
both widened and secured its turnover by
purchase of hotel freeholds, which is one
form competition takes in the trade,
there being no price-cutting.
After setting aside something for the
taxgatherer, and making provision for
bad debts, depreciation and other con-
tingencies (the co.’s history suggests that
the providing has been done with a
heavy hand in the past), net earnings
(they include £1538 dropped from some-
where into reserves) were £7293 better at
£74,417, or 14.9 p.c. on capital as against
13.4, 11.3, 10.4, 9.9, 9.7, 9.3 and 12.3 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. was lifted a point,
raising it to 10 p.c. again, and it looks
like remaining there —for the present, at
(Continued on page 24.)


A World-Wide LINK
with FOREIGN TRADE
No matter in what foreign markets you may
be buying or selling, or planning to enter, you
will find the National Bank’s Foreign Depart-
ment an invaluable ally. It will gladly supply
authentic credit information on your foreign
customers, will make prompt collection of drafts
on them, and finance exports and imports as
well as domestic shipments. A confidential
discussion of your problems may develop ways
of simplifying your transactions abroad, and to
this end you are invited to make use of the
Bank’s wide experience and facilities.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (incorporated in Victoria)
52/16/38
The Australian Sugar Producers Association Ltd.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1938.
THE PRESIDENT’S OPENING ADDRESS.
Gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to extend a
cordial welcome to all attending this ses-
sion of the Council of the Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association. It is no
exaggeration to say that our annual meet-
ings—and this is the thirtieth —have be-
come notable events in the progress of
the sugar industry. In the years which
have passed into history since this organi-
sation was established, development of
Queensland sugar areas has so far ex-
ceeded expectations that the problem of
overproduction has assumed acute dimen-
sions. Many causes have combined to
produce this position. The increased area
under cane is, of course, partly respon-
sible, but I contend that the higher effi-
ciency prevailing in recent'years through-
out the industry has been the most im-
portant factor. Without such improved
standards in mill and field it would be
impossible to carry on at the existing low
average price received for sugar. In
present circumstances the tribulations of
growers are many, a considerable per-
centage barely managing to make ends
meet, and then only by strenuous labor
and frugal living, combined with that
good husbandry which has become an
outstanding characteristic of sugar pro-
duction. So far as profits are concerned
we do not differ greatly from other pri-
mary producers. They, like us, never
are, but always to be blessed.
If, however, individual returns have not
been sufficient to confer affluence it will
surely be conceded that the industry con-
situtes a valuable economic asset, and
at the same time serves a very special
national purpose. Not long ago it was
contended by persons accepted as authori-
ties in such matters that white people
could not live, work and multiply in
Queensland’s northern coastal areas,
where during recent years most of our
sugar has been produced. Experience has
shown that such opinions had no valid
foundation, and that residents in our
Northern sugar belt are as healthy, ener-
getic and fecund as those living in any
other part of Australia. The 1933 cen-
sus recorded a population of a quarter of
a million in the Queensland tropics,
100,000 of whom were under 21 years
of age, and therefore probably born and
brought up North of Capricorn—census
particulars also indicated that it is pos-
sible to live to be a hundred in our
tropics, where families of from ten to a
dozen are by no means unknown. Vital
statistics prove that the expectation of
life at all ages is high in North Queens-
land, and in the 40 years which have
passed since I entered the industry I have
not heard of a case of malnutrition
amongst children in our sugar districts,
where the kindly earth furnishes much
which is not easily procurable in some
localities. We do not, in a literal sense,
sit under our own vines and fig-trees, but
oranges, lemons, bananas and pawpaws
are more than substitutes for products of
other climes. It may be that expert
opinion erred owing to the fact that con-
ditions prevailing in our Queensland
tropics differ from those of corresponding
latitudes elsewhere. In our case the trade
winds from the Pacific in the daytime,
and the cool land breeze from the coastal
range at night, have a modifying influence
upon what otherwise might be an enervat-
ing tropical climate. Be that as it may, a
healthy European population of a quarter
of a million North of Capricorn adds a
new province to Australia, and is an effec-
tive answer to all who assail our White
Australia Policy on the ground that only
colored races can thrive in the tropics.
Reference to the service of the sugar
industry, actual or potential, in the de-
fence of Australia is a natural corollary
to the foregoing. In the Great War the
eligibles in the sugar districts gave a ready
response to their country’s call for volun-
teers, and no doubt there would be the
same eagerness to serve in the event of
a similar national emergency. The man-
power available would be large in com-
parison to the number engaged in the
industry as such a big proportion are of
eligible age and robust physique. But
there is another important aspect of de-
fence, namely, effective occupation, which
the industry is supplying at present. Empty
spaces in these turbulent times would be
an invitation to countries seeking an ex-
cuse for a quarrel to demand right of
entry for their nationals. But with the
aid of the sugar industry our choicest
and most vulnerable lands have been
closely settled and intensely cultivated,
giving a degree of safety which would
disappear if these lands were allowed to
revert to jungle conditions.
The high standards of efficiency pre-
vailing to-day in field and mill are due
to the greater knowledge possessed by
those engaged in the industry, which was
not available to the pioneers, and also,
and possibly to a greater extent, to im-
proved mechanical equipment. Such
equipment has been installed at an ex-
penditure running into millions. An im-
pressive example on this point is fur-
nished by the amount of Government ad-
vances made under legislation passed in
1885 and 1893 for the erection of twelve
mills, which are still operating—namely,
£690,799 —and the amount of similar ad-
vances provided under a later Act for the
erection of three modern mi115£1,848,660.
£1,848,660. The twelve pioneer co-opera-
tive mills, and all proprietary mills of
the same class, have necessarily been
thoroughly modernised, both as to capa-
city and efficiency. The heavy expendi-
ture thus incurred has been met from the
respective companies’ own resources.
Farmers’ co-operative mills, no doubt, re-
quired some assistance from their
bankers.
I was surprised, as no doubt other
members of this Council were, at the
defeat of the referendum on the proposal
to amend Clause 92 of the Federal Con-
stitution so as to enable the Common-
wealth Parliament to pass legislation
necessary to provide for the orderly mar-
keting of primary produce. Practically
everybody pretends to sympathise with
the man on the land, whose well-known
hardships marketing legislation would
have ameliorated. In the referendum
campaign there was abundant evidence
of personal selfishness, many people de-
siring to return to conditions under which
they could* buy farm commodities at
prices below the cost of production. The
“No” majority came principally from the
townspeople, who failed to realise that
town and country interests are so inter-
dependent that prosperity in the country
and depression in cities and towns, or
vice versa, is an anomaly which cannot
exist for long. It is generally agreed
that the main cause of the world-wide
economic crisis was the low price of pri-
mary products, chiefly due to disorderly
marketing, which inevitably resulted in
the destruction of the purchasing capa-
city of the farming community. All that
electors were asked to give the Common-
wealth Parliament was the same power as
that possessed by the British and all Par-
liaments of other countries with a unified
instead of a Federal form of govern-
ment. When British agriculture was in
a moribund state the Marketing Act of
1931 was passed, and after some experi-
ence its provisions were amplified by the
Marketing Act of 1933. Asa result of
this beneficent legislation agricultural pro-
duction was increased, farmers and
others were saved from bankruptcy, and
their purchasing capacity restored.
As is generally known, the proposal
to amend Clause 92 was due to a Privy
Council decision that certain Common-
wealth legislation was ultra vires the Con-
stitution. This was the result of an
appeal from a judgment of the High
Court of Australia, the difference in the
decisions resulting from the different con-
structions placed by the respective Courts
upon the word “free” in Clause 92 of the
Constitution.
It is interesting to note that much
American “New Deal” legislation was de-
clared unconstitutional by majority judg-
ments of the U.S.A. Supreme Court, the
majority and minority disagreeing regard-
ing the interpretation of the word
“liberty” in the American Constitution.
Subsequently the Court reversed its de-
cision by approving legislation of similar
effect, but differing in form. Recent
appointments, it is said, will lead to the
general validation of Roosevelt’s “New
Deal” legislation, a majority of the mem-
bers of the Supreme Court as at present
constituted holding that the correct inter-
pretation.of the word “liberty” does not
mean that laws designed to check the un-
controlled operation of blind economic
forces are necessarily unconstitutional.
., .
Evidently the interpretation of law is
not an exact science like, for example,
assaying gold or analysing sugar, while
Federal Constitutions are almost as un-
alterable as the laws of the Medes and
Persians—American experience appears
to indicate that Judges are influenced
by the spirit of the times and the de-
mands of natural justice, but such influ-
ences would operate very slowly, if at
all, where the Court is located many
thousands of miles from the country
affected by its decisions. In such circum-
stances there can be little hope for any
broadening down from precedent to pre-
cedent.
It now appears that we were too opti-
mistic concerning the benefits likely to
accrue from the International Sugar
Agreement. The export quota of 400,000
tons was very acceptable, but the net
price realised under the new conditions
has been most disappointing. The
doubling of oversea shipping freight has
absorbed practically the whole of the in-
crease price, and the present outlook is
not at all promising. It is now said that
the statistical position was not so strong
as estimated at the time the Conference
met, and there is so much offering that
sugar is selling in free markets at prices
below cost of production even in cheap
labor countries. Notwithstanding the
advantages of British and Canadian pref-
erences our export quota will be a losing
proposition. Australia is the only coun-
try exporting cane sugar produced exclu-
sively by European labor, and we are the
only sugar-exporting section of the
Empire which could supply man-power
in useful numbers in case of national
peril. I am not forgetting South Africa,
which has a white population of
2,000,000, but this is offset by the
7,000,000 natives in the Union, and that
South Africans of European origin are
not, like Australians, a homogeneous
people. Preferences on sugar and other
Commonwealth products are not free
gifts. They are more than balanced by
preferences on British exports to this
country. Taking into account the in-
creased freight charges and the low over-
sea price of sugar I have been forced to
the conclusion that we really have valid
grounds for complaint.
What a vista of progress is revealed by
a review of what has happened within
the industry in the lifetime of this Asso-
ciation. The industrial transformation in-
volved in the change from colored to
white labor, the linking together by Gov-
ernment railways of Northern, Central
and Southern sugar districts, accelerated
crushing and increased recovery of sugar
by our mills, and, most striking and en-
couraging of all, better yields of sugar
from old land than from the same soil
in its virgin state. The richest mines have
their day and cease to be. But, given in-
telligent treatment, there is evidently no
limit to the productive life of land ; and
the Divine promise recorded in the
twenty-second verse of the eighth chapter
of Genesis still holds good—“ While the
earth remaineth, seed-time and harvest,
and cold ? nd heat > and summer and
and anda >' and nlght > shall not
For thirty years this Association has
been diligently engaged in promoting the
individual and collective advancement of
,
sugar P roducers - Th « brief survey of the
industry’s position I have just given fur-
nishes convincing proof that we have not
failed in our endeavours. Past achieve-
ment will encourage future effort, and
the A.S.P.A., which in every respect is
still strong to serve, will further consoli-
date its position and conserve the inter-
ests of all who come within the ambit of
its activities. Our Council Meetings have
played an important part in the progress
of both the industry and the Association,
delegates invariably realising their per-
sonal obligation to contribute their share
to the elucidation of the many questions
upon which decisions must be made. 1
am confident this meeting will maintain
the standards of its many predecessors,
thus keeping the A.S.P.A. in the fore-
front of organisations working for the
betterment of industry and the promotion
of the commonweal.


“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES.
*
PUMPMOBIL
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weighty complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption .. 1-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 132 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON PTY., LTD.,
13 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
h
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—A DVT.
st * =t =t
DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * St
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
st * st st
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make' by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab," Melbourne.
any rate. For 13 years to the close of
accounts in 1931, shareholders received a
steady 10 p.c., sweetened with £250,000 of
bonus scrip (half the present paid capital)
scattered in ’24 and ’2B, thus making sub-
sequent divs. (6 p.c. was the lowest) worth
double the declared rate on capital as it
stood before the gifts.
During the year £13,783 net was added
to the book value of fixed assets, includ-
ing hotel properties, and the cash hold-
ing was strengthened by £27,890:
1928. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £500,000' £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors 212,081 154,763 101,266 126,345
Freeholds,
machinery
and plant.. 444,791 390,589 570,363 584,146
Stocks. . . . 24.173 17,683 20,965 25,525
Book debts*. . 47,369 38,597 34,229 36,805
Advances . . 195,035 259',528 101,847 152,536
Cash .. . • 10,017 15,892 44,727 72,617
* Includes shareholdings.
To meet the outlay, the amount coming
to sundry creditors (it includes an un-
specified provision for taxation) was in-
creased by £25,079. The growth in the
more or less liquid surplus (£161,138,
including stocks) was £10,636. Further
enlargement of the brewing and bottling
plant is now in hand, and provision has
been made for writing off the old plant,
the chairman says.
New industrial undertakings involving
a capital outlay of nearly £3,000,000 and
giving employment to more than 1000
persons are under way in S. Aus. These
include erection of a blast furnace, etc.,
by B.H. Prop, at Whyalla and the con-
struction of works at Osborne for manu-
facture of alkali from salt by Imperial
Chemical Industries. It all adds to the
attractiveness of S.A. Brewing scrip.
The market prices the pound shares at
535. 9d. as against 50s. 6d. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 3.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 5.2 p.c. on his money counts
on a 14 p.c. distribution, which was more
than earned during the last term. Visibly
the cover is 28s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging Co., N.L.
Pioneer of Australian tin-dredging cos.
in Asia, Tongkah Harbor came under
the powerful Anglo-Oriental manage-
ment in 1935, when Southern Siamese
Tin was taken over, together with its ex-
tensive low-grade property and powerful
modern bucket-dredge of 270,000-c.y.-
monthly capacity, for 132,000 f.-p. 255.
shares. The co.’s properties are at Tong-
kah Harbor, Bang Neang, Chelong Bay,
Bang Tao Bay and Ronpibon (Siam), and
Bidor (F.M.S.). At Sept. 30 selected
dredging reserves amounted to 81,411,000
c.y.—approx. 39,160,000 c.y. of 0.431 b.
wash at Ronpibon, and 42,250,000 c.y.,
averaging between 0.331 b. and 0.2951 b.,
at the Inner Harbor, Bang Neang and
Bidor—but a lot more prospecting has
yet to be done. Application for mining
leases over a further 23,500,000 c.y. of
mostly 0.41 ground has been made, while
the co. has first claim over an additional
3600 acres, rights to which were can-
celled owing to restriction, and there are
possibilities of further contiguous areas
being acquired.
Including 6d. a share sent out since
the close of last accounts, the co. has
paid £740,939 in divs. There was a dry
period for seyen years following 1926,
but divs. began to flow again in 1934,
from which point the following table
takes up the story:
(--'Dividend—>
(—•‘-Profit—, Per
S'ept., Revenue. Exes.* Net Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 93,281 73,105 20,176 1/7 1/- 14,189
1935.. 93,558 75,302 18,256 1/6 2/- 28,820
1936. .159,927 142,587 17,340 -/10 Nil Nil
10 .. I 235,066 173,366 61,730 3/3 2/- 47,750
| To bucket-band reserve, £21,495.
Includes depreciation—l 934, £16,388; 1935,
.£16,674; 1936, £26,704 ; 1937, £33,264.
After allowing an extra £6560 for depre-
ciation of plant, etc., last year’s net earn-
ings sprang £44,390, reaching 3s. 3d. per
share, of which 2s. was passed on to
shareholders, who were passed by in the
previous term. During the year the de-
benture debt of £40,000 was paid off at a
cost of £6158, not taken into account in
the foregoing table. The bucket-line pro-
vision is for new bands for the Bidor
and Ronpibon units.
. Altogether the co. owns seven dredges,
three of which —South Siamese, Bidor
No. 2 and Tongkah Harbor —are of large
capacity and comparatively modern. The
other four are old and small, monthly
capacity being a maximum 90,000 c.y.
each. Since the close of accounts the
main Harbor unit has been laid up for
repairs and reconstruction, estimated to
cost £17,000, provision for which has
been made out of past earnings.
Last year’s better showing Reflects in-
creased output and improved metal
prices:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards . . . . 3,273,000 5,110',800 6,046,000
Tin oxide, tons . . 050.8 962.9 1,189.5
Average per yd., lb.. . 0.44 0.42 0.44
Cost per c.y., pence.. 3.46 4.79 4.93
Aver, price tin ore £143/15/2 £154/0/9 £lB5/5/11
Four dredges were in operation, Nos. 2
(Bidor), 4 (Harbor) and 6 (Chelong Bay)
remaining idle. The lift in unit costs
since 1935 is due to working of Southern
Siamese’s Ronpibon property, where clay
and the compact wash are troublesome.
Low average values render earnings
particularly susceptible to metal-price
fluctuations. This, the laying up of one
of the plants and poorer ground (av.
0.341 b.) dug has reduced declared mine
profit to £1134 for the first quarter of
the current term. As a result the 255.
shares have fallen to 12s. 6d. in the
market. The co.’s standard assessment
is 2035 tons.
It is proposed to centralise management
in Malaya. For the purpose Tongkah
Harbor Tin Dredging, Ltd., is being
formed in the F.M.S. to take over from
the present co. on a share-for-share
basis —one £1 stg. share for each 255.
Aust. share now held. At Sept. 30 there
was £55,289 (Aust.) in liquid assets, apart
from stores of £57,287 ; creditors figured
for £20,031.
Prospects of the new copper find at
Paradise Valley (Q.) turning into any-
thing big appear remote. So far only
one lode of any magnitude has been
found, while there is no permanent
water, supplies having to be carted 35
miles, and costs are such that 13 p.c. ore
is necessary to show a profit with elec-
trolytic at' £64 London ; last week-end the
figure was around £44. Reporting on
the find, which is some 114 miles north-
west by road from Mt. Isa, Government
Geologist Denmead describes the rock
formation as slightly metamorphosed
sedimentaries, probably pre-Cambrian,
which have been much folded, faulted
and sheared, and have undergone ferra-
tion and jasperisation. Also, some of
the silicified shales have been impreg-
nated with an unusual combination of
hematite and barytes. Copper has been
found as carbonates, silicates, oxides and
chlorides. Upwards of 20 claims have
been pegged, the most promising being
the Lady Annie, through which Tome’s
lode, the original discovery and the only
orte of its type, runs. Here the main
outcrop is 185 ft. long, average width
27ft., maximum 42ft. Possible ore —
there are no proved reserves—is conser-
vatively put at 50,000 tons of 10 p.c. stuff
in the oxidised zone. How the deposit
will behave in the sulphides has yet to
be demonstrated ; appearances are that
size is likely to be reduced. The field
is traversed by a large number of iron-
stone lodes, the outcrops consisting of
limonite boulders containing cores of
cuprite. These cuprite patches, however,
are unlikely to greatly augment ore re-
serves on the field. Chief workings of
this type are at the Harriett Doris, where
the copper does not live down.
* * * *
Tin in small lenses has been found in
a pegmatite dyke at Mica Creek, eight
miles south of Isa (n.-w. Q.); 15 leases
applications have been made and two
areas opened up. Over two miles width
of the dyke ranges from 2ft. to 150 ft.,
but a lot of prospecting remains to be
done before the extent of commercial
ore can be determined. Hand-picking the
ore is out of the question, so the future
of the field, which has yielded prospec-
tors small quantites of mica, tantalite,
beryl and monazite, depends on sufficient
ore being developed to warrant erection
of a concentrating plant.
* * * *
With an output of 145,7990 z. fine for
1937, the best since 1920, Victoria has
stepped into second place among the
gold-producing States. Value of the
production was £ A 1,275,927, of which
£237,000-odd found its way into share-
holders’ pockets. Outstanding feature is
ihe growing alluvial output —19,0320 z.
last year, compared with 11640 z. in 1932.
The Beechworth district, with Cocks
Eldorado, Adelong, Bright Valley and
Reedy Creek operating bucket-dredges,
and Cocks Pioneer a sluicing plant,
is chief producer at the moment,
while Castlemaine, where Victoria Gold
Dredging is installing a £lOO,OOO elec-
tric dredge at Newstead, should help to
swell output during the current year.
Among reef-miners, the rich Wattle
Gully, which last year paid away over
twice its subscribed capital in divs., has
brought the CheWton field into promi-
nence, some 20 cos. having taken up pick
and shovel. Bendigo continues to employ
most in the industry, though seven cos.,
including the overseas-controlled and
free-spending B.M.L. group, put in care-
takers. Deborah, which may duplicate
its mill, and Central Nell Gwynne are
the field’s shining lights, while Monu-
ment Hill, South Virginia and South New
Moon are among the most promising of
the smaller fry. Ballarat, with produc-
tion valued at £82,000,000 to its credit, is
now more an industrial than a mining
centre, Gordon Gold, fifth in the ranks
of State producers, possessing its best
mine at the moment. Both here and in
Bendigo re-treatment of old dumps is at-
tracting growing attention, influenced, no
doubt, by the success at Rutherglen of
the elaborate mechanised cyanidation unit
of Rutherglen Gold Dumps, a pup of
Placer Development, which has floated a
similar co. (Gold Dumps Pty., Ltd.).
At Wood’s Point the old Morning Star
has been joined on the div. list by Ai
Consolidated. Outside the Golden Jacket,
Charlton, which, however, has not
proved a company proposition, 1937 pro-
duced few new finds of any importance.
* * * *
Gold Dumps Pty., recently formed by
Placer Development to treat two heaps
of tailings at Ballarat, has now purchased
a third, Llanberris No. 1 dvftnp, the con-
tents and value of which have not been
broadcast. Of the other two, one (Caris-
brook) contains about 600,000 short tons,
recoverable value one dollar, estimated
working profit 70 cents, and in the other
(Jubilee) there is about 129,000 short
tons, averaging 1.70 dollars per ton, of
which the dollar is expected to be work-
ing profit. The Llanberris mine was
worked intermittently from 1858 to 1917,
and 357,955 tons was treated for 100,538
ounces gold, an average of 6dwt. per ton.
A. M. Henderson is now in charge of the
undertaking.
* * * *
Placer Development’s two Colombia
(S’America) properties are being dug into
in good style now. During the quarter
ended March, Pato’s three dredges put
through 1,416,000 c.y. for 2843 fine
ounces. Because of power-shortage Nos.
2 and 3 dredges weren’t pushed into
areas of representative values, and low-
grade dirt was handled by them. Recov-
eries were roughly in keeping with drill
assays, and values are now improving,
with yardages increasing. Two more
dredges are expected to be working by
June. Asnazu handled 335,100 c.y. dur-
ing its quarter for 52730 z. gold. This
show is an old performer. Pato is in
the development stage.
Last year Mt. Bischoff Tin, Waratah
(Tas.), treated 16,778 tons of crude ore
for 187.4 tons of t. 0., assaying 67.9 p.c.
In addition, 13,898 c.y. of alluvial was
sluiced-for 9.15 tons t.o. Total output
of tin oxide was 86 tons less than for
the previous term, owing to work being
discontinued on a number of small lodes
following the drop in the price of tin
during the last half of the term. After
paying the tax bills (£558) and allowing
£1536 for depreciation, the year’s opera-
tions resulted in a loss of £56. Still, the
outlook was considered good enough to
pay a 2s. 6d. div. (£1500). To reduce
costs and enable lower-grade ore to be
treated, two motor-driven five-head
stamp batteries, equipped with classifiers,
tables, etc., have been installed close to
the working faces. Ore reserves are not
stated, but enough stuff is said to be
available to keep the plant going for
several years. At the end of 1937 the
co. held £20,922 in Consols, cash and
debtors’ balances. The amount coming
to sundry creditors was £4696.
* * * *
Witn retrenchment of a few shift
bosses at Wiluna (W.A.) the other day
some pessimists thought they saw the
writing on the wall. But general manager
Carroll cheered the pub-keepers, traders
and others by stating that, although de-
velopments at depth were not as satisfac-
tory as they might be, there was no like-
lihood of any wholesale sacking of hands
within the next 12 months. Concentra-
tion of work underground was the
reason for getting rid of the few bosses
mentioned. Metallurgical research con-
tinues ; and results so far indicate that the
ore treatment process will show improve-
ment' before long. Extensive diamond
drilling and development are also pro-
ceeding. Names on the wages sheet total
over 1000.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has met with no
luck in its efforts to carry on gold-
mining at a profit. The tonnage treated
by ■ plant installed last November to
handle the harder sulphide ore has been
less than was estimated, and values have
not come up to expectations either.
Bewick, Moreing and Co. has been asked
to report on the mine and plant, and
state whether continuance of operations
is worth while.
•i* 'l s
London-controlled Edjudina Consoli-
dated (W.A.) is endeavoring to find ways
and means of obtaining additional funds
to resume operations. Prospects of it
doing so are not particularly bright.
* * * *
Although thus far unsuccessful in rais-
ing more capital, either here or in
London, Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) hasn’t
abandoned hope. Director J. Mac-
Callum Smith is now making another
attempt in London. Expenditure for last
half-year, mostly directors’ fees and
salaries, totalled £l3OO. At the end of
1937 cash in hand amounted to £2712.
The board has decided to allow its fees to
remain in abeyance until the financial
position improves.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.R.8., D.McA. and A.C.S.: Hold the bonds.
... . J.W.W.: (1) D. and W. Murray ords. have
a market in Adelaide around 3s. 3d. (2) Pre-
sumably you mean South Australian Gas,
whose scrip is around 20s. 9d H.E.P.: Co.
has so far carried out its bondselling contract.
The amount now to be handed over to N.Z.
Forests Products in discharge of maintenance,
etc., obligations is expected to be sufficient to
provide for the preliminary stages of realisa-
tion also, which was not part of the bond-
selling contract. Bondholders thus appear to
have been treated fairly. Estimates as to what
return, if any, they will eventually get are,
however, at this stage mere guesswork. See
B. 16/6/’37, obtainable this office... .S.W.:
Don’t know Melbourne co. As for Elgin—(l)
Yes. (2) and (3) Experimental tests have been
successful, but the process has yet to prove
itself on a large-scale basis. (4) Venture still
in speculative stage.


SMOKE-OH!
What a great country this would be
if our artesian bores gushed like our
political ones!
4* 4* 4* 4*
No doubt the Viennese will now
change their waltzes into goose steps.
4* 4* 4* 4*
These international treaties should be
drafted on foolscap.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every woman’s face tells its own story,”
says a writer.
And it’s often highly colored.
‘They will arrive in Sydney to-morrow after-
noon to spend their honeymoon between three
and four o’clock.”— Social gossip.
That’s modern romance for you!
4* 4* *i*
“The League of Nations prevented raptures
between Germany and the Allies.”— “S.M.H.”
History will record no truer state-
ment.
4* 4 1 4* 4 1
“Hid £350 in Her Corsets.” — "D.T.”
Verily, a handsome figure,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Japan recently has suffered
some setbacks.” — "S.M.H.”
Including being relegated to back
pages by news from Austria, Poland and
elsewhere.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Britain would be quite prepared to cast
these islands into the lap of America for the
sake of a good understanding between the coun-
tries.”—“S.M.H.”
The island fling.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man charged with stealing two sides of
bacon from a provision firm said that the
latter owed a friend of his some money, and
he took the bacon to reimburse him.” — “D.T.”
Still, he had no right to take sides.
4* 4* -i- v
“He has now given up all idea of making
money honestly, and intends to live by his
wits.” — "Sun.”
Hd faces the future with confidence
tricks, in short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When storms in a teacup occur in the
home, the stir, strangely enough, is
usually caused by the absence of sugar.
4* 4* 4* *J*
“Strong man tears packs of cards in halves.”
If his partner’s bad leads upset him
so he should give up playing.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“A new drug is said to be capable of de-
priving one of all sense of taste.”
The cook at our restaurant must be
using it to thicken the oyster soup.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sydney people took their celebrations in a
sober-minded way.”— Sydney paper.
Still, all the statues were lit up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mussolini is against Russia being included
in any concert of nations.” — "Sun.”
Russia, on the other hand, is deter-
mined not to play second fiddle to
Mussolini.
4* 4*
“All Cuts Fresh Lions of Pork.” — Butcher’s
advt. in Gladesville ( Sydney ) “Weekly Times.”
Roar meat!
Gone Are the Days.
“War is no longer a gentleman’s game.”
—Sydney paper.
In fact, the cads who wage war to-day
wouldn’t know a gentleman if they saw
one.
Take Harold and William the Con-
queror, for instance.
“Well, well, well, if it isn’t old Bill,”
said Harold. “Staying long?”
“To tell you the truth, I was think-
ing of taking the blinking place, Harold.”
“Good on you, Bill. I’ll have to
arrange a bit of a scrap—usual formali-
ties, y’know. Hastings suit you?”
“Splendid. You’ll attack, of course?”
“Tut, tut; never dream of doing that
to a visitor.”
“Awfully sporting of you, old boy.
What time?”
“Say nine-thirty. Give the boys a
chance to be introduced all round.”
And when he licked Harold Bill was
frightfully cut up about it —but not so
cut up as Harold was when they found
him.
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Tribute.
When Charlie Blotto passed over to
that realm where the boom of the bung-
starter is never heard, his pals rallied
to pay their last respects. The chap
who was entrusted with the task of
making the farewell oration wasted no
time on useless verbiage. He just stepped
forward and said with a fervor that was
understood by all: “He was a gallon
gentleman! ”
D. McM.
4- *:• *i* “i*
Burning Woe.
“The expression of the Indian firewalker was
hard, gloomy and cynical.”— Travel book.
But who would look for sweet elation
In one who walks o’er burning coal,
For surely such an occupation
Is very searing to the sole!
T. W. N.
*b *b
The Perfect Manager.
Has a very efficient secretary.
Is too busy to see anybody; to go
anywhere ; to stay in his office ; to eat;
to answer his correspondence; to run
the show.
Has a very efficient secretary.
Mac.
•b 4* 4* *4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
X.—A Real Sydney Cove.
The departure of the First Fleet from
Spithead coincided with the juicy
scandal of the Prince of Wales and his
latest girl friend and the trial of Warren
Hastings.
The popular daily press would have
been recreant to its great traditions had
it not preferred misreporting Court
gossip to giving news about so uninter-
esting a matter as the departure of an
expedition to found a future nation.
Thus it was that the fleet’s departure
got only 2| lines on the back page,
while the front page was plastered with
screamer headlines, interviews with
sexagenarian society beauties and a
three-col. photo, (taken 18 years before)
of Mrs. Fitzherbert daringly showing
half an inch of bare neck and a silk-
clad ankle.
Phillip had made H.M.S. Sirius his
flagship. Early on the voyage, however,
his second under-footman had com-
mented respectfully on the fact that his
(Phillip’s) once-thick side-levers were be-
coming mangy-looking. The cause of
this was solved when the captain woke
up one night to find a brace of cock-
roaches lashing into his hirsute scrub.
He therefore changed over to the
Supply. But he wasn’t happy on the
sloop, as his bunk faced south, the way
the fleet was heading, and he could
never sleep soundly unless his feet were
facing east. Various other reasons kept
him restlessly moving from one ship to
the other throughout the entire trip.
This wouldn’t have been so bad had he
not insisted on taking the fleet’s piano
with him every time he shifted. Many
of the choicest epithets now in regular
use among our bullockies and bookies’
urgers were coined by those future Aus-
sies who comprised the special fatigue
party which had to continually tranship
the instrument.
The conduct of the convicts through-
out was exemplary, if we except one
minor incident.
Phillip obviously could get around
the transports for inspection only in
weather calm enough to allow him to
be rowed from one to the other, and
when, after one prolonged spell of high
winds and heavy seas, he at last made
his rounds his genial “Well, boys, any
complaints about the grub?” was greeted
by a concerted growl from the convicts.
Then one lag spoke up: “Too
right! We’ve ’ad nothin’ but quail
for two months an’ it’s makin’ us
bilious. Why can’t we ’ave some
plain sorlt junk for a
change?”
Phillip, naturally assuming this
to be heavy sarcasm, gave the
transport cooks orders to vary
the salt tack with quail on toast,
and on his next tour of inspection
a terrific uproar greeted his ar-
rival. It appeared that the re-
quest for a change from quail
had been dinkum, and the con-
tinuance of that now-repugnant
dish had infuriated the convicts.
As they seemed in danger of get-
ting out of hand Phillip called
Majah Ross, O.C. marines, and
instructed him to have his men
fire a warning volley over their
heads.
The majah, shuddering with rage at
the irritating thought that he, a full-
blown majah with a crown up, had to
take bally orders from a mere three-pip
artist, bounced off, only to return look-
ing a bit sillier after a fruitless search
and announce that he had forgotten to
bring any ammunition. The happy
thought of a steward who remembered
that the children had some throwdowns
which they were keeping* for Guy
Fawkes night averted a nasty incident.
These, hurled down on the deck out of
sight of the convicts while the marines
clicked their rifle triggers, gave a realistic
sound of firing that scotched the in-
cipient mutiny.
On Jan. 20, 1788, Phillip landed at
Botany Bay just eight months and one
day after leaving England. The extra
day was used to enable the women on
board, when they eventually returned
Home, to be able truthfully to say:
“My dear, we were over eight months
without once sighting, etc., etc.”
The Governor-designate wasn’t much
impressed with Botany Bay and decided
to see what Port Jackson was like. It
would have been a shorter distance
going overland, but the fleet bootmaker
had accidentally swallowed all the avail-
able tingles and the captain’s boots
couldn’t be mended, so he went round
by boat.
Casting about for a likely possie to
start a city, he came to where a small
fresh-water stream flowed into what was
to become known as “Our ’Arbor.”
Several abos. and their gins were bibu-
' lously dancing around on the banks of
it under the influence of corkwood juice.
Phillip therefore named it “Tanked
Stream,” which was later corrupted to
the “Tank Stream.”
Anxious to be friendly, Phillip, forget-
ful that the natives had already made
contact with Cook’s expedition, and
thinking to stun them with some classy
gifts, trotted out his multicolored beads,
left-handed spears, nose rings and little
tip lamps. He was considerably taken
aback when one haughty buck said:
“Square up, Arthur. Those geegaws
hold no particular interest for us, but
if you can produce a few bars of Irish
Twist we shall be eternally grateful!”
S. W. K.
Q.E.D.
“A grave increase in the number of cases
oi arson is disturbing the Tokio police.”
This doesn’t necessarily suggest
That turpitude and criminals alike
Have out of all proportion now pro-
gressed.
One reason, though, is clearly manifest:
At last they’re making matches there
that strike /
BO.
Surmise.
“Three women, during a recent cold spell in
a village near Cologne, met at the local water-
pump while filling their buckets and stood talk-
ing. When they decided to go home they
could not move as their shoes had frozen to
the ground.” — News item.
What subject held them tensely bound
In loud, prolonged debate,
The chap who sent this news around
Forgot, it seems, to state;
But if, with normal care, between
The lines we like to read,
It obviously must have been
A “sticky” one indeed!
DOUGAL.
Puzzling.
“While the N.S.W. Premier was hurrying to
a late meeting, a blue sedan car edged his car
into the kerb. Two police got out, flashed
their torches on his numberplate, and then told
him to drive on.
“ ‘I wonder what they wanted?’ said Mr.
Stevens.
“ ‘I think we may have been going a little
too fast,’ said an official accompanying him.”
—“ Telegraph.”
I remember having once been mixed
up in just such a puzzling episode
myself.
It was in Maoriland, where police cars
are fitted with sirens, and I was jogging
along at a quiet 60 m.p.h. through one
of the built-up suburbs of Whangamo-
mona when a car came up howling like
an Alsatian that had just been told
about the sterilisation proposals.
To my amazement, it was driven by
a police officer.
I wondered what on earth he could
want. Should I offer him a bun or a
cup of tea? Perhaps he wanted to
change his library book; unless, of
course, he was selling vacuum cleaners.
Ah! I had it. He was the vicar in
“Well, it's the only one I could find —me sister's wearin mine."
disguise, calling to see if I had done my
knitting for the jumble sale.
But I had it wrong.
“Listen here, you,” he said trucu-
lently, “I’m from the gas company, and
I’ve come about the meter.”
“There!” I exclaimed. “And I had
just decided that you wanted to mow
the lawn. Still, it doesn’t matter about
the meter now; we shifted house the
day after Aunt Sophie got gassed.”
“Ar,” he said, “wrong number. Sorry
you’ve been troubled.”
“That’s all right,” I assured him.
“Can I give you a lift to the aquarium?”
STOO.
A New Name.
The foxy little publicity man was hop-
ping about the ring introducing his new
“finds” and getting them to spill some
blurb into the mike.
He told “Slasher” Slatheranwhack to
end his oration with a call to the sick
soldiers in hospital. It was good stuff.
“Slogger” Bumblefoot dutifully obeyed
orders by slopping a big kiss into the
mike to his dear old momma.
When it came to “Cyclone” Bashem
the little publicity man whispered
hoarsely, “Don’t f’get, at th’ finish a kiss
an’ hug fer y’ lovin’ little wife. It’ll go
down well with the mob.”
“I get yer,” said “Cyclone,” scratching
his head. “But which one? The one in
Brisbun, ’Obart, Melbun, Hadelaide or
the one”
“Strike me lucky!” gulped the little
man, snapping the mike away. “Wait
till next week an’ I’ll bill ye as The
Fightin’ Sultan!”
D. McM.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Melbourne Steam.
At 28s. last week scrip in this
old-established shipping co. looked
a catch. In the year to June 30,
1937, earnings of 9.6 p.c. on ord.
capital were claimed, and addition
to depreciation, etc., reserve repre-
sented approximately another 14
p.c. The div. was p.c. ; this
year an interim of 7 p.c. has gone
out, and at least that rate should
be paid for the year. The co. has
a 10,346-ton new passenger vessel
and a cargo-vessel tonnage of
12,290. On a 7 p.c. div. basis, at
28s. the scrip returns 5 p.c. —the
highest yield offering from an inter-
state shipping stock.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO LOCKS.
THE attention of Manufacturers and others is
invited to the invention subject matter of Aus-
tralian Letters Patent No. 15796/34 granted to
Leslie Theodore Henry Repard and Hugo Wil-
liam Arbouin Repard for improvements re-
lating to locks. . ,
The Letters Patent will be sold outright or
License granted for the whole of Australia or
for any State.
Particulars from H. H. RAYWARD, Patent
Attorney, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
The co. still mentions money-making
possibilities of its North Queensland
“rain-forests” 11 years after the first
bonds were sold. A co. named E. S.
and R. C. Moulton, Ltd., was the original
broker. Large-scale marketing has not
yet started, but it is now suggested
that “regular payment of dividends will
be commenced at an early date.” There
is talk of listing the shares.
It is estimated that the marketing of trees
will be commenced within five or six years
from date of bond purchase, and that
bondholders will receive from the trustees
progressive payments, from time to time,
until the full amount [£loo] stated on each
[£s] bond has been paid.
An excerpt from a 1928 prospectus, those
once-enticing words must have a hollow
ring in bondholders’ ears to-day.
Bondholders were asked some years
after 1928 to cough up extra money per
bond to “finance earlier marketing”
(goodness knows why), then for more
money to enable them to convert into
shares; at another time bondholders
were offered 8 p.c. debentures, redeem-
able July 1, 1939, with a charge over the
milling and marketing trust fund, which
the co. may utilise after June 1, 1939,
if it decides to start marketing. To what
extent bondholders were persuaded to
acquiesce in any of these matters isn’t
known here; but at June 30, 1937,
Queensland Forests was carrying £23,590
of secured debentures, £22,124 unsecured
debentures, £53,200 of secured creditors,
£18,702 of other liabilities besides £13,033
due to subsidiary cos.
“Maintenance trust fund deposits”
amount to £41,115, and “milling and
marketing” deposits aggregate £41,336.
The maintenance fund was to be paid
back to the co. in “equal annual instal-
ments from the fifth year to the end of
the twentieth year after- June 1, 1927.”
At the beginning the trustee was Aus-
tralasian Trustees and Executors, Ltd.,
a co. of the Moulton flock. Latest
balance sheet of Queensland Forests
doesn’t name the trustees.
There were shareholders and bond-
holders to start with, and there is the
same distinction to-day, though on a
much-increased capital (and decreased
proportionate equity) bondholders have
been invited to become shareholders. In
the beginning shareholders were paid
divs., partly out of money put up by
bondholders. Bondholders have received
nothing. Their position is that they have
a contract of sorts with the co., governed
by a trust deed, the terms of which few
of them understood at the beginning.
Certainly the co. has contracted to pay
£lOO for each £5 put up, but there is
no time limit.
It is plain from the latest accounts of
the forestry co. —which, incidentally, sold
tung-oil bonds in 1933, its maintenance
responsibilities to last up to the end of
1940 —that a little more cash in hand
woqjd be helpful. Exactly what has hap-
pened to all the share and bond money
that has come in during the last 11 years
it is hard to say, though “timber and
other investments” now stand in'the books
at £213,631, whereas this item didn’t
appear in the accounts of six years
earlier. The forests were supposed to
be standing on the land when it was
first bought. Perhaps the expansion of
£221,651 in capital account (£295,232 is
now shown as the paid-up amount) over
the same period has to do with the
creation of this timber valuation.
Land, plant and buildings are now
valued at £86,327, up £24,178 since 1931.
Shares in other cos. are in at £58,713 (up
(£54,763), debtors, etc., £16,226 (down
£84,624), cash £1069 (up £1058), intan-
gibles £25,082 (up £7990). The before-
mentioned outside debt aggregates
£130,650 (up £97,290 over the half-dozen
years), and uncompleted contract liabili-
ties figure at £53,066 (down £68,024).
During the 1937 term bondholders, by
conversion of bonds and payment of
cash, accepted 4208 shares in the co.
Conversion probably releases a propor-
tion of the trust funds. On Nov. 30
last it was “too early to estimate
the response” to an offer to take
£5 bonds in exchange for six £1
Q.F. ords. Previously seven shares had
been the basis of conversion, “condi-
tional on the investment of further capi-
tal.” Bondholders are at the same time
politely informed that “no realisation on
behalf of bondholders will be commenced
before 1939, but sales on behalf of share-
holders will proceed in the meantime.”
Thai mention of “dividends”:
The directors believe that the payment of
regular dividends will be commenced at an
early date and that dividends on shares will
proportionately exceed payments on bonds.
The last part doesn’t mean the co. is
making threats to bondholders:
Bondholders who prefer to retain their
bonds can rest assured that the conditions
of the bond will continue to be carried out
to the letter as has been done in the past.
Some bondholders, however, rather wish
that a few of the 1928 prospectus esti-
mates had been realised to the letter.
“Assured return £100” for each £5 in-
vested ; £12,000 “assured” for £6OO. “One
has only to keep in mind the constant and
rapid development of the forests to under-
stand that the investment becomes in-
creasingly valuable with each recurring
season.” And in rolled the bond-capital
—for a while.
In its latest report the co. says the
tung-trees at Johnstone River (Q.) were
flowering profusely ; and if the oil of the
Montana nuts was as marketable as that
from the Fordii variety “the success of
the tung industry as far as this co. is
concerned should be assured.” Bond-
holders must be sick of the word “as-
sured.” Tung-nut culture has been a fail-
ure in some parts of N. S. Wales and
Maoriland; if it is successful in Queens-
land it would be a good thing, as would
profitable marketing of the co.’s forests.
But for years the most bondholders have
received have been an official outpouring
of words and requests for more money.
Now a “very competent timber sales de-
partment” has been established and
“good trade connections secured.”
“Shareholders’ timber is being operated
on first”—the directors have decided that
“no marketing on behalf of bondholders
will be commenced before 1939 at the
earliest. The conditions of the bond gave
the co. the right to commence marketing
at any time up to 1948. In the meantime
realisation of timber on unbonded lands
is proceeding.”
It is still shareholders first, bondholders
afterwards.
Early last week the sharemarkets ral-
lied, bargain-hunters taking any de-
pressed high-class stocks that were offer-
ing. Anything registering a notable fall
at this stage most likely hadn’t been
dealt in for some time, and the drop
represented the measure of the net mark-
ing-down. On Tuesday the general level
of prices was still below that of a fort-
night ago, but the rot seemed to have been
stopped, and confidence showed signs
of coming back. Steamship issues were
among the steadiest of stocks through-
out the Austrian episode. Banks took
the count pretty severely, which was
logical enough. Even they started perk-
ing up when Poland didn’t declare war
on Lithuania.
Last Thursday the New York share-
market was in sorry shape; market
“dumping” was heavy and quotations
slumped to the lowest level for years. As
one authority put it, it took the “incen-
tive” out of Australian market support.
The flow of business coagulated in Syd-
ney and Melbourne, and, though no
heavy falls of a general nature occurred,
recessions predominated over gains. This
influential downward movement in New
York doesn’t seem to be associated with
the European situation —or what was
claimed to be a “situation.” It is due to
the domestic problems of the United
States, of which, perhaps, sharemarkets
in the Commonwealth are taking too
much notice. But the general rise in in-
dustrial shares for two or three years
all over the world was regulated to some
extent by the market barometers in New
York and London, and, though circum-
stances have undergone widespread
changes since, both as regards general
trends and individual national problems,
the international nature of speculation
seems to make inevitable sympathetic re-
actions in other countries when an im-
portant nation is having a wave of
market depression. And in U.S.A. the
position seems to be somewhat worse
than that.
South Africa hasn’t been in the same
optimistic shape since that day of heavy
gold-scrip selling about six months ago.
The flow of capital towards the Rand
has slackened a lot, and construction ac-
tivity isn’t nearly so active as it was.
Australia, first into the depression and
early out, is weathering things much
better than most countries of the world.
The fact that costs haven’t risen nearly
as much as our currency was depreciated
has been a tremendous factor. Also, in
many respects we are now efficient manu-
facturers as well as growers of the
world’s best wool; population is our
great need. If we continue our way in
a level-headed fashion we may attract
migrants despite Governments and sense-
less forms of taxation.
* * * *
The sharp recovery in Lancefield
shares 10 days ago was due to a new
report on developments at No. 13 level.
The north crosscut cut the lode at 21ft.;
the first sft. of driving showed Bdwt.
values over sft. width; the next sft.,
width 6ift., values lOdwt.; a further sft.
of crosscutting disclosed a width of B|ft.,
values 15dwt. It all looked promising,
and the market loss during the general
setback was more than regained. Last
Wednesday, however, Adelaide sold the
shares down to 6s. 2d., a fall of 7d. a
share. It is really difficult to gauge the
extent and value of Lancefield’s lower
lode levels now that a disturbed zone has
been passed through and the northerly
pitch is increasing. Wliat was a proved
mine above No. 12 level becomes an in-
teresting speculation below. Bores have
proved the existence of some ore and
average values down to 400 ft. below the
No. 12 level, which is roughly 800 ft.
vertical from the surface.
The £1 shares in Howards, Ltd.,
changed hands at 365. each last week in
Brisbane. Net tangible assets amount
to 50s. 9.d. a share, surplus liquids ac-
counting for a little less than 40s. a
share. Earnings in 1936-37 represented
20.7 p.c. on capital, and 10 p.c. was paid.
Yield at last week’s quote was £5 11s.
per cent. The business is mostly cars
and refrigerators, with big outside in-
vestments.
* * * *
Huddart Parker ord. scrip, which was
one of the most actively supported
stocks in the market a fortnight ago,
with sales up to 495. 6d., cum div., has
faded into the background following
the European war scare. Last recorded
sale was at 475. 6d., ex Is. 2d. div., in
Melbourne, buyers then offering 455.,
with sellers at 48s. At 475. 6d. the
return on an 11 p.c. div. basis is £4 12s.
7d. per cent., which is fair enough if
the shares be regarded as a holding
proposition.
* * * *
The prevailing lack of strength in
prices for most metals is influenced by
increasing evidence of excess production
over consumption. Tin and copper are
subject to restriction or regulation, but
lead and spelter outputs are governed
only by the fact of whether prices are
payable or otherwise. Copper appears
to be comparatively well in hand, tin
slightly less so ; but lead and its asso-
ciate zinc were until lately depressed
around the lowest prices for two years.
There has been a recent fillip in lead
owing to rearmament talk, but spelter
keeps dull. .
Some high-cost lead-zinc mines have
already closed down, which may help
the position. But the adjustment of
production to consumption is always a
lengthy process. Manufacturers aren’t
entering readily into forward orders in
view of the uncertain market, though
newspaper proprietors who had the oppor-
tunity 12 months ago of buying paper
at bedrock are now kicking themselves,
and the same thing may happen with
users of lead as rearmament proceeds.
Still, it seems now that one of the best
things for the metal industries in the
long run would be a dissipation of the
war-clouds and a revival of confidence
in trade generally. If conditions in the
U.S.A. and France bucked up great
benefit to prices might easily follow.
* * * *
The first clean-up of Hill End Allu-
vials Pty., operating near Hawkins Hill,
N.S.W., won’t be made until April 21,
though sluicing started on February 7.
Two and a half months is an unusually
long period for a clean-up to embrace,
but there appear to be grounds in this
case-; the extension of time will enable
a section to be completed. Open-
ing-out operations, it is stated, have
entailed the working of a “consider-
able yardage of poor ground.” Oriomo
Explorations is one of the share-
holders in this venture. Minerals
Exploration is another. There was
said to be 1,342,000 • c.y. going 7s. sd.
Aust. a yard, and 2,500,000 c.y. which
it was “practically certain” could be
worked at a profit. Profits of £40,000
a year from 150,000 c.y. p.a., to be split
between the two holding cos., have been
suggested. It will be interesting to see
what results the first and second clean-
ups show. The claimed values are very
high.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Carreras, Ltd., makers of Craven “A”
cigarettes, announced a three-for-two cash
issue at par, and a three-for-two bonus
issue, all ord. shares, to ord. shareholders.
There are at present 200,000 ss. ords. issued,
held mostly by Carreras, Ltd., London. The
Australian public is interested in 48,000 10 p.c.
cum. prefs., priced at around 40s. in the market.
The backing for this issue will be strengthened
by the new capital arrangements; the reserves
allocated .to bonus-issue purposes will now be
locked- up in the business, and the effect of the
cash issue is obvious. The co. has been a
moneyspinner since it came under the present
control.
Goliath Portland Cement shares, ex the
recent bonus issue, changed hands finnly at
28s. 9d., as against 275. and 275. 6d. in Feb-
ruary. If a 15 p.c. div. is maintained on these
shares the yield available at the present market
would be 7 p.c.


FORD bvesgiftFfart 1938
A NEW COMPLETE RANGE OF UTILITIES
V-8 COUPE AND ROADSTER UTILITIES • V-8 %-TON AND
%-TON TRUCK-TYPE UTILITIES • V-8 AND 10 H P. PANEL
VANS • 10 H.P. COUPE AND ROADSTER UTILITIES
Never before has Ford offered so wide a
range of utility vehicles. There are 15
body types available in capacities from
6 to 15 cwt. —and every model is a
money-saver. First cost is low. Operat-
ing costs are low. Ford, alone, offers
features like these at so low a price:
V-type, 8-cylinder engine with aluminium
cylinder heads, proved by owners
throughout Australia to give more
than 20 m.p.g. in ordinary service.
Torque-tube drive and radius rods.
Three-quarter floating rear axle.
Straddle-mounted pinion. Crankshaft
bearings proved in heavy-duty truck
service. Easy - action self - energising
brakes with 186 sq. in. braking surface.
Safety glass all round (except in Van
rear doors).
An entirely new type of construction is used in
the bodies of Panel Van, Coupe. Roadster, j-ton
and f-ton Truck-type Utilities with steel box. The
floor of the loading compartment is of pressed
channel steel members running the full length
of the compartment and welded to steel cross-
bearers. These are also welded integrally with
the steel body which is bolted to the steel chassis
frame, the whole giving a girder-type construc-
tion of tremendous strength and rigidity. Wooden
floor boards are bolted between steel members
which act as skid strips.
FORD UTILITIES ARE COMPLETELY EQUIPPED
Standard equipment on V-8 units includes: Oil-
bath air cleaner. 4 hydraulic double-acting
shock absorbers. Bumper bar. Free-shackled
auxiliary rear springs on f-ton Truck-type
Utilities, optional at extra cost on other models.
Tyre equipment: Coupe, Roadster and -J-Ton Truck-
type Utilities: 6.00 x 16 4-ply. Panel Van: 6.00 x 16
6-ply. f-Ton Truck-type Utilities: 6.50 x 16 6-ply.
Your local Ford dealer will arrange an "on-the-
job" test for you (without cost or obligation).
Get in touch with him TODAY.
—AND THE 10 H.P. SERIES
—powered with the famous Ford 'lo' engine
developing 32 B.H.P. and giving an operat-
ing economy of 35-40 miles per gallon.
Capacity is 6 cwt. and features include:
Automatically compensating brakes. Safety
glass in windscreens and all windows
(except Van rear doors). List prices include
complete equipment.
10 H.P. COUPE UTILITY—3S-40 miles per
gallon with the comfort and style of
"The Big Light Car of the Year." Special
strong chassis frame to handle 6 cwt.
loading with ease.
V-8 TRUCK TYPE UTlLlTY—available in
J-ton models (with Straightside or Well-
type bodies) and 4-ton models with
Dropside, Stakeside (illustrated). Plat-
form, Straightside or Well-type bodies.
V-8 PANEL VAN—One-piece steel roof,
steel sides and floor and new girder-
type body construction. Full width
front seat. Auxiliary springs optional
at extra cost.
mm
m
m
ii
m
.:-::-x :
c
1930 FORD UTILITIES
Buy From Your Local Fond Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA.) F229.48C
Henry Jones shares held their place
well during the first shock of the Middle
Europe mix-up, but in the reaction that
followed they gave way, from above 50s.
dropping to below 495. Sellers were
offering them at that figure when the
U.S.A. market became sloppy last Thurs-
day. Last year the co. disclosed 14 p.c.
on capital and paid 10 p.c., yielding just
above 4 p.c. at the present price for
shares. An interim div. is due in De-
cember. The position of the subsidiaries
isn’t common knowledge, but the co.
must be making money out of its pre-
serves just now.
» * * *
The installation of plant at the Burnie
works of Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills is taking longer than planned. Re-
armament overseas has affected deliveries,
but, with commercial demand in Britain
falling off somewhat, the heavy industries
should now be more in a position to
supply private orders. Meanwhile the
overseas price of paper keeps high, even
though Canada has had a year of great
output. The only query about the pro-
ject at Burnie centres round the techni-
cal point of production ; there is no ques-
tion about the waiting Australian market.
The sponsors of the float two years ago
(Broken Hill cos. were much in evidence)
were confident about successful and eco-
nomic production from Tasmanian hard-
woods. There are 1,200,000 £1 shares
now fully paid; the ords. have a market
at 20s. 9d. In other words, buyers at the
present price are paying only 2 p.c. p.a.
simple interest for having waited two
years for seeing how the cat was going
to jump. Production should start this
year.
* * * *
K.M. Steel Products, listed last week
in Melbourne, had its foundations laid in
the year before the war. The co. makes
steel reinforcements for concrete work.
The public co. formed last month has
an issued capital of £105,000 in 30,000 7
p.c. £1 prefs., 60,000 f.-p. £1 vendors’
ords., and 15,000 ords. taken by the
public. The latter, paid to 10s., sold at
12s. last week in Melbourne. Average
profits of the business for the three years
to Dec. 31, 1937, were £7369 p.a. Unless
structural steel work is undertaken, scope
of the business is limited.
* * * *
Meggitt scrip quickly surmounted the
prevailing nervousness, and after drop-
ping to 315.. at the. worst stage Was back
to 325. last week. The return offering
was £6 ss. per cent.
* * * *
The ords. in Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
Sydney, after lifting to 735. 6d. near
interim-div. time, slipped back to under
70s. when no increase in the rate was
announced and the market generally
weakened about a fortnight ago. Last
week, however, there was a pickup in
quotes, 71s. being paid on Wednesday ;
the return offering on a 15 p.c. div. basis
was about £4 ss. per cent. It is quite a
good yield considering that disclosed
profits are big enough to pay almost
twice the present ord. div. rate, and that
only that portion of the subsidiaries’
profits declared as divs. goes into p. and
1. account. If business conditions keep
up to present levels shareholders must
get additional benefits out of this con-
cern.
* * * *
Appreciation of the article “War and
Shares” (B. 23 / 3 / ’3B) has been expressed,
and one writer asks for supplementary
information as to what would happen
to investments in the event of invasion
of Australia by a “hostile Power.” With-
out intending any joke, a lot would
depend on how hostile the Power was —
whether we were to be “absorbed” en-
tirely or treated as a dependency. Con-
jecture is useless, except if we assume
that the invaders were repulsed. In that
case ord. shares, land and equities should
still have the merits on their side.
* * * *
The old ords. in Castlemaine, Perkins,
Brisbane, lifted to 255. ex rights, but are
back to 235. 6d. again. The yield is
about £4 ss. per cent.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Rally to Chamberlain.
[One of the face-saving stunts of Eden wrangle-
policy supporters has been the persistent implication
of revolt brewing among Mr. Chamberlain’s colleagues.
One cable, when Mr. Eden resigned: “Great and far-
reaching changes in internal politics are expected.
Cabinet reconstruction is certain.” In the prospective
bust-up Mr. Churchill was to lead a party of no fewer
than 60 malcontents. Even as late as last Saturday
“S. M. Herald” reported : “Mr. Chamberlain’s declara-
tion seems to have satisfied for the time being critics
within the Government ranks.” This is from London
“Observer.”]
The rally of political opinion to the side of the
Prime Minister has been remarkable. From the
moment the House of Commons heard his and Mr.
Eden’s statements there was never the slightest doubt
where the sympathies of the great majority of mem-
bers lay.
This was further emphasised by Mr. Chamber-
lain’s reply to the Labor party censure motion and
by the remarkable debate in the House of Lords, in
which even Socialist peers, dissociating themselves
from their friends in the Commons, wished the Prime
Minister well in his search for peace.
Discontented communications were few and far
between and generally grumblers are more eager
correspondents than satisfied folk —and in numbers
were far outweighed by messages of approval at the
prospect of a positive drive for European appease-
ment.
Reports forwarded by party organisers of impres-
sions gleaned from a far wider body of opinion in the
country generally told the same tale.
Do the Chinese Mind?
[The war in China, until recently holding the world
in a state of “tension” with its daily “incidents” and
“outrages,” has been given several weeks’ rest from the
“news.” It will crop up again more alarmingly than
ever if events now serving the purposes of sensational
journalism quieten down. Misled by the screeching
propaganda, Australia’s professional windbags and
handfuls of others well meaning enough have committed
their vocal and other follies and will commit them
again. “New Statesmen and Nation” published these
observations by an eyewitness just returned from North
China.]
Until misfortunes overtake himself, the average
Chinaman does not care. Human life and suffering
as such are of supreme unimportance to him. A
ghastly bombardment in another part of the country,
in which foreign lives were involved, struck a Chinese
friend of mine as so funny that he laughed out loud.
The educated bemoan the situation over tea, and
part comforted after excited chatter. Some will tell
you indignantly that they have been forced to make
a public speech in favor of Japan and the new regime,
and that they will never live down the shame of it.
But they make the speech. Others accept office under
the Japanese.
The working classes all hate the Japanese—in
theory. But they are greatly hampered by two things.
The first is ignorance. Peasants in the hills near
Peking will ask you whether “the war is still on.”
The second is poverty. When life is a constant struggle
to discover where the next meal is coming from, one
does not have much time or inclination for politics.
Besides, maladministration, crushing taxation and
“squeeze” have reduced large numbers to such a pitch
that any change is welcome. And for many business
is already better in the former capital. Prices may be
slightly higher, but the cafes are overflowing with
Japanese dancing to jazzed-up Japanese tunes, and the
pavements are blocked with hawkers selling to the
newcomers all sorts of gaudy rubbish. Even the
much-praised Chinese resistance at Shanghai was
achieved by ordering those in the rear to fire on the
front line if it retreated.
The Japanese control all the press, in which they
appear as the self-sacrificing champions rescuing China
from a Government bent on betraying her to the
Communists. And educated Chinese may be heard
to say that there is much truth in this. After the fall
of Nanking, the Japanese filled the towns of the north
with gay banners, announcing the event as though it
were the conquest of a hostile country. They knew
how to exploit the old enmity between the north and
south, one aspect of that lack of cohesion which has
been the undoing of China. When the independent
Government was established in Peking, the Japanese
caused the old flag—black, red, yellow, white and
blue stripes—to reappear everywhere. Chinese actu-
ally rejoiced. The golden age had evidently come
again.
Finally, there is the all-important question of
“face.” The Chinese, of course, have “lost face”—
but so have the foreigners. Japan, on the other hand,
has gained it tremendously, and a gain of “face” is
always rather admired than resented. Many Chinese
feel that the surest face-restoring policy is now to
side with the Japanese against the foreigners, thus
basking in reflected glory while enhancing their own
“face” at the expense of foreigners. The result is that
one or two unoffending Britishers have recently been
hurt and astonished to find themselves publicly jeered
at in the streets by Chinese.
In short, Chinese patriotism will be small
hindrance to Japan’s ambitions. To believe otherwise
is to judge by Western standards, and to forget the
fatalism, apathy and childlike selfishness of the
Oriental mind.
Murder in the Holy Land.
(Condensed from H. J. Simson’s “British Rule, and
Rebellion.”)
[London “Times,” March 12, had one British private
killed and “10 slain Arabs picked up” in an engage-
ment in North Galilee; “S. M. Herald” cable (same
date) made it a British soldier killed and “100 Arabs
killed or taken prisoner.” Apart from the remarkable
increase in the Arab casualties, the item directs attention
to the Empire’s pretty constant private wars, usually
obscurely reported, though great publicity is given always
to other countries’ similar troubles. Rebellion in such
places as the Indian frontier and the Holy Land is on
a scale and opposed by forces and methods —including
bombing—the extent of which is known to very few
Australians.]
In the 20 years since the Great War there has
been encouragement of self-expression and a crop of
rebellions within the sphere of British rule. There
has been hesitation on the part of the ruler to apply
force, in striking contrast to the lack of hesitation
on the part of the ruled to appeal to force. It raises
the question whether rule has become more difficult
or less efficient.
The Arabs in Palestine blandly claim that
they had to stage a fifth rebellion before steps were
taken to judge their dispute with the Palestine Gov-
ernment. It is questionable whether modern methods
of government as practised by Britain would
allow the appointment, or the continuance in office,
of a Governor capable of making H.M. Government
appoint judges to hear a dispute in time, and also
capable of suppressing a rebellion. The army in
particular gains wide experience in constant contact
with rebellion. But the policy governing its action
emanates on one occasion from one Government office
in Whitehall and on the next from another, with the
result that the forces which have to deal practically
with rebellion seem always to be controlled by
amateurs.
In 1936 some 300 people were killed in fighting
or were murdered in the Holy Land, and about 1300
were wounded. These figures are probably an under-
estimate. It is stated in the report of the royal com-
mission that the Arabs lost 1000 killed, mostly in
fighting, as very few Arabs were murdered. British
casualties were at least 21 officers and men killed and
104 wounded. Among the Jews, 82 were murdered
and 369 were wounded.
There is no doubt whatever that the reputation
of British rule was torn to shreds by events in the
Holy Land. Apart from the contempt rained upon
it by Arabs, Jews and foreigners in Palestine, account
should be taken of the effect on the relations between
the forces of law and order and the civil power.
One reason for weakness has its roots deep in
the party system of government, which prevails in
Britain —a fact which cannot be removed. Whenever
there is an outbreak of violent resistance to govern-
ment in any place under British rule, grave embarrass-
ment is caused to Ministers ano supporters of the
Government at home. Reporters flock to the place
and the papers throw it and its problems into their
headlines. The give-everything-away people shout
their slogans and claim that all the trouble is due to
not having given the place away. The hold-all-we-
have people shout their slogans. Pro-Jews with po i
tical influence organise to make it effective. Pro-
Arabs do the same. In no time the point at issue,
which should have priority over all others, the prompt
stopping of resort to force, is lost to sight entirely.
The result is that when a rebellion breaks out ttfe
Secretary of State concerned tends to be very chary
in the delegation of powers to those on the spot,
responsible for dealing directly with rebellion, while
the local Governor tends to follow his example and
impose all manner of restriction on the action of the
troops.
From the point of view of the fighting man, this
is all very bewildering. He is just the same man as
may be seen any day walking about the streets at
home in uniform or in plain clothes. He is really
a normal average inhabitant of Britain. He is also
the being who is hailed as the ambassador of peace
when he comes back from places like Silesia or the
Saar. Yet, when he has to go into action against those
who take up arms to gain what they want by force
within the British Empire, he is likely to be called a
brute. His whole nature, in some mysterious way,
can be totally changed when somebody seeks to gain
a political advantage over somebody else.
We are perhaps the greatest world Power which
has ever existed. We pose as a protagonist of peace
from altruistic motives and expose ourselves to the
accusation that our motives are material, because we
own so much and need peace to keep it without
trouble. We seem unable to keep peace among those
who live inside our rule, but keep on lecturing about
peace to those who live outside it. In fact, neither
we nor our arrangements are easy to understand.
A Flight of Fancy.
[A week back (23/3/’3B) Sydney “Sun” had
a “News-Chronicle” hooray-for-the-Soviet ballyhooist
declaring—perhaps not quite as he intended —that “the
Odyssey of the four Soviet scientists is stranger than
Wellsian fiction.” Whatever the merits of this much-
lauded Soviet achievement, most people will readily recall
an earlier Soviet achievement in the same latitudes which
sent Australian dailies into a. hysteria of fulsome
praise—the long-distance flight over the North Pole
from Moscow to U.S.A. As far as Australian papers
which publicised it are concerned it still stands as one
of the greatest —if not the greatest —of achievements in
flying history. Here is a compression of London “Aero-
plane’s” subsequent exposure of the miracle.]
We have been reproached by various readers for
suggesting that the Long-Distance Record claimed by
the Russians who flew from Moscow to Los Angeles
w_as a fake. Our disbelief is shared by French long-
distance pilots who do not happen to belong to the
Front Populaire or the Grand Orient Order. Here
is evidence which will take explaining away.
On Aug. 29 the “Observer” stated that three
“giant” ’planes took off from Moscow to fly to Rudolf
Island, “400 miles from the Pole,” where a “fourth
’plane” was awaiting them to go searching for the
missing Levanevski and crew. This discloses —on
Russian official authority—that there is a permanent
Russian aerodrome and supply depot 400 miles from
the Pole and about 2000 miles from Moscow.
Our alleged record-breakers wirelessed that they
were flying over the Pole. Some accounts said “within
50 miles of the Pole.” But if they had been on a
direct Great Circle course to Vancouver or Los
Angeles frorh Moscow they would have been over
Greenland and never within 800 miles of the Pole.
As Franz Josef Land (to which Prince Rudolf Island
belongs) is directly on the line from Moscow to the
Pole, their only reason for being over or near the
Pole would be that they had taken off from or flown
over Rudolf Island.
By refuelling at Rudolf they would only have
to fly some 4350 miles to Seattle —which that machine
could do. This may save our designers a lot of
trouble in trying to work out how it flew the alleged
6650 miles non-stop over the Pole.
In 1932 the French Dewoitine Trait Union
crashed in Siberia on a long-distance flight. Next year
the design for a Russian long-distance aeroplane
appeared—on very much the same lines. Character-
istics given out by the Russians for the A.N.T.-25 —
probably optimistic—form a frame into which the
rest of the performance picture can be fitted. First
we know that if the flight were genuine the A.N.T.-25
stayed in the air for 61hrs. 7min. and covered the
6000-odd miles at an average speed of between 100 and
110 m.p.h.—which it could not have done.
Though the official all-up weight of A.N.T.-25
was given by the Russians as 24,7501 b., unofficial
report says that the machine took off with a loaded
weight of \\\ tons —25,8001 b. Being particularly
generous to the Russians, we will assume that this
was the actual loaded weight at which the machine
started on its alleged record-breaking attempt. If we
take the official figure of 10,9441 b. for the weight of
crew, equipment and the empty structure of the
machine —an optimistically low figure, especially con-
sidering the tremendous quantity of liquid oxygen and
anti-freezing mixture that the Russians said they took
with them —then 14,8561 b. is left for fuel and oil.
Taking 14861 b. for oil, we find that 13,3701 b. is
left for petrol. At a very conservative estimate, 10
gallons would be used for the take-off and initial
CABLED CRAMS.
Two cables which appeared on successive days
in the Sydney press:—
There were 400 suicides last week and more
are being committed, fays the Vienna corre-
spondent of the “News-Chronicle.”
Refusing to surrender, 300 Chinese troops
blew themselves to pieces with their own hand-
grenades.
It should need only a moment’s thought to
convince anyone capable of thinking for himself that
if either of these items appeared in a kindergarten
magazine it would be accepted as a juvenile howler.
Simply on the face of them they are palpably false.
People nowhere hold their lives so cheaply as all
that, nor is the world’s population of martyrs so
abundant. Even from Berlin, when Jew-baiting
was at its worst, nothing like the “News-Chronicle”-
reported holocaust of martyrdom was ever recorded.
On Monday (21st) the “Sun” had it that: —
Suicides totalled 400 last week, and doctors
and chemists are besieged by people asking
for poisons.
On Tuesday (22nd) the “S. M. Herald” made it
140 “in the first four days of the new regime.”
These and the “400 in a week” figures stood till
Thursday (24th), when, with no reference to the
figures given earlier and no intimation that a correc-
tion of manifest exaggeration was being made, the
“S. M. Herald” cables again touched on suicides: —
The police officially announce that there
were 94 suicides and 100 attempted suicides for
political reasons in Vienna between March 12
■ and March 21.
It seems a reasonable hypothesis that if 94 can
be boosted up to 400, nine can be as readily turned
into 94.
For light on the preposterous yarn about the
Chinese martyrs, see accompanying digest “Do the
Chinese Mind?”
Of a piece with these stories is “the persecution
of Austrian Catholics” by the Austrian-born Catholic
Hitler, who at the same time has been sending all
those soldiers to the Spanish Catholic General
Franco. Actually, the Austrian bishops have advised
Catholics to vote yes at the referendum on union
with Germany.
One of the purposes of this new BUEUETIN
feature is to offset the falseness of cables, in which
sensationalism has run mad. “IJncabled Additions”
will provide digests of authoritative information and
views on world affairs and other subjects of special
or general interest to Australians.


He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
/Asten m to
session each
the “Romance of Industry”
Wednesday night at 9.30
from 2 UE.
BOWRAL
MAGNIFICENT RESIDENCE standing on an ISLAND BLOCK of 31 £
acres.
The Residence is of brick, having SPACIOUS VERANDAHS, comprising about 10-ROOMS
and MAIDS’ ACCOMMODATION, well-equipped BILLIARD ROOM, all other usual offices.
HOT WATER SERVICE. SEPTIC SEWERAGE. ELECTRICITY. GARDENER’S COTTAGE
of 3 rooms and offices at the MAIN ENTRANCE. OUTBUILDINGS include STABLING,
BARNS, TOOLSHEDS, GARAGES, etc. The whole is in first-class order; a well-kept GARDEN
surrounds the house. There are also VEGETABLE GARDEN and large ORCHARD. The
balance of the land is admirably suitable for grazing purposes.
For full particulars, price, apply
RAINE & HORNE, LTD., 70 Pitt Street. 86644.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
warming-up, so that 13,3001 b. of petrol is left for
the record flight.
[Allowing “the benefit of every doubt to the
Russians” and basing calculations on “a figure which
is higher and better than that of any machine which
is at present known,” “Aeroplane” substantiates its
case by working the “record” out in searching technical
details of fuel consumption, etc. On one line of investi-
gation it works out the total range of the Soviet ’plane
as “just over \2\ hours —19 hours less than that
claimed”; on another line it finds that the duration
of the flight “would be 56 hours and the range 6150
miles in still air—still short of the claimed record.”
The exposure proceeds]:
As the machine actually took 61hrs. and met
adverse winds, so that its cruising speed must have
been above 110 m.p.h., fairly obviously the proposed
record is nothing but a flight of fancy.
On the other hand, the A.N.T.-25 would have
had plenty of time to fly to Rudolf Island, land, refuel,
have its motor overhauled and take off again in time
to arrive, as it did, near Los Angeles 61hrs. 7min.
after leaving Moscow. In fact, it could have spent
nine hours on the ground and still arrived at the time
it did against an average head wind of 16 m.p.h. Even
if the head wind had been as much as 25 m.p.h. it
could still have spent five hours on the ground at
Rudolf Island.
Poisoning the World.
(HERR HITLER, REPORTED IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL.”)
[Only a fraction of Herr Hitler’s savage attack on
press lying reached Australia. Sydney “Sun” greeted
it with a sneering leader, without refuting the specific
allegations. Other than Fascist countries are beginning
to realise the danger.]
“The only thing which poisons international atmo-
sphere is the press campaign.
“I do not understand the statement of foreign
politicians that they possess no legal measures to pro-
hibit press lies. The hatred that these lies create in
loreign countries is a serious danger to peace. I am
not willing any longer to accept those lies.
‘ What can we reply when English newspapers
publish stories of a large number of arrests in Ger-
many, of the closing of the German frontiers on the
Swiss, Belgium and French side ; when other news-
papers say the Crown Prince has fled from Germany ;
there has been a military putsch in Germany ; German
generals had been imprisoned and German generals
had marched with their regiments to the Reich Chan-
cellery ; a quarrel over the Jewish question had broken
out between Himmler (head of the Secret Police)
and Goring, and I myself was in a difficult position ;
a German general through intermediaries had had
contact with Daladier ; 2000 officers had been dis-
missed from the army; the entire German industry
had received their mobilisation orders for war; 20
German officers and three generals had fled to Salz-
burg ; 14 generals with the body of Ludendorff had
fled to Prague, also that I had lost my voice, and that
my voice would be imitated by someone else so that
I could in future speak from gramophone records.
“Mr. Eden has recently spoken of the various
freedoms of his country. He did not mention the
freedom of journalists to slander other countries.
“The British Government desires a limitation of
armaments. I regard as far more important the stop-
ping of the slanderous press campaign which is poison-
ing the world.
“It is arrogance when letters are written to the
head of a foreign State demanding information as to
sentences passed by German Courts. I recommend
the members of the English House of Commons to
concern themselves about the judgments of the Courts
in Jerusalem.
“The interest * taken by these gentlemen in
German traitors may be understandable, but it does
not improve relations between Germany and England.
“The interests of the British Empire are assuredly
great, and are respected by us. The Reichstag and its
leader decide on the interests of Germany, and not a
delegation of English letter-writers.
“Since this press campaign must be considered as
an element of danger to the peace of the people I have
decided to carry through that strengthening of the
German army which will give us the assurance that
these wild threats of war against Germany will not
one day be translated into bloody force.
“These measures have been under way since
February 4, and will be carried out rapidly and with
determination.”
Chamberlain’s View
(BRITAIN’S P.M.. REPORTED IN LONDON “TELEGRAPH.”)
I should like to take this opportunity of repeat-
ing what I said in the House on December 21 about
the responsibility of the press in international affairs.
I do not think that any greater service could be
rendered to the cause of peace than by the exercise of
restraint and toleration by the press of all countries
when dealing with foreign affairs, whether they are
presenting their account of current events or com-
menting on policies or personalities.
Spotlights on Spain.
[Sydney “Sun” cable-headlines last week, “Vain
Heroism of Loyalists: Could Not Hold Up Franco’s
Allies,” were characteristic examples of coloring added
to “news” from Spain. The misrepresentation has been
that only the one side is receiving substantial foreign
assistance. The impression created is that it is not a
civil war, but an invasion in which Italians and Germans
are opposing loyal Spaniards fighting to retain then-
country. French and Russian assistance on the other
side is glossed over or, more often, not mentioned.
Last week the “S. M. Herald” listed “422 Italian and
German ’planes employed by General Franco’s forces”;
Sydney “Sun” made the figure 650. This digest of an
“Action Franqaise” article shows how one-sided figures
of that kind can be, when no mention is made of the
’planes as numerously, or more numerously, supplied
to the other side by foreign countries —in this- case,
France.]
In the French Chamber and Senate the deliveries
of French aeroplanes to the Spanish Reds were
referred to. We publish the first admission of Pierre
Cot replying to M. Tixier-Vighnancour on December
11, 1937: “At the beginning of the civil war, with
the assent of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, aero-
planes were officially and regularly delivered to
Spain.”
The Minister for Air would not admit the figure
of 540 aeroplanes delivered (which was quoted by the
Deputy for the Basque Pyrenees) in the course of the
first year of the civil war. But he refrained from
explaining how it was that Franco’s Nationalists had,
during the same period, been able to bring down more
than 200 French machines.
In the Senate M. Armbruster said: “The grave
part of the conduct of the Minister for Air is that,
at the moment that our factories could only deliver
to our air force a restricted number of aeroplanes, he
should have authorised factories to do business with
Red Spain and to divert orders given by the French
State for a certain number of aeroplanes which should
have been used to reinforce our squadrons and our
aerial forces, already so much reduced.”
Negotiations took place during the whole course
of 1937 between the Potez firm —not to speak of
others —and the Spanish Embassy on the one part, and
on the other part the technical Spanish Commission
for the Purchase of French Aeroplanes which works
under coyer of the Spanish Embassy in Paris.
Mr. Eden’s Survey
[Last week a Sydney committee requested the Federal
Government “to move for the immediate lifting of the
arms embargo against the Spanish Government.” This
is a natural enough result of colored cables on the
civil war. Even the newspapers publishing the stuff
swallow whole such manifest fabrications as that “30,000
storm troops have been dispatched from Germany to
fight for Franco.” Points recalled from Mr. Eden's
House of Commons survey make it clear that there are
no illusions in England that Italy and Germany are doing
all the “assisting.”]
“The truth is that the whole world does not look
upon the Spanish dispute exactly in the same way as
hon. gentlemen opposite. There is no doubt that there
are a great many nations, members of the League, who
want General Franco to win. That belief is particu-
larly strong among South American States who are
related in blood to the Spanish people. On this issue
the League and world public opinion in the great
democracies are sharply divided.
“The result of the Nyon Agreement, though not
its aim, has been to facilitate the arrival of very large
quantities of material to Spanish Government ports,
and of course there have been enormous quantities of
material arriving. There is no need for me to dive
into secret service sources for that. I have only to
look at the official figures of the Soviet Government.
“These figures, official Soviet Government figures,
show that Spain is now Soviet Russia’s third-best
customer, and that she took from Russia in the first
nine months of 1937 440,000 tons of goods valued at
£3,500,000. The trade was hardly complementary,
because in the same time Spain only exported 44,000
tons of goods. From January to September Russia
shipped to Spain nearly 10 times as much in weight
and 4\ times as much in value as in the corresponding
period for 1936.
“Some of these increases are very interesting.
For instance, there is a very large figure for tractors,
large figures, as one would expect, for oil, oil pro-
ducts, and so forth.
“I could not stand here and tell the House that there
had been more material reaching the insurgent forces
than there had been reaching the Government forces.
“Supposing it is admitted that normally belli-
gerent rights would have been granted, the granting
of such rights in the present conditions would have
been immensely beneficial to the Power which was
stronger at sea —at present, of course, the insurgent
forces. Non-intervention sought to create a new form
of neutrality. Belligerent rights have not been granted
and the result has been to deprive the Power that is
stronger at sea —surely this country, of all others,
should understand the importance of that—of the
use of its superiority. At the moment the insurgent
forces are paying a very heavy price at sea for the
assistance they may be receiving from foreign
nationals on land.
“The weight of the policy of non-intervention has
been on one side. I venture to forecast that when
full details are given of what has arrived in Spain, in
the way of munitions and so forth on both sides, some
hon. members will have some surprises.”
Warships Unlimited.
[Probable consequences of Japan’s refusal to give
Britain, U.S.A. and France information regarding its
naval building plans begin to move on the lines forecast
in this digest of an article by London “Observer’s”
naval authority, Britain, France and U.S. being reported
as agreeing to build 42,000-ton battleships with 16in.
guns. In the face of the figures quoted Australia’s
much-advertised defence expenditure is Lilliputian, and
people here who talk as belligerently as if this country
were a great Power are palpable asses. Australia, not
in the running with such a naval race as has now been
started, can readily help Britain support the burden by
reinstituting national service and being defended from
within.]
On the expiry of the Washington and London
Naval Treaties on the last day of 1936, all nations
became free to build as many warships as they wished.
The London Naval Treaty of 1936, however, brought
about agreement between Britain, the U.S. and France
as to the size and armament of capital ships and
cruisers. The former were not to exceed 35,000 tons
or to mount guns larger than 14-inch (16-inch if
Japan failed to come into line).
Now Britain, the United States and France may
have to abrogate the tonnage and gun-calibre limits
for capital ships and cruisers. As Britain has bilateral
agreements on the lines of the London Naval Treaty
with Germany and Russia, these nations, and Italy
also, may be tempted to do the same, building capital
ships and cruisers larger, more powerfully armed and
more costly than are necessary.
Japan will have started a race in the size and
gun-power of ships in which the nations with the
longest pockets, best shipbuilding facilities and easiest
sources of raw materials must win.
It is idle to talk of the Japanese principle of “non-
menace and non-aggression.” Against whom does
Japan wish to be secure at sea? No other maritime
Power wishes to menace her, least of all to attack her
unprovoked. By jefusing to co-operate with other
nations, she is imposing a burden upon all mankind.
She, of all nations, is least fitted to bear her share of
this burden.
The average cost of British warships over a cer-
tain size is about £230 a ton. Our five 35,000-ton
battleships of the King George V. class now under
construction may cost about eight millions apiece. At
the same rate, 40,000-ton vessels would cost £9,200,000,
and 45,000-tonners £10,350,000. The difference in
price between a squadron of eight 35,000- and 45,000-
ton vessels amounts to over sixteen millions sterling.
So long as there is no Treaty limit, British battle-
ship strength must be guided by that of other Powers
and the fact that our fleet may have to be divided for
work in two widely-separated parts of the world.
Our cruiser strength is mainly determined by our
responsibility for trade protection and convoy. We
require a large number of small and medium-sized
cruisers, rather than a smaller number of heavier
vessels. After considerable experience, we regard the
10,000-ton eight-inch-gun ships as definitely too large
and too costly for our needs.
So far as capital ships are concerned, our prefer-
ence is for vessels of round about 25,000 tons, armed
with 12-inch guns, and for cruisers of 7000 tons carry-
ing six-inch weapons. Were these limits adopted by
all nations there would be a general saving and no
loss of security.
However, if size and gun-power have to be in-
creased beyond the present limits through the intran-
sigence of one Power, Britain is prepared to meet the
situation forced upon her.


RANDWECK RACES
AUTUMN MEETINGS, 1938
APRIL 9, 16, 18, 20 and 23.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Two good Doncaster trials were re-
corded at Rosehill when Might Not and
Arabia won their respective divisions of
the Westmead Handicap, a six-furlongs
race ; and both can be improved. Might
Not started at fives. At the finish the
little mare was running away from
Hamurah and Moonray ; but Sarcherie
was going as fast —J. J. Leahy’s wonder-
ful old mare missed a place by inches.
Lolorua was backed —and well beaten.
Because Arabia looked burly there was
little money for him, and the price drifted
from fours to tens. The grey’s pace
prevailed, his condition notwithstanding.
McMenamin rode him patiently all the
way; these tactics proved successful.
Brazandt made the running to the last
furlong, where Hammerhead got through
on the rails. Arabia came along in the
centre of the track and won by a head
—apparently it could have been lengths.
Panaster’s fourth was a promising per-
formance.
Genetout (7 to 4) and El Senorita (3 to
1) ran a dead heat in the Club Handi-
cap. Honors were on the side of El
Senorita, who conceded the French horse
about three lengths from the home turn,
where Genetout had hit the front. Were
he as good as claimed by his admirers,
the French horse would have won easily.
He stopped ; and it looks as if AJ.C. com-
mitteeman Reg Allen’s mare will finish
ahead of him in the Sydney Cup. Mes-
toravon ran on strongly in the straight
after being out of the race at the half-
mile pole. He won the Sydney Cup last
year with 7st. 31b., and now goes to
7st. 121 b.
Braidwood Boy is in the Sydney Cup
with 6st. 71b. His owners, Tom McGrath
and R. Watson, think he can stay. As
part of his preparation for the big Easter
event, the three-year-old was given a run
in the Novice and well backed at fours;
and he outstayed Edible and Cheery Jack.
For a time the favorite, Vestal, seemed
to be only cantering, but she was defi-
nitely beaten at the Leger.
Gay Romance (6 to 1), Gold Gem (5
to 1) and Petruchio (2 to 1) won their
divisions of the Juvenile easily. Even if
they do not measure up to the standard
of Nuffield and Pandava they are pretty
certain to pay their way at Randwick.
Gay Romance has had plenty of experi-
ence, but Gold Gem and Petruchio can
be improved a lot.
Mrs. Pat Osborne, wife of the AJ.C.
committeeman, saw Dover (7 to 2) cap-
ture the first division of the Maiden Han-
dicap. Love from Maggie, a Marconi-
gram colt, finished strongly in second
place, and may have scored with a bit of
luck. Rebel Chief (7 to 2), a smart gal-
loper, outclassed his opponents in the
second division. Ted Bartle rode him
in front, and Journal’s stablemate went
kindly throughout.
Thus far backers had done pretty well,
but Troy gave them a facer in the Rydal-
mere Mile. Knight James Murdoch’s colt
went out at 25 to I—tote-backers in the
paddock got £22 14s. 6d. for 10s.; the
Leger div. was £lO 13s. 6d. for ss. Troy,
who has 6st. 101 b. in the Doncaster, fin-
ished in whirlwind fashion to beat Spear-
dale and Highborn. There was a demon-
stration against the winner because he had
run very badly in much inferior company
at Hawkesbury a week before; but
horses do these things. Buzalong, sup-
posed to be a rod in pickle for the
Rydalmere Mile, lost ground from the
three furlongs, and he will have to im-
prove to have a chance in the Doncaster,
in which race he is handicapped up to his
best form. Shakespeare ran rather well.
In reply to distant readers, The Bul-
letin fancies Bradford for the Doncaster
and Allunga for the Sydney Cup.
Bradford is highly thought of in the
Newcastle district, whence have come no
small proportion of Doncaster and
Epsom winners. He has won at Rand-
wick in good company, and looks the
cut of a Doncaster horse ; moreover, he
has a luxurious weight, 7st. 31b., for a
horse rising five years. The only thing
against him is that he may be at a dis-
advantage in a big field.
When he broke into the winning list
as a two-year-old, it was predicted that
Allunga would be right at his top in his
sixth year. This seems likely to come
true, and autumn seems to suit Allunga
better than any other season, even though
he dead-heated with the late Homer in
the AJ.C. Derby and won the V.R.C.
Derby outright. He is a horse that re-
quires plenty of rest, and if he had got
more this time 12 months ago he might
have been a greater danger to Mestor-
avon in the Sydney Cup than he actu-
ally proved. Considering his record,
9st. 21b. is not much of a burden in a
Sydney Cup field that seems to be rather
ordinary; in any case, he has proved
himself a weight-carrier.
Mestoravon is evidently another horse
that shapes better in the fall of the year
than at any other time. He ran a capital
race in the Club Handicap at Rosehill,
and was galloping strongly in the straight
after having been nearer last than first
most of the way. This Page was so taken
with his appearance that it had a tote
ticket on him, and it expects him to turn
the tables on Genetout and El Senorita
in the Sydney Cup. The mare failed to
see out the distance, and if Genetout is
a stayer he doesn’t gallop like one.
Veterinary treatment and a respite
from racing have not improved Sir
Regent’s barrier manners. He twice re-
fused to leave with the other starters in
races last week —in the Welter at Victoria
Park, won very impressively by Hope,
and the Rydalmere Mile at Rosehill. No
doubt some day when punters are tired
of backing him he will take it into his
stubborn head to jump out briskly and
come in an easy first instead of a bad
last. Then there will be hoarse cries of
“Rub him out!”
* * * *
His very severe spring campaign seems
to have left its mark on Silver Standard ;
anyway, the handsome Heroic chestnut
has run horribly in public appearances
since he was brought back into the game.
He is the unluckiest horse Sydney has
seen since T.M.S. in the long ago.
* * * . *
Aitchengee, selected by this Page to
win the Waverley Handicap at Epsom
(Vic.) in the absence of Lady Mauve, dis-
charged his task in highly meritorious
fashion. He literally romped home in
advance of Sindicada and The Pioneer.
After that remarkable effort in the
Moonee Ponds Handicap a week before,
when he came from the extreme rear to
“split” Apollo and John Wilkes, the
Curialis gelding ought to have been
favorite at Epsom. Instead of which
backers accorded preference to Irving,
who figured at twos, with Aitchengee
merely a 3-to-l chance in a field of
seven.
The distance at Moonee Valley had
been 14- miles. It was two furlongs
shorter on the Mordialloc course, and
popular opinion appeared to be that
Aitchengee would be too far out of his
ground at the business end of the
journey.
However, Frank Manning, who trains
the plain-looking bay, told Ray Wilson
to keep closer order on this occasion.
With so few runners, Wilson had no
trouble in doing so. The response made
by his mount when called on at the five-
furlongs pole was electrifying. Aitchen-
gee had his head in front before reaching
the straight entrance, and galloped well
within himself thereafter.
Aitchengee is held on lease from the
trustees of the estate of the late G. N.
(“Goodie”) Harris by W. A. Todd, who
operates as a bookmaker in the Hill
reserve at Epsom. Affirm, second to
Textile in the Caulfield Cup of 1927, be-
longed to “Goodie” Harris, and the name
of Aitchengee was evolved from revers-
ing the breeder’s initials.
Todd is sending Aitchengee across to
have a shot at the Sydney Cup. With
7st. 101 b. he will have to be reckoned
with. No Melbourne candidate has been
successful in that race since Lilypond
scored with 9st. in 1925, but before that
era victories were registered in fairly
close succession by Realm, Dyed Gar-
ments, Trafalgar, Lilyveil, Prince Bar-
dolph, Eurythmic and Scarlet. Though
owned in Melbourne, the last-named was
trained by W. Booth at Rosehill.
Irving shaped poorly in the race won
by Aitchengee. Since the autumn car-
nival opened he has had a strenuous
time, and may be in need of a let-up.
Another factor to be considered is that
Irving was called upon to concede weight
to all his rivals on Saturday.
In four of the six events at Epsom
fields were unaccountably small. They
numbered four, five, seven and eight
respectively. Totalisator turnover natur-
ally suffered. Yet the stand enclosure
and outer reserve were packed. No-
where in the Commonwealth is racing
so prosperous as in Melbourne.
Ray Wilson carried off the riding
honors at Epsom. His winners, apart
from Aitchengee, were Swifan in the
Hume Juvenile and Heros in the Autumn
Stakes. Though C. B. Kellow dropped
Wilson and engaged Harold Badger to
pilot Nuffield in Sydney engagements,
Jack Holt, who trains for Kellow, availed
himself of Wilson’s services for Heros
at the week-end. Heros belongs to Mrs.
L. R. Buxton.
At eights, Swifan (Perinthus-Swift)
was in less demand than four other com-
petitors in the youngsters’ contest, de-
spite his Valley victory on March 19.
Grand Song (5 to 1) headed the quotes,
closely pressed by Virginia Waters, with
Doriscus and Amplify each at sixes.
When the leaders swung out at the
home bend Keith Voitre dashed Doris-
cus through on the rails, trailed l>y
Swifan. They engaged in a close tussle,
which ended in favor of Swifan by half
a length. Grand Song came late on the
scene to finish a moderate third. A. T.
Creswick bred both Swifan and Doris-
cus. He sold the former as a yearling.
The colt is by a half-brother to Heroic
out of Swift by Valais.
Somerset (6 to 4 on), another Bulletin
selection, gave W. Elliot an armchair ride
in the Westminster Welter. Heroic Chief
set a fast pace, but Somerset flashed past
him as soon as they faced for the judge,
and went on to win by two lengths from
Rhodes Scholar. It didn’t seem as if
Somerset was fully extended; yet he ran
the mile in lmin. 39fsec., and shaved a
quarter of a second off the previous
course record. Rhodes Scholar, a brother
to Charles Fox, should soon be cherry-
ripe.
Winner of the Maribyrnong Plate of
1936, Sweet Memories was' voted a cer-
tainty for the Autumn Stakes, and book-
makers demanded 5 to 4, on which basis
big sums were invested. The filly snuffed
out more than a furlong from home, where
Heros stretched out and won handsomely
from the strongly-finishing Conchita. As
much as 7 to 1 was laid against old
Heros; he firmed to fours.
Dornford, a novice from F. W. Hoy-
sted’s stable, followed up his maiden
victory over the battens at Ascot by land-
ing the Beach Hurdle. He really had
nothing to beat, and was a 2-to-l-on pop.
Carloca (5 to 4) was ridden right out
to beat Maldevon and Devonian in the
concluding event, the Berwick Welter.
* * * *
Pity El Golea is not in the Doncaster.
Receiving only 41b. from King’s Head
and a stone from Regular Bachelor (a
warm favorite), he won the Quality Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley on Monday
after a fine finish with Courage, to whom
he was giving 121 b. King’s Head was a
good third. El Golea, who ran the mile
in lmin. 38isec., was at fives. He was
this Page’s choice.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the great success of
the Spearfelts and the recent striking per-
formances of Queensland-bred Regular
Bachelor and Marauder, Queensland
breeders still have to rely almost wholly
on Queensland buyers when the yearling
sales come round. Racing men from
other States were conspicuous by their
absence when the latest lot of Spearfelts
were put up at Brisbane, together with
the offspring of other proved sires like
The Buzzard, Rivoli and Monash Valley,
and competition was poor, 38 of 83 year-
lings submitted remaining unsold. For
a brother to Spear Chief and Brownfelt,
a bay or brown colt by Spearfelt-Sere-
vale, W. A. Tucker gave 750 guineas, but
Jennings, the breeder, very properly re-
fused to let other likely-looking Spear-
felts go for 100 to 200 guineas. The 55
yearlincs sold realised 6970 guineas.
* * * #
America scored in the Liverpool
Grand National with Battleship, a son of
the great Man-o’-War ; Royal Danieli was
second and Workman third. The finish
is reckoned the closest ever seen at Ain-
tree; Royal Danieli, who had been
prominent all through the murderous
four-and-a-half-miles run, was caught
on the post by Battleship and beaten by
a neck. Thirty-six of the 79 entries
faced the starter, and 12 finished. Battle-
ship,. who was ridden by a 17-year-old
lad, Bruce Hobbs, went out at 40 to l,
Royal Danieli at 18 to 1 and Workman
at 28 to 1.
“Birkenhead Park”: The British Inter-
national Rugby Board has notified the
Dominion Unions that the international
conference which was down for South
Africa this year has been postponed until
December, 1939, at London. It should
suit Australia, for our team will then be
touring Britain.
* * * *
“Blue and Gold”: Sydney Uni.’s
Rugby club patted itself so hard on the
back at the annual meeting that restora-
tives were “indicated,” as the medical
school would put it. Last season the club
won both the first-grade premiership and
the club championship, a coveted double.
Uni. won its first premiership in 1881,
and when the district scheme came in tied
with Glebe in 1921. Since then the stu-
dents have led the van often, but last
season was their first success for some
years. Uni. has a well-deserved reputa-
tion for clean play, and at the meeting
an official pointed out that the club had
not had a man sent off for eight years
past.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Britain has entered
practically anew team for the Davis
Cup, Hare, Tuckey and Hughes having
dropped out in addition to Austin. The
provisional pick is Butler, Filby, Jones,
McPhail, Shayes and Wilde —the only
player entitled to first-class rating, though
far from a champion. Shayes was
boomed as a coming youngster a couple
of seasons ago. The others are new
hands.
.<• H- * *
“Ride Off”: The Maoriland polo team
of six for Australia leaves Auckland on
April 11 with 24 ponies. The players
are Nolan, K. Peake and Kay of Cam-
bridge, McKenzie of Hawke’s Bay, G.
Peake of Matangi and Henry of Waimai.
Their special objective is the Australasian
Gold Cup, which this year figures as an
Anniversary trophy. So far M.L. polo
visitors to Australia have been bothered
by the faster grounds and ponies. The
latest expedition has a capital chance to
make polo history on this side of the
world.
* * * *
“Blade”: The British crew to row in
the Australian four-oar women’s cham-
pionship are very nice to look at. Their
captain-manager, Miss Taylor, is a
daughter of the British professional
golfer J. H. Taylor. The title race will
be rowed on Hen and Chickens Bay, Port
Jackson, on April 16, the girls going on
to show afterwards at Brisbane, Hobart
and Melbourne on April 23 and May 14
and 21 respectively.
0 Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three - year - old Handicap:
Silenus; next, Denis.
Rawson Stakes: Allunga ; next,
Sarcherie.
Railway Handicap: Bradford ;
next, Mark Antony.
Autumn Handicap: Mestoravon ;
next, Holbein.
Parramatta Mile: Prittle Prattle ;
next, Shakespeare.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Eclipse Handicap: Amiable;
next, Regular Bachelor.
Belhaven Handicap: Sindicada ;
next, Mauve.
Grafton Welter: Electron ; next,
Marion Melton.


HIGH LIGHTS
AND SIDE LIGHTS
OF THE ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
An old fashioned mother
Herman Linder .
Champion American
Buckjumpek. .
QU&CM !
Primtikg, exhibits .
'dASBO"
The humorous •
COWBOY .
H VS
AIVIM QORDIKI. CHAMPION E>UU.DOG,G,ER OF USA.
American toads
ini Sugar Court.
Pearl. Elder ,
Champion Cowgirl of USA
“Suicide" Ted Elder. from Texas ,
THE. FAT LADV.
Mutual Admiration,
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
Saturday, April 9, to Saturday, April 23.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
n i
a
*
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
"silver edge*
BRAKE LINING
uommm
/ trade MARK REGISTERED. THE RAYBESTOS CO.
SAVE MONEY/
*
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Kep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Vic.
EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
1
*
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States.. Write for free' pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian Eleven’s
matches with Tas. and Westralia show
that cricket in these States is at a low
ebb, yet is worthy of greater encourage-
ment than it gets. Exactly the same may
be said of Queensland cricket, which to-
day is on a par with that of the States
mentioned. What writer would like to
see is the partition of the six States into
first and second divisions, as is the case
with the League Soccer clubs in Britain.
N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. would be in
the first division; the second division
would comprise Queensland, Tassie and
Westralia. As with the footballers, the
end of each season would see the lowest
club in the first division drop down to
the second, with the first in that roster
promoted to the one above. This would
not only greatly improve the form of
players promoted from the second to the
first degree, but would ginger up lacka-
daisical players in the first, who would
see themselves dropped down the ladder.
Someone is sure to object that in Aus-
tralia vast distances would make the regu-
lar meetings of, say, Westralia and
Queensland impossible. To that I would
reply that in these days of aeroplanes
there are no more vast distanced in Aus-
tralia or anywhere else.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: What a fleeting thing is
fame! One of the Brisbane cricket ex-
perts has told of an “extraordinary
match” between a Yorkshire professional
of the long ago named Billy Swain and
an eleven of Burley Club, which was
won by the lone-hand player by 17 runs.
The writer had no idea that the hero of
that match lived for many years in Bris-
bane until his death early in this cen-
tury. “Billy” was one of Brisbane’s out-
standing characters in a day when the
town boasted many, and some of his
wisecracks, delivered in the broadest
Yorkshire, were quoted by every cricketer.
The old man was a tailor, but orders had
to wait when an English team was visit-
ing Brisbane.. On such an occasion any
Yorkshire professional on tour made it
a rule to call on him, and most of the
amateurs followed suit. Bobby Peel was
a particular friend, the two being townies.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The annual report of the
Victorian F.L. reads well. The League
has £3OOO on fixed deposit, and in addi-
tion has paid off £11,200 of the £21,000
it gave for Harrison House, where its
H.Q. are established. Total assets in
addition run to £16,500, including loans
to some of the clubs and a £266 sub.
to the Queensland Rulers.
* * * *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian Rules
footballers are considering playing a pro-
portion of their Sydney competition
matches on Sundays, and the clubs are
being consulted. It is considered that
Sunday play would draw the crowds that
on Saturday afternoons haunt the pubs
for s.p. betting, for, like the Rugby
League, Rulers are of the opinion that
the s.p. merchants are to blame for
dwindling attendances. A stricter con-
trol of players might also help. During
the past two or three seasons Rules
games have been notable for rough and
riotous shindies, with spectators join-
ing in.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: Perth football is stricken
to the heart by the persistent attitude of
Carlton (Vic.), which refuses Keith O’Shea
a clearance to Subiaco. Though O’Shea
has a business in Perth, Carlton has stub-
bornly refused him pratique, and until it
relents O’Shea will be unable to play in
the West. Carlton’s attitude is es-
pecially condemned in view of the fact
that it is one of the Melbourne clubs
that have drawn heavily on Westralian
players in the past, Subiaco men in
particular.
Stand Off”; Stated at one of the
Sydney Rugby Union meetings that
there’s a strong party eager to abolish
inter-State games. The notion is so
foolish as to hardly require comment, but
a change which would improve standards
and restore some of the prestige which
an inter-State cap once carried would
be to cut the Queensland fixtures down
from four to two each season, the meet-
ings to be held alternately in Sydney and
Brisbane as in the days of old. With
the present system of two inter-State
matches in each capital each season, num-
bers of players who are not up to inter-
state form find their way into the teams
to replace others who cannot spare the
time for the trip away and the home
training as well each season. Under the
old scheme competition to get into the
State side was keen, and the standard of
play higher as a result.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Two of Sydney’s R.U.
clubs have appointed head coaches for
their teams, Fox, a Waratah, taking
charge of Manly, and Bosward, for years
prominent as a coach in N.S.W. Rugby,
looking after Western Suburbs. It is to
be hoped both will bend their energies
to eradicating the hybrid League style of
play which has sapped Australian Rugby
“Let's 'ang around to-night, Alf —there might be some old girls lookin' for gigolos !”
of late years, and will continue to do so
as long as the Union authorities persist
in adopting rules and methods designed
to exploit smaller teams with much more
room in which to move. Fox was a for-
ward of the real Rugby school.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: The Queensland
R.U. season opens on April 12. Interest
is being taken in the debut of the Mayne
F.C., for years prominent in the Aus-
tralian code. Mayne earned a reputation
in the Rules code for willing methods,
and a series of differences with the ruling
body ended in the club taking the un-
usual step of walking out of one foot-
ball code into the other in a body,
players, officials, barrackers and all.
Whether the new Union recruits will live
up to their old repute for forcefulness
under the amateur banner is one of the
things only time will reveal.
*•* * *
“Old Q.”: The Bretts-Windsor foot-
ballers (B. 16/ 3 / ’3B) have landed be-
tween the deuce and the deep sea.
Hoofed out by the Queensland R.U.
because of alleged professional prac-
tices, the club went confidently over to
the Brisbane Rugby League. That body
in its turn declined to have anything to
do with the ex-amateurs. After consul-
tation the team has been disbanded,
Most of its members will play Union
football with other clubs.
* * * *
« c . , „ .... , o t- t
Stoush’: That Rugby League
Donnybrook (B. 23/3/’3B) has been post-
poned. As Ins steamer approached Syd-
ne y Kangaroo manager Sunderland an-
nounced that nothing would heal his
mental wounds but an apology. Failing
this, he stated that no member of his
team would attend the “welcome”
arranged by the League. The latter, far
from apologising, cancelled the welcome
gathering and prepared for battle. Then
the rebel leader made it plain to a listen-
ing earth that he was going straight on
to Queensland with the players from that
State and would have no truck with the
frothing N.S.W. officials. He would
return, however, with a tail of Queens-
land delegates to the “Australian” Board
of Control and explain himself to that
body, to which he considers he is respon-
sible only.
At Sydney League president Flegg and
his offsider Miller went down to the boat
“unofficially,” and “a tense scene” oc-
curred when Sunderland refused to shake
hands. “It was a gratuitous insult to
Mr. Flegg,” snorted Miller, reported by
the “Sun” ; “Mr. Sunderland is still a
paid employee of the board, and should
have some respect for his master.”
Master !
* * * *
“Jachris”: The Rugby League tour
that closed in a barney will show greatly
reduced profits. The managers’ report
hasn’t gone in yet, but Savage says there
is only £3OOO in hand (the last lot to go
to England lumped home just three times
that); and there’s a lot of splitting to be
done. The N.S.W. and Queensland
bodies divide one-half, the players taking
the rest as a bonus. Their share is esti-
mated at £5O a man the last crowd
pocketed £2OO each.
“Dekko”: Failing a European or
South African side, the Australian Soccer
folk are trying to bring over an Indian
team. The Hindu and his Moslem cob-
ber play uncommonly good Soccer, hav-
ing learned the game from British _ re gi"
ments stationed in Hind. Some or the
first-class clubs are more than equal to
the crack British regimental teams, and
that is saying a lot. The Sydney press
announces that the Indians play in bare
feet. That may be so in the villages or
the Mofussil, the Indian equivalent or
the outback, but the men who will come
here wear boots, and by all accounts
know how to use them.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The opening of the
N.S.W. Soccer season calls attention to
the interest which the Australian public
showed in the game as played by a high-
class team of English amateurs last
season, an interest which is likely to be
increased if those in charge take the op-
portunity awaiting them. To date, Soccer
in Australia has been largely a “class”
game confined mostly to the mining in-
dustrial districts. A drive to extend its
orbit would, if properly handled, make
the round-ball code a serious rival to
Union and League Rugby. The code has
this advantage over others that in it
amateur and professional may meet with-
out question of mutual contamination.
An important first step in widening
the horizon of the game would be the
establishment of the code in the univer-
sities. A university team would quickly
be followed by others drawn from the
classes at present playing Rugby of one
sort or another. It has always been
amazing to the writer that a very limited
professional code like the Rugby League
should have been established in Austra-
lian universities, a code which entails on
its players ineligibility to take part in any
other amateur sport, while the world-
wide game of Soccer has not even been
considered.


a«h
e
;!»’ J
! Hi
11S3>.
il !• J i' r %
iiiit s «» a«.
llilSEfflirS'SS *''•••
1 Ill'll* l *
HI i lilllr
MW,.
m.
t. sjAir.fi,
4jgP»
«in<
•.VilStCTlhun
«v '■
IHHiumii’i v
lIBSSSSISf'
■HlljU *«
W>
fM
'? r •
Blliiuai) it !'t .*'
■ ■!■«■! nIII II
!■««•* Ml i' «;(;■
gA.vtofflsij
MBEESKMtt!!*-
WSS&A& IHsISISI B'lKHiiaaoriiritt 4t 1.'.-
Dfflßtvllllillsiiiii !!S!!S •*!« «*; j \\»- >
Isiii-IXH.. i tat an irnj‘. !i ?!■! 1,,
lhn«i!!s*!3:r.:;! ! -
IlllitlSt 5! "■ "•'* 3" \\in !«i V- 'A. •* ‘
USita s i;ss » « %•;■&s * -
ISB!»tfL"sS«rr»^
vvuiJt:'-'*
■
■
Haiti?
|||l
Ssi>
l«i.
< «»'
wJHmkmi
Rss|};i:i.vv
SaujK»,'i.v
■BjiijjjV: i 1
Sl!si:si‘
i!ll»
Bill-
i? 7
'‘wwC9 >
•„ xuore
« flUg ; to^ead
easy «Ttu-
rt ' vad , e ble ivom
arages
ehrader
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, C.l.
No experienced motorist neglects
to test his tyre pressures at regular
intervals. He knows how much it
contributes to the safety and com-
fort of his motoring.
A small but appreciable loss of air
in the tyre is unavoidable, and
regular testing is essential to keep
the tyre pressures safely balanced.
So make a habit of Schrader-testing
your tyres each week-end. You
will be surprised to find the differ-
ence it makes to steering, braking
and general comfort. Testing and
inflation can be carried out in a
few minutes, thanks to the Schrader
Valve, standard throughout the
world and fitted by every tyre
manufacturer.
f
»«?r,
*
DBAWIMB
me
m
I
Mini
1/
DRAWING MACHINE
AN IMPOSSIBILITY!
Employees in many occupations are now being replaced by machinery. Young
people starting out in life and men seeking self-advancement should select a
profession such as COMMERCIAL ART in which the human factor CANNOT
be replaced
Wonderful Opportunities for Artists!
Trained artists find fame and fortune awaiting them. Art training is now made
available in all corners of the land by our highly efficient home-study method.
To succeed, however, you must have natural aptitude for drawing, and we
refuse to train those without inherent ability.
We offer special ART ABILITY TESTS and Expert Criticism FREE OF CHARGE.
Write now for these Tests, mentioning “The Bulletin.”
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hnvlake”-
unofficial representative at least in the
British amateur championship—Dr. R. H.
Bettington. An Oxford football and golf
blue in the long ago, and winner in 1932
of the Australian and N.S.W. amateur
titles, Dr. Bettington has not paid much
attention to the game during the last few
years, but may pick up his form on the
British courses
. .. . .
“Divot Digger”: Back from a tour of
England and France, Brigadier-General
Herring, one of Sydney’s leading golf
officials, compares Australian and
British form, to the disadvantage of the
former. He finds the Briton keener and
more anxious to learn from experts than
the Australian, who is apt to think he
knows it all. Golf is now universal
in Britain, and clubs are overcrowded at
week-ends. The public schools are now
encouraging the game, and clubs allow
schoolboy members special concessions
an idea worth the attention of our
°n Vn u U^- S ' ne sur P r l se statement is
that English greens and fairways are as
? * aster than ours, especially on the
inland courses. Most Australian golfers
without first-hand knowledge would be
inclined to bet the other way.
« RraC[ , Ol ,„ * . * *
f , • , 7 • the A.I.F. Cup,
winner to , ls y ears
winner, knight James Murdoch suggested
that the old system of playing the tour-
ney off in one day, with a dinner to
follow, be revived. The latest con-
test was spread over three days, and a
great deal of the interest and camaraderie
so noticeable in the past was missing.
There is a lot in that, but fading of
interest has become evident in A.I.F.
functions more important than golf.
„„*,. *„ * .*
banaringham : Two Australiennes at
least will play in the British women’s
open championship in May: Nell Hutton
and Bertha Cheney, of Victoria. Miss
Cheney holds the Victorian champion-
ship, and her companion was good
enough to be included in the Australian
Tasman Cup ,hat vlsll “ l Maor '"
and . f? year - Thay leav ? ™ March - 8 >
f° ™ ll ,. lhave a good fortnight to get used
*° Brlt ' sh conditions,
, *. ~ * _ ~
Af P' v n ot digger ; Locke, the South
*t r,can *olfer who has turned profes-
a‘° ’ y r lAu1 Au . stral !L ill the e ? d “ f
the Y ear - Locke deputed one of the
Springbok footballers to sound the
N.S.W. golf panjandrums on the subject
°f an Afrikander amateur team visiting
Australia for the anniversary shivoo. The
panjandrums were not interested, and the
matter was dropped. Now the N.S.W.
professional golfers have invited the
young man to come along for their big
£lOOO tourney in December after he has
competed in the British open,
n j n„, u |
*»aCC|IIOT CHIQ DOW*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Though his fate
is still undecided, it is certain Cramm will
not play for Germany in the Davis Cup.
Henkel has thus been left on his own,
but it is now stated that Germany will
claim the services of Metaxa and Bava-
rovski, both of whom last year played
for Austria. There’s a dark rumor that
it explains Hitler’s sudden decision to
bring the suffering people of Austria back
to the German fold.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: No more Davis Cup
tennis for Austin. While Austin held the
fort there was a chance of some un-
known jumping to the front to help him,
but now it is realised that England’s
Cup chance is one with Buckley’s. The
Englishman will, however, play at
Wimbledon. Austin has always dodged
playing abroad whenever he could get
out of it, though he did visit the Aus-
tralian aborigines on one occasion when
be was young and careless,
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: America is in a
ferment because 21-year-old Frank
Parker married a charmer twice his age
immediately after her husband had
divorced her. The lady was the wife
of one Beasley, a tennis professional who
coached Parker. To the outside world
the most interesting thing in connection
with the case is the revelation that the
real name of this 100-p.c. American is
Fransizcek Majkowski.
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro.”: The Olympic Confer-
ence in Cairo has passed several pious
resolutions as to amateurism and con-
firmed rules on the subject already in ex-
istence. One of long standing is that a
professional in any one sport may not
be an amateur in any other, and probably
no rule is more evaded. The Australian
team, at Berlin included at least one
Rugby League footballer. Athletes
receiving gifts from admirers for their
performances become professionals, and
“broken-time” payments to make up for
lost salaries are also banned. The mer-
riest, maddest resolution was that no
athlete in future may break off his ordi-
nary avocation for more than a fortnight
for training purposes. Enforcement of
this rule would mean that hardly any of
the competing countries outside the
Empire would be eligible for the
Olympiad.
* * * *
“T.T.”: The Bulletin’s sporting man,
commenting on the S’African success in
the Empire Games marathon, remarked
that “Australians, surprisingly, are no
good at this sort of thing.” To anyone
who has lived in Natal the thing is not
surprising. They have a 54-mile mara-
thon there, Durban to Maritzburg, and it
is an annual fixture. The winner finishes
at the sportsground, where a day’s pro-
gramme is in progress. Blackboard
notices in front of the grandstand give
positions of runners from the start, and
to be present in the grandstand antici-
pating.the first sight of the leading man
gives the crowd a tremendous thrill. He
usually does a lap round the track, and
is then carried shoulder high to the dress-
ing-rooms. When I was there Arthur
Newton (he won a 10-mile race named
after the writer) held the record. There
was a woman entrant; she ran eighth,
her time being something over seven
hours. Natalians will always put up a
great performance in this type of race.
Their runners climb over a 3000 ft. moun-
tain range to get to Maritzburg.
* # * *
“Splash”: Kendall, the N.S.W. swim-
mer, who was hailed by the Sydney
bellow press as a champion who ought
to be worked to death before he was
half-way through his teens, was prevented
by a wise parent from burning himself
out like some sporting infant phenomena
we know of. He wdnt to Harvard for an
engineering degree, and now news comes
that he has hoisted a new world’s record
for 150 yards. Since going to Harvard
he has put up several remarkable per-
formances, and he looks like fulfilling
the forecast of Cady, Medica’s coach,
when that worthy visited Australia, that
he would furnish on into a sprinter of
world standard.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victoria has had some
trouble getting together a team for the
Australasian Cup polo tourney in Sydney,
the champion Carramut side being un-
able to attend. The Polo Association has
picked four players, three of whom
figured in the S.A. tussle for the Barr
Smith Cup, while the fourth is Hexham
club’s back. It is possible that the Mel-
bourne Hunt Club team may also make
the trip. N. S. Wales will this year be
weakened by the absence of a couple of
the Ashton brethren from Goulburn,
lack of trained ponies—the Ashtons sold
their entire string after their tour of
England—the reason.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“True Confession.”
Carole Lombard, John Barrymore, Fred
Mac Murray.
Falling short of the high standard of
current rib-splitters, this scatterbrained
and mildly-amusing inanity has its funny
moments, and, though neither very pol-
ished nor very clever, it’s a bit out of the
usual rut and makes up a lot of leeway
through being presented in such a com-
fortable setting as Sydney Prince Edward.
A somewhat ragged plot is strung
around Miss Lombard’s propensity for
avoiding the truth. She represents her
husband —an honest and poor but
healthy young lawyer with strong ideas
on the subject of truthfulness —as dead,
insane, a chronic invalid, an ex-criminal
or anything at all that suits her purpose.
She lies about him and almost every-
thing else with such ease and seeming
enjoyment that veracity could be chalked
up to the credit of Ananias. Finally she
lies her way into being convicted of a
moider, then, with a touch of originality,
lies her way out of it, with husband un-
wittingly abetting her perjury. The place
being Amurrica, fame and fortune natur-
ally follow notorious trial, and it remains
for wife to sort out mess with husband.
Miss Lombard’s comedic ability is of
doubtful calibre. On this showing, it
consists mainly of capable acting, of see-
sawing her eyebrows and poking tongue
in cheek as warning that another lie will
shortly be forthcoming.
Mr. Mac Murray isn’t a comedian at
all. As a righteous young lawyer adhering
to the straight and narrow at all costs,
his struggle to manage the lightness which
the job demands is too artificial and
forced even for burlesque.
Barrymore does more towards pulling
the fat out of the fire than anyone else.
His part, as a decayed specimen of gen-
tility, a half-baked and half-sozzled ama-
teur criminologist, claims the lion’s share
of guffaws and should boost him for
more roles of the kind. With humorous
gloominess he frequents courtrooms and
gaols, demonstrating with the aid of
wheezing toy-balloons his philosophy on
the inflation and deflation of criminals.
At other times he focuses a bleary but
penetrating glare through the bars of
prison cells and hollowly informs in-
mates, “You’ll fry.” It’s an original
piece of clowning, and from his first
appearance until he goes out on the seat
of his disreputable pants he carries it off
admirably.
“Thrill of a Lifetime.”
Support at Sydney Prince Edward, this
is second-rate rag-bag songandance, dif-
fering from innumerable others only in
lurv being plastered on more thickly
than usual.
Besides three separate couples working
all out for a fadeout clinch, the opus has
for setting a camp run expressly to
supply romance for them that needs it.
Glamorised and represented as something
new, the camp could be anything from a
tawdry holiday resort to a nudist colony.
For the rest, it’s just an excuse to
gather together a collection of yawpers,
hoofers and Yank vaudevillians.
The Yacht Club Boys, a rowdy quartet
of amiable idiots, gabble off songs ; pre-
sumably singing, Judy, Ann and Zeke
Canova make a noise like a trio of nut-
meg-graters, and an angular comic by
name of Ben Blue does some clowning.
Dorothy Lamour tortures vocal chords
over a length of sustained moaning of
the kind that should be stifled before it
gets anywhere near this side of the
Pacific.
“The Women Men Marry.”
George Murphy, Josephine Hutchinson.
On view at Sydney Capitol and yet an-
other newspaper film, this is an M.-G.-M.
production, soundly acted and directed
and altogether a competent entertainer.
It earns three loud cheers for depict-
ing a newspaper office as a generally sane
institution. For once the “star” reporter
resembles a human being. He refrains
from socking the editor, follows orders
and attends to his work in a way that sug-
gests he actually does something for his
pay envelope. Inevitable feminine off-
sider is also feasible, and dresses some-
thing like the salary she would probably
earn.
Story concerns a hoodwinking spiritu-
alist johnny who takes it into his noodle
to run some sort of religious stunt that
rakes in suckers and their ready cash
wholesale. Naturally reporter does what
should be a job for the police and cleans
up the racket while his wife has her little
affair with the managing editor. Racket
exposed, reporter returns to settling his
matrimonial affairs, and that he does it
in a sound, sensible manner adds to the
sanity of the film.
George Murphy manages his reporter
role very nicely, and Miss Hutchinson
does the same with hers ; Claire Dodd is
the erring wife, and a credible one, and
Sidney Blackmer is back to his effective
villainising. Toby Wing and Cliff
Edwards throw in a bit of lighthearted-
ness.
“You’re a Sweetheart.”
Alice Faye.
This croonanhoof at Sydney State is
a pleasant enough wash of froth, though
Raymond Massey, Jon Hall, Aubrey C. Smith, Thomas Mitchell (with glass)
and Dorothy Lamour (in clinch ) all doing well in “Hurricane” at the Century,
Sydney,
for an American film it’s remarkably ill-
constructed and awkwardly directed.
The body of it is as familiar as the
latest war scare. For publicity purposes
a showman from Oklahoma engages a
waiter (uni.-educated, of course) to act
the millionaire, fall in lurv with leading
lady Miss Faye and buy up all the seats
in the theatre for the first week’s showing
in N’Yark. Which he does, with result
that everybody in N’Yark wants to see
the piece. It eventually opens publicly
to packed house, with even dramatic
critic sitting up and applauding.
Familiar as all this may seem it’s novel
compared with the shopworn nature of
happenings along the way. Even the
few vaudeville turns injected to ginger
it up here and there have a well-known
100k —the best of them have, in fact,
figured on Sydney and Melbourne Tivoli
bills; one of them hasn’t altered a scrap
since it was here 16 years back.
Best of the fillum is a fair ration of
light catchy tunes and some pretty good
dancing. Miss Faye is a blonde who, seen
in mountainous close-ups, seems to spread
her personality (or whatever is the right
word for it) all over the place. It may
be only bad photography, but her left
eye seems to work independently of the
rest of her features.
“Born to the West”
John Wayne.
A sound and unpretentious Western
at Sydney Cameo and Civic, this hasn’t
slick city crooks, crooners or compli-
cated villainy.
It’s simply a straight-out rip-snortin’
stretch about a rollin’-stone who butts
into a nest of rustlers and stirs up all the
shootin’, hard ridin’ and poker-playin’
that could be asked for and a small dash
of lurv to round things off.
Wayne, who seems to be making a
regular weekly appearance lately, fits into
this sort of outdoor stuff quite comfort-
ably. Monte Blue rustles the beef, and
John Mack Brown, whose poundage is
on the up and up, is the soft-hearted and
persecuted rancher.
Honest fare that can be recommended
to all youngsters and to anyone suffer-
ing from surfeit of yawpers, hip-swingers,
moider mysteries, triangular lurv piffle
and other such troubles.
“Night Club Scandal”
John Barrymore.
Following the idea of telling the audi-
ence all about the moider from the start,
this neat slice of bellerdrammer at Syd-
ney Cameo and Civic is a lot easier to
watch than so-called “thrillers” that tie
themselves in knots in an effort to remain
mysterious.
Clever surgeon Barrymore disposes of
his wife and frames evidence to point
elsewhere, then keeps one jump ahead
of the police as long as running time
allows. Reporter Lynne Overman and
police captain Charles Bickford get in
each other’s hair in a humorous fashion,
and between them they eventually
straighten out the course of justice.
“When Ladies Meet”
Sydney Players’ Club put this on enter-
tainingly at St. James Hall.
As a triangle-drama, though Myrna
Dickey gave an excellent full-length por-
trayal of a woman novelist full of
theories not based on experience, and
though Jean Barlex put genuine and
competent emotion into the part of a
publisher’s wife whom the novelist was
robbing, the show hardly succeeded,
largely because of the tendency of the
various male lovers to clutch nervously at
a chair when plot demanded they should
clutch girl. But as a comedy it touched
brilliance.
Leonard Bullen, sound enough in the
dramatic moments, got his laughs admir-
ably in the lighter interludes, and ably
seconded Gwen Sherwood, whose night
it was. She was a chuckle from soup to
nuts, and a tendency to imitate Cicely
Courtneidge doing her dozen
double damasked dinner napkins,” which
was her only fault, was by no means an
unpleasant one.
Gaps between scenes and acts were
much too long.
“Orpheus” at Sydney Con.
Gluck’s “Orpheus,” first of the natural-
istic operas, is ideally suited to the re-
sources of the N. S. Wales Con.’s Opera
School. The music is clear-cut and un-
ambiguous in its expression; the orches-
tra is an accompanist and nothing more.
The representation of such august classi-
cal figures as stroll this stage calls for
nothing much in the way of histrionics.
The Con. did this opera very successfully
three years ago, and wisely chose it as
it's operatic contribution to the sesqui.
Music Week.
Orchestra, under Florent Hoogstoel,
proved its competence in Saturday night s
performance. The choral singing was
spirited—the “No” hurled back to
Orpheus by the shades at Hades’ gate was
so ferocious that it startled the band.
Also, the soloists paid some attention to
the words they sang, Phyllis McCloskey,
the first-night Orpheus (there were
changes of cast in later performances),
did justice to “Che faro senza Euridice,”
one of the greatest contralto arias in all
opera, and Lorna McKean represented
a gentle, womanly Euridice.
“No, No, Nanette”
Revived at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
“No, No, Nanette” was played by a cap-
able J.C.W. cast, with Lois Green in the
title role. Her evident enjoyment in the
part pleased the house.
George Gee gave a polished perform-
ance as Jimmy Smith the bible printer
whose unnatural wife won’t help spend
his fortune. Marie Le Varre —back from
abroad —was one of the three expensive
women and, with Billie Worth and Peggy
Bacon, packed a lot of fun into proceed-
ings.
Bert Matthews turned on a short but
effective specialty dance, and the ballet
was graceful.
“Call It a Day .”
Dodie Smith’s wine-scene “Call It a
Day” is the provocative type of several-
angled play which Gregan McMahon
always produces well, and at Melbourne
King’s his players made it a first-class
beginning for their 1938 season. The
film adaptation has already been shown
in Australia.
The play ranges from the schoolgirl’s
outlook through boy and girl- adolescence
to the quirks of parental emotion; it
moves from a bedroom background to
the drawing-room, from kitchen to office,
and it is sound throughout. Family life
is unfolded in three acts —the life and
emotional experiences of many families,
in fact.
Julie Cotton and Frank Tarrant do
fine acting jobs as the parents. As their
schoolgirl daughter, Naura Keiran nearly
steals the honors, though she couldn’t
be the same romantic child against any
other background than that created by
the united endeavors of the rest of the
family cast. Sister Catherine is well
played by Barbara Smith; Stephen
Staughton is less at ease than the rest
of the family; John Trahar makes a
convincing enough artist for self-drama-
tising Catherine to try for, Gwen Izzard
a sufficiently attractive actress to interest
middle-aged Dad Hilton, and Betty
Matear a frank enough girl neighbor to
appeal to young Martin. But Richard
Webb’s portrayal of an Empire-building
rubber-planter virile enough to make
Mrs. Hilton absentminded—-no.
Phyllis Bones, excellently made-up, is
good as the loquacious general help, and
Phoebe Marks as the cook. Marie Bal-
four, the planter’s breezy sister, is worth
a much larger part in some future play.
Joyce Hunt, Cynthia Wood, John Law
and Winifred Moran complete a well-
trained cast which makes the most of a
good play cleverly staged.
Farmyard Morals.
Adelaide Repertory has given to three
crowded houses a new London comedy,
“The Astonished Ostrich.”
It is very modern: no gross lines, but
the morals of the farmyard.
Waring, a wealthy bachelor at 40, is
watched over by Charles, a sort of amor-
ous Jeeves. Any immorality is, in the
language they speak, an “affair.” War-
ing’s latest has lasted three years, and
he is willing to marry—but the girl is
not. But he had —naturally, as every-
body says—an affair with his sister’s gov-
erness at 22; now a son of 17 is sprung
upon him, and the mother is now the
wife of Charles.
So the light thread spins on, Waring’s
attitude to his new son being compared


1
i i
.
i&s:
m
Wm
s®
s
di
l*
9 tor 6d.— 18 tor 1
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
ALSO
BLACK
AND
WHITE
FINE
FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
variously to Barrett of Wimpole Street
and to the wilfully blind ostrich of the
title.
Ronald Simpson, producing, had a
clever cast of only five. The casual
mother and father were in the safe
hands of Beryl Kook and Arthur Fay.
Peterson gave a curious study of a boy
philosopher and playwright, and a new-
comer, Ethel Matthews, was good as the
reckless girl who finally “makes an honest
man” of Waring. But the play revolves
round Charles, and as that odd mixture
of manservant and man Henry Roberts
was brilliant.
Art Market Reviving.
Few classes of the community were as
hard hit as artists by the raids of General
Depression. The average person classes
Art among the luxuries—the first to be
cut out when economising ; the last to
be readmitted when prosperity is return-
ing.
So there have been seven or eight' very
lean years for the paletteers.
The outlook is now definitely brighter.
In Sydney alone, at a conservative esti-
mate, art sales in the last 12 months have
aggregated a round £30,000 —not up to
pre-slump value, because prices nowa-
days are on a considerably lower scale,
but indication that people are begin-
ning to buy pictures again as freely as
they did before 1930.
The period cited includes, of course, two
more than ordinarily important auction
sales—the Barclay collection and Dame
Eadith Walker’s pictures—but the usual
channels of sale—the shows of the
societies and the one-man shows in the
various galleries—gave better returns,
taken in the bulk, than in previous years,
showing definitely that more money is
available for Art.
The first quarter of the year is usually
a very thin time in the art business, but
the present one, despite the distraction
of Sydney’s sesqui. celebrations, has
shown a good tone.
Show by a Group of
Painters.
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, house a
mixed collation.
Elioth Gruner is represented by five
canvases, all quiet and thoughtful. Best
is “Nocturne with Junks.”
Lloyd Rees has a painting, “The Road
to the Hills,” which couldn’t have been
done by anyone else on earth, and an-
other, “The Home Paddocks',” which
almost anyone could have painted.
Three monotypes by Tom Garrett, all
graceful, all romantic, raise the average
of the show appreciably.
The rest are Hans Heysen in his three
topics—gum-trees, pink mountains and
posies; James Jackson and Robert John-
son in competent but not very ambitious
offerings; Rah Fizelle in a couple of
plain statements in water-color about
European towns, and Margaret Preston
and G. I. Williamson in the sort of
flower pieces with which they are usually
associated.
Sherman*s Flower Paintings.
This show, at Rubery Bennett’s gal-
leries, Sydney, epitomises only one phase
of the work of a versatile painter.
One of Sherman’s landscapes hangs in
the N. S. Wales National Gallery, and
he has won medals (including the
National award at South Kensington,
where he had his early training) in vari-
ous other artistic fields. A fine crafts-
man, too, in wood or metal.
According to his own account he took
up flower-painting with an idea of diver-
sifying the shows of the Society of
Artists, of which he is a pillar. That he
loves flowers and has found their study
fascinating and instructive is proved by
the progressive improvement in his tech-
nique in this field. Always (in Australian
memories of him, anyhow) a finished
draughtsman and a master of composi-
tion and color, he has now developed a
technique which, though firm and broad,
brings out the delicacy and fragility of
his botanical sitters. He gets the “feel”
of the blooms as well as their contour
and elusive nuances of shading and
tinting.
The exquisite painting of the petals in
“A Bunch of Peonies” (which goes to
the N.S.W. Gallery), the clever treatment
of glass, silver and china in “Morning,”
and the Japanese effect of* “Blossom
Time” (a spray of flowering plum ar-
ranged in a Satsuma vase) took this com-
mentator’s eye—but so did the zinnias
and the roses, the daffodils, the hydran-
geas and the rhododendrons, all depicted
as nature made them.
Melbourne Art.
Four exhibitions opened the current
season—Paul • Montford’s sculpture in
the Sedon Galleries, John S. Loxton’s
water-colors at the Athenaeum, Hal
Waugh’s oils and water-colors at
Riddell’s and a show by a newcomer,
George A. Needham, at Margaret
Maclean’s gallery.
In the Montford posthumous affair the
heads of several well-known Australians
and of equally familiar but unnamed
Australian types are as important as
the numerous pieces of his powerful
symbolical sculpture that have been ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy (London)
and seen in various Australian cities.
Stanley Argyle is there, in plaster, and
the jowl is the Argyle jowl of a few
years ago. A thoughtful-looking Mon-
ash, a young-boy head of Hinkler, a
breezy Ross Smith and the kindly, strong
head of an old man, simply labelled
“The Pioneer,” are all attractive.
Loxton has an eye for color and a
marked sense of the importance of light.
In quite a few of his 50-odd sketches
he wields a virile brush, and the scene
is typically Australian. In others, most
of them early-morning bay and bush
snapshots, there’s a contrasting soft-
ness. Some Portsea waves glimpsed
through sand-dunes, with a wind-blown
figure in the middle-distance, and “Sun-
light after Frost” in the light and
shadow of the gums are good efforts ; a
misty morning scene in the bush, some
delicate seascapes and a grey port study
are differently handled with equally
admirable effects.
There’s little vigor in Hal Waugh’s
water-colors, but strength is evident in
most of his oils. “The Tomato
Gatherer,” a warm portrait entitled
“Sunny Days” and a tree study, “Corner
of the Bush,” have none of the sombre
tones of a few of his other oils, and
possess in fair measure the vitality most
of his water-colors lack.
Needham’s exhibits portray a tran-
sition in artistic ideas —from “The Old
Inn,” a peaceful and pleasant orthodox
study of a tree-sheltered house, to such
color as “Backyard at Frankston,” in
which the more startling reds, yellows
and greens of a garish summer seaside
belt back the glare of the sun. Needham
has painted into the portrait of a young
girl, “Shefia,” the elusive, impish look
which spells mastery of light effects.
His too few humorous water-colors are
humorous, and well painted, too.
Rubens and Co.
The Dutch and Flemish collection,
now at Adelaide National Gallery, on
its Australian travels, is mostly early
seventeenth century. Not striking at first
sight, and mainly modest in size, but full
of faithful (and remarkably well-pre-
served) craftsmanship often painted on
wooden panels.
The Rubens is a back view of his own
unattractive daughter. The Van Dyck
is more like a Murillo—a notably
southern Madonna and a singularly
sturdy Child.
There’s also the familiar type of
“boors carousing”—and elegant folk,
too ; there is a lot of liquor on tap in
the show. The landscapes are dark and
classical, always “with figures.” Teniers
and Cuyp have river and woodland
scenes, the latter suggesting strongly that'
Turner went to him (as well as to Claude)
for inspiration.
Highly popular items are a realistic
lobster with a peeled lemon, and a small
girl, very Dutch, but, with bitten apple in
one hand and a bird on the other, quite
in the Victorian Christmas-number spirit.
Strayed into the collection, and very
welcome, are two graceful Greuze heads,
an unusual Hogarth portrait (the Lady
Byron of his day), and a sound copy
of Gainsborough’s “Blue Boy.”
Sesqui. Photographic Show .
Miles and away the biggest and best col-
lection of photographs ever got together
in Australia is that housed two floors
below Pitt-street level in the Common-
wealth Bank’s sub-basement. The N.S.W.
Photographic Society, Professional
Photographers’ Association, Sydney
Camera Circle and Kodak worked to-
gether in the organisation of this inter-
national exhibition, in which 32 over-
seas countries are represented.
The Australian sections are by no
means overwhelmed by the distinguished
British, American and Continental ex-
hibitors. Cazneaux’s “The Anaesthetist,”
Dr. Julian Smith’s Shakspearean charac-
ters, Herbert Fishwick’s shark study
“Skipper” and Eric Ockenden’s “Arch of
Light” (Sydney Harbor Bridge at night)
are technically and artistically up to the
show’s highest standard.
Of special interest is the Australian
historical section, which records, for the
most part in a very charming manner,
old churches and public buildings and
other relics of the country’s beginnings.
Cazneaux, Keast Burke, Cecil W. Bos-
tock, Harry V. Leckie, H. Collins and
Eric Merton are represented by excellent
work in this section.
There are 1600 pictures covering every
aspect of photography. It’s an exhibition
no one who has ever snapped a shutter
should miss.
Unglassing the Glassed.
“Lord Luvus” is now happy:
I am glad to report that, since The
Bulletin printed my remarks about the
glazing of pictures in the Vic. Nat. Gal-
lery, the glass has been removed from
the Rembrandt self-portrait, the Raeburn
portrait of Mr. Wardrop and one or two
other of the Gallery’s masterpieces, and
the place begins to look less like a Hall
of Mirrors than it did.
Further improvements could be made.
The Gallery has recently acquired some
valuable pictures, including an excellent
Van Dyck, and landscapes by Constable
and Old Chrome. To be properly seen,
every picture should have its individual
light. This ideal might not be practic-
able as far as the bulk of the Gallery’s
exhibits are concerned, and, in any case,
most of them are mediocre and could
not be made better pictures than they
are by illumination. But the admitted
masterpieces, of which there are at least
a score, deserve a better fate.
And why is Rodin’s head of Minerva
pushed back against the wall? The
sculptor modelled it from every side, and
it should be capable of being seen both
back and front.


&
\
//P
\
x
) When
a MAN
tells you:
that he has used
Calvert’s nearly all
his life,
that Calvert’s has
kept his teeth per-
fect when most
men of his age
have parted with
theirs—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
Co** 1
J C
iSfe
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don't just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss ot pep ana
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist for DOAIv »
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ... . U se d suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick reHeT and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
Bo be sure you get DOAN S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Nieuw Zeeland can now claim to
be under vice-regal patronage. She
went out through the Heads with Lord
and Lady Gowrie standing on their
special bit of the bridge deck. This will
be for their exclusive use all the way to
Batavia. One of the best suites in the
ship is also theirs. From Batavia they
go by ’plane to England, calling in at
Meerut, where their son, the Hon. Pat-
rick Hore-Ruthven, is stationed. Lady
Gowrie will go, almost at once, to Ire-
land, where her mother lives.
This sailing must have been worth a
goldmine to the florist’s. Everybody sent
flowers to Lady Gowrie. The two small
white posies which she carried in the
hand were from the gardens of Elwatan,
the Robert Dixson home, and from Mrs.
Philip Rudder, Premier Stevens’s daugh-
ter. The Lieutenant-Governor Streets,
William Morris Hughes and his Dame, a
clutch of aides, a group from the Nether-
lands Consulate, the A. T. Andersons
and the Gordon Bennetts were among the
farewellers. Catriona Maclean set her
face towards her native Ardgour and a
ball to be given in London in her honor
by grandmother Charlotte, Lady Inver-
clyde.
The long reception-rooms at the
Queen’s Club were crowded out when
the Roystone Daveys gave their cocktail
party last week. This was in honor
of Mrs. Davey’s nephew Henry Hordern,
and also in the nature of a farewell, as
the host and hostess are off to Melbourne
for a long holiday next month. The
party was a winner from the deep blue
frocking, the black Arctic fox and the
flighty white wings on the crown of her
black hat in which Mrs. Davey dressed
her act, to the last detail. A drink called
a gimlet snatched the popularity laurels.
It is gin wedded to limejuice, with
something else as intervener. A cherry
provides the last laugh.
Clothes showed the first crisp touch of
autumn, though wearers wilted a bit in
the late-afternoon heat. One of the pret-
tiest was the Hugh Poynter lady. Her
millinery, being of the moment, was more
shako than chapeau, and very becom-
ing. Mrs. Granville-Satchell’s topknot
ran to glamor and was mostly a knot of
frangipanni and a veil. Smartly tailored
in cream was Mrs. Stacpoole. The Hugh
Denisons were there. It must be said for
him that he is one of Sydney’s best
mixers. Every group he is in is merry
and bright. Mrs. Waller and Mrs. Hous-
ton talked of the Narkunda ball, which
is to glitter to-night and add a nice cheque
to the Red Cross balance. The Poynter
girls were in the throng ; so were Alison
Nichols, bright-faced Mrs. Bremner, the
Percy Higginses, the Walter Swinsons,
the Thomas Hughes lady, and, generally
speaking, half of Sydney, with some
notable groups of nice-looking young
men.
The approach of the American hockey
girls is causing a great stir among this
city’s hostesses. There’s to be a reception
for them at Government House, and a
whole string of entertainments that take
in beaches and what not. But the really
girls-together spree is to be staged by
Mrs. A. C. Godhard in the swimming-
pool and on the tennis courts of Edge-
water. This is to be a night party pool
and courts blazing with lights. The girls
are invited to come in play suits. Mrs.
Godhard has collected about two dozen
grass skirts and accompanying doo-dahs,
and girls who feel so inclined can be-
come Hawaiian maidens. There’s to be a
ukulele band, and every guest is to be
presented with a lei. A buffet supper will
be “on” all through the night, and any-
body who knows the Edgewater brand
of hospitality can guess that no one will
go home to bed starving.
Mrs. C. K. Gamble arrived in the
Monterey last week with her husband,
named managing director of Vacuum Oil.
Mrs. Gamble is looking forward to the
re-establishment of many friendships
made during her previous residence in
Australia. A talented artist, she has been
devoting herself to portrait work, and in
1937 she succeeded in winning the gold
medal for portraiture at the Grand Cen-
tral Art Galleries in New York City.
This is Jean Barlex, a young player
who brings to Sydney’s amateur stage a
speaking voice with a Clara Butt note.
It’s a voice that would be just right for
Shakspeare’s tragic heroines or for the
declaiming of French poetic drama. As
the wife of the philandering publisher in
“When Ladies Meet” she was the essence
of dignity in heartbreak. Photograph
from May Moore.
The ■ widow of “Toby” Barton, the
Commonwealth’s first Prime Minister,
died last week. She had survived her
distinguished husband by 18 years. Hers
had been a memorable life. She had
been close to the heart of things when
Australia was being united into a Com-
monwealth, and had accompanied her
husband when he led the Australian dele-
gation to the British Parliament to press
the passing of the Enabling Bill. It was
on that occasion that she made her curt-
sey to Queen Victoria. With her husband
she went as royal guest to the Coronation
of Edward VII. She lived under five
sovereigns and met three. One of the last
functions which this lady attended was the
service in Centennial Park to com-
memorate the jubilee of George V. Mrs.
David Maughan and Mrs. Robert Scott-
Skirving and four sons, Judge Barton,
Wilfred Barton, K.C., Arnold Barton and
Dr. Oswald Barton, are left sorrowing.
Lady Wakehurst’s secretary, Her-
mione Llewellyn, is booked to leave Syd-
ney for England in Easter week. Jocelyn
Josephson, of the attractive figure, went
off in the Orcades last week after a series
of farewells. In the Orcades, too, went
Government House guests Lady Moira
Lyttelton, Rosemary, Antony and Julian
Lyttelton. This liner, incidentally, carries
a record list of passengers.
If you have never been to a bullfight
and want to see how it wasn’t done when
Barcelona was in flower, go to the
Artists’ Ball on April 8. This will be
at the Trocadero, and the walls will
be a revel of moocows being sport-
ively chased by black cats for their
morning milk. The posters are huge—
-147 yards of calico beneath the paint.
The whole scheme embodies Unk White’s
ideas after a visit to foreign parts, in-
cluding Costa Rica. It is definitely going
to be one of those nights, in spite of its
being listed as an official sesquicentenary
junketing,
Madge Elliott, back in Sydney on a
rush visit to her parents, Dr. and Mrs.
N. P. Elliott, of Randwick, was booked
on the night of her arrival to do her bit
for the Day Nurseries. She has prom-
ised to be the guest of honor at an after-
noon binge at the Trocadero on April 7.
The committee hopes for an attendance
of 1000. Madge’s dress is to be a mar-
vellous creation never worn before.
Hailed last Christmas as London’s most
attractive principal boy, Miss Elliott de-
clares she loves playing in pantomime.
She and husband Cyril Ritchard have a
flat in Savile Row. Cyril is now play-
ing in “Nine Sharp,” running to full
houses at the Little Theatre.
To-morrow Mary Evans-Jones goes off
with her mother in the Narkunda. Mary,
who is a clever linguist, will continue her
study of French in Paris. After twelve
months or so Mary and her mother nlan
to return to Sydney by way of America.
Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Sydney’s Lady Mayoress, an off-fore-
head high toque perched on her golden
hair, was the Lyceum Club’s guest of
honor at lunch on Friday. President
Mrs. Thomas, after introducing our civic
chieftainess, made a tender reference to
the passing of “Rose de Boheme” (Rose
Soley) within the week. One of the early
members of the London Lyceum Club,
she was the founder of the Sydney sister-
club. Slender Annie Reinits, on the
sesqui, auxiliary of the women’s section
at the coming Easter Show of horns and
hoofs, told the company not to miss see-
ing it.
Poet Mary Gilmore was sandwiched
between guests —Mrs. Macdonald and
tall, slim daughter Jean. The latter is
just back from her brother’s cattle
station in Westralia —he married Maxine
Darrow last week. From her Turra-
murra garden committeewoman Laura
Teague brought magnificent blooms, and
vice-president Elizabeth Allan took the
head of the top table.
St. James Hall, looking much brighter
than of old, drew one of its best-dressed
audiences on Saturday night. The per-
formance of Rachel Crothers’s “When
Ladies Meet” was the draw, and before
eight o’clock the small theatre was as
rustly with silk as a bandbox is with
tissue-paper. The play is a pattern of
witty words on a background of a love
affair between a novel-writing girl and
a sort of jacket-cover Juan in publisher’s
clothing. Director of the National Gal-
lery Will Ashton and Mrs. Ashton were
there, laughing, as everybody else did, at
the mad and glad flowers of speech that
popped out of Gwen Sherwood’s mouth
so naturally. Gwen is on the Gallery
staff. Mrs. Muscio, Windeyer, K.C., Mrs.
Sterling Levis, Mrs. Phipps and the Alan
Clunies Rosses were some applauders.
With the temperature of Paling’s con-
cert-hall nearly at the boilover, it was
almost unnecessary for speakers to assure
Dorothy and Lauri Kennedy of a warm
welcome. The concert-hall was packed,
and presented a very North-Shore-line-
garden appearance from green branch and
fern and the enormous dahlias brought by
Mrs. Harold Bott, Anne Mills and Mrs.
Hope Gibson. Dorothy wore a chalk-
white frock that showed all her nice
brown back, and Lauri was mostly a
contented smile. The musicians turned
out in numbers to greet these Australians
whose sphere is now that of all the be-
starred concert celebrities of the world.
Phyllis McDonald, Olga Krasnik and
Kathleen Tuohy played a Brahms trio,
and Professor Brose told of his musical
experiences abroad. The greatest part
was of life in a German prison camp
which sounded all pleasures, if not
palaces, and Bechstein grands. It must
have been all right for the music-touched
inmates, who averaged three to six hours
a day practice. But one couldn t help
pitying the unmusical prisoners, and one
suspects there were some searching desper-
ately for an ear-proof hole. Mrs. Brose
listened with a gardenia looped into
Titian locks. Her frock was soft and
black and becoming. Mrs. Hope Gibson,
president of the women’s committee,
brought her husband to the party. Her
cherry-red crepes were a bright spot.
Down the front of Mrs. Bott’s black
sheer tunic frock gold-flower buttons
glittered. President Sverjensky spoke ;
so did Con. Director Bainton.
The Edmond Meyers, who were so
popular when they were attached to the
French Consulate here, paid Sydney a
call during last week-end. They were on
their way to France, coming from Maon-
land, where Mr. Meyer has been at the
Auckland Consulate. Parties were
whipped up in the twinkling of an eye.
Mrs. Norman Lowe arranged a Sunday-
afternoon tea-drinking, and to it came
hosts of the Meyers’ old friends. Mrs.
Meyer, looking very slim and fit, wore
with her dark navy frock a black velour
hat with an almost-straight brim and a
flatfish crown. It was direct from Paris.
So perhaps the high crown is on the
wane.
Mrs. Lowe received in an afternoon
frock of cobalt-blue lace, and daughter
Noel was pictorial in a period frock or
Wedgwood blue. Tall and graceful Irma
Meyer came with her aunt. She, too,
goes off in the “Black Dog” (Swarten-
hondt). Latvia’s Consul Norman Macleod
and Mrs. Macleod brought the latter’s
niece Jocelyn. Poland’s Consular De
Noskowskis, Mrs. Ivie Moore, the Bain-
tons and crowds of Australian, French
and Dutch friends came for a final word
with the travellers.
Redfern is sorrowing over the death of
its young Mayoress, Dorothy Gilmore.
Dorothy was sister to Redfern’s Mayor,
Frank Gilmore, and since December of
last year had been helping him with the
social side of his office. Last week
Dorothy died, aged not quite 24, without
seeing Redfern’s great 150th celebrations,
for which she had planned.
A breath of the real Australia crept
into the marriage of Maxine Darrow,
whose father was H. J. Darrow, of
Thames, M.L. Maxine, who until her
wedding lived with mother Mrs. H. J.
Carr, of Point Piper, is now facing life
in a station home (Fossil Downs) in the
Kimberley district in the far north of
Westralia. Her ’groom, William Neil
MacDonald, whom she married at St.
Stephen’s Church in Macquarie-street,
has one of the largest one-man-owned
cattle stations in Australia. The newly-
weds left Sydney in the Kanimbla last
Saturday. They will spend a month in
Perth, go to Broome, and then fly to
the station, which is 2000 miles from
Perth. The homestead is modern and
two-storeyed. Maxine’s wedding frock
was supple and silver, and embossed with
seed pearls. It had a square train and
a tulle veil and golden roses for accom-
paniment. Reception was at the home of
the bride’s mother at Point Piper.
At St. Mark’s, Darling Point, one after-
noon last week, Helen Goldfinch and
Derek Mendl were made one. The
church part of this uniting had a strictly
family audience. But at the cocktail
party which followed at- Elizabeth Bay
House there were over 100 guests. Helen
is the younger daughter of knight Philip
Goldfinch aifd his lady. With her frock
of ivory sheer she wore a short tulle
veil, about chin length. This was caught
to the head with a silver ribbon and a
glittering flower. Sister Nancy in blue
was near by to hold the bouquet and act
as witness. Brother John was another
witness. The wedding party was gay and
young, and there was a bouquet-throw-
ing, Nancy cleverly fielding. Honey-
moon in Canberra; Point Piper future
home.


#
'/
. ■" :
■111 ' ;
mm
■ i
m
■■■■a
mm
Hi
■
mm
H
—
■
H
■■
iHUHWi
■BliMil
: :
, lllli
;: ’ V V
X- :. ; V
HI
i ■ f
*4g*L
■
s*
■ns
iiitt
ii
—
?
r
-Si-#**
p*** 09 *^
;: ; :vx
■;i >
I*
£:.;:■ ; 'l.
■
m
mm
is*®®
GUINEAS
'9 'f&z/g
*****
m
. > j. .* _ ■ i n
■m*.
//!' /sr-
.:.-* x
SliSliPf
\
0
n
%


For Sale.
OFFER wanted for file “National Geographic
Magazine,” years 1924-1937 inclusive, com-
plete, excellent order. —No. 287, Advertising
Dept., Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death,
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 288 of 1938.
BETWEEN BEATRICE VICTORIA WOOD-
WARD Petitioner
And JOHN WOODWARD Respondent.
TO JOHN WOODWARD late of Milperra via
Bankstown in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said BEATRICE
VICTORIA WOODWARD has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 23rd day of March, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
HUMPHREY MANSFIELD, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 498 of 1938.
BETWEEN HILDA VIOLET NEALE Peti-
tioner
And ROBERT NORMAN NEALE Re-
spondent.
TO ROBERT NORMAN NEALE late of
Rhodes Avenue Naremburn in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA
VIOLET NEALE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution' of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse and that you have during three years
and upwards been a habitual drunkard and
habitually left her without the means of sup-
port AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce..
FRED M. DODD, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NuW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 201 of 1938.
BETWEEN ANNIE EVELYN SHIELS Peti-
AntT SYLVESTER HECTOR O’MARA
SHIELS Respondent.
TO SYLVESTER HECTOR O’MARA SHIELS,
late of The George Hotel, Haymarket,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
EVELYN SHIELS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event ot
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of March, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
HUMPHREY MANSFIELD, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Victoria League of Victoria has
made the first progressive step among
the other branches in the Commonwealth
in the matter of corporate membership.
The new scheme was launched at a
luncheon at Menzies, when Lady Hunt-
ingfield and other prominent citizens
spoke in favor of its adoption. By this
new departure business firms are being
invited to join the League for the small
subscription of two guineas per year,
which entitles not only their employees
but these employees’ relatives to share
in the League’s travel advantages. Proof
of these benefits are given by members
who have been abroad, and on their re-
turn assure their stay-at-home friends of
the help the League has been to them
when they might have been lonely or
otherwise missed out on social functions
or travel excursions.
The cast of “Call It a Day” produced
cocktails up in Gregan McMahon’s
studio in Kurrajong House. Gregan
was there, but disclaimed all honor and
glory of being a host, calling himself
“nothing but a nothing” and saying that
he liked to see the children enjoy them-
selves. Mrs. Henry Marks was busy
keeping thirsts slaked and feeling un-
trammelled without the Hilton family’s
cook’s varicose veins and roller-towel
padding. Stenographer of the play Win
Moran, wearing brown with a topknot
ol flowers to her brown hat, walked
around with an oft-replenished tray of
savories. Hidden by the largest hat in
the room was Marie Balfour, who had
to go slow on the party. She has had
to cut down dinner every night of the
season in order to produce Muriel Wes-
ton’s capacity for eating cake between
meals.
Betty Burston’s blonde page-boy hair
was noticeable. Another equally-tall
lass, Helen Wood, chose an open-air
affair for her hat of white twisted ribbon.
Janet Winser was in a cool patterned
frock. Betty Pleasance wore green, and
Betty Appleton, who arrived late, was
in black with a scullie cap. Mrs. Don
Wilson, who is a nice-looking American,
is also a quick-changer. She arrived in
a white tailored frock with dashing
scarlet buttons, but it wasn’t the dress
in which she’d been playing bridge all
the afternoon at Mrs. G. J. Holt’s home
in Evans Court, Toorak. The “Call It a
Day” party commenced at five, and was
still going strong when the diehards were
turfed out by the hosts and hostesses
anxious for showers, several cups of
tea and probably layers of cold meat and
salad before getting themselves into their
make-up at the King’s.
Anyone who has had a garment
ruined in the making or something
spoiled at the dyer’s will sympathise
with Frances Burke and Maurice Hollo-
way, who recently had one hundred
yards of their hand-blocked linen ruined
in a final acid bath. This young couple
work together in harmony of their talents,
Frances designing and Maurice carrying
out the blocking—which is as it should be
with the man doing the dirty work.
Until their studio is enlarged they haven’t
the troughs and coppers necessary for
cumbersome pieces of material, which
they have to send to laundries for final
washing.
Sharing in the show at the Arts and
Crafts Society rooms were David Grieve,
who exhibited hand-beaten table silver
and jewellery, Mrs. B. Kidney with
needlework and Frances Burke and
Maurice Holloway with a variety of
hand-blocked linens. Mr. Grieve and
his two sisters recently returned from 18
years in the U.S.A., where they spent
most of their time in Detroit. One sister
is a commercial artist, the other is skil-
ful at hand weaving. Mrs. Kidney, who
before her marriage 10 years ago was a
concert-singer, Beatrice Higginson,
specialises in Roman cutwork and
Italian quilting. She finds the latter art,
in which she makes charming cushions
and boudoir jackets, restful to the nerves
and comparatively unexacting to the
eyes.
The Burke-Holloway linens are a de-
cided thrill. One example in raspberry-
red and white is a picturesque impression
of Bali, with pagodas, dragons and danc-
ing girls. Some are of blue seagulls or
green dolphins or mermaids and starfish
entwined among seismographic waves.
One shows quaint and curious musical
instruments; another is a dark-green
jungle pattern with tigers lurking among
the foliage.
“Storm Song,” to be produced by the
University Dramatic Club on April 6,
will be a housewarming for the new
theatre in the Union House. The theatre
contains a well-proportioned stage, and
among the props are curtain, fire curtain
and chairs, mementoes of the Garrick,
for the students were invited to help
themselves by the company which
bought the deceased theatre for rebuild-
ing as a factory.
The film “Man of Aran” gave Denis
Johnson the idea of writing “Storm
Song,” the scene of which is laid in
Ireland. One of the difficulties of the
play is the number of accents which must
be attempted by the players. Scottish is
proving the most troublesome, but
Gaelic is actually giving the most work.
In reply to the University Club’s letter
to the author regarding rights, there
came a cheerful reply wishing good luck
upon producer and all concerned, and
suggesting that he’d welcome news of
how the play goes over.
In the Broothorn portrait is Hazel
Upton, who will play Jal Joyce in
“Storm Song,” the University Dramatic
Club production commencing on April
6. Keith Macartney is producer, Noel
Bergere, who is studying law, is hon. sec.,
and the man in charge of lighting effects
and scenery-painting is Frank Nicholls,
who in his more serious moments does
research among radio statics and similar
mysterious phenomena.
Miss Upton, who is the younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Upton, of
Ormond-road, Elwood, and an old girl
of P.L.C., shows no signs of the blue-
stocking disposition that sometimes ac-
companies more than a fair share of
brains. She is interested in languages,
and is doing French, German and Latin
in her final year for an honors arts
course. She is also something of a genius
at spelling, and won several open com-
petitions during her school days. Her
favorite outdoor sports are tennis and
riding, and one of the best holidays she
has ever had was spent in jodhpurs last
February at Wilson’s Promontory.
Nellie Barnes’s long-cherished ambi-
tion to play leading lady in musical
comedy had its grand climax on Satur-
day evening when the blonde Nellie,
always a popular favorite, became the
winsome ingenue in “No, No, Nanette.”
The part gave her no opportunity to hang
herself with jewels and fine feathers, but
her pinky transparent wrap worn over
a white satin bathing suit was a light and
airy notion. Helen Bruce, who as Lucille
believed that the only way to keep a hus-
band straight is to keep him broke, shows
a passion for lame. Valerie Hay as Sue,
a prim and economical wife, lets her
head go only once, in a silver gown
hoisted to narrow navy-blue shoulder
straps. Of George Gee’s three “other
women” Marie Le Varre, who can still
challenge the girls to Catherine wheels,
is devastating in stripes like a tent in the
Gobi Desert; Billie Worth exhibits her
powers of persuasion in canary yellow
and black buttons, and Peggy Bacon (in-
cidentally some tumbler) does her stuff
in white with red scarf and pockets
shaped like scarlet lips.
The most luxurious thing in the audi-
ence was Iris Connolly's white ermine
cape collared in white fox with many
tiny tails and a cute little face peeping
out here and there from among the skins.
The A. B. Patersons were there, Mrs.
Paterson in a cape of palest-pink ospreys
with a pink feather bird in her hair. Their
son Bill was with his fiancee, Noel
Frankenburg, who wore a foamy white
tulle scarf with her mulberry wrap.
George Gee, noble fellow, would
never let the ladies down, and although
he had ricked his spine while gallivanting
about in “Swing Time” and thus had a
legitimate excuse to be absent from re-
hearsals of “No, No, Nanette” he turned
up to do his bit at the matinee in aid of
the G.F.S. Hostel. The matinee took
place in the upstairs foyer of His
Majesty’s, for the “Nanette” ballet was
rehearsing on the stage of the darkened
theatre. Everybody nearly died from
heat, for this particular foyer’s mission
in life is to be a pleasant strolling ground
during intervals, and its ventilation was
never intended to provide oxygen for a
couple of hundred women during a heat-
wave. George Gee’s star turn was a
plea for kindness to golf balls. The rest
of the programme was contributed by
the Blue Triangle orchestra and by two
very young juveniles. Lady Hunting-
field and Mrs. F. W. Head both spoke,
and Mrs. Norman Brookes gave her im-
pressions of the Coronation.
Punctuality must be one of the vir-
tues of Professor Boyce Gibson. His en-
gagement to open Alex. Colquhoun’s ex-
hibition of pictures was for 3.30, and at
that time to the minute he commenced
his address, so fast off the mark that
some of the spectators were still puffing
their way up the stairs, for there are two
steep flights after which the Stair Gal-
lery is appropriately named.
Among those present were John Long-
staff and R. H. Croll, who, from being
a couple of wrecks, revived themselves
to a normal state of well-being with a
couple of long cold pints at a Port Mel-
bourne hostelry. Their very exhausting
work was trying to say good-bye to R. G.
Menzies, whose ship suite was crammed
tight as a bale of wool, even the pas-
sages outside seething with the press of
humanity. Not that everybody was fare-
welling the departing politicians, but
other friends’ cabins seemed to be
equally inaccessible.
In the Eve Ray photograph is Valerie
Downes, who will attend her sister Rose-
mary when she marries Jim Campbell at
St. John’s on April 26. Judith Campbell,
Rosemary Wright and Margaret Syme
are also in the quartet of bridesmaids.
So much interest has been taken in the
display of the Coronation robes in the
Queen’s Hall of Parliament House that
last week’s unexpected heatwave didn’t
prevent long, patient crocodiles from
curling their way around the gardens and
up the imposing stone steps leading to
our forum of laws and speeches. During
the two weeks of public displays the
people kept on the move and were
directed to file slowly through the room
in the vicinity of the showcases.
But on the first morning, when Lord
Huntingfield performed the opening ad-
dress arid admission was by invitation,
the crowd was so tightly wedged that
there was no turn-and-turn-about with
an easy view for everyone. Hence the
criticism levelled by folk present who
know their way about England to the
effect that Australians are not really
queue-minded. They like a place on the
rails, but once there are hard to move.
Police were on duty by day and night to
keep an eye on the valuables.
Australians who go job-hunting in the
Union of S’Africa are expected to do
three things: to play first-class cricket,
to ride any kind of wild horse and to
know all there is to know about wool.
Dick Freney, who is an Australian and
an old boy of St. Peter’s, Adelaide who
arrived in Sydney in the Thermopylae tor
four months’ holiday, disclaims bat and
saddle prowess, but, although he is modest
about the third, he seems to have been
very successful at his job in one of the
most important firms in the country, the
Farmers’ Co-operative Wool and Pro-
duce Union, or the “F.C.U.” Mr. Freney
is a wool valuator, and more recently
has been made a junior auctioneer, with
headquarters in Port Elizabeth, where his
firm holds wool sales every week lh the
season. At that time buyers arrive from
all over the world in the same way that
they come to Australia for the wool
season.
Mr. Freney intended to go to Brad-
ford when eight years ago he broke his
journey at Durban in order to see some-
thing of Africa and find out how the land
lay for jobs in his line of work. The
first thing he did after joining the F.C.U.
was to study Afrikaans, for in most
firms there are no promotions—in fact,
few jobs at all —for applicants who are
not bilingual. Mr. Freney says that air
transport has made great strides through-
out the Union. Between the larger towns
of "he various provinces there is now no
such thing as land mail for letters. And
it costs only a penny to mail an air letter
to England!


a
r /j
Rouse your liver with the pill of the century.
Banish Constipation, Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Box
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
ĥ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
NEW PICTURES By THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
iV hen in Sydney Visit
The Australian Art Exhibition
t(C Uhe £%Caclecd Qallety”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
Admission Free.
; Like the perfect hostess, Feltex
> too, is attractive, but not assertive,
\ dignified without being dull.
Feltex costs only about one-third
of the price of a good carpet, it
is 50 inches wide and is reversible.
FOR SAMPLE AND DESCRIPTIVE
FOLDER. POST FREE, WRITE TO
DEPARTMENT 5. BOX 3281 PP, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
if
m
■?/ VXyX*.
iHii
mm
Wmfammwwmtm*
mm
V,: iXy'ilti
im
m
&m
mm
m
MmMii
% i *
Wm
§*s
m
m
mm
mm
m
ms
mm
£*ss?ss
mM
*lw
Wm
mk
Ik >;
K*
lift
i*
mm
I -
««
m
'
mm
'i-M
m.
'' * f
r M>.
■<xm
m
V 1
m
m
GUARANTEED MOTHPROOF FOR LIFE
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
“Balalaika” at H.M. Theatre drew
packed houses nightly, and the show
caused an outburst of social doings.
There were dinners before and suppers
after it; and imported frocks rustled into
the stalls.
Looking very smart in white pin-
tucked sheer and a shady blue hat, Mrs.
Wyndham Pike pinned on the spray of
orchids presented by her hostesses, Mes-
dames Gordon Faine and P. A. Ward, at
the bon voyage party at Lennon’s. Mrs.
Ward was in green, and Mrs. Faine wore
floral with a navy ground and a match-
ing hat. There were gerberas on the
long tea table, and bridge for those who
wanted it.
Marjorie Mant produced four one-act
plays at All Saints’ Hall, and there was
a bridge party in the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms, with Mrs. A. E. Moore on hand
to distribute the prizes, both shows as
preliminaries to the charity fete at G.H.
Eileen Russell, of Jimbour, is going to
England, and there was a farewell dance
at the old home which revived memories
of the days when the Bells were at Jim-
bour, and their home the centre of hos-
pitality in the district. Guests came from
Brisbane and all parts of the Downs.
Miss Russell sails for England in the
Orama on March 30.
Little ships floated before each guest,
and a model of the Monterey, in ice-
cream, formed the centrepiece of the
table, when Clara Green entertained a
number of friends in honor of Muriel
Ash, who leaves for the U.S.A. at the
end of the month.
Eileen Ralph, only child of Brigadier
and Mrs. E. M. Ralph, and Ronald
Hunter, second son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. F. Hunter, Kensington Park, South
Australia, announce their engagement.
The tragic death of Ranald Munro was
no doubt responsible for the death of
his mother, which occurred a few days
later. Mrs. Ross Munro, who was the
daughter of the late Dugald Cameron,
had been in ill-health for some months.
She took a keen interest in the work of
the Creche and Kindergarten and Play-
grounds Associations, and during the war
worked hard for the Red Cross. She was
a gracious, generous soul, and before her
illness the Munro home at Indooroopilly,
Ross Roy, was a setting for various en-
tertainments in aid of charity.
Seville Rich is going almost round the
world, and her friends have been fare-
welling her ad lib . Linda McCullough
was the latest hostess, and there were
miniature ships to mark the guest places,
and masses of roses and dahlias for
decor. A somewhat unusual brooch, of
Staffordshire china, was given to the
guest of honor.
The Mackay Association gave a musi-
cal afternoon-tea in the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms, with president Mrs. P. H. Staines
to welcome guests. There was a shoulder
spray for Mrs. Forgan Smith, who is
patroness of the association, and another
for the Lady Mayoress. Mrs. W. J. Gil-
bert arranged the musical programme.
Valley Branch of the Creche and Kin-
dergarten Association arranged a bridge
party in the City Hall to help along the
funds, and over 200 players shuffled and
dealt, all in the good cause. Mrs. P.
Pashen received, and Mrs. Bruce Shearer,
who is president of the Creche and Kin-
dergarten Association, helped. Mrs.
Pashen was in wine-red, and Mrs. Shearer
in moonlight-blue and silver.
Mrs. T. J. Bale decked the tea table
with bowls of blue water-lilies when she
gave a party for Pauline Elliott, who
leaves for England at the end of the
month. Guest of honor was in brown,
and hostess in floral sheer.
WESTRALIA.
Ivory moire silk cut picture style,
shirred from heart-shaped neckline to
hem, and veiled with clouds of misty
tulle, clad the youthful leading lady
when Joye, Mrs. Jock Morrison’s young-
est daughter, said her lines with Patrick
Kennedy at St. Mary’s, Colin-street. The
bridegroom has woolly interests at
Moora, and is the only son of the G. L.
Kennedys, of Peppermint Grove. The
bridal retinue, Dorothy Adams, Mar-
jorie Phillips and Pat Leake, followed in
billowing daisy-patterned organza in
shades of carnation-pink and forget-me-
not blue, topped with shoulder-length
matching tulle veils anchored with
coronets of rosebuds and forget-me-nots.
The lady skippers’ race was the main
attraction at the Royal Perth Yacht Club
on the afternoon of the first club dance
of the season. Mrs. Rumble piloted the
Mercedes to victory, with Nora Stow,
sailing Genevieve, second, and Mrs. John
Hargrave bringing in her husband’s
Rotohine third. Crowds gathered on the
deck of the clubhouse for sundowners
and returned later for the opening dance
at night. Several officers of the new air-
port had wives in tow.
A behatted bride was Peggy James, of
Claremont, when she exchanged vows
with Stirling Crosthwaite, who belongs
to the pastoralist clan at Carnarvon. Her
tailored beech-leaf cloque flecked with
gold was topped with autumn-tinted felt
halo headgear and bouqueted with shaded
Talisman roses. Judy Philp ’maided in
green leaf-patterned cloque and upturned
felt hattings to match. A toast was
drunk at the home of the bride’s uncle
and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Philp, before the
honeymooners boarded the Duntroon for
a holiday in the Eastern States.
A matrimonial flight has been planned
by Marjorie Anderson, air hostess of the
Bungana and only lass of Mrs. John
Anderson, of Swanbourne, and W. S.
Maddocks, a keen aeronaut of Adelaide.
He figured in headlines in the news lately
for his spectacular rescue of pretty
Shirley Hall, who fell from the Kanimbla
into the Bight while holiday-bound for
Brisbane. Patricia is the fourth of the
A. E. Sandersons’ daughters to choose a
husband in India. Her engagement to
Cecil Jarvis, of Calcutta, has just been
announced.
Members of the Repatriation Tribunal
who are visiting this State were enter-
tained at the Meares home in Ventnor-
avenue. Mary Meares, M.8.E., that tire-
less worker in the cause of ex-soldiers,
donned flowery ninons in autumn hues
to welcome the visitors and a crowd of
local military heads with wives in tow,
and decked the bridge-rooms with masses
of dahlias and roses.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
This year the Broken Hill team came
to Adelaide for the polo, which, with the
Victorians and the Mount Crawford con-
tingent, has meant quite a host of visitors.
The weather was delightful, and quite a
number of the women were in summer
frocks. As usual the majority of the
spectators watched the play from motor-
cars. The T. E. Barr Smiths entertained
at tea on the first day. Mr. and Mrs.
Cedric Hayward served tea in a large
marquee, the tables decorated with mixed
flowers. Baroness von Oertzen, who had
arrived from Perth the previous day by
’plane, was a guest.
For the ball given by the Polo Asso-
ciation in John Martin’s dining hall the
supper tables were decorated with
dahlias and phlox. Although the night
was so hot that dancing seemed absurd,
the air-conditioned hall was so cold that
non-dancers were glad of a wrap. About
200 guests were present.
At Scots Church, North Terrace, John,
only son of the Walter Duncans, took to
wife Rosemary, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Gerald O’Dea, of Glen Osmond.
The pretty little bride was gowned in
soft white souple satin, cut on princess
lines. The veil of Brussels lace, lent by
the bridegroom’s mother, was held in
place by a narrow wreath of orange-
blossom. Bride’s younger sister Juliet
attended frocked in the palest shell-pink
silk net over taffeta the same shade. She
wore a pale-pink plaited bandeau. A
reception at which only relatives were
present was held after the ceremony at
the home of the bride’s parents.
The garden party at Government
House, at which Lieut.-Governor Murray
entertained several guests, was held under
very trying weather conditions, the tem-
perature being over the century and the
air humid. Buffet refreshments were
served in a huge marquee and at
small tables on' the lawn. Langdon
Bonython was present, quite impervious
to the heat, accompanied by Angas
Parsons and his lady. Other guests were
George Ritchie and his lady, the Lord
Mayor and Mrs. Barrett, and William
Sowden and his lady.
TASMANIA.
A charity ball at New Norfolk Odd-
fellows’ Hall was attended by Lady Clark,
who motored up with Miss Joan
McLennan and Captain Butcher. About
200 dancers rolled up from town and the
New Norfolk district. Shamrocks figured
in the decorations, St. Brigid’s Convent
School being the beneficiary.
The A. E. Sharps are moving from
Hobart to Newcastle (N.S.W.), where
Lieut.-Commander Sharp has been
appointed secretary to the hospital. The
pair have made many friends in Hobart,
and were farewelled extensively before
leaving.
The F. X. de Bavays’ cocktail party
was given at their own charming home at
the Cascades, where the prolific garden
had yielded a wealth of flowers for deco-
ration. The hostess’s frock of black
satin had a leaf design in gold thread.
Miss Gummow, getting ready for her
homeward flight from Ferntree to 52
Macleay-street, Sydney, bade a shoal of
friends to take tea with her at Hadley’s
before leaving. Rain poured outside, but
hot tea and coffee, masses of flowers and
cheerful chatter made a pleasant party.
Mrs. T. H. Goddard has been
appointed president to the newly-formed
Women’s Auxiliary Council for the care
of crippled children. A band of devoted
women, with any number of willing
helpers behind them, are pledged to do
all they can for the youngsters. Mrs.
Watts, welfare officer of the society in
N.S.W., came over to launch the move-
ment. Mrs. Alan Miller was appointed
secretary, and Mrs. Crozier treasurer.
Malcolm Bethune, son of the F. P.
Bethunes, has been admitted to the Tas-
manian Bar. He’s a great-great-grand-
son of J. Tice Gellibrand, and great-
nephew of John Charles Bethune, both
well known in the Tas. legal world.
Rosemary, only girl-chick of the R. C.
Mosers, Riverbank, Kingston Beach, an-
nounces her engagement to B. A. Simson,
elder son of the J. A. Simsons, Fingal.


tjOHT miss
¥*4E 1252
NO '
to
NG
CO
\
"All the
World for
24 gns."
THE Twelve Fifty Two is a new Philips
1 Dual-wave Radioplayer with Audio-
scopic Reproduction, "Twilight" Dial, dis-
tinctive Lowboy console, and many other
unique features. Hear it for yourself.
Terms available.
PHILIPS
m
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
■a'lso"'send"B:pa<se'"statTon"book''
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications. . , , , .
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to ‘ RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
Somebody's gol
a Better Radio
Now!
Mullard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
50-watt 809 Transmitter.
A good example of modern design
for a crystal-controlled transmitter of
50-watt rating comes from Amalgamated
Wireless Valve Co. This transmitter —
the circuit is illustrated with values —is
suitable for operation on either tele-
phony or C.W., and takes full advan-
tage of the 50-watt input permitted in
Australia for experimental transmitters.
The first stage is the Radiotron 6V6G,
used as a crystal oscillator. This valve
has been found very
satisfactory in such
a position, and since
it has a high second
harmonic in the out-
put it is preferable
to pentode types for
frequency doubling.
The valve operates
either as a straight
crystal oscillator at
crystal frequency or
as a tritet oscillator
on the second har-
monic. Consequently
by the use of a 40-
metre crystal it is
possible to obtain
operation on both
40- and 20-metre
bands. The output
from the 6V6G os-
cillator provides suf-
ficient drive to the
grid of the 6P6
buffer, which
operates under maxi-
mum Class-C condi-
tions, to deliver a
power output of
approximately 12
watts.
This stage is shown with a neutralis-
ing condenser in order that maximum
stability may be obtained even with some-
what limited screening. The neutralis-
ing arrangement may be omitted in
cases where screening is sufficiently com-
plete, although it is a desirable feature
in all cases. The condenser itself is con-
structed merely by twisting a short length
of wire around the plate lead and ad-
justing the capacity by the number of
turns.
In the final amplifier, the new 809
Radiotron is used for both ’phone and
C.W. telegraphy under its maximum
Class-C conditions —plate voltage 600,
plate current 83 milliamperes, power
input 49.8 watts, typical power output
38 watts.
When operated on C.W. the valve has
ample reserve of power-handling ability,
although this cannot be used owing to
the limitation of power input. The
adoption of a constant supply voltage
on both C.W. and ’phone simplifies the
circuit arrangement.
Circuit diagram of the 50-watt telephony and telegraphy transmitter using the
new Radiotron 809 in the final stage. 6L6Gs are used in the modulator section.
The voltage which is required by the
transmitter is much higher than that
available from any rectifier used for re-
ceiving purposes, so that a pair of 866
mercury vapor rectifiers would nor-
mally be necessary. The required voltage
is obtained at lower cost, as may be
seen from the diagram, by combining
in series the outputs from two standard
packs. In this circuit, two 83 rectifiers
are used, each having its own separate
transformer and filter.
Because of the series connection, a
convenient source of low voltage for the
crystal oscillator is obtained by tapping
to the junction of the two units. This
power supply may be replaced by any
other power pack delivering the cor-
rect voltage and current, provided regu-
lation is sufficiently good.
Modulation.
In order to modulate an input to the
final stage of about 50 watts it is neces-
sary to have available at least 25 watts
of audio power. A suitable modulator —
two 6L6G valves in push-pull Class ABI,
giving an output of slightly over 25
watts of audio —is shown in the dia-
gram. The earlier stages in the modu-
lator consist of a 617 G pre-amplifier,
617 G voltage amplifier and 6J7G phase-
splitter. This latter operates under con-
ditions of very low gain, and is used
merely to avoid the use of a trans-
former. The overall fidelity of this
arrangement is excellent, and, since the
6L6G valves operate into a nearly con-
stant load, the harmonic distortion is
very low.
This modulator is not recommended
for use on a loudspeaker load owing to
the danger of high voltages being present
in the plate circuit, due to the rise of
impedance of the loudspeaker at high
frequencies. The 6J7G preamplifier
valve could with advantage be replaced
by the Radiotron type 1603, which is
specially intended for use in this appli-
cation. If it is desired to use the 6J7G
in this position it may be necessary to
select a valve with little tendency to
microphonics.
Provision for a pickup is shown on
the input of the second stage of the
modulator.
If a sensitive microphone is used, with
an output of over 0.2-volt R.M.S., the
preamplifier stage may be omitted and
the input taken to the pickup terminals.
Power supply for the modulator is ob-
tained from a separate transformer rated
at 385-385 volts 175 ma. The rectifier is
a SV4G and the filtering arrangement is
shown in the diagram.
Modulation Transformer Construction.
A suitable modulation transformer
may be constructed to these specifica-
tions: Cross sectional area of core, 1.25
sq. in.; length of magnetic path, l lin.;
length of air gap, .015 in.; primary turns,
3000 turns 30 S.W.G. enamel (centre-
tapped) ; secondary turns, 3000 turns
30 S.W.G. enamel.
For best results, the windings should
be wound in sections in the following
order: (1) 750 turns primary; (2) 1500
turns secondary ; (3) 1500 turns primary
(centre-tapped); (4) 1500 turns secon-
dary ; (5) 750 turns primary.
If operation on C.W. only is desired,
the modulator and modulation transr-
former may be omitted, and the result
is a very simple type of transmitter.
This could be built up as a complete
unit and the modulator added at a later
date without losing any efficiency with
either arrangement, and without any
necessity for alterations in the trans-
mitter. Coil data are not given, but these
depend on crystal frequency and the
band or bands to be used. Inductance
and capacity ratios can be worked out
from the charts in the Radio Handbook
for 1938.
V. C.
Television in Color.
After many months of experimental
transmission between the Crystal Palace
Laboratory and a receiving location in
London, J. L. Baird (at present visiting
Australia) treated an audience at the
Dominion Theatre to a brief demonstra-
tion of color television on a screen
measuring 12ft. by 9ft. The pictures,
though not equal in detail to those trans-
mitted by the 8.8. C., gave promise of
excellent screen theatre entertainment.
Color is produced in the Baird pro-
cess by the use of three pigments, blue,
green and red, and the picture is scanned
in alternating lines of these, three colors.
The apparatus used for the recent ex-
periments is limited to 120 lines, with
color groups of 40 lines each. No more
difficulty is encountered in adjusting the
receiver for these colored pictures than
with the ordinary home television re-
ceiver, but the receiver itself is compli-
cated by the requirement that the three
separate colors have to be artificially
supplied. There is as yet no method by
which color can be re-created in the
manner that monochrome pictures and
sound can be built up.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
VKs ivfto irish to make the most of
modern valves for transmission should
remember that it is safest to use valves
of high reputation backed by an Aus-
tralian representative. The agent who
has taken on the handling of a make of
foreign valves in small quantity is
not likely to be in a position to make
replacement. No maker will guarantee
valves against mishandling, but the big
organisation with a reputation for help-
ing the amateur along can afford to be
generous, and will make replacement
where at all justifiable.
A good way for the metropolitan be-
ginner to serve his six months’ C.W. pro-
bation is on 56mc. A new station has
appeared in the Sydney district on 56mc.,
VK2AJH, of Epping, and a start has
been made with a short-line grid con-
trol push-pull oscillator usitig 45’s and
a centre-fed dipole aerial. The receiver
is a tuned R.F. type similar to the one
described B. 15/12/’37, but with Philips
high-gain valves instead of acorns.
On 19/3/’3B a message was received
from ZL3AJ to the effect that at 11 a.m.
M.L. time that day Americans had been
heard there on 56mc. During the fol-
lowing two mornings a watch was kept
at the writer’s station for signals, but
nothing was heard. It is yet unknown
whether the 56mc. signals heard at
ZL3AJ were fundamentals or harmonics.
As ZLs can be heard on 28mc. giving
very strong signal reports to Americans
when no Ws can be heard in Eastern
Australia, there is every possibility of
56mc. DX coming to light. On the
morning of 20/3/’3B extremely strong
28mc. ’phone was reaching Sydney from
ZL4FK. A change was made to 56mc.
to note if any harmonic reception was
possible, but nothing was heard. In
view of these good 28mc. conditions
across the Tasman, VK2NO will for the
next few weeks be on automatic trans-
mission N.W. and S.E., with listening
periods between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m.
Sydney time, with the object of a VK-ZL
56mc. tie-up.
A remarkable feature of 28mc. recep-
tion in Sydney is the consistently strong
transmission from VK2XU, situated at
Medlow in the Blue Mountains. This
station can be heard at the same level
by day or night. A WBJK flat-top beam
is in use, and the broadside directivity
appears to put a powerful ground-wave
over Sydney.
VK2AZ obtains high efficiency from
his new 56mc. transmitter with 809’s in
push-pull in the final. With 50 watts
input the drive goes to 20 milliamperes,
increasing to 100 with the aerial load.
Similar performance is obtained with a
new transmitter for VK2EM, and the
809 proves an ideal valve for amateur
U.H.F. working.
A new idea in rotating beam struc-
tures has been worked out by VK2MQ.
The scheme comprises a pole rotating
in bearings, supported at the top by a
17ft. cross-beam of lattice construction,
held by guys well clear of any array
below the top. The base of the pole is
fitted with a worm wheel, with worm
drive from a reversing motor. On the


Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
ħ
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount of useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
»
SB
rs
3*
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out —
just . . .
be-vaive With
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL <3f| ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
pole itself is a cradle on rope and pulley.
By this means any projected aerial array
can be hauled into position at' short
notice for comparison without the neces-
sity for lowering the rotating structure.
The idea can be well applied to 28mc.,
but would become unwieldy at 14mc.,
as the top cross-beam would need to be
33ft. long for half-wave separation
between array elements.
At the time of writing, the W/VE DX
’phone contest is in progress, and as a
result the 14mc. band is almost unwork-
able : it is a wonder that any serial
numbers can be sorted out of the in-
ferno. There is a more useful side to
amateur radio than these interminable
marathon contests, and it is high time
that a halt be called.
The annual meeting of N.S.W. Division
of W.I.A. was noteworthy for the
number of old-timers present. Ray
Carter, VK2HC, turned up with Don
Lindsay, VK2DY; and Jack Scott, ex-
VK2NR, and recently G6JB, back froip
Europe after a few years building com-
mercial transmitters with S.T.C., mostly
in Czechoslovakia, was also there.
VK2NO.
Philips 1941 Barretter.
A new type of barretter for A.C./D.C.
radio receivers has been produced by the
Philips Co., which specialises in the pro-
duction of regulating lamps for auto-
matic current control under various cir-
cuit conditions, including series con-
nected valve heaters. Voltage fluctua-
tions are a serious drawback to the effi-
cient operation of valves connected in
series with a voltage dropping resistance,
and in such circumstances valve heaters
are likely to suffer over- or under-heat-
ing. The new 1941 barretter is a regu-
lating device that eliminates this, and
provides constant voltage with control at
300 ma., which is the heater-current rat-
ing for such valves as the 25A6G, 25Z6G
and others suitable for A.C./D.C. opera-
tion. Philips barretters are resistance
units in which the resistance element (an
iron wire) is enclosed in a glass bulb
containing hydrogen.
The regulation characteristic for the
1941 is shown in the chart, and a
regulating range of 77 to 200 volts is
indicated. This rating represents the
voltage drop across the barretter, and
must not be confused with mains volt-
age. The property of barretters to main-
tain current constant at a variable volt-
age between certain limits is basfed on
the fact that from a certain current in-
tensity upwards the resistance of the tube
increases, this increase being approxi-
mately proportional to the voltage in-
crease.
Characteristics of the 1941 are: Regu-
lating range, 77,200 volts; regulated cur-
rent, 300 ma.; max. operating voltage, 200
volts; max. voltage across the tube when
switching on, 250 volts. The total voltage
for the valve heaters in series with the
regulator must be at least 52 volts. A
suggested valve combination for an A.C. /
D.C. receiver employing series heater
wiring and the 1941 barretter for heater
current regulation on 220-240-volt mains
is: R.F. amplifier, 6D6 or 6U7G; mixer,
6A7 or 6ABG; 1.F., 6D6 or 6U7G; detec-
tion, A.V.C. rect. and audio stage, 75 or
686 G; audio pentode, 43 or 25A6G ;
and rectifier, 25Z5 or 25Z6G. The
total voltage for the heaters of these
valves connected in series is 75 volts, and,
assuming 220-volt mains, the voltage
across the 1941 would be 145 volts, which
is within the limits for satisfactory con-
trol.
P. R.
Radio Comment.
“Crump”: Queensland radio has lost a
leading figure with the passing of Norman
L. Dahl. A successful tin speculator, he
opened 4AY at Ayr. He admitted its
success astounded him. The reason was
that there was a man behind it who put
his heart into it; who recognised he was
doing a public service, and who, though
he was a commercial man, never failed
to throw his station open free of charge
to any enterprise which he thought was
for the public good. A few months back
Dahl opened a new station further north,
at Atherton —4AT. A gentleman in every
sense, he will be greatly missed in the
North, particularly among the children,
by whom he was loved and to whom he
gave a great affection.
* * * *
Radio licenses in all categories now
total 1,018,493 for the Commonwealth.
Experimental licenses number 1859.
Latest Radiotron Valves.
A.W. Valve Co. announces these new
Radiotron valve types:
884. —Gas triode similar in electrical
characteristics to 885, but having a 6.3-
volt heater and an octal base. It is
expected that this type will be used in
cathode-ray circuits in the same manner
as the 885.
1801.—Kinescope or cathode-ray tube
for television. This tube has a screen
diameter of sin. and gives a yellowish
picture. Electro-magnetic deflection is
employed, and the maximum voltages are
3000 volts on anode No. 2 and 1000 volts
on anode No. 1. Under typical operat-
ing conditions with 2000 volts on anode
No. 2 and 325 volts on anode No. 1, the
control grid signal voltage for optimum
contrast is 15 volts peak to peak. The
capacity from the control grid to all
other electrodes is 12mmf. maximum.
814.—Beam-power tetrode with 50-
watt plate dissipation suitable for trans-
mitting purposes. This valve in many
respects is similar to Radiotron 807 and
employs the same principle of directed
electron beams. The maximum plate
voltage is 1250 volts, maximum screen
voltage 300 volts and typical output
under Class C telegraphy conditions 130
watts. Under plate-modulated conditions
with 1000 and 300 volts respectively on
plate and screen, the power output is 87
watts carrier suitable for 100 p.c. modu-
lation. The capacity from grid to plate
is .lmmf., input capacity 13.5mmf. and
output capacity 13.5mmf. It may be
used as Class-B linear amplifier, Class-C
telegraph amplifier or as a grid-modu-
lated or plate-modulated amplifier or as
an oscillator. It is fitted with a five-pin
medium ceramic base with a small metal
cap to which the plate is connected. The
beam-forming plates are brought out to
a separate base pin which is normally
connected to the filament.
6ZYSG is an indirectly-heated, full-
wave rectifier with a total heater current
of .3 ampere at 6.3 volts. It is suitable
for use in automobile or six-volt battery
receivers, and is intended for use par-
ticularly with non-synchronous vibrators.
It may be applied in a similar way to the
84, but plate current is limited to a lower
value. In operation the minimum resist-
ance from the plate to the centre tap in
the transformer is 225 ohms, and this
resistance must be introduced externally,
if not existing internally in the windings
of the transformer. The maximum heater
voltage must not in any circum-
stances, even instantaneously, exceed 7.5
volts. The maximum plate voltage is 350
volts R.M.S., with a limit of 1000 volts
peak. The maximum D.C. current out-
put is 35ma. D.C. with 150 ma. peak.
In the case of Class-B amplifiers the D.C.
current may be permitted to rise to
40ma. on maximum signal. The heater
to cathode voltage should not exceed
400 volts D.C. The voltage drop inside
the valve is approximately 16.5 volts at
35ma. Condenser or choke input may
be employed as desired. The 6ZYSG is
fitted with a six-pin small shell octal base.
6ACSG High mu triode for Class-B
output. This valve is a single high mu
triode, and in the case of Class-B output
systems it is normally necessary to em-
ploy two separate valves. The heater
operates at 6.3 volts 0.4 amps., and maxi-
mum plate voltage is 250 volts. In the
case of Class-B operation the maximum
plate input is limited to llOma.
for valve, and the maximum plate
dissipation is 10 watts. The static
plate current under zero bias with 250
volts on the plate is only sma. for two
valves. With a peak driving power of
.95 watt, a power output of eight watts
is obtainable with a load of 10,000 ohms
plate to plate.
The 6ACSG may also be employed
with dynamic coupling as a single-ended
amplifier, and the power output under
these conditions is 3.7 watts for 10 p.c.
distortion and 4.3 watts for 16 p.c. dis-
tortion with a plate voltage of 250. The
6ACSG is fitted with a six-pin small shell
octal base.
Croyden Model 619.
Something new in the way of small
broadcast receivers has been produced
by Eclipse Radio. A five-valver for
coverage of the broadcast band, it is a
moulded bakelite universal mantel type,
designed to operate either from 200-240
volts A.C., six volts D.C. or 12 volts
D.C., which means that it can be used
in the home from the power point or
operated from the car six-volt or 12-
volt D.C. supply.
The process of changing from one
type of power supply to any of the
others is very simple. At the rear of
the chassis are three seven-pin sockets
marked for the three types of supply
voltage. A seven-pin plug is inserted
into the correct one. Alongside these
sockets is the usual two-pin flush
safety-type socket for the 240-volt A.C.
input.
In addition to use in home or car, the
receiver can be used as a portable in the
country if a small six-volt accumulator
is on hand. The design is ingenious,
performance excellent, and the price, 18
guineas, well within reach of the average
pocket. It can be obtained in Sydney
from Eclipse Radio, Ltd., Clarence-
street.
The Question Box.
(1) Is enclosed receiver circuit correct ? (2)
Are values suitable for 10 p.c. feedback ? (3)
Are condensers Cl and C 2 essential? (4) Func-
tion of Cl 2? —653.
(1), (2) and (3) Yes. (4) Audio component
filter condenser.
* # * *
(1) Enclosed is a circuit for a three-valve
superhet, using two octodes and one pentode.
The first octode is used as a converter and the
second as I.F. amplifier and triode detector,
transformer-coupled to the pentode output. Is
this all right? (2) Value of the grid leak on
the second octode is shown as .05 meg. Is this
suitable ? —654.
(1) The scheme is purely experimental, but
there is no reason why good results should
not be obtained. Secondary of the second
I.F.T. shows no earth return, perhaps an un-
intentional omission. (2) Yes.
* * * *
What are the properties of catalin in com-
parison with bakelite as used for insulation pur-
poses in radio engineering? —6s2.
Catalin is a phenolic resin, but, unlike bake-
lite, which is moulded from powder at high
temperature, it is cast in liquid form. It is
supplied in the form of rods, sheets, tubes and
in special shapes. It is odorless, takes high
polish, works freely and absorbs no moisture.
Also it is a good dielectric with great
compressive strength, and is a good insulator
for many general purposes,


Growth and Quality of
Fleece Improved by
Consistent Use of
VITA-LICK
Mr. L. B. Dibbs, “Collarette,” Barraba,
writes, 17 j 5 j’3s: —
“I have used Vita-Lick since it first
came on the market, and long ago satis-
fied myself that it was responsible for
keeping internal parasites in check,, pro-
moting the health of the sheep and im-
proving the growth and quality of the
fleece.”
VITA-LICK AGENTS IN ALL
SHEEP & CATTLE CENTRES
VITA-LICK, LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney.
BUILDS CHAMPIONS.
“Tri-cal”: Noticed that at a Junior
Farmers’ Show a youthful farmer of 12
years won the Champion Jersey Heifer
of the Show, the Cup for the Heifer
under six months and tied for the best-
reared calf with written record with the
one exhibit. The written record showed
that the calf received loz. of Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour daily, and the method of rear-
ing was advocated by the Advisory Com-
mittee to other members of the Club.
Thought you’d be interested. Remember
the address for particulars—
** •»
SSI
V
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, Svdnev.
Old Farmer.
7f
ffi
1 Aircraft Maintenance.
<“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
2 Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION
255 a George St., Sydney (opp. Bridge St.).
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Losses from Fly Strike.
“Bungaree”: Figures compiled by the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department are a
guide to the cost of prevention, treat-
ment and loss from fly strike. Three
large stud flocks in the central-west
plains and five sheep properties carry-
ing an average of 20,000 sheep in the
Western Division, c.-w. plains, c.-w. and
n.-w. slopes were used as a basis.
By far the heaviest losses occurred in
the stud flocks. Although these sheep
would naturally receive more attention
than flock sheep, losses per thousand
ranged from 117 to 155, compared with
3 to 77 in the ordinary flocks.
There is little doubt that this is due,
to the tendency to breed for body “de-
velopment,” or, in plain language,
wrinkles, particularly around britch and
tail.
In one stud of 40,000, 16,000 were
treated for strike in one year, and of.
these 2000 sheep valued at £6OOO were
lost. This flock was crutched and jetted,
and the cost of. treatment, including
material for dressings and labor, worked
out at 13.6 d. per sheep. Including the
value of sheep and wool lost, the expen-
diture on fly strike worked out. at £212,
per thousand.
In flock sheep, results varied. One,
grazier in the Western Division who
crutched his ewes three times lost 1541
out of a total of 20,000. Fly strike cost
him in direct loss of sheep and wool and
in, preventive treatment nearly £2OOO
a year.
Compare this property, on which pad-
docks were large and carrying capacity
roughly a sheep to five acres, with an
improved property in the n.-w. slopes
carrying one and a quarter sheep to the
acre. Out of 21,000 sheep carried, 1000
were treated -for fly and only 50 died.
Total expenditure on prevention and
treatment, including the value of sheep
and wool lost, amounted to only £8 per
thousand.
That blowfly costs Australia £4,000,000
a year does not appear improbable.
Suffolk and Southdown Cross.
“W.D.McC.”: “Hortus’s” suggestion
(B. 2/3/’3B) to cross Suffolks and South-
downs and use the. grade rams for fat-
lamb production is dead against modern
breeding plans. Evan Henry, of Quarry
Hills, Berwick (Vic.), has shown over six
years that the Southdown-cross ewe
mated with a pure Southdown ram will
produce the best lamb for export. .... .
Commencing at two and three years
old, Southdown-cross ewes mated to pure
Southdown rams produced lambs that
at Smithfield won first and seednd Aus-
tralian section prizes in 1932, first and
second in 1933, second in 1934 (lost by
two points overweight), first and third in
1935 and first in 1937 against 29 com-
petitors’from all the States. He did not
compete in 1936.
The dams of these last lambs were
eight years old (when most sheep are only
fit for boiling down), and were not at any
time artificially fed, being grazed at the
rate of four ewes and four lambs to the
acre.
I prefer the Romney-merino cross ewe
mated with the Southdown, and I have
always had the best results from lambs
bred that way. In Scotland the Suffolk
is not popular for crossing, and the
Oxford Down is the sheep most in de-
mand. for that purpose. Have Oxford
Downs been imported into the Common-
wealth? "
Beating Drought.
“Rom Ney”: At GTemora, when pad-
docks became bare, 426 ewes reared 370
lambs on conserved fodder. Oaten
silage was pitted in ’2B, grain' oats stored
in ’36, wheaten hay stored ’36 and
lucerne hay stored ’30.-
In April last year the ewes (merinos)
began lambing on natural pasture. By
May they were losing condition and
going off in their milk. They were given
ilb. of oats per head per day, the feed
being dropped on fresh ground daily.
After a week they went to a paddock
“I'll be gdad when the ’orse is better, Ma—Daisy tried to throw me this mornin '."
of grazing oats, and a week later came
back. Condition had improved all round.
By the end of another week the
natural pasture was, going; off, so to the
oats was added 1.61b. of lucerne hay per
head daily.. This was kept up for two
months, when it became obvious that a
long dry spell lay ahead.
The silage pit was opened to save the
grain and lessen the inroads on the hay.
The ewes got 51b. of silage per head
every two days, with the same lucerne
ration. They cleaned up the silage eVery
time. In August they went on grazing
oats for a fortnight, getting hay, every
other day. To the end of .August they
were on hay and silage, with lib. of oats
a day, as they were showing the effects of
rearing the lambs. ■ •
During the four months no deaths
occurred. Estimated value of the fodder,
all home-grown, about £120; estimated
value of well-nourished lambs about
£370, of ewes’ wool, about £150. Thus
it cost £120 for £520 return, and the
farm still had the ewes.
Carbon-tetrachloride Poisoning.
“Beesknees”: Ewes heavy in lamb
should never be drenched with carbon
tetrachloride (B. 9/ 3/ ’3B). I drenched
some last year. Several died, and most of
the others were in a helpless and painful
condition. A tablespoonful of cod-liver
oh given twice a day saved many, and
after a few days all regained the use of
their legs. ■ . ;
The fact of the ewes being heavy in
lamb helped to cause a reduction of lime
in the bloodstream.
Classing Small Clips.
“Albarmount”:. In most small sheds
the wool is handled by the owner, his
sons or permanent employees, shearers
only being engaged. Forwarding wool
to stores for classing, as “C.V.S.” (B.
16 /3 / ’3B) suggests, is far too costly. To
class and repack a small clip of 15,0001 b.
at \d. per pound would cost £3l ss. For
half that amount and a bit of midnight
oil, the N.S.W. owner could complete a
wool- and sheep-classing course pro-
vided by the Sydney Tech. College.
Classes have been formed in the prin-
cipal woolgrowing towns in the State,
and a postal course is available. But
an attempt to establish wool classes at
Coonamble (N.5.W..) .brought.only, three;
pupils.
-rcit .■;> l i
Scabby Mouth and Arthritis.
“B-gar”: Arthritis' —there has been a
Victorian outbreak—often '..follows when
rough pasture or thistle grazing has pro-
duced scabby mouth. The arthritis
bacilli enter the sores ■ and cause, lame-
ness. - yj ;■ ■ ' '
! All ■ lambs affected with scabby mouth
should be isolated and; the wounds care-
fully dressed. • The disease is highly in-
fectious. Lambs apparently unable to
suckle , should be examined, and if
swollen lips or scabs about the nostrils
or lips are seen the whole paddock'
should be mustered and unaffected lambs
and their mothers removed to other pas-
tures.
Wash the affected parts with bluestone,
loz. : to 1 pint water, or a 1 p.c. solution
of monsol or lysol. With the removal
of the scabs, ointment of sulphur 1 part
and lard 10 parts usually proves effective.
The dressing should be carried out every
second day, and not until the sores have
properly healed should affected lambs be
allowed to join healthy sheep.
' Coast Disease.
“Ghanam”: The C.S. and I.R.’s latest
interest has been coast disease in sheep,
which particularly affects S. Australia,
though somewhat similar conditions exist
in W.A., Maoriland, Kenya, Scotland
and. some coastal areas of southern
U.S.A.
The symptoms are, generally speaking,
similar to malnutrition, only distinguished
by certain liver and pancreas conditions.
The disease seems to be indigenous to
particular country, and when sick
animals are moved away they recover
quickly.
The trouble was found to be confined
almost exclusively to soils composed
largely of the residues from wind-blown
shells. Phosphorus , deficiency, which
had previously been blamed, was not
shown to be a cause. Added copper
and iron in the diet didn’t improve suffer-
ing stock, but cobalt and copper with
other salts brought about rapid improve-
ment. The livers of dead animals showed
heavy copper deficiency and more than
normal iron content.
It seems that
the lack of copper
and cobalt in the
affected country
is the key to the
situation.
Clean Milk.
“Silky Bag”:
The essentials in
keeping: down
bacterial counts
in milk are pre-
vention of con-
tamination and
rapid cooling.
Unless a cow is
suffering from
mastitis she will
not throw out
many germs in
her milk, so this
source is not
serious.
At lOOdeg. F.
one germ pro-
duces another in
20 to 30 minutes,
so that at the end
of 24 hours be-
tween 10 and 20
million mil k-
souring organ-
isms come from
each original con-
taminating one.
If the tempera-
ture is below 60deg. F., the increase of
the germs can be retarded 10 to 20 times.
It is the hour or two when the milk
stands warm after milking, before either
separation or cooling, which tells. Milk
should be cooled as it is taken from the
cow. In the average cowshed it is prac-
ticable to cool the milk of three or four
cows together. Where chilling plants are
not available, a good 20ft. underground
taiik will supply water below 60deg. F.
Once cooled, damp bags for each can
provide an easy way of keeping the
milk so.
Power Alcohol.
“Nothung”: An Indian committee’s
report that prospects for power alcohol
are not good and that there is no proof
that it can be economically handled may
seem to fit in with the views of the
Commonwealth Fuel Adviser, but the
(“Land” continued on page 44.)


v^y
masSEY Harris
i
, tm
bi<* WM?
■ m
i£*2s
f < - “jr
ia
j
Q
IP*
4
* It
S3*.:'.;-?
11
0
SUNPRONGH
with FERTILIZER and SEED BOXES ..
ROTARY
PASTURE
RENOVATOR
Acclaimed bg SHOW JUDGES
and practical graziers alike
SUNPRONG was chosen
as the “greatest advance
in its field” by judges of
the Melbourne Royal
Show. It was also
awarded the Gold Medal
at the Christchurch (N.Z.)
Jubilee Show of the Can-
terbury Agricultural and
Pastoral Association.
These honors confirm the
opinion of pastoralists all
over Australia and New
Zealand, who have wel-
comed the Sunprong with
enthusiasm.
THE NEW AND BETTER PASTURE RENOVATOR
© Harrows and aerates the soil without unnecessary injury to the turf. © Will make a good seed-bed mulch
if required. 9 Operates on an entirely new principle, the most effective yet discovered for .overcoming the
clearance problems so common in pasture renovation. © Prongs, in two gangs, rotate as they till the ground.
The two gangs revolve at the same speed, thus ensuring uniform cultivation. © Cultivating width, sft. 6in.
to 6ft. 2in., according to the angle of the gangs. © User controls depth, width and severity of renovation.
THE FERTILIZER AND GRASS SEED BOXES
give uniform and effective distribution. They are simple, sturdy and completely reliable. The Sunprong
when equipped with them is a complete pasture improvement unit for renovating, seeding and fertilizing. Special
Sunprong leaflet gives full details. Ask the local agent for your free copy, or write direct.
r»
Sunprong
as a Rotary
Reno vator
only (with-
Sunflow Fertilizer
ĥ
Distributor
• SPREADS EVENLY,
$ EASY TO FILL
« LIGHT DRAUGHT
Thousands are giving, splendid service throughout Australia. Three sizes—4ft. Bin.,
Bft. 3in. and 12ft. Wiil sow lime or superphosphate in a great range of quantities,
and quantity sown can be varied instantly. Simple distribution through double outlets
ensures perfectly even coverage. Agitator attachment can be supplied at small
extra cost.
Markers on both wheels show where machine has passed—a valuable safeguard against
missed or duplicated patches.
SEED BOX for sowing lucerne and rape seed can be attached to the Bft. 3in. size at
moderate cost. It is operated by sprocket and chain drive and has proved a
great success.
Sunblade Pasture
ħ
Australia's favourite
pasture renovating
harrows
h
Ideal for - scarifying and mulching grass lands. Supplied in sets
cutting 4ft., 6ft. and Bft. wide. Lines of cut approximately lin.
apart. The hardened steel blades project 4in. on one side and 2in.
on the other, or 3in. on each side. The hook holes in tripods have
steel eyelets, minimising wear. Being of the flexible type, the
“Sunblade” Harrow follows irregularities of the ground, and every
blade cuts.
PRICED MODERATELY FOR CASH OR TERMS
Read this list of other notable Sunshine
and Massey Harris profit-makers for
GRAZIERS and
DAIRY FARMERS
Sunshine Massey Harris Tractors, Sunshine High
Wheel Lucerne Renovator, Sunrooter Pasture
Renovator, Sunpalm Pasture Renovator, Sun-
shine Massey Harris Reaper and Binder, Massey
Harris Mower, Massey Harris Hay Rake, Massey
Harris Bali Bearing Separator, Warren-Farmer
Milking Machine, Sundial 2-h.p. and 4-h.p.
Engines, Sunshine Chaffcutters, Sunfeed Grind-
ing Mill, Maize Shelters, Pulper and Slicer,
Sunshine Metal Gates, Saw Benches, Field
Trucks, and Australia’s finest range of Ploughs,
Cultivators, Harrows, and, in fact, Machinery
for every branch of primary production.
AT THE SHOW
Be sure to visit the Sunshine Massey Harris Stand, corner Park Road and Suttor Avenue,
Sydney Showground. You will see a great display of machinery for the farmer, grazier,
dairy-farmer, fruitgrower, gardener and planter. All the latest developments clearly demon-
strated —many machines shown at work.
V
WORTH LOOKING INTO!
A Model 25 Sunshine Massey Harris Tractor will be OPENED UP FOR INSPECTION
on our stand at the Sydney Royal Show. It will give a clear view of all internal
mechanism, and, with the engine working at a very low speed, the remarkable oiling
system can be traced through from point to point. In addition, the operation of the
clutch and transmission will be in full view, the massive gears can be inspected with
ease, and a convincing demonstration will be given of the simplicity, accessibility
and smooth running which are such important factors in Sunshine Massey Harris
Tractor leadership. An exceptionally INSTRUCTIVE exhibit. Other models also displayed.
IF YOU ARE NOT VISITING THE SHOW,
ask your local agent for our free catalogues; or write direct.
H.V. MeKAY MASSEY HARRIS PH. LTD.
-
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
Headquarters in N.S.W.: Concord West (near Sydney).
Also at 27-29 Broadway, Sydney.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Also at 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.,
Stanley Street; also Glenelg Street, South Brisbane, Q.


TRY
, coR app£ arANCE
"■asK"*"* 1
Comfort
There’s one thing about an
Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as
good as it looks.
The high-polishing strong Calf
is soft and supple, moulding
to the foot like leather half
its weight.
The tough sole of Australian
leather is springy and lfght,
bending easily and unresist-
ingly with the foot.
Made in Brown Willow Calf
in full sizes. Leather lined
throughout.
Price, 39/6.
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
h
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s as
good Shoe.”
When ordering don’t forget your tin
of Abbey Shoe Polish. Price 6d.
E
I very morning either yon waste
time or save time; waste money
or save money. It depends whether
you’ve got the most efficient self-
stropping razor.
VALET
f
r A
*3=3
Get yourself a Valet—the original self-stropping razor,
and still the simplest and best. Nothing to take to
pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Stropped in 10 seconds.
Cleaned in 10 seconds. A perfect edge for every shave
md weeks of perfect shaving from every blade.
No. 99 Utility Set ... Contains the essentials of a perfect
“Valet” shave, self-stropping Model C Razor, three "Valet”
blades and a leather strop in Mouldrite case, coloured
walnut or dark red —f l W
OTHER SETS FROM 9/- TO 65/ OF ALL DEALERS . . . BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER'S ACCOONT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit *of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
matter should not be so lightly
brushed aside.
The Australian Power Alcohol and
Liquid Fuel League is optimistic, believ-
ing that costs can be made economical.
If so, we have here a potential source of
excellent fuel which is almost inexhaust-
ible, being vegetable in origin, whereas
petrol is exhaustible.
The Sarina (N.Q.) power-alcohol plant
hasn’t shut down yet over the years it’s
been going. And very efficient methods
are used by the C.S.R. Cos. in Sydney.
A. W. Fadden, M.H.R., presents some
interesting figures. Australia last year
imported 316,000,000 gallons of motor
fuel. Here in Australia we have pro-
ducts and by-products that would yield
high ratios of fuel; sugar yields 144 gal-
lons a ton, maize 85 gallons, wheat 83,
barley 70, molasses 65, cassava 39 —to
mention a few.
There is an economic value in the by-
products as well—carbon dioxide (dry
ice, 61b. to lgal. alcohol produced), spent
wash, spent yeast, etc. Further, power
alcohol is used for the purposes of cool-
ing radiators, for cosmetic industries, for
the felt-hat industry, in the tobacco in-
dustry. U.S.A. uses 53,000,000 gallons
annually for these industries, and over
200,000,000 gallons p.a. altogether.
One thing is clear: Germany, U.S.A.
and such places take full advantage of
these raw supplies. If they can do it,
why can’t we? Germany has 40,000
such distilleries. With a 15- p.c. blend
Australia could absorb 48,000,000 gallons
a year.
Cotton-picking Hints.
“Archer”: Careful harvesting of
cotton is profitable. Wet cotton is a
curse in a gin, resulting in ropiness.
When picked with the dew on it, cotton
should be sunned throughout the morn-
ing before being mixed with the rest.
Don’t worry about big leaf in early
cotton or try to break it up by hand-
rolling. Big leaf comes out in the
machine-cleaning; broken leaf, if fine, is
hard to remove and lowers the grade.
Picking should begin early—so soon
as there is enough cotton to tally—and
the work should be kept up so -as to
leave as little fibre weathering in the
fields as possible. Cotton left unpicked
for several days loses bloom through
bleaching, especially if dews are heavy,
and there is always the risk of rain
damage.
When there is rain, leave the crop for
a week. The sun will remedy a lot of
the damage.
$ '
Hints for the Farm.
“Jindivick”: A good way to feed char-
coal to a pig, whether stied or grazing,
is to throw a charred log into pen or
paddock. The pig enjoys rooting the
log around.
“V.E.A.C.”: Now is the time to plant
young citrus. The taproot should be
trimmed if not already cut back, and the
foliage should be cut right back. Full
foliage puts too heavy a strain on a dis-
turbed and weakened root system.
“Viet”: Since the first crop of
Murrumbidgee rice was harvested in
1924-25, the industry has steadily pro-
gressed. Last year, about 39,000 tons of
paddy came off 22,000 acres. This year,
with approximately 20,000 acres under
crop, an average yield of two tons per
acre is anticipated. Paddy rice returns
anything from £lO 10s. to £l2 per ton
at sending stations. Growers are per-
mitted to plant only a certain area each
year (80 acres), and the layout and
bility of the land must be y
Irrigation Commission officials beiore
water is supplied. On Yanco Resear
Station, experiments are being conducte
to perfect a long-grained early-maturing
variety which would materially increase
yields.
“Marsh”: Stones and pebbles; don’t
prevent large-scale cropping of Mitcnei
grass on the n.-w. Queensland Downs
country (B. 16 /3 / ’3B). I’ve seen hun-
dreds of tons of Mitchell grass mower-
harvested in stony paddocks. The
general tendency to gamble on the season
ahead is the main chief reason why gra-
ziers on the Downs country don t make
provision for lean times. What lucerne
is to those on the coastal areas so should
Mitchell grass be to graziers in n.-w.
Queensland, where, during generous
seasons, Mitchell grass grows almost
horse-belly high. A supply on hand
would mean in many cases the saving of
sheep too low in condition to travel to
relief country.
“Addsum”: March is burning-off
month in Westralia. Paddocks of sand
and scrub known to travellers between
Bunbury and Perth for 40 years have been
cleaned up by fire, and sub. clover and
Kikuyu are doing good work. There
could hardly be poorer-looking land
than some of that south of Pinjarra, now
coming under s.c. Farther south, where
the foothills of the lower Darling
Ranges are cluttered with grass trees
and studded with rough acacias, farmers
have tinkered to some purpose with the
same pastures.
“Federal”: For nine years Longere-
nong College (Vic.) has been testing ball-
smut pickling methods and has come to
the conclusion that dry-powder pickling
gives better germination and yield.
Copper carbonate (2oz. per bushel) gave
37.5 bushels p.a.; formalin (1 in 450,
three minutes) only 35.2 bushels and \\
p.c. bluestone (three minutes) a little less.
Experiments are now proceeding with
organic mercury dusts.
“Pittosporum”: Why is it that so
many of the varieties of apples of 50
years ago are no longer offered for sale
in Melbourne? Some, of course, lacked
quality and have been ousted by new-
comers, but why have Northern Spy,
Reinette de Canada, Hoary Morn and
Ribston Pippin gone off the market?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) The best laying fowls for hot interior
climate? (2) The best cockerels for hotel-table
use? (3) The best method of rearing — food,
housing—and at what age should they be ready
to kill? (4) The arguments for and against
caponising? (5) Where to secure information
as to the method of doing it? —Sßßss.
(1) White Leghorns, but Australorps, Lang-
shans and Rhode Island Reds are better dual-
purpose breeds. (2) Dual-purpose breeds men-
tioned would be the most satisfactory. (3)
Apply to the N.S.W. Agricultural Department
for leaflets. Table birds would be “prime” at
five to seven months, but they could also be
killed as grillers at three to four months.
(4) Caponising is not generally popular in
Australia, because the price offering for prime
capons does not justify keeping them eight
to ten months. (5) N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment issues a leaflet. For instruments,
try Anthony Horderns’.


A RECORD YEAR ... AND A WORLD’S
RECORD IN LIFE ASSURANCE
The Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd. established what is
believed to be a world’s record by paying bonuses out of profits
earned in its tenth year. It is purely an Australian office, and 90 p.c.
of the profits earned are set aside for policy-holders’ bonuses.
“The Bulletin,’’ having analysed the accounts from
the inception of the institution, recently remarked:
“The business was set on its feet by E. J. Mooney, its
managing-director, in 1921. Ten years later bonuses
to policy-holders, whose interests have been placed in
the foreground, and dividends to shareholders began
to flow. This is a creditable performance for a young
life office which entered an already-crowded field. The
business, which continues to grow, is now spread
throughout the Commonwealth, offices being estab-
lished in all the State capitals.
“Policy-holders scored, actuary Bremner recommend-
ing increases in reversionary bonuses ranging from
5 p.c. to 11 p.c. of the previous bonus declaration, and
making present rates £2 15s. p.c. on whole-of-life
(payable in the first year) and £1 17s. p.c. on endow-
ment assurances. They are very satisfactory rates,
considering the age of the business .”
Accounts for the year to June 30, 1937, disclosed
the most satisfactory year in the history of the
A.C.A.
A surplus of over
£150,000
was shown, and the total assets of the company
now exceed
£1,000,000
Interest earnings in relation to funds, one of the
A.C.A.’s chief sources of bonuses to policy-holders,
at £4/10/- per cent, net showed a large increase when
compared with the 1 936 figure of over £4/7/- per cent,
net on the mean Life Fund. A wide margin over the
assumed rate of £3/10/- per cent, enabled bonuses
to policy-holders to be still further increased.
*****&**
P|»^JS£
iO®
-JZ
OPS.
T"
W
2E^L"2S^
SSISS
‘■TTJ "ijT-f^g
g-aag
”
|& St
IFiS/T*
■>»»»"*■ ~jym>ak
v , „ /-■ f ■4****z~ -
i<yi|MW»j>M,ur«»jp^«yir ll ii
afcaT.
SsSrS 5 ®
v-./ . -
mdnttm
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Head Office:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA:
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 3 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
QUEENSLAND:
A.C.A. Building, 270-272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
R. F. McHugh, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
B. Murphy, Resident Secretary.
THOMAS J. PURCELL, Esq.
Directors:
EDWARD J. MOONEY, Esq,, Chairman.
PATRICK J. RYAN, Esq., j.P.
DESMOND J. MOONEY, Esq.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers ... You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
loC.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, good appearance, wants
position as city traveller on retainer and com-
mission basis. —9077.
Whereabouts of E. G. (“Curly”) St. Clair,
last heard of in Queensland about four years
ago. Sister inquiring. (Reply to Mrs. B.
Missen, Pukeatua, Te Awamutu, N.Z.)
To buy copy of Such Is Life, by Tom
Collins, first edition. —9070.
To buy Illustrated History of Botany Bay,
published by The Bulletin in 1888. —9030.
Words of verse “McSharry and O’Toole,”
by Thos. E. Spencer.—9olB.
To borrow Army without Banners, by Ernie
O’Malley.—9o7B.
Information Sought.
What causes corrugations on roads? —8667.
As the result of extensive investigations
corrugations on gravel roads have been
attributed to the kick-back of surface materials
arising from the spin of the rear wheels
of automobiles as they descend after a
bounce over some obstacle or depression, and
the impact of both the front and rear wheels.
These effects are naturally associated with the
rhythmic action of the springs, and the presence
or absence of shock absorbers is also con-
sidered to be a contributory influence. The
average speed of travel and also the range of
speeds at whch vehicles using the road travel
have their effects, and it has been found that
high-pressure tyres are more likely to cause
corrugations than balloon tyres. While,
under certain conditions, corrugations can
occur as a result of wind action, there is no
evidence that wind plays any appreciable part
in the formation of corrugations on roads.
Naturally the class of material forming the
surface of the road is an important factor.
* * * *
(1) Has Richard Tauber ever visited Aus-
tralia ? (2) Is it possible for him to sing in
two voices at the same time? —9o22.
(1) No. Arrangements are being made for
him to come this year. (2) No, but possibly
trick gramophone records, on which two parts
sung by one singer are combined, have given
rise to the impression that it is possible.
* * * • #
What are the differences between and the
aims of Socialism, Bolshevism, Communism,
Nazism and Fascism ? —9009.
There are several brands of socialism, rang-
ing from the mild Fabianism of Shaw and
Blatchford to the “social revolution” tenets of
Marx and Engels, usually known as Com-
munism. The cardinal principle of all social-
isms is public ownership of the means of pro-
duction, distribution and exchange. Bolshe-
vism as expressed in Soviet Russia means in
practice the expropriation of capitalists and
government by a minority headed by a dictator.
The dictatorships in Germany and Italy are
not really socialist; they .concede rights in
private property to those who accept their
regime. Their keynote is patriotism, in such
forms as the dictator chooses to expound it.
* * * *
(1) Who was William Tell? (2) What plays
does he figure in ? —9059.
(1) He is a legendary figure in Swiss folklore
who has come to be widely accepted as an
actual hero of the Swiss fight for independence.
His first appearance is in a poem of the early
fifteenth century which tells how he shot a
bailiff while crossing the Lake of Lugano. A
better-known legend relates how he shot an
apple from his son’s head at the behest of
an Austrian bailiff, Gessler. (2) In Schiller’s
play “William Tell” and in Rossini’s opera
of the same name.
* * * •*
(1) Who invented the telescope, and when?
(2) Did the early instruments give good results ?
—9054.
(1) In 1608, Lippershey, a Dutch spectacle-
maker, made the discovery that two lenses
could be combined to bring a distant object
apparently nearer. Galileo heard of it,
and independently constructed his first tele-
scope in 1609. (2) Not in the light of modern
standards. Their magnification was limited on
account of aberration, but in spite of this they
enabled epoch-making discoveries in astronomy
to be made, including the discovery of the satel-
lites of Jupiter and of other planets.
* * *
What does “The rising of the Court” mean ?
—8984.
It is a sentence imposed by Courts of sum-
mary jurisdiction in cases where the offence
is trivial. The convicted person is sentenced
to imprisonment “until the rising of the Court,”
which means that he is to be detained in cus-
tody until the Court adjourns for lunch or, if
the sentence is imposed in the afternoon, till
the end of the Court’s day.
¥ * * *
What is the difference between a barrister, a
solicitor and a lawyer in N. S. Wales ? — 8986.
A barrister takes rank above a solicitor, from
whom he is distinguished by practising as an
advocate in the superior courts and as an ad-
vising authority to the solicitor on questions
of law. As a rule the Judges in the Supreme
and District Courts are drawn from the ranks
of the Bar—the collective body of barristers.
In some of the States, though not in N.S.W.,
barristers and solicitors may practise in either
capacity. A solicitor is the practitioner who
comes in direct touch with clients. His princi-
pal duties are to advise them, carry their cases
into court, prepare legal documents, transact
such matters as the conveyance of property,
the preparation of contracts, the making of
wills and so on. He prepares briefs of causes
for the barrister in the higher courts, and as
a rule acts as advocate only in the lower
courts. Lawyer is a generic expression applied
to the body of persons qualified to practise
law.
* * * *
(1) Would an exhibition of the working of an
invention to which the public was invited and
attended constitute publication and vitiate a
patent ? (2) Many years ago, proportion of
patents granted to patents applied for were:
U.S. 74 p.c., U.K. 58 p.c., Germany 12 p.c.
Any noticeable change in recent years? —B969.
(1) Section 124 of the Patents Act provides:
“The fact that an invention has been ex-
hibited or tested either publicly or privately
shall not in itself be deemed a ground for re-
fusing a patent, provided that any public ex-
hibition or testing must have been within one
year of the date of the inventor lodging his
application for a patent.” This provision is
governed by the words “in itself.” In the
Paper Bag case the Privy Council held that
an exhibition with the object of commercialis-
ing the invention, prior to the date of the
patent application, did invalidate the patent.
One purpose of the provisional protection is
to enable an inventor to exhibit and vend the
patent without risk of invalidating the patent
when granted later on. (2) No figures have
been published of late, but the proportions are
probably about the same.
=>= * * *
Will a siphon function when the bend of its
short arm is at a greater vertical height than
about lift, above the level of the, water in the
tank, assuming that the end of the long arm is
appreciably lower than the suction end? —8864.
No. If any part of the siphon were raised
higher above the surface of the water than the
height of a water barometer (about 32ft.) the
water would not reach the bend and a vacuum
would be formed. This is because the atmo-
spheric presure (14.71 b. per sq. in.) will only
force the water up the short arm until it is
balanced by the weight of the water inside the
tube.
* * * *
(1) Botanical name of the coolabah-tree ?
(2) Is brush box (Tristania conferta ) suitable
for planting as shade tree ? (3) Is timber of
smooth-barked apple (Angophora lanceolata )
durable in the ground when used as fencing-
posts? What approximate life could be ex-
pected from posts split from a mature tree ?
(4) Best method of germinating seed of the
kurrajong-tree (Brachychiton populineus ). (5)
What are the chances of growing all above-
named trees in Waikato district, M.L., where
such trees as Eucalyptus melliodora, E. eugen-
ioides, E. ficifolia and E. botryoides grow ?
8802.
(1) Eucalyptus microtheca. (2) Yes. It is
fast-growing and usually very free from disease.
It prefers a moderately heavy, soil, but will
grow on a variety of types. (3) This timber is
not usually regarded as very durable in the
ground, and is not used much for this purpose
in N. S. Wales. This, however, is probably
due to the presence of good durable timber
of other species and to the cleaner length of
logs which can be obtained from many of the
eucalypts. The apple is often a much-branched
tree, although it has a fairly good length of
clean stem. Posts have lasted for about eight
years. (4) It is necessary to have fresh seed.
The best plan is to take the seed from the
pods as they ripen, generally in May or June,
and sow on well-prepared soil. Young plants
should be transplanted early. The seed may
also be sown in spots on the permanent site.
(5) All the species mentioned have a reason-
able chance of success. The coolabah-tree likes
a heavy and fairly good soil, whereas the
smooth-barked apple grows best on sandstone
soil or light loams. The kurrajong prefers a
limestone soil.
* * * *
I am trying to grow some young Pinus in-
signus from seeds. The seeds germinate and
reach a height of lin., then 50 p.c. of them
turn yellow and die, although the roots seem to
go well down. Soil is sandy, plenty of water
is given and a very little liquid manure. How
can 1 prevent the plants from dying? —BB62.
Sand is not a good growing material for
pines; the young plants are probably starved
and burning off at the ground level. Try
growing them in open ground in any reasonably
good garden soil. Do not give liquid manure
to small plants of this type. You may save
healthy seedlings that are left by pricking them
off into a seedbox made up of sandy loam and
leaf mould.
* * * *
When would it be advisable to shift a Christ-
mas-bush shrub (it has been three years in the
open ground and is Aft. high), and how should
the job be done? —8905.
Any time in March the shrub can be shifted.
Dig a hole at least 30in. each way where the
bush has to be placed and mix plenty of stones,
leaves and rubbish (not manure) with the sub-
soil. Give the shrub a heavy watering before
lifting, and get as much soil as possible with
the roots. After planting pack the soil firmly
about the shrub, tie firmly to a stake and
water. If the growth on the bush is spindly
trim it back to two lots of laterals on each
limb: this will help the roots to recover after
the shifting.
* * * •
How to prevent daphne flowering shrub
dying ? —8922.
Daphne shrubs rarely revive after showing
signs of decay. Root-trouble is an affliction
with them, and there is no way to combat it.
Something worth remembering is that digging
too closely about the stems of daphne is fatal.
Before replacing the shrub examine the roots
of the old plant. Maybe white-ants are
causing the damage, or perhaps faulty drain-
age has something to do with the decay.
* * * *
Will acorns from a locally-grown tree ger-
minate ? How shall I set them —what soil,
depth, location ? Will they need to be watered
often, and will they germinate in flowerpots ?
—8946.
Mature acorns from any of the locally-
grown oaks will germinate. Sow them either
in the open ground or in seedboxes, using any
reasonably good garden soil with leaf-mould
and sand mixed through it. Cover the seed to
a depth of about lin. They will germinate
under a cool frame or in the open; if in the
former, they should be gradually brought into
the open when they germinate. Do not keep
the soil around them saturated, but just
reasonably moist. No set time can be given for
watering; be guided by the condition of the
soil. They will germinate in ordinary clay
pots the same as in boxes or the open ground.
* * * *
What are the words incised across the western
face of the Shrine of Remembrance, Mel-
bourne ? —9OBO.
“Let all men know that this is holy ground.
This shrine established in the hearts of men as
on the solid earth commemorates a people’s
fortitude and sacrifice. Ye therefore that come
after give remembrance.”
* * * *
(1) Composition of tinfoil as used for wrap-
ping up chocolates, cigarettes, etc. ? (2) Its
value per pound? —9o3s.
(1) One common alloy contains 87.5 p.c.
tin, 8 p.c. lead, 4 p.c. copper and 0.5 p.c. anti-
mony, but, owing to the low cost of lead, foil
is now composed mostly of this metal. Alu-
minium is also used. (2) It is sometimes col-
lected by hospitals, and metal merchants buy
it chiefly for reasons of charity, but is practi-
cally valueless in Australia.
* * * *
(1) My son, aged 19, born in Australia of
Australian parents and unemployed, has lost
the sight of one eye through an accident at
tennis. Is he entitled to any pension ? (2)
Alternatively, am I entitled to any relief, inas-
much as 1 have to provide food and clothing,
etc.?— B92l. . . .
(1) A qualification for an invalid pension is total
and permanent incapacity for all work. Partial
incapacity, even though of a permanent nature,
is not a sufficient qualification. The loss of
the sight of one eye in itself is not sufficient
to render a person permanently and totally in-
capacitated for all work; an invalid pension,
therefore, would not be payable. (2) Inquiries
concerning N.S.W. Government relief should be
directed to the Director of Social Services, Box
30a, G.P.0., Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is the record fall of rain per hour
in Queensland, and when and where did it fall ?
How long did the storm last? (2) Has a storm
ever caused a river to rise so rapidly that a
wave 20 ft. high (or thereabouts ) has roared
down the river bed ? If so, when and where ?
—8866.
(1) The record fall of rain in one hour in
Queensland cannot be stated. At Mossman (the
only place in the heavy-rain belt of North
Queensland where an automatic raingauge is
installed) 327 points fell in 68 minutes. Queens-
land’s record 24-hour falls are 35.71 inches at
Crohamhurst, 31.53 inches at Port Douglas
and 30.65 inches at Yarrabah. (2) What was
described as a “tidal wave” at least 10ft. high
swept rapidly up the Pioneer River at Mackay
in January, 1918, during the operation of an
intense cyclone, and the loss of 19 lives was
mainly attributable to this sudden inundation.
In December, 1916, creeks in the vicinity of
Clermont rose so rapidly that the business part
of the township was submerged with practi-
cally no warning, and 61 persons were drowned.
* * * *
How to pickle gherkins and preserve their
natural.color ? —8652.
Select young, well-colored gherkins, and drop
them into boiling water containing a pinch of
baking soda to every pint of water; boil at a
moderate pace until they can be pierced with a
knitting needle, then pack them into jars.
Cover with white vinegar containing salt and
pepper to taste and a teaspoon of sugar to
every pint of vinegar; stand in a boiler of cold
water with the water up to the shoulders of the
jars, set the lids lightly in position, and bring
to the boil. When the vinegar in the jars
reaches boiling point, remove and screw down
the tops, which should have new rubbers in
position. Water alone may be used instead of
the vinegar, treated in the same manner, but
requires a little longer boiling in the jars,
say five to ten minutes, to effect sterilisation.
* * * *
(1) Can a concrete floor be successfully built
on the wooden floor of a bathroom ? (2) Best
way to mix the cement? —-8548.
(1) Yes. (2) Use a mixture of one of cement
to two of sand to four of coarse aggregate,
applying to a depth of 3in., and reinforce with
bars laid the length and breadth of the
bathroom and spaced 6in. apart, the rods to be
spaced approximately |in. from the bottom of
the slab. Reinforcing bars of lin. diameter
may be used spaced lOin. apart.
Does Anybody Knov^?
Whereabouts in the Moree-Narrabri (N.S.W.)
district was Charles Edward Bowen’s station
Kuringabildi?—B993.
Meaning of aboriginal words Monbeong,
Burrapine, Undulla and Wangwalk?—9o3B.
Information Supplied.
The Emerson quotation commencing “Wher-
ever snow falls” is the concluding paragraph of
“The Poet,” in Vol. II of the Essays (Bohns
Popular Library Edit.).
Brief Answers.
V.C.C.: 60 acres 1 rood 26 perches....
P.H.A.: Write Sane Democracy League, 12
Spring-street, Sydney... .J.A.: Coolalie is a
N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “south wind.
C.K.: The Melbourne University Press,
Carlton, Vic., is prepared to consider, with a
view to publication, works of a high order of
academic, scholastic or cultural interest. Terms
of publication are royalty, commission or profit-
sharing agreements, according to the nature
and value of the work... .A.A.: M.L. kauri
is considered a better timber than cedar for a
boat which is to be left in the water. Queens-
land kauri absorbs water more readily than M.L.
kauri. Cedar is too soft for sheathing, as it
does not hold the nails. For a small boat the
expense of sheathing is not necessary if the
boat is taken out of the water at least once a
month and well cleaned... .F.8.H.: It is essen-
tial for tradesmen who desire entry into the
Air Force to have served an apprenticeship at
their trade. Without this qualification the
chances of satisfying the acceptance tests are
almost negligible. Special consideration is given
to men who have taken advantage of the oppor-
tunities offered at technical schools to further
their knowledge in their craft... .H.K.H.:
Populations—Cairns 11,993, Brisbane 313,430,
Sydney 1,267,500, Melbourne 1,018,200, Adel-
aide 316,860, Perth 212,500. Distances—Cairns
to* Brisbane 1043 miles, to Sydney 1656 miles,
to Melbourne 2246 miles, to Adelaide 2729 miles,
to Perth 4346 miles D.M.: Cannot recom-
mend inoculation. The best preventive is
correct diet, with a sufficiency of vitamin A,
the anti-infective vitamin P.D.: (1) Con-
somme is pronounced kon-so-may. (2) There
is an acute accent over the e....A.E.H.: The
lines are from Act 111, Scene 2, of William Con-
greve’s “The Mourning Bride,” and read:
“Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned,
nor hell a fury like a woman scorned”
WJ.B.: Write G. E. Crane and Sons, 33 Pitt-
street, Sydney P.M.: Banjo Paterson’s Col-
lected Verse (7s. 6d.) contains “A-waltzing
Matilda,” and his Old Bush Songs contains
“The Dying Stockman.” The latter book is
now out of print, but can be picked up in
second-hand bookshops at about 2s. per copy.
T.J.: Blacksmithing (55.), by James Mid-
dick Drew, Tinplate Work (2s. 3d.), by Paul
N. Hasluck, The New Tinsmith’s Helper and
Pattern Book (19s. 6d.), by H. V. Williams,
and The Harness Maker’s Manual (165.), by
John R. Warrington W.W.: N. S. Wales
entertainment tax is as follows: Exceeding
Is. 6d. and less than 25., ; 2s. and over,
Id. for first 2s. and id. for every 6d. or frac-
tional part thereof by which the payment ex-
ceeds 2s J.K.: Write M. F. Parsons, hon.
sec., John o’ London’s Literary Circle, care Hunt
and Hunt, 15 Bligh-street, Sydney F.S.D.:
Moonbileen is a N.S.W. abo. place-name mean-
ing “a dry creek” K.J.: The correct version
is Dion deliberamus quando incipiendum sit,
incipere jam serum est. Translated, it reads,
“Whilst we deliberate how to begin a thing, it
grows too late to begin it”... .K.A.8.: Special
income tax is payable by residents and non-resi-
dents of N. S. Wales upon net assessable in-
comes. The tax is imposed under the Special
Income 'and Wages Tax (Management) Acts
1936-37....D.5.5.: The P.S.A.A.A. of N.S.W.
has no record for a 14-year boy for a mile
run. The association considers lads so young
should not be asked to run such distances.
K.C.: The railway authorities are liable
for any loss of goods occasioned by the neglect
or default of their servants W.C.P.: (1)
If by “unidentifiable” is meant “name or iden-
tity unknown,” yes. (2) The words “and a
levy of 7s. 6d. per head be -made to defray
the cost of the banquet” could be moved as
an amendment of the original resolution
8.J.: Write Cowles and Dunn, gunmakers, 71
King-street, Sydney A.J.: Winners of the
Anzac Festival Competitions conducted by the
Anzac Fellowship of Women were as follows:
Music, Leslie Sage, 10 Clifford-street, Mosman,
N.S.W.; poetry, L. W. Nairn, 13 Hudson-street,
Prospect Park, S.A.; play writing, no award;
pageant, no award; design for bookplate, Miss
Eirene Mort, Greenhayes, Mittagong, N.S.W.;
design for poster, no award; design for pro-
gramme, no award... .M.S.M.: (1) No. (2) Yes.
(3) No M.H.: The contract for the erection
of the Sydney Harbor Bridge embraced only
the building of the structure and abutments.
The work on the approaches in York and Gros-
venor streets was carried out by the Public
Works Department. The plans are now with
the Department of Main Roads, Sydney
WJ.Y.: Section 17 (1) (o) of the Vic. Income
lax Acts says: “The assessable income of a
taxpayer shall include the amount of any pen-
sion or superannuation allowance received by
a resident, irrespective of the sources from
which the pension or superannuation allowance
has been derived.” It will be seen, therefore,
that the pension is taxable... .C.M.: Write
Director,' Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney... .F.G.M.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department; Sydney, for pamphlets
“The Passion Fruit,” “Tomato Culture” and
“The Cultivation of Beans”... .T.C.: Write
Secretary, Civil Aviation Branch, Defence De-
partment, Melbourne... .C.R.: Particulars and
forms are obtainable from the Invalid and Old-
age Pensions Department, Sydney A.S.:
Particulars are obtainable from Secretary, Police
Department, Phillip and Hunter streets, Syd-
ney A.M.K.: The Fantome was sold to W.
Waugh, Ltd., who took delivery of the vessel
during January, 1925... .W. 8.: D. H. Law-
rence visited Australia, but not Lawrence of
Arabia A.G.: Write Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney H.C.M.C.:
See the Writers and Artists’ Year-Book, pub-
lished by A. and C. Black, London J.R.M.:
At the 1933 census Narrandera (N.S.W.) had
a population of 4119... .F.W.: Get in touch
with island traders such as Burns, Philp and
Co. or W. R. Carpenter and Co. —both Sydney.
. ...J.0.8.: Bennett and Barkell, Meagher-
street, and Bennett and Wood, Pitt and Bathurst
streets—both Sydney R.H.L.: The Marathon
is a long-distance race, now usually 26 miles
385 yards in length, and held mostly on the
open road, commemorating the reputed feat
of the Greek who ran from Marathon to
Athens bearing the news of the battle in 490
B.c. in which the invading Persians were de-
feated by the Athenians 8.M.D.: (1) Col.
Mac Donnell, who shut the gate of La Haye
Sainte in the face of the French soldiers at
Waterloo, died on May 15, 1857. Accounts ot
his death do not mention any family. (2) Get
in touch with the Clan MacDonald Society;
secretary, J. D. MacDonald, 141 Onslow-
drive, Dennistown, Glasgow. (3) Cannot trace
any such migration. The family migrated from
Ireland to Scotland originally.


8
lIIK
v\
■ilill
Two thousand years ago
life was pulsating in this
city . . . streets were thronged
with people—c hari o t s
clattered over the stone-
paved roads—shops dis-
played their wares —gladi-
ators fought in the arena. In A.D. 79 Vesuvius erupted;
since then Pompei has slept, embalmed in ashes. Now the
streets are clear again; standing amidst the forums, temples,
patrician villas and plebeian dwellings it is easy to reconstruct
the life of twenty centuries ago.
As you pass through ITALY the history of 2000 years is
revealed in stone, in pictures and in the traditional events
re-enacted by the people.
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS 5/- to 18/- (sterling) a
day, absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
50% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY
FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets , apply to:
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret St., Sydney
or ANY TRAVEL AGENCY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
B.B.: “Faster-laughter” is a distressing
rhyme... .Leo : Better A.McD.: “Heading
Home” is M.T.: Read it more than once.
J.C.G.: Not an unpleasant “Visitation.”
. ...8.W.: Our “kindly eye” blinks at elves
and slums, but might beam on another attempt.
... .A.W.: Shooting all “sentinels” on sight
R.G.: Merely pretty... .D.L.K.: Curious....
R.H.C.: A flicker in it....1.W.: Put it on her
pillow T.E.McC.: Ah, how true: —
Once we were only monkeys,
As happy as could be,
Till we started education
And were no longer free.
. ...H.R.N.: Have rarely seen a more stirring
line than “What infinite food for thought!”
... .P.S.: Colonel Blimp would explode....
E.E.: You put the problem beautifully:
The world is in a restless state,
Upset by cannon thunder,
We talk of' peace and practise hate,
Is this progress, I wonder.
... .C.S.: Rather too fanciful... .E. 0.5.:
Still on the thin side... .8.M.8.: Neither of
those is quite up, but keep trying 8.C.:
That convert proved a bore B.C. (M.L.):
And your bridegroom a spineless individual
I'M.: Too thin for us, but you may place it
with a daily... .M.M.: It doesn’t get there....
R. : Boy trapped in a hollow tree dies and
rots. You do have nice happy thoughts
W.R.F.: Doesn’t turn over any new ground.
. ...G.T.P.: Tripped on the first page
T.R.C.: If a yarn’s worth illustrating we’ll
attend to it... .E.8.W.: Polished away to a
shiny shadow... .L.S.L.: Well, really n0w....
S. : Cut the characters by half... .F.D.L.:
Not thrilled about “Sailing Through Magellan
Straits” C.L.G.: Nor by South American
revolutions... .N.M.1.: Little girl’s tears
swamped the story D.V.T.: Your type-
writer needs a new ribbon C.V.R.: And you
need a. typewriter P.L.: Put some more
meat into them and try again H.S.C.: It’s
an old idea, but cut it a bit and try somewhere
else... .E.T.R.: You’re still paddling in the
same little puddle... .S.F.Y.: Rings more like
a cracked bell than anything... .G.L.D.:
Brighten up the finish , and try a daily
H.K.F.: Too wordy T.P.D.: Convict-
Good Samaritan is an old friend... .L.T.L.:
“Rude Little Boy” needs thrashing into shape.
B.N.: Fail to see how the goil in the
piece can spend half a day smoking, half a
day drinking, another half flirting and another
driving, all in 24 hours R.Y.: Your
“rose-colored screen” appears to have become
a little cloudy... .G.K.R.: Try something
you’re more familiar with H.F.8.: No use
for that kind of essay P.R.S.: Safe to say
that most other persons think the same way,
but they are not anxious to read about it
G.8.R.: No, we don’t object to strong lan-
guage, but why use it in that yarn? T. 8.5.:
You harp too long on the one subject
G.S.V.: Cut it in half and send it along again.
... .F.G.N.: You don’t make a story of it....
Dispatched in haste W.F.C.: “No-
thing Much” was just, that G.L.R.: Cir-
cumstances and their connections are too flimsy.
. ...S.R.D.: An improvement on earlier efforts
but still not up... .F.S.P.: Cold shoulder for
the lass who says “Diddums Duckie” on every
page G.N.H.: Not even a chuckle
L.S.C.: Heaved a sigh of relief when the last
character was disposed of H.J.C., F.T.R.,
D. and C.M.D.: Try them elsewhere....
K.L., W.C.N. and M.D.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P F. ' Returning what looks like an impres-
sionistic study of a waterspout J.D.: Closed
the door to that freakish-looking hawker....
E. : An infantile jest W.C.8.: Yes,
lessons will help, but you’ll need more than a
“few” 8.P.: You can’t get detailed effects
with charcoal on that class of board S.S.:
Gag began to go the rounds a few years after
the invention of the locomotive T.D.:
Cannot see it adding to “the gaiety of Easter.”
... .J. 8.: You’re as poor a prophet as you are
an artist... .D.M.C.: Ended among the also-
rans M.N.: A clumsy sketch and a yawn-
provoking wheeze S.F.: Some evidence of
talent, but you overcrowd your work J.T.:
A dispirited-looking couple engaged in point-
less backchat... .P.K.C.: Better keep off dic-
tators and eagles until you have learned to draw.
N.C.: Neat, but tame; might suit one of
the “Sunday-at-Home” magazines C.S.: You
do not seem to improve with the passing years.
W.Y.: Prepared to accept the object in the
river as a crocodile, but its intended victim isn’t
an Australian abo G.H.: Use a less-
absorbent paper and get away from that
scratchy style W.P.: You managed the swas-
tika and that’s about all R.H.: This year
will see the jubilee of that gag; Phil May
illustrated it first E.L. : Not a recognisable
likeness among the six caricatures sent
J.W.: There’s a lot of good work in the League
of Nations maypole-dance cartoon, but the
idea is too obscure C.A.: Would earn high
marks in a first-year art class, but not good
enough for print G.R.8.: Small boys look
like fifty-year-old dwarfs M.J.T.: Frith
covers the screen for us every week, thank you.
Try elsewhere H.N.: Figures appeal to have
been given a starch bath, then left out in the
sun to dry E.R.: Can’t recall previous
attempts present submissions are dreadful.
P.K.: Drawings are beginning to show
more life; jokes still lack punch C. 8.: Not
amused at the conversation in the aquarium.
R.H.: If you want to draw society belles
you should make at least a reasonable attempt
to keep up with the fashions S.W.: You
missed the bus by about two months J.S.A.:
Nearly as many mistakes as there are strokes
in the picture.
A MIXED GRILL.
“After driving 5000 miles across the
United States,” Herbert Gepp is con-
vinced that “the democracies of the world
must get closer together,” and convinced
that “the Americans are convinced of
it.” So on one subject at least there is
no need to send Herbert on a £40,000
mission to inquire and report.
* * * *
“T.”: It was a fortunate day for Roberts,
the Modern History man at Sydney Uni-
versity, when he went to Germany and
was there informed “on unimpeachable
authority” that Hitler’s father was ille-
gitimate and the family inbred —though
not perhaps so fortunate for Australia.
The march to Vienna brought Roberts
a tidy addition to his income—three
long “S. M. Herald” articles which were
syndicated, plus his weekly eruption in
the Sydney “Mail.” According to
Roberts, “when the first German in-
fantryman marched through Mittenwald
and down to Innsbruck, the clock was
set back hundreds of years to the fili-
bustering centuries to the Dark Ages.”
Meaning? It’s what you please.
* * * *
Vic. Speaker Tunnecliffe, politely
praising Lord Huntingfield’s observations
at the opening of Collingwood’s re-
juvenated Town Hall, said the Gov-
ernor would make a good democratic
politician ; he had delivered “an excellent
speech on local politics without commit-
ting himself.” At a politicians’ picnic
Tunnecliffe could remark with similar
cynicism on the increasing number of his
brethren who would make excellent Gov-
ernors if this characteristic were the only
essential.
* * * *
N.S.W. people get heaps of misinfor-
mation from -the three-ha’penny papers
that—with copious help from the
“Cronk-News”—“guide” them on foreign
policy. This is from the “D.T.”:
The central point of British foreign policy
for more than 100 years has been to safe-
guard the integrity of the Low Countries—
France, Belgium and Holland —at any cost.
Geography and history are alike rotten.
France is not one of the Low Countries,
and Britain did not try to “safeguard
the integrity of France” when the French
fought the Prussians in 1870 and lost
Alsace-Lorraine.
* * * *
Dhas”: That par. about surrealism
(B. 16/3/’3B) reminded me of a Maori-
land sculptor, now in London, who sent
to a gallery a nude male study for exhi-
bition. He had greatly exaggerated
certain aspects of the figure, and the
gallery, not because the officials were
prudish, but because they said it was im-
possibly unreal, refused to show it. The
sculptor re-submitted it, with the rather
beautiful retort that it was a self-
portrait !
* * *■ *
‘Bootham Bar”: The statement that
an Australian solicitor named Mackay
has broken away from tradition by hav-
ing his office in his dwelling-house in
England (B. 16/3/’3B) is wildly wide of
the mark. In writer’s boyhood this was
the general rule —in country towns at
any rate. In such Yorkshire towns as
Thirsk, Northallerton and even in York
itself a legal office separate from the
costs-compiler’s abode\ was only seen
when there were several partners in the
firm.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Chianti may possess a
flavor resembling pinkie, rum or beer
and a texture to the palate of anything
between boot-polish and shandygaff. My
experience goes back to long before the
war, when Chianti was Chianti, and not
likely to be mistaken for any claret or
Bordeaux, Australian or foreign. Two
artist brothers lived in Melbourne then,
famous men to-day both, and part of
their modest domestic outfit was a straw-
covered receptacle labelled “Chianti.”
They were not the lads to deceive the
innocent guest, and they always offered
Chianti at parties. The label was familiar
at the pub where they had the flagon
“Ited.
* * * *
“Chimaera”: Have been interested
with others in Mary Gilmore’s stories of
massacres of aboriginals (B. 16/3/’3B).
Two of her charges interest me particu-
larly. She says ( a ) that she recalls see-
ing hundreds of murdered abo. children
lying in a grass patch, and ( b ) that 200
blacks were poisoned at one waterhole.
I sould like to ask (a) how those hun-
dreds of abo. kiddies were rounded up
into one grass patch and by whom and
why they were slain—it must have been
a fairly conspicuous proceeding, and
further evidence should be available —and
( b ) what was the size of the waterhole
and the poison employed. Suppose it
was an average river waterhole of, say,
50 yards long, 30 yards wide and aver-
aging 10ft. deep. To poison that effec-
tively with the cheapest and most easily
obtained poison, arsenic, would require
close on a ton of the stuff. This would
have to be dissolved in boiling water,
since it is practically insoluble in cold,
and the resultant mixture would be so
deadly bitter that the thirstiest abo.
would jib after one sip. Water poison-
ing was tried on a much smaller scale
against rabbits years ago and quickly
abandoned as impracticable.
* * * *
“Geolo”: That walking stick cut from
a tree which had been buried beneath a
basalt flow which took place “about a
million years ago” (B. 16/3/’3B) is a
wonder. When basalt flows it is at a
white heat that even modern electric
furnaces can hardly rival. This being so,
how is it that the buried tree —which, it
is explained, is not petrified—was not re-
duced to ashes by its white-hot covering?


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
OBSERVATION IN RUSSIA
By SIDNEY I. LUCK. Illustrated,
10/6.
Mr. Luck spent his youth in pre-war .Rpssia,
and when he returned to that country in 1936
he was able to compare conditions under the
Soviet regime with those that existed in
“Holy” Russia of former days. He was a
detached, keen, tolerant and humorous observer,
free from bias and looking only for facts. The
result is that his day-to-day diary is one of
the most amusing and instructive books about
Russia written since the War.
THE BIRDS OF AMERICA
By JOHN JAMES AUDUBON, 42/-.
With 500 full-page plates in colour,
most exquisitely reproduced in one
volume x 9in.).
This famous work is here, for the first time,
reproduced in one volume. It is complete, and
is handsomely bound in green buckram with
gold lettering. A marvel of book production at
the price.
SNAKES OF THE WORLD
By RAYMOND L. DITMARS,
Litt.D. With 85 full-page plates.
Cheap Edition, 8/6.
Dr. Ditmars, who is one of the greatest living
authorities on snakes, has prepared this work
to meet a need, clearly indicated by corres-
pondents, for a general descriptive work on.
the subject.
MACMILLAN’S 3/6 NOVELS
New Volumes.
THE INQUISITOR, by Hugh Walpole
FASTER! FASTER! by E. M. Delafield
MUNDOS: An Unfinishedi Novel, by
Stella Benson
CAROLINE, by Richmal Crompton
OLD KING COLE, by Edward Shanks
ALL STAR CAST, by Naomi Royde
Smith
BONES OF CONTENTION AND
OTHER STORIES, by Frank
O’Connor
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLANB TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES &CO. s
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
GLAND
TONIC
TABLiTS
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
VII.
New Army divisions had arrived in
Gallipoli also. The people directing the
strategy of the Peninsular campaign i.e.,
all hands and the cook —had decided
upon a great effort to bring it to a speedy
close. So the 10th and 11th Divisions
were deposited at Suvla with orders to
attack in conjunction with the Anzacs,
substantially reinforced, on their right,
the object being “to secure the heights
that commanded the Straits.”
At Suvla, “20,000 men were safely
landed on an almost unguarded part of
the coast.” The Anzacs and their British
and Indian auxiliaries were already en-
gaged with “the main Turkish forces.”
“The enemy’s forward posts” had been
“rushed by surprise in the dark” and
“Lone Pine” had been “stormed by the
Australians’ Ist Brigade ; a desperate fine
feat.” “Two columns came close to gain-
ing the heights,” only to be “balked by a
combination of time-wasting mistakes
and mischances.”
Chunuk Bair was taken ; “we had it
in our hands the best part of two days
and two nights.” But “the New Zea-
landers and New Army troops holding
the knoll were relieved by two New
Army battalions, and at daylight on
August 10 the Turks simply ran amok
among them with a division in mass for-
mation.”
The Suvla operations were practically
all “mistakes and mischances.” For 36
hours the path to the objective was
“barred by a detachment of little more
than a thousand Turks, who were with-
out machine-guns.” And “there were no
enemy reserves within a 30-mile radius.”
But it was a Levantine summer day;
the ground was rough and the soldiers
were soon tired and thirsty. Many
dropped in their tracks and emptied their
waterbottles. And hostilities were sus-
pended by mutual consent.
Napoleon found in his first campaign
in Italy that the Austrian generals did
not know the value of time. The British
commanders at Suvla were apt pupils of
his Austrians. They were elderly gentle-
men. Sir lan Hamilton had asked for
younger men who had proved themselves
in France but had been frigidly referred
to “Army List seniority.”
On arrival in the bay, “the Corps Com-
mander, Stopford, settled down to sleep
on board without sending anyone ashore
or wondering why no news came from
the shore.” The force had set out for
Suvla on the evening of August 6 ; “on
the afternoon of the Bth Stopford was
still on board, nor had he once gone
ashore to see his divisional commanders.
Instead he had sent them congratulatory
messages. In this example of complacent
inertia, his subordinates found an excuse,
if not a justification, for their own. Their
“ Don't you think it's time I stopped deep-breathing and did a few leg
exercises ?”
dominant thought was to consolidate, not
to push on” (Liddell Hart, The War in
Outline).
Yes, Sir Frederick Stopford (“Dear
Old Freddie”) had gone to sleep. The
scene of his slumbers was H.M.S.
Jonquil.
To make matters worse, “the naval
arrangements broke down,” and “the
Commander-in-Chief was kept a prisoner
at his headquarters on Imbros when he
had awakened to the fact that his per-
sonal intervention was needed.”
“On August 8” (Sir lan Hamilton speak-
ing) “I ordered the Arno for midday sharp.
Rear-Admiral Nicholson, in Ideal naval
command here [lmbros], had ordered the
Arno to fill up her boilers. Some hitch
arose, some damned amphibious hitch.
Thereupon, without telling me, he ordered
the commander of the Arno to draw
fires, so that, when my signal was sent,
a reply came from the Rear-Admiral say-
ing he was sorry I should be inconveni-
enced, but he thought it best to order
the fires to be drawn; otherwise the
boilers might have suffered. I could not
altogether master my indignation but
here I was marooned upon an island.”
In short, it was Walcheren over again.
Lord Chatham, with his sword undrawn,
Stood waiting for Sir Richard Strachan.
Sir Richard, longing to be at ’em,
Stood waiting for the Earl of Chatham.
“The English muddle through. They
win only one battle —the last.” But in
the process how many noble hearts have
been stilled, how many faithful hearts
condemned to lifelong loneliness! And
what if a day comes when the sacrifices
heaped on the altar of the god Muddle-
through shall have been made in vain?
“Moderation in war is imbecility,” the
English historian wrote; and Jacky
Fisher copied it in his diary, and tran-
scribed it in the manuscript of his book.
But this “moderation” is our military ob-
session. Our weakness for half-measures
and sideshows crops up in the history of
war after war.
“On June 17, 1806, General William
Beresford landed with a body of troops
from a British fleet under the command
of Sir Home Popham, and took Buenos
Ayres. His troops were enclosed within
the walls by a large force, and on August
12 they surrendered.”
“In July, 1807, another British force of
8000 under General Whitelock en-
deavored to regain possession of Buenos
Ayres. The invaders, after serious losses,
were compelled to capitulate.”
Walcheren (July-August, 1809) cost
England more than half of the expedi-
tionary force of 40,000 men. When Lord
Chatham and Sir Richard Strachan were
back across the Channel the dead num-
bered 7000.
So Suvla and Kut were just history
repeating itself.
Sir lan Hamilton’s aide-de-camp,
going ashore with his chief before sun-
down on August 8, was reminded of a
Bank Holiday evening at Hampstead
Heath. “Nothing doing: the beaches
and hillsides covered with our men.
Vague shelling by one of our monitors
was the only thing which broke the peace
of a perfect evening.”
The scene changed to tragedy when
the landing party, reinforced by the 53rd
and 54th Divisions of Territorials, “half-
trained and at half-strength,” tried to go
forward. In a succession of aimless
assaults on positions which the Turks had
manned at their leisure, the poor, patient
Tommies were cut to pieces. Between
attacks they were easy marks for the
tough Anatolian snipers against whom
the Anzacs had learned to protect them-
selves.: the New Army and Territorial
formations had no trained counter-
snipers.
Among them was an Australian, a
captain in the Worcesters, who was badly
knocked. Long afterwards, when he
had become Prime Minister of the Com-
monwealth, he recalled in conversation
with a friend how, in those dark days,
his soul had been refreshed and strength-
ened by the sunny philosophy of a little
Tommy. And the friend, a patriarchal
member from the West, whose son had
fallen in France, quietly handed to him
a cutting from a newspaper in which an
old soldier-writer had described, in prose
of mournful beauty, how, when the bliz-
zard came to Gallipoli, the son took off
a pair of fur-lined gloves, his father’s
gift, and drew them over the veteran’s
shaking hands.
After Suvla came the great Moreduck-
Hamilton controversy.
Mr. Moreduck was a pushing young
Australian reporter. Ordered to London
to take charge of a news cable service,
he had been commissioned to “under-
take certain inquiries for the Government
of the Commonwealth in the Mediter-
ranean Theatre of War.” This was ex-
plained by the Prime Minister in one of
the letters of introduction with which
Mr. Moreduck had equipped himself,
and Mr. Moreduck sought out the Com-
mander-in-Chief at Imbros.
The C.-in-C.’s first impressions were
favorable. In the Gallipoli Diary, after-
wards published in book form, he wrote
on September 2, 1915: “Mr. Moreduck,
an Australian journalist, paid me a visit
to thank me for having stretched a pomt
in his favor by letting him see the Penin
sula. Seemed a sensible man.
The interesting pair parted, and the
Gallipoli Diary for September 17 con-
tains this, ominous note: A corre-
spondent writes in and tells us that for
the honor of his profession he feels
bound to let us know that Mr. Ashmead
Bartlett has secretly sent home an uncen
sored dispatch per, of all people m
world, Mr. Moreduck. I had begun to
wonder what had come over Mr. More-
duck, and now it seems he has come
over me!” ~
Four days later a cable was sent from
G.H.Q., Mediter-
ranean Expedition-
ary Force, to the
War Office: “Please
inform me whether
Moreduck has
arrived and whether
my information was
correct as regards
his carrying dispatch
for Sir Harry Law-
son from Ashmead
Bartlett.”
Reply from War
Office: “A dispatch
answering descrip-
tion has been taken
from Moreduck at
Marseilles. You
should delay action,
however, until we
have seen it and
you hear from us
further.”
The C.-in-C. noted
gloomily that “the
dispatch should have
been censored here
and ought, there-
fore, to be sent
back here for cen-
soring. The War
Office, I suppose,
wanted to have the
first look in.”
A reminder to
the War Office drew
“an amusing and
highly - unexpected
answer: ‘Moreduck was found to be
carrying a dispatch for the Prime Minis-
ter criticising military operations at Gal-
lipoli. He carried nothing for Lawson.' ”
Sir lan “could not help laughing
heartily at the blue looks of Tyrrell, the
Head of our Intelligence” ; but Tyrrell he
had “reassured.” “After all,” he moral-
ised, “this is Asquith’s own affair. I do
not for one moment believe Mr. Asquith
would employ such agencies, and for
sure he will turn Moreduck and his wares
into the waste-paper basket. Tittle-tattle
will effect no lodgment in the Asquithian
brain.”
But presently he was laughing on the
other side of his mouth, for “the plot”
had “thickened.” Lord Kitchener had
cabled quoting “statement made in letter
to Prime Minister, Australia, by Mr.
Moreduck: ‘After the first day at Suvla
an order had to be issued to officers to
shoot without mercy any soldier who
lagged behind or loitered in advance.’ ”
“Moreduck must be mad,” the
harassed general confided to his Diary.
“Or is there some method in his mad-
ness? No soldier could have told him
this. Someone not a soldier, someone so
interested in discrediting the Dardan-
elles Campaign that he does not scruple
to do so even by discrediting our own
troops, must have put this invention
about, per Moreduck.”
Then he turned his memories of More-
duck over in his mind: “All I remember
of his visit to me here is a sensible, well-
spoken man with dark eyes, who said his
mind was a blank about soldiers and sol-
diering, and made me uncomfortable by
an elaborate explanation of why his duty
to Australia could be better done with
a pen than with a rifle. He was one week
at the Press Correspondents’ camp and


HE WAS AS ROUND AS
A BARREL
Protruding Stomach Made
Him Look Deformed.
Excess fat is unhealthy and unpleasant
—for both men and women. It should
be got rid of whenever it appears,
whether early in life or late. This man,
for all his three score years and ten, de-
termined to reduce his weight. Read how
he succeeded:
“A few years ago I felt I was almost
finished. I was as round as a barrel, for
I am not very tall, and with my pro-
truding stomach I looked deformed. My
weight was 15 stone 10 lbs., and on top
of it all I suffered so badly with rheuma-
tism that I was no longer able to work.
I started taking Kruschen Salts, and
now both rheumatism and fat have dis-
appeared. My weight is now 12 stone
8 lbs. I can dig my garden, and do my
own work, in spite of my 70 years.”—
V.R.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the
internal organs to throw off each day
the wastage and poisons that encumber
the system. Then, little by little, that
ugly fat disappears.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four fo this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
S. CD. ITD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N
eean„
r ±aiM{
M^s
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
( Incorporated, in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
spent, so they tell me, a few hours only
at Anzac and Suvla, never once crossing
to Helles.”
This was his answer to Kitchener: “I
have pro forma made full inquiries, and I
find that there is no truth whatever in
the allegation made by Moreduck.”
Back came a greater shock: “What is
your estimate of the probable losses
which would be entailed to your force
if the evacuation of Gallipoli Peninsula
was decided upon and carried out in the
most careful manner?”
Out of the depths of his wounded soul
Sir lan replied: “It would not be wise to
reckon on getting out of Gallipoli with
less loss than that of half the total force.”
He found it “a relief to go to Anzac,
where ex-Westerners told us that in
France they have nothing to touch this
Australian tunnelling.”
Then he was made acquainted with
the text of the letter written by Mr.
Moreduck to the Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia. He found it “quite a Guy Fawkes
epistle.” It abounded in such pleasan-
tries as that “Braithwaite is now more
cordially detested in our forces than
Enver Pasha ; the work of the General
Staff is deplorable; sedition is talked
round every tin of bully beef; the
British K. men and Territorials are merely
a lot of childlike youths, without
strength to endure or brains to improve
their conditions.”
The worst of it was that Mr. Asquith
had “clothed the said outpourings in the
title, number, garb and color of a veri-
fied and authentic State paper”; had
“actually had them printed on the
famous duck’s-egg foolscap of the Com-
mittee of Imperial Defence. And under
his authority, as President and Prime
Minister, they have been circulated round
the Government and all the notables of
the Empire, without any chance having
been offered to me (or to Kitchener) of
defending the honor of British Officers
or the good name of the British Rank
and File.”
And Mr. Asquith had caused “the
irresponsible statement of an ignorant
man” to be circulated within three days.
To him Mr. Moreduck had written in a
covering note: “I write with diffidence,
and only at Mr. Lloyd George’s request.”
“Yet Mr. Asquith did know that the
paper contained some falsehoods. He
may have attached weight to Mr. More-
duck’s tale of the feelings of French sol-
diers at Helles (although Mr. Moreduck
never found time to go there); he may
have believed,” with Mr. Moreduck, that
“Sir John Maxwell” had “a poor brain
for his big position”; that Sir William
Birdwood was without “the fighting
quality or big brain of a great general” ;
that General Spens was “broken on the
Continent (although he never was
broken, and never served on the Con-
tinent) ; he may even have swallowed
Mr. Moreduck’s picture of the con-
scientious Altham ‘wallowing’ in ice
while wounded were expiring of heat
within a few hundred yards.” But Mr.
Asquith had seen the Kitchener Army,
“and, therefore, could not have believed
that ‘these soldiers’ had ‘suddenly been
transformed into merely a lot of child-
ish youths without strength to endure or
brains to improve their conditions.’ ”
On October 14 Sir lan wrote to General
Callwell, Director of Military Operations
at the War Office, dealing dispassion-
ately with the Moreduck charges and en-
closing copies of correspondence “show-
ing how Mr. Moreduck’s visit arose.”
On the following day he received from
Kitchener a “secret and personal” cable
“telling me to decipher the next message
myself.”
The next message was an order for his
recall.
Sir lan was retired to the Tower of
London as C.O. Beefeaters. Mr. More-
duck rose rapidly in his profession and
became a K.B.
Sir lan’s estimate of what the evacua-
tion of the Peninsula might cost was
happily falsified by the event. The re-
sourcefulness of a race which exhibits its
finest qualities in the kind of emergen-
cies in which there is life to be saved—
and that goes for all its branches —
triumphed over the difficulties of the
operation ; and it was completed without
the loss of a man.
A few months later, Townshend, with
the British Government’s authority, was
offering his besiegers fabulous bribes —
a million, two millions—to let the garri-
son march out of Kut; but it has never
been alleged that the Gallipoli Turks
were squared.
“We’ve too many middleweights on
our hands,” said Minogue to Mac Sherry ;
“an’ houses is falling off. I want you to
go to the West an’ arrange a couple of
fights for Mick Kling—he’s from W.A.
—and Carrie. One at Kalgoorlie, if
there’s any money there, an’ another at
Perth—or two at Perth if Kalgoorlie’s
no good. Perth’s £ good fight town.”
(To be continued.)
PRE-HITLER GERMANY.
(BY “EL V.”)
Professor Roberts, of Sydney Univer-
sity occasionally finds time enough to
supply four metropolitan papers with ex-
2° ns of current international hap-
Professor Roberts is not merely an
ardent teacher, but, especially when he
touches the affairs of Middle Europe,
sometimes highly original. Some other
teachers have been under the delusion
that pan-Germanism was a fairly ancient
growth—the pan-Germanism of the old
Holy Roman Empire which, after the
Napoleonic disintegration, became a bone
of contention between the two greatest
German countries, Prussia and Austria.
When Prussia won, both remained suffi-
ciently at one in ideal to have national
anthems with exactly the same air and
expressing much the same aspirations.
The German Reich. in “Deutschland
fiber Alles” called for a Germany stretch-
ing from the Meuse to the Memel and
from the Adige to the Baltic. When that
was achieved, it shouted, Germany would
be superior to everything in the world —
not the overlord of all the world, as is
sometimes suggested. The Austrians,
after crowning poor old Francis Joseph
in song with everlasting laurel, hoped
that he would live to see German lands
and German peoples* reach the highest
pinnacle of prosperity ( hochsten Flor).
Incidentally, also, the German hymn
called mournfully for “unity and peace
and right for the German Fatherland,”
but Professor Roberts thinks it was “de-
fiant.” And he also thinks that: —
Whereas the Pan-Germanism of the
P re ‘^ a f , days u was a sick jy growth limited
to Flanders, Hitler transformed it until
it became a synonym for the Mittel Europa
scheme.
There are other matters on which his-
torians of a milder school might disagree
with Dr. Roberts—dozens of them. For
instance, he is teaching Australian news-
paper readers that Hitler “did not create
a new nation in 1933 ; he merely eradi-
cated all trace of the peaceful demo-
cratic interlude of the 15 years since the
Ar i? ls b ce -”.
it that is what the professor calls
peaceful, save us from peace! It began
with flying royalties and assassination, it
trapsed on through a period of inflation,
turmoil, hunger and suicide.
I saw a great deal of it during its best
period—in the days of Stresemann. Peace
in the Rhine belt—the area which Ger
many used to thunder that it would "de-
fend with its last drop of blood —was
heralded on snowy mornings by the
French bugles. French bayonets went
down the streets every day. The popu-
lace, perforce, sullenly saluted French
officers, and, if the pavement happened
to be narrow, was compelled to step
into the gutter and give them the right
of way.
Berlin was Sodom and Gomorrah come
to light in one piece. Male perverts ac-
costed you in broad daylight in the
Pariserplatz. Restaurants were full of
sickening vice. Whole streets were given
oyer to assignation houses. The buck-
nigger vice-monger and the souteneurs
of all the world plied their callings
openly. A huge building, State subsi-
dised, was devoted to a type of literature
which made Krafft-Ebbing seem like
Band of Hope reading. Contraceptives
were peddled by hawkers in the fashion-
able Kurfurstendamm.
Politically, the place was a seething
ferment. Moscow had moved to Berlin
—the Red International Bureau, the Red
Aid, the International Class War
Prisoners’ Aid, the International Corre-
spondence Bureau, the Western Europe
Agit Prop Bureau.
In the north, Communism with its
bloody doctrines of revolution and
murder, was preached at every street
corner. In the south, the Nazis marched.
There was not a day on which the
papers were without reports of suicides
—families who locked themselves in
rooms and turned on the gas because
there was no more to eat.
The only bright spots in Germany were
the forest lodges of the Wandervogel, the
bands of young hikers who made for the
Schwartzwald to get away from the
poisonous or wretched atmosphere of the
great cities. In Austria, everybody mur-
mured of the “revolution,” and the lan-
guage was full of strange words—“sozial-
ismus,” “bolshevismus.”
We want no Hitlers in English-speak-
ing countries, but let us be fair and ac-
knowledge that Hitler gave his nation a
new moral spirit. He became Germany’s
leader largely for that reason. Sane,
sensible, rural Germany, land of peasants
and craftsmen, saw the Reich drifting
further every day into turpitude, further
every week towards the Soviet which six
million Germans were already proclaim-
ing. Professor Roberts himself wrote in
September, 1936:
The Nazis... .swept into power on popu-
lar fear of the Russian menace... .The
German man in the street to-day feels that
his safety is menaced by the hordes of
Russia, especially since Stalin has built up
the biggest army and air force in the
world... .Hence comes the belief that Hitler
saved Germany, and indeed the whole of
Europe, from the onrush of Bolshevism.
I should say without the slightest hesitation
that fear of Russia dominates the whole of
German foreign policy at the moment
That is why Hitler was so bitterly opposed
to the Franco-Russian pact and ran all
the risks of reoccupying the Rhine zone
There is some justification for their fears.
There was also some justification for
the occupation of Austria, which did not
ask anybody’s assistance to prevent what
has infuriated this professor.


ELEGANT EXTRACTS
THE MAGIC EYE
There is nothing that happens in any
part of Australia which is not known in
Berlin. — H. Campbell Jones in “Sunday
Sun” (Sydney).
HOUSEWORK, PROBABLY
WANTED Young Girl, between 16
and 17 years, for ??,??. Apply
—“Mosman Daily” (Sydney).
DAMMIT, JEEVES
To regard migration as an end in itself
is like putting on hat and gloves before
coat and trousers.—' '‘Round Table”
editor, reported in “Sun” (Sydney).
SPIRIT OF THE LEFT
In his latest slim volume of verse Mr.
John Betjeman remains purposefully
bourgeois, celebrating in decorative
stanzas the faded and unfashionable
values of the immediate past. In one
piece only is there any trace of the spirit
of the Left:
Come, friendly bombs, and fall on Slough!
It isn’t fit for humans now,
There isn’t grass to graze a cow.
Swarm over, Death!
-—“West Australian” (Perth).
E. AND O.E.
The average Australian seems to think
there is no lower form of life than a
municipal councillor’s, unless it is a
State or Federal member of Parliament.
— Fairbairn, M.H.R., speaking.
FORWARD, MR. HENNEBERRY
The same rigorous methods must be
employed to combat ragwort. We have
had enough and to spare of exhortations,
resolutions and polite requests. The
time has come for “two-fisted action.”
The present “pussy-footing” policy has
been followed far too long.
— “Dominion” (Wellington, M.L.).
COMING, READY OR NOT!
Probably if our business people would
employ more of our girls and boys they
would not be too busy to take care not
to make so many mistakes, as well as
take care not to allow their drapery to
become soiled in the shops. Such things
often cause wrecked homes and. broken
hearts. Where are the women of New
Zealand, or are they in the dark?
—Letter in Eltham “Argus” (M.L.).
OH YEAH!
Richard Whitney, famous United States
financier, pleaded guilty to a grand
charge of larceny.
— “Argus” (Melbourne).
ANOTHER WORLD RECORD
Tennyson, a century ago, drew atten
tion to the terrors of overcrowding in
English towns:
There a single sordid attic holds the living and
the dead,
There the smouldering fire of fever creeps
across the attic floor,
And the crowded couch of incest in the warrens
of the poor.
The picture drawn by the poet is
rather worse than that in Sydney, be-
cause the Sydney poor are the most
moral in the world. — Mr. Heffron, N.S.W.
election appeal.
BEER, BEAUTIFUL BEER
A man was drunk in the vestibule at
Central Police Court yesterday.
He had come to answer a charge of
having been drunk the previous day.
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
THE BALLAY OLD ACCUSED
LONDON.
An Old Etonian appeals in the Eton
College “Chronicle”:
“In view of unflattering comments by
magistrates in recent cases, I suggest that
Old Etonians should avoid wearing the
old school tie when they appear in the
dock.” — “Sunday Sun” (Sydney).
SIGNS AND PORTENTS
Just before the 1920 elections there
was a vacancy in the Agency-General
for New South Wales in London. At
those elections a Labor Government,
headed by Mr. John Storey, was returned
to power. Now, on the eve of the 1938
elections, Mr. Heath, the present Agent-
General, has announced his resignation,
which will take effect on May 31. In
political circles this is regarded as a
happy augury for the return of a Labor
Government. — “Labor Daily” (Sydney).
BOOKED FOR BISLEY
At seven paces, a constable and a gun-
man engaged in a revolver duel at North
Cronulla.
On a reserve facing the ocean beach
the constable fired four shots and the
gunman three, but all missed.
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
FUN
Returning home at Warsaw, General Kozicki
found his family murdered and their limbs
severed with an axe. Robbery is believed to
have been the motive.
“Yes, Watson,” said Persnurkus
Holmes, “all we have to do is to find a
legless man with an axe and bloodstains,
and we’ll have the murderer.”
“Must have been disturbed,” said Dr.
Watson.
“Why?” inquired Holmes.
“No legs taken,” replied Dr. Watson.
“Really, Watson, an excellent piece of
deduction,” said the great detective. “If
we could have only got him trying on
one of the stolen limbs it would have
been a clear case.” — From Sydney
“Sun’s” fun column on the day the news
item appeared.
AREN’T WE ALL!
If there is any merit in the selection of
the name Aren’t We All for the colt by
Caledon from Nuptial (imp.) at present
in training, it is not very apparent. Since
greyhound racing became popular a new
form of nomenclature has cropped up,
and there are dogs that rejoice in the
names of Omanosed, Amaneggs, Owata-
boy, which may be funny enough, and
suitable for such animals. But it be-
hoves the Registrar of Racehorses to en-
deavor to keep the turf free from the
freakish, and in permitting Aren’t We
All a precedent is set for the introduc-
tion of even less suitable names.
—“S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
GENTLE DEMOLITION
Los Angeles is to have level-crossing
gates of flexible steel. If a car hits them
they will not wreck it, but will break it
gently.— “ Sunday Mail” (Brisbane).
YOUR DOING, CARDUS!
Batting with McCabe is so effortless.
He leans on the ball, caresses it and
away it goes to the fence —or over it.
Onlookers at Perth were entranced by his
artistry as he went along quietly, yet
swiftly, as a narrow stream flows to the
ocean. — A. G. Moyes in “Sunday Sun ”
(Sydney).
PROBABLY
“There are probably many people who
do not know the meaning of the letters,
I.P.C. They might even think they stand
for Idiotic Pussy Cats, but, although we
like to be given nice things, such as
cheques, we do not want to scratch or
bite anyone,” remarked Canon A. H.
Gamsey, president of the International
Peace Campaign.
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
HELLO, LITTLE ONES
On Sunday evening last, at about 6.25
p.m., a children’s or tiny tots’ session was
being broadcast from station 2ZB, when
a story to amuse (?) the kiddies was put
over to the effect that a little tiny flea
by his persistence was instrumental in
causing a very wicked king to abdicate,
and that the people then formed a re-
public and lived happily ever after. To
the unthinking there may not be any-
thing of serious import in the foregoing,
but, as everybody knows, if you want to
cultivate anything you start at the
bottom,- and to my mind the instilling of
this Russian Communist propaganda into
the minds of our kiddies should be
scotched without delay. Letter in
“Dominion” ( Wellington, M.L.). ■
A REFINED TITTERING
AMAORILAND journal once offered
a prize of five pounds for a poem
extolling the virtues of the then
Governor-General, but, despite his
undoubted virtues, the general reaction
of the quill-chewing fraternity to this
praiseworthy attempt to drag them from
their disgusting contemplation of trees,
bees, tuis and dairy-farmers was one of
hilarity. The models that came to mind
were the birthday odes of Colley Cibber
and others in praise of the numerous
infants who
Sprang from the fertile, genial bed
Of glorious George and Caroline.
There was a similar temptation to the
irreverent in the sesquicentenary limerick
competition recently held by an Austra-
lian concern. The public was invited to
complete the noble lines
One hundred and fifty years old,
With birthright of riches untold,
It’s the land of my birth
And the best land on earth —
“With convicts left out in the cold”
might have been a suitable sesqui. com-
ment for the missing line, but a much
better one was an effort believed actu-
ally to have been sent in:
And when it’s not hot, it is cold.
Though the limerick has the dreadful
advantage that anyone can do it, it’s hard
to imagine a more unsuitable vehicle for
patriotic fervor. One example in There
Was a Young Lady (Collins) —a collec-
tion of efforts by contributors to London
“Evening Standard” —indicates beauti-
fully the limerick’s proper sphere of
action:
A pierrot performing at Wittering
Remarked, “Though my pattter is glittering,
I don’t wish to provoke
A guffaw with each joke,
But a gentle, refined sort of tittering.”
Present member of the audience, after
duly tittering, thought it might be pos-
sible to get a more learned definition
of a limerick than the last line of the
one just quoted, and a dip into an en-
cyclopaedia brought up the following
helpful information:
Limerick: Pop. (1901, pari, bor.) 46,170.
Bacon-curing, flour-milling and the manu-
facture of army and police clothing are the
principal industries.
And that was all.
The Encyc. Brit, was more profitable,
and volunteered the information that its
pop. (1901) was 38,151, and that it was
a type of verse invented by Edward Lear
to amuse the grandchildren of the Earl
of Derby.
Angus and Robertson were more use-
ful still, and, asked for a book of
limericks, led still-tittering inquirer to
the appropriate department (Children's
Department) and produced Langford
Reed’s My Limerick Book, which, be-
sides declaring that the form was an
adaptation by Irish soldiery in the
seventeenth century of a verse form used
by the French for religious occasions,
offered the following appeal for a girlish
giggle:—
Said a kind little maiden named Ruth:
“Poor Grannie, you’ve only one tooth;
If my teeth would undo
I’d lend them to you
To recover, at mealtimes, your youth.”
And for a further tiny titter from the
tiny tot:
“I’m strongly aware of a smell!”
Said the ultra-fastidious Nell.
“Remove that poor egg,
I earnestly beg;
1 fear it is not very well.”
Reflecting that reading limericks was
rather like trying to go on a bender in a
milk-bar, titterer was led tottering away
from the musical maiden called Una, who
embedded a fork in a crooner, to .the
original Edward Lear, born 1812, still
going weak.
Angus and R. had two of him, The
Book of Nonsense and More Nonsense;
and from them at last could be drawn
the conclusion that the funniest things
the English know are animals, aunts and
people who get their throats cut.
Lear on livestock:
There was an old man with an owl
Who continued to bother and howl;
He sat on a rail
And imbibed bitter ale,
Which refreshed that old man and his owl.
And another pleasing fancy:
There was an old person of Anerley
Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
He rushed down the Strand
With a pig in each hand,
But returned in the evening to Anerley.
On aunts and their ilk:
There was an old lady of Chertsey
Who made a remarkable curtsey;
She twirled round and round
Till she sank underground,
Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.
On the merry subject of sudden death,
Lear has
There was an old person of Ems
Who casually fell in the Thames —
but Harry Grahame’s Ruthless Rhymes
furnish better examples; especially the
one composed when he and his friend
were sitting by the fire, and friend fell
in the grate:
And now although the room grows chilly
I haven’t the heart to poke poor Billy.
One of the “Evening Standard”
geniuses, though the book on the whole
is feebler than even a collection of
limericks has a right to be, managed to
outdo Lear on animals with this touching
example of bovine sagacity:
There was an intelligent cow
Who used to go strolling through Slough;
When the signals went red
She’d stop perfectly dead,
And wait till it changed to “Cross now!”
After all the investigation, the only
really profound conclusion to be drawn
about the limerick came not from Lear
or the “Evening Standard,” but from
that blameless book from the Children’s
Department. A line, “Consider the rude-
ness of Roger,” brought a recollection of
a really funny limerick, and the conclu-
sion that that one, like all the really good
ones, would have to be reserved for a.
more appropriate occasion.


THE
BERNARD CRONIN
STORY
WRITING COURSE.
Writing for publication is not only a
potential source of income, but a pleasur-
able pursuit and a mental stimulus.
Assuming a gift of writing, however
small, the fundamentals of success in
writing are briefly (a) the urge to write,
( b ) the will to succeed and (c) training
at the hands of one who has himself suc-
ceeded both in story writing and in the
teaching of story writing.
Not only is the Bernard Cronin Story
Writing Course prepared by Bernard
Cronin ; it is conducted by him, and he
publicly declares his authorship. Pupils
have the very great initial advantage of
confidence that comes from knowing that
their instructor is, himself, publicly
acknowledged to be a successful ex-
ponent of the art he teaches. It may be
said definitely that the Bernard Cronin
Course of Instruction is unique in Aus-
tralia. It is the only story-writing course
prepared and conducted here which bears
the name of the author, and completely
answers the pertinent question, “Who is
going to train me, and what are his
qualifications?”
It is this personal contact between
Bernard Cronin and his pupils, and the
individual treatment given, that makes for
the early and consistent success of Bernard
Cronin pupils. Moreover, from his wide
experience of marketing, copyrighting,
Editors’ and Publishers’ agreements, and
so forth, he is able to guide his pupils into
safe marketing channels.
In addition to teaching Story Writing
and Writing for Radio, Bernard Cronin
criticises the MSS. of writers who have
had only a limited success. This critical
service has proved of great value to many
whose work sometimes, through minor
faults of construction or presentation,
has failed to make the grade.
Young writers, or writers who are dis-
couraged, from whatever reason, are in-
vited to write fully and freely to Bernard
Cronin.
Address: —
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephone: MU2296.
USING AN IDEA.
The profitable use to which one idea
may be put is illustrated as follows: —
I sold a short story of 2500
words to The Bulletin, who pub-
lished it under the title “Interven-
tion.” Using the idea, the situa-
tions and the characters, I made a
play and called it “Stampede.” I
sold the play to the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, which
recorded it for it's library, and it
has so far been nationally broad-
cast three times. It was then put
on the legitimate stage by amateurs
in Sydney, and it was selected
from nearly 200 radio plays for in-
clusion in a book of 21 one-act
Australian plays published by
Angus and Robertson, of Sydney.
It has now been selected by the
British Broadcasting Corporation
for inclusion in its Empire short-
wave broadcast on April 12.
This idea, originally conceived
for a short story, has been much
honored. There remain one or two
things that may happen to it, in-
cluding production as a film. I
am hoping that this will come
about.
Bernard Cronin.
Wi
. . Tb*
cient
3* * , Jr*'*'* >v
~ *Wv
I§ti
'“---isivtt
A few of hundreds of
letters received last
year.
sth July, 1937.—“ Naturally, there have
been a few occasions when certain
episodes have occurred to upset, tem-
porarily, the smoothness of life, but I
called I’elmanism into action, and it
worked.”
10th July, 1937.—“1 am building a
Scheme of Life on Pelman lines. I have
no doubt that this Scheme will be
challenged innumerable times, but I am
quite confident that it will survive and
be strengthened as time goes on.”
29th July, 1937. —“My appointment,
although jn part the reward for much
hard work, is also to a very great extent
a tribute to the excellence of your Train-
ing, since it taught me how to get the
most out of that work, and I consider
myself very much in your debt.”
30th July, 1937.—“1 have just learned
that I have passed my final exams, with
three credits and one pass. This is the
best I have done so far.”
22nd February, 1937.—“ At my employ-
ment, I find that 1 am being gradually
given more responsibility—more trust-
worthy duties to carry out.”
22nd February, 1937.—“1 now find no
difficulty in giving a quarter of an hour’s
debate in a firm voice, and with very few
notes.”
3rd November, 1937.—“ When I do have
something to worry about I do not
indulge in dull, negative thinking, but
deal with it by reasoning and by con-
structive reflection.”
13tli October, 1937.—“1t has taught me
to respect my job. I have a greater
respect for money and am better off
financially than I was before taking up
the Course.”
24th October, 1937.—“1 do not feel
nervous of my superiors, and conse-
quently am a better worker.”
Find out just what
Pelmanism will
do for you.
Get a copy of “The
Efficient Mind’
post free.
Some of the phrases in the letters alongside
are commented on in the following paragraphs:
“More responsibility, more trustworthy duties to carry out.”
When this happens to men and women they are on the easy way
to a happy and successful working life; easy, because, first, they
have learned to accept responsibility, and, secondly, because
others are recognising their abilities.
“I do not feel nervous of my superiors.” When this condition
comes about, men and women are themselves in the superior class.
They are of the kind whose efforts are not checked, confused and
stultified by fear. They are free from self-consciousness and
timidity.
“A quarter of an hour’s debate, with very few notes.” The
ability to speak acceptably and with confidence in public has
been given to many people by the sections in the Pelman Train-
ing given to our relations with other people.
“Deal with problems by reasoning and by constructive reflec-
tion.” A dispassionate view of our own circumstances is not
always easy. Right thinking and control of the emotions will
enable us to get it. Pelmanism deals exhaustively with this
important aspect of our inner personal life.
“Passed my final exams, with three credits.” An example
of the application of Pelmanism to practical requirements.
Pelmanism’s satisfaction of individual needs is one of the reasons
of its world-wide popularity. It helps men and women to succeed
in their endeavours.
“Called Pelmanism into action and it worked.” The Pelman
System is a life system. It substitutes good habits of mind and
memory for careless and slovenly ones, and they work in all the
circumstances of life.
Pelmanism is not a panacea for all ills. It is a training of
the mind and a development of the personality to help men and
women in the ways of earning a livelihood, or something more..
It shows them how to make use of the means to culture and
education that are available to everyone, how to enjoy their
leisure, and how to meet other people agreeably and comfortably.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind," 76 pages, describing the Pelman Course,
are posted free on application to The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane (corner Market Street), Melbourne. All
inquiries are treated as confidential. Write, call or telephone MU2355.
Pelmanism is scientific development
of Mind, Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Institute is a World-Wide organisation of
nearly 40 years' standing. Its headquarters are in London.
There are over half a million World I’elmanists; over 39,000 have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
478 .
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ħ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o* Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
• •; • :• •: • or#; * • • • •
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
v" .t# 1
5T
«*
C°
v \^,.<
o'
0<
*iO e
,3%
x^sf'
a ,v ..••• ..-• to


Now FINGER-TIP
PRE-SELECTION
with RATIONAL
m
STRAIGHT g
m
iw
ICH
J 0
IV
lOt
2CB
2^
2fC
RATIONAL RADIO by BRITON Gives You
TRUE AUTO-TUNING...The Stations You Want
The Moment You Want Them...
NO MOTOR, NO WEARING PARTS—THUS
NO INTERFERENCE WITH RECEPTION.
Below the dial are eight buttons, each clearly marked with the
station callsign. You simply press a button, and there’s your
station. No buzzing—no waiting—no fiddling. Each station is
fixed-tuned to HAIRLINE ACCURACY in the Rational
Laboratory and “reception-tested” for eight hours before the
set is despatched. This automatic tuning is additional to the
usual manual tuning facilities for both Australian and Overseas
Stations.
... and FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
AUSTRALIA A Vibrator-Operated
Batteryless Push-Button Receiver.
True Automatic Tuning for vibrator-operated battery!ess re-
ceivers is a new departure in radio design and engineering,
conceived and developed in the Laboratories of Rational Radio.
FAR NORTH COAST
|2|
3
NORTH WEST
2CR ■ 2KR12GZ12AD 1 2NZ !|4AK 1 2TMM2M0
WEST
YOUR FAVORITE STATIONS
WHEREVER
YOU LIVE.
Wherever you live there is a Rational
Straight 8 with automatic tuning of your
eight favorite stations. Each station fixed-
tuned to hairline accuracy in the laboratory
to ensure perfect reception.
There are no fewer than eight different
combinations of stations available in the
Rational Straight 8 with automatic tuning.
The illustration above shows five of these
combinations, suitable for different regions
—the larger escutcheon reproduction at
top of page shows the Metropolitan Area
pre-selection.
To BRITON ELECTRICAL & RADIO PTY., LTD.,
152 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me your FREE BROCHURE describing the Rational Straight 8
NAME .
ADDRESS . .
RATIONAL RADIO
BRITON
FREE Illustrated Brochure —Fill in Coupon and post AT ONCE
.■-t.. ■ - . • •
