

fiiqhcfatel clarence street
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE OPENS TOMORROW!
The Greatest Credit System of all Time . . .
Introducing HIGHGATEG CREDIT BOND!
To-morrow, for the first time in Australia, Highgates will make available
to the shopping public the easiest, quickest, fairest and altogether the
finest retail credit shopping system in the world.
Acclaimed as a master plan of modern retailing and the greatest advance
yet made in Australian shopping systems, Highgates Credit Bond is a
great constructive factor in the economic improvement of Australian
family life.
Highgates Credit Bond, the aristocrat of ALL credit systems, gives you
credit as free as the air you breathe, asking for no deposit, charging you
no interest and accepting payment for your purchases at the small rate
of one shilling in the £ weekly—a plan that will gladden the heart of
the housewife and enable her to shop with shillings instead of pounds.
Ultra modern in principle, amazingly generous in application and
unlimited in scope and usefulness, Highgates Credit Bond bows gracefully
to the necessities of those it serves and offers a better way to buy, a
newer way to pay for the world’s finest merchandise at bedrock prices
for which your only payment is one shilling in the pound weekly on the
value of the Bond.
HIGHGATES CREDIT BOND IS ISSUED IN AMOUNTS
OF £l. £2. £3 £4. £5. £7 £lO. £l5, £2O
\\
-fee*
*
\A
w
A
*<*
w
<>
o
9
4f
THE PDU1ER BEHIND
THE HDmE /
tYz
Tea.
5 -i./
& 'p'unpeA
s* O *4 5 T
Ik
- ■ J
@2
rn&mm sT9BE$|g^S
l
UCsytti.V***
$t%sk>
mum*
m
wt
i;
li
■
TS* H<Mn d tte «
(<-»r-lx n-cl tkwfcy
J4
#mst
frNO INTEREST CHARGED|
NO PEPOSIT TO PAY
NO LAY-BY
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
YOUR CREDIT IS FREE
JHLJH
Register your Name and establish your Credit
by filling in and posting this Request Form
REQUEST FORM
If preferred, you can telephone Mr. Miller and arrange for a representative to call.
’Phones: MJ 4691 and MJ 4692
To Highgatcs Limited,
Box 14 A, G.P.0., Sydney.
1 wish to obtain a Highgatcs Credit Bond for £ : t (State amount)
Name in full .. ®.
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss and give Christian names)
Address in full ....... ,
Nearest Post Office Occupation .
Usual signature ...... Date
HIGHGATES CREDIT BONDS ARE ISSUED IN AMOUNTS ~OF
*l, £2, £}, £4, £5, £ 7 , £lO, £l5, £2O.
FREE DISTRIBUTION OF
HIGHGATES CREDIT BOND
COMMENCES TO-MORROW!
To enable you to shop
at any Highgates Credit
Store on and after
Opening Days,establish
your credit imme-
diately. You can do this
I
simply by filling in and
posting the Request
Form below. Thousands
of people in Nov South
Wales will register their
names in this simple
way within the next
few days, which will
enable them to do their
shopping on this great-
est of all credit systems
and receive immediate
delivery of their
purchases.
ESTABLISH
YOUR CREDIT
AT HIGHGATES
HIGHGATES CREDIT BOND
IS ISSUED TO YOU ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT COST
You carry your Highgates Credit Bond with you and present it at the
counter when you make your purchases and payments. Ingenious
machines of amazing speed and accuracy, made expressly for Highgates
New Credit System, print, add and total the amount of your purchases
and payments on the back of your Credit Bond, automatically showing
you the exact position of your account in respect of every transaction.
This scientific equipment makes credit shopping at Highgates, as easy,
as quick and as economical as cash buying.
Highgates Credit Bond is the family’s friend ... the housewife’s silent
partner... the sheet-anchor of all credit-worthy citizens. As good as
banknotes at Highgates, it is your passport to continuous credit, week
in, week out, year after year, associating you in bonds of friendship
and goodwill with the House of Highgates.
-Hiqkqatel
Furnishing Warehouse: 257 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
(4 door* from Market Street ond between Market Street and Sydney Town Hall)
Telephones: MJ 4691 and MJ4692 Telegrams: "HIGHGATES—SYDNEY” Postal Address: BOX 14 A, G.P.Q.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3026.
Wednesday, February 9, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424428 George Street, SYDNEY.
T he Red Page
£200 for an Australian Novel.
When the judges of the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize decided that no entry for 1937 was worthy of
winning they implied that a very high standard of
excellence was necessary to secure this award.
No Bulletin prize winner has yet faded on pub-
lication. On the contrary, they have a habit of being
widely read and of stepping into a permanent place in
Australian literature. Furthermore, events have proved
the thoroughness of the judges’ search for work of
merit. A House Is Built and Tiburon were both the
work of then unknown writers. The thoroughness of
that search is traditional, and through the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize The Bulletin hopes to encourage
many more Australian novelists of outstanding ability.
Closing date, June 6, 1938. Particulars from
The Bulletin, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Lawson Recollection.
In Sydney’s Bohemian days I came near to
mateship with Henry Lawson, but not quite. He
talked eternally of his work, his struggles with editors
and publishers, while I was chiefly interested in the
cut of my clothes and hair.
However, Henry agreed with my final definition
of literature as the stuff born in the hearts of children
and carried to old age on a pair of itching hoofs.
Recently at Oxford a professor of English litera-
ture disagreed with the above definition.
“Itching hoofs!” he said darkly. “They bring
varicose veins and a drunkard’s thirst. My dear
fellow, there’s nothing like moss. Moss is the stuff!”
“Then lay to your moss!” I gave back, remem-
bering one who gathered none of it.
It is a long hop from hereabouts to Bourke. I
was gummed to my job as reporter and newspaper
canvasser at £3 a week until my style of reporting
began to disagree with local digestions. I was deter-
mined, while my hair remained intact, never to write
in a dead language about beauty spots such as the
Bogan, Brannigan’s Flat or Murphy’s Hole.
Bourke’s only claim to literary eminence lies in
the fact that it owns the old Windsor chair in which
Lawson once sat while Dan Kelly cut his hair.
I entered the shop and demanded a shave and
cut. Kelly was afflicted with a fluency that seems
to originate in all back-country lather-pots.
’“Tiff diair has a history?” I blurbed through
,; Hap of I soap fat. “Was it owned by Jimmy
so' eruohe Derderers or Frederick Bailey Deem-
-ng?”
Dan glared at me, razor uplifted.
It was brought to this country by my father in
the year of the black famine in Ireland, sir. The
chair has >een honored, not defamed.”
i foamed apologies and waited.
“The chair has been used by the great ones of
this country,” he went on forgivingly. “While seated
in it Harry Lawson wrote ‘The Sick Stockbroker’ on
snatches of shaving-paper I passed to him. Maybe
you’ve read ‘The Sick Stockbroker,’ sir?”
“I’ve comforted him when he was being chased
out of the town,” I admitted in a blubbery whisper.
It was not for me to floodlight the blank spaces of
a bush barber’s mind. The shave went on.
“You wouldn’t care to buy the chair?” he
pleaded.
I advised him to treasure it for a time. Thou-
sands of cattlemen and drovers would be attracted
to his shop. I promised him a few lines in my paper
on the subject of the chair and warned him to expect
a sudden rush of beards into the shop at any moment.
“Tell me what you thought of Henry,” I begged
after he had removed the wild thyme from my face.
It had been Kelly’s intention to sell me a horn-
handled razor which Marcus Clarke had used when
writing For the Term of His Natural Life. My
question intervened.
“Sure, Harry was a quiet, unoffending lad, sir.
Besides doing a bit of coach-painting for Cobbs’ agent
in the town here he came near to marrying Andy
Ferguson’s widow. Let me tell you Kathleen had
money ; a big, fine woman with the best store from
here to the Hill. The years of scribblin’ it would
have saved him!”
I had a brief mental picture of Henry busy
ticketing smallgoods behind the bargain counter of
the widow Ferguson’s store in Bourke and shuddered.
The tragedy of that setting leaped at me. I would
have none of it. A camp on the Warrego, an attic
in Sydney—nothing more, nothing less for Henry of
the Grenfell.
To placate Kelly I paid him six shillings for a
frowsty meerschaum pipe that Burke and Wills, the
famous explorers, had chewed alternately during
hours of agony and starvation. Heaven knows where
Kelly found the pipe!
One drizzling night in August I encountered
Henry near Circular Quay. We gripped hands cheer-
fully, demanding information of each other’s doings.
The news of my visit to the Warrego seemed to cast
a temporary gloom over him. He brightened after a
while and led the way into the Ship Inn. He had
just sold a story to The Bulletin —“They Wait on
the Wharves in Black.”
He asked me to come round to his digs some
time ; he wanted to show me a razor he had bought
in Bourke years before. Although it wasn’t much
to look at it had once belonged to Marcus Clarke.
A short silence followed his declaration. I
noticed that his fine eyes held a curious dreaming
blindness as one in possession of a rare and beautiful
thing.
“Funny how I get inspiration from the old blade,”
he went on. “Morning after morning my mind is a
blank until Clarke’s razor gets going. I’ll show it to
Archibald one of these days.”
“He doesn’t shave,” I demurred. “He’d be more
interested in the scissors Clarke used if you could
find them.”
Then, as an afterthought:
“Next time you’re in Bourke, Harry, don’t let
a barber named Kelly sell you a chair because I sat
in it.”
On my way home I reflected that although Bourke
had not produced a literary genius it had acquired
the right angle in the matter of selling razors.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Eileen Duggan's Verse.
From Edith Sitwell, whose world is a chicken-
coop where “hen-cackling grass” lays pretty little
eggs of rhyme for its mistress, to sensitive Eileen
Duggan declaring that Maoriland artists are
Like exiled kings at a crowning
Mourning through harvest moons
Our hope of holy bread,
many women poets rob their verses of significance
by substituting a wistful romanticism for reality.
Edith’s little “pig-snouted breezes” never grow up and
go squealing over the hill to the slaughterhouse, and
“pig-snouted darkness” never escapes from its
Georgian sty to devour a lamb on the grisly hills of
Whangamomona. Only once in her new Poems (Allen
and Unwin) does Eileen Duggan break, through
the walls of her romanticism to the true savagery of
the Maoriland scene:
I was driving the cows, and the frogs were soothsaying
“Woe, land and water! All, all is lost!”
It was winter full-grown and my bones were black in me.
The tussocks were brittling from dew into frost.
But within its limits the verse is excellent. If
she shares a romantic weakness of women poets,
Eileen Duggan has more than her share of their com-
pensating virtues of delicacy and sincerity. Her use
of words is extraordinarily sensitive: the moon’s
“thorny” light, for example; Jerusalem’s “goat-
nibbled” hills. And from the accurate word she rises,
easily and often, to phrase: “The faith of a willow
in winter, or a blind hound nosing the knee”; “The
great flying soul of Paul, and small Assisi, God’s gay
bat” ; Mary, standing at the gate, waiting for the
infant Christ, as “A dim blue patience in the dusk” ;
and, most vividly of all, “The earth looked at me, ears
up in a stillness.”
Two poems, “New Zealand” and “Pilgrimage,”
are made outstandingly beautiful by this power of
word and phrase. In her Maoriland
The great Pacific salt so steeps our air
That noontide burns it to a driftwood blue.
Such skies are passion to a lark upflown,
As if a hemisphere of harebells caught,
Clapper to clapper running silver fire.
“Pilgrimage,” a journey of bells when “every wind
is wet with carillons,” is even more musical:
The bells of Ireland jesting all the way,
The English bells slow-bosomed as a swan,
The queenly, weary din of Notre Dame,
And the Low Countries ringing back the sea.
Technically, the verse would be better if she used
closer, less-singing rhythms. It ripples along very
sweetly in
A woman in blue with wheat to her knees,
Mid a silence of birds and a stillness of bees,
but too much of that makes the song a sing-song.
Walter de la Mare, in an appreciative introduc-
tion, supposes that she derives from Gerard Hopkins
and Donne, but it is hard to find the resemblance.
Elizabeth Browning and Edna St. Vincent Millay are
far likelier influences. Eileen Duggan has a delicate
Marianism in common with Hopkins, but his wild
rhythms are as masculine as a tractor, and hers are
as gentle, as lovely and as remote from life as a blue
lake in the Southern Alps.
The "Free" Short Story.
The Faber Book of Modern Stories (Faber),
edited by Elizabeth Bowen, is intended to trace, by
example, the development of the short story in Britain
and Ireland since 1910.
The editor’s introduction is more than ordinarily
interesting. She finds modern English work influenced
by De Maupassant and Chekhov, the latter at first
through Katherine Mansfield. She is not satisfied
with the modern short story. The non-commercial
story, unsuitable and not meant to be suit-
able for popular magazines, has of late years
come into an eclectic vogue. Production has conse-
quently increased. But it is being fostered with more
enthusiasm than good judgment. It is too often taken
for granted that a story by virtue of not pandering
to so-called popular taste can without further chal-
lenge be regarded as art. The commercial conven-
tions have been discarded, but fresh and equally
tyrannous conventions have appeared and are inimical
to vitality. ... „ , .
Miss Bowen asserts that too many free short
stories show “both in technique and subject a desolat-
ing and nerveless similarity.” She notes that the
general public gets slated by the promoters of the
free short story for not taking a keener interest in it,
but asks why anyone should tolerate lax, unconvinc-
ing or arty work —work whose idiom too often shows
a touch of “high-hat complacency.” The writer of
commercial short stories has his own “hard-learnt
competence,” while a very large number of free short
stories lack verisimilitude and are pompous.
Consistent readers of modern short stories will
find grounds for agreement with Miss Bowen. A
great deal of remarkably good work is being done,
but two bad tendencies are noticeable ; one towards
mannered treatment, the other towards themes too
slender for the weight that is put on them. So often
at the end of a modern effort one of two questions
arises: “What is in this more than a shopworn theme
turned into a puzzle by a tricky method of narra-
tion?” or “Is this merely a study in making much
out of little?” ,
Broadly speaking, the aim of the modern short
story is to catch a single gleam of the reality that
runs below the surface of events. The satisfaction it
offers the reader is in the penetration shown and
the perfection of the image caught. It is the product
of writers whose freshness of vision put them under
the necessity of fashioning a fresh technique to convey
their ideas. Unfortunately, technique is easy to borrow,
and becomes in the borrower, who hasn’t the com-
pelling need of saying something, merely a manner. -
Also, the modern short story is, quite fortuitously,
plotless. This is another pretty trap. Plotlessness
becomes something to be striven for, a badge of
artistry and of modernity. Nor are unsatisfactory
modern short stories always the work of charlatans
who rush in to capitalise whatever is fashionable or
of younger writers overimpressed by the work of their
elders. The modern short story, of its nature, easily
parodies itself. Its best practitioners have their lapses,
their false moods, their times when inspiration is of
doubtful authenticity and dependence is placed upon
method. , , , ~
The fact is that art, like life, wont submit to
being held down with a formula. The moment the
exponent thinks he is holding Truth with both shoul-
ders on the mat, all he thought he knew becomes
a dead letter—and Truth is behind him waiting for
another bout. Vitality in art is where the artist is
coming to grips with what is—for him- something
fresh and in a way dictated, not by something gone
before, but by the necessities of the moment.
Miss Bowen has made an interesting collection of
stories, though she has included a certain amount of
dead wood. Sacheverell Sitwell’s Annual Visit, which
tells of a girl who endured exalted but unpleasant
social place in order to be able to boast of it to her
friend seems to cover familiar ground in a round-
about way. T. O. Beachcroft’s “The Eyes” conveys
a sense of horror but illuminates nothing. Somerset
Maugham’s “Mr. Know-all,” except for being a trifle
risque, would be eminently suitable for a magazine
a slick bit of mechanism with a click at the end.
O’Flaherty’s “Wounded Cormorant” doesn’t do him
justice. Written from the viewpoint of an observer, it
is hardly more than an expanded nature note.
But those are the low spots. There is much good
work in the remaining 22 stories. The ground indi-
cated in the introduction is satisfactorily covered.
Almost every writer who has made anything of a
mark is represented, except Bates, Mansfield, Kipling
and Wells, who are excluded on the ground of their
being adequately known by their own collections.
Selma Lagerlof's New Novel.
Selma Lagerlof, who is now an old woman, is
a distinguished figure in world literature. She is a
member of the Swedish Academy, the “eighteen im-
mortals,” as they are called, and the only woman
who has ever won the Nobel Prize. The affection and
admiration that her work inspires are a testimonial to
the Swedish character, for it is like some original
spring of sanity, goodness and understanding. She
belongs to no school or coterie ; her genius is indi-
vidual and universal.
Her new novel, Jerusalem (T. Werner Laurie,
translated by Velma Swanston Howard), is cast among
the peasant aristocracy of Dalecarlia. The lives of
these people, bound to the soil, inarticulate, conser-
vative, cut, through generations and centuries, deep
but narrow channels. Living confined lives in the
hard north, mysticism wqs one of the platitudes of
their existence. Their very stubbornness and narrow-
ness laid them open to the hysteria of a religious
revival. It began when the schoolmaster built a
mission hall to the glory of God and his own grati-
fication. “For my part I shouldn’t ask for anything
better than to stand on a platform through all eter-
nity, teaching good and obedient children; and if,
on occasion, our Lord Himself should drop in to hear
me, as pastor has done to-day, no one in heaven would
be more delighted than I.”
The gift for preaching descended now on one,
now on another. The community began to simmer
with excitement. Then there came a revivalist from
America, Helgum, who cured a woman of a nervous
paralysis. There followed an orgy of saintliness and
brotherly love which gradually turned to most bitter
hatreds and feuds between the saved and the unsaved.
Finally the excitement drove the Helgumists in the
direction most at variance with their normal char-
acter and traditions. They sold their farms and their
goods and set out in a body for Jerusalem, there to
live as a holy community, tending the sick and spread-
ing the light of love through the world. _
The story is told quietly, almost hesitatingly. Its
structure is of the loosest, yet once read it comes
together in the imagination as a compact and telling
whole. No professional psychologist with the most
up-to-date equipment of scientific jargon' could lay
bare so surely the roots and ramifications of human
actions; no realist could strip the subject barer than
(Continued on vase S.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS
m
m
m
m
mm
■
1 1UI
Drop-out Style
Continental Style
Drop-out, Enclosed Blind
VERANDAH BLINDS AND AWNINGS
MULTI COLOURED DUCK AND LINEN
72in. multi-coloured Duck and Linen in great variety. The shades: include Orange, Green, Fawn,
Blue, Gold, and Brown. Prices range from 6/11, 7/11, 9/11, 11/6 to 15/6 per yard
Block or broken stripe linen in Brown, Orange, Blue, or Red, 72 ins. wide. Price, yard 8/11
Block or broken stripe English Duck, brown, red and green. 14 oz. weight. Price, yard ...... 7/11
Pure White English Duck:
JHKLJH
All our Blinds are made by experts in our owe
workrooms. The prices are the lowest consistent
with the high grade, dependable materials used in
their construction. Here are some examples of the
genuine savings to be made. -
Famous Low Prices
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
FREE
MAKING OF
ALL BLINDS
During the Sale, all Blinds . . . Holland
Blinds, Verandah Blinds and Awnings
included . . . will be made up free of
charge. You pay for materials and fittings
only. We will send our experienced fitters
to measure and advise in the metropolitan
area.
ESTIMATES FREE
m
7m
sss*&**
cP
dj9
u--
*
{***'>**+**»! 'IMM.V W.I.M
m
m
X t
G
-1
II
6\S5
a
ii t
f*
5
6*3
© Blinds —Third Floor.
Free delivery city and
suburbs only.
Hess
KEEP THEM
OUTSIDE
WITH FLY-PROOF DOORS
Fly proof doors and screens made from straight grain Redwood, quoted in
the White only. Quotation for painting doors and screens available on
application.
No. I. —ln Seasoned Redwood.
Galvanised Gauze. Bronze Gauze.
6. 6 x 2. 6. Price, 13/6. SALE, 11/9. Price, 19/9. SALE, 18/9
6. 8 x 2. 8. Price, 14/3. SALE, 13/-. Price, 21/-. SALE, 20/-
5.10 x 2.10. Price, 15/-. SALE, 14/3. Price, 22/3. SALE, 21/3
7. 0 x 3. 0. Price, 15/9. SALE, 14/9. Price, 24/-. SALE, 22/9
ESTIMATES
FREE
©
No. 2. —ln Seasoned Redwood.
„ „ Galvanised Gauze.
6. 6x2. 6. Price, 15/9.- SALE PRICE, 14/9.
6. Bx 2. 8. Price, 16/9. SALE PRICE, 15/9.
6.10 x 2.10. Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 16/6.
7. ox 3. 0. Price, 18/3. SALE PRICE, 17/-.
No. s. —ln Seasoned Redwood.
„ . „ Galvanised Gauze.
6. 6 x 2. 6. Price, 23/3. SALE PRICE, 22/-.
6. Bx 2. 8. Price, 24/- SALE PRICE, 22/9.
bdO x 2.10. Price 24/9. SALE PRICE, 23/3.
7. ox 3. 0. Price, 25/9 SALE PRICE, 24/-.
Bronze Gauze.
Price, 21/6. SALE PRICE, 20/3
Price, 22/6. SALE PRICE, 21/-
Price, 23/9. SALE PRICE, 22/-
Price, 25/9. SALE PRICE, 24/-
Price,
Price,
Price,
Price,
Bronze Gauze.
28/-. SALE PRICE, 27/-
30/-. SALE PRICE, 28/6
31/-. SALE PRICE, 29/6
33/-. SALE PRICE, 31/3
WRITE FOR
128-PAGE
SALE
CATALOGUE
No. 6— ln Seasoned Redwood, bottom panel in
Galvanised Gauze.
3 ply and top panel in
Bronze Gauze.
22/6. SALE PRICE. 21/6
23/3. SALE PRICE. 22/-
24/6. SALE PRICE. 22/9
25/9. SALE PRICE. 24/6
Bronze Gauze.
22/9. SALE PRICE, 21/3
24/-. SALE PRICE, 22/9
25/3. SALE PRICE. 24/-
27/3. 3ALE PRICE. 25/9
JHKLJH
Postal Ad.: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
’Phone, Day and Night: M 2401.


Dugong Island Faces Trouble
STORMS
drom a TEA.CUP
By FREEMAN
SANDOM.
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
ONE day the entire population of Dugong
Island, as sometimes happens, was in town.
Our fish delivered, the three of us waited on
the wharf for the tide to make.
“Come up for a cup of tea and cakes,” I
suggested. “I’m hungry.”
“Tea and cakes!” jeered Charlie Thompson.
“Make it beer and meat pies!”
“Dot’s right,” agreed old Peter Holzkopf. “Tea
oont gakes vor vomans oont kids iss goot tucker
only.”
“I’m shouting,” said I.
So they came. If dishwater was sold at cham-
pagne price, and provided someone else footed the
bill, Charlie and Peter would drink pots of it with
relish.
Accordingly, in the Green Hat Tearooms they
tucked the despised stuff under their belts in great
style. Towards the end of the meal a lady wearing
horn-rimmed spectacles on the longest, saddest face
I ever saw came up to us.
“Good morning,” she said. “For the benefit of
patrons the proprietor has inaugurated a novelty
service, commencing from to-day. I’m Madame
Clairvois, direct from the Continent and Sydney. In
these despised tea-leaves” —pointing to a cup—“the
occult eye reads secrets of the dim and distant future.
Would you, sir” She looked hard at Charlie.
“Tea-cup reading! ” said he, anticipating an attack
on his purse and putting down a defensive barrage.
“Damned rot, I calls it!”
“The service is free,” said Madame Clairvois, and
I admired her power of reading character.
Before Charlie could adjust his mind to this fresh
aspect of the case Peter thrust his cup into Madame’s
hand.
She thanked him, poured out most of the tea
which remained in the cup, and began to rotate it.
“Clockwise for males,” she murmured with a
glance to old man Peter’s stubbly chin.
Presently she poured out the last drops of fluid
and began an intense scrutiny of the interior of the
cup. Charlie watched her with a sneering, superior
grin, which seemed, however, to cost him a good deal
of effort to keep sneering and superior. Peter’s blue
eyes registered honest admiration mixed with awe.
“Your names,” said Madame Clairvois after a
while, “are two, of two syllables each. I see a ‘p’
and an ‘r,’ ‘h,’ ‘z’ and ‘k’—l think your name is of
Teuton origin.” She paused, pressing hand to fore-
head—a gesture of weariness.
“Ah,” she continued, “your destiny is bound up
with the fishing industry; I think you are a fisherman.
You will shortly cross water —but have no fear; I see
an auspicious ending to your voyage. Nevertheless
you must beware of water —beware, beware! Ah, a
dark man will cross your path ; beware of him! You
will shortly have a visitor who will bring you financial
advantage.”
She put the cup down and rose heavily, as if
exhausted by her labors. “That is all. Next time you
call I’m at your service again, gentlemen. Good-bye.”
“Y/OU hear dot?” said Peter when we were back
* in the street. “Mine name dot goot lady she
read in der cub!”
“Eileen MacCarthy
works in the shop,”
sneered Charlie, “and
she’s known you since
she was a kid.”
“She say I vos ein
fishermans,” said Peter,
paying no attention to
him.
“You smell of fish,” said Charlie.
Under normal conditions a dust-up was on the
cards then, but Peter was too preoccupied to care.
“She say I vos vater to cross,” he continued,
“oont vor ein dark mans to loog oud” here he
glanced at Charlie, whose skin is burnt almost black
by the sun —“oont ein visidor dot Vot vos dot
visidor to bring, Pill?”
“Financial advantage,” I said. “Otherwise,
dough.”
“Dot iss goot!”
Peter was as. pleased as if a cheque was already
in his pocket. For days afterwards he kept his
weather eye peeled for visitors. No boat passed
within sight of Dugong Island without Peter streaking
for his verandah, where a dilapidated telescope, slung
from the roof, was trained seawards. Once when
a strange flattie approached he felt sure the prophecy
was coming true. But the visitor turned out to be
a blackfellow on his way to the mission and only
dying for the want of tobacco.
One morning, to my relief, Madame Clairvois
and all her works were forced from the front line
of Peter’s mind. He came along the beach as fast
as his stumpy old legs could carry him.
“Guick, Pill —guick!” he shouted as he collapsed
exhausted on the verandah steps. “Ein alligador in
mein drap iss. He vill der vire breag, shoor. Gott
in Himmel, for vy you nod hurry?”
“ ‘More hurry, less speed’! ” I quoted, collecting
ropes, a bamboo pole I kept handy for just this
purpose, and a rifle.
The croc, was a good seven feet long. How he
had got through the narrow funnel into the box was
a mystery. He was wedged inside like a sardine in
a tin, the six-pound cod he had come for treading
water, so to speak, quite safe in the vicinity of his
tail.
It took the best part of two hours to rope his
jaws, tail and middle, get him out of the box and
truss him to the bamboo pole. In the struggle Peter
fell overboard. Fortunately, for he could not swim,
the tide by this time was well out and the flat almost
dry. I hauled the old man aboard. Mud from head
to feet, he fastened a slimy grip on my arm, his eyes
almost popping out of his head.
“Pill,” he spluttered, “Missus Clairvoss she say
loog oud vrom der vater!”
“Mud,” I murmured, looking at the animated
lump which clung to me. “If she’d warned you
against mud she’s have hit the nail right on the head.”
If Peter heard he was too preoccupied to argue
the point. He pointed triumphantly to the croc., which
glared balefully at us from the bottom of the flattie.
“Oont dot iss der visidor! Der visidor dot vill for
mineself vinancial dough bring. Schneid he bay doo
guids vor dot von, schoor.”
Schneid is the proprietor of the Lone Bay museum
and holiday resort. He is always on the lookout for
crocs., which draw southern tourists to his place as
treacle draws flies.
Hr HE outcome of it all was that Peter’s faith in
* Madame Clairvois was strengthened. All her
forecasts had come true, he pointed out. He had
crossed water, fallen into water, and here was the
visitor, who not only had brought him dough but, in
a sense, was dough.
“All correct,” I conceded, “except the warning
against the dark man who was to cross your path—
unless that applies to the nigger who bit you for
tobacco.”
I could have kicked myself for having drawn
his attention to this omission. The idea of a dark
man lying in wait to do him an injury seemed to
appeal to his imagination. He played with the thought
at odd moments, dramatised situations in which the
dark man turned up all set for his evil doings but was
cleverly outwitted by Peter and sent about his busi-
ness or, at times, even killed out of hand. Before
long this black peril became his fixed idea ; it slept
with him at night and walked at his back by day.
Fortunately I myself am blonde, but with Charlie
he broke off diplomatic relations at once. Dark
strangers he treated with offensive suspicion, and
during our short stays in town I had my hands full
pulling him out of fights. He even ceased to patronise
Donsky, our fish-dealer, taking his fish to the blonde
opposition—incidentally getting a penny a pound less.
Before long I was heartily sick of his obsession
and tried to break the spell in various ways. Once
I found a black cat awash on the beach and managed
to smuggle it into his trap-box. But it did not work.
“Missus Clairvoss,” Peter maintained, “she say
von dark mans —nod ein cat dot iss dead like von
doornail.”
A black snake in his fowlhouse was not good
enough either, though it killed one of his best Aus-
tralorp layers and then got clear away.
In desperation I called on Madame Clairvois,
who was still practising in the Green Hat, and tried
to persuade her to add a rider to the prophecy. I
suggested that she write Peter a note to the effect that
subsequent researches in tea-leaves had revealed that
the words “beware of a dark man” should properly
be followed by “or a black cat or a black snake.”
But she left in a huff, threatening to inform the pro-
prietor of my insulting behavior.
“‘Beware of a dark man’, hey?” said Donsky
when I explained the position to him. “So that’s why
old Dutchie takes his fish to Winterbottom! Let’s
see, now” He leaned his elbows on the counter
between us, toying absentmindedly with the tail of
a silver bream I had just brought. “It shouldn’t be
hard to put it over Dutchie I’ve got it!” In
excitement of discovery he tossed the bream into his
basket.
“Sorry!” he apologised, and returned it when I
pointed out that my fish were not yet weighed and
paid for. But here’s the scheme: How’ll it be if I
write a letter from this here Maddom What’s-her name
to Peter! ‘Dear Sir,’ I write, ‘an unforchnit mistake’s
happened. Them tea-leaves, as in course you know,
coming from Ceylon, ain’t got the hang of English
properly, and, as in course you know, Cingalese for
dark is fair, so I must respectfully beg to tell you
that when I said “beware of a dark man” I made a
mistake, because it should have been “beware of a
fair man.” Yours truly, Maddom What’s-her-name.’
How’s that, Bill? That should settle Sandy Winter-
bottom’s hash, hey?”
“Great!” said I “for you! Then we would
have it all over again, only old Peter would be looking
for the scalp of a fair inan this time. Also —in case
you haven’t noticed it —I’m a bit on the fair side my-
self.”
“All right, all right,” growled Donsky. “Only
it means money to me, see? With you, wot you
care wot old Dutchie thinks? ... All right, all right!
Give me time and I’ll think of something. I alius
does.”
WE were back to the status quo. For several days
nothing of importance happened. Then, I
thought, Peter began to look worried, and one morn-
ing he brought his troubles along as usual.
“Pill,” he began, “you hear somedings?”
It takes time to get the drift of Peter’s remarks
on occasions.
“Hear?” I repeated. “Sure. I hear you, seagulls,
wind, breakers”
“Nod dot, schtoopid! In der night you hear
somedings, hey?”
“Sure. Curlews wailing, crocs. barking,
crickets”


“Gott im Himmel! Vot iss der madder mit you?
Somedings nod vrom der usual Donnerund-
blitzen! ”
“No, Peter. What have you heard?”
“Noddings,” he said. “Nod mooch. Only in
der boosh I hear somedings like von mans grawl,
grawl on his belly like von schnake, Pill. Bud I haf
somedings seen, also! • Der dracks vrom von boad in
der sand, oont dracks vrom der foots vrom von blag-
feller, yah! ”
“ ‘Beware of a dark man,’ ” I quoted maliciously.
“Ach, you dinks dot?”
“Madame Clairvois’s policy come true at last —
and thank the gods for that!” But he looked so
scared that I had no heart to go on with the joke.
“Come on, Peter, don’t be a baby. You know blacks
come and go. He was a dugong-hunter, most likely,
ashore for a spear handle or something.”
I thought no more of it until that night, when
something happened which seemed to explain the
tracks satisfactorily and to give the whole business
an unexpected turn.
I had rowed out to the submerged coral reef off
Red Bluff, attending to my crayfish-pots there. There
was no moon, and the stars were hidden behind a
blanket of dense woolpack clouds. The job finished,
I hoisted the flattie’s sail to the fresh land-breeze, lit
my pipe and settled down comfortably by the tiller.
Approaching Peter’s trap, but well out, I fancied I
heard a familiar noise: creaking of rope over roller
as a trap-box is being hoisted aloft. No light showed,
and Peter was unlikely to mess about in there in the
dark. My curiosity was sufficiently tickled for me to
bear in to investigate.
The outline of the trap appeared as a long, thin
smudge against the water, with boxes and winding-
gear frames standing out like knots on a line. Near
enough, I flashed the beam of the torch I had brought
for the crayfishing on the outer box. On the high
stage, hands on the long spokes of the roller, stood
a man. For a moment he remained still, as if para-
lysed by the sudden light, then he swung round. His
eyes, blinking, shone white in a face as black as tar.
Suddenly he let go his grip on the gear, the
spokes whirling and the box dropping like a stone,
smacking into the water and sinking to the bottom.
Simultaneously he jumped. Following with the beam,
I saw him land in the flattie tied to the stage, undo
the painter hurriedly, unship oars and begin to row
like mad.
My first feeling was surprise to find a blackfellow
at this pinching game. The abo. of the coastal north
is generally as honest as the day. Next came disgust
at this mean sneak-thieving by night. If the fellow
was hungry he could drop a line overside, spear a
dugong or ask for a feed. I decided to teach him a
lesson.
I had already swung the tiller over in preparation
for going about when an idea struck me. I brought
the tiller back again, picked the strenuously-rowing
abo. out with the beam and shouted reassuringly:
“It’s all right, Jacko! You come back. I go now.”
I flashed the torch on the sail to show I was
bearing off, and soon had the satisfaction of hearing
him stop rowing. I chuckled contentedly and lit my
pipe, which had gone out in the excitement of the
last few minutes.
It was a pretty good scheme, this one of Donsky’s,
I reflected. The tracks of a blackfellow’s feet in the
sand, tracks of a boat, rustlings in the bush around
Peter’s humpy and now the robbing of his trap were
links in the chain of evidence which would prove to
Peter that Madame Clairvois’s dark man had come,
done his injury and departed. Hence there was no
further need for being ware of a darkie—l would help
make Peter’s mind up to that —Donsky would get his
fish as before, and peace would reign once more on
Dugong Island. Of course the stolen fish would be
honestly paid for. I knew Donsky well enough for
that.
COR four days following this incident fish were
* scarce and I did not go to town. The few pounds
I did catch I kept in the live-box. On the fifth day,
however, my tucker was getting short and the trip
became necessary.
I picked Donsky up in the pub adjoining his
premises, and, as always with a few under his belt,
he was talkative, royally independent, but a little
touchy. As we walked shopwards I congratulated
him on the success of his scheme. Peter had calmed
down, I . said. He seemed satisfied that the black peril
had vanished, and
“Scheme? What scheme?” He was staring at
me blankly.
“Pull yourself together, Donsky,” I said. “I’m
speaking of the blackfellow you sent out to frighten
Peter and to rob his trap —pretty smart.”
We were in the shop by this time. He glared
at me over the counter.
“You accusing me of robbing Dutchie’s trap?”
he asked dangerously.
“Come on, now,” I soothed; “you haven’t lost
your memory, have you?”
“Lost Look here, Bill, the trouble with you
is you’re drunk —but not drunk enough to be sensible.
Comeandhaveadrink! ”
“Wait a minute,” I said. “You know Peter is
taking his fish to Winterbottom because Madame
Clairvois warned him against a dark man. And you
were working out a scheme”
“Scheme be hanged!” said Donsky. “I ain’t had
a scale of Dugong Island fish for pretty well a week,
and I don’t care a damn if I never get one!” He
flung a hand in a sweeping, royal gesture.
“Kingfish season is on, boy!” said Donsky, “and
my freezer is full of the beauties! Damn Dutchie
and his fish, and comeandhaveanodder!”
“Weigh my fish,” I said, “and pay me. I’ve got
to get back.”
So that was it! That damned blackfellow had
buccaneered on his own account. And not only had
I —l had to grin at the thought of it —allowed him
to get away, having caught him red-handed, but I
had actually invited him to return and help himself!
No wonder there had been no fish in Peter’s trap or
in mine or in Charlie’s for the last four days. The
abo probably thought I was another marauder, so he
bucked in for the lion’s share.
On the trip home I worked out a scheme to catch
the thief that night. Peter and Charlie must be told
—and what a row there would be! We would sur-
round him with our combined forces, a motor-boat
from north, one from south and one from east con-
verging on the scene ; run the culprit down if he
attempted to get away.
But we never caught him. Whether he smelt a
rat or had decided, having made a good enough stake,
to quit while the going was good, I never learnt.
Still, apart from the few quid lost, I was satisfied.
For the storms from the teacup had subsided. The
troubled waters of Peter’s mind had calmed down,
and, while he still blamed the world at
large for his mishaps, and suspected all
and sundry of harboring designs on his
purse, these were only the normal grum-
blings of a contented man, with no finger
pointed with offensive emphasis to men
of dark, fair or brindle complexion.
And the danger of mischief from
further prophecies had passed. Madame
Clairvois had returned to the “Continent
and Sydney” under a cloud. As the pro-
prietor of the Green Hat put it, “She
costa da too mooch money and bringa
da plenty troobel, so she getta da flaming
sack.”
It took the best part of two hours to rope his jaws, tail and middle and truss him to the bamboo pole.
GARDENING
BY G. C. B.
WHEN Mrs. Raggles began peepin’ through the
fence at the Worthingtons’ vegetable garden
and then lookin’ back at our little bit of
green stuff and shakin’ ’er ’ead at it, I could
see wot she ’ad in mind, so I mentions casual that
vegetables is so cheap these days it’s a waste of time
growin’ ’em.
“Vegetables from the shop ain’t the same as wot
you grow in your own garden,” she ses. “You’ll
notice the difference when you ’ave your first taste
of ’ome-grown vegetables.”
“Well, please yourself, Emma,” I ses, good-
’umored. “If you’re thinkin’ of takin’ up gardenin’
I ain’t goin’ to try and stop”
“I’m thinkin’ of you takin’ up gardenin’,” she
ses. “I got some seeds to-day wot you can plant on
Monday, so you’d better get busy over the week-end
and clean out them weeds. We’re startin’ with
radishes because Mr. Worthington says they’re easy
to grow.”
“Emma,” I ses quietly, “I’m a ratcatcher, not a
greengrocer, and my motter is ‘Live and let live.’
’Ow would you like Tony Dominico to start catchin’
rats in ’is spare time?”
“Mr. Worthington ’as promised to tell you any-
thing you don’t know,” she goes on, not listenin’.
“He offered to lend you ’is gardenin’ tools, too, but
I bought a bit of ’ose and a spade and a gardenin’
fork to-day.”
Seein’ she ’ad gone that far I thought I might
as well start gardenin’, and bein’ one of them men
wot always throws themselves ’ole-’earted into wot-
ever they’re doin’ I sets about the job proper.
Over the week-end I roots up every one of them
weeds and piles ’em up to dry, and on Monday at
lunch-time I ’urries out and burns ’em up so I could
’ave a clear start in the evenin’. They couldn’t ’ave
been quite dry enough, judgin’ by the smoke ; but
that was no excuse for the way Mrs. Raggles talked
as she raced about the yard tearin’ ’er washin’ off
the line. When I tries to explain that if she wants
a garden she’ll ’ave to expect a cleanin’-up fire every
f Continued on next page.)


now and again she argues back so bad-tempered with,
’er copper-stick that I beat a ’asty retreat, as the
sayin’ is.
She was in a better mood that evenin’, especially
when she stood by watchin’ me toilin’ away plantin’
them seeds. Worthingt n kept poppin’ ’is ’ead over
and pointin’ out me mistakes, and I got so fed up
that I grits me teeth and decides to show im that
I m just as good a gardener as wot he is when I puts
me mind to it.
I went to see old Stewart, the council gardenei,
next ay, and after I ad talked tackful about is
gardens and lawns'and give im a couple of pipes
fertiliser 00 m ° ™ e ® “°™ $P
It’s always ’ad me beat wot makes flowers smell
so nice, and now I'm more beat than ever. I ’ad 'arf
the bar of the Shelterin’ Palm to meself that evenin’,
and them wot was ’uddled in the other ’arf com-
plained so bitter that I left earlier than usual and
went straight ’ome and buried the ’ole lot of that
fertiliser in the garden. It was just as well I did, too,
because even the little bit wot got spilt on me trousers
made IMrs. Raggles sniff and accuse me of carryin’
dead rats in me pockets, a thing I very rarely does.
But in spite of its ’orrible smell that stuff did its
work proper. Them radishes come on wonderful,
and Mrs. Raggles was so pleased that she praised
me up and spoke as nice to me as she used to before
she was Mrs. Raggles. She ’ad a feed of ’em every
chance she got, and as I couldn’t eat none on account
of gettin’ fed up with the sight of ’em in the garden
day after day I told ’er to give my share to Mr.
Worthington just to show ’im wot sort of gardener
I was.
A T first he wouldn’t believe I’d grown ’em, but
when he was convinced nothin’ would suit ’im
but to find out ’ow I’d managed it.
“I ’ave me own methods, Mr. Worthington,” I
ses. “I uses a special fertiliser, but I ain’t at liberty
to tell you ’ow I come by it, because, strictly speakin’,
wot I uses belongs to the council. I don’t mind gettin’
you some, but it ain’t the sort of stuff you can leave
lyin’ around the ’ouse on account of its smell. You’ll
’ave to bury it as soon as I give it to you.”
“I don’t mind a bit of a smell, Raggles,” he ses,
very eager. “Can you get me some to-morrer?”
“I’ll do me best, Mr. Worthington,” I ses.
But it wasn’t easy to get around old Stewart again.
WJien I told ’im I ’ad buried the ’ole lot in one go
he near ’ad a fit, and told me that wot he ’ad given
me should ’ave lasted six months with care; and in
the end he give me a tiny bit ’ardly worth carryin’
away.
I ’anded the bag over the fence to Worthington
that evenin’, tellin’ ’im not to say a word to no one,
and after he ’ad thanked me —’oldin’ is nose while he
did it —I goes in to tea.
But I’d ’ardly got started when I ’ears somebody
in the backyard, and when I opens the door in rushes
Worthington carryin’ the bag of fertiliser and roarin’
with temper.
“You dirty old scoundrel!” he shouts. “Wot
do you mean by givin’ me this bag of filth?”
“Mr. Worthington,” I ses, drawin’ meself up.
“ ’Ow dare you come into my ’ouse like this! I give
you just wot I’ve been usin’ meself. I told you the
smell wasn’t nice, but it’s doing the job of growin’
vegetables proper, and that’s all that matters.”
“You—you used it!” he ses, faint, and goin’ pale.
“You used it, and I ’ad some of them radishes! No
wonder you wouldn’t eat ’em yourself. I ought to
’ave the law on you, you”
“Wot are you talkin’ about?” ses Mrs. Raggles,
sharp, puttin’ ’arf a radish back on ’er plate and
starin’ at ’im.
“This!” shouts Worthington.
He tips the bag up, and out comes a tiny bit of
fertiliser wot you could ’ardly see, and me day’s catch
wot I ’ad forgot to take out.
Mrs. Raggles looks from them to the ’arf-eat
radish, ’er. eyes stickin’ out; then with a ’orrible
scream she claps ’er ’and over ’er mouth and rushes
out to the wash-’ouse.
I ’ad a ’ard back-breakin’ job in the garden next
week-end, but when I give that patch of cement a
final smoothin’ over I ’ad the pleasure of knowin’ that
it was the last bit of work I’d ever do in that garden.
Brief Drama
THE BEACON
By Andrew Stewart.
DRAWING BY DUBOIS.
THERE was an unearthly pallor in the Old Man’s
face and his eyes beneath the brim of his drip-
ping sou’-wester were unnaturally bright. Tim
Bellairs noticed it more as day wore into night,
and felt uneasy.
tt ./*,.« * . . ~ x .
hiS
of the crankv freighter H th Old M ’l'
move and the wind hrn mht h V th h' “Th
move, and the wind brought back the whisper: The
last eight bells, old girl! The last eight bells!”
Bellairs frowned. Old Gunther shouldn’t have
been standing watch, of course, but it was useless to
reason w “ h hm And if he wouldn't listen
A spiteful sea climbed aboard ’from abeam.
Bellairs savaged the wheel to eet the helm un and
-jlud.iis savdgeu me wneei to get tne neim up, and
the old ship answered slowly, reluctantly. Somehow
; e . colddn t help thinking of them as one the old
skipper and the old ship. Perhaps Because they were
so much alike—gaunt, sea-weary, nearing the end of
their tether Me wendereri tee ™,i-,o+
. , J* , wondered, too, what would become
shiphe ° ld Man n ° W that they had taken aWay WS
a , . t . , , , ,
month ago the authorities had come aboard
an con emned her. The problem had been what to
do with her, for she was not worth the cost of
breaking up Then the people at Kawhia said they
would take her to sink at their new breakwater It
was the old Mohakas last voyage. They were taking
Old Johnny Gunther Cranky Johnny had
taken it philosophically enough, but Bellairs had no
doubt as to the severity of the blow. The Old Man’s
only comment was 111 take her down myself. Must
see the old girl buried.
“A damn’ shame! ” Bellairs grated. “They
might have left her with him! Doin’ no one no
harm!”
T UST after night-
fall a big sea
tore the for’ard
winch from its
groggy fastenings.
“Get the torch
from under my
pillow,” Bellairs said
to Mick Souness,
“take a couple of
hands from the
engineroom an’ see
if you can get a
lashin’ on that winch
on the fo’c’sle-head
before she rolls into
the for’ard well-deck
an’ punches our bulwarks out.”
Half an hour later Souness reported
the winch secure. The Old Man was at
the wheel, while Bellairs went out into
the starboard wing to see if he could pick up the flash
of the Cape beacon.
And if they didn’t see that light soon they never
would that night, Bellairs knew, for the weather was
thickening, the range of visibility growing less and
less. Then the wind had veered round suddenly;
that always brought “dirt” in the Strait, and consider-
able inshore drift.
Bellairs shaded his eyes from the stinging
spindrift and leaned far out, seeking the light; but
there was only the hail-swept darkness. He groped
his way back and watched the Old Man.
If old Gunther was worried he didn’t show it.
And that troubled Bellairs, for in the circumstances
any normal man should have been worried. Gunther
might know where he was, but Bellairs doubted it.
“I’d give my eyes for a glimpse of that light,”
Bellairs said, peering into the wild smother.
The skipper turned dazedly, as though awakened
from a deep sleep. “The light? What light?”
“Why—why, the Cape beacon.”
“The Cape beacon?” old Gunther said incredu-
lously. “What’s wrong with you, Tim? Haven’t I
been steerin’ by her for the past hour? There she
is, just off the starb’d bow, flashin’ out like a lonely
star.”
Bellairs stared until the ice-pellets closed his eyes.
There was no light.
“Funny thing about it, though,” the Old Man
said musingly, “I don’t seem to be able to bring her
any further up.”
Bellairs breathed hard. He was certain now that
there was something wrong with the Old Man. He
worried about the drift that must be taking them
inshore, and found himself listening for the deeper
boom of the breakers.
Archie McAuliffe came up from the engineroom.
Bellairs drew him aside. “Take a look over there,
Mac, just off the starb’d bow, an’ tell me if I’m wrong
about seein’ the light.”
McAuliffe stared across the hail-swept dodger,
then turned. “If you can see a light out there your
eyes are better’n mine.
I don’t reckon any
man could see it
through that even if
there was one.”
“Then it’s bad,
Mac. The Old Man
has been seein’ a light
for the past hour, an’
he’s steerin’ by it.”
“Drunk?” McAuliffe
said.
“No. Gone queer in the
nut, I reckon. I’ve suspected it all day.”
“Well, that’s only half our trouble. I’m down
to the last of my coal. We bunkered nothin’ to spare,
you know —only enough to take us down.”
Bellairs went back to the wheel. “We’ve got to
make it soon, Cap. McAuliffe is out of coal.”
“The light—she’s there . . . still off the bow...
But why the hell can’t I bring her up?”
“P’raps because there’s no light, Cap. You
know how it is? Sometimes a man’ll see anythin’
if it’s in his mind an’ he looks long enough.”
“No light ... no light... You must be mad,
Tim!”
A queer expression came over the Old Man’s
face. He wrenched up the wheel. Bellairs saw the
compass-needle swing wildly across the card. A beam
sea crashed aboard, racking the ship to her keel-
bolts. For a moment Bellairs thought she was gone.
“God!” burst from old Gunther. “I’ve altered
course, an’ it’s still there . . . still there . . . off the
starb’d bow!”
The skipper’s face was ghastly, lead-colored in
the binnacle-light. He savaged the wheel again, got
the helm up, slumped suddenly and collapsed over the
wheel. McAuliffe helped Bellairs to prise the Old
Man’s fingers free from the spokes. He heard
McAuliffe’s voice: “He’s a goner, Tim —dead!”
Bellairs stiffened at the wheel, dashed the spray
from his eyes and blinked incredulously. The light
flashed faintly and disappeared as the ship drove
deep and another sea broke white over the head.
Then it flashed out again.
There was no superstition in Bellairs, yet some-
thing queer seemed to come over him. Obviously
that light could be seen only from behind the wheel.
Obviously, too, it was not the Cape beacon. Then
what was it? ...
The old ship slammed her bows under again,
lifted and rolled with her own peculiar corkscrew
motion. The light, a mere pin-point, flashed again.
Bellairs turned the wheel cautiously so as to
bring her off a shade. When he next saw the light
it should be farther abeam. He calculated the exact
position. It winked again, as though from a long
way out, but still in the same position, just off the
starboard bow.
“Mac!” he yelled. “Stand behind me —directly
behind the wheel. Watch for the light, just off the
bow. .. See it?”
“No,” said McAuliffe after the interval in which
the vessel plunged again and tried to shed her screw.
“Neither can I —now,” Bellairs said. “But I’ll
swear I saw it, Mac.”
Bellairs watched through hail-flogged eyes, but he
saw the light no more.
j_l E was still thinking about the light ;as he packed
l * his gear prior to going ashore. Mick Souness
came in.
“This is yours, Tim,” he said. “Thought I’d lost
it overboard last night when we shipped a big one
and I had to hang on with both hands. Found it this
morning close to the for’ard winch. Must have left
the switch on. Battery’s burnt out.”


The Way Things Go
GARDEN
IN THE
LOO
By MARGARET HILARY
FANE AND LOFTINC
DRAWING BY WILBOW.
ttl I AYE a nice slice of tomato, Albert? Or a
r 1 couple of beans?”
I Albert, sitting on the table, sneered
viciously before he wagged his tail in apology.
Tilda’s bitter, weather-beaten gaze flickered from
Albert to Clifford Mimbles, deep in his book, and
back to Albert. “Daddy’s a gardener now,” she told
him, “and we’re all vegetarians. No more beefsteak,
Albert —nothing so coarse.”
Her glance flickered over Cliff’s bowed head
once more. “You can tell by the way he can’t spare
us any of his chat even at meals what a thing this
gardening is, can’t you, Albert? Twenty-four hours
a day. If Daddy does have to sit down once in a
while with his family he buries himself in the
book”
“It’s a blight,” he said. “The leaves”
“I should think it was,” she interrupted wearily.
“A small insect —a bug”
“My oath,” she agreed again, but Cliff was back
in the book.
“There you are, Albert,” she went on to the
Pom. still sitting hopefully on the edge of the table ;
“it’s a blight and a bug. When I told Daddy that
the old outhouses and fowl-pen in the backyard were
fire-traps as well as damned ugly he tore ’em out.
And he caught the bug. ‘Nice bit o’ soil,’ he said,
looking over it like a squatter. ‘What for?’ I asked
him. ‘Oh, grow a few veg.—tomatoes, murphies,
beans.’ ‘What for?’ I asked him again. ‘We’re not
broke—we c’n buy ’em’ ”
Cliff shut his book and passed his cup over.
“So then, Albert” —she. passed the cup back->-
“Daddy shaved twice a year and washed three times.
He used to be a shrewdy who kicked hell out of the
place if he didn’t get a clean shirt four times a week ;
if he wore a suit three days it had to be pressed—
you remember, Albert. Do let me press you to a
slice of tomato”
“Vegetables are good for ’im —good for ’is blood.
You c’n see it in any book,” Cliff put in.
“There you are!” she said triumphantly to the
puzzled, uncertain Albert. “Good for yer blood.”
She rounded suddenly on Cliff, her haggard,
steady gaze full of scorn. “How does it feel to be
a dirty, sleepy, sloppy old man?” she asked.
“Keep yer dirty tongue off me. If it’s dirt”'
“Why?” she shot at him. “I stand by an’ tip me
lid while I watch me lord fall to pieces—is that it?”
Cliff put down his cup. “Listen, Tilda —what
harm does it”
“None,” she cut in again. “I like it. A dirty
loafer under me feet for eighteen months is quite
O.K. by me.” She stared furiously at him. “Why
wouldn’t it be?”
“Look,” he shifted unhappily in his chair, “I’m
fifty-five, an’ there’s no reason for me to go on
buckin’ the game... I mean, we’re not broke”...
She laughed. “I get it — you’ve
retired! Why should you wait till you’re
seventy or seventy-five, like the other poor
blokes? You’re Clifford Mimbles—what’s
a little thing like twenty years to you?
Not a bagsnatcher or a little con.-man
who spends half his life in quod, but
Clifford Mimbles”
“Shut up!” Cliff ordered. But her
bitter, strident voice poured out in a rising
tide of fury.
“You’ve reformed! ” she cried. “Gawd
above us and all His little apples—d’you
remember, when you’d worked out the layout of a
new job, how you used to come home on yer toes, all
alight, with a big bunch o’ flowers for me an’ all the
cops on earth the dirt under yer feet? An’ look at
you—slumped over yer tea like a farmer! Where’s
the danger that used to kick twice as much life into
you as other men’s? Gone!” she screamed. “Gone
—like yer clean hands and yer clean face, yer dirty
old”
“Shut up! ” he ordered again. “It’s your tongue
that’s dirty, like I told you. You can’t buy tomatoes
nor beans nor marrows nor pumpkins like mine in
the ’Loo. An’ you get ’em for nix. What’s wrong
with that?”
“Nothing,” she. said wearily, her voice heavy with
scorn. “I told you—I like a dead man about the
place, so long as ’e’s dirty enough”
“Hell!” Cliff pushed his chair back viciously
and started for his garden. At least there was silence
there.
But at the back door he bumped into a narrow-
faced boy. “Mr. Blitz says will you come round to
Baxter’s this evening, Mr. Mimbles. He said to say
it was important”
“No. Tell ’im I can’t,” Cliff began.
“Tell ’im ’e’s reformed,” Tilda’s bitter voice
called from the kitchen. “There isn’t a hope.”
Cliff glanced at the boy’s expressionless face.
“All right. Say I’ll be there around seven-thirty,
son.”
'T' ILDA was putting Albert out for his bedtime
1 run when Cliff got back. “What did Rory Blitz
want —was it a job?” she asked.
“Yes.” Cliff hung up his hat and started upstairs
to bed.
“Taking it on?”
“Yes. Satisfied?” He didn’t wait for her
answer.
Albert squirmed in her arm. “O.K., Albert,”
she told him. “But I don’t see any bunches of
flowers for ladies kickin’ about, do you?”
fi<F ~r HAT’S what you get for stickybeaking, Albert.
* Three months... They couldn’t catch ’im on
the main charge, but they tied a point of law to him:
‘Suspect on premises.’ ” For a moment Tilda’s face
was bleak with regret. “Clifford Mimbles, ‘suspect
on premises,’ as if ’e was a cat burglar!
“He was a mess with his dungarees an’ ’is books
an’ ’is blood-and-bone, stuffing vegetables down our
necks; but ’e was ’ere at home with us, an’ not
stuffing skilly down his own neck in Bathurst. Sticky-
beaking” ... Her lower lip trembled a moment.
“One thing, Albert,” she told him, “his garden
shan’t suffer. We’ll keep it going for ’im. When ’e
comes home ’e won’t know ’e’s been in”
j F was no slouch of a job to get the strength of
1 this gardening, but when you did get into it there
was more in it than you’d think. She didn’t blame
him for his bug. She pored over the books, chatted
with old Mrs. Casey next door—who used to live
up-country and knew gardening backwards and
finally fenced in a bit of Mrs. Casey’s backyard,
adding it to Cliff’s. Here she had a crop of late
marrows coming on. She was proud of the plants,
proud of the strong, clean leaves and their deep color.
Cliff’s second-crop tomatoes were as firm and
large and juicy as his first, if she did say it herself.
She was having a shot at autumn and winter tomatoes
in the top bit of Mrs. Casey’s patch, under the wall
where they got the sun. The beans were done, of
course ; she was preparing their ground for a root
crop.
Albert wasn’t interested. He’d been fed up with
this vegetable business before Cliff went away ; now
it was a whole-time job seven days a week he cut it
dead. But one day she told him “He’s due home
to-day, Albert. Wonder how he’ll like his garden.
We’ve made a fair job of it.” A moment her earth-
grimed hand smoothed the book’s cover, her eyes
looking far away—twenty-five years away. Presently
they came back to the earth-grimed hand. “I must
go and clean up, Albert. He’ll be here any minute
now.”
In the bathroom she heard the back door opened,
heard a quick, firm step down the hall, heard Albert
go stone-mad at the top of his voice. Cliff! She
heard him dump a parcel on the hall table, go into
the kitchen, into the sitting-room
“Tilda! Where are you?”
She dried her hands, fled downstairs.
He was a symphony in autumn colors • brown
suit, brown socks, shoes ; orange tie and handker-
chief. Must have bought a rig-out on his way from
the station. But his face was alight; he was twenty
years younger. On his toes, handsome as a picture.
“Hullo,” she said. “I expected you earlier”
“I know,” he cut in. “I stopped in to see Rory
and Heiny on me way. Listen, Tilda, I’ve got a
dandy! Nosey Blake put me on to it at Bathurst”
“Yes”... She filled her spirit with another long
look at this splendid ghost of other years. “But it’s
dark now”...
He stared at her, the energy quickening him. “I
know it’s dark. Why shouldn’t it be? Have they
cut off yer light or something?”
“N 0... Oh, well,” she smiled tentatively at
him, “I —I’ve got a lantern. I wanted you to see your
garden”
“Listen, mate!” The throbbing energy surged
back. “It’s fool-proof! There’s just one soft spot,
changing trains at Albury” He paused, staring
at her again. “Garden?” he said. “What garden?”
“Look, Cliff, you didn’t lose yer mind at
Bathurst, did you? Your garden— at the back.”
“Oh.” The energy narrowed. “Yes. That.
Put me off me job, watered me down... And these
little copper boys come along an’ nip me before I
get to work. Not on me toes.” He shook his head.
“O.K. Let them have a look at this one”...
Tilda felt the thrill touch her as of old. The
dry, hard edge was on his quiet voice. She sighed,
content; here, at home again, was the only thing
she feared and loved on earth.
He looked up and laughed. “Half a moment!”
He strode into the hall, came back with his arms full
of roses. “Bunch o’ flowers for a lady,” he said.
“Ta.” She buried her face in the fragrance.
“Now sit down. I’m on me toes now —I can’t
go by car, because the bloke’s travelling by train,
and I”
“Hold yer horses —be right back.” Her bitter,
radiant glance fell on Albert. “Beefsteak again,
Albert,” she promised him. “Come an’ get a couple
o’ vases.”


this gentle idealist. Out of the crucible the story
emerges in pathos, ugliness and nobility.
Transfixing this dramatic analysis of hysteria and
pinning it to the earth is a counterplot, the tale of
the Ingmar Ingmarssons, the peasant family that had
given more leaders to the parish than any other. They
remain true to their land, but that loyalty costs young
Ingmar his love and his honor. Fanaticism of any
kind has to be paid for.
The book, for all its quietness, has moments of
dramatic intensity: when the first Ingmar brings back
his bride from prison ; the shipwreck that seems so
remote from the main thread of the story, but is
really so close knit to it; the auction scene when
young Ingmar decides that no sacrifice is too great
for his land. The end, the departure of the “Jeru-
salem-farers,” has the ring of noble and matured
pathos. The Swedish setting, with its picture of life
undisturbed through centuries and as yet unpene-
trated by mass-produced mechanical culture, has a
charming fairy-tale quality.
The translation leaves something to be desired
with its occasional intrusion of jarring Americanisms
and of words and terms gleaned from a world obvi-
ously alien to the story.
A Scotch Hidalgo.
R. B. Cunninghame Graham’s biographer, A. F.
Tschiffely, suggests in Don Roberto (Heinemann) that
a hunting accident probably started it all. The acci-
dent happened to Don Roberto’s father, Major William
Bontine, of the Scots Greys ; it was only in the em-
bracing nature of Grahamish incongruity |that it
should have happened near Ballinasloe, in Ireland.
Just by way of rounding out this matter of a
Graham whose biographer is a Tschiffely and whose
father was a Bontine, it can be added here that Ber-
nard Shaw, an expatriate Irishman who may or may
not have had hunting accidents in his family, acknow-
ledged the source of Captain Brassbound’s Conver-
sion to be Graham’s Mogreb-El-Acksa, a book about
Morocco, and in doing so had this to say about Robert
Bontine Cunninghame Graham of Gartmore, big-
hearted Scottish laird, ex-revolutionary soldier, gaucho,
rider of wild horses, rancher, horse- and cattle-dealer,
prospector, frontiersman, fencing-master, store-
assistant, buffalo-hunter, explorer, keen reader and
writer of books, wearer for a while of the broad arrow
and member of the House of Commons:
He is, I understand, a Spanish hidalgo, hence the
superbity of his portrait by Lavery (Velazquez being
no longer available). He is, I know, a Scotch laird.
How he continues to be authentically the two things at
the same time is no more intelligible to me than the
fact that everything that has ever happened to him
seems to have happened in Paraguay or Texas instead
of Spain or Scotland. He is, I regret to add, an im-
penitent and unashamed dandy ; such boots, such a
hat, would have dazzled D’Orsay himself. With that
hat he once saluted me in Regent-street when I was
walking with my mother. Her interest was instantly
kindled, and the following conversation ensued: “Who
is that?” “Cunninghame Graham.” “Nonsense,
Cunninghame Graham is one of your Socialists. That
man is a gentleman.”
Later on somebody told him of Tarudant, a city in
Morocco in tvhich no Christian had ever set foot.
Concluding that it must be an exceptionally desirable
place to live in, he took ship and horse; changed
the hat for a turban; and made straight for the sacred
city, via Mogador. How he fared, and how he fell
into the hands of the Caid of Kintafi, who rightly held
that there was more danger to Islam in one Cunning-
hame Graham than in a thousand Christians, may be
learnt from his account of it in Mogreb-El-Acksa,
without which Captain Brassbound’s Conversion would
never have been written.
It appears that- in the hunting accident in Ireland
Major Bontine of the Scots Greys was more seri-
ously damaged than he felt. He laughed and joked
about the accident, little dreaming, as Mr. Tschiffely
says, that “a tiny splinter of his fractured skull would
influence the whole life of his yet unborn son and
heir, whose career was to be as exciting as that of
the most glamorous hero of any cloak-and-sword
romance in fiction ; a son who was to be built by
nature for his part in life, as no producer of stage
or film drama ever cast a character.” It is somewhat
a pity that, with such a subject to work on, Mr.
Tschiffely did not forget his imagined shortcomings
for the job and wade right in to projecting a straight-
forward objective account of his picturesque hero,
instead of starting out feeling, as he puts it, “as a
weakling might on being asked to climb an uncon-
quered mountain peak, clad only in a bathing suit.”
Mr. Tschiffely is an altogether better writer than
that extraordinary bit of imagery might suggest, as
it should be possible to show presently. In any case,
even a bad writer could not help but be interesting
with such a character as R. B. Cunninghame Graham
as his hero.
The apparent mix-up of the Bontine and the
Graham is simply explained. It is the family custom,
under provisions of an old entail, for the eldest son
to bear the surname and arms of Bontine during the
lifetime of his father. Antiquarians among them
Andrew Lang always called R. B. Cunninghame
Graham the Uncrowned King, for, according to them,
as the rightful heir of Menteith (in view of the illegi-
timacy of the Stuart line), he could claim the crown
of Scotland by descent from Robert 11.
Be that as it may, Don Roberto grew up magni-
ficently, with schooling in Brussels and elsewhere.
Then, with Don Roberto by now an upstanding youth,
a friend of the family turned up with a story of
immense and immediate fortune to be made in the
Argentine. Thither, on the track of what turned out
to be extremely elusive wealth, went Don Roberto,
to be conscripted into revolutionary fighting and have
other wild and woolly adventures before returning to
his native heath at Gartmore, wearing his hair flowing
down over his shoulders, to the astonishment and joy
of civilised—or, at any rate, barbered —Caledonia.
Of his subsequent adventures in South America
and elsewhere —merely to give the tightest possible
list of them would fill this page —his biographer strings
together a succession of lively chapters. Meanwhile
Don Roberto had met and married Gabrielle de la
Balmondiere, born in Chile of a French father and
Spanish mother; and it would be a safe bet that if
he could have managed it Don Roberto would have
had a Lama of Tibet there to marry them. There
is a beautiful portrait in the book of Don Roberto’s
Gabrielle. It is by Jacomb Hood ; and it seems by
now simply a matter of course that the hands in this
portrait should have been done, as they were, by
Whistler.
When they came into Gartmore it was saddled
with a debt of £lOO,OOO, which they cheerfully set out
to pay off ; it proved too much for them in the long
run. They also adventured together to Texas and
elsewhere in search of a fortune, and to keep the wolf
they mostly met from the door Don Roberto in one
place ran a fencing-school—he was a topnotcher with
the foils —in another went buffalo-hunting, or else
was a counter-jumper; his bride meanwhile teaching
art. Then, back in Britain, there were Don Roberto’s
House of Commons adventures —in their way as
picturesque as his wildest American doings—and his
term in gaol after he had got himself entangled in a
political riot. Simply as a literary figure in London
he was a magnificent spectacle. He joined his color-
ful forefathers while on a trip to South America in
1936. The life had all agreed with him well enough:
he was near 84 at the end
R. B. Cunninghame Graham, portrayed as "The
Fencer,” by Sir William Rotherstein.
All these matters Mr. Tschiffely turns into very
entertaining reading, and that he had little need to
be apologetic about his capacity for the job should
be clear from the following revealing vignette of the
funeral after the death of Don Roberto’s Gabrielle
in France, 1906: —•
Taking the body with him, Don Roberto returned
to Scotland, where, according to Gabrielle’s wish, she
was to be buried in the ruined Augustinian Priory
on the Island of Inchmahone, on the Lake of Menteith.
Throughout the night before the funeral was to take
place, Don Roberto, assisted by an old tenant, dug the
grave, a task he would let no one else perform. With
only a lantern to give a flickering light, the two men
worked almost ceaselessly, despite a wild wind and
squalls of cold rain and sleet; they completed then-
work by lining the grave with heather.
The funeral was like a scene out of a Sir Walter
Scott novel. When the coffin, borne by old servants
and tenants from Gartmore, arrived on the shores of
the lake, the sun was just visible through gaps in the
dark, overhanging clouds, and the island, with its tall,
stately trees, was barely visible through a curtain of mist.
When the coffin had been placed on a strange dark-
coloured boat with a high prow and stern, the few
mourners (among whom were Don Roberto’s brother,
Charles, and Mansel, his old companion of many
adventures in South America) took their seats, where-
upon the strange craft slowly headed for the island.
From the shore, only Don Roberto was visible now,
crouching at the high stern, his long hair fluttering as
he steered the boat, out of the sides of which protruded
oars which moved slowly and rhythmically, bringing
to mind tales of old Viking chiefs.
Suddenly the sky darkened, and a cold wild wind
lashed the waters, and when the mourners entered the
ruins of the priory an icy shower made them shiver.
After a short funeral service which was read, for
'the most part, from the English Service Book by the
Rev. Malcolm McLean of the Free Church of Gart-
more, the coffin was lowered into the grave, and in
accordance with one of the last wishes expressed by
Gabrielle bunches of purple heather from Gartmore
and white flowers were dropped on the lid of the coffin.
Mr. Tschiffely subtitles his biography “The
Account of the Life and Works of R. B. Cunninghame
Graham,” but there is very little of the works. With
such a hero it is enough that he has compressed into
his 400-odd pages an outline of the life.
Fantasia of a Dictator.
In Edwin Greenwood’s new novel, Old Goat
(Heinemann), subtitled “A Fantasia on a Theme of
Blackmail and Sudden Death,” Hubert Algernon,
Baron of Breakenham, who looked like a goat, in-
herited his title late and unexpectedly, and, having
had his fill of light living, felt he could get the maxi-
mum of entertainment out of his power and wealth
by turning Breakenham into a model village. He
picked out the communal vices one by one as if they
were weeds in his lawn, only to find that he had
removed the whole lawn and had involved himself
in so deep a quarrel with the Backbone of the County,
the Church and the Army, that to achieve his objective
he would have to become dictator of England.
As a first step towards this he adopted—but not
for his personal consumption—a new religion. He
planted the village therefore with New Adamites
who practised Holy Jumping and nudism conscien-
tiously every Wednesday afternoon. Religion proved
expensive, and Lord Breakenham was mean, so he
decided on giving a house party to a number of
shady friends in high life and systematically black-
mailing them. These scenes are handled .with great
vivacity and reveal a remarkable complication of sins.
Breakenham’s schemes prospered, but he had an
Achilles heel in his sense of humor. He saw the
funny side of what he did, and that was his ruin.
He died of an apoplexy brought on by his efforts to
suppress his laughter at a nudist concert. “Nudism
can be a severe handicap to true art. The drama
group presented a series of tableaux: now, to depict
such scenes as Nelson on the Victory and the meet-
ing of Queen Victoria and Lord Melbourne without
the help of even a pair of socks is well-nigh impos-
sible.” With his death the whole fabric collapsed and
the book ends.
To find in all this a serious contribution to poli-
tical satire —as the blurb suggests —is to ask too
much of the reader’s imagination. It is roaring farce.
It is true that the fun has a sardonic undercurrent,
and the portrait of the cynical and frivolous reformer
has its bitterness. The premises are sour enough, but
they are covered with so many absurdities that the
direction of the satire, if any, is lost, and the author
happily indulges in potshots in every direction. The
humor is a trifle primitive—on one occasion Green-
wood even makes the same joke four times on one
page —but there is plenty of it.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ...
The Lonely Guest: Diana Young (Nicholson
and Watson). Love at 35. After devoting half her
life to her father Katherine finds happiness in the
arms of a widowed dramatic critic. Ireland and
London.
Child Royal: D. K. Broster (Heinemann). Child-
hood of Mary Queen of Scots at the French Court,
interwoven with the story of Ninian Graham, the
Scottish archer, and Magdalen Lindsay, maid-of-
honor. A well-written romance.
Just Jane: Evadne Price (Robert Hale). Tale of
an enfant terrible who leaves nothing undone which
she ought not to have done. Should suit those who
don’t like their humor too subtle.
Decree Absolute: Sonia Deane (Hutchinson;
JDymock’s). Matrimonial double-shuffle. Arden, who
was married to Harvey, loved Julian, who was the
spouse of Rosemary. She gets him after the cus-
tomary time of tribulation, during which Rosemary
and Harvey learn that they, too, were intended for
each other.
Crimes end Sleuths . . .
To Wake the Dead: John Carr Dickson (Hamil-
ton). In the course of a 10-week sojourn among the
poor a rich young man goes to a cheap hotel and
finds himself in a room with the body of a murdered
woman. It takes a super sleuth to get him out of his
subsequent difficulties.
Gory Knight: Margaret Rivers Larminie and
Jane Langslow (Longmans). Five famous detectives
of current crime fiction —borrowed by the authors
for the occasion —meet at a house party on the night
of a murder and compete in finding the culprit. Mys-
tery combined with parody.
General . . .
Further Stories from Lord Halifax’s Ghost Book
(Bles). Not up to the collection published a couple
of years ago, being what was left over after that
skimming of the cream of the late Lord Halifax’s
record of ghostly matters of supposed actual occur-
rence. It makes an interesting supplement to the
earlier book, and several of the apparently authentic
yarns will be ghostly enough for most tastes.
Question Time: Hubert Phillips (Dent). Can be
recommended out of hand to anyone who likes work-
ing out nutty problems and has the will-power to
resist turning to the back to see what the answers are.
Present reviewer is no hand at problems, but he did
try to work out several of these, and every one of
them beat him hands down.
“Kelpie”: Leslie Rees, in his muster of notable
Westralian books (R.P. 29/12/’37), overlooked a few
worth mentioning. John K. Ewers’s Money Street
caught an aspect of Perth city life. Arthur W. Up-
field, both in a “straight” novel and in his more recent
mystery stories, presents authentic glimpses of the
Westralian scene. Louis Kaye’s Tybal Men, a story
of the Groperland wheat-belt, is a remarkably good
novel, judged by any standard. J. B. R. Love’s Stone
Age Bushmen of To-day, a record of years among
the Kimberley blacks, embodies some of the finest
pictures of aboriginal life in Australian literature.


• ; a l ®!
,> - . . ' *,wi
rafted
|M»i VH
s&i."
5 V:> S
IT/
B.r< .;
»
I
.
Vi
I
I
. . •
vWggk
r
/ v x
/
y
.ms
yy
r j
/
SiKHS
% ' %y
' < & r s
■
: :
\
f
V
Vi
i
r.
A
•<
m
fr‘s* <sf- ft#
m
etui
, iisp©isp>
~«>X <<££«s
cpc‘i
»
»Xl'«6 &
TOOHEVS
■ !ir
A SMM&wn mmur
wsffiAm
WwrW*
Club Lager—a drink brewed for Australian
palates and Australian thirsts. Sparkling,
full flavored, refreshing as a “southerly
buster” on a summer’s day... It is the
beer that inspires happy smiles and radiant
health.
Tooh eys
CLUB LAGER
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


&
B
1
i
a m
v J
'
.
.
MmSM US
m
mm.
f
-
m kM
§ i
*#*
m
■
m
fate
m
m
o**.
™ " . jm,
pPStedS
'rfi'-:,.'.;' :;;, ... ■ ■-;...•
: ; y m& ■
; : ■
F**
mfm
■
■H
■
$S|
■fM
„ ' »
gigl
saiMii
■


BIG-ENDIANS AND LITTLE-ENDIANS—ON PAPER.
“At Brussels, Eden and Litvinov recommended for consideration the ‘possibility’ of helping China; at Geneva, the ‘feasibility’ of helping China.”
“The two great empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu have engaged in a most obstinate war, and there have been six rebellions in Lilliput, over the way of breaking eggs.”-Swift
“What a beautiful omelet we could have if omelets could be made without breaking eggs!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
"FOREIGN POLICY."
Putting as pretty a face as he could on what passes
for a foreign policy with the Lyons Government, Mr.
Casey the other day gave an instance of “Australia
taking the initiative in suggesting a course of action
in the field of foreign affairs”
—the proposal for the negotiation of a regional under-
standing and pact of non-aggression in the Pacific area.
Mr. Casey could not have produced a clearer
proof that Australia is without a foreign policy. The
non-aggression pact proposed is now a byword. It
merited no better fate. It was cast forth without any
sounding of the field as to its possible reception, and
it received the snub that was only to be expected. It
amounted to nothing less optimistic than an inti-
mation to such countries as the United States —deter-
mined to keep out of all political pacts —and Japan
that they should disown their adopted policies in
exchange for a bit of vapor produced in Canberra.
Since they won their first election half a dozen
years ago, using the catch-cry of “Tune in with
Britain,” the Lyons crowd have had nothing resem-
bling a foreign policy. They haven’t one of any worth
abroad, and they cannot even manage the implications
of having one at home. On every occasion that they
are put to the test it is made clear that they have
completely abdicated the field. Their apparent con-
ception of Australia is of a puppet State which must
dance while some such Foreign Minister as Mr. Eden
pulls. the strings. Australia, by this conception, is
cast back into the colony days, its independence
handed back as an undesirable possession.
The experience of an Australia bound and gagged
and ready to be handed over when it was considered
imperative to keep the League of Nations functioning
is too fresh in people’s minds to be bluffed away.
There has been no change in that aspect of Australia’s
so-called “foreign policy.” We go on paying our
£60,000 or so a year to keep the Geneva cadaver
housed in its £2,000,000 museum. If Mr. Eden ever
again achieves the influence he had two or three years
back and finds the League as essential as it then was
held to be, Lyons and co. will jump to the tune. When
it comes to foreign policy dictated to them from over-
seas there is nothing resembling an independent “No”
in their vocabulary.
On the home front their “foreign policy” is the
same negation. At present, though directly opposed
to that alleged “policy” as expressed more than once
by Mr. Lyons, valuable Australian cargo is being
blockaded from export by a small section of wharf-
workers, and the best Lyons and, co. can do about it
is to urge them not to thus run counter to this coun-
try’s “policy.” The Government’s submission in this
matter amounts to an admission that not only free-
dom of speech but freedom of action as well is granted
in this country. This is a hopeless acknowledgment
of futility.
The wharf-laborers who have thus taken foreign
policy out of the Government’s hands actually work
under special license from the Government. In the
circumstances the Government cannot evade the
responsibility by blaming other people and merely
looking on. Its attitude is tantamount to agreement
with and support of the stand taken by the'wharfies.
In this matter, if the Government can be said to have
a foreign policy at all, it is that dictated to it.
The so-called “foreign policy” away from this
home front is such that an American observer —-Mr.
Grattan, here on a Carnegie research scholarship—
has expressed himself astounded that Australian senti-
ment should be “so pro-British and so little pro-Aus-
tralian.” Mr. Grattan, of course, is confusing a Can-
berra-nurtured “foreign policy” with authentic Aus-
tralian sentiment. If he scratches deep enough, and
is not taken in by temporary political appearances or
the cackle of too many tea-parties, Mr. Grattan will
learn in time that pro-Australianism is a deep and
growing culture. It is not expressed by Canberra’s
servile “Yes, Mr. Eden!” A political change will
completely alter that surface appearance overnight.
Mr. Grattan is correct in his observation that if
Britain were to become entangled in war Australia
could not remain neutral. It could not, because, as
he has observed, it is a loyal country. Moreover, it
is a grateful country, and it rightly feels its obligations
to its strong protector ; it is a young and inexperi-
enced country, and it would take at least one more
war to make it grow longer in the tooth; and it is
a country which came out of the last war with such
an enhancement of prestige offsetting its material
losses that it still in its heart thinks rather lightly of
war. For these and other such reasons, and because
its so-called “foreign policy” holds it trussed up and
ready, whatever the brawl ahead, Australia would
inescapably be there if Britain became involved in
war.
At least, that would be so at the beginning. There
would be a preponderance of sentiment to keep it
so throughout if the war was clearly as unavoidable
as the last one. It would be a tragically different
story if the war happened to be one of those in which
armchair fire-eaters are trying to get Britain involved,
over Red Spain or Red China. From that sort of
war the reaction would come when Australia became
aware that another generation of its youth was being
sacrificed in a trumped-up cause for the gratification
of the new sabre-rattlers; and aware, also, that
it had been let in for the slaughter because “No”
happens to be silent in its foreign-policy vocabulary.
Australia’s loyalty to Britain is deep-rooted ; but
this subservience of its political leaders to equally
temporary politicians in Britain is a disgraceful
travesty. Dependent as Australia is, it should be at
least out of the puppet stage. Its statesmen should
have, as well as their acknowledged loyalty to Britain,
the loyalty to Australia which Australians generally
have for this country. If the foreign policy of any
British Minister threatens to endanger the Empire
and this country needlessly—it has done so more than
once in the past decade —there should be enough of
the spirit of wise independence here to oppose it firmly.
That would be in the nature of a representative foreign
policy. Lyons and co. have nothing remotely
resembling one.
"Liquidation" at Lidcombe.
In recording and commenting on the abominable
murder, by bombing, of a “moderate” trade-union
organiser and his wife at Lidcombe (N.S.W.), Syd-
ney’s U.A.P. press ran true to form.
The “Daily Telegraph” refused to believe that
any convert to the creed of the new Holy Russia could
have done the deed. The “Sun,” which expects a
great deal of its readers —as witness its “What Have
You Done for the Empire?” article —called upon
them to rise up in a body and capture the murderer
or murderers. The “Herald” “warned the unions”
that “the act of the terrorists who threw their tin of
gelignite into a private house under cover of dark-
ness” was as infamous “as the acts of the terrorists of
the air,” inspired by “Fascist despotism abroad” —in
fact, a thing which “no Japanese outrage has sur-
passed.”
“Warning the unions” is an old game of the
“Herald.” Ten years ago, it smugly recalled, “we
warned the unions that such violence as the basher-
gang outrages would only cripple and destroy their
own privileged societies” ; and, it virtuously added,
“there is every call now for that warning to be
repeated.”
The unions can dispense with the “Herald’s”
warnings. For nearly 20 years, with no help from
the “Herald,” they have steadfastly rejected the
“take-and-hold” programme. Communist cells have
been established in many of them, Communists have
become office-bearers, and there has been an unceas-
ing plague of Communist propaganda ; but, though
mischief has been done and —because of the cowardice
of U.A.P. Governments is being done now, the
general effort has failed. Even when nearly two-fifths
of our trade-unionists were without work and many
of them were without hope, they turned down Moscow
and all Moscow’s works ; and this will stand to their
eternal credit.
The murdered organiser, whose wife was mur-
dered with him, and whose three children escaped
their parents’ fate only by a miracle, was one of a
thousand brave unionists who, in the affairs of their
organisations, have striven for Australianism respect
for contracts, order, democracy, and no meddling in
the affairs of other countries—against Moscowism.
He paid for his devotion with his life, but whether
his murderers are brought to justice or not his sacri-
fice will not have been made in vain.
The remarks of the Westralian “Worker’s” Kal-
goorlie writer on the local growth of “the imported
poisonous belief that the only way to deal with an
opponent is to kill him” have been here quoted.
Threats of murder as a political weapon against
moderates, to which he and other goldfields Laborites
have been subjected, have coincided with the renewed
outbreak of murder as a political weapon —chiefly
against alleged Trotskyist wreckers—which has raged
and is still raging from one end of the U.S.S.R. to
the other.
The U.A.P. press has had astonishingly little to
say about this wholesale savagery. For every column
it has published about “Stalin’s purge”—its euphem-
ism for the horror —it has published a thousand in
denunciation of Hitler, Mussolini, Franco and Matsui,
and in exposure and reprobation of alleged Fascist
plots and atrocities. Yet it is certain that the three
Europeans are combating Communism, and are
regarded by vast masses of their fellow-countrymen
as having saved them from being slaughtered as
ferociously as the Alfred Smiths were slaughtered.
And even the Japanese can plead that his country did
not strike until the Kuomintang and the Communists
had, in the words of Edgar Snow, of the London
“Daily Herald,” formed a United Front against Japan,
and can call that unsympathetic observer as a witness
to the declaration of a Red general that, ‘ if China
wins, the world revolution will, progress very rapidly.
Lady Astor has said truly that “nobody ever
heard of Fascism until Communism came along;
that’s the greatest threat.” Fascism is not for English-
speaking countries. When a Mosley and his Black-
shirts arrive in England people only laugh at them.
No one ever laughed at Communists. Communist
parties have taken root in every part of the Empire,
and, though now anxious that the Empire should fight
“the Fascist Powers” for them and their U.S.S.R., they
are still bent on its destruction. Even while their
Litvinov hobnobs with Mr. Eden Russian agents
engage in a plot to steal British military secrets.
At election-times the U.A.P. press patronises the
Sane Democracy League. It must have been offended
when “Sane Democracy” drew attention to the preva-
lence of cablegrams with a Red bias —“the apparently
sympathetic attitude of daily papers towards any-
thing with a Soviet taint.”
When China has a success, it is declared a victory
for the Communist army in China. .
When the U.S.S.R. from 1919 to 1923 occupied Outer
Mongolia and made it virtually a Soviet State there was
no condemnation by the press. Japan s replies to the
world’s press which indicts it as an unprovoked aggres-
sor are not believed or published.
When Italy took Fiume the worlds press was not
disturbed. Mussolini had not then arisen, and Italy was
fast becoming Communist. When anti-Red Italy in-
vaded Ethiopia, the heavens rang with a storm ot pro-
test, and the pacifists behind the League almost
provoked another world war. „ . ,
It is common knowledge that Communism, and
anarchism are behind the revolution in Spain, but this
is not emphasised by the press, if it is even mentioned.
The same with Russia’s avowed policy of world revolu-
tion and the malign results of widespread Communist
15 ft is a fair assumption that if the U.S.S.R. did not
exist there would be peace in the East, Spain would not
be in the throes of internecine warfare, there would not
be dictatorships in Germany and Italy, and there would
probably be no world race in armaments.
Sane democracy indeed; and the secretary of the
Sane Democracy League has now been permitted, in
a comment on the Lidcombe atrocity, to point out
that, “while it has never been suggested that any
organised group instigated the murders, some extremist
propaganda has openly advocated violence. And
where violence is preached as a duty, violence will,
sooner or later, be committed. >
Getting 20,000,000 People.
One of the arresting features of the Payne-Fletcher
report on the Northern Territory is a map which
shows how the Commonwealth is peopled. The facts
quoted are not original, but they have been presented
from a new angle of frankness.
In the last 40 years the population has approxi-
mately doubled; but the doubling been a local
affair, with an ever-greater concentration round the
big cities. In the whole of Cape York Peninsula, in
the whole of a belt as long as Australia itself north
of the 20th parallel, population in the last four decades
has been stationary or has decreased. Four-fifths of
Westralia, all the Northern Territory except a couple
of thousand miles round Alice Springs (into which a
few hundred settlers have been decanted through new
mining activity and the coming of an expensive rail-
way), a third of Queensland, a fourth of N. S. Wales
and more than three-fourths of S. Australia have, in
respect of settlement, stood still or gone back.
Railways have been built into a lot of this retro-
grade country. The northern portion is well watered
and some of it is rich in mineral and vegetable
resources. The climate of much of the high land is
healthy, and in any other continent such high land
would support large low-wage populations of a type
which Australia does not want.
Hitherto, neither Governments nor newspapers
nor any other influence on intensive settlement have
taken the trouble to face facts. It has been a popular
misconception that outback, particularly in the North,
there are large areas in which the immigrant would
be almost drowned in milk and honey. So far as
the Territory is concerned, Payne and Fletcher accuse
the Prime Minister’s Department of fostering some
such delusion in a pamphlet issued as late as 1933.
But while they admit that much of Australia has great
and serious limitations, they declare that in all the
provinces there is land capable of being put to more
intensive use if markets can be found for the products:
Development and still more development is the
crux of the matter. The difficulty in the future may
be to get additional people; there should be little
difficulty in supporting them when obtained. Even the
carrying capacity of our grazing areas will be materially
augmented by water conservation, topdressing, pasture-
improvement and scientific grazing. The population-
saturation idea is a pessimistic absurdity though
heavy populations must always be confined to the good-
rainfall belts along the eastern and southern coasts.
The Commission divides Australia into colored
zones. A strip of coastal land beginning at Geraldton
is held to represent the only part of Westralia fit to
carry intensive population, though beyond that there
is another fringe suitable for moderate settlement. The
southern and eastern intensive belt runs from Streaky'
Bay (S.A.), with interruptions, to Cooktown (Q.).
Nowhere is it more than 300 miles wide. Cape York
Peninsula, from Cooktown northward, and 95 per
cent, of interior Australia more than 600 miles from
the coast are marked down as valueless.
More than 27 per cent, is branded as unfit to
carry population at all, and 38 per cent, is labelled
as having a very poor population value. But this is
not so bad as it may seem.
Though against the huge bulk of the continent the
lands capable of intensive development look small, they
could accommodate, with a margin to spare, the four
great countries of Europe—Britain, Germany, France
and Italy—which support 200,000,000 white people.
Australia could be comfortable with a tenth of that
number. Better grasses, better stock, factory methods
of farm-production and low taxation would help it
to get the needed tenth. Government costs too much,
and the cities absorb too large a proportion of the
nation’s thought and energy, as well as its income.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Check to State Extortion.
During the year to June 30, 1937, £12,580,000 was
gouged out of the pockets of the people in taxes for
the alleged relief of unemployed who, according to
the statistician reporting the amount, are fewer in
proportion to population than before the depression.
Of the £12,580,000, £6,801,000 was extracted in
N. S. Wales, part of it by methods indistinguishable
from legalised robbery. The burden of collecting the
wages tax has been imposed on N. S. Wales employers,
of course at their own expense; and the expense has
recently been increased by complicated alterations
which, for one thing, necessitated employers getting
signed statements showing every employee’s domestic
history and condition.
A Sydney magistrate has thrown a spanner into
the extortion machinery by ruling that it is uncon-
stitutional for State wages tax to be deducted from
the pay of men working under Federal awards. The
case was brought by one of the marine cooks, who,
travelling from State to Sate, have been blistered for
different State relief taxes on the same income. The
magistrate decided that deduction of a State tax from
the wages of men working under a Federal award is,
in effect, unconstitutional, since the High Court has
ruled that Federal awards override State enactments.
The case is to go to the High Court on appeal.
Meanwhile private employers don’t know what to do.
As the secretary to the Taxpayers’ Association points
out, if they deduct the tax from Federal-award wages
they may be prosecuted for breaking the awards, and
if they don’t deduct it, or deduct it and pay it into a
suspense account, they render themselves liable to
heavy State penalties.
The Government imposing the N. S. Wales tax is
in as bad a position or worse. Many thousands of its
employees work under Federal awards.
All the same, the magistrate’s decision doesn’t go
far enough. It would “advance Australia” if all
State income taxes were declared unconstitutional.
In that case the Commonwealth would have to take
over income taxation —and education with it.
Why Not Australia?
If it is true, as reported, that the Chinese are being
supplied with Gloster Gladiator fighting ’planes by
British manufacturers, Australia appears to have good
reason to ask the reason why.
The Gladiator is not the latest thing in fighters,
but it is a fast multi-gun biplane, powered with the
latest Bristol Mercury IX engine, and capable of
reaching an altitude of 10,000 feet in 4.1 minutes.
Its service ceiling is 32,000 feet, and its top speed
at 14,000 feet is 255 m.p.h., which is 50 m.p.h. faster
than the speed of the Hawker-Demons on which the
R.A.A.F. has mainly to rely. It is at least equal in
speed and superior in gun-power to the short-range
N.A.16 fighters a few of which the Commonwealth
intends to add to the R.A.A.F. within the next year
or so.
The excuse for going to U.S.A. last year for
designs for Australian fighters was that British manu-
facturers were working so hard on current programmes
for the R.A.F. that Australian needs had to be
neglected.
The American "Alliance."
According to the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” Presi-
dent Roosevelt declared in October for “positive action
against Japan.” According to Mr. Anthony Eden,
his Government and the Washington Government
have been “constantly in consultation” on the Chinese
question, and have over and over again taken
“parallel action,” their “collaboration” being as close
as that of brothers. According to Minister Foil, what
is being negotiated with Washington is “a trade and
diplomatic agreement” which will mean “a union of
the English-speaking races.”
In an editorial spread over the greater part of
a page, the “Daily Telegraph” counselled Australia
to fall in behind the President. How it would have
fallen in if it had done so and if “positive action”
had materialised has been startlingly indicated in
reports of Congressional proceedings published last
week.
The President proposes a 20 per cent, increase in
naval strength, and Rear-Admiral Leahy, his Chief
of Naval Operations, gave evidence in support to a
committee of the House which controls the public
purse. He said, in effect, that, so far from the
U.S.A.’s present sea-power being sufficient to enforce
“positive action against Japan,” “unless the United
States builds warships its fleet will soon be insufficient
for security against attack from overseas.”
The increase proposed will not give the navy the
strength needed for aggressive action in foreign waters;
for that the navy would require an increase three times
as large. The proposed increase will be insufficient
to create a fleet capable of defending both Atlantic and
Pacific coasts simultaneously.
A Congressman: Would our present fleet be suffi-
cient to destroy one enemy or combination of enemies
and still have strength enough to protect our coasts?—
It would not.
In the same week U.S. foreign policy was debated
in the Senate. Senator Borah, the Republican stal-
wart, questioned “the recent statement by Mr. Eden
which implied that there was a secret understanding
between Britain and the United States.” Senator Pitt-
man, who is chairman of the Senate’s Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, replied with an “emphatic denial
that the United States has any military alliance with
any foreign nation.” Mr. Lewis, a Senator from Illinois,
“obviously referring to Britain,” said that “officials
of a certain nation” had “distorted American state-
ments of policy in an attempt to support that nation’s
position in international affairs.” Mr. Johnson, a
Senator from California, hotly criticised the Presi-
dent’s October speech. He was informed by Senator
Pittman that “the basic policy of the United States
is non-intervention in the affairs of other Govern-
ments.” ,
During the same week the Government which is
alleged to have declared for “positive action” against
Japan, and to be “constantly in consultation” and
“collaboration” with Britain, and to be negotiating
an agreement aimed at “a union of the English-speak-
ing races,” accepted another Japanese apology for the
insolence of a sentry who slapped an American offi-
cial’s face. It also gave notice of its intention to
withdraw most of its soldiers from China. All this
without reference to Mr. Eden, Minister Foil or the
“Daily Telegraph.”
It must be a comfort to this very aloof Govern-
ment to have the assurance of Mr. R. G. Menzies,
given in the same eventful week, that “this is the most
significant moment in America’s history since her
entry into the Great War,” and that “she is looking
with increasing friendliness at us of the British world.”
Especially as Mr. Menzies assures his own country-
men that, by “making a little sacrifice to-day,” “some
immediate sacrifice”—to America, of course they
may gain something unspecified.
, From a Summer School.
This year’s “summer school” of the Institute of Poli-
tical Science drew to Canberra from all States a
roll-up of 150. The chairman explained in a letter to
the press that attendance is “open to anybody,” and
that not more than a third of those who turned up
were members.
One of the scholars was Professor Melbourne,
who took degrees in Adelaide soon after the
Empire’s last big war, and nowadays informs Aus-
tralia’s young idea in Brisbane. Professor Melbourne’s
great thought was that “Australian security depends
on the early ejectment of Japanese military power
from China, and Australia should support any effort
to do this, even to the extent of using force.” For
“using force” read “war.” Such statements help to
keep the world lively, and should be heard in the face
of all cynical suggestions that professors, as a rule,
are hopeless dunderheads in such matters compared,
say, with milkmen, and —also compared with such as
milkmen —are not, are a rule, the most eager front-
line soldiers.
A great-grandson of Wentworth declared that
“our defence programme is an absolute scandal”;
that “barely a fifth of what ought to be spent on
it is being spent” and that we ought to be
“embarking upon a £50,000,000 policy.” This,
and more in kind, brought from the Minister
for Defence a testy inquiry as to “what is
the standing of these critics as authorities on Aus-
tralian defence.” Mr. Wentworth came back in the
press with a barrage of specific charges, among them
that at the present rate the military survey of Aus-
tralia will take hundreds of years to complete ; that
many of our railway tunnels are too narrow for heavy
defence equipment to pass through them ; that Sydney
is defended by a totally inadequate number of 9.2 guns,
while the size at Singapore is 15in.; that Newcastle
and Port Kembla are almost completely unfortified ;
that tanks in the Australian Army are ludicrously
inadequate ; and that munition supplies are behind
even peace-time requirements.
To keep Mr. Thorby busy thinking up proper
replies, Rear-Admiral Feakes then entered the arena,
with the specific statement that Australia’s sea-
service personnel, totalling 7000 in 1922, is to-day
down to about 4200. He also asked if the responsible
political heads had ever seen the “ships in reserve,
manned by a couple of caretakers, swinging at their
buoys in Sydney Harbor these many years,” and “were
not five valuable destroyers capable of further service
destroyed because of a shortage of funds to continue
their maintenance in reserve?” Then the admiral
let loose the unkindest cut of all. “Australia’s mili-
tary and air services,” he said, “are insufficient even
for ceremonial purposes.”
At any rate, it should be patent to the simplest
mind that all talk of our barging in to support the
“use of force” —fight foreign countries’ wars for them
—is best accepted as a species of scholastic humor.
Boorish and One-eyed.
The officers and men of the Italian cruiser Raimondo
Montecuccoli did not leave the A.I.F. and the
R.A.N. out of their part in the 150th Anniversary
celebrations. On January 29 they marched from
Woolloomooloo to Martin-place, where they carried
out a very impressive ceremony at the Cenotaph.
This respect for the memory of our fighting men
was of a piece with the fine feeling shown by the Italian
peasants who fashioned an Australian flag for the
coffin in which the bones of Bert Hinkler were borne
from the lonely place in the Apennines where his spirit
took flight, and by all classes of Italians when his
mother came to see his honored grave. But the Ceno-
taph ceremony, the first of its kind, was not reported
in Sydney morning papers, though room was found
for a picture of another nation’s tribute five days later.
Perhaps by way of compensation there was a full
issue of anti-Italian cablegrams and articles in the
ensuing week.
The Italians, it was alleged, have covetous eyes
on Tunis; they are suspected of “plotting armed
risings and attempts to establish Fascism” in South
American republics; their wireless bulletins posted on
steamers carrying Britons are “full of inconsistencies
and childish untruths” ; they bombed Barcelona; they
torpedoed the Endymion; they are sending 50,000
more men to Franco ; and so on.
The 50,000-reinforcements yarn was circulated
by the “Cronk-News,” whose imaginative fictionists
have been bowled out again and again. The “Daily
Mail,” which is immeasurably better informed on
Italian affairs, subsequently reported “an Italian deci-
sion, taken after consultation with Germany, consider-
ably to reduce the assistance afforded to Franco.”
That was dismissed in a one-inch par. headed “Italian
Aid to Rebels.” A Paul Robeson vaunt that a hundred
negroes were fighting for the “Loyalists” was starred.
What good purpose is served by this boorish and
one-eyed journalism? Assuredly it does not express
Australian feeling; Australians want to be friends
with this people and with all peoples.
Australians do not forget, if the yelper press does,
that the Italians came into the war when Russia was
cracking and when all the Franco-British assaults on the
German lines in France and Flanders had failed with
frightful losses; by coming in gave the Allies control
of the Mediterranean and guaranteed them against
the sending of the Austrian army to France ; remained
in when Russia quitted; suffered cruelly, as even
Lloyd George has testified, because they were short
of heavy artillery and ammunition, and in the war
and the subsequent influenza epidemic (the latter
largely because the masses were undernourished) lost
more lives than did even Britain.
It is surely in the interests of Australia and of
the Empire to preserve relations which were found
so useful in an emergency, and to give no counten-
ance to those who would bait old friendships into
enmity. Left to themselves, the leaders of the British
and Italian nations can crown with success the nego-
tiations they have set in motion, but provocative
journalism and crazy interventionism must increase
the difficulties of the task.
A Day of Atonement.
A body which calls itself the Aborigines’ Protection
Association issued a pamphlet declaring Foundation
Day a day of mourning.
It is improbable that there were ever more than
a few hundred thousand blackfellows, and —according
to the last census —only 60,000 full-bloods and 20,000
half-castes are left to mourn. Many of them are in
jobs which buy them plenty of good food and
clothing ; and most of the others are unaware that
they are supposed to be a decadent and dying race.
The chances are that most of the 25,000 in Westralia
and of the 18,000 in the Northern Territory spent the
day of mourning chasing the Australian fauna. Their
normal answer to the aspiration expressed in the ,
pamphlet “Aborigines Claim Citizen Rights” (they
are a thoroughly obliging people) would be “Yowai,
boss.”
Queensland has about 12,000 blackfellows, of
whoni about 900 have regular jobs, and 5800 half-
castes, of whom 1500 have jobs. In Queensland the
native is, as far as possible, left to manage his own
affairs. Where he is nomadic, opium and drink are
kept away from him. He must be given access to
water, and a careful eye is kept on him to see that
he does not starve. In Torres Strait he is allowed to .
own and work his own boat, but not necessarily to
squander his own money, though he may draw a
reasonable amount. In supervised camps everything
from government to education is subordinated to the
native’s aptitudes, trends and needs. The result is that
in some districts the race is on the increase.
A Shrine of History.
David Scott Mitchell’s priceless gift to N. S. Wales
formed the basis of a national record unique in the
world. A thousand years of history in Britain, after
the Roman occupation, are represented in London
only by scraps of chronicles, some of them not even
authenticated. Australia in the Mitchell Library has
a flood of important documents telling of each step
in its progressive exploration and colonisation from the
beginning.
In the Mitchell Library there are the journal of
Diego de Prado, who sailed with Quiros; and the jour-
nals of half a dozen men who sailed into Port Jackson
with the First Fleet. There are full sets of pictures
telling of the first few years of development. Mac-
quarie’s voluminous diary and the papers of a dozen
citizens of the time are there.
Other historical treasures preserved in the Library
are the Bigge Commission report, which shows in detail
the conditions under which the colony was trans-
formed from a convict camp into a community with
the germs of representative government; Atkinson’s
Agriculture in N. S. Wales and a contemporary book
on Van Diemen’s Land, which inform us exactly on
what sort of husbandry the great Australian rural
industries were built. A transcription of every memor-
able speech delivered in the fight for self-government
and free education, for industrial rights and modern
living conditions can be found in the Mitchell Library.
And there is no Australian book of note, no map, no
Australian explorer’s diary or record which is not
on the shelves.
During the Sydney Anniversary celebrations
portions of the Mitchell collection is being shown in
the galleries. The only pity is that most of it
cannot be made available. The Library possesses
an enthusiastic and knowledgeable staff, but it
has been so pinched for money that its catalogues
are imperfect and its working facilities are antiquated.
Except for two short evenings a week it closes at
5 p.m., thus barring out research students who have
to earn their livings at regular occupations, while at
week-ends original manuscripts can be obtained
only by a prior application.
The Public Library, which is housed in a separate
building, is old, dirty and cramped, and its research
department can accommodate no more than four
workers at a time in comfort.
For a long time the N. S. Wales Government has
talked of a new Public Library building and an exten-
sion of Mitchell facilities. In this year of history it
might do worse in the way of a monument.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Skelm”: The organisers of Sydney’s
“Pageant of Nations” have been advertis-
ing for some “typical South African
negroes” to take part. In South Africa
the gentleman of color is about as popu-
lar with the white community as the black
mamba. Anyone suggesting the inclusion
of a Kaffir in a show of the kind in South
Africa would stand a good chance of
manhandling and would certainly come
in for some scathing criticism. The
gesture comes oddly from a community
which has recently been doing its
damnedest during the sesquicentenary
celebrations to dodge all suggestion of
“Botany Bay” and all the implications
associated with the name.
* * * *
“ ’Badian”: The royal commission on
the recent serious rioting in Trinidad
roundly condemned the authorities, from
the Governor to the police officials, for
not putting in the boot with vigor from
the start. In the past the official who has
taken stern measures to quell murderous
uprisings has received short shrift from
such committees —witness Eyre, “broken
on the wheel of the Nonconformist con-
science” for saving Jamaica from a repeti-
tion of the many black risings which have
sullied its history, and General Dyett,
whose prompt action at Amritsar saved
a bloody general rising in the Punjab
at least, action which did not prevent
the supple Lloyd George from throw-
ing him to the wolves.
* * s®c *
“Scram”: The word “blurb,” which
puzzles “Iford,” was coined by Gellett
Burgess, who in 1914 published Burgess
Unabridged—A Dictionary of Words You
Have Always Needed. He defines
“blurb” as (a) a flamboyant advertise-
ment ; ( b ) an inspired testimonial; (c)
fulsome praise ; (d) a noise like a pub-
lisher. Another word of his coinage was
“wog,” and he put forward “wowse” as
an invention, but John Norton beat him
to that one.
* * *
“Jamwood”: Over a .term of years
female-strangling has been a very rare
crime in N.S.W. In the Homicide statis-
tics it is lumped under Other Means
(after Firearms and Cutting and Piercing
Instruments); and females slain by Other
Means numbered only eight in the last
four years for which figures are given.
But one was strangled in November,
another in December and a third in Janu-
ary ; all within six weeks. Acres of news-
paper space were devoted to the first
case, and it is difficult to escape the con-
clusion that it suggested the others. Pos-
sibly there would be a drop in the
murder rate if the precise cause of death
were omitted from newspaper reports as
a general thing. Subnormal persons with
homicidal tendencies are apt to be as
imitative as those who used to do them-
selves in with lysol or those others who
threw themselves over Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge—dozens of them—until the mor-
bid fashion was settled in one act by
wire-netting.
* * * *
“Avian”: The airman Clouston, who
plans a flight to Australia as an anni-
versary gesture, must be superhuman. In
the 1936 Johannesburg race, according
to Sydney “Telly,” “he flew from the
Sudan with only two cylinders of his
engine firing instead of six.” Whoever
wrote that should jbe made to discon-
nect four of the sparking plugs of a six-
cylinder car ; if he can get the thing to
go at all, it will shy at the first hill.
Imagine Clouston, with only a third of
his power, taking off in rarefied tropical
air in a heavily-loaded aeroplane.
# * * #
“Mac Hoots”: Maoriland Burns
Societies are indignant at a cablegram
which stated that the Dumfries Burns
Club collected only £570, after a world-
wide appeal for £2500, for the restoration
of the poet’s mausoleum at Dumfries,
and had to pawn the priceless Kilmar-
nock edition. No such appeal was made
to M.L. But anyone who has seen the
tomb would cheerfully subscribe to a
fund for its demolition. Set among the
monstrous tombstones of the Covenan-
ters, great nine-foot slabs of red granite
stained a foul black by the weather, the
incongruously “Grecian” mausoleum
“Now will you smile ?”
looks exactly like a large glass jam-jar.
An attendant sits all day inside it, read-
ing newspapers and collecting three-
pences from tourists who want to peep
at the distressing mouse, plough and
Muse that decorate the ceiling. Burns
wouldn’t have put even a Canting Willie
in such a nightmare.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Dr. K. S. Cunningham
told N.S.W. Teachers’ Conference the
other day that black-and-white black-
board instruction would have to
go, to be replaced by a yellow
board and blue chalk. Theory is
that yellow carries farther to the
human eye than any bther color, and
that color-blind people can distinguish
only the yellow-blue bands of the spec-
trum. If the doc. is right the books of
the future will be printed in blue —on
yellow paper.
* * * *
“William the Conqueror”: So they’re
crediting Boney with the presence of
mind to turn a bad omen into a good
when he stumbled in the sands of Egypt
(B. 2/2/’3B). I’m not saying yes and
I’m not saying no, but most historians
have tacked that little story on to me;
in fact, the chroniclers of the day gave
it the palm for the best quip of the year —
er —let me see —1066 I think it was. They
say that, as I struggled to my feet with
two pawfuls of Pevensey sand, I shouted
(in good Norman-French) “I take seisin
of my kingdom!” You should have
heard my rapscallions yell! Still, if
Napoleon wants the credit I can afford to
be magnanimous. After all, he only tried
to conquer England.
* * • * *
“Stoo”: Add to London’s odd char-
acters (B. 2/2/’3B) Maorilander Geoffrey
de Montalk, who frequents the reading-
room of the British Museum complete
with long flowing hair, scarlet gown and
sandals. As a poet he managed to get
himself gaoled for an “obscene- libel,”
and as a claimant to blue blood he
landed himself into a first-class Donny-
brook with a Polish nobleman when he
was hunting up the tombs of his an-
cestors. A cobber of mine met him at a
coffee stall at 3 a.m. once, and De Mon-
talk .walked him round till Hyde Park
gates opened. D.M. started declaiming im-
promptu poetry to the starlings, and my
friend, who’d had a heavy night, left
him .to it.
“S.A.D.”: That wealthy woman who
drives to Wandsworth gaol on execution
mornings is Mrs. Van der Loon, from
Maoriland. She has no need to return to
her own country and start a campaign
there, for they don’t hang murderers in
Maoriland these days. Abolition of
capital punishment is only one of the
many socialist ideas which Labor is
quietly putting into operation and which
the country didn’t realise it was. voting
for.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I had the pleasure of lunch-
ing aboard an Italian warship. A red
wine was served. “Nice claret,” I said
to my neighbor, an Italian. “Very nice,”
he agreed ; “but we don’t call it claret,
though it is of a claret type. That’s
Chianti.” I would have defied any Aus-
tralian to distinguish it from a well-
matured Australian claret. Yet for such
claret there is little demand ; in fact, our
fine beverage wines—-hock, chablis,
sauterne and burgundy, so called—are so
little drunk by Australians that there is
a danger of their disappearing from the
market. If that calamity should happen
a noble bringer of health and good cheer
and a magnificent potential asset will dis-
appear with .them.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A country resident of S.A.
has died in an Adelaide hospital as a result
of about the strangest accident on record.
She was travelling in a suburban tram
when an odd length of piping—no part
of the car —was run over and jambed
in the undercarriage; it came up
through the floor and pierced her leg,
actually having to be sawn through to
release her. The wound was not con-
sidered dangerous, but a fatal infection
set in two months later.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Not all the Diggers were hard
cases. In England, and —when it was
possible—in France, many Victorians
used to follow a Methodist padre into the
fields “to hear the lark begin his flight,”
and to the woods to listen to the nightin-
gale. The padre was, of course, Gault,
the Rev. James Archibald Gault, who,
like “Fighting Mac” and Father Fahey,
of Westralia, was admitted to the great
confraternity of cobbers. Not only did
he contrive to bring out the best that was
in his boys, but he was splendid com-
pany at sing-songs and the like, having,
in addition to being a born chairman,
a wonderful stock of stories, puzzles and
conundrums —after the war he collected
them in Gault’s Stunt Book. He retired
from the ministry three years ago, and
for most of the three years he was a very
sick man; but he was cheerful to the
last.
* * * *
“LIB”: It recalls my old pal Bill
Adams and his story of how Nelson, at
the battle of Waterloo, “came gallopin’
up on ’is ole w’ite ’orse, same as ’e rode
at th’ battle o’ Copen’agen,” to read
“Laetitia’s” par. about the fed-up Digger
“in the Senussi campaign in the Jordan
Valley” (B. 26/1/’3B). Apart from the
fact that there were no “Diggers” in
Sinai and Palestine it may be as well to
note that the strafe with the Senussi in
Western Egypt and the box-on with the
Turk of which the infamous Valley was
an episode were separated by over two
years of time and close on a thousand
miles of distance. The Senussi show was
over in January, 1916. It cost the Aus-
tralians much bitter fighting and many
valuable lives before the Jordan • was
reached by way of Romani, Bir el Abd,
Rafa, Gaza, Beersheba and many an-
other tough and bloody mix-up.
* * * *
“Simmer and Jack”: There is nothing
very novel about the Jew Scots Guards-
man (B. 26/1 /’3B). For some reason or
other the filibeg seems to have a
strange fascination for the Yid. In the
last Boer War an officer of the Cape
Town Highlanders told me a big per-
centage of his volunteer force, which was
kept guarding bridges in Cape Colony,
were Jews. After the war was over and
the Transvaal defence forces were being
recast a Scottish kilted regiment of volun-
ters was formed in Johannesburg. De-
tractors (or admirers) asserted that 50
per cent, of this regiment were children
of Judah.
* * * *
“G.M.W.”: Sometimes newchum-
kidders speak more truly than they know.
My .aunt, returning from a trip abroad,
was at pains to reassure an Englishwoman
who had been made nervous by the
usual Australian joker. “There are no
. snakes in the cities,” she told the appre-
hensive lady. “You have to go right
into the country to see them, and then
perhaps you won’t.” However, the first
day ashore the aunt escorted the Eng-
lishwoman on a tour of Melbourne, and
right in the middle of Collins-street
wriggled a five-footer, just fallen from a
lorry-load of firewood. Mrs. Newchum’s
looks, if not her lips, called auntie just
another Aussie liar.
GONE TO THE PACK.
Gone to the pack! What a multum of mean-
ing
Squeezed in a parvo of space it conveys,
With naught to reward philological gleaning
For the source of our handy colloquial
phrase.
Who was it hit on it? His the possession
Surely of some indefinable knack
For the mot that is juste who designed the
expression,
“Gone to the pack.”
Gone to the pack! For all sorts and condi-
tions
Truly a fate to envisage with rue,
Booming financiers, glib politicians,
Poets and painters and publicans, too.
Caught in calamity sudden and stunning,
Socked in the plexus or stabbed in the back*
Doomed to obscurity, out of the running,
Gone to the pack!
Gone to the pack! And the author unknown
is,
Even the clue to the metaphor’s lost.
Was he thinking of Christians flung ad leones
Or foxes to ravening hounds being tossed?
Or of some leader whose chances diminish
With every chain of the racecourse or track
Till he’s back in the ruck when it comes to the
finish,
Gone to the pack.
Gone to the pack! Well, in life, as in places
Where a game such as contract its votaries
brings,
There’s only a limited number of aces
And an equally scanty allotment of kings.
No need for repining or seeking excuses
If you’ve failed to be either a queen or a
jack,
For even the lowliest cards have their uses,
As you’ll find when you’re down with treys
and the deuces,
Gone to the pack!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.”: If the United States Navy is as
successful in war as in love the Ameri-
cans will have no need to worry about
their future in the Pacific. As is always
the case on these occasions, the lads
from the cruisers flying the Stars and
Stripes came, saw and conquered in
Sydney. Ladies of the dlite made a fuss
of the officers; shop, office and fac-
tory ladies of the gobs. What is the
secret of the fascination exercised by
these sons of Uncle Sam over such an
amazing number of Our Girls, as the
flapper press calls ’em? I suppose the
pictures are largely responsible: Ameri-
can eaglets have been idealised in scores
of films of the “Join the Navee and See
the Woild” order. Yet those I have
inspected since 1908 have been far from
measuring up to R.A.N. standards of
manly beauty and smartness; and you
never s«e the R.A.N. pursued in Sydney,
except on paydays. And then the pur-
suers are mostly young wives waiting for
shopping money.
* * * *
“Rouge Dragon”: Among the many
anachronisms and inaccuracies of cos-
“Hey, mister, you ain't Washed behind ’is ears!"
tume in the Sydney celebration procession
I particularly desire to condemn the get-
up of the “heralds,” so called. These were
clad in imitation mail and carried
trumpets. The herald, in the days when
he counted, was a sacred personage im-
mune from attack and not called on for
defence. At no time was he allowed to
bear arms or wear armor. His cere-
monial garb was the tabard bearing the
arms of his employer. Nor did he have
to blow trumpets. That was the job of
his offsiders, the pursuivants.
* * * *
“Xo”: Despite the moans of some old-
timers there doesn’t seem to be much the
matter with the young men of to-day.
Just after having read how the young
“Mrs. Van Swagger , it Would take a very smart souvenir-hunter to get away with anything from MY ship!”
men of Palm and Whale Beach Life-
saving Clubs (N.S.W.) had formed a
human chain to pull a couple of
men off a wave-swept rock at Whale
Beach, I was crossing one of Mel-
bourne’s Collins-street intersections when
a couple of bolting horses plunged
past, towing an empty wagon. It was
a young man who stopped pedes-
trians who were walking blindly into
danger; it was two more young men
who dropped attache cases and papers
and raced for the nags. Before the
scared horses could scramble to their
feet after bouncing off the back of a
transport, smacking the tail of a tram
and hitting the road with a jingle of
harness and broken glass, these young
men had them by the blinkers and were
calming them like capable horsemen.
“Captain Pintle”: Curious how sea-
sickness picks its victims. Some of the
best performances in that line that I’ve
ever felt sorry for were put up by the
crews of a couple of Brisbane racing 18-
footers whom we once took to Sydney
with their dainty craft stowed below. One
lad even started to muster his bag, as
the Navy puts it, before we were well oui
of the river. Yet to watch them diving
into a fresh-breeze river jobble under a
press of sail one would credit them with
copper-fastened insides. And it cuts the
other way round, too. My old friend
Captain Vangs, in spite of his 40 years,
man and boy, in craft from 150 tons up
on all the watery areas of the globe,
would cast up his soul after his dinner
in the first ten minutes of what those sea-
sick lads regard as sport. A star per-
former explained it by saying that in a
small racer- everyone was too busy to
think about being sick.
sjj H* H:
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The two-
handed katanas (properly, tachis ), men-
tioned by “Epee” (B. 26/1/’3B) as shown
in recent photographs of Japanese
commissioned officers, are merely an
indication that the wearers are on
active service. The European pattern of
ceremonial sword is worn only in peace-
time. The Samurai tachi was forged
from soft, elastic, magnetic iron, with a
narrow built-on steel edge, very carefully
tempered. The alleged stainless-steel
blades have no foundation in fact. Only
the last six inches or so of the blade is
used for cutting, but with the Japanese
method of handling it is sufficient.
The rule limiting sword-bearing to
Samurai was abolished after the
1867 Restoration to avoid class
jealousies, and anyone was
allowed to wear any kind, or
number, of swords that he might
fancy.
* * * *
“Selma”: A M.L. woman left
her three-year-old partly clad and
went to another room to get a
small garment. The infant, hear-
ing a noise in the yard below,
leaned far out of an upstairs win-
dow to investigate, and mother,
returning, was just in time to wit-
ness the fall. Her return to con-
sciousness was assisted by the
screaming of the heroine of the
fall, who had sustained nothing
but a bad fright and had climbed
the stairs to find her mother and
get comfort. The child had
struck a clothesline in her de-
scent, hung there for a second,
and then dropped unhurt to the
grass below.
*•* * *
“C.A.8.”: Australia has come
ahead quite well, but it isn’t
fair to flatter the record by
comparing it with the first 150
years of North America. Earle Page
labored the point for nearly 10 minutes
in an address at a Methodist “Pleasant
Sunday Afternoon” in Sydney: “In the
150 years from the landing of the Pil-
grim Fathers in 1620,” he said, “they
only built up a population of three and
a half millions, their only town of any
importance was New York, their roads
were in very poor condition, their ex-
ports amounted to only £1,000,000.”
True, but America, however you calcu-
late the date of the first white settlement,
completed its first 150 years before Aus-
tralia started in the race, and had no rail-
ways, steamships, telegraphs, refrigera-
tion, wireless, motors, gas, electricity or
high-power machine tools.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Strip-tease has gone out of
favor in the U.S.A. under moral pres-
sure. Hollywood’s reply to the edict
against nudity is featured in a new eating-
house. As the customer goes in through
the foyer he is greeted by the spectacle
of a bowl of goldfish on a table Look-
ing closer into this, he sees a living mer-
maid, entirely destitute of clothes, dis-
porting herself among the little fish, and
about the same size as they are. It’s
done by an ingenious arrangement of
lenses, which transfer the' image of a
living, lifesize young lady.
* '* * *
“H.M.”: A Sydney hospital has had
vacant beds ; an experience without pre-
cedent for years. On the Sunday before
the Anniversary celebration six of the pro-
posed inmates for one ward failed to put
in an appearance. “After all I might die
under the operation ; I might as well see
the illuminations and fireworks first,” is
the way one defaulting patient put it in
a letter of apology. The place has a
long waiting list.
* * * *
“Nederlander”: Another feather might
be added to the royal bonnet of Queen
Wilhelmina (B. 26/1 / ’3B) for her handling
of a certain refugee problem at the
11.59 th hour of the war—the Emperor
Wilhelm. He was blocked at the frontier,
but afterwards allowed to proceed to
Amorengen, where a nobleman had
offered him hospitality. Subsequently,
when the Allies made a demand on the
Netherlands Government for the person
of Wilhelm Hohenzollern, Queen Wil-
helmina refused to give him up. It saved
them vast embarrassment.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Ever since the war I
have been experiencing surprises through
meeting the supposedly dead. At Meteren
in 1918 a ration fatigue was caught by
machine-gun fire and there were 60 p.c.
casualties. The worst I remember was a
man who was staggering about, his body
shockingly ripped open by bullets. He
was begging that someone should put a
bayonet through him. At the Randwick
hospital a man who remembered me
better than I did him recalled that inci-
dent. He was the soldier whom, very
naturally, for 20 years I had regarded as
dead ; his trouble at Randwick was from
a dose of gas received while being
treated at the first-aid station.
Entries for The Bulletin-
Cinesound Short Story Competition
reached the huge total of 973, most
of them arriving in the last few
days before the closing date,
January 31. The judges will not
be able to give their decision for
at least three weeks.
TESTS OF SOBRIETY.
“I found him perfectly sober. He picked up a
pin from the floor at the first attempt, and repeated
•British Constitution’ and ‘West Register-street’
quite accurately.” —Medical evidence at Sydney police
court.
He picked up a pin from the floor
And was able to clearly repeat
The sibilant test that’s so subtly expressed
In the twister, “West Register-street.”
Good old “British Constitution” in the smoothest
elocution
Tripped with ready acquiescence from his
tongue,
Finishing the demolition of the groundless
proposition
He was “stung.”
He picked up a pin from the floor
0.K., at the very first try,
With the sureness of aim that a lizard may claim
When it licks up a casual fly.
Even had they tried that pesky word that opens
up with “sesqui,”
You can bet that he’d have reeled it off
aright,
Stamping thus as out of question the invidious
suggestion
He was “tight.”
He picked up a pin from the floor
As a pigeon might pick up a pea,
And cleared with a bound those hurdles of
sound
That rattle most chaps on the spree.
Hence the tests that he accounted for and one
by one surmounted
Are fairly worth a trial, are they not?
When you’re none too sure but firm in your
decision to determine
If you’re “shot.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


LJHKL
20 forl'G)
10 for 9 a y
WlBB4
All over the world Craven
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
% • X
THE
CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATI
rm
POLITICAL POINTS
For reasons which can be guessed,
Australians have been permitted to learn
very little about the latest show in
Geneva. It seems, however, that vague
proposals for reform were discussed and
shelved “till September” ; that member-
States which agreed at Brussels to
consider the “ possibility ” of help-
ing China recommended the other
member-States, after deep thought, to
consider the “feasibility” of helping
China ; that the Poles and the Peruvians
went off pop, and that the Spaniards and
the Chinese, who had both demanded
sanctions, were fobbed off with meaning-
less phrases. Australians are still paying
£60,000 a year for the support of this
futile circus.
The special S.A. Labor conference
turned dog on the “open go,” and though
the voting was very close —109 to 94 —
did the pre-selecting for Assembly and
Council itself. In other words, it named
its own candidates for 18 districts for
which two or more Labor men had
nominated, in the process ruling out
Blackwell, M.H.A., in Thebarton, and Bill
Denny, former Attorney-General and
Digger, in Norwood. By so doing, the
delegates are alleged to have avoided a
party split. It seems much more prob-
able that they have precipitated one. '
Blackwell’s conqueror in the Thebar-
ton ballot was Mrs. Skitch. The report
adds, without comment, that “Mr. Skitch
sought endorsement for Gawler but was
defeated.” Feminist societies hope that
no domestic difficulty will arise because
Labor dropped a Skitch.
Horrible things are still being done in
Spain, and horrible lies told. Reds have
bombed Salamanca, Saragossa and Valla-
dolid, and Nationalists have bombed
Barcelona, Madrid and Valencia; and
British sympathisers with the Reds have
denounced the bombing of Barcelona as
barbarous. Also a freighter flying the
British flag has been sunk by a sub-
marine with the loss of 10 lives; and the
same sympathisers blame Mussolini and
demand to know why the Royal Navy
doesn't “dong him.” Also it is “reliably
reported” that two other steamers have
been torpedoed and that Reds have sur-
rounded 40,000 Francoists at Teruel;
but confirmation of these “reliable
reports” has been sunk without a trace.
Mr. Eden is trying to get both Spanish
factions to stop bombing cities and
towns. It is an enterprise in which even
his critics will wish him well; but the
Germans are sarcastic, and it seems they
have good reason to be. The “Times”
admits that “definite suggestions” to the
same end “came from Berlin in 1935
and 1936,” but they were pigeonholed
because “it was difficult for the other
Powers to take them up.” In humanity’s
name, why?
Hitler has retired a lot of old generals,
as Britain did recently, and appointed
himself eommander-in-chief, as did
Mussolini long ago. Also he has re-
called the pro-British Ribbentrop from
London and named him Foreign Min-
ister. Doubtless Lansbury, the Peace-
maker, rejoices at these changes.; but
“Pertinax,” Madame Two-Blues, the
“News-Chronicle” and the Manchester
“Guardian” are almost bursting their
boilers croaking.
There is an unwritten law that a nomi-
nated Senator should be of the same
party as the elected Senator he succeeds.
N.S.W. and Queensland Labor groups
have ignored it when it suited them to
do so, but when Labor Senator Barker
died in Victoria in 1924 the State Par-
liament, though Labor was in the minor-
ity, appointed Joe Hannan from the
Trades Hall. It is pretty certain that this
precedent will be followed now that Jack
Barnes (who was Barker’s running mate
in 1922) is dead. No doubt one of Dun-
stan’s Cocky friends would be willing to
make the sacrifice if requested, but it
wouldn’t do.
Imports from Japan for the six months
to December 31 were valued at
£2,937,000 and exports to Japan at
£1,995,000. Canberra infers that the
boycott demanded by Communists and
their friends has failed, and certainly it
THEY’LL NEVER KEEP HIM IN!
has been far less successful than the
Japanese boycott of Australian goods
in the second part of 1936. What is
dismally clear is that, because of trade
diversion and the other silly stunt, a once
very favorable trade balance has become
a very unfavorable one.
Nowadays when murder is reported in
N.S.W. it is customary for newspapers
professing to be in the confidence of the
police to announce that, an arrest is
imminent. This was done a day or two
after the bombing of the trade-union
organiser’s house at Lidcombe, the public
being encouraged to expect an arrest
“within 24 hours.” Chaffey, the Chief
Secretary, weighed in with the assurance
that there was no need for a reward.
As the days went on the authorities com-
plained that they were “up against a
brick wall,” and at the week-end a
reward of £lOOO was offered. N.S.W.
seems to need a new Chief Secretary and
methods of crime detection that are not
so dashed cocksure.
Friday’s papers brought a dreadful
half-hour to worthy mugs who have
become Friends of the Soviet or Leaguers
against War and Fascism. They told
how a War Office girl who became a
Friend of the Soviet in 1931 and an Anti-
War Movement typist in 1932 took part
in the unravelling of a plot for the be-
trayal of Woolwich Arsenal secrets to
Russia, in connection with which four
arsenal men have been placed in the
dock. And Mr. Litvinov spent such an
interesting week tuggipg Mr. Eden’s leg
at Geneva.
Quoting figures supplied by the State
Statistician, E. W. Holden, president of the
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures, has
pointed out that the number of employees
in S.A. factories shot up from 23,800 in
1930-31 to 42,500 in 1936-37 —the
greatest number on record. And a
further substantial increase is in pros-
pect with Imperial Chemical industries
starting alkali works at Port Adelaide,
Broken Hill Prop, getting busy with a
blast furnace at Whyalla and Die Casters
and other concerns Weighing in with
projects. Tax-cuts have helped greatly,
and this should be a lesson to Queensland,
though Forgan Smith may plead that he
gets no easy money such as Canberra
showers on the Butler Government.
Sussex (W.A.) is to have an Assembly
by-election which may determine the
result of the general elections. Brock-
man, the late member, was an Opposi-
tionist ; if the Labor man can beat the
Opposition candidates (there are four) his
party will have a statutory majority for
a redistribution measure that will take
three seats from agriculture and give
them to goldmining, which is tradition-
ally Labor. The party failed of the
statutory majority when the bill was
brought up in December.
Mexico, whose Red Government
offered a home to Trotsky (so called
because his name is Bronstein) when “the
greatest military organiser of the age"’
was expelled from Norway, is the latest
theatre of a Fascist rising. If it suc-
ceeds, poor old Trotskein will have to do
the Trotsky trot again.
Sydney “Worker” declares that, in re-
fusing to load Japanese ships with Aus-
tralian commodities, Sydney wharfies are
“only giving concrete expression to the
feelings of the great Soviet Republic” (of
course!) and “to the opinion held by
Labor practically throughout the world.”
It is not held by the American Federa-
tion of Labor, which is the world’s
greatest industrial organisation still.
Sir Josiah Stamp, who studies North
American developments very closely,
said to a reporter before leaving Sydney
that the U.S.A. will “never be able to
throw off its economic troubles until the
ascendancy of State influence has been
overcome.”
By the same token, Australia will be
handicapped in its progress so long as
domestic problems are affected by the
conflicting interests of individual States.
A livelier Federal spirit seems to be needed.
No, not “Federal” —national.
It was here suggested (B. 12/1 / ’3B) that
the reported increase of 3380 in Tas-
mania’s population would prompt
Dwyer-Gray, the superfluous Treasurer,
to demand another £338,000 from Can-
berra, whose leg can be pulled so easily
for special grants. The writer was
£113,000 out. Dwyer-Gray is demanding
another £225,000 —£800,000 instead of
£575,000.
“Hell and Hay and Booligal,” the old
bush ballad runs. Hay is 469 miles from
Sydney by one provincial Government’s
railway and 376 miles from Melbourne
by another’s; and it is getting Hell from
the transport strangulation department in
each city. If road transport (280 miles)
were unhampered fat lambs could be
loaded at Hay on Monday and sold in
Melbourne on Tuesday, whereas the full
operation now takes nearly four days.
The Mayor of Hay thinks that transport
should be under Commonwealth control;
and so does all the Riverina.
Though Italy is a party to the non-
intervention and anti-piracy agreements,
the “Cronk-News” doesn’t scruple to tell
the world once more “of Mussolini’s
decision to send a new army of 50,000
Italian troops to ensure victory for
Franco.” “S. M. Herald” blithers that
“these reports are very circumstan-
tial,” which is true enough. Of all the
lies sent to Australia as foreign “news”
“Cronk-News” lies are the most circum-
stantial.
According to Lord Craigmyle, the
P. and O. chairman, naval construction
has made shipbuilding so costly in Britain
that “the laying down of new merchant
tonnage has become economically impos-
sible.” Why not try building a few ships
in Australia? There is no naval con-
struction going on here.
Objections to the starving of the
defences voiced by Political Scientists at
Canberra “amazed” Thorby, the Minister,
who demanded to know “the standing of
these critics as authorities on defence.”
The critics might well inquire whether
Thorby, as an authority on defence, has
a leg to stand on, or anything to stand
on the leg. Thorby could scarcely ques-
tion the standing of Rear-Admiral
Feakes. The rear-admiral’s blunt con-
tribution to the argument was that “in
1912-22 Australia’s sea-service personnel
totalled 7000 ; to-day, after years of in-
tensive world preparation, it is about
4200.”


THIS LOVE-BEAM BUSINESS.
“I am experimenting with a loveometer. Everybody produces rays like a wireless beam. Love is a question of two people having the same emanation. These rays can be
measured in the same way as a speedometer measures speed.”—A professor, quoted by Sydney “Sun.”
YOU WERE SPSEO L-»M%T


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTR4LU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. . • • • £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
m
mmiiKim B
mu |fB
ini
35£2
SAFETY DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
A
<v
*
$
Obtainable of all leading
automotive supply dealers
SAFETY experts say that the
car that can dart out of the
way of another is able to
avoid many 1 accidents. This
calls for quick acceleration.
Keep your car alert. Install
new Champions every year.
An Empire product-
made in Windsor, Canada
38'
PERSONAL ITEM
Lord Nuffield, who will be qualifying
for Australian citizenship soon if his
affection for this land continues —he’s
now here, on his fourth visit, for the
sesqui celebrations —has grown so tired of
the irresponsible guff written about him
that he’s got his business agents to com-
pile and issue for the benefit of news-
papers a brief official biography (“not
for publication, but for the record files”).
From this it is gleaned that he sleeps
eight hours a night like anybody else,
smokes quite a lot of cigarettes, has a
drink when he feels like one, and “works
like hell.” Incidentally, in his struggling
days as a bicycle manufacturer Morris
was a speedy lad on the asphalt track,
was at one time champion of three Eng-
lish counties, and still cherishes a pile
of pots. Some time ago he bought back
the first bicycle he ever made —an order
from an Oxford clergyman.
“El V.” on a noble visitor:
On family experience, there were few more
suitable men to represent Britain as a delegate
of the Empire Parliamentary Association or as
EARL DE LA WARR.
a soldier than Earl de la Warr. The first of
the family to be summoned to Parliament took
his seat in 1299, and descendants of almost every
generation since have sat in the Lords or
Commons or both ever since those Houses have
existed separately. As soldiers, their record is
as good. They have never missed a war since
one of the earliest of them was on Edward
lll.’s staff in France and in Scotland in the cam-
paign against David Bruce over 600 years ago.
They still use as a heraldic badge a crampet—
the metal plate of a sword scabbard —to com-
memorate the fact that it was to one of them
that King John of France surrendered at
Poictiers. Their imperial record, too, will stand
thorough inspection—the present incumbent’s
ancestors include one of the earliest Governors
of Virginia (1618), an early Georgian Governor
of New York, Lord Lamington, Governor of
Queensland, and Lord Brassey, Governor of
Victoria. At 37 Lord de la Warr holds a seat in
the Cabinet as Lord Privy Seal, which gives him
the custody of the Royal Seal, affixed to all
royal warrants, charters and pardons. He has
precedence of all dukes, and in Parliament only
two archbishops, the Lord Chancellor, Prime
Minister, Lord President and Speaker rank
above him outside royalty. But, as Frith’s draw-
ing shows, he is bearing up well under the
strain.
Latest of the P. and O. directors to
visit Australia is Lord Craigmyle, chair-
man of the co., better known by his un-
decorated name of Alexander Shaw.
He’ll be 55 on the 28th. Born in Aber-
deen, he enrolled in Edinburgh Uni., but
shifted to Oxford, where he graduated
M.A. A born chairman, he started that
line of activity with the Oxford Union
Society. He had been in Parliament two
years when the Great War came; he volun-
teered, and saw service on the Somme.
From 1915 to 1923 he was Liberal M.P.
for Kilmarnock, and later served on
various official commissions and in-
quiries. He’s now a director of the Bank
of England, president of the U.K.
Chamber of Shipping and an honorary
captain of the R.N.R. His marriage in
1913 to a daughter of Lord Inchcape
(Kenneth Mackuy) brought him into the
P. and O ambit.
Sir Walter Kinnaird, who comes to
advise the Lyons Government about
national insurance, is a 65-year-old
K.B.E. whose career since he graduated
at the Royal University of Ireland has
been in the civil service. He got his first
big chance in 1911 as deputy-chairman
of the Irish Insurance Commission, and
used it so well that he was appointed
Controller of the U.K. Insurance Depart-
ment in 1919, a position from which he
retired last year. He’s married and has
one daughter.
Charlie Coles, dead in Adelaide, was
son of a former S.A. Speaker. He
arranged the famous Kapunda horse sales
with Sidney Kidman, and was one of the
most effective auctioneers who ever
handled a hammer.
Padre J. A. Gault, whose death at
Melbourne last week was sincerely re-
gretted by Vic. Diggers, was born 72
years ago in Manchester. He came to
Australia as a three-year-old in the sail-
ing-ship Antiope. Educated at Wesley
College, he entered the Methodist minis-
try. He served four years with the
A.1.F., and continued his interest in the
Diggers throughout the rest of a career
that included many onerous superinten-
dentships.
Eighty-six-years-young Julian Ashton
should have been a proud man at the
opening of the Centenary Arts Competi-
tion Exhibition. He won the prize for
the landscape in water-colors, son
Howard scored in oils and grandson
Richard was close up in the Common-
wealth historical section. The rest of
the State awards were won by ex-Ashton
students. Two of them, the late B. E.
Minns (winner of the historical oils) and
Mick Paul (historical water-colors), are
known to Bulletin readers.
Besides Westralian newspaperman
C. P. Smith and his younger brother Cyril
Smith, secretary to the Commonwealth
Repatriation Commission (B. 2/2/’3B),
the late Tom Smith, father of Vic. base-
ball, had three other sons, Sid, Roy and
Vincent. Last-named was an R.A.F.
flight-sergeant who collected a decoration
before he got to France by pulling a man
out of a burning ’plane in Lincolnshire.
He was sergeant in charge of the firing
party when Australian troops on the
Somme buried German flying-man
Richthofen with full military honors in
April, 1918. Vincent Smith died as a
result of war injuries within five months
of his return to Australia ; Sid and Roy
are both associated with the motor trade
in Melbourne, and Sid is as prominent in
Melbourne baseball activities as C.P. is
in the Perth game.
Jack Bailey, hailed by some political
optimists as a Giant-Killer, comes back
as N.S.W. president of the A.W.U. Bailey
directed a battle against Lang in 1932
JACK BAILEY, A.W.U. Branch
President Again.
as president of the N.S.W. section of
the Federal A.L.P., putting candidates up
to oppose the Langites, whose torpedo-
ing of the Scullin Government in the
previous year was regarded by him as
an unfriendly act. He was one of the
directors of the short-lived “World,”, and
had a period in N. S. Wales Leg.
Assembly.
One of a fast-vanishing race of
troubadours is John McNulty, who keeps
the old Federal pub in Thursday Island.
He can reminisce inimitably, and does
so in an atmosphere heightened by old
Spanish swords, cannon balls and other
Torres Strait relics. Beatrice Grimshaw,
Somerset Maugham and Idriess have
listened profitably to him, and many a
Bulletin par. had its genesis in his
memory. With Cinesound’s “Lovers and
Luggers,” as with previous film ventures,
his aid was sought, and the Federal and
McNulty’s sparse figure are features of
the film.
Lieut. John Horwood, accidentally
killed at the Engineer Depot, Moore
Park, Sydney, was a fine fellow and a
model soldier. His passing came when
he was due for promotion. He earned his
commission on merit, rising from the
ranks. Born in England 46 years ago, he
emigrated to W.A. in 1912. In 1914 he
joined the R.A.G.A., later transferring
to the A.1.F., gaining his commission on
active service. He rejoined the R.A.G.A.
in W.A. in 1920, subsequently being ap-
pointed hon. lieut. with the A.I.C. Since
that date he had served with Ist
Cavalry Divisional Signals, and was for
13 years at the Moore Park Depot.
In his schoolteaching days H. L. Ellis,
who died a few days ago, wrote many a
par. for The Bulletin as “Ah Chee.”
Leaving the teaching service he was suc-
cessively secretary to the first Federal
Boundaries Commission, Mining Regis-
trar, secretary to N.S.W. Commissioner
Suttor in Japan for 15 years and Regis-
trar of the N. S. Wales Civil Service
Board. He was 71 when he passed over.
Ex-Senator Bob Elliott is to nominate
for the position of chairman of directors
of the Vic. “Countryman.” Bob should
know the job, as he has papers at Mil-
dura, Shepparton, Castlemaine and Swan
Hill. There’s no member of the C.P.
more widely known to Vic. newspaper-
men.
An unofficial visitor to Sydney for the
sesqui waS General Michael J. Lenihan,
an American who was one of Pershing’s
trusties in France, where he com-
manded Uncle Sam’s 83rd Infantry
Brigade, whose stamping-ground ranged
from the Vosges to Champagne. The
French made him a Commander of the
Legion of Honor, and put three palms
on his Croix de Guerre, and he has
qualified twice for the U.S.A. decora-
tion the Purple Heart of Washington.
He and Pershing came out of West
Point as cadets in the same year, 1887.
In peace-time Lenihan was a Pro-
fessor of Military Science and Tactics.
He retired in 1929.
Dead in Adelaide, after an illness last-
ing some years, J. B. Gunson, a member
of the old S.A. legal and medical family.
He chose medicine, and was in his day
a foremost experimenter with its then
newfangled auxiliaries, X-ray and the
motor-car.
“Fong Tsz” on a Chinese bombing:—
Old China hands will smile grimly at the
suggestion that H. G. Woodhead, owner and
editor of the “Oriental Review,” which he
founded in 1933, has been bombed in his
Shanghai office because of his “pro-Japanese
attitude.” Harry Woodhead is one of the few
old-established foreign journalists in China who
have never been pro anybody. He is a self-
contained Devon man, as impartial as a
Supreme Court Judge, and, unlike some of his
Oriental colleagues, he has kept strictly away
from the tempting “advisory” jobs which give
the enterprising scribbler in the Land of Han
a chance to get exclusive information. He was
for years editor of the China Year-Book, and
in 1914 took over control of the “Peking-
Tientsin Times” —a paper, by the way, which
a couple of years ago devoted a two-column
leading article to The Bulletin as a pheno-
menon unique in journalism. When that was
written, however, Woodhead had some time
before retired from his job to attend to his
growing foreign correspondence. During the
current Japanese-Chinese crisis the attitude of
his “Oriental Review” has been a model of
what that sort of paper should be. He has
allowed expression of the views of every side
DR. HUGH DALTON, M.P.
in temperately-worded articles and has rein-
forced them with a daily diary confined to fact.
A few years ago Chicago University invited
him to visit U.S.A. to lecture, and he has been
decorated by three countries —his own, France
and Belgium—and has been president of the
Shanghai British Association. His house in
Avenue Edward VII., down on the borders of
the French Concession, near the site of some
of the worst of the accidental Chinese bombing
a few months ago, is a gathering-ground for
diplomatists of all nations.


pLEABE FOR
~ ..LM rj E _ threes
THRt^'r WRCES
*kyv AYS PLEASE
THI Sf c *
“** IS THt
/&* -* » I
ES
STATE EXPRESS
333
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
s*.
f;T.
9 6d. : 18— 1/- : 27 1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.
6350-8.7


ABORIGINALITIES
“Valencia Creek”: Old Ned is the last
surviving bullocky in our Vic. district
and a real tough specimen—his language,
dress and mode of living are all accord-
ing to the best ox-punching traditions —
but his favorite literature is “True Love
Romances.” I persuaded him to read
Kylie Tennant’s Tiburon, and offered to
lend him a few more Australian novels,
but he wasn’t having any. “Anything
that happened to the blokes in that there
Tiburon book could easily happen to me
an’ it wouldn’t be nothin’ out of the way,”
he explained, “but the happenin’s in these
‘True Love’ yarns are never likely to
come my way.” His eyes lit up and he
puffed furiously at his pipeful of dark
plug. “But just think,” he continued,
“how blanky excitin’ it would be if they
did!”
¥ ¥ * ¥
“Dungeness”: Shipwrecks on the
Great Barrier Reef have mostly been
associated with tragedy and suffering, but
there was one brilliant exception of quite
an enjoyable kind. The brig Enchantress,
bound for Sourabaya from Sydney, went
ashore at the Raine Island Passage on
July 24, 1850, in spite of the tower built
six years previously as a seamark. All
hands got ashore safely on Raine Island,
where they found a number of goats,
left there in case of such contingencies,
and innumerable eggs of seabirds. Cap-
tain I’Anson being apparently a some-
what easy commander, the crew brought
ashore a quantity of rum from the wreck
and. held a glorious picnic for nearly a
week. It was interrupted by the arrival
of the ship Lady Margaret, the skipper
of which, much against the will of many
of the shipwrecked mariners, full of rum
and eggs and desiring to establish a
business for selling such marine luxuries
to passing ships, had to get them aboard
by force.
* * * *
“Billy See”: I wish some fungi expert
would draw up a list of what are edible
mushies and which poisonous tuddies. It
irks me to think that every autumn sees
so much free fodder going to waste while
the grocer and the butcher are brutally
insistent on having the coin in exchange
for their comestibles. Ah! to be able to
wander over the open fields and gather
the material for a succulent stew or a
juicy fry—puffballs, shaggy-caps and the
brown-topped boletus. I have a Scot-
tish acquaintance who reckoned he knew
that the big horse mushrooms found in
the sand around Perth (W.A.) were
highly edible. When he started to turn
blue and break into a sweat we reckoned
it time to send for the doctor. Sandy
recovered —though not from the bill.
He’s been living on burgoo ever since
to liquidate the cost of that one cheap
meal. But he still has faith. He reckons
the horse mushies are all reicht, only one
of them must somehow have been crossed
with a toadstool.
» * * *
“E.S.”: Plenty of dogs get wages on
N.S.W. stock routes. I met one old chap
who just dawdled along in a sulky at
the tail of a mob of sheep. Though too
old for active work, he was paid the
same wage as the other men because his
dog was worth two men at the side. “It’s
the dorg that gets the wages,” he said.
“All I do is just wave me ’and.”
•** * »
“Nor’-west”: Without question a
powerful ocean current sets out of the
South Atlantic, around the Cape of Good
Hope, to strike nor’-east to Rottnest
Island, off Fremantle, and then up the
W.A. coast, past Geraldton towards
Shark Bay. Back in 1869 the clipper Blue
Jacket was abandoned on fire off the
Falkland Islands. Nearly two years
later her figurehead drifted ashore at
Rottnest. Just after the Big War a light
buoy, later identified as from a German
West African port, drifted ashore at
Dongarra, about 60 miles further north.
It, too, had made a passage round the
Cape. Other things also come ashore
along this stretch. Recently a couple of
poultry-farmers seeking shellgrit came on
four magnificent teak logs, probably
washed from the deck of some East
Indiaman. Petrol-drums can be picked
up almost anywhere along that beach.
* * * *
“Mossie”: I won’t have it that mos-
quitoes can’t breed other than in stag-
nant water. I’ve been in many places in
outback Queensland, not less than 20
miles from water, and the ’skeeters have
been as thick as if they had been on the
channels. Moreover, the winds were
continuously sou’-east; the water was
nor’-west of my camp. There weren’t
even odd pools, it being the dry season
in desert country. If those insects didn’t
breed in the gidya, then they must have
come from some house tank which was
unprotected by netting—and the nearest
house was all out 100 miles distant.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: Have never known of a
ship’s tank being used as a bush resi-
dence (B. 12/1 /’3B), but I once saw one
that served as a bath and bathroom com-
bined. I had made a call at the galvan-
ised-iron homestead on a hungry-looking
selection in the Cloncurry (n.-w. Q.) dis-
trict. A lubra was sitting at the end of
the verandah with a towel over her
shoulder, and she raised no objection at
all to my filling the quart-pot at the
tap of a near-by ship’s tank. Then a head
appeared from the hole at the top of
the tank, and I heard a voice say, “Hand
me the towel, Mary.” It was the mistress
of the house having her weekly wash.
* * * *
“New Moon”: Away with this light-
ning-struck-wood-not-burning nonsense.
The best cakes, scones and pastry I ever
made were cooked in a fuel stove fed
with wood split by lightning. Moreover,
it gives out as even a heat as all your gas,
electricity and kerosene. Our Bairnside
(Vic.) country is hilly, and trees struck
by lightning are common. Anything
does for the open fires, but lightning
chips for the stove is an unwritten law.
* # * *
“Dougal”: The common or garden
bull-ant does his share in the way of
snake-destruction. The roving reptile
seems to have a weakness for crawling
over ant-hills. He generally gets about
half-way over when an indignant insect
nips him aft. Joe, instead of sensibly
making his getaway, turns round to see
what the blazes is up. Before he knows
what’s happening the little blue blighters
have blinded him, and Te Deum may
be sung. I have seen wrigglers up to
4ft. and sft. and even longer caught in
this way.
* * * *
“Western”: I’ve never yet seen it
mentioned by the Council, but one of the
worst horrors of perishing from thirst is
the getting of the mouth full of sand.
Back in the Pindinnie (W.A.) days I was
one of a party that picked up a
“swamper” just in time. That poor
devil was a picture— too terrible to de-
“ Now , both together —HEAVE!”
scribe; and he had his mouth half-
choked with sand. A police sergeant who
has picked up half a dozen in his time
tells me that to these poor devils comes
the illusion of water, a beautiful pool
or a flowing stream. So real does this
appear that they actually try to drink,
scooping up the sand. Several times
the sergeant’s first job has been cleaning
out the mouth before he could get a
drop of water into it. And so tough is
the human constitution that, even when
reduced to this extremity, the magic of
water will bring most rescued ones
completely back to life.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: When an enterprising
fox forced the door of our fowlyard
and killed a dozen working hens, we tried
to land him with poisoned parrots and
all the other well-known lures. These
failing, someone suggested putting a
rooster in a coop and surrounding him
with rabbit traps. Next, morning' we
found the mangled remains of two dead
foxes in the traps. Apparently, one fell
for the joke, and a rival, coming along
and catching him at a disadvantage,
started to deal out stoush until he also
struck trouble. Judging by the blood
and hide scattered around it must have
been a ding-dong toe-to-toe battle —too
exciting for the rooster; he had thrown
a seven also.
“Timbuctoo”: Queensland naturalists
are perturbed over the fate of the rare
cassowary which is only found in the
Cape York Peninsula and Papua. The
handsome fowl is b"jng threatened by the
hordes of wild pigs which have developed
in recent years from escaped farmyard
porkers. These now swarm in the
northern jungles and devour the casso-
wary eggs. Unlike the emu, the casso-
wary is palatable food. In the past
pioneers of the Peninsula rated it high
on their bills of fare, and smoked casso-
wary ham was a delicacy. Kennedy’s ex-
pedition to Cape York in 1848 found
the birds a welcome addition to the
tucker-bag.
* * * *
“Centre”: Discovered a pair of
mopokes doing the living-statuary stunt
on a branch of a myrtle-tree in my Glen-
field (N.S.W.) garden. They’d either
been having a petting party overnight
and let the daylight catch them, or had
lost their way and hadn’t been able to
get home. A peculiar thing was that
they were being entirely ignored by other
birds. Generally an owl gets a rough
passage if caught out in daylight, but
the mopoke, I’ve noticed several times,
seems to be immune from this type of
bird-bullying. Or is it that their camou-
flage fools other birds, even to that
stickybeak, the willie wagtail?
* * * *
“Double Express”: Cabled that a
farmer in Zululand has shot one of the
world’s few remaining white rhinoceroses,
the beast having strayed with a mate
from the Zululand game reserve at Hluh-
luwe. Eighty years ago, when Gordon
Cumming wrote his famous story of big-
game hunting, the white rhino roamed
the South African veld in thousands. To-
day there are supposed to be a few left
on the upper Nile, far north of Khar-
toum, though no one is very certain of
this. The Zululand pair were the only
specimens in captivity, if it can be called
that. As with our native bear, total ex-
tinction is the inevitable fate of the
species.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: Nobody who had listened
to the blue kingfisher telling off an in-
truder in the vicinity of his nest would
accuse him of dumbness. Shrieking
birdian curses, he tears like a meteor at
the unwelcome visitor. Saw one of his
murderous darts end fatally. A harmless
minah sat on a twig of the tree which
contained the kingfisher’s adapted ter-
mites’ nest, and replied to the irascible
one’s tirade with deprecating chuckles.
Gurgling grimly, kingy took a long
swoop, gathering speed as he came. But
when he reached the twig the minah
wasn’t there, and he brought up with a
thud against the trunk of the tree. His
beak drove firmly into the soft bark,
which supported the dangling, broken-
necked corpse.
CAUSE FOR FATALISM.
“I’ve always ’eld,” said “Junee” Jack, as with
a knife he pruned his fist,
“The cove who best can stand a crack from
Fortune is the fatalist;
I’m one. I always ’ave been one. It ’elps yer
take it on the chin.
An’ let me tell yer this, me son, that I’ve ’ad
many a rotten spin.
“The worst thud ever I was brought was years
ago at Obygee,
An’, ’struth! it’s only just the thought that
what ’as got to be will be
That’s kept me pecker up and stopped me
slidin’ to a downright wreck;
The cards that I was dealt were dropped from
orf the bottom o’ the deck.
“A love affair it was, o’ course. / seemed to
click for all the bumps;
Though if I’d ’ad some more resource I
might’ve made it turn out trumps.
But—spare me days!—the jackeroo, me rival,
always could, somehow,
Manage to land me in the blue with Emily—
’e was a cow!
“’E worked a ready on me there. You see,
the tab thought she could sing,
An’ this bloke, with his smarmy air, a lot
of compliments ’d sling;
1 didn’t think ’er voice was much. In fact,
to me it sounded like
A woman lettin’ in the clutch or yelpin’s of
a chained-up tyke.
“I didn’t say that to ’er, though, but so’s she
won’t think I’m a nark
I writes a pome to let ’er know ’er voice
reminds me of a lark.
Well, some’ow ’e got ’old of it an’ made the
“1” into a “b”;
Of course she dam’ near ’as a fit, an’ —well,
I’m soon an absentee.
“She wouldn’t listen to me then. I’m in the
gun; well up the spout.
’£”s set, o’ course, till one day when by
accident she finds ’im out.
All right for me? No, that was where me
stiffness come in; fer, y’ see,
She chucks ’is nibs up then an’ there, an’—
strike me fat —she marries me!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Gryllus”: Emmaline, the large
brown-and-black spider, has for weeks
suspended her 2ft. diameter webs from
the verandah overhang, and I have con-
tributed quite a few March flies and
mosquitoes to her catch. Last week the
female offspring of this house, having
obtained my book-born opinion that
spider diet must necessarily be mainly
proteid, on account of the web-produc-
tion arrangements inside, proceeded to
some personal experiments. To date, the
scientifically-faithless Emmaline has
greedily eaten white bread, brown ditto,
scone, banana, jam and tomatoed
spaghetti, none of which contains any
proteids to mention. My reputation in the
family as a spider authority has gone.
But, although it may sound a trifle cat-
tish, I offered Emmaline some drops of
beer last night. Did she mop ’em up?
King’s Cross couldn’t have bettered it. •
She’s still asleep. Emmaline drinks!
* * * m
“Valerin”: Add the goanna to the
natural enemies of ’hoppers. Watched
one the other day near Junee (N.S.W.)
snapping them up as fast as they flew
past, and he made darned few misses
either.
* * * *
“Dougal”: Touching on queer foster
parents. Our cat, after giving birth to a
solitary tom-kitten, passed out. Not
wishing to be catless we handed Tommy
over to a neighbor’s nannygoat to be
mothered. After a particularly success-
ful upbringing Tommy is now one of
“Keep that pose, Aggie”
the finest cats in the district. There is
only one drawback—we have to clip his
beard every second Thursday!
* * * *
“Hostile”: Hearing the sound of
thumping on the ground, I turned to see
a half-grown wallaby hopping in erratic
fashion towards me, pursued closely by
a large red dingo. The marsupial was
apparently all in, and on seeing me it
pulled up with a jerk, turned and fled a
few yards in the opposite direction, but,
quickly changing its mind, wheeled round
and hopped up to within a few yards of
me and sat up trembling, at which Warri-
gal slunk away. Instinct, doubtless,
warned it that man was less to be feared
than the relentless dog.
* * * *
“Centre”: Miles from water, I scooped
out a dam in my N.S.W. district and sat
back and waited for rain to fill it. I was
in luck, and the dam was a-brim within
a month of its completion. Now there
are golden carp-fry swimming about in it.
A friend says the blue heron is respon-
sible, as the bird, while wading, picks
up fish-spawn in the ridges and creases
of its feet, and, flying from one water-
hole to another, distributes the eggs.
* * * *
“8.N.G.”: There is no word in any
abo. tongue for “please” or “thank you,”
which is true of the Papuan also. The
untamed native accepts proffered gifts
with a nonchalance that is disconcerting
to anyone unaccustomed to their ways.
He approaches with a slow sidling gait,
looking anywhere but in the direction of
the gift being held out, to him, which he
takes, without snatching, still looking
away from the bestower ; then, without
haste, he withdraws. It is just a result
of a system under which all things were
possessed in common. It is only neces-
sary to watch the native quietly after-
wards to learn how much he really thinks
of the gift.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Bill, who toils in an
outback Vic. tannery, invited me home
to tea, and when the meal was over
cleared away the dishes and started
washing-up operations while his spouse
sat back and watched him. “No, it’s all
right,” he said when I offered to help ;
“this here washin’ and wipin’ up is the
only way I can get the smell of them
blasted hides off me hands. ”
* * * *
“Bluey”: Hard timber to kill? I’ll
back yellow - box against anything.
Around Hill End (N.S.W.) this timber
stands three suckerings. Odd trees come
back for more. This only goes for
grown trees. Young or scrubby stuff of
any sort is hardest to kill.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: It’s hard to believe that
the abo. in his primitive state used fire
spears. Such weapons are essentially
for use against a strongly-built but in-
flammable fort, for the purpose of burn-
ing the defenders out. The abo. had
no such forts —his best attempt at build-
ing was the mia-mia or wurley, a few
miserable branches erected so as to form
a poor sort of breakwind. No need for
any fire spear to burst that open. If he
used them anywhere against the habi-
tations of whites he must be credited
with an inventiveness that had certainly
lain dormant during the previous fifty
thousand years.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: In Cairns (N.Q.), as else-
where, folks want something for nothing,
Old Giuseppe killed two outsized death-
adders, and, hoping to add a little to his
meagre income, bottled them in methy-
lated spirit and called on various owners
of small natural history museums. The
naturalists were impressed—until the
question of price was introduced. “Nob-
boddy vanta pay even for da spirit an
da bawtel,” said Giuseppe afterwards,
“so I valka to da varf, taka da bawtel by
da neck, say ‘Here goes,’ swinga da arm,
an’ shucka da whole moo-sa-oom to da
fish.” This is written so that, when at
some future date that bdttle perchance
drifts ashore God-knows-where, its his-
tory can be traced by reference to these
pages.
“They tell us, Trepolpen, that you Cornish were never conquered.”
“That be right, sur. Us knaWed all th' 'idin'-places.”
“Bogaduck”: Jim, new to cockying in
our S.A. district, led us to a spot in his
cow paddock. “Don’t know what I can
do about this,” he remarked. “I burnt a
lot of fallen timber here last autumn,
and now I’ve got all this muck. We’ve
tried hoeing and burning and ploughing,
but it still grows and nothing will eat it.”
Old Dan examined the growth referred
to. “Pea-bush and prickly acacia, with a
few blackberry vines,” he said as he
identified it. “Well, getting rid of that
is a simple job if you make what you
might call cow psychology work for you.
At present those cows of yours can get
at this without trouble but won’t. Well,
shove a wobbly fence up around it. I
guarantee them cows of yours’ll bust it
down and eat up every scrap of this
rubbish.” Somewhat doubtfully Jim
agreed to give it a go, and everything
happened as Dan had forecast.
“Centre”: My poultry-runs provide
feathers, brown, black and white, that
would line and furnish hundreds of
nests, but only sparrows seem to make
use of them in this district (Glenfield,
N.S.W.). Each sparrow’s nest that I
examined was of the same untidy struc-
ture, a hollow mass of grass-bents and
straw, averaging a foot or more in
diameter, and filled with hundreds of
fowl and duck feathers. Wagtails,
robins, blue-wrens, honeyeaters, fly-
catchers, fantails, warblers, grassbirds,
bulbuls, whistlers and diamond-birds all
seem to shy at feathers of any sort, some
using cow-hair as a lining, but most
being content with a thin padding of
soft grass-blades or shredded stringybark.
Cobweb is in fairly general use,, often
for attaching patches and strips of
camouflaging lichens and dead leaves.
Willie Wagtail, Jacky Winter and yellow-
breasted robins use cobweb to hold
their nests to the slender branches on
which they seem to prefer to build, and
from which I have found many torn
away by sudden wind-squalls.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Speaking of bush beds,
is there anything more comfortable than
a mattress of spinifex, gathered in tus-
socks and spread out root-end upwards?
And is there anything harder and more
muscle-aching than the stretched bullock-
hide that stands for a bed in W.A.’s nor’-
west? Choom was moaning about the
hardness of the bullock-hide when the
old-timer suggested that he gather him-
self a mattress of spinifex, explaining that
a tent-fly or a couple of rugs prevented
the roots from causing discomfort. At
turn-in time wild yells came from
Choom’s end of the verandah. Thinking
he’d been bitten by a snake, we hurried
to the rescue. His buttocks looked as
if he were breaking out with the measles
or something similar. Mixing instruc-
tions, he had placed the spinifex on the
stretched hide just as it grew, points up-
ward, never expecting the said points
would pass through a tent fly and a blan-
ket, and also the human hide, as easily
as a hot needle through butter.
* * * *
“James W.”: A cane-cocky near
Mackay (N.Q.) has an embarrassing
attraction for reptiles. He reckoned
he’d had enough when, while he was strip-
ping a lemon-tree, a brown snake slid off
a bough into his flannel shirt through
one armhole, across his chest, out
through the other armhole, and down his
legs to the ground. But a goanna failed
to respect his opinions. He was inspect-
ing a paddock of cane in the seedling
stage when his dogs put up a 4ft. go.
The cocky, working with his shirt-tails
flapping loose in the interests of ventila-
tion, canefields fashion, was the only
vertical thing in sight. The goanna
scooted up his back under his shirt and
sank its claws to the sheaths in his
dorsal muscles. The cocky threatened
all pedestrian records up to 880 yards
in the run home, where it took wife and
son a full half-hour to prise the tena-
cious one’s claws out of his hide. Nowa-
days he wears a collar, cuffs, anklets,
bowyangs and a tight belt.
TREE TALK.
By a bright and ruddy campfire
In a cavern, lone, I lie —
Glad to stretch my limbs at leisure,
For a weary man am I.
All day long I have been walking
Up and down a lofty range,
Where it seemed the trees were talking,
Gossiping—tall folk together —
Over secrets sweet and strange.
Maybe, in their sylvan language,
While the breeze their branches swung,
They were telling of days perished
Long ago, when earth was young—
Telling of days dead for ever,
Days that ne’er shall dawn again,
When by reedy lake and river
Folk who understood them wandered—
Skin-clad, cavern-dwelling men.
Or it may be of the seasons
That they gossiped, soft and low—
Autumn chill and winter dreary,
Summer with round cheeks aglow—
Dwelling much on springtide happy,
Charged with sweetest song and scent,
When their swelling veins ran sappy
And the soil grew rich beneath them
With life-giving nourishment.
Now, the while my campfire flickers,
Lighting creviced roof and wall,
Limbs at ease and couched on bracken,
Pleasant faring I recall:
Mute within this mountain cavern—
Talk of town and mart forgot,
Talk of pavement and of tavern —
Still anigh me tall trees whisper,
Whisper in the darkness —what?
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day*; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M4GOI.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cvanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF .
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
The BENGALI. Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
LJHLHJ HJLJH
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . . .
Sizes, |in. fin., ijin., Black Handle
Xylo. Handle
. 12/6
. 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Your Trusteeship may be burdensome
If you are the Trustee of a deceased friend’s Estate, and find the responsibility burden-
some, you can arrange to transfer the burden to Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Your friend, when he made the Will, probably did not contemplate how, owing to the
Moratorium, Taxation and other difficulties, the weight of your responsibilities would
grow—nor, probably, did you when you assumed them. Such transfers are frequently
made at a small cost to the Trust Estate concerned. Call or write for particulars.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Agent, Etc.
T. H.
DIRECTORS.
Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Lieut.-
T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore.
H. V. Douglass,
Managing Director.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £52,230,000.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
-Col. the Hon.
P. Cureton,
Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Southern Cross Assurance
This co. was promoted by Thomas
Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500 in
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became governing director. He resigned
a year or so ago “in accordance with
the terms of his contract,” whatever they
might be. Here are the co.’s perform-
ances over the last decade:
Ordinary Branch.
Ex- Surplus
June, Income. Claims, penses. Income. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 .. 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 .. 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 .. 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.-’s business bought.
Added funds, £27,003 .. .. .. 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 .. 221,349
Added establishment account, £lO .. 221,339
1932 .. 195,736 61,389 91,499 42,848 264,187
Written off shares, etc., £11,517 .. 252,670
1933 .. 203,535 58,333 101,809 43,393 296,063
Written off shares, etc., £22,464 .. 273,599
1934 .. 195,719 61,518 91,424 42,777 316,376
Written off various assets, £15,498 .. 300,878
1935 .. 190,425 67,906 70,912 51,607 352,485
Written off various assets, £10,288 .. 342,197
1936 . . 186,596 67,737 68,654 50,205 392,402
Written off, £6326 386,076
1937 .. 192,389 78,271 74,068 40,050 426,126
Written off, £9825 416,301
At the close of accounts in 1936 the
actuary made his third quinquennial over-
haul of the organisation. The life fund
then stood at £644,725. Liabilities under
policies were figured at £643,578, leaving
a . surplus of £1147, the first thing of its
kind, which has been carried forward as
a special actuarial reserve. It is far too
early yet to talk of regular bonuses to
policy-holders, but prospects are very
much better than they were a few years
ago.
Dividends for shareholders are not yet
in sight. From the beginning the aim
was large business, and that made the
fight expensive. At the close of last
accounts net tangibles had a book value
of £713,868, up £29,819 over the twelve-
month. The life fund stood at £673,803,
and the actuarial position is reported to
be maintained. The £40,065 that re-
mained was the book value of tangibles
representing £300,000 of share capital,
of which £62,500 carries a fixed cumu-
lative 8 p.c. So there is a still-accumulat-
ing contingent liability in front of the
ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1931. 1936. 1937.
Freeholds, etc £199,823 £389,725 £462,107
Equipment . . . . 24,285 19,691 20,149
Govt, securities . . 138,090 129,368 123,350
Mortgages, etc... .. 76,174 39,323 30,298
Loans on policies . . 22,194 72,526 82,795
Shares other cos., etc. 13,885 25,443 25,451
Book debts . . . . 90,334 58,047 63,312
Cash 12,987 4,968 3,102
Tangible assets . . £577,772 £739,091 £810,564
Liabilities* .. . . 55,622 55,042 96,696
Net tangible assets .. £522,150 £684,049 £713,868
* Other than under policies.
The outstanding feature there is the at-
tention given to investment in freeholds,
etc., up £72,382 during the last term —
the etcetera is unsold subdivisional land
and balances owing by purchasers,
£83,919 net. To meet the outlay and
lend a further £10,269 on policies,
£41,654 was added to the outside debt.
The amount written off assets during the
year was £9825, up £3499. Outstanding
and deferred premiums total £39,355,
down £BO6.
In 1934 the management decided to
“restrict the costly writing of new busi-
ness.” A couple of years later it re-
ported that reorganisation of the co.
was complete “in accordance with the
directors’ plans,” and that the intention
was “to gradually increase the writing of
new business. in the future without in-
curring additional overhead.” Last year
£790,286 (up £186,243) of new business
was put on the books. The average
amount per policy was £213, as against
£224 in 1936, and the average premium
per cent, was £3 14s. Id., as against
£3 16s. 10d., which suggests that more
longer-term business was written:
1930. 1936. 1937.
Proposals accepted .. 7,737 2,690 3.695
Total new policies .. £2,112.311 £604,043 £790,286
First premiums .. 58.954 19,134 25,977
Renewal premiums . . 147,537 135,617 132,746
Consideration annuities 750
Interest, rent, etc. .. 17,304) 31,095 33,666
Total income .. 223,797 186',596 192,389
The small growth of £3222 in net
premium income was due to a heavy crop
of maturities (£32,124, up £26,643).
Death claims were 60.6 p.c. of expecta-
tions under the mortality table used.
Exes, were up £5414, owing to a growth
of £6867 in commissions, etc. (£25,928),
on new business; office exes. (£34,926)
were £1626 lighter. Excluding interest
payments (£3657) and taxes (£2112), exes,
took 43 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
as against 40.5 p.c. and 40.3 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The growth in
the expense rate was due to the crop of
maturities already referred to. The ratio
needs to be reduced to about half of
last year’s figure before the position in
this respect can be regarded as satisfac-
tory.
Interest earnings are the point at which
the co. scores. It assumes that its funds
will turn in a clear 4 p.c. After deduct-
ing the taxes and interest payments
already referred to, last year’s interest
receipts were equal to a net effective
rate of £4 6s. 7d. p.c. on the life
fund, compared with £4 3s. lOd. p.c. and
£3 13s. lid. p.c. for the two preceding
years.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Ord. To Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 124 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 79,684 12,000 46,875 20,809 345,963
10 p.c.
1928.. 85,002 12,000 37,500 35,502 381,465
1929.. 50,804 12,000 37,500 1,304 373,394
Unp-mlnined reduction. £73,589 .. 299,805
Loss. 2 J p.c.
1930.. 16,0u4 12,000 a,oio 259,926
Debt recoveries and capital profits,
n £8172 268,098
1931.. 32,930 Nil Nil 235,168
1932.. 4,759 Nil Nil 230,409
Unexplained reduction, £3l7t .. 227,232
Profit.
J 933.. 3,580 Nil Nil 3,580 230,812
1934, . 9,378 Nil Nil 9,378 240,190
Reserves capitalised, £20,000 .. 220,190
Profit on sale of shares, £5549.. 225^739
Unexplained addition, £6652 .. 232,391
6 p.c.
1935.. 20,248 4,500* Nil 15,748 248,139
Profit on sale of shares, £4022 .. 252 161
1936.. 26,299 15,300 t Nil 10,999 263,160
Cont. res. written back, £34,565 .. 297,725
Unexplained reduction, £2479 ... 295 246
Deferred surplus Theatre Royal Pty.,
£4022 299,268
_ 24 p.c.
1937.. 27,461 10,200 9,375 7,886 307,154
*For half-year to 31/12/’34 on 150,000 prefs.
t Eighteen months to 30/6/’36.
There is £545,000 of capital to feed in
170,000 prefs. and 375,000 ords. At the
moment public investment interest is
confined to the prefs., issued in 1924,
mainly to pay off debt on Her
Majesty’s Theatre block, Sydney. Ac-
cording to press reports, 200,000 of the
ords., which used to be held mainly by
those in the business and their friends,
were acquired by a group of trans-
Tasman investors in December last.
The business provided a fortune for
its founder, J. C. Williamson, and some
rich returns after his death in 1907. But
perfection of talkies, development of
color photography and the variety of
entertainment provided by the picture
theatre have deprived the legitimate
stage not only of much of its patronage
but of much of its talent, too. Slump
and its concomitants were the last straw.
In 1934 it was decided to put the ac-
counts on a more even keel; arrears of
pref. divs. (£40,575) were cancelled, the
rate was reduced from 8 p.c. (6.2 p.c.
after allowing for the statutory cut) to
6 p.c. cumulative, with the right to ad-
vance with the ords. up to 8 p.c., after
the latter have had 6 p.c., and pref.-
holders received in return 20,000 f.-p.
pref. shares, reserves being tapped for
the purpose, thus making 6 p.c. worth
6.8 p.c. on old holdings. At the same
time the directors reduced aggregate pay-
ments under their service agreements
from £13,390 p.a. to £9360 p.a. from Dec.
1, 1932, to July 3, 1937.
Profits on a rising scale have been
recorded since 1933, but they are still
moderate and consist chiefly of rentals
from properties. Last year three sub-
sidiaries each made a profit of which no
account was taken in the parent’s books.
The spring in gross earnings was £2362:
Gross 1927. 1932. 1936. 1937.
earnings ..£206,195 £34,031 £67‘.960' £70,322
Exes. .. 126,511 38,790 41,661 42,861
Net profit.. £79,684 £4,759* £26,299 £27,461
* Loss.
The net result, which benefited by £1162
of the increase, was enough to pay the
prefs. 6 p.c. and show 4.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained reduction of £2479
in reserves, which were augmented by
£34,565 from provision made for con-
tingencies in previous years. After a
six-year wait, the ords. got p.c.,
which, together with a like distribution
on Dec. 8 last, was paid from capital
profits on the sale of shares in Theatre
Royal Pty., Melbourne. At June 30 last
the amount still due on sale of these
shares was £256,315, of which £136,756
was capital profit.
During the year a mortgage of £30,000
was raised to pay for three floors added
to Her Majesty’s Theatre building, Syd-
ney, part of which is leased to Wool-
worths. Other liabilities were reduced
from liquid resources, leaving the outside
debt, etc. (£583,383), £8946 lighter than at
the previous balance. The etcetera is
provision for taxation and workers’ com-
pensation, now shown separately for the
first time at £14,696 and £4428 respec-
tively :
1929. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. £525,000 £525,000 £545,000 £545,000
Deferred 1
surplus |
Mortgages }-
Sundry I
creditors j
629,119 604,234
140,778 136,756
• 483,445 504,232
.108,902* 79,151
Freeholds 1
Leasehold |
wardrobe, j-
goodwill, |
etc. J
733,039 663,144
785,724 823,765
1271,959 274,130
Shares other
cos. .. 385,456 279,966 147,381 147,021
Book debts. . 406,833 409,535 330,815 320,464
Cash, etc. . . 11,561 6,997 10,505 6,915
* Includes provision for taxation and workers’
compensation.
When the books closed, freeholds and
deferred debtors carried mortgages equal
to 47 p.c. of their book value (£1,080,080).
Against the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£60,027), there were trade
debtors, cash, Consols, etc., totalling
£50,857. Principal shareholdings are in
I. C. Williamson (N.Z.), Ltd., and Theatre
Royal, Ltd., Christchurch. The board
considers assets to be well worth their
book value.
The co. is considering erection of a
new stage theatre on a site in Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. No hint is given as
to how it is proposed to finance the
building.
The market prices the prefs. at 20s. 6d.,
at which figure the return is 5.8 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis, with little prospect of
the participating rights being worth
much, if anything, within the next few
years. Excluding scenery, wardrobes,
copyrights, goodwill, etc., equal to
approximately 30s. per share, the net
tangible cover is £3 Bs.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
,£• £ £ £
1927.. 12,980 12J p.c. = 9,375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO .. 46,429
1928.. 11,376 124 p.c. = 9,375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7,710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4,000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 ~ „ 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „,, 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 ~ „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 ~ „ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 .. „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 . .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
The co. specialises in the manufacture
of all kinds of commercial stationery and
office requisites. Factories have been set
up at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and
Perth (the last-mentioned operated by a
subsidiary), there are distributing
branches at Adelaide, Hobart and Broken
Hill, and close association exists with the
Lamson organisation in Europe and
America.
Last year the continued upward trend
in the retail trade further increased
demand for the co.’s dockets and
other requisites, and gross earnings on
trading account were £5421 better at
£51,829, and £l4OO (= 8 p.c., same as
for the previous term) was received from
the Westralian subsidiary. Including
£1269 sent to the staff fund, exes.
(£40,138) took £3855 of the increase, leav-
ing the declared net result at £13,091, up
£1566. That was after paying 5 p.c. on
£25,000 of fresh capital (it brought with
it £6250 of share premiums, which have
been added to reserves) issued in March
last. Including the 5 p.c., there was
enough to show 12.7 p.c. on average
capital as against 11.5, 10.2, 9.3, 7.1, 6.7,
3.6 and 3.1 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was kept at 8 p.c., and a 2 p.c. bonus
was added, making 10 p.c. for the year.
The amount handed to shareholders has
thus advanced by annual steps of 1 p.c.
since 1931. For the 12 years to the close
of accounts in 1929 shareholders aver-
aged 11 p.c.
Prospects of a slightly better showing
at next balance are encouraging. Cer-
tainly trade activity generally appears to
be at or about its peak and may ease a
trifle later on; but the fresh capital,
which has gone mainly into premises,
plant and stocks, will have more of a
chance to show what it can do, while in-
creased efficiency of the new factory at
Richmond (Vic.) should help to keep
costs, now on the up-grade, in check.
Last year the pound shares fluctuated
between 38s. 6d. and 365. The return at
the lower figure is 5,-5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 295. 9d. in net
tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £125,000
Liabilities* .. 9,746 13,287 17,462 18,707
Premises .. 41,875 42,233 42,070 62,649
Plant, etc. . . 39,656 44,447 44,350 50,004
Stock.. .. 31,861 39,202 41,968 55,548
Book debts . . 19,861 24,687 27,654 28,910
Cash & sundries 12,184 4,423 3,644 1,221
Shares, etc. .. 17,500 21,125 24,632 23,785
* Including unspecified provision for taxation, and
insurance.
The growth of £20,579 in premises,
£5654 net in plant and £13,580 in stocks
suggests preparation for larger trading. In
each of the last two years, plant has been
written down by about 10 p.c. on reduc-
ing values. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£85,679)
was £11,168, due to the introduction of
new capital.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


ss
r k)
sQ&es
«B£S?
o
d e
%
fq
pP r &l*
%1
Is
eh
An
fh e
eM
CO
.
s
sh
£g»:
■
iaqram shouuinq Tqpes or
;edle-point Uric A’cid Crqstals
Nee
SWAS
w-:
W*
Young Men—Middle Aged
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
itself
means little
WHEN
Kidney -
Acid ASSOCIATED
Troubles are
Conquered
This Safe, Sure Way
Each year strain on your vital organs
increases. More and more you risk Illness
and Breakdown through Kidney, Bladder,
Acid, Blood-Pressure, Rheumatic and
Urinary Ills . . .
The cause of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills can follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS—as
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON'S PILLS .
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vital Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
w
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
HARRISON’S PIUS Restore all the
VITAL ORGANS:
The one great and undeniably
effective Remedy for thoroughly
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes of ageing ills
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London, whose signa-
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison s Pills.
Harrison’s Pills combine the most valu-
able known agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful Urination, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints, Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc, Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney, Bladder and
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons, Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head, Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OF VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors —Amalgamated Lab-
oratories. Sydney,
LKJHLK
JHL


CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
AMICUS
Investment in
HAPPINESS
Public invested in £31,727,699 worth of
New A.M.P. Policies last year
Average of one family in two now
protected by the Society
THE people of Australia and New Zealand continue to put more and
more of their money into A.M.P. policies as an Investment in
Happiness; as an investment in Security and Peace of Mind. Their
faith in the Society grows day by day, month by month, year by year.
The year that closed on 3 1 st December was the greatest in the Society s
history. The Society again made a large increase in the volume of
new Policies issued, as this Table shows:
1931 £11,500,000
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
£13,600,000
£15,600,000
£17,900,000
£24,000,000
£27,970,000
£31,727,699
The A.M.P. Society is a truly co-operative and mutual Society. It
belongs to the members absolutely. An average of one family in two in
Australia and New Zealand now enjoys the benefit of its protection.
Become a member if you are not one already. If you are a member, make
the most of the opportunity to strengthen your finances that membership
presents. Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office and say that you
want an experienced adviser sent to discuss the matter with you. If
you live far from an A.M.P. office, get in touch by mail. Don’t delay.
The Society will keep on growing in strength, but for YOU to-morrow
may be too late. Seize on membership while you may.
AMP SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 .. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
1932.. 283 Nil 283 45,038
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31,815 48,180 93,218
1934.. 90,953 54 „ „ 34,997 55,956 149,174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129,174
1935.. 75,670 54 p.c. = 34,9971
Written off fixed assets, }- 20,673 149,847
£20,000 .. ..j
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131,197
1936.. 68,055 54 p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164,255
Written off fixed assets, £6891 . . 157,364
1937.. 67,928 54 p.c. = 34,997 32,931 190,295
The co. is one of the largest’ of Maori-
land’s freezers, and it operates in one of
the best lamb- and mutton-producing
centres in the world. The industry is not
actively controlled under the Marketing
Act, but industrial legislation in respect
of hours, wages and holidays has bumped
up costs for the freezing cos. and others,
and the growing demands of the tax-
gatherer have spread like a pestilence over
the land.
Although the Dominion’s export of
lamb increased over 5 p.c. in quantity
and by nearly 10 p.c. in value, and wool,
skins and tallow fetched more, too,
mutton shipments were down about 4 p.c.
in quantity and 5 p.c. in value, and the
board figured the year’s gross earnings
(£112,413) only £3449 better than the
previous year’s. That was after provid-
ing whatever was considered necessary
for repairs, renewals, taxation and other
contingencies. Exes. (£44,485) were up
£3576, leaving the net result at 10.6 p.c.
on capital as against 10.6, 11.1, 14.2 and
12.2 p.c. for the four preceding years.
That leaves out of the reckoning £6891
spent on extensions, etc., and charged
against reserves created for the purpose.
The div. was kept at 51 p.c., the policy
being to strengthen reserves, which are
none too stout a prop for capital, con-
sidering the risks to which the business
is exposed. The co. buys its livestock
in the crowded Canterbury (M.L.)
markets and sells the dressed carcasses
at Smithfield (Eng.) months later.
The financial position was further
strengthened:
1932." 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310£636,310
Debentures .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 498,850 456,778 596,958 529,497
Premises and
plant .. 774,184 708,762 668,884 640’,610
Stocks, etc. 1 f 318,239 334,997 396,905
Debtors la™m a J 118,840 144,314 173,508
Cash andf 4!,b ’ ul4 l
imiestments J f 202,090 334,325 230,076
Pukeuri deben-
tures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £67,461 and add
£61,908 to stocks and unrealised con-
signments and £29,194 to debtors’ bal-
ances, cash and investments were drawn
upon for £104,249. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus-
(£l2o,992, excluding the Pukeuri deben-
tures) was £54,314. On fixed assets
£28,274 more was written off than was
spent, making the reduction in book
value £139,807 over the last seven years.
Prior to that no specific allowance had
been made for depreciation. Meanwhile,
substantial additions have been made to
fixed assets; by paying for them out of
earnings and then from the same source
substantially writing down these assets
the co. is strengthening its position in a
keenly competitive market, and, under
favorable conditions, its dividend-paying
capacity, too.
The market, doubtful what the future
holds for the industry,'prices the pound
shares at 18s. 3d. as against par a year
ago. The cover amounts to 265. in net
tangibles, mostly fixed assets, worth what
they can earn.
For the 12 months to Aug. 31 last,
Rangeng Tin, a Siam producer, cleared
£6635 (up £3127). That was after charg-
ing £3065 for depreciation, compared
with £284 in the previous year. Pref.-
holders got two years’ back-pay (£4925),
leaving a similar amount still to come.
Last term the dredge worked in tailings,
which explains both the drop in recoveries
and reduction in costs:
* 1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yads. dug.. 1,198,000 816*,240 1,312,463
Recovery t. 0., tons 170.6 182.1 194.4
Pounds per c.y. . . 0.32 0.5 0.33
All-in costs, c.y. 3.5 d. 5.77 d. 3.83 d.
Net profit.. .. £6046 £3508 £6635
Pref. divs. .. £8945 £4925
Since the close of accounts the plant
has been in much-improved values in the
western section of the leases. Working
life, however, is put at only three to four
years, and the annual report says no-
thing concerning the possible acquisition
of further areas. Capital is £103,407 in
38,625 6 p.c. participating prefs. and
58,700 ords., all paid to £1 Is. 3d. Last
dealing in the prefs. was at 11s. At bal-
ance day cash, debtors and metal stocks
aggregated £12,696, and other stocks
£BO4l. Creditors figured for £2750.
* * * *
Owing mainly to the fall in metal
prices, just when the co. appeared to be
getting within striking distance of an
initial div., Malim Nawar, operating at
Perak, F.M.S., has suspended operations.
The sluicing plant is to be placed on a
care-and-maintenance basis, and income
from tributors is expected to meet all
normal overhead. Last term a profit of
£6161 was cleared, equal to approx.
Is. 3d. per share. High costs, owing to
peat and clay, have been the chief
trouble. Ground to be treated amounts to
27,000,000 c.y., averaging 0.451 b. t.o.
* * * *
Bundi Tin, working a gold proposition
at Greymouth (M.L.), has shut down its
dredge, and shareholders are to be called
together to decide the future of the
co. The selected sector was “proved”
to average 4.5 gr. per c.y. Re-
coveries have never been much above
2gr. Operations have lately been con-
fined to Chinamen’s Terrace, where 5.5 gr.
wash was estimated to be available.
Since October 88,752 c.y. has yielded
1420 z. gold—o.76gr. per c.y. Recoveries
from one of the test shafts were only
10 p.c. of the values shown. The co.
has little in the way of liquids.
* * * *
F. W. Cuthbert, late of Misima,
Papua, appears to have struck another
winner in the old Hawkins Hill mine,
Etheridge field (N.Q.), where a rich shoot,
missed by the late owners, Georgetowa
Gold Mines, has been picked up. From
No. 2 level 3oz. stone is being extracted,
and enough ore (valued at £30,000) to
keep the battery going two years is reck-
oned to be available. Cuthbert stepped
in when Georgetown stepped out early
last year, after having expended £52,000
on developing and equipping the prop-
erty. Another of F.W.’s interests is the
Golden Gate, on the Croydon field. It
was here he did so well in the early days.
* * * *
The Queensland Government is ad-
vancing £6OOO to build a jetty at Portland
Roads (minimum depth at low tide,
15ft.), and to help finance construction
of a road over the range to the central
parts of Cape York Peninsula, which
should mean much to the develop-
ment of the Claudie River, Ebagoolah,
Coen and Batavia fields. At Claudie
River a number of shows are on gold,
including the Iron Range and Densley’s
Golden Gate, and several small batteries,
including a Mines Department plant, are
running. Recent rains replenished the
water supply.
* * * *
Wiluna Ajax, having failed to make
its fortune out of goldmining in West-
ralia, has secured an option in Gipps-
land (Vic.) over an oil-drilling plant and
sundries. Nothing is said whether the
co. proposes to search for oil on its
own account or for others, or whether
shareholders are likely to be asked for
more. There is a rumor in the West
that they might be.
* * * *
Taking gold at £7 an ounce, Sons of
Gwalia’s output for the 12 months ended
December was worth £320,000-odd stg.,
according to published monthly returns.
Including capital and development ex-
penditure, mine outgo ran off with
£245,359 Australian, so that working sur-
plus for the year should approx. £123,700
stg. This compares with £136,160 net,
after meeting all administrative and other
exes, except depreciation, in 1936.
Throughput was up 12,614 tons at 152,908
tons ; recoveries (6dwt.) were a penny-
weight down. Average costs (approx. 245.
6d., including development) showed little
movement. Twelve months ago ore re-
serves were five years ahead of the mill,
the grade averaging 7dwt. The mine, the
deepest in the West, is looking attractive
at depth, higher-than-average values
having been met over Bft. on No. 29 level.
An interim 2s. 6d. per share was sent out
on Dec. 21. Last year’s full rate was 6s.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.) goes on
increasing its profit and paying good
dividends. Last year’s surplus was
£115,717 (up £45,317), and four distribu-
tions of 9d. each were made. Including
the first, dividend of Is. in July, 1934,
£197,393 has been handed to share-
holders. Ore proved and partly proved
is put at 204,000 short tons in Norse-
man, and 400,000 tons in the Iron King
blocks. Average grade is 7.2dwt. in
Norseman and from 2£dwt. to 3dwt. in
Iron King. The appearance of the work-
ings on both leases is pleasing.
* * * *
From London: Great Boulder Mining
and Finance shareholders were promised
something good by chairman Claude de
Bernales at the annual meeting. Gladiator
had reached a stage where thoughts of a
treatment plant were uppermost in the
board’s mind. Lochinvar looked like
developing into a payable proposition,
and favorable results were expected from
the co.’s interests in Murchison Gold
Development. The holding in the Comet,
which was earning £5OOO profit monthly,
stood in the Finance co.’s sheet at cost.
Yellowdine was now earning about
£20,000 a month and Great Boulder
Prop., in which a big interest was held,
about £15,000 monthly. The latter is ex-
pected to benefit from increased produc-
tion. De Bernales also banged the opti-
mistic drum at Murchison Gold Develop-
ment’s roll-up. Developments at the Emu
and Riverina are claimed to have placed
these cos. on the road to prosperity.
* * * »
Yellowdine, another of the De
Bernales W.A. group, has won nearly
£A500,000 worth of gold in 20 months
from a Yilgarn area discovered less than
four years ago. Dividends paid exceed
£200,000. Commonwealth Mining and
Finance has a 46 p.c. interest, Anglo-
Australian and Gold Fields Australian
Development each p.c., and Great
Boulder Mining and Finance 17 p.c.
Proof of the persistence of the mine’s
gold-carrier in ground deeper than that
already opened up has been established.
* * ■* *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has
been both plucky and lucky. In Oct.,
1934, it acquired several shows, mostly
derelicts, along the western side of the
Golden Mile, and settled down to work
them. It has since produced a substan-
tial quantity of gold, paid one dividend
and is certain to pay more. A new mill,
designed to treat 8000 tons a month, is
now operating on from 7dwt. to
stuff; ore reserves, proved and probable,
are estimated at 266,000 tons. •
* * * *
Claiming to represent 10 p.c. (about
25,000 shares) of the issued capital, two
Melbournites, Rubinstein and Beattie, re-
cently arrived in London and demanded
the reorganisation of management and
control of South Kalgurli with a view to
getting bigger returns and paying in-
creased dividends. Learning of their ac-
tivities, Westralian holders of 300,000
shares promptly cabled to the board ex-
pressing entire confidence in its policy
and protesting against Rubinstein and
Beattie’s action. They also asked that
nothing be done until they had been
given an opportunity of having their say.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tirr.berlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt,


SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man accused of bigamy pleaded that
he had quite forgotten that he had ever been
married.”
What a royal commission witness he’d
make!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a celebrated physiognomist,
a well-developed nose is often the sign of an
agile brain.”
And a well-developed ear that of an
agile tongue.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Contrary to popular belief,” says an
essayist, “the majority of composers lead sober,
respectable lives. There is scarcely an instance
in living memory of a composer having com-
mitted a crime.”
Apart, that is, from his compositions.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Much of the traditiohal raiment of the
artist—his picturesque smock coat, beret and
huge frothy tie—has gone. The modern painter
somehow doesn’t look like a painter.”
— “Telegraph."
And doesn’t paint like one, either.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“B.A. Who Is a Mother of Nine.”
■—Newspaper heading.
And obviously an MA, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Krupps, with its 5 p.c. dividend, seems
to be going great guns.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“But although she knew he loved her dearly
she couldn’t bring herself to marry him.”
—Short story.
Probably she wanted him to keep on
loving her dearly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The first qualification of a vaudeville come-
dian is ability to tell a story really well,” says
a writer.
And the second is to get his wife to
believe it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When will these amateur yachtsmen realise
that it’s dangerous to go out to sea in ill-
conditioned boats?” asks a newspaper article.
When they go out to sea in ill-con-
ditioned boats.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s whims can drive a man crazy,”
declares a writer.
In other words, into the arms of an-
other woman.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Barnett has many good scores to his
credit, McCormick can defend stoutly and
O’Reilly and Fleetwood-Smith are nitters.”
— “Argus.”
Let’s hope they nit some socks to the
boundary.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Americans, for instance, never refer to
their collar studs as anything but ‘buttons.’ ”
— “Telegraph.”
Then they exercise far more restraint
than we do.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was a painter who, confident that his
inspiration would come, waited for it and thus
cremated his great masterpiece.”— “Sun.”
That’s what comes of being fired with
a burning enthusiasm.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. and Mrs. Ely Culbertson, the bridge
authorities, have been divorced.”
Obviously, they trod on one another’s
toes.
4" 4* 4*
“Kangaroos Weary and Soured.” — “S.M.H.”
Lost all their hop, so to speak.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a psychologist, a man’s
method of going up or down a staircase affords
an excellent guide to his character.”
When you see him being carried up
you immediately know that he is a very
tight fellow.
Bare Fact.
In prehistoric times the fair
Wore only skins. Methinks they’ve
shown,
In recent years, they’d like to wear
Just skins again—that is, their own !
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Matter of Logic.
“I see here,” remarked the Visitor from
Mars, “that a number of men on pick-
and-shovel relief work in the United
States threw in a few days’ pay apiece
and bought a mechanical shovel to do
the work while they sat down and looked
on. Surely your civilisation could find
some worthier task for men displaying
such keen business acumen?”
“On the contrary," replied his host,
“they really couldn’t have done anything
more opposed to their own interests, for
their action simply demonstrated that
machined are displacing mahual labor
to such an extent that workmen will
soon become an economic excrescence.
We shall have either to obliterate them
or sustain them on charity. It was sheer
“No vacancies, eh? Well, ’ow about me SHARIN’ a room?”
humanity that prompted the authorities
to improvise work for them.”
“That means to say,” the Visitor re-
flected, “that it is in the interests of the
greater portion of the human race that
a hundred men with picks and shovels
should do a job in preference to one
machine which would give the hundred
men leisure in place of toil?”
“Precisely.”
“Well, then, wouldn’t it be infinitely
better if the same work were to be done
by a thousand men working slower, or
by ten thousand wielding only spoons?”
“Oh, no, that would be ridiculous.”
“I see,” conceded the Visitor from
Mars.
Cloon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“American businessmen invent many strange
names for their commercial activities.”
— “Telegraph.”
Waal, that’s sure right, buddy. We
met one the other day who used to have
a swell mortician’s business on N’Yark’s
Fifth-avenue and made whips of dough.
Now he’s described in Who’s Who as a
retired planter.
4* ■fr 4* 4*
Maritime Risk.
“When the liner berthed at the conclusion of
the pleasure cruise, several engagements among
the tourists were announced.”
In modern liners there is naught
To fear from wind or wave. But we
Still feel impelled to give a thought
To those in peril on the sea.
K.
Now You Know.
The “Daily Dillyguff” makes a colos-
sal, world-shattering announcement!
Professor Howie Staggers, hairy-
chested he-man, has been engaged to give
you a new slant on your love prob-
lems.
Girls, Howie is the world’s greatest
sighcologist and heart-patcher! Does
he know all? He does.
Turned down by hundreds of brutal
barmaids for the paltry credit of nine-
pence, he can steer you clear of those
tactless remarks from a woman’s lips
that bring so many heartburnings into
human relationships.
The many scars on his bald pate are
an eloquent guarantee that Mr. Staggers
can give you the real dope about home
management.
Is your boy friend or husband a tight-
wad? Write for Howie’s comprehensive
booklet “The Magic Touch.” The study
of a lifetime in epitome.
Watch out for Mr. Staggers’s epic
article next week, “The Problem of the
Knock-kneed Lover.”
Boko.
+
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
lll.— Will Dampier.
Various historians have questioned the
origin of the name Abel Tasman gave to
Tassie, and it was only recently that
research cleared up the mystery. Actu-
ally, he named it Van Demon’s Land. It
appears that, getting impatient at the
delay in sighting Australia, Abe said
testily to his quartermaster: “We seem
a devil of a time getting there!” and
almost immediately afterwards sighted
land.
Abe, still with the wind up after his
Solomons experience, was taking no
risks with the abos., and as a sort of
ballon d’essai threw his hat ashore first.
It rolled back into the sea. Again he
attempted it, and again it rolled back.
Convinced that the island was far too
small to bother about, Abe sheered off in
disgust and made back to Holland.
England, true to its traditions, waited
until all the other recognised seafaring
nations had had a go at trying to find
the southern continent before deciding
to discover it. Probably no move would
have been made even then had not a
rumor reached Whitehall that Lapland
proposed searching for it. Thoroughly
alarmed, Lord FitzZonker reluctantly-
abandoned a two-years fishing excursion
he was enjoying on the Norfolk Broads
and, hurrying back to the Colonial Office,
organised an expedition.
The choice of leader fell on William
Dampier, a bold rogue whose deeds of
daring eminently fitted him to under-
take the hazards of the long voyage.
At school Will had early shown his
great fighting qualities by calling the
head prefect “a beastly cad” and poking
his tongue out at the maths, master.
When later he went log-cutting in Yuca-
tan he proved his remarkable courage and
versatility by winning the open tatting
competition against some of the most
dare-devil knitters along the Spanish
Main.
Tiring of activities which he felt were
not allowing his peculiar genius full
scope, Will soon turned to buccaneering,
an outdoor pastime that suited well the
roving blood in his veins.
It might be wondered how one com-
ing from generations of Somersetshire-
men whose activities for centuries had
been limited to the mustering of Cheddar
cheeses, and whose wanderlusts had
never taken them as far as Devon, could
possibly have roving blood in his veins.
Yet the explanation is simple enough.
Will’s grandfather, after tearing into
the apple cider one night, tripped over
his beard, and in falling trod on the
back of his neck, inflicting an awful gash
in his clavicle with his sharp heel plates.
Weakened through loss of blood, he was
given a transfusion, the blood donor
happening to be an explorer’s butler.
Actually, it was only by a stroke of
luck that Dampier was available. Bound
for the Mosquito Coast with a valuable
cargo of tin-whistle holes and port-side
scuppers, the fruits of a raid on a
Spanish merchantman, he found to his
chagrin that he had no citronella. He
therefore turned back, London-bound, to
replenish his supplies. On arriving home
he was made a captain R.N., given the
Roebuck and told to take New Holland.
Will was no stranger to that land, hav-
ing been there years before when he was
snooping around the Indian Ocean with
Captain Swan in the Cygnet.
Setting out, he encountered many hard-
ships. During a terrific squall around
the Cape of Good Hope his only
draughtboard was washed overboard
and the limejuice got into the rum.
There was, too, a desperate shortage of
water. They just managed to scramble
into Shark Bay, on Australia’s nor’-west
coast, with tongues hanging out, when
Dampier shouted with joy as he espied,
standing on the shore, the same friendly
abo. whom he had seen there 13 years
before. He immediately recognised him,
even from a great distance, by his broad
nose and thick lips,
It would have been thought that, the
Westralian abos. having saved his life by
getting him some muddy water from a
“soak,” Dampier would have shown
gratitude. Instead, he describes them,
with more candor than syntax, as “the
miserablest people in the world,” and
bitterly goes on to say that “the Hod-
madods of Monomatapa, though a nasty
people, yet for wealth are gentlemen to
these.”
This bitterness, perhaps, is partly
understandable, for when he landed the
friendly abos. invited him to “all-same
feed longa chief.” But after breaking off
four front teeth on a wirrah, followed by
nightmare courses of witchetty grubs,
flying-fox and mutton-bird, Will was
carried back feet first on to the Roe-
buck, the color of a ripe Gorgonzola.
S. W. K.
Stout Suggestion.
“Husbands should share the housework with
their wives.” — Woman’s paper.
No fair-minded husband will cavil at
this,
For it’s plain that, when all’s said and
done,
The only true secret of marital bliss
Is to live, not as two, but as one.
By the sharing of drudgery conjugal strife
Is a spectre we soon could dispel ;
And, after all dammit! why
shouldn’t a wife
Do her share of the housework as
well ?
BO.


««**/<* •*£
if
l°^]
#
su£ Ttiottwi,
dimity iSrtt cmfr.
at
M r -^^\
v-.,>:
mm
w
&
:\ . '
€
is a wonderful profession, for it allots equal scope for men and women, both
young and middle-aged.
If able to draw, YOU can become a, professional illustrator thanks to our
specialised home-study tuition. Sixteen of Australia’s foremost illustrators, in-
cluding Mr. Ted Scorfield, contributed to make our Training Course the very
best available.
We offer you an ART ABILITY TEST and criticism free of charge. Write to us
now 1 You will be under no obligation if you mention this advertisement.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
SO SWANSTON ST. MELBOURNE Cl
Melbourne Steamship.
In its last annual accounts Mel-
bourne Steamship reported that
trade had been brisk, showed an
unexplained addition to reserves of
£47,903 (less £24,260 transferred to
staff fund), disclosed profits at 9.5
p.c. on ord. capital, and paid a
p.c. div. In spite of £17,260
paid out in cash in regard to the
staff fund, the cash position im-
proved noticeably, mainly by
reason of the unexplained addi-
tions to reserves, which seemed to
include sums in excess of ordi-
nary depreciation, etc., require-
ments. During the current term
trade should be even brisker ; an
interim div. of 3y p.c. has just been
declared, so that at least 7 p.c. for
1937-38 seems indicated. The new
motor-ship Duntroon has been run-
ning almost continuously since
entering the inter-State trade, and
certain passenger and freight rates
have been increased. There have
been no strikes for two years now.
At 30s. the ords. return £4 14s. 3d.
per cent, on a 7 p.c. div. basis
(allowing for the div. payable Feb.
23).
FLOORS BEAUTIFUL!
HUDSON'S PARQUETRY OR SUPER FLOORS
Represent an investment as permanent as tlie building itself.
The harmonious blending of colour schemes and the proper selection of
patterns for various rooms are atively easy with .the aid of our Specialist.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors are no longer a luxury. They are still suggestions
of richness and good taste with the air of elegance and refinement.
Germ-laden dust finds no resting place in the tight-jointed and polished
surface of Hudson’s Super Floors
In old houses each small piece of board is secretly nailed over the old original
floors, forming a beautiful artistic pattern, thus taking the place of carpet.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors are not glued, thereby being permanent.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms, 7 Castlereagh Street, City,
near Hunter Street.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY., LIMITED,
Timber and Flooring Specialists, Glebe. 'Phones: 8W1451 (2 lines).
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Investment Merits and Market
“Tone”
It is admitted on nearly every side that
the key to world sharemarket “tone” is
held at present by the United States.
“Tone” doesn’t mean inherent value of
shares ; it merely has reference to the
supply of and demand for shares of a
more or less known quality at different
times. Thus pref. shares and Consols,
the interest from which rarely, if ever,
varies, are priced at different figures
under different market circumstances.
The United States being such an im-
portant investment and commodity
market, its influence, direct and indirect,
on other Stock Exchanges is immense.
Australians have a considerable direct
interest in American industrial shares,
and some of our own stocks, such as
Placer Development (gold), have a New
York market. Arbitrage operations make
sympathetic movements in such inter-
national stocks almost automatic.
“Tone,” therefore, in any great world
investment centre must influence “tone'’
elsewhere. But it doesn’t necessarily
influence actual profit-earning conditions
in other countries, unless world commo-
dity prices are also affected.
In the Commonwealth, though com-
pany earnings in the U.S.A. are down in
many cases, profits of most cos. con-
tinue to show improvement. Concerns
directly interested in the export prices
of commodities, on the other hand, are
vitally affected by the international “tone”
of markets. The Barrier mining stocks
fluctuate from day to day with rises and
falls in metal prices, and at the moment
most pastoral stocks are depressed be-
cause wool isn’t so remunerative to
grower or broker as it was last season.
But so far our internal economy hasn’t
been noticeably influenced. It was stated
here, two or three years ago, that the
present period was definitely one of
industrial establishment in this country,
and all developments since have borne
out that contention. Factory employ-
ment is at record level, and new fac-
tories are being established almost every
day. Development on these lines so far
has been smooth and regular, but how
long such conditions can las! depends on
several things, mainly the relation be-
tween costs and prices (wages come into
the picture largely here) and future
trends of taxation.
Last week there was a variety of move-
ments in Australian stocks, good shares,
showing a higher-than-ordinary yield,
strongly resisting the lower tendency in
prides. Carlton Brewery, Melbourne,
£ well above the 635. 6d. paid prior to
Ch P ristma and Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son was v ; ry firm around 725. 6d. Yields
are d and prospec ts bright in both
th * cases Ade laide Steam showed
little or no recess ion from the record
ice of 34s 6d . paid in t he preceding
p eek while C astlemaine Perkins re-
corded slight headway on an ex-rights
basis Austr alian Glass and J. Field-
ing were other interesting stocks to hold
tbeb . QWn
'
Five Per Cent, and Better
Among preference shares, the follow-
j ng i SSU es, all yielding better than 5 p.c.,
enjoying a free market and well covered
as to i nCo me and capital, are not without
a ttractions •
' Div., Market Yield, Div. Tangible
Company. p.c. Price. P.c. Cover.* Backing.
£ rt l“ u . r oocks > 2lld * 22 /° 6.9 2 } &I */' B / 4
cqx Bros., a .. 7 26/- 5.4 5 £2/7/3
c ’i a 'i d Paper pal ':* Ql/
David Jones, 2nd; 7.5 29/6 5.1 8 £6/19/8
JMeproof a 8 28/9 5.5 10 £6/10/7
Hordern Bros., Ist 6.9 f 27/- 5.1 6 £5/1/9
Mauri Brok, a.. 9 34/3 5.2 7 £4/8/2
Myer Emporium .. 9 35/- 5.1 5 £4/13/6
News .. ..8 31/- 5.1 8 £6/14/5
o. Gilpin .. 7 20/9 5.2 11 £B/17/9
* Tilnes covered b Y last glared profits, t Nominal
„ rat f 9 reduced T 7 h
Hordern Bros. first and Cumberland
f a P er . thirds .’ whose participating rights
i? ok interesting, and high-yielding Arthur
Cocks seconds appear as good as any.
Ban king averages favor a continuance of
f a sy-money conditions (which are partly
P e nmd the present demand for fixed-
interest-bearing securities) for the next
months or so, subject, of course, to
P ohtlcal a °d other developments over-
seas -
The Commonwealth Bank’s Statistical
Bulletin for January records that exports
for the 12 months to Dec. 31 amounted
to £151.6 millions and imports £i27.6
millions. Including gold sent overseas
(£11.9 millions) the favorable commodity
balance was £27.5 millions. After ser-
vicing the overseas debt, £8.4 millions
remained to add to London funds or
meet other payments. For the current
term a deficiency in the balance of pay-
ments is indicated. Imports (machinery
a nd raw materials figure largely in the
list) have been increasing month by
month, and value of exports has fallen
because of weaker commodity markets.
It is doubtful, however, whether imports
will continue at the present unhealthy
level.
* * * *
Last week’s quote of 40s. for Illawarra
Steam scrip was the lowest for 12
months, and 3s. 3d. below the closing
1937 figure. Chief attraction about this
stock is its fat and growing pile of Con-
sols and cash, equal to 20s. 9d. per £1
of paid capital at March 30 last, after
allowing for all outside commitments;
book value of the fleet, etc., could prob-
ably be stretched a bit, too. Yield on
the present 8 p.c. div. basis (paid out of
disclosed earnings representing 11.8 p.c.
on capital last term) is 4 p.c.
* * * *
Considering the losses recorded on
overseas ’Changes, Australian stocks
have held their prices remarkably well.
N.S.W. Statistician Waite’s index of price
movements of 75 active miscellaneous
Sydney cos. stood at 181.2 for Decem-
ber, as against a peak of 190.4 in March.
Highest point of the index prior to the
slump (174.4) was in April, 1929, and
lowest (74.4) in Sept., 1931. In the
recent “recession” pastoral-and-finance,
insurance and retail cos., in that order,
fared worst, public-utilities, manufactur-
ing and distributing concerns being much
steadier. No base period is taken, the
index representing the ratio of the aver-
age prices of ord. shares to their par
value.
* * * *
The outlook for King Coal is better.
In 1937 the quantity exported from N. S.
Wales to overseas and to other States in-
creased from 3,128,666 tons (in 1936) io
3,380,049 tons. Government railways
hauled approx. 7,491,330 (up 629,290)
tons. Slight price-lifts have compensated
for increased costs, while owing to export
restrictions imposed by the S. African
Government and a shortage of- labor on
the coalfields there Australia is supply-
ing more of the requirements of India
and Asia. Domestic consumption is also
on the up-grade. Best means of invest-
ing in the industry appear to be through
the inter-State shipping cos. (Adelaide
Steam, for example), most of which have
substantial interests in the northern
N.S.W. fields.
* * * *
This page wasn’t fated for a surprise
in the matter of Broken Hill South’s
quarterly div. (B. 19/1 /’38); the rate is
9d. a share, l|d. within the limit set
here. It is a drop of 6d. on the last
quarterly distribution, and fully bears
out comment on the comparative invest-
ment merits of Broken Hill cos. pub-
lished over the past few months.
Broken Hill Prop.’s steel output was
slightly lower during the last three
months reported on. Christmas holidays
affected the return, and in any case the
A. I. and S. Port Kembla (N.S.W.) works
should by now ba relieving the pressure
at Newcastle.
* * * *
Lancefield- dipped another couple of
pence last week. Buyers at 3s. 9d. were
paying less than a shilling a share for
prospects, assuming that the balance of
proved ore will yield round £1 a ton
profit, the experience of the past six
months. These prospects are by no
means inconsiderable. That average-
grade ore does exist below No. 12 level
has been established by the drill, though
estimates as to quantity can be little
more than guesswork until blocking-out
is complete. Chief query about the
future appears to be cost of getting the
stuff to the surface. If mine-manager
Ridgway’s computation of probable ton-
nage proves, say, as much as 50 p.c. out,
and costs rise by one-fourth, there should
be round 3s. a share profit in the deeper
ground, provided values hold. Results
to date have been very close to pros-
pectus estimates.
* * * *
Castlemaine, Perkins rights, which
have changed hands around 10s. in Bris-
bane, are a snap at that quote. With
12s. 6d. to pay, the full price works out
at round 225. 6d., yielding, when the scrip
is paid up, £4 Bs. lOd. per cent. It is
some time since C.-P. could be bought
into on such a favorable basis.
* # * *
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles slipped to 81s. on Friday. If
last term’s 18£ p.c. div. is maintained —interim
was unchanged at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.—the
yield now offering is 4.6 p.c., as against 2.4
p.c. in the case of Woolworths. - ■ • ■
“Beer and tobacco” appears a sound invest-
ment maxim. All members of the C.U.B.
advanced strongly, though part of the rises
was later lost through profit-taking. British
Tobacco held to 50s. Presentation of the sub-
sidiaries’ consolidated balance-sheet shouldn’t
be far off.
Gordon and Gotch looked interesting at
51s. 9d., yielding 4.6 p.c. Recent good results
would read better still but for tax appropria-
tions that appear in excess of requirements.
Gold issues were dull. Lolomas lost a few
pence, despite reported improved values and
widths in the bottom workings and further re-
duction of loss in the mill tailings. Emperors
fared similarly. The co. is now crushing at
the rate of 12,000 tons monthly.
Montana Western Extended, which pro-
poses lifting nominal value of its shares from
2s. to ss. each, advanced a few pence to 2s. 6d.
Discovery of “strong lode formation” with pug
on the hanging wall is reported in the south
drive.


Patents.
PROCESS AND MECHANISM FOR
SEPARATING INTERMIXED DIVIDED
MATERIALS.
The proprietors of Commonwealth Patents
Nos. 13062/28 and 13063/28 are prepared to
negotiate for the sale of their rights in the
above, or for the granting of a license to
make, use and vend the inventions within the
Commonwealth of Australia, Particulars of
the inventions obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.—Complete sets of • unobliterated
Coronation stamps of New Guinea (Mandated
Territory), ss. per set. New Guinea pennies
6d. each. W. R.' Thomas, P.O. Box 117,
Rabaul.
5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
HLJH
‘INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
■ 1906
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
TRY A GOVERNA BELT
FOR 7 DAYS AT OUR RISK
A bulging waistline
endangers yourhealth
and well-being. The
GO VERNA CORREC-
TIVE BEET will give
you - a slim, athletic
figure.. Fitted to your
individual measure
without laces, hooks,
or. buttons: Supports
correctly, the delicate
organs; 'and, ■* by its
gentle changing pres-
sure, • banishes waist-
line fat and bulge
with every move you
make.
Try the GOVERNA
BELT AT OUR RISK
—in seven days your
waistline will be 3in3
smaller 3ins of
strain and bulge gone
JHLHJ
—or NO COST. Write for full details of
FREE TRIAL OFFER and Illustrated Folder
Mention this paper. GOVERNA BELT CO.,
Bathurst House. 209 A Castlereaeh Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes youi
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
TENDERS
DONALD MILLER, LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION).
Tenders are hereby invited for the purchase of that improved freehold property
situated 49-59 Logan Road, South Brisbane, formerly occupied by Donald Miller, Ltd.,
as Sawmills and Timber Yards.
The property has an area of 2 roods 31.64 perches, with a frontage to Logan Road
of approximately 198 feet
Improvements comprise large timber sheds, timber racks, office. Tram service
passes door. The site is suitable for timber yards, factory, storage accommodation.
Rail delivery facilitated by Railway Siding. Inspection arranged.
Address Tenders to the undersigned, marked “Tender Donald Miller, Ltd. (In
Liquidation), on or before 28th February, 1938. Highest or any tender not neces-
sarily accepted.
M. S. HERRING, Liquidator,
C/o Queensland Trustees, Limited,
395 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
me
frs
&
T 4
mm
,o 4
VfftNOM
Lnßitiei^
Ttff REST
OF TRE FAMILY
Even though the head of the
family may need a cheque ac-
count for his business pur-
poses, the Savings Bank Ac-
count can be used with advan-
tage, by the “rest of the
family.”
'A Savings Account costs nothing to open, is a safe
and convenient repository for whatever monies the
housewife controls, and is a splendid aid to the thrift
training of children and the making of suitable pro-
vision for their futures.
For all members constituting the rest of the family,
therefore, the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Aus-
tralia offers helpful banking facilities peculiarly
adapted to their respective needs or requirements.
Every Post Office within Australia is an agency.
commonujfALTti
sa u i ng s b a n «
Df A U STflfl LI A
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE,
Tariffs, Quotas and Trade Pacts
Outlook for Industrials
Banking Position
Wool—Tin—Rubber
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Outlook for Cement Cos.
British cement is up 3s. a ton. Since
the beginning of 1935 the British in-
dustry has had to shoulder four wage-
lifts. More onerous still has been the
rise in the cost of coal, of which one-
third to one-half of a ton is used in
producing each ton of cement. Building
activity seems to have passed its peak,
but the Ministry of Transport is spending
£80,000,000 on road development, and.
about a fourth of this is expected to find
it's way into cement-manufacturers’
pockets; so prospects are that demand
in their home market will keep John
Bull’s manufacturers busy for around
two years or so. This and rising exes,
all minimise the possibilities of British
producers dumping on the Australian
market, unless Commonwealth manufac-
turers’ own costs get out of hand.
Australian cement co. figures:
Profit, Ord.
P.c. Ord. Div., Market Yield,
Capital.* P.c. Price. P.c.
Aust. Cement .. n 10 33/6 6.9
Kandos .. .. 12 .3 10 25/9 6.2
Standard . . . . -h. 2 lot 19/3 8.2
Goliath ... . . 23t 15 26/- 7 c
Adelaide . . . . 14 j 2 * 49/6t 5
* Allowing for pref. divs. t After bonus issue since
close of accounts, i Interim. J Buyer.
The increased interim declaration (div.
is raised from 8 p.Cv to 10 p.c. p.a.) from
Standard, which operates in a State where
plant capacity is capable of taking care
of double the demand, infused a brighter
tone in kindred scrip last week. Kandos
still yields higher than Australian Cement,
notwithstanding that Kandos’s capi-
tal is smaller than Australian Cement’s
and that each co. has an equal holding
in the operating concern (Australian
Portland Cement), which controls a plant
at Kandos (N.S.W.) and the only one in
Victoria at Fyansford. A new 100,000-
ton kiln here can be expected to help
in keeping costs down. Government
spending continues at a level very satis-
factory to cement cos.
Carrier (Australasia) is passing its div.
In 1936 10 p.c. was paid and in 1935
40 p.c., half in scrip. For the year to
Dec. 31 last “a considerable trading
loss” is reported. Profits of 15 p.c. were
forecast as late as May, when the co.
was on the market for £70,000 of new
capital at a 55 p.c. premium—a previous
issue had been at a 100 p.c. premium.
Blame for the loss is laid principally
at the door of the Federal Government,
whose trade-diversion policy “created
difficulties relative to the importation of
necessary parts and equipment from
America [the co. has associations with the
Carrier Corporation there] and thereby
threw additional cost upon the company
which could not then be foreseen.”
However the outlook for future
business is considered good, and when
the new factory the co. is putting up to
render itself independent of overseas sup-
plies comes into operation in about two
months’ time “reasonable profits” are ex-
pected to be earned. Finances are said
to be sound. Twelve months ago book
debts, which at £84,705 comprised 62
p.c. of tangible assets, looked the weak-
est link.
Market confidence in the co. has been
severely shaken. Business in the £1
shares was done at 20s. at the week-
end, after 335. 6d. at the beginning of
January. The accounts are not due till
the end of March.
* * * *
Investment merits of Bradford Cotton
ords. were here mentioned last week. They
can now be bought at 40s. 9d. or so to
show the even more favorable return of
6.1 p.c. That assumes 12} p.c. will be
handed out for the current term, and
disregards the even-money possibility of
last term s 2} p.c. bonus being repeated.
The new share-issue should create a
wider spread of interest in the scrip.
* * * *
Last return of Normanby Tin* (N.Q.)
was better; seven tons tin oxide was re-
covered from 6500 yards, average 2.41 b.,
and up nearly a pound a yard on the
previous performance. The sluicing plant
was then shifted to No. 2 site, and latest
announcement is to the effect that open-
ing-out of paddock has been completed.
Partly because returns haven’t yet
reached prospectus estimates, and to
some extent because of lower metal
prices, the market for the scrip is weak
at round Is. 3d.
* * * *
Placer has retained all recent rises,
despite further market setbacks on New
York ’Change, where a goodly percen-
tage of the scrip is held. New units of
Bulolo and Pato, its two principal ven-
tures, should shortly commence con-
tributing to profits, and Pato, which has
been in much better ground to date this
term, promises to make an early appear-
ance on the div. list. To date Pato’s
profits have been applied to meeting capi-
tal and development expenditure. The
investor in Placer shares at 795. looks
for his money back in around 12 years
on the basis of present $1.20 divs.
* * * *
Announcement of a maiden 5 p.c. div.
and a one-for-two issue at par by
Edments (Melb.) caused little excitement
in the sharemarket, which is wide at 385.-
355. The co. took over from Wool-
worths (Vic.) the four main retail stores
and wholesale business of Alfred Ed-
ments Pty. First 10 months’ trading to
June 30 last produced a profit of 4 p.c.
on the £35,000 of capital, as against a
prospectus estimate of 15 p.c., and the
scrip, which had touched 595. 6d. in
Nov., 1936, slithered to 255. 6d. subse-
quent to publication of accounts. It
would be interesting to learn the margin
between the interim now announced and
actual earnings, which have had the
henefit of a bumper Christmas trade.
* * * *
At 225. 6d. and about par respectively,
Simmons, Ltd., prefs. and ords. should
prove satisfactory for income purposes.
The prefs. are really preferred ords., en-
joying full participation with the latter
in divs. above 6.2 p.c. and in surplus
assets. Last term an all-round 12.9 p.c.
was earned on capital and 8 p.c. dis-
tributed. On that basis participating
prefs. yield 7.2 p.c. Capital is small,
which lessens activity in the scrip. But
for that reason the shares don’t suit
speculators and are less susceptible to
market vagaries. An interim div. is
usually payable this month.
The ords. in Davies, Coop and Co.
have lifted to a new high of 255. 9d. in
Melbourne. An interim div. is due in
March. Last term an interim of 2\ p.c.
and final of 3y p.c. was paid. This year
something better is likely; the new plant
and new lines of manufacture should all
assist earnings. The factory in 1936-37
was still in the shaking-down process so
for oe • * f I* * !•,
£ar " * e ‘""'"S-ou of cotton textiles
was concerned ; nevertheless, 9.9 p.c. was
shown on ord. capital.
* * * *
H. B. Dickie’s interim was at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a., compared with p.c. for
the full previous term. Last dealing in
the ords. in Melbourne was at 265., to
yield 6.3 p.c., allowing for div payable
Spinner of cotton yarns and maker of
towels and terry-cloth, the co. should be
doing well at the moment.
»
. * *
... e ie . v^ rs in country-town enterprise
will rejoice to learn that Amalgamated
i extiles has shelved proposals for trans-
ferring mills from country to city. The
move would mean a probable saving of
£17,000 p.a. in overhead, but dislocation
0 / the business would mean an interrup-
don divs. for a year or so.
• * *
McGraths interim of 10 p.c. p.a.
compares with a full 12 p.c. in its 1937
wh H n ,° pe ■‘? g A of u“a ? r, ?J? ne
branch and entry into the body-building
business conlributed t 0 the be ' t tradin J
resu i, since 1930 . sincc lhen f 75 000 of
new capital has been issued to cope with
expanding connections. Recently up to
425. 6d., the old shares at 41s. yield 4.9
P- c - °n the interim basis—s.B p.c. if last
te f m ’ s rate is maintained. The co. dis-
tributes Humber, Hillman and Con-
tinental cars and Commer, Diamond T
and Com ™™i a l trucks. In N.S.W.
motor continue to go up.
. *
Mt. Morgan s gold output for 13 weeks
has kept at a high level, 16,5590 z. being
the tally. One purpose of the present
redeemable pref. share issue is to increase
output further.


SPOR TING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Damalis, who had been defeated by
Hua in the C. F. Orr Stakes on the same
course at the beginning of the week,
landed the Williamstown Stakes on Satur-
day without real effort. The Thracian
colt met weak opponents. Prince Quex
was his only “class” rival, and W. R.
Kemball’s stallion carried a 51b. penalty.
Bookmakers exhibited unwonted gen-
erosity in accepting 7 to 4 from the ad-
mirers of Damalis. Perhaps this was due
to the colt, with 201 b. advantage in
weight, having failed to account for Hua.
But shrewd observers considered that the
Orr Stakes placings would have been
reversed if Keith Voitre —obviously rid-
ing to orders —had not adopted waiting
tactics.
It does not detract from the merits of
Hua’s victory in the Orr Stakes to say
that, if compelled to carry his weight all
the way, the Heroic colt would have lost.
Jim Scobie, who trains him, felt by no
means confident that Hua could concede
Damalis 201 b., and he must have re-
garded the Monday success as somewhat
of a windfall.
Voitre took no chance of a good thing
coming undone in the Williamstown
Stakes. To avoid danger of being
pocketed at the turn out of the straight
he dashed Damalis out from No. 1 posi-
tion. When the Geelong-owned Kalispel
obligingly assumed the role of pacemaker
Damalis dropped in behind him. Then
Bellevue —who, like Prince Quex, is
owned by W- R. Kemball —rushed to the
front.
Damalis flashed past Bellevue on the
bend and faced for home with the race
already won. Largely on sufferance
Prince Quex finished as near as a length
to the favorite, with Bellevue a neck
farther off. This form does not make
Damalis a danger to Avenger and Hua in
the St. Leger, but he is a three-year-old
of more than average calibre.
Jack Holt took Nuffield, the champion
juvenile, to Williamstown, but the stall
reserved there for Avenger wasn’t occu-
pied. Percy Miller’s Derby winner,
whose autumn preparation is progress-
ing satisfactorily, remained at home.
Nuffield was given a gallop on the course
proper with several other two-year-olds
at the close of the afternoon. Though not
extended, the chestnut handled himself
very attractively.
Nuffield has developed wonderfully
since the spring, and is bigger than Hall
Mark was at “two.” He has a propensity
for kicking and rearing-up in confine-
ment. Holt was obliged to line his box
at Mordialloc with rubberised material
and to check his attempts to “pull down
the stars” by constructing an overhead
mesh. Hobbles were even placed on Nuf-
field with the latter object in view.
Pat Quinlan made no error of judg-
ment when he gave 1550 guineas for Fort
Regal (Melfort-Regal Fleur) as a year-
ling. The colt wasn’t produced in the
spring, and has benefited by haying been
given time to mature. At his third public
appearance Fort Regal was made equal
favorite with Brethren at 7 to 2 for the
Electric Handicap.
Brethren, who belongs to Sol Green,
looked to have the race in his keeping a
furlong from the post, but Fort Regal
put in a magnificent run and beat him
by half a neck. Fort Regal is sure to
improve, and may be a dangerous rival
of Nuffield in approaching contests. His
dam is by Comedy King, and descends
from Wakeful, the greatest mare that
ever raced in Australia.
Pooley Bridge was a 5-to-2 favorite
for the Wyndham Handicap, with sixes
bar one on offer in a field of eight. Com-
pelled to make his own pace, the Orna-
mentation gelding faded out at the turn.
Jucata, who isn’t engaged in the Aus-
tralian Cup and started at sevens, carried
Ashley Reed to a half-length victory
over Elmdale, with Le Grand, in the
Elanage stable, a neck off, and Windmar
a close fourth.
The Wyndham result may cause Pooley
Bridge to lessen in Australian Cup de-
mand, but it was not a test of stamina.
Bert Foulsham’s gelding will be suited
by the 2\ miles’ journey ; he ran second
in the Australian Cup last year.
Maurice McCarten visited Melbourne
specially to ride Aurie’s Star in the
Marine Handicap, and he got the S.A.
sprinter home a clever winner by half
a neck from Ena (25 to 1), with Stoic
unlucky not to be nearer than third.
Fives could be had about Aurie’s Star,
punters making Othello (7 to 2) a slightly
better favorite than Stoic. Though he
had every chance in running, Othello
shaped poorly.
Aurie’s Star is weighted at 9st. 31b.
in the Oakleigh Plate and at 9st. in the
Newmarket. He won these events last
autumn with Bst. 41b. and Bst. 51b. re-
spectively. Sweet Memories, winner of
the 1936 Maribyrnong Plate, gave a dis-
appointing display, though nicely treated
with 7st. 121 b. as against Bst. 31b. in both
the Oakleigh and Newmarket.
C. B. Kellow and his friends made a
‘ big “killing” over Chelandric in the
Newport Welter. Backed from sevens
to favoritism at half those odds, the
Heroic-Green Peach gelding scored com-
fortably from Irving (25 to 1). Third
money went to Beaustone, a stablemate
of Regular Bachelor. He finished fast,
after being disappointed in going for a
run, and should be an early winner. No-
thing in his previous form justified Dol-
phin opening in most demand. He
failed to show up.
Resurgam, 9-to-2 favorite, appropriated
the February Trial, minor prizes going
to Laveur (20 to 1) and Sir Trac
(twelves). Few horses of the moderate
class can get 1} miles. Resurgam, who
claims Beau Fils as sire, is one of them.
* * * *
The V.R.C. handicapper must share
the now-general opinion that the 1937-38
racing season brought us about the best
lot of three-year-olds for a decade, taken
by and large. In his weights for the
Newmarket, Ajax gets 9st., Amiable and
Caesar Bst. 71b., Sweet Memories Bst.
31b. and El Golea Bst. Ajax has to give
a pound to Beechwood, 21b. to Sarcherie,
61b. to Evening Mist and 71b. to Heros;
Amiable has a pound more than Garrio,
21b. more than Press Gang and 31b. more
than Ogwell, whilst Sweet Memories is
expected to concede 21b. to Silver Rose
and Hammerhead. Three-year-olds in
the 7st. division are Othello and
Micawber (7st. 111 b.), Brazandt (7st. 81b.),
Manrico (7st. 71b.) and Stoic (7st. 61b.).
Truly a formidable bunch.
On paper Ajax is not badly handi-
capped, considering that Valiant Chief
ran second two years ago with Bst. 111 b.
and Cardinal third with Bst. 51b.; but
weights were on a higher scale then. On
this occasion Gold Rod and Pamelus
head the list with 9st. 91b.; Regular
Bachelor has 9st. 41b., King’s Head 9st.
31b., Studio a pound less, Valbeau 9st.
lib., Aurie’s Star and Mohican the same
as Ajax. Valbeau has caught it hot, and
considering that there was 221 b. between
Gold Rod and Mohican when they ran
first and second in the Doncaster Mohi-
can is likewise unfavorably handicapped,
allowing that his subsequent form was
capital.
Hua’s successes at Moonee Valley and
Williamstown (where, carrying Bst. 121 b.,
he gave Damalis 191 b. and a beating in the
C. F. Orr Stakes) emphasise the worth of
Ajax, who, on spring form, was decidedly
superior at the Newmarket distance.
Ajax deserves his position as early favor-
ite. His most dangerous opponent may
be Garrio.
The last three-year-old to win the Aus-
tralian Cup was Sylvandale, Whose
burden was Bst. 31b. Hua was awarded
Bst. 91b. in a handicap topped by Sar-
cherie, with 9st. 21b. It is improbable,
that he will start, but he will be one of
the favorites if he does. Of other three-
year-olds nominated, John Wilkes has
Bst. 51b., Elanage Bst. 21b., Beaustone
7st. 111 b. and Pantoon 7st. 91b. —31b.
more than his weight in the Australia
Day Cup at Williamstown, which he
won. There are only two nine-stoners,
Balkan Prince (9st. lib.) being the other ;
the eight-stoners include Sir Regent, Red
Manfred and Mutable (all Bst. 51b.),
Egmont (Bst. 21b.), Old Rowley and
Aitchengee (both Bst.). Pooley Bridge
has 7st. 131 b. Another hurdler who has
shown impressive staying form on the
flat is St. Fox (6st. 121 b.). But here
again one of the three-year-olds should
win, probably Elanage, whose Bagot
Handicap victory with 7st. 131 b. was
most impressive.
* * * *
Outstanding at Warwick Farm was the
performance of Mohican in the Glen-
field Handicap. He had lOst. 51b., hav-
ing to concede 341 b. to a smart three-
year-old like Brazandt over the latter’s
favorite distance, six furlongs. Mohican
gave Brazandt a big start commencing
the last half-mile, and was beaten by a
mere length. It was his first outing since
the spring, he' has improved in appear-
ance, and his performance was high-class.
Speardale, who is being trained for
the Doncaster, came from the clouds to
run third. Caesar, who showed a lot of
pace to the home turn, was fourth, ahead
of Shackleton. He was the opening
favorite, but the price eased to threes.
Brazandt was at 5 to 2, but fours could
be got.
Improvement keeps on improving. He
was flat out to beat Shakespeare at Rose-
hill, but in the Warwick February Han-
dicap, for which he was favorite at threes
(Shakespeare did not start), his superior-
ity at the weights was evident a long way
from home. Haut Monde acted as
pacemaker. Improvement went past
him and Tuckerbox at the Leger, and
beat Tuckerbox by half a length, with
Haut Monde—who hung on surprisingly
well —a head away. It was the best form
Haut Monde has shown in Sydney. Im-
provement is in the Australian Cup, but
may be reserved for the Sydney Cup. He
is by Gold Rod’s sire, Chief Ruler, out
of a Nassau mare, Nasselle.
Valhalla, bred by A.J.C. committee-
man Pat Osborne and raced by Mrs.
Osborne, outclassed his opponents in the
Ingleburn Nursery. A handsome son
of Excitement and Mince Pie, Valhalla
galloped a bit awkwardly for a while,
but once in line for the judge he settled
Tusculum and Venice in no time. Val-
halla had only started once, but the
bookmakers took no liberties; opened
him at 7 to 2 and shortened the odds to
5 to 2. Gilla ran well for four furlongs,
and Curiosity’s fourth was promising.
Horses for courses. Bachelor King
opened his winning account at Warwick
Farm, and on Saturday he won the Farm
Novice from Sir Albert, who is owned
and trained at Newcastle, and Silver
Wave. Bachelor King started at fives.
The event was for apprentice riders, and
there was a lot of interference. The
favorite, Not So Bad, fell, and Markos
lost his rider, while Blink Bonnie
stumbled at the turn. Neither jockeys
nor horses were hurt.
Tolerant, a five-year-old Silverado
gelding owned by J. J. Leahy, donkey-
licked his opponents in the first division
of the Maiden Handicap. He was favor-
ite at fours. The Moorefield-trained
Morrence (7 to 1), who was turned out
in capital trim by R. W. Mackinnon, got
a lucky run on the rails in the second
division and scored.
A.J.C. committeeman Walter Brunton
saw his colors carried to victory in the
Minto Handicap when his grey colt
Mangoola romped home from Cooranga
and Morning Gift at 5 to 1. The hot
pace set by Aussie Bee and Tickle suited
Mangoola, who was always going easily
behind the pair. This son of Pantheon
and Chrystal (also a grey) will doubtless
be trained for mile races in future, and
may go a middle distance.
Brazandt, Tuckerbox and Mangoola
were this Page’s selections for the only
three races considered.
The Empire Games
Though preceded by an outbreak of
newspaper shading, squealing and sen-
sationalism unpleasantly reminiscent of
foreign “news,” the Empire Games got
off to a splendid start. From the stands
Sydney Cricket Ground looked a pic-
ture. They were packed, but there was
room for another 20,000 on “the hill” —
newspapers had thoughtfully suggested
that there mightn’t be room for every-
body.
It began with an hour of ceremonial.
Marching athletes headed by their coun-
tries’ flags, a flight of 1000 pigeons, bal-
loons, reading of the King’s message’ oath
of amateurism —all very fine. Came the
contests, the final in each case being fol-
lowed by a victory ceremony —26,000
people standing, the three place-getters
on a low dais, the band playing the
National Anthem while three flags were
hauled to the head of the victory poles.
It was a memorable day for Maori-
land as well as Australia. M.L.’s C. H.
Matthews’s run in the three miles was
a noble effort. Matthews was in front
when half a mile had been traversed, the
Englishman Ward following only a yard
away. Ward gave the impression that
he could go ahead when he liked, and
he tried it, too, as they began the last
lap, but dropped back. He then tried
again: this time Matthews went away
to win by 30 yards. The time, 13min.
59 3-ssec., was 9sec. outside the world’s
record, but 27.8 sec. better than the
Games record.
The two heats of the half-mile went
to Maorilanders also —V. P. Boot did
lmin. 52.35ec. (a Games record) and T.
Allen lmin. 54.55ec. The final went to
Boot by 20yds. in excellent time—
lmin 51 2-ssec.
England possesses a great sprinter in
C. B. Holmes. He took the “hundred”
in 9.75ec., another Games record. Two
Australians, Mumford and Best, fol-
lowed him.
The Canadian Courtright hurled the
javelin 206 ft. Ofin. S. A. Lay, of Maori-
land, the Games record-holder (207 ft.
lyin.), was next (204 ft. liin.), and Aus-
tralian Metcalfe behind him.
The high jump was South Africa’s ;
E. T. Thacker, 6ft. 51in. —another Games
record. Australians Heffernan and Shet-
liffe were second and third. And the
Canadian Loaring, who, too, was chased
home by Australians, broke the 440 yards
hurdles record—s2.9sec.
The Westralienne Decima Norman
proved easily the best sprinter among the
women. Her time for the “hundred,”
ll.lsec. —she won by l\ yards from an-
other Australian, Jean Walker —bettered
the Games figures by o.2sec. “She’ll break
11 yet,” said one of the Afrikanders.
At night there was swimming. Heats,
mostly. The three events which were
completed were the 300 yards medley
relay for men (the English won), the free-
style relay for women (the Canadian
girls were successful), and the women’s
220 yards breastroke. That went to Miss
Storey (Eng.), whose time, 3min. 23sec,,
was another Games record.
On Monday Decima Norman had an-
other win, and set another Games record
—l9ft. o|in. for the women’s broad jump.
Ethel Raby (England) was second and
another Australian, Thelma Peake, third.
Very unlucky for Sievers that the
team was picked for England before the
Vic. v. S. Aus. match at Adelaide. He
took six good wickets for 43, and made
19 with the bat. S. Aus. got 157 (Brad-
man 3, Waite 45 n. 0., Whitington 42),
and Victoria 195 (Lee 44 ; Grimmett 3
for 56, Williams 3 for 60, Waite 2 for 31,
Ward 2 for 42).
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Television is a menace
to outdoor sport, including racing, or at
least to the gate-money side of it. The
Epsom authorities have pointblank re-
fused an application for permission to
photograph —if that is the word—the next
Derby. Marylebone has also been asked
for leave to reproduce the Test match
at Lord’s, but has also basketed the
application. It will, however, permit
shots to be taken of the Australians at
practice, if the tourists agree. But
trouble seems to threaten in the future.
Already in recent Tests unlicensed movie
fiends outside the grounds have given a
lot of trouble by taking pictures of the
play. This may be possible with tele-
vision. If so, good-bye to the money-
making side of sport.
(Sporting Notions continued on page 30.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Oakleigh Plate: Ajax or Aurie’s
Star; next, Theolos.
St. George Stakes: Ajax or
Avenger.
Bond Handicap: Elanage ; next,
Old Rowley.
Salisbury Welter: Beaustone ;
next, Sunraysia.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Dutiful; next, Cooranga.
St. George Handicap: Lolorua ;
next, Mangoola or Bodley Head.
Moorefield Handicap: Improve-
ment ; next, Celebrate.
Flying Welter: Bodley Head or
Aladdin; next, Let Slip.


BUILT TO EXCEL ...inStyle
■. .Performance .. .Long Life
JVjEIV/938 HUDSON EIGHT >
M
I
u
tf
m
Never before, we are sure, have you seen such lavish
attention to beauty and comfort in cars so low in
cost as these new Hudsons . . . Hudson Terraplane,
Hudson Six and Hudson Eight. Distinctively new in
outside style . . . superbly new in inside luxury . . .
with added roominess.
Drive . . . and you’ll find the performance that has
won so many official records is even smoother and
finer for 1938. You’ll learn why Hudson has beaten
all competitors in certified economy. And, with all
this, you get extra long car life and extremely low
operating cost.
Come to a Hudson showroom and see the cars that
cost you less for what you get than any others in
the world.
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
Drive with HUDSON’S
SELECTIVE AUTOMATIC GEAR
CHANGE (Optional Extra ) .. .
Now in its fourth year . . . better
than ever.
MORE Size . . . MORE ROOM and New Luxury
Inside.
DUO-AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES:
Latest, most advanced hydraulics; and the ONLY
braking system with a separate mechanical system
in reserve, working from the same brake pedal.
Easy handling parking brake under dash. SAFEST
BRAKES ON ANY CAR.
BODIES ALL OF STEEL, including roofs of steel,
for greater safety.
SAFETY GLASS in windscreen, all side windows
and deflectors.
WHEELBASES: 117 inches in Hudson Terraplane;
122 inches in Hudson Six; 122 and 129 inches
in Hudson Eight.
HORSEPOWER: 96 and 101 in Hudson Terra-
plane; 101 in Hudson Six; 122 in Hudson Eight.
MEET HUDSON
FOR
1938
New HUDSON Terraplane - New HUDSON Six
New HUDSON Eight
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated In Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Mclntosh motors pty. limited
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
.140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(AlscM4s Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street,
HOBART
Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
CENTRES
IX-N 5-75.
IT’S “VALUE YEAR” IN HUDSON SHOWROOMS


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
s
sin
m
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
4/3/37
5/- Each.
"silver
EDGE *
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that you, brakes are fitted with ••RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and satety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O
LONDON, ENGLAND.
. Hox 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
A
(kl
Tj
KEEP
QtCUcru/ts
Ode*....
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
all CHcmsrs V . 8‘ . h .
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS,ETC.
Ins and Outs
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
polished off some important Australian
Eleven business. First of all, players
will have two caps instead of one. It is
explained that they asked for two be-
cause on a hot day one cap becomes
uncomfy. It’s a good tale.
The board has also appointed W. H.
Jeanes, the team manager, and Jus-
tice Evatt, of the High Court, Australian
representatives at the Imperial Cricket
Conference.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: What England thinks of
the Australian XI is shown in the general
satisfaction over Grimmett’s omission.
C. B. Fry, who has seen the players in
Australia and England, rates the bowl-
ing as a very “perhapser” proposition.
He thinks O’Reilly will have to carry
the baby often unless Ward and F.-
Smith conquer their tendency to bowl
tripe in the intervals of good stuff. He
has no great opinion of McCormick
either, and thinks he should have had
another fast bowler as offsider. Alto-
gether C. 8., no mean judge, thinks Eng-
land’s chances much improved by the
selection. Many Australians agree with
him.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne took the drop-
ping of Gregory from the Australian
Eleven with edifying calm, though press
comment strikes a note of pained surprise
that a player like Waite, of no outstand-
ing performance in years of Sheffield
cricket, should have been preferred to
the Victorian all-rounder, who has Test
experience and the youth selectors are
supposed to desire —neither part of
Waite’s equipment. Gregory has been
asked to think over an offer to go to
England for the Cahn combination. Alan
Fairfax put the question.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tasmania went gaga over
the inclusion of Badcock in the Austra-
lian team for England. He is the fifth
in that rough island’s cricket story to
gain the honor. Bailey, of the 1878 team,
was the first. Then came Burn (1890),
Eady (1896) and McDonald (1921).
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Tallon has a ’keeping record
for this season which justifies the Queens-
land claim that he is at least as good
behind the sticks as his successful rivals
and better in front. He dismissed 17 out
of 58 opposing batsmen, and let go only
20 byes in a season’s aggregate of 2661
runs scored against Queensland in the
Sheffields. In batting his Sheffield aver-
age is 33.60. Barnett’s is 25.51, Walker’s
13.83.
* >H * #
“Old Q.”: The Tallon controversy still
rages in Brisbane. Strong efforts are to
be made to keep the lad in Brisbane,
where he now has a permanent job in
the motor trade. It is doubtful whether
a change to Melbourne would benefit
the ’keeper’s chances in cricket. Barnett
has made his marble good as Victoria’s
Number One stumper; Tallon would
thus get no chances, even in Sheffield
fixtures. If he must shift, he should try
South Australia Walker, who has re-
tired once, talks of retiring again after
the English tour, and in any case, on his
cricket merits, would have to play second
fiddle to the Queenslander.
5? * * ‘ *
With Bradman, Walker and Brown
unavailable selectors have chosen a
couple of teams to play in the Anniver-
sary match at Sydney. McCabe leads an
eleven which includes all the other Aus-
tralian players save Barnes and White.
Rigg will captain the second side, in
which Oldfield and Grimmett will have a
chance to confound the Philistines of the
Australian selection committee. Lee is
also given a gallop, as are Gregory and
Pearson. No Queenslanders, of course.
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. regains the Shef-
field Shield after it had been three years
in the possession of the Victorians and
once with the South Australians since
Ma was dragged from it in 1932-33. In
all, N.S.W. has won 21 times, Victoria
16 and South Australia five since the
tourney began in 1892-93. Queensland,
with a late start in 1926-27, has yet to
score.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland cricketers are
rejoicing over the defeat of the latest
attempt to have the Test match taken
from Brisbane ; the Board of Control de-
cided that Bananaland is to have its
match as usual in 1940-41. This time
Sydney will have two games and Mel-
bourne one.
The Q.C.A. has had a good season
financially in spite of the poor showing
of the State team in the Sheffields. Total
revenue for the season, notwithstanding
rain interruptions, was £2560, over £7OO
better than last year.
(1) L. H. A. Jeffers, wrestler, England; (2) Mr. Evan Hunter, manager of Eng-
lish team; (3) J. L. Newman, 6ft. 6in. English jumper; ( 4 ) W. Francis, swimmer
captain of Scottish team; (5) Col. K. Whitton, manager of Scottish team ; ( 6)
K. S. Duncan, runner, captain of English team; (7) H. Groves, lightweight boxer ,
England; (8) R. Cazaux, bantam wrestler, England; (9) C. B. Sterley, boxer,
South Africa.
“Aigburth”: Cabled that lack Sharp,
one of the infrequent cricket profes-
sionals who have embraced amateurism,
has died in Liverpool at 60. Sharp did
some great work for Lancashire with bat
and ball, and when he became an ama-
teur captained the county for a while. A
sound batsman and early in his career
a goodish fast bowler, he played for Eng-
land against Australia in three of the
1909 Tests, scoring 105 in the Oval
match. In addition he was twice capped
for England in Soccer internationals. His
Test batting average was 47.
♦ * * *
“Pipards”: Ireland is to be visited by
Bradman and co. this year. So far no
Australian cricket team has ever been
there. A South African tourist side
crossed St. George’s Channel. The finan-
cial result was so disappointing that the
cricketers were actually hung up there for
a few days for lack of funds for the
return journey, much as a touring theatri-
cal company might be stranded in a
remote place owing to the entire in-
adequacy of box-office returns. But that
was long ago—in the early ’nineties.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida, back from
his win in the lucrative Philippines open
championship, has been telling inter-
viewers that he will refrain from invad-
ing America until he has still further
improved his game. He will show in all
the big Australian events this season, in-
cluding the Queensland open in May, the
Canberra open, of which he is the holder,
the Australian championships in Adel-
aide and the N.S.W. professional tourney
in N.S.W. If all goes well the Ameri-
cans may anticipate trouble by the end
of this year.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: St. Andrews has declared
that wagering for money on putting is a
violation of the amateur status. This
applies not only to regular putting com-
petitions, but to the practice of players
backing their putts against those of their
opponents at each hole or for the round,
a custom borrowed from America. Bets
for balls and similar oddments will still
be allowed. Further, the Royal and
Antient jumps on the giving of open
orders as prizes for amateurs. This sys-
tem is open to flagrant abuse, and
organisations controlling other sports,
notably athletics, have long frowned on it.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The A.L.T.A. reports a
loss of £325 on last year’s Davis Cup
tour, but the pangs have been assuaged
by the fact that the governing body ex-
pects to pouch a clear
£BOOO from the visits of
the Americans and Ger-
mans. The association
sock, with this last addi-
tion, will be holding about
£19,000.
* * *
“Glenelg”: Quist and
Bromwich practically
settled whether an Austra-
lian Davis Cup team will
go abroad by winning the
Australian doubles title in
Adelaide in three straight
sets from Cramm and
Henkel. They will have
unexpected opposition in
the American zone, Japan
having challenged there.
Cables say that Yama-
gishi and Nakano have
been selected tentatively
as Nipponese players. The
new entry should not im-
pair the Australian
chances of winning the
zone final.
* * *
“Hotha m”: Though
there was strong opposi-
tion, the A.L.T.A. has de-
cided to send a Davis Cup
team to U.S.A., and has
chosen Bromwich,
Schwartz and Quist. It is
a good pick, and if
Schwartz had been sent
last time, instead of Craw-'
ford, he would probably
have returned, like Brom-
wich, a very much better
player. Hopman goes as
player manager. Craw-
ford and McGrath were
“not available.”
The women’s team is
Thelma Coyne, Nancy
Wynne, Dorothy Steven-
son and Mrs. Hopman.
Joan Hartigan is emer-
gency, and Mr. Walker, of
Melbourne, manager. This
selection will be queried in
Queensland, where Mrs.
Westacott and Miss Hard-
castle have this season de-
feated both Misses Coyne and Wynne
and the American girls. The pick was
evidently made on the Adelaide cham-
pionships only.
The women will play in Britain, France
and Germany, returning, maybe, by the
U.S.A. They leave on March 8, and
play their first game on hard courts at
Bournemouth on April 26. Wimbledon
and a match against the British Wight-
man Cup team are on the programme.
The tour will cost £2500, and a loss is
exoected, since overseas guarantees are
skimpy.


NEW PICTURES By THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
-e5E>
When in Sydney Visit
The Australian Art Exhibition
((C Uhe tTXCaclecd Gallery”
252 G eor § e Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Admission Free.
THE WORLD’S BEST GUNS
NEW —MODERN —FAMOUS
BY CHURCHILL-JEFFERY—HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON LALOUX
Actually in stock at 560 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, where you can shoot on our range and be certain that you get a gun that really suits
you. This new department is in the care of Mr. J. Harrison, one of Australia’s Leading Trap and Field Shots. As well as being a
champion shot, Mr. Harrison has made a lifelong study of ballistics and technique of shotguns. He and other expert members of our staff
place themselves at your disposal.
E. J. CHURCHILL, OF LONDON,
Prices from £35 to £175
W. J. JEFFERY & CO., LTD., LONDON,
Prices from £32/10/- to £l5O
As is well known to all shooters
London-made guns represent the high-
water mark of the gun-making world.
Both the above London makers
specialise in producing long-range guns
specially suitable for Duck and Fox
shooting. These are the guns we recom-
mend for the man in the back country.
Holloway & Naughton are makers of
a good range of trap and field guns.
Many guns of this make are already in
use in Australia and give extreme satis-
faction to their owners.
For the popular priced gun Laloux has
been a leading Belgian maker for many
years, and the guns he is sending us, both
hammer and hammerless, in 12 down to
.410 bore, are strongly built and of good
weight. The twelves weigh not less than
71bs. and run up to 7flbs. These are not
frail weapons built down to a price, but
guns you can produce in the best com-
pany, without fear of criticism. Stocked
in both ejector and non-ejector.
HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON, BIRMINGHAM,
Prices from £lB/7/6 to £3l
1
IB
GEORGES LALOUX, BELGIUM,
Prices from £2/17/6 to £l5
SEND FOR OUR
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
POST FREE.
HafoOexi £luuv (yuccessobs
" (D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.)
560-566 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONES: CENTRAL 187-188.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
LOADERS OF THE
WORLD FAMOUS
"RHENWEST"
CARTRIDGES.
“Top Spin”: In spite of his emphatic
defeat by Budge in the final of the Aus-
tralian championship, Bromwich has a
great record for the season. In 29
matches against Australian and visiting
players he has been beaten five times,
three times by Budge and twice by
Cramm. On the other hand, he has
scored twice over Budge and once over
the German.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The latest to come
at Budge is Mike lacobs, the stoush pro-
moter. He offers £15,000 for an imme-
diate change-over. Budge, however, sticks
to his original assertion that he will not
go across until after the next Davis Cup.
A wise decision, for success in that
would add considerably to his value,
already enhanced by his showings in
Australia.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The many tennis fol-
lowers who have cottoned to Cramm and
Henkel will be glad to hear that they
may return in a couple of years—for the
1939-40 championships if it is possible.
The pair, now in Perth, have high
opinions of Australian tennis, and say
they are especially struck by the very
high quality of the junior players who
will supply the champions of the future.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: The latest crowd to
lay its misfortunes at the door of the
s.p. merchant is the N.S.W. hardcourts
tennis association. Last year some 2500
players dropped out of the ranks of the
association, lured by the numerous oppor-
tunities for backing ’em available in pub
bars and elsewhere on race days. About
the most sensible of many suggestions
for staving off the evil came from a dele-
gate who advocated the installation of
loud speakers and an s.p. agent at all
courts under the association’s jurisdic-
tion. The suggestion was not adopted.
Miscellaneous
“Slide”: Trouble which arose when
coach Turner applied for permission to
row as stroke of the English Empire
Games eight, if required, has been
smoothed over. Turner stroked the
London club eight at the Melbourne
centenary, and has since lived in Mel-
bourne. In spite of protests the Empire
Games authorities refused the request,
since the time for entries of crews and
individuals had expired a fortnight
earlier. However, the other Empire
crews sportingly asked for a reversal of
the decision, and this was courteously
granted.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorians intend to
see what they can of the Empire Games
athletes. On their way home the South
African wrestlers and boxers will meet
an Australian team at West Melbourne
stadium on February 22. It is likely that
the British team may be seen in action in
track and field items, though nothing
definite has been fixed at time of writing.
* * * ¥
“Blade”: While North Shore is to be
congratulated on winning the N.S.W.
champion eights after a spell of over 40
years, it is gratifying to note the per-
formance of Pittwater in finishing only
four lengths behind the winners. For
many years it was the policy of those
running the sport in N.S.W. to foster
metropolitan rowing only. Pittwater is
the second country club to force its way
in. There was a Peter Pan touch about
the light and mostly young crew ; No. 3,
Smith, is 54.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The Englishwomen’s
four-oar crew to row in the Australian
four-oar championship for girls is arriv-
ing by the Orama. Stroke is Miss Gait,
the others being Misses Mathewson,
Cyriax and Barnes, with Miss Innes cox.
Miss Taylor is emergency. The cham-
pionship will be rowed in Sydney on
Easter Saturday on —yes —Hen and
Chickens Bay.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Women and men have
been mixing in tennis and golf clubs for
a long time, and of late a craze has
grown up in Britain for letting the al-
legedly gentler sex into rowing clubs.
One such, Isleworth, now has doubts of
the wisdom of the experiment. The
women say they have as much right to
the boats as the men, and as they can
mostly get there before the men the shes
have been monopolising the craft and
refusing to get out when asked. On one
or two occasions chivalry has been
chucked to the winds, and the ladies
have been hauled out. The situation is
complicated by the fact that the leader
of the female insurgents is the fiancee
of the captain. He, poor wretch, has
taken the only course open to him, and
resigned from the club.
* * * *
“Bias”: Maoriland took the singles
title in the Australian bowls champion-
ships at Sydney with F. Livingstone,
champion of M.L., who won 32-26 from
J. Low, of Belmont (N.S.W.). The pairs
went to P. Hutton and H. Mildren, of
S. Aus., and a N.S.W. team —H. Murray,
A. Murray, C. McNeill and T. Kinder,
of Hamilton—had an easy win over a
S. African group in the fours. The win-
ners got the Australian nominations for
the Empire Games events.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: N.S.W. women
bowlers hold a big tourney in Sydney
from February 14-25. Over 150 players
from M.L., South Africa and the Aus-
tralian States are expected. Writer has
been exposed for many years to male
bowlers, but has never come in contact
with the female of the species. Liquid
refreshment of the more potent kind is
an essential of the ancient game as
played by males. What does the gentler
sex absorb, if anything, between heads?
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: N.S.W. hockey flappers
are getting into buckle for the American
girls, who are to arrive in Sydney on
April 18. The Yankettes will be over a
month in this country, a week of which
will be in Melbourne if the Victorians are
agreeable. Brisbane is also to be visited.
At least one match against Australia is
to be played, and country sides in N.S.W.
are to be given a chance to meet the
tourists. The sesqui-shivoo authorities
put up £2OO to help finance the tour.
* * * *
“Frogskin”: The rebel Kangaroos
finished their tour of France by beating a
combined team at Lyons 25-8. Cable
rumors alleged that the French had been
backward at handing over the Australian
share of the gates, and loyalists at this end
were hopeful that this would mean the
stranding of the rebels in France, where
they would have to live on frogs’ legs and
snails and other unaccustomed viands.
However, the Frenchmen promptly
settled after the last game, handing over
a profit of well over £2OOO. This will
finance the triumphant insurgents, who
will go back to England before sailing
for home and mutual recriminations on
February 12.
sfs ?|« ij: :k
“H.A.”: A. E. Stoddart (B. 26/l/’3B)
captained England at Rugby football in
the very first Test match (though that was
long before the term was invented)
played against an Australasian side —the
Maorilanders of 1888-89. The game, to
the best of my recollection as an on-
looker, was played at Blackheath in Feb-
ruary or March, and the home team
won by 3 goals 2 tries to nil.
# * * *
“Pineapple”: Queensland Soccer heads
have at last tumbled to the fact that
privately-owned and -enclosed grounds
are essential if the game is to flourish as
it deserves. An application for a loan
to be devoted to this policy has been
made to the British Football Association,
which is reported to have taken the bite
in good part. All the same, in the last
few years the Australian Soccer bpdies
have made large sums of money from
visiting teams.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Fire Over Pincheut.
Viewed from a distance, and taken
lightly, as an entertainment, it must have
been a great show. Sydney—so run the
reports that have appeared since—had
never before seen such a “glorious dis-
play of fireworks.” Chroniclers, exercis-
ing to the full the customary license
extended to war correspondents, have
waxed poetical, writing of “fairy foun-
tains of fire,” “cascades of glittering
silver,” “falling showers of gold” and
“masterpieces of pyrotechnic art.”
On Pinchgut itself it was a more
serious affair. There it is remembered
to this day as a desperately fought en-
gagement ; a triumph of well-entrenched
land forces over uncountable armadas of
aerial attackers —all the more uncount-
able because they adopted the dastardly
disguise of invisibility. Twice in the one
evening—first at 8.10 p.m., and again
half an hour later —they swarmed from
all corners of the firmament to the attack,
and twice, without the loss of more than
half a set of eyebrows and three-
quarters of a shirt by the gallant de-
fenders, they were repulsed.
The troops, specially trained in this
warfare, were recruited from as far dis-
tant as Phoenix Fireworks, Melbourne-
hardy troops, these; veterans of fieiry
engagements on historic fields, from
Adelaide to Palmerston North, with their
tradition dating back to Queen Victoria’s
jubilee. They were reinforced by a
powerful body of irregular but seasoned
troops recruited in Sydney, and a mag-
nificent fighting force they looked as,
disembarking in full regimentals—
trousers, vest, coat, boots, collar-and-tie
and felt hat—they clambered on to the
fortress, and—l 6 in all —reported all
present and correct to Brigadier Sumner,
permanent 0.C., Pinchgut; himself a
veteran, not only by virtue of daily firing
the one-o’clock gun, but from service in
the old 2nd Batt. as well.
It should be stated here that the Napo-
leonic credo that an army fights on its
stomach is well understood on Pinchgut.
The cookhouse a powerfully-con-
structed pillbox established in the very
middle of the fortress —is controlled by a
permanently-appointed member of the
Amazon Battalion, and nowhere in the
world are such cakes concocted, not even
on Lord Howe Island, where the inhabi-
tants have nothing else to do, except,
perhaps, occasionally shin up palm-trees.
Certainly nowhere in the world has the
provisioning of fighting troops been
brought to such a fine art.
The troops, soon to put up the most
vigorous defence in the history of Pinch-
gut, were there well but soberly fed. It
cannot be written of them, as Macaulay
wrote of some troops, that “drunk with
enthusiasm, drunk with bhang, they
rushed furiously to the attack.” There
was no rum issue to fill them with Dutch
courage. They did it all on tea and
cakes; and so great was their natural re-
straint —some might prefer to regard it
as unnatural—that, though it was familiar
knowledge to the humblest trooper
among them that an unbroached “five”
was enshrined unguarded in one of the
pillboxes, no drop of liquor passed the
lips of one of them until the final tri-
umphant “Cease fire!” order was given,
and this gallant, if somewhat singed,
company was at last able to relax.
When sunset descended on the little
fortress, set there like a moored ship in
the midstream of Sydney Harbor, the
garrison was in great heart and its shirt-
sleeves. Pinchgut was armed to the
teeth. The flower-beds, which are the
normal peace-time adornment along the
foot of the western parapet, were
planted, not with marigolds, but with an
extensive battery of mortars. In sup-
port behind them, row upon row of
devastating rockets bristled bravely in
the gathering darkness. Along the entire
length of .the fortress, from the flagpole
at the one end to the round tower at the
other, stretched a wire with knobs on —
a harmless-looking contrivance to the
untrained eye, but in reality, as it was
to prove, a fearsomely devilish infernal
machine, designed to let down a wall or
cataract of molten silver, through which
not even a Mullumbimby mosquito could
pass unscathed.
For the time being, the troops —true
to the finest A.I.F. traditions —leant non-
chalantly against their posts, cloaking
poignant thoughts about their sweethearts
and mothers with the immemorial light
banter of soldiers on the eve of action,
most of it touching on what had, that
afternoon, won the last. All around them
the harbor presented a spectacle of un-
precedented activity, for, despite the
assiduous efforts of the celebrations com-
Sumner, O.C. Pinchgut (centre); troop washing down sparks and troop ready
for action (left); and (right) inhabitant shinning up palm-tree at Lord Howe
Island, and Darling Point onlookers startled—scenes from one of Sydney’s
brightest shows of the 150th Anniversary celebrating.
mittee to keep the pending attack on
Pinchgut a close secret, word of it had
been bruited abroad, and from all parts
of the world warships, boats with bands
aboard, fleets of illuminated yachts,
armadas of dinghies, as well as shoals of
king prawns, cockney bream, flathead
and other denizens of the deep, had con-
gregated to witness the impending clash
of battle.
Then, with the surrounding cloak of
darkness pierced distantly here and there
by Neon signs advertising beer and sus-
penders, a prearranged signal was dis-
cerned climbing slowly up into the
heavens due sou’-west of the fortress.
Waiting only a matter of seconds, till
the invisible attackers were adjudged to
be directly overhead, the garrison now
sprang into action. From all parts of
the fortress burst forth the counter-
attack that was to save Pinchgut to pos-
terity. The mortars roared and belched
their fire and smoke and 10-inch bomb-
shells, to explode hundreds of feet in
the air. Up, too, in an impenetrable
barrage shot the rockets. For full quar-
ter of an hour this prodigious array of
artillery kept up a ceaseless, intensifying,
shattering and highly-colorful bombard-
ment unparalleled in the annals of such
warfare.
Inside three minutes Pinchgut was
completely enveloped in rolling clouds
of smoke. With the shattering explosion
of the 10-inch mortars the fortress
windows could be heard crashing from
the concussion, to the deep dismay of
the Amazon forces, who regard windows
with affection. Through the pall of
smoke —resembling the famous painting
of the Defence of Rorke’s Drift —the
gallant garrison could be dimly discerned
darting hither and thither, firing mortar
upon mortar in terrific salvos.
It was a glorious victory. Not less
than 59 brace of seagulls lit out for
Patagonia. Onlookers, thinking them-
selves safe on distant Darling Point,
were transfixed where they stood by fly-
ing shoals of panic-stricken garfish. Four
bream, going for the lick of their lives,
caught on fire from friction off Nobby’s.
The counted slain of Hexham Greys —
masters of mobile warfare over a shift-
ing front —totalled 279,000, while the
casualties inflicted on other varieties of
mossies were so awful that they had to
call for an armistice for the burying of
their dead.
In accordance with the established
practice in modern warfare, the oppor-
tunity thus afforded was enthusiastically
taken for reloading at all points of the
fortress and washing down the parched
throatfuls of sparks, smoke, powder and
rocket-sticks with a refreshing cup of tea,
the troops still manfully refraining from
broaching the “five.” Nor was it
broached, either, till, with all the fore-
going battery and assault repeated —if
anything, more gloriously, noisily and
smokily than before—the last colorful
explosion had occurred and died away
overhead, and the ensuing silence had
proclaimed the great battle over.
Thus was Pinchgut, in the course of the
150th Anniversary celebrations, gallantly
defended against all-comers, to remain—
as an officer of the forces gave out as his
considered opinion—the best place in the
world from which to send up fireworks.
Australia Triumphant.
With the 150th Anniversary celebra-
tions now in what the talkie publicity
people would call the “third triumphant
week,” there still isn’t one Australian
film showing in any Sydney movie house,
there isn’t an Australian drama showing
in any legit, house, and there isn’t an
Australian company of actors presenting
even an imported * drama.
As far as Australian dramatic effort is
concerned, Sydney’s theatres might be-
long to a foreign country.
Yet, just now, any passable Australian
production might be a box-office winner.
Australian sentiment has been run-
ning high, and a judiciously-advertised
Australian film or drama would be as-
sured of fair success for that reason
alone. As it is, the cultural backward-
ness of this country—a criticism ordi-
narily hotly resented by patriots more
earnest than observing—is getting a
shocking showing up, as far as anything
in the way of drama goes, at least.
This could be countered by a season of
Australian drama. None of this, no
doubt, merits describing as “great,” but
there is among it quite enough playable
and interesting work, with the authentic
Australian hall-mark, to make material
for such a season.
Perhaps that can be ruled out on the
ground that it would not be likely to be
commercially profitable; but what can
be said for the absence from Sydney
talkie theatres over the past week or two
of Australian films when apart from
possible revivals —there have been at
least three local productions ready for
showing?
One of these would be a certain
money-maker, in addition to being cer-
tain to add interest to the Anniversary
celebrations. It was, in fact, evidently
made specially for that purpose.
Depicting the wealth of the nation, it
had a preview screening a month or two
back. Admirably designed and photo-
graphed, it would be an interesting film
at any time. Just now it would be as
good as certain to be uncommonly suc-
cessful.
Last week this film had another private
screening—shown to a small, select party
invited along to the Prince Edward
Theatre early in the morning, the invi-
tations issued by the celebrations com-
mittee. It should have been showing
publicly from the time
the celebrations opened,
or from even earlier.
Additionally, there are
at least two Australian-
made commercial pro-
ductions ready for
screening; one of them
was privately shown and
received a good press a
month or two back.
The point is driven
home when in one Syd-
ney theatre there is now
showing a film on Aus-
tralia—quite an interest-
ing gazette film —speci-
ally made by a Holly-
wood concern to cash in
on the Anniversary cele-
brations !
Generally, Sydney’s
array of picture-houses
are going great guns with
a 11-imported pro-
grammes, bar only a
thin showing of local
newsreels. Almost every
offering on show since
the celebrations started
has been American-pro-
duced. The gobs and the big-game
fishermen must feel that they’ve strayed
into an American dependency.
“Parnell.”
Clark Gable, Myrna Loy.
The sacrifice of Parnell’s beard on the
altar of the Gable good looks is signifi-
cant in this offering at St. James, Sydney.
Though the rest of the cast, particularly
Berton Churchill’s meaningless O’Gor-
man Mahon and Neil Fitzgerald’s fan-
tastic Pigott, are lost in a welter of
whiskers, Gable is far too clean-faced.
All of the real Parnell, cold, powerful,
and repellent to all who failed to appreci-
ate the depth of his devotion to Ireland,
has been dropped, and all that is left is
Gable, like a tailor’s dummy, com-
placently admiring himself in suits of
noble sentiments.
The story, to fit the convention that
demands shamrocks and sham sentimen-
tality in Irish films, has been similarly
shorn of reality. Parnell’s relations with
Kitty O’Shea, for whom he sacrificed his
career, are thoroughly whitewashed;
Captain O’Shea, who once, though later
he seems to have acquiesced in Parnell’s
usurpation of his wife’s affections, did
have the courage to challenge his leader
to a duel, is made the villain of the piece ;


n
MS
S 3
"'f r i
¥SS
s'
C£
®4
m
m
m
m
&
a
Virginia
»>*
9 for 6d
18 for if*
:24
rieaie 'Ljourie*
PLAIN w CORK TIPS
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY MR. RICHARD CROOKS
and the film shows Parnell indignantly
refusing to do what actually he did —buy
off O’Shea with political preferment.
Myrna Loy, making the best of Gable’s
bad job, gives the piece charm and mean-
ing and holds it to the standard of toler-
able entertainment. But why Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, when they robbed it of
nearly all its real drama, bothered to
make the film at all is a mystery. A
possible explanation is its cunningly con-
veyed relevance to the abdication of
Edward VIII. Parnell gives up all for
“the woman I love,” and, dying, implores
his followers to treat the new leader as
“a man, not a god.”
tf Victoria the Great.”
Anton Walbrook, Anna Neagle.
Already reviewed here (12/1/’3B) from
a press screening, this film started its
Sydney career at the Embassy last week.
It has one fault still common to
many English productions; it tends a
bit to drag. The cause of this seems to
be a confirmed inability of directors to
use the sub-editorial scissors.
It isn’t really the story of Victoria
the Great; if it was, it would take at
least a couple of days to reel off, even
with tight directing. It is the romance
of Victoria and Albert. That by itself is
excellent film material, and it makes
good entertainment. But the directors
have not been able to withstand the ad-
mittedly powerful temptation to have a
shot at telling Queen Victoria’s whole
great story into the bargain.
As that' whole story the film fails
because it isn’t anything approaching the
whole story; as the romance of Victoria
and Albert it suffers from the padding
made unavoidable by the attempt to tell
that bigger story.
There are some splendid scenes in it—
coronating and the like —but in these
the impression given is that the film’s
producers had thereby been caused enor-
mous t expense, and were unable to re-
sist getting their last penn’orth of foot-
age out of the very carefully prepared
settings.
Considered apart from the theme and
narrative of the film, those scenes are
capital. They leave a very convincing
impression of reality, and are in them-
selves interesting entertainment. On
that account and because of the general
high standard of the of
many of the passages, too —the film is
well worth a visit. Some of it is in
color.
Embassy’s Other Half.
An uncommonly good lot of brief
films support “Victoria the Great” at this
address.
One is an American-made Australian
gazette film, tying up with the 150th An-
niversary celebrations, but putting all the
emphasis on Cook instead of on Phillip,
as the celebrators are doing. The color
of the film isn’t the best seen ; but the
whole thing is very happily done, highly
complimentary and certain to be most
agreeable to Australian sentiment.
A “March of Time” on the same bill
is as good as any this film-taster has seen.
Finland, as the only country honoring
its war-debt obligation to the U.S.A.,
gets hearty applause from the film’s
United States makers. It is tiptop travel
film. There is also an interesting hand-
ling of Oxford, with Lord Nuffield com-
ing to the University’s rescue with gifts
which would send some countries into
national celebrating, but which the Uni-
versity’s heads receive calmly enough.
Third item on this “March of Time”
is most interesting of all. It is an attack
on Japanese salmon-lifting off Alaska,
and it is so pointed as to leave an im-
pression that what is really behind the
mass of anti-Japanese propaganda sent
out from U.S.A. by film since the China
dust-up started is simply fish.
“The Man Who Cried Wolf.”
Lewis Stone.
Another version of the “perfect crime,”
this offering at Sydney Capitol bristles
with improbabilities, but the idea has its
points.
As an actor planning to do away with
a bit of a blister who pinched his wife
and cheild some twenty years earlier,
Stone prepares an alibi by the simple
expedient of confessing to any murder
that crops up.
From his persistent confessions to
other people’s crimes the police regard
him as a publicity hound or someone a
bit weak above the collar. When he
eventually disposes of the flea in his ear
and strolls into headquarters to claim it
as his score he goes out on his neck for
being a damn’ nuisance. Complications
occur when his son is roped in as the
murderer, and Stone has a helluva time
trying to prove his own guilt.
Needed better directing and a more
competent cast to put it over. As done,
it fails to convince.
State Comedies.
For its current bill Sydney State banks
on light American comedies.
“1000 Dollars a Minute” is a variation
on the Brewster plot—a bet that it’s im-
possible to spend 700,000-or-so dahlahs
on tahngibles inside 12 hours, an experi-
ment right into the hands of a spend-
thrift young reporter, witji reward of
10,000 dahlahs and a goil to spur him on.
Well up to standard of its sort of
brisk, wisecracking American dam-
foolery, breezily acted and no loitering
by the way, it’s support to an even more
simple-minded stretch of lighthearted
nonsense —“Damsel in Distress” —in
which Fred Astaire hoofs and yawps as
accompaniment to a Wodehouse yarn
about a daughter of the English gentry
who loves Fred, doesn’t love Fred, loves
Fred, doesn’t love Fred and reely loves
Fred all the time, with clinch in season.
“Submarine 2)7,” at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, is a convenfional stretch of
bellerdrammer about two sailors and a
goil, made bearable by the newsreel
value of its settings. Warner Bros., who
do this sort of thing very well, have the
co-operation of the U.S. Navy. Pat
O’Brien as “chief” of something new in
subs, is taken off at the last minute
before manoeuvres, and the other aspirant
for the goil’s favor is given his job. Of
course, the sub. is sent to the bottom
and of course O’Brien effects a rescue,
but for some reason he loses the goil.
Big Town Girl, at Sydney Plaza, is the
old yarn about an honest wife who, on
the run from bank-robber husband,
crashes into radio, hiding her identity as
a masked countess or something, and
earns the animosity of a newshound.
When hubby turns up to spoke her wheel
she hops it again and gets a lift from the
reporter chap. Being her real self, frus-
trated lurv raises its tired head. Easily
acted and done lightly with a dash of
comedy it’s a quite bearable support to
“Wife, Doctor and Nurse.”
“Maritana” Broadcast.
Most successful of the “potted-opera”
series of the A.B.C. was “Maritana,”
given on Wednesday and Thursday
nights of last week.
The others were excellent —“Marta”
and “Don Giovanni,” in which Borgioli
sang; “Don Pasquale,” in which Stella
Power and Borgioli took part, and in
which Raymond Beatty ran away with
the show—but Wallace’s tuneful opera,
though of much inferior musical repute,
has associations the others lack.
The broadcast version was intelligently
condensed. The overture, being a medley
of airs that occur later, was cut out,
dialogue reduced to brief essentials,
choruses shortened and some numbers of
little merit cut out altogether. Cast was
all-Australian Gladys Moncrieff as
Maritana, Browning Mummery as Don
Caesar, Walter Kingsley as the villainous
Done Jose, Evelyn Hall and Edmund
Butterworth in minor parts.
Mummery, who deserves much more
of a flourish of trumpets than has been
accorded him by the A.8.C., sang mag-
nificently, Miss Moncrieff was at her
best, and the whole cast, with orchestra
and a good chorus, seemed to be thor-
oughly enjoying the familiar music.
Lauri Kennedy. m
On his performance of Beethoven’s
Third ’Cello Sonata (op. 69), broadcast
last week, Lauri Kennedy need not fear
comparison with any ’cellist who has
visited Sydney in the last decade.
This sonata, which exploits the ’cello’s
extremest range, is Beethoven at his best.
It gives no mercy to ’cellist or pianist.
Dorothy Kennedy showed judgment
and artistry in her handling of the piano-
forte part, which, on a modern powerful
concert grand, is calculated to drown
the ’cello. The compromise arrived at
between the composer’s score and the
changed instrumental conditions was en-
tirely satisfactory.
An A.B.C. Pop.
The A.B.C.’s mixed orchestral con-
cert and song recital at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night pleased a big
audience.
Italian tenor Dino Borgioli exercised
his pleasant voice in the “Poet’s Song”
from “La Boheme” and in “Recondita
Armonia” and “E Lucevan le Stelle”
from “Tosca,” earning vast applause.
“La Donna e Mobile” was his encore
selection. Orchestral support might have
been more judicious in all his items.
Orchestral fare (band under Percy
Code) was bountiful and varied. Main
dish was the ever-popular “New World”
symphony of Dvorak, very well played.
William Walton’s “Fagade,” new to most
of the audience, is a burlesque of well-
known, music and musical styles, but was
taken in deadly seriousness. Rimsky-
Korsakoff’s “Cappriccio Espagnole,”
Nicolai’s “Merry Wives of Windsor”
overture, Grainger’s “Molly on the
Shore” and Strauss’s “Pizzacato Polka”
were acceptable sweetmeats, and Tschai-
kowsky’s “1812,” in which the orchestra
had the aid of the A.B.C.’s military
band, demonstrated that the Town Hall
ceiling need fear nothing from the organ.
With admirable modesty Messrs. Her-
bert Wilson and Pegner, the architects
whose winning design for a bungalow at
the N.S.W. Forestry Commission’s exhibi-
tion drew the comment that it was esti-
mated to cost £9OO but looked like £2500
worth, write to say that they “are a little
upset at this left-handed compliment.”
There was no mention of a price in the
conditions of the competition, and they
gave no estimate.


covers
For samples and illus. folder post
free write to Dept. 5, Box 3281
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
A WO MAN'S
LETTER
Death lurked in the blue and curling
waves off Bondi last Sunday, and y marked
four (maybe five) men surfers for his own.
The beach was at its early-afternoon
brightest when the tragedy occurred.
Thirty thousand people had a grim vision
of a group of bathers who had been on a
sandbank between the beach and the
channel flung into deep water and gripped
by a strong current. Four gigantic waves
in quick succession caused the disaster—
one of the worst in Sydney’s surfing his-
tory. Only for the heroic work done by
the lifesavers and strong swimmers among
the onlookers the dead would have num-
bered far more.
The Women’s Executive Committee of
our birthday celebrations can feel proud
of their reception in honor of Lady
Wakehurst and the overseas and inter-
state visitors. Last Thursday there were
500 women of note buzzing and burbling
about David Jones’s auditorium by 8.30,
the appointed time. Many of them had
decorations, Dame Enid Lyons display-
ing her imposing Order. Lady Wake-
hurst’s chiffons were violet, her jewels
diamonds- and pearls. Her speech caught
the spirit of the times, and urged a re-
newed sense of purpose that our nation
might become even greater than in the
past. The absorbing part of the night
was that given to the two-minute speeches
from each of the overseas delegates. As
each spoke a casement opened on to other
lands. One glimpsed beyond the smiling
face, the gentle words, troubles which the
women of this generous land have not
been called upon to endure.
In the Government House party were
Lady Wilson, wife of Queensland’s Gov-
ernor, and Lady Clark, Tasmania’s
vice-reine. Mrs. Bernard Muscio and
Miss I. M. Fidler received the official
guests, among whom were Mayoress
Mrs. Norman Nock. Flower-patterned
white crepes suited her fair good looks.
Platinum-grey laces were worn by Dame
Maria Ogilvie-Gordon. Australia’s two
women members of Parliament, Mrs.
Cardell Oliver, of Westralia, and Mrs.
Weber, of Victoria, were notables; so
were Gladys Moncrieff, Newtown’s
Mayor, Mrs. Lilian Fowler, and Mrs.
Linda Littlejohn.
Whether it was too swift a face-about
from the jollities of the celebrations or
just the damp blanket of the atmosphere,
one listener at least found the opening o£
the Women’s International Conference as
dull as a cold scone. There were hun-
dreds of women in the Assembly Hall
eager to hefar the distinguished Dame
Maria Ogilvie-Gordon, who is the big
gun among the overseas visitors. She
spoke well and pleasantly on the inter-
national aspect of women’s work. Per-
haps the subject was so big it failed to
grip. Lady Gowrie opened proceedings
with a plea for more culture and tree-
planting. The Premier and Minister-
in-charge-of-celebrations Dunningham
uttered encouragement, and departed.
At the end of the afternoon Dame Enid
Lyons breezed into the parley, as re-
freshing as the first breath of the
southerly. The delegates from India,
around their heads the graceful drape of
the sari, and Mrs. Fabian Chow and
Mrs. Elsie Lee Soong from China, in
their national dress, were a touch of the
picturesque. Once or twice, forgetting
the speakers altogether, this Letter won-
dered if Florence Nightingale had
attended many conferences.
Norda Mata is to give dance recitals
at the Little Theatre, Phillip-street, on
Thursday and Saturday nights.
Brilliant was the word to apply to
Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon’s address
at the N.C.W. lunch last Thursday. This
was a Dame Maria telling of the work
for the young child in which she takes
active part. Here were experience and
knowledge, and a directness of speech
that made her subject crystal clear. The
raising of the school-leaving age, the
necessity of films suitable for children,
the important part the film could play
in school life, and the attention and care
necessary for the pre-school child were
the ingredients of Dame Maria’s stimu-
lating speech. Never has David Jones’s
auditorium been more packed. The over-
flow seeped into the adjoining Blue
Room.
Lady Wakehurst was at the top table
between the speaker and Miss Adelaide
Miethke, who is president of the N.C.W.
of Australia. Amber crepes topped by
a wide-brimmed black hat were worn by
the vice-reine. Deep blue was Miss
Miethke’s color scheme. Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy’s chiffons were mulberry
in tone. So was her droopy flower-
wreathed hat. Mrs. David Maughan and
Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh were among the
lunchers. Mrs. Maughan’s black chiffon
frock was shirtmaker in style, and was
lightened with diamente buttons. Lady
Stamp, who with her Sir Josiah is by
now on her way to the U.S.A., was an-
other guest.
Hobart’s mayoress, Mrs. J. J. Wignall,
has been one of the city’s guests during
the birthday gaieties. With her husband
Mrs. Wignall flew across Bass Strait in
the Centaurus—its first woman passenger.
Peter Pan photograph.
From the large and handsome cards
to the tiaras worn by the whole company
of vice-regal ladies, the Queen’s Club
Ball was distinctly opulent. Guests num-
bered 1400 or so, and the struggle to
snare cards by those not holding divine
right is said to have been the most strenu-
ous and persistent of recent years. The
president of the club, Philip Street’s wife,
and committee members lined up to re-
ceive their guests. Programmes were
used. In short, there was a touch of old-
time courtesy about the affair. Hundreds
of virginal kid gloves and tender quail
will never be the same again after it.
Ingenuity marked the decorations which
turned the spaces between the wall and
the balcony pillars into a series of sun
porches. Over these clambered golden
roses, and sun blinds of green and white
silk stretched out above the dance floor.
In between each awning was an open
window of transparent tissue, and on its
ledge a window-box growing greenery
and bright flowers. On both sides of
each window rose large urns of tiger-
lilies. Tiger-lilies, by the way, were quite
the bloom of the night. The women
guests as well as the decorations seemed
to have voted unanimously for them.
On your way to the flowering peach-
trees that marked the entrance to the
ballroom you passed a fragrant flower
fountain in the vestibule. This played
into a mossy and ferny basin in which
white and pink water-lilies floated. On
the stage rose a grass terrace, and before
the archway that led to it stood a figure
of Pan. High Etruscan vases of tiger-
lilies, flowering peach-trees and blue-and-
yellow tubs from which rose slender fir-
trees were in the scheme. There were
furlongs of greeny garlands about the
wells.
Dazzle is the word for this ball. Every
woman, without exception, wore jewels.
Sequins and gold and silver flung out
rich gleams. Materials were woven with
glittering thread, white frocks were
frosted with diamente. The vice-regal
ladies did the handsome thing, and
brought the best out of their jewehboxes.
Lady Gowrie’s green and silver lame
had a green velvet sash that fell to the
ground on the left side. All sea-green
and silver cloque and pearls was Lady
Wakehurst. Lady Galway waved a flame
fan in contrast to her blue and silver.
Black leaves patterned Lady Hunting-
field’s white chiffons. Lady Evelyn
Drummond, who arrived with her
admiral, the Hon. E. R. Drummond, wore
beflowered taffeta.
Small and graceful in her trained pink-
and-silver lame, Philip Street’s wife pre-
sented a clutch of sparkling debs., one
of them her own grandchild, Phillipa
Street. Mrs. Don Taylor, in black lace,
was a graceful figure. This frock fell
full from the waist, and was weighted at
the hem with two bands of velvet. One
of the whole celebration season’s pret-
tiest was Clara Butter in her ground-
length cream chiffons. Simplicity mixed
with the classic in design. The royal
blues of China had been caught in Mrs.
Feakes’s chiffons and scarf. Noreen
Dangar, who had hostessed a dinner-
party at the Queen’s Club, had silver
tassels on her green scarf. Green and
silver were woven in her frock. A scarf
with two shades of cyclamen was worn
by Mrs. C. L. Jones with her white chif-
fons. Three diamond leaves clasped each
shoulder strap of Miss Agnes William-
son’s black laces. Mrs. Roystone Davey
was there, mulberry-toned her lace and
taffeta.
Mrs. Roy Buckland, Princess Melikoff,
Beth Bucknell from Yass, Rosalind Mac-
arthur Onslow, Pamela Armstrong, the
Sheldon lady, Mrs. Leon Lyons, Mrs.
Colvin from Orange, and deb. Deirdre
Howse from the same lovely town were
noted. Faith Macarthur Onslow, whose
unusual black taffeta dress had a double
peplum; Miss Kate Egan, whose frock
held delphinium tones; Mrs. Beresford
Grant, in mist-like blue, and Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, whose chiffons held lavender
tones, were others.
Linda Phillips, of Melbourne, has
been charming Sydney listeners with her
musical compositions. In the Marcus
Marks’s big flat at the Astor recently
she presented a whole evening’s pro-
gramme from her clever pen. There
were works for piano, strings and wood-
wind instruments. These were built on
Hebrew themes, but have the universal
appeal of sorrow and gladness. Photo-
graph frm Dorothy Welding.
While 300 or more were drinking cock-
tails at the Forum Club, where a group
of our birthday visitors were the special
guests, France’s Consul-General was
holding a five-to-seven at Elizabeth Bay
House. This was in honor of the com-
manders and officers of the Jeanne d’Arc
and the Rigault de Genouilly. C.-G.
Jean Tremoulet had certainly netted a
catch of pretty girls for his party. Shirley
and Jocelyn Poynt'er were there with
Lady Poynter. Joyce Beazley, Anne-
Marie Fomberteaux and Andree Pelletier
were among the interested. The Prime
Minister and Dame Enid Lyons came to
this exchange of greetings ; so did Mayor-
ess Nock. The lighted red, white and
blue candles in the dining-room were a
patriotic touch.
Sir Josiah Stamp was a most ardent
visitor to the exhibition in the Mitchell
Library. This is the library’s contribu-
tion to the sesquicentenary jubilations,
and it simply enthralled Sir Josiah.
Whenever he could get a breather from
talking or being talked to, he communed
quietly with the testimony of our fore-
bears. Lady Evelyn Drummond paid a
long visit in company with her Rear-
Admiral ; as for Lady Galway, she
walked about, one quiet morning, in an
entranced way. The Wakehursts, of
course, are confirmed Mitchell delvers.
The official opening went off in splendid
style, and librarian Ida Leeson and her
cultured staff are to be complimented on
the splendid and cleverly-arranged show.
The birth of the royal Dutch baby
stirred up a whirl of gaieties among
Netherlanders in Sydney. It seems right
that the first child of Princess Juliana,
only child of their loved Queen Wil-
helmina, should be a daughter. The
Dutch community seemed to think so,
and toasted the new-born with great en-
thusiasm. The rich among them did it
in club and home and Consulate. The
not-so-rich, many sailors with shining
faces among them, did it in hotel bars.
But whatever the surroundings the mur-
mured “Long live the young princess”
was heartfelt. A happy and generous
thought was the opening of a savings
bank account in the name of one of
Sydney’s baby girls whose birth coincided
with that of the young princess. The
idea started among a group of business-
men, and now some baby girl beginning
life in one of the city’s public maternity
hospitals has become a Mnk client.
The International Women’s Confer-
ence was rounded off by a dinner. It was
a good dinner, preceded by sherry and
accompanied by wines and fruit cup.
Lady Gowrie was the guest of the even-
ing. The dressing was always good, very
good here and there. But truth will out,
the speeches were too long. Dame Maria
Ogilvie-Gordon and Dame Enid Lyons
were the speakers. This Letter has
already applauded them when they were
good. On Friday night neither lady
was inspired, and neither spoke in ten-
second sprints. The banquet-room of
the Australia was a pleasant scene,
very shimmery with satin and pearls.
And don’t think that, because no men
were going, woman failed to be her
loveliest.
Lady Gowrie’s pearly satins struck a
rich note. Dame Enid Lyons’s grey bro-
cades drew a long train. Chairman Mrs.
Muscio’s black chiffons were draped with
ivory lace. A handsome was Mrs. Weber,
M.L.A. The McNicol lady was another
with a presence. Very attractive in her
flower-patterned silks was Evelyn Evans,
of the A.T.N.A. Dame Constance
D’Arcy’s smile was serene, her black
frocking suave. Matron Kellett and Mrs.
W. A. Lingham, of the Women Pioneers,
Earle Page’s lady, Dame Mary Cook,
that pleasing English visitor Lady
Morris-Jones, Mrs. Bertie Kelly in mist-
blue satin, and Dame Mary Gilmore
were others glimpsed.
Javelins were thrown incredible dis-
tances and sprinters ran like the wind
out at the Cricket Ground on Saturday
when the Empire Games got off to a
good start. Blue sky and a fresh wind,
the green, the white, the black with its
silver fern of the competitors, the flut-
tering flags—the emblem of every coun-
try was unfurled —made the pulse of the
onlooker do a happy little quickstep.
There were 26,000 lookers-on, greeting
with applause like the roar of surf the
swift flight of the runner.
How well the physique of the Austra-
lian boy and girl showed up, and how well
they ran! Decima Norman, who was the
only Australian to win victory in a final,
took her plaudits with grace and modesty.
The stands were crowded, and there were
as many women as men. Lord Wakehurst
read a message from the King before his
opening speech. There was a fanfare
of trumpets. Suddenly-released pigeons
and balloons fluttered through the air.
There was a salute of guns. There was
a big vice-regal party, Lady Wakehurst’s
blue turban very smart. The Mayoral
Nocks were in the group, and the P.M.,
Premier Stevens, the Hon. Henrietta
Loder and Earl de la Warr were others.
The Earl took a movie of the afternoon.
A dance at Admiralty House, the
A.B.C. concert at the Town Hall featur-
ing Dino Borgioli, Mrs. Albert Little-
john’s reception at the Forum Club, and
innumerable private dinners and dances
finished off a week in which not the least
important happening was the opening of
the Pioneer Memorial Garden. This is
a flowerful, sunken enclosure near the
gates that are across the way from the
Mitchell. Lady Gowrie said the opening
words last Thursday under a blazing
afternoon sun.
(i Continued on page 38.)


2^
2
iO
N
L
li
s§
m
m
m
\\
The Picture 1938 Will
Be Remembered By
C I N ESOUND'S^
. C I IN ErS O U N U S
Lovers
and
Luqqere
ft
JAMES RAGLAN
SHIRLEY ANN
RICHARDS
m
ALEC KELLAWAY
V
mm *
C" ,\
f ELAINE HAMMIL
Produced and Directed by
KEN G. HALL
The miraculous answer to the World’s desire
for ... enchanting NEW settings ... amazing
NEW adventures . . . blood-tingling NEW
romance . . with all the elemental thrills of
life . . . that’s “LOVERS AND LUGGERS,”
Cinesound’s glorious romance of tropical
adventure.
With
SHIRLEY ANN RICHARDS
(JAMES RAGLAN, ELAINE HAMMIL
SIDNEY WHEELER, ALEC KELLAWAY
RONALD WHELAN
Simultaneously with our National Cele-
brations comes Australia’s Supreme
Motion Picture Achievement, proudly
produced for World-wide Presentation!
Already it has smashed all records in
Brisbane.
Now set for early pre-eminent presenta-
tion at Sydney’s mighty STATE
THEATRE.
ownotamal
mm
m
/


In
Sydney
Stay
at the
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added
and a 24-hour hot water service.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Melbourne
Chaţer
At the Stratheden wetting-the-head
party an exclusive guest was Lord Craig-
myle, who is sick to death of newspaper
publicity. A form must be filled in by
would-be interviewers, and if on perusal
it looks unworthy consent is refused.
There was no giving away of the ship’s
floral decorations, as happened on the
Chitral, and “The King” was proposed
punctually at seven. Passengers who
liked to be alone were ensured a haven
of peace and quietness with a notice
“Passengers Only” in large print outside
the library door.
Among the thousand and a few odd
hundred present were Captain Harrison,
the W. A. Mackays and the C. R.
Duncans, Mrs. Duncan carrying one of
the new circular handbags, white to
match the neck and sleeve accessories
upon her frock, and with a black seg-
ment, an echo of the frock. Mrs. Lind-
say Mildred’s patterned dress was
shadowed by a large black hat, for it was
the right sort of day for wide brims.
Other hats of generous expanse were
worn by Nancy Griffiths, hers of soft
black straw, and Mrs. Vivian Wilshire,
whose hat was white and accompanied a
green and white ensemble. Pat Mein’s
was the color of yellow-sand-in-the-sun,
and was trimmed with pipings of red
and green leather.
Betty Walker went to the other ex-
treme for her little cap with its white
pique flowers abloom across the top of
her head. Reba Shearer also wore
flowers, but they were forget-me-nots,
and they encircled her neck as a her-
baceous border. Among others present
were the Archie Curries, John Alston
Wallace, whose height can never be
missed, and Dr. Leon Jona. Dr. Jona
likes travelling by ship, but has a soft
spot for flying-boats. Last year he went
in such a craft from England to Cairo
and back again. Going out the pas-
senger in the seat alongside him for most
of the journey was a woman, handsome,
middle-aged,- quite charming and very
deaf. She turned out to be Mrs. Joan
Sutherland, who was defendant in the
action brought by Mr. Ernest Simpson.
Nobody actually melted —and, having
melted, ran overboard —at the late after-
noon party on board the cruiser Leander,
though hosts and guests felt that they
might at. any moment, for there was only
an awning between them and the «un,
which on that particular day poured forth
103 degrees of heat. One pretty young
thing fainted, and the poor band must
have felt like passing out, for it had no
awning at all as protection, and the backs
of the players slowly frizzled while their
trumpets felt red-hot against their fingers.
Many folk who had accepted invitations
didn’t turn up because of the weather.
There were police who came to the pier
on their motor-cycles and focused their
attention on the cruiser. Guests won-
dered vaguely if they were sightseeing or
hoping against hope that the guns would
fire and they’d see a bit of a battle.
Among those who stepped out along
the quarter-deck were Captain and Mrs.
Rivett-Carnac and the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress. Cr. Campbell, whose
collar showed not a sign of wilting, has
a pair of dimples which are wasted on a
man. Mrs. Campbell looked very cool
in her pink frock scattered with black
leaves. Others noticed were Air-Commo-
dore Goble, General and Mrs. Lavarack,
Colonel and Mrs. Dave Blake and the
W. L. Russell Clarkes.
In the Broothorn portrait is Lorna
Bourchier, who has recently become en-
gaged to Flight-Lieut. Denis Creal, of
the R.A.A.F., who is stationed at head-
quarters. He’s the elder son of Engineer-
Commander and Mrs. A. E. Creal, and
his fiancee is the younger daughter of
Mrs. R. C. Bourchier, of Bikkora, Kan-
garoo Ground. Lorna is keen about
golf and hopes to get her handicap down
next season. She’s also handy with a
rifle and a fishing-rod, and can, when
necessary, do a spot of bushfire fighting
—as, for instance, on New Year’s Day,
when she kept up the spirits of the men
on the fire job (Denis among them) with
plenty of long, cold thirst-quenchers.
At Holy Trinity Church, Kew, the
marriage took place of Margaret Shann
and Flying-Officer Dallas Charlton, a
young couple who announced their en-
gagement a little over a year ago, not
long before Dal was sent to England to
study, among other things, the newest
applications of photography in connec-
tion with aerial matters. The wedding
day was one of rain and storm, of furs
and umbrellas, so that bride, ’maids and
guests made short work of the distance
between taxis and church door. The
reception was at Roberts House, Trinity
Grammar School —the bride’s father is
headmaster of Trinity Grammar. The
wedding gown was of many layers of
snowflake tulle, over which swept a veil
of Limerick lace which had been worn
by several generations of other brides.
Attendants Hilary Shann, Laurie Carroll
and Pat Charlton were in gowns of del-
phinium-blue chiffon, the skirts very full,
the bodices cut in peasant fashion with
slimly-fitted high waistlines. Gerberas
were in their hands and aloft of their
heads. Squires of the ’groom were
Flight-Lieuts. F. Headlam, A. G. Carr
and John Lerew.
Group-Captain and Mrs. Eric Harri-
son, their daughter Greta, Mrs. Ted
Dyson and Keith Cowan have been hit-
ting the caravan trails. They loved every
mile of the way, and give most of the
credit for the great success of their
roaming to two things—that the men
were caravan-minded (at lighting fires,
carrying water, etc.) and that part of the
baggage included a wog-proof room,
made by Mrs. Harrison out of yards
of 90in. wide mosquito net. Placed
inside were folding table and chairs, and
presto! there was an open-air dining-
room, supported with tapes to the neigh-
boring trees. Keith and the dog shared
a tent, feverishly striped with yellow and
red, and the rest of the party slept in the
caravan. In one day at Cononella they
caught six snapper, two whiting, eleven
leather jackets, two cod, some sharks and
three dozen flathead, so there was no
lack of variety for the fish course of the
evening meal. The next day they shot
rabbits, and the third day cooked bacon
and eggs in the main street of San Remo.
Distinguished Indian visitors Mr. and
Mrs. Nehru, who were special guests in
Sydney for the celebrations, arrived in
Melbourne on Saturday from Canberra.
They came by air; it was a very rough
trip, and Mrs. Nehru, who describes her-
self as only a “fair-weather traveller,”
was not well enough to keep her engage-
ments for Saturday afternoon. But she
sent a splendid deputy, her husband, who
held a large gathering of women spell-
bound with his address. He spoke of
Mahatma Gandhi, the man and his work,
and of plans and dreams for a united
India. Asked how education in India
could be made self-supporting, he quoted
the case of the 2000 schools in the dis-
trict of his nephew, an inspector of
schools. Each of these schools now has
a garden, woven mats and furniture, the
work of the pupils, materials for which
have cost the Government' nothing.
Mrs. Cecil Le Plastrier, whose photo-
graph is by Dickinson-Monteath, is inter-
ested in polo and is a member of the
committee working for the Polo Ball to
be held at the Palais on March 4. She
and her husband are at present motoring
among the beauty spots of Tasmania.
When Senator Leckie was caught up
on the wheel of politics he missed his
vocation —he should have done some-
thing with his hands. His woodwork,
for instance, is a finished product which
any professional joiner would be pleased
to exhibit, and he can build large things
like garages with no help except from his
son Jack. The Leckies’ house in the
hills is completed; it has taken many
months made up of holidays and week-
ends, and except for a few minor details
is, including plumbing, the hand work
of its owners. The floor is so smooth
that Jack means to have a dance for
some of his young friends before the
University opens in March. It’s a log
house, and the walls have been made
watertight with cement. Inside Mrs.
Leckie has been able to express her in-
dividuality with a gay note in curtains
and some of her own brushwork in pic-
tures. *
Hec Green, who died last week, was
a well-known figure in Melbourne. Hec
knew everybody. His jobs throughout
the last couple of decades of his 43 years
included social-c«m-business duties at
Allen’s music-shop, the Glaciarum,
Quality Inn and the Grange, an all-night
restaurant in Toorak. Hec loved theatri-
cal folk, knew the theory of stagecraft,
never missed a show, and his nutshell
criticisms were always worth hearing.
He was an uncanny mimic, and his good
humor and social graces were an acquisi-
tion to any party.
Melbourne hasn’t had a one-man art
show for months, so that Horace
Trenerry’s little collection of 14 pic-
tures brought over from Adelaide by
Peter Nation caused a ripple in the
otherwise lethargic art pool. Among the
oils submitted were glimpses of Port
Willunga and the cottage where Trenerry
lives, so close to the sea that spray blows
in the window to mingle with the spicy
smell of coffee, for this artist is consid-
ered a very good cook and his coffee is
famous.
Among those who trekked up Little
Collins-street to see the work of the new-
comer in Riddell’s Galleries was Mrs.
Bill Hargrave, up from Ranelagh, where
her husband is making a slow but satis-
factory recovery after his riding acci-
dent. (Mr. and Mrs. Hargrave are in the
house which belongs to the Wilfrid
Brookes couple, who are at present in
England.) Another spectator was Mrs.
Ramsay Moon, better known here as
painter Eileen Pearcey, who has returned
to Melbourne for six months to show her
small son to his grandparents. Mrs.
Moon has been living abroad for seven
years, where she studied, exhibited and
took unto her heart the cultural beauties
of the Old World. Though she loves
being home again there are many things
she misses—Continental films, for in-
stance. Just before leaving the other side
of the world she saw Sacha Guitry’s first
film, a picture of great charm made in
France in which Sacha takes an auto-
biographical role, telling the story of the
hero’s life offstage.
A political body, the Labor Women’s
Organising Committee, has taken the in-
itiative in preliminaries for forming a
Domestics’ Union which comes under
the wing of Miscellaneous Unions (this
covers laundry workers, office cleaners
and other orphan bodies which would
otherwise be forgotten. But before the
Domestics’ Union gets moving along on
its own power it must pass through funda-
mental stages: (1) The Government has
to be asked for it. (2) The Government
must grant it. (3) And give its decision
(which might not be as simple as it
looks in print, owing to delays caused
through granny knots in the red tape).
(4) The award must be given to the chair-
man. (5) And, finally, it must be gazetted
by the Government.
Even so early in the piece as this there
are constant applications and inquiries
at the Labor Women’s Organising Com-
mittee from both men and women, the
former including butlers, handymen and
odd-jobbers. Many mistresses and maids
get on very happily, for they meet one an-
other half-way. Others jog along with
occasional bouts of incompatibility. It’s
nearly always hours, not wages, that are
the trouble, for more than anything in
the world the present generation values
its freedom and right to book up dates
ahead for its amusement.
So far there is no place in the world
where a domestics’ union is gazetted.
Various Governments, notably Sweden,
have schemes and codes for training
domestic workers, and in various parts of
Canada and the U.S.A. there are groups
of mistresses who discuss and try to im-
prove conditions for maids. In Eng-
land a large number of women have be-
come interested in the domestic services
exhibition and conference held recently,
and are listening to discussions by promi-
nent public-spirited women on a scheme
for service contracts between mistresses
and maids. In Germany before the war
there was a system of granting certifi-
cates and awards to maids who stayed
in the one family for a certain number
of years. The scheme was revived in
part in 1922, but there is no trace of
it in the Germany of to-day.
For three years running Shirley Tol-
hurst has won the women’s champion-
ship at the Sorrento golf tournament,
which makes the cup hers for keeps. But
Shirley, who has a handicap of two, pos-
sesses a generous nature and has assured
everybody that the cup will appear at
the clubhouse in a year’s time for future
competition.
The young folk are making golf more
and more their game. Mrs. Sidney Myer's
schoolgirl daughter Nilma, aged 15, who
has been playing seriously for only a few
months, pitted her youth against experi-
ence in the concurrent handicap for
long-markers, to win with a net 59.
Up at Deniliquin, in a temperature of
106 deg., they have been drinking the
health of Anthony Clive Lindsay-Field
in pewter beer-mugs with glass bottoms,
stamped with the family crest and coat
of arms dated 1745. Anthony ‘ Clive
represents the sixth generation in Aus-
tralia. He was born in Melbourne, and
at present is very small indeed, but what
there is of him is of sterling quality.


“You want a good yield
but—Y OU C A N’T
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
1
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people
like you with only £22, or a few
hundred pounds at the most. How-
ever,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are protected by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Plan your trip to Europe
by the scenic and pleasure
route through Canada
and her famous Rockies.
GnM&JliaM.Quifrc
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
"Australia Jane's" Budget.
Every Digger who has spent any time
at Rosemount Hospital knows Mrs. M.
P. Gore, a handsome grey-haired old
lady who does bi-weekly rounds with
sweets and cigarettes; the R.S.S.I.L.A.
recently awarded her its certificate
of merit. The grand old lady cele-
brated her 80th birthday on January 31,
and her visit to Rosemount that week
resembled a royal progress. One daugh-
ter also is an ardent Red Cross worker.
There are three sons, one of them Judge
Gore, of Port Moresby, the others Dun-
das and St. George, well-known residents
of Goondiwindi. “Das” is president of
the Goondiwindi sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A.
This year the jubilee of Brisbane’s
Y.W.C.A. will be celebrated. About
1000 girls will take part in a big show'
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused. by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don't work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure vou net
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: At one sitting of the
Rabaul Court a boy got a year’s hard
labor for insulting a European female ;
another was sentenced to two whippings
and 18 months’ imprisonment on two
charges of the same sort. Two more
collected three-year sentences, plus
whippings, for rape; and two more
gaol sentences with whippings. If this
is all civilisation does for the benighted
nigger—this type of case is a modern
product—it seems that he might better
be allowed to return to savagery.
* sK * *
“Tuckiar’s Ghost”: The other day
one of those lonely policemen who
keep watch over the Aru Sea from an
aerie on Elcho Island removed his two-
gallon hat and reached for his pen to
indite an important dispatch to head-
quarters in Darwin. There is no way of
getting mail to Darwin save by that giant
liner the Maroubra, which has been
known to do as much as a knot an hour
against a Darwin tide. In due course,
however, the great news reached the
northern capital and was sent sizzling
southward over 2900 miles of telegraph
wire. A dozen metropolitan sub-editors
gasped and shouted for 20-point double-
column headings. Newsboys smiled to
see intelligence of such moment at a time
when the rain had depressed sales. And
next morning a million readers of the
type who—as I was recently assured by
one of the most erudite journalists—like
their information “with a sob or a smile
in every paragraph” felt excitement
tickling their adenoids as they learnt
that—Constable Stokes, of Elcho, had
lost his goat. Only the papers, of course,
didn’t make the announcement in that
sort of bare, unglamorous way. No,
indeed. Their version was: “Lugger
Traffic Cop Awaits Return of Prodigal.”
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The Commonwealth’s com-
mittee of explorers has left for New
Guinea to find a site for a new
capital. Meantime, the Administration’s
official diary for one week reads:
January 5: Three earth tremors, at
2.5, 2.30 and 5.30 a.m. January 6:
Earth tremor at 5 a.m. January 8:
One severe shock at 1.25 a.m., with
three milder ones. January 9: Four
shakes between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.
January 11: Two substantial shakes, at
10.42 and 11.41 p.m., with a few mild
ones. The week before this there had
been several shocks which rated at six
or seven, Rossi-Forel scale. Rabaul
bears it all with patience, and has even
managed to invent a popular song about
its troubles:
If you’re sober, shot or tight
And hear Vulcan hoot at night
Don’t be frightened —yell with all your might:
“Hooray! the frangipanni blooms again!”
At the same time, there are a lot of
people who would prefer to be singing
it outside Rabaul.
* * * *
“J.W.”: One of the most curious
outrages the sugar districts have seen
“Better bring the washin' in before dark , Ma—don want t' risk gettin'
it stole.”
was that recently inflicted on George
Davis, a director of the Babinda co-
operative sugarmill. According to his
statement, a man called at his house one
evening and asked him to walk to a
neighbor’s home, where a telephone mes-
sage awaited him. At a quiet spot, two
men sprang on him. They trussed him
up and gagged him with a wooden gag,
smashing his teeth. They then placed
him in a car and drove him four miles
into the dense scrub at the foot of Mt.
Bartle Frere. He was dragged out of
the car feet first, his head hitting the
running board and then the ground. They
hoisted him into the air on a rope thrown
over a branch and tied to his wrists,
lopped his hair and poured molasses
and feathers over him. It was raining
heavily, and he was hanging for over an
hour before his screams brought help.
Near him was a notice: “Public Enemy
No. 1. A Menace to the Public. He
will have to mend his ways. Father
Christmas.” The police have failed to
find the assailants.
# * * *
“X.T.”: A report having reached the
south that there was a stack of beer-
bottles about a mile round and as high
as Bellenden Ker near Darwin, an
operator hurried off by mail ’plane to
collect the booty and make his fortune.
The only thing wrong was that Darwin
had been skinned of bottles years ago.
But there is still hope for the business.
If the collector makes Innamincka (S.A.)
his next port of call, he will find a mound
of empties there so large that the Indian
Ocean can almost be seen from the top
of it. As, however, Innamincka is several
hundred miles from a market, they are
likely to stay there for a long time.
Anyone who does devise a plan for get-
ting them away is, in any case, likely
to come to a bad end, since the heap is
regarded locally as a tourist attraction.
“Gilbert”: Rain has brought joy to
most Queensland districts, but among
telegraph and mail employees around
Burketown (Carpentaria) it was not re-
ceived with cheers. Normally it is a rule
that mail shall be carried and O.T. lines
kept open in the face of even a flooded
creek; but when the flooded creek hap-
pens to be inhabited by a gaping row of
crocodiles the post office prefers to keep
its linesmen. A few years ago when
this sort of thing happened, the public
service watched the crocs., and the crocs,
watched the public service, until a fall-
ing flood level made the position safe.
But the aeroplane is changing all that.
At most, now, a flood makes a difference
of 24 hours in delivery of a Burketown
telegram, which is carried by air in emer-
gency a few hundred miles to Clon-
curry, where there are no crocs, and
the only hungry mouth is that of the tax-
collector.
at the City Hall on June 14. Parties will
rage from March to June, and in March
the hostel for permanent guests —it is a
different show from that for transients —
will be given a name. A garden party
and a past-presidents’ party are included
in the programme of junketings.
It takes more than a little rain to damp
the ardor of a bunch of Scots deter-
mined to do honor to their national poet.
Hundreds of them gathered round the
Burns Memorial on the evening of
Rabbie’s birthday, with Chieftain A. D.
McGill, K.C., and Rev. J. Scott Mac-
donald as spokesmen, and the Caledonian
Pipe Band and Brisbane Scottish Band
on hand. After the speeches the crowd
marched back to the Caledonian Society’s
rooms, led by the pipers, and finished
up with a dance.
The Governor and Lady Wilson stayed
at Bendee, the home of Col. Newton and
his wife, while they were in Stanthorpe.
His Ex. opened the Show and had a cheery
round on the links before boarding the
train for Brisbane.
Gillian Boyd Edkins, member of a
Queensland family well known in the
west of the State, was married in Lon-
don recently to Bevis Walters, who looks
after the circulation of a London news-
paper. Bevis did similar work in Bris-
bane for a while.
Nina T. Brent-
nail, 8.A., who is
taking the place of
Freda Bage as
principal of the
Women’s College
within the Uni-
versity while the
latter has a de-
served holiday, was
principal of a stu-
dent hostel at
Travancore, India,
and also has super-
vised five other
hostels in conjunc-
tion with universi-
ties and college
authorities.
The fete for the
Bush Children’s
Health Scheme and
Red Cross peace-
time activities, to
be held at Gov-
ernment House,
should set a record
in takings for all
such entertain-
ments. The com-
mittee and the
various stallholders
have been working like beavers for
months, and already have in hand over
£255. Several bridge parties and a vaude-
ville entertainment have been arranged
for this month.
Betty, youngest daughter of J. D. and
Mrs. Annand, Toowoomba, and Allan,
son of Rev. and Mrs. A. MacKillop, St.
Lucia, have announced their engagement.
Betty is a member of one of Too-
woomba’s oldest pioneer families. Her
grandfather and grandmother made their
way up to the Downs in the days when
the journey had to be done by bullock-
dray, and they knew Toowoomba when
it was known only as “The Swamp.”
J. D. Annand is Mayor of Toowoomba
and the local M.L.A.
A flutter was caused in the ranks of
press photographers by the arrival of
Princess Chennajammini, of Mysore, who
missed her ship in Sydney and came on
to Brisbane by Kyogle mail train. The
Princess had her husband with her, also
her lady-in-waiting, Mrs. E. Salter, who
has been with her for eight years. The
royal lady stayed at the Belle Vue, and
took a motor tour round the city.


Personal and Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF GEORGE JAMES
MULLOY, late of Seaview Road, Henley
Beach South, South Australia, deceased.
WILL ANY PERSON having information of
the present whereabouts or decease of
DOUGLAS WILLIAM McAULIFFE, son of
the late Michael McAuliffe, of Manoora, and
nephew of the abovenamed George James
Mulloy, now if living approximately 44 years
of age, formerly farmhand employed by the
abovenamed George James Mulloy at Wil-
mington, South Australia, and last heard of by
relatives in New South Wales between 1909
and 1914, kindly communicate with the under-
signed?
ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR
COMPANY, LIMITED,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
The next-of-kin of Mrs. RUBY SAMUEL,
daughter of Mrs. James Sievwright, late of
Toowoomba, are requested to communicate
as soon as possible with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
JOHN ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL late of
Bicheno in Tasmania Mail Contractor deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 23rd day of
July 1937 in the matter of the Estate of JOHN
ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL late of Bicheno in
Tasmania deceased intestate who died on the
19th day of July 1936 AND in the action
Pearl Margaret Hill against His Majesty’s
Attorney-General for Tasmania whereby the
following enquiry was directed —
An enquiry who were the persons tn-
titled by virtue of or according to the
Statute of Distribution or otherwise to
the estate of the said John Alfred Douglas
Hill deceased intestate in the Originating
Summons named living at the time of his
death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who are their respective
legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are on or before the 18th day of
March 1938 to send by post prepaid to the
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claim or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their Solicitor before His Honor the Judge at
his Chambers Franklin Square Hobart on
Friday the Ist day of April 1938 at 10.30
o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in the State of
Tasmania must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in the
State of Tasmania to whom notices for the
claimant can be sent.
Enquiry is made for Lucy Maria Hill the
wife and Herbert Alfred Hill and Vera Lucy
Hill children of the deceased who left Tasmania
25 years ago.
Dated the 3rd day of November, 1937.
PAGE, HODGMAN, SEAGER & DOYLE,
of National Mutual Buildings, 119 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Agents for S. F.
Evans, of St. Helens, in Tasmania, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
THOMAS WALKER DECEASED.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 30th Novem-
ber 1937 and made in a matter Number 1421
of 1937 intituled “In the Matter of the Trusts
of the Will and Codicil of THOMAS WALKER
late of Yaralla Concord near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales Esquire deceased
Between PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED) and ALFRED CONSETT
STEPHEN Plaintiffs And Egmont Palmer
Walker Defendant” WHEREBY the following
enquiries were directed namely What persons at
the time of the decease of the daughter of the
abovenamed Thomas Walker deceased namely
the eighth day of October 1937 were of his
blood and next-of-kin to him and entitled if he
had died intestate at that time to his personal
Estate under the Statutes for distribution of in-
testate effects and whether any of such per-
sons have since died and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiries
are to send by post prepaid to the undersigned
at the address given below so as to reach
them on or before the 2nd June 1938 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before the Master in Equity Supreme
Court Elizabeth Street Sydney aforesaid on
Thursday the 9th day of June 1938 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims A claimant not
resident in New South Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this ninth day of December, 1937.
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Plaintiffs. Address: 70-72 King
Street, Sydney, Australia.
Wal Taylor, who runs the Grosvenor
Galleries and in between has bound,
handsomely or exquisitely as the work
required, books for many Australian
notables, has decided to go on a trip to
Europe. He’s been there once or twice
before. The first time was when he had
a rendezvous in a trench in France with
the enemy’s guns. A tribute to his popu-
larity with artist and art buyer was the
roll-up to the five-to-seven he gave to
introduce Frank Hinder, his locum. Mrs.
John McPhillamy, down from Bathurst,
was there with her husband. Elioth
Gruner, so seldom to be seen at art par-
ties, looked in ; so did Howard Hinton.
The Badham couple were there ; so was
Elsie Segaert, off on her ninth trip to
Europe. This time she takes in the
Dolomites. Margaret Preston, the William
Buckles, the Gordon Russells (they go off
with Wal in the Oronsay), the blonde and
the brunette Miss Tildesley, Dora
Payter, Violet Roche, Brian Cannell and
Douglas Pratt were a few sherrying in the
gallery.
Weeks ago the irreverent had named it
“the hen party.” When officialdom
planned its big State dinner for men only,
Lady Gowrie sent out cards to the wives
of the diners to come and spend the
evening with her at Admiralty House.
But while the cocks were crowing and
listening to crowing in the Town Hall,
Lady Gowrie’s reception was murmur-
ous with pretty politenesses and soft
music. The music was provided by the
new Austral String Quartet directed by
Carl Gotsch. Included in the night’s pro-
gramme was a new work by our own
Alfred Hill. Green chiffons sparkling
with diamente gleamed on Lady Gowrie.
Pink cloque, diamonds and pearls were
mixed effectively by Lady Wakehurst.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s black velvet and ivory
lace were striking. Altogether there were
about 100 present, among them Dame
Maria o gilvie-Gordon and Mayoress
block.
g y tbe bme tbe gue sts had driven up
to Castle Hill through a sodden after-
noon, and had skipped through a down-
pour from car to the verandahs of
Elwatan, the social starch, if anyone had
wUh jt had been washed
completely out . The Robert Dixsons’
par ty, which was to have been held in
the famed garden setting, seemed to gain
in cordiality what it lacked in sunshine.
The reception-rooms were fragrant and
glowing with tender and opulent horticul-
ture. Verandahs were awmnged from the
perbd j ous wea ther. Under a marquee on
tbe i awn a ban d played throughout the
a fternoon, its instruments never display-
ing a touch of laryngitis.
The Victoria League was the host of
this reception to the Governor-General
and Lady Gowrie, the £tate Governor
a nd his lady, and overseas visitors 01
note, but, of course, the Robert Dixsons,
with their usual generosity, stood the
whole thing. A trig black satin coat and
a feather-wreathed hat of small dmien-
sions were offsets to Lady Gowrie s
brightly-patterned silk frock. Lady
Wakehurst s white pa * d the
weather a compliment it didnt deserve
There were amethyst tones and a gold
border in the sari worn by the wife of
Indian pundit Sapru. Brown suited Lady
Galway. Blue chiffons, deep sapphire in
tone and knife-pleated in the latest
fashion, were worn by Mrs. Dixson.
Five hundred had been invited, and from
the look of the reception-rooms most of
them had turned up Miss Macarthur
Onslow, president of the V.L., was in
navy and white.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA
On her maiden voyage to Australia
the Stratheden was en fete at Fremantle.
Early cocktails were served to hundreds
of guests who were received by the
P, and O. chairman, Lord Craigmyle,
with Lady Craigmyle and local manager
R. M. Thwaites and Mrs. Thwaites to
help him. Floral posies for women
guests were arranged on a table at the
top of the gangway and were chosen
and presented to match the color-scheme
of each frock. A floral sailing-ship with
masts of gold and a hull and sails
fashioned of cornflowers, statice, mari-
golds and bronze tiger-lilies drew admir-
ing crowds in the lounge. Lady Craig-
myle entertained the v.-r. party in tailor-
ings of black spotted linen, and her
daughter, the Hon. Jean Shaw, hovered
near by in jade-and-brown multi-
patterned sheer.
The severe illness of the bridegroom’s
father, E. E. Virtue, upset the honey-*
moon plans of Molly Lloyd and John
Virtue. Instead of embarking in the
Orion for Tasmania after a quiet knot-
tying at Ross Memorial kirk, they said
their piece a day earlier and slipped away
on a leisurely tour of the Sou’-west.
Molly’s sister, Mrs. Claude Henriques,
invited a chosen few to a buffet supper
after the ceremony.
Invitations to pre-wedding parties for
the pair fell like a summer shower. The
Tom Flintoffs led off with a cocktail-
sipping at their Nedlands home, three
legal confreres of the ’groom, Sydney
Good, Brian Simpson and Angus Mait-
land, issued invitations for sundown
toastings, and Ethel Diamond dispensed
luncheon at the Frascati to Molly’s
friends.
The H. G. Woodroffe couple’s only
daughter Pauline kept a matrimonial
date at St. Mary’s, West Perth, with
Frank Ruse. Her semi-tailored trained
white satin, pin-tucked on shoulder and
sleeve, gleamed ’neath froths of tulle
veiling held in place with a flat orange-
blossom halo. Two golden-haired
’maids, Joy Ruse and Joan Pead, sashed
their kilted cornflower-blue ninons with
fuchsia to match bouquets and topknots.
The Karrakatta Club housed the after-
jollifications, where Mrs. Woodroffe did
the welcomings in purple-toned floral
chiffon topped with black headgear
brimmed with drooping ospreys.
Knight Walter James’s niece, Mrs. H.
J. Gardiner, who has spent several weeks
in Perth, has occupied the box seat at
many farewell parties. Toby James had
sister Judy (Mrs. F. W. Walsh, just down
from her station home) to help him dis-
pense pre-dinner hospitality and added
a charming note ■ with a shoulder-spray
for each woman guest. Mrs. Gardiner
chose the Esplanade Hotel for an unusual
pink tea as a farewell to her many
friends in Perth.
Not a spare bed was to be found in
Bunbury when the annual tennis tourna-
ment and attendant revelries drew
crowds of Perth folk and neighboring
country ones. Various house parties
helped to solve the accommodation prob-
lem, and beach picnics, a dance at the
Golf Club and a spot of private enter-
taining filled in the intervals between
tennis matches.
The young Westralian soprano, Lorna
Sydney-Smith, who went to Vienna for
study some months ago at Madame
Lotte Lehmann’s suggestion, is achieving
success. She sang in Salzburg with the
Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton
of Baumgartner, who complimented her
most highly and expressed a wish that
she should do more singing in association
with him.
Another lass who has returned to
Perth with musical honors is Eileen Ken-
neally. She is a niece of the Lotteries
Commission chairman, J. J. Kenneally,
and, while studying at the Melbourne
Con. for three years, has achieved suc-
cess in broadcasting engagements.
An affiance fostered in dramatic circles
is that of Phyllis Tweedie, of Nedlands,
and Lyle Montefiore, of Mt. Lawley.
Both are prominent in amateur theatri-
cals, and the bride-elect has prizes won
as a playwright to her credit.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Weather was ideal for the cocktail party
given by the P. and O. Co. in its new
liner, Stratheden, when 600 guests were
entertained. Each new Strath seems to
go one better than its predecessor. The
commander, Captain Richardson, D. 5.0.,
commodore of the P. and O. fleet, re-
ceived the guests. Tables were arranged
cabaret style on the dance deck, which
is glassed-in, and the younger visitors
enjoyed dancing to the ship’s orchestra.
Dress at the tennis tournament was
divided into two extremes. Those who
were sitting in the blazing sun in the 4s.
and 2s. seats favored white or pastel
shades, and the men mostly wore white
helmets. But in the members’ stand and
the new seven-bob pavilion coats and
furs predominated under the awnings.
Excitement on the last two days of the
tournament was intense. Crowds were
content to pay to sit on the grass all day
long in front of the stands at the sides
of the courts.
A smart wedding at St. Michael’s,
Mitcham, was that of Dr. Oliver West-
wood Leitch, son of Mrs. Whitmore Carr,
of Mt. Lofty, and the late Dr. Oliver
Leitch, to Phyllis, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. C. Lawton, of Wirra Wirra,
Mitcham. The church was decorated
with white and gold flowers. The bride’s
off-white French lame was flowered in
pale gold and cut on fitting lines, the
basque knotted, and flowing into a long
train. The Honiton lace veil was held in
place with clusters of orange-blossom.
Bridesmaids Millie Leitch, Joan Grasbu
and Dr. Margaret Haslam were in maize
blister chiffon, the skirts flared and the
bodices cut low at the back. Gold-
sequined caps, Juliet style, and posies of
tiger-lilies completed the picture.
Kathleen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Theodore Day, of Toorak Gardens, who
is leaving shortly for South Africa to
marry Charles W. Reeves, is living in a
whirl of parties. Betty Cleland and
Madeline Angel gave her a buffet dinner
at the home of Miss Cleland, Beau-
mont, when 20 girl friends assembled to
wish her luck. In conjunction with Mar-
garet McKay the same two special chums
were hostesses at yet another dinner party
two nights later.
A bright cocktail party was given by
Mrs. C. R. J. Glover at her home, St.
Andrews, North Adelaide, as a farewell
for her daughter, Mrs. Keith Pavy, who
with her husband, Dr. Pavy, of Nara-
coorte, left in the Monterey for the
U.S.A. The reception-rooms were gay
with dahlias, zinnias and phlox, with pink
roses in the dining-room. About 60
friends were present. Dr. and Mrs. Pavy
expect to be absent for about 12 months.
Adelaide art-lovers have been im-
pressed with the work of Cordelle Mason,
who is holding an exhibition of water-
colors at the Gallery of Decorations,
Wyatt-street. Miss Mason is leaving
shortly for England and the Continent to
study interior decoration. Kathleen,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Ives,
of Burnside, is bound for Singapore,
where she will marry W. E. Acraman,
only son of Mrs. W. Acraman, North
Adelaide, and the late Mr. Acraman.
Dr. Colin F. Chappie, third son of
Dr. and Mrs. F. J. Chappie, of Park-
side, was married to Mavis, only daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Hamlyn, of
Kensington Gardens. The bride’s white
satin gown was cut on fitting lines, the
shirred skirt merging into a long train,
the bodice buttoning down the back and
having long sleeves. The tulle veil was
held in place by a pleating of tulle
behind the lilies-of-the-valley and orange-
blossom that formed the coronet. Atten-
dants were Mrs. Kenneth Arnold and
the bridegroom’s sister, Gwen Chappie,
wearing gold satin. Another bridesmaid
was in porcelain-green satin.
TASMANIA.
The Lewis lady summoned a few
guests to meet Sir Ragnar Colvin, re-
cently appointed First Member of the
Australian Naval Board, who arrived in
the Cathay, and her brother-in-law and
sister, Vice-Admiral and Mrs. A. F. Beal.
Entertainment took the form of two
smallish evening functions at Werndee,
the Lewis home, and a lunch party at
Hadley’s.
The James Murrays’ cocktail party at
the Strutts’ house in Augusta-road,
which they have taken for the summer,
was a smart affair. The two reception-
rooms and the hall were packed.
The Cyril Lewises, Milford, Cam-
bridge, have had Joan de Roebeck with
them for a visit, and gave her a farewell
lunch party at Milford before she left.
The Marchioness of Sligo blew in for
a glimpse of the Speck, putting up at
Government House while in Hobart.
Mrs. Bernard Phelan has gone back
to Melbourne after a few weeks’ stay
with her home folks. Miss Davern
“farewelled” her at Hadley’s the day
before she left.
Jean, second daughter of the W. H.
Beauchamps, Souning, Lower Sandy
Bay, and Desmond John Weller-Arnold,
of Hobart, announce their engagement.
Touring the Speck by caravan are
Miss Heinig, of Columbia University,
who arrived here via M.L. and Mel-
bourne, and Misses J. Hislop and
Stubbs (Melb.). Tas. members of the
party are M. Beck, P. Meston and B.
Archer.
The Frankcomb-Gillett wedding at
Ross was one of the social events of the
season. Mary Gillett on her mother’s
side was a Parramore, and Tom Frank-
comb’s people have been well known in
southern Tasmania since the year dot.
The bride wore opal ice-blue brocade
with a silver thread in it. The train was
very long. The ice-blue tulle veil was
held to her head by a cluster of gar-
denias and lily-of-the-valley. The ’maids,
Frances Gillett (bride’s sister), Margaret
Lewis and Catherine Cameron, wore full,
short-sleeved frocks of white organza,
and carried gold posies. The. newly-weds,
with Mr. Gillett and the bride’s married
sister, Mrs. Tim Hogg (Launceston), re-
ceived the guests (to the tune of about
300) after the ceremony at Wetmore,
Ross, where the house was a bower of
lovely late summer flowers. The bride
left for the honeymoon in a suit of dark
green with hat to match. The future
home will be Clifton, Ranelagh.


BRANDAUER-S
m
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAffER A CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Plan your Easter
tour now!
To ensure choice of berths on inter-
state and overseas liners book your
Easter tour with the Tasmanian
Govt. Tourist Bureau early. Take
advantage, too, of
FAMOUS COLOUR-LINE
TOURS FOR CARE-FREE
TRAVEL
See Tasmania under sunny Autumn
skies to the best advantage. Call or
write now for details of sailings,
itineraries of shore tours to suit your
holiday period.
TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
MELBOURNE: The Block, Collins Street
SYDNEY: 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
ADELAIDE ----- 12 Pirie Street
PERTH: A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE - - - - 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART ------ Macquarie Street
MAKE VOUR"RESERVATION NOW!
The Long White Cloud
nearly a ton on most roads, and speed
limits lifted to 25 to 35 m.p.h., depending
upon weight and tyres. During the
summer months, when roads are com-
paratively dry, there’s an extra half-ton
allowance over normal restrictions for
stock-shifting. Only thing Maoriland
motorists still want urgently is an easing
of petrol tax itself. But the Labor
Government has yet to keep its pre-
election promise to abolish the sales tax,
and nothing so potentially embarrassing
was ever shouted about the stiff petrol
tax.
* * * *
“M.”: South Islanders still complain-
ing that their scenic attractions don’t
get the overseas publicity accorded those
of the North Island are behind the times
as far as South Australia is concerned.
An Adelaide doctor who wanted some
North Island literature had to write to
Melbourne for it. “Nearly every booklet
Backing Research Workers.
Whether the Labor Government talks
itself out of office this election or the
next, a generation of Maorilanders
should have cause to bless its active in-
terest in necessary research. Some of
this research may help future sufferers to
recover from illnesses that now baffle
medical men. Some may open up new
industries and create new jobs. Once re-
search workers tackle a line of inquiry
it takes more than a change of Govern-
ment to interrupt them.
Research likely to benefit primary in-
dustries has been a feature of Maoriland
agricultural science for many years, and
the Savage Government has supported its
extension.
The fishing industry has been investi-
gated by an expert committee. Arms of
defence are being studied and extended
on lines indicated by skilled British re-
search. And £2500 a year has been voted
towards radio research in order to bring
Maoriland into line with overseas de-
velopments.
Economists, of course, have been
allowed all sorts of official latitude for
tracking down new theories, and. in the
interests of industrial efficiency a cen-
tral bureau has been poking into private
concerns.
Peter Fraser, the Minister of Health,
has established a central council for the
co-ordination of expanding medical re-
search. Council is to recommend avenues
and votes. It is expected to get things
done without incurring overlapping ex-
penditure.
“Korero”: There are administration
complexities in Maoriland as well as in
Australia. South Island acclimatisation
societies desirous of destroying shags
preying upon trout have learned that
the birds are under the jurisdiction of
the Minister of Internal Affairs, the fish
under the Minister of Marine and the
land and water under the Minister of
Lands. Although one Minister ,may
agree that shags destroy trout, and that
something should be done about it, any
one of the others can prevent societies
arranging shag-shooting parties.
* * * *
“Tham”: True that Margaret Mac-
pherson, in Antipodean Journey (B.
2/2/’3B), has recanted from her past
opposition to Labor. But don’t mistake
the lady for a reformed Tory. Mr.
Savage’s good deed was to convert her
from a juvenile belief in direct action to
faith in democracy. “Frankly”—and
pinkly—she says, “I did not think that
political action could do anything more
for the workers beyond giving them a
few palliatives.”
* * * *
“Dhas”: Maori culture is so com-
pletely ignored by the bulk of Maori-
landers that it would take a heavier
hammer than the gradual infusion of
native blood (B. 2/2/’3B) to drive it
home into the “hard-headed Anglo-
Saxon stock.” The only daily I’ve ever
seen give any worth-while publicity to
Maori poetry was the “Hawera Star,”
which once ran a whole page of kara-
kias. The “Star” didn’t bother to trans-
late them, so I doubt if the songs are
chanted in many South Taranaki cow-
sheds in the morning. Unlike Shaw, who
wanted Australians to mate with the
blackfellows, Judge Acheson, who advo-
cates the fusion of the races in M.L.,
does know what he is talking about. In
his neglected Plume of the Arawas, one
of the best novels Maoriland has pro-
duced, he painted a really authentic pic-
ture of the native life before the com-
ing of the white man.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Use of petrol-tax proceeds
has so improved most national highways
on this side of the Tasman (B. 2/2/’3B)
that heavy-vehicle loading and speed
restrictions are being eased. Average
permissible loadings have been raised
“Who pinched my new soot puff?”
available here seems to refer to South
Island resorts,” ran part of his letter.
If North Islanders were as touchy on
the tourist-publicity subject as their
southern brothers there would probably
be a semi-official Wellington sneer that
the Government rep. responsible from
Melbourne for S. Australian coverage is
of course a South Islander! Actually,
Maorilanders away from home invari-
ably forget local controversies and work
for Maoriland as a whole.
H* 4®
“Dhas”: Like a few of their Austra-
lian confreres, some Maoriland university
teachers are inclined to wag too pink a
tongue at the adolescent mind. Maori-
land takes it seriously, and periodical
rows led to a demand for recognition of
the right of free speech being presented
at a meeting of the university senate.
After a full-dress debate the senate
“affirmed to teachers the right to full
exercise of their privileges as citizens —
subject to the duty of weighing their
utterances, which is the responsibility of
every teacher.”
* * * *
“Stoo”: Tasmacetus Shepherdi is no
relation to Dorothy Perkins, and last
time I met it hadn’t quite the same fra-
grance either. When I interviewed it for
a Taranaki newspaper on its arrival at
Ohawe Beach, Hawera, it would have
taken the courage of a small boy or a
naturalist to come within a hundred
yards of it. The boys carved their initials-
on it, and the naturalist, Mr. G. Shep-
herd, curator of the Alexander Museum,
Wanganui, fought near enough to dis-
cover not only that it was a beaked
whale but an entirely new genus. Lon-
don Zoological Society has just confirmed
his claims, and, named by the society in
honor of its discoverer, the only skeleton
of its kind in the world dreams in the
Wanganui Museum. Functional teeth
in both jaws are its chief claim to
uniqueness.
* * * *
“Motu”: Coal Mineowners’ Associa-
tion president C. C. Davis says the 1936
coal-import figure of 111,000 tons was
the highest for five years. With wage in-
creases, shorter hours and other costly
conditions the Maoriland industry is
bearing, he contends that some measure
of protection should be provided. Accord-
ing to the same spokesman, transport
costs to Auckland from the west coast
of the South Island are higher than those
from Newcastle (N.S.W.); and the price •
lift necessitated by all the cost-increases
is losing Maoriland sales. Another point
he could have made is that Maoriland
bulk buyers are not going to risk their
retail connections by relying entirely
upon local coal when a recurrence of
labor troubles—which have increased
rather than diminished under sympathetic
Savage Government administration —
could deny them local supplies.
* * ~
“S.A.D.”: A cheque in her pocket for
her new novel, Wednesday’s Children, a
fantasy which had its genesis in a chance
remark in conversation at poet Gloria
Rawlinson’s Auckland flat, Maoriland
poet-novelist Robin Hyde is off to tackle
Fleet-street. She’ll meet an old friend
there, and a useful one, in Percy Crisp,
sometime editor of the defunct Auck-
land “Sun,” now subbing on Beaver-
brook’s “Daily Express” ; but it’s to be
hoped that the fog doesn’t swallow her
up. Living alone in a country cottage,
Robin Hyde was the most strongly
nationalist of all Maoriland writers. And
not only the periodicals but Maoriland
culture as a whole is going to regret the
loss of the stream of articles and poems
she poured out.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Australians who complain
that Maoriland race-result cables do not
mention odds or totalisator prices may
be surprised to learn that tipsters like
those who buy time for gabbling their
alleged shrewdness over inter-State radio
networks in Australia get no sort of a
trot at all in the isles where good horses
come from. “He is nothing more than
a parasite living on unsuspecting people,”
was an Auckland detective’s description
of one Maoriland tipster grabbed for
“sending a circular to a person, with a
view to his applying for advice for the
purpose of wagering on horseraces, con-
trary to the Gaming Act.” The Beak in-
spected the incriminating circular, ad-
mitted that the Maoriland rarity was a
well-worded effort which had “appar-
ently taken in a few mugs,” and jobbed
the tipster for £5O with costs. So that is
one flourishing Australian business that
won’t pay dividends over here v
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Another unclimbed chunk of
the Southern Alps has been conquered
since “Waitot” wrote that par. about
Mt. Evans (B. 2/2/’3B). Two South
Island high-school
masters, Les Bryant
(Waitaki) and C. L.
Mahan (Timaru),
have made the stiff
ascent of the sharp
eastern ridge leading
to just below the
second peak of Mt.
Cook, Maoriland’s
highest mountain.
They had a try over
the same route five
years ago, when bad
weather forced them
back after they
reached the 100,000-
foot level. Since then
Bryant has been well
up Mt. Everest,
being the first Tas-
man Sea alpinist
ever chosen for one
of the Himalayan
expeditions; he was
with the 1935 recon-
naissance party, re-
current altitude sick-
ness at various high-
level stages ruling
him out of the party
which later made the
unsuccessful Everest
assault. One of
Maoriland’s best
climbers, Bryant had
never been on a
mountain until he
went to New Ply-
mouth Boys’ High
School as a 20-year-old junior house-
master fresh from Auckland ’Varsity ; he
then learned his mountain lore on
Egmont with Rod Syme, Taranaki’s
veteran alpinist.


c
%
&
**»
<i«*
&S
S:S
sm&r*' <*
o's&zm*.
Ov;
w
E» v:o- !.
£?’*■
•000
>?"»«>.» i/Si
\ t*
1> v ' v '
V
%*
\'
v\*
v
K\l
t®
U®' 1
ttu
\
o'
COUNTRY
LISTENERS!
12 PAGE BO 01
FREE
O longer need the country dweller
beyond the reach of power mains—
envy the city folk their all-electric Radio
Sets. Air Cell operated Radio elimin-
ates the drudgery and expense of taking
heavy accumulators to town and back and pay-
ing for them to be recharged every few weeks.
Gone are the annoying "fade-outs"—just when
you particularly want to listen-in. The Eveready
Air Cell needs no recharging, and under normal
conditions of use gives more than a year of
trouble-free service and maintains a constant and
correct "voltage, level" for perfect reception.
Find out all about this marvellous innovation in
country radio reception by sending to-day for
this fully illustrated 32-page book, which de-
scribes in detail everything you want to know
about this amazing new development in rural
radio.
EVEREADY
AIRCELL
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
•••
* A '*ATTlnr
'** w » «U •«<„
iw »]
...I
„.«**
m ' L ' d '
• W, W ' 5 ' V '' f \
• ... '
\ \
\ HAVAt""" -
\ AOORt sS " -----
POST
THIS
COUPON
NOW
SEA. 6.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Noise-hunting in Short-wave
Receivers.
Crackling and spluttering noises often
appear in the small regenerative type of
home-built short-wave receiver. The
reasons are riot hard to seek. In many
cases they are traceable to second-hand
components. Some components can be
remodelled variable condensers, for
example. Those with good bearings and
thick plates can often be double-spaced
and perhaps fitted with ceramic or some
other good insulation.
Before ’tackling the major components
it is as well to consider noises in short-
wave receivers from other possible
sources. First and obvious things to
examine are the aerial and earth con-
nections. If stranded wire is used, broken
strands can raise havoc. If there are
any parted strands or any bad kinks, it
is as well to replace with solid copper
wire. The aerial needs to be well away
from obstructions, especially if it is of
bare wire. A down lead of bare wire
running near a metal gutter pipe or
wire clothes-line only needs to swing
slightly against the metal to raise a din
in the receiver.
If aerial and earth pass the preliminary
examination, disconnect them from the
receiver, and then test all receiver con-
nections. If the receiver is a battery job,
look to the connections to B batteries.
The spring connectors on B batteries are
often a source of noise in a receiver. The
accumulator can also cause noises
through careless connections or corroded
contacts.
A simple check can be made of B and
C batteries with a pair of 2000-ohm head-
phones. First connect the ’phone leads
across the C battery, and if this is in
good condition the only noise that
should be heard is the initial contact
click. The B battery may be tested in
the same manner, but the ’phones should
be connected only across intermediate
sections, one at a time.
Next test the receiver itself. Switch
the receiver on and tune it to somewhere
around 20 metres —crackling noises due
to loose connections or faulty variable
condensers will be intensified, and much
easier to locate than at lower frequencies.
The variable condensers should be
rotated, one at a time, and any suspected
should be removed from the receiver and
examined. Look for dust or metallic
particles between the plates ; a strip of
thick paper can be used to remove them.
Sometimes the alignment of rotor and
stator plates is poor. It only needs the
lightest touch between plates for the set
to give rise to considerable noise. If con-
densers are fitted with pigtails from the
rotors, these should be checked to see
that they are not broken away or that the
insulation is not worn through. Variable
condensers were once fitted with pigtails
in the form of a spiral of bare metal
strip. Very often the coiling together of
such a pigtail will cause noise owing
to friction between the turns. Pigtails
of this kind should be replaced by fine
insulated flex wire.
Then look for frayed leads or the par-
tial breakdown of an audio choke or
transformer. Bad end connections in re-
sistors of old type can also be respon-
sible for noise. A simple test for ’phone
and battery leads is to shake them with
the receiver switched on. Trouble will
soon show up.
Chokes, transformers, coils and resis-
tances can be tested by connecting them
in series with the ’phones and a 16-volt
C battery. If there is any crackling the
component must be replaced. Fixed con-
densers can be tested to a certain extent
in the same way, and crackling will indi-
cate faulty insulation.
D. B. K.
Indoor Aerials.
Many modern receivers work under a
severe handicap with inefficient indoor
aerials. There can be a big difference
between indoor aerials. A length of in-
sulated wire strung around a picture rail
or tacked closely to woodwork has very
little signal pick-up, because of absorp-
tion by brickwork and plaster. Re-
arrange the inside aerial so that it is clear
of the wall by a few inches, and note the
difference in signal strength.
Modern receivers are sensitive enough
to pull in locals with any piece of wire
hitched to the aerial terminal, but if the
best possible reception is desired and an
inside aerial must be used the idea illus-
trated is worth while. All that is needed
are four small egg insulators, a yard or
so of cord, four nails or screw-hooks and
a reel of 20-gauge uninsulated copper
wire.
Nails are driven into the woodwork at
the corners of the room, and cord
attached with an insulator at each point.
The insulator should be about a foot
away from the wall. The aerial wire is
threaded through the four insulators
from the starting point and the lead-in
taken down to the receiver, after pulling
the wire tight.
White cotton insulated won’t be
noticed against the ceiling. Remember,
too, that a good earth connection helps
any indoor aerial materially.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The second week-end of the 56mc.
overseas tests went through without
result, and in view of the intense sun-
spot activity reported by observatories
this is not surprising. Nevertheless, both
the writer and VK2AZ noted at 7.55 a.m.
on 23/1 /’3B a D.C. carrier at the low-
frequency end of the band. This was
definitely a DX signal, as it varied from
R 7 to R 3. But it was never keyed or
modulated. Evidently adjustments were
being made to the transmitter, for
sudden vibration was noticed, as if the
oscillator had been jarred.
A severe blow has been dealt to 56mc.
DX hopes if the forecast in January
“Radio” by W6CUH is as correct as
such forebodings from that quarter
always have been in the past. The end
of 1937 completed over 11 years of
amateur 14mc. activity, which began in
earnest in 1926. The period 1926-30 saw
14mc. conditions definitely on the down
grade, with 28mc. following suit; 1937
corresponded generally with 1926. Going
by the 1927 log, 1938 will see extreme
I4mc. DX starting later in the year and
ending sooner. Morning skip will
lengthen. Spring and summer 28mc.
periods will be much shorter. Seven
megacycles should improve, as the peak
seems to fall between the top and
bottom of the 14mc. and 28mc. 11-year
variation. The peak year seems to have
been 1936, and it is concluded that 1938
will find 28mc. DX greatly narrowed
down, 14mc. also lower, but 7mc.
greatly improved. Yet all this will be
very good compared with conditions in
1941-42. It means that short- (around
20 metres) and ultra-short-wave DX is
already started on the down grade. This
being so, the remaining possible DX con-
ditions for 56mc. will be extremely rare.
Even so, the 56mc. band will always be
an excellent local band for 100 miles
or so.
The poor results sometimes obtained
with directive arrays indicate that better
work would be done with a good four-
lobe radiator such as a zepp or single-
wire feed type radiator. At least there
is the chance of snaring a signal from
one of four directions, whereas the
highly-directive system is confined
sharply to the horizontal angle in one
or two directions, depending upon the
type. This refers mainly to the fixed
directive arrays. The rotatable beam,
plus reflectors, is a different matter,
assuming that the feedline is passing the


DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
[f-vAivt wit*
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC!
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
C. ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
R.F. into the top and not reflecting it
back to the transmitter, as it obviously is
doing in many instances.
Tests with a portable 56mic. outfit
have continued around Sydney, and the
square-type Reinartz aerial has proved
far superior to the usual vertical twisted
pair doublet. The directivity is very
marked, and the ’phone signal from this
entirely battery-operated portable is
good, even under badly-screened condi-
tions. One can get away with slipshod
methods on the lower frequencies, but
not on ultra shorts. Experimenters have
been circularised about the formation of
an active u.-s.-w. association of amateurs
in N.S.W. The response shows a total
at present of 16 likely members. Some-
thing will be done to put stations on the
air at set times.
W9FM, of “Radio” (U.S.A.), sends
across the latest information regarding
foreign stations on 56mc. DX hunts. In
Newfoundland VOIW is stirring things
up, and OKIAA in Czechoslovakia is a
constant worker. He uses a 50 watts
crystal-controlled on 56mc. dead. Trans-
mission is on ’phone and 1.C.W., Thurs-
days from 16.30 to 18.00 G.M.T. for
C.W. ’Phone is used on Saturdays from
14.00 to 16.00 and on Sundays from 13.00
to 14.00, but C.W. only between 14.00
and 17.00. W9SO and W9OUB have a
combined station in Milwaukee, U.S.A.,
with a bilateral folded Bruce array using
eight quarter-wave elements, beamed
north-south. Input is 75 watts to a pair
of 809’s with long lines in this final of
an M.O.P.A. rig. W9SLF puts 100
watts into a pair of T2o’s, and at W9ANA
200 watts is fed to a pair of 50Ts. Fre-
quency of this latter station is 56,936 kc.
Other stations with known frequencies
are W9PWU, 57,310 kc„ 58,080 kc. and
56,850 kc.; W9SLF, 57.3mc.; W9ANA,
56,936 kc., and W9NY, 56,012 kc. The
latest issue of “T. and R. Bulletin” (Eng-
land) reports that there is great activity
among the Gs, this no doubt having
been stimulated considerably by the first
56mc. DX contest running through this
year. On the points-scoring basis, VKs
haven’t much chance, unless a miracle
happens, but there is no harm in trying.
VK2NO.
1938 Radio Exhibition.
In connection with the sesquicentenary
celebrations the N.S.W. electrical and
radio industries are organising a special
trade exhibition, to be held in Sydney
Town Hall for two weeks, beginning
February 23. Exhibitors will be almost
entirely confined to manufacturers of
electrical and radio devices and com-
ponents. All that is new or novel will
be shown, and demonstrations will be
given of actual manufacturing processes.
Arrangements for the producing of
programmes have been handed over to
the Vesta Battery Co., which will also
provide uniformed usherettes to give in-
formation in regard to any part of the
exhibition.
January Issue of "Radio"
(U.S.A.).
The January issue of “Radio” is always
considerably enlarged. This year there
are 194 pages, and among the main
features are “Compact Uni-directional
Array,” by W3CHO; “Modern Self-
contained KW. ’Phone,” by Frank Jones,
W6AJF; “Multiband Exciter with In-
stantaneous Frequency Switching,” by
W6FKZ; “Compact Crystal Control on
the Ultra-high Frequencies,” by W6VR ;
“Chassis Construction Hints,” by
W9KWP; “A.C.-operated Relays,” by
W6LRQ ; “Optional End-fire Directivity
with the Flat-top,” by WBQJT and
WBJK ; “Simplified Flat-top Rotary,” by
W6MZD; “High-frequency Receivers
—lmproving the Performance,” by
W9GFZ and W9FM ; “Putting the B in
Beam,” by W6LY; and “Simplified
Single Signal,” by WILZ. This list
covers only a fraction of the contents.
“Radio” can be subscribed to, 18s. 6d.
annually, on application to The Bulle-
tin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
Radio Comment.
“Cluny”: Who says the A.B.C. isn’t
progressive? The other day, during its
luncheon music, the national station sud-
denly switched into a puzzling piece of
drama without introduction, and at-
tempted murder and psychological in-
solubilities jostled one another thick and
fast for five minutes before the extract
cut off half-way up to a climax. Then
came the announcer with the informa-
tion that it was an excerpt from the next
serial to be presented over the air, and
that listeners should not fail to tune in
on the opening date.
* * * *
“E.M.F.”: That “M-scope” for locat-
ing pipe lines (B. 29/12/’37) is a more
portable form of a device in common
use for locating “shorts” in a buried
cable. My outfit consists of an ordinary
trembler circuit fitted with mercury con-
tacts and connected to the faulty cable.
A coil 12in. in diameter is fitted to a
P.M.G.-type earpiece, and the note in
the ’phone changes when the coil is over
the “short.” A similar principle is em-
ployed in America in the Sperry rail car
for detecting flawed rails. The use of
dry cells in a new instrument is a big
step forward.
* * * *
“VK2NO”: It is usually a fairly
simple matter to cure interference from
experimental transmitters with near-by
broadcast receivers. In the majority of
cases R.F. at the unwanted frequencies
gets to the signal circuits of the receiver,
usually of an inselective nature. A
simple wave-trap or plain R.F. choke
generally does the trick, but recently I
ran into a real problem. No matter
what receiver was installed in a house
two doors away from my experimental
56mc. transmitter, my station appeared
on the dial. After testing a few receivers
and finding the same symptoms, the pos-
sibility of R.F. getting in via the aerial
was eliminated. With no aerial at all
the interference was still in evidence. I
tried a line filter in the power supply,
and a slight diminishing of the interfer-
ence was noted. It was obvious that
partial rectification was occurring some-
where in the house-lighting circuits, but
hunting along the conduit in the roof
indicated that the trouble was confined
to a section buried in plaster in the walls.
This being out of the question for bond-
ing, a test was made with an external
twisted pair feeder doublet aerial. The
aerial coil in the first R.F. stage of the
receiver was disconnected from earth
and the twisted pair connected to the
coil for coupling. The interference was
even worse than before. In despera-
tion, the aerial coil was again earthed,
the twisted pair joined together as
one lead-in and connected to the free
end of the aerial coil, when the interfer-
ence completely ceased. Examination
showed that the aerial end of the coil
was connected to earth and the lead-in to
what should be the earth end. There
seems to be no obvious explanation why
this method of aerial connection should
have overcome the trouble.
What's What in Radio.
The Ever Ready Co.’s new factory at
Rosebery (N.S.W.) was opened by Prime
Minister Lyons. He stressed the value of
the industry, firstly in the large number
of Australians employed and in the
demonstration of confidence in Australia
on the part of British manufacturers. A
large machine-shop and staff of skilled
toolmakers produce and keep in action
all the machines used in the factory. The
remarkable progress in the manufactur-
ing processes of dry-cell batteries is evi-
dent, and constant investigation is made
in chemical research in a well-equipped
laboratory.
* * * *
Marchesa Marconi, accompanied by
her daughter Elettra, will arrive in Syd-
ney in the first week of April. She comes
to Sydney as the guest of the Institution
of Radio Engineers, Australia, on the
occasion of the World Radio Convention.
Home-made Charging
Ammeter.
An ammeter is practically indispensable
for charging accumulators. It is quite
a simple matter to make a meter which
is quite accurate enough for this work
out of a pocket-type moving-iron volt-
meter.
The meter should be dismantled and
the fine winding on the bobbin taken off.
The bobbin may then be re-wound with
heavier wire, the gauge depending on the
full-scale reading in amperes required.
A meter reading up to 0.5 ampere for
accumulator charging requires about 100
turns of 20 S.W.G. D.C.C. wire, but the
actual number of turns varies with dif-
ferent designs. By passing a known cur-
rent through the windings it is easy to
alter the number of turns until the cor-
rect number is found. If the meter is
required to measure a current of 0.25
ampere, the full-scale reading should be
about 0.5 ampere.
When the meter has been re-wound
it will have to be calibrated for the new
readings. This may be done with the
aid of a borrowed
meter connected
in series with the
meter to be cali-
brated and a
variable resist-
ance, the current
being supplied by
a battery. Or the
meter may be
roughly calibrated
by connecting it
in series with a
bulb and the mains. A 60-watt bulb on
240-volt mains passes 0.25 ampere, and
other sizes proportionate amounts. The
old scale may be scratched off and the
new one marked in with Indian ink.
X.-G.
Testing R.F. Chokes.
There is too great a tendency on the
part of the home constructor to consider
the R.F. choke merely as a large number
of turns of fine wire on a former. The
performance and suitability for any cir-
cuit are usually taken for granted. The
failure of experimental receivers to give
good results may often be traced to an
unsatisfactory R.F. choke, particularly in
cases where there is no oscillation over
certain parts of a particular frequency
band. This fault is often encountered in
short-wave receivers which in other re-
spects may have been very well designed.
Another effect noticed with the regen-
erative type of receiver where capacity
reaction is employed is the ready oscil-
lation at one frequency, whilst at others
it is necessary to increase the capacity of
the reaction condenser in the circuit
much beyond a reasonable figure.
It is an advantage to have on hand a
simple means of testing R.F. chokes. The
method of testing described here deter-
mines the suitability of the choke for
impeding over a particular band of fre-
quencies. The test does not cover self-
capacity, but it proves a reliable check
on the suitability of the choke. A simple
oscillatory circuit- is connected up as
shown in the diagram. Any general-pur-
pose battery triode valve will do, so long
as it is in good condition and a ready
oscillator. The combination of the tun-
ing condenser Cl and the coil LI is
such as to cover the range of frequencies
at which the choke is intended to func-
tion. Plug-in coils can be used for the
purpose, as the wave range can be readily
changed.
When the circuit has been assembled,
the fact that the valve, which should
have an impedance of about 20,000
ohms, will oscillate readily over the
waveband to be covered without the
choke in circuit should be checked by
listening with the headphones while the
tuning condenser is rotated from maxi-
mum to minimum capacity.
The R.F. choke to be tested should
then be inserted in the circuit at the
point marked X, and the tuning con-
denser again rotated through full scale.
If the choke is efficient over the whole
range the valve will not oscillate, even
though reaction is increased to the full
capacity. The fact that oscillation does
occur at any particular frequency indi-
cates that at this frequency the choke in
question has a peak and is not exercising
an impeding effect on the R.F. currents.
Such a choke, included in the plate cir-
cuit of a detector valve, would fail to
function at such frequencies.
QUEREX.
The Question Box.
(1) / have a four-valve Radiolette using six-
volt accumulator and. 90 volts of B battery.
The B batteries are discharged, and I am
thinking of changing over to vibrator power.
ij/ ave plen, y °f filament power available.
Where in Sydney can 1 purchase a vibrator
unit? (2) Could I connect the unit myself?
(3) Is the change-over to vibrator really prac-
tical ? —639.
(1) Radiokes Co., Vine-street, Chippendale,
makes a vibrator unit for the conversion of
existing battery sets to this form of plate
power. (2) Yes, all details are given with the
unit. j(3) Yes.
* * * *
/ have been operating a two-valve battery
receiver for two years with fairly good results.
Circuit used capacity reaction and was sensitive.
Recently I changed to electron coupling as
suggested by coil connections shown in B.
1 /10/’37. An R.F. choke was home-made with
four pies of 27 turns of 30 D.C.C. on }in.
former. The receiver works on broadcast, but
with much weaker signals. Short waves cannot
be got below 25 metres. What can be wrong?
(Circuit enclosed .) —636.
An R.F. choke must be used in the plate
circuit of the IC4 detector, in order to get
smooth regeneration over all frequencies. A
four-section honeycomb of the Eddystone type
would be suitable. The R.F. choke in the
filament leg should be in order, and if the
coil tapping has been varied over a wide
range the arrangement can be tested by in-
clusion of the R.F. plate choke, and removing
the .00025mfd. condenser from the plate of
the detector to earth for comparison in signal
strength.
* * * *
Enclosed is the circuit diagram of a receiver
designed by myself, and using a 32 detector and
19 as audio amplifier. Will this work satis-
factorily? If not, what’s needed? —637.
The receiver should work well, but could
be improved by use of a .01 mica condenser
as the grid coupling condenser between the
two sections of the 19 instead of the .lmfd.
tubular shown. Shunt the high-impedance
audio choke with a .smeg. resistor. Earth the
open end of the 50,000-ohm potentiometer
used for regeneration, and include a switch to
open this portion from the B battery. Re-
generation will be smoother with the potentio-
meter earthed.
» * # *
Please give details of a tone corrector for
a pickup used with a battery set having a
triode detector. The receiver has no tone
control. Would it be possible to incorporate
this somewhere at the input, to take effect on
recordings ? —638.
The circuit diagram shows, with values, an
arrangement in the grid circuit of the first
audio stage, not the detector. There are two
separate filters, one for removing the top and
the other for limiting the bass. By varying the
two resistances it is possible to do almost any-
thing with the tone. Some experiment will be
needed with the 250mh. choke, and a plug-in
mounting can be used with different-sized
chokes.


a
PROOF.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants , Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE,
WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Wool Market.
“Ghanam”: The wool market is far
from at its best, but it is not likely
to grow much weaker, and there may be
a £50,000,000 cheque for the season in
spite of the fact that some countries have
not bought up to anticipations.
Japan is the crux of the situation. She
has still 400,000 bales to buy of her 1937-
38 quota of 800,000 bales, and she is
ready and willing to take a good deal
of it, if she can. Unfortunately, every-
thing is against her chances of buying
Her very limited shipping is largely tied
up for war purposes, affecting her export
industries and making it necessary to
turn to internal industry to employ a
lot of displaced workers. Many of these
have been put to the production of arti-
ficial fibres. Italy and Germany also
are salting down their wool with arti-
ficials on a fairly large scale.
The tops market is weaker by from
30 to 40 p.c. than it was 10 months ago.
Nevertheless, buying of all good lines is
good and at payable prices, very sensi-
tive to the least competition.
Light buying by Japan sent prices up
5 p.c. in Sydney last week, and the assur-
ance that Nippon will admit 60,000 bales
in the next couple of months has had
its effect, even though there is no guar-
antee that all the supply will come from
Australia.
There has been a good deal of talk
about the possibility of carrying over a
quantity of the season’s clip for future
sale. The scheme would defeat its own
objective by creating a glut in other
seasons.
One fact has become obvious in the
last three or four years. Though arti-
ficial wools cannot compete with the real
thing in quality, countries at a disadvan-
tage in exchange have been driven to use
them. They will continue to do so as
long as the price of wool is high. The
grazier must be prepared to face a period
in which his profit comes from more
wool per sheep and more sheep per acre
rather than from higher prices.
Provided the price is right, Australia
can still sell all the wool it can pro-
duce, and a good deal more as well. With
pasture improvement and modern inten-
sive methods which would cut down
drought losses, there is no reason why
wool should not still remain highly profit-
able at a lower price level.
Maoriland Fat Lambs.
“W.Q.”: Most Australian dairymen
would be inclined to laugh at the phrase
“sheep-butterfat farms,” but it has be-
come common in Maoriland. A good
many farms in the North Island, on which
a few years ago dairying was the only
industry, have turned to sheep as a
second string. They have discovered
that fat-lamb raising is not the same
thing as wool-raising and that it can pay
the higher wages which every year be-
come the rule.
The technique of the sheep dairy farm
has not yet been fully determined. There
are difficulties: one the constant com-
petition for pasture.
There is also to be considered the age
at which sheep for fattening or breed-
ing should be brought to the farm.
Breedable ewes seem to be the best
proposition, and, subject to quality, their
age does not seem to influence profit, so
long as they are sound in the mouth and
the rams are of a type and breed which
will produce export carcasses.
Southdowns seem to show the greatest
possibility for merino ewe crossing, but
the usual sort of difficulty arises. Too
close and too intensive breeding results
in light underlines and thin bones. The
type to aim at is the moderate-sized,
“I got sick t ’ death of opening gates!”
medium-woolled export type from a
stable ewe flock and the kind of ram
which can be expected to produce uni-
formity.
Maoriland rules apply just as validly
in Australia. It would do a lot of good
if some of the money which is spent on
sideline researches were transferred to
determine which is the most profitable
dual-purpose sheep for breeding in
various suitable districts to give the maxi-
mum return from wool and mutton,
while allowing a seasonable use of the
farm for dairying.
New England Lambs.
“Jason”: New England Tablelands are
capable of producing at least 100,000
prime export lambs per annum, accord-
ing to D. M. Shand, secretary of the
local fat-lamb breeders’ association. Soil
analyses proved the land almost identical
with that of Canterbury Plains (M.L.).
On a 4000-acre holding eight miles
from Armidale, Shand has 300 acres of
maize and 250 acres of oats this season,
besides 500 acres of highly-improved
pastures. He is sowing 200 acres of
turnips, which will be grazed during
three winter months at the rate of 60
sheep per acre. He points out that in
most districts fat lambs are raised on
natural herbage, and in a dry season the
whole drop is affected.
In New England, owing to assured
seasons, it is possible to prepare the pas-
tures before the lambs are dropped and
to turn off an even line of top quality
every year. Shand turns off about 1000
fat lambs annually.
Hand-feeding Sheep.
“Sheepo”: “Ghanam” (B. 26/l/’3B)
misses some important essentials asso-
ciated with hand-feeding. Before they
get too low in condition and while some
roughage still exists, sheep should be
started on their fodder ration. In some
cases I know of, it would have been
more economical to have thrown the feed
to fowls for all the benefit some of the
weak sheep got from it.
Draft off the tail of each paddock
mob and have the weaker sheep fed
separately. Otherwise the stronger sheep
will get the lot. This applies equally to
trough and broadcast paddock feeding.
Feed at regular times and at reason-
able distances from water. Sheep need
exercise when on artificial fodder. They
won’t get it by camping about the water,
nor will they bother to move about
picking up any rough feed that may still
exist in the paddock.
If feeding on scrub only, impaction
troubles are certain unless a suitable lick
is available.
Earmarks.
“Marsh”: It has been suggested that
each N.S.W. district should have a dis-
tinguishing earmark in addition to the
registered one.
Nowadays scores of owners have the
same earmark, and brands in wool are
of no value after a certain stage of
growth has been reached. Brands of the
type used can be very easily removed.
In disputes Courts place little reliance on
earmarks as proof of ownership.
If each district had a distinctive mark
as well as the owner’s registered mark or
marks, no difficulty would be experienced
when sheep from one district, travelling
through another district, get boxed with
sheep carrying similar earmarks.
Photo-sensitisation.
“Mookau”: It is a disease of sunny
lands and rich pastures full of nitrogen,
and every summer brings its crop of
losses, particularly on clover and lucerne
land and among light-skinned cattle.
First the milk flow begins to fail and
the animal becomes listless. A discharge
appears on white parts of the skin. The
white hair only becomes coarse and
matted with fluid. Inflammation appears
on the lips and round the nostrils, and
teats may become inflamed. The udder
may become affected if treatment does
not stop the progress of the trouble, and
the skin peels off, leaving a dry, leathery
surface. Then the flies get to work.
Mastitis is almost inevitable when the
udder is touched.
If all animals are watched during hot,
sunny weather, there should be little
danger of the disease reaching an acute
stage. So soon as there are signs of the
disease, the animal should be placed in
the shade and all its white patches
smeared with boracic and lard, colored
with lampblack to prevent the penetra-
tion of the sun’s rays.
In advanced cases,
lesions should be washed
with one tablespoonful
lysol to two quarts of
water before smearing on
the ointment.
The animal should be
hand-fed and the fodder
given damp. The renewal
of skin is a slow process.
Better Stock-feeding.
“V id e r e”: It’s not
enough to have a good
breed of cattle (B.
19 /1 / ’3B). The animals
must be properly fed all
the year. Winter feed,
particularly in hilly parts,
is often scarce, and by
the end of the winter
cattle are mere skele-
tons.
Planting kale,
lucerne, turnips (B.
26/l/’3B), rape and
oats, aided by grass-
hay stacked or made
into ensilage during the
summer, will soon pay
for itself and save
many a cow or ewe in winter. Even
well-bred stock need extra winter feed on
the tablelands, and the best way to give
it to them is to grow it.
More Cattle Imports.
“Mookau”: Following the arrival of
a large consignment of U.S.A. polled
Shorthorns, including a Chicago Inter-
national and some U.S.A. State cham-
pions, another big shipment has been de-
livered from Britain to demonstrate that
some Australians are alive to the need
to keep stock as near as possible to
British standards.
Most important is the 11-months-old
Calrossie Mascott, a son of Calrossie
Control, this year’s Highland Show
champion, out of a Calrossie Broadhooks
cow. He goes to Roy McCaughey’s
Coonong stud, and is a rich red, of the
blocky Scottish type popular with chiller
men in S. America. Collynie and Scots-
ton bulls go to the Lloyd Jones stud at


5?
HRILLING to LOOK AT ?
More Thrillinq to Drive !
The Car that
Everyone will call
f 7Atilt
"1k 1938
New
Safety Dash
Presenting a
smooth, curved,
unbroken con-
tour, free from
edges and pro-
jections.
HIGHLIGHTS
Independent Front
Wheel Suspension —•
Dual Ride Stabilizers—
Cross Centre Control
Steering Synchro-
Mesh Gears Double
Action Hydraulic Shock
Absorbers—Super Hy-
draulic Brakes Full
Pressure Engine Lubri-
cation Counter-
Weighted Crankshaft
with Vibration Damp-
ener Vacuum Fuel
Saver—Down-Draught
Carburetter “Uni-
steel” Turret - Top
Body by Holden.
“AIR CHIEF”
CAR RADIO
A special model designed for
Oldsmobile incorporates six
valves, and an “Acoustinator”
which gives maximum repro-
duction of every type of
programme.
Just to look at these new 1938 Oldsmobiles is
enough to set the pulses tingling, and every sense
alert to the promise of a glorious new motoring
adventure ahead !
Sparkling new radiator grilles, entirely different in
design on the “Six” and the “Eight” . . . new
tapered bonnets as sleek and speedy as the hull of a
racing yacht . . . large streamlined headlamps
merging into the sweeping new fenders . . . back-
swept V-shaped windscreens . . . every line an
eager invitation to whisk you into a new world of
flashing, flowing action !
And what a thrill this action is ! 95 h.p. in the “Six”
... 110 h.p. in the “Eight” ... a rushing hurricane
that carries you from a walking pace to the highest
speeds you care to drive ! Incredible smoothness
.. . marvellous silence .. . a new sense of gliding as on
wings, no matter how rough the road below may be !
Every feature to give you unexcelled riding comfort
. . . safe, jar-free independent front wheel suspen-
sion . . . Double-Acting Shock Absorbers . . . Dual
Ride Stabilizers, checking every tendency to sway
and jolt ! Every feature, too, for safe, easy control
.. . Super Hydraulic Brakes .. . Gross Centre Control
Steering . . . new Safety Dash, free from edges and
projections, with every instrument under the eyes !
And with all this comes the truly matchless strength
and safety of a Holden Unisteel Body . . . reinforced
steel all round you . . . Armourplate Glass in the
Windshield and Side Windows . . . Relax-O-Form
upholstery to give you comfort . . . and insulation
on every metal panel to shut out heat and cold,
noise and vibration.
No other car—not one—can give you the thrill that
Oldsmobile offers this year ! Arrange for that
demonstration drive now !
GENERAL
MOTORS-HOL DEN’S
LTD.
OLDSMOBILEI93B
7£e CaA that had <Sv&UfiAiMg
Consult Your Local Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
Your Money Goes
Further in a General
Motors Car!
Tarcutta (N.S.W.) and H. W. Capel at
Barraba (N.S.W.).
The sheep in the shipment were large-
framed, deep Border Leicesters and Rye-
lands which showed that Australia has
still some distance to go in producing
mutton types and also in turning out
stylish sheep of meat types for show
purposes.
There was a single Dorset Down ram
for L. J. McMaster, who recently im-
ported 20 ewes of that rare breed.
Rabbit Virus at Work.
“Ghanam”: The C.S. and I.R.’s new
rabbit virus has been given its prelimi-
nary trials on Wardang Island (S.A.). The
rabbit population was about 500, living
in 14 colonies. The rabbits were fenced
in and then allowed to settle down. Then
another 161 rabbits were brought in.
Afterwards, 20 infected rabbits were
placed in the enclosure.
The rabbits already in confinement
seem to have been thoroughly unsociable.
It is considered that within 10 days all of
the deliberately-infected rabbits must
have died ; but only 14 carcasses were
found within 17 days and one afterwards
—there was no doubt about the identity
of the victims, since they were earmarked.
•On the eighteenth day, one of the
original inhabitants was found dead. In
the first 10-day period, after the death
of the originals, 30 were picked up ; in
the next 10 days, 33 ; in the next, 80.
In 60 days after the disease was intro-
duced, it was estimated that 60 p.c. of
the rabbits in the enclosure died.
Death in this way, of course, is a
brutal affair. Moreover, it would need a
lot more research to assure most people
that a virus which can be communicated
lethally to 50 p.c. of 500 rabbits within
60 days will necessarily confine itself to
Bunny. It might compass the destruction
of most of our native fauna.
Wheats in the Riverina.
“Hortus”: Dundee topped Riverina
field wheat trials with 53.45 bushels, with
Bencubbin (52.93 bushels) and Yandilla
King (49.65 bushels) second and third.
Next in order were Bordan, Ford and
Clarity. Sowings were on fallow, com-
prising a medium red granite loam with
a heavy clay subsoil.
Eight years’ results show Dundee the
most consistent wheat. It came from
crossing Hard Federation on Cleveland
and then crossing the result with Sands.
Hard Federation is a selection from
Federation, and is believed to be a pro-
duct of natural cross on Cowra Experi-
ment Farm.
Dundee is fairly smut-resistant (Cleve-
land trait), and inherits short, strong straw
of Federation type.
In 'the trials 601 b. seed was used, with
1121 b. super, to the acre.
For wheaten hay, Firwhill returned
4 tons o.Bcwt., with Zealand a close
second, 4 tons o.7cwt. Bordan again was
near the leaders. But over a period of
years no variety proved superior to
Zealand for early sowing.
Bordan is proving a serious rival these
days. It has not had really a fair trial as
yet. But over two years’ tests it is well
up in the list, not only for grain but for
hay. It is a S. Aus. wheat (Bearded Rieti
x Ford x Dan) similar to Ford. It has
shown itself better than Ford for four
years at Cowra and Temora Experiment
Farms.
In the mid-season sown grain on fallow
section—seed 701 b. with super. 1121 b
the winner was Bencubbin (52y bushels),
with Dundee (50.8 bushels) second. These
two can be accepted as the most pro-
ductive varieties for mid-season Riverina
sowings.
But Dundee is not popular with
A. L. Jeffs, secretary of the Flour Mill-
owners’ Association, N.S.W. He says:
Grown under conditions that are not
ideal, Dundee has a tendency to throw
back, becoming a weak wheat, and very
poor wheat at that. In our opinion,
Dundee, owing to its tendency to become
mottled, should be looked upon with sus-
picion at all times.
Dundee is highly regarded in England.
Bleached Wheat and Deterioration.
“Namoey”: S. Australian wheat areas
were subjected to heavy rain towards the
end of November, with showers subse-
quently. The unharvested wheat gar-
nered since shows evidence of bleaching.
While a small percentage of the grains
had shot this did not mean that sprouts
were visible, but that growth had started
because of moisture absorbed from the
rain. The growth was arrested as the
moisture dried out. It is possible, how-
ever, that chemical action once set in
motion may involve deterioration from
the milling point of view.
Shippers and millers are imposing a
discount to cover deterioration. The S.
Aus. Department of Agriculture has car-
ried out germination, milling and baking
tests with samples of bleached wheat, and
in each instance found that results were
substantially similar to those from
samples of the same wheat harvested im-
mediately before bleaching. It proves
that wholesale dockage for bleaching is
not justified.
On the other hand, millers insist that
frequently with bleaching the skin of the
{Continued on next page. )


4008.
A &
n
THE THRIFTY MAN buys quality
Be sure to obtain your money’s worth when buying footwear.
"Hie Shoe that lasts the longest is the cheapest in the end; the longer it lasts the
cheaper it becomes.
That is why, when buying Abbey Shoes, you are sure of getting your money back
over and over again.
A Model made in Black Box Calf and in Brown Willow Calf at 42/-. Stocked in
lull and half sizes and in medium and wide fittings.
'lf it’s an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY. 1
OZVH
ONI AVHS
-ASV3 3HI
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge. '
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/0 extra. Fits 3 and | blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
KLKJL
%
M
Qr
KLJKL
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman ), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
* Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
JKLJKL
KING
OF
THE
ROAD
3^
K
*>
aooo
~ V
iO
-AOi
N
Sllalliwl
ITie'^'allelz/fL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
grain thickens and the wheat weighs light.
An unbleached sample may weigh 631 b.
to the bushel measure. A sample of the
same wheat after bleaching may weigh
571 b. only—a loss of nearly 10 p.c.
There is no loss in volume. Actually, as
the result of the grain swelling, there is
about 10 p.c. fewer grains in the bushel
measure, but each grain weighs the same
as before bleaching.
Bleached wheat calls for special treat-
ment in milling, and in commercial mill-
ing it is rarely practicable to separate
bleached from normal wheat. As the
buyer cannot determine the baking
quality of the flour, the surest way to
save dockage for bleaching is to weigh
a sample by the bushel measure. Then
deduct Id. for each pound below the
f.a.q. standard for the current crop.
Wanted, a New Pineapple.
“C.Q.”: A few years ago the pineapple
area was restricted to the coast 150 miles
north of Brisbane, but it is gradually
spreading northward to areas in which
the banana was the most popular fruit
until bunchy-top and other diseases put
in an appearance. The market for pines
in Australia has scarcely been touched.
The fruit is not only good eating, but it
makes a good drink, its slices crystallise
rvell and it cans well.
The. old “rough-leaf” has been dis-
carded for export because of its small
size and prickly top, but there is room
for much improvement in the modern
“smooth-leaf” if somebody would only
tackle the job scientifically. A large,
prolific “smooth-leaf” pine of a suitable
shape for case packing, but with the
“rough-leaf” flavor and consistency of
flesh, would sweep the world’s markets.
The pine has no diseases worth men-
tioning. It is worth trying to develop
the Australian variety into a fruit which
would rank in the world as in the same
compartment with Australian wool.
Large-scale Vegetables.
“Cos”: Professor Wessels, whose job
is vegetable research at Cornell Univer-
sity (U.S.A.), is astonished at Australian
standards in vegetable growing. Vege-
tables, and particularly salads, form a
very much larger proportion of the diet
of U.S.A. cities. They are sold in attrac-
tive packages and at reasonable prices,
and there are few American cities which
would put up with the kind of pavement
display seen in every Sydney suburb.
The professor thinks our vegetable
soils better than those of Long Island,
New York. But our methods generally
are behindhand. In U.S.A. planting of
cauliflower seed and planting and dig-
ging of potatoes are regularly done by
machinery. The visitor, too, was sur-
prised to find N. S. Wales, with its vast
areas of alluvial flats, importing vege-
tables from other States.
Mitchell-grass Hay.
“B-gar”: Small stackings of Mitchell
by a few W.Q. graziers have shown
that the grass is one of the best of our
natural pastures. The C.S. and I.R. is
to carry out experiments to ascertain
the nutritious values of the grass as con-
served fodder.
I have seen station milkers and work-
ing horses hold their condition on a
small daily ration of Mitchell-grass hay
when a drought had compelled the re-
moval of all other stock to agistment
country. For three weeks I worked two
gallopers on M.-g. hay and spinifex seeds.
The prads won against corn-feds.
On the open plains of the west, M.-g.
presents few harvesting difficulties.
Enough fodder could be conserved in
generous years to feed stock and working
horses during a drought.
Horses’ Backs.
“Breaker-in”: Present-day types of
saddles need a deal of alteration if prads
are to be saved from sore backs (B.
19/1/’3B). Backs vary, and the ordinary
saddle won’t fit comfortably on all
horses. Padding with horsehair or cloth
pads only adds to the trouble, invariably
throwing the saddle off its balance and
affecting the back elsewhere.
The rubber saddle-cloths mentioned by
“Albarmount” help, but they won’t pre-
vent sweat boils, the origin of most sore
backs.
Most of the trouble arises through in-
sufficient draft between backbone and
saddle. Barring thin-skinned horses,
whose backs won’t stand up to much
saddle work, I have never found any-
thing better than the military type of
saddle. I have used them on a camp
horse, drafting cattle, without any bruis-
ing or jarring. During four years’
abroad with the Light Horse I never
saw a prad with a sore back.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: The mildest form of
blister and a good antiseptic for horses
is Stockholm tar. It should always be
applied to slight puffiness and cuts or
sores that run the risk of infection or
fly blow.
“Bundalinga”: To cure an itch at the
butt of a horse’s tail clip the hair off the
affected part and surroundings. Wash
with warm water and soap. Rub in well
with a soft brush two parts sulphur, one
part oil of tar, one part bicarbonate
of potassium and eight parts of lard.
Repeat the dressing every seventh day.
“Hortus”: St. Helen’s Plains, Horsham
(Vic.), harvested 3300 bushels from 76
acres of wheat in 16 hours with a 14ft.
auto-header. The yield averaged 43.4
bushels per acre. The grain was a splen-
did sample, and 600 bags of it have
been selected for seed by local farmers.
“Zedo”: The latest proposed destroyers
of nut grass are three varieties of insects
which in other countries are said to be
doing good work. They must be hardly
and persistent animals if they are effec-
tive, and the question arises as to what
they will turn to for fodder when all the
n.g. is exhausted. In any case, there
will be conflict in districts where mixed
farming areas impinge on grazing dis-
tricts. For, while nut grass is a pest in
cultivation, graziers have come to recog-
nise it as a hardy green friend which
turns a smiling face to drought when
other fodder is dying.
“Bull-ant Bill”: The contention that
dairy-bred steers from Jersey or Illa-
warra cows pay better than beef-types,
on account of their lower initial cost, has
been disproved in the S.Q. coastal cattle
belt during the past three years. Experi-
ments began after the Meat Industry
Board started regular chilled-beef ship-
ment to England. Figures show that
Herefords and well-bred beef Shorthorns
fatten faster into chiller weights and
qualities, show less reject beef, and pro-
vide a greatly higher percentage of first-
and second-grade chilled sides. In the
Moreton and Burnett districts and the
eastern Darling Downs, Herefords are
rapidly replacing all other breeds for
chiller fattening.
“X.T.”: One of the best-known Jersey
herds in Australia will be sold off in
S.A. on Feb. 15, when J. A. J. Fitzner’s
Hampden Jersey stud is broken up. The
stud was founded in 1921 and has had
many noted sires, about the best of
which was Bellefaire Blond Aristocrat,
whose son, Sweet Haven’s Carnation’s
Aristocrat, won the Adelaide Royal cham-
pionship of 1936, and whose daughter,
Delma Aristocratic Lady, was the cham-
pion of 1937. The herd has held the
S.A. highest butterfat average and four
S.A. gold medals, with a number of class
prizes.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(!Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What breeds ot fowls are the most profit-
able layers, and which lays the largest egg ?
(2) Best breed of fowl for table purposes ?
(3) Best fowl to breed for both laying and
table ? (4) Heaviest breed of duck ? (5) Best
laying duck ? (6) Which breed of fowl is
the best setter and used mainly for that pur-
pose ? —58393.
(1) and (3) The White Leghorn is the most
popular commercial breed, but Australorps or
Rhode Island Reds are better dual-purpose
breeds. The White Leghorn lays a large egg,
but probably not so large as the Minorca. (2)
Light Sussex or Indian Game crossed with
Light Sussex or Buff Orpingtons are superior
for table, but a better return would be obtained
from the dual-purpose breeds. (4) The Mus-
covy. (5) Khaki Campbell or Indian Runner.
(6) Try the Silver Wyandotte.


OF, BY and FOR VICTORIA
1
HEAD OFFICE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
OF VICTORIA
HE WHOLE of the £65,000 000 of
deposits in the State Savings Bank of
Victoria is Victorian money —the savings
of our customers in 213 Branches and
373 Agencies of this Bank throughout the
State.
Every man who thinks knows how necessary
it is to spend less than he earns if he
would make himself economically secure.
And every man should know that thrift not
only prospers those who practise it, but that
it stimulates production and thereby assists
the general progress and prosperity of the
community. Thrift means thriving!
Build up your Savings Account, therefore,
with the “People’s Bank’’ and help yourself
and your State to further prosperity.
FOR VICTORIA
INDIVIDUAL, Joint, Trust, Estate, Club,
Friendly Society, Definite Purpose and
Children’s Accounts may be opened.
Interest allowed on Current Account up to
£ 1 000. Fixed Deposits at higher rate.
Money may be withdrawn at any Branch
or Agency in Victoria upon presentation of
the Passbook and satisfactory identification.
Sums transferred from one Branch to another
without exchange or loss of interest.
Safe Custody of Commonwealth and State
Bonds and Debentures without charge. Safe
Deposit facilities at nominal cost.
Loans to build or purchase homes, or to pay
off existing debts.
AGENTS IN ALL THE STATES.
RESERVE FUND-£3,250,000
COMMISSIONERS:
W. Warren Kerr, C.M.G., C.B.E. (Chairman). J. C. Gates, Esq. (Deputy Chairman):
John Kean, Esq. Sir Walter Leitch, C.B.E. A. E. Hocking, Esq.
General Manager: J. Thornton Jones, J.P.
Assistant General Manager: Norman R. Williams, 8.C0m., 0.8. E.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT.


VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloomsbury Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatres
and Shops. 250 Rooms, H. & C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/- per day. Ulus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors- James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, , Esq.; U J. Eyan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq 0.M.0r.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside oack cover ol iasi
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subje'ct.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy Islands of the Tones Straits (1886)
and Past and Present Thursday Island and
Torres Straits (1900), by J. Douglas, and Lost
for Gold, concerning Griffin, the Clermont
magistrate. Will pay good price.—B4Bo.
To buy rare cricket books, old or new,
Wisden’s Cricket Almanacks and old N. S.
Wales Cricket Year-Books. State title and
author, also price.—B434.
To buy The Children of Gideon, by Walter
Besant.—B4B9.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the result of the triangular
Test cricket matches between England, South
Africa and Australia in England in 1912? (2)
The captain of each eleven ? (3) In the match
v. Australia, Woolley ( England) had fine bowl-
ing figures. What were they? —B433.
(1) England defeated South Africa in three
matches; Australia von two and one was
drawn against South Africa ; England won one
and two were drawn against Australia. (2)
Syd Gregory (Australia), C. B. Fry (England)
and F. Mitchell (South Africa) were the cap-
tains. (3) In the third Test at Kennington
Oval Woolley took 5 for 29 in the first innings
and 5 for 20 in the second innings (10 for 49
off 17.2 overs).
* * * *
(1) When Australia collapsed for 58 runs in
the second innings of the first Test at Brisbane,
December, 1936, what were the English bowlers’
figures ? (2) How long did the innings last ?
—B4lB.
(1) Allen, 6 overs, 36 runs, 5 wickets; Voce,
6.3 overs, 16 runs, 4 wickets. Voce bowled
five no-balls, Allen one no-ball. (McCormick did
not bat in the innings.) (2) Seventy-one minutes.
* * * *
(1) Was Victor Trumper associated with
N.S.W. Rugby League football? (2) What
position did Trumper hold in the League? —
8450.
(1) Yes; it was at Trumper’s sports store in
Market-street, Sydney, that the League had its
genesis. He was an excellent organiser, and
had much to do with inviting the M.L. team
which played in Sydney in 1907-8. (2) Trumper
was elected treasurer at the first meeting of the
League, but was defeated by H. R. Miller (now
secretary) in the following year.
* * * *
(1) Can Ron Richards still fight as a middle-
weight ? (2) If so, why is John Henry Lewis
(world’s light-heavyweight champion ) always
suggested as a possible opponent for him, in
preference to Freddie Steele ( world’s middle-
weight champion) ? (3) Has Richards agreed
to fight Ambrose Palmer or Fred Henneberry ?
—8425.
(1) When Richards defeated colored American
Tommy Jones at Leichhardt last November 30,
his announced weight was list. 51b., or one
pound under the middleweight limit. (2)
Neither Stadiums, Ltd., nor Olympia Sports
Company (the Sydney Sports Ground pro-
moters) has opened negotiations with Lewis or
Steele concerning a contest with Richards in
this country. (3) Richards is agreeable to
oppose Palmer or Henneberry, but no promoter
has yet been able to arrange either fight.
* Jfc * *
Are the hand signals given by motorists to
signify “Stop,” “I am turning right” and
“Pass on my right” a courtesy, an instruction
from the Traffic Branch or a law ? —8367.
The law, set out in N.S.W. Motor Traffic
Regulation No. 73, makes it compulsory for
persons driving motor vehicles upon the public
street to give the signals.
% * *
What did the battle-cruiser Australia do in
the North Sea during the Great War? —8507.
She was flagship of the Second Battle-cruiser
Squadron in the North Sea. A collision with
her sister ship New Zealand prevented her
taking part in the Battle of Jutland, but after
that engagement she resumed her station at
the head of her squadron and kept it till the
end of the war. In the spring of 1918 she was
used for experiments with seaplanes launched
from a very short deck superimposed upon
one of her turrets. On November 21 of that
year—the day of the surrender of the German
High Seas Fleet she led the port line of
ships accompanying the surrendered vessels
into the Firth of Forth, and was afterwards
charged with the surveillance of the battleship
Hindenburg.
* * * *
(1) What are the good points to be looked
for in a cocker spaniel ? (2) Is a spot of
white hair a disadvantage ? —8526.
(1) Weight not to exceed 251 b.; eyes in ac-
cordance with color of dog; black or brown.
Long body, coat flat and abundant, of silky
character. Fore and hind limbs should be well
feathered. Feet, medium size with good
feather between toes; ears long, with plenty
of fine hair and fringe. Active and lively
disposition. (2) Whole colors are preferred.
* * * *
(1) What firms in London buy crocodile-
skins, what duty is payable in England and
what price is paid for the skins? (2) How are
skins preserved for transit overseas? —8518.
(1) Dyster, Nalder and Co., 1 Pepys-street,
Seething-lane, E.C.2., and S. Wright, 19
Richardson-street, Bermondsey, S.E. —both
London —might buy. Communicate with the
“Leather World,”- 177 Bermondsey-street,
London, S.E.I, as to prices and tariff. (2)
Preserve by immersing in a strong salt solu-
tion (saturated solution using as much salt as
the water will dissolve), leave 24 hours (flat
out), then drain and cover with dry salt, mak-
ing a heap of the skins. After the skins have
been lying in salt for three weeks they could
be allowed to dry and be shipped in that con-
dition.
ifc jH ❖ *
What truth is there in the story that an
eccentric adventurer, claiming to be a member
of the royal family, nearly secured control of
Tasmania in the early years of last century?
—8514.
The facts are that about the end of 1811
Jonathan Burke Hugo, son of a Dublin tobac-
conist, arrived at Launceston (Tas.) in a 100-
ton brig which he had obtained, with its cargo,
on credit from a Calcutta firm. He came under
the name of McHugo, but declared upon land-
ing that he was a member of the royal family,
travelling incognito, and represented that he
possessed authority to supersede at pleasure
all Governors at places where he visited. He
so impressed Major Gordon, the commandant
at Port Dalrymple, that Gordon actually sur-
rendered his command to Hugo. Other offi-
cers, however, intervened, remonstrated with
Gordon, and finally sent Hugo to Sydney under
a military guard. In Sydney Hugo was exam-
ined by a medical board which pronounced
him to be “in a state of outrageous insanity.”
In April, 1812, he was sent back to Calcutta,
was confined 2\ years in a mental asylum, and
eventually reached London. There in 1817 he
was bombarding the Colonial Office with
petitions in which he claimed to be descended
from Earl Bothwell and Mary Queen of Scots,
and to be the rightful heir to the crown of
England, but declared he would be content
with a “moderate subsistence.” What hap-
pened to him after that is unknown.
* * x- *
By what means is the distance of stars from
the earth estimated ? —8509.
The most direct method is by triangulation.
The star is observed first from one side and
then from the other of the earth’s orbit, and
its minute apparent movement in space affords
a clue to its distance. The spectroscope is
also used for such computations, and in some
cases, where it has been possible to ascertain
the rate of motion through space of a group of
stars, that knowledge is made the basis
of a calculation of distance. The periodic
variations in brightness of certain classes of
variable stars also afford clues to distance.
*** ' *
How to prevent fresh meat from going
mouldy after being kept for a month or longer
at a temperature of approximately 40 deg. ?
8483.
Meat should not be kept under normal con-
ditions for a period exceeding 14 days. This
period may be increased by circulating the air
with a fan and allowing frequent changes. The
temperature should at no time rise over 40deg.
Fahr. For periods of one month and over the
meat must be kept below freezing point—at
28deg. Fahr.
* * * *
(1) How far is Gladstone ( Q’land ) from
Sydney? (2) How accessible? (3) Time in
transit Sydney to Gladstone ? (4) Town popu-
lation? (5) Resources? (6) Is aerodrome in
near vicinity? (7) Temperature? —8362.
(1) 945 miles. (2) By rail. (3) 33hr. 30min.
(4) 3039. (5) Pastoral, agricultural and dairy-
ing (6) Nearest aerodrome is at Rockhamp-
ton, 68 miles distant. (7) Mean summer, 78.5
deg.; mean winter, 63.4 deg.; all-the-year-
round average, 71.7 deg.
* * * *
I was asked the other day if the verb
“finalize” was spelled with a “z” or an “s.”
Looked it up in my Oxford English Dictionary
and was surprised to find no such word. Nor
is it in the Webster, Chambers and the “Times”
dictionaries. How has this word crept into
such frequent use and yet has no place in the
dictionaries? —7802.
You won’t find “finalize” or “finalise” in
any standard dictionary. It is journalese.
* * * *
In what countries is the emu to be found
and has the emu ever existed in Egypt or
Africa? What kind of nest does it make, what
are its breeding habits, and what does it eat ?
—8360. , .. . .
The emu ( Dromaius novce-hollandice) is
widely distributed in, and restricted to, Aus-
tralia. The African ostrich and South American
rhea are related types. A crude unlined struc-
ture of bark and sticks, or sometimes merely
a depression in the ground, serves as a nest.
Seven to 18 eggs are laid, the average being
nine. The incubation period is about two
months, and the parental responsibilities are
borne more by the male than the female.
Breeding takes place from April to November.
Emus are essentially vegetarian, feeding on
native fruits and the like.
* * * *
(1) In the Sydney Art Gallery is a bronze
figure titled “Libellule.” Who was she? (2)
Who was Selica, whose bust is contiguous to
Libellule ? (3) What is the meaning of the
word “pieuvre,” used in Lang and Butcher’s
introduction to their translation of Homer’s
Odyssey ? —8216.
(1) This beautiful bronze by Mathieu Moreau
was awarded the Medal of Honor of the Paris
Salon. It is a symbolic representation, in
the form of a winged woman, of a dragon-fly.
This genus was named Libellula by Linnaeus
from the supposed resemblance of the expanded
wings to the leaves of an open book, and
libellule is the French form of the scientific
term. (2) The bust “Selica” is the work of
P. Calvi. It is that of a woman with negroid
features. The face and hands are of bronze,
the headdress and robe of marble. The name
Selica, or Zuleika (there are other variants),
is that traditionally ascribed by the Koran to
the wife of Potiphar, and is very common in
Persian poetry. (3) The word pieuvre is
French, meaning octopus, devil-fish or vampire.
* # # *
How is pig- or cast-iron converted into
wrought-iron and steel? —8388.
Wrought-iron is the product obtained by the
removal of carbon, manganese and other im-
purities from pig-iron. In the case of Swedish
wrought-iron these elements are reduced to
0.25 p.c. In one process the “pig” is purified
in a blast of air blown into a charcoal hearth,
and eventually a sponge of iron, mixed with
slag, is obtained. Steels are produced in the
open-hearth, the crucible and the electric
furnace. The open-hearth (Siemens-Martin)
process consists of melting pig-iron with
various amounts of steel scrap at a fairly high
temperature. Crucible steel is made by melting
wrought-iron of high purity with carbon in
crucibles.
* * * *
Names, tonnage and year of construction of
the motor vessels of the Wilh. Wilhelmsen line,
carrying cargo and passengers between France
and Australia? —8363.
Tirranna, 7200 tons, built 1938; Tarifa, 7229
tons, built 1936; Tamerlane, 6778 tons, built
1936; Talabot, 6798 tons, built 1936; Tou-
louse, 7027 tons, built 1934; Troja, 6649 tons,
built 1930; Thermopylae, 6655 tons, built 1930;
Taronga, 7003 tons, built 1934; Tudor, 6607
tons, built 1930; Tricolor, 6850 tons, built
1933; Tarn, 6850 tons, built 1933; Templar,
6728 tons, built 1929; Talleyrand, 6732 tons,
built 1927; Triton, 6607 tons, built 1930; Talis-
man, 6701 tons, built 1937; Titania, 6704 tons,
built 1937; Temeraire, 6465 tons, built 1927.
* * * *
(1) What is dry ice? (2) Its uses? (3)
Can it replace ordinary ice? (4) Where obtain-
able in Sydney ? —8454.
(1) It is the commercial name for solidified
carbon dioxide, a colorless, odorless gas. (2)
It is largely used to replace ordinary ice on
account of its much greater cooling effect and
because its decomposition product is gaseous
and thus the moisture attendant upon the use
of ice is eliminated. Weight for weight it is
more costly than ordinary ice. (3) Yes. (4)
From Mount Frorne Lime, Ltd., Burrows-
road, St. Peters, Sydney.
* * * *
Is there any alteration or reduction in
returned soldiers’ military pensions when they
receive the old-age pension? —8351.
Amended legislation has made provision for
service pensions to members of the Forces
when they attain the age of 60. In such cases
the member must have served in a theatre of
war and not be possessed of property (other
than the home in which he resides) in excess of
£4OO (single man) or £BOO (married man).
Other income, including war pension, is taken
into account in assessing the amount of service
pension payable, and the standard allowed in-
come from all sources, including any service
pension granted, cannot exceed 655. per fort-
night in the case of a single man and 130 s.
per fortnight in the case of a married man.
The maximum amount of service pension pay-
able in respect of age is £2 per fortnight for
the member only. His dependants are not
eligible for service pension benefits.
* * * *
(1) Award wage for stockmen on Queensland
cattle and sheep stations? (2) Chances of a
young man with knowledge of stock and a
good rider of obtaining employment on a cattle
station? (3) What wage do drovers pay then-
men, and where in Queensland would one
obtain such employment? —8268.
(1) The rates are £2 15s. per week and keep
in the Southern Division, and £3 per week
in the Northern Division. (2) There should
be a fair prospect of employment in the Boulia
or Cloncurry districts. (3) The rates for drovers
on the road with cattle are £4 10s. per week
and £2 ss. per week with plant only. The
districts mentioned are also the best districts
for droving.
* * * *
(1) What is the luggage limit, tourist class,
on R.M.S. Strathmore on the voyage Mel-
bourne to London? (2) Luggage limit in
cabin ? (3) Method of obtaining passport
photograph? (4) After paying return fare, with
exchange, will have £lOO, Australian currency,
in hand; is it worth my while using bank
facilities? The money is in the State Savings
Bank at present. (5) Is production of birth-
certificate necessary? (6) Must all income and
other taxes be paid up to June 30, 1938? (7)
Can information be obtained at Australia
House, London, concerning hotels? —8325.
(1) Twenty cub. ft. of baggage is allowed
free of charge; excess, 3s. per cub. ft.
(2) Passengers occupying single-berth rooms are
allowed to take such baggage in their cabin
commensurable with comfort. The rest of
their baggage can be placed in the baggage
room, and access may be had to it when required
by arrangement with the baggage master. (3)
and (6) Application forms for passports can
be obtained from H.M. Customs at Melbourne.
Two duplicate unmounted photographs show-
ing the head and shoulders without hat and
with plain background should accompany the
forms. Any photographer will supply. Appli-
cation for income-tax clearance must be made
to the Taxation Department, Melbourne. (4)
It is advisable to use a letter of credit or
travellers’ cheques, not loose money. (5) No.
(7) Yes.
Meaning of the terms (1) base metals and
(2) noble metals? —B47o.
(1) Base metals are those not classed as
noble or precious metals. Shakspeare mentions
the term in “Timon of Athens,” Act 111, Scene
3, “They have all been touch’d and found .base
metals.” (2) Silver and gold, with
the platinum family, are known as “noble
metals.”
* * * *
/ want to shift a large acacia ( wattle ) shrub.
When is the best time to do the work, arid
how ? —8441.
In February or March the job can be tackled.
Soak the ground thoroughly for a few days and
then dig out the soil from around it, keeping
at least 3ft. away from the base of the stem
in order not to damage the small fibrous roots;
also dig deep to get as much of the taproot
as possible. Prune the acacia back after re-
planting to help the roots recover from the
shock.
* * * *
Two years ago 1 bought a frangipanni shrub
in bloom . It was planted in the open garden
and has not flowered since. What is the best
way to treat these shrubs ? —8457.
Frangipanni shrubs sold in pots are some-
times poorly rooted and take at least three years
to establish. They can be expected to bloom
in about four years. Mulch the soil about the
base of the shrubs with pulverised cow-manure
and water regularly. Since frangipanni does not
carry deep roots do not forget to stake these
shrubs firmly.
* * * *
(1) Best soil mixture for pot-plants? (2)
How should gladioli bulbs be handled after
flowering ? —8469.
(1) Two parts of loam, one part each of
leaf—mould and well-rotted manure and half
part each of sand and pulverised peat or virgin
soil. Let the mixture “sweeten” for a week
before being used. (2) Dig up the gladioli and
place them in a cool draughty position; when
the foliage dies store the bulbs in a well-
ventilated box. Dusting with tobacco every
three or four weeks is necessary to keep insects
in check.
* * * *
Recipe for making three or four gallons of
ginger beer? —B29B.
Take 61b. sugar, £lb. rough ginger, 3oz. cream
of tartar, juice of 6 lemons, 2 teaspoons yeast,
white of 2 eggs and 4 gallons boiling water.
Bruise the ginger well with a hammer and
boil it for 20 minutes in the water. Add sugar,
lemon-juice, and then strain; when cool add
cream of tartar, yeast and beaten whites of
eggs. Stir well and let stand for 12 hours.
Then bottle and cork well.
Brief Answers.
E.J.P.: The only listed aboriginal words
which have any bearing on the phrase given
are as follows: Swampy, cowl-cowl and dunga-
rubba; swampy country, cattai cattai; swampy
place, boggenbil ; redgum, doondoo-gah and
murray-mai.... W.M.: There is no record of
a vessel named Masunda having arrived at
Sydney during the years 1912-1915. The
Omrah arrived in Sydney on 22/4/T5, and a
list of the crew should be available at Fre-
mantle W.L.: No demand for wild-pig skins
in Sydney... .F. 8.: Sorry; can trace no archi-
tect willing to undertake the work... .E.C.8.:
The cost of an upper plate in 18ct. gold is
approximately £25; the weight varies between
8 and pennyweights... .J.T.J.: Low blood
pressure may be purely an individual character-
istic of no grave significance, but may also
accompany some serious diseases. Don’t want
to alarm you, probably needlessly, by giving
the list. Get thoroughly overhauled by a
doctor G.M.: (1) Most dried fruits have
approximately the same food values as the
corresponding fresh varieties; the latter are
eaten as much for the sake of their sweetness
and flavor as for the actual nourishment they
contain. (2) They may be used at any time.
E.H.M.: Chokos, though cut down
annually by frost, will live and bear fruit for
many years if well cared for. Plants over 10
years old have frequently come under notice.
A.E.R.: Write N.S.W. Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney, for leaflet “Ants and Their
Control” A.J.G.: The collector value is Is.
. ...A.A.: (1) Maximum level of Great Lake,
Tasmania, has been 35ft. above the sill. Mini-
mum 12ft. above. (2) No lake or river can be
expected to supply water indefinitely. Rainfall
and run-off are the governing factors. (3) Brock
Bros.’ estate, Lawrenny, is reckoned to be the
largest in Tasmania. It consists of approximately
40,000 acres B.B.: (1) As far as can be
discovered, gold is never inlaid in pottery or
porcelain, but is applied and fired as other
enamel or over-glaze colors. (2) The term
Satsuma is very loosely applied, and very few
of the so-called Satsuma pieces were actually
made in the province of Satsuma. Inciden-
tally, the Satsuma potteries made very few
figures or groups. Cannot say without seeing
it, but this piece sounds like a cheap export
piece of Japanese pottery or porcelain....
W. 8.: The attack occurred on Port Hacking
on January 3, 1927. The lad taken by the
shark was Mervyn Allun and his rescuer was
Stanley Gibbs, to whom a medal was awarded
on March 20, 1927 A.A.: The degree of
B.A. of Sydney University would be regarded,
scholastically, as a qualification for admission
to the Queensland teaching service. However,
as the supply of teachers is adequate for local
requirements, applications for employment as
teachers are not entertained from outside the
State. Married women whose husbands are
alive are not eligible for admission to the
teaching service of the Q’land Educ. Dept
F.A.W.: Osmiridium is not attacked by any
acid. It can be dissolved only in a super-
heated stream of chlorine. It belongs to the
platinum group, which will not amalgamate with
mercury or sodium amalgam. It will not
amalgamate with mercury, and, as far as is
known, will not amalgamate with sodium or
any other amalgam W.H.A.: Write Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, Ltd., 10-14 Young-street,
Sydney.


Certaiiv-to-selL
SHORT STORIES
LEARN HOW TO WRITE THEM
THROUGH STOTT’S HOME-
STUDY COURSE!
Out, and Mail this Coupon for Free Literature on
“How To Write For Profit.”
To STOTT’S Correspondence College, 96-100 Russell
Street, Melbourne; or 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
— CUT HERE
Please send me, without obligation, Free Literary
Prospectus, explaining How To Write For Profit.
My Name
Address
S'.B./S
YOUNG m hl.to.y!
Short indeed is the history of civilized Australia—
yet in the one hundred and fifty years since the first
settlement was founded by Governor Phillip it has
advanced to an important position in world affairs
largely through the quality and quantity of its
primary products.
Young in history, too, is the Rural Bank, but
although it goes no further back than 1899, it has
already advanced £54,000,000 to primary producers
and home builders in New South Wales, thus
helping considerably the progress of the State.
The Rural Bank derives part of the funds for its
important functions from the transaction of ordin-
ary banking business. Interest-bearing Fixed De-
posits are accepted and Cheque Accounts opened
for all sections of the community at all branches
throughout the State.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office : MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners : C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers,
P. Kearns.
FROM CHINA TO PERU
Ex-Westralian Governor Campion has
joined Great Boulder’s board. He is also
chairman of Anglo-Australian Gold De-
velopment, Beryl Gold Corporation,
Commonwealth Mining and Finance and
North Kalgurli United, and a director of
Murchison Gold Development and
Southern Cross Gold Development. At
the time of his appointment as Governor
of Westralia he was a member of the
House of Commons and of the London
Stock Exchange. In the West he struck
up a great friendship with Claude de
Bernales.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: “Erua” (B.
5/1/’3B) has slipped. ’Frisco people do
not speak of the “great earthquake,” but
only of the “great fire” which followed.
This business of ignoring the ’Frisco
earthquake has been carried to absurd
lengths. On the other hand, the people
of Florida aren’t ashamed of the hurri-
canes which are liable to vi'sit their
country ; in fact, they like to tell you
how bad the last one was.
# * * *
“Hecate”: “ ’Sfact’s” room papered
with postage-stamps (B. 19/1/’3B) re-
minds me that two of us shared a three-
roomed flat in Bloomsbury in the old
days, and when we moved in half one
wall was papered with multicolored rejec-
tion slips from editors. We decided to
carry on the good work. Before I left
the living-room was almost papered. My
determined crony stayed on and swore
he would not move until success came or
the whole apartment was lined. Whether
he first fulfilled his vow I don’t know ;
but he climbed eventually into a very
cosy niche in Fleet-street.
* * * ~
“H.M.E.”: Dr. Hugh Dalton (B.
2/2/’3B) is one of Britain’s mildly-pink
socialists. Educated at Eton and Cam-
bridge (his doctorate is a D.Sc.) he quali-
fied as a barrister-at-law, Middle Temple,
in 1914, but joined up with the A.S.C.
After the war he divided his time between
civil service appointments and university
teaching. He has sat in Parliament as a
Labor member since 1929, and married a
lady M.P., Miss Ruth Fox. He’s an eco-
nomist of high academic tonnage, and
has written several books.
* * * He
Prince Konoe, whose job as Premier
of Japan brings him into the cables
daily, is the youngest head of the civil
Government Nippon has had, with one
exception, Prince Ito. Konoe has been
President of the Diet, Japan’s Plush
Chamber, for the last six years, and
earned his spurs as a diplomat when he
was sent to the U.S.A. in 1934 to soothe
ruffled feelings over Manchukuo. He has
been head of his family since the age of
13, and was at the Peace Conference in
Versailles in 1919, accompanying Prince
Saionji (now an Elder Statesman), to
whom he is distantly related. It was
Saionji’s strong influence that brought
him to the Premiership at this very criti-
cal time in Japan’s history.
* * * *
W. M. James, recently promoted to
rank of full admiral, has been one of
the lucky ones. When Rear-Admiral
Custance, the Pv.A.N.’s new boss, was
joining his first seagoing ship in May,
1900, James had just completed his first
commission at sea, and was leaving Aus-
tralia with the temporary rank of acting-
sub-lieutenant. The Great War found
him at the right age' and in the right
place for quick promotion for meritori-
ous services; moreover, he was one
of the battle-cruiser officers who sur-
vived Jutland. Since the war pro-
motion and a knighthood have come
easily to him. But his enduring claim
to fame is that he sat as the model for
the angelic child of the Pears soap
“Bubbles” picture.
* * * *
“Passenger”: The Admiral Karp-
fanger, which has been loading wheat at
S.A. ports, has seen Australia in various
guises. Ten years ago she was here with
a display, of Belgian manufactures. Last
year she came for wheat as the Erikson
barque L’Avenir. The Hamburg-
Amerika changed her name, and uses
her as a training ship without losing the
commercial touch.
* * * *
“Mak”: The use-more-wool world
campaign, cost of which is being split
by Australia, Maoriland and S’Africa,
opens in June after a couple of repre-
sentatives from growers’ organisations
in each contributing country have
met in London to approve the plans of
the international secretariat working
there. A heap of money is to be spent,
and Australians, whose prosperity depends
so much on wool-demand, are hopeful
that the publicity end of the job will be
done by the clever methods of modern
advertising and propaganda. With ex-
perts like Clunies Ross to watch research
ventures, there should be fewer labora-
tory worries and more obvious results
over a short period.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.L.M.: As you say, “harped on”
T.P.0’8.: Far too long for that sort of thing
and, anyway, it’s already been covered....
P.C.J.H.: You’d best forget about versifying.
A.E.B.: Even with a lusty “Hurrah” after
each verse it would fall flat... .8.R.0.: A
little out of date... .Bellerive: Brief, but well
up to standard: —■
The hands of the clock,
Midst wealth, pleasure and strife,
Time our exit from the
Big drama of life.
E.A.B.: Poetic license doesn’t extend to
fearful mutilation of the English language.
J.F.K. : Try a daily 8.T.: It’s beyond
us L. 8.: Get away from the heavy inevit-
able-tragedy idea....J.T.: Off our beat....
L. : And so are those 1000-word articles
T.McC.: We’d need a microscope to read it.
R.E.D.: Not for us V.V.: The pale
green paper doesn’t help in the excavation of
that skeleton R.W.: “That Sallow Faced
Chinese” was hurried down the office stairs.
J.N.: Illegible Fen: They don’t make
the grade E.H.8.: No cause for alarm;
Mosey won’t “be construed as a frivolous and
unwarranted adaptation of the local pawn-
broker’s name” in these pages G.J.H.:
“Dead End Lane” won’t get you anywhere.
.. ..J.H.L.: Weak... .A.F.McS.: You might
land it elsewhere Z.H.W.: No, we would
not be interested in a series of six detective
stories of that sort... .H.E.LJ.: “One Touch”
won’t extract a cheque F.E.: “Lunatic’s
Cunning” carried him straight back home.
E.O.S.: Nearly made the grade
E.S.S.: All too slight A.F.F.: You might
hang it on another peg....1.M.: Nothing
new in that batch V.D.: So once again the
murderer dies of thirst in the great open desert.
G.H.H.: “£lO Each Way” gave no return.
... .E.S.: Still not what we want... .E.T.: It
could hardly be called a yarn G.C.P.: We
do; but it isn’t up... .P.K.D.: First time we’ve
heard of a “pleasing sheet of melancholia”
C.H.: A flapper mag. might glance at it....
M. : We read the first par. then hurled it
basketwards F.G.: That field is pretty well
exhausted, but you might find another home
for it... .E.R.8,.: The title was sufficient....
K.D.S.: “He felt there was something wrong;
his head was spinning, and he couldn’t get
the gist of what was being said.” Nor could
we M.D.F.: You’ve left the main part of
the yarn unwritten 8.F.H.: Less point than
an egg... .H.C.W.: The office stairs are less
familiar than those moiderers... .N.D.T.: Get
down to the yarn instead of airing your
vocabulary 8.H.R.: Whatever there is in
“Miner’s Rights” you’ve obscured it by fine
writing... .P.T.C.: Still amateurish, but you
should see print one day E.T.C.: You never
will if you keep fishing in that puddle
E.S.L.: “Truant” will soon be home
G.L.D.: “This story is set in the year a.d.
3000.” And the plot is from about the same
year b.c P.E.L.: It’s certainly reconstructed,
but you’ve ripped out the foundation
G.H.T.: “As I have the urge to write, I’m
afraid I must send you some more contribu-
tions.” We were afraid of that, too
T.R.8.: Their value is not enhanced by a long
explanatory letter M.D.V.: Find something
to write about first T.A.8.: Why tell the
yarn to an unnecessary character? V. 8.:
Corrected “Pauline’s Mistake” and sent her
home H.L.F.: Try us with something
brighter H.H.: Not for us “the stirring
story of an epic fight between justice and the
powers of evil” J.L.: No corner for cock-
tailer S.A.: “The Corpse” couldn’t bear in-
spection F.P.: Nothing but a cheery word
for the poor little rich girl R.D.: Borderline
stuff; not badly done, but there’s no real
reason to do it at a11....R.A.: Out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.J.: The basket swallowed the dreary-look-
ing gent, and his frowsy partner N.P.: It
must be many years since you last saw a horse.
G.H.: That wheeze was due for burial
a long time ago R. 8.: More like a mon-
strous caterpillar than a crocodile K.S.:
The pen-drawings are the better; gags are
feeble... .W.S.D.: A chance if you study hard.
H.R.: Political cartoons should be simple
and direct....J.F.: You’re weak on anatomical
details, and your humor needs brightening
P.M.: Jest too long-winded and sketch faulty
in every second stroke W.W.H.: Jerrybuilt
drawing and a gag that dates back to the
middle of last century... .J.D.: What do we
offer? A free passage home—anything to get
it out of the office C.R.: You’re still hope-
lessly plodding along the wrong track F.A.:
Showgirls look delicious, but their wit is crude.
T.J.B.: We gather from the appearance of
the drawing that you’re a chimney-sweep
F. 8.: Figures seem to have been run over
by a steam-roller H.S.: The so-called abo.
looks and speaks like an American c00n....
J.S.: Might suit a children’s magazine G.E.:
The man who bit the dog didn’t stay long
S.C.: Your twenty-first effort reveals no sign
that you are within sight of artistic maturity.
. ...H.J.D.: We’ll take your word that the
fellow with the moustache is Stalin, but who
is the warmed-up corpse in the background?
G.V.: No use turning in sketches in
colored crayon on butcher’s paper E.N.:
A painstaking sketch, but the humor is flat....
J.C.: Too late with “March to Nationhood”
cartoon. Put it aside until 1988 8.5.:
“Hop” invented that gag about the widow
whose husband died of d.ts W.C.: It’s a
far, far cry from your present standard to
publication level R.G.: You haven’t made a
bad job of the bull-ant T.M.: We admired
the decorative border but not what it surrounded.
. ...G.F.P.: Take lessons for the next three
years M.J.: We’re packing the six artistic
crocks in cotton-wool and sending them home.
. ...P.A.K.: Not a laugh in the batch....
D. 8.: Caricature bears no resemblance to the
subject W. 8.: More like a geometrical
problem than a humorous drawing.


ft
fci
Presenting the Moccasin
The ideal Gentleman’s Slipper—the Elk
Skin Moccasin. Soft padded soles, and
unlined for coolness, Australian made
and priced at 15/6, all sizes. Obtainable
only from
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba and Roma.
The westralian Billed as Worl Champion
Like those other fine Westralian boxers
Fred Kay and Alf Morey, Mick King
came east not long before the war. He
had learned his trade thoroughly in his
native State and was not long in estab-
lishing a reputation—not easily accorded
by the Fancy —of being “the cleverest
man in Australia with ’ees ’ead.”
He could easily make the old middle-
weight limit, list. 41b., and was matched
for the championship of the continent,
then held by Arthur Cripps. Two Eng-
lishmen, Nat Williams and Arthur
Evernden, who had come to Australia as
welterweights, but had grown out of the
class, were allowed to box for the title,
being held to have qualified by residence.
King whipped Williams twice and boxed
Evernden for the championship, Cripps
having sent word from his Queensland
farm that he was a non-starter. In Eng-
land Evernden had gained a decision over
Carpentier when Carpentier was a 10-
stoner, and in Australia had beaten
Jerry Jerome in one of several bouts.
King got all over him, and the police
stopped the affair in the ninth round.
At Sydney on September 19, 1914,
King crashed up against a much more
formidable fighter, Augustus Christie, of
the United States. It was each man’s
first appearance in a Sydney ring. King
proved himself an elusive but fairly hard-
hitting sprite, able to take a heavy wallop
and then come in like a flash and return
it. The toughness of Augustus was
something to marvel at. He needed it
all, for he was too slow for the Aus-
tralian, who pounded him considerably.
Endowed with a perfect boxing figure,
and equipped with a sledge-hammer at
the end of each arm, Christie rushed
round the ring in a magnificent but vain
attempt to land one blow. The West-
ralian avoided those sledge-hammers, and
in between slowly battered his rival to
pieces. He sidestepped, he backmoved,
but he never ran away ; the moment he
had dodged the assault he danced in
lightly and smote, and sometimes he
smote again.
It was hard to say who showed the
most courage and endurance. Showers of
wallops fell on Christie. One eye was
closing, his nose bled, his lips were cut;
and still he campaigned doggedly. He
swung his fists as a blacksmith’s striker
swings his hammer; he slashed as a
baseballer slashes at a ball; he hurled
blows that would have awakened a sleep-
GUS CHRISTIE’S GORE.
The caricaturist (Low) got some of it.
ing elephant; but King, when he could
not escape them altogether, took them
on the retreat. They were like blows
landing on a door that was swinging
backward.
The self-control of Christie was tre-
mendous. He knew he carried the de-
cisive punch, and only wanted oppor-
tunity to land it. King, though lacking
something in condition, never gave him
that opportunity.
Although Mick’s face was unmarked,
his body was covered with red splurges
where Christie’s blows had fallen. He
was sent spinning against the ropes, and
came back on the rebound to hit the
dazed American twice and thrice in quick
succession.
Once in the tenth round Christie
nearly got him. Gus landed on the solar
plexus, knocking King against the ropes,
• and crowded in with his “finishing”
blow. It went round King’s neck, and
they swayed across to the middle of the
ring, where Christie nailed King with a
left hook and a right swing. The swing
hit the cheekbone instead of the jaw,
but the Australian lurched forward and
fell against the Yankee, almost dead to
the world. His arms spread out, his
gloved hands groped blindly, and, find-
ing Christie’s back, closed on it like a
vyce. Christie raged like 10 heathen
deities to shake him off, and while he
raged the gong went, and King woke up
and walked to his chair.
They gave him a strong dope, and
when he came out again he unfolded a
burst of ferocity that sent the Yankee re-
treating all round the ring.
At the end of the nineteenth round
Bill Corbett, of the “Sun,” gathered up
his notes and prepared to depart, leav-
ing an assistant to report the last round
by telephone. “Don’t go,” said Christie ;
“stop and see me knock him out.’’
Thousands kept one eye on the fight
and one on the clock till there were only
nine seconds to go; then there broke
forth a great cheering that almost
drowned the clanging of Kerr’s bell. As
the fighters swung apart, Harald Baker
K.O. MARCHAND. MARCHAND, K.O.
strode over and placed his right hand of
benediction on King’s black curls.
Within a few weeks Christie had
proved his mettle by knocking out Knock-
out Marchand in three rounds and going
20 rounds with Darcy. The Frenchman
was a powerful puncher. In the second
round of his fight with Darcy he got
Les right where the neck joins the
shoulder, and, before the Maitland lad
could move, banged him on the side of
the head with the left. Darcy had to
hang on till the gong brought relief.
King’s fight with Jeff Smith at the
Sydney Stadium on November 28, 1914,
was a surprise to everybody. Mick had
been Smith’s sparring partner when Jeff,
as his friends declared, cut McGoorty to
pieces and outpointed Clabby. That
November night King looked the master
and Smith the learner.
The affair was billed as for the middle-
weight championship of the world, and
on the score of Smith’s showings with
his fellow-Americans and with Carpen-
tier he had perhaps as sound a claim as
any other pug to a title which, since the
death of Ketchell, had been in dispute.
When the news reached America that he
had been licked by King, it was dis-
covered that Mike Gibbons was the
champion. On his return to the U.S.A.,
Smith got a newspaper decision over
Gibbons, and that was after he had
shown that he wasn’t a patch on Darcy
as a fighter.
In the first round of his mill with
King, Smith lifted Mick into the air with
a perfectly-timed left hook which de-
posited the Westralian on his back. He
took a count of two, got up and com-
menced to box ; and Smith never had
another look in.
The American tried every kind of hit
he knew —hooks, straight-lefts and upper-
cuts, dozens of them ; and any one of the
lot would have shattered a public build-
ing had it connected. But King, by
beautiful headwork, let them all whizz
by. On the rare occasions when they
did reach him, it was only at the fag-
end of the punch. King, for his part,
landed often. Every attempt by Smith
to place one of his terrific left hooks pro-
duced an apparently automatic result
the left hook missed and King retaliated
with effect.
Smith stood up for 20 rounds, but was
an exhausted man at the end. King’s
preponderating score on points, when his
hits and Smith’s misses were aggregated,
must have been almost without precedent
in a championship match.
Because of Smith’s great reputation
and drawing power, there had to be a
return match, and it took place in the
same old Stadium on Boxing Night, 1914.
In the meantime, King had lost a couple
of pounds and Smith had gained about
the same, and the difference in Smith’s
favor looked at least half a stone. Jeff
was a perfectly-formed specimen of
humanity and a very fine boxer. His
trouble, in the retrospect, was timidity.
For the first 10 rounds the battle was
mostly King’s. Then Smith’s superior
strength and condition began to tell. He
certainly had the better of the latter part
of the contest; but at least 7500 of the
15,000 present did not agree with the
referee’s verdict, in his favor. Jeff missed
roughly five times to King’s one. Often
he missed by feet. On the
ether hand, when he landed
he landed hard. King’s long
left was in the Yankee’s face
most of the time —though
without working much havoc
—and he led quite as fre-
quently as Smith. Altogether
it was a clever, though not
wildly interesting, encounter.
At 8.30 p.m. on January 9,
1915, Frank Loughrey, of the
U.S.A., emerged from his
corner of the Sydney Sta-
dium, made the sign of the
Cross and hurled himself like
a ton of coal at Mick King.
He maintained the illusion
that he weighed a ton right through the
battle, though he was really several
pounds lighter than King, who came in
at list. 41b.
Loughrey’s method was to pile himself
on the enemy and wear the latter down
by sheer strength and punching vigor.
FIGHTING FACES.
Frank Loughrey (top) and Pat Bradley.
These tactics had succeeded in the case
of Pat Bradley, who was that sort of
fighter himself and was taken by surprise
when his patent was employed against him


VIA CANADA
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne
!
.
. : m
mm
r
THE
"CRESS-
BROOK"
£14716/6
(COMPLETE)
First' - class
w orkmanship
and materials
throughout.
Suitable for
park, polo or
ladies’ use, it
is a “Kemp” type
saddle and has a
narrow non - chafing
grip.
N.S.W. RAIL FREIGHT
PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
WALTHER & STEVENSON ZZZ:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
yAi. Haxf Move/
S
xr'V
WW
ms
££&&& • -
St&s&&s&*•
m ••'•; ••-; s
Mil
J%2 Aazne
ptallums
Zfce UffusAc/
js-
m
36C
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Adelaide
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
(Frank stopped Pat in eight rounds); but
the scheme proved of little avail against
King, whose speed and skill removed him
from the danger zone as often as it
approached.
LOUGHREY FAILED TO LAND ON
KING.
Loughrey had only one guard for
Mick’s straight left—his nose. In every
round he stopped right crosses , with his
jaw. He had the local lad in a bad way
in the sixth round, but King soon re-
covered and resumed his mastery of the
situation. In the nineteenth and twentieth
rounds the gallant little Irish-American
was all but out.
The decision—a draw—was a notable
example of the efficacy of prayer. King
won by yards. If proof were needed
that the referee had erred grievously, it
was supplied by Loughrey’s seconds,
Lippe and Jeff Smith. For a moment
they were too delighted for articulate
speech ; then they loudly proclaimed that
the verdict was a fine one.
Loughrey, like Christie, lasted 20
rounds with Darcy, though Les tem-
pered justice with mercy.
Fighting Billy Murray was another
middleweight from the U.S.A. to whom
King gave a boxing lesson before Darcy
was called upon to meet him. In
America, Murray had fought George
Chip and Clabby and claimed to have
held the championship. A Portuguese
on one side of the house, he was a sallow-
complexioned fellow with the passionate
mouth and bullet head of old Africa. He
was strong and combative, as rugged as
the side of a cliff; but he could not box
King.
With a pile-driving lunge to the body
Murray painted his adversary’s ribs
scarlet before the contest was half-
through. This punch was delivered with
either hand, but most frequently with the
left. King boxed on the retreat a good
deal. It was sound generalship, for not
many men, unless cased in armor, could
afford to engage in a slogging match
with one of Murray’s strength and game-
ness. King’s skill was manifestly
superior. He cut the foreigner to pieces
with his straight lefts, and got the
decision.
But presently Mick lost his Australian
title to Darcy, who had him so limp in
the tenth round that the police wouldn’t
let the thing go on. The
same thing happened in the
same round when King met
McGoorty. In each case he
tried to concede weight to a
stronger fellow and stiffer
puncher, and was consider-
ably knocked about, for he
was dead game.
Jimmy Clabby was a
lighter and less tough propo-
sition. King and Clabby
began 1916 at the Sydney
Stadium struggling to land a
punch in the proper place. At
the end of 20 rounds, Arthur
Scott placed his hand on
James’s head, and people said
it was a fair thing. It was
a good set-to between exceptionally
clever boxers. There were times when
Mick was feeling very sore and troubled
in spirit, but he cheerfully took what came
his way. He once more showed that he
had in his kit everything a pugilist re-
FRITZ HOLLAND.
quires to climb the pathway of success
except one thing—a knockout punch.
King was in fine shape in Melbourne
on the night of August 27, 1916, and
Fritz Holland found the going strenuous.
Fritz wanted fight, as he signified with
solid rights to the body ; but Mick was
usually half-way to somewhere else when
Holland’s punches arrived and took de-
livery only when the sting had evapo-
rated. Holland was leading at half-time ;
but Mick commenced dropping his left
into Fritz’s face, and then lifting him-
self away with great precipitancy. The
harder Fritz tore in the more abrupt
was the bump. Result: verdict for King.
In subsequent mills at Melbourne,
King was outpointed by Fred Kay and
by the American Buck Crouse. Another
20-rounder he lost was with the heavy-
weight Harold Hardwick.
King went to the U.S.A., turning up
in New York when Darcy was there. He
told the reporters he had made the
journey to tackle Darcy again. Going
west, he had a lot of fights on the Pacific
Slope, meeting such men as Tom
Gibbons, who was a good bit heavier,
and who was subsequently to box 15
rounds with Jack Dempsey. King fought
too often and took too much punish-
ment ; and he returned to Australia a
badly broken-up man. Perhaps he, as
well as Darcy, would have had a happier
fate had he gone away with the A.I.F.
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne football fol-
lowers attended in large and tearful
numbers at the boat by which Haydon
Bunton, the Fitzroy Bayard, departed to
foreign parts—in this case Westralia.
There was an added barb in the depar-
ture. Enthusiasts who had partly inured
themselves to the loss of their hero were
staggered to find that he was accom-
panied by a close relative whom Fitzroy
optimists had been acclaiming as a com-
ing champion. It is true that the hope
of the future is only 12 months old, but
football managements in Victoria these
days have to look far ahead if they
don’t want to miss the bus. I forgot to
say he is Bunton’s first-born.
•H * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A feature of the
N.S.W. rowing championships on the
Nepean was the exhibition spins by the
Empire Games crews, and rowing en-
thusiasts found a lot of interest in com-
paring the differing styles. Something
unusual on this side was seen when the
English crew downed oars and went
through a series of physical exercises for
the arms without disturbing the balance
of their craft one iota. It appears that
this is a not uncommon performance in
Britain to-day, though I cannot think it
would be countenanced at Henley, any
more than the Australian cricketers would
be permitted to give an aboriginal war
cry before the Test at Lord’s.
KNEE STIFF AS A
POKER
Middle-aged Man Who
Could Hardly Walk
He thought he had injured his knee in some
way and that it needed massage and treatment,
but he got no relief. The truth was that he
was suffering from uric acid in the joint. Now
he tells how Kruschen Salts have made him
walk as well as ever, although he is already
middle-aged.
“A few years ago I developed a very sore
knee joint and it stiffened up. I had treatment
for about 3 months. I could hardly walk, it
was so sore and painful. I also had it X-
rayed, but there appeared to be nothing wrong
with the knee. I heard of Kruschen Salts, so
I got a bottle. After I had taken a portion
of the bottle the stiffness left me, so I now
take Kruschen every morning, and can walk
12 or 14 miles a day. I am middle-aged.”—-
A.M.
Kruschen Salts dear your blood of the
mischievous uric acid which settles in your
joints and muscles, causing them to swell, grow
stiff and unbearably painful. And when
poisonous uric acid goes, there is po doubt
about these old rheumatic aches going, too!


A GREAT FIRM’S STORY
Some time or other an Australian
novelist, not taken in by the yarn that
there is no really big subject for a writer
to fasten on to in this country, may take
the story of Anthony Horderns’ and
body it forth as Miles Franklin did that
of the landed pioneers in All That
Swagger.
Miles Franklin’s theme would fit it
perfectly. The whole story of the firm —
told in a capital History of Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Ltd., by Thomas J.
Redmond —is built on that same vision-
ary faith in Australia from the begin-
ning with which Miles Franklin credited
Danny Delacy.
The prospective novelist would have an
even longer stretch of Australian history
to draw on. The first Anthony Hordern
reached Sydney only 35 years after
Phillip landed, and the firm—now a com-
pany—is to-day living more than ever up
to its trade motto: “While I live I’ll
grow.” There is nothing more solidly
set in Australian tradition. It is Aus-
tralia’s oldest store, with well over a
century of expanding trading as its back-
ground. As the author of its History—
first published for the Harbor Bridge
opening, and now en-
larged and brought
up to date for the
150th Anniversary
celebrations sums
it up: “The two
stories, namely, that
of the growth of the
nation, and of its
oldest store, largely
marched together,
and the texture of
their life was the
s a m e.” Certainly
scope for a novelist,
and offering, in such
occurrences as the
fire of 1901, and es-
pecially in the way
that was faced, over-
come and blended
into the firm’s back-
ground, as spectacu-
lar material as any
commercial concern
in the world could
provide or any novelist desire.
When that catastropne happened
Anthony Horderns’ was already 77 years
old. The historian makes picturesque
use of that fire and recovery from it
and the fact that the ship which brought
the first Anthony Hordern to Australia
was appropriately the Phoenix. The
pioneer of what was to be for over 100
years a family firm came of a banking
family of Stramshall, Staffordshire. He
brought with him his wife and four chil-
dren ; also a letter from Lord Goulburn
to Macquarie, recommending him as a
free settler. He did receive a grant of
640 acres, too, but never availed himself
of it. Instead, he and his wife set them-
selves up in business in King-street, he
as a coachbuilder, with his shop at the
rear of their premises, and Mrs. Hor-
dern as milliner and draper in a shop
at the front.
Evidently that first Mrs. Hordern had
as sound a business head on her as any
Hordern since. From her address at the
No. 17 King-street of that day she
“pioneered fashion-plate advertising, and
electrified the ladies of Sydney by per-
suading the proprietors of the ‘Herald’
to insert, at the top of her advertisement,
a block depicting the very latest creation
in poke bonnets.” No doubt she equally
electrified the “Herald.”
From their King-street beginning place
they moved to Brickfield Hill, to be on
the road which was that day’s George-
street, and along which, in the ’forties,
24,000,0001 b. of wool, worth £1,600,000,
was laboriously hauled to the wharves
at Circular Quay. There—from that
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.
trade and other traffic passing thpir door
—they prospered so rapidly that by the
’fifties the shop was too small for the
business, and there was another move,
this time to the Haymarket. What these
localities looked like at the time and the
buildings which housed the firm in those
and other moves are pictured in the
History in illustrations which are in
themselves a very clear history of the
development of Sydney, as well as of
the firm.
What the first Anthony Hordern estab-
lished the second consolidated, leaving
at his death in 1876 some £50,000. Then
his sons, Anthony and Samuel, both
on the sunny side of 30, took a hand,
with a vigor which soon had the firm
expanding more prodigiously than ever,
Three generations now, and the firm
growing with increasing impetus ; it was
evidently in the blood. This was a period
of extraordinarily rapid development in
the country altogether, and two of as
keen and sound business heads as Aus-
tralia has produced were there to grasp
opportunity well and truly by the fore-
lock. By 1879 they employed 300, and
they increased that number at the rate
The Haymarket in 1858, one of the numerous interesting illustrations in “A History of Anthony
Horderns’, Ltd.”
of about 100 a year. More palatial struc-
tures went up; the factories were
started ; they bought in overseas trading
centres from Europe to Cathay; they
had the universal-providing business to
themselves, easily outdistancing all rivals
in the race for trade. Their success pro-
voked one rival—a relative—to advertis-
ing that
... -the extensive business done at THIS
POPULAR WAREHOUSE renders it un-
necessary for the PROPRIETOR to resort
to sel] f ng sardines, CROCKERY,
BOOTS and SHOES, or TIN POTS,
But in the success that attended their
dealing in their proverbial everything
from a needle to an anchor they could
afford to regard that sort of thing on
its merits. The firm was strong enough
to survive the financial crisis of the early
’nineties, which shut up hosts of other
firms, and banks as well. Then came
the fire. It broke out at eight o’clock on
a midwinter’s morning, and within two
hours roughly half a million pounds’
worth of goods and the big stores that
had housed them were all completely
destroyed. “The palatial warehouses,
wherein were served 30,000 people every
day, with annual sales amounting to a
million and a half sterling, were nothing
more than burning ruins.”
In one thing, however, the firm was
in luck. In view of the impending first
Federal tariff, huge quantities of mer-
chandise had been imported. Amount-
ing to just about a duplicate of the stock
destroyed, this was all stored in bulk in
Sussex-street. The Samuel Hordern then
controlling the firm was as quick to a
decision as any other in “Anthony’s” his-
tory : on this occasion he excelled all
’ j-.
others. Deciding instantly on the Ex-
hibition Building in Prince Alfred Park
as a temporary business address, he was
making arrangements and signing agree-
ments with the city council while the
flames were still shooting upwards.
Before sundown that same day “Anthony
Horderns’ were Town Hall tenants, with
the trade of the State, and Australia, still
~,j „ * ’
m tneir nanas. #
Demolition of the destroyed buildings
was begun at once, with none other than
T nrrv Fnlov in ohnrno • and when oven-
n Y \T y Cliarg ’ * n( ? Wlien ’
tually, the present great house of the
firm was built, and merited congratula-
tions and applause poured in for one of
the finest performances in the commer-
cial history of Australia, The Bulletin
weighed in with this tribute: —
At a time when our anti-Australians
averred that, owing to Federation, the
Commonwealth was losing capital and
credit, and had come to be regarded as a
financial wild cat among the nations,
Samuel Hordern gave these people the lie,
by sinking a fortune in a new shop. To
* c m s e chl Australia he° Sied^by
putting into his new building every atom
of material procurable in Australia.
jhe keynote of Anthony Horderns’ is
to-day, as it always has been, absolute
meticulous honesty in all things, but no
favors being given, and none asked but a
fair deal” between man and man. Their
plain contention is that giving away things
as an inducement to buy constitutes a cost
that must fall on the customer in the end,
and they prefer rather to let the consumer
have his goods at bedrock prices, and pay
for extras later (if he feels he wants them)
out of what he has saved,
Anthony Horderns’, with its gigantic in-
tbe immense sums it brings to state and
Commonwealth by way of freight charges,
taxes and postal dues, is an institution of
national importance.
WHEN PHILLIP LANDED
(BY E.V .)
History was amusingly sub-edited by
Sydney’s celebrations committee when it
re-enacted the landing of Phillip's expedi-
p nrt TorWnn The 'lrtnnl stnrv is
tion in Port Jackson, me actual story is
told in Phillip’s Voyage to Botany Bay,
published by Stockdale in London in
1789 *
The' debarkation was now made at Sydney
Cove [not Farm Cove, where the Sesqui-
what’sthis Committee placed its landing], and
the work of clearing the ground for the en-
campment, as well as for the storehouses and
other buildings, was begun without loss of
time. But the labor which attended this neces-
sary operation was greater than can be easily
imagined by those who were not spectators
of it. The coast, as well as the neighbouring
country in general, is covered with wood; and
though in this sppt the trees stood more apart,
and were less incumbered with underwood
than in many other places, yet their magnitude
was such as to render not only the felling, but
the removal of them afterwards, a task of
no small difficulty. By the habitual indolence
of the convicts, and the want of proper over-
seers to keep them to their duty, their labor
was rendered less efficient than it might have
been. In the evening of the 26th the colors
were displayed on shore, and the Governor
with several of his principal officers and others,
assembled round the flagstaff, drank the King’s
Health. and success to the settlement, with all
that display of form, which on such occasions
is esteemed propitious, because it enlivens the
spirits; and fills the imagination with pleasing
presages. From this time, till the end of the first
week in February, all was hurry and exertion.
The flagstaff stood near what is now
Macquarie-place. It was not till Feb-
ruary 7 that there was any speech-
making, and by then huts and hospital
tents were up. The month had been
ushered in by a very violent storm—such
as Sydney experienced this year on
January 27—and a tree was struck, kill-
ing five of the community’s precious
sheep. Up till February 7, Governor
Phillip had been “so wholly occupied by
the continual necessity of giving direc-
tions, he had not yet found leisure for
assuming regularly his powers and title
of Governor.” At length the hurry of
the first preparations “gave way to this
more tranquil business”:
The 7th of February,' 1788, was the memor-
able day which established a regular form of
Government on the Coast of N. S. Wales.
For obvious reasons, all possible solemnity was
given to the proceedings necessary to this occa-
sion. On a space previously cleared, the whole
of the colony was assembled; the military drawn
up, and under arms; the convicts stationed
apart; and near the person of the Governor,
those who were to hold the principal offices
under him. The Royal Commission was then
read by Mr. D. Collins, the Judge Advocate....
A triple discharge of musquetry concluded
this part of the ceremony ; after which Governor
Phillip advanced, and addressing first the private
soldiers, thanked them for their steady conduct
on every occasion: an honor which was
peated to them in the next general orders. He
then turned to the convicts, and distinctly ex-
plained to them the nature of their present
situation. The greater part, he bade them
recollect, had already forfeited their lives to the
justice of their country: yet by the lenity of
its laws, they were now so placed that, by
industry and good behaviour, they might in
time regain the advantages and estimation in
society of which they had deprived themselves.
They not only had every encouragement to
make that effort, but were removed almost
entirely from every temptation to guilt. There
was little in this infant community which one
man could plunder from another, and any dis-
honest attempt in so small a society would
almost infallibly be discovered. To persons
detected in such crimes, he could not promise
any mercy; nor indeed to any who, under their
circumstances, should presume to offend against
the peace and good order of the settlement.
What mercy could do for them they had
already experienced; nor could any good now
be expected from those whom neither past
warnings, nor the peculiarities of their present
situation could preserve from guilt.
He went on to say that against
offenders the full rigor of the law would
be put in force, while those whose be-
havior should in any degree promise
reformation might always depend upon
encouragement fully proportioned to
their deserts.
He remarked that he “particularly
noticed illegal intercourse between the
sexes as an offence which encouraged
general profligacy of manners.” And to
prevent this “he strongly recommended
marriage, and promised every assistance
and encouragement to those entering
into that state.” He concluded by “de-
claring his earnest desire to promote the
happiness of all who were under his
government, and to render the settlement
in N. S. Wales advantageous and honor-
able to his country.”
We are told that this speech, which
concluded the proceedings, was received
with universal acclamation, and that it
was “not altogether without its proper
effect, for in the course of the ensuing
week fourteen marriages took place
among the convicts.”
After the gathering, Phillip finished
the day with a dinner to his officers at
which the first evening of his govern-
ment “was concluded propitiously, in
good order and innocent festivity, amidst
the repetition of wishes for its pros-
perity.”


snoinig
Hknjnf ■
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may he loose one day, but
constbated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
f
R)
Cl
3
*
PILLS
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
KLJKL
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of t he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
CSubscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
{ twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
I and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
j Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
I free.
&
<O.
<2* d
C V^ S ;
•s^
»
-
,%4^'
>
<?<*
,a
0<
’’ .••■■*


(UJi
*
i
a I IVEY'S
Dft Y G 5 N
sv--> ■?<ytifii
.« , ■,„. A» ?V- ri, ‘ 'Vr.
V « • ’ . .* V# . *“a>
«V^/ N s'-
/ «S/ N 'v N
/■A V
''Da &£.*■«> *V«£v
X -J
Da f-ct
/AV^i'
V
/
%
3
/Ta
x
Si
r:
V£=^
StfS=l
[
s
KEEP
COOL
WITH
A long cool sizzly drink, ice tinkling in the
glass, a flake of lemon floating on top, a
good generous dash of Gilbey’s to give it
body and sustaining powers- —that’s the sort
of summer drink to make you forget your
troubles and restore good humour. That
dash of Gilbey’s in your minerals makes all
the difference.
JKLJK
N ever redden, roar or shout
Although when in you're given out.
Such captious conduct at the wicket
Is most heating and—er—not cricket.
b° t 1 le »
/guarantee^
vir & A GILBEy i
•15
'»S:*
Vj. «*:*>.
Ml:
sS.'-v-; .-.V.., , ;w », . :V . ;!:
Hpi IfMl
<£’ifeV' •
,'V **.-.v.VJ*. V*.- ' 'yfjS o '
Wity—Castle OB BBSWEETEHED GW-dwiw
from Matt and Grain, and highly rati-
fied as W & A Gilbey’s Distillery. H»
the delicate flavor of the Juniper berry-
-BET: f PINTS CZB.
PRODUCE OP AUSTRALIA
ft;{•■■"• * ; •/; / and Profejso:
• 4 ; |!” .* •
CHARLES A.
THE GIN OF
GENERATIONS
