

-Hu/hc/aUI
CREDIT BOND
ST
r R tDiT
Ut
tfe<L
m
at
Vl^ 9,
of v\
A«*
0^' V
O"
£
\VV.>
S»SE
j ' .
H23H
ri"^
11\" 5
6^
«
- *a
pt°'
hfj?
A
rtVtfSt
r:c
VaVr
fAj
b»* c
cV» r *:
V-‘ l
tic."
tto> de ; rt A *> et
if of:
r<^
rV/f"::
v*.
r j>
K^l
fZS\
&
iff
*
te?
■%
&
*
s*
4?
•s<t?
A
::-::A
a m
<£>
?-J
1
pa&
it
h
rr
•jK^j
cVfV
\
v<
I
vm
•vy
mmi
Ml
m
ill
7fr /?'
4ST
&«»«&s***. fe
, .' •,' » 4 • \ *
s££?•
Lightens the
Housewife's Burden!
No credit shopping system ever
conceived has created such wide-
spread attention and interest nr
achieved such instantaneous
success as Highgates Credit Bond.
This invention of Mr. E. C. Bruce
Midlane, Managing Director,
Highgates, Limited, and copy-
righted throughout the British
Empire, is acclaimed by all the
easiest, fairest and cheapest credit
system in the world.
k Highgates Credit Bond is, literally, the “Power Behind the Home.”
It is the housewife’s friend. It lightens the financial burdens of the
house. To shop on it is a sheer delight.
It is used to-day by thousands of men and women for every kind of
women’s fashions and men’s wear.
It provides continuous recurring credit all the year round on the SAME
Credit Bond absolutely free of interest and may be had in denomi-
nations of £l, £2, £3, £4, £5, £7, £lO, £l5, £2O, and is good for any amount
up to its face value at any Highgates Store.
You use it just like banknotes, and the goods purchased on it at cash
prices are paid for at the rate of only 1/- in the £ weekly, over a period of
20 weeks entirely free of interest and all other unnecessary charges.
It is a marvellous convenience! It is a great money-saver! It gives its
holder the fairest and squarest deal possible to get on ANY credit
system.
NO INTEREST ... NO DEPOSIT ... NO LAY-BY
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
USUAL SIGNATURE DATE
'flicfhefci’ieh.
CASH i AND # CREDIT-BOND STORES
“HIGHGATES HOUSE”, 332 PITT ST.
(Next to John Danks and a few doors from Liverpool Street).
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: 257 CLARENCE STREET (Between Market Street
and Sydney Town Hall). Telephone: MJ4691 (6 lines).
Also at Hurstville and Ashfield.
The Bulletin
First Instalment G. B. Lancasters “Promenade”
Vol. 59.—N0. 3039.
Thursday, May 12, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
TAVERN AND DRAWING-ROOM.
Despite the excellent instruction he received at
the Manchester Grammar School under Mr. Henry
Jackson, whom he describes as “a noted flog-bottom-
ist and brandy-drinker,” James Gatliff moved to
a boarding-school directed by the Rev. Thackeray,
who went mad. Locking the boys in after prayers one
evening, the master announced that he was going to
flog the lot. Gatliff was the first to be ordered to
unbutton, and a fight followed.
The youth transferred to Hipperholme School in
Yorkshire, where he became friendly with one Tom
Horton, “a stupid, honest-hearted fellow who later
broke his neck in the pursuit of a much wiser animal
than himself —a fox.” Quarrelling with Horton, Gat-
liff fell foul of the headmaster, Mr. Sutcliffe, and
was ordered a public trial before the school. He
describes the upshot:
“Sir, come forth and let thy breeches down!” This
summons was issued by a no less important person than
Mrs. Sutcliffe, who took upon herself the extraordinary
duty of flagellation whenever the boys were sentenced
by her husband to that nasty penalty. Consequently a
scuffle developed, and I, after capturing the birch, made
an honorable retreat through the window and thence to
the inn ol' the sign of “The Shuttle.”
The quotation comes from Gatliff’s autobio-
graphy Stations, Gentlemen ! (Faber); it indicates
the book’s engagingly picaresque quality, and there
is a glimpes of its humor in his afterthoughts on the
incident:
The old Wife never forgave the “Lancashire brute,”
as she used to call me, for the action so reflective on
her dignity. If it was her husband’s duty to superin-
tend the heads of his scholars, she, like Lucifer, was
content to command the lower regions.
Though the publishers declare that Gatliff was
a real person, living from 1766 to 1831, and that the
autobiography is a genuine document written by Gat-
liff in the hope that his son might profit from his
innumerable mistakes, it seems too good to be true.
After his schooldays he became what he calls beauti-
fully “a typical military prig of the day,” and then,
as an officer in India and China, he lived riotously
and amusingly, gambling, drinking and duelling ; back
in England, he married and became —a parson!
Unorthodox as a schoolboy and a soldier, he was
even more uproariously eccentric in his later profes-
sion. Finding himself in monetary difficulties, he
spent a year—and some hundreds of pounds—buying
lottery tickets. The sad story is summarised:
In the spring drawing I intended to purchase all the
tickets of the second day, but could not persuade myself
to the full hazard and therefore took only half. By this
honorable timidity I lost £7500.
The parson was arrested for debt and committed
to the Fleet prison, where a week earlier he had
taken the precaution of hiring a furnished room on
the top gallery. He was deprived of his living, but
on his release —a duellist to the last —he bombarded
his bishop with pamphlets and petitions till he was
restored in triumph to his parish. In the next five
years, he asserts, he caught 8431 “trouts.”
Only on the rarest occasions does Gatliff recall
that the book is supposed to be a solemn warning to
his offspring. When he does remember, he is more
entertaining than ever. His moralising when an inn-
keeper did him a good turn, for instance:
There appears in the conduct of this man something
like improbability. In writing these memoirs I cannot
always account for what happens—but the improbability
of a virtuous and liberal action in a publican is no
reason why one should be thrown on the background.
Except that he very obviously delights in his
peccadilloes, he sums it up himself pretty accurately
when he writes to his son:
Never was a human being more desirous to acknow-
ledge his errors than your Father, whose life has been
an unvaried one of Sin and Repentance.
There is another entertaining glimpse of the dis-
sipation of Gatliff’s period in Be Loved No More
(Allen and Unwin), a biography of Fanny Burney
by Arthur Bernon Tourtellot. The author quotes the
“St. James’s Evening Post” on the organisation of
Brook’s Club. The personnel included:
A Director, an Operator, two Crowpees, two Puffs
who have the money given them to decoy others to play.
A Clerk to see that the puffs sink none of the money
given them to play with. A Squib, who is a puff of
lower rank. A Flasher to swear how often the bank has
been stripped. A Dunner to recover money lost at
play. A Waitor for wine and snuff, an Attorney, a New-
gate solicitor, a Captain to fight any peevish loser. An
Orderly to alarm the house at the approach of the
constables; common bail, affidavit men, bailees, cum
multis aliis.
But most of Be Loved No More is located in
regions more genteel than Brook’s or Lloyd’s or
White’s; Fanny Burney’s gaol was more refined than
the Fleet.
Fulke Greville, dandy and gambler, struts quickly
off the stage ; Kit Smart, writing “The Song of David”
on the wall of his madhouse, or, released, asking all
and sundry to pray with him, is dismissed with a
touch of what a Sydney paper, in another connection,
recently called “unseasonable jocosity.” Once they
have gone the book flutters in the elegance of Mrs.
Thrale’s drawing-room, where only Dr. Johnson, bel-
lowing and blundering like a bull, rattles the china
shepherdesses. Sir Joshua Reynolds wanders about
with his ear-trumpet; Dr. Burney gives a musical
party, throughout which Dr. Johnson lays down the law
at the top of his voice; Fanny Burney, a shy little
miss of 27, publishes Evelina —much ado about man-
ners ; Johnson chucks her under the chin and then
makes Mrs. Thrale go and change her dress, remark-
ing “wittily” that women follow fashion, not taste ;
Sophy Streatfield, who can weep at will, weeps;
Bozzy, unable to sit next to Johnson at a dinner party
because the place is reserved for Fanny, pulls up a
chair behind the pair so as not to miss a word of his
master’s voice ; Johnson publicly rebukes him.
The scene moves to the fashionable pump-room
at Bath, where Johnson becomes so savage that no
one will come near him.
Then, as “clubably” as he has lived, Johnson dies,
and the life goes out of his circle. Mrs. Thrale
marries the fat tenor, Piozzi; Fanny, with two novels
to her credit, retires to the Court of George 111., to
be broken in spirit by the atmosphere of dingy avarice
and by the malice of Mrs. Schwellenberg, a Keeper of
the Robes who also kept pet frogs.
Warren Hastings, Madame de Stael and De
Talleyrand color the picture for a while; Fanny
marries and is happy; and at the end:
So the English nation, busy and happy at the
approaching marriage of Victoria and Albert, did not
pause for a second to note the frail old body that was
being borne from Piccadilly to Bath for interment.
Fanny Burney was dead, and who was she?
It is hard to realise that Be Loved No More and
Stations, Gentlemen! cover the same period—one so
“elegant,” so narrow; the other so full of villainy
and vitality. Each in its own way is an unusually
vivid book, and, if the tavern is more interesting than
the drawing-room, that’s Dr. Johnson’s fault rather
than Mr. Arthur Bernon Tourtellot’s.
The "American Dream."
American Dream, by Michael Foster (Constable),
is a long book that tries to tell the complete story
of one man, Shelby Thrall. With his story is involved
also the stories of his father and grandfather from
the time when the latter, John Thrall, a sea captain,
ran guns once too often on the Irish coast in 1848,
and barely escaped to America disguised as an emi-
grant.
In America he married Mary Parker, of sea-
faring New England stock, and prospered until,
between success in business and the inordinate virtue
of his wife, he tired of it all and sailed away to become
at last a rajah in Malaya and send his wife a false
report of his death. Their son, another John, grew
up to be such another man as his father, but with
his temper pitched in a different key.
A lawyer, he felt the call of the West, recently
pioneered, and found there, not fortune, but one lost
cause after another, which he espoused to his ruin.
In him, his father’s passion for personal liberty is
transmuted by his mother’s Puritan stock into a pas-
sion for social liberty. His son, Shelby, grew up in
poverty, but after a good deal of knocking about
became a successful journalist. At the moment when
the book opens he has thrown up his job in disgust,
and with his wife and son is returning to the wilds
to make a new beginning in a little printery at Cruci-
fixion Bay.
Shelby spends the days before he sails going
through a collection of family papers in the attic.
Out of these are built the stories of his American fore-
bears. The book is compiled entirely of episodes.
Each story is complete in itself, and the device of the
family papers is never allowed to become a burden or
cramp the development of any episode. The reader
knows more of Shelby’s ancestors than Shelby ever
knows. American Dream enlarges by implication
into the story of a nation moving slowly and falter-
ingly toward an ideal.
He thought that from this new earth, this America,
was born a dream, and a plan of human life which
might yet save a world grown hard and ancient in
dreadful practicality, a world encrusted with blood
from centuries of useless agony. Here men and women,
freed of inherited hates and greeds, forgetting the glit-
tering follies, the sorry shrewdness of generations that
had died in vain, could build a nation in this faith.
That is the author’s manifesto. Yet the book is
in no wise a tract. The fullness and variety of the
story and the subtlety of the telling build up a body
of interest that carries the “moral” quite painlessly
into the reader’s mind.
American Dream has its thin places, but they are
few. So with the characters: some of the minor
ones—the enigmatic hunchback girl who stowed away
in John Thrall’s ship and Mary’s cruel and cowardly
second husband —are unsatisfactory stencils, but the
principals are fully and satisfactorily drawn. The
prose is richly cadenced; its lushness is counter-
acted by flashes of witty description, such as: “Mr.
Carver had a face which looked as if it had been
hewn out of Vermont granite by a Michelangelo and
then altered by a sentimental stone-cutter for use as
a medium-priced tombstone angel.”
A Diarist in Soho.
A few years ago George Thomas, a cripple and
a son of a London dustman, published A Tenement
in Soho, a diary written from the sickroom but rich
with life. It met with deserved success. He now
follows it up with My Mind a Kingdom (Cape;
Angus and Robertson), dating from January to
December, 1935, the year in which he wrote and
published his novel, Neighbours.
Thomas and three other members of his family
suffer from progressive muscular atrophy, a disease
that so far has baffled treatment and can have only
one end for the patient; but, on the evidence of
Thomas’s work, it quickens the mind, heightens the
sense of humor and feeds the source of human
courage.
The diary rings true. It is not a fapade for the
benefit of the onlooker. When you read that brother
Dan slipped while preparing vegetables at the sink,
that he nearly choked in the awkward posture in
which he fell, that it took his not-quite-bedridden
helpers a long time to get him on his feet again, and
that they all had a good laugh about it afterward, you
believe in the laugh. They don’t live in the conscious-
ness of their desperation, but in the things that allevi-
ate it.
My Mind a Kingdom is a succinct account of
visits from regular and irregular callers, family
incidents, scraps of life which come to the diarist at
second hand and which have obviously been pondered
at length by him before being committed to his
diary with a personal comment, impressions of rare
excursions to the outside world, opinions about books,
comments on the day’s news, speculations about the
affairs of friends —all of whom the reader gets to
know—and, running right through, the story of the
novel’s progress from its beginning to the arrival ot
reviews. Thomas reduces all that comes his way to
its essence, and it is surprising how much comes the
way of a cripple in a Soho tenement. This through
an open window while renovations were in progress:
I overheard a little of the estate class-warfare to-day.
One woman was talking to another woman at a window
somewhere up above us and the one upstairs said, “My
drawing-room is in a mess,” and the lady below replied,
“Blimey, you got one a-those?” and then in more
conciliatory tones, “It ain’t what I call mine!” But the
sarcasm was effective, for the chat ended abruptly.
He snapshots life neatly and writes his comment
in a single line. On an excursion in a wheel-chair he
watches a bowls player:
He was a foreigner, a small sallow man, and wore
his panama down on his ears. He trotted after each
wood he sent down, looking most comical from behind,
bobbing heels and east-and-west knees. He gesticulated
to the wood in transit if it seemed about to run wide.
Bowls is as serious a business as the Stock Exchange.
As a commentator on the day’s news he is always
interesting. This, considering it was jotted down in
1935, is not so bad:
There was a broadcast this evening from Eden—
Anthony, not Garden of relayed from Geneva. It
was a string of platitudes about the League and Sanc-
tions. If there is one thing clearer than another it
is that the League will sink in a flood of words.
The idiosyncrasies of the family Mum, Dad,
Alfie, Ada and Dan —become very familiar. Dan is
an inveterate joker. If a hero-worshipping stranger
mistakes him at an open window for the author of
A Tenement in Soho —whom he closely resembles —
he doesn’t undeceive the stranger. Ada is the author’s
critic of work in progress, and Mum is fearful lest
he put in it the coarseness of the life about them—
which he does, but not coarsely.
There are flashes pf personal feeling. The novel
was not as successful as the diary. A reviewer,
meaning to be kind, wrote “Mr. Thomas should not
have been encouraged in novel writing.” Thomas
retorts: “Everything in my life encourages me to lie
down and die, but I shall not do so —even to please
the Times Literary Supplement.’ ”
!i There is a glimpse, too, of the inwardness of his
life when he notes that another muscle has become
affected and he can no longer cross his legs when
sitting to write —“To watch one’s own slow disintegra-
tion is not amusing.”
This book is quietly written, but it takes a
tenacious hold on the reader’s interest.
"Feminine Fig Leaves."
The opening chapters of Feminine Fig Leaves,
by C. Willett Cunnington (Faber), are in themselves
fig-leaves; heavily playful stuff designed to hide the
writer’s serious intentions. He is most entertaining
when he puts such pretensions aside. He is a doctor
by profession—and a modem one.
The modern psychologist tells them that a sense of
sin is merely an unhealthy condition of the emotions,
a symptom of disease which it is in his, and not the
theologian’s, province to cure. Presently the blessed
phrase “inferiority complex” comes trippingly off his lips,
and the fair penitent retires with the pleasant belief that
she is not a sinner at all, but, on the contrary, a
specially interesting victim of ill-health. It is impossible
to estimate the number of women who, to-day, will
inform their friends, with a good deal of satisfaction,
that they have an inferiority complex, as though it were
a new sort of vanity-bag into which are popped all
sorts of private accessories to the mental make-up. She
has exchanged an uneasy conscience for an exciting
complexion.
It is difficult sometimes to know what he means
by the word sentimental, but in one place he explains
by illustration:
It is notorious that women enjoy witnessing weddings,
even though the parties are complete strangers. Men,
on the other hand, being less trained in the art of
mental projection, do not discover this curious satisfac-
tion in weddings. The normal woman loves to examine
the bride’s trousseau and especially her nighties; but
you don’t see the bridegroom’s pals longing to finger
his pyjamas. Men are not sufficiently sentimental for
that.
He speculates as to why so many women during
the hours they are alone in their homes like to have
the wireless going full blast. They admit that they
do not exactly listen, but that they enjoy the pleasant
noise, the illusion of company. He thinks it signi-
ficant that they don’t care for women announcers ;
“they prefer a nice manly voice which encourages
pleasing daydreams of unseen but ardent admirers
pursuing them all over the house.” Apropos the
“nice manly voice” he remarks that radio has “an
Oxford accent and a suburban mind.”
On the whole, Dr. Cunnington has liking and
admiration for the modern woman, and as the patient
resumes her fig-leaves he has a few words to say on
modesty. “It seems that women want to be looked
at but not seen through, and fig-leaves ensure the
one and prevent the other” ; instance the modern
bathing costume, which is “more like a poster than
a protection.” The bare back is symbolic of a change
{Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— always.
THE SENIOR STORE:
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Bargains greater than ever
j
CHM-
n
LlOVfi
, ts
. west W*»V£». ,
, ™sf% “ ,e s«5 «*rw * m * •
tvtifA* Wf'f 1 few. * “
ight
Slated^
ot o ttvel
Racin
2^ V S nS land. 4 0
, adC U ' . ftve -coat e^d-l^ ed
scitom - on
w inflated 0
\tevc
Biu ”^
« SI S»
:010« T
Rector
ixißai 01 ' >
Ho.**" 5 ' % 8 /2/' 6
ony ’ ' 9 xno nt^' y
B p. ® ra^ e c a \ e ? nCe J 21/ 11,
, CO,.- Snti-e .. „„ ° ’
l4/ !***££•;*£s& C °' nm °
Lasy 16 , floor’/‘w. an d > ettl
in
® SpU / o \,ll railW
150'S
t
atv aun stceV
\Uj vi
s>-
e "^'nie st
2.'i n V ofrai^ st _
rust- \jTa’
7,ed-.
» v -i aK alu „A
\rW x c avo‘
aov^'
TA3GS^ A %toP-' iorsed . y I*'"' i8 ip-
*°*fe sSn^u-p'* 1 ' 4 ;
w»S L V' ni ~W - Y.
'GuavaV-^ttaP,
ftea% ‘ uy
uc 5/6 e* tva ‘
. yront 'plated- % i\xs. *°^tack"
-
aV) }V • TeV -. n BVafc' 5 ,
u '"“
’ J? fiTvisla- iv~
pyiefc,
Ea& e
EasV
Co*^g
'ler Tt ' s
, Pr ; - ce
f*j VJ |i/7.
» Reg
" ot *£T l&lf
et* 8
16/6-
u\ aV
12
tno»
th\y
pep°
sVt
(\>
/-/
\
©CES
m
DICK
CARR
Slazenger "Stadium"
All-court Slazenger 1938 model, with
hide-braced shoulders to a very strong
overlay frame in best imported ash.
Streamline handle. Spiral leather
grip. Fine-quality gut, fully guaran-
teed. Anthony Horderns’ Regular
Price 4 5 /.
Progress Sale Price 27/6
Slazenger "Worcester"
Beautifully decorated imported ash
frame. Streamline 1938 model and
the best all-court intermediate type
in the Slazenger series. Strung at
high tension with good-quality gut,
fully guaranteed. Anthony Horderns’
Regular Price 29/6
Progress Sale Price 21/-
Special Model
Golf Set
Dick Carr Autograph Mahogany
Sheathed Driver or Brassie and Irons,
Mid Iron No. 2, Mashie, No. 5 and
Putter. Superlative Clubs. U.S.A.
Persimmon Wood and rustless
chromium-plated iron heads. All with
finest English Apollo steel shafts.
Complete with strong cane-sheathed,
canvas and leather golf bag. Anthony
Horderns’ Regular Price, £5/12/6.
Progress Sale Price 99/6


A New Serial by the Author of "Pageant”
PROMENADE
By
G.B.LANASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON
I.
| ROM the back of the old four-poster bed,
where blue flowers and white butterflies
melted together in the faded chintz hangings,
Darien watched Sally undressing just out-
side the pale pool of candle-light. Like little
ghosts on top of the wardrobe, Sally’s dolls
sat in a row, staring with round eyes as though not at
all understanding why they were not packed in the
big trunks out in the passage and going away with
Sally and Darien and Mr. Lovel to New Zealand.
But Darien understood. “You will have babies
instead now, won’t you?” she had asked Sally. “Mar-
ried people always do.” Then Sally went pinker
than the dolls, saying, “Hush, darling,” as she had
said it every day for ages now, and Darien was
tired of hushing. And tired of seeing Sally fold her
clothes neatly and slip on her nightgown before she
took off her shift, instead of perhaps dancing about,
bare and white and dimpled and laughing, just as
God made her, and pretending she was a nymph in
a hazel copse. Sally used to have such lovely pretend-
ings, but they were all gone now.
“Why do you have to be married to-morrow, Sal-
volatile?” demanded Darien, sitting up suddenly. “Let
that stiff black rig go to New Zealand by himself.
I expect the savages will eat him.”
“Oh . . . don’t . . . don’t,” cried Sally, her blue
eyes looking quite wild under the mass of soft brown
hair she was putting in curl papers. Sally always
looked like that when one talked of New Zealand.
She was afraid to face things ; but Darien wasn’t.
Mamma had had her way with Sally, but since papa
was going to die so soon she had let him be as roman-
tic as he chose in naming Darien, who (upon diligent
inquiry into herself) had discovered that she was
romantic, too, and would probably have a grande
passion in New Zealand. She feared that Sal-volatile
hadn’t the grande passion for Mr. Lovel.
Sally feared it also, just as she feared New
Zealand. Mr. Lovel, she knew, was inevitable, hav-
ing bought the tickets . . . but she could never call
him Peregrine, which sounded like a duck or some-
thing. “Peregrine is a hawk and he’s just like one,”
said Darien, who read far too much for a child of
nine. So he is, thought Sally shivering.
Aunt Matilda’s heavy step sounded down the
passage. Sally flung a desperate glance about her.
She should have been in bed, but there was no time
to get there ; so she dropped on her knees (hoping
God would forgive her) and buried her flushed face
in the coverlet, hearing Darien giggle as the porten-
tous lady came pecking her way through the dusky
sweetness of the little room.
Aunt Matilda looked like a widow, in wide
purple dressing-gown and black cap; but when
maiden ladies grow elderly they often like to pretend
they are widows, thought Darien, while Sally rose,
standing meekly with her pretty head drooped shyly
under the close little nightcap.
“I am pleased to find you at your prayers, my
love,” said Aunt Matilda, giving the impression that
she didn’t find Sally there often enough. “A young
lady who has turned fifteen and is about to marry,”
she said, sounding very experienced, “has need of
many prayers.”
“Poor thing,” said Sally faintly. She was think-
ing that herself.
“Remember that Darien is now in your care.
I do feel,” said Aunt Matilda, very confused between
gratitude and rebellion, “that it is exceedingly kind
of Mr. Peregrine Lovel to give my poor brother’s
orphans a better chance than I could, though I have
done my best. I hope you are prepared to be a dutiful
wife, Sally.”
“Yes, Aunt Matilda,” said Sally, feeling that
there wasn’t anything she need mind promising now,
because to-morrow she would have to promise to
love and obey Mr. Lovel.
“I —I” floundered Aunt Matilda. But there
was so little a maiden lady could say to a niece about
to marry, and besides she knew so little. “I wish
you always to remember that buttermilk is excellent
for the skin. Wear your best gloves when people
come to call, and see that Darien don’t freckle. Now,
let me tuck you up, or you will be pale to-morrow
and gentlemen don’t like pale brides.”
Under the chintz curtains Sally felt a whirlwind
of arms and legs about her, felt Darien’s sharp little
chin digging into her shoulder.
“Oh, Sal-volatile, let’s run away and then we
can always be together. Nurse says you will always
have to be with Mr. Lovel now. Why will you?”
“Oh, please hush, Darien,” begged Sally, feeling
the crying coming up in her again. Why was all this
happening to her? She didn’t know, although Mr.
Loveland Aunt Matilda seemed to. “Oh, dear,” she
murmured childishly.
To love, honor and obey . . . how much did that
mean, she wondered, lying with innocent blue eyes
wide in the dark long after Darien was sleeping. So
little she knew, and so much to learn. And she would
never be able to ask Mr. Lovel, stalking along so tall
above her with his dark haughty face folded into his
stock. Why am Iso frightened? He is not unkind,
she thought, trying to be brave.
11.
ON this same night of January 13, 1839, lights and
log fires were bright in the library of Lovel Old
Hall, where Mr. Peregine Lovel stood before the
tall mantel reading to three irritated gentlemen from
a variety of notebooks. A decorative fellow, Peregrine,
conceded Major Henry Lovel, sunk in a big saddle-
back chair. One of the black Lovels, with a long,
lean elegance denied to John, who, being a year the
elder, unfortunately had the title. Peregrine, thought
the Major with grudging admiration, would some-
how have got the better of this damned aftermath of
the Peninsular Wars which was driving the gentry out
of the country to the doose knew where ... as Lovels
were being driven out now that Old Hall was up the
spout. Poor John, moving about like a huge fair
beetle in claret-color coat, had been too much the
country squire to stop leaks.
“But we must take a cow, Peregrine,” said
John, returning from gloomy contemplation of a
frilled Sid Godfrey on the wall. “Caroline proposes
to wean Belinda on the voyage.”
“We cannot take a cow,” said Peregrine, glanc-
ing up with those black eyes which, thought
Jermyn, were always too close together. Being merely
an orphan cousin, Jermyn felt himself free to say what
he chose. He said it now. “Lady Lovel is not near
so likely to go dry as a cow would.”
“Your remarks are not always in the best of
taste,” remarked Peregrine curtly.
“They’ll be in worse taste in New Zealand,”
promised Jermyn. Baiting Peregrine seemed the one
comfort left to a handsome young gentleman of
seventeen whose head was stuffed with dreams of
nymphs and fair ladies and who was beginning to
fear that the only nymphs available in New Zealand
would be savages with thin legs and fat stomachs.
“Buxom pioneer’s wife, Caroline,” said Major
Henry, watching the firelight through his brandy
glass. “Good stuff in Sally, too. Egad, you boys
know how to pick for breedin’ colonists. It always
took the dingin’ little darlin’s to catch me.”
“Caroline is determined on a cow,” persisted
John, adding weakly, “so am I.”
“We cannot take a cow,” said Peregrine, who
was quite capable of saying that all night. Rather
sorry for John, Jermyn suggested a goat. Besides,
a goat might butt Peregrine—tumble him, with his
chaste nankeens, his sherry-color body-coat, and his
certainties into the scuppers. What would he do
then, thought Jermyn, unable to imagine an uncivil
Peregrine even in hell. Pray take my seat, he would
say, setting Caroline down to sizzle. Dear Lord,
who’d have ever thought Lovels would go voyaging
with a Caroline whose father had been in trade. As
for himself, he would continue to draw the carica-
tures which made him so popular . . . although it is
difficult to be popular with the ladies on nothing a
year. At least there will be laxity in the Antipodes,
thought Jermyn, seeing himself gathering up Maori
wives by the dozen . . . with that old rip Major Henry
running him hard.
Now John, his ruddy face illuminated by two
stiff nips and Peregrine’s concession of the goat, was
comforting his troubled soul by the vision of raising
Another England in the Antipodes ; but Peregrine
(Ben Jonson’s Pragmatick Young Man to the life)
scuttled that.
“England has betrayed us. I repudiate her. My
children shall be colonist entirely.”
“He means to have a doosed lot of ’em, too.
People the country, eh?” thought the Major, stretching
his legs to the fire. Of his three nephews he liked
Peregrine least; but he was a damn’ practical fellow,
which was why they were all sittin’ round him, egad,,
like dogs waggin’ their tails. Peregrine was respons-
ible for this exodus to New Zealand which no
one knew anything about and even the Colonial
Office declined to recognise.
“England holds no jurisdiction over it,” the
Colonial Office had said firmly. “At the request of the
missionaries we sent out Mr. Busby as British Res-
ident, but we gave him no powers whatever.” The
Colonial Office could do something handsome for
them in Van Diemen’s Land. “Quite a number
of indigent officers taking up our grants of land out
there,” said the C.O.
John had rather warmed to the indigent officers.
“Like us, dang it,” he had said sadly. But Peregrine had
bristled with difficulties. In New Zealand you could
buy a hundred acres for an iron pot, he said, making
a note to order pots. You could get rich in New
Zealand, and he had not the least intention 1 of con-
sorting with Englishmen in the future. “We will start
afresh,” said Peregrine, who was quite capable of
making himself King of New Zealand if he chose,
and who always knew how to trim the sails that
would bring him safe to harbor.
A MAN of one idea and that a wrong ’un, thought
the Major. He went heavily up the shallow old
oak stairs, carrying his candle at a better angle than
male Lovels often did at this time of night. Doosed
difficult to be convivial with Peregrine about. Could
a man be convivial with Maoris and missionaries?
The Major groaned, rubbing his red nose. If it
weren’t for this monstrous shortage of money he and
his old hide trunks would go no more a-roaming,
but none of them dare cut loose from Peregrine.
He is the brains (thought the Major, damning brains)
of the whole Lovel connection.
In the library Peregrine, warming to it, was
setting the date of departure at six weeks ahead.
“I fear anything earlier will be impossible. We have
to allocate the space in the hold . . . have you your list
of requirements here, John?”
“It’s near one o’clock,” pleaded John, always
anxious to postpone the evil day. “I think Caroline
. . . and you’re being married to-morrow, you know.”
“Are your lists here?”
Yes, thought Jermyn, Peregrine’s eyes are much
too close. John brought some papers from an inlaid
French bureau, and Peregrine began to read.
“ ‘A full feather bed. Twenty feather pillows.
Twenty bottles of dill-water for Belinda’ . . . Have
you supplemented Caroline’s list at all, John?”
John muttered something about garden-rollers,
and Jermyn suggested peacocks. Peregrine put the
papers together silently. He had a way of making
his silences so impressive that they were almost holy.
The flickering candle-light showed him a little high-
shouldered, ready to pounce. Jermyn mixed him-
self a last brandy, whistling softly. This Antipodes
affair would be run entirely to Peregrine’s design—
of which the new wife would have to be a compliant
part. Sally, eh? Jermyn was always sorry for the
Sallys of the world, who sounded such care-free
children and had to help Peregrines found families.
Good God, he thought, startled, it’s going to be a
hell of a life for the women. We should leave them
behind.
But not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency,
could found a family without one. Now he was say-
ing suavely: “I think you had better leave the lists


to me. We have neither time nor space for unessen-
tials. Good night.”
Dismissed, they went uneasily away. Even Sir
John Lovel in his own house couldn’t browbeat Pere-
grine, now standing alone in his tall lean elegance,
staring down into the fire. Like that fire, he too
could burn up obstacles—and would. Easy John ;
the bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle Henry ; Jermyn
the untried boy, the women ... he would have them
all on his shoulders. And he could carry them,
manipulate them, dispose of them to his will, like
God . . .
I.
pH ESIDE the cooking trench where bubbling
j| iron pots sent up their thin steam to a
« hot sky Darien’s mind was clawing resent-
I fully over her grievances while she nursed
I her bandaged leg and the great red-and-
green kaka parrots screamed at her out of
the puriri-tree. She had only tried to help
Sally scald a little wild suckling-pig, and she hadn’t
cried so very much when the boiling water went over
her leg. Not enough to make Sally ill; though
Lady Lovel, hurrying over from the further hut when
fat old Ani ran for her, blamed Darien, and for
hours everyone had ignored her, and she was utterly
famished with hunger.
But never would she go in the hut again since
that stiff black rig of a Peregrine had boxed her ears
in the doorway. I’ll die first, she thought, feeling that
that wouldn’t take long now, and hoping that all the
traders would cry at her funeral. A heavy, hasty
step sounded up the manuka-track from the Beach,
and Darien looked round hopefully, clearing the red
curls from her eyes. But it was only Nick Flower the
trader, and he only said: “How is she?”
“My leg still hurts shocking,” said Darien.
Flower looked at her with his little blue eyes like
gimlets, looked at the little raupo-reed hut polished
by the sun like a brown snail-shell, said hastily: “You
shouldn’t be here, child. Go over to Lady Lovel’s.”
“I won’t. She’s here anyway. And I ha.te her.”
Lady Lovel’s black ringlets were so glossy, her cheeks
so red, her bust and arms so big that Darien knew she .
was vulgar. “I dislike vulgarity,” she said loftily.
“You little” He stopped, a flicker of amuse-
ment crossing his hard face. “A young lady who
knows her mind, ain’t you? Come down to the
Beach then.”
“I’ll do as I like. My leg hurts.” Flower
scratched his head. The child should be out of this,
but what would tempt her? Maybe all women were
alike and he knew how to handle Maoris. “I’m un-
packing some new things. Come down and I’ll give
you a bonnet.”
“What kind of bonnet?”
Ah! That had her.
“A —a big bonnet with a feather.”
“Could it be drawn silk? A green one with a
yellow feather?”
“If I have one. What’s wrong with your leg?”
Here was sympathy at last. “I’ve scalded it so
badly I fear it will drop off. But Sally went and got
ill before she finished binding it, and I’ve been suffer-
ing all alone.”
“The bonnet will cure that, I guess. Come
along.” You damned little egoist, he thought,
fumbling in his great side pocket, looking towards the
hut. For all his daily-growing hate of Peregrine
Lovel he greatly desired to offer an oblation to that
fair gallant little lady of his, caught too soon in her
hour. A young tender thing who should have been
set in a gilded house, instead of lugging the huge
goashore pots from the cooking-trench, baking, wash-
ing, mending, bearing progeny to Peregrine Lovel. A
child, running and laughing with Darien and the
Maori children when first they came.
Sheepishly he walked over to the door, laid a
small japanned box of the precious tea (near worth
its weight in gold) on the step, and returned, so
shaken by Sally’s low moaning that he jerked Darien
roughly to her feet.
“Come on,” he said angrily.
11.
CHIS blazing midsummer day of January 30, 1840
had uncomfortably betrayed Peregrine Lovel into
the consciousness that he was not omnipotent,
and it was (he felt distressedly) going to iaKe mm
some time to get over that. For hours he had been
walking in the moonlight on the little hill behind the
raupo-hut, and he knew that he vulgarly needed to go
down on Kororareka Beach and get drunk. Yet since
everybody else was doing it, that would have placed
him on a level with the herd, which he chose to stand
above, besides being a secret confession of weakness
which he could not afford.
Anger against Sally was mixed with his distress.
He needed sons —battalions of sons —for the work
before him which had become so threatened, so
almost dislocated since H.M.S. Herald arrived yester-
day in the Bay, bringing Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire. With a bleak, steady
acquisitiveness Peregrine had seen himself king of
this wild, lovely country sending out his sons to repre-
sent him far and near. Now England had taken the
country, and Sally might not bring him even one
living son.
Staring down into the smooth dark harbor where
the Herald showed a red riding-light, lying apart from
the bluff whaling ships, and the tall trading brigantine
out by an island, he realised almost tearfully how very
much he had done. Cleaned out that foul old boatyard
round in Matauhi Bay; set John to conscientiously
shepherding (he Maori workmen, who so much pre-
ferred smoking in the shade of the great glossy pohu-
tukawa trees ; put Jermyn to draughtsmanship and
Major Henry to casting-up the charge sheets ; given
Sally a child which she hadn’t the wit to know what
to do with . . . All of them fed by his bounty, and
everything going so excellently well. Until now. ...
Since the Herald had arrived yesterday morning
(with Captain Hobson, R.N., and without warning)
the Beach had done no business. Since Hobson had
landed on the Beach this morning, reading England’s
Proclamation of Annexation in the little wooden
church (with any number of Ordinances to follow),
the principal business had been to get drunk.
Those who were pleased got drunk, but, it seemed,
those who were not got drunker. Certainly there
were more of these latter, yet Peregrine still kept his
bitter Lent. He was afraid of what he might say
or do if he broke it.
“God save the Queen!” John had shouted on the
edge of blubbing with joy. Major Henry had begun
his old braggadocio about Waterloo, and Jermyn said
in his cool amused way: “Wants another dumping-
ground for her convicts. How will that run with all
your mighty schemes, my buck?” But Peregrine had
said nothing. In this land of rag-tag-and-bobtail he
knew himself the one real stability, the one man with
a mind above drink, trade and prayers. Gifted people
(he was aware) live under a special dispensation of
grace, making laws instead of obeying them ; and
soon Mr. Peregrine Lovel would have been making
laws for Kororareka Beach —the only part of New
Zealand yet on the map, and nobody in England
would even demean themselves by trying to pro-
nounce it. Now England had spoiled part of that,
and Sally might spoil the rest . . .
<<jU|R. LOVEL! Mr.' Lovel!”
■ V I That squawking female voice, so badly match-
ing her bulk, was certainly Caroline. Peregrine ran
towards the hut, his heart most surprisingly imped-
ing his breath. “Oh, la,” cried Caroline in the shadow
by the door, “I’m that tired! But Mrs. Grant is so
taken up with the baby.”
Peregrine stopped. “Boy or girl?” he jerked out.
“Oh, a bouncing boy. I never did see such a
bouncer. La! 1 must kiss you” A certain
Mrs. Inch bald having once explained her own coun-
tenance as Voluptuous without Indelicacy, Caroline
had annexed the description as peculiarly appropriate
to herself, and had, in the opinion of Lovels, been
indelicate ever since. Peregrine backed away.
“He is—normal? Sane and sound?”
“Oh, excessively. Can’t you hear him? I’ll tell
you when to come in.”
Caroline shut the door, and Peregrine stood sud-
denly limp. In easy and superior fashion gentlefolk
refer to hell as something liable to be experienced
by others. Now, suddenly aware that he had been
experiencing it himself, Peregrine felt quite unequal to
encountering Darien, rising up out of the moonlight
in a preposterous bonnet with a still more prepos-
terous feather. Despite the bonnet and a hearty meal
in Nick Fowler’s store, Darien’s wrongs had been
steadily growing, but now she was in a position to
patronise Peregrine.
“I knew God was sending Sally a baby. Ani
told me. It’s for me to play with.”
“By the Lord! I’ll not have vou meddling with
my child,” exploded Peregrine, still the worse for his
emotions and afflicted by far too many memories of
Darien. Darien stood stunned. His child?
“You —you irhperant bric-a-brac! .What’s it to
do with you? Sally will give it to me if I want it.”
Peregrine caught her arm. “Now, listen to me,
you little devil”
Darien set her teeth in his hand and jumped free.
“Phew! How nasty you taste. God will kill you
now for cursing me. I’ll tell him to. God! God”
Peregrine fled. He told himself on recovery that
he couldn’t allow noise outside Sally’s door, but he
knew that he had been fairly routed. Darien (who
would never have come if he hadn’t considered her
as a future unpaid help) was very far from realising
her dependent position.
Darien let herself down with her back to the
door. Her leg hurt and the bonnet was heavy, but
she felt it as a moral support. “Over my corp,” she
said, “only over my corp shall he get at that baby.”
But when she saw it in the packing-case she dis-
carded all notion of fighting for it. “Let him have
the thing. We don’t want it,” she told Sally. “It’s
too ugly and young. My leg still hurts, Sal-volatile.”
Sally smiled faintly at the little firm-chinned face
under the big bonnet, and went drifting off again
among fields of daffodils where an English lark was
singing. But the lark wouldn’t stay because it was so
hot; and between her and the shadowy wall she had so
carefully pasted with newspapers to keep out draughts
other pictures floated up, all blazing with this strange
bright sun that tired her so. Twists of hills like green
shining silk, with the harbor between them like cut
sapphires. Great bright parrots with cruel beaks fight-
ing round the cooking trench, where thfe black three-
legged pots must be fed with wood or Mr. Lovel’s
dinner wouldn’t be cooked.
Jermyn said Kororareka Beach was something
you couldn't believe, especially when you saw it.
Sally saw it, burning with color, its little huts at all
angles, like drunken witches clinging to their broom-
sticks, its noisy crowds weaving dizzily, Maori girls
spinning their poi-balls . . . How the gulls screaming
over the piles of refuse along the sand made one’s
head ache . . . Caroline was coming ashore from the
Claribel on old fat Miri’s brown shoulders, then
standing on the Beach with her skirts rucked up
like a flustered hen. Sally shook weakly with laughter.
There had never been anything funnier than Caro-
line, spellbound at the naked Maoris and apparently
thinking (like Miranda), “Oh, brave new world that
has such people in it,” until suddenly she gave a kind
of bellow and dropped in a faint . . . Now Sir John
was dragging the purple feather from her bonnet to
burn it under her nose, and Caroline was coming to
in a hurry and slapping him . . .
So hot . . . She must be under the heavy blaz-
ing Weight of the doldrums again. But there were
the gay seas mounting, and Sir John drying Belinda’s
napkins under his shirt because there were no fires, and
she was so cold, and the wind was blowing out of
Tilbury, and England for ever fading . . .
111.
PEREGRINE, beginning to feel better, realised that
it was an omen from the gods which had brought
a male Lovel into the world, his foot upon his
native heath, to defy England in her very moment
of theft. He must trim his sails to the new wind,
swallow distasteful pills ; but that wouldn’t stop him
now, he thought, going down to the Beach which was
effervescing in the most unsavory manner. It was
red with driftwood fires, orange with the glow of lan-
terns outside the trading stores, lit with gleams of
teeth, of eyes, of brass rings in the ears of sailors,
sham jewellery on the Maori girls. Everywhere
sounded a great chorus of damns for Hobson and
England, loud alarums about the Maori chiefs (who
would possibly fight Hobson), traders being almost
hysterical over this horrible talk of Customs Duties.
Jermyn was very happy, seeing life as a young
man may. Yet he had had his private troubles with
chiefs, since Hone Heke, holding chiefly rights over
the Maori girls, had refused him Patea (who was
nearly pretty) unless he paid through the nose for
her and stuck to her, too.
“Damn it, sir. I’m marrying no Maori,” said
Jermyn, very red.
“You can’t get a nice wahine any other way,”
said Heke. “And Patea’s tribe will bring your ship-
yard much trade.”
Jermyn had no mind to immolate himself for
Peregrine’s shipyard, so he thumbed his nose at
Maori morals and went foraging with Major Henry
among those whom proud Heke did not recognise.
But to-night there was better afoot than complacent
wahines, with the whole Beach roaring against Eng-
land and Major Henry beating out “Rule Britannia”
on a Maori drum. Doosed amusing, thought Jermyn,
to observe how the English welcome their flag over-
seas.
Then unexpectedly he was on Corny Fleete's
counter, having discovered that the Lord intended
him to explain everything, and if only the counter
didn’t heave so much he could do it. England (he
told that red ring of wavering faces) had come too
soon. In another twenty years the Maoris would
have killed themselves out with the guns so kindly
supplied by traders.
“John! What are you about to allow such an
exhibition?” demanded Peregrine, thrusting through
the sweating crowd to discover John, glum on a rum
cask.
“Stop him yourself,” said John sulkily. “But
you’ll need a gun.”
It seemed likely. Jermyn, weaving circles of
light with a bright pannikin that slopped rum, was
far too drunk to stand interference. So was the
crowd. Best let the young cock crow himself dumb.
But what a good-looking young cock, egad. His
progeny should be worth watching, thought Peregrine,
obsessed by notions of fatherhood to-night. A pretty
fellow, with his big brown eyes and loose waves of
hair and his manner of wearing the rough Beach
dress as though it were regalia. It might be wise to
make an ally of Jermyn, with his damnably clever
caricatures, his reckless tongue.
Would gentlemen, cried Jermyn, full of oratory
and his message from the Lord, remember that it
was the Maoris who had first sent for the mission-
aries . . . And if this bloody table would stop pitch-
ing like a catboat he could prove it. After some years
of traders and whalers, haughty Maori warriors had
apparently felt for the first time in centuries the need
for moral support. So they had sent for the
Reverend Samuel Marsden, who came to preach
New Zealand’s first sermon in this very spot ... or
near enough . . . p-pitchin’ like catboat ... in (wait
now —he had it) on Christmas Day, 1814. “Hooray!
Let’s drink to good old Marsden”....
Laughter came easy to such as were still on their
feet, and John got off the rum-cask to let Corny
broach it. He wanted to go, but his broad shoulders
and fists like hams would be useful if Jermyn pro-
voked a row presently. John (who hated rows) found
that Jermyn and the Major dragged him into so
many . . . but a fellow must stand by his own blood.
Jermyn, still intent on his message, was explain-
ing earnestly that England had probably her tongue
in her cheek when she sent out James Busby as British


Resident to the Bay of Islands in ’thirty-five in answer
to missionary clamor concerning Australian and
American land-sharks who were buying up thousands
of good acres for a handful of nails or a gun.
“ ‘Busby,’ said Prime Min’ster, ‘go’n stop all that
nonsense, ■ but don’t come whining to us ’bout it. I
fancy Cook left a Union Jack there some time in
lasht century, but we ain’t inquired into that. B-bloody
place has too many cannibals to int’rest us.’ Fact
is, gent’men,” declared Jermyn, clutching at the head
nearest to hold him upright, “England thought
Capt’n Cook rather too free with his Union Jacks. So
he was. And there’s poor devil Busby sittin’ in
Res’dency over at Paihia with gunsh shpiked.
“Long’n short o’t is,” concluded Jermyn, re-
covering his balance with the solemnity of the idea,
“England’s ’nexed us to New S’th Wales so we sh’ll
begin prop’ly with p-penal law . . . shoals o’ convicts
’riving t’morrow . . . and may the Lord have
mercy”
Through the infuriated hubbub raised by this,
John plunged with determination; bearing Jermyn
out among the hurrying zigzag of half-seen humanity,
which didn’t know where it was going and perspired
tremendously in doing it; bearing him down the
Beach where the air blew sweet and fresh from the
bush about the little hut shared by Jermyn and Major
Henry behind Bishop Pompalier’s big cobble-stone
house built for a Brotherhood which had never
arrived.
RETURNING rather unsteadily along the Beach,
John noticed a streak of yellow light lying across
the water from the Herald, where Hobson would be
closeted with Busby and Archdeacon Williams, try-
ing to discover from them how to handle the chiefs.
At how many thousand do you estimate the Maoris?
he would be asking. But who could tell him? Who
knew how deep they bred back in those great jagged
ranges? Dang it all, who knew that every white
on the Beach wouldn’t be dead by the week-
end? Even loyal John wondered if England was
going the right way to work here. A danged haughty
lot, the chiefs, and jealous of their privileges.
A huge shadow loomed up with a chieftain’s mat
over the shirt and trousers. Waka Nene . . . and he’s
a good Christian, thought John, blurting out: “Will
the Maoris accept England, Nene?”
“Who can tell?” said courteous Nene, looking
(for all his tattoo) more of an aristocrat than even
Peregrine.
“Well, Hobson is askin’ all the chiefs to meet him
at the Residency on the sixth. Will they go?”
“Who can tell? My brother and I will be there
to accept England. But there are many chiefs. I
cannot say”
No . . . nor God nor the devil could say, it
seemed likely. Oh, my England, what have you let
Then unexpectedly he was on Corny
Fleete's counter, having discovered
that the Lord intended him to explain
everything.
us in for, wondered John, trudging up the slippery
tussock hill to his Caroline.
IV.
CO Caroline, who was constantly telling John what
he had let her in for and who always came off
best, since a lady can say what she likes while a
gentleman mustn’t, this whole New Zealand business
was a rapidly accumulating outrage. Like other
ladies of her period, Caroline had dabbled but lightly
in history, geography and such vulgarities, and she
had blithely embarked for New Zealand under the
natural impression that it was in Holland and also
(with the strange adaptability of foreign countries)
in Australia, which was down on the maps as New
Holland. When she had found it to be much further,
with cockroaches in all the cabins as well as in the
tea, she had quite forgotten about being voluptuous
and made the welkin ring.
For poor John it had been ringing ever since;
but on the morning of the sixth she tied scared little
Belinda into a white satin pelisse and tippet and
arranged a blue-fringed shawl over her own big
shoulders, saying merely: “As you insist on us all
being massacred over at the Residency, I hope I
know how to die like a lady.”
Caroline couldn’t do anything like a lady and
never would. So John said, “Yes, my dear,” and
took her down and put her into a boat with other
Lovels, rowing out uneasily into the maelstrom with
Jermyn. Even his big fists wouldn’t help if the Maoris
turned nasty; and Hobson had forbidden the
assembling of the Lynch Law League—which kept
such law as there was, tarring and feathering those
who didn’t agree with it, and had done quite a deal
since Peregrine became captain. Hobson said it would
be provocative, while being monstrous provocative
himself, what with salvos thundering from the Herald,
flags flying, and boats full of sailors and marines
rushing about until the harbor seemed all Hobsons.
pEREGRINE was not there. Nothing could have
■ detached him to-day from the miraculous scrap of
himself that bawled so lustily until comforted by
Sally’s breast. Secretly he grudged Sally that power,
since the woman’s share in production is purely an
animal process, whilst it is the man, by his vastly
superior qualities, who bestows on his children (both
before and afterwards) all that can bring their lives
to conquest. Peregrine, having no doubt of this, felt
that his son should be already learning it, and looked
sternly down the hill on blue water being torn into
white lace by the passing multitude.
Swarms of Maori canoes wherein laughing
wahines paddled with their long hair flying. Boats
crowded with white-hatted traders and their gaily-
clad Maori wives and children. Boats filled with top-
hats and chokers, bright shawls and bonnets, fringed
parasols. Naval boats arrogant with brass buttons,
uniforms, cocked hats. Boats with bands trumpeting
England’s power . . .
“Hrumph,” said Peregrine, greatly pleased. Then
the war-canoes scuttled him. Ten war-canoes, glit-
tering with paua-shell and carving—ten, each rowed by
sixty tattooed warriors, each bearing at its prow a
stately chief in flax or feather-mats soft as silk and
glowing with color, standing upright like the god he
was and so sacred with tapu that the rowers dared
not look at him. From each high carved stern
streamed long wreaths of the blue convolvulus, the
yellow, scented clematis. Each rower had a bunch
of scarlet pohutukawa flower in his hair, but the chiefs
had tall white heron plumes, like helmeted knights.
“Te-na-pu-u,” sang the warriors like a great
organ chord. “Rule Britannia,” rattled the bands,
sounding impotent and tinny under this vast sky.
Peregrine turned in panic and dashed into the house.
Chiefs, backed up by so much magnificent mascu-
linity, would never be stampeded by Hobson and his
handful of marines. Even a large military force
couldn’t do it, thought Peregrine, tumbling muskets
and cutlasses out of a cupboard as though he were
the force in question and feeling edges
with an anxious thumb. Presently
there would be the devil to pay over
at the Residency . . . and then along
the Beach . . .
With a dazed
idea of saving his
boy anyway, he
went into the lean-
to, frowning to see
the child by Sally’s
side. “Roderick
would be better in
his cot, my dear,”
he said, keeping agi-
tation out of his
voice with an effort. “Yes, Mr. Lovel,” faltered Sally,
doubting it, but knowing that gentlemen (being so
vastly superior in every way) must be always right.
She had, indeed, once ventured a protest about the
name Roderick, hoping for Charles or Arthur. But
the eldest male Lovel was always Roderick, said Mr.
Lovel, explaining that the Roderick of his family had
been killed out hunting when only sixteen. “A gentle-
man’s death,” said Mr. Lovel. “I trust that all my
sons will die like gentlemen.”
“All?” Sally had shut her eyes at that. How
many sons would Mr. Lovel require to make “all”?
How often must she endure these terrible months
again while she went on baking, washing, mending,
scrubbing sugar-mats for the floors, pasting news-
papers (which cracked again with every wind) on the
walls, trying to make meals from eternal maize-flour
and goat-flesh? Once she had put caraway-seeds in
the goat-flesh to make it tasty, and it had been so
tasty that Mr. Lovel hadn’t spoken to her for three
days. And then Darien had filled his boots with
caraways . . .
How wonderful to fear life so little as Darien,
going off proudly to the Residency in that dreadful
green bonnet with the magenta feather. Quite evi-
dently designed for Maoris, said Mr. Lovel, out-
raged. But Darien loved it, though she had bitten
Nick Flower when he had wanted a kiss for it.
Now she was gloriously adding her mite to the
rage of color about her in the harbor. Gay scarves
and shawls floating, gold lace of officers, top-hats
gleaming, flax and feather mats like rainbows tied
with vermilion woollen tassels, beautiful bronze legs
and arms, dyed dog-hair fringes round the carved
ceremonial taiahas held by the chiefs. Here came
Corny Fleete God-blessing the Queen out of the
rum-bottle until his brown half-caste children ex-
pected to see her descend from heaven any minute
And his proud Maori wife had the huia feathers of
a chieftainess in her hair.
“Hooray!” shouted Darien, leaning over to wave,
and becoming quite intoxicated at sight of the big red-
and-white marquee shining like a bubble on Mr.
Busby’s lawn. “Hooray for everything!”
“Kindly keep your mouth shut, Darien,” said
Jermyn presently, pushing her down on a trestle-seat
inside the marquee. “Remember that one laugh from
you may kill us all.”
V.
IT appears that during the 1820’s and 1830’s the
Colonial Office in London’s Downing-street was
much disgruntled, seeing that England (so pleased
when her restless sons took themselves off to the hori-
zons) invariably discovered them turning round and
making an Empire of her. There was that infernal
East India Company, complained the Colonial Office,
trying to entangle us ; and Stamford Raffles implor-
ing us to hold on to Singapore —a worthless mud-
flat ; and Australia clamoring for protection and her
own way. Now the mail was full of letters from this
pestilential New Zealand, top cannibalistic for convicts
and too far off for a summer resort. So the sensible
thing was to pigeon-hole the letters —until one came
forwarded through her Gracious Majesty.
Busby was responsible for that. It had
seemed to him a good idea to get a handful of Chris-
tian chiefs to explain matters to Queen Victoria,
thereby startling the poor young thing into the under-
standing that if she didn’t want a holocaust she had
better hustle. So she hustled until the Colonial Office
grew hot under the collar, saying: “Let the nuisances
have it, then. We’ll cook their goose. We’ll send out
a few Regulars to clean the place up and then ship
them our convicts, since Australian prisons seem to
be getting rather crowded.”
They had sent Hobson to put the Islands under
the jurisdiction of New South Wales, so that they
could begin properly with penal law ; told him to
make himself Governor or anything he liked, and
hoped to forget him until he should write that he
was ready for convicts. But Hobson, even before
that uneasy night following the signing of the Waitangi
Treaty, had begun to suspect that he would not be
writing very soon.
As for the Beach, slowly beginning to take in
what had happened in the marquee, where only Waka
Nene and his giant brother Patuone had stopped a
bloody stampede and coaxed the chiefs into signing,
there was not enough rum in all the casks to com-
fort them. Never before had there been such a
colonisation, such an unbelievably outrageous Treaty.
New Zealand was given to the Maoris. All her
“fair lands, forests and fisheries” were for Maoris
for ever and ever, and proud unprincipled English-
men were merely tenants.
“Defy the Treaty! Defy it!” bellowed Major
Henry, who had found the lack of laws and taxes
amazingly pleasant. “Let us rise against injustice,”
he shouted, bursting out of his orange silk waistcoat
and waving his arms from a stool, which presently
spilt him into the trampling crowd in Nick Flower’s
store.
“It must be a mistake,” pleaded John to the
most blasphemous. “England would never let us
down like this. I assure you gentlemen” -
Jermyn, cross-legged on a pile of potato-sacks,
was drawing faces (dangerous, bewildered drunken
faces) in the light of a hurricane-lamp, while old
Captain Mackerrow on the counter was being loudly
profane in his red beard. “Goddam them all. We
didn’t come here . . . taking our lives in our hands
... to be jockeyed like this.”
K*ROM his task of serving out rum Nick Flower
* looked round now and then, grimly amused.
Especially he looked at Lovels and more especially at
Peregrine Lovel, now so surprisingly standing on the
counter waiting for Mackerrow to stop. A self-made
autocrat, that; so spruce and spare in his wine-color
coat and buff waistcoat (Beach clothes were not good
enough for him); so damned sure of himself, with
his long fighting chin and narrow eyes ; so loftily
unconscious that he was own brother to Nick Flower
the trader on the wrong side of the blanket . . .
Contemptuous of favors or insults, Nick Flower
would never tell him nor the other Lovels —who were
no more than Peregrine’s tools anyway. But between
himself and Peregrine their similar hot conquering
blood was bad already, though Peregrine meant to
conquer with a high hand and accompanying drums
and trumpets, and Flower was content to use any
method at all.
It was, Flower conceded, inevitable that he
should hate Peregrine; partly for his arrogant suc-
cess, but chiefly (since such small things may move
a man deepest) for his right to wear that
with the Lovel crest. It was Sir John’s, but Peregrine


wore it, as he wore the high Lovel manner, the bunch
of seals at his fob. There, gleaming on the long
well-kept hand, was the gage which Nick Flower
couldn’t take up and so could never forget.
Mackerrow ran down with a last oath, buried
his red beard in a foaming mug, and Peregrine moved
forward. “Gentlemen,” he said, smiling his thin
smile, conscious of all that courteous voice could do.
Jermyn stayed his pencil. Peregrine, always mistak-
ing rhetoric for argument, amazingly bamboozled
folk, but it would be hard to bamboozle a way out
of this impasse. Peregrine had no doubts. England
would certainly get round the Treaty. Even he was
learning to get round things, and she had had much
more practice.
The land (he reminded these gaping ruffians)
always was the Maoris’ and we had always had to
buy from them, hadn’t we? Men, having forgotten
that, looked at each other, and Jermyn saw the bam-
boozlement beginning. Now, said Peregrine, loom-
ing like some great eagle up in the shadows, by the
simple device of ceremonially giving the Maoris what
was already theirs we had opened the way to nego-
tiation ; we had ensured that all future deals should
go through the Governor . . .
“Each of us is aware how chiefs are apt to look
the other way when a troublesome Maori chooses to
upset a deal, and how we have no redress. Chiefs
will not dare play that game with the Governor. We
shall have all the land we wish for now, and Eng-
land has acted with a subtlety and skill of which we
may well be proud.”
“She ain’t subtle,” shouted John, his blue eyes
fire in his ruddy face. “I’ll swear she’s actin’ honestly
and”
“And with her usual acumen. I think all gentle-
men present have sufficient statesmanship to recog-
nise how brilliantly clever her handling of the situa-
tion has been.”
Jermyn laughed while John choked with anger
and distress. Dang it, Peregrine must be hinting at
double-dealing if he talked of statesmanship.
“England for ever,” John shouted, banging his
huge fist on a tub.
Gentlemen endeavoring to be conscious of their
statesmanship looked anxiously for further guidance,
and Peregrine was not loath to give it. All power
was now in the hands of the Governor, who would
certainly see that we did not come off second-best . . .
“Oh, my God! He’s swearin’ away England’s
honor now,” groaned John, mopping a hot and dis-
tracted face. But no one heeded him, they were
listening to Peregrine. “In a few well-chosen words,”
murmured Jermyn, who had already brought out
occasional broadsheets on the Mission hand-press,
“Mr. Peregrine Lovel convinced bewildered citizens
that all was for the best, and received loud acclaims
of approval.”
“Come home, boy. I’ve drunk enough,” said
Major Henry, who had a habit of becoming sober
and pensive after three bottles.
But citizens (growing ever more bewildered)
wouldn’t go home ; toasting Peregrine, toasting Eng-
land—who had been so much smarter than they
guessed ; toasting their own powers of statesmanship,
until the greater number lay with the tramped earth
and dregs of liquor on the floor, muttering amicable
good nights.
CHAPTER 111
I.
IN the little lean-to which Sally had madq so
for her with pink glazed-calico petti-
coats round the packing-case dressing-table
and wash-stand, a pink crocheted wool com-
forter on the bed, and pictures cut from Eng-
lish illustrated magazines on the walls, Darien
was pulling on the last pair of all the satin
slippers Sally had brought from Home and finding
them quite as much too tight as they had been last
week. So thoughtless of Sally not to guess that Darien
would grow the bigger of the two.
But, pinch or not, they must go on for the dinner-
party. Darien smoothed down her soft creamy folds
of India muslin and stood up. Sally’s best gown,
but she liked Darien to wear it since Darien couldn’t
make her own and Sally had no time with so many
babies. Darien had no mind to look a fright, even if
she wasn’t so handsome as Sally had been.
The small looking-glass on the wall tossed back
a pink-and-white face below auburn curls too short
for ringlets and impudently tied up with a narrow
blue ribbon. Darien took down the glass and studied
her features carefully, since there was something in
her somewhere which attracted men and she never
could find out what it was. One might call her eyes
green and her hair red and be done with it. . . but men
wouldn’t be done with it.
“Is it my mouth? That has a ravishing curve.
Or perhaps my eyebrows?” she had once asked Nick
Flower, who had laughed his quick harsh laugh and
said: “You’re as the devil made you, Darien. Don’t
meddle with his work.”
“When I’m with you I can’t think what I’m doing.
Darien,” Nat Graham was saying all the time, his
brown eyes like a dog begging.
He was only a boy, but Darien could attract
men, too. All but Jermyn. With interest
she watched the soft lines of her face harden-
ing in the mirror. This must be what it meant to
have the grande passion, since Jermyn was the only
one she cared two pins about. He was far too beauti-
ful and too popular to be wasted on missionary
daughters who taught flat-nosed little Maoris in Sun-
day-school and couldn’t possibly make him tingle all
over as Darien could make the Graham boys tingle.
If she could just once get Jermyn where he couldn’t
think what he was doing she’d grab him . . . and then
let Celia Gray or Amy Mathers get him away if they
could!
*|JARIEN!” Darien stood still. Perhaps Sally
would find someone else to do whatever it was
she wanted done. But a second and third call took her
reluctantly through the living-room (where they had
all slept on fern during those first nights long ago)
and into the lean-to, where Sally was bathing the
babies. No big new house yet, since Mr. Lovel was
going to move to Auckland some day . . . and how
Darien wished he’d be quick about it
Roddy and Tiffany were already in their cots,
jumping about in their long nightgowns and jabber-
ing Maori to the chiefs Jermyp had painted for them
on the scrim wall. In the heavy wooden tub
Brian and Baby Jerry were still splashing, and
steam had made Sally’s hair limper than ever.
Her ringlets had gone long ago, but even the soft
side-folds were ragged on either side of the thin face
under the crooked cap. No woman could attract a
man when she looked like that, but since it wouldn’t
be right for Sally to attract anyone perhaps it was
all for the best.
Some of the tiredness went out of Sally seeing
Darien so lightsome and lovely in the flickering
candle-light. Darien was her very own. The only
thing in the world really her own, since Mr. Lovel
never forgot that the children belonged to him. Rules
and rules and rules laid down by Mr. Lovel for the
children’s welfare. Such a very thorough person, Mr.
Lovel; and so kind of a gentleman busy carving
civilisation out of the wilderness to occupy himself
with the arithmetic of a four-year-old Roddy.
“Darien dearest ... if you wouldn’t mind . . .
there are just the two now to be dried and put into
bed, and if I don’t go Ani is sure to mix the sauces
with the gravy.”
God (thought Sally, who never had time to go
to church) having planned so many blessings for
gentlemen pioneers—such as plenty of rum, and meet-
ings where everyone said what they liked, and panta-
loons which couldn’t be nearly so uncomfortable in
this almost tropical climate as the three long petti-
coats which no lady could go without —God really
could not be expected to have much time left for
wpmen. But now she prayed mechanically “Please
God” as she ran about the lean-tos, gave a last glance
at the dinner-table (ladies must drink wine from cups
since there were only enough glasses for the gentle-
men), and dressed herself with hurried trembling
fingers, hoping that Jerry wouldn’t get colic during
the evening, and being so grateful to darling Darien
for singing the children to sleep.
PINNER-PARTIES were exciting now; with
Governors getting into the soup and war into every-
thing, and Lady Lovel —who was always so sure she
was intellectual that strangers generally believed it
for a time —struggling to lift the conversation to a
higher plane.
“I always think,” said Lady Lovel, looking like
a crimson full-rigged ship with lots of stays and flags
and things, “that Love is the greatest power and we
should love the Maoris more instead of provoking
them.”
To gentlemen provoked beyond measure by
Maoris and Governors this had the effect of dyna-
mite. All began talking at once, with Peregrine wait-
ing to get in the last effective word. None, he felt,
had been so provoked as he. For Hobson, after start-
ing a capital near the Beach, calling it Russell, and
appearing to take great interest in Peregrine, had sud-
denly sailed away to build another capital further
south. He named it Auckland, but everyone called it
Hobson’s Choice and predicted that he would be
building again before long. So there was Peregrine,
left vulgarly in the lurch with his high plans, and only
resisting a frantic impulse to follow Hobson (who
must somewhere weave a Ministry round him, as
surely as a spider must weave webs) by the fear that
Hobson would presently go elsewhere.
Hobson did. Abrupt and inconsiderate as ever,
he went, said the ladies piously, to Heaven. Pere-
grine couldn’t concede that. No heaven would accept
a man who, after so juggling with Lovels, had left his
authority to a Shortland, now succeeded by a Fitzßoy
who was governing much worse than the other two . . .
if possible.
“The greatest power,” said Peregrine now, very
impressive in bottle-green body-coat and high stock,
“is a good government.”
“And we have apes, curse ’em,” declared Major
Henry, tossing olf his glass of Malaga. (Tradin’-
ships did bring real wine, though often monstrous
short on other necessities.)
“Hobson should have joined up with the New
Zealand Company,” said burly Captain Tovey de-
cidedly. “I hear it is going ahead like the deuce.”
But gentlemen couldn’t abide the New Zealand
Company, which, having got out of the mud and into
debt and called itself Wellington, was now reputed
to be making its own laws without benefit of gov-
ernors —who seemed so very far off, since it was
quicker to meet them by way of Australia’s distant
Sydney than to go overland.
“With virgin country like the Beach,” began
John, and at the word “virgin” Darien suddenly aban-
doned her squabble with Nat, who was trying to hold
her hand under the table.
“You wouldn’t call it virgin if you knew as much
of it as I do,” she said. Major Henry bellowed. He
always encouraged that impossible girl, thought Pere-
grine, overriding the chuckles round him with a broad-
side about the necessity for upholding governors since
they were all the country had to cling to.
“Since toadying is the fashion, you mean,” said
Jermyn, staring distastefully at Darien. How he did
wish females would be females, keeping their place
like Sally, quiet as a mouse in her plain grey gown.
Sally was the perfect female ; docile to her husband,
bringing up a fine family, even producing a respect-
able dinner out of the monotonous Beach material.
What more could man ask of a woman, thought
Jermyn, very superior and celibate at the moment,
having tired of experiments with the natives. Yet
possibly he would marry Amy Mathers, who had
lately embroidered him a pink text on perforated
cardboard. “Oh, rest in the Lord,” said the text, and
Jermyn had written her a sonnet for it. After all,
thought Jermyn, sipping his wine, a man must marry,
and Amy was a very good imitation of Sally.
There was singing later, for Captain Tovey must
always be asked and Caroline never waited for invi-
tations.
“ ‘Oh, wert thou in the cauld blast on yonder
lea, on yonder lea,’ ” she shrilled, with a heated
Jermyn chasing her on the accordion. Such a noisy
shelter Caroline would make. Sally shut her eyes ;
then opened them to see big Nick Flower leaning
on the wall beside her, and blushed because she didn’t
know him very well, and there were such queer stories
about him. But since Mr. Lovel was building his first
schooner for him he had to be asked to-night.
Mr. Flower didn’t speak ; but he was looking at
her so gravely, so kindly that suddenly she smiled,
feeling somehow that she had found in this notorious
man a troubled little boy whom no one else knew of.
And she knew so much about troubled little boys.
“I’m glad you came to-night,” she said simply.
“That’s kind of you.” His harsh voice sounded
harsher to himself, his words incredibly stupid. Yet
how to tell this pale sweet lady that hf; mere presence
was a benediction, a healing? ... He stammered:
“Always kind . . . doing so much for others. Little
Kati’s grandmother so grateful for the soup” . . .
“Oh! Oh, that was nothing.” The fair tired face
with its blue patient eyes had gone scarlet and he
could have kicked himself. Had she heard that Kati
was his child? Well, what then? She must know
what men were by now. But he couldn’t resist an
insane desire to put himself right with her.
“You understand what, this life is. A man’s so
much alone, and it’s all so easy” ...
“Oh, hush!” She put her hand on his with a
little fluttering touch. “Nobody has the right to
judge anyone else, Mr. Flower. Never. Never,” she
repeated earnestly, and he saw her looking across
the room at her husband.
11.
TW T this stage of its existence New Zealand seemed
/I specially made for lovers ; with secret scented
flax-gullies full of fern and sun and blossoming
cabbage-trees so sharply intoxicating to the senses
that anything might happen ; with blue waters and
mangroves along the rivers where a boat might hide
among the warm shallows, and stalking, red-legged
pukeka-birds would never tell . . .
Darien reserved boating for the Graham boys
and other lovelorn youths, whose passions interested
her so much that she put them in her diary. “Love
makes boys so peckuliar,” she wrote, “and I try to
discover how peckuliar they can be.” But when Sally
said they could never be so peculiar as her spelling
Darien went off to the flax-gully to meet Nick Flower,
who had said that he might bring her some satin
slippers from Sydney.
“I’ll have no money to pay for them,” she had
warned him. “Peregrine never gives me or Sally
any, the mean fellow. My size in slippers is a small
three, and I want a green pair, a blue pair and a
white.”
“You always expect to get what you want, don’t
you?” And certainly he was now carrying a parcel
as he came pushing through the tall flax-blades and
black koradi-sticks and found her sitting demure in
her print gown and sunbonnet sprigged with green.
She sprang up, glowing.
(Continued on page 36.)


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SMOOTH MOTORING
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
d°p u en c d "k Champions
To enjoy SMOOTH MOTORING you must
keep your car’s ignition always at its best.
Good strong sparks are as necessary as good
fuel. For best results and the greatest econ-
omy, install new Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor. Canada
s?
7S&.
%
76
■Mii
UWW
m
u
miM
fle-jy 1
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
of front. “But what subtlety to have thought of
wearing her figure so that man, as he trotted in the
rear, should be fascinated by the twin charms of her
scapuke.”
An Exasperating Grocer.
Miss G. E. Trevelyan’s new novel, William’s Wife
(Gollancz), besides being a gripping piece of drama,
might have been intended as an illustration of
Briffault’s thesis, expounded in a book of essays
recently reviewed on the Red Page, that the mind of
man is a social creation.
It is the picture of a mind deteriorating in pro-
portion as it is cut off from normal social intercourse.
Jane was a normal young woman, 28 years of age,
with a leaning towards thrift and gentility, when she
made what she considered a brilliant match. She left
service to marry an elderly widower, William Chirp,
(he leading grocer of a quiet little English town.
She soon discovered that William’s ruling passion
was thrift, and she was able to admire it as an aspect
of respectability until her wedding dress wore out and
she wanted a new one. He refused. She tried to save
' the money out of her housekeeping, but William
blocked her again. Her spirit hardened, and it became
a silent struggle between them.
Slowly and painfully, by substituting threepence
for the sixpence William gave her each Sunday for
the church collection and by infinitesimal over-
charges on the coal bill, she scraped up enough
for a new dress. These small depredations became
her hidden revenge on William and grew to be in
themselves a passion with Jane.
Their life together became choked with exaspera-
tions. William would buy nothing for the house, make
no repairs, have no visitors because the food they
ate cost money. After ten or twelve years of this
married bliss, wherein we hear constantly of the wed-
ding dress, now dyed black, the alpaca bought at the
church’s expense, the struggle for new shoes, the ex-
travagances of “the girl,” William sold his business
and retired.
Now he was always at Jane’s heels ; if she were
five minutes late in returning from marketing he was
at the gate, watch in hand. The war brought Jane a
vague, pleasant stimulus. She hoped that they would
have an officer from the neighboring town billeted on
them, and almost bought a sixpenny cake of scented
soap as a sentimental tribute to “the poor young
fellow,” but fortunately did not carry out this rash
impulse as no young officer came. She rebelled and
went to a sewing circle.
She was now at the stage of dreaming about what
she would do with William’s money when he died.
In the last year of the war he did die of heart failure
following influenza, the immediate cause being Jane’s
refusal to give him his medicine on the ground that
it was too expensive to be taken rashly. She in-
herited his money and much besides. She could not
shake off her habits of economy and secretiveness.
They took ever stronger and stronger hold on her.
She left the county and hid herself in a London
suburb, living to herself, suspecting everyone.
At last she was barricaded in a basement, carry-
ing all her valued possessions with her—including the
boa and mantle she had for her wedding—every time
she went out. She mistrusted everyone and couldn’t
even bring herself to visit the bank to draw money.
Jane’s story is hammered home with innumerable
recurring details. The novel is written from her point
of view, and is a fascinating piece of work.
Standardised Malice.
People Are Fascinating, by Sally Benson (Con-
stable), is a book of forty-seven short stories by a new
American writer. They are all good, all about the
same length and about the same sort of people—
middle-class Americans living in apartments and
hotels, playing bridge, going to gay parties of
astonishing dullness and exchanging standardised
conversational dishes.
Each story has a point, often a fairly sharp one,
and it occurs just outside the story in the author’s
imagination. Each story has its modicum of malice,
its dab of wit. In fact, though all different they
repeat one another very exactly. It is a pity that
they have been herded together, for, taken separately,
they are certainly bright and effective vignettes. It is
damping to think that Miss Benson is probably able
to, and probably will, turn out thousands of them
without a single failure.
The prevailing tone of People Are Fascinating is
mildly acid. Over and over again we watch human
nature slip on a piece of banana peel. There are the
perfect witness who looked the acme of respectability
and had a receptive mind, the husband who insisted
on remaining a sweetheart and nearly drove his wife
mad with winsomeness, the professor who bored
people by trying to be young, and so on.
Some of the stories are robuster than others,
some have more sting. At their most tenuous they
are reduced to a scrap of weak conversation, as in
“Mr. Martin and the Hotel Child” or “The Forgotten
Art” ; or to a dissolving picture, as in “Room on a
Court.”
Australian Authors in "Who's Who."
About two years ago I wrote an article on “Six-
teen Bulletin Veterans.” Since then two of them—
Arthur H. Adams and A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales —have
died, and I was curious to discover how many of the
remaining fourteen had crept into the 1938 Who’s
Who in Australia (Herald Press, Melbourne), edited
by Joseph A. Alexander.
I found them all there except Will Lawson, Con
Drew (of Jinker, the Grafter fame) and poet Arthur
Bayldon. Of the eleven others, “Banjo” Paterson is
seventy-four, C. H. Souter seventy-three, Bernard
O’Dowd seventy-two, Randolph Bedford sixty-
nine, E. J. Brady, Roderic Quinn and Will H.
Ogilvie sixty-eight, J. H. M. Abbott sixty-four,
Albert Dorrington sixty-three and Hugh McCrae
sixty-two. Four other old Bulletin hands who
appear in Who’s Who in Australia are C. J.
Dennis, sixty-one, Frank Fox (first editor of the
“Lone Hand”) and Nathan F. Spielvogel (“Old Eko”
and “Gumsucker”), sixty-three, and John Shaw Neil-
son, sixty-six.
Among other authors who have passed the sixtieth
milestone are John Sandes, seventy-five; Louis Lavater,
seventy-one ; H. E. Boote, seventy ; R. H. Croll, sixty-
nine ; Ge9rge S. Beeby, sixty-eight; S. Elliott Napier,
sixty-seven ; Arthur Gask (a dentist with sixteen novels
to his credit), sixty-five ; Erie Cox {Out of the Silence)
and Ambrose Pratt, sixty-four; Walter Murdoch,
sixty-three ; C. H. Bertie and William Gosse Hay {The
Mystery of Alfred Doubt), sixty-two ; and Stuart
Gurr and Harry Gullett, sixty.
It is possible to divide the 135 authors into three
age groups of ten years each, representing roughly
those who first attracted notice in the decade before
the end of the war, in the decade after the war, and
in the present decade.
Those belonging to the pre-war group include
Leslie Allen, Rupert Atkinson, C. E. W. Bean, Roy
Bridges, R. J. Cassidy, Bernard Cronin, Fred Cutlack,
Louis Esson, H. M. Green, Monty Grover, P. J.
Hartigan (“John O’Brien,” of “Around the Boree Log”
fame), Norman Lindsay, F. T. Macartney, George
Mackaness, Jack McLaren, Vance Palmer and Frank
Wilmot (“Furnley Maurice”).
Among those in the second group are many
who served in the war and wrote of their
experiences. Mention might be made of Frank
Clune {Try Anything Once), Frank Dalby Davison
{Wells of Beersheba), Leon Gellert {Songs of a Cam-
paign), lon Idriess {The Desert Column), and Leonard
Mann {Flesh in Armour). Others are John Armour,
Dale Collins, James Devaney, J. J. Hardie, William
Hatfield, Eris O’Brien, Charles Rodda, R. D. Tate,
E. V. Timms, John Truran and Gilbert M. Turnbull,
some of them also returned soldiers.
In the under-forty group will be found Frederick
Howard, Stewart Howard, Jack and Phillip Lindsay,
T. Inglis Moore, Brian Penton, Leslie Rees and Alan
Villiers, but not such promising youngsters as
Geoffrey Blunden, Seaforth Mackenzie, Dal Stivens
and Ernest Wells.
Rex Ingamells, a Bulletin poet, is the youngest
among the male authors listed. He was twenty-five
last January, and in between writing poetry has spent
four seasons fruit-picking along the Murray River and
a period before the mast in a coastal schooner.
Among the women writers, Dame Mary Gilmore
will not mind, I am sure, my mentioning that she is
the veteran ; nor Ethel Turner that Seven Little A us-
tralians was published as far back as 1894, nor Lilian
Turner that Lights o’ Sydney was published two years
later. Both the Turner sisters live in Sydney, and
between them they have given delight to thousands
of Australian children for over forty years. Mrs.
TEneas Gunn, author of The Little Black Princess and
We of the Never Never, now lives in Victoria. (Are
“The Dandy,” “The Quiet Stockman,” “Mine Host,”
“The Man in Charge” and “The Burly Bushman” still
alive? They were a few years ago.)
Items of interest are that Dora Wilcox’s maternal
grandparents arrived in Canterbury (M.L.) by one
of the “First Four Ships”; that the great-great-
grandmother of G. B. Lancaster (Edith Lyttleton) was
lady-in-waiting to Marie Antoinette and was guillo-
tined on the same day as the Queen ; that Beatrice
Grimshaw was the first white woman to ascend the
Sepik River and Fly River in New Guinea, and that
she has written thirty novels; that Mary Gaunt, who
was born at Chiltern (Vic.) and who lives at Bor-
dighera, Italy, has written twenty-seven books ; that
Alice Grant Rosman was Adelaide correspondent of
The Bulletin ; and that Doris Booth was awarded
an 0.8. E. for her work caring for the sick on the
Bulolo and Edie Creek goldfields, New Guinea.
Flora Eldershaw and Marjorie Barnard of the
M. Barnard Eldershaw partnership were born within
five months of each other. Stella Miles Franklin
wrote My Brilliant Career when she was eighteen,
and Dulcie Deamer won a Lone Hand short-story
competition against all comers when she was seven-
teen. Jean Devanny has had two books banned in
Australia, The Butcher Shop and The Virtuous
Courtesan. Kylie Tennant, who won the 1935 S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize with Tiburon, does not men-
tion that she lived in the Sydney slums for a year in
order to get copy for a novel, but she does make
one confession —her recreation is gossip. Dymphna
Cusack prefers “just doing nothing,” but the late
Dowell O’Reilly’s daughter, Eleanor Dark, is one of
the hardy type addicted to rock-climbing.
Most of the authors treated the question “Recrea-
tions?” politely, but Tarlton Rayment replied thus:
“Hobbies, open-sea swimming, the Brotherhood of
Man and newfangled diets.” He also managed to
squeeze in a line expressing his detestation of the old
school tie. Frank Clune’s recreation is “Try anything
once,” and Archer Russell, author of Gone Nomad,
Sunlit Trails and A Tramp Royal in Wild Australia,
must find bush-walking on the Collaroy (N.S.W.)
plateau rather tame after his adventures “along the
unbeaten highways of the world.” None appears to
be addicted to two great Australian pastimes, punting
and beer-drinking. Some were teachers, others
solicitors and doctors, others seamen, opal-gougers,
farmers, bakers, engineers, domestic servants or sales-
girls.
Mr. Alexander might consider for the next
edition William Baylebridge, Ruth Bedford, “Brent
of Bin Bin” (maybe he or she is already in-
cluded), Alys Brown, Mary Grant Bruce, Chester
Cobb, Dorothy Cottrell, Griffyth Fairfax, Robert D.
Fitz Gerald, Edwin Gerard, S. W. Jephcott, Vernon
Knowles, Frederic Manning, Arthur Macquarie
Mullens, Martin Mills, Edwin Greenslade Murphy,
Harrison Owen, John Pollard, Ken Slessor, W. J.
Turner and J. M. Walsh.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Dangerous Service : Grace Elliott Taylor (Nichol-
son and Watson). Her chances of happiness in love
ruined by her affection for a headstrong brother —
almost. The Spanish wrangle is the final backdrop.
Everyman’s . . .
Now heading fast towards the thousandth-vol.
milestone, this finest of all inexpensive libraries con-
tinues the plan of including representative work by
contemporary and near-contemporary authors with
Frank Swinnerton’s colorful literary survey, The
Georgian Literary Scene, and selected Walter de la
Mare stories, essays and poems. Some will feel that
there’s not nearly enough De la Mare poetry to the
bulk of prose, but it’s a useful volume. The Library
also includes as a new issue Hindu Scriptures, edited
by Dr. Nichol Mac Nichol, with an introduction by
Tagore and the text taken from costly and, anyway,
unobtainable tomes.
General . . .
Peace and Pacifism : Humphrey Beevor (Centen-
ary Press), discusses, from the Anglo-Catholic stand-
point, whether there is such a thing as a “just” war
and whether a Christian should fight in it. Father
Beevor leaves it to the individual conscience, but is
emphatic that pacifism can’t restore peace.
Helen Keller’s Journal (Michael Joseph) is an
apparently unedited transcript of Miss Keller’s diary
between Nov., 1936, and April, 1937. She travelled
much in that period ; but it is a chronicle of common-
places, interesting merely because it is written by a
woman who overcame the handicaps of blindness and
deafness with such signal success.


Mineral Rich BIDOMAK
brings BUBBLING HEALTH
Get a bottle of BIDOMAK to-day and grow well and happy again
Thousands of men, women and children all over Australia and New Zealand have
been saved from lives of sickness by taking BIDOMAK—the amazing tonic food
that provides all these benefits: —Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum,
calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphates, glycerophosphates, and sucrose . . Gives
you a good appetite . . Brings sweet sleep . . Strengthens nerves . . Relieves
stomach upsets . . Builds energy “pep” and endurance . . Clears out body wastes
from every cell of the body by increasing the amount of oxygen in the blood-
stream . . Creates rich, red blood, new healthy nerve cells and nerve fluid . .
Makes you feel well all over! Tastes so nice you’ll like taking it.
n
Miss Maisie Carroll.
Wept with NERVES now
New Woman
Interviewed in her cosy home, Miss Maisie Carroll, of 21 Edgeware-road,
Marrickville, N.S.W., told an amazing story of recovery from a serious breakdown.
Nothing else could be so convincing as Miss Carroll’s own story, told in
her own words:
“After an operation my nerves were in such a shocking state that 1 cried
bitterly for no reason at all, and could not speak to the family as I was so
irritable. I lost interest in everything, couldn’t sleep, and lay awake at night
worrying. I gave Bidomak a trial and, although less in price than other med-
icines I had been taking, even the first bottle made me well—removed heart
pains, dizziness, and commenced building up my run-down body. I now eat
well, sleep well, and feel a different woman in every way.
“Bidomak has done more for me in my illness than any medicine, and when
I say ‘Thanks to Bidomak,’ all the words in the dictionary cannot express my
sincere gratitude.’’
“A Miracle in Medicine”
Complete Recovery After Terrible Breakdown
Mr. G. Henry, of 132 Layton-street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—
“Words in cold ink are poor expressions of gratification for the benefits I
have derived from the use of BIDOMAK. About August of 1936 I fell ill with
a severe nervous breakdown, caused through years of political speaking and
activity followed on by worry which brought on insomnia and other ills. After
treatment in hospital for nearly four months, what with rest and proper nourish-
ment I became well enough to be able to leave for home.
“When I came out in December I started to take BIDOMAK, taking in all
about five bottles, and, believe me, it is a miracle in medicine; and any hang-
over I had after leaving the hospital it banished like a magician’s wand, made
me a new man, built up my body, strengthened my memory, and helped the
bloodstream to function properly—in fact, it did wonders, and I have no hesita-
tion in broadcasting this vital fact: That it stands paramount as a nerve, brain,
and body builder. BIDOMAK is definitely all that it is proclaimed to be. I
have become a walking advertisement for what BIDOMAK can do.”
•: -
m
mm
m
Children Recover... after
Family and Friends Despair
Here is the poignant story of a mother’s relief after endless worry over the
health of her two children, who were both under-weight and below par until
BIDOMAK helped to restore them rapidly to normal physical condition and the
robust health of childhood
Mrs. Pritchard, of the Police Station, South Lismore, New South Wales,
says:—“My two little boys, who were patients in Lismore Base Hospital for six
weeks with acute Bronchitis, showed no signs of getting better until we tried
BIDOMAK at the suggestion of my mother, who was delighted with what it
had done for her. John, aged 5 years, was in a bad state, and weighed only 2
stone 121bs. before going into hospital, but after taking BIDOMAK he weighed
3 stone 51bs., while Thomas gained from 2 stone lib. to 3 stone.”
Later, Mrs. Pritchard wrote saying:—“Both are now fine big boys with rosy
cheeks, and are sleeping well. They have improved splendidly. We are all very
oleased with the results, so I am keeping my children on BIDOMAK.”
Get a bottle of Bido m a k
to-day under the famous
No Benefit No Pay Guarantee
BIDOMAK
The Tonic of the Century for
NERVE, BRAIN AND THAT DEPRESSED FEELING
Read These
AMAZING
Case Histories
RUNDOWN NERVES
Made Arrangements for
Own Funeral .
“I was so ill I made arrangements
for my own funeral. Eight years
torture from a horrible complete
nervous breakdown had made me a
broken down, crippled old man. Now
at 68 BIDOMAK has saved me from
the grave. My health improvement is
miraculous. I go about my work as
though I had not been ill at all, and
do my business as 1 never thought pos-
sible. I feel 20 years younger in
every way.”—Mr. Fred. Kingsley,
Hotel Gilbert', Gilbert Street, Adelaide,
S.A.
OVERWORK and
WORRY
“Children No Longer Have
A Cranky Mother”
Mrs. , of Excelsior St., Leich-
hardt, writes: “Every time the kiddies
came home from school I’d be saying
‘don’t do this’ and ‘don’t do that for
no reason a‘t all. 1 was that' cranky
I’d wake up every morning in a bad
mood and with a headache. I g<~*- into
the habit of taking Headache Powders.
Some days I took as many as fourteen
powders a day. Gradually my nerves
became worse. I had different tablets,
pills and tonics—all to no avail. I
heard about BIDOMAK over the radio,
and decided to try a course of it. I
felt' better after the very first dose. It
really seemed unbelievable, but never-
theless it was true. I cannot speak too
highly of BIDOMAK. I told one of
my friends to try a bottle, as her nerves
were in a bad state, and she laughed
when I said the first dose made me feel
heaps better. However, to cut a long
story short, she got a bottle and next
time I saw her she said that BIDOMAK
was all I had told her it was. Thanks
to your wonderful tonic, my nerves are
now back to normal. I eat and sleep
better than I have done for years, and
the children no longer have a ’cranky’
mother.”—(Signed) Yours very grate-
fully (Mrs.).
SLEEPLESSNESS
Couldn 9 t Sleep—Now Feels
Well Again—Thanks to
BIDOMAK.
L’Estrange St.,
Dear Sir, Knoxville.
I could not sleep at nights. I would
toss and turn all night long and the
least noise would terrify me.
My husband became worried about
my health . . . He discussed the matter
with one of his workmates, who told
him of BIDOMAK, so my husband
brought' me home a bottle.
After I had taken the bottle I began
to feel more at ease.
I have now taken three bottles, and
sleep comes to me as soon as 1 retire
at night, and 1 wake up in the morning
feeling fresh and ready to do the day’s
work.
Yours very truly,
(Mrs.) D.C.
NERVOUS
HEADACHES
Nervous Headaches Ended
—Seemed Like a Miracle.
Nile St.,
Dear Sir, Glenelg.
1 used to suffer from nervous head-
aches. I took all kinds of patent medi-
cines, but nothing really did me any
good until one day my neighbour told
me of BIDOMAK.
I started on a course of three bottles.
I have now finished the third bottle and
can feel wonderful and healthy. The
three bottles of BIDOMAK changed
my health as though it were a miracle.
My appetite began to increase, my
nervous headaches were gone and 1
enjoyed life as I never had before.
I am truly grateful to BIDOMAK.
Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) M.M.
(Full names and addresses by request.)


FAMOUS
PORT
r
a
\.f '■
mm


ENGAGED.
“Though Trieste is on the Adriatic, extension of the privileges granted to the Austrians there might secure for Germany a footing in the Mediterranean. This is one
of the things Hitler went to see Mussolini about.”
“No, no. You go and have your bath in the Baltic.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Svdney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotcli ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
FREEDOM OF THE AIR.
A.B.C. has again been figuring in a role which by
now must be second nature to it —that of Aunt Sally.
The matter over which the brickbats have been fly-
ing this time is freedom of speech, concerning which
there is more muddled thinking than about any other
democratic principle.
In the first place the Commission has been
roasted for the censoring of a speech on free speech
—and a lot of other matters —by Judge Foster,
of Victoria. Many critics —who had not seen the
speech—were up on their hind legs at once in the
press, in Parliament and elsewhere. Absolute free-
dom of speech was claimed for the Judge, with all
the customary affirming that freedom of speech is
sacred.
Then it got about that Count von Luckner would
shortly be in Australia and had been booked to
broadcast over a national station. This A.B.C. denied,
but the mere rumor was enough to start the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council roaring in its well-known
way.
The N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council does
not believe in freedom of speech for any Nazi or
Fascist. All it wants is freedom for its own sort of
speech. Other people are in the same boat.
This suspiciously inconsistent form, with the rest
of the muddled vaporing on the subject, arises from
confusing what is, at most, only comparative free-
dom of speech with the socially impossible condition
of full freedom of speech. Between the one and
the other is a gap as wide as that between our com-
parative freedom of speech and the denial of this
freedom enforced in dictator countries.
The matter can be stated in a nutshell. If a
newspaper published a libel on any of the parties to
this controversy he would instantly take action with the
object of-having it punished. If it repeated or tried to
justify the libel before the case was heard, it would be
held to have committed contempt of Court, which
indicates another restriction on freedom of speech.
If in original libel, repetition or comment on the
contempt-of-Court proceedings it drew from the well
of English defiled there might be another charge to
face ; and if it were convicted of blasphemy, profanity
or obscenity, action would be taken by the Post Office
to prevent the circulation of the journal.
Obviously there are such limits to full freedom
of speech that to claim a right to it on behalf of any-
body is sheer nonsense. Claiming it for one while
seeking to have all speech denied to another is simply
carrying hypocrisy to its limits.
In this matter, too, broadcasting presents its own
peculiar problems. A good deal of muddle arises
from overlooking that it has to be conducted just as
a newspaper or any other vehicle of public expression
has to be conducted. The editor or editorial staff of
a newspaper decides the extent to which freedom of
speech will be practised in that newspaper, keeping
in mind the legal and other limitations. In every
newspaper office, without any exception, full freedom
of speech is rigidly curtailed every day. Not being
public institutions the newspapers are not condemned
for maltreatment of a sacred principle. They are
applauded, or they would be, even by most fanatical
advocates of freedom of speech, if it was known how
thoroughly they go about their censoring in the
interest of the community.
Nobody in his senses would fail to see that
national broadcasting has to be similarly conducted.
There are elements in the nature of broadcasting
which insist on the conducting of it being even more
rigid.
Wireless and the newspaper represent two entirely
different forms of public expression. Anything in any
way objectionable published in a newspaper is, after
all, there in print. It can be opposed, denied or con-
tradicted. If it calls for legal action it can readily
be produced in court. Only the censorship of full
freedom of speech practised in every newspaper office
as part of the normal business of conducting the paper
prevents this position from arising every day.
Broadcasting is another sort of animal altogether.
Anything objectionable put over the air is nowhere.
The unscrupulous broadcaster can get away with
almost anything. He can insult or traduce persons or
institutions in a manner that no newspaper would
permit in print. Unless the one attacked knew the
attack was coming—which, of course, he could not
know —and had a couple of expert shorthand writers
taking down the comments, it would be a most diffi-
cult thing to prove what actual words were spoken.
In the ordinary course of things a person or institu-
tion has no effective counter to statements made over
the air, such as can be made to statements printed
in a newspaper.
In regard to the specific matter recently in dis-
pute—the censoring of Judge Foster’s address—no
evidence has been produced to prove that the Com-
mission was in the wrong. Even if the Judge’s address
was innocuous—it wasn’t —that would not estab-
lish guilt in the Commission. The Commis-
sion’s job is the necessary one of conducting national
broadcasting, and in this it has no choice but to
practise a considerable amount of censorship, full
freedom of speech being a complete fallacy.
Mr. Cleary, the chairman, explained that the
Judge’s address not only raised controversial issues,
but dealt with individuals and groups. “A church
and executives of several Cabinets,” said Mr. Cleary,
“were included in the attack.”
This reading was amply justified by the speech
as subsequently published in a newspaper. But even
if Mr. Cleary had been mistaken—even if Judge
Foster’s address contained no attack on a church or
on anything or anybody—the Commission was still
well within its rights in taking the action it took. Its
job is to conduct broadcasting, and in a matter of this
kind it has no choice but to act on its own interpre-
tations. In a spirited defence, Mr. Cleary said:
The Commission must recognise an attack when it
sees one, and cannot allow an individual to make such
ex-parte statements on the air. The Commission would
like to ask those who claim absolute freedom of speech
over the air whether they mean that the national stations
should be open to any individual to say anything he
likes, not merely on general subjects, but about any
individual or institution.
That is unanswerable. And there is one thing clear.
The excellent measure of freedom of speech we
enjoy is in no danger. The publicity given to the
affair of the Foster speech should demonstrate to
would-be dictators that this is a democracy, and that,
as a right limited by the rights of others, freedom of
speech is regarded as a precious possession.
A Man, a Woman and a War.
The war in Spain, of which little has been heard since
“Franco’s mercenaries” confounded newspaper and
radio prophets by driving a wedge between Barcelona
and Valencia, is the subject of an arresting study in
the “Saturday Evening Post,” the writer being a
United States army officer, Major Phillips. This
American’s article should be read by all the amateurs
who have been holding forth on defence at Can-
berra ; it might rid some minds of dangerous notions
therein harbored, such as that Australia could protect
itself with aeroplanes and a small militia force, trained
anyhow.
According to Major Phillips, the Valencia Gov-
ernment has always had the superiority in numbers,
and it has had time enough to employ that superiority
victoriously. But its advantages have been “nullified
by military incompetence” ; it has been “led by Left-
Wing writers, parlor Pinks and Communist tub-
thumpers,” though it has had “considerable help from
competent foreign advisers.” In the result troops
“with amateur commanders and amateur staffs” have
been hurled against trained men, and have been
beaten almost everywhere, in every case by smaller
armies. Hence this conclusion:
The days when a people’s militia can stand against
trained troops are gone for ever.
Other lessons of the civil war are that the moral and
material effects of bombing from the air have been
exaggerated ; that for the defence of cities modern
types of anti-aircraft artillery are much more effective
than squadrons of aeroplanes maintained for that pur-
pose —the technical reasons are presented and they
seem convincing—and that tanks can be stopped, not
only by anti-tank guns, but by mines and traps.
On the other hand, aeroplanes are increasingly
useful to attacking or defending infantry: “air sup-
port has become almost as important to the foot sol-
diers as artillery support.” This was demonstrated
with painful results to “two Italian divisions, of
about 5000 men each, in motors, with some unmotor-
ised Italian and Spanish troops,” at Guadalajara.
Major Phillips laughs at the Communist story, re-
peated in stacks of Pink papers, that at Guadalajara,
the Red International Brigades were responsible for
“the greatest military achievement of all time” ; how
small their contribution really was “is indicated by
the fact that they completely lost contact with the
Italians for two days of a retreat which was moving
only at the rate of a mile and a half a day. Russian
fliers did the work.
The weather was bad. The Italian airplanes could
not rise from rain-bogged fields. Suddenly the Italians,
huddled in their trucks in the rain, were attacked by
Russian fliers. Five hundred bombs were dropped and
several hundred thousand rounds of ammunition bred.
The long columns were perfect targets. The Italians, in
trucks, were unable to fire back. After the first attack,
pandemonium reigned and order was never again
restored. The Italian defeat was complete. The y with-
drew slowly, 12 miles in eight days, and re-established
their lines a little forward from where they had started.
The Australian public was told nothing about this
performance of Russian airmen, nor was it told that
“Russian tanks battled with Italian tanks at
Guadalajara,” or that on another occasion, “shortly
after the [Red] Government had received a large
number of Russian tanks,” a spectacular tank battle
took place. Yet ‘‘all foreign correspondents were
invited” by the Red Government “to witness the
expected success.”
The tanks, 60 of them, started up the hill to win the
war. Twenty-two dropped from sight in the trap
[a long deep trench covered over with trees and brush].
Another 20 fell victims to anti-tank guns. Eighteen
returned to the Government lines, having accomplished
nothing.
Neither has the Australian public been informed by
rank partisans who have “reported” the Spanish war
of “the Commissars, a Russian importation,” nor has
the existence of “the Russian military advisers been
brought to their knowledge.
The war “news” has been empty of refer-
ences to Russians except when Russian and Greek
ships carrying arms and oil for the Reds were sunk in
the Mediterranean; then there were demands that
Britain should intervene on the Red side. The war
has been pictured as a struggle between Darkness and
Light: Italians, Germans and Franco on the one side
and Spanish patriots on the other.
To establish this impression, the services of
Madame Two-Blues, of “l’CEuvre,” have been requisi-
tioned. Some of the furious fancies of this lady have
lately been collected in a book entitled Blackmail or
War. To Madame Two-Blues “Mussolini is a perfect
specimen of the condottiere,” though she coyly
records that he once complimented her upon her
frock. N.S.W. people have had it straight from the
Sydney “Sun” stable that Mussolini plotted to sink
the British Navy, and consigned the particulars to a
Black Box, which was found in the wreck of an
aeroplane in Africa ; Madame Two-Blues unearthed
the evidence of his plot to seize Spain—“it is written
on a sheet of ordinary notepaper which bears the
printed heading of the Hotel du Quirinal at Rome.”
In November, 1914, 38 vessels were needed to
transport and four cruisers to escort the 30,000
Anzacs who set out from Westralia on their historic
voyage. Nevertheless, Madame Two-Blues assures
her public that “80,000” Italians —who, unlike the
Anzacs, had to carry everything they required for a
foreign campaign, except perhaps food —made the
Mediterranean passage, slipping between swarms of
British and French warships, and were safely landed
in Spain.
And “according to the most reliable information
obtained” by Madame Two-Blues “from the rebels,”
Italy combined with Germany to supply the rebs “up
to October 1, 1937,” with “more than 2000 field guns,
1500 aeroplanes” (1000 is Major Phillips’s figure for
both sides), “50,000 machine-guns and 1,200,000
rifles.” And all this when the Italians had their hands
full in Abyssinia (for one thing, “Makale Selicto and
Ankobar fell into the hands of the rebels, and the gar-
risons, numbering 3000-5000 Italians, were massacred”)
and when their country was broke (“in an economic
respect, Italy is now experiencing nothing less than
a Caporetto”).
Being a hopeless megalomaniac, Mussolini
arranged with the German General Staff in the same
year to invade Switzerland, “Geneva being the point
at which the German-Italian forces would combine.”
Moreover, “Italy is ready to take action in the ex-
treme East, jointly with Japan,” as part of “a vast
scheme of war directed against Britain, the U.S.A.
and France, as foreshadowed in a speech by Musso-
lini as far back as 1934.” However, the outlook is
not all black.
The democracies, in order to hold their own against
the dictatorships during the first few months of a general
war, should be able to rely to the fullest extent upon the
Russian forces. The Red Army, notwithstanding the
summary execution of certain of its chiefs, has retained
its value unimpaired. The defence of British interests
in the Far East can and should be ensured in Spain....
The British Government seems to realise this.
Then Madame Two-Blues had to add a postscript:
Unfortunately Mr. Eden’s resignation, so fraught
with consequences to the whole of international politics,
proves that this is not so. But now that Mr. Eden is
released from office, he, together with Labor and the
trade unions, may well gain a speedy victory for Labor
at the new elections in England.
The Manchester “Guardian,” which nowadays
sympathises with the politics of Madame Two-Blues,
describes Blackmail or War as “one of two excellent
books.” Then, realising perhaps what the first of the
Scotts would have thought of such a writer, it points
to “one serious failing: she does not bother to make
any distinction between what is known for fact,
what is very probable and what is merely an intelli-
gent guess ; also there is a notable lack of references
from which one might check her statements.” In other
words, such of the lady’s stuff as is not vinegary
abuse is just the say-so of a person who moves among
the most discredited politicians in Europe, and whose
mind is a mass of prejudices. Yet this Left Wing
lady, to whom fact and assertion are the same thing,
is repeatedly quoted and held up as an authority in
Australian cablegrams, and has had a hand in shaping
Australian opinion.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fifty Millions for Wool.
The war in China and the unexpected slump in the
U-S.A. have naturally affected the 1937-38 wool
market; and there have been other adverse factors.
Japanese purchases for the 18 months to June 30
will be nothing like the 800,000 bales mentioned when
the trade war was settled in December, 1936. Can-
berra is chary of asking for an explanation lest it be
held responsible for the waterfront boycott, which it
professes to regard as “a dispute” in which it is not
concerned; and the low price of cotton has had an
effect on the price of wool, while the manufacture
of competitive fibres has increased.
Nevertheless it seems certain that the 1937-38
wool season will bring Australia £50,000,000. That
total, if realised, will be £16,000,000 below last year’s
return, but it is substantially above the average for
10 years. Considering the state of the world, it is
fairly satisfactory, and recent purchases have been
made on an improving market.
Taking 1937 as a whole, Britain bought
563,428,000 p0und5—85,524,000 pounds less than in
1936. It took slightly more crossbred wool and less
merino. Germany and Italy, which some Australian
newspapers are pleased to regard as mortal enemies,
helped to remedy the situation for fine and medium
wools. Italy in particular was a serviceable buyer
of choice merino fleeces during the first five months
of the season ; then, apparently, lack of funds or of
trade to pay for wool compelled it to stop bidding.
There is little fear for the future of the market,
though abnormally high prices may not be seen again
for a long time. Japanese buying will probably in-
crease, since Tokio has issued regulations under which
permits for the introduction of raw wool to be made
up into goods for export may be granted. And though
U.S.A. manufacturers have been struggling along with
their own clip, the high cost of local production may
force a reduction of the high tariff on foreign wool.
The position of Uncle Sam’s woolgrowers is
almost as bad as it could be. They have to compete
with cottongrowers who have a much greater political
pull; and when bad times come cotton is used for
many purposes for which wool would be preferred, if
cheaper.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture proposes to
lend woolgrowers an average of B|d. per pound to
“assist them in marketing.” The loan term is to be
10 months, interest is 4 per cent., and the Commodity
Credit Corporation will do the appraising. It looks
like a price-fixing scheme, and may work out to Aus-
tralia’s ultimate advantage. If the Government over-
values to mget production costs, consumers will restrict
their buying ; if it undervalues, the industry will suffer.
And the U.S.A. grower, unlike many Australians,
has no chance of bringing down his production costs
by pasture improvement and subdivision of paddocks.
No Easy Money in London.
The passing of the Defence Loan Bill synchronised
with the launching of a Commonwealth loan on the
London market. J. Bull was invited to subscribe
£7,000,000 and offered £3 16s. 6d. per cent., rate of
interest being 3J per cent, and issue price £99. He
was informed that £2,000,000 was required for defence
expenditure and the rest for the funding of portion of
the overseas floating debt, which amounted to
£33,000,000. That was expected to appeal to him, but
it failed to do so.
The underwriters were left with just on two-
thirds of the loan. Public subscriptions amounted to
a mere £2,380,000. And within 24 hours the thing
was quoted at a discount of £1 on the issue price,
though there has been a bit of a rally since. Financial
newspapers are coldly critical, and one rubs salt into
Mr. Casey’s wounds by mentioning that “the Birming-
ham 3i per cent, issue has risen to a premium.”
In short, the transaction was a failure. J. Bull is
plainly of opinion that, with value of exports of mer-
chandise for ten months exceeding value of imports by
a mere £2,208,000 (thank heaven for our goldmines,
whose production raises the credit to a still-inadequate
£11,692,000 stg.), it is no time for Australian Govern-
ments to be borrowing in London, whether for defence
or for Mr. Stevens’s Water Board. Naturally, he is
thinking of his own interests ; but, even so, he is doing
Australia a service. _
The No-Decision Government's Latest.
Alarmed at the increasing cost of old-age and invalid
pensions, and influenced by current demands for
social security and the abolition of poverty, the Gov-
ernment at Canberra has prepared what it calls a
National Insurance Bill. Mr. Casey introduced it with
the remark that it had “taken every moment of the
Government’s time for the past six months.” At
once a host of critics swung into action with the cry
that the time had been ill-spent and the thinking
defective.
The plan has its merits, but “national” it is not.
In its present form it applies only to “1,850,000 wage-
earners” ; employers, however little they earn, and
sedentary workers getting more than £365 p.a. are
excluded from benefits—why, the Government alone
knows. For the actual beneficiaries there are to be
provided:
Free medical attendance and treatment, “including
medicines and certain medical and surgical appliances.”
Weekly cash payments during sickness (20s. for a
man, 15s. for a woman), and disablement (15s. for a
man, 12s. 6d. for a woman); plus 3s. 6d. for each
dependent child under 15.
Pensions for the aged (20s. a week for a man at
65, 15s. for a woman at 60); plus free medical treat-
ment and medicine for the rest of their lives.
Pensions for widows (15s. a week for life “or until
remarriage”) and orphans (7s. 6d. till 15).
As for finance, the Government is to pay
£1,000,000 a year for five years, then an additional
£500,000 a year till “the maximum” of £10,000,000 a
year is reached. Weekly contributions are 3s. for
men and 2s. for women, employers to pay half.
As soon as the report of Mr. Casey’s speech was
in print the tumult began. “Why should small farmers
be out of it?” shouted the representatives of that class.
“Why should the pensions for women be less than
they are getting now?” cried Feminist Leaders and
city members in whose electorates women prepon-
derate. “Why should employees pay anything at all?”
roared Labor members and Trades Hallers. “Why
shouldn’t the boss have to foot their weekly bills as
well as his own?” And the cry of a multitude of
doctors was that the annual capitation fee of 11s. a
head wasn’t nearly enough—it should be at least a
pound.
The No-Decision Government is trying to con-
ciliate all the clamorous sections. It “has resolved
to leave to the Commonwealth and State industrial
tribunals the question of whether the whole or any
part of employees’ contributions shall be passed on
to industry.” In other words, though it believes that
employees should contribute, it is willing to let arbi-
tration courts and wages boards vote the contributory
principle out of the Act, and to allow those wholly
irresponsible bodies—some of them small provincial
concerns —to impose another thumping tax on wage-
payers. Such is government as practised at Canberra.
A Naval Man on Defence.
The opinions are those of Vice-Admiral J. E. T.
Harper, visiting Australia on Navy League matters:
If Britain lost command of the trade routes Australia’s
air force would be impotent. It depends upon overseas sup-
plies of oil. The value of bombers has been overrated, but
the big point is that, whereas the air force is merely useful
to the navy, the navy is vital to the other arm.
Australia needs adequate coastal defences on land, sea
and air to meet a sudden raid; but in the event of war its
fate, as in 1914-18, would probably be decided by naval
operations defending strategic trade-routes. So that Aus-
tralia needs sufficient ships both to defend the coasts and to
assist in the important long-distance operations.
Speaking generally—not specifically for Australia—com-
pulsory military training is always valuable, not so much
for instruction in the use of arms, but for discipline and
physical fitness.
Britain’s rearmament was welcomed by nearly every
European country as a force for peace, and war is much
less likely at the moment than it was a year ago.
Very few papers out this way are as closely in line with
responsible opinion in England as is The Bulletin.
Sydney's Wilderness.
A deputation of business folk interested in properties
round about Sydney’s Circular Quay asked Premier
Stevens how soon he intended to clear up the mess
in that vicinity. It got very little satisfaction.
The Government, it appears, has handed over the
business of planning the transformation of the Cir-
cular Quay neighborhood, incident to the necessary
completion of (he city railway, to a committee headed
by Mr. J. Butters. The committee last reported six
months ago, but its report hasn’t been seen by
Cabinet. Mr. Stevens promised to “allot” £200,000
for some expenditure or other.
This is not a problem that has hurriedly been
imposed upon the Government. A tunnel archway
at the eastern end of Circular Quay inscribed “City
Railway, 1916,” bears mute testimony to prolonged
procrastination.
The harbor bridge contract was let in 1924, and
the bridge was open in 1932. In the years between Dr.
Bradfield produced a successipn of ornate plans for
the Circular Quay part of the layout. It was assumed
by most citizens when an army of workers
descended on the Quay and turned it into a howling
wilderness of palisaded excavations, interspersed with
wide waste areas where buildings had been demol-
ished, that they had some plans to guide them. How-
ever, they departed as suddenly as they came, and left
their muddle behind them.
This matter isn’t properly the responsibility of
a committee of private persons, however eminent, nor
of Railways Commissioner of the City
Council, nor of the ratepayers in the Quay area.
The responsibility lies with the Government, and it
should be accepted without any more expensive shilly-
shallying. But Governments like Mr. Stevens’s and
the one at Canberra dodge responsibility as they would
a disease.
Not Libel This Time.
Except in Westralia, where the defendant can get
security for costs, libel law in Australia is loaded
against newspapers. For example, The Bulletin,
published in Sydney, has had the experience of being
dragged to Maitland to defend two actions brought
by persons of whose very existence it was unaware
until the writs were served. It won both cases, and
costs went with the verdicts; but it never had the
slightest chance of getting them.
In Queensland last week one Gaston Charles
Renard sued the proprietor and publishers of “Man,”
a Sydney magazine, claiming £lOOO damages. He had
sold the publication a Story, and had subsequently
been denounced by it as a plagiarist of the work of
an English writer, “Seamark.” In the box he said
that his notebook might contain a summary of “Sea-
mark’s” yarn, but “I had not read that story.”
Justice Macrossan: You want the jury to believe
the sole inspiration of your story was a joke clipped
from the “Christian Science Monitor”? —Yes, I do.
Then, says the “Courier-Mail”;: — :■
Renard was shown an article on the Red Page of
The Bulletin of May 12, 1937. “That is my com-
position,” he said.
Counsel read portions of the article —it was on the
Irish poet Gogarty. Then he read an article on the
same subject from the January “Christian Science
Monitor” signed “Horace Reynolds.”
Counsel: I put it to you that you copied the article
practically word for word from the “Christian Science
Monitor” and sent it to The Bulletin under your own
name.
Renard: I am thunderstruck. I am not going to
try to explain this at all.
His Honor took the plaintiff in hand;
Does it not strike you that you were a pretty daring
sort of pirate?—l don’t think I was ever so foolish
as to be so daring.
His Honor (to the jury): Here is the evidence, gentle-
men—a column article in The Bulletin, reproduced
verbatim, for all practical purposes, from the “Christian
Science Monitor,” and he claims it as his 'own!
Renard said he had read extracts from Gogarty’s
works. ,
His Honor: Can you remember any particular
extract? —I never memorise verse. I have a book on
the beauties of Shakspeare, but I cannot remember a
line of Shakspeare.
His Honor: I know a line of “Macbeth” that seems
appropriate to this case: “What bloody man is this?”
Counsel: Did you send to the “Queenslander”
this item, published on December 24, 1936, lifted
verbatim from The Bulletin of May 2, 1934? —I did
not lift it. I submitted it on behalf of someone else,
whom I shall not name, believing it was original.
A nonsuit was applied for. Justice Macrossan
said he preferred to enter judgment for the defendants;
and judgment was so entered.
So all this pincher got out of his suit was
an exposure of his methods and the censure of the
Judge. The fact remains that the defendants were
involved in expense and inconvenience through being
denied the protection which security for costs would
have afforded. Newspapers and magazines are more
or less at the mercy of pirates, for it is obviously im-
possible to keep a check on the originality of every
contribution ; but it should not be necessary for them
to stand the racket of every impudent libel action that
may be brought against them.
Mr. Perkins "Acts."
Mr. Perkins, the Acting-Minister of Customs, has
discovered that special legislation will probably be
necessary if the flood of filthy American magazines
into Australia is to be checked. He will make recom-
mendations to Cabinet “when the inquiry now in
progress has ended.”
Unless “the inquiry” is looking for some con-
venient way of shelving the matter, it’s hard to see
what it’s “in progress” about. As a newsagent for
many years, Mr. Perkins should know something
about the magazine trade. He refreshed his know-
ledge by making a tour of bookstalls, and was horri-
fied at the offal that he saw exposed for sale.
The only thing left for inquiry is the method of
keeping it out. If 50 imports, from preserved vege-
tables and felt hats to cranes, elevators and motor
bodies, could be prohibited by regulation when a
contentious policy of trade diversion was inaugurated,
there should be no need for special legislation, or
delays and “inquiries,” to prohibit the entry of maga-
zines over whose undesirability no argument is
possible.
More Wanted!
“Captain Pintle” : Years behind the rest of the
civilised world, but with a flourish of self-praise,
Canberra has become sufficiently seaminded to instal
Australia’s first marine radio signal outfit at Cape
Otway (Vic.). Normal range is 100 miles ; frequency,
every six minutes in thick weather, at 20 and 50
minutes past the hour in clear weather.
This Otway signal is a useful beginning, but no
time should be lost in making similar or more powerful
provision against the dangers of the approach to
Torres Strait from the westward, and the almost
equally dangerous area north and east of Sandy Cape
(Q.). The need has been emphasised by the queer suc-
cession of mishaps to shipping during the last six weeks
—to the steamer Dalia and the oil-tanker Sepia, which
grounded on Torres Strait reefs ; to the motor-vessel
Bingera, which struck a Whitsunday Passage reef;
to the motor-vessel Port St. John, aground on Lady
Elliott Island (it was her maiden voyage), and to the
steamer Canonbar, “stuck fast,” for a time, in Sandy
Strait.
Canberra’s apparent seamindedness is really an
item in the work of making air-travel safer.
The Weak Spot.
The Government at Canberra seems to be awake at
last to the need for defensive basks in North Aus-
tralia and the outlying territories. The defences of
Darwin are being “reorganised” on a scale so modest
that, if war broke out in two or three years and the
enemy consented to attack with a few destroyers, it
would be possible to hold the port if our warships
could get there in time.
More than that is needed. Darwin should be a
first-class naval and air base. The need for it grows
every day with the extension of foreign interests into
Timor and northern New Guinea.
Papua now figures to Canberra as “a valuable
prize” which must be protected—principally by
an air arm. That wouldn’t be much protection. As
for Mandated New Guinea, the Government feels
that its obligations to the League will not admit of
fortifications. The League itself as a defensive instru-
ment is about as useful as a handful of wet yams;
and, anyway, it does not defend its mandates. When
the Japanese wanted a mandated group, only 300 miles
at its nearest point from New Guinea, they merely
announced that the group was theirs; and that was
that. Not even the Liberian army was mobilised to
defend it.
In the interests of the Commonwealth it is time
New Guinea was declared an Australian defensive
zone.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: i n fl uence G f th e New Jour-
nalism or something has made news-
papermen’s wrangles much more —er —
deliberate than those in which old Thady
O’Kane used to engage, to the delight
of all Queensland. For instance, Mr.
Hugh R. Denison, of the Sydney “Sun,”
took five years to brood over his allega-
tion that he was landed by the late Mr.
R C. Packer in an agreement to pay Mr.
Frank Packer and Mr. Theodore £80,500
for not bringing out an afternoon paper
in opposition to the “Sun” (B. 5/5/’3B),
and then he published it in the High Court.
The Mr. Frank Packer-Mr. Theodore
morning paper, the “D.T.,” took six days
to chew that over. On the seventh day
it came out with a two-column front-
page article to the effect that it was “a
particularly mean libel on a dead man”:
that Mr. R. C. Packer had worn himself
out “putting the ‘Sun’ organisation back
on the road to prosperity,” and that “the
only part” Mr. R. C. Packer had played
in the £80,500 transaction “was to write
a final letter embodying the ‘Sun’s’ pro-
posal—all of which was done on the
authority of Mr. Hugh Denison and
members of his board.” The article was
published four days after Mr. Denison
had left for abroad. As I write, four
issues of his “Sun” have appeared, and
there has been no reply. Perhaps one
will be forthcoming in another five years.
sH sis * *
“Dhas”: My heart has always bled for
gardeners who have to spell things like
“chrysanthemum” and “antirrhinum,”
but I never expected to have to shed a
tear for fish-lovers. At Sydney aquarium,
though, one of the notices having a shot
at that dreadful word that’s either
“anenome” or “anemone” describes the
salt-water variety as “anemome.” It only
wants someone now to weigh in
with “amemone,” “amenome” and
“amemome.”
* * * *
“Goss”: Those vegetarian street-names
suggested in Brisbane (B. 5/5/’3B) have
a pleasant counterpart in Inglewood
(M.L.), where the streets are named after
native trees. Rata-street,' Rimu-street
and even Kahikatea-street are consider-
ably more mellifluous than, for instance,
Potts Point. For really beautiful place-
names in Maoriland I nominate Nelson
with its Dovedale, Pigeon Valley, Rain-
bow Valley and the odd Teapot Valley.
I wouldn’t add Takaka in the same pro-
vince to the list; it’s pronounced like
the noise you make when the cat brings
in a trophy of the chase.
♦ * * *
“Stoo”: Me and Norm Ridgely,the darts
champ, who married Ishbel MacDonald,
will be donging “J. Roo” (B. 5/5 / ’3B)
with a warming-pan if he “chortles” at
the idea of darts still being popular in
England. Bless his soul (if any), didn’t
I play the game every night last winter
except when one of the numerous darts
teams from neighboring pubs collared
the floor? And that wasn’t only in Nether
Wallop or Tolpuddle, but in exclusive
joints in Kensington and popular dives
off the Strand. I’ve seen ladies who’ve
been ridin’ in the Park trot into the
public-bar in Knightsbridge pubs to play
shove-ha’penny ; and down in Devon, me
deurr, I don’t think a pub would dare
to open up without its dart-board.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The lessee of a
block of flats moved out, taking his fur-
niture with him. The owner decided to
carry on himself, letting the places un-
furnished. A man of economical mind,
he deemed that the board his lessee had
put up would do, with a little addition,
so the sign now reads: “Well Unfur-
nished Flats.”
* * * *
“S.”: Apart from boycott or minor
local action, the young men of Eltharn
(M.L.), like some of Australia’s wharf-
laborers, couldn’t really do much about
the menace to British lives and property
in the Far East, but they managed at
least to express forcibly their dislike of
Oriental aggression when a band of them
formed fours, marched in orderly fashion
up the main street and broke the win-
dows of an Asiatic’s shop. It wasn’t
larrikinism but a considered protest,
“Thank y’r stars ye're an old man, because it's only y'r age that's saving ye .”
they told an unsympathetic magistrate.
Strange to read of a Japanese shop-
keeper indMaoriland? But this was 1927 ;
it was the Chinese then who were trying
to expel the British ; and the windows
belonged to an innocent, but then
abhorred, Chinese fruiterer.
* 4,
“Rokko”: The history of the Royal
Commission on Industrial Insurance now
sitting in Melbourne should be worth
reading if only for its witticisms.
Asked why so many complaints seemed
to have originated in his particular
district, a young man replied con-
fidentially, “Well, you know what
Americans mean when they call anyone
a ‘sap’? That’s why—our district’s full
of ’em.” To an elderly lady a legal
light remarked, “But didn’t you ask the
insurance clerk a great number of ques-
tions?” “Certainly I did,” replied the
lady indignantly ; “I asked him to put
the matter into language suited to the
intellect of a person who would be likely
to take out a policy with his company!”
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland University is
younger than most, but its annual dis-
play of the effects of education on adoles-
cent manners and behavior is equal to
any in the world. This year at the cap-
ping ceremony undergrads, did no-
thing much in the hall except sing “I’m
Popeye the Sailor” to the Lieutenant-
Governor, but once outside between 60
and 80 sang at the G.P.0., rushed
down the streets at the double, formed
crocodiles in stores and hotels, shout-
ing, singing and laughing. Then they
played a game of running across the
streets in front of trams and treating
every red light as green, and upset the
centre of the city for some time. If the
crew of a warship—whose rank and file
is generally about the same age as elder
undergraduates —did the same sort of
thing, there would be hollow shrieks
from the press about ill-bred hood-
lums, arrests, police court cases and
courts-martial. But I am all for the
convention that for one day a year uni-
versity students should be allowed to be-
have like baboons. My only complaint
is that the public which suffers is not
given a return match, as seems fair.
* * * *
“Spare Mufti”: Sydney “Herald,” an-
nouncing a new Medical Practitioners
Act, says that one clause demands that
exploiters of patent medicines must make
good their claims in the advertisements
or be prosecuted as frauds. Mahomet
had a similar notion in another sphere.
Most people interested in Islam know
that the Koran forbids the representation
in picture or statue of any living thing—
an injunction which has confined Mos-
lem art to architecture and conventional
design. But it is not so well known that
infringement of the Commandment does
not necessarily consign an offender to
everlasting Jehannum. All he will be
required to do when confronted with
his creations before the Judgment Seat
is to endow them with life. If he can —
paradise complete with houris. If he
can’t—well, that’s too bad, as the Ameri-
cans say. I would give a lot to see the
sedate Norman Lindsay or the amiable
Frith suddenly confronted with the ladies
they like to draw made actual flesh and
told by the Fountain of Justice to live
with them and be happy ever after.
:{c H*
“T.”: Did Papua’s Hubert Murray
win “the Queensberry amateur heavy-
weight boxing championship of England”
(B. 28/4/’38)? He certainly fought for
it on April 11, 1881, being then a strip-
ling of 19 ; but the London “Referee,”
which referred to him as “a Mr. Murray,
recently arrived from Australia,” says the
verdict went against him. Perhaps the
eminent Hubert was more fortunate on
a subsequent occasion—l’m not arguing
about it; merely seeking information.
The “Referee” account of that 1881 scrap
is interesting:—
Mr. Murray stands about 6ft. 3in., and
depends entirely upon length of reach.
Of science or finesse he knew nothing what-
ever. He found his way to Frost-Smith’s
face, and once or twice landed with the
wrist so vigorously that the old champion’s
blood flowed copiously. This, in the minds
of his partisans, appeared to constitute
complete success for Murray, but Frost-
Smith countered again and again with effect,
getting both hands home and making
Murray give way repeatedly. In the third
round Frost-Smith had him beaten com-
pletely to a standstill.
The “Referee” man allowed that “there
was a tremendous clamor for Murray
after the decision was given in Frost-
Smith’s favor,” but professed that
“whether the feeling arose from ignor-
ance, private malice or other prejudice”
was to him a mystery.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I fail to see why “Spare
Skeats” (B. 28/4/’3B) should stigmatise
as “a vile expression” and “a beastly
Americanism” a word so widely used as
“Britisher” for any or every inhabitant
of Great Britain. “Briton” may be the
older form, but, besides becoming a trifle
archaic, it has acquired a secondary
meaning which rather obscures the origi-
nal one —in speaking or writing of a man
as “a Briton” the thought of his nation-
ality is hardly uppermost. Also, a far
greater authority on the English language
than Dickens perhaps, indeed, a
supreme authority—has employed the
later word. In Trevelyan’s Life and
Letters of Lord Macaulay you will find
the following, written in 1851:
An American has written to me from
Arkansas and sent me a copy of Bancroft’s
History. Very civil and kind; but by
some odd mistake he directs it to me at
Abbotsford. Does he think that all
Britishers who write books live there to-
gether?
Evidently the historian, looking for a
word that should include Scots (and
maybe Welshmen) as well as Englishmen,
preferred “Britisher” to “Briton.”
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: A Sydney magistrate
had to gulp hard to swallow a defence
put before him in a motor-car case.
Defendant said he walked off a liner
from England and asked a pleasant
stranger how he could get his luggage to
Paddington. The affable one made a
grand gesture towards a line of parked
cars and told him, if he could drive, to
help himself. “That’s how we do it in
Australia —a motor-car given to every
new arrival in the country.” The new-
chum, delighted, helped himself, and
drove the car about for four days. The
Beak gave him the benefit of the doubt,
but made scathing remarks about his
gullibility.
# *
“X.N.” on a social revolution:
The Australian Club is a century old this
year. Before it came into existence the gentry
of Sydney were compelled to eat and drink in
pubs. It was, therefore, decided that an insti-
tution was needed to “facilitate the literary
and social intercourse of individuals resident
in the colony, and, for the general interests of
country gentlemen, to provide them with an
establishment where they can meet in Sydney.”
But .“economy” was to be “attended to in all
the club’s arrangements, so far as may be con-
sistent with comfort and accommodation.”
To become an Australian Clubber cost £25,
including first year’s fees. Annual subscription
was £7 10s.; military and naval officers half-
price. Billiards set you back another five shil-
lings a quarter.
For everything else, in 1838, you paid be-
fore you left the house. No accounts were
allowed: the house steward was answerable for
any amount he failed to collect on the nail.
His cash was audited daily.
A strict sense of decorum was necessary.
Smoking was restricted to the smoking-room
only. No games were allowed in the cardroom
except backgammon, with no stakes higher
than half-a-crown a hand or ss. a rubber.
The early membership was not large. Even
in the ’fifties it seemed to be made up mainly
of the immigrant scions of English county
families, officers and retired officers, leaders of
the learned professions and merchants with
a Forsytean flavor. Dumaresqs, Darvalls and
the like basked in its armchairs; but not W. C.
Wentworth, nor yet any of the Campbells of
the Wharf. Stuart Donaldson, the first Premier,
was a trustee. 1
For a century the Australian has given a
noble exhibition of our imperial unity of tra-
dition and habit. A Briton from the London
West End or from Calcutta could cross its
portals at the present moment and feel at home.
He would find there congenial society and
safety from the female of the species.
But the immunity is passing. Ladies are
to be admitted as members. So their sex
storms one of the strongest and last of the cita-
dels of male privilege.
LABOR’S BOGEY.
“While the Government proposes to expend
£43,000,000 on national defence during the next
three years, Mr. Curtin has announced that the Labor
party is uncompromisingly opposed to the reintroduc-
tion of compulsory training.”
“We don’t want to fight, but by Jingo if we do
We’ve got the ships, we’ve got the men, we’ve
got the money, too” —
A Chauvinism sixty years ago perhaps, but, say,
Isn’t it just what Britain’s out to demonstrate
to-day?
We Aussies, too, belatedly, by general consent
Must turn our thoughts to seit-deience, our
wills to armament,
To forts and guns and garrisons, and all
war’s grim machines,
From ammunition factories to anti-submarines.
We fain would make our land secure from any
foreign foe
W'hatever —Salus populi suprema lex, you know.
We’ll find the brass for ships and things quite
readily, but then
There’s no such unanimity upon the point of
men.
To make the young Australian learn, maybe
against his will,
The elementary rudiments of discipline and
drill,
Even to teach him how to shoot, some are con-
vinced would be
A shocking interference with our boasted
liberty.
We’ll foot the bill on any scale commensurate
with our means
For aircraft and for aerodromes, barracks and
magazines,
But when it comes to training youth for mili-
tary need —
To be the man behind the gun, in short —the
Labor creed
Will never acquiesce in such coercion, no, in-
deed !
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Mac Hoots”: Sometimes I used to
feel enthusiastic about Maoriland’s
Labor Government, and then again some-
times I didn’t; but after reading Primin-
ister Savage’s recent policy speech as re-
ported in the Labor party’s “Standard”
I’m simply bubbling with fervor. The
“Standard” devoted a page to it, and
practically every paragraph ended in the
good old style: “(Applause.)” There
was one lonely “(Hear, hear),” and 62
other parenthetical testimonials varied
from “(Continued loud insistent ap-
plause)” to a “(Laughter, then shrieks of
laughter and continued clapping)” in
black type. But of course that sort of
crescendo can’t be kept up. Mr. Savage
had to sit down comparatively tamely
amidst “(Sustained applause, whistling
and cheering).”
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: In Brisbane’s Customs
House is a quaint little museum of ex-
tremely diverse articles, products of fer-
“Hold the line a moment and I'll see if he's about the office."
tile Asiatic brains, and linked by a com-
mon purpose-smuggling. A fire-extin-
guisher has a false bottom and weights
to make up the difference between its
lawful contents and the £8 worth of
silk goods which were found in it. A
businesslike revolver has a spurious
chamber-cylinder which held cocaine,
Artists’ paint tubes, toothpaste tubes,
boots and shoes with hollow heels and
soles, lumpers’ hooks with cavity-handles,
flat metal tins fitting a body-belt,
all have contained opium or other
forbidden drugs. A pair of neatly-
patched dungaree pants was being washed
in a bucket when it occurred to a Cus-
toms searcher that the Chinese owner was
washing only one leg.
Several hundred un-
declared cigarettes were
discovered in the other.
But, in spite of all the
shrewdness and care of
Customs officers, for every
ounce of contraband
which they find at least
another pound gets ashore
somewhere along 2000
miles of coast.
* -I: *
“Toheroa”: Mention of
the model ’plane that
crashed in the ocean (B.
5/5/’3B) recalls an inci-
dent on the Maoriland
west coast, when the first
officer of a British
freighter focused an ob-
ject with his glasses, and
immediately requested the
captain’s presence on the
bridge. The skipper gazed
also, pronounced the ob-
ject “the prettiest sight I’ve
ever seen,” and ordered a
boat to be lowered to sal-
vage the six-foot, full-
rigged model ship that
with all sails set was
bowling merrily south before a piping
breeze. She had escaped from a model-
yacht race at Kawhia, a west-coast
harbor, crossed a wild bar, and taken
a 70-mile journey without mishap.
* * * ' *
“X.T.”: Any young lady with medical
and hospital training and a bent for
matrimony without the captive in sight
needs only to apply to the Australian
Inland Mission for a nursing job and
her problem is half over. A.I.M. nurses
are installed in pairs, but usually not for
long. Birdsville (W.Q.), where it some-
times rains once a year, just now has a
couple of vacancies to fill the gaps left
by departing brides. One is marrying
Harry Ding, who totes his Diesels over
330 miles of the worst road in Australia
between Birdsville and Yunta (S.A.). He
is about the biggest carrier in those parts.
The other has been invited to be mistress
of Glengyle, a Kidman selection of
12,000 square miles or so up Mulligan
River way. There are now almost
enough married A.I.M. nurses in the
N.T. and Western Queensland to form
an association—24 when the last two
leave. But the A.I.M. doesn’t need to
worry. It has plenty of good material
offering. And, apart from that, the
more nurses who marry locally, the more
medical knowledge there is on the spot,
which thoroughly suits the mission’s
book.
* * * *
“Sally”: Even office life has its excite-
ments. The nine o’clock crowd was wait-
ing for the automatic lift in our building
when it arrived down with a young man
and a girl in it, paused a moment and
shot up again with the same two pas-
sengers. We waited, the crowd increased,
a few hardy spirits climbed the stairs,
and the lift came down again, only to
shoot up once more, followed by the im-
precations of the foiled. On the second
floor the caretaker strove to have
a word with the couple as they
“ Whato , Zep'lin! When're 'ee goin' up 'long?"
descended for the third time, de-
manding what the joke was. A perturbed-
looking damsel was understood to reply
tearfully, as she slipped out of sight, that
it wasn’t her fault, and the concerned
caretaker was just about to ring the lift
mechanics when it stopped on the ground
floor, and an indignant young man strode
off. He had left the girl at the floor
above. When she reached her office she
poured a tale into the sympathetic ears
of her fellow-typists. An unencouraged
suitor had got into the lift with her
and had staved off interruption by keep-
ing the lift in motion while he assured
her of his undying devotion.
* * * *
“Key”: A settler’s family near Pelorus
Sound, M.L., had a shattering ex-
perience recently from an act of God
unique in the district’s history. A cloud-
burst over Mt. Turner flooded a creek
running through high land, changing its
course and diverting the waters towards
the home of the Turner family in the
valley below. It brought down tons
of huge boulders, which broke into the
house, some of them rolling right
through, while a wall of rocks piled up
outside, ruining a practically new home-
stead. The father collapsed and died
from shock. Three houses in the next
bay also suffered, only the roof of one
being visible after the avalanche was past.
* * * *
“Law Freak”: The question of divorce
law in Australia with regard to domicile
has again been raised, but no Aus-
tralian legislation can remove one
amazing legal anomaly. A husband and
wife are living in S.A. He deserts her,
goes to England and makes his home
there. After five or six years his wife
takes proceedings in S.A. and obtains a
divorce on the ground of desertion,
This divorce will not be recognised in
England because the husband was domi-
ciled in England. The wife then marries
again in South Australia. If she and her
new husband ever go to England, then
even if she escapes a prosecution for
bigamy she will, in the eye of the Law,
be “living in sin.”
* * * *
“Mak”: Scorfield’s “Over the Top
Again” page (B. 28/4/’3B),' showing two
Anzac Day Diggers meeting on the pave-
ment and heading for the nearest bar,
illustrates something that couldn’t happen
in Vic. There the pubs are closed on
Anzac Days. It was a cold, grey after-
noon on the occasion of the last Mel-
bourne march, but old soldiers who
stumbled across war-time mates for the
first time since the dust-up were
expected, presumably, to adjourn for
their reunion to the nearest tea-house or
to benches in the Botanical Gardens.
*i*
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide in infancy built
either of stone from the hills or brick
from the clay of the western suburbs,
so that nobody had wooden bedrooms
but the dogs. Some of the old pug-holes
where the clay came from have made
good tennis or bowls grounds, and now
the biggest of them, about 600 feet by
500, and covering nearly eight acres, is
to be taken in hand seriously. It should
make a really good oval except that
the prospect of any gate-money seems
a poor one.
$ $ at: *
“Ballyhooly”: I suggest that what is
the most beautiful word in the English
language (B. 28/4/’3B) depends almost
entirely on individual taste and fancy.
Grant Allen, a novelist almost forgotten
nowadays, plumped for “Aeolian” (bor-
rowed from the Greek, of course), and
deplored that there was no legitimate
rhyme to it in our language. There is
more unanimity, perhaps, about place-
names. Most people in Britain would
consider Balmoral a beautiful word and
Wigan a hideous one, just as Australians
might put Onkaparinga at the top of the
list and Higginsville (say) at the bottom.
But there’s no accounting ■ for prefer-
ences. Richard Le Gallienne, the poet,
picked out Kelmscott as one of the most
mellifluously sounding town-names in the
whole English map. There is a Kelm-
scott in Westralia, too (doubtless named
after the original burg), but I never heard
of anyone enthusing over it or letting it
linger lovingly on his tongue in those
parts.
* * * *
“Ad”: Police evidence from a recent
S.A. case in which the accused was more
than suspected of shamming illness to
gain sympathy: “So I said to him ‘Don’t
fall down on this floor, because it’s a
hard one.’ And all he said was ‘You’re
hard!”’
* * * *
“J. Want”: Queensland makes.the best
showing in the provision of new Aus-
tralians. The birthrate last year was 19.5
per 1000, and the tropics did better than
the whole State with 21.3 per 1000. The
population at the end of the year was
993,000, and the million mark will
be reached before 1938 is out. The
heartening part of it is that, though Bris-
bane population has increased by leaps
and bounds, most of the big country
towns, omitting worked-out mining
centres, have increased in proportion. At
Federation Brisbane, within 15 miles of
the G.P.0., held about 120,000 people ;
to-day it has 318,000. But Cairns has
grown from 4000 to 13,750 ; Charleville
(W.Q.) from 1600 to 3300; Dalby from
1416 to 3250; Gladstone from 1100 to
3900; Goondiwindi from 510 to 2600.
Toowoomba has doubled, Townsville
almost. And it is the same with most
small farming centres.
THE UNMERGED THIRD.
“Arthur Rickard, -president of the Millions Club,
advocating the desirability of attracting some of the
U.K.’s surplus two million females, said that it was
not generally realised that 33 per cent, of male
Australians did not marry.”
An apt reminder, truly. Here the rub is,
And, plainly put, the situation’s this:
Here full one-third of those who might be
hubbies
Obtain no taste of matrimonial bliss,
While in our race’s cradle ’cross the waters
Are like to linger lonely all their lives
Two million unappropriated daughters
Of Eve who might be wives.
So thick a streak of celibacy, surely,
Becomes a growing nation mighty ill;
Threatens our destiny; accords but poorly
With thoughts of shores to guard and lands
to fill.
When prophets warn us “Populate or Perish,”
It seems incontrovertible that we
Should one and all of us have wives to cherish,
Not merely two in three.
In love of country he’s a sheer defaulter;
How can his heart with patriotism throb
Who fails to date a damsel for the altar
Or give the registrar an easy job?
You’ll say he first should find his “one and
only”?
But isn’t that precisely what a man,
Somewhere or anywhere, when feeling lonely,
Sooner or later can?
Consider, chaps, the hordes of envious aliens
Whose eyes are on our empty spaces bent,
With those equipped for siring young Aus-
tralians
Comprising only sixty-six per cent.
What use are all these memoqs scientific
For getting bigger yields of wheat and wool
Unless we cultivate the best specific
For keeping cradles full?
Up, laggard souls! With perils round us
looming,
’Tis meet that every Jack should have his
Jill,
And practicable, too, I think, presuming
He goes about his wooing with a will.
Your duty is as Benedicts to function,
And in that category to comply
With that emphatic Biblical injunction
That worthy clerics quote so oft with unction:
“Increase and multiply.”
N.S.W.
T. THU R.


1
A'
10/
9 A
or
20/
16
or
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
TIPPED
n*i
THIS GENERATI
EES
R K
POLITICAL POINTS
Australian wool fetched £66,000,000
last season; the Winchcombe, Carson
concern expects the 1937-38 cheque to
fall to £50,000,000. This is partly the
result of the boycott worked up by Com-
munists. Communists are insignificant in
numbers, but, with mugs to work on and
“capitalist” newspapers to feed the mugs
with mush,, they can do a power of mis-
chief.
“S. M. Herald” estimates that it cost
Italy between £3,000,000 and £4,000,000
to entertain Hitler and party. Exceeding
strange, for the same paper has re-
peatedly assured its public, on the
authority of London “Daily Herald” and
other dispassionate observers, that Italy
is broke to the wide.
The Canberra man who writes for the
Murdoch group of newspapers asserts
that Ministers are not keen on their
Inter-State Commission Bill and would
be obliged if it were rejected. The tax-
payers -Would be still more obliged. Un-
til the Constitution is amended no Inter-
State Commission will be worth a row
of pins.
U.S. railwaymen are threatened with
a 15 p.c. wage-cut, railway finances being
in a worse state than in 1932, when a
10 p.c. cut was accepted. American rail-
waymen have that boon and blessing
which Australian railwaymen are periodi-
cally urged to get by striking—the 40-
hour week.
France, that other 40-hour week
country, has devalued the franc again.
This expedient was followed by the ad-
mission that in two years of the Popular
Front—which is substantially Communist
—the equivalent of £600,000,000 had
“fled from France.” With the exchange
level fixed at 179 to the £ sterling, portion
of it is flowing back, but the position
is still admitted to be difficult.
The belated admission has been made
that the P.M.G.’s department earned
£3,340,900 more than it spent in the
1936-37 twelvemonth. It is largely an
effect of the postal charge of 2d. a
letter, of which at least 50 p.c. is tax.
Demands for a decrease will be met by
the plea that every penny is needed for
defence, though a lot of the defence
money is to be borrowed.
Twenty-two years ago Melbourne
“Age” demanded the compulsory transfer
to the A.I.F. of “muddy-minded wastrels
who disgrace the country in which they
skulk and shirk and play the dunghill
cock.” It’s the Menace of Conscription
to the “Age” now.
For one of Mr. Warwick Fairfax’s
newspapers Professor Roberts has writ-
ten “the story of Chiang Kai-shek and
his wonderful wife, a story that he
appropriately describes as one of the
greatest in history.” In 1927 the Fairfax
press had no roses or raptures for
Chiang—nothing but rocks. Even now
to the “Saturday Evening Post” he is
merely “a coolie of a higher type than
his fellow war-lords,” who “made him-
self the head of a so-called Government
and dictator,” with the aid of “soldiers
from the human junk-piles of Chink.”
In Victoria branch after branch of the
United (i.e., the Hocking-bossed) C.P. has
withdrawn and joined the Liberal Coun-
try party, which allows that men like
McEwen have a right to serve the
nation, and old William Hill still
a force among the farmers although
he has retired from politics has
given the L.C.P. his blessing. The
secessions so scared the Disuniteds’ cen-
tral council that it made overtures for a
settlement. On receiving the reply that
the Libs, would come back on their own
terms, it announced that negotiations
were off. Thereupon it appointed a com-
mittee to continue them.
Though Dodgshun, of the Disunited
Country party, got in for Ouyen without
a contest, a section of the local Dis-
uniteds is bitter about the whole
business. Partly because pre-selection
was introduced and partly because
Glowrey, the former member, is alleged
to have got a raw deal at the ballot.
Glowrey’s supporters demanded that he
should be nominated as well as Dodgshun.
“Mr. Spender, who beat Mr. Parkhill for the Warringah (N.S.W.) seat, after having
been wrathfully described as an Independent, has attended meetings of Government supporters
at Canberra, and is to be admitted to the U.A.P.”
“Pooh, you can be the Independent next time.”
Taxed with his absence from the de-
bate on the Defence Loan Bill, Thorby,
the Minister, made a characteristic and
significant reply. He said indignantly
that his department had its secretary and
assistant secretary there, and also “a
shorthand writer taking notes of what
was said by members.” This lets in
light on the growing power of the
bureaucracy and the costly passion for
overlapping and duplication. “Hansard”
reporters were also “taking notes of what
was said by members.”
Under a 1937 amendment to the
Workers’ Compensation Act, the Dun-
stan Government is setting up a board to
review claims. There are to be three
members, who will divide £3OOO p.a. This
is one board whose appointment is not
objected to.
Bland was a good soldier, and if he
proves himself half as good a politician
he will do. He sailed into the Govern-
ment properly over its proposal to im-
port an Inspector-General for the army,
describing it as “an insult to the capable
Australian generals now serving and to
A.I.F. generals also.”
What mysterious information would a
British general have that is not possessed
at Army Headquarters, Melbourne? Any
A.I.F. general could tell the Government
that the trouble with the forces is the
paucity and deplorably low condition of the
personnel.
Senator Collings drew on a Bulletin
cartoon for his comment: “No Aus-
tralian need apply.”
Justice Dwyer, as chairman of Wes-
tralia’s Public Service Appeal Board, has
delivered a judgment which, in effect,
reinstates Dr. James Bentley as Medical
Superintendent of the State mental hos-
pitals. Dr. Bentley was suspended at
the instance of the Under-Secretary of
his department, a Mr. Huelin, who sug-
gested that he was lacking in “tempera-
mental fitness” or something of the sort.
Turning up the records and finding that
the doctor had spent more than half his
life as first or second in command of the
State mental hospitals—and for portion
of the other half he was at the war —-
the Appeal Board refused to believe it.
British Labor has been advertising its
folly again. On the motion of Herbert
Morrison, the conceited ass who sig-
nalised the advent of sanctions by calling
upon the Italians to rise up against their
Fascist oppressors, the House of Com-
mons was asked to vote down the Anglo-
Italian Agreement and substitute inter-
vention or something. When the debate
began, only 34 Labs, and Libs, were
present, and no more than 108 could be
mustered when the vote was taken —there
were 316 Chamberlainites. Nearly half
the Labor members had made themselves
scarce.
Blatant Trades Hallers in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide talk as if unionists
were all for intervention in Spain, China
and Czechoslovakia, and for collective
security on the Stalin-Litvinoff plan, and
all the rest of it. The truth is that they
are divided on these subjects in Aus-
tralia and Britain alike; and if tl}e
blatherskites don’t look out there will
be party splits more serious than any
that have gone before. It is beginning
to dawn on steadygoing Laborites in S.A.
that this division had a great deal to
do with the defeat of their State party
in March, when it suffered the worst
humiliation in its history, electing only
nine members out of 39.
From “Dick Tafone”:
Despite the cocksure Sydney “Sun,” Queens-
land is not likely to lose its Forgan Smith to
Canberra. Cooper’s appointment to the
Treasury was in part practical recognition <pf
sound work by a trustworthy wheelhorse, in
part a lightening of the load on Forgan’s
hard worked shoulders, medical advice being
that the Premier had been overdoing it.
Barring some unexpected emergency, the politi-
cal outlook in the latter half of 1940 will be
the determining factor in F.-Smith’s astute
Scots mind.
Many Maoriland farmers are savage
with Savage. While striking savagely at
other taxpayers, the Labor income-tax
law continued the old “Tory” exemption
from tax of “all income derived from
farming land where unimproved value is
less than £3000.” A general revaluation
has made much of that income taxable,
and the higher valuations will mean
higher local rates as well.
Although Victoria has 4000 more fac-
tories than 25 years ago, and 60,000 more
factory employees, the number of Labor
Department inspectors (40) is only three
more than in 1913. In the same period
50 more wages boards have sprung up,
and 50 sections have been added to the
Factories and Shops Act. Naturally, all
but nine of the 40 inspectors are metro-
politan. Government can be a sweater
as well as 'the bad private employer
whom Drake-Brockman, J., has struck at
in his clothing-trade award.
Far from being exhausted by his
labors at the Loan Council meetings or
by his exertions in preparing his
£100,000,000 defence plan, Dwyer-Gray,
the Tas Treasurer, spent “a full week in
Sydney studying transport.” He came
away impressed with “the spirit of public
service with a smile,” which he found
“quite wonderful.”
It appeared to pervade the whole trans-
port services in N.S.W., from the highest
officials to those occupying the least im-
portant positions. Further, the confidence
and friendliness of the entire community
have been won by the transport authorities.
If the old gentleman weren’t known to
be abstemious, railway travellers (not-
ably those who went to Richmond for
the air pageant), people who have tried
to hire taxis and victims of the traffic
laws and the transport strangulation
policy would allow that it must have
been a very full week.
Observations of “Anti-Cant”:
A.B.C. has again become a general target,
this time because it jibbed at letting a Vic-
torian County Court Judge air his views on
political matters. Newspapers have published
the gentleman’s address, as drafted, and ■it
seems that—being a pillar of the League of
Nations Union, and thus all for peace and
brotherly love —he wanted to have a go at
(1) Japan, (2) “the Fascist and Nazi Admini-
strations,” (3) the R.C. Church, (4) the Lyons
Government over its treatment of Kisch and
Griffin (“held and will hold this country up to
ridicule and contempt in every place where
Kisch’s book is read”), (5) the Hughes Govern-
ment, (6) a war-time deputy-censor (“ ‘But,’ I
urged, ‘you allow the papers to publish lies’ ”),
(7) the Melbourne City Council (“a civic autho-
rity—was it inspired?—denies us the use of
the Town Hall”), and (8), indirectly, the
country over its attitude to Communists (“until
the nation can not only hear what the Com-
munist has to say for himself, but protect
him when he says it, its democracy is not com-
plete.”) A fat lot of “protection” the anti-
Communist gets in Russia, but that is by the
way.
The gentleman could have said all he wanted
to say at a public meeting. He did say at a
public meeting on the day his speech was
printed that “the English Goverment is offer-
ing to share” the “spoil” of Mussolini, whom
he likened to Ned Kelly. Nothing happened, or
will happen, to him. He is nevertheless posi-
tive that “our liberties are held on a precarious
tenure.”


GERM WARFARE.
“Influenza infection can be thrown 100 feet by a loud talker and further by an energetic sneezer,


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COSf”
Write ior full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
Defence Expenditure—ls It Inflationary?
What of Share and Commodity Prices Generally?
Stocks Worth Watching.
These and other things are discussed in the May Issue of
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
j
LETS ALL
ENJOY LIFE!
all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! No grouch-
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets whh the best!
Paint theofa town red
if we wish K.. with never
a bad jaead or a touch of indigestion
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in 2'- or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
TABLETS
A
ĵ
PERSONAL ITEM S
William Lennon, dead in Queensland
at 89, was once as well known in Bris-
bane as the Post Office clock. Born in
Dublin and schooled in Victoria, he had
a banker’s training, and, after opening the
A’sia’s first branch at Townsville and be-
coming manager of B.P.’s 52 years ago,
founded his own business. He sat in the
Queensland Assembly as Labor member
for Herbert for nearly 20 years, including
the war period. At a moment when
Labor needed a friend at Government
House who would swamp the Legislative
Council, Tom Ryan got Lennon, then
Speaker, the job of Acting-Governor.
Particularly as Lennon had publicly
approved Jack Fihelly’s “cant, humbug
and hypocrisy” speech, there was a howl
of rage from the Opposition. Lennon
made some appointments, though not
enough to do the trick ; but he was Presi-
dent of the Council for the last two years
of its existence, personally conducting it
to the condemned cell. He had a later
term as Acting-Governor.
Air-Chief-Marshal Ellington, who is
to look over the R.A.A.F., has cer-
tainly had an Imperial experience. He
has, within the past 15 years, commanded
the R.A.F. in India, the Middle East,
Irak and Gt. Britain, and now he is in
general control of the R.A.F.
Dead at 66, Lawrence Ennis, builder
of Sydney’s harbor bridge. As managing
director of Dorman, Long and Co. he
personally supervised the last four years
of the job, and lived in Sydney from
1929 to 1932. He had reason to be proud
of the team of Australian structural-steel
workers he trained, for they beat world’s
records for speed and efficiency. They did
it while the American luxury liner Malolo
was in port. Ennis had some interest in
showing Uncle Sam a point, for, though
a Scot by birth, his early experience was
all in the U.S.A. He was 31 when he
joined Dorman, Long as general superin-
tendent, and before that had built dozens
LAWRENCE ENNIS.
of bridges for the American Bridge Co.
and Baltimore and Ohio Iron and Steel
Works. The Sydney job was the biggest
of his career and crowned a long record
of important achievements.
Vic. Premier Dunstan having threat-
ened to “reform” the 1842 charter under
which the Melbourne City Council
operates, Lud Mayor Edward Campbell
has formed a “vigilance committee” of
councillors to repel the invader. As Mel-
bourne’s council members go, he’s almost
a newcomer, having been elected only 17
years ago. Born in Yarraville in 1883,
he’s a structural engineer when he isn’t
Lud-Mayor-ing, and is boss of the 50-
year-old firm of Edward Campbell and
Son, which he joined after having spent
two years knocking round England, Scot-
land and America. Incidentally, he
worked his way to London early in ’O7
as sixth engineer on the Miltiades. He’s
the second Edward in the firm, and the
third, nearly 21 now, is being vetted
against the day when he will carry on
the business with a couple of the Lud
Mayor’s nephews. There’s an elder son
on the land.
Gone west, at 66, Captain James Geere
Watson, one of the oldest skippers of
the Union line. He had 45 years at
sea —35 under the Union flag and the
first 10 in windjammers—and got his
master’s certificate at 26. He climbed
to a command with the Union Co.
in nine years, and had had 29 of the
line’s ships in his care. No mishap
happened to any ship he commanded.
When he retired in 1935 the men of the
Waikouaiti, his last command, lined the
rails and cheered him as they passed his
harborside home on the next journey out,
the siren blared and the ensign dipped.
Dr. G. Calvert Barber, the new Prof,
of Theology at Melb. Uni., was formerly
minister of the Yarra-street Methodist
Church, Geelong. He has twice repre-
sented the Methodist Church of Australia
at world conferences abroad, and has
recently been taking post-graduate
courses’ at London Uni. He’s married,
and has three children.
Another recent addition to Mel-
bourne Uni.’s teaching staff is Ger-
man-born Dr. W. Boaz, who will
lecture in metallurgy. He’s a lead-
alloy expert and author of a stand-
ard work on crystal plasticity. For
10 years he has been engaged
on research work involving the
X-ray examination of mineral crystals.
George Murray, Chief Justice of S.A.,
has been “dined” by the legal profession
on the jubilee of his entering it, at the
Inner Temple, London. He was “ad-
mitted” in S.A. a year later, has been
26 years on the Bench and Chief Justice
for 22.
Death removes a member of one of
Australia’s most remarkable families in
Lt.-Colonel C. R. Gaunt, one of the four
children of Melbourne’s erstwhile Judge
Gaunt. The Colonel was 75, and had
served in the 13th Hussars and 4th
Dragoon Guards in wars ranging from
the Indian frontier clashes of the late
’nineties to the Great War. Afterwards
he commanded at Rawalpindi (India) for
a time. He won a D.S.O. in 1917. His
two brothers, Ernest and Guy, both
knights, are the only Australian-born full
admirals in the R.N. Ernest has the
Italian medal for valor, earned when he
was severely wounded in 1903 avenging
the death of an Italian lieutenant scup-
pered by the Somalis. He commanded
the First Battle Squadron at Jutland. Guy
first earned fame when he raised Gaunt’s
Brigade in the Samoan rebellion of ’99.
During the Great War he was mostly
on convoy service, and at one time his
flagship was the giant ex-German liner
Leviathan. Mary Gaunt, fourth member
of the quartet, is one of the Common-
wealth’s most assiduous writers of books
and most persistent travellers. She usually
lives in Italy.
Scott Young, dead in Adelaide at 82,
was one of Australia’s best-known
bankers. He gave his services all his
life to local institutions ; firstly the S.A.
Bank, then the Commercial of S.A., and,
after their extinction, to the powerful
Adelaide, of which he rose to the top.
“Kerriki”: Odds are that Harry Boock,
Scandinavian inventor of the break-of-
gauge gadget that is causing the trian-
gular brawl between N.S.W. Cabinet,
Federal interests and Joe Hamlet, isn’t
even troubling to read what the papers
have to say about it. Harry is first and
foremost a wizard with fish, which he
can be trusted to catch in the middle of
the Nullarbor Plain, and inventing, eating
and sleeping are merely secondary con-
siderations. He is somewhat of a recluse,
and local opinion is inclined to outfit him
with a mysterious aristocratic origin
abroad, a point upon which Boock has
little to say. Nevertheless, he seldom
finds it in his heart to turn down inquiries
from hero-worshipping small boys,
anxious for information on bait, hooks
and tides, which explains how the writer
became acquainted with him 20 years
ago.
D. S. Forbes, who succeeds M. G.
Hayman as g.m. of the Queensland
National Bank, was bom in Brisbane,
son of an Aberdeen master mariner, Cap-
tain William Forbes. Young Forbes set
foot on the bottom rung of the banking
ladder at 16, in the Brisbane office of the
Royal. At 17 he was accountant at
Texas branch, and in 1914 was manager
at Yarraman. He gave this up to be-
D. S. FORBES.
come accountant for the Queensland
National at Charleville. A long career
as relieving manager and manager of
various country branches in Queensland
and N. S. Wales led to the Sydney man-
agership 10 years ago. In 1933 Forbes
became chief inspector. He had his first
shot at g.m. duties in 1936 as locum
tenens during Hayman’s absence abroad.
Due for an episcopal jubilee this year
is Dr. J. O. Feetham, Anglican Bishop
of North Queensland. Like so many
bishops-to-be, he shone in mathematics
in his student days and was senior optime
of his year in the math, tripos at Cam-
bridge. He came to Australia in 1907,
and was principal of the Brotherhood of
the Good Shepherd in N. S. Wales till
1913, when he took up the N. Q’land
crozier. He travels constantly all over
his wide diocese, and his gaunt figure is
familiar in the remotest backblocks. In
recent years he has done a lot of air-
travelling as a change from long leagues
in the saddle, and for biographical pur-
poses gives his hobbies as “riding and
aeroplaning.” A bachelor, Dr. Feetham
had his 65th birthday last January.
A lifelong rowing, enthusiast was John
Francis Connolly, of North Sydney, dead
at 77. He was amateur champion sculler
of N. S. Wales in 1886 and 1887, and had
been a jnember of the Mercantile, North
Shore and North Sydney rowing clubs,
also of the N. S. Wales Rowing Assn.
He coached for North Sydney as lately
as last year.
Frith pictures here Walter G. Spooner
(brother of the N.S.W. Minister of Local
Government), who at 33 becomes man-
ager of the Macrobertson lolly business
WALTER G. SPOONER.
in Sydney—the youngest manager Mac-
robertsons have had. Born in N. S.
Wales, he was educated at North Sydney
High, where he was high-jump champion.
By profession an accountant, he joined
the Macrobertson staff nine yeas ago.
Tutelary deity of chemists’ shops in
Maoriland is E. R. Meyers, who under
the new legislation regulating the drug
business becomes Director of Pharmacy.
He has had a varied experience. Start-
ing as a school-teacher, he dropped that
for a cadetship in the Public Trust Office.
Military service in 1914 broke that
thread, and on returning Meyers had
some general commercial experience, in-
cluding advertising. For the last 18
years he has been an officer of the Health
Department, specialising in administra-
tive work in the Food and Drugs Divi-
sion. He was advisory member of the
committee set up by the Bureau of In-
dustry to devise means of bringing phar-
macy under the Industrial Efficiency Act.
“Dungeness”: The most widely known
individual in Northern Australia’s inland
is “Morry” Anderson, a smallish young
man with a square, fighting jaw and
humorous, twinkling eyes. He has spoken
to more dwellers in that land of great
spaces than has any other individual.
He is confidential clerk, secretary, ad-
viser and friend to thousands of people
scattered over hundreds of thousands of
square miles, and is in touch with scores
of them each day. Yet his actual travels
in the country have been relatively
limited. As chief wireless expert of the
Australian Inland Mission, with head-
quarters at Cloncurry (n.-w. Q.), he has,
in four and a half years, transmitted
1,000,000 words in messages alone, apart
from handling flying-doctor arrangements
and relaying messages between out-
stations.
J. B. Brigden’s successor as head of
the Queensland Bureau of Industry is
33-year-old Colin Clark, whose father
was a Townsville pioneer associated with
the meat industry. Colin, however, after
a brilliant university career, was an
officer of the British Cabinet Economic
Advisory Department, left it to become
lecturer in statistics at Cambridge, and
has just finished a series of lectures at
Australian universities. He was a mem-
ber of the British Population Investiga-
tion Committee.


r ■ m
m
ft¥S
m
- X msM&
I
£<•s*&
✓fj
4
' M
yy?<
t- ':
t
m
m
•*>>
m
M
m
'Wf
mmm
wmm
m
mmm
: ;:
X
m
■
m.
SKSS
€SB
“L*?/ D<z*/ have White Horse and soda
— we’ll have * Whitehorsemen’ ”
There are those who prefer—and always will
-—their White Horse with water or aerated
waters. But for all those people who have a
preference for a mixed drink—long, short,
sweet or dry—there are fifty delightful ways
to serve White Horse. Try them—at parties,
at home—or in your favourite hotel lounge.
You’ll find that in any form of drink, White
Horse Whisky—mellow, peat flavoured —
will remain equal to a fine liqueur.
HOW TO MAKE
A WHITEHORSEMAN
"STIRRUP CUP"
White Horse Whisky.
Orange Juice.
Lemon Juice.
Tablespoon of Grenadine.
A WHITEHORSEMAN
"FOUR-IN-HAND"
h White Horse Whisky.
i Benedictine or Cointreau.
i Lemon Juice.
Dash of Angostura Bitters.
A WHITEHORSEMAN
"COSSACK"
White Horse Whisky.
•§ French Vermofith.
Dash Angostura Bitters.
Serve with small white onion.
WHITE HORS
SCOTCH WHISKY
YOU CAN TELL IT BLINDFOLD EVERY WAY
YO
E IT
Screw-cap Flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nagheer”: Tin hares are known far
and wide through Australia, if only as
a political issue, but why allow our tin
dogs to languish in unhonored obscurity?
At any western Queensland and N. S.
Wales shearing muster there comes
through the thick, sheep-scented dust
clouds and the sound-medley of baa-
ing, barking and blanking a sudden
syncopation of sharp and jangling
metallic whirrs from that trusty and un-
failing mechanical hound. The tin dog
consists of tobacco-tins threaded on a
length of fencing wire, and when rattled
and swung expertly its bark will shift,
in double-quick time, the stupidest clot
of jumbucks that ever got stuck in a
gate. It never takes to sheep-killing or
thieving, it doesn’t develop mange, dis-
temper or worms, it spreads no fleas,
it never gets footsore or bites children,
it costs nothing to feed, and it breeds
from any smoker’s needs. The tin dog
deserves a place in Australia’s coat of
arms.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Piscator” (B. 21 /4/’3B)
makes a bad guess when he identifies a
clumsy sea-creature with a bill like a
platypus, but the size of a cricket-bat,
as a broadbill swordfish. The nose-
weapon of Xiphias gladius is shaped like
the old navy cutlass, and its formidable
owner wields it as dexterously as did any
of Nelson’s boarding parties. There is
no sparring about his kind, or his cousins
the rapier-billed marlins —a swift slash,
and the tucker is theirs. A marlin may
run the quarry through and fling it off
with a sinuous twist of its splendidly
streamlined body, but swordfish don't
miss when they are after food. The
thief may have been a giant sea-pike—-if
in northern N.S.W. or southern Qld.
waters, probably was. They have a pro-
longed flatfish nose and are leisurely of
hunting habit, although lively enough
when hooked. Not, though, with the
concentrated devildom of any healthy
true swordfish.
* * * *
“Erua”: One young M.L. farmer will
give heartfelt testimony on the subject
of wild pigs (B. 13/4/’3B). He was
trailing a lost pony, bridle in hand, when
in the dense bush he was suddenly con-
fronted by a big boar, which he recog-
nised as a famous veteran with a price
on his head. Promptly he shinned up
a large puriri tree close by. The boar
kept vigil below, the rain came down
in torrents, and the dripping victim sat
cursing on a flinty bough. He sat there
all night and part of the next day, and
had just fastened himself to the tree with
the bridle when he noticed his gaoler’s
interest had been transferred to some-
one else. The neighbor out looking for
him answered his shout, but as the new-
comer carried nothing more aggressive
than a flask and some tucker he also
had to take refuge in a tree. Victim No.
1 descended and streaked for help for
his discoverer.
:-c ?;< s}c
“Nor’-west”: As the tide falls, pin-
nacles and heads of coral break the
surface, then a multitude of shapes,
delicate tracery of branches. Soon
thousands of acres of reef are exposed,
lushly green with weed, gleaming with
hundreds of pools, and all streaming
with water like a flooded field. Mostly
this purls down a slope to the receding
sea below, but not far away is a cliff-
like break over which a torrent pours in
semblance of a lesser Niagara. Millions
of gallons of water rise through the reef
and pour back into the sea with every
passing minute. The coral is alive;
crowding, jostling with the urgency of
life and the need of space to live, it has
accommodated itself to a tidal rise and
fall of 20 feet. By suction, an adapted
capillary attraction, it rears within itself
a column of life-giving water which sus-
tains it during the time that the tide
slowly sinks and rises. Boots soon are
sodden as human feet crunch and crunch
over the coral. Care is needed, for there
are deep weed-covered crevices, and
deeper pools wherein fish and stingrays
flit and flash, waiting for flood-tide and
freedom. Shellfish abound, and tiny
crabs. Gulls, cormorants, and stately
white-and-blue cranes, stepping daintily
as they feed. With the hours water again
creeps up over the reef, covering it
two feet, four feet deep. Fish arrive ; in-
credible multitudes, the glassy surface on
occasion being thrashed to a whirlpool.
In the near distance, where acres of sea-
grass fringe the many sandy islands,
herds of dugong graze, unhunted, un-
alarmed—in Collier Bay, nor’-Westralia.
:*e sjc * *
“Mine-Tinkjt”: Favorite diet of the
bower-birds in N.Q. are the small red
and intensely hot chillies that grow along
creek-banks and in scrub lands. Anyone
who has been unfortunate enough to
experience the “bite” of these fiery little
fruits must marvel at the toughness of
the bower-bird’s innards when it can
gorge upon them.
"No doubt about these p'lice dawgs—they ARE Well trained !”
“Lombardena”: Although I boast a
catholic taste for all sea food, my gullet
Boggles at shark. Yet up Yampi Sound
(W.A.) way, where fish in infinite variety
were to be had, our Malays yearned for
shark. With a barbed steel hook big
enough to hang a side of beef on, four
feet of trace-chain and a dozen yards
of rope, they set to work. On the hook
went a huge lump of dugong, on the end
of the rope a five-gallon oil-drum. Before
long a sea-tiger snatched. Away went
the drum. For half an hour the fight
went on, the drum now floating lightly,
now careering madly along the surface.
Finally the sea lawyer gave it up, sig-
nalling defeat by sticking his head right
out of the water, when a rifle bullet did
the rest. Cutlets from the tail filled
the fry-pan. Selim and Ah Mat voted
them delicious, but none of the abo. boys
would even look at them. Self and the
skipper had to open the last bottle to
kill the smell.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Even at the dire and im-
minent risk of bringing herds of enraged
poets upon my track, I hereby proclaim
my unabashed opinion that autumn, at
any rate in southern Queensland, is a
more romantic, far pleasanter and much
more comfortable season than is spring.
As for young men’s fancies, autumn
doesn’t make them perspire face-powder
into cement-like deposits on his best coat.
The burnished dove sensibly comes back
north for a spot of warmth. The scrubs
array themselves in rich red-and-gold
brocades, set against dim. green shades
beyond. There is a brighter twinkle in
the stars, the moon’s face beams in
polished silver unobscured by haze-
wraiths trailed from vast overhead drifts
of warmer air. The cold tang of the
mornings rouses the butcher-birds to
their most perfect flutings, and reminds
Jacky Kookaburra of yet naughtier
stories to be laughed at in full chorus.
The sea relaxes its thunderous quarrelling
with the shore for a period of soft
caresses. In fact, spring poets, you be
blowed for a yarn !
* * * *
“Koura”: Red deer are a pest in parts
of Scotland, where high fences have to
be erected to keep them from the crops,
as well as in West Sussex (B. 28/4/’3B),
but you can hardly compare them with
Australian animal nuisances. Dave
doesn’t preserve his bunnies or crawl
miles over the country looking for the
best heads to bag. More in the Austra-
lian style are the Canadian grey squir-
rels ; odd ones that escaped from London
Zoo multiplied so rapidly that they drove
the native red squirrel out of all the
neighboring counties, and the latter
charming little bloke is a rarity these
days.
* * * *
“Wang”: When it was decided to
build a hall at Grasstree Gully, one of
the volunteer collecting committee called
on Hungry Murphy for a donation.
“Yes, all right,” said Hungry. “I’ll give
yer a bag of spuds.” The collector had
optimistically hoped for a fiver at least.
“Their value, you mean, Mr. Murphy?”
she said when she had got over the
shock. “No, no!” cried Hungry, “th’
spuds themselves. An’, as I’m a bit short,
as soon as yer’ve emptied th’ spuds out
I’d be glad if yer’d let me have th’ bag
back.”
* * * *
“Worro”: A wild emu has thrown in
its lot with a mob of sheep near Penola
(S.A.) since it was quite small. As a
matter of course, it is yarded at shearing
and on other necessary occasions. The
bird, now a well-grown specimen, also
accompanies them to the dip, a distance
of four miles, and the men have great
difficulty in preventing him from taking
his turn with his woolly cobbers.
❖ * *
“Old-timer”: A forgotten grave in
Collarenebri (N.S.W.) marks the rest-
ing-place of Doc. McCarthy, known
as the “Rainmaker” in the west of
the State 30 years and more ago.
A dinkum medical man, he arrived
at Broken Hill and pitched three
tents. Here he worked alone on an
effort to provoke water from a brassy
sky. His idea was to send up gases to
induce cloud formation, though what the
gases or how produced he kept a deep
secret. Clouds did appear after about
three weeks, but no rain fell and, like the
Arab, the Doc. folded his tents, etc. Two
days after his departure it poured, an
event that caused much argument, bet-
ting and brawling up and down the Dar-
ling between the Doc.’s adherents and
critics. The “Rainmaker” died at table
in a Collarenebri pub, and an eyewitness
of the funeral remembers a minister
walking ahead of the buggy that con-
tained the coffin, on which sat the under-
taker smoking his pipe.
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: Birdnesting is profit-
able, according to one Canberra resident.
Troubled by the nesting habits of star-
dings under the eaves of the house, he
made a raid and destroyed a couple of
nests. Incorporated with the building
material in one was a pound-note.
* * * *
“Bluey”: A peculiarity of kurrajong
is that it follows white-box country,
especially in the rich, open slopes where
both thrive. On thickly-timbered,
poorer, mountainous w.-b. country the
fodder tree is more scattered. Few kur-
rajongs are found in mixed timber; but
they do well on this class of country if
planted and protected from stock. Moun-
tain-oak, another good fodder tree, pre-
fers mixed stringybark and white-box
land. It thrives on poor soil and rough
country.
* * * *
“lames W.”: I’m the possessor —not
so proud now —of an uncut blue sapphire
as big as one of my typewriter finger-
plates. The local jeweller assured me
that it is of an extremely rare and beau-
tiful shade and flawless. Its value, cut
and polished, would be considerable, but
I can’t get it cut in Australia. Aus-
tralia’s production of precious stones
has declined to such an extent that there
isn’t enough work available for expert
cutters who once made good livings
treating our sapphires, opals, etc., and
they have gone to ply their trade else-
where. The cost of sending my sapphire
overseas to be cut is beyond my means,
being nearly the value of the stone itself.
Uncut, its value on the open market is
negligible.
* * * *
“Curroo”: Attention, you Aussie
graziers and dogbreeders! The “Queen,”
a London ladies’ journal, gives us the
good oil:
As a domesticated dog in his native land
the dingo is a first-class stock dog, and a
success with the gun. The aim of those ex-
perimenting with dingoes in England is to
make them the success they are with the
Australian shepherd and backwoodsman.
But, as in the case of the Alsatian, it will
take time.
Truly an apt summing up!
*l* Sic Sk SjC
“Dionan”: Will back the Speck’s flat-
head (Platycephalus bassensis ) for the
fishes’ eat-all stakes. I cleaned several
dozen and investigated the meals they
had tucked in their tummies. Apart from
a preponderance of mud-crabs, I found
potato-peel, string, newspaper, fruit-tin
labels, shrimps, limpets, tiny mullet,
onion-peel, and, believe it or not, the
entire foot of a black-and-white cormor-
ant. One big specimen had the claw of
a freshly engulfed crab waving feebly
from a vent in its bottom plates.
SEA-ROADS.
The roadways that never were rutted
By wheels in the progress of man,
From Sephar and Mesha and Sidon
To Carthage, to Ophir outran.
The main roads that never were mended
Or marked by a milestone still run
From Liverpool, London or Lisbon
To polyglot ports of the sun.
Far back, on the wide ways to plunder
Lean rowers crouched low to the thong;
Long since on a long road to Lima
White sails drove the trade-ships along.
The galleys, the carracks, the clippers
With flags of their nations unfurled,
Have sped, in a splendid procession,
Hull down o’er the rim of the world.
The drums of old combat still echo
In billows that thunder and roar;
The shouts of sea-rovers are carried
On surges that sweep to the shore.
In moonlight, when beaches by music
Of eloquent waters are stirred,
The fleets of the past may be visioned;
The songs of the past may be heard.
Bound forth to the quays of far places;
Bound back to their welcoming piers,
The Argos of all the wide sea-roads
Go by on the screen of the years.
And while, o’er those shadowy waters,
The ships and their companies pass,
Stands Time on a high, scorning headland;
Stands Time with his scythe and his glass!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Bufo”: A lot of good human sym-
pathy is wasted on account of sheer
ignorant misinformation by people who
ought to study their subject before they
write about it. I don’t mean China or
the poor Spanish in the flapper press,
but, more particularly, birds. Poor little
widow birds mourning their mates, for
instance. The gay Lothario who has just
bumped off No. 1 always seems to please
the lady’s fancy right away. Even if
No. 1 has been so damfoolish as to fail
in dodging a hawk, she is up and doing
for No. 2 with no unnecessary delay if
it happens to be the mating season. Nor
is there any fond brooding over the sweet
new lives in the nest. Once the dears can
feed themselves—and not always that —
Mum and Dad make their immediate
problem one of get out or get under.
Grief? Worry? Not on your life. Their
existence is far too busy for such super-
evolutionised idiocies as we suffer from.
* * * *
“Scotia”: Some special variety of stork
must watch over the Gritjurk Ayrshire
stud of J. E. Carter, near Coleraine
(Vic.). Recently a five-year-old cow
bore triplets— two bulls and a heifer —all
three being healthy and of normal size.
In his 14 years at Gritjurk Carter has
had twin calves born there on 11
occasions, and on two occasions two
sets of twins arrived.
Sfc }JC 5|J
“Dinnis”: There is nothing very new
in the panegyric of the pig as a social
factor, as illustrated by Scorfield (B.
21/4/’3B). Colonel Hawker employed
a pig as a pointer with success, and to
French truffle-hunters they are indispen-
sable. Herrick, who wrote verses as deli-
cate and refined as eggshell porcelain,
had a pig as close companion in his
Devonshire rectory, the animal sitting at
table with him, as shown in Scorfield’s
drawing. Better a pig, affable, intelligent
and edible at the last resort, than a flea-
some, measly pom or peke.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: When George came
home one evening and announced that
he had found a “bee-tree” we lost no
time in hooking old Badger into the
ancient buggy, and set out loaded up
with axes, kero.-tins, veils, gloves, beer
and other paraphernalia. It wasn’t one of
our lucky nights. Some fool shifted the
beer from where it was safely parked, and
some other fool dropped the tree on top
of the bottles. Then we discovered that
we’d hacked down the wrong tree.. When
we did fall the right tree and collected
“ Dammitall , there WAS a cockroach!"
a tin of honey and the usual stings, we
hadn’t gone far along the homeward
track before we found that someone had
loaded the front of the buggy with pieces
of honeycomb that still contained its
original tenants. Most of these found
their way on to Badger, and, although
he was very old and slow, he set off at
a gallop down the rough track, and it
wasn’t long before we hit the stump that
(as he told us afterwards) George had
been trying to get someone to shift for
years. After we had crawled out from
under the overturned buggy, wiped most
of the honey off George and extracted
pieces of broken lantern glass from the
back of his neck, he remarked to no one
“you get that Wall finished by lunch-time, 'Arry, an you're on another 'arf-dollar."
in particular that anyone was a fool
who went out after bush-honey when it
could be bought in the stores, and the
next time a party of blanky half-wits
tried to kid him out to take a bee-tree —
well, he wouldn’t blanky well go.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: “Mandurah” (B. 6/4/’3B)
is getting fish confused with submarines
when he credits them with a water-
ballast tank for diving. Fish do have a
float-bladder, usually situated between
the stomach and the backbone, but the
contents consist entirely of air. The
specific gravity of a fish’s body is slightly
greater than that of water, so that a fish
with a completely deflated swim-bladder
would sink to the bottom. The height
to which it rises from the ocean floor
depends upon the amount of air it in-
jects into this bladder. When brought
up suddenly from a great depth, a
phenomenon similar to diver’s bends
ensues. The gas in the bladder expands
to an abnormal extent with the sudden
removal of compression at some depth
under water, paralysing the constrictive
muscles governing the swim-bladder, and
sometimes rupturing it. Sydney fisher-
men occasionally get a haul of rare
deep-swimming frost-fish as a result.
“Huglow”: The bushman’s faculty of
waking to an exact time every morning
is dependable only so long as his sub-
conscious mind realises that it has to
be depended on and that there is no
outside means of checking it. I toiled
at a N.Q. station where the rouseabout
timed himself to wake up a half-hour
before daylight. Then a new hand
arrived with an alarm-clock. Thereafter
he was prone to wake up any time from
midnight onward and pester the new
chap for the time.
* ■* * *
“W.D.Mc.”: I breed Cairn terriers,
and recently two litters were whelped.
A few days afterwards my stud dog got
out of his yard and was at large for a
little while, and then I saw him running
about with a pup in his mouth. Examina-
tion disclosed that he had killed all the
dog pups in the two litters ! During a
lifetime of dogbreeding I have never
had a similar case. Any explanation?
* * *
“Golden Mile”: I saw this trick per-
formed on the Nullagine, W.A. The
leader was wide and rich enough, but
hard ; means of crushing, other than by
dolly-pot, were non-existent. But Old
Joe knew a thing or two. Selecting a
flat table of granite, he, with burning
scrub-wood and the application of water,
soon had a hole about Bft. in diameter
and a foot deep. With hammer and
gad he then levelled the bottom. Punch-
ing a hole dead centre was the
most difficult, but it was done.
A tough mulga sapling then
went in as a centre pivot, then
a cross-beam with a hole in
the centre, while a big granite
boulder, with a shackle sweated
in with lead, did as a grinder.
Joe’s old horse pulled the
works around. Not unlike a
puddling machine, it did the
job. Got better, in fact, with
age, for the bottom wore
gradually into a wide, smooth
groove into which lumps and
pulp gravitated, along with the
quicksilver and, of course, the
gold. The only real difficulty
was in keeping up the supply
of boulders for grinders—they
needed to be fairly round, and
the granite didn’t run much
that way. Still, Joe found
enough to pulverise the whole
leader. He then presented
the machine to the general public
and set out for Perth. In the meantime,
however, somebody else had erected a
battery.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Apart from those fabled
fowl that guard against dust getting in
their eyes, the only bird credited with
the power of rearward flight is the
humming-bird, but —watch closely a
scissors-grinder during its hovering and
grinding act. Only that I’m an unlucky
gambler, I’d have money to say those
willie-wagtail-like jokers do fly back-
wards. Trouble is they don’t always go
into reverse, blast their contrariness.
isobar”: “Dungeness” (B. 21/4/’3B)
says that but for odd pieces of flotsam
nothing was ever found of the Yongala,
which was overwhelmed by a cyclone
after she left Mackay (Q.) on a day in
1911. If a racehorse’s carcass is flotsam,
his statement is ribuck ; for one named
Moonshine was a deck-passenger on the
vanished vessel. Its body was washed
up on the beach near Cardwell a week
after the disaster.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Titoki’s” experi-
ence (B. 13/4/’3B) is reversed in W.A.,
where split fencing-posts give longer
service than saplings of the same timber.
Of course, in big trees we wouldn’t
use the heartwood from the very
centre, but ordinary split posts have
only a small proportion of sapwood,
which is the softest and therefore the
first to rot. I’ll grant a lot of fencing
is done, particularly in the wheat belt,
with round posts. They’re more easily cut
and handled, and are usually obtained
from slow-growing hardwoods that are
particularly resistant to rot. And when
jam and wodgil posts carry a guarantee
of 25 to 30 years, why belt into a can-
tankerous white-gum that will last at
best only about five years longer?
* * * *
“Bughouse”: It’s a queer thought, but
I sometimes wonder if our old Earth isn’t
really alive. To us humans swarming
importantly over her skin and like fleas
burrowing down a short depth she seems
dead, but so may our human bodies seem
to the millions of microbes that swarm
over us. And to the microbes our huge
carcasses probably appear as big as
worlds —if they possess means of visual
observation they perhaps propound
theories of relativity concerning numerous
other worlds that pass and repass through
their celestial universe, although to us
such worlds are merely Jones and Smith
with their wives. Again, look how our
old Earth fevers and spews, and how
such fevers infect the human microbes
that crawl upon her. Never before,within
human records has the span of one per-
son’s life, 60 years, seen such seismic dis-
turbances and volcanic eruptions. And
when before has humanity known such
political fever and national madness?
Look, too, how the earth heals itself of
the wounds man inflicts. A natural
valley may lie unchanged for ages; but
how long will the deepest quarry remain
unfilled? How long do the stopes of an
unworked mine last? Inevitably they
collapse and fill. At the end of 1000
years—a mere day in the earth’s life —
what vestiges will remain of the deep
rock-hewn tunnels of the mines of Kal-
goorlie and Johannesburg?
* * *
“Old-timer”: Old Jack was a good
sheep-dog until he discovered the delect-
ability of the hen-egg ; thence his useful-
ness was governed by the strength we
were prepared to expend in getting him
away from the homestead. All sorts of
alleged remedies were tried, including
filling dummies with cayenne and use of
china hen-fruit, but without avail. Then
he found a nest left by a Muscovy duck
weeks before. The first egg burst like
a bomb, and as the odor engulfed him
Jack’s expression was worth travelling
miles to see. After that we only had
to cackle and the old tyke would light
out for the distance. t
•i* H» jfc
“Lego”: In our Q. district kurrajong
was used for the posts of a netting
garden enclosure. After a while they
sprouted, and in a few years the garden
was outlined with lovely, young trees.
The fence, though, went up in the air
as the trees grew.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
km
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
39 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/~ and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
LUDOWIC! LEATHER BELTING
ĵ
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Fty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney.
The [?]
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 243,485 10 p.c. = 150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929. . 244,381 10 „ „ 150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247.946 10 „ ~150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10,, ~150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~150,000 35,973 1,447.098
1933.. 219,416 10,, ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544.502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84,474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616.338
1937.. 244,149 30 p.c. = 150,000 04,149 1.710,487
1038.. 261,725 30 .. ~ 156,250 1 or, 47.-. 1 g 0 r> 962
To Staff Fund, £lO,OOO j J.),4 .) i,ou<>, JO-.
This solidly-established and snugly-
financed shipping and merchandising
organisation, founded in the sixties of
last century by James Burns, now ex-
tends round the Australian coast;
out over the Pacific and north to Java,
Singapore, Hong Kong and elsewhere ;
and the business keeps on expanding.
During the last term 500,000 new £1
ords. were issued, one for five, at par,
making issued capital £2,000,000, on
which £1,625,000 was paid when the
books closed. The other £375,000 was the
balance due on the new issue, payable ss.
per share at the beginning of April last and
October and April next. The fresh capi-
tal was wanted to purchase a new 6000-
ton motor vessel, now nearing com-
pletion, to replace the Montoro in the
Australia-New Guinea trade, to build
two smaller vessels (one is in corrtmis-
sion and the other will be presently) for
the inter-island trade, and provide for
general expansion of other activities.
The next table shows the direction in
which the expansion took place:
1925. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £1,250,000 £1,500,000 £1,625,000
Liabilities .. 1,361,444 1,717,049 1,845,897
Properties a nil] f
shipping ..) 2,030,836 ] 1,326.770 1,323,610
Investments, etc. J [ 1,693,218 1.482,610
Stocks, advances,
etc 083,968 1.060.015 1,398,415
Book debts .. 781.838 823,716 1.026,496
Cash .. .. 123,955 98,816 136,978
In addition to the £125,000 of new capi-
tal gathered, the board went outside for
a further £128,848 and drew upon invest-
ments for £210,608 net. The lot and
more besides went into advances, stocks,
etc. (up £338,400), book debts (up
£202,780) and cash (up £38,162). In-
cluding investments, stocks, etc., the
year’s growth in the more or less liquid
surplus (£2,198,602) was £239,886. On
properties and shipping £316.0 more was
written off than was spent. Investments
include an unspecified amount of Gov-
ernment securities, as well as half a mil-
lion of the 750,000 shares in Burns
Philp (South Seas), approximately a 50
p.c. holding in Queensland Insurance
(paid capital, £750,000), a substantial in-
terest in Penneys (Q.), and small parcels
of scrip in a large number of other good
dividend-paying cos.
Chief vessels in the fleet now are:
Gross Gross
Tonnage. Tonnage.
S.S. Marella . . 7475 M.V. Macdhui . . 4561
M.V. Neptuna . . 5945 S.S. Montoro . . 4057
M.V. Merkur . , 5945 S.S. Mangola .. 3352
M.V. Malaita . . 5000 S.S. Morinda . . 2025
Since the close of accounts the Morinda
ran on to a reef, but was refloated. It
can be taken for granted that damage is
covered by underwriters in the ordinary
way. Shipping earnings are reported
“well maintained.” In the merchandis-
ing section of the business there was a
substantial increase in turnover, es-
pecially in Papua and the Mandated Ter-
ritory, thanks partly to satisfactory
prices for copra for most of the term.
The price fell sharply toward the close
of accounts, but prospects of early im-
provement are encouraging. The co.’s
store at Rabaul was destroyed by fire,
fpllowing the volcanic eruption there in
May, 1937, but business was continued
without a break in adjoining premises
owned by the ■co.
The spring in gross earnings was
£145,972, as the following summary of
the p. and 1. account shows:
1930. 1932. 1937. 1938.
G ross
earnings. . £780,855 £700,915 £965',978 £1,111,950
Exes. . . 412,907 392,761 600,449 707,943
Balance .. £367,948 £308,154 £365,529 £404,007
Depreciation,
etc. .. 136,017 105,747 139,463 163,575
Profit
claimed £231,931 £202,407 £226,066 £240,575
Reserve move-
ments* .. +16,015 —16,434 +18,083 +21,150
Netper tabic £247,946 £185,973 £244.149 £261,725
* Unexplained additions (+ ) and reductions ( —)
to reserves.
The allowance for depreciation (up
£23,969) makes the total provision since
1920 over £2,063,000, or £739,000-odd
more than the figure at which freeholds
and shipping property now appear. In-
cluding the unexplained addition of
£21,150 to reserves, the net profit (up
£17,567) was 16.7 p.c. on average capi-
tal as against 16.2 p.c. for the previous
term and an average of 14.2 p.c. for the
half-dozen before that.
The pound shares, which touched
575. 3d. in January, are now at 535. 6d.
on the market. The return at the lower
figure is 3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution. On
a 10 p.c. basis, the contribs. (paid to
10s. each) at 40s. 6d. give an immediate
yield of 2.5 p.c., or 3.9 p.c. when fully
paid. Including uncalled capital, the
net tangible cover is visibly '3Bs. per
share.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£>£■£/£, £
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 . . 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 00,980 890,407
“Includes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458 ;
1923, £3708; 1926, £5208 ; 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958 ; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375; 1933, £4375;
1934-35, £5000; 1936, £5500; 1937. £5OOO.
•(•Includes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£ £ £ £
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1931.. 160.648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48.268 75,400 32,997 558,766
193.3.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
“Includes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £l4BO ; 1924, £1966; '1925, £3473 ;
1926-35, £7500; 1936, £7000; 1937, £7500.
(•Includes sundry reserves.’
The Metropolitan continues to write a
steadily-increasing volume of business
throughout the three Eastern States and
S. Aus. Progress also continues along
sound lines, a tight hold being kept upon
exes., the protection for policy-holders,
who receive regular bonuses, has been
strengthened, and assets are a satisfactory
lot, yielding a profitable return.
Last year £1,101,076 (up £89,830) of
new business was put on the books —
£407,664 (up £27,672) in the Ordinary
and £693,412 (up £62,158) in the Indus-
trial section. Total income was £24,548
better at £352,806, of which £282,101 (up
£17,795) was premiums, etc., and £70,705
(up £6753) interest and rents. After pay-
ing all legitimate claims and exes., writ-
ing £730 off equipment and handing
shareholders £12,500 (same as for the
three preceding years) £130,771 (up
£19,273), or 37 p.c. of the year’s total
income, was added to assurance funds,
raising them to £1,608,044 —£847,848
Ordinary and £760,196 Industrial. These
funds, which belong to policy-holders,
have the support and assistance of special
reserves totalling £97,790, as well as the
£50,000 of share capital.
Surpluses (excess of assurance funds
over actuarial liabilities) disclosed at the
last three triennial valuations compare
as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. .. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 . . . 28,543 19,747 48,290
1937 . . . . 36,910 13,242 50,152
The contraction (£6505) in the Industrial
figure is due entirely to a more strin-
gent basis of valuation, which increased
the actuarial liability, or protection for
policy-holders, by nearly £13,000. In the
Ordinary department, £9306 of the sur-
plus is reserved against suspended mor-
tality ; the remaining £27,604 belongs 80
p.c. to policy-holders and 20 p.c. to
shareholders.
However, bonuses to policy-holders
were on the same scale as for the three
preceding years, ranging from 30s. p.c.
to 40s. p.c. on Ordinary whole-life and
endowment assurances, and on Indus-
trial contracts 10 p.c. on the sum assured
for policies 15 years in force, plus 1 p.c.
for each additional year.
The office probably scores heaviest
from its investments. It assumes that its
Ordinary and Industrial funds will turn
in 3 p.c. and 3-V p.c. respectively. Last
year the gross rate earned was £4 10s.
9d. p.c. on mean funds, including special
reserves and capital. After deducting
taxation (£1152), the net effective rate on
the assurance funds alone was 4.6 p.c.
as against 4.3 p.c. in 1936.
Excluding taxes and dividends, the pro-
portion of net premiums swallowed by
exes, was 18.5 p.c. in the Ordinary and
44.5 p.c. in the Industrial section, com-
pared with 18.2 p.c. and 45.1 p.c. re-
spectively for the previous term
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. .. £250,988 15.3 £253,415 14.3
Govt, securities. . 912,558 55.7 1,041,736 58.9
Shares other cos. 21,345 1.3 21,345 1.2
Mortgages.. .. 285,755 17.4 ' 282,445 16.0
Loans on policies. . 108,999 6.6 111,423 6.3
Book debts . . 46,193 2.8 50,608 2.9
Cash .. .. 13,947 0.9 6,189 0.4
Nearly all the money that became avail-
able last year was put into Government
securities (up £129,178), which now
amount to 58.9 p.c. of total assets as
against 50.8 p.c. two years ago.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
( Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-,
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£j £ £>£>£/
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 p.c. = 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 . . . . 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.- 56,955 5600 Hi,, „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ ~ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. .. 115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917..- .. 99,769
5.9 p.c.
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 —88.78 C
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 . . 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.4-7 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,36.3 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 16,875 45,686
“After deducting bonuses to staff.
Founded by the Wunderlichs in the
eighties of last century, this co. has de-
veloped into the largest and most suc-
cessful of its kind in Australasia, thanks
to an alert and enterprising manage-
ment. Its factories, now spread through-
out the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
turn out tiles, architectural terra-cotta,
showcases, asbestos-cement sheets and
other building materials and embellish-
ments. Earnings thus depend upon con-
ditions in the building trade, which ex-
plains the sharp contraction and then re-
covery in earnings over the last decade.
For the 10 years to the close of accounts
in 1930, the ords. averaged 12 p.c., and
£107,369 of staff-partnership certificates
was issued and paid for out of earnings
and £36,454 paid in divs. thereon as well.
For the next four years the div. was kept
at 5 p.c., though, together with pref. pay-
ments, it called for £27,564 more than
aggregate net profits over the same
period. Then, because money was wanted
in the business, the rate dropped to 4
p.c. in ’35 and ’36 ; it was lifted to 6
p.c. in the following year and to 7 p.c.
for the last term. Meanwhile, £BO,OOO
of new 7 p.c. pref. money was gathered,
mainly to finance erection of new works
on a fresh clay site at Vermont (Vic.)
and to discharge a mortgage on the co.’s
Perth property.
The next table shows the value of
building permits issued in all the Aus-
tralian capitals and in Maoriland far the
calendar years mentioned:
1932. 1930. 1937.
Melbourne .. £2,438,616 £7,419,229 £8,198,439
Sydney .. .. 1,566,226 10,130,102 11,200,407
Brisbane . . 099,337 2,030,792 1,890,437
Adelaide .. 289,582 1.231,152 1,789,413
Perth .. .. 678,751 1,938,819 1.951,997
Hobart . . . . 85,877 420,217 440.113
New Zealand . . 1,993,960 5,522,427 7,320,273
Last year activity in construction in-
creased in all centres except Brisbane.
After striking off an extra £5729 for de-
preciation (£33,523), the co.’s declared
net earnings were £1312 better at £58,875,
or enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rates and show 10.8 p.c. on ord.
capital. An all-round 7 p.c. was dis-
tributed.
As for the current term, prospects
favor further improvement in earnings.
Last year’s brisker trading is further re-
flected in balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital: 1920. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Shareholders’ £370,066 £520,000 £OOO,OOO £600,000
Employees’, , 14,040 39,700 33,900 31,700
Liabilities .. 38,244 111,919 104,550 127,605
Freeholds . . 151,559 380,142 363,063 362,629
Leaseholds . . 9,659 801 832 777
Plant, etc. .. 108,920 242,990 200,974 198,703
Stocks . . 136,396 109,490 140,588 162,034
Book debts . . 64,342, 33,901 77;920 98,939
Cash, etc. . . 10,598 0,430 2,819 5,918
All but £2665 of the allowance for depre-
ciation appears to have been invested in
fixed assets. To carry an extra £21,446
of stocks and add £21,013 to debtors’
balances and £3099 to cash, the board
increased the outside debt by £23,109.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£139,226) was £22,449.
Capital is in 40,000 first, a like number
of second and 80,000 third prefs., all 7
p.c. cumulative, and 440,000 ords. Only
the firsts and seconds are subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
which explains the popularity of the
thirds as an investment. On the market
the firsts are priced at 235. 6d., the thirds
at 235. and the ords at 21s. 3d., at which
figures the returns are 5.9 p.c., 6.1 p.c.
and 6.6 p.c. respectively. There has been
no quote for the seconds for some time.
Visibly the net tangible cover is £l6 2s.
lOd. firsts, £l5 2s. lOd. seconds, £7 Is. sd.
thirds, and 225. Id. ords.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends
Pref. Writ-
Dee., Loss. ■ 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929 . . 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930, . 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
This co., which took over in 1915 some
of the pastoral properties that had fallen
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
The Founded 1886 .
Annual Income Exceeds £4,000,000
Assets Exceed £27,000,000
AGAIN, THE ANNUAL COMPOUND REVERSIONARY
BONUS FOR WHOLE OF LIFE POLICIES
IN THE ORDINARY BRANCH IS
45'-%
Yielding for the year to many of
the older policyholders over
9cr-
on the original sums assured.
Trustees:
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne. The Right Hon. W. A. WATT, ,C., Melbourne. The
Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney. The Hon. . W. EGGLESTON,
Melbourne. Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney. J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne.
Board of Directors:
ARTHUR EEDY, C.8.E., Managing Director. JAMES ASHTON, Chairman. F. LEVERRIER,
K.C., 8.A., B.Sc. The Hon Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON, K.8.E., M.L.C. A. G. COPELAND.
Temporary Address During Rebuilding:
HOSKING HOUSE, HOSKING PLACE, SYDNEY.


There's Money
FOR THEM ALL
WHEN Henry Canterbury Hawkes was a young man he became a
member of the A.M.P. Society, taking out a policy for £2OO.
As the years went on, he added other policies with an eye to
their providing him at 60 with an income large enough on which to
retire.
Soon after his son was born, Mr. Hawkes saw to the assurance
of his son’s life and, as the boy grew, he saw that the amount of life
assurance on the son’s life grew, too. When the son married, the
old father stressed the wisdom of another A.M.P. policy large enough
to ensure an adequate income to the young wife should anything
SOMETHING DID HAPPEN. When two babes had blessed
his marriage, the young husband died. There was great grief, but NO
MONEY TROUBLES. , , . , ,
The old grandfather, the young widow and her babes; there is
money for them all. The A.M.P. attends to that.
A man does not need a large income to make his family as secure
as the little Hawkes family. Thousands of men are doing it on small
incomes. Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an experinced man to
talk over YOUR having this security. Don t delay. You never know
what might happen.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., C. M. MARTIN,
General Manager and Actuary. Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
*** * ,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (ivlelb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* X * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
. “Yelgab,” Melbourne.
into the hands of the Q.N. Bank after
the crash of the ’nineties, now owns
11,256 square miles of leaseholds and
46,251 acres of freeholds. The leases
(there are seven of them) are mostly
down the Cooper; the freeholds are
Milton (15,129 acres), Taromeo (14,715
acres) and Yabba (16,407 acres) in the
Gladstone, Nanango and Kilcoy districts
respectively. At the end of 1937 the
lot was carrying 92,944 cattle, 80,372
sheep and 1672 horses, arrd there were
26,908 calves and 30,058 lambs. That was
after writing off the year’s deaths—
-8279 cattle and 8473 sheep.
Last season opened well, but became
very dry toward the close of accounts.
After allowing for losses of livestock,
gross earnings were £37,849 better at
£131,877. Including allowance for de-
preciation, shown as written off in the
table, exes. (£99,713) were £3352 lighter,
leaving a profit of £32,164 as against
a loss of £9036 for the previous term. It
was the best result since 1920, and
reduced the p. and 1. debit to £37,913.
Paid capital is £325,000 in 250,000 £1
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 600,000 ords. of
2s. 6d. each —the other 17s. 6d. (£525,000)
was struck off in 1932 to wipe out accu-
mulated losses. Most of the ords. and
about one-sixth of the prefs. are owned
by the Q.N. Bank. Some of the other
pref.-holders have proposed that arrears
of pref. divs. to the end of 1936
£192,500= 15s. sd. per share) be can-
celled ; that the div. be reduced to 6 p.c.
cumulative, with the right to advance
point for point with the oids. beyond
that rate; that the prefs. be granted
representation on the board, and be given
full voting rights, on the basis of one
vote per pound of paid capital for both
classes of shares ; that one year’s div.
(£15,000) be paid out of last year’s profit.
The proposals, which are reasonable, en-
hance prospects of early returns to both
classes of shareholders provided Nature
remains kind and the bank, upon which
the co. is still leaning heavily, agrees to
payment of divs.
Most of the money that became avail-
able last year was used to reduce the out-
side debt (down £29,559), which includes
an unspecified overdraft. In the previous
term, the debt was lowered by £44,146,
mainly as the result of the sale of Nuki-
nenda (£21,978 acres), Esk district, for
£30,000 cash. Here is the position so
far as balance-sheet figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £850',000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities . . 241,390 231,130 186,984 157,425
Freeholds . . 68,774 68,774 28,083 28,083
Leaseholds . . 237,070 154,857 144,423 139,050
Plant, etc. . . 70,780 60,569 60,272 62,823
Livestock . . 231,391 198.648 192,799 202,649
Wool. . . . 5,830 10,338 14,390 10,542
Debtors, cash, etc. 2,027 1,904 1,941 1,364
Including livestock, more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £57,130,
an improvement of £34,984 over the
twelvemonth.
As for the current term, most of the
runs want further rains to carry
them over the winter and enable the co.
to turn off a satisfactory number of
well-fed cattle and a soundly-grown wool
clip. On the selling side, the outlook
for the cattle industry is better than it
has been for some years. From the
shareholders’ point of view, everything
depends on seasonal developments.
At 10s. 6d. (4s. 6d. a year ago) the
pound prefs. would return 11.6 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. There was a nominal
quote for the ords. at 2d. The net tan-
gible cover for the prefs. is 225. lid.,
mainly represented by leasehold and free-
hold properties.
According to Union Corp., London,
world gold output advanced 2,492,000
fine ounces in 1937. Australia contri-
buted an extra 210,000 fine ounces, or
nearly 10 p.c., thanks chiefly to the pro-
gress made in Westralia, where, for the
first time since 1926, production exceeded
a million ounces, and is still on the up-
grade. Figures for the last two years
and 1928 compare as follows in fine
ounces:
1928. 1936. 1937.
South Africa . . 10,354,000 11,336,000 11,735,000
U.S.S.R. . . 899,000 5,400,000 6,000,000
U.S.A. . . ..' 2,145,000 3,760,000 4,089,000
Canada . . 1,891,000 3,748,000 4,055,000
Australia . . 458,000 1,170,000 1,380,000
Mexico . . . . 699,000 754,000 840,000
S. Rhodesia . . 576,000 797,000 804,000
Rest of World . . 2,377,000 6,057,000 6,611,000
World’s total . . 19,399,000 33,022,000 35,514,000
British Empire 14,034,000 18,598,000 19,705,000
British percentage
of total .. 72.3 56.3 55.5
The decline in the British Empire’s share
of world production is due to the com-
parative stability of S. African output.
The most important producer outside the
Empire is the U.S.S.R., for which reliable
figures are difficult to obtain. Appear-
ances are that the tempo of expanding
production there is beginning to ease ;
whether owing to exhaustion of easily-
workpd deposits, or to technical difficul-
ties limiting output, the “Wild Cat” does
not know. Although maldistribution of
the metal remains a problem and the
price may be in for surface ripples, the
possibility of gold being displaced as a
currency base, as recently suggested by
the Henri Deterding school, does not
seem to be a practical probability—at
present, at any rate. Even if the chief
virtue of gold is its history, the metal is
accepted everywhere, and it has proved
its worth, whereas its opponents seek to
bolster up impoverished economies and
delicate currencies without its aid.
* * * *
Colin Fraser, chairman of the Mines
and Metal Association, recently made an
interesting analysis of the cost of gold-
production in Australia and elsewhere.
Calculations are based on the unit of final
product, a fine ounce of gold, instead
of per ton of crude ore, thus giving a
clearer view of the economic position
of the industry. Cost includes expendi-
ture in connection with ore extraction
and treatment, ordinary development, ad-
ministration and realisation, but does not
include capital expenditure, depreciation,
amortisation, taxation and royalties. An
aggregate yield of 261,000 fine ounces
from Wiluna, Great Boulder, Mt.
Morgan, S. Kalgurli and Central Norse-
man cost 1445. (Aust.) per fine ounce.
In the next group—Lake View and Star,
Sons of Gwalia, Triton and New Occi-
dental—an aggregate of 249,000 fine
ounces cost 108 s. (Aust.) per unit. The
third lot —N. Kalgurli, Boulder Persever-
ence, Lancefield, Norseman, G.M. of
Kalgoorlie, Horse Shoe, Morning Star,
Cocks Pioneer, Central Nell Gwynne and
Adelong—produced an aggregate of
208,000 fine ounces at an average cost
of 98s. (Aust.) per ounce. The aggre-
gate output of the fourth group —Yellow-
dine, Golden Plateau, Wattle Gully,
Erlistoun, Lake View tailings and Cocks
Eldorado—was 118,000 fine ounces, and
the average cost 625. per ounce. It is
plain that any substantial reduction in
the price of gold would spell disaster for
most in the industry in Australia. In
Maoriland the average cost of producing
an ounce of fine gold (lode mining) is
1125.; on the Rand, S. Africa, 84.85.;
in New Guinea, 138.55.
* * *
Tongkah Compound No. 3, N.L., has
bought itself a dredge and tin quota, and
plans to commence production with its
reconstructed 120,000-c.y. monthly plant
early in July. An offshoot of Tongkah
Compound, N.L., by which 37 p.c. of the
capital is held, the co. was formed in 1928
to take over from Eastern Tin, N.L., two
properties near Renong, Siam. The
Ngow sector is estimated to contain
15,000,000 c.y. dredgeable ground, re-
coverable content lib. t. 0.; the contigu-
ous Banngow area, 5,500,000 c.y. aver-
aging 0.441 b. Though rich, the main
block promises to be difficult to dredge ;
mangroves are one trouble. There are
150,000 £1 shares out, 38,000 fully paid ;
the rest, on which a Is. call is to be made
next month, are paid to 13s. and priced
around 18s. 9d. in the sharemarket.
* 4= * *
Though little development has so far
been done, what may turn out a useful
tantalite field is receiving attention from
prospectors at Grant’s Creek, near For-
sayth (Q.). First discovered here in 1915,
the metal occurs in pegmatite dykes,
chiefly in association with albite felspar,
being rather extensively distributed.
Alluvium samples from a limited area
have yielded 2|lb.-81b. concentrates per
c.y. The mineral has assayed up to 82.8
p.c. combined tantalic and columbic
oxides. Practically the whole Australian
output of tantalite, and the greater pari
of the world’s, is supplied by Westralia.
Chief use of the stuff, very limited but
growing, is for toughening steels for high-
speed work and for chemical and surgi-
cal apparatus.
4: * * *
Wellington Alluvials, one of B.H.
Prop.’s pups, formed to worked about
nine miles of auriferous river flats near
Wellington, on the Macquarie (N.S.W.),
has got its big 300,000-c.y.-per-month
dredge into action. During the four
weeks to April 30 the plant worked 199
hours —it was shut down from April 4
to April 21 owing to installation of
special overburden equipment—handling
66,000 c.y. for a recovery of 4690 z. gold,
an average of 3.41 gr., or Is. 2jd. per
yard, with gold at £8 10s. per ounce.
When the machine is properly run in
and begins to turn over something ap-
proaching its capacity, a better recovery
can be expected, and costs (not stated
for the four weeks referred to) should
benefit. Early estimates were that there
was 38,000,000 c.y. of 7|d. dirt available
with gold at £4 an ounce. With the metal
around £B, it is figured that another
22,000,000 c.y., making 60,000,000 c.y.
in all, can be profitably treated.
* * * *
Though tonnage has been increased by
7000 to 27,000, latest estimate of ore
reserves at Ora Banda Amalg., Grant’s
Patch (W.A.), shows a sharp decline of
2j ’weights to 9dwt. in grade. For the
year ended December a net profit of
£14,971 (down £6393) was won from
16,807 tons, representing 17s. 9d. a ton.
Two 6d. divs. were paid, requiring
£20,000. Immediate prospects are that
that rate of distribution is unlikely to be
maintained. Head value of ore treated
last year was 10.6dwt.”j the difference
between this and published grade of
known ore reserves would mean a slip of
14s. a ton in average returns. Also,
money will be wanted for further capital
expenditure, including completion and
equipment with steam haulage of the
new shaft on MacKenzie’s lease, where
a second series of lenses parallel to those
originally worked is being opened up.
The narrow and broken nature of the
ore-shoots generally promises to keep
development expenditure (now £1 a ton)
high, though more settled conditions at
depth are indicated. The co. held £6330
in liquids at Dec. 31.
* * * *
As a report by Bewick, Moreing and
Co. “precluded the possibility” of either
continuing operations or reconstructing
Marvel Loch (W.A.), the board has sor-
rowfully walked out and a sympathetic
liquidator has stepped in. Shareholders
will get nothing. Kalgoorlie Foundry
recently obtained a Supreme Court judg-
ment for £20,894, balance due for plant
supplied, but as holders of debentures
of a face value of £45,000 have a lien on
the co.’s assets the chances of the judg-
ment being satisfied appear remote.
Moreover, the Court has granted the
liquidator three months in which to lodge
a counterclaim for £30,000 against the
Foundry.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.W.: (1) Yes. (2) No mining venture is
safe, but the co. looks like doing a bit better
later 0n....J.8.: Accounts not available, but
offer of 10 p.c. preference suggests that security
might be less than is usually looked for
L.8.P.: No open market for bonds; write secre-
tary and ask if he can find a buyer for you
A.Q.: Don’t know of any publication specifi-
cally dealing with origin of mining laws of Aus-
tralia. Not until Gold Commissioners were
appointed in 1852 was any machinery available
for settlement of disputes between diggers.
Henry J. Armstrong’s A Treatise on the Law
of Gold Mining in Australia and New Zea-
land and Charles J. Alford’s Mining Law of
the British Empire might help. No knowledge
of German work mentioned G.M.8.: (1)
Yes. the trees will grow all right. (2) There
is much doubt about the average yield that can
be expected over a period of years. (3) The
vital question of price depends upon the quality
of the oil, and nobody can say exactly what
that will be until milling of the nuts begins.
(4) Cannot say. (5) The price the mill can
afford to pay will depend partly upon the price
it receives for oil and partly upon the cost of
production. As an investment, the venture is
in the development and experimental stage
and therefore very speculative A.G.W.:
Bondholders have formed a co. to take over
the whole business. You should write to secre-
tary, N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., S. British
Insurance Building, Shortland Street, Auckland.


SMOKE-OH!
“Women who smoke a lot cannot sing.”
— "Sun.”
That, no doubt, is why some elderly
and otherwise old-fashioned men ap-
prove of their daughters smoking.
•J*
“Four Perth University students staged a
swotting contest, the winner keeping at it for
20 hours 29 minutes.”
So there are at least four undergrads,
who know’s what’s swot.
*l* -'f
“He was filled, in his later years, with appre-
hension that he would be robbed. He had
special locks put upon every door and cup-
board and all the windows were shuttered.”
— "Sun.”
He even bolted his food.
*l* *F *S* *F
Low-lying land that is frequently
covered with water is mostly sold by
low-lying agents.
•F *F «F *F
“A scientist calculates that at the present
rate of increase in the world’s population, in
five hundred years mankind will scarcely have
standing room.”
That our various transport departments
are showing great foresight in fitting us
for that future ordeal should be gratefully
remembered by all rail, tram and bus
passengers.
•F *F *F *F
Practical Sympathy.
“In America several women follow the
peculiar calling of professional sympathetic
listeners. For so much per hour they sit and
listen sympathetically to those who feel they
must have someone in whom they can con-
fide.”
Mrs. Blinker heaved Horace out on
his ear with the remark that she didn’t
“There it is again, Joe!”
want a runt like him about the house
lowering her prestige on her big bridge
afternoon.
Boiling with rage, Horace went and
consulted an attractive professional sym-
pathetic listener.
An hour later Horace emerged grin-
ning like a Cheshire cat and went skip-
ping off homewards like a spring lamb.
When he entered his home, Mrs.
Blinker gave him one startled look and
floored him with a bridge-table.
When Horace dragged himself to the
bathroom mirror to examine his wounds
he gaped in horror at a face liberally
pitted with Cupid-bows of lipstick and
a coat shoulder snowed over with face-
powder.
D. McM.
“A prominent film star says that her parents
did their utmost to prevent her from becoming
an actress.”
Many filmgoers will still maintain that
they succeeded.
4 1 4 1 4* 4 1
“It is a peculiar fact, according to a psy-
chologist, that highly sophisticated people take
a snub to heart much more than do those less
sophisticated.”
Which simply bears out the old con-
tention that a hard-boiled egg is the
easiest to cut.
4 1 4 1 4* 4*
Metamorphosis!
When you consider the office boy with
his tremendous energy, observe how he
runs hither and thither gathering and
posting mail, making tea and washing-up,
running messages, licking stamps and
accounting for them, juggling his petty
cash accurately from payday to pay-
day, trying to flirt with every typist in the
office at once, fearing the boss and lord-
ing it over the janitor, studying account-
ancy and racehorse form simultaneously,
dressing better than the general manager
on less than a mining speculator’s divi-
dend, doing most of the things that are
done by the firm and reaping all the
blame for those that are left undone . . .
It seems strange, children, to reflect
that he will one day grow up into a great,
indolent manager, laying aside all his
habits of the pupal stage save that of
collecting his pay when the ghost walks.
Mac.
“ Anyway , they say I've got the Wellington nose."
“Cows should not be judged only on ap-
pearance,” says a dairying expert.
Strawberries should be considered only
with the cream that goes with them.
4*
“A woman’s real way to fame is by mar-
riage,” states a prominent lecturer.
Well, she certainly makes a name for
herself that way.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
One advantage of living in a bachelor
flat is that you don’t get such a confined
feeling if sent to gaol.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Cures for Everyone.
“Continental experimenters have found that
going about on all fours for a certain period
each day is rcure for stammering.”
Equally effective for the somnambulist
is to leave all doors in the house open so
that their edges face the route usually
taken by him in his nocturnal perambu-
lations. It will then be a comparatively
simple matter to train himself to leap
along in his sleep instead of taking the
normal steady walk, and also to go, not
with arms held protectingly out in
front of him, but wide apart. It
follows that sooner or later he must
belt his nose on the door edge or,
better still, on the sharp edge of
the lock. After doing this a few
dozen times it will gradually be
borne in on his subconscious mind
that sleepwalking has dangers other than
those ordinarily to be encountered
through misconstruing of motives, etc.,
and a steady decline in the incidence of
this habit may be confidently anticipated.
Despite the pessimist’s scepticism, there
is a cure for insomnia. All that is needed
is courage and an inflexible determina-
tion. Let the sufferer, with set jaw and
a steely glint in his eye,
push his way aggressively
through the five-deep 5.50
p.m. crowd in the pub un-
til he reaches the bar.
There let him select a
“handle” which has been
pushed by the barmaid
directly in front of an
enormous muscle-bound
navvy. As the latter runs his tongue
over his stubbly lips and reaches
out a huge hairy paw for the pot, let
the insomniac bring his umbrella down
sharply across the horny-handed one’s
knuckles, at the same time grabbing the
pint and swamping it down—if that is
possible —before the other recovers from
his natural surprise. The prior precaution
of arranging attendance of an ambulance
is advisable, thus ensuring a comfort-
able position during the ensuing sound
slumber.
Grunting, although not medically
classified as a disease, has nevertheless
been deemed sufficiently distressing,
especially to those who have to listen to
to warrant research into its causes and
cure. The complaint has yielded quickly
to science, and now no suburban gar-
dener need imitate a series of porcine
snorts when he starts to straighten up
after having had his spinal column in a
concave position for half an hour as he
digs up hundreds of marble-size spuds or
plants out dozens of foredoomed seed-
lings. All that is necessary when he feels
a grunt coming on is to laugh loudly.
The risible muscles thus exercised will
have a vitiating effect on those muscles
necessary to bring a grunt into play, and
although the effort may appear to cause
the vertebrae to slip a few notches the
grunt will be beaten from the start.
Nor has the scientist overlooked the
martyr to the suppressed yawn. Does
humanity witness a more painful thing
than the sight of a bored host, his jaw
muscles sticking out like hatpegs and his
eyes watering with the strain of killing
a full-blooded yawn, as his garrulous
guest tries to recall some hazy incident
of boyhood? Doubly welcome, there-
fore, is the newly-discovered remedy-
nothing more complicated than clamping
one’s teeth on an all-day sucker as soon
as the conversation ball starts rolling.
This will, of course, necessitate talking
through closed teeth, but as this is likely
to discourage conversation it is worth
the inconvenience. Should the victim of
this dread disease have false teeth an
incoherently mumbled apology and a
retirement to the workshop to lever the
plates apart may at intervals be essential.
But you can’t have everything.
Snoring, which for so long defied all
the efforts of science to bring it under
control, has at last capitulated.
The principle governing it is simple.
Married people only are affected, as no-
body cares whether bachelors or spin-
sters snore, anyway. In the case where
a man snores, say, in a high baritone
and his wife in a contralto, their respec-
tive snores don’t clash, being on a similar
note, with the consequence that they will
not wake each other up. Where, how-
ever, a man snores in a basso profundo
and his wife in a lyric soprano, sleepless-
ness will occur, with the resultant savage
elbow nudgings and bad-tempered com-
mands to turn over which wreck so
many marital partnerships.
Science has altered all that. A record
is made of the snoring efforts of both
and the difference in pitch measured to
the nearest semiquaver. An instrument
is then made which, clamped over the
wife’s mouth, brings her snore down to
the profundo register. Should the hus-
band be awakened by a snore he will
obviously think it is his own and go to
sleep again. The inventor, a married
man himself, obviously did not overlook
the possibilities in it of curtailing nagging
prior to slumber. Special provision is
also made for those bad cases where the
snorer performs the “whistling intake.”
Talking in one’s sleep, another danger-
ous practice, no longer holds any terrors
for its victims. A simple device placed
under the tongue now renders the words
so distorted that not even the keenest-
eared spouse could interpret them.
S. W. K.
All Set.
“From his Uncle Will he would inherit a huge
fortune, and considerable money might also
come to him from his Aunt May.” —Short story.
Fortune’s a chancy thing with most;
Those who of wealthy elders boast
Question, “Will uncle leave his cash
To me when he has done his dash ?”
Happy a man when he can say
That Uncle Will and Auntie May.
H. M.
Query.
“On several occasions since the outbreak of
war in China there has been an almost com-
plete cessation of hostilities. What is the
underlying cause?” —Ernest Hemingway asking.
Was it because Marshal O. Go Awei
Had insulted some highly-placed Jap?
Or that both sides had knocked off to
bust up their pay,
Or agreed to retire for a nap ?
Or can it be traced to the fact that some
Chink
Pinched the Generalissimo’s gamp ?
Or that all the wet canteens had run out
of drink,
Or the trenches were found to be
damp ?
The causes may range from objections
to “shoots,”
To the lack of an issue of kites,
But MY guess is that it’s bound up with
disputes
As to who’ll swipe the full talkie
rights !
K.
Free Admission.
“Any male who does not admire the modern
woman is a fool and a nincompoop.” —From
“A Modern Woman’s” letter to the press.
I hate the modem woman’s ways:
Her lacquered nails, her powdered
beak,
Her blood-splashed lips and painted
face —
But must admit l like her cheek !
DOUGAL.


WHAT'S YOUR BLADE
COLLECTION WORTH ?
Two a week ? 104 per annum—net a bad bag.
Those bits of steel cost you a pretty penny
too. Unless you’re a born collector why not
give it up and go in for real shaving comfort
and economy. A Wilkinson Razor and four
hollow ground blades will see you through a
whole year because the Wilkinson uses full
hollow ground blades which are mekanised
stropped in the razor itself. And if the saving
doesn’t interest you the extra shaving comfort
certainly will.
★
-<AiOR
Oak Case
witJj two
HoI l o w
C j round
Blade*
and
15/6
Strop
In Nickel
plated Cate 19/6
InCbromeCaie.
three D lad e i
and Strop, 27/6
7-0.4 T set
with a blade lor
every day ol the
week - J7/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
M
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
★ Obtainable from all Stores if
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
- South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world. .
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Castlemaine Perkins.
At 225. 6d. the 12s. 6d. shares in
Castlemaine Perkins, Brisbane, rep-
resent sound buying, showing as
they do a yield of £4 9s. per cent.
This is the most progressive beer-
manufacturer in the Common-
wealth at the moment. Nothing
less than 8 p.c. (but some times
appreciably more) has been paid
since 1912.
INVESTIGATE
BEFORE
INVESTING
Obviously, this is the logical
procedure when your money,
no matter how much, is
involved.
Therefore, you owe it to
yourself to investigate im-
mediately an investment
considered by the worlds
leading financial experts to
be of the soundest.
Write for free Booklet
No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 85295. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Broken Hill Mines
The Zinc Corporation is treating
about 31,500 tons ore a month, South
about 30,000 tons and North in the
vicinity of 38,000 tons. Zinc Corp.’s
latest milling figures (to April 23) show
exceptionally rich lead content; the
grade rose from 15.4 p.c. in February to
15.7 p.c. in March and to 16.2 p.c. in
April. Lead just now is the most useful
metal to have in the ore ; it brings a
higher price than zinc, and doesn’t need
so much refining. Zinc Corp.’s year
began on Jan. 1 ; here are comparisons
of production during the first 16 weeks
(17 in 1936) over the past three terms.
The figures represent metal in concen-
trate :
Zinc Corp.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
tons. oz. tons.
1936 (17 weeks) .. 17,596 415,931 10,606
1937 (16 weeks) .. 16,627 372,857 9,277
1938 (16 weeks) .. 17,781 414,227 10,811
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
The output is increasing, but benefit of
the large plant additions have yet to
come. During the first four months of
1938 lead has averaged £l5 15s. 7d. per
ton, spelter £l4 7s. sd.
South’s figures for 41 weeks of 1938
compared with the first 44 of 1937:
B.H. South.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
tons, oz. tons.
1937 (44 weeks) .. 41,271 1,424,793 29,607
1938 (41 weeks) .. 40,099 1,554,486 30,906
* Excluding zinc and lead concentrates and
lead and silver in zinc concentrates.
The strike is over and finished with, and
in the shorter period so far this term
production figures are keeping above
1937 levels.
South’s div. of 9d. a quarter is equal
to 60 p.c. p.a., and at 3s. a share per
year would call for £480,000.
North’s and South’s financial years end
on June 30 ; during the 10 months to
April 30 lead brought £lB 3s. and spelter
£l7 10s. Id., as against £23 2s. Bd. and
£2O 2s. Id. respectively in the full preced-
ing year. North has increased its output
on practically all points during the past
three years, and the first 43 weeks of the
current term show a definite upward
movement over the preceding period:
North B.H.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
tons, oz. tons.
1936 (43 weeks) . . 48,285 2,694,225 34,046
1937 (43 weeks) .. 49,049 2,744,046 32,041
1938 (43 weeks) .. 50,354 2,808,325 33,724
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and
lead and silver in zinc concentrates.
For many years North has been the big-
gest producer at the Barrier. In a few
years Zinc Corp. promises to take the
lead. Meanwhile increasing efficiency is
improving recoveries from ore in the case
of each of the leading mines, and costs
are being attacked where possible.
Wages fluctuate with the price of lead,
and costs therefore aren’t comparable
from year to year without taking this
factor into account.
The average prices of lead and zinc
relevant to the various periods have
already been given. Last week quotes
were very weak, lead slipping to £l4
155., zinc to £l3 2s. 6d. In spite of the
fact that the London lead-spelter prices
on Tuesday of last week were the lowest
since 1935, Zinc Corp. ords. are holding
to their price of 86s. 6d. (as against 80s.
a few weeks earlier) and Norths keep
around 48s. 9d. Souths are at 30s. 9d.
That “concentration of funds” around
Colonial Sugar and other “safety-first”
stocks (B. 13/4/’3B) is particularly notice-
able now. The old deed of settlement
of the C.S.R. (1855 vintage) is to be
cast overboard and the undertaking
registered under the new N. S. Wales
Companies Act. Married women will
be permitted to hold shares in their own
name under the new articles, and annual
instead of half-yearly meetings are
contemplated. Since E. W. Knox went
the C.S.R. has certainly shortened its
skirts and bobbed its hair and gone in for
lipstick and nail-polish. A new build-
ing runs well down O’Connell and Bent
streets, Sydney, a bonus issue (Nov.,
1934) made the effective div. 15 p.c. in
1936 (124 p.c. 1934), the g.m. has been in
and out of politics, and there are rumors
that smoking is to be permitted in head
office. Anyway, the market regards recent
developments with enthusiasm, and pays
£5O for the shares, as against £47 10s. in
March and a “high” of £49 ss. in 1937.
The return on a 7\ p.c. div. basis is 3 p.c.
* * * *
Shares in West’s, Ltd., at 6s. seller last
week, continued to be weakly supported.
Over five years to the close of accounts
on March 31, 1937, profits averaged just
under £4OOO a year, equal to 1.48 p.c.
on capital. The 1937 result, thanks to
slightly improved rentals from proper-
ties, was the best of the quinquennium at
1.49 p.c. The co. has £35,893 in free-
holds, etc., £26,093 in Consols and £2791
in debtors and cash, besides # 26.2 p.c.
interest in Greater Union, in the books
at £293,338. The assets other than the
G.U.T. holding are showing over 6 p.c.
net p.a. on their book value, which there-
fore seems a conservative figure, consider-
ing that the Consols part wouldn’t turn
in more than 4 p.c. gross. Book value
represents 4s. lOd. a share, so the in-
vestor at 6s. pays only Is. 2d., a share
for the G.U.T. connection, which con-
nection per share is greater than in the
case of Spencer’s, Greater Williams or
Amalgamated. The market pays 2s. 6d. a
share for Spencer’s interest in G.U.T.,
which is slightly less, per share, than
West’s. If 1| p.c. is paid by West’s annu-
ally the yield at 6s. would be £4 3s. per
cent. ;if p.c., 5 p.c.
Bank of Australasia scrip, selling in
the Commonwealth at £lO (£5 shares),
gives a yield of 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, after adding 25 p.c. exchange and
deducting 4s. (stg.) in the £ British in-
come tax. Last year the rate was 3s. 6d.,
but there have been increases since. Aus-
tralian investors are entitled to rebates
of British tax, especially if their total
income is low. People with an income
of £2OO-£3OO a year can get most of the
tax refunded, and their return on ’Asia
shares would then become nearer 5 p.c.
than 4 p.c.
* * * *
Placer, in maintaining its half-yearly
div. at 60 cents (Canadian), pleased the
market, which lifted its quote by about
4s. 6d. (to 735. 6d.). Deducting Canadian
absentee tax (5 p.c.) the return is 8 p.c.,
allowing for the div. payable June 10.
Both Placer and Oroville have subscribed
for 150,000 more shares in Pato at 2\
dollars a share.
* He * *
Gordon and Gotch ords., a frequent
Bulletin choice at lower prices a couple
of years ago, are changing hands at 525.
(yield £4 12s. per cent.), and for many
months haven’t been more than a shil-
ling or two higher or lower. Even Brit-
ish Tobacco hasn’t had a better record
for steadiness during trying times. The
scrip is good for holding and immediate
income.
*•* * *
Mount Lyell’s interim div. of 6d. a
share (2£ p.c.) compares with Is. 6d. (1\
p.c.) last term, when a final of 2s. made
17| P-c. for the year. On announcement
of the cut last Thursday, Lyell’s scrip
fell 9d., to 265. 9d. In the last completed
term electrolytic averaged £6O Bs. 3d. in
London; in the half-year to March 31
the average had slumped to £45 15s. Bd.
sterling, and last week’s price was £43
10s. Lyell’s all-in cost of producing a
ton of electrolytic copper in 1936-37 was
£47 12s. (Aust.) after deducting value of
the gold content recovered. On an out-
put of 13,000 tons a year, costs at last
year’s level and the price of the metal
at £45 15s. stg. (£57 4s. Aust.), there
would be a profit of about £125,000
(Aust.) p.a. from mining. Last term
investments returned £71,611. Paid capi-
tal is £1,550,000.
* * * *
The boilover in the case of Selfridges
(A/asia), Ltd., has been brewing for
some time. F. W. Harper, joint manag-
ing director, has sent out a circular pre-
dicting a loss when the accounts to Jan.
31 last are published, and alleging that
the control at present is divided and that
some directors have “considerable in-
terests” in Woolworths and Highgates,
other chain-store cos., “though this does
not necessarily involve conflict of duty
on the part of any director.”' Mr. Harper
has nominated W. K. Fullerton, an ac-
countant, to oppose E. C. B. Midlane,
chairman of Selfridges. Mr. Midlane
has circularised shareholders advising
them to refrain from signing proxies until
they have been given a statement by the
board. Anticipating a trading loss, there
are wrathful shareholders about who paid
a 25 p.c. premium on the new scrip taken
up last October. An interim div. of 8
p.c. was paid in respect of the current
term, as against 6 p.c. in the previous
year. It is little wonder that bewilder-
ment has followed optimism in the
market for Selfridge’s scrip. It has fallen
to around 16s. Shareholders, however,
shouldn’t be too hasty. The actual trad-
ing figures haven’t been published yet,
and though they may not be good it is
possible that some reorganisation in the
affairs will result in a different story
later.
Boulder Perseverance, which jointly
owns the Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.
with North Kal., showed' £82,057 stg.
profit for 1937, up £3300. There are no
profit-sharing notes now, and the ord.
div. has been raised from 25 p.c. to 40
p.c. Provision for rearmament levies is
shown in the income-tax allocation—
£39,73o stg., as against £20,057 in 1936.
Market for the scrip has firmed to 3s. sd.
in Adelaide.
#
Mt. Kasi shares (B. 2/ 2 / ’3B and
5/5/’3B) ran up to 4s. 7d. last week, a
lift of about a shilling over a few days.
A profit will be shown in the accounts
to be presented shortly, and it should
represent a reasonable percentage on
capital. The new management has done
good work with a difficult problem. The
mine’s future depends on the ore await-
ing development.
t * * *
Yellow Cabs shares (7s. 6d. fully paid)
have risen to 9s. 6d. in anticipation ol
a higher final div. after the close of
accounts next month. Interim was 8 p.c.
p.a., and Yellows are reputed to be
“coining money.” The position was re-
viewed in B. 9/ 3 /’37. Cab scrip is specu-
lative, even if at present profitable, and
shares of 7s. 6d. denominations facilitate
speculation.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Industrial shares continued to show gradual
recovery.
Broken Hill Prop, shares firmed, selling at
61s. 6d. on Saturday.
Preliminary figures from the Commonwealth
Statistician showed the favorable balance in
respect of 10 months’ overseas trade to be
£11,692,000 stg., or £20,563,000 stg. lighter
than for the same period of 1936-37. In the
month of April the surplus was added to by
£2,234,000; and there are only two months
left now in which to establish the credit of
£22,000,000 stg. necessary to cover our external,
interest bill. In two months, in fact, the surplus
built up over 10 months so far is required to
be doubled if we are to pay our way out of
current income.
Mt. Lyell was actively traded in at lower
rates, and represented by far the biggest item in
’Change turnovers towards the end of the week.
Lyell’s div. (6d.) certainly seemed conserva-
tive, and though the grade of ore being milled
now- is lower, and liable to increase the pro-
duction costs of electrolytic copper, better share
prices should be seen later.
Mt. Morgan shares (B. 5/5/’3B) receded
noticeably, selling at Bs. 6d. at the week-end.
Directors have been visiting the mine.


... IT IS UNIQUE”
says the London" Daily Mail" in describing
the
VAUXHALL WYVERN
J
ĵ
j
ĵ
THE ‘WYVERN’ DE LUXE SALOON.
The All Steel Turret Top ‘Wyvern’ Saloon Body is
engineered to give inches more head and leg room
. . . the doors are shoulder-width, making entering
or leaving the Saloon easier than with many big
cars. There is the comfort of the Multi-adjustable
Driver’s Seat . . . Relax-o-form Seating, with its
springs sprung on springs ... a large size parcel
ledge at the back of the rear cushion. . . . No-
Draught Ventilation, and finally there are those
small but highly practical advantages, sound insu-
lation, fume proofing, dust and draught sealing.
.X.
Jmm
mmm
THE ‘WYVERN’ CALECHE
(pronounced Cal-aish)
The ‘Wyvern’ Caleche is easily Australia’s smartest
open car. A removable seat and cushion are avail-
able (£3 extra) for the rear compartment, enabling
you to employ the Caleche as a 2- or 4-seater at
will, fitting the rear seat in the car when friends
accompany you or leaving it at home if the rear
compartment is used for luggage.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
Consult
your local Authorised
Vauxhall Dealer
What a triumph for Vauxhall
engineering it was when London’s
hardened newspaper men and motor-
ing critics enthusiastically hailed the
Vauxhall ‘Wyvern’ as the outstanding
small car. “Among cars of 10 h.p. it
is unique,” said the “Daily Mail”;
“The Vauxhall rode without a tremor,
the best I have known for a small
car,” added the “Daily Express.”
In Australia, the ‘Wyvern’ (with the
added advantage of Holden built
bodies designed to meet local motor-
ing conditions) has just as conclu-
sively proved itself against all the
most popular small cars.
Feature for feature the ‘Wyvern’ is
the best small car value money can
buy . . . look at the facts below . . .
see if they make you feel you should
drive this car before you make your
final choice.
THE VAUXHALL ‘WYVERN’ is a better
buy because it is the best engineered
small car look at these examples
THE ENGINE;
The ‘Wyvern,’ with its 10 H.P.
Overhead Valve Engine, makes
other small cars seem slow. On
hills, in traffic and on the open
road you never feel lost for
speed, acceleration or smooth-
ness.
6-PHASE CARBURETION;
The ‘Wyvern’ is the only small
car in the world to give you 6-
phase carburction, resulting in
exceptional performance and an
amazing economy of over 40
miles per gallon. The carburet-
tor automatically supplies extra
air or extra petrol just as the
engine needs it, so that at all
times you get full power, and
maximum economy.
INDEPENDENT FRONT
WHEEL SUSPENSION:
There’s none of the old pitching
and tossing, usually associated
with small cars, in the
‘Wyvern’. Big, enclosed coil
springs give you a smoother,
safer ride on every type of road.
Cornering is easier, steering
wheel shock is eliminated, and
there is nothing to grease in the
front end. But the ‘Wyvern’
springing goes even further!
Torsion bars and torsian tubes
are used, which regulate the
springing tension to suit every
type of road. This means that
on a city street that is fairly
free from bumps, the springing
is more relaxed, whilst on an
open road the shock of even the
biggest bumps is immediately
countered by extra tension in
the springs.
HYDRAULIC BRAKES;
Super - powerful Lockheed Hy-
draulic Brakes give you a feel-
ing of safety in the ‘Wyvern’ at
all times. Full braking pressure
is applied with a surprisingly
light pedal pressure. An in-
teresting feature of the
‘Wyvern’ brakes is their ease of
adjustment . . . any owner can
adjust the brakes in a few
minutes, his only tool being a
screw-driver.
SUPER SYNCHRO-MESH:
There is no other car on the
road that has easier gear chang-
ing than the ‘Wyvern’. With its
Vauxhall Super-Synchromcsh 3-
speed gear box, gears can be
changed up or down PER-
FECTLY and SILENTLY at any
speed.
HOLDEN BODIES;
Both the Saloon and the Caleche
(pronounced Cal-aish) illustrated
in this advertisement have bodies
built by Holden. The All Steel
Turret Top Saloon has all the
modern smartness of the cost-
liest cars, and includes among
its standard equipment Relax-o-
form seating. Multi-adjustable
front seat, Genuine Soft Leather
Upholstery, No-Draught Ventila-
tion and Armourplate Safety
Glass in the windscreen and
side windows.
BUILT-IN TRUNK:
One of the highlights of the
Vauxhall ‘Wyvern’ Saloon which
should be appreciated by tour-
loving owners is the tremendous
capacity of the built-in trunk.
The trunk is equipped with
separate compartment for tin-
storage of the spare wheel
w-hich can be removed without
disturbing any of the luggage.
OTHER FEATURES;
Oval-ground pistons give a per-
fect close fit under all running
conditions . . . double Thermo-
static Control gives rapid warm-
ing up and more efficient cool-
ing . . . Automatic ignition
control “tunes” the engine to
suit all speeds and conditions
. . . Octane Selector enables you
to get the most from any grade
of fuel . . . “Bar-X” Chassis
is extra strongly braced . . .
and a complete, fully equipped
instrument panel which has two
handy glove boxes.
‘AIR CHIEF’CAR RADIO:
‘Air Chief’ is the only set you
should consider when you decide
to install a car radio. Provision
has been made in the design of
Vauxhall ‘Wyvern’ to accommo-
date car radio and a special ‘Air
Chief’ model has been developed
for this installation. The con-
trols match the other furnish-
ings of the instrument panel—
the Speaker fits flush with the
roof lining (Saloon models) and
the Receiver Unit, which gives
9-valve performance, fits right
out of the way under the Dash
panel. , The ‘Acoustinator’- is an
additional feature which pro-
vides the best possible repro-
duction of every type of pro-
gramme. Ask your dealer for
a demonstration.
With a final of 9d. a share, North Kal-
gurli’s distribution for 1937 totals 2s.
sterling, equal to 100 p.c., compared with
75 p.c. and 62i p.c. in the two preceding
years. On June 11 the distribution goes
out, together with an interim of 6d. for
the current term; Australian share-
holders get the benefit of 25 p.c. ex-
change, but the divs. are less 3s. 3d.
sterling in the pound British income tax.
Distributions during the past three
calendar years have been:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Aug. 18, 6d. Apr. 30, 6d. June 11, 9d.
Dec. 28, 9d. Aug. 10, 9d. June 11, 6d.
Dec. 10, 9d.
The handout in April, 1937, was in re-
spect of the 1937 term, but that in
August, 1937, a final for 1936. During
the first quarter of 1938 33,019 tons of
ore, about 20 p.c. of it from develop-
ment, has yielded gold worth £111,759
(Aust.). Throughput, revenue and work-
ing costs are on about the 1937 scale,
and outlay on development has averaged
about the same, though in March there
were signs of an increase. Working
profit for 1937 was £266,000 (Aust.).
Final figures should be published shortly.
The scrip is firm at 225. Bd. in Adelaide.
* * * *
For a while last week sellers of
North Coast Steam scrip disappeared ;
lor some weeks buyers had been cleaning
up offerings at prices from 365. 3d. up
to the last sales at 41s. This has been
one of the strongest recoveries on the
sharemarkets in months. Kandos Cement
also lifted 2s. to 255. 6d.; and Aus-
tralasian Paper ords., another Bulletin
selection, have improved from 295. to
31s. 6d., and should go better. Yield
lrom A.P. ords. is above 5 p.c., with
prospects. Buyers offer 375. 6d. for
Yarra Falls scrip, ex div., representing
a recovery of approximately 2s. a share
from the recent lowest point. Buyers
are offering 41s. for Bradford Cotton,
as against sales under 40s. a short time
ago. Buyers are unable to get Prestige
ords. at 15s. 3d.
* * * *
Myer ords. keep very depressed in
Melbourne at 31s. A largel parcel of
scrip is being digested.
* * * *
Standard Waygood, Ltd., a Sydney co.
with a pedigree and list of past associa-
tions as long as your shinbone, has de-
clared its first div. (3f p.c.) since 1930.
Lifts and lift-maintenance, electrical goods
and engineering are what profits come
from; these represented 4.5 p.c. on capital
for the term to March 31, as against 1.7
p.c. in the preceding term. That white
elephant the Clyde workshops is being
leased. The shares, 13s. 4d. face value,
are being dealt in at 6s. 6d., to return
slightly more than twice the nominal
rate of div. The scrip is a spec of the
long-term variety.
* * * #
Koitaki Rubber (New Guinea), which
paid divs. quarterly for a while (the
last, on Jan. 15, was to Dec. 31), handed
out nothing on its ords. in April. Rub-
ber, up to over a shilling in 1937, is now
down to below 6d. in London, and
Koitaki, which earned 13.9 p.c. in its
term to June 3Q, 1937, must have ex-
perienced a sharp shrinkage in earnings.
For six years (1929-34 inclusive) share-
holders got nothing. In 1935 2\ p.c.
went out, 1\ p.c. in 1936, and 10 p.c.
in 1937. The ords. have fallen from
325. Bd. in 1937 to 21s. last sale. Buyers
offer 10s., but sellers aren’t having any.
Rubber can’t keep down at its present
level.
$ - * * *
P. and G. Finance ords., Sydney, have
staged a recovery to 75., after having
been down. to ss. 6d. No finance co.
should have such a wide and erratic
market for its scrip as this one. A reason
is that the last accounts were puzzling.
There are other reasons. Hopes now are
that a bit of hard-headed management
of the business may later on restore
confidence in the scrip. Confidence went
to pot when the atmosphere of ballyhoo
concerning div.-prospects came up against
the hard facts of the business’s earning
power. Share-hawkers outside of P. and
G’s control had a lot to do with the
ballyhoo ; but the whole story of P. and
G ' s e ™ ,ution » a m,xed one -
The Trial . and . Error Governm ent at
c
Canberra is removing the last of the
embargoes imposed on U.S.A. goods
under its disastrous trade-diversion
“policy” of two years ago. “It is be-
lieved that this will be an important
factor in improving the atmosphere for
discussions pending with the United
States concerning a trade agreement.”
Meddling with the tariff on cement has
done Britain no good, but has brought
great uncertainty to Australian manu-
facturers and investors. Overseas bor-
rowing is tempting Canberra now, in a
small way to begin with, certainly, and
ostensibly for “defence” purposes, but
Treasurers have been breaking their
necks to get in among the London money
for ages. London investors aren’t so
ready to oblige ; two-thirds of last week’s
£7,000,000 issue, largely a funding of
short-term debt, was left with the under-
writers.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Consolidating Peace.
[A huge cloud lifted with the Anglo-Italian agreement.
People like Mr. Attlee and the Duchess of Atholl
in England, and publications like the “S. M. Herald”
in Australia, naturally find it hard to swallow. It is
supported on Liberal grounds by a traditional Liberal,
the historian G. M. Trevelyan, in a letter here condensed
irom London “limes”; the views expressed are repre-
sentative of widespread approval voiced in Britain,
America and Europe by thinking people not blinded
by prejudice.]
In 1860 the British Foreign • Secretary, strongly
supported by public opinion, went out of his way to
defend, in the face of the scandalised Governments
of Europe, the breaches of peace and international
law by which Victor Emanuel, Garibaldi and Cavour
had effected the Anschluss of the Papal States and
the Neapolitan Kingdom with Piedmont.
In adopting this attitude, our grandfathers were
actuated mainly by sympathy with Italian national
feeling, and with the liberalism through which at that
time it found expression. They would have been
shortsighted indeed if they failed to foresee that a
United Italy, which they were helping to create, would
some day be the principal Mediterranean Power and
a very great African Power.
That has now occurred. Italy has built a great
air fleet to support her army and her navy in the Medi-
terranean. And she has obtained Tripoli and Abys-
sinia by war. Meanwhile the British Empire has, in
the last two generations, obtained by war, in Africa
alone, Basutoland, Matabeleland, the Sudan, the
Transvaal, the Orange Free State and “mandates” in
South-west Africa, Tanganyika, and parts of the
Cameroons and Togoland—besides further vast terri-
tories acquired without war. There seems then every
reason for us to say no more about Abyssinia.
That England and Italy should be on friendly
terms is essential for the peace of the Mediterranean
and of Africa. It is also essential for the peace of
Europe, and therefore, in all probability, for the
prosperity and independence of both countries.
An ideological war between the great Powers of
Europe would destroy all that is left of good in our
civilisation. Italy and England can co-operate to avert
that catastrophe. Such co-operation involves no dis-
loyalty on Italy’s part to her German partner, nor
on ours to France. There is a common European
interest peace. Mr. Chamberlain has taken a definite
step towards reconciliation, in face of great difficulties.
It is a lesser cause of satisfaction, but it is some-
thing real, to feel a cloud lifted from our love of the
Italian people, who are what they have always been
ben caro popolo —and who even in the time of
strained relations have shown very little personal un-
friendliness to English people in their midst.
Are We So Civilised?
[ln his cheerful sermon for Easter, here condensed
from London “Sunday Pictorial,” A. P. Herbert was
addressing a British public, but his shafts stick in a
much wider target.]
Civilisation is an ugly word with a beautiful in-
tention. It is often on our lips to-day. We say that
another European war would bring the end of civilisa-
tion- We say that the conduct of certain nations is
uncivilised —barbarous.
By civilisation do we mean the dentist and the
drains, the refrigerator and the railway, the tinned
lobster and the television set —all those material aids
to content which Michelangelo did not enjoy? Do
we mean the high development of the regions of the
mind—learning and religion, art, music, literature,
drama—all those lofty blessings which are denied to
the animals and the cannibal tribes? Do we mean
those political benefits in which the Briton is so rich
—free speech and assembly, secret ballot, trial by jury,
universal suffrage, one man one vote (or nearly),
representative institutions, independent judiciary,
Habeas Corpus, etcetera? Do we mean the reign of
equality, the conquest of poverty, the triumph of
humanity—in the sense that all, whatever their merits
or capacity, are equally well-fed, secure and happy,
because they are human beings?
“Civilisation” denotes a combination of these
notions. The last—you will say—must not be put too
strongly ; for, if it is put thus, as the Socialists, to
their credit, put it, there never has been civilisation.
It would be easy to say that so long as there are rat-
ridden slums and underfed mothers we are not civil-
ised. It is too easy. Unhappily, these evils have
always existed ; yet for many centuries the proud title
of civilisation has been freely bestowed on enormous
areas of the earth’s surface.
At the moment most of us are agreed that certain
Continental nations are behaving in a grossly uncivil-
ised manner. They have no respect for contract (the
basis of civilised existence), for human liberty, or
indeed for human life. They do not understand the
beauty of the secret ballot, of trial by jury, the inde-
pendent judiciary and representative Legislature. They
persecute or imprison citizens, not for their offences
but for their opinions, their race or their religion. It
is barbarous, uncivilised.
But last Sunday, I read, a young woman was set
upon, threatened with violence, and pursued across
Hyde Park. Because she wore a badge. I disagree
strongly with the young lady’s opinions. But she did
nothing “provocative.” She did not wave a banner
or utter rude, and intolerable cries. She merely wore a
badge. And the assembly on the fringes of which
she was thus treated was gathered to protest against
countries guilty of uncivilised practices.
Civilisation cannot principally depend on British
notions. It amuses me at night to do a “continent-
crawl” on the radio—switching rapidly from country
to country. One minute the animal sounds of a die-
tatorial speech ; the next a dreary dictatorial song;
the next a great orchestra playing noble music. And
the strange thing is that these diverse noises proceed
from the same quarters. The same nations that seem
to us to be politically uncivilised may well regard us
as intellectually barbarous. We have no “concentration
camps.” But also we have no State theatres, orches-
tras, opera houses. In the dictator States these are a
commonplace— not in the capital only, but in minor
cities.
We, with all our wealth, cannot afford it! At
the mere hint of spending money on a National
Theatre, even actors write indignant letters. We spend
on museums, art galleries, music, etc., the enormous
sum of £300,000 a year. We take from the living
theatre alone, in entertainment tax, more than
£1,000,000. Are we civilised?
The disgraceful Continent has long regarded our
divorce laws as medieval. Either our licensing laws
are lunatic or we are savages. A race which has to
be locked in and out of its places of refreshment!
Behold what things the builders do. We have good
architects; but give an engineer the job. We have a
Fine Arts Commission: it has no power. We have
great orchestras —we tax them ; fine singers and artists
—and we leave them to charity. We take endless
trouble to prevent the publican from serving a drink:
but none to secure that he can run a hotel properly.
Make your own list. Then take a poll of your
picnic or party on this question: “Which are the
three most civilised nations?” And a harmonious
Easter to you!
If War Comes.
(Condensed from an article by Victor Wallace Germains
in London “National Review.”)
The theory that an increased mechanisation of
our army will mean a disproportionate gain to the
military strength of the Empire is widely held, and
very popular, as suggesting a cheap and easy substi-
tute for conscription. The essence of the doctrine is
the assumption that, in war, machines can substitute
men.
Mechanisation in its true sense of providing the
army with the very best weapons science can produce
and money can buy, of providing officers and men
with the best possible training to use them, is a
doctrine with which every soldier will agree. But
mechanisation put forward as an apparent means of
getting something for nothing, and obviating the
necessity for disciplined national effort, is a gospel
of doctrinarianism run mad.
In every military design, whether for warships
or for armies, there is a certain factor of balance,
and if this factor is neglected, or misjudged, you get
a thing which looks formidable on paper but which,
at sea, ends up by being a deathtrap for a ship’s crew,
and which, on land, will end up in a holocaust of our
own men.
Interpreting the term “infantryman” as “foot-
soldier” and “foot-soldier” as the man who does his
fighting on foot, whatever the weapon at his disposal,
despite all the tremendous changes which set in during
the Great War, the proportion of infantry to other
arms remained constant at about 50 p.c. Nor was
there any suggestion, while the war was on, from
any responsible commander, that this proportion could
be reduced without the whole army suffering. Lloyd
George, in the crisis of the March fighting of 1918,
telegraphed an urgent appeal to President Wilson for
American troops, “even in the smallest formations or
as drafts to British units.” This SOS call was for
infantry. During the great battles of 1918, despite
the part played by the other arms, infantry continued
to be the cement of battle: so long as the infantry-
man could hold his ground the other arms could hold
theirs ; when the infantryman went back, everything
else went back with him —guns, aeroplanes, tanks.
Practical war experience in Spain and China has
failed to give even a shadow of evidence that the
other arms can get on minus infantry. General Malin
Craig, Chief of Staff to the United States Army, put
the thing in a nutshell in a report to the American
Secretary for War. “The decisive factor still is
infantry. The new arms can aid a man on foot but
cannot replace him.”
The gentlemen who are telling us to-day that a
mechanised army will be a cheap and easy substitute
for a “costly conscript horde army” were telling us
only two years ago that we did not need either army
or navy. If war came, the fighting would be done
by aircraft. Aircraft could “jump over” fleets and
armies and “strike direct and immediately at the seat
of the opposing will and policy” ; it was a “short-
sighted, if natural delusion” that “the armed forces
were themselves the real objective.”
Well, the Japanese have made an earnest effort
to translate into practice the theories of British “scien-
tific” thinkers on war. They started bombing attacks
on Nanking, Canton and other Chinese cities with
the avowed object of shortening the war by striking
direct at the seat of the opposing will and policy. And
the “Times,” in a leading article, summed up the
practical effects: “The Japanese have killed a few
hundred civilians, but have not been successful in
forcing the Chinese to sue for peace.” Shanghai was
taken by the old-fashioned business of landing an
army, fighting a battle and winning it. The
“scientific” recipe for swift and cheap victory failed
to act.
Indian Upheaval.
[ln his Presidential address before the 51st Indian
National Congress in February Subras Chandra Bose,
encouraged, as he Said, “by the leaders df the British
Communist party, whose general policy with regard to
India seems to be in keeping with that of the Indian
National Congress,’’ declared: “The ultimate stage in
India’s progress will be the severance of the British
connection.” The strength of that attitude and of
parties and aims in India to-day is considered in this
digest of a London “Observer” article by Lord Lothian,
chairman of the 1932 Indian Franchise Committee.]
The most dynamic forces in modern India are
concentrated in the India National Congress. Every-
body else—-the Moslem League, the traditionalists of
Hindoo religion and culture, the princes and the British
Administration —though by no means agreed among
themselves, are, by comparison, on the defensive.
The main plank of Congress, which unites its
diverse elements, is a vehement nationalism, the
demand that India should control its own affairs free
from Downing-street. But Congress is far more than
an expression of modern Nationalism. There are two
other very different elements within it. The first is
Gandhi and the following he commands. The Mahat-
ma’s fundamental motives are religious. This has not
only led him to throw himself into the political move-
ment for the emancipation and regeneration of his
countrymen from the enervating and “satanic” effects
of foreign rule and domestic superstition and social
injustice, but has convinced him that Western civil-
isation has gone off the rails pursuing material values.
Gandhi points out that this pursuit of “things,”
or money and speed and pleasure and power, does
not make mankind happy. On the contrary, it pro-
duces bitter discords between individuals, classes and
nations. Above all, it destroys religion, the true reli-
gion of the Spirit active in man, because amid the
turmoil and struggle of the modern world the voice
of the Eternal cannot be heard. There is, in Gandhi’s
opinion, no way out for mankind save return to the
ideal of the simple life, where man is content with
simplicity because he has recognised that the real
values of life, love, religion, art and human brother-
hood, can only thus be regained.
This doctrine is difficult to apply to the 50,000,000
Indians who have now become “geared in” to the
West and who live mostly in the large towns. So the
Mahatma has become mainly concerned, on the
economic side, with the 300,000,000 inhabitants of the
700,000 villages of India. The vast majority of these
are miserably poor—the wage of the laborer being
3d. or less and of a woman worker often but Id.
or ILd. a day. Gandhi is convinced that if India
becomes industrialised a hundred million of these
villagers will be sucked into gigantic and horrifying
industrial slums, while the village itself will be increas-
ingly chained to world prices and markets. The only
method of preventing this catastrophe, in Gandhi’s
opinion, is to keep the villages as nearly self-support-
ing communities, but with improved social and
economic habits.
To this economic doctrine Gandhi adds the
political method of non-violence. This —a challenge
to the traditional dominance of violence in the history
of mankind —is the official creed of Congress under
Gandhi’s leadership, and is genuinely supported by a
powerful section of Congress. At least three cam-
paigns based on non-violent civil disobedience have
been fought by Congress in India during the last 18
years, with the object of attaining immediate self-
government, in the course of which over 100,000
persons were sent to gaol. There is no doubt that
A Fantastic Spectacle
Defence in Australia presents the fantastic spec-
tacle of a major issue with all the responsible parties
dodging the main essential requirement—adequate
trained man-power.
On a note which could not have been more urgent
if war was actually impending, Mr. Lyons, who last
October committed himself not to reintroduce national
service, has brought forward plans for spending
£43,000,000 in three years.
State Governments —the N.S.W. one in particular-
are bickering about allotment of that money as if this
was another Olympic Pool scheme, or some other
piffling State “works.”
Anti-gas training is planned in Victoria.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) floating dock is reported to be
rusting and rotting away.
It is discovered that facilities for training air pilots
are hopelessly inadequate.
Patriotic citizens —anonymous and otherwise —are
making money gifts to the Government for defence
purposes in a spirit rarely present except in time of
war.
The Government has plans for organising industry
on a war-time basis, controlling food and what not.
Though he has hedged a lot on original announce-
ments, the P.M. still proposes importing a military
Inspector-General, though some of the most capable
A.I.F. leaders are available.
Mr. Curtin, holding that Australians must not ever
fight outside Australia — even, say, to defend Maori-
land —holds also to the belief that a fleet of ’planes
is all that’s needed to defend Australia.
7he Defence Loan Bill has been discussed at Can-
berra, mostly in a spirit of pettiness.
A gentleman with no war or other military ex-
perience is Minister for Defence, succeeding a Minister
for Defence of no experience.
Into all this fantasia there has lately intruded,
making it even more fantastic, a note of something
very like panic.
}et none of the leaders —and few other politicians,
either• —will touch the matter of national service .. If
there s fighting to be done, the office-holders are
content to see it done by untrained men, the sending
of whom to fight trained forces would be criminal.
The Bulletin’s conviction that, no matter what
money is spent or how many Inspector-Generals are
imported, Australia can have no defence without
adequate trained man-power—evidently only to be
provided by compulsory national service—gains sup-
port from the London “National Review” article by
Victor Wallace Germains, condensed on this page
under the heading “If War Comes.” It would be
sure of similar support from anyone who studied the
question without regard to votes.


Make your own THREE-in-ONE money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
COUGHS-COLDS-CATARRH
CROUP BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS & ’FLU
By simply adding a two shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
you have a large family supply equal to about £l’s worth of the best ready-made-up
remedies for chest, nose and throat ailments. HEENZO does not contain any poisons,
therefore is equally good for young and old as an internal remedy for coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis, and influenza. For relief from catarrh and colds in the head, you
put a few drops of made-up Heenzo in each nostril, night and morning. For sore
throats made-up HEENZO used as a gargle gives instant relief. All leading chemists
and stores in Australia sell HEENZO.
j
should be used in every home and office .
these campaigns generated a great deal ol intolerance
and violence ; but there are few who would not admit
that the largely non-violent character of the movement
helped to convince the British public and Government
that a real advance to responsible self-government
was necessary.
To the Gandhi-ite section of Congress “Independ-
ence” does not necessarily mean severance of friendly
association with Great Britain. Quite the contrary.
But it does mean that India should be free to mould
her own political and economic future. On these
conditions co-operation with Britain would be wel-
comed.
But there is an entirely different point of view
strongly entrenched in Congress —the Socialist point
of view, represented in the Working Committee by
Jawanarlal Nehru, Subhas Chandra Bose, and by the
Congress Socialist party. Some Indian Socialists seek
to attain their goal by democratic means. But the
Left Wing wants to end the British connection, be-
cause, in its view, that,is the main support of all the
reactionary and exploiting elements in India, such as
the princes, landlords, capitalists and industrialists. It
regards much Indian religion as the “opium” of the
masses, and wants to uproot Indian capitalism and
the traditional village. It can see no solution of the
Indian economic problem save in collective farms
and modernised agriculture and in vast factories and
housing schemes on an improved and idealised Rus-
sian model And because it is Marxist and believes
that property will not yield its rents and dividends
without a struggle, a large part of it vehemently
repudiates the whole philosophy of non-violence,
though willing to acquiesce in it for the present.
These are the two elements which are most dyna-
mic in Congress to-day, though there are many shades
of opinion between. In my view there is no likeli-
hood of the much-advertised split in Congress taking
place so long as the Mahatma is alive or until India
is satisfied that the road is really open whereby she
can take responsibility for her own affairs, free from
foreign control. But once the Mahatma disappears,
and once the British issue retires from the forefront
of the political stage, the present deceptive simplicity
of Congress politics will disappear.
Spain If Franco Wins.
(Condensed from two articles by London “Times"
Burgos correspondent.)
Victory in the field, comparative economic pros-
perity and propaganda have done wonders in Spain.
A country torn and divided by political and economic
strife has suppressed most of its former quarrels.
Nationalist Spain has not yet received a written
Constitution; but the main organs of government
have been functioning long enough to give a fairly
clear idea of the system under which —given a victory
for General Franco’s arms —the new Spain will be
ruled. In a comparatively short time a totalitarian
structure of surprising completeness has been evolved
—an economic organisation based on Fascist models.
Since February General Franco has presided over
a Ministry on the European pattern, consisting of It
Ministers, including men whose past activities have
been Monarchist, Traditionalist, Fascist or even non-
political. The association of the three leading poli-
ticians in the present Cabinet —Seffor Cuesta, Seffor
Serrano Suffer and Count Rodezno —would have been
unthinkable two years ago. Had it existed then the
civil war might have been averted.
Seffor Cuesta, Minister for Agriculture, is a typi-
cal representative of the new spirit in Spain. Through-
out his career he has worked to develop the young
Fascist movement, rejecting both Republic and
Monarchy. Seffor Suffer, Minister for the Interior,
was before the war a leader of the Right Wing move-
ment that gave birth to the largest single party in
the last two Republican Parliaments, and strove to
attain its ends by the democratic methods which the
Fascists combated root and branch. Count Rodezno,
Minister of Justice, is one of the most eminent leaders
of the Carlist cause, a paladin for the Monarchy and
the Church. His presence in the Cabinet, cheek by
jowl with others whose attitude towards Monarchy
has been so different from his own, is a remarkable
sign of the unity which war has imposed.
The Ministry follows its course without any direct
consultation of the people. There is only one channel
for the expression of public opinion—the Falange
Espafiola Tradicionalista. The F.E.T. was formed
nearly a year ago by the fusion of the Falange and
the Requetes, the Fascists and Traditionalists of pre-
war days. There is little possibility of serious dis-
agreement between the Government and the F.E.T.,
since the same men are at the head of both.
Differences of opinion still persist. Despite the
official amalgamation of Falange and Requetes, each
movement still represents a different attitude. The
Requetes, heirs of the monarchical and clerical tradi-
tions of Spain, look back on a century of struggle
with the Liberal State. The Falange, like the kindred
Fascist movements in Germany and Italy, grew up
recently as a challenge to Communism. It is a young
movement, proud of its modernity. Different in origin,
the two movements are different in their approach to
modern problems. But there are few ripples on the
surface.
There are many landowners and industrialists who
would find their privileges curtailed by rigorous appli-
cation of the Falange programme. But so far neither
the partition of the large estates nor the nationalisa-
tion of finance and industry has been made the sub-
ject of thorough discussion. There are still indus-
trialists who object to any kind of interference in
the management of their concerns, just as there are
landowners who regard any kind of taxation as cattle-
thieving. But both these groups now have the example
of Republican Spain before them ; they must prefer
the “revolutionary” policy of the Falange to the
policy of expropriation without compensation.
The Falange, on the other hand, have made con-
cessions to the point of view of their partners. Each
successive party declaration lays greater stress on the
importance of the Catholic Church in the life of the
nation. It has frequently been stated, on high author-
ity, that the Falange would no longer oppose a return
to Monarchy. Thus there is a possibility that the mili-
tary alliance between Falange and Requete will result
in a lasting compromise. General Franco is clearly
determined to secure it; on this issue he will stand
or fall.
The Nationalists have little to fear from the
Spanish workers and peasants. Deprived of their
leaders, the laborers who fought desperately for the
Left two years ago are now cheering the achievements
of the Right. Much of their passion for politics in
recent years has been superficial, though violent. It
was often the result of modern doctrines being grafted
on to ancient, sometimes even pre-Christian, beliefs.
There seems to be little doubt that the Spanish laborer
will assimilate Fascism, while remaining stubbornly
faithful to himself.
Air Pilots at £lO Each.
[Flight-Lieut. Mulroney, president of N.S.W. Royal
Aero Club, last week said that, basing possible Air Force
casualties on the experience of China and Spain, Aus-
tralia would “probably be forced to suspend aerial activi-
ties within three weeks of the outbreak of hostilities.”
In the general stocktaking on Australian defences it has
been found that under present arrangements nothing
like the number of pilots required for even the peace-
time proposals would be available. One scheme is to ask
firms and individuals to subscribe £5O each and each
nominate a trainee- who would be instructed up to “A”
standard. This digest of a London “Times” article
(21/4/’3B) records experience that could be of great
value to Australia.]
Leicester County Flying Club is turning out pilots
at a cost of £lO each.
Flying at this club costs £1 an hour, so that any
young man who can spare ss. a week may allow him-
self a quarter-hour lesson a week and be fairly certain
of obtaining his “A” license during the fine-weather
months. The club has 80 flying members, 50 of them
under instruction, and in its three years’ existence has
never had an accident.
That is probably to be explained partly by the
fact that aeroplanes of low power are used and partly
by the careful training necessary, since the aeroplanes
are nevertheless standard in the aerodynamic sense.
Officers of the R.A.F. who have tried them assert that
in this respect they are excellent training machines,
from which pilots might readily pass, with a little more
dual instruction, to military trainers.
The club’s excellent aerodrome of 85 acres has
a hangar and is about to add a brick-built clubhouse
in place of the hut which has hitherto given its mem-
bers shelter. Its members, drawn largely from the city
of Leicester, include young men of the artisan class
who would not be able to afford to fly without it. It
has evidently tapped a new source of recruits for
flying- _
In the average week, even in winter, about 25
hours of flying is done. One of the two Taylor Cub
aeroplanes which the club is paying for by instal-
ments has flown 390 hours since July. The other has
done 103 hours in the air since February. Few bigger
clubs work their aeroplanes as hard as that or make
so big a total of weekly flying hours.
A visit to Rearsby, especially at a week-end,
affords ample proof of the keenness of the young men
who arrive by cycle, motor-cycle and omnibus, and
likewise of the quality of their flying. The club is
growing rapidly, and has set itself a limit of 300
members.
Paradise Debunked.
[The “workers’ paradise’’ is now an exploded myth
to all but sentimentalists and cranks, but it is left to its
one-time fanatical supporters to give it its most trenchant
debunkings. Witness the party conference speech of
Fenner Brockway, general secretary of the British Inde-
pendent Labor party, here condensed from Manchester
“Guardian.”]
“The Soviet organs of the working class have
been destroyed as executive instruments, the trade-
union organisations have lost their independence to
fight for the working class, the inner democracy within
the Communist party has been destroyed, and a state
of bureaucracy is now in control both of the working-
class movement and of every organ of the State.
“During the last two years 6000 workers have
been imprisoned, exiled or executed. Most of them
had been members of the Communist party, many of
them had held important official positions, and we
decline to believe that, whatever may be the faults of
one or two, there could have been the betrayals of
Soviet Russia and of the working class to the extent
which that figure represents.
“Further, it is a fact that of 22 leading Bolsheviks
who worked with Lenin for the social revolution, and
who have not died natural deaths or retired from poli-
tics, only three are now tolerated in the Soviet regime
—Stalin and two others. The other 17 colleagues of
Lenin have all been exiled, imprisoned, executed or
driven to suicide. By no means all the 6000 victims
have been put on trial, and even in the case of the
selected persons every objective fact which could be
tested, when it has been tested, has fallen down.
“We take the view that when objective facts which
can be tested fail, the other charges are also untrue.
Many of those who have fallen victims are personally
known to us, and we can say as certainly as we can
of Jimmie Maxton that those men would never have
deserted the social revolution as they are declared to
have done.”
Mr. Brockway concluded that they must continue
to defend Soviet Russia against imperialist attack, but
they must also denounce “boldly and without hesi-
tation the political persecution of the present Stalinist
bureaucracy.”
Miss Jennie Lee said she was inclined to believe
that where they could not praise they would do well
to be silent.
Subsidised Stork.
( Condensed, from London “Daily Telegraph.”)
Since August, 1933, 900,000 marriage loans have
been made in Germany, involving £46,660,000. In
1935 a system of paying a lump sum down for aiding
families was begun ; regular subsidies were begun in
1936.
Since Oct. 1 last year, the number of children
for whom 17s. was being given in relief monthly
increased by more than 500,000.
Now all insured workers with an annual income
of less than £660 are to receive a monthly subsidy of
17s. each for the third and fourth child, and 345. for
the fifth and subsequent children. Uninsured workers
will receive 345. for every fifth and subsequent child.
Children whose advancement seems particularly
desirable are to be given facilities for higher educa-
tion.
The number of children for whom subsidies are
being paid will now total 2,000,000. Another measure
will be the granting of a marriage subsidy of between
£25 and £B5 when the wife comes from a large family.
Girls who have voluntarily spent two years with
the Women’s Work Service will be entitled to receive
on marrying £B5 as a gift and not as a loan.
“Fair, Reliable, Unbiased,” etc.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” cable, 6/5/’3B:
Berlin, Thursday. Karl von
Ossietzky, German pacifist, and
winner of the Nobel £lO,OOO Peace
Prize for 1935, lias died from menin-
gitis in a hospital here.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” leader comment,
same day:
Karl von Ossietzky, German
Nobel Peace Prize winner, dies from
injuries received in a German concen-
tration camp.
“Fair, reliable, unbiased journalism, of great
breadth of mind.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Silenus demonstrated at Randwick on
Saturday that Bristol is not the only
useful staying three-year-old in William
Kelso’s stable. The James Barnes Plate
was the race, and Silenus was solid in
the market at 6 to 1. Exhibiting real
stamina, he beat Gay Knight and Billy
Boy at the end of the 11 furlongs, run
in 2min. 18isec., a record for this handi-
cap.
While El Senorita and Billy Boy were
setting a solid pace, Silenus was last with
Bourbon. Even at the home turn the
black colt looked a hopeless proposition.
Andy Knox kept him on the rails, and,
finishing with great resolution, Dr.
Harold Ritchie’s colt fairly outstayed
Gay Knight and Billy Boy. Highborn
also ran well to finish fourth. Silver
Standard was favorite, but he seems to
have lost his form, while Mohican, after
having the run of the race, was last.
Perhaps he and Silver Standard have
had too much racing.
J. Ryan is an intelligent apprentice.
It was largely due to his good riding
and quick thinking that Hamurah (7 to
1) won the Flying Handicap from Heroic
Faith and the pacemaker, Belgravia.
Many thought that Heroic Faith, on the
rails, had scored, but the judge’s decision
was “Hamurah, half a head.”
King’s Head was favorite, backed from
sevens to threes. Darby Munro had him
well placed most of the way, but when
whips were out he galloped sourly.
Hamurah, for her part, was shut in
on the rails for a time. When she
got clear the Doncaster winner went so.
fast that she just got up. Rosmead
was fourth—a good suburban sprinter,
he doesn’t seem able to win at Rand-
wick.
A rise of ten pounds did not stop Acti-
vity from scoring again in the colts and
geldings’ division of the Two-year-old
handicap. Jamieson’s youngster dwelt
slightly at the post, but Bartle drove him
along to the front. The favorite (at 7
to 4) had sufficient pace to hold his posi-
tion, though he had to be ridden out
to hold off Benburb and Jan Baz. Talka-
lot, who carries the colors of veteran
timekeeper Billy Kerr, captured the
fillies’ division —at sixes. A half-sister
to Avenger, she is small and narrow, but
showed plenty of gameness in the
straight. Gilla (second) ran her race in
patches: jumped out well, and then lost
her position, but was doing good work
towards the finish.
Edible, a failure when raced by the
late Ned Moss, has earned a bit of
money for his present owners, Franks and
Walsh. He carried 9st. to victory in the
Novice. By very forcible arguments
Darby Munro persuaded him to beat
Timsah —raced and trained by former
jockey Arthur Kuhn—by a head, after
the latter had been clear at the Leger.
Levant was third. The favorite, Sapphire
Blue, a stablemate of Mestoravon, was
beaten at the top of the straight. Heiress
was heavily supported by followers of
G. Price’s stable, but, though she looked
trained to the minute, the mare couldn’t
raise a gallop.
There was what the dailies called “a
demonstration” after the Welter, won by
Red Rosebud (20 to 1). Owned by Mrs,
Jack King, and trained by her husband,
the mare had failed badly at Hawkes-
bury. There the stewards accepted an
explanation ; they did not think an in-
quiry necessary at Randwick.
Rex made all the running, and was
going so well at the home turn that
defeat looked out of the question. He
can’t be a genuine miler; anyway, Red
Rosebud cut him down easily. Old Der-
mid came from a long way back to run
third. He is Silenus’s eldest brother, and
is by no means done with yet.
* * * *
Glenwitch, who does a lot of travelling
about N. S. Wales, won the Wagga Gold
Cup. Second was Deputy Ruler, who
is having another innings on the turf,
and third a local nag, Veneration. Glen-
witch went out at sevens; Fireman
(fourth) was favorite.
* * * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) has lost one of its
institutions —J. G. Cameron. For 48
years he kept the family pub there —his
father built it —and for nearly as long
he was a pillar of the Newcastle Jockey
Club. As chairman he did a great deal
to bring about the recent revival. The
old man raced some good horses, the
best known being Tibbie, a very popu-
lar mare at Newcastle and Randwick
alike.
* * * %
McCarten and other good Sydney
judges are agreed that Spear Chief will
trouble the southern stayers in the spring
—always provided nothing goes wrong
with him —but up to a mile and a quarter
he is no menace to Ajax. In the Moreton
Handicap, run on the last day of the
Q.T.C. meeting, he was well beaten by
Millie’s Hope (12 to 1), another three-
year-old son of Spearfelt, to whom he
was trying to concede 221 b. Silk Felt
was third, so Spearfelt was responsible
for place-getters as well as winner.
Millie’s Hope, untroubled, ran the 10
furlongs in 2min. 3fsec. He must be
pretty good.
* * *
“He’s thrown in,” said Adelaide pun-
ters when the S.A.J.C. handicapper gave
Aurie’s Star 9st. 51b. for the Goodwood
Handicap. Ringmen were of the same
opinion, and they would lay no better
than evens. The “good thing” was
undone, being beaten into third place by
Hegemonic, a filly by Baralong-Marjanah,
and Glentor, whose time equalled the
record for the race —lmin. llf sec. A lady,
Mrs. Walter Ruglesse, owns Hegemonic.
The filly cost only 55 guineas at the 1936
Sydney sales. Golden Hill, who won
the St. Leger— at 5 to 4 —was an even
cheaper purchase. He was knocked down
for 50 guineas. He is by Virgin Gold-
Skilly Hills.
* * * *
Last winter Dakwood (Backwood-
Eaton Blue) ran second in the G.N.
Hurdle and otherwise distinguished him-
self over the battens on . Melbourne
courses. The manner in which this robust
chestnut shaped at Moonee Valley on
Saturday suggests that he will be a pro-
minent performer again at the winter
meetings.
It was a first-up effort on the part of
Dakwood, and he started at 33 to 1 in
a field of 10; but the Pakenham-owned
horse bowled along so freely with Doug-
las that he moved up second at the mid-
way stage, led at the half-mile and didn’t
surrender control to Marshland until they
entered the straight. Dakwood lost third
place by the narrowest of margins.
H. and M. Bourke scored at the Valley
on April 27 with old St. Vaiorey, but their
fancy turns far more to jumpers than gal-
lopers. Noted timber-toppers that carried
their colors were Irish Rufus, Brenda’s
Son and Ancient Mariner. With the
Ancient one they ran second in the Aus-
tralian Steeple of 1931.
Originally it was planned to race Dak-
wood over fences this year, but misadven-
ture retarded his career. In a down-the-
line outing he became involved with
Boomberry in a sensational crash. It
looked as if Dakwood had broken his
neck, but it was merely a case of con-
cussion. Strongly fancied for the Aus-
tralian Hurdle of 1937, Dakwood fell
over King Siris at an early stage.
Winner of the Banya Hurdle at
Moonee Valley was a 10-to-l shot,
Marshland, owned by Ted Temby and
bred by him in W.A. before taking up
residence in Melbourne. A five-year-old
mare, Marshland is a sister to Isle of
Astur, winner of the 1932 Kalgoorlie
Cup. Isle of Astur did well for Temby
in Victoria, both on the flat and over
obstacles.
Considering that Marshland was a
proved jumper and had finished second
in the principal flat event at Pakenham
on the previous day, she ought to have
been at a shorter quote than tens. Bas
Rhin, who, like Marshland, had no
recent public jumping experience, opened
favorite, and went out in only half a
point less demand that Nevizes, the latter
having firmed from fours to threes.
Alex. Fullarton’s being on top largely
contributed to the early rush for Bas
Rhin. The Lorrain gelding challenged
Marshland at the home turn, but could
make no impression on her. Masterton,
finishing strongly, beat Fullarton’s mount
by half a head for second. Bas Rhin
should do better next start. He registered
several hurdle victories on end last year.
There were only six competitors for
the Brunswick Steeplechase. Two fell,
and Character, who appeared to be amiss,
pulled up. Dilpurra (11-to-4 favorite)
had a slight lead from Conde (9 to 2)
at the half-mile, but Conde beat him
comfortably, with Calfly a poor third.
Combined ages of steeplechase place-
getters exceeded 40 years: Calfly is rising
15 and the others about 13 each. First
and third were bred by G. J. Officer in
the Western District. Conde once was
a star hurdler, but contracted an “apple”
knee. H. and M. Bourke bought the
Dibdale gelding for £2O and leased him
to L. J. Felmingham.
On an exceptionally bad afternoon for
punters, Gaybrooke led off by annexing
the first division of the Morang Trial at
20 to 1. He returned £6 18s. for each ss.
in the tote win pool. Gaybrooke (Gay
Lothario-Torbrooke) belongs to Dick
Bradfield, and gave that trainer’s appren-
tice, D. Walker, his first winning mount.
Gaybrooke romped home four lengths
in advance of the 5-to-2 favorite, Heroic
Star, who was half a head in advance of
Komachi, an Eastern Monarch mare that
ought to score soon. Dam of Gaybrooke
is a half-sister to Polytheist (third in
Claro’s Epsom Handicap) and All Sun-
shine (third in the Doncaster which Fuji-
san won). Eric Connolly imported the
granddam, Cranbrook, from England
with Polytheist as a foal at foot.
Another body-blow to backers was the
success of Vianthus (Perinthus-Vivan-
diere) in the Sydenham Handicap for
Juveniles. Vianthus started at 14 to 1
after twenties had been laid. Trained by
Lou Robertson, he is a half-brother to
Marabou, winner of the Melbourne Cup
of 1935.
Andrew Robertson, who has been asso-
ciated with the importation of numerous
English thoroughbreds, includingLavendo,
Top Gallant and Gothic, sold Vivan-
diere, with Vianthus as a foal at foot, to
G. R. Nicholas, a wealthy businessman
who has taken up the breeding of horses
on a big scale at Woodend.
This stud is managed by C. Robbie,
who races Vianthus, and no doubt will
be heard of as an owner of other young
gallopers. At one period he was in charge
of the police stud at Benalla, where Sace-
don and Gortland were used as stallions.
Vianthus is by a half-brother to Heroic.
He may develop into a high-class gal-
loper, but will need to improve, as on
Saturday he received over 2st. from Sir
Harold, who ran him to less than a
length. Sir Harold was unlucky. Brave
Mark, Sir Robin and Amplify shared
favoritism. Of these Amplify did best
by finishing a close fourth.
Four or five horses were almost in line
at the end of the middle-distance Nonga
Handicap. Following up his Ascot suc-
cess, the diminutive Beau Roi (sixes) pre-
vailed by half a head from the 3-to-l
favorite, Maluno, with Dignitary (fives)
a similar distance off. Dignitary perhaps
ought to have won, as he covered a lot
of extra ground ; but the short straight
at Moonee Valley didn’t suit Frank
Dempsey, on Maluno.
This Page chose Dignitary, and selected
Somerset to win the Keera Welter in
the absence of Parodier. He came to
light in tradesmanlike fashion.
Drawn on the extreme outside, Somer-
set flew round a dozen rivals along the
back stretch and hit the front three fur-
longs from home. Black Mac challenged,
but Somerset held him off gamely by
three-parts of a length. Black Mac
looked in superb condition, and may be
a galloping star during the winter.
Ross Grey-Smith, A. J. Staughton and
F. P. Smith have nominated for the
vacancy on the V.R.C. committee caused
by the resignation of J. S. Feehan.
Friends of the individual candidates are
canvassing for votes as keenly as if it
were a Parliamentary contest.
As an owner Ross Grey-Smith ha.s
been most in the limelight of late through
Tactical having dead-heated with Val-
halla at the V.R.C. autumn meeting and
beaten Pandava and Nuffield after a
thrilling tussle in the Ascot Vale Stakes.
In pre-war days Arthur Staughton
wagered heavily on his own horses. Two
that he often entrusted with big support
were Matouree and Nangar. With a
horse of his own breeding, Aristaeus, he
ran second to that beautiful filly Carlita
in the Victoria Derby of 1914.
The last polo race-meeting in Aus-
tralia was held at Camperdown in 1914,
and three States were represented. On
that occasion Staughton made history by
riding his own horses to victory in all
five events on the card, carrying top
weight. Three other horses from his
string finished second.
* * * *
Phil Lock, who died at St. Kilda early
last week, cut a big figure on the Vic-
torian Turf at one period. Horses be-
longing to him won hundreds of prizes
in agricultural show-rings. Lock bought
the ancestral home of the Chirnsides,
known as The Manor, at Werribee, and
conducted a stud there, with Albanian
(imp.) as the principal stallion.
Originally Lock lived at Warrnambool.
It is a coincidence that he died on the
opening day of the Warrnambool Cup
meeting, and that one of the principal
events of the afternoon, the Tozer Welter,
went to Exchange, a son of Albanian,
the stallion from which Lock had ex-
pected so much as a sire.
* % sK *
Amateur meetings do not flourish in
Victoria to the same extent that they
do in N.S.W. Sandwiched between the
opening and closing days of the Warr-
nambool Cup carnival, the meeting of
the Warrnambool A.T.C. on Wednesday
of last week was rather a tame affair.
The standard of amateur riding in the
district where Adam Lindsay Gordon
and “old” Jimmy Wilson had historic
encounters has deteriorated since cars
sprang into popularity. Natheless, there
are a few die-hards among the Corin-
thians. J. Lindsay won the Hurdle Race
on May 4 for the seventh time in 17
years. He talks of giving up riding over
jumps.
* * * *
Whether The Trump will stand another
preparation remains to be seen. The
gallant little son of Manfred is being
given gentle exercise on the Caulfield
tracks. Though carrying a lot of super-
fluous flesh, he looks healthy and is quite
free in action —for the time being, at
all events.
* * * *
Jack Holt is bringing Avenger and
Young Idea back from a spell at Wer-
ribee. These two fine gallopers belong
to Percy Miller, of Sydney. Young Idea
has been in and out of training very
often. His enforced holiday may not
be as serious as that of Avenger, who
had to forfeit engagements at the V.R.C.
autumn meetings through leg trouble.
Avenger is a thorough stayer and will
be the kingpin in Holt’s team if he re-
gains soundness.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Science
Shortly after one of the Wild Men
(imp.) had given out over the air that
he started as a boxer but gave it up
because he “found wrastlin’ more scien-
tific,” 16-stoner savants Dr. Dick Raines
and Prof. Leo Numa were in the Leich-
hardt (Sydney) laboratory giving an
erudite exposition in this branch of
science. To the clinical theme music,
“To-morrow’s Mother’s Day”—a tribute
to the large attendance of matrons in
the standing-room-only audience, tootled
forth by an excellent dance band perched
up in a loft near the roof —the eminent
scientists entered the lab., each attired
in a voluminous dressing-gown, that of
Prof. Numa black, with a plumlike sheen
on it gleaming in the floodlight; that of
Di. Raines orange, with the horned head
of a buffalo appliqued across the shoul-
ders.
These encumbrances removed and some
up-to-date scientific data imparted to the
savants by Mr. Deakin, the tall, dark,
efficient, hawkish-looking keeper of the
lab., experiments proceeded for some
time on orthodox lines. That is to say, the
scientists proceeded to demonstrate the
debilitating effects of all-round wear and
tear on the human framework. This they
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Rockdale Mile: Tuckiar or
Herarde; next, Gay Chou.
Moorefield Handicap: Dutiful;
next, Rossjoy or Tuckiar.
Flying Welter: Heroic Faith;
next, Fernacre.
Kogarah Stakes: Aladdin ; next,
Linklet.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Imperial Handicap: Pamelus;
next, Parodier.
Granville Handicap: Dignitary ;
next, Maluno.
Jeffcott Welter: Marion Melton;
next, Testudo.


TWO EXCLUSIVE HUDSON FEATURES
THAT MEAN
FOR YOUR FAMILY!
mm
m
ii
m
mm
m
me-
w
m
m
JL %
m
m
m
m
i
m
.
■ >•:;• x ;i ;■ '. .
mmmwm
m
W&Smz
o
RADIAL SAFETY CONTROL —Combines the
advantages of independent suspension with the stability and safety
of a rugged front axle. Frees long, leaf springs from all steering and
braking strains . . . leaves them with nothing to do but cushion your
ride. Reduces side sway on curves. Reduces danger from spring
breakage. Eliminates "nosing down" when brakes are applied. Makes
steering steadier and easier.
0
HUDSON’S EXCLUSIVE SAFETY
CRAKES Finest Bendix hydraulics with two mechanical
reserve systems for added safety. One reserve system takes hold auto-
matically, if ever needed, from the regular foot brake pedal . . . the
other is operated by the easy handling parking brake up on the dash.
Here's the safest stopping ever built into any car . . . and only Hudson
has it!
Drive Hudson ! You and your family
will FEEL safer, and BE safer.
DRIVE
HUDSON Terraplane
HUDSON Six
HUDSON Eight
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:/
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
R C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street Brisbane Street,
HOBART. LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
\
3-X-N-3-A
IT’S “VALUE YEAR”
IN HUDSON SHOWROOMS


36 Razor BlacUs
FOR
&
m
SIfMfNC
wil
Shave with a new blade
every morning—at a frac-
tion the cost! Use Siemens
Automatic Razor Blade
Sharpener. Both HONES
and STROPS all four sides
oi 3-hole Gillette-type
blades in five seconds.
No skill required. Entirely
automatic; fully guaran-
teed. Price 12/6. Box
549 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
FREE SAMPLES
SENT.
r>7
Re-Nu Liquid
Nu-Metal
Just deposit through plug
openings on pistons, turn
engine over a dozen times,
then let run 5 minutes.
iS u-iVjLji,jiAij expands 25%, reconditions engine
while running, saves costly £lO-£2O rebore,
ends piston slap, excess oil pumping, petrol
waste, rattles, noises, buying expensive parts,
restores compression, top speed, new power,
pep, zip. Makes ears, trucks, motor-cycles,
farm engines, and all combustion engines run
like new. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles,
when same results can be repeated; also
guaranteed harmless any part finest engine.
NU-METAL is put up in exact quantity size
tubes for each type of engine. Price, 5/- a
tube for each cylinder. Maximum price, 4,0,
8 cylinder, 25/-, with extra 1 FREE tube of
Special Colloidal Nu-Metal for injection through
oil sump for the main bearings, big ends, etc.
Send for FREE Samples 20 other lines. Agents,
required. RE-NU LTD., Op. Richmond Station,
Melbourne, J 4797. Open late Fridays.
did with forearm jolts, kicks, punches
and a minimum of wrestling holds
applied to all parts of the anatomy, no
exception being dictated either by rules
applying to usual forms of sport or by
the presence of members of both the
police and the delicate sex.
After carrying on on these lines for
four or five of the eight-minute experi-
ments, the savants began to demonstrate
the finer points of the science. Judged by
the applause the peak of scientific per-
fection was achieved when Dr. Raines
inserted the fingers of both hands into
Prof. Numa’s mouth and pulled sideways.
Dr. Raines evidently seeking to improve
on this experiment by tickling Prof.
Numa’s tonsils with his middle finger,
Prof. Numa then brought off the highly
scientific triumph of biting that member,
whereupon Dr. Raines broke loose and
ran frantically round the lab., howling
with extraordinary enthusiasm.
The crowd also howled, the noise
reaching typhoon volume which threat-
ened to lift the roof clean off the institute
when Prof. Numa, catching Dr. Raines,
threw him successively four times out of
the lab., jumped on him, picked him up,
whirled him round in the cat-swing ex-
periment and pinned him to the canvas.
To this Dr. Raines responded with a
highly scientific demonstration of assault
and battery. He, in fact, fairly dazed
Prof. Numa with science and pinned him
clean, concluding the experiment by
heavily booting the prostrate savant m
the belly, what time the spectators howled
afresh and pelted the lab. with peanuts.
Both scientists showing signs of the
success of their mutual experiments, they
now came into the centre of the lab. for
what was to prove the conclusive de-
monstration. Prof. Numa, still semi-
conscious, floundered heavily about, an
easy mark for the flying attacks launched
at him by Dr. Raines, who employed the
ropes effectively as a catapult to heave
himself at the other savant, striking with
head, shoulders or any part whatever.
Thus scientifically treated, Prof. Numa
was floundering in his corner when the
final assault came. It came to Dr. Raines.
Prof. Numa staggered aside and the
learned savant, then hurtling through the
air, continued his flight to make a head-,
on collision with the three-inch solid iron
post at that corner of the lab. Dr.
Raines, his head split open, thereupon
fell unconscious to the canvas and rolled
convulsively under the ropes, and, as his
dark hair rapidly turned a noble rufus
color, the ladies near by crowded in to
get a close-up view of this crowning piece
of science, expressing ladylike sympathy
in a heartfelt chorus of “Serve the brute
right.”
One of the main'reasons for the popu-
larity of the Wild Men is their variety.
It’s impossible to say beforehand what
any given engagement will be like. New
hands bring along new stunts, and it’s
a pretty poor hand among ’em who
couldn’t make a crust as a vaudeville
fallabout artist if wrestling failed him.
The Leichhardt Saturday-night show
was the kind the mob prefer. It likes
’em willing, and be hanged to wrestling.
Well conducted, as that affair was by
ref. Deakin, the all-in stuff wins the
mob’s howls and shekels every time. And
the Wild Men are tough. In recent his-
tory one or two of our leading pugs have
been reported as suffering “acute ner-
vous reaction” and other ladylike
troubles aftpr bouts they’d won without
taking any apparent punishment. There’s
none of that sort of thing about the
Wild Blokes. The aforesaid Raines put
in Saturday night in hospital ; on Mon-
day night he was at the Rushcutter Bay
ringside as happy as a bookmaker.
The exhibition at this address was alto-
gether different from the Leichhardt
affair. It was almost all wrestling: lively
enough ; both 16-stoners very fast. Bill
Hansen won with a fall in the last round,
after just about pulling Matros Kiri-
lenko’s block off with a matter described
as the flying headlock. Bill had previ-
ously tickled the mob’s fancy with a
stunt which fishermen would describe as
the startled garfish. The beakies, when
the tailor are snapping, can do a 20
to 30 yards flit very fast with only their
tails in the water. To escape the Matros,
Bill did the same sort of thing, flat out
horizontal, with only the back of his
head and heels striking the canvas, cross-
ing the ring in this singular posture in
a split second. That excluded, and also
the matter of Matros’s mouth being ren-
dered deuced bloody by a forearm jolt,
it was clean, straight, fast wrestling.
Also on tap this night a good prelim,
boxing bill, main item on it a touch of
the light fantastic by flyweight champ.
Tiger Donnelly (Bst.) and a busy little
codger named Johnny Duncan (7st.
111 b.). The Tiger won by from here to
the farthest pub, but Mr. Wallis, possibly
feeling that it didn’t matter much, any-
how, paternally called it a draw, where-
upon spectators did their darnedest to
knock the contestants cold with coin of
the realm. A more solid encounter was
that between Ray Haddigan (9st. 81b.)
and Reg King (9st. 51b.). Ray claimed
too much, and did other things which
found no favor with Mr. Wallis ; deci-
sion, very properly, to Reg on points.
Bns and Outs
The Australians won the Worcester
match by an innings and 77 runs. Fol-
lowing on its first knock of 268 the
county reached 196. Bull (69) and Lyttle-
ton (35) again gave their side a good
“Sorry, Mr. Chisler !”
start; the latter was in Australia with
the M.C.C. team under Holmes, and im-
pressed as a fast-scoring batsman.
Human, another member of that side,
notched 29, and that was the best of
the county endeavor. Poor McCormick,
tied up with the bitter cold, brought his
total of no-balls to 35 for the match
and took one wicket. Other bowlers
were White (2-30), O’Reilly (3-56) and
F.-Smith (3 for 58) ; his bag for the
match was 11 for 158.
* * * *
The Australians had a feast of batting
practice against the weak Oxford bowl-
ing, scoring 679 before Bradman closed
with seven wickets down. Fingleton
(124), McCabe (110) and Hassett (146)
provided the bulk of the runs. Bradman
was out l.b.w. for 58 ; Chipperfield (53),
Waite (54) and Walker (31) were among
the run-makers. From the Australian
point of view a sterling shot for 72 by
Brown, which revealed some of his real
form, was a cheering item.
Oxford bowlers had a dreadful time.
Evans with 3-171 —he got Bradman —had
the best figures. Macindoe, who bowled
with success last year for the Gentlemen,
ended a marathon job with 2-207.
The ’Varsity batting collapsed before
Fleetwood-Smith, who took 5-28 and
4-31 in Oxford’s two innings of 117
and 75. The only batsmen to do any-
thing were the brothers Eggar, who used
the long handle with effect. In the first
innings J.D. got 51 n. 0.; in the second
E.D. contributed 25. The ex-Victorian
Kimpton disappointed, Fleetwood-Smith
sending him back for 2 and 15. Walker
injured a hand in Oxford’s second innings,
and Fingleton, in his place, stumped
three batsmen. Of the bowlers besides
Fleetwood-Smith, Ward took 2-39 and
3-16, Waite 1-25 and 2-11, and Mc-
Cabe 1-12. Still suffering from the no-
ball complex, McCormick had 10 runs
knocked off him in four overs, Australia
won by an innings and 487 runs.
It was the 17th meeting of the teams.
Oxford has won only once—in 1884 —but
has made a draw of it four times.
Leicester won the toss and decided to
make the Australians, led by McCabe;
take the field. Bradman stood down, as
did Fleetwood-Smith, Walker, Brown
and Barnes. Leicester surprised by in-
cluding in the team two Sydney players,
Jackson and Walsh, who are in England
with the Cahn cricket stable. The
county scored 212. Maorilander Dempster
was bowled by McCormick for a duck, but
Jackson, Watson and Armstrong, with
47, 43 and 26 respectively, helped to
save the day. Ward took 5 for 69 and
McCormick 3 for 61. The express
slipped in an occasional no-ball; also,
he bumped a lot and hit several batsmen.
O’Reilly’s bag was 2 for 46.
Except McCabe, whom Walsh got
l.b.w. for a blob, the Australians had a
feast of runs (Badcock 198, Hassett 148,
Chipperfield 104 n. 0., Waite 49, Barnett
42 n. 0., Fingleton 34); and with five
down for 590 McCabe closed the innings.
Walsh (2 for 151) got the least dreadful
average. On Monday the county had
lost 5 for 107 (McCormick 3 for 32).
* * *
“John’s Wood”: Earl Baldwin has
succeeded Major Astor as president of
the Marylebone C.C. For years the
former P.M. has been one of the regulars
at Lord’s, complete with pipe. If our
men can repeat in the Tests their per-
formances in the early games in Eng-
land Baldwin will have something else
besides tobacco-to put in his pipe and
smoke.
* * * *
“Sale”: In his very first match in
England McCormick developed the ten-
dency to drag over the bowling crease
which has so often disfigured his play
in Australia. His Worcester perform-
ance, when he went over 35 times, is
a record even for him. Not only is that
bad habit as hard to cure as a dipso.’s
hiccups, but it throws the bowler off his
stride. It is impossible for such a one,
with the fear of infringement before him
every time he runs up, to give of his
best in pace and direction.
* * * *
“White Horse”: Dead in England, at
88, E. F. Tylecote, who made cricket
history at Clifton with a score of 404 in
a school match. - Tylecote captained the
Oxford Eleven and came to Australia in
1882-3 with Ivo Bligh’s team, which in-
cluded such amateurs as A. G. Steel, W.
W. Read and the Studd brothers. He
played in six Tests, averaging 19 with
the bat —pretty fair for those low-scoring
days. He had a long record for Kent
and The Gentlemen.
* * * *
“Retired Pompey”: Much is being
made in the cables of Bradman’s ex
traordinary grasp of etiquette; but even
Jove must nod, I suppose. A photo, of
the estimable young gentleman taking the
salute at Gibraltar with the G.O.C. Gar-
rison, shows him with hand raised to his
hatless forehead, the lid being held in
his hand. Junior subalterns have been
broke for that.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: With the first Test less
than a month off the English cricket ex-
perts are busy selecting England’s cap-
tain. Hardy perennials Turnbull and
Hammond are mentioned, though the
first-named is unpopular at H.Q. because
of his candid comments on modern
cricket amateurism, and the other was
once a professional. Allen has played
little since coming back from Australia,
and is considered out of it. Sellars, of
Yorkshire, a good skip but barely a
county bat, is also mentioned, and there
is quite a howl about the merits of one
Wilcox, who leads Essex. Hammond is
the obvious choice. Professionals and
ex-professionals have captained county
teams before to-day, and here is a fine
chance to create a Test precedent.
“Keima”: “Old Q.” (B. 28/4/’3B)
ignores one point: Grimmett, Badcock
and Ward may never have reached big
cricket if they had not moved. Grimmett
played in M.L., N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria ; it was only when he went to
South Australia that he got his chance.
Ward shone out as a State player only
when he took up residence in S.A., and
would Badcock ever have been considered
for the Australian XI if he had remained
in Tasmania?
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Walters, the Worcester
amateur who was regarded some years
ago as one of England’s Test hopes, has
retired from first-class cricket, since he
finds it handicapping his business career.
Another proof that there is no room
in modern cricket for the genuine
amateur unless he be that rare bird the
possessor of private means. Walters
figured in all five Tests against Wood-
full’s 1934 team as an opening batsman,
and averaged 50.12 for nine innings.
Since then he has played little first-class
cricket.
Footbrawl
Carlton, the only unbeaten team in the
V.F.L. competition, now advanced to its
third round, beat Essendon on Saturday
by 15-12 to 14-17. Richmond surprised
Collingwood, 15-12 to 11-26; Geelong
won from North Melbourne, 20-16 to
6-11 ; Melbourne, 17-14, kept Fitzroy,
12-11, at the bottom of the points ladder ;
St. Kilda, 11-17, stayed better than
South Melbourne, 8-12 ; and Footscray,
9-16, had a slight margin over Hawthorn,
8-14.
In the Vic. Association games, Port
Melbourne, second-last on the premier-


There is a 1938 FORD UTILITY
for every light transport need
BODY STYLES
10 H.P. COUPE UTILITY—3S-40 miles
per gallon with the comfort and style
of "The Big Light Car of the Year."
Special strong chassis frame to handle
6 cwt. loading with ease.
V-8 PANEL VAN —One-piece steel roof,
steel sides and floor and new girder-
type body construction. Full width front
seat. Auxiliary springs optional at
extra cost.
xmmwx
V-8 TRUCK TYPE UTlLlTY—available
in J-ton models (with Straightside or
Well-type bodies) and 2-ton models with
Dropside (illustrated), Stakeside, Plat-
form, Straightside or Well-type bodies.
TP HE new Ford Utility range includes a unit to handle
every type of light transport job with maximum
efficiency and economy . All Ford Utility models are com-
pletely equipped and include at list price many value-
features ordinarily unobtainable in the Ford price class.
Compare Ford Utility prices and check these V-8 features:
Special unit-type steel body (on V-8 Panel Van, Coupe
and Roadster utilities, Yz -ton and 54 -ton Truck-type utili-
ties with steel box). V-8 engine proved for economy.
Torque tube drive and radius rods. Three-quarter floating
rear axle. Easy-action, self-energising brakes. Safety
glass all round (except Van rear doors). Oil-bath air
cleaner. Four adjustable double-acting hydraulic shock
absorbers. Tyre equipment more than sufficient to carry
rated load.
Your local Ford Dealer will gladly arrange an “on-the-job”
test for you with the model to suit your needs. Easy and
convenient purchase terms are available.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER.
mt lORD UTILITIES
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.-(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F230.24L
ship ladder after five rounds, prevented
Brighton from sharing the lead by
staging an 18-13 to 17-19 draw. Bruns-
wick, alone at the top of the points list,
beat Preston, 21-18 to 6-17.
* * * *
Drummoyne is alone on top of the
Sydney Rugby Union table; on Satur-
day it beat Parramatta 12-6. University
was defeated 6-20 by a vastly-improved
Manly. Hodgson, back in the Manly
scrum, put fire into his work, and kicked
some splendid goals. Kelaher scored
one try and made another.
Still more surprising than the Manly-
’Varsity result was West’s win—its first
—over North, 32-8 (six tries to one).
Whitehurst, a 13-stone winger, at school
last season, did well in the centre. Rand-
wick, still with its team incomplete, raced
round St. George, 30-12 (five tries to
three), and Gordon scraped home ahead
of East, 17-14.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: How close control of
Victorian players comes to actual peon-
age may be seen from the evidence given
in a case before the V.R.L. permit com-
mittee. One Fountain asked permission
to transfer from St. Kilda club to Essen-
don. It was proved that he had signed up
to play with St. Kilda four years ago,
though the Saints did not register the
document until 12 months later. Since
then Fountain has never been given a
game by St. Kilda in either first or
second teams. In spite of all this St.
Kilda fought tooth and nail against the
granting of the permit and was backed
by the permit committee.
“Secret Service”: When it leaked out
lately that conspirators had resolved to
banish Australian Rules football from
Canberra schools in favor of the foreign
game of Rugby the V.F.L. roared like
all the bulls in Bashan and resolved to
write to all Parliamentarians suspected of
sympathy with the national game to put
the matter right or take the consequences.
The politicians have come to heel in a
hurry. Lyons, Scullin, Curtin, Guthrie
and numerous others have buried the
political hatchet and promised to rally to
the rescue of the home-grown article.
■ $ * *
“Rover”: Sydney Rules enthusiasts had
hoped to see the Richmond club from
Melbourne and a Westralian side in
Sydney this season. The Victorians have
called it off, but East Fremantle, the lead-
ing Westralian team, will play a com-
bined N.S.W. side in Sydney on July 23.
It was hoped to get the Sydney C.G.
for the match, but it has been bespoken
for the first Union Test with the All-
Blacks on that date. Most likely the
Showground will be the arena. But it is
a pity that the Westralians should travel
so far to clash with the big Rugby show.
* * * *
Dead in Samoa, Ernest Reid, a notable
N.S.W. Rugby Union centre three-quarter
in the years immediately following the
war. Reid was a product of St. Joseph’s
College, like his fellow-centre, C. V.
Morrissey, and the pair, big and clever,
proved a problem for opposing centres
in their matches. Sad that they should
have died in the early thirties. Reid
figured for N.S.W. against Maoriland in
Australia and over the Tasman in 1925
—there was no Union football from
Queensland in those days. A surfing
injury took him out of the game. At
St. Joseph’s he had a fine athletic record
and was in the college eight.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. Rugby Union
at its annual meeting announced its re-
turn to international rules, which it
should never have abandoned. The
League “amendments” and the sloppy
style of play they encourage were blamed
for the crash of M.L. football before
the Springboks, and justly so. When is
the N.S.W. Union going to follow suit?
It had to drop the League foolishness
before the ’Boks would play in Australia,
and will have to do it again when the
All-Blacks are here and when its team
goes to Britain next year.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Beaton, one of the
best three-quarters the N.S.W. Rugby
League has seen for years, has retired.
The young man learned his football with
the Union at St. Joseph’s College and
decided to throw in his lot with the
League when his claims for the Union
South African tour were overlooked. He
played full-back for the Australian
League against the English team of 1936,
and during the recent Kangaroo tour of
England made a name as a centre three-
quarter.
McKinnon, too, his partner in the
centre on the recent trip, has given the
game best, though he says he may be
back at it next season. That makes five
of the tourists to retire since their return.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Bananaland R.U. is
displaying a sense of discipline these
days. At the beginning of this season it
refused the affiliation of a first-grade club
because of professional practices. Now-
it has disqualified the skipper and mem-
bers of a B-grade team—the skipper for
life and the others indefinitely. They
were to have played in a preliminary
game prior to the first N.S.W.-Q. match
j n Brisbane, but when they were not
allowed to include a first-grade player
they refused to take the field. Both in
Queensland and N.S.W. a little more of
that spirit among the controllers of
Union football would do a power of
oc * -
Nineteenth Hole
i t, ... , .
, The British amateur golf
St ~ r tV ? A Tr ° on t ’. ln
Scotland, on May 23. So the Australians
Wlll have little more than a week to
accustom themselves to one of the most
difficult courses in Britain and to face a
competition which is rated harder to win
than the open. Players in the final have
to lace five gruelling days of competi-
tion at match play over 18 holes before
lining up for the stroke final,
ur ,! „ *, . ,
match betwe e„ twf syd
* , ’ who t 0 wa ,| op y the
fl| frQm s d |C, elbourne . £ ]s _
Me . a _ d ' sche J ule has been mapped
» PP
, he ; e fc no „ fo F r f ost ba „* s 0 “ e
o£ lhe competitor / is a p]umber . Any .
Qne willi be , he doesn ,, f *
brj hjs J ubs?
b *' * * *
“Sandringham”: The Dunlop Purse
drew an en t r y of all the leading Vic-
torjan professionals. The winner was
R on jj arr j s> Q f Kew, thanks to a record
morn j n g round of 69, which left his rivals
down the course ; in the afternoon he
7^
'
RacCglief and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The Australian tennis
ran kj ng ij s t sees Bromwich on top, with
Q u j an d McGrath next. Crawford is
pi ace d fourth, ahead of Schwartz. Nancy
Wynne heads the girls, with Thelma
“nckrted twX™ ““
uot Stevenson Bracketed third.
Nancy Wynne got to the final of an-
other singles championship in England
—at Hurlingham—but was defeated
again in straight sets, this time by Miss
Lumb, a British Wightman Cup player.
With Miss Coyne, however, she took
the doubles.
* * *
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis
Cuppers leave on June 24. Mexico will
meet them in the first round of the Cup
on August 4, 5 and 6, and the final of the
Yankee zone, in which our men are
pretty sure to meet Japan, starts on August
11. August 18 sees the beginning of the
inter-zone final against the winner of the
European zone, and then comes the
American doubles championship on
August 22. The challenge round be-
tween the inter-zone winners and the
Cup-holders is down for September 3,
4 and 5.
After that the Australians will play in
the American championship singles at
Forest Hills from September 8 to Sep-
tember 17, and finish up with the Pacific
Coast championships at Los Angeles,
which begin September 22. October 31
sees the team in Sydney again.
There will be none of our Davis Cup
players in Yurrup this year, but Budge
and Mako are going from America to
the French and Wimbledon champion-
ships. This looks as if the Yanks intend
to stick to the old firm for the Cup
doubles. On their form in Australia this
sounds well for the Australians.
Miscellaneous
The fifty-sixth eight-oar inter-State
race on the Yarra was won,by Westralia,
after an amazing finish with N.S.W., by a
canvas. Tasmania was third, four lengths
from N.S.W., with Victoria, South Aus-
tralia and Queensland well out of it.
N.S.W. went for an all-the-way win, and
up to the last 100 yards looked like
doing it. The Westralians put in a great
challenge and wore the leaders down
almost on the finishing mark. It was
Westralia’s fifth win.
Cecil Pearce (N.S.W.) won the sculls
as he liked from Purves, of Victoria, and
Ninham, of South Australia. The offi-
cial verdict was 20 lengths.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian Rowing
Council at its annual conference in Mel-
bourne declared in favor of sending crews
and scullers to the Empire Games in
Canada in 1942. Also it decided to
urge Australian representation in the
sculling events, single and double, at the
Tokio Olympiad in 1940.
* * * *
Richmond (“Dick”) Cavil 1, who has
departed for the Jasper Lake at 54, was
the greatest member of a famous Aus-
tralian swimming family and one who
can truly be said to have taught the
world the principles of modern swim-
ming. In 1900 Cavill, then only 16,
cleared up every Australian free-style
championship from the 100 yards to the
mile, repeating the performance the fol-
lowing year. He was the first man to
break the minute for the 100 yards. It
happened in England, Cavill giving the
English their first glimpse of the “crawl”
stroke.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: There is a move in
Melbourne to erect a memorial to Jack
Donaldson, who is buried in New York.
The “Blue Streak” was probably the
greatest sprinter of all time, and some
of his records still stand after 30 years.
His best times were 9|sec. for the 100 on
cinders and 9 3-ssec. on grass, 1 for
the 120, 12sec. for the 130 (grass) and
Msec, for the 150.
* * * *
“Rocker”: Though the only ice in
Australia is supposed abroad to be that
in the refrigerators, Australians have
managed to make a name for themselves
in skating and ice-hockey overseas. One
of them is Clarence Hislop, once of
Sydney Grammar, who has returned from
Europe to instruct and demonstrate at a
Sydney skating show. Hislop began his
skating at Sydney Glaciarium, and went
to Europe, where he joined the profes-
sional ranks. He was second in the last
British open championship, and holds
the gold medal of the British National
Skating Association, an international
trophy. He has also had wins in Ger-
many, Switzerland, Canada and the
U.S.A.


SOUND ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters that I am competent
to deal with. Fees are in proportion
to the importance of the matter involved.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert- General Adviser,
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 8W6115.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
4c ln Old Chicago ”
Alice Faye, Tyrone Power, Don Ameche.
This spectacular film at Sydney Regent
is reported to have cost something like
2,000,000 dahlars, to have been 18 months
in the making, and to have transported
the Amurrican picture-going public into
varying stages of hysterical ecstasy.
Main business is the presentation of the
great Chicago fire of 1871. One of the
most disastrous blazes of modern times,
the fire started about 9 p.m., burned all
night and most of the following day
and razed one-third of the city to the
ground. In the blaze 18,000 buildings
and 73* miles of street frontage were
destroyed, and of 98,860 persons left
homeless 250 were either burned to death
or died from exposure. Damage was
estimated at £40,000,000.
In bare statistics it reads as a pretty
sizable conflagration, and the makers of
the film have treated it handsomely. In
spectacle they have managed something
which would have stepped up Nero’s
fiddling to violent prestissimo.
Starting in a district consisting mostly
of parched wooden buildings and fanned
by a high erratic wind, the fire spreads
rapidly through the city. One after an-
other great buildings burst into flame,
then collapse across the street, while
smoke and gas rising from them catch
fire in mid-air. Brigades retire before
the blaze ; as a last resort, whole streets
are blasted with gunpowder to form
firebreaks.
At first inhabitants rush to save their
possessions, then themselves, and as con-
fusion grows to panic cattle break out
from stockyards and stampede through
the city. The people move to the safety
of the river, whence the camera sweeps
back over the glowing water and blazing
skyline, while the film concludes with
the implication that a new and cleaner
Chicago will be built on the ashes of the
old.
There is, of course, a narrative of sorts
working up to this dramatic climax. It
has to do with the fictional history of
an Irish family who crossed the prairies
to test their fortunes in early Chicago.
A mother of three sons, widowed by an
accident (excellently carried out as an
effective opening to the film), gradually
establishes herself in the laundry busi-
ness, while two of her children take
widely divergent paths to earn their daily
crusts.
One (Power) lands on both feet in the
gambling racket, and by dint of political
subterfuge and blackmail rises to the
eminent position of Chicago’s leading
saloon owner and virtual controller of
half the city. His brother (Ameche)
adheres to the straight and narrow, and
dabbles in law until Power, to further his
own ends, has him elected Mayor. That
their views should clash is a foregone
conclusion, and all that remains is for
the fire to sort out the tangle.
The conflict is poorly handled from
half a dozen different angles, and the
shortcomings of Power and Ameche in
such roles are obvious. Power turns in
the better job ; he is, on recent show-
ings, anyway, the more natural actor and
has easier material to work on; but
both he and Ameche are rarely con-
vincing in their parts.
Alice Brady walks off with the acting
honors. As a mother concerned chiefly
with the welfare of her home and chil-
dren she gives a clinking performance.
Brian Donlevy, as arch-villain of the
piece, also excellent, and Miss Faye doing
what she usually does with a mixture of
heart interest and songandance.
“Hitting a New High.”
Jack Oakie, Ed. Ev. Horton, Lily Pons.
Those who have been fascinated by the
dulcet-voiced Lily hitting the high spots
in canned operatic arias have an oppor-
tunity of seeing the lady hit a string of
them afresh in feathers at Sydney
Embassy.
She is discovered thus attired warbling
away in a waterhole in Africa. A sparse
but intent ornithological audience of
bornbills, cranes, etc., give ear unto her
song, what time Mr. Horton, big-shot
Noo Yark perdoocer, steals noisily
through the soprano-soaked jungle,
lured by the Voice and expertly guided
by Mr. Oakie, whose bright idea it was
to plant ambitious-minded night-club
Lily in the duckpond as a sure step to-
wards N’.Yark operatic triumph.
Captured and taken back to N’Yark
as the marvellous bird-woman, Lily
vacillates between her operatic ambitions
and her lurv for a dance-band leader. In
the end lurv and jazz win hands down,
highbrow opera is discomfited and thus is
Hollywood justified.
“The Big Broadcast of 1938.”
W. C. Fields.
This gathering of croonanhoof, slap-
stick and lurv-interest into a general flurry
of frothiness makes its outburst at
Sydney Capitol.
Quite good of its kind, the film ripples
along on a cheerful plane of comedy.
Glimpses of Ruth Draper, character actress, who for a fortnight has crowded
Sydney Royal.
It descends to animated cartoons in
places, and on one splendid occasion
rises to the singing of Brunhilde’s Battle
Cry from “The Valkyrie,” by Kirsten
Flagstad, who is due in Australia this
year.
Holding the piece together the vaguest
of plots raises its head once or twice.. It
deals with a transatlantic race between
two Wellsian luxury liners, cruising along
at roughly 100 m.p.h., which introduces
W. C. Fields and his delightful dam-
foolery.
Detailed by his brother, owner of one
of the vessels, to spoke the rival ship-
owner’s wheel, Fields has seldom been
funnier. Playing golf, he speeds from
green to green on a scooter propelled by
an air-screw, and arrives at the holes
before his ball. It is hilarious. His
steering the liner through icebergs like
a police ear through traffic is better still,
and playing snooker with an equally
vacuous opponent he is a riot.
Other funny persons include Martha
Raye as a peculiar young lady who
smashes mirrors by merely gazing into
them, while Ben Blue (a very able comic)
and Lynne Overman make the most of
what little opportunity they have.
An agreeable ration of light melody is
contributed by such notorious yawpers as
Shirley Ross and Dorothy Lamour, the
last-named charmingly sophisticated in
contrast to her recent portrayal of a
dusky island lass. Tito Guiza warbles
very pleasantly and Bob Hope (new-
comer) adds his voice in a duet with the
Ross lady.
Music is supplied by Ted Fields and
his “Rippling Rhythm Orchestra” —
whatever that might be —and a spot stage
spectacle, with ballet scenes depicting
the history of the waltz, finds a corner in
this altogether entertaining comedy
musical.
“Romance in the Dark.”
John Boles, Gladys Swarthout, John
Barrymore.
Boles gives two touches of originality
to this distressing experience at Sydney
Prince Edward —by making love as if
he were eating spaghetti and by singing
inaudibly.
Otherwise it is the usual poor-girl-
becomes-opera-star business. Gladys
Swarthout makes a good Ugly Duckling,
and her singing is really charming. Barry-
more, as an impresario, is Barrymore
again: a cynical old boy creating a
reputation for wit by waggling his eye-
brows.
In the supporting feature a small-town
female librarian is accused of murder and
acquitted, for a tender fadeout with boy-
friend, through the efforts of a small
bright child.
Alfalfa, king of crooners, makes a two-
minute appearance to give the show what
little weight he can.
“Double Danger support at Sydney
Embassy, is comic-sleuth stuff, most in-
teresting for the excellent appearance of
Cecil Kellaway in a line of foolery
reminiscent of his best work on the Aus-
tralian boards. Given a chance to settle
in —he looks a bit self-conscious —he
should become one of Hollywood’s best
stock comedians.
Furore for Tibbett.
The enthusiasm of the Sydney public
for Lawrence Tibbett shows no signs of
waning. Seats for his concerts are booked
out three or four days ahead, and at
his recitals the Town Hall reverberates
with gusty storms of hand-clapping.
Sydney audiences, so cosmopolitan
visitors say, are the friendliest in the
world, and Tibbett, genial and comfort-
ably-mannered to start with, seems to feel
now that he’s sort of in the family circle,
and intersperses his songs with com-
ments and explanations, shrewd, quaint
or just informative, that help his hearers
to appreciate.
A case in point was the juiciest bari-
tone bit from “Rigoletto,” sung on Satur-
day night. Without Tibbett’s concise
little synopsis of the situation beforehand
a lot of the effect might have been lost.
The favorite Sydney items in the
baritone-basso’s repertoire are evidently
Loewe’s “Edward,” the “Pagliacci” pro-
logue and “De Glory Road.” Tibbett
says he considers “Edward” the greatest
of all dramatic ballads, and the venom
with which he beefs out the concluding
malediction always brings down the
house.
He sings a lot of “art songs,” as Percy
Grainger calls them, as well as operatic
war-horses and popular ballads —Brahms,
Schubert, Hugo Wolf, MacDowell, Rich-
ard Strauss, Grieg, Tschaikowsky, Schu-
mann, Moussorgsky and Coleridge-Taylor
figure in his repertoire—and he can also
look solemn and declaim the mightiest
arias of Bach and Handel and the
heaviest staves of Beethoven.
But it isn’t that sort of singing by
which he will be remembered, though he
sings lieder as well as, if not better than,
any baritone Sydney has heard in the last
30 years. His strength lies in giving new
life and vigor to the well-known in opera
and balladry, and in the skill with which
he mixes grave and gay to provide a
musical bill-of-fare that will please every-
one.
Nobody talks about Tibbett’s voice-
control, his nice breathing, his mastery
of head notes, the mezzo voice and the
lower register, or his “artistic restraint”
(so often the proddct of limitations). The
scaffolding doesn’t show when Tibbett
sings. His tone castles are too robust
and splendid to tempt the counting of
bricks.
Sydney Phil.’s “Maritana.”
Wallace was born the same year as
Wagner, and “Maritana” appeared about
the same time as “Tannhauser.” After
more than 90 years the German com-
poser’s work ranks near the top, the
Scot’s near the bottom in the operatic
ladder-of-rank, but for a’ that and a’
that there are more men in the street can
whistle six whole arias from “Maritana”
than can remember six bars of anything
from “Tannhauser.” Sydney Phil, pos-
sibly had this sort of fact in mind when
it chose the music of the old British
favorite for its Town Hall concert last
week.
Concert performances of opera are
jejune affairs at best, but the Phil, orches-
tra and choir were comfortable within
their limits, and soloists Rene Maxwell,
Heather Kinnaird, Godfrey Stirling, Ray-
mond Beatty, Walter Kingsley and Doug-
las Anderson declaimed the well-known
melodies allotted to them very com-
petently. Vern Barnett’s baton easily
controlled the mild tumult of the choruses
and the not-very-impressive orchestra,
and applause was generous.
Two-piano Duets.
After listening to the two-piano play-
ing of Miriam Hyde and Helen Bainton
at Sydney Con. last week it is natural to
wish that the literature of this form of
music were more extensive.
Arithmetically, 20 fingers are better
than 10, and 20 fingers ranging over
two keyboards offer four times the possi-
bilities open to a solo performer. It
might even be argued that the artistic
scope widens in ratio of squares for
two pianos, cubics for three, and quad-
ratics for four.
Trouble is that there has never been
a pair, a trio or a whole big ensemble
of pianists that could rival the unaided
efforts of a Liszt or a Paderewski. Too
wide a range of latitude in technique
seems to defeat its own object.
However, there can be no quarrel with
the very charming effects produced on a
couple of Bechsteins by Misses Hyde and
Bainton. The airy grace of Mozart, the
solid magnificence of Handel, the austere
dignity of Bach and the brilliance of
Beethoven —plus St. Saens —were admir-
ably brought out, and the more rococo
notions of the modernist Arnold Bax and
the caustic humor of William Walton
were cleverly expressed. Miriam Hyde’s
own “Heroic Elegy” fitted into this mixed
grill quite aptly.
Szell in Melbourne.
Georg Szell, the Czechoslovakian con-
ductor brought hither by A.8.C., made
his initial appearance in Australia at
Melb. Town Hall on Saturday. House
was packed and hundreds had to hurry
home again to listen-in on their radios.
Szell began his musical career as an
infant prodigy ; he appeared in London


FREE INSTANT RELIEF
and Lasting Freedom
From
CATARRH
OFFERED BY FORMER SUF-
FERER TO EVERY READER OF
“THE BULLETIN.”
VTO more choking,, coughing, sniffing, or
A gasping for breath. No longer need any-
one suffer the annoyance and humiliation of
nose stoppages, excessive mucus and phlegm,
Head Noises, Deafness, Sinus aqd Antrum
troubles, or Bronchial Asthma —nor the dan-
gerous self-poisoning of Catarrhal Indigestion
and Constipation.
Mr. David Burton, a former sufferer, has de-
veloped a complete method, which quickly,
safely and surely eradicates Catarrh from the
system.
To prove it, he will send to every reader of
this Journal: —
(1) A generous trial supply of his new
ANTISEPTIC VAPORIZING OIL, in Cap-
sule form, which will give INSTANT
RELIEF. This powerful, bland and
pleasant antiseptic oil instantly clears
stopped-mp nostrils and destroys catarrhal
germs breeding in the post-nasal cavities
and respiratory tract. By virtue of its
healing action, it greatly aids in the
restoration of the inflamed membranes to
a healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS-SOLVENT TABLETS
to purify the blood stream, eliminate
catarrhal germs from the stomach, right
digestive wrongs and help every organ of
the body to function properly.
(3) An offer to COMPLETELY BANISH
YOUR CATARRH, under a genuine
guarantee of satisfactory results, or it
will not cost you one penny.
Cut out this announcement. Attach it to a
sheet of paper with name and address. Post
together with 2d. stamp for postage to Mr.
DAVID BURTON (Box 4242 XX), 62 MAR-
GARET ST., SYDNEY. That is the first step
to glorious new health and permanent free-
dom from an annoying complaint which
steadily gets worse if neglected and which
leads to dangerous and even deadly conse-
quences.
VISIT AUSTRALIA'S WINTER PARADISE
CAIRNS
BY SEA
The Incomparable Winter Holiday
26 DAYS OF DELIGHTFUL
TRAVEL AND SIGHTSEEING
Pass through the world-famed Whitsunday Passage on one
of the Luxurious Inter-State Liners:—
M.V. “KANIMBLA” M.V. “MANOORA”
T.S.S. “CANBERRA” S.S. “ORUNGAL”
MUSIC SPORT DANCING
‘Orungal” makes a Special Cruise from Cairns to Dunk Island and the
Hinchinbrook Channel. See Particulars in Pamphlet and Timetable.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY
SAILINGS FROM MELBOURNE EVERY SATURDAY
For Timetable and Pamphlets, etc., apply—
THE ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD.
McILWRAITH McEACHARN, LTD.
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD.
HOWARD SMITH, LTD.
Agents at Sydney and
Melbourne.
BUY “SAVE TO TRAVEL” STAMPS.
ĵ
j
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
Built with watch-like pre-
cision the Conklin Nozac
presents the revolutionary
Point a new
scientific development that
makes writing easier and
smoother. Other outstand-
ing Conklin advantages in-
clude self-filling device that
“Winds Like a Watch"—
new controlled feed vis-
ible ink supply—exclusive
Conklin Word Gauge
beautiful penline design.
Before buying any pen, see
the Conklin Nozac a
truly precision pen.
Available in Black, and
in Grey, Green and Red
Pearl.
The Pens are priced at
22/6, 30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match, 17/6
and 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Cases 40/-, 55/- and
65/-.
Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every pen
4oz. Bottles, All Colors—
1/- per Bottle.
From Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores everywher'
as pianist and composer when he was
ten. At present he conducts the Scottish
Orchestra, Glasgow. A big, powerfully-
built, resolute person, who looks seri-
ously but not solemnly at his audience
and grimly at his orchestra, he insinuates
his baton into every part of the score,
and in the Seventh Symphony of Beet-
hoven, with its extraordinary whizzing
rhythms, he occasionally swung his right
arm round in a complicated gesture that
seemed to signal instructions to the
strings, the woodwind, the brasses and
the percussion simultaneously.
Although the first part of the pro-
gramme was not particularly distin-
guished, the audience warmed to the con-
ductor immediately. The “Oberon” over-
ture of Weber was followed by Verdian
and Mozartian arias sung by Alexander
Kipnis. After Kipnis had smiled himself
off the platform Szell conducted the
orchestra through his own countryman
Smetana’s symphonic poem “Vltava.”
The important business of the evening,
however, was the performance of the
Beethoven Symphony, which Weber de-
clared, when he first heard it, fitted its
author for the madhouse. Wagner, on
the contrary, called it the apotheosis of
the dance, and it was something like that
Szell made of it. He and his band were
accorded the most prolonged ovation
given to a conductor in present commen-
tator’s recollection.
Kipnis in Melbourne.
His all-Schubert night was the grand
slam of the Kipnis season at Melbourne
Town Hall.
The Slav , basso dived deep into the
ocean of the great Viennese songwright
and brought up treasures probably pre-
viously unknown to nine-tenths of his
listeners. He sang them with a remark-
able variety of emphasis and tone —there
is color even in the lowest end of the
Kipnis register.
By. the end of the evening the Schubert
of “Lilac Time” disappeared and in his
place appeared the Schubert of the “Un-
finished Symphony.” The large audience
was enchanted.
Raymond O’Connell’s Recital.
Boy pianist Raymond O’Connell
charmed an unusually large house at his
farewell recital in Melbourne prior to
departure for Europe.
O’Connell fingers the keyboard with
sufficient assurance to arouse the same
hopes for his future as were raised for
Phillip Hargrave, until that budding
genius took to the medical profession.
The solidity of O’Connell’s technique
was manifested in his playing of the not-
often-heard Sonata op. 110 of Beethoven,
which, in the hands of a less skilled ex-
ecutant, would be a very uninteresting
piece of music. O’Connell ran lightly
through a repertoire that included
Chopin, Debussy, Ravel and Brahms;
and Pauline Bindley provided vocal
items.
Adelaide Reps.
Adelaide Repertory lately played to
three good houses Somerset Maugham’s
“Bread Winner,” the improbable story of
a stockbroker who, after 20 years of being
patronised by wife and family, tells them
that they bore him intensely, jumps on
his top-hat, and goes off alone to enjoy
the rest of his life.
It is a bright idea for a 40 minutes'
playlet, but Maugham has spaced it out
to the regulation London two hours by
making his friend’s wife and daughter
in turn suggest themselves as his travel-
ling companion. However, an audience
always likes to see a shy male being
pursued round the furniture by a deter-
mined member of the used-to-be-weaker
sex.
Gwen Coffey and Vivienne Oldfield
were these two, Florence Brown the
futile wife. Robert Matthews, more
usually seen in juvenile parts, was sound
as the reckless revolter, and Alex. Foster
as his disregarded legal adviser.
Light Opera in Adelaide.
The Williamsonian season at Adelaide
Royal is going well.
The new “Balalaika” and the more
familiar “New Moon” and “Desert Song”
all have intelligible plots behind the
music, and the cast is one of the strongest
seen for years.
Halliday and Margret Adams make
tuneful love in a variety of settings. The
veteran Mervale gives some classic acting,
with O’Neal, Cowley and Mayne Lynton
taking all their chances. And Marjorie
Gordon and Yvonne Banvard are
riotously funny with Don Nicol, who is
now a fine comedian on Barrett-Lennard
lines.
Vic. Artists’ Society’s Show.
Of 206 works displayed in the current
show of Melbourne’s premier art society
a good half are badly hung and lighted.
Only five are sculpture. Orlando
Dutton’s bust of his mother is limpid,
alive ; if the committee liked this, why
did it also like the same sculptor’s sketch
for an equestrian memorial to George V.
and J. W. Elischer’s portrait of Dr.
A. L. Kenny? If it liked two such nice
impressions as H. G. Twomey’s “Bridge
at Allan’s Flat” and “City Haze” by
Perce Watson, why did it also like the
landscapes of those other regular con-
tributors who have been content to re-
peat themselves?
Amongst the still-lifes, John Heath’s
“Chinese Piece” looks thoughtful. The
same cannot be said of most of the other
still-lifes, which range from attempts at
flattering Nature to spattering her with
bad language.
What did the committee really think
about the portrait of Joan Sutherland by
Bernard Lawson, and the “Mr. Laurie
Veal” of A. L. Tucker, a sketch of a
very red-faced youth with sky-blue eyes
and no whites to them?
Of the modernist persuasion there are
specimens in plenty, none of them par-
ticularly shocking, however, and some
of them no flatter than the contributions
of some of the academicians.
As usual Beckwith Mclnnes holds pride
of place in the portrait division with an
excellent likeness of the former professor
of anatomy at Melbourne University.
Mclnnes has caught Wood-Jones’s ex-
pression of slightly quizzical intellectu-
ality to perfection. Rollo Thomson’s
“Doreen” is a brilliant study of a laugh-
ing girl.
Stirling Paterson’s Paintings.
At the Lodestar Galleries, Sydney, is
a show of works in oils and water-color
by Stirling Paterson, a Scot visiting Aus-
tralia.
His work is as varying in style as in
mood. He is at his best when indulging,
in oils, a talent for precision in impres-
sions, and in water-colors a gift of mel-
lowness. The more straightforward his
statement the better the effect.
“Anstruther Harbor, Fifeshire,” and
Hopeman Harbor, Moray Firth,” in the
oils, and “Mershead Sands, Solway
Firth,” and “Washing Day, Rapallo,” in
the water-colors, are among the most
pleasing and satisfactory of the offerings.
Art in Adelaide.
S.A. Society of Arts’ autumn show is
dominated by Will Ashton—originally of
Adelaide—with weighty memories of St.
Ives or France or Spain.
President John Goodchild, too (who
has lately been elected to the Board of
Adelaide’s National Gallery), has brought
back memories, mainly misty, of Corn-
wall and the Thames.
Elsewhere are the familiar landscapes
of Whinnen and Ragless or the ships-in-
harbor of Giles.
A newcomer worth watching is Anton
Riebe.
The range of Australian landscape is
unusually wide, from the Otway Ranges
to Hobart, from Kosciusko to Centralia.
Gwen Barringer brings a batch of Sydney
studies, but is versatile enough to win
also the autumn prize for still-life
(flowers and a curtain).
The black-and-white section is un-
usually scanty, and the judges, Louis Mc-
Cubbin and Millward Grey, awarded no
prize.
Dora Toovey’s Show.
A pleasant collection of the paintings
of Dora Toovey (she’s now wife of
painter James R. Jackson) is at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries, Sydney.
All in oils, the pictures are in various
styles, those most lately painted being
Jacksonesque. The Sydney waterside and
pre-war Spain provide the majority of
subjects, all treated rather broadly, but
with an accurate eye for form and a
nice taste in color.
There is a pretty lighting effect in
“Clareville, Pittwater,” and good com-
position makes “The Bridge from North
Sydney Heights” and “Middle Harbor
from the Studio” attractive pictures. “A
Medieval Village, Pyrenees,” in the
artist’s earlier quasi-primitive style is a
clever study in reds and browns. “The
Spit, Morning,” catches prettily the
serene atmosphere of Sydney’s Middle
Harbor.
“A. Major”: It seems time some-
one protested against the encore busi-
ness as practised at concerts. This
is what happens: Having carolled
his stave, done his spot of fiddling
or given the final wallop to “Medulla
Oblongata, ppp,” the celebrity dis-
appears. The audience settles down
to five minutes of hand-clapping. The
celebrity reappears, beams and bows to
all points of the compass. Then he again
disappears. The audience settles down
to five more minutes of hand-clapping.
Whenever the tumult appears to slacken
fresh shock troops, as it were, are thrown
into the breach. Eventually the celebrity
reappears and does his little encore
piece. Then, as like as not, the whole
rigmarole is gone through again. In
Melbourne the other night the vice-regal
party attempted to put some limit to the
insane proceedings by preparing to depart
as soon as the last programme item was
dispatched. Horror! The celebrated
Galumphski or Whangdoodle or who-
ever it was cut out the coy business for
once and scampered back before the
nobs could make good their retreat. They
returned to their seats. Best general
remedy seems to be to put on adequate
programmes and go back to the good old
rule of no encores save on the last item.
* * * *
A statement in South Australian social
letter, 21/4/’3B, that Joan Alicia, only
daughter of Dr. Walter E. and Mrs.
de Ravin, married Surgeon-Lieut. Arthur
Cross, R.N., of England, requires correc-
tion. The bridegroom was Arthur Vivian
Dupen, of the A.8.C., only son of Engi-
neer-Captain A. P. L. Dupen, R.N., and
Mrs. Cross, of England.


“You’ve got my slippers? Oh'. . . give me!”
He held them high. “And what will you give
me, Darien?”
“That’s not fair. You never asked for anything.”
“I do now.”
She looked down; pouting, pinching her lip.
Flower moved a step, smiling down on her. How
many men had she put on that pretty pose for? A
ruthless little devil, an unashamed little devil . . .
“Let me try if they fit. I mightn’t care for them,”
she said with one of her quick changes.
“Let you run away in them without payment,
you mean.”
“Fool! How could I run away in three pairs?”
He laughed outright. “Here you are, then.”
Now she was pirouetting before him with little
cries of delight. “Ravishing! Don’t they make my
feet ravishing? I vow they never looked so charm-
ing before. Oh . . . how I like them” . . .
How small they are, she thought. I can step
just like little stitches. She pulled her sprigged gown
higher over the slim ankles.
The man was finding the entertainment quite as
good as he had expected. Darien’s power of self-
absorption was so colossal, her joy in her pretty soul-
less self so naive. He asked: “Are you ready to kiss
me now?”
She spun round, the golden specks in her eyes
like sparks.
“Don’t you dare!”
“Oh, I could dare quite easily. The only ques-
tion is whether I want to.” This brought her to earth,
bewildered as a child.
“Don’t you want to?”
“Not enough, I think. You’re too greedy, my
dear.”
“Oh! No gentleman would speak like that.”
“Quite right, Darien. I’m not a gentleman. Nor,
I think, are you a lady.”
“Take your slipper!” She whipped it off and
flung it at his head. He put it in his pocket, saying:
“Now the other, please. I know a Maori girl
who will give me a hundred kisses for them.”
“You have no conscience,” cried Darien, burst-
ing into furious tears. “I never saw anyone with
less conscience in my life.”
He shouted with laughter, flinging his head back
on the thick sunburned neck. How she despised him,
hurrying into her heavy leather shoes.
“Let your Maori girls have them. Give all the
nasty creatures corns. I don’t care.”
“No,” he said, picking up the dropped slippers
and rolling the whole package together. “I got them
for you. I don’t give second-hand things.”
How would she take that? Greed and pride
were always playing skittles with Darien. She stood
up, a doubtful little smile creeping round her soft lips,
playing with the provoking dimple in her pink cheek.
“Now we’re quits,” she said, half-ruefully. She
put her hand against the rough blue frieze of his
jacket-front. “I’ll dream of those slippers. I’ve never
had anything so enchanting before. Why are you
so kind to me?” murmured Darien, looking up, look-
ing down with her changeful eyes gone blue and
innocent as Sally’s.
Flower said, smiling: “Scratch, purr . . . and
then scratch again. You’re . vastly accomplished,
Darien.”
“Oh! No one will ever love you,” she cried,
snatching up her parcel, running up the slope with
th# bonnet bobbing off her ruddy curls, running to
adore herself again in the white slippers and the blue.
Not the right sort of woman, anyway, thought
Flower. But who would be the right sort for him?
Mrs. Lovel, he thought, presently tramping into the
little office behind his store, is not a woman. She’s
a saint . . .
HE sighed. But there was little time for weakness in
him now, moving about the small dusky place, his
, fair weather-bleached head bringing a kind of light
in the darkest corners, his. healthy powerful body
intent on the matter in hand. Any kind of a punch
at Peregrine Lovel was good ; but this that was about
to be delivered, one of a series which were being
delivered well below the belt, was specially grateful.
A tall Maori knocked on the door, was admitted and
given a chew of black tobacco while Flower swiftly
unlocked a cupboard and laid papers on the bare
little table.
This message to the great chief Hone Heke:
The dealers Flower had met in Sydney would deliver
two hundred cases of ammunition and one hundred
tupara-guns at Lock’s Bay, on the ocean side of Keri
Keri, on or about the sixteenth. Heke must send the
boats out a full mile, as usual. Pay in Spanish
dollars. No paper money. Here were the bills . . .
Silently the Maori thrust the bills inside his red
shirt against the brown skin. His brown eyes with
the yellowish whites stared steadily at this English-
man who was selling out his own tribe. A tewara
... a devil, the white man, and there were many
like him. Christians were all devils, thought Pireta,
and now that great Heke had given up being a
Christian and was going to fight it was far better.
“Haere, haere ... go, go,” said'Flower.
“Enoho, enoho ne? . . . Stay there, won’t you?”
said Pireta politely.
The door shut. Flower made some notes in his
pocket-book and sat in the velvet upholstered chair
he had brought from Sydney considering this satis-
factory hoisting of Peregrine Lovel with his own
petard.
Peregrine would have gone to Auckland long
ago if his pride hadn’t been so ruffled by the inability
of his precious Lynch Law
League to catch smugglers,
who were making such a jest
of the strict laws against
supplying ammunition to the
Maori. Now the schooner
built in the fellow’s own yard
for Flower was in the trade and money was rolling
in. For the Maoris had never worked so hard ; grow-
ing corn, cutting flax and timber in their rage for
tupara-guns new double-barrelled weapons which
especially appealed to a warrior-race keen about their
fighting tools.
But the English would be armed with obsolete,
single-barrelled, flintlock muskets when the trouble
presently came . . . Flower shrugged that off. You
can’t make an omelet without breaking eggs, and
Flower meant to make many omelets. Even a man
who has no right to a name for himself or his children
can have ambitions.
111.
TOR Sally there was no ambition, and no man’s
love, but only his peculiarities. Once she had
read somewhere: “She arose from her chamber
in the night and fled with him across the
sea. And there they loved, carousing into dawn.”
Carousing in her wedding-finery (Sally had thought)
might be fun. But the finery had all gone for babies’
gowns and Darien’s gaddings, and even the most
hungry imagination could not conjure up a Mr.
Lovel carousing.
Time was rushing on ; rushing this innocent and
lovely young New Zealand down desperate and dan-
gerous ways. It had rushed her into the Treaty which
by now nobody loved. It was rushing competing
Auckland into such prosperity that the Beach was
losing trade ; rushing immigrants out from England
in search of the land which the Governor, demented
by the confusion of Maori land-titles, could not give
them; rushing the chiefs, who would never forgive
the customs duties, into longer and more secret con-
ferences with their tohungas*.
“To be a wife and mother is the most jewelled
crown a woman can wear,” Mr. Lovel had said
impressively to a Sally snatching anxiously at her
cap which was always crooked. But to-night, because
she would be twenty to-morrow and Mr. Lovel had
gone down to a League meeting, she would fling off
her cap and run out on the tussock and pretend she
was still a girl with no ruffled shirts needing ironing
and no roomful of children to be washed and sewed
for.
Sally knew she didn’t ask much of life. Being
a girl to-night, she ought to dance and sing.
But she was so tired. And the leather shoes
which the traders supplied were very heavy. She
leaned against the wall, looking at the far calm stars.
A lovely world ; a ghostlike magic world so full of
’its far-stretching silent harmonies that it would never
hear the little human sounds—faint crashing of a wild
pig through the flax-swamp below, fretful cry of a
weka-bird jerking its stiff ridiculous feather tail at
each step, the single hoot of a whaling ship calling
its crew home . . .
Over the tussock hill began the low beating of
Maori drums and the increasing rhythmic stamping
of feet, such as happened each time young Maoris
had a war-haka before going off to try on another
tribe the double-barrelled guns, of which they seemed
to have so many.
Blowing off the froth to get at the beer, Major
Henry had said, declaring that the Maoris would soon
be at the beer. But people had been saying that for
so long, and since the missionaries had brought God
to New Zealand He must surely still be here, although
Sally feared she doubted that more than she should
. . . and with Mr. Lovel holding morning prayers
every day, too. “Please God,” murmured Sally, hop-
ing that would get her somewhere and trembling a
little as this wide silent world brimmed up with the
Maoris’ rolling thunder of drums, their exultant chal-
lenge to death. Satanic sublimity, Jermyn called it.
Sally fled to the house in terror.
jy|R. LOVEL, returning to find Sally darning and
■ T | watching the bread rising on the hob under a grey
blanket, was so rigidly polite that she knew well it
would not be wise to speak. Something was coming,
and before he had even got into his calfskin chair
with the wooden frame it came.
“Some henchmen of Hone Heke’s have cut down
the flagstaff on Maiki Hill,” he announced, snuff-
ing the candle so decidedly that it nearly went out.
'“Oh! Why?”
“Why? Impudence, of course. Insolent defiance
of English rule. The missionaries persuaded them
away, but they will certainly come again,” said Pere-
grine, almost beside himself because it was not wise
to curse England even to wives. „
“The Maoris have so many guns now, mur-
mured Sally, instantly aware that, as usual, she ha
said the wrong thing. Mr. Lovel grew P
standing before the fire on one of the red and white
bullock-skin mats covering the earth floor.
“Those miscreants who are smuggling guns to
the Maoris will have a fearful reckoning, and prob-
ably we shall now have to fight for a colonisation
which i£, I consider, as important as that ol me
patriarchs going into the wilderness.” The patriarcns
had had many wives, but that wasn t allowable now,
and Sally was really doing very well in that state o
life to which it had pleased M[r. Lovel and Ood—-
to call her. Remembering his three fine boys in
the next room, Mr. Lovel softened slightly. Some
day, my dear, our children will rise up and call us
blessed ... is that Tiffany crying? Give her castor
oil.”
“Oh, I don’t think”
“Pray allow me to know what is best for my own
children. Give her castor oil. I suppose she has been
eating horrors over at Corny Fleete’s again.”
Sally bent over Tiffany in the dark, poked a
peppermint lolly into her mouth. “Hush, sweetheart,
she whispered.
She went back to the living room where Mr.
Lovel was waiting with his hand under his olive-
green coat-tails . . . always a bad sign.
“I must beg of you, my dear,” he began at once,
“never to be weak with the children. Firmness is a
duty we owe to their characters. You see how quiet
Tiffany is now. Pioneer children must never be
pampered.”
“Yes, Mr. Lovel,” said Sally meekly. Oh, this
Holy Immolation of Matrimony, making of decent
women liars and deceivers. Of course, Mr. Lovel
must be right . . . But she wished she had given
Tiffany two lollies, since there was never any pam-
pering anyway. Nor butter, nor dolls, a proper bread-
and-milk nursery, shoes that fitted. For boys it
didn’t so much matter, but her heart quailed thinking
of a Tiffany growing up with no props to gentility
whatever.
“I consider,” said Mr. Lovel, to whom a hand
under the coat-tails was apparently as urgent as though
it wound a musical-box, “that this country has a
more magnificent future than any other of England’s
possessions” . . .
Sally’s brpwn head (with the cap gone crooked
again) drooped over darning Mr. Lovel’s socks with
the red worsted, which was all she could buy from
the traders. To-morrow, thought Sally, I shall be
twenty.
IV.
3~"QHN expressed no opinions about the flagstaff
because you never knew who might be listening-
in these days. But he secretly felt that the Gov-
ernor should be able to manage better with all the help
sent him by England—Chief Justice Sir William
Martin, a Bishop, and no end of other big pots down
in Auckland, where John meant to go as soon as he
could get the land fenced for his new Herefords ... if
Caroline would let him wait so long. Caroline (who
had now added Sophia and Maria to Belinda) was
always wanting to know if Sir John intended his
daughters to grow up like savages.
To Jermyn the cutting-down of the flagstaff was
the most promising thing yet. Now, thank the Lord,
there would be something to lift a young man out
of the doldrums. “Yoicks! Up, Guards, and at ’em,”
he shouted, smacking Major Henry between the
shoulders and rollicking up the bracken-covered hill
to borrow Sally’s children for a while. The boys,
dragooned by Peregrine into saying Yes, sir, and No,
sir, were such jolly little ruffians behind his back, and
Tiffany (praise be) was already shaping like a lady.
But on this sunny July afternoon Tiffany was no
lady. Sharing the Maori dislike to clothes, she was
leaping, smooth and naked and pagan as a nymph,
round the cooking-trench, while little Belinda and
Sophia (already taught to think the human body
sinful) wailed with shame, and the boys, including
two of Corny Fleete’s, stood bunched together, ad-
miring yet abashed.
“I must draw you some day, you little beauty,”
said Jermyn, huddling her into her clothes. “Come,
boys ... no, I won’t take you, Linda. Damn snobs.”
Then he apologised charmingly to Sally and went
down the hill, aware that Darien was watching behind
the blind.
In Major Henry’s hut Tiffany immediately set
herself to disrobing again, quite indifferent to the
gentlemen, who were much occupied by his hounds.
“When I’m a man I’ll have a thousand wolf-
hounds and hunt the English with ’em all,” boasted
little Hemi Fleete, straddling.
“The dooce you will,” said Major Henry. “What
will your father say to that? Tiffany, you can’t take
off anything more. Stop her, Jermyn.”
“I’ll hunt him, too,” said Hemi, darkening. Gad,
Corny was preparing a rod for that fat back of his,
since half-castes had already proved uncertain. “I’ll
kill all the English till there’s not one pakeha left,”
said Hemi.
“Boy!” said Tiffany, stately as a duchess in bare
legs and a red petticoat, “I don’t like you.” This
seemed a signal for young Lovels to fall on Hemi
who, supported valiantly by his brother, rolled with
them on the earth floor among the wolfhounds;
while Tiffany climbed on the Major’s knee, and
Jermyn sprawled over the table to continue a letter
calculated to make the Colonial Office wish that it had
left New Zealand to stew in the juice of its own
cooking-pots. He read aloud as he wrote.
“The Treaty of Waitangi stinks in the nostrils m
every true pioneer. Missionary Williams, who had
been a naval officer before he apparently decided
that converting the Maoris was easier work, made it
in conjunction with Captain Hobson and Mr. Busby,
* Tohunga—priest.


and it was signed on Mr. B.’s lawn by the Waitangi
River. The accompanying sketches will convey the
scene.”
“Blast it all, Jermyn. They’ll take it as an insult,”
objected the Major on first seeing the neat little uni-
formed pen-and-ink hens and the color-splashed kaka
parrots screeching with their bright crests up. Jermyn
prayed that they would . . . and he hoped England
would recognise Hobson as her own emissary among
the hens.
There could be no doubt that the kakas meant
the Maoris, for Jermyn told how they screeched when
the Queen of England (through Captain Hobson)
offered to give them New Zealand if they would
become her subjects . . . “We wish to protect you,”
said Victoria, nurselike to these enormous nurselings
who would make any nursery fit for coroners and
inquests if allowed to enjoy themselves, “and in
return we ask for nothing but loyalty.”
Jermyn went on. outlining the argument of his
letter. “The Chiefs, whose notion of loyalty is kill-
ing an enemy, were puzzled and said so with perfect
courtesy, being still aristocrats in spite of all us Eng-
lish. The Chiefs explained that the country was
already theirs, and asked Capt. H. to tell the Queen,
with their compliments, that they did not require a
woman’s protection. In any case, a female who did
not have her thumb turned outward at birth so that
she could plait flax could not be considered. Nor
were they sure that she had had her legs straight-
ened” . . .
“Good God, man,” exploded the Major, “they
never said that.”
“They would have if they’d thought of it . . .
Boys, will you kindly make a little less noise.”
4t |/A mate, Ka mate, Ka ora, Ka ora,” shouted the
boys, slapping their thighs* in the Maori war-
haka, Tiffany with shining eyes beating time with ner
slender little hands.
“Sing if you must then,” said Jermyn resignedly,
“but for the Lord’s sake stop war-dancing.” The
shrill sweet English voices and the guttural melody
of the Maori lilted up in “Red plumes, red plumes
of the kaka,” and Jermyn continued, feeling very
pleased with his handling of the Colonial Office.
“The white settlers deeply resented having Maori
landlords, and the Maoris (naturally fearing a catch
somewhere) raised such a dust that Busby’s lawn was
spoiled, which is the only satisfaction we have got out
of the Treaty in over four years. Then Chief Tamati
Waka Nene took the floor in a very fine feather mat
and everyone stopped shouting to see which way he
would Jump since he and Hone Heke are Heads of
the great Ngapuhi tribe. Nene jumped for England
(though he must be whipping the cat now), so many
Chiefs put their tattoo mark to the Treaty and the
flagstaff on Maiki Hill flew the Jack —which has now
been chopped down by Heke’s orders. And we Eng-
lish gentlemen wish courteously to remark that such
a blackguard colonisation was never perpetrated
before, with all the land deeded over our heads to
natives who can’t sell it to us since their land-laws are
in such a devil of a mess and any Governors you
send us quite incapable of straightening them out.
We protest that the whole business is a mean Scandal
and no good to anybody.”
The Major guffawed, then grew serious. “You’ll
have them on their ear, boy.”
“Please the Lord,” said Jermyn, feeling much
better. The pen was mightier than the sword . . .
though that would come presently. Waka Nene looked
in at the door and the children flung themselves on
him with shouts of joy. He picked Tiffany up,
smoothing her bronze curls.
“So you sing ‘Red plumes,’ little wahine? A
song for battling men, my blossom, not for babes.”
“What does Heke mean to do, Nene?” asked
Jermyn, getting off the table. Curious how one in-
stinctively showed respect to these chiefs, even in their
ugly English clothes. Nene in his feather mats at
Busby’s party had been tremendous.
“Who can tell what Heke will do?” said Nene
gently.
Your true Maori —full of courtesy and evasions.
But Jermyn knew Nene had been talking to Heke like
a Dutch uncle.
“Will Heke fight?” asked Jermyn.
“Should the tide turn, what hand may prevent it,
my brother?” Seeing a plug of the Major’s best
tobacco on the table Nene suddenly descended from
his dignity. “A chew, now, Mahore, and I will take
the tamarikihome.”
The Major handed oyer the plug with the neces-
sary compliments, for a chief (even when begging)
knows what is proper between gentlemen. With a
great lump in his scarred cheek and having said the
correct number of haere’s and enoho’s, Nene went
off with the children, and the Major said: “With
tobacco and no Hobson, we’d soon have had them
all eating out of our hand.”
“Instead,” said Jermyn, feeling enormously ex-
cited, “we’ll have war, and Nene knows it.” This,
he thought, is what I have been really waiting for.
What was dangling about with women and making
marks with pen and brush to this man’s game out on
the wild hills, with danger behind every bush and
glory waiting on every shot? Life had been too easy
for a young man so filled, so brimming over with
primitive urges ; so conscious of power in him that
he didn’t know how to handle. War would show the
way.... He brought up suddenly before Amy
Mathers’s text (slightly fly-blown now). “Oh, rest in
the Lord,” eh? Well, he didn’t want to rest in the
Lord (or otherwise) with Amy Mathers. He wanted
to measure his strength against men.
“Think I’ll go along the Beach for a while,” he
said, and went off whistling: “The French are on the
sea, says the Shan Van Vocht.” Gad! There was a
tune for a'man.
E r ~~ UTSIDE the hut of cabbage-tree trunks
plastered with mud (which was all Sir John
had provided for her through four unfor-
givable years) Caroline was writing an
English letter, with kakas screaming back
in the grey manuka-scrub and a herd of
Lovel children screaming at play round the
cooking-trench—where Caroline still cooked reluc-
tantly with gloves and a spoon so long that, declared
Darien, she rarely knew what was in the pot.
“Even in midwinter,” wrote Caroline, “the sun
is shining and birds are singing in this happy country.”
She paused with a glow of satisfaction. Never should
England know what had happened to Lady Lovel
dreeing her weird in the Antipodes ; and already her
hoodwinking of England had got her so far that she
casually referred, on paper, to Sally’s Roddy and
Brian as her own. For Caroline, although looking as
fecund as Dame Nature, said Major Henry, seemed
doomed to produce only daughters, and Peregrine
secretly saw the four-year-old Roddy as a future
baronet and taught him history and geography in
consequence.
The letters were hard work, although Caroline
always put on her best purple silk to aid inspiration ;
and so she was actually glad to see Darien, who had
come for Sally’s children and sat in a crumble of
blue gingham skirts on the tussock.
“You will soon wear your clothes out if you
treat them like that,” Caroline said reprovingly.
“I haven’t got spots on them, anyway,” said
Darien, staring hard at Caroline’s spread skirts. “And
I wish they’d all wear out; then Peregrine would have
to buy me more .'. . the mean wretch. And I wish
we’d never come to this hateful country with its
stupid men, and even nasty brown sugar so scarce we
have to cook with honey . . . and the only milk is
goats’.”
“A land flowing with milk and honey,” wrote
Caroline, seizing inspiration hastily.
What a world! thought Darien.
The Graham boys clearly considered affection
another word for recrimination, and trading-captains
(though showing emotion when handing over the
articles she wanted most out of their dingy stores)
never discarded their Maori wives for her sake. As
for that odious wretch Nick Flower, he had so mor-
tified her that she would meet him no more in the
flax-gully—besides, he was never there when she went
now. And Jermyn never looked at her, although she
had written “f.L. is Apollo Belvedere and all the
classics, besides being a gentleman,” and left it on the
table when she last took the children down to Major
Henry’s. What more could a girl do?
A wretched life, and so full of frustrations that
by the time supper was done she felt the house couldn’t
contain her and she doubted if New Zealand could.
Men could always do what they liked, but a woman
musn’t even get drunk. Praise the Lord for heaven,
where certainly men wouldn’t be able to do any of
the things they liked doing now. Darien knelt down
to say a thankful prayer.
11.
TJIHAT with remembering that he had signed the
LjLI Treaty as a man of honor and the more urgent
w knowledge that he could no longer abide the
English and English hectoring ways, Hone Heke was
most discomfortable in his great stockaded pa over
by Lake Omapere, where in the pale shallow waters
warriors speared eels by torchlight, and his tall carved
palisades stood stark against the sky. The English,
undoubtedly, had all been hatched from birds’-eggs,
since they could have had no parents to teach them
manners.
How otherwise (demanded Heke of his priestly
tohungas) had they dared send a handful of police
across Cook Strait to the little settlement of Nelson,
in the other island, with orders to arrest the mighty
chief Te Rauparaha for refusing to allow the survey
of his lands? Handcuffs for a chief so sacred with
tapu and hereditary power that to touch his mat was
death to an ordinary Maori! No end of little settle-
ments now, all running foul of Maori prestige, Maori
law; and though Te Rauparaha had killed a few
before returning to his enraged northern territories, it
would, said the tohungas, after making the proper
number of incantations, have been wiser to have
wiped out the lot, and so Heke had better do it now,
instead of cutting down flagstaffs which the English
put up again!
“But I signed the Treaty with my sacred mark of
tattoo,” protested Heke uneasily.
“Then what have I been smuggling you guns
for?” asked Flower, who had walked the twelve
rough miles to the pa because he really wanted to
know. There could be but one answer to that. “E-a! ”
shouted Heke, and snatched up his taiaha and rushed
out to the dusky square in the centre of the enclosed
village. Here he strode up and down to attract atten-
tion and then, with upraised arm, shouted his im-
perious
“Whakaronga mai!”
It struck all the Work and chatter like a bomb-
shell, hurling the people into silence, hurling them
into squatting warrior-rows with the dark-eyed women
and children behind, all staring motionless at Heke
in the firelight shaking the long carved taiaha, shak-
ing back from his muscular shoulders the brilliant
feather mat, launching out into that flood of oratory
which is as natural as breathing to the Maori.
“No te timatanga ... in the beginning,” began
Heke. Flower listened', grimly amused. Every Maori
has to start with “In the beginning,” and will go on
to the end if it takes him all night. If Heke went on all
night Peregrine Lovel’s shipyard would go up in
smoke yet.
Gradually descending through the majesty and
might of the Maori, Heke came at last to the white
men who (he told those dark rapt faces) had the
bowels and understanding of a shark. From top to
bottom of Maori law and dignity they had blun-
dered and befouled, and even the mighty tapu was
not what it used to be.
Once, thundered Heke, a chief was too sacred
to be named, and anything in the world was his if
he chose to call it his backbone. Now that England
had brought her infamous laws, traders everywhere
refused to consider as Heke’s backbone a desired keg
of tobacco or a tupara-gun. They should be grateful
that he asked so little. What, he demanded, had the
Treaty done for them? Snared them like stupid
pigeons in a net, so that they could neither sell their
land nor buy guns without selling it. But traders
such as their brother Flower, who understood the
Maori, helped them to get guns. And soon they
would use them.
FLOWER, leaning against a raupo-reed wall,
watched with the critical eye of a surgeon those still
rows of tattooed faces half-seen in the cooking-fire
lights. The dark and terrible melody of those rolling
Maori gutturals, moving even him, would presently
wreck Maori control. And, it was generally believed,
there were still cannibals back in the mountains.
Heke undoubtedly had eaten many times of human
flesh, since such was a chief’s duty on the body of a
slaughtered enemy chief in order to receive his mana
(spiritual power)—that power of which tapu is only
the physical sign. In Maori eyes Heke was chock-
ful of mana as he marched up and down in silence,
preparing for his next outburst.
The black gods of old could not have been more
evilly grand than Heke, with his kaka-beak nose
(from Egypt, probably, and much prized), his white-
tipped huia feathers standing up in the thick hair like
misplaced ears, the deep whorls and lines showing in-
digo on his weather-hardened bronze face. And he
had cause for discontent. He had lost many privi-
leges . . . such as the levying of a personal tax on
every vessel entering the harbor and the supplying
of temporary wives to whaling-ships, which were now
making their landfalls at Australia’s Sydney in pro-
test against New Zealand’s customs duties. The Eng-
lish were breaking down his mana, and it was probable
that in a little while he would no longer be able to kill
disobedient Maoris with a look.
Yet when he spoke agan he had soared above
the personal. His lament, moving and melodious,
was for his country. He looked into the future with
the impassioned eyes of a seer.
“E-a! My country! Ao-tea-roa . . . Land of the
Long White Cloud. The god of the pakeha is
stealing from you all your own old gods. Where now
is Rangi, the father of us all? What can Tane do
against the slaughter of his forests? The pakeha is
stealing from you all your warriors, laying those proud
hearts in the dust, turning those strong hands to
common tasks. Out of the deep sea like fish at spawn-
ing time come the pakeha, thousands upon thousands.
In canoes with the white wings of gulls they are com-
ing” . . .
Heke raised his taiaha with its gleaming paua-
shell eyes. “From the sky beyond earth’s rim, beyond
the first faint blue of morning I see them coming with
their red faces, their greedy hearts. I see them
swallow the Maori as black night swallows the proud-
est day . . . And Ao-tea-roa knows-the Maori no more.”
He drooped his head and one moan went through
the assembly like a gusty wind. Flower nodded
approval. Old Heke could be a hypocrite when he
chose, but he was no hypocrite now. And he saw
true. There’s no place like home, and (be it never so
humble) the white man generally contrives to get into
it, ejecting the brown man in possession. Despite all
the smuggled guns sold to Heke, Te Rauparaha, and
other chiefs, they couldn’t fight England. But they
had provided Nick Flower with money to live on in
their homes when he got them.
“Mawai . . . who shall foresee the end?” mur-
mured Heke. Then, with a blasting yell and i leap,
he became pure savage.
“Shall they swallow us? Oh, warriors, shall they
swallow us? Oh, young man . . . oh, women who
have suckled warriors at the breast, who go to them
in marriage, shall the pakeha swallow us? Say!”
With a roar everyone proclaimed a personal
desire to do the swallowing first. And then they were
all at it in a terrific rhythmic volume of sound, stamp-
ing bare feet in unison until the hard earth shook,
rolling their dark eyes, lolling their thick tongues,
blowing the great white conch-shells and the six-foot
wooden trumpets until the fishermen came ashore in
a hurry and little birds fled twittering through the
scrub, pursued by the high, unearthly shrilling of the
tall Amazonian women urging their men on to war.
(To be continued .)


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 niiles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay vou up for many months.
Don't wait I Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
j
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last F ree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Estate of WILLIAM FORD, Deceased.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM WALTER FORD, son of the above-
named, who died at Naremburn, near Sydney,
on the 19th September, 1936, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlc-
reagh Street, Sydney?
MAURICE WELDON, Deceased.
WILL WALTER WELDON, the son of
Maurice and Emily Weldon, late of Eccles-
field in the County of York, England, kindly
communicate with the undersigned?
WAKE, SMITH and FIELDING,
Solicitors,
11 Meetinghouse Lane,
Sheffield 1, England.
LYONS, Kingsley, son of Mrs. Elizabeth Kate
Lyons, of Mirboo North, Gippsland, Victoria.
Left home address 11 years ago. The above is
requested to communicate with EXECUTOR,
TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD.,
of 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, when he will
hear of something to his advantage. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts, or whether he is dead,
is requested to communicate with the above
company.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The prolonged binge of our 150th
birthday is over. Now the city raises a
dignified and unbedizened head once
again. Ever since the banners and such-
like were hoisted the second time they
hung spiritless and defeated. In fact,
they had as much joy of life left in
them as a rewarmed mutton chop.
Gaiety is not something you can turn on
and off like electricity ; perhaps the next
150th birthday celebrations committee
will realise that. And, anyway, many
are now asking, why didn’t we have
a world’s fair? That would have brought
a lot of outside money into the country,
and would have provided a giddy back-
ground for months of birthday doings.
Still, there we are ; we’ve had our fling,
and maybe all the mutterings are just
a bit of the ihevitable hang-over.
With eleven hundred dancers and
practically all expenses clear the ball
for St. Vincent’s Hospital was a winner.
Anyway, there can’t be much question
about success when Mrs. Bertie Kelly is
the president of any committee. A firm
believer in the adage that Heaven helps
those who help themselves, Mrs. Kelly
never halts her activities from the first
meeting. The Trocadero was gay with
flowers from the pink floral centrepiece
in the vestibule to the flower in the
buttonhole worn by every man. Among
the bright-faced girls who sold these
was seen Suzanne Rankin, from New-
castle. Mrs. Kelly’s long sheaf of violets,
iris and gladioli was a deeper shade than
the lilac of her satin frock.
Doctors and their wives were every-
where. Here came Dame Constance
D’Arcy (she had previously been to the
Loreto dance at the Wentworth) in black
and silver. There were Dr. Pat. Kirton,
frivolling in white chiffon, and Dr.
Sheila Drescher, in rustling taffeta. John
McKelvey’s lady wore a lovely frock of
white chiffon. This had a square neck-
line and shoulder scarves which fell in a
cascade of fringe to the hem of the dress.
Two shades of blue and scrolls of silver
formed Miss Kate Egan’s frock. The
wives of Flannery, K.C., Warwick Arm-
strong and Dr. J. Coen were an
interested group. Bobbie Roche, down
from Binalong, wore lilac. Phyllis
Downes, from Camden, enjoyed the
party.
So did Dollie McKelvy and Kathleen
Cobcroft, who shared the job of
secretary, and Alicia Inglis, who had done
the publicity. The ball, which marked
the hundred years that the Sisters of
Charity have been nursing and teaching
in Australia, had attracted numbers of
out-of-town friends and also the Con-
sular group. Popular Dr. Weston Maher
and his wife entertained a party.
Her frock of palest pink chiffon was
worn with a coat of flowered and
quilted lacquered satin in the same
tones. Carnation-red chiffons and pink
carnations were Mrs. P. L. O’Halloran’s
color composition. The Mayoral Nocks
vvere the night’s important people.
The flag of Poland was saluted and
admired as it proudly hung in the ball-
room of the Australia on Poland’s
National Day. Just below its brave red
and white, the Consul-General and Mrs.
de Noskowski stood and welcomed the
guests to the reception in honor of the
occasion. Altogether there were more
than 200 present, and many countries
were represented. An early arrival was
the new Consul-General for Italy. Also
present were Dr. Marocco and his fair-
haired wife. For many months he has
been Italy’s acting C.G. Black velvet was
worn by Mrs. Wakamatsu and Mrs.
Barnett. Mrs. C. L. Jones’s veil wore
the newest thing in chenille spots. Her
hat, too, wore its crown flat, as does
all the newest millinery.
In black, which is becoming almost
a uniform for Sydney women, were Mrs.
Pao and Mrs. Roy Underwood. The
latter’s decoration sent out golden
gleams. America’s Consul - General
Wilson was there ; so was J. J. Mulligan,
who is Costa Rica in Sydney. Mrs.
Florence Taylor was handsome in taffeta.
The Attorney-General Mannings and
Switzerland’s Hans Hedinger couple
were noted. A lush silver fox cape
warmed the shoulders of Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan’s cornflower-blue crepes,
Mrs. de Noskowski had a spray of red
and white flowers pinned to the dark
fur cape which she wore over her olive-
green suit.
Switzerland’s Consul - General and
Mrs. Hedinger left the Polish party,
stepped around the corner, and became
the guests of honor at the International
Society’s cocktail hour. As usual, the
Overseas League rooms provided the
anchorage for this, and the rooms were
simply bursting with visitors from other
lands. Anny Fligg, the German dancer,
was among them, a slim figure in grey
tweeds. The Hans Meyer couple, who
are dancers of the ballroom variety, were
also present; so was artist Stirling Pater-
son and his attractive small wife. They
are from Edinburgh. To top it all, Mr.
Hedinger, in his speech, told of another
tongue Romansh now one of the
accepted languages of his country. This
is, of course, a survival of the days of
Caesar’s Helvetian wars.
Dolly Hollander Moore’s green satin
toque had a ranee-like look and wore a
jewelled clip. Oswald Cheeke brought a
party in which the Stirling Patersons and
the Meyers were bright lights. The
Benjamin Fullers were there, and Aubrey
Halloran was here, there and everywhere.
The Snowden lady, Mrs. Maurice Gulson
and Leo Buring were busy with intro-
ductions. The Carl Greenwells sipped a
cocktail. Two good profiles were
supplied by Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. H. C.
Mclntyre. Knight Charles Norwood came
from Maoriland. Artist Wolinski talked
to Ruby Adams and Mrs. Arthur Cheeke.
In this Raymond Sawyer photograph is
Marie Ryan, the girl from Gundagai who
had a great success in the recent eistedd-
fod. She came second in the operatic
championship—a second that was only a
hair’s-breadth from the winner. Marie
sang the part of Amor in the Con.’s
recent production of Orpheus. She is
now busy studying her part in the opera
“Devil Take Her,” which is by Sydney
musician Arthur Benjamin.
Mrs. Tibbett keeps up her reputation
as a dresser of distinction. At one of
husband’s concerts last week she wore
a sheathlike frock of black georgette on
the hem and waistline of which silver
butterflies rioted. She pinned small white
flowers against the blackness of her hair,
which was worn halo fashion. She wore
pearls, and the blue fox coat of other
nights was replaced with a deep cape of
silver fox.
One of the most welcome visits paid to
this writer last week was one by Miss
May Glendenning, an intrepid song-
stress of 82. There is something heart-
warming about anyone who can continue
blithely to raise her voice in song after
knowing the world for 82 years. It sort
of proves that, if you have the right way
of looking at it, there’s something good
in the old cosmos still. May Glenden-
ning 60 years ago was a well-known con-
cert singer, and last week at Grafton, her
old home town, she appeared at the
A.B.C. community concert in connection
with the 150th birthday celebrations. Her
final song was “Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye,”
and she put into it all the sparkle which
it calls for. The Cathedral choir, of
which she was one of the earliest mem-
bers, presented her with a posy.
Miss Glendenning, a native of Sydney,
made her debut at the old Garden
Palace 60 years ago. Later she appeared
as Carmen in an Edward Farley produc-
tion of that opera at the old Lyceum
Theatre. She toured with Dolores and
many other stars. And still she sings!
When this writer was in London every
theatre was bright with electrics. Many
of them had great names above the door.
But no play made a deeper impression
than “Rose and Glove,” by Hugh Ross
Williams. This was presented at the
Westminster, and one of the principals
in its production was the Australian girl
in this picture, Kathleen Robinson.
in her just-after-school days,
was one of Sydney’s best amateur act-
resses. She was a member of Dame
Sybil Thorndike’s company when it
toured Australia. She has now become
an actor-manager, and is associated with
Ronald Adams at the Embassy. This is
a sort of preliminary canter before a
play is taken to West End theatres.
Kathleen has been revisiting Sydney (her
father was Matthew Robinson, well-
known station owner) and has been in
all the recent gaieties. This is an up-
to-the-minute photograph taken by Falk.
There was quite a home touch about
the opening of Dora Toovey’s (Mrs.
Jimmy Jackson to you) show at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries. Daughter of the house
Jacqueline prettily handed up a posy to
the Claude Reading lady, whose husband
had opened the show. Husband Jimmy
thanked the knight, who had been in-
troduced by Lister Lister. Later on
Jacqueline helped stick the red disks
on the sold canvases. There were
quite a number of them before the day
was done'. Under the heading “Fairy
Stories” is a panel of small sketches done
abroad. Nothing could be more inducive
to dreams by day and by night than
“Silver Ships.” Nice things for small
son’s or daughter’s bedroom wall.
There would be no chance for the
Boy Scouts of Ruth Draper’s sketch to
apply their genius for guttering to the
birds’ nests described by Neville Cayley
to the visiting artist herself. The builders
of these particular nests have their own
drainage system, and very adequate it
sounded when the great bird-lover told
all about it to Lady Wakehurst and Miss
Draper. The Governor’s wife and her
guest made a thorough tour of the show
of Neville’s pictures, and fell under the
spell of the galahs, finches, the kooka-
burras and the black ducks painted with
such meticulous accuracy, such rhythm
of movement. England’s celebrated bird-
painter Thorburn is well-known to Lady
Wakehurst, and she was delighted to find
that Australian birds had one to deal as
kindly with them.
The golden tones of Lady Wakehurst’s
suit were in harmony with the rose-reds
of the galahs, the scarlet and turquoise
of the parrakeets. This Letter was stirred
by “Black Ducks on the Wing,”
“Whistling Ducks Alighting” and “Black
Swans in Flight.” The last turned the
mind back to Mary Gilmore’s poem.
Neville proudly told how his father be-
fore him had been a bird-artist, an
hoped that the family might produce still
another. This show at the Blaxland was
as tonic to a city-wearied brain as a
week in the country.
All golfers know the Elanora links
with their wide-flung views from Narra-
been of sea and stretching coastline. The
new clubhouse, which replaces the one
burned down last year, is a long cream
brick affair, with wide verandahs and
an acre or so of windows. Its spacious-
ness and many conveniences were duly
admired last Saturday when Colonel T.
A. J. Playfair declared it open. The
dining-room will seat 400, and its fur-
nishings are carried out in red and blue.
Women are well catered for. They have
their own lounge and cocktail-bar. The
lounge, the dining-room and the veran-
dah can be made one large room at will,
and when dancing is on the programme
this will be done. Coral pinks and blues
give the right touch of brightness to
lounge and verandah.
Morna Mackenzie, the new private
secretary to Lady Wakehurst, may fill
the just-gone-to-England Hermione
Llewellyn’s shoes, but she will not be
able to wear the same saucy hats. Her-
mione had a way of wearing these all
her own. Slim, fair, a good skin and a
voice like silk are characteristics of the
newcomer. She is a daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. I. Mackenzie, of Glasgow,
where she was doing secretarial work
when she received a letter from Lady
Wakehurst which turned her face to
Australia. We’ll add an unsolicited testi-
monial-impossible to imagine anybody
nicer to work for than Lady Wakehurst.
Any time Lawrence Tibbett likes to
come along he can pluck a white gar-
denia from The Bulletin window-boxes
to pin in his hair. This is for courtesy
rendered. At his concert the other night
a number of his listeners applauded just
before the final words .of the “Pagliacci”
prologue. Did he get nervy and bite his
lip in vexation? Not at all. When he
came back to the stage to bow he told
the hand-clappers that as a matter of fact
they had done the right thing, and chosen
the really dramatic climax at which to
show approval. It was a neat and sin-
cere bit of saving face, and Larry gets a
special place on the list of well-mannered
people we have met.
The sky turned on a sunset all pinky
golds and smoky mauves to enrich the
Victoria League party in honor of
Mayoress Mrs. Nock. It could be seen
through every large window of the
Forum Club rooms, where the party was
in full swing. Other decorations were
the tall vases and big bowls of creamy
and tawny chrysanthemums. The after-
noon y/as pleasant rather than exciting,
and knight Philip Street’s wife pressed,
frock and beret in cornelian tones. Mrs.
Victor Russell, formerly of Brisbane, and
Mrs. B. J. Marquet, who hails from
Auckland, M.L., were among the guests.
The Sheldon and Hughes ladies and
Mrs. Walter Swinson were among the
noted.
Skirts get shorter, but are often cut cir-
cular or wear pleats. These kneebone
skirts are not much good except to the
teen-olds, but woman is forgetting the
lesson she learned in the last lap of last
decade, so short skirts by day it is to
be. The bolero and the sash threaten
to dominate the landscape, and when the
jackets of the new season’s suits aren’t
on bolero lines they flare out into a little
basque. So it’s a bit of Spain anyway.
Evenirig skirts will billow —tulle and
suchlike feminine guile are definitely in.
So, of course, are Directoire sheaths.
White and black are still to be very-
fashionable for after eight o’clock. One
charming trifle brought by a just-back
from New York is of black tulle, very
full and flowing as to skirt, fitting and
lightly draped in the bodice, the whole
thing embossed in white chenille.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO MARY ALICE SEMPLE formerly of
Queenstown in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that Divorce proceedings
have been commenced in this Honorable Court
by your husband ERNEST ALFRED SEMPLE
If you wish to enter an appearance you must
do so within thirty days after the date of this
publication at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart
otherwise judgment will be pronounced your
absence notwithstanding.
H. R. DOBBIE,
Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1836 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARGARET WHYTE (formerly
Margaret McMillan) Petitioner
And JAMES ALEXANDER WHYTE Re-
spondent.
TO JAMES ALEXANDER WHYTE late of
Manly near Sydney in the State aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MAR.GARET
WHYTE has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of August next and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, a.d. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. C. McMASTER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1949 of 1937.
BETWEEN ANDREW MAJERSZKY Peti-
tioner
And GERTRUDE ELLEN LILLEY
MAJERSZKY Respondent.
TO GERTRUDE ELLEN LILLEY MAJ-
ERSZKY late of St. Leonards near Sydney
in the State aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANDREW
MAJERSZKY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an Appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of August next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. C. McMASTER, Solicitor for Petitioner,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 757 of 1938.
BETWEEN JAMES ROLAND CORNISH
Petitioner
And ELSIE MAY CORNISH Respondent
JOHN LUCAS (otherwise known as “Tich”
Crowley) Co-respondent.
TO JOHN LUCAS (otherwise known as “Tich”
Crowley) late of “The Rocks” near Bal-
ranald.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
ROLAND CORNISH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of adultery AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixth day of
August 1938 and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
HUGH B. McHUGH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Mavall Street, Balranald; by his Sydney
Agents, E. R. TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mellbourne
Chatter
There was neither flying of flags nor
pealing of trumpets for the marriage of
Bonnie Campbell, daughter of the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress. Bonnie’s
wedding to Colin Lewis was just the
simple sort of wedding she’d wanted all
her life, with “the family,” a host of
young folks, a “Jolly Miller” and, to
please the older generation, a parcel of
speeches. One of the best came from
Major Harry Cuming, who had “been
appealed to by the Lord Mayor for
funds.” But that was twenty years ago,
on Armistice Day in London, with “Ted”
anxious to get back to Australia as
quickly as possible.
For her wedding day Bonnie chose the
twenty-eighth anniversary of her parents’
wedding, which worked out for this year
on not only the same date but the same
day. Barometers and snow reports have
been watched with interest lately by the
bride and ’groom, for they are spending
a ski-ing holiday at Buffalo. Afterwards
they will live at Wonthaggi, where their
house, with its view of the sea, is named
Girraween, abo. for “place of flowers.”
Bonnie was a student at Burnley Horti-
cultural College, so no matter what the
season there will always be something
to pick in her garden. Her handicraft
is also seen inside the house in the leather-
work of a screen and four bridge-chairs.
“The piper marched through strath
and glen, the skirl ran shrill from ben
to ben,” and even as far from the High-
lands as No. 9 Darling-street, when Cap-
tain and Mrs. Moffatt-Pender entertained
their friends with a Court House pro-
gramme. So keen are this couple on
Scottish dancing that they had held in
their own home several rehearsals of the
country dances performed at the party.
For the sake of cooling off, a few fox-
trots were scattered over the programme,
for you can’t keep a Scotsman off his
toes. Intervals between the numbers were
barely long enough for the orchestra to
find its next music.
Captain Moffatt-Pender and Judy
Webb danced the “Hamish Macdonald
Dirk Dance,” and were joined after-
wards by Mrs. Moffat-Pender and Betty
Barwell for the equally energetic “Re-
form.” Among those who lined the room
for the “Petronella” were the Jimmy
Paxtons (very Scottish), Alistair Mac-
kinnon, also in his kilts, Mrs. Mackinnon
in green taffeta, Cumbrae Stewart, wear-
ing the family kilt and sporran, and
Vaire and Dudley Wilkinson (Vairb with
a Stewart sash over a white tulle frock
and Dudley swinging the Stewart tartan).
Other young folk included Peggy Mol-
lard, Nancy Crowe, some of the Burston
girls, Anne Mackintosh and her platinum-
blonde sister Jean. Taking a sprightly
part in the Lancers, for which rehearsals
had happened beforehand and reminders
referring to time and partners had been
sent out by the post on the previous
evening, were Judge and Mrs. Macindoe,
some of the Gavan Duffys and Starkes,
Professor and Mrs. Copland, Captain and
Mrs. Rawson, Mrs. Geoffrey Walker and
Captain Harold Wilkinson —all foot-per-
fect. An unexpected guest at the party
was the Moffatt-Pender dog. He’s a
Scottish dog, which doesn’t mean a ter-
rier ; but he can sniff out by instinct
the folk who come from the north of
the Tweed. Because he loves the pipes
he was allowed to come to the party on
a leash for the first part of the evening.
R. H. Croll and artists Will Rowell
and Jack Gardner are rattling along on
their way to “the Centre” in their cara-
van built for three. Will is a compara-
tive newchum, but his friends are hope-
ful that he will turn out to be bush-
minded. Jack Gardner had a look at
the inland a couple of years ago with
fellow-artist Rex Battarbee. This last
trip makes Mr. Croll’s fifth visit up that
way. Most of his luggage consists of
books, newspapers, clothes, pipes, to-
bacco, etc., for old pals on the opal
mines of Cooper Pedy, in Hermannsburg
and at The Alice, and he has a generous
supply of bright beads for the abos.
The caravan, built all-in-one with the
car chassis, is Will Rowell’s property. It
contains a wardrobe, collapsible bunks, a
meat-safe and large-size water-tank. Jack
Gardner is the mechanic of the party,
and is prepared to do little jobs like
changing axles. During their three
months’ absence communication with
friends at home will be by telegram
always marked “via Cloncurry,” which
roupdabout way by pedal transmitters is
easiest in the long run. Letters sent early
to Alice Springs should with luck catch
the travellers, but those posted to other
outback places go long journeys on
camel-back, and have little chance of
finding the caravaneers.
Joseph Kovesy (pronounced
“Koveshy”), the Hungarian painter who
is in Melbourne in connection with the
Hungarian exhibition which opened this
week at the Athenaeum, is showing
several of his own pictures among those
of his 30 compatriots, of whom only two
are women. Mr. Kovesy speaks English,
but to avoid danger of misinterpretation
has the help of a young German, Mr.
Heiler, who translates English into Ger-
man and vice versa when English and
Hungarian come to a deadlock. Kovesy
is something of a cook, and carries with
him his private tin of paprika for the
occasions when he makes a goulash for
his friends. He speaks well of our wines
and likes our beer, though he finds it
strong after German beers. Two years
ago, when in South Africa, he went into
Zululand to paint the Zulus in their
natural state of strings of beads, bones
in their noses and feathers in their hair.
For three weeks he was entertained with
pomp and ceremony by a Zulu chief,
and spent a pleasant time except for hav-
ing to drink Kaffir beer, which was served
up regularly with the same ritual as the
Red Indians’ pipe of peace.
Joyce Hammond has exercised a
woman’s privilege of changing her mind.
She had planned to go to England with
Mary Wren, but almost at the last
moment cancelled her passage, and is
now busy thinking about a trousseau, for
she’s become engaged to Clive Turnbull.
She’s the second daughter of Stanley
Hammond and the late Mrs. Hammond,
of Coonac, Clendon-road, is very keen
about modern art, and is not afraid to
tackle definitions of Communism and
Socialism.
In Jack Cato’s photograph is Mrs.
Byram Gowan, who is a new member of
the committee for the Legacy Club Ball
to be held at the Palais to-night (May 12).
Mrs. J. D. Laverack is the committee
president, and an excellent propagandist
for Legacy, for she’s been doing tours of
inspection recently in connection with the
movement’s activities. The Legacy Club’s
most important aim is to secure jobs for
the children of deceased ex-servicemen,
and every month it manages to place
about one hundred boys and girls,
average age 16-17, in positions. To ob-
viate the “something for nothing” com-
plex, the children pay 2s. per year mem-
bership. Physical culture classes are very
popular at the clubrooms, and two hun-
dred children attend them on Friday
nights. Literary, debating and speech-
training classes are also held, and are
always well patronised.
Melbourne soprano Anne Williams,
who died of pneumonia in London re-
cently, was well-known there as a teacher
of singing. Scores of friends were
brought by her to the Earl’s Court studio
of the Fred Marriotts, where the door-
bell constantly rang to the touch of such
celebrities as Augustus John, Arnold
Bennett, Cyril Scott, the Lionel Logues,
and William and Robert Elkin from the
music-publishing firm. Minetta, Aus-
tralian niece and adopted daughter of
the Marriotts, was among Miss Williams's
pupils. She sang folk-songs delightfully,
and she and her teacher were planning
a concert trip together to Australia some
time in 1939. Miss Williams, wsio was
born at Ballarat and was one of Melba’s
discoveries, had courage and filial de-
votion in abundance. She refused Melba’s
first offer to go to England in 1915 on
account of her mother, who was ill and
nearly blind. It was not until 1920, after
her mother’s death, that she was able to
leave, and she took her father with her.
Theirs was a unique friendship. In Lon-
don it was he who did the housekeeping
and cooked excellent meals for his busy
daughter. It was a severe blow to her
when he died last year. Rose Quong was
another close of friend of Miss Williams,
whom she visited every day during the
three months of her illness.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Clare Fellows, third daughter of Mrs. H.
H. Fellows, who has announced her en-
gagement to Stewart Catomore. Clare
is keeping up the family’s old-school-tie
ideas. Her two brothers, both her
brothers-in-law, Harold Ward and John
Cordner, and now her fiance are old
boys of Melbourne Grammar. The en-
gagement was announced on Saturday
evening at a dance at Mrs. Fellows’s home
at Brighton, where, when the family was
growing up, there used to be parties
every few weeks. Decorations of autumn
leaves and a profusion of flowers from
Macedon were sent down by Mrs. Harold
Ward, who took her small children up
into the mountain air at the beginning of
the paralysis epidemic. Clare’s ring is
set with five diamonds, and a wedding-
ring will be placed beside it in about
a year’s time.
The walls at Yarrow, Tintern-avepue,
are hung with the oils and water-colors
of the chatelaines, the Misses E. and A.
Currie, who invited their friends to tea
on the opening day of the exhibition.
Miss E. Currie showed land- and sea-
scape water-colors painted in England,
Australia and the Riviera. Her sister's
historical and ecclesiastical memoirs in
oils included glimpses of Canterbury
Cathedral, St. Bartholomew’s and Tewkes-
bury Abbey. Visitors with a sprig of
heather to their names paused to study
John Knox’s house in Edinburgh. Among
those who called in at Yarrow during
the first afternoon were Mrs. E. Snod-
grass, Mrs. Robert Wallis, Mrs. Penleigh
Boyd, Mrs. Henry Singleton, Mrs. Frank
Lynch and Beatrice, and Mrs. J. F.
Churton and Peggy, a mother and daugh-
ter who already are good propagandists
for the Red Cross Ball on June 24.
Beryl Christmas is a photographer of
ingenuity. On her recent trip abroad she
added many interesting snaps to her col-
lection, including one of the Sultan of
Morocco, who wasn’t fond of being
photographed even by “mad Englishmen
and tourists.” Beryl got her snapshot
by hiding behind some soldiers who were
amenable to suggestion about the most
peaceable way out of the difficulty be-
coming blind for the time being. Beryl
and her parents weren’t satisfied with
beaten tracks, and only a few months ago
they went to Spain, where they spent
several weeks in Algeciras. Passport red-
tape took several hours and involved
prints from every finger, but it was
Franco’s territory and the visitors were
treated with consideration and courtesy.
They are at present spending a few days
at their house in Dandenong before
moving into their Brighton home.
lan Stahle, the young medical student
who successfully disguised himself as coy
maiden and got into the “girls only”
entertainment night at the University,
went along a couple of evenings later
to the 15 hostesses’ young folks’ dance
at Tudor Court —but he didn’t have to
be introduced to anyone, for it was the
sort of party where everybody knew
everybody else. The dance was in aid
of Shirley Benwell’s candidature for the
queen competition organised for the
After-Care by the Mayor and Mayoress
of Mordialloc.
Shirley, who was one of the secretaries,
was the mermaid who won most of
the diving events at the last inter-
’Varsity aquatic competitions. The
other two secretaries were Sonia Parish
and Pete Slattery. Sonia, who is a
platinum blonde (natural), looked charm-
ing in her white net and gardenias. Pete,
who is an art student at Swinburne
Technical College, wore dahlia-red chif-
fon scattered with sequins. Her sister
Gwen was present, sharing in felicitations
with her fiance, Ivon Bromilow. An-
other hostess was Charis Osborne, who
in her serious moments is a saleswoman
of millinery. She must be the only mem-
ber of the Professor-Dr. Ethel Osborne
family who hasn’t felt the urge to do
a University course.
Celebrity orchestral subscribers would
welcome a later start for the concerts,
for after the hurry and scurry of getting
to the Town Hall on Saturday night by
8 o’clock the concert was over at 9.50
—possibly earlier than was expected, for
guest artists Szell and Kipnis, accom-
panied by their better-halves, had a
few minutes’ wait on the steps of the
portico while their cars slid up slowly
in the long queue of traffic. Szell seemed
at peace with the world while he puffed
a cigarette and doubtless turned over in
his mind the events of a triumphant
evening. The Kipnises, temperamentally
a jolly couple, chatted vivaciously with
a batch of friends. Mrs. Szell wore a
long cloak of burgundy velvet and car-
ried her husband’s laurel wreath over her
arm. Mrs. Kipnis’s sumptuous white
ermine wrap was the accompaniment to
a gown of white cloque.


Zo
SUMMER IN WINTE
• #
EARLY JUNE ORONSAY* Fiji
EARLY J U L Y ORONTESt PAPUA
Via Gt. Barrier Reef
LATE JULY ORAMA* NOUMEA
Via Gt. Barrier Reef
LATE AUGUST OTRANTO* FIJI
•First and Tourist "B" Classes. f First and Tourist Classes.
ORIENT
0 /
LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited Incorporated in England.
Legal Notice.
LOUIS ELLISON, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable
Jurisdiction dated 21st April 1938 made in a
matter intituled “In the matter of the estate of
Louis Ellison formerly of Annandale near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales Gentle-
man now deceased” NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that HENRY ELLISON and JULIA
ANDERSON in the Will of the said deceased
described as his brother and sister respectively
who take between them equally the residuary
estate of the said deceased are to send by post
to the undersigned so as to reach them on or
before the 30th day of June 1938 their ad-
dresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof the said
Court will be asked to direct that the estate
of the said deceased may be distributed on the
basis that both the said Henry Ellison and
Julia Anderson predeceased him and all per-
sons having any knowledge of the whereabouts
of the said Henry Ellison and Julia Anderson
or either of them are requested to communi-
cate such knowledge to the undersigned within
the time abovementioned.
DATED this Fifth day of May, 1938.
PERKINS, STEVENSON AND CO.,
369 George Street, Sydney,
Solicitors for the Trustees.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original,
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Town and Country Women’s Club
had a birthday party, and the members
made a special donation to help the
work of the humanitarian circle presided
over by Mrs. Reg. Allen. President
Merna Gillies received, and the Ruby
Massey players staged a play. There
were music and flowers and innumerable
cups of tea.
Mr. and Mrs. R. S. McGeoch, of
Roma, had a full house for the Roma
show and ball. Visitors came along from
all parts of the State, quite a large con-
tingent motoring up from Brisbane. Mrs.
McGeoch helped her husband to wel-
come visitors at the show ball. The
lady is one of Queensland’s best-frocked
hostesses, and her black sheer frock with
its touches of green and red was a most
delectable garment.
Brisbane Needlework Guild had a
novel arch at its show this year, decor-
ated with knitted woollies for babies—
pink and blue and white. Lady Wilson
was among the visitors, and she saw
everything, from the layettes to the
clothes for men and boys. President
Mrs. F. B. Harris mentioned that the
Guild had been carrying on its good
work for 40 years, and later on intro-
duced Lady Wilson to the group leaders.
Music and afternoon tea were on tap.
Mrs. C. F. Masser arranged a wel-
come-home party for Mrs. V. E. Dear,
who has been touring in Canada and the
U.S.A., and provided shoulder sprays and
boxes of sweets for the guests.
The District Nurses Fund is a good
cause, and Mrs. J. L. Selwood has in-
stituted a series of monthly bridge
parties to give it a boost. The first was
a big success, and Matron McElnea was
there to help the hostess entertain. Roses
and gerberas in the supper-room and
bronze bowls of tawny chrysanthemums
provided a lovely setting.
Maisie, third daughter of newly-elected
G. H. Marriott, M.L.A., and Mrs. Mar-
riott, is engaged to Ted Beilis, of New
Farm, and several parties are looming
for the young couple.
Brisbane Repertory Society put on its
best bib and tucker for the cocktail party
with which it welcomed Fay Compton
to Brisbane. Guest of honor came in a
frock that combined every shade to be
found on an artist’s palette, and hatless.
The party was in the Lady Mayoress’s
room at the City Hall, and Prof. J. J.
Stable voiced the welcome. State
Treasurer F. A. Cooper and his wife
were among the guests.
The West End Methodist Church was
packed for the wedding of Jean, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Archi-
bald, to Allan Hulme, son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. S. Hulme, Gordon, N.S.W. White
chrysanthemums and deep red cannas
decked the church, and the white-clad
bride and her maids, Lorna Archibald
and Nancy Burton, were frocked in wine
red.
Dr. Thomas Wood, who came to Aus-
tralia, liked us, and said so emphatically
in two subsequent books, has set Banjo
Paterson’s “Waltzing Matilda” to music,
and dedicated it to E. R. B. Jordan. State
and Municipal Choir sang it at a recent
concert. Conductor Jordan turned to the
audience and said encouragingly, “All
join in! ‘Up came the squatter mounted
on his billabong’.” When the roar died
away he hastily amended, “Up came
the squatter mounted in his jumbuck.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At Lordello, Brougham-place, North
Adelaide, one time residence of • the
Moulden lady, now Mrs. Basil Murphy,
Mary Ross, who returned last year from
England, has a charming flat where she
gave a cocktail party to introduce her
friends to her fiance, Eric Brockwell
Ross, who recently arrived from London.
Gladys, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ross
Child, of Toorak, defied superstition by
wearing pale Belgian-green brocade pat-
terned in white daisies and gold leaves
when she exchanged vows with Bryan
Gibson at St. John’s. Her bridal veil was
of green tulle held in place by a high
coronet of gold brilliants. Crinkled
chiffon in different tints was worn by
bridesmaids Phyllis Evans, Margaret
Parsons and Jen Eglinton.
At Brighouse, Grange, a dance was
given by Dr. and Mrs. E. Britten Jones.
The home of Mrs. Britten Jones s
mother, Mrs. Francis J. Fisher, it made
a perfect setting for a debs.’ ball. Lhe
weather was fine, and the young people
appreciated the huge floodlit garden.
Dancing was in a large marquee hung
with pale green, with high golden baskets
filled with bronze chrysanthemums set in
the corners. The three buds—Peggy
Britten Jones, Sheila Fisher and Geral-
dine Jay—received with the host and
hostess.
Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole was the
guest of Dr. and Mrs. H. W. Wunderly
while in Adelaide on his way to England
in the Orford. Commander and Mrs.
Rosenthal gave a cocktail party in his
honor.
At the Church of the Epiphany,
Crafers, John, son of Mr. and Mrs. G.
Young, of Warracknabeal, Vic., married
Virginia, daughter of Mrs. Campbell
Magarey and the late Dr. A. C. Magarey.
The bride was gowned in waltz-blue silk,
with navy hat and accessories. Her
sister Constance attended her in russet-
brown taffeta with matching hat.
The ball to help the Distressed Soldiers'
Fund at the Palais Royal was well patron-
ised. His Ex. and Lady Dugan were
present. The State president of the
R.S.L., W. S. Hosking, received the vice-
regal party. Men of the Scottish regi-
ment formed a guard of honor, and the
bagpipes played as the Governor and his
wife made their way to the dais, which
was decorated with autumn foliage. On
the vice-regal table were bowls of deep
pink flowers. Mrs. Kenneth Wills pre-
sented four pretty debs., daughters of
returned soldiers.
WESTRALIA.
King’s Park Tennis Club members
turned up in full force on a perfect
moonlight night for a ball postponed
owing to floods of rain on its original
date. Logs blazed in the open fireplaces,
and copper bowls of autumn blooms
gleamed against the dark jarrah panelling
of the ballroom. Club president Sam
Mortimer did the honors, assisted by his
palest pink embossed cloque-clad other
half, and Valmai du Feu kept a watch-
ful eye on arrangements in froths of
white tulle down one side of which cas-
caded a fall of silver sequins. Mrs. Basil
Bruce rolled bands of silver, petunia and
blue lame round her back net fripperies,
Bill MacDonald’s bride slipped a bolero
over brocaded cloth of silver drapings,
and Pat Flower tucked rosebuds in her
blonde curls to match picture frockings
of pink ninon.
President Mrs. G. F. Farmaner carried
out the floral decorative color scheme of
autumn-tinted dahlias and tawny chry-
santhemums in her caped gold satins
edged with deeper-toned marabout in
which she gave welcome at the Myola
Club at-home. Mrs. A. J. Baird and
Mrs. Hubert Momber were at hand in
vice-presidential capacity. Zoe and John
Lenegan lifted up their voices in old
English songs, Denise Dingwall fiddled
Spanish music and Winifred Marshall
took possession of the piano-stool. A
humorous one-act play, “Summit Man-
sions,” by local playwright Nancy Rogers,
preluded a buffet supper and dancing in
the ballroom.
lone Wheatley’s betrothal to Goff
Hester forges a link between two of the
oldest Bridgetown families. Wedding
bells are to ring shortly.
Attractive Kathleen Wallder, of West
Perth, one of Linley Wilson’s ballet stars,
is wearing a diamond ring given her by
Kenneth Dunn, a pillar of the Uni.
Rugby team.
The Kopke family of Yaringa Station,
Carnarvon, will have yet another wed-
ding within the year. Norman has chosen
his bride from the Davenport family of
Mt. Lawley and arranged a date with
Olive of that clan.
The Perth Club’s social activities are
expanding rapidly to include wives and
feminine appendages. Their first dinner-
dance was held in the new clubrooms,
which certainly lend themselves to large-
scale entertaining. Medico Roy Mitchell
made a genial host, with able assistance
from Mrs. Mitchell, cosily fur-caped
above gleaming romany satins. Ben
Prevost brought along his vivacious
other half wrapt in fuchsia- and magenta-
striped ninons, the legal fraternity, repre-
sented by Brian Simpson and John
Virtue, interchanged wives as dancing
partners between courses, and Reg. North
dined and danced with fiancee Marjorie
Ridgway.
Stalls dotted under shady trees and tea
served on lawns and av*aing-hung
verandahs helped to r<ike in the shekels
he j d a t the Alexandra Home
at fete held^
Marjorie Dalglish received the Mitchell
, who gpoke gracious opening words
and ’ then tourec i the stalls holding by the
hand small gran dson Richard Anketeli.
Seyend gir i s w h o had been helped by the
h om e when in need returned for the
d and g aye t heir services behind the
scenes
Fjtzh ardtage brolher, Roger,
matrimonial date with Dorothy
Brogan in St. Mary’s Cathedral early one
t Moulded white satin and con-
mornmg m c]ad the brida |
« ouffant white mar .
quisette over taffetas, were sister Molly
and Lucia Eddington.
TASMANIA.
Govemor and Lady clark sailed
for their six months’ holiday in England
Mooltan and were given a good
with bouquets and good wishes
Meantime knight John Evans,
helped by his daughter, will carry out
vice regal duties.
Dorothy Helen (Dolly), daughter of
tde Bj s h 0 p G f Tasmania and Mrs. Snow-
don jj a y, and t h e R ev . Maurice Theo-
dore Jones, Melbourne, made their vows
st. David’s Cathedral. His Ex. and
Lady Clark were present. The bride’s
dress was cream? tinned with pink, very
si ly madCj with th e i east little pucker-
- in the front o£ the bodice and a
, h same colored buttons down
, , . f
back and on the wrists of the long
sleeves. The lace-edged veil fell to
coronet of orange-blossom. Sisters Betty
and Marjorie ’maided in apple-green
patterned organdie frocks, with head-
dresses of green tulle, and two wee nieces
were in pink organdie, with little pink
wreaths on their heads. After the wed-
ding the bride’s parents entertained about
200 guests at the Continental,
Two da before Bcssie Crisp's Wed-
di with lan Maswel | friends , 0 the
£ hundreds were bidden to
; , . . ...
ber home to view the wedding presen a
and trousseau. Guests were received and
f ed m the big music-room and hall.
Lady Clark was at the ball held at
Lindisfarne rowing club hall in aid of
t he Crippled Children’s Fund. Nearly 300
dancers ro lied up, and the night was
per f eC f so that the ferry trip across was
J ot the least enjoyable feature of the
even j n <.
,
Another successful effort on behalf of
the crippled kiddies was a dance run by
the nursing staff of St. John’s Hospital
at the Continental. Medicoes and their
belongings turned up in force, and a
air sum was neded-
The Tasmanian Society staged a recep-
tion with the idea of farewelling his Ex.
and Lady Clark before their departure
on holiday. A film of the unveiling of
the D’Entrecasteaux Memorial at Gor-
don proved an attraction. A very repre-
sentative crowd attended the function,
Keith Counsel’s friends were delighted
to h ave t h e c h ance of hearing him sing
aga j n before leaving the Speck for Eng-
]and- Mrs. Treherne and Mrs. Petrie-
jja y were hostesses at the Masonic Hall,
where a crowd rolled up for tea and talk,
and th en listened to a song recital of
muc h charm and variety. Rita Fox was
accompanist.


mm
*?;*
5tT:
M
»:
■'•■:*■■
MM®
MOTORING
WWWWWWWIWWWWWWM
8?
*5
IA
CAMPING
wj:
ig£*s:
ss
BY THE BEDSIDE
=^o]
J&L
Nature has equipped the cat with "eyes
that see in the dark"—but for you to move
around safely at night, or to do any of those
countless little jobs that so often need doing
after sunset—YOU MUST CARRY A TORCH!
Dependable Ever Ready Torches—fitted with
"factory fresh" Ever Ready Torch Refills—
shed light on many a dark subject. Helped by
its friendly brilliance, the motorist fixes a "flat"
tyre more easily, the lost camper finds his
way back, the householder feels more secure.
If you haven't got a torch, BUY ONE
TO-DAY. If you have got one, keep it
loaded. You may need it to-night!
Fver Ready
TORCHES- REFILLS
EVER READY CO. [AUST.J PTY. LTD., Sydney
T7A.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE RECEIVER PROGRESS.
Considered in the spectrum of frequencies, the 56,000 to 60,000
kilocycle radio communication channel is by no means an exceptionally
high one in these times, when micro-waves of several million more kilocycles
are used commercially. But when it comes to the business of designing
reception and transmission apparatus for use at 56mc., intended to perform
in a similar manner to conventional apparatus at lower frequencies, the
ultra-short-wave channel of 56mc. is high enough in frequency to present
many problems. During the last three years many of these problems have
been surmounted, chiefly by the introduction of new valves. For reception
the now familiar “acorns” appeared, and for transmission there are big
brothers to these called “mushrooms,” and other valves with excellent
performance as high as 200mc. or 300mc.
It is interesting to examine what has
been happening overseas on the receiver
side. Although many very efficient forms
of receivers have been described for
56mc. use, using conventional valves,
those designed expressly for the work in-
variably use acorns in the signal fre-
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram of the three-band U.H.F. superhet using acorn valves in the H.F. circuits, as described in
“All-wave Radio” (U.S.A.).
quency circuits. Leaving out the ques-
tion of T.R.F. types of receivers, one
very efficient form of which was de-
scribed (using acorns) by the writer in
B. 15/12/’37, interest naturally centres
in the superhet. Most interesting receive/
of this type to catch the writer’s eye in
overseas descriptions is the one of which
the circuit diagram is shown in Fig. 1.
This is a nine-valve three-band U.H.F.
superhet described by an American ama-
teur, W2HGU, in “All-Wave Radio,”
U.S.A. It has everything that could be
desired for high efficiency on 10, 5 and
2.5 metres.
The high-frequency problem is solved
by three acorn-type valves, the 956
remote cut-off type being used in the R.F.
stage, 954 sharp cut-off type in the de-
tector, and 955 triode in the oscillator.
Tuning condensers are midget low-capa-
city types, having a minimum capacity
of 4.smmfd. and maximum of 20mmfd.
The newßadiomac 15mmfd. Trolitul insu-
lated condensers now obtainable in Syd-
ney will be excellent for this purpose.
No coil forms are used, the coils being
air-wound and mounted on plug and
jack-strips. Trolitul insulation is recom-
mended for such mountings. Tuning
condensers are ganged, and are mounted
on interstage baffles in an “upside-down”
position to give shorter leads to the
stators.
Fig. 2 gives an idea of the general lay-
out, the acorn valve sockets being
mounted on the interstage baffle-plates.
The designer found it an advantage to
let the short (grid) ends of the valves
project from the prong side. This makes
it possible to place the sockets on the
same side of the baffles as the tuned cir-
cuits, but it is necessary to remember
that screen-grid and suppressor-grid ter-
minals reverse at the sockets with the
valves reversed.
R.F. and detector stages are capacity-
coupled, a method as good as, if not better
than, anything the writer has yet tried
with 56mc. signal circuits. Two I.F.
stages employ metal 6K7’s at a frequency
slightly higher than 4000 kc. Iron-core
I.F.Ts. are used with a range of from
3000 kc. to 5500 kc. Second detector
is a 6H6, and this, in addition to
detector and A.V.C., functions as a noise
silencer.
A carrier-level meter is included in the
circuit, shown by the meter M, which
is connected in the standard bridge
method employed in the R.M.E. 69 re-
ceiver so popular in U.S.A. It is claimed
that the receiver performs as well on the
three ultra-high frequency bands as a
conventional amateur superhet on the
lower frequencies, and there appears no
reason why it should not. Coil data and
component identifications are given:
Coil Table.
Band. L. LI. L 2.
2.5 m. 2 turns 2 turns fin. 9 turns fin.
fin. dia. dia. \ turn dia. 3 turns
cathode tap. cathode tap.
5.0 m. 8 turns 8 turns fin. 8 turns fin.
fin. dia. dia. If turn dia. 3 turns
cathode tap. cathode tap.
10m. 12 turns 13 turns fin. 12 turns fin.
fin. dia. dia. 2 turns dia. 3 turns
cathode tap. cathode tap.-
Fig. 2. —Top chassis view of the three-band U.H.F. superhet showing the layout.
Components.
Two 3500 kc. interstage I.F. transformers (T,
Tl).
One 3502 kc. diode I.F. transformer (T 2).
One 3550 kc. 8.F.0. transformer (T 3).
Three three-plug jack-strips.
Nine three-plug strips.
Six octal wafer sockets.
One four-prong wafer, socket.
FIXED CONDENSERS.
Three .Olmfd. mica (Cl, C 2, C 5).
Four .OOOlmfd. mica (C 6, Cl, ClB, Cl 9).
Three .Olmfd. paper (CIO, Cl 4, C2O).
Ten .lmfd. paper (C 9, Cll, Cl 2, Cl 3, Cl 5,
Cl 6, Cl 7, C2l, C 24, C 26).
One 25mfd. 50v. electrolytic (C 22).
Two smfd. 50v. electrolytic (C 23), C 25).
Three 15mmfd. tuning condensers (C, C 4, C 8).
One 30mmfd. mica trimmer (C 3).
Three acorn sockets.
One vernier dial.
Three shaft couplings.
Three grid clips (metal tube size).
One type 956 tube.
One type 954 tube.
One type 955 tube.
Two type 6K7 tubes.
One type 6H6 tube.
One type 6C5 tube.
One type 6F6 tube.
One type 6J7 tube.
One volume-level indicator.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer (R 5).
One 500,000-ohm potentiometer (R 25).
One 10,000-ohm potentiometer (R2B).
One 25,000-ohm potentiometer (R3O).
One 1000-ohm potentiometer (R 32).
Two switches (S.W.) and (S.W.I).
RESISTORS.
Half-watt carbon.
Two 500 ohms (R, R 34).
Six 50 ohms (Rl, R 4, Rll, Rl6, Rl9, R3B).
Seven 100,000 ohms (R 2, R 6, Rl2, Rl7, R 35,
R 36, R 37).
One 1500 ohms (R 3).
One 30,000 ohms (R 7).
Three 2000 ohms (RB, Rl3, R 18).
Three 250,000 ohms (R 9, Rl4, R 24).
Two 350 ohms (RlO, Rl5).
One three megohms (R2O).
One one megohm (R2l).
One five megohms (R 22).
One 3500 ohms (R 23).
One 500,000 ohms (R 26).
One 1000 ohms (R 33).
One-watt carbon.
One 50,000 ohms (R3l).
Ten-watt wire-wound.
Two 500 ohms (R 27, R 29).
Advanced Five-metre Converter.
The use of a superhet converter for
the 56mc. band is by no means to be
despised where a good amateur superhet
for the lower frequencies is on hand, or,
for that matter, even a tuned R.F. broad-
cast receiver having plenty of gain in
the R.F. stages. Such a receiver can
make a useful I.F. and second detector
channel when used with a 56mc. con-
verter, but if C.W. reception is wanted
provision must be made for a beat fre-
quency oscillator. A simple method of
doing this is to make the detector in the
T.R.F. broadcast receiver oscillate as
required, and this is a simple matter.
An interesting design for a 56mc. con-
verter appeared last year in “Radio
News” (U.S.A.) in which three acorns
are employed with a full-wave rectifier
power supply, comprising a complete
unit for connection to any suitable re-
ceiver. Fundamentally, the design is
similar to the signal circuits of the com-
plete superhet described previously, but
it will be seen that a 954 is used in the
R.F. stage in this case. This is because
the more recent 956 had not appeared
on the market at the time of designing
this converter. A 956 can be used in
place of the 954 without any circuit
changes.
The output transformer from the plate
of the 954 detector is for a frequency of
1600 kc. This frequency is quite suit-
able for a 56mc. superhet provided that
it is to be used for reception of stable
transmissions only. Unstable modulated
oscillators will be almost unreadable with
this I.F. frequency, unless the trans-
former characteristics are broadened by
the usual trick of connected resistances
across primaries and secondaries. The
output circuit is designed to couple
through twisted-pair to low-impedance
circuits on communication receivers
which are pretuned to 1600 kc.
The National XMA socket specified
for the R.F. stage is, of course, not ob-
tainable in Australia, and it is a case of


EMPIRES MILLIONS
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West ...
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
'William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
HOTSPOTS FROM HISTORY
. THE REAL REASON
WHY ALFRED
THE CAKES
w-
Z&
W/
'-J27>S\
mm
y
49 i
HE WAS
LISTENING
TO ONE
OF THE
NEW
AUDIOSCOPIC
c
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
l’ill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer. -
Name
Address
"ALSO SEND 8-PACE STATION BOOK
making one’s own socket wherever acorn
valves are used. Again, Trolitul is the
material recommended for the purpose.
It can be obtained in l-16th-inch sheets
from Kingsley Radio, 249 Spring-street,
Melbourne. The National XMA socket
is of solid copper, backed by rriica, and
the mass of metal itself provides the by-
pass capacities when the socket is bolted
to an interstage partition of metal. With
a home-made socket it will be necessary
to provide the by-pass capacities nor-
mally, and these, for cathode and screen,
are in the region of .0005mfd. to .OOlmfd.
In this converter, coupling between
mixer and oscillator is from suppressor
of the 954 to the 955 control grid, where-
as in the complete superhet described it
is from screen-grid, through a capacity
of .OOOlmfd. to oscillator plate. Either
method is effective. The converter has
954 and 955 ganged with a separate tun-
ing control for the R.F. stage, and the
same scheme could be adopted with the
complete superhet if circuit tracking is
considered to be a formidable job.
Note that a 3-30mmfd. trimmer is used
in the grid of the 954 detector, in shunt
with the tuning condenser. This makes
tracking of the detector and oscillator
circuits fairly simple, as the detector is
peaked on the low-frequency side of the
oscillator. The output transformer for
1600 kc. is a conventional 465 kc. 1.F.T.,
with one tuned circuit removed and a
ten-turn pickup coil wound in its place
about |in. from the remaining section.
Turns are removed from the tuned sec-
tion until it tunes to 1600 kc. Coil and
component data are:
Cl —50-100mmfd. midget variable condenser. -
C 2, C 3, C4 —20mmfd. midget variable con-
denser.
C 5, C7—3-30mmfd. midget mica trimmer con-
denser.
C6—lsommfd. mica trimmer condenser.
CB—,oosmfd. 200 v. paper condenser.
C9—included with National XMA socket.
CIG, Cl 3- Cl 5, Cl6—,oo2smfd. midget mica
condenser.
Cll—,oosmfd. paper condenser, 400 volts.
Cl2—,osmfd. paper condenser, 200 volts.
Cl 4, Cl9—.Olmfd. paper condenser, 400 volts.
Cl 7, ClB—dual 8-Bmfd. 400 v. electrolytic con-
densers.
Ll—7 turns spiral wound No. 18 push-back
wire, dipped in Duco cement.
L 2. L 3, L4 —7 turns Lin. diam., spaced twice
diam., No. 16 tinned copper wire.
Fig. 3. —The circuit, with component values, of a very efficient form of
56mc. superhet converter for use with existing receivers. This is from
“Radio News” ( U.S.A .)
L5 —2.5mh. R.F. choke.
R1 —1500 ohms, 1 watt.
R 2, R4 —100,000 ohms, ! watt.
R 3—2000 ohms, 1 watt.
R5 —50,000 ohms, ! watt.
R 6—20,000 ohms, 25 watts.
R 7—2000 ohms, 10 watts.
R 8—150,000 ohms, 1 watt.
T1 —small power transformer, 300 volts each
side c.t., 6.3-volt fil. winding.
T2 —1600 kc. transformer (see text).
SI —snap switch.
VTl—954 acorn pentode.
VT2—954 acorn pentode.
VT3 —955 acorn triode.
VT4—SW4 rectifier.
Any suitable full-wave rectifier can be
used in place of the 5W4 shown in the
diagram.
Several other well-designed 56mc.
superhets have been described in various
publications during the past year, and
one of interest used an acorn valve as
autodyne detector, followed by an I.F.
channel made up from the old-type G.R.
intermediates of many years ago. Such
a receiver would be useful for general
telephony reception of modulated oscil-
lator or other forms of unstable traps-
Fig. 4. —A suggestion for a U.H.F.
superhet with fixed oscillator and
tunable I.F. This is from “T. and
R. Bulletin,” England.
missions, but it would be of little use
for serious work.
- Finally, there is outlined a suggestion
from “T. and R. Bulletin,” England in
which a Scottish amateur, GM6IZ, puts
forward a logical idea for future ultra-
short-wave superhet design. The scheme
is set out in Fig 4
The first stage is the si , frequenCy
circuit, which may take accepted
form. Coupled to the mixer is the H.F.
oscillator, crystal-controlled the fre-
quency of which is fixed. The third stage.
the I F., is tunable over a range of about
500 kc. to 700 kc., since, as the oscillator
frequency is fixed, the I.F. must be made
, rar ;„L| o • . .
variable to allow the receiver to tune
over part of the band. The condensers
ganging the I.F. stages can be ganged and
the dial directly calibrated in megacycles.
a nLu * .
Fourth and fifth stages are the second
detector and audio output,
The idea is quite workable, but would
have limitations for amateur use, as it
would not be possible normally to tune
over the whole of the 56mc. band. But
it would be decidedly useful for commer-
cial working, such as in fixed .aircraft
communication frequencies in the ultra-
short-wave spectrum.
D. B. K.
Cesiro—Source
Last week the 8.8.C.’s chief engineer
was heard from the Empire stations giv-
ing a resume of some of the results of
the recent International Radio Confer-
ence held in Cairo —chiefly as they
affected short-wave broadcasting services.
There are three new channels for tropical
or semi-tropical countries, including 125,
87 and 62 metres. Stations on these
wave-lengths will be able to serve listeners
within the bounds of the particular coun-
try where static makes reception on the
normal 200- to 600-metre broadcast band
impossible over a distance of more than
a few miles in summer months. Never-
theless, static is almost as heavy at these
upper-short wave-lengths as at 200 to
600 metres.
The new wave-lengths will influence
receiver design considerably, since they
will need to include wave-lengths between
50 and 200 metres. In Australia, for in-
stance, most dual-wave receivers stop at
50 metres, and there is nothing between
this and 200 metres. Three-band receivers
will now be necessary.
Other Cairo decisions include the
widening of several of the regular short-
wave broadcasting bands. The 49-metre
band, now 150 kc. wide, will be extended
to 200 kc. Arnateurs will have to share
portion of their 40-metre band—a heavy
loss. The 31-metre band will be extended
to 200 kc. width. There will be no change
in 25- or 19-metre bands, but the 14-
metre band will be extended to 300ke.
width:
D. B. K.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
{Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Philips Model 1052.
An entirely new note m mantel-model
receivers has been - struck in the, new
Philips 1052, as illustrated, one of which
has been under test by this Page.
Continental influence is apparent in
the design of this dual-waver, in the
wide type of moulded cabipet with attrac-
tive loudspeaker grille. The dial, of the
full-vision type, is placed at an angle, but
not .so . much so that it, becomes neces-
sary to rise from one’s chair to see the
tuning indicator. The two main con-
trols are . placed on each side at the
bottom front of the cabinet, 1 -and the
others, which are used only at intervals
—the tone-and wave-change switches—
are on opposite sides, conveniently out
of the way.
The receiver tested is a dual-wave four-
and-rectifier of remarkable'efficiency and
excellent quality of. reproduction. It is
designed for operation'from;2oo to 260
volts A.C. : at 40 to 60-cycles,: arid the
two tuning ranges cover the 200- to 600-
metre broadcast band and a short-wave
range of from 13.5 ,to' 37;5: metres. This
is something new to Australia ; the
familiar form of dual-wave receiver goes,
to 50 metres.
Philips engineers have concentrated on
the higher frequencies in this design, and
the result is increased efficienpy around
13 and 16 metres owing to the more
favorable L/C ratio of tuning. The more
popular short-wave broadcast stations lie
well within the range of . the 1052, so
that nothing of importance is lost. Valves
are: Frequency converter, EK2 octode ;
I.F. amplifier, 6D6 ; 1 A.V.C. demodulator-
audio amplifier, 75 ; audio power ampli-
fier, EL3 ; and 80 rectifier.
The dial is radically different from
anything else seen on the Australian
market, the stations being indicated by
small “windows” through which the
travelling vertical indicator shows when
in tune with a station. The station
names and the short-wave ranges are
clearly marked, and there is no confu-
sion. A large-diameter tuning knob actu-
ates the dial mechanism, and the con-
trol on both wave-bands is particularly
smooth.
Examination off the,chassis shows.that
the design and assembly are also different
from the usual run of receivers. The
method is described by Philips as “Tri
unit,” which means that the three sec
tions of the receiver—R.F. tuner, audi.u
section arid power supply—are arranged
on three different chassis.. Tuning sec-
tion is at one end, power supply in the
centre, audio at the other end: Result is
immediate accessibility owing to exposure
of all vital wiring.
Extra short-wave stability is' also
secured by the adoption of this design.
The feature of accessibility is of interest
to dealers and servicemen ; in the event
of service work being necessary there is
no trouble in reaching small com-
ponents in out-of-the-way places.
On test the receiver proved to be out-
standing in sensitivity, and at full volume
had no trace of cabinet resonance. Lis-
tening to Daventry during the late-after-
noon transmission of GSD it was diffi
cult to realise that the station is 10,000
miles distant and not a local, so perfec
was the reception. Philips 1052 sells a
18 guineas, and for the country listener
there is a brother model for battei y
operation, known; as the 1044. This
sells at 23 guineas complete with bat-
teries, and gives a similar performance
to the 1052 on both wave-bands.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
(-1) / am about to transfer -my Air Chief
car radio to a 1938' Chrysler with all-steel body.
Is . the outside metal aerial as liow used on so
many cars, essential ? If not, which is the best
alternative position for installation, seeing that
the old position inside the roof is- ruled out
by. the steeh body ? (2) To eliminate electrical
noises such as the passing over and along e ‘f c '
trie tramlines the radio in , the other car mid
a suppressor on the centre terminal of the dis-
tributor head, and a condenser on the battery
terminal of the generator: Are more necessary,
or what will assist in reducing. interference
further ? —664.
(1) The. outside roof aerial is not essential
but is certainly the most efficient form of car
aerial. Alternatively, the double U form of
aerial . placed under the running boards is quite
effective and cannot be" seen. This latter type
is in the nature of a doublet aerial with twisted
pair-lead and'tends somewhat to reduce ignition
interference. (2) The suppressors have no bear-
ing on external interference from electrical cir-
cuit's such as tram cables. They are only to
reduce the interference from the ignition spark.
Nothing can be done to elirhinate external in-
terference, although the doublet form of aerial
under the running boards does help a little.
it* * * *
I am using a six-valve receiver with the loud-
speaker behind the screen of an B mm. movie
projector, operated in a different room to the
screen, although the radio receiver is in the
projection-room. At present I have no way of
knowing how the programme is heard or the
volume. Can /> attach a pair of headphones
to' the receiver so that the volume could be
checked? —666. ;
Yes. Two .01 mica fixed condensers and
enough insulated flex wire to reach the position
are all that are necessary. Connect the two
condensers, with one side of each to the two
leads from the receiver running to the primary
of the input transformer on the loudspeaker.
The flex leads are then connected to the other
sides of the condensers and the other ends of
the flex to the headphones. This gives a capa-
city output from the final audio stage in the
receiver, and .will not materially affect the
volume or tone of the receiver. The connec-
tions inside the receiver may be made con-
veniently at the speaker output, which is usually
in the form of a socket and plug.
* * *
(1) What would be the best course in radio
engineering for a man aged 25, of intermediate
certificate education ? (2) Would apprentice-
ship be necessary ? (3) Is the diploma from
one of the advertised radio colleges to be com-
pared with a technical college degree when seek-
ing employment? —667.
(T) Best way to determine this is to get
college prospectuses’ and decide which course
would be likely to interest you most. (2) No.
(3) The diplomas issued by radio colleges prob-
ably carry more weight in the radio industry,
since the student has devoted the whole of his
time to .radio engineering.


VITA-LICK
Particularly Beneficial to Sheep
on Dry or Coarse Pastures.
Mr. S. F. Ward, “Gilgal,” Frampton,
N.S.W., writes, 11111’25:
“I have been using your Vita-Lick for
about three years with excellent results.
I find it very beneficial to sheep on dry
or coarse pastures, and its medicinal
properties have the effect of improving
the growth and softening the handling
of wool at any time. It is easily mixed,
and sheep take to it readily.”
Vita-Lick Agents in all Sheep and
Cattle Centres.
VITA-LICK, LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE FINER THE BETTER.
“Bone Phos”: Was interested to see
that animal nutrition specialists recom-
mend a mineral supplement of fine grind.
Found a most excellent one which is
pure, wholesome and palatable, and easily
digested. Contains plenty of that phos-
phoric acid—more than any other mineral
food I’ve used. Suggest you get some.
You’ll find it much more economical and
effective than that meal you are using.
No, I’m not a crank, but you've got to
progress with the assistance of science
these days. Yes, Tri-cal-os Bone Flour
is what I recommend. Davis Gelatine
(Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835,
Sydney, will send you a folder about it.
Tell them what stock vou want it for.
Old Farmer.
%
i
jGvmc f
Remember
that Radiol and “ Bone Radiol '*
cure without Blistering, Pain, or
Removal of the Hair.
Radiol for soft swellings. Bone-
Radiol for fibrous, hard, or bony
enlargements.
A cure for lameness is guaranteed
with Bone-Radiol. Simply paint on
with a brush.
Write now for our Blue and Red
Booklets, 40 pages illustrated, free
on request, which will tell you all
about them.
Apply; Dept. K.l, P.O. Box 3961 V,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Ask your chemist for RADIO!.,.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Body Strike in Sheep.
Corriedale ”: “Warramulla” (B.
28/4/38) finds -it hard to explain why
shoulder-strike occurs when there is no
evidence of soiling as at the breech.
The shoulder, just behind the withers
where neck-folds end, is a natural drain-
age site. The ribs have their sharpest
slope there—even the merino’s backbone
angles down slightly—and fleece wetness
accumulates. Besides, the shoulder-blade
itself forms a natural skin-pocket on
most lean sheep.
Culling and the use of good, straight-
backed rams will help to wipe out body-
strike. Some observers believe that near-
ness to running water, which means
moisture in the air, is essential for body-
strike. They claim that weak backs on
dry country are no problem. Is there any
confirmation of this?
“Bungaree”: The more wrinkles the
more fly is the rule, / irrespective of
whether animals are stud stock or not
(B. 28/4/’3B).
When flies are bad, they will strike
sheep on any part of the body, but under
normal conditions, when dry sheep are
struck about shoulders and ribs, most
animals affected are those with pre-
disposing weaknesses.
Water-rot undoubtedly spreads through
a flock more rapidly when they are
jammed together in a yard or on the
road, but water-rot is prevalent only
under sustained humid conditions —spells
of warm wet weather whereas body
wrinkles collect moisture from the sheep
all the time and without help from sea-
sonal influences.
Removing wrinkles by the Mules
operation has proved highly successful in
diminishing susceptibility to attack, but
it. safeguards only the treated ewe, which
still transmits its wrinkles to its lambs.
The selection of plain-bodied breeders is
the best means yet found to combat fly
attack. Wrinkly sheep may cut a heavier
fleece, but the extra weight is often repre-
sented by condition, and there is little or
no difference in the scoured weights of
wrinkly and plain-bodied sheep.
Comebacks.
“B-gar”: One often sees wool ranging,
from as low as 46-48’s up to 60’s branded'
“comeback,” some sheepmen apparently
having hazy ideas of what the true type
is. A comeback to one may be a three-
quarter-bred to another, and the word
has come to be used in too broad a ,
sense.
Literally, the true comeback, such as
the now distinctive Polwarth, contains
seven-eighths merino blood* the outcome,
of mating merino rams with successive,
progenies of an original Lincoln-merino
first cross. ’ • { '
A Lincoln ram (40’s) mated with a.
merino ewe (60’s) will produce the half-
bred (50’s), a quarter-bred (54-56’s) re-
sulting by the mating of a merino 'ram
with the half-bred ewe. Mating again
a merino ram (60’s) with a quarter-bred
ewe (54-56’s), the comeback (58’s) is
obtained.
Throughout the matings, if culling of
the ewes is carried out judiciously and
anything rejected that throws back more
than the average to the Lincoln, uni-
formity will prevail in the comeback’s
wool.
As a dual-purpose sheep, the come-
back has a high value, the better types
of wool sometimes rivalling the prices
paid for good lots of merino.
Hoggets’ Wool.
“C.V.S.”: Actually the term “shirled”
hogget (B. 28/4/’3B) is almost unknown
in Australia, as nearly all lambs are
shorn at three-four months old, and are
miscalled hoggets at their second shear-
ing. Wool branded “hoggets” is usually
from the second shearing, and this mean-
ing is generally accepted by buyers and
brokers.
Other things being equal, young wool
is the best of the clip, being fine, soft,
well-grown and without fault develop-
ment, and s.h. wool should appear first
on the catalogue.
Sex marks are unnecessary if the
broker is advised as to flocks in the
specification, when he has greater liberty
“’Ere, chuck that stick away. I never ’AD to belt ’im when I rode ’im to school !”
in interlotting wool with unmarked wool
of similar type. '
Wool from’six-eight-months-old sheep
may be marked for age, as it cannot be
matched with other wool. This-Wool,
of a lamby type though' long and in
fleece formation, is branded “Weariers”
in Queensland, where it is often seen
because of irregular lambing periods.
Victorians know it as “summer” lambs.
Merino weaners need be classed only
to three lines: a long and short of the
fine, throwing out coarse.
Teams for Small Sheds.
“Bungaree”: “C.V.S.”. was over-
optimistic in expecting one man to com-
bine the duties of presser and cook (B.
28/4/’3B). If his three fast shearers
were turning out 450 sheep a ,day, there
would be 12-15 bales to be pressed. *A
fair presser would be kept busy for over
an hour in each run, and the type of
presser who would take on cooking as
a side-line or the cook who would press
in addition to poisoning would not have
much time left out of a two-hour run
for dough-banging.
Instead of an overseer-expert helping
with shed work and a classer-roller-piece-
picker, the job would have been done
far more thoroughly with an overseer-
classer-expert helping to roll, one boy
picking up for the three shearers and
doing the penning. One shedhand could
pick the pieces and help roll, and one
shedhand-presser could help where re-
quired, and another cook.
The wages bill for this team at award
rates would be about £4 per week more
than for “C.V.S.’s” team. There is one
extra man, but the .work is laid out so
that good men would be attracted. No
one would be overloaded and the work
should be thoroughly done. If the
shearers were slow, the adult shedhand
could be cut out and the piece-picking
done by the presser, with the picker-up
helping skirt the fleeces.
The amount of experting to be done
in a three-stand shed is very light unless
the gear is in a bad condition. The grind-
ing could be done in five minutes. Most
sheds have a spare handpiece to carry
on should anything go wrong with a
machine during a run, arid a spare gut
should always be kept ready.
The overseer in such a shed usually
has his men and pens right under his
eyes and overseeing takes little time.
Classing will be his main job.
Footrot Control.
“Teg”: That Werribee (Vic.) method
of unstocking footrot country (B.
16/3/’3B) is often impracticable, especi-
ally on holdings where a permanent flock
is run.
On heavy si-w. Vic. marshlands, where
grazing is confined to dealing and sheep
are moved often, unstocking for periods
of from three to thirty days and then
restocking with clean sheep give only
temporary immunity.
There can be no effective method of
prevention until the exact nature of the
causal organism is known, and the Vic.
Agricultural Dept, is setting up field
research stations irt suitable localities.
In treating infected sheep, foot-paring
must be efficient, otherwise dressings and
foot-baths are useless. Pare to the shape
of the foot (if possible, without drawing
blood), so as to lay bare the infected
parts, taking care to clean between the
“toes” —a fruitful source of infection.
Then, using a small paintbrush, dress
the feet with a mixture of Stockholm tar,
4pt.; pulverised bluestone, 1 tablespoon ;
butter of antimony, 1 tablespoon. Add
kerosene and keep mixture well
stirred.
Keep the sheep on clean battens for
at least half an hour ; and before turning
out run the entire flock through a foot-
bath containing a solution of formalin
or bluestone.
Get rid of sheep which fail to respond
to repeated treatment. A few chronic
cases will reinfect an entire flock.
Mitchell for Hay.
“Red Wul”: “A.S.” (B. 21/4/’3B) dis-
counts my objection that stones and
pebbles on W.Q. downs would hamper
haying Mitchell grass. With experience
of cutting hay, year after year, on one
small, apparently stoneless patch, I know
that pebbles are often picked up with
disastrous effect to cutters.
I hold still that there would be more
loss of fodder from hand-feeding than
from standing feed.
With the ordinary horse-mower, it
would be doing more than well to cut
50 acres a week ; though with much
greater risk of damage to plant more
could be done with a tractor. Even
allowing that two acres will carry a
sheep for a year—which means the im-
probable increase of carrying capacity by
50 per cent. —the practicability of crop-
ping hay for large mobs in the limited
time available is doubtful. The cost per
head would be tremendous.
Grass Harrowing.
“Ager”: Stabt harrowing pastures
now. It is better to have ground
“scratched” before the autumn rains
come if the ground is friable. It allows
(Continued on page 44.)


&
\2
cs
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
- THINK OF
Mb
*
as
m
ml
t
At
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
SYDNEY
caan n
\aVt(
OUCBIRND
w
maciNCTo
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands ai
nerves function well you will be vigorous an
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS coi
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remed
for loss of vitality. The price of this won
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ
direct for particulars of this MODER.'
TREATMENT.
TKBVtIS
TONIC
m
Bli
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
j
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders ; B a n,k
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JTuffealle&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER’S ACCOUNT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
every drop of rain to sink in uniformly,
thus making minimum falls more effec-
tive.
There’s another advantage, too, for the
harrows open up the mat of dried
material which lies on the surface, and
which may be heavy enough to prevent
the newly-germinating seed from coming
through.
Where surface soil is not friable, don’t
harrow until the first saturating autumn
rain falls.
It’s the distribution of stock droppings
that matters. The cattle pads are
broken up, thus helping the super, (lcwt.
to l|cwt. per acre) dressing to stimulate
growth. Pasture seeds in the droppings
are spread, and so there is a denser
development of perennial rye or sub.
clover.
Some graziers think that pasture har-
rowing in spreading this seed provides a
cheap and quick way to bring in rye
grass and clover, where stock pass from
sown to native pastures. Another ad-
vantage is that this breaking-up of drop-
pings prevents development of rank
patches, which stock avoid.
If harrowed after rain, the droppings
are more easily distributed, the roots of
perennial species are pruned, the soil is
aerated and both annual and perennial
plants make a quicker growth.
Tomatoes in the North.
“Calliungal”: Tomato-growing in N.
Australia is a different problem from
the same industry in the South. Glass-
house growers of the South must sigh
with envy when they read the offi-
cial Queensland suggestions to Central
Queenslanders.
There, when preparing a seedbed, you
“select a small area of newly-burnt virgin
scrub” —there is plenty of it. And it
must be free from lantana—of which
there also is plenty.
Beds are made with a garden fork, are
raised 4in. above the ground to ensure
drainage, and are well spaded to a fine
tilth. Seed treated with corrosive subli-
mate is scattered lightly over the surface
and dry grass or hessian packed on top
to help germination. Seedlings need
shelter from the northern sun, but not
too much.
Plants should be gradually hardened
by exposure, watered regularly .and
steadily, sprayed and dusted at intervals
with a 2-3-40 Bordeaux mixture and have
regular dustings of sulphur as mite-
poison.
At 6in. or 7in. high transfer to the
field, being careful not to damage root-
hairs.
The technique is good anywhere
North of Twenty-eight.
Give Dwalganup Clover a Trial.
“H.A.L.”: I share the S.A. official
feeling of exasperation at the attitude of
many landowners towards the Dwal-
ganup strain of sub. clover.
It is the plant which is transforming
huge areas of sand-plain regions in
W.A. Many experimental farms in the
drier areas and the Waite Research
Institute (S.A.) are now making use of
it in experiments, instead of the later-
maturing strains.
Dwalganup will grow where to plant
any other variety of sub. c. would be a
waste of time.
Objection to it is: “That stuff? Why,
it’s like that scarlet-runner plantall
stem and no leaf.” It is safe to say
that anyone who raises this objection
has never given this wonderful strain a
proper trial—provided, of course, that
his property is not within the area of
wet country, where the ordinary strains
of s.c. can be grown without trouble.
Dwalganup will grow, flourish and set
seed on bare white sandhills or the
poorest of bracken land. In autumn it
comes away quicker and makes more
feed than other strains. It sets seed in
the spring, when other strains are still
at the rosette stage.
If sprouted by a summer rain, it
proves remarkably tough, and may live
through subsequent dry spells and even
set seed before winter, especially when
growing in the shelter of dry grass or
other litter.
It enriches the soil as much as any
other legume. With rye grass the stock-
carrying capacity of the paddock is as
high as it would be with other strains
of clover.
If your land lies on the fringe of the
sub.-clover belt or is in country where
spring is liable to come with a bang ; if
you have patches of dry soil or sand-
hills where the first hot winds of summer
wither up the pasture —in fact, if you
find any trouble at all in getting the
ordinary strains of s.c. to set seed and
persist, give Dwalganup a trial.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.L.W.”: Judicious shoeing will
often prevent a horse from brushing in
one or both hind feet. The outside heels
should be rasped down until they are
lower than the inside heels, and shoes
which are heavier on the outside section
and very light on the inside fitted. This
throws the hoof outwards when the horse
is in motion. But let an expert farrier
do the job—unless the hoof has a level
bearing surface on the ground the twist
is taken up by the fetlock.
“L.M.”: Avoid round strainer posts.
The heart quickly rots and the de-
cayed wood, which holds water like a
sponge, soon rusts the wires through.
Heavy split posts, though not so solid-
looking, are better.
“Mt. Boppy”: George Reading, of
Bangalow (N.S.W.), has proved over 14
years that evenness of production is pos-
sible on a dairy farm. His farm is sub-
divided into 20 paddocks for rotational
grazing. Last year, from May to July
inclusive, the cows were given, besides
pastures, a ration of saccaline, bran and
linseed meal. During August and Sep-
tember they were grazed on perennial rye
and clover. Decline of production in
winter (April to September) was only 13
per cent, compared with summer (October
to March). The district decline was 33
per cent, for the same period. He uses
bulls with proved production backing,
herd recording, rotational grazing of
paddocks sown with improved pastures,
and fodder conservation.
“G.H.H.”: The Queensland Agricul-
tural Department thinks orchardisis
should welcome the newly-arrived apple-
leaf hopper with a spray of nicotine sul-
phate, one pint to 80gal. water, to which
add lgal. of white oil or 21b. soap. This
combines with codlin moth sprays with-
out loss of efficiency, omitting soap if
lead arsenate is used. Three weeks later
a second spray will finish off earlier
escapees. The first sign of the hopper
is in the light-grey leaf spots, which
spread later. The ultimate damage is
in weakened leaf and flower-buds, and
the excrement on fruit runs into dark
streaks which must be washed away when
preparing for market. If early measures
are taken the annual spring treatment is
enough. Known host-plants of the
canary yellow to green minute insect are
blackberry and hawthorn.


MOTION VICTOR
6
vim
m
«
m
8
*
B
IP
ife
1
#4
<<s**>
S?-3*
feV
i
:r
rv
r
£>
I
vZ
£>
m
it
K
\-.sA
. /
id
*T#s
&&
ll
Wi
~-y-
-m
m
•life
&
,\e^
A\'^_Y- o&V rt x -
\9 v ' 6 v> o
xV > e ** A .>* V* v
V . w;<*
• <P V^ C
o *> ° ca X
V
.e 6
Twentieth Century-Fox presents
DARRYL F. ZANUCK'S
supreme achievement as a
producer of distinguished
entertainment. «
with
TYRONE ALICE DON
POWER • FAYE • AMECHE
ALICE ANDY BRIAN
BRADY - DEVINE • DONLEVY
Phyllis BROOKS ■ Tom BROWN • Sidney BLACKMER
Berton CHURCHILL • June STOREY • Paul HURST
Directed by HENRY KING
Associate Producer Kenneth Macgowan • Screen play by
Lamar Trotti and Sonya Levien • Based on a story by Niven
Busch • Music&LyricsbyGordon&Revel,Pollack&Mitchell
SEE IT AT
HOYTS REGENT
Watch for announcements in your local papers. Premiere
in all States soon!


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dikectors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan Eso •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne. Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and barn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to sett your stories and articles*
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
HO Elizabeth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Disabled Digger, Sydney, seeks work, clerical,
journalistic, or anything congenial. Refs. —
9410.
Totally disabled soldier (hobby book-collect-
ing) will exchange Australian books, new con-
dition, for first edition of Mystery of a Hansofn
Cab, by Fergus Hume, and Man-Shy, by F. D.
Davison. —9499.
Miner wants mate with small capital to work
goldmine N.S.W. South Coast; has crushing
plant, truck and car.—94Bs.
To return to owner or relative of owner
identity disk picked up in Zeitotln camp in 1915
inscribed as follows: “W. A. West, 357 B, 15th,
A.I.F. C/E.” (Reply to J. H. Billigan, 97
St. Andrew’s-square, Christchurch, M.L.)
To buy back numbers of “National Geo-
graphic Magazine.” Must be in fair order and
cheap.—9so7.
To buy very early photographs of Manly
(N.5.W.).—9512.
To buy Hull’s Stamps of New South Wales.
—9511.
To buy Flights from Chaos, by Harlow
Shapley.—94B3.
To buy numbers of the “Lone Hand” from
May, 1907, to November, 1913.—9501.
Words of old bush ballads “Marion Lee,”
“The Old Bark Hut” and “The Stockman’s
Ta1e.”—9498.
Words of sea chantey “Shenandoah” and the
story upon which it is based. —9385.
Information Sought.
(1) How many murders have been committed
in the various States of the Commonwealth in
the last 15 years? (2) In how many instances
in each State was no arrest made? (3) In how
many instances in each State w’flj no conviction
recorded ? —9381.
The definition of murder involves consider-
able difficulty and no information is available
for murder as distinct from manslaughter.
Again,_ where an open verdict is returned a
death is not classified as a murder for statisti-
cal purposes. Consequently no exact figures
can be given. The following table, however,
gives an estimate of the particulars required:
Number of Homicides
(Murders and Con-
State. Manslaughters). Arrests. victions.
N. S. Wales .. 640 630 180
Victoria .. 350 340 100
Queensland .. 200 195 60
S. Australia .. 150 145 50'
W. Australia 100 95 35
Tasmania 60 55 25
Australia .. 1500 1460 450
* * * *
(1) What overseas war debts are still owing
by Australia, and to whom ? (2) Is interest
still being paid on this debt or is it covered by
a moratorium ? (-3) In what way was this debt
different from that of other European Powers,
portions of which were wiped off? —9212
(1)
War Debt, June 30, 1937.
In Australia. In London. Total.
Funded with £ £ £
public .. 183,063,000 11,020,000 194,083,000
Due to Gov-
erment of
U.K. .. 79,724,000 79,724,000
Total ..£183,063,000 90,744,000 273,807,000
(2) Interest is still being paid on the war debt
due to the public in Australia and in London.
The payment of interest on the debt due to the
Government of the United Kingdom has been
suspended by arrangement with that Govern-
ment. (3) The position regarding the funding of
war debts of European Powers is complicated,
and it is impossible to give a detailed explana-
tion in a small compass. No part of the Aus-
tralian war debt has been cancelled, though the
repayment of principal due to the Government
of the U.K. has been indefinitely suspended.
For a full explanation of the American and
intra-European war debt settlements, see a
publication of the Brookings Institute (U.S.A.)
entitled War Debts and World Prosperity.
* * * a ~~~
(1) Names of a few Sydney firms accepting
lads wishing to train as electrical apprentices?
(2) Suitable age ? (3) Where to learn electrical
engineering ? —9421.
(1) Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Ltd.,
Radio-Electric Works, Parramatta-road, Ash-
field, N.S.W.; Australian General Electric Co.,
Ltd., 93 Clarence-street, Sydney; Coupland
and Waddell, 17 Day-street, Sydney. When
writing, state age and educational qualifications.
(2) Sixteen. (3) There are electrical trades and
diploma courses at the Sydney Technical Col-
lege, Ultimo, Sydney, open to apprentices. As
a preparation, concentrate on mathematics.
* * * *
(1) Who presented the Schneider trophy? (2)
Its value? (3) Name of the first winner? (4)
Any other information? —9530.
(1) Jacques Schneider, a French aviation en-
thusiast. (2) £lOOO. (3) Prevost, of France, in
1913, with a speed of 45.75 m.p.h. (4) An in-
ternational trophy for seaplane aviation, it was
competed for yearly between 1913 and 1927
except during the World War, and biennially
from 1927 to 1931. Great Britain, by winning
it in three successive contests, 1927, 1929, 1931,
obtained permanent possession of the trophy.
Flight-Lt. Boothman, the 1931 winner, attained
a speed of 340 m.p.h. In that year there was
no international contest, as Great Britain alone
took part, the Italian entry being scratched.
* * * *
(1) Who invented the sheep-shearing machine 7
(2) Anything known about the inventor 7
9478.
(1) Frederick Yorke Wolseley, the son of a
clergyman, born at Kingstown, County of
Dublin. (2) He arrived in Australia in 1854,
and spent the greater part of his life on
stations on the Murray, in Echuca and Denili-
quin districts. Realising the need of sheep-
shearing machinery in Australia, he worked for
about 10 years and finally succeeded in pro-
ducing a satisfactory machine. In 1877, a patent
was granted for his original rope-driven
machine.
* * * *
(1) Number of ex-nuptial births in Aus-
tralia for the years 1901, 1911, 1921, 1931, 1933,
1934, 1935 and 1936, and the percentage on
total births? (2) Are these figures to be de-
pended upon 7 —9540.
(1) 1901, number of ex-nuptial births 6165,
percentage on total births 5.99; 1911, 7074
(5.79 p.c.); 1921, 6463 (4.75 p.c.); 1931, 5841
(4.93 p.c.); 1933, 5239 (4.71 p.c.); 1934, 4925
(4.50 p.c.); 1935, 4901 (4.40 p.c.); 1936, 5126
(4.42 p.c.). (2) Possibly the number of ex-
nuptial births is understated owing to diffi-
dence. It is not unlikely that the majority of
unregistered births are ex-nuptial.
* * * *
Names of N.S.W. Ministries since 1900, and
duration of office of each? —9s2B.
Lyne, Sept. 14, 1899, to March 27, 1901;
See, March 28, 1901, to June 14, 1904; Wad-
dell, June 15, 1904, to August 29, 1904; Car-
ruthers, August 30, 1904, to October 1, 1907;
Wade, October 2, 1907, to October 20, 1910;
McGowen, October 21, 1910, to June 29, 1913;
Holman, June 30, 1913, to November 15, 1916;
Holman (National), November 16, 1916, to
April 13, 1920; Storey, April 13, 1920, to
October 10, 1921; Dooley, October 10, 1921, to
December 20, 1921; Fuller, December 20, 1921
(about seven hours); Dooley, December 20,
1921, to April 13, 1922; Fuller (Coalition),
April 13, 1922, to June 17, 1925; Lang, June
17, 1925, to May 26, 1927; Lang (reconstruc-
tion), May 27, 1927, to October 18, 1927;
Bavin (Coalition), October 18, 1927, to Novem-
ber 3, 1930; Lang, November 4, 1930, to May
13, 1932; Stevens, May 16, 1932 (still in office).
* * * *
What are regnal years 7 —9526.
These are the years of a king’s reign, and
each begins on the anniversary of his acces-
sion; e.g., regnal year two of the present King
began on December 11, 1937. The system is
used for dating Acts of Parliament.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Karl Lieb-
knecht, the German socialist and revolutionary
leader?— 1 9533.
Born in 1871 at Leipzig, he qualified as a
lawyer and speedily became a prominent agi-
tator on the extreme left wing of the Socialist
party. In 1907 he was sentenced to 18 months’
imprisonment for high treason. In 1908 he
was elected to the Prussian Chamber of Depu-
ties, and in 1912 he also became a member
of the Reichstag. During the war he
violently opposed the policy of the Government.
He was expelled from the Social Democratic
party, and in 1916 was imprisoned by the
military authorities. He was reprieved at the
outbreak of the October, 1918, revolution in
Germany, and on his release at once put him-
self at the head of the Spartacists, the extreme
revo utmnary section in sympathy with Russian
Bolshevism. He was killed during the Sparta-
cist insurrection in January, 1919, for which
he was largely responsible.
* * * *
Order of succession to the British throne, in-
cluding the families of all Queen Victoria’s
50> 9525 Ut UOt thC f amilies °f her daughters?
The daughters of the sovereign are in the
order of succession to the throne; and after
the younger daughter, the Duke of Gloucester-
then the Duke of Kent and his children; then
the Princess Royal and her children; then Prin-
cess Arthur of Connaught and her son; then
Lady Maud Carnegie and her son; then
the Queen of Norway; then Prince Olav of
Norway and his children; then the children of
the second daughter of the late Duke of Saxe-
Coburg (his eldest daughter, Queen Marie of
Rumania, having formally renounced on her
marriage all claim to the British throne); then
the third daughter (Princess Alexandra of
Hohenlohe-Langenburg) and her children; then
the fourth daughter (Princess Beatrice, In-
fanta Alfonso of Orleans) and her children;
then the Duke of Connaught and his children;
then the Princes Alice, Countess of Athlone,
and her daughter.
* * * *
(1) At what age are recruits accepted by the
Vic. police force? (2) What are the physical
qualifications 7 —9345.
(1) Over 20 and under 27 at the time of en-
"Jtment. (2) Candidates should be at least
sft. 9in. high, and weight and chest measure-
ments must be in accordance with the follow-
I<n 1 <n g i SC o. l u : H ?'? ht sft - 9in.—weight (stripped)
lOst. 81b., minimum expiration 35.5 in., mini-
mum inspiration 38in.; height sft. lOin.—weight
lOst. 121 b., expiration 35.9 in., inspiration
38.4 in.; height sft. 1 lin.—weight list. 31b.,
expiration 36.2 in., inspiration 38.7 in.; height
6ft. —weight list. 91b., expiration 36.5 in., in-
spiration 39in.; height 6ft. lin. —weight 12st.
21b., expiration 37in., inspiration 39.5 in. Can-
didates, who are subjected to a medical ex-
amination, must be free from any bodily com-
plaint, of a strong constitution, and equal to
the performance of police duty.
$ * # *
What conditions must be observed and fees
paid by a man and woman, adults and resi-
dents of Sydney, who wish to get married be-
fore a Registrar ? —9347.
Marriage before a District Registrar may be
performed only by the Registrar of the district
within which the intended wife ordinarily re-
sides. If her usual residence is within the City
of Sydney, arrangemnts for the marriage should
be made with the Deputy Registrar-General of
Births, Deaths and Marriages. A fee of £1 ss.
is prescribed for a marriage of this nature.
* * * *
Recipe for bookbinder’s glue ? —9482.
Most binders use white glue of good quality
for light papers, or brownish glue of lower
quality for heavier, coarser work. The follow-
ing is also recommended: Place some good glue
in water for a while to soften it, then pour off
the water when it has swollen the glue. Place
the glue in an ordinary glue-pot, add enough
turpentine to half-cover it, and stand over a
closed fire to dissolve in the usual manner —
the turpentine is inflammable. Prepare another
mixture of starch and water to a workable
paste, the amount of starch being two parts by
weight to every one part by weight of the dry
glue which has been used; then mix the two
compounds together and stir thoroughly over
heat. Remove and allow to cool before using.
* * * *
Particulars of Count von Schlieffen ? —9522.
Born on Feb. 28, 1833, in Berlin, he studied
at Berlin University and the military academy,
and served in the war of 1866 against Austria
and that of 1870 against France. He retired
from the army in 1907, and died in Berlin on
Jan. 4, 1913. Von Schlieffen developed the
plan for deployment against France which bore
his name. Keeping a small force facing the
Russian frontier he proposed to execute a
gigantic wheel through Flanders which was to
pivot on Metz. In August, 1914, the German
army commander, the younger Von Moltke,
considerably diluted the Von Schlieffen plan
and, particularly in its execution, foliow?ed
other courses than those prescribed.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrases:
(1) Dum in dubio est animus, paulo momento
hue illuc impellitur ? (2) Jucunda memoria est
preeteritorum malorum ? (3) Necesse est ut
multos timeat, quern multi timent. (4) Plurima
sunt quee non undent homines pertusa dicere
Icena ? —9550.
(1) “When the mind is in doubt it is im-
pelled hither and thither by slight influence.”
(2) “The memory of past troubles is pleasant.”
(3) “It is necessary that he should fear many
whom many fear.” (4) “There are many
things which men dare not say when their
clothes are in holes.”
* # * *
Particulars concerning Howard Vernon, the
Australian actor ? —9544.
He was born in 1845, and, after making his
debut on the Melbourne stage in light Italian
Opera, toured India and China with G. B.
Allen, formed a company of his own which
played the same circuit for 4£ years, and then
sang in French and English comic opera in
England and the U.S.A. He visited Tokio
in 1877, and was the first European actor to
appear on a Japanese stage. In 1880 he re-
turned to Australia to sing in comic-opera
roles, and built up a reputation as an inter-
preter of Gilbert and Sullivan opera, appearing
in every play of the series from “Pinafore”
to “Utopia Limited.” He died in 1921.
* * *
Particulars about Lord Howe Island? —9559.
Lord Howe Island is situated in latitude
31deg. 30min. south, longitude 159 deg. smin.
east, about 436 miles north-east of Sydney, and
has an area of 3220 acres. The climate is mild
and the rainfall is abundant, but on account
of the rocky formation of its surface only
about 300 acres are suitable for cultivation,
most of which are devoted to the production of
Kentia palm seed. The land belongs to the
Crown, and is occupied rent-free on suffer-
ance. Discovered in 1788, the island was first
settled by a small party of Maoris in 1853;
afterwards a colony was settled from Sydney.
The island is a dependency of N. S. Wales, and
is included in King, one of the electorates of
Sydney. A board of control at Sydney manages
the affairs of the island and supervises the
palm-seed industry. At the census of June 30,
1933, the population was 161.
* * * *
Particulars concerning this year’s Laura
Bogue Luff man Prize 7—9500.
A prize of £lO will be awarded for the best
original essay on the “Life and Work of
Laura Bogue Luffman” or the “Life and
Work of a Pioneer Woman in Australia or
M.L.” Entrance fee Is., length of essay 2000
words; entries close October 1, 1938, and should
be sent to Miss P. Harwood, 34 Edward-street,
North Sydney (N.S.W.). MSS. should be
signed with a nom de plume, and the real name
and address of the writer should be enclosed in
a sealed envelope accompanying entry.
* * * *
Have the Laws of Cricket anything to say
about (1) the weight and measurement of the
ball, and (2) the measurements of the bat ?
9456.
(1) Law 4 says: “The ball shall weigh not
less than five ounces and a half nor more
than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall
measure not less than eight and thirteen-six-
teenths inches nor more than nine inches in cir-
cumference.” (2) Law 5 says: “The bat shall
not exceed four inches and one-quarter in the
widest part; it shall not be more than 38
inches in length.”
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the name of a a reef about east-
north-east of Palm Islands in the Great Barrier
Reef known as “The Slashers”?—939o.
Brief Answers.
C.C.: Impossible to say as the date is not
necessarily the determining factor in the value
of a stamp. For example, Jubilee issue of
the Gilbert and Ellice Is. is catalogued, Id.,
4s. 6d.; 3d., 155.; Is., £2 ss. When these
stamps were issued in May, 1935, they could
have been bought in that colony for face value.
On the other hand, certain of the Id. reds ot
Great Britain issued in 1856-58 may be bought
for one penny. C. F. Laseron, Bond-street, and
A. C. Campe, Sydney Arcade, King-street, are
Sydney purchasers of stamps... .J.G.: Write
to the Secretary of the War Department or to
the Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D.C.
A person who is not an American citizen cannot
join either the army or the navy unless legally
admitted for permanent residence in the United
States 0.G.: Get in touch with John Barns-
ley and Co., 507 Kent-street, John Connell and
Co., 355 Kent-street, W. C. Douglass, Ltd., 2
Foveaux-street, J. R. Love and Co., 97 Bathurst-
street —all Sydney—and Matthews, Thompson
and Co., 74 King-street, Newtown, N.S.W. It
is possible that some of them may purchase
the nuts. You might also try Waters Trading
Co., 51 Mountain-street, and T. Broome and
Co., 24 Pitt-street—both Sydney —and Nut
Foods, Ltd., 74 Edinburgh-road, Marrickville,
N.S.W J.A.C.: The U.S.A. is open to im-
migrants from Australia subject to quota restric-
tion. Communicate with the Consul-General for
the U.S.A., Sydney... .A.G.: The formula is a
trade secret and cannot be obtained. Useful
results have been had by using a paint made
from red oxide of iron mixed with boiled linseed
oil; adding a little brown shellac first dissolved
in methylated spirit might be an advantage....
J.P.: Write for quotations to the following:
Duffy Bros, and Co., 32 Steam Mill-street,
Caddy, Lee and Co., 8 Steam Mill-street, and
W. McEnnally and Co., 30 Steam Mill-street—
all Sydney. For vegetables only, write to W.
Smalley, Bettington-road, Dundas, N.S.W
R. 8.8.: Write for quotations to Jute Industries,
Ltd., 40 King-street, or A. Abrahams and Sons,
Ltd., Eagar-lane and Sussex-street —both Syd-
ney... .A.K.S.: Apply borate of glycerine to
the feet and bandage them. They must be
dressed daily and leather boots used if neces-
sary. The dog must be rested. Any spare skin
must be cut away, a little at a time, until the
feet are right. Give lOgr. sulphate of magnesia
and sgr. bicarbonate of potash twice daily with
the food. Never allow the dog to run on
tarred roads D.S.: The kelpie was bred from
dogs imported from Scotland. They were
short-coated Border collies. The name origi-
nated from one whose name was Kelpie. Colors
are unimportant, and do not affect their
breeding or working abilities... .P.D.: Write
to the Registrar of Births, General Register
Office, Somerset House, London. A postal-note
for ss. 6d. would probably cover the cost....
J.D.: “Griffo” (Albert Griffiths), former feather-
weight champion of Australia, was born in
Sydney on March 21, 1871, and died in New
York on December 6, 1927.. . .W.H.H.: The
Royal Australian Air Force was established as
an autonomous arm of the Defence Force of
the Commonwealth co-equal with the naval and
military forces on March 31, 1921... .G.P.:
The saying “The greatest general is he who
makes the fewest mistakes” is attributed to
Shakspeare J.F.: A. J. Cronin, the Eng-
lish novelist, was born in 1896, and saw war
service in the navy. He practised medicine in
the West End of London, but in 1931 decided
to devote himself to writing. Address, 3
Eldon-road, Kensington, W.B, London W.J.:
No records kept of their ages PJ.C.: (1)
The Australian submarine AEI was lost on
September 14, 1914, doing patrol work in New
Guinea waters. There was no evidence that
she was sunk as a result of enemy action. (2)
(a) 1929; (6) Oxley and Otway; (c) trans-
ferred to Royal Navy in 1931 H.M.: Dr.
Kurt Schuschnigg was Chancellor of Austria
from the murder of Dr. Dollfuss in July, 1934,
until the union of Austria and Germany. He
is 40, and is the son of General Arthur Edler
von. Schuschnigg. He served in the Great War
and was captured by the Italians T.T.: Nun-
dah means “north”; Woogaroo, “whirlwind”
and “whirlpool”; Kooroora, “native camp”;
Caboolture, “the carpet-snake”; Tingira, “the
sea”; and Yungaburra, “a spirit-place”—all are
Q’land abo. place-names... .W. 8.: By the Act
passed in 1925, summer time in England starts at
two o’clock on the morning of the day next
following the third Saturday in April (or, if
that day be Easter Day, the day after the
second Saturday in April), and ends at two
o’clock on the morning of the day next fol-
lowing the first Saturday in October J.T.:
(1) Lawrence Tibbett was born at Bakersfield,
Cal., U.S.A., on November 16, 1896. (2) Yes.
During the World War he served in the U.S.A.
navy P.W.: In America a “bus boy” is
a servant who goes round the tables at an eating-
house and removes the trays and plates that the
customers have finished with R.W.G.; (1)
The winners in the verse section of Australia’s
150th Anniversary Literary Competitions were:
First, Robert D. Fitz Gerald, with verse “Essay
on Memory”; second, T. Inglis Moore, with
verse “Druidic Gums.” (2) Winners in the last
Bulletin Short Story Competition were: First,
Gavin S. Casey, with “Mail-run East”; second,
E. Mary Gurney, with “Quiet Lies the Land”;
third, Steve Bennett, with “Angel.” Brief
Story: E. Dithmack, with “Five Silver Pieces.”
.... .C.P.S.: Samuel Jaboor, 497 Collins-street,
Melbourne, is the Australian agent for J. M.
Dent and Sons, and Eric Symons, Commerce
House, Flinders-street, Melbourne, for John
Lane (The Bodley Head) J.F.: Write Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
for Selected Popular Motor Boat Designs (19s.
6d.) J.M.: He is looking at the portrait of
his son M.J.C.: It is not essential in the
case of small estates. Where an estate does
not exceed £3OO in value application for probate
may be made direct to the Registrar of
the Court, or if the deceased at the time of
his death has been residing more than 30
miles from Sydney then to the district agent
(usually the C.P.S.) nearest to his residence.
District agents appointed in towns where a Dis-
trict Court is held furnish all necessary informa-
tion for obtaining probate or administration.


The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
&
I
What is a Good Investment?
TWO things, states the man of experience, should
be demanded of a good investment
"Undoubted security, combined with a reasonable
and assured regular return on capital invested." •
Wise investors, large or small, appreciate that these
essentials apply to fixed deposits with the Rural Bank.
It is simple and convenient to invest money on fixed
deposit with the Rural Bank in amounts from £5 and
upwards and thereby earn interest at current bank-
ing rates.
All inquiries concerning fixed deposits or the open-
ing of cheque accounts are attended to personally
by experienced officers of the Bank.
JhiAal Bxuuf-
OF♦NEW*
©
U
TH * WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“King’s Inns”: It is not correct to say
that naval enlistment by use of the press-
gang is still lawful, and was never
legally abolished (B. 21/4/’3B). With the
conclusion of peace in 1815 the need for
pressgangs (first sanctioned in 1355) dis-
appeared, and they were abolished by
statute in 1833. True, Nelson was an
opponent of the pressgang system, mainly
because it was outrageously expensive—
he estimated the cost at £2O a head—
but in the nineteenth century, owing
to the conditions outstanding in the
Navy, there was no other way of attract-
ing seamen. In Nelson’s day the condi-
tions of service were terrible—pay was
always months in arrears, food was un-
eatable, water was undrinkable, men went
without leave for years, and punishment
for even the smallest offence was unbe-
lievably brutal.
sj:
“Caballer”: “Centurion” (B. 21/4/’3B)
is not quite fair to Conan Doyle. In a
note at the beginning of one of the
Brigadier Gerard books the author men-
tions that the term brigadier should be
taken in its English and not in its French
sense. Also, there was a real General
Gerard in the Grand Army, and Doyle
knew this, as he makes his fictitious
brigadier mention “My cousin the
General.”
* * * *
“Passenger”; Of the dozen ships load-
ing wheat for Europe in S.A. this season
(mostly at outports, such as Port Vic-
toria, Broughton and Germein) two are
training vessels, one Swedish, one Ger-
man. The rest all belong to the Erikson
line ; Finland is steadily working up to
a monopoly in this trade.
❖ * ❖ *
“W.K.”: Early acceptors for the M.L.
Parliamentary stakes in November in-
clude the sons of three former Prime
Ministers: a Massey, a Ward and a Hall-
Jones. Most of the P.Ms. have had sons
to carry on their names in public life.
T. E. Y. Seddon followed “King Dick,”
and W. H. D. Bell (son of knight Francis
Bell, who was P.M. for a fortnight) sat
in the Lower House. A German bullet
put an end to what promised to be as
outstanding a career as his progenitor’s.
He sk
“Roodee”: The English Jockey Club
has banned the increasing use of rattles
disguised as whips. One jockey turned
out with a small tin full of peas attached
to a length of cane, and the Olympians
decided it was time to stop the joke. It
recalls a Mickey Mouse “short” of long
ago, in which Mickey got wonderful
results as a jockey by imitating the buzz
of a hornet. All went splendidly until
someone -stuffed the nag’s ears with
cottonwool.
-k Jk
“Ace”: For the sixth time an Egyptian,
Amr Bay, has won the amateur squash
racquets championship of Britain, taking
the open title as well against the cream
of European professionalism. Squash
racquets has a great vogue in Britain,
and, though it gets little publicity, is
forging ahead in Australia, particularly
in Victoria. Save, perhaps, for its parent,
racquets proper, there is no finer game
for training eye and body, and the courts
are inexpensive by comparison.
*l*
“Aigburth”: Australian cricketers now
in England who can be co-opted are the
Victorian Kimpton, rated one of the best
amateur batsmen in Britain, and Williams,
the South Australian all-rounder who
was well in the betting for a place in
the Australian Eleven. As to precedent,
there is any amount of it. Manager
Musgrave helped the team out on several
occasions in the long ago, and so did the
perennial Dr. Pope, who accompanies
every Australian team abroad as a matter
of course. The classic instance is Sammy
Woods, of Cambridge, who filled the
gap left by Sam Jones’s illness in 1888.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.E.S.: Slight... .E.H.: Not for us... .C.H.:
No H.S.W.: Not very exciting J.W.R.:
You should land it elsewhere... .J.P.S.: Ob-
vious R.C.: Hardly a yam G.T.: Not
for us the charms of that village maid
B. : Two or three years perhaps
F.T.N.: Mysteries a little too inky T.D.F.:
Send it to a religious mag G.N.H.: That
horse has been worked to a standstill 8.T.:
And that one has never started D.F.P.:
Hero, goil, villain and the little old home!
Can’t you think of anything fresh? T.N.D.:
“Is this up to standard?” Dunno, couldn’t
read it... .P.R.S.: Con Drew does it better
J.D.: Whither now? ... .G.L.D.: Not for us,
but would like to see some more... .C.T.D.:
“Phychological Entity” a bit beyond us
P.C.S.: You send their fares, we’ll send ’em
home... .8.P.: All entries that were accom-
panied by stamps have been returned
R.N.D.: Nothing very “magnificent” about that
crowd... .C.L.G.: Best you’ve done for a
long time; cut and send it back for another
once-over.... N.C.T.: No, that batch is the
first we’ve seen... .K.C.P.: “When the wind
screams in from the west, slices the crests from
the breakers and flings spume and scud high
over the cliffs” —and so on for half a dozen
pages. Out! 8.H.C.: Not very interested
in what the Chinese ate in 2000 b.c
F.T.L.: Find another dumping ground for
yarns of that sort G. 8.5.: Your old school
magazine might glance through it M;F.:
That should be a pretty fair indication
C. : We judge only by what we see
L.R.M.: Yes, about 5000-6000 words D.N.:
Even if it had been published only in Tibet
we still wouldn’t want it....F.L.: Try your
hand on a longer yarn C.M.T.: Sorry, but
they’re just not up....C.T.: They will be read
in the usual course, but we make no promises.
... .J.N.0’8.: Fair enough, but off our beat
S.L.: India seems to be its right home
L.V., D.S.T. and K’.H.: Try a daily... .D.C.:
“Little Street” up for repairs J.J.J.: Passable
for your age... .R.M.K.: This isn’t John’s
address... .J.G.J.W.: Fresher themes wanted.
L.B.D.: No, but poet from Paphos was
interesting B.B.: Tut!:
Now Harry’s wife is far away,
Two hundred miles from here,
Why, this is an opportunity
To get right on the beer.
... .M.J.8.: Not here....W.F.F.H. and J.K.8.:
Elsewhere, perhaps L.V.C.: Not “worthy.”
M.C.: A very giddy “Frolic” A.L.:
Never keep records of the sporting man’s tips.
.. ..R.A.P.: Don’t like the sort of bloke who
“had hardly known what it meant to be
thwarted in any of his designs” W.P.: The
would-be funny golfer is an old friend—and
one we avoid... .C.W.S.: No cheque for the
itinerant psalm-singer G.A.H.: Try it on a
flapper mag.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.H.R.: That decrepit gent, has knocked at
the wrong door A.8.M.: Why not finish
your sketches? L.R.: Wash drawing is too
streaky and the gag smells of the graveyard....
A.P.J.: Picture might have delighted your
home circle but it would hardly amuse a
nation... .B.B.: There is some promise
G. 8.: The harsh diagonal strokes spoil it and
the gag could be a little more clear C.C.:
It came, we saw, and it was stonkered....J.D.:
No doubloons for your Spanish bullfighter
W.M.: Couldn’t work up any enthusiasm for
that foggy effort... .M.R.8.: An untidy assem-
blage of microscopic figures.. ..S.N.: The
ornamental signature is the only piece of
careful work in the drawing D.H.: B. E.
Minns first illustrated that joke in the
’nineties E. 8.: Work doesn’t improve.
L.G.: Looks more like a Chinese
manuscript than a humorous drawing
C.K.: Jest about the sinking ship and
limejuice still has us puzzled J.G.:
Your trio of contortionists is tying itself
into knots in the w.p.b S.M.: Suggest you
pay an early visit to an art teacher J.W.:
Rural characters belong to the American
backwoods, not to Australia... .G.F.: Neatly
set out but entirely lacking in humor.
P.S.: Couldn’t get the hang of the cartoon
depicting meeting of Polar bears on drifting
iceberg T.M.: Gossips appear to have been
painted on the fence... .S.F.: What’s the
swagman doing climbing the waterfall while
his dog floats above the treetops? C.J.:
The old story about the donkey’s tail swishing
out a sketch would seem to apply in your
case W.N.: Too heavy and gloomy; use
more white space and lighter lines.. . . H.P.:
You know how to draw a flash of lightning
fairly well but little else. .. .8.C.: Same old
man, same old girl, same old raft, same old gag,
N.R.: Joke that requires four questions
and their answers before it reaches the point
has no place here... .W.V.: You have gone
the right way to begin a career as a collector
of rejection slips... .8.P.: Didn’t we hear that
quip over the air the other night? J.8.C.:
Dashed-off sketch looks dashed awful to u 5....
E.C.M.: We have met that fiery old colonel
at the bridge-table before.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It isn’t neces-
sary to go to New Guinea in order to
find hitherto - unsuspected well-settled
territories. Recent R.A.F. reconnais-
sance flights over Southern Arabia have
proved that many of the Sai’ar tribes,
hitherto regarded only as raiding, tent-
dwelling nomads, inhabit permanent
communities on the desert edge showing
every sign of prosperous agricultural
and village life. Over 50 townships,
some of considerable size, together with
extensive cultivated areas, none of them
previously known, have been located
from the air. It will be a little disturb-
ing to the Aden command to realise the
existence of an Arab population of
definite military importance in country
which has always been regarded as
negligible except as a protective desert
covering the rear of the position.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS,
1
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
m
m
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SuN Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505,
MECHANIC*
Study for Good HangarJobj
lAircralt Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
2 Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
m
LLEBE OF CIVIL AVMIQtE
Dept. 14, 355 a George Street, Sydney.
BRANDAIJFR’S
-
6<T.V
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. URA-NDAOEIi A CO. Ltd.. BimUHGHAH. UNO
Humorists, Conscious and Unconscious
Radio-twiddlers, Pekinese,
golfers, children and visitors are
normally the greatest disturbers
of domestic serenity ; the reader,
immersed in Nietzsche or Ethel M. Dell.
and absentmindedly dropping his cigar-
ette ash on the carpet, is the man who
does most to keep the divorce lawyer on
the breadline.
Even so, there is the type of reader
who snorts ; the man who has found a
new Wodehouse and sits in his chair guf-
fawing madly and maddeningly to him-
self. Anyone who wants to qualify for
this brigade of home-wreckers is recom-
mended to try Frederick Karinthy’s Soli-
loquies in the Bath (Hodge and Co.).
Present book-taster, brooding moodily
about the cost of furniture, government,
beer, etc., lost his self-control at the
very first sentence: —•
When I was 78 I discovered that my wife
had been betraying me with another man
for 54 years, so I went to St. Margaret's
bridge and took a lovely header into the
river.
A stormy meeting with St. Peter fol-
lowed this distressing scene, and, as a
punishment, Karinthy (he’s a Hungarian
humorist translated by Lawrence Wolf)
was ordered to go back to earth and live
his life backwards. He carries the idea
to a lyrical pitch of lunacy :- —
I retired for a few r minutes and then
returned to the room and began to digest
my lunch. Soon after, lunch was ready,
the maid backed in with the dirty plates.
Then having emptied the soup from my
mouth spoonful by spoonful, I rose. It
was half past one and I had to be at the
office by one o’clock, so I hurriedly backed
out of the room.
It goes on like that, with half-smoked
cigarettes growing bigger and bigger till
it’s time to light them, until he reaches
the age of 25 again:
I ran away with my wife backwards,
taking her back to her father and falling
in love with her for the first time. On a
night of passion I tried to touch her hand,
but she withdrew it. Finally we met and
I was introduced to her. Then I never
saw her again.
After Soliloquies in the Bath came
Breaks (Cape), borrowed for re-reading
from a friend who had been hit with a
poker half-way through it.
Breaks is not a literary production
(except that its editor has a neat sense
of the improper); it is made up of gems
of that fertile source of unconscious fun
Maddeningly to himself.
the newspaper (or other) misprint, with
examples, too, of the kind of thing
featured now and then in The Bulletin’s
“Elegant Extracts.” For sheer joy it has
even Mr. Karinthy beaten. No one, of
malice aforethought, could produce any-
thing quite like this gem Breaks quotes
from the Buffalo “Courier-Express”:
Morgan met his accustomed pursuers,
the newspapermen, when he emerged from
the courthouse. He varied his familiar
phrase slightly by saying, hT wel awibej-
fssufa-: cmfwypmfw.
A similar surprising piece of typo-
graphy was performed by the Youngs-
town “Vindicator” —which, incidentally,
is a fine stirring name for a newspaper
—with the following touching personal
item:
Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Hageman are re-
joicing over the arrival of a mafwpy
cmfwpy emfwpy cmfwppp doing nicely.
Possibly the interest of that item is re-
tricted’mainly to the scientific, but there
are surely both general interest and a
strange aptness in the next one from the
Tokio “Advertiser”:
Amidst a crowd shouting “Down with
shrdl cmfwy shrdlu cmfwy cmfwy cmfwy
m cshrdl shrdl cmfwy shrdlu shrdl mm
traitors!” and general laughter, Trotsky’s
adherents were compelled to seek refuge.
The Buffalo “Courier-Express” weighs
in again with a personal note full of
truly American elation:
Charles Sales went to Kansas City
Wednesday to meet his wife his wife his
wife his wife his wifezzzjdgwihwmyx-
ETAOIN.
The editor of Breaks has looted the
treasures of every English-speaking coun-
try. Australian papers have given him:
It is a curious sight when the garden
are in bloom to watch dozens of artists
squatting on their easels.
And
Only a handful of people in the stands
saw the start of the game, but they were
full after lunch.
And, magnificently,
The plumbers have finished their part
of the contract at the new garage, and
there now remains only the plumbing to
be done.
It is a curious sight.
Maoriland, where a Wellington paper
not so long ago wanted “Man to cut
firewood or mates,” comes into the pic-
ture with a pleasing glimpse of the coun-
tryside :
Wanted: Sharemilking by two thor-
oughly experienced men; 50 to 60 cows.
One married.
There is another Maoriland one fit
to quote, but this one, from an Argen-
tine journal, met on the way, cries out
for the light of day:
Mrs. will not be at home to her
friends to-day. PIGS.
The other M.L. effort is:
It is scandalous to see these Society
women going about with a poodle dog on
the end of a string where a baby would be
more fitting.
That last charming picture looks as if
it came from Mother of Ten ; the cor-
respondence columns of the dailies are
always a happy hunting ground. Usually
good, too, are the hobbies sections, the
corners where the lovers of draughts,
poultry, gardening or fretwork get a
fair chance of self-expression. An Ameri-
can paper offers this for bridge fiends: —r
When your partner is dealing the cards,
you should be snuffling.
Perhaps that is just a printer’s error.
It is to be hoped that the next is, too:
Keeping all food under cover is the first
step towards ridding the house of aunts.
And this one, from the Ottawa (Ohio)
“Gazette”:
Miss Hazel Gregg’s gladiola garden has
been attracting considerable attention ol
late. She spends many hours each day in
the garden and her large collection of
beautiful pants.
About the handiest hint, apart from
the one suggesting that plenty of robber
bands should be kept in the office, is this
one for poultry-keepers:
The first few days the chicks were fed
inside the brooder-house on pieces of
asbestos concrete sheets, 3ft. long by 211.
wide.
Country papers and the far-famed
parish mag. do their bit nobly. The Rev.
Canon in a Welsh paper is a true
friend in time of trouble:
In the evening the Rev. Canon -
preached with all his wanton eloquence.
And this one rings very true:
It would be a great help towards keep-
ing the churchyard in good order if others
would follow the example of those who
clip the grass on their own graves.
Just a mistake, of course, was the
“Church World’s” statement that they
were married and lived happily “even
after.”
A fairly frequent disaster in country
newspaper offices is this sort of inter-
loper:—
Rev. and Mrs. G. C. Bidwell and chil-
dren of (find out where) are visiting Mrs.
Bidwell's father, J. L. Boggs.
Even the great sometimes slip. E.
Phillips Oppenheim and Warwick Deep-
ing are of the company. Says Mr.
Oppenheim:
Erwen was a man of keen observation.
There was something in his visitor’s eyes
which puzzled him. Suddenly he realised
what it was. It was the whisky and soda
which he had set down, untasted, and
placed at the corner of the table.
And Deeping nods:
She had a pleasant voice, more like her
smile than her sneer, but the man was
frightened by an English voice, and he
submerged himself in his soup.
And one final bellow from the Omaha
“Evening World-Herald”:
After all, we are largely as Nature made
us, and Governor Smith’s smile was born
We are largely as Nature made us.
with him, just as were his Derby hat and
his liking for children.
“Pat’s Runner”: My old contempor-
ary “Bull-ant Bill” slips when he says
Tom Mcllwraith and Sam Griffith fought
over the exclusion of the Chinese from
Queensland (B. 21/4/’3B). Mcllwraith
and Slippery Sam parted brass rags over
the railway from Charleville to the Gulf
and over the Kanakas. Old Tom was
friendly to both, and Sam was against
anything Tom sponsored. Further, there
is no record of a Chinese riot in Brisbane.
Now and then a few hoodlums would
throw bottles through the windows of
the Nine Holes, the G.H.Q. of Brisbane
Chowdom in Albert-street, but generally
the feeling in Queensland then, as now,
was distinctly friendly.


If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
NO STYLISH CLOTHES
WOULD FIT HER
So Fat She Looked Enormous
She couldn’t wear anything pretty, for no-
thing smart would fit her. She had tried ordi-
nary “salts” without avail. At last, a friend
persuaded her to try Kruschen, and —well, read
her letter:
“A few months ago I weighed 14 stone 2 lbs.,
and my height is 5 ft. 6 ins. I really had got
‘enormous.’ It was impossible for me to walk
into a shop and buy anything really pretty to
fit me. One day, a friend said, ‘Why don’t
you start taking Kruschen?’ I replied,
‘Haven’t I been taking salts for months?’ ‘I
know you have,’ she said, ‘but not Kruschen
Salts, which makes all the difference.’ She was
so serious I bought a bottle on my way home.
1 am now happy to tell you I weigh 11 stone
3 lbs. I am naturally a lazy person, but I
found that as I gradually lost weight I got
more and more energetic.”—(Mrs.) C.W.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is fin-
ished, the fat starts to go. Then, month after
month, the scales tell the same story—a few
pounds less of superfluous flesh to burden the
body and endanger the health.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same' ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
m
a A., I m
i J W
-
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
If.
pfilsi
r Hi
III!
-iilill
js BSSSSj
t easßiii
m
%
mr
feKS
■1
m
w
m
m
A section of the
Rolling Mills
where the raw
steel is rolled into
sheets.
LYSAGHT
AUSTRALIA
VQ/ryjsJ/
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
BECAUSE only the very finest
of raw materials are used in
the manufacture of Red Orb Gal-
vanized Iron The Rigid Roofing
Sheets and because at every
stage from the rolling mills on-
wards, the utmost care and skill
is devoted to their production,
Lysaght's are able to guarantee
every sheet which bears their
brand. This confidence is reflected
by users of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron throughout Australia.
FREE —a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Pag'es from Wool History
BY HAROLD HAYSEED.
REAMS of conjecture have been
written about the foundation of the
Australian wool industry, particu-
larly as to the claims of John
Macarthur and Samuel Marsden. If
Macarthur is to be believed, there is no
doubt about it at all. The only thing
that is not clear is the part Lt.-Colonel
Foveaux played ; and that will never be
settled.
About 1800 Macarthur and Foveaux
each had 2000 head of sheep. Foveaux
was sent to Norfolk Island. He left his
flock at Toongabbie under the care of
Macarthur, but offered them for sale to
the Government. Governor King was
willing to buy, but when he sent for the
sheep he discovered them mixed up with
the Macarthur flocks and inseparable
from them. Macarthur took them over
at his own price.
The best account of the beginnings of
the industry was given by Macarthur
before the Bigge Commission in 1820.
It is hidden away in a mountain of
manuscript in the Mitchell Library. Few
have read it and it is worth giving in the
founder’s own words:
It is more than 26 years since I first
began to pay attention to the breed of
sheep. In 1794 I purchased from an officer
60 Bengal ewes and lambs which had been
imported from Calcutta; and very soon
after I procured from the captain of a
transport two Irish ewes and a young ram.
The Indian sheep produced coarse hair,
and the wool of the Irish sheep was then
valued at only 9d. per pound. By cross-
ing the two breeds I had the satisfaction
to see the lambs of the Indian ewes bear
a mingled fleece of hair and wool. This
event originated the idea of producing
fine wool in N. S. Wales.
In the year 1796 (I think) the two sloops
of war on this [Sydney] station were sent
to the Cape of Good Hope, and as their
commanders were friends of mine I desired
them to inquire if there were any wool-
bearing sheep at the Cape. At the period
of their arrival at that settlement there was
a flock of merino sheep for sale, from
which about 20 were purchased I was
favored with four ewes and two rams. The
remainder were distributed among different
individuals who did not take the neces-
sary precautions to preserve the breed pure,
and they soon disappeared.
Mine were carefuly guarded against an
impure mixture, and improved in fineness
of wool. In a year or two after I had the
opportunity of augmenting my flock by the
purchase of 1200 Cape-bred sheep.
Within a year or two, he had produced
specimens of wool so fine that British
manufacturers suggested special prefer-
ence for it, reporting that it was “equal
to the best Spanish wool” and “cross-
bred wool of considerable value.”
Macarthur’s tale goes on:* —
Thus encouraged I purchased nine rams
from the royal flock at Kew, and returned
to this country determined to devote my
attention to the improvement of the wool of
my flocks. I only landed here with five
rams and one ewe of those purchased from
the royal flock. It is- from these sources
that my present stock has been reared
6800, of which 300 are pure merino.
The year before he gave evidence,
he had sold wool in London at ss. 6d.
per pound. His methods were those of
the old-type British farmer:
We wash the wool as clean as we can
on the sheep’s back, and we suffer the
sheep to remain a few days unshorn, that
the yolk may rise in sufficient quantity to
preserve the staple of the wool during the
long voyage.
The sheep were divided into flocks of
300. To natural grasses for feed were
added turnips and rape and sometimes
wheat. Crops suffered from weather
and caterpillars; but the sheep lived,
weighing normally from 501 b. to 601 b.
and cutting a whole 21b. 7oz. of wool.
The dingoes worked busily round Parra-
matta and on the new farm at Camden.
So much for John Macarthur’s nar-
rative. One turns to the formation of the
A.A. Company, of which he and his son-
in-law were foundation directors. Links
with that time still exist.
The A.A. Co. remains in being.
Camden Park is a living entity, and there
are firms which derived from the sheep
industry of the eighteen-twenties. Each
line in the family, so to speak, has had
its own function.
John Macarthur’s was the parent
yvork. The A.A. Company was the next
generation. Its expansion to the Hun-
ter and the North Coast opened up the
squatting age. It bequeathed to N. S.
Wales many individuals who have, made
pastoral history—the Whites and the
Dangars notably. Collateral descent may
be claimed from one big firm, Dangar,
Gedye and Co.
H. C. Dangar, a Cornishrpan from St.
Neots, arrived in 1822. He surveyed all
the A.A. Company’s holdings and then
picked out a nice property for himself
in Neotsfield, near Singleton.
His younger brothers, Richard, Carey
and Thomas, coming later, became store-
keepers in 1838, in the age when Potter
Macqueen was keeping up a king’s state
at Segenhoe and bushrangers terrorised
the townships of the Hunter River.
Richard chose Muswellbrook as his head-
quarters. His brother Thomas opened
a store in Scone, and was there visited
by gentlemen of the road. Richard left
his counter with Denny Day, the Mait-
land P.M., and caught the marauders.
About that time, Richard went into
partnership with J. B. Rundle, also a
storekeeper, whose backer was Richard’s
brother Henry. Twenty years later,
Rundle retired. F. H. Dangar, who lived
till 1921, and James Gilchrist, who had
owned one of the first shops in Armidale,
joined the business.
F. H. Dangar became the manager.
Charles Gedye joined the partnership in
1870. The Dangars went out alto-
gether in the ’eighties. R. A. Malloch
came over from Perth (W.A.) after the
war and became sole proprietor.
All these things and many more are
recounted in a book, This Century of
Ours, by A. D. Fraser, published by
Dangar, Gedye and Malloch themselves.
In the hungry ’forties and golden
’fifties, D., G. and Co. took part in the
wars with bushrangers, blacks and
drought and helped many a squatter to
keep on his.feet. The firm joined with
the Dangar family in spreading good
horses, cattle and rams through the
length and breadth of the country.
When the wool clipper became a thing
of romance, the agents for the Cutty
Sark and the Thermopylae were the
Dangar firm. When Parliaments became
a feature of national life, Dangars sat
in them—H. C. Dangar, born in 1830,
was in the N. S. Wales Assembly and
Council for 43 years. And so soon as
stations had grown to be principalities,
whose owners were often vast com-
panies, Dangar, Gedye was in the thick
of the revolution which made the blade-
shear a thing of the past, and brought
in steam- and petrol- and oil-driven
machinery.
Fraser’s book rescues from ancient
albums a long pageantry of swift ves-
sels, great country homesteads, dusty
townships which have become thriving
towns, shacks which have grown into
towering offices and, lastly, a fine series
of photographs of historic occasions in
the growth of sheep-shearing, dotted with
faces which the west of N. S. Wales and
Queensland knew 40 years ago as well
as a modern world knows Don Bradman
—John Howard, Alex. Hutchinson, Has-
san Ali and many more. It preserves,
too, the features of Jack Gray, of Euroka,
who claimed to be the first man to
remove all the wool from a sheep with
a machine —he died at Walgett only a
couple of years ago.
This is a book to appeal to the station-
reader, especially to the old hand who
shared with the producers of it much
of the thrill of growth. There are, how-
ever, statements which call for revision.
For example, that “wool, at first dirty
and scraggy,” had caused London men
to “joke with each other about the new
economic forces down south” and, “not
a little facetiously, to bid 10s. 4d. for
the first lone bale of wool that John
Macarthur had shipped in the Dart in
1807.” It will not hold water. The best
of the first samples sent in 1800 were re-
ported by experts to be “very good,
worth when scoured 4s. per pound, if not
more. Another fleece nearly as good as
the King’s Spanish wool”:
Worth ss. per pound; and could the
colony produce such kinds of wools it
would be a great acquisition to our manu-
factory in England.
Equally inaccurate, if Customs House
figures can be believed, are some statis-
tics: —
In 1822 Australia sent only 175,0001 b.
of wool to England a year; but the figures
were up to a million pounds in the bumper
year of 1826, and from this point there
was no looking back. By 1830 the
2,000,000-mark was passed.
Actually, only the half-million mark was
passed in 1826; the 1,000,0001 b. mark
was not reached till 1829, the 2,000,0001 b.
mark not till 1834.
But these are small matters which do
not affect the generally excellent pictures
of life in those distant days.
C. T. Gedye could write in 1859 of
“great works in Sydney. People mad
drunk or something like it.... Banks,
Custom House, Government offices and
merchants closed for three days from
noon all about a game of cricket....
N.S.W. v. Victoria for £5OO a side.”


Mrs. Parsley Helps to " Splice the Maimed Brace”
VORTICAL LANGUAGE
BY HAROLD MERCER.
tsTHEM sailors have a way of their own,” said
I Mrs. Parsley. “Take Cap’n Felix Binge—the
I Cap’n we always called him. Full of vortical
language, as Mr. Slompack called it. ‘Avast,
ma’am!’ he says—the very first words he spoke to
me. ‘I beg your pardon!’ I says, quite flappergasted.
But when he spoke of being an old seadog who had
swallered the anchor and was looking for a mooring
1 felt inclined to tell him that prevarication was the
thief of time and it was no good him telling me he’d
swallered any such thing as an anchor. But I showed
him Number 14.
“ ‘Shiver me timbers, it’s a snug little berth —all
trim and shipshape,’ he says. ‘We’ll sign up the
ship’s papers, Mrs. Parsley, and then we’ll splice the
maimed brace.’
“The maimed brace was some rum he had in
a flask in his pocket, though he called it Nelson’s
blood ; and it’s stuff I can’t abear. Still, he meant
well, qnd I thought he’d be a very good tenant in
spite of his vortical language and the way he used
to sing ‘A Life on the Ocean Wave.’
“He wore a peaked cap and a reefer coat with
brass buttons, and everybody called him Cap’n in no
time. Sometimes he’d walk down the street with his
telescope under his arm to have a look at the ships
from the Point.
“You wouldn’t think that a man like that, who
called himself a simple old seadog, would cause all
the trouble he did and then prove himself a regular
sheep in wolf’s clothing, as the saying is.
“The tales the Cap’n used to tell! All about
shipwrecks and sharks and them spittoons that are
the worst gales you ever saw.
“ ‘When I was in the Barbadoes,’ he would start.
That story was about the mutineers who tried to
strike the flag, though what harm they could possibly
do with striking a flag I never could make out. He
told tales of all over the world, when he could get
anyone to listen to him.
“Mr. Nobuck Palmer was one of them that would.
Such a perfect gentleman as you never saw, with his
‘Beg yours’ and his way of calling others his college
“I’ll find ’im yet," she says, fierce-like.
*
friends to pretend he thought they had been as well
eddicated as he was. He introduced the Cap’n to
some of his friends.
“ ‘The Cap’n knows where the treasure is hidden.
You’ve got a plan of it, haven’t you, Cap’n?’ I heard
him say once as they was going upstairs with some
friends.
“ ‘Ye-es,’ says the Cap’n, not too willing. I
s’pose he wanted to keep his'plans to hisself, not being
free-handed like Mr. Palmer.
j (nr HR Cap'n became quite a well-known charac-
-1 ter. Even one of the papers got hold of him
and published all about his adventures. Only the
Cap’n wasn’t too pleased about that, because people
wrote to the papers about it. One of them said that
there was no officer named Binge on the Seaflower
when it was wrecked, and another said that the Tin-
can caught fire in 1896, not 1899. The Cap’n said
it was the newspapers’ fault for publishing the stories
all wrong.
“Nobody thought any the worse of the Cap’n for
that, and when Detective Burke came I never thought
for a moment it could be the Cap’n he’d come about.
“.‘You’ve got a Captain Felix Binge living here,
Mrs. Parsley?’ It was a bolt from the blue which
falls on the just and the injustice alike, if you like!
f ‘ ‘This is him coming up the stairs now,' I says.
“It was right in front of my door Detective
Burke spoke to him. ‘Ever been to London, Cap’n
Binge?’
“‘Er —yes,’ says the Cap’n. ‘Limehouse! I
know Limehouse as well as I know Sydney.’
“ ‘Don’t happen to know a woman who was Eva
Brice, eh? She married a Captain Smith at Battersea
in 1910. This is a question I’ve got to ask, Cap’n.
You don’t happen to have been Captain Smith, do
you?’
“‘Shiver me timbers!’ exclaimed the Cap’n.
‘What’s all this about? My name’s Binge.’
“ ‘You’ve got papers, I suppose? I’ll have to
ask you to let me see them.’
“The Cap’n went away with the detective looking
so scared that I thought the fat was in the soup, as
the saying is ; he came back all right, but he didn’t
seem like the same Cap’n until next day, when he
started using his vortical language again and told
me all about it.
“It seemed that that about a sailor having a wife
in every port came into it. Dim his lights, said the
Cap’n, they had a list at the police office as long as
a yardarm of master marians who was being looked
for on account of wives all over the world ; and some
of them might be living under an alibi, as they call it.
“The police was satisfied, but that was only the
beginning. The next was a tall, thin woman, with
a lad about fifteen an’ a girl nearly as big, who came
to my door.
“ ‘You’ve got a sailor staying here,’ she said.
‘Which is his flat?’
“‘There is Cap'n Binge in Number 14,’ I says.
“‘Oh, ’e calls ’imself Binge, does ’e?’ says the
woman. ‘Well, ’is name’s Jelly, which is the name ’e
married me under in Seattle. I follered ’im out ter
Sydney ten years ago, when ’e didn’t turn up, an’
now I’ve found ’im!’
“She was cocksure
about it in spite of all
I could say, an’ wanted
me to let ’er into the
Cap’n’s flat, which I
wouldn’t; but when the
Cap’n came up the stairs
—which I tried to give
him the office, know-
ing how some of these
awful wedded wives go
on, but he didn’t notice
—she didn’t even know
him.
“ ‘Here’s another
seafaring man,’ she says.
‘Perhaps he can tell me
about my ’usband.’
“ ‘This is Cap’n
Binge,’ I says.
“She seemed quite
annoyed with the Cap’n
for not being the man
she was after, an’ she
stayed there talkin’ about
’er ’usband as if we was
responsible for ’im.
“ ‘lt’s no use people tryin’ to ’ide ’im ; I’ll find
’im yet,’ she says, fierce-like. ‘And then I’ll let ’im
know what I think of ’im.’
“The next woman had been married in San
Francisco and had come to Sydney seven years ago.
She used to come in and out, knockin’ at the Cap’n’s
flat and going away ; an’ she told me that she was
sure ’er ’usband still cared, though ’e was a bit for-
getful. And when she found the Cap’n wasn’t the
man she was lookin’ for she was so upset that the
Cap’n ’ad to give ’er some money to get rid of ’er.
“Another woman, who came from Liverpool,
wasn’t so sure that the Cap’n wasn’t the man.
“ ‘Of course a man changes a lot in twelve years,’
she said. Which the Cap’n would have had to change
a lot, she having told me her husband was six foot
tall and had red hair. This one seemed to think that,
anyway, Cap’n Binge’d do ; an’ she used to call regu-
larly to see him, as if her having come after him
thinking he was her husband made friends of them.
‘“Shiver my timbers,’ said the Cap’n, ‘when I
ship a mate it’ll be one of my own choosing.’
“‘Too right!’ said Mr. Palmer, who was with
him. ‘Besides, I expect one of the Cap’n’s own wives
will turn up yet. You take it from me, Mrs. Parsley,
the skipper’s been a gay dog in his time.’
“The Cap’n, with a silly grin on his face, winked.
“ ‘I know if it was me,’ I says, ‘with all these
women from all over the world chasing for husbands
who was master marians, I’d settle down art’ not et
anyone know I’d been to sea.’
“ ‘lt can’t be done, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Palmer.
‘The sea gets in the blood. A man like my old college
friend here can’t help being an old seadog alter
spending his life on the rolling main. He’s going
to have a bit more of it, too. Don’t forget that
Sunday trip on the yacht, Cap’n.’
“T don’t think I’ll go. When I swallered the
anchor I made up me mind never to set foot on a
deck again,’ says the Cap’n.
“ ‘You’ve got to go. It’s all arranged, an’ a lot
depends on it,’ says Mr. Palmer.
oTHERE was a Mr. Piffler in Number 19 who
1 used to go sailing every Sunday. When the
Cap’n came it seemed to be a case of birds of a
feather being thicker than water; but the Cap’n,
every time he was asked to go out on Sunday, said he
had had enough of the sea. So I was surprised to
hear about this trip.
“‘I thought another of the Cap’n’s wives had
arrived this morning, Mrs. Parsley,’ said Mr. Slom-
pack on Sunday. ‘lt was only Mr. Palmer getting
the Cap’n up to go on a harbor trip.’
“There was a great joke in the flats about the
Cap’n being seasick on that yacht.
“‘There’s nothing in that,’ says Mr. Palmer,
sympathetic as he always was. ‘I know a sea captain
who’s seasick at the start of every voyage he makes.
“ ‘I was seasick the first time I went to sea,’ said
the Cap’n. ‘Of course I got over it. But, having
been ashore so long, it was just like starting all over
again.’-
“The Cap’n didn’t like the chaff. It was all the
worse because that was the time Mr. Nobuck Palmer,
who had always been a good friend to him, left.
Two gentlemen came for him, and he told me he had
to go with them to see about his estates, which was
in Chancery.
“And there was more trouble in the stores, which
there always is ; I guessed something was wrong when
them detectives came again.
“ ‘Cap’n Binge .anywhere about, Mrs. Parsley?’
asks Detective Burke. ‘He’s not in his flat.’
“ ‘He ought to be home soon; he’s just gone
out to have a look at the shipping,’ I says.
“ ‘l’ll wait below,’ he says.
“‘I hope it’s not another wife,’ I says. ‘They’ve
all proved bogies so far.’
“ ‘No, it’s no wife business,’ he says.
“I didn’t like the way he said it, and I was on
the horns of a tenderhook, as they say, trying to
warn the Cap’n. I left a note under his door and
waited about to see him ; but I never saw the Cap’n
again—leastways I did see Detective Burke talk to
him in the street, and they walked off together.
“Mr. Piffler came in to see me, pretty late and
excited-like.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he said, ‘there’s been some
trouble about a plan of a treasure on an island Cap’n
Binge made out. It appears that that Sunday the
Cap’n and Palmer went out on that yacht a man
named Bilger paid thirty pound for an interest. Later
he got doubtful when Palmer disappeared, and went
to the police.’
“ ‘Mr. Palmer,’ I says, ‘has gone to Brisbane to
see about his estates in Chancery there. I do hope
the Cap’n hasn’t got Mr. Palmer into any trouble.’
“ ‘lt was Palmer who got the money,’ says Mr.
Piffler.
<*T'HE next day a man named Pogson came with
* a note from the Cap’n to collect his things.
“ ‘I hope nothing has happened to him,’ I says,
very upset.
“ ‘Oh, he’s all right, the silly old fossil. Had a
bit of trouble with the police ; but that’s over, I
think.’
“ ‘I can’t make out why he couldn’t come him-
self, then,’ I says.
“Mr. Pogson laughed.
“ ‘I think he’s ashamed,’ he says.
“That struck me as queer, but 1 went up with
Mr. Pogson to help him put the things together.
“ ‘lt looks a bit of a job,’ he says. ‘Not that I
mind taking a little trouble for old Binge. We worked
in the same store for thirty-five years.’
“I was flappergasted ; a tenant could have walked
out without paying his rent, I was so taken aback.
“ ‘ln a store! ’ I cried. ‘Why, the Cap’n’s been
all over the world! ’
“ ‘Captain me foot! ’ says Mr. Pogson. ‘Binge’s
never been outside Sydney in his life. He’s always
liked reading books about the sea, an’ he got his
tales from them, I s’pose.’
“Well, blunders will never cease! Just fancy
the high-pocrisy of that man, using all that vortical
language and drawing a bogie’s chart of a treasure
island, which I s’pose he had got from one of them
books! An’ getting a man like Mr. Palmer nearly
into trouble over it!
“As I told Mr. Pogson, I wouldn’t hear a word
against Mr. Palmer. Cap’n Binge might not be a‘
captain, but there was no doubt about Mr. Nobuck
Palmer being a perfect gentleman.”


ft
t s
w
ct
Slow Kidney
Poisoning
Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Arthritis, Joint Pains,
Rheumatic Pains, etc., are all caused by weak and inflamed kidneys,
which permit impurities to escape into the bloodstreams.
FOUND THE RIGHT REMEDY
IN GIN PILLS.
W
*
“I was a sufferer
for a considerable
time with Kidney
Trouble, and failed to
find the right remedy
until a happy inspira-
tion prompted me to
give Dr. Sheldon s
Gin Pills a trial. My
appreciation of such
an excellent product
is beyond words. I
recommend all suf-
ferers of Kidney
Trouble to give them
a trial.”
Mr. A. Reid,
Bank Street,
South Melb.,
Victoria.
IBACKACHE>
Nature has an unmistakable way of letting
us know when our Kidneys are weak and in-
flamed and need assistance. It causes them
to ache and we suffer from what is commonly
known as Backache or Pains in the Sides.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are specially formu-
lated to assist weak kidneys, and can be
relied upon to remove inflammation, dissolve
excess uric acid and tone up your entire
system.
Take 2 Pills to-night — you’ll
feel better to-morrow.
1 W]
m
m
sleep
Can
k!
ll^OT
Can
I
vs)
Kidiic
Vvis
(it
s
Kidney Trouble is Serious!
If people only realised just how serious Kidney
Trouble can become —could see the suffering it brings
in its wake —they would be more watchful for its
early symptoms. At the onset the treatment is simple
and generally successful, particularly if treated with
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which is the finest Kidney
Tonic sold in Australia.
Weak Kidneys respond quickly to Gin Pills ana
general health rapidly improves. Lose no time in
recognising early symptoms such as Backache, Fum-
ness under the eyes, Dizziness, Swellings in the joints,
Rheumatic Pains or Bladder Trouble, and if you have
anv suspicion that your Kidneys are out of order,
commence with Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills at once.
■H I I
Ilplpi
soM> IK
two SIISS
Pp
pC pv: ■ p
g|pp ■■ &
p-->5- C ' p
PP
HE NEEDS GIN PILLS!
for BACKACHE
and Kidney troubles.
/RHEUMATISM
Most cases of Rheumatism can l»e traced solely to
Kidney poisoning:. The Kidneys have become
weak and inflamed, and are permitting: excess
uric acid to store up in the bloodstreams and
assume sharp crystal-like forms which lodge in
the joints, causing the painful irritation known
as Rheumatism. Since the failure lies with the
Kidneys, it is obvious that to gain relief from
Rheumatism your Kidneys must be made to func-
tion normally again. The quickest way to attain
this is by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills—the
leading Kidney tonic sold in Australia. Gin Pills
will stimulate your Kidneys to quicker action,
and in this way assists them to filter poisons and
excess uric acid from your bloodstreams. The
irritation in your joints will quickly disappear—
and with your Kidneys functioning normally—
your blood free from impurities—your Rheuma-
tism completely banished—you will feel full of
vitality and enjoy the very good health that only
comes when your Kidneys are in a normal healthy
condition.
Says “Gin Pills have benefited
myself , wife and
two grown-up
children
“I am sending this testi-
monial to let you know how
wonderfully your Gin Pills
have benefited myself, wife and
two grown-up children. We
have found them excellent for
Backache and Rheu-
matism, and have
been free from ill-
ness ever since we
had Gin Pills in our
medicine chest ”
Mr. George Christie ,
Gilberton, S./4.
Have the health that can be yours
—begin with Gin Pills to-day.
r WILL GIVE
YOU RELIEF
THE FIRST DAY YOU
TRY THEM f
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO "THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
.-{o'«,»• .
yyf&S
<*
JKo^
. »/ 0°
#> e ,<*•*
Vt«* .-•••
„*> A
//
>
v
f &y .u e v>'
?^i
to £s<;


fcnqineer
Diesel Expert 7
Our Chief Engineer will
show you the way
INTAKE
MNWT'I Exhaust
; VALVES
FUEL
NJ ECTOR
fSOVERNOR
feXHAUSTEft
OIBSBi
7U
a O\HER
Of
ro
DAY
FREE BOOK
IT TELLS YOU HOW YOU.CAN
W LEARN DIESEL ENGINEERING
JN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME....
DIESEL ENGINEERING THE WAY WE TEACH
IT IS NOT A DRUDGERY.
We deal with the practical applications. The actual work is illustrated
with hundreds of diagrams and charts. A student has not to wade through
lesson after lesson of theory or higher mathematics. The first lesson is on
the engine itself.
ĵ
j
ĵ
The Australian Technical Schools,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney (established 1923), are offering
a COMPLETE DIESEL ENGINEERING Home Study Course of Training
at reduced rates, under a very easy enrolment plan—Pay As You Learn!
The Course is under the guidance of experienced and highly qualified engineers.
The Diesel is here, and has opened up many well-paid positions for
Qualified Men. Whether it be a STATIONARY, a TRANSPORT, a
HIGH SPEED or a LOW SPEED Diesel, it is essential that the
assembly, driving, repair and servicing must be in the hands of
experts. These men must know the “whys” and “wherefores” of
the mechanism and be able to detect faults quickly and effect
repairs and adjustments promptly.
THE JOB AND THE PAY
Many Australian and New Zealand students have written and thanked us for what
we have done for them. Here are a few extracts from letters:—•
(1) “1 must thank you for helping me. Since getting my Diesel Certificate my
wages have been over £8 per week.”
(2) “The Course has made a difference of £4 per month in my wages.”
(3) “I am pleased with the Course and recommend it to anyone wishing to learn
Engine-driving.”
(4) “I thank you for putting me where I am to-day. lam receiving £6/6/- per
week.”
(5) “I have a thorough knowledge of the Diesel, and am pleased I chose your
Diesel Engineering Course.”
DIESEL
DO
THIS OFFER!
Each student is supplied with Instruction
Papers, Lessons and Diagrams, and
Illustrated Reference Books. We are,
however, making a wonderful special
offer. You owe it to your future to get
the facts for yourself . . . NOW!
One grateful student wrote: “If was a
lucky day for me when 1 chanced upon
your advertisement.”
POST THE COUPON and get the facts
for yourself. This may also prove to be
the turning point in your career.
***>"
MANY ENGINEERING COURSES
Other worth-while Home Study Courses besides Diesel
Engineering are: MOTOR CAR ENGINEERING, Shire
Engineers’ and Local Government Electrical Engineers’
Exams., all Engine-drivers’ Exams., Electricians’ Exams.,
Practical Electricity, Refrigeration, Electric and Oxy-welding,
Draftsmanship.
POST THIS COUPON FREE BOOK
N.B.—Write the Name of the Course favoured BENEATH Coupon ! ! !
THE CHIEF ENGINEER, ( B L - MAY >
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your Free Diesel Book, and tell me about your special
offer of Home Study Training and how I can qualify.
NAME
Occupation Age
Address
(Write Plainly.)
