

.A.
PLAIN STATEMENT
OF FACT
TO THE THOUSANDS OF HOLDERS OF COMMONWEALTH
BONDS MATURING IN DECEMBER, 1938.
THE Australian Loan Council invites all holders of Australian Consolidated
3 and 4 per cent. Inscribed Stock and Treasury Bonds maturing on 1 sth
December, 1938, to convert their holdings into the new £72,000,000 Cash and
Conversion Loan now open.
The interest rate is 3 j per cent. Price of Issue Par. Repayable in 1954,
the Treasurer reserving the option of redeeming the Loan on or after 1 sth
December, 1952. The terms are good, and the security is excellent.
Cash may be invested in this new Loan whether or not bonds of the
maturing issues are held. The cash will be employed for urgent Defence
purposes to the extent of £4,000,000, and for paying off those who are unable
to convert their present holdings.
Investment in this Loan does not necessarily mean that the investor’s
money is “tied up” for sixteen years. Either Inscribed Stock or Bonds may be
sold on the open market at any time, in case of need.
Applications may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office, or member of a recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
By converting your Bonds you will help the Governments of Australia
to carry on with their tasks, including in the case of the Commonwealth
Government, the vital one of Defence.
*C 0 nVeRS IO N A
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, A.C.T.
m
d
The Bulletin
\JiutfT '(fi/nj &*Jo.
Vol. 59.—N0. 3065.
Wednesday, November 9, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
MEN AT WAR.
The story in Michael Blankfort’s I Met a Man
(Robert Hale) has its beginning in a representation of
a detachment of Uhlans getting caught in the fire of a
company of German infantry in 1914 and the blame
being fixed on three peasant boys. Everyone, from
the company sergeant-major who laid the charge
against the boys to the three officers who comprised
the Court, is represented as knowing the facts of
the case.
Two of the officers are intimidated by thought
of the company commander’s influential connections.
The third, Von Lehring, dares to speak his mind.
Despite his efforts the boys are sentenced and shot;
and shortly afterwards Von Lehring is transferred.
He leaves behind him, with the men he had led, a
minor legend of daring and integrity.
This German officer is one of the two leading
characters. The other is a British spy serving with the
German army, who becomes Von Lehring’s batman.
The book is the story of a friendship, trusting on the
one side and treacherous on the other, but not less
real for that.
The character of Von Lehring is built up through
what the Britisher, known to his fellow-soldiers as
Kurt Holbach, learns of him. His mother died in giving
birth to him, and he grew up with an idealised love
for her that developed the gentler side of his nature.
It was matched by hatred of his father, a conven-
tional Prussian militarist. He went to a military
academy under threat of disinheritance. His father
died just as he received his commission, in June, 1914.
He resigned, and his resignation was not accepted.
Then comes the war, and Von Lehring, because
he is a high-minded and dutiful man, fights for his
Fatherland, while everything that is humane in him
is in revolt.
There are not many dirty jobs, from executions
downwards, that don’t come his way. He carries them
out with apparent imperturbability; only Kurt Hol-
bach, in the intimacy of their billet, gets a glimpse
of what he suffers. The restraint with which this part
of the book is handled is its strength. There is no-
thing mawkish. For relief from what is pressing on
his mind, Von Lehring talks with Holbach about
poetry he has been reading, or about his girl in Berlin ;
but the intensity behind these apparently trivial con-
versations is powerful.
Holbach’s character also comes through very
clearly: the deepening of his feeling for Von Lehring,
the doubt, and then the firm resolve that he won’t let
his feeling stand in his way when the moment comes
to forward information that will be, in effect, a per-
sonal betrayal. They are two men of a kind, each
committed to actions against the grain of his nature.
It is Von Lehring who gives way. He catches
Holbach transmitting information of a forthcoming
attack at Ypres to a British agent in Brussels and
fails to order his immediate arrest. It is the occasion
of the first gas attack.
As the gas begins to hiss from the buried nozzles
Holbach realises what is afoot. In a paroxysm of
horror he tries to get out of the trench to go and
warn the Canadians. Von Lehring tries forcibly to
restrain him, and Holbach turns and shoots him dead.
The denouement comes when Holbach, returned to
Britain, is calmly told by his superiors, “Yes, we
knew it was contemplated, but we didn’t think they’d
make such a diplomatic blunder.” They are men
remote from the horrors Holbach has witnessed and
taken part in, playing diplomatic chess with Europe
for a board.
/ Met a Man is neither pro-this nor anti-that. It
is an affirmation of man’s common humanity and in-
humanity ; and it is remarkably well done. Some-
thing in the writing suggests that Michael Blankfort
knows a good deal about the German war-time ser-
vice, His German soldiers are not generalised types,
they are individuals. Their most casual talk is preg-
nant with knowledge. The descriptions of life in towns
behind the lines are full of intimate touches, as this
of Brussels by night: “The tramcar and street lights
had been painted a dark blue, and everything they
touched was tinted with unhealthy, disinterred color.”
The book contains a certain amount of the “latrine
realism” popularised by All Quiet on the Western
Front, but it is not overdone.
The Power of Wowserism.
Australian writers may find something of pointed
interest in Laurence Whistler’s Sir John Vanbrugh
(Cobden-Sanderson), not in the work as an example
of biography, though it is well enough, but in the
account of wowseristic attack turning Vanbrugh away
from playwriting to find other means of expressing
his genius.
Vanbrugh, at the time in a strong position in the
theatre, was driven from it by an obscure clergyman,
whose attack on the theatre as a whole at the same
time won a victory over the most brilliant and cele-
brated writers of the day. Vanbrugh turned to archi-
tecture, in which “he had an ancestry but no issue,
bringing to an end what he also brought to perfec-
tion” ; find to gardening of the landscape kind, in
which his influence was long lasting. But the stage,
for which in a brief time he had written one or two
of the best plays of his day, knew his work no more,
save for part of a play, which was written after many
years given to architecture and gardening.
Australia has seen something of the kind happen
to Norman Lindsay. It may be argued that Norman
has been better employed in painting and in execut-
ing the finest penwork this country has so far seen.
That is debatable ; Redheap was no mean achieve-
ment, either ; and the likely truth is that, had he not
come up against the stone wall of wowserism, Norman
would have written more and greater Redheaps.
That is only one aspect of the matter. It is
impossible to say how much the literary creative
impulse in Australia has been retarded by the ban-
ning of a Lindsay. The general threat of censorship,
imposed and sustained by people and tinpot authori-
ties even more obscure and bemused with wowserism
than the Rev. Jeremy Collier, makes the writing of a
great novel in Australia at the present time almost
impossible.
The singular difficulty of this is that it is only
the writers themselves who can ever lift literary
creative effort out of this bog. The novel that will
enlarge the literary license now allowed will have to
be written despite the blanketing shadow of threat
under which the author of it will have to do his work.
That is the difficulty imposed by censorship, which
is just as effective in retarding when it is implied as
when it is actively brought to bear on some accom-
plished work.
When that novel is written it will have to be sub-
stantiated and established by the generality of authors.
And by the strength of the opposition that wowser-
ism and censorship have to range up against them,
theirs will need to be the stiffest fight for freedom so
far put up in this country.
It will be something to witness when it is made,
as it will be some day. For a long time now unham-
pered by such opposition, the painters, Lindsay promi-
nent among them, have said what they wanted to say
to the fullest extent their medium permits. They have
said it so well that the charge against Australians of
being poor creative workers won’t hold water.
What nature of struggle lies ahead of the writers
Vanbrugh’s story very clearly illustrates. Vanbrugh,
as his biographer neatly puts it, held up his faithful
glass and it reflected a silly world of vice, frailty and
selfishness. He was not encouraging those attributes,
for he was not encouraging anything. That exactly
is what remains to be established as the function and
privilege of creative effort in Australia. And there
is nothing harder to establish than exactly that.
The Bedside Manner.
When Jaco landed in England after making the
States too hot to hold him, all he had was his rod
and a hundred bucks, so he stuck up the Post Office
down in one of the villages.
But the Post Office, not being used to American
ways, simply didn’t know how to be held up, and
Jaco had to shoot quite a lot of mugs before he made
his getaway. There was a hick who went for him
with a spade ; he had to drill him too.
In the pub in the Cotswold valley it was the same.
They just didn’t know what to do in a holdup;
didn’t seem to know what a rod was, even. The land-
lord, when Jaco asked him to hand over what was in
the cash-register, said woodenly “Dawn’t use cash-
register, like.” One of the dart-players let fly at
Jaco’s ear.
The police got Jaco and he was condemned to
death. But they didn’t hang him. The English just
couldn’t understand a guy, and he gave up trying to
understand them when they sent him to the bughouse.
The story, an exquisite little satire on both the
Englishman and the Yank, is told in John Gloag’s
It Makes a Nice Change (Nicholson and Watson).
It's a collection of short stories of the time-killing
variety ; some good, some so bad that it makes a
nice change to walk out and scream at the moon ;
but nearly all, as time-killers, highly entertaining.
Gloag is a Voice in the 8.8. C., and many of the
stories were specially written for broadcasting. If
any of the hereabouts could get hold of them
they’d be popular. Without any pretensions to style,
he sets out to tell a story. He likes the trick ending
and Wellsian pseudo-scientific “ideas,” and his range
varies from simple, silly ghost stories for daily news-
papers to ingenious experiments with time that have
been published in reviews of the standing of London
“Mercury.”
One of the “Mercury” stories, “Pendulum,” ex-
plores eternity: a man knocked unconscious in
Piccadilly Circus sees time like a pendulum, swinging
forward through London destroyed and rebuilt, de-
stroyed and rebuilt, and destroyed again to be buried
in the jungle.
There’s another story that looks like a time
experiment but is really a trick ending. An antiquary
drops into the primeval world of jungles and dinosaurs
and sees with horror some vast spiny animal devour
another creature, black and slimy, at a gulp. But the
antiquary was recovering from an epileptic fit, and
with his eyes almost at ground level had been watching
a hedgehog eat a slug.
In much the same vein there’s a monologue about
a man’s experiences in the jungle. After he has de-
scribed how mysteriously at home he felt in the lush
gloom with its exciting smells of flowers and beasts
and dead leaves, he says he longs to return to it, and
his two doctor friends promise him a trip there. “Of
course I’d be delighted to go,” he says. “I shan’t even
bother about luggage. What’s the use of luggage to a
leopard?”
Those are fascinating stories. They are reminis-
cent of an unforgettable fable called “The Man
Who Hated Trees” once published in an English
magazine. The theme was that the placidity of forests
is an illusion caused by the slow tempo at which they
grow and die. Speeded up in the story, the jungle
became a wild, ferocious battle for air and sunlight,
and “The Man Who Hated Trees” was snared in the
parasitic vines and creepers that threshed from tree
to tree.
On the lighter side Gloag has a story full of
quiet humor about a country parson who suddenly
began “hearing” people’s most intimate thoughts.
Many other writers have made use of the notion,
but the embarrassments Gloag inflicts on the vicar
were well worth setting down. He called in the doctor
and heard him think “Blast! A doctor’s at the mercy
of every ninny.” He sought spiritual consolation from
his bishop, but his entry into the secrets of the epis-
copal mind distressed him and unnerved his superior.
It became impossible to live at the vicarage because
he knew what the gardener and the servants were
thinking to themselves:
Really he would have to get rid of Simmons. He
appeared to be a man wholly without delicacy; and he
began to have his doubts too about the maid. Of
course he knew that girls were more flighty than they
used to be, but really, really I
There are about 40 stories in the collection, and
if it’s not quite, the “perfect bedside book” the blurb
claims it to be, it’s a pretty good one. It has one
other strange recommendation: the review copy is
bound in a green cloth that looks just the thing for
the back lawn, the conservatory or a rough sea voyage,
and the blurb says the book is “ideal for the drawing-
room bookshelf because you can choose your own
color from five different bindings to match your
scheme of decoration.”
It doesn’t say what the bindings are, but no doubt
there’s one in chromium steel to go with those modern
furnishings that, look like something the plumber
forgot, and one in purple plush for the older school.
And perhaps one bound in boot-soles for artist Finey’s
admirers. The day will yet come when one can buy
Gibbon to match the new pyjamas or Longfellow with
only half a cover to go with the duchess’s evening
dress.
Canberra Scenes.
Capital City (Publicist Press, Ltd.), by Warren
Denning, has some very purple patches:
From its cavern behind the eastern hills a large pale
moon rises; and the vast sweep of the valley shimmers
into silken loveliness, soft as the dreams of angels.
Now the lights of Canberra are softened and subdued,
for they cannot compete with the luminant of the sky.
That is Canberra from the top of Red Hill. A
little later Denning comes down from the heights and
tries his hand at architectural notes:
Its long firm lines have grace and strength and
character; its windows and doors are purposeful things,
and they suggest to us that great and mighty things are
happening inside, that destinies are being wrought, and
a nation made, and great faiths upheld, and terrible
wrongs righted, and tyrannies being destroyed.
That is Parliament House.
Having surveyed the capital, Denning tells of the
City Commission’s unfruitful efforts to supervise the
morals of the citizens ; and incidentally gives a glimpse
of the pursuits of certain Parliamentarians when not
engaged in seeing “tyrannies destroyed and terrible
wrongs righted.”
The Commission discovered to its horror that
female typists and school-teachers were entertaining
men friends at their hostel. The practice was ordered
to cease, but soon afterwards the Commission learned
that gentlemen “were evading the edict by leaving the
hostel surreptitiously by the windows.” The Commis-
sion put a cordon of police round the hostel one night,
and in the early hours these were rewarded for their
vigilance by seeing two men jump from a window.
The police swarmed upon them “like flies on lumps
of sugar.”
They turned out to be Ministers of the Crown.
One had been frying sausages over an electric radiator
“for the edification of a party of bright young people,”
the other had been attending a birthday party in honor
of a member of his staff. Bruce was in office at the
time. Denning records that he was “highly displeased
with the police and the Commission for their stupidity
and with his Ministers for being caught.”
This story, one of many good ones, belongs to the
middle or anecdotal section of Capital City. The book
gathers weight as it goes. In the third section it is
wholly political. From penetrating comment on the
farce of liquor prohibition and the effect of the Com-
mission form of Government on citizenship, Denning
turns finally to express concern at the increasing ten-
dency in Australia toward government by regulation:
The growing emphasis on executive government, to
the exclusion of Parliamentary action, with its inevitable
corollary in the debasement of Parliamentary standards,
is a phenomenon which many observers in Canberra
have watched with grave disquietude... .Parliament itself
has but a fractional influence on the course of public
policy. Decisions, right or wrong, once made in Cabinet,
usually are implemented by an obedient majority which
has often no conception of what it is voting for. To
some extent this is due to the present weakness of the
Labor party, which is offering little in the way of
effective opposition.
Stories by Saroyan.
William Saroyan can apparently write anything at
all and write it anyhow and yet turn off a living story.
In his new book, Love, Here Is My Hat (Faber),
there are 21 short pieces picked up anywhere and
anyhow and all piercingly true, glimpses of the obvious
through the prism of genius: a rich man and his
chauffeur hoping for a career; two identical fools ; a
boy and a girl, very much in love, talking about the
quarrels they will have when they are married ; back-
chat in a restaurant on Saturday night; a newsboy
eating two whole pies alone and unassisted ; a gn 1
who couldn’t admire trains ; a pair of red boots with
green buttons. „■ ,
Saroyan has a trick of being very funny and then
suddenly serious, so that the reader is caught be nre
(Continued on page 8.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’
fd
c. >•
;
wm
m
m
ft
» r>* -t
rO ,
- *
/
V
M
*wfi
W*
v..:-;
■>»V.
Tmw
• *--,v.
£ : V
fvl
\
i
' - :: ,
o
-■ ■ : 1
/
■
L O
mm
■H
cr>
:
■
00
- ■
9
; . i
sm
I
! ■#*
J ■
.-if
<x>
i wi
"AERTEX" SPORTS SHIRTS
I.—Soft, absorbent cotton "Aertex'' Sports Shirts for
hot days.: Made with collar attached. Fawn, Grey.
Saxe. Bottle and White Half sleeves. Sizes 14*
to 17 inch neck. *At Anthony Horderns PRICE. 7/6
DRILL BEACH SHORTS
2 Cut for comfort. White or Khaki Drill Beach
Shorts. One hip pocket, adjustable buckle sides
Sizes 34 to 44 inch waist: At Anthony Horderns l
PRICE ; 3/11
Also in a stouter drill, with 2 front and 2 back
pockets. “'PßlCE . ...... 5/1 1
"MERITAS" SURF TRUNKS
3. —All wool, ribbed knit adjustable belt with rust-
lose buckle. Marone,.Green, Royal and Black, with
contrasting side stripes. Sizes 34 to 40 inch waist
At Anthony Horderns', PRICE 10/5
GYMPIE "AERTEX" SHIRTS
4-—"Aertex" Sports Shirts in fancy sell shades of
Blue, Grey, Green and Fawn. Half Sizes
14.’ to 17 inch. At Anthony Horderns' PRICE. 12/6
" LUSTRE ” ART. SILK UNDERWEAR
6 —Cool and comfortable Men s Art Silk Undershirts
athletic style, no sleeves White ox Sky Blue. Sizes
34 to 44 inch chest At Anthony Horderns' PRICE, 3/6
Also with short sleeves, button front PRICE 5/6
“Lustre" Art Silk Trunk Drawers White or Sky Blue
Sizes 34 to 44 inch waist. With band at waist, button
front. PRICE 4/11
Also with elastic band at waist. PRICE 4/6
9'Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.IV. and seaports m the Common -
wealth.
QUALITY TIES AND SOCKS
7—Fancy Half Hose in a wide range of striped and
check designs. All wool, except ornament Sizes
10 to 11| inches At Anthony Horderns’
PRICE, pair 2/6
8. —Smart and fashionable Neckties. Many dressy
designs. Blue, Green, Grey, Fawn and Marone
effects. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 2/6
9. —Fancy Half Hose. "Hordura" (Regd.) make
Latest striped, check and diamond effects. Grey,
Marone, Blue and Green All wool, except orna-
ment. Sizes 10 to 11J inches. At Anthony Horderns’
PRICE - 2/11
10. —Neckties in stripes, checks and figured designs
All the latest colourings. Double warps and silks
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 4/3
s.—Men's Pyramid Handkerchiefs. Assorted fancy coloured
borders and. allover designs in a hundred different effects.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each, 1/3. Half doz.» 7/3
Also in plain White Pyramid. Each, 1/-. Half do*., 5/9
And Fancy White Pyramid Each, 1/3. Half do*., 7/3
Anthony
FAMOUS
Horderns’
LOW PRICES
'PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT
BOX 27120 G.P.0., SYDNEY


Justice
OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M-ABBOTT
PORT REGULATIONS.
J-H-M- ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
MR. DANIEL COOPER, master of the schooner
Unity, lying off the Government Wharf in
' Sydney Harbor, took the printed paper handed
to him by the Naval Officer and studied it
attentively, frowning and muttering rumbling curses,
and spitting disgustedly over the poop rail into the
r sunny harbor, as he mastered its contents.
“Damme!” he shouted then, red-faced and wrath-
ful. “The poor poltroons.”
“Did you speak, Cap’n Cooper?” asked Mr.
Henry Glenholme politely. “Ye find it a little vex-
ing, perhaps?”
“Vexing!” The seaman regarded the officer con-
temptuously. “Be no means. Be no means.
The bes’ joke I’ve heard this month o’ Sundays. Here,
lemme read it out to ye. Hi, Mister Mate,” he called
down into the schooner’s waist to his chief officer,
busy with the canvas covering of the main hatch,
“come up here, will ye, Mr. Wilkins, till I read ye
this billy doo. ’Tis too good to miss.”
The mate arriving on the low poop, Captain
Cooper read this to him, very distinctly and bitterly.
“Headquarters, Sydney, 7th August, 1809.
“Three convicts and a seaman belonging to
the ship Sydney Cove having been found con-
cealed on board the schooner Unity, of London,
Daniel Cooper master, at the moment of her
intended departure from this colony, the High
Court of Appeal has decreed that the said
Daniel Cooper has forfeited the sum of £BOO
sterling, and his two sureties the sum of £5O
each, being the penalty of the bond entered into
by them for the due observance of the Port
Regulations; and as the only justification
attempted to be offered by the said Daniel
Cooper for his neglect and disobedience thereof
was ‘that the said convicts and seaman were
concealed without his knowledge or concur-
His shoulder was grabbed by the big con-
stable, who drew a pistol from his belt, and
winked a twinkling blue eye. “’Tis agin
riggylations for a polisman on escort duty to
go a-drinkin’ wid his pris’ner.”
>* r • ,
rence, the Lieutenant-Governor, to prove the
,„'i a . .
fallacy of such excuse, directs the annexed
„ w „ n * d 7 /
extract from the Port Regulations to be pub-
lished in General Orders, which he strongly
, , . . .
recommends to the particular attention of
„ , , , 7
masters and owners of merchant vessels trading
, ~ . , ~ , ,
to or touching at the ports of this colony and
'
its dependencies.
#
Article 25, Port Regulations. —Every master of a
tS be, IZL
crew, so far as respects the said ship or vessel in her
mercantile concerns and the application of the several
bonds he enters into, as also for any convicts that may
be found secreted on board his vessel (according to the
16th Geo. 2nd, chapter 21).’”
“Well, now, Jimmy Wilkins, what d’ye think o’
that, I ask ye,” inquired Captain Cooper angrily.
“Pretty kettle o’ fish, ain’t it now? Eight ’unnerd
sov’reigns. Eight ’unnerd o’ the best. Split me
tops’ls, Jimmy, but ’tis rough, ain’t it?”
“Cap’n,” responded the mate sympathetically,
“ ’tis worse’n that. ’Tis flamin’ hunjust an’ wrong.
An’ in thishyer gaolbird colony, too, run at present
be a gang o’ mutinous blackguards not lit to wipe
y’r boots on. A lot o’ lousy rats wot’s turned out
Cap’n Bligh from his lawful command, an’s carryin’
on robbin’ an’ thievin’ an’ givin’ thesselves all the
lands o’ the Crown an’ the best o’ the Gov’mint
stock. A lot o’ robbers. Then to do sich as this!
W’y, ’tis a wonder they ain’t gibbeted ye at a cross-
roads, Cap’n, an’ burnt the ship at ’er moorings!
They couldn’t do much worse! A lot o’ rotten
thieves, that’s wot they are —an’ I don’ care who
knows it.”
“Come, come, sir,” protested Mr. Glenholme —•
“I’ll not listen to such treasonable utterances. My
position forbids it. I’ll report”
“Report an’ be damned!” shouted the indignant
mate. “If ye don’t like to hear it, go ashore, ye
lubberly longshoreman, a-comin’ off a-tryin’ for to
bully better men than y’self. Oh, by God!”
“Sir,” said the Naval Officer with cold dignity,
“I’ll have ye before the bench of magistrates for your
insolence and abusiveness. Constable,” he called
down into his boat, “come aboard and handcuff this
person.”
“Put up y’r dooks, then, ye crawlin’ whipper-
snapper. I don’ care a tub o’ guts for you or y’r
magistrates. I’ll show ye!” Throwing off his jacket,
the irate chief officer shaped up to the Port Authority
of Sydney, who retreated in alarm to the binnacle,
•round which he dodged his assailant, that irate gentle-
man cursing vigorously as he pursued him.
He was interrupted by the arrival on deck of a
couple of convict constables, one of whom hit him
incontinently upon the head with a pair of handcuffs,
whilst the other, taking him in flank, flung a pair of
brawny arms about his body. In less than no time
the unfortunate Jimmy Wilkins, swearing and
struggling, found himself in gyves overside, being
held down in the stern-sheets of the Naval Officer’s
boat.
“Good morning, Captain Cooper,” called the
Naval Officer up to the poop, where Daniel Cooper,
master-mariner, danced with rage and amplified his
chief officer’s abuse of the rebel Government.
“Go to hell!” roared back the angry skipper.
“Ah, we’ll have him at the police office, too,
before very long,” observed the Naval Officer to his
coxswain.
“An’ good enough for ’im, sir,” sympathetically
observed the petty officer. 71 dunno wot’s a-goin’ to
’appen in the settlement if coveys like this ’ere shell-
back can carry on like ’e was doin’ aboard the
schooner. ’E needs checkin’, ’e does.”
“Oh, he’ll be checked, I can assure him, cox’n,”
said Mr. Glenholme, smiling good-humoredly into the
burning eyes of the wrathful sailor, very effectively
gagged with his own bandana neckerchief. “We’ll
take him to the police office straightway, and I think
I may confidently assure the gentleman that the
merits of his case will not be overlooked by the
magistrates. Oh, no, not at all likely, ha, ha!”
r* APTAIN ANTHONY FENN KEMP, of H.M.
New South Wales Corps, happened to be the
presiding magistrate at the police court on that par-
ticular morning, with Messrs. Garnham Blaxcell and
Robert Fitz assisting him in what passed for the dis-
pensation of justice during the interregnum subsequent
to the “Rum Rebellion.” And Captain Kemp had no
room for truculent sailors. So Mr. jimmy Wilkins
learned to his sorrow what might happen to a free
man in New South Wales in the year of our Lord
1809.
“Pray, what did he say, Mr. Glenholme?” asked
Captain Kemp, scowling down at the prisoner after
learning of his outrageous conduct towards the Naval
Officer personally. “What were his seditious utter-
ances?”
“Well, sir, I hardly like to repeat them in the
presence of an officer of the Corps.”
“Oh, proceed, sir—proceed. I trust I am a good
soldier,. Mr. Naval Officer, and good soldiers should
laugh at the disapproval of the common herd. What
did the fellow say?”
“He said, sir”—Mr. Glenholme was enjoying him-
self a little, for the officers of the Rum Corps had not
many real friends in the young colony—“he said ye was
all thieves and rogues, and was a-robbing the people
right and left, and taking up all the land ye could
lay your hands upon.”
“Ye foul-tongued blackguard!” roared Captain
Kemp at the unfortunate Jimmy. “If you were not a
free man —God knows why, for you have the face of
a complete villain —I’d order ye a flogging, and a
good one, too. But ye’ll go to gaol. Clerk o’ the
court,” he cried to a gaping individual seated at a
small table below the Bench, “make out an order
for this man’s committal to Parramatta gaol for three
months —no, better make it six—and one also to the
Chief Constable to have him sent there this day with-
out any delay.
“I’ll teach you, you damned seditious, treasonable
ruffian, to try to upset the honest Government of this
territory. But I wish I could flog you. What,” he
turned to his colleagues on the Bench, “do you think,
gentlemen? Shall such a fellow be allowed to libel
and slander the protectors and guardians of the
colony? I think not, gentlemen—l think not. What
say you, Mr. Blaxcell?”
“Oh, I entirely agree, sir—entirely. A very just
and well-earned punishment.”
“Mr. Fitz?”
“My only complaint, Captain Kemp, is that you
err towards leniency. I should like to see the black-
guard sent to the triangles.”
“Oh, well,” Captain Kemp apologised, “there’s
an absurd prejudice on the part of the Lieutenant-
Governor against giving free men the lash. But he’ll
get it —oh, he’ll get it. Make no mistake. Tom Hen-
nessy, the gaoler, is a stiff man. He’ll get to know
our pretty pussycat, I make no manner o’ doubt.
Take him away. Next case.”
THROUGH the warm afternoon Mr. Wilkins,
handcuffed, trudged along the Parramatta-road,
then merely a rough cart track through the scrub and
bush westward of the Grose Farm, the site of which
is now occupied by the University of Sydney. As
they went by the Brickfields, where gangs of prisoners
toiled in the huge claypits, his custodian addressed
him. A burly fellow this convict constable, with a
brick-red humorous face and a fringe of ginger
beard below chin and jawbones.
“D’ye see the small shebeen over to the lift, me
bould sailor mahn?” He pointed to a bark-roofed
slab humpy, with a clump of tea-tree behind it, stand-
ing a little back from the road.


S. H. FEIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
£.500
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is
offered as a practical encouragement of
Australian writers and Australian litera-
ture—“ Australian” being adopted as a
convenient term to include Australia, New
Zealand and Pacific Islands. All writers
born in these parts are included, no matter
where now residing; so also are bona fide
residents, no matter where born.
The Prize is an annual award of £lOO,
but the judges in the last two years found
no entry worthy of it. Therefore, the
amount has built up to £3OO for the
present competition, closing June 6 next
year.
This 1939 Competition is open to
Novels, Biographies, Autobiographies and
all other kinds of works in prose. Each
MS. must be submitted under a pen-name,
with full name and address in an accom-
panying sealed envelope. These will be
considered as confidential, and no other
name and address, except that of the
winner, will be published.
The winner will be free to have his
or her winning work published in book
form by any publisher preferred. Serial
rights will be a matter for arrangement
between “The Bulletin” and the winner and
the writers of any other entries selected,
payment for such rights being in addition
to the Prize. All other rights—book,
stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be
had on application to the Secretary,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office,
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
“ ’Tis Micky the RamV,” the
constable went on —“a licinsed
house since ould Gov’nor King’s
time. Wan of us, Mick is, a coun-
thryman o’ me own, an’ though he
looks like a ram his heart’s in the
right place. ’Tis the lasht house o’
call this side, o’ Homebush, Dr.
D’Arcy Wintworth’s farrum. Is it
timp’rance ye are thin?”
“By God, I’m not,” responded
Mr. Wilkins eagerly; “an’ if ever
a man needed a noggin ’tis myself,
Ido assure ye. I’ve a dollar or
two in my pocket, so come along
then.”
He turned off the road towards
the shanty, but at once his shoulder
was grabbed by the big constable,
who drew a pistol from his belt
and winked a twinkling blue eye.
“Hould hard thin,” he warned.
“ ’Tis agin riggylations for a polis-
man on escort duty to go a-drinkin'
wid his pris’ner. But if that same
woild pris’ner thries for to make his
escape, he’s bound to fire at him,
an’ chase an’ capture him, an’ take
him back into lawful cushtody, so he is. Thin off wid
ye, me bhoy, an’ seek refuge from the law in Micky’s
place. I’ll be afther ye. No one can say that Constable
Paddy Doyle’s wan to neglict his duty.”
Needing no urge, Mr. Wilkins bounded on to the
grass beside the track, and headed for the slab hut.
He heard a fierce bellow from Constable Doyle, and
then the crack of a pistol. Bolting into the open door-
way of the shanty, he stumbled over a cask, and with
a fierce roar the big Irishman ran in too, a few
seconds later.
“In the King’s name, Mick Shanahan —two gills
o’ Bengal. An’ how are ye, Micky, me lad?”
Unlocking his handcuffs, Constable Doyle bade
the mate of the Unity to be of good cheer and take
all the hope possible. “Ye shud luk at it this way,
Misther Wilkins. Here’s y’silf, tired to death o’ the
sea an’ ships, overworruked an’ underpaid, is give
an’ granted be Cap’n Kemp, the swindlin’ rapscallion,
a rale good holiday. Yes, a holiday—for that’s what
it is, no less.
“I’ll take ye to Parrymatty gaol, an’ hand ye
over to Tom Hinnissy—him Tony Kemp called a
harrud mahn, though there’s no softher or kinder
crayture in New South Wales to anny pris’ner houldin’
a dollar or two. He’ll make ye comfortable an’ happy
“Pretty kettle of fish, ain’t it now? Eight
’unnerd sov’reigns. Eight ’unnerd o' the
best. Split me tops’ls, Jimmy, but ’tis rough,
ain’t it?”
for the six months ye’re wid him. He’ll hire ye out
to worruk, an’ take all y’r pay —but, faith, what’s that
an’ all, whin ye come to think of it. Ye’ll not be
wantin’ the money. Sure, ye’ll live like a gintleman, an’
not want to lave whin y’r time’s up. So drink hear-rty,
me bhoy, an’ thank God ye’ve fallen into the hands
o’ Paddy Doyle. Faith, ’tis mesilf that invies ye, so it
is. Ye’ll be sayin’ ‘God bless Cap’n Kimp an’ Mr.
Glenholme for takin’ me before him’ before ye’ve
sarved sivin days o’ y’r sintince, so ye will.”
K 4 INISTERED to by host Shanahan, and both very
* * full of rum, it was late in the afternoon before
Constable Doyle and his prisoner resumed their jour-
ney. They did not arrive at the Half-way House
until well after dark, and here, once more, the comedy
of escape was successfully staged, a bullet from Paddy
Doyle’s pistol sent singing into the treetops, and the
absconding prisoner again recaptured in the taproom
of the wayside tavern.
And here Constable Doyle, overcome by his re-
sponsibilities and the best part of a quart of fiery
Bengal rum, fell into a deep slumber, from which he
could not be awakened by his not-so-drunk-but-far-
from-sober prisoner. So, swaying a little, and tacking
against a strong head wind of inebriation, Mr. Wilkins
walked out into the night, just sufficiently sensible to
realise that the joys of freedom were his for the tak-
ing. He took them joyfully, not at all displeased with
himself, till he staggered into a clump of swamp-oak
suddenly looming up in the darkness, and went to
bed.
Bitterly cold was Mr. Jimmy Wilkins when he
woke before dawn, and frozen sober. His limbs were
so stiff he could hardly stand, but as soon as com-
plete understanding came to him he realised forcibly
that in one way only could he hope for salvation from
the serious situation in which he found himself. At
all costs, he must get back to his ship, where he had
no doubt Dan Cooper and he could contrive a hiding-
place somewhere until the ship went to sea the day
after to-morrow.
Brave men have explored tropical jungles, have
made tracks where no tracks were ever made before,
but not many have been so dauntlessly persistent as
Jimmy Wilkins was in seeeking to regain the quarter-
deck of the Unity throughout that sunny day in the
August of 1809.
Without great difficulty—a few hoggings in
swamps, and once the paralysing terror inspired by
an untimely outburst of a half-dozen kookaburras
as he lay hidden in the bracken by the wayside while
the carriage of the Lieutenant-Governor, Colonel
Paterson, clattered across a rivulet where he had
vainly been seeking to quench his thirst —he came at
last to the outskirts of the little township straggling
along the valley of the Tank Stream. And here, as
he lay on his belly on top of a sandhill raising its
bald head out of the sombre scrub somewhere in the
position of the Central Railway Station of to-day, he
realised that the schooner was only to be approached
with the very utmost caution. One false step, and
Jimmy Wilkins would be damned —utterly and com-
pletely damned. He shuddered to think of it.
He was hungry now, but hunger meant complete
sobriety and freedom from the thick-headed misgiv-
ings that had made the morning a muddled torment.
Clearly, he was able to envisage a course of action
and progress that would bring him out on to the
southern shore of the harbor and, in course of time,
as near as he dare approach to Benelong Point, the
eastern headland of Sydney Cave, off which the Unity
rode at her moorings. So he crawled into the scrub on
the outside of the hummock of sand from which he
had been surveying the distant prospect of the little
town nestling among its rampart-like ridges a mile or
so to the north.
He made better progress than he had expected,
and by three o’clock in the afternoon came to the South
Head-road, another primitive highway similar to the
one he had followed yesterday in the garrulous com-
pany and drunken good-fellowship of Constable Doyle.
Peering cautiously up and down the empty highway,
he ran, bent double, across to the shelter of a clump
of banksia on the other side, somewhere close to the
present junction of College and Oxford streets.
He came down to Woolloomooloo Bay along the
fence surrounding the farm of Mr. John Palmer,
lately Commissary-General, but put out of office as a
Bligh sympathiser by the rebel junta of officers of
the Corps who now, taking orders from Mr. John
Macarthur, ruled the colony in the despised Gov-
ernor’s stead. He followed the coastline round by
Anson’s Point —known this century and more as “Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair” —and lay hidden on its extremity
until the sky reddened over the successive ridges
opposite in the west and the sun went down.
It was quite dark when he skirted the swampy
head of Farm Cove until he came to the bluff end of
Benelong Point, from where he was able to make out
the two tall masts of the Unity towering against the
stars above the dark loom of hills across the water on
the North Shore.
He was feverishly anxious to get aboard the
schooner, and trembled all over as he waded into the
cold, lapping waters of the Cove. Presently they
reached his middle, and he plunged forward and
began to swim towards the single riding-light in the
schooner’s mizzen rigging. The incoming tide helped
him, and soon he was clinging to the Unity’s rudder,
beneath the lighted windows of the great cabin in the
stern. It was a quiet evening, and he must chance
being heard ashore. No use swimming to the side-
ladder — there might be a guard of soldiers aboard.
But he must call the skipper.
Moodily smoking a churchwarden in the cabin,
Captain Daniel Cooper suddenly jumped to his feet,
the long clay pipe shivering in fragments on the deck.
He strode to an open stern window and leaned out
over the black waters of the harbor. Lud save us!
There it was again.
“Dan’l Dan Cooper!”
“Who the devil is it?” cried the master of the
•Unity in a low tone.
“Me —Jimmy,” came the response below his
feet. “I’m hangin’ on to the rudder. For God’s
sake drop me a rope’s-end I can’t stick out the cold
much longer.”
EXT day but one, below the deck in the cabin,
Mr. Wilkins crouched in a boxlike hole used
by Daniel Cooper for the stowing of contraband
whenever such concealment became necessary. He


was not alone. Lying flat on the bottom of the recep-
tacle was Constable Patrick Doyle, of the Town
Watch, despairingly come on board the evening before
with pitiful supplication to Captain Cooper for a
passage home and concealment till they got to sea.
The captain had referred the matter to his mate,
crouching in the cubbyhole below the deck-flooring
of the great cabin. “A good cove —give him a chance,
skipper,” had recommended the not-ungrateful chief
officer.
“Hist now —listen!” whispered Paddy Doyle.
“ ’Tis Misther Glenholme, the Naval Officer.”
Mr. Wilkins strained his ears—and what he heard
made him embrace Paddy Doyle fondly but silently.
“Well, Captain Cooper,” Mr. Glenholme was
saying, whilst a decanter gurgled and glasses clinked,
“here’s to a good voyage home. No, my men can find
no Face of either your chief officer or Constable
Doyle in the ship, so I’ll sign your clearance, and
ou ma Y drop down to the Heads on the next ebb-
I suppose I may say, Captain Cooper,
without your taking offence where none is intended,
a^ter those bills for £9OO on your owners
you ’ re * lit,le chary of infringing our Port Regain-
tions?”
ORPHELIA
BY PHIL DORTER.
“ QARMAIDS are all right, I s’pose,” said the
I \ red-headed Bung of Wyallcatt Valley’s soli-
tary hostelry, “but they’re women, an’ women
are too contrary and cunning for the likes
o’ me.”
He frothed a two-inch collar on a pint and slid
it across the counter. “Take Orphelia McPhillamy,
for instance, the only woman who’s ever juggled a
pot in Wyallcatt. She crashed in on me one morning
when I was stocktaking. I looked up from behind the
counter and there she was leaning on the rail.
“‘I want a job,’ she said.
“ ‘Yes, but’ I began.
“ ‘But, nothin’,’ she said, and came back at me
with a ten-minute broadside on poor persecuted work-
ing females; she told me her past, present and future,
and she painted a purple biography of her last boss.
“Well, I dunno what you’d have done, but I gave
her a job. I might’ve been sorry for her, or p’r’aps I
was just scared stiff. She was pretty near six feet, had
flaming red hair and a face you could file your nails on.
“Orphelia took over the run of the bar next day,
and within a week you wouldn’t have recognised the
place. You couldn’t find a spot of dust with a micro-
scope, and you could see your face in the rails.
“It was funny, too, how the crowd took to her,
though she ruled ’em hard. She’d laugh and joke
most of the time, and she was handy with a bottle
if a fight started.
“Business began to look up, and I was thinking
about a rise for Orphelia when trouble arrived in the
form of Paddy O’Hare. He had the blarney and the
smiling ways. He’d been in Wyallcatt for over six
months, living by his wits, borrowing here and bor-
rowing there and always laughing it off.
‘Orphelia met him for the first time when she’d
been here a month or two. He’d had a few weeks’
work of sorts, driving a couple of nobs round the ’fields
in his car, which seemed to be his only rightful pos-
session, and he blew into the bar wreathed in smiles
and covering up the cold of his greeting by his own
bluster.
‘Faith, Barney,’ he said to me, ‘it’s always telling
ye to get a lass I’ve been, but sure, now, I didn’t tell
ye to get the sweetest colleen in all the West.’
“The mob round the bar spat indifferently, and
Orphelia just told him to cut out the soft stuff, but I
noticed she hung around him more than was necessary
until closing time.
u | T didn’t take long. Within a week O’Hare had
blarneyed her into believing anything he said.
It’s a funny thing about women ; they’ll nose out a
bargain in anything except a man, and when they
make a bad pick with him they’ll never admit they’re
wrong. Of course, Orphelia didn’t know O’Hare like
we did, and I only tried to tip her off once. She asked
me where he’d come from and I said I didn’t know,
but he wasn’t worth much, anyway.
“ ‘lt’s just that he isn’t cut out for mining,’ she
said ; ‘he’ll be all right when the town comes good.’
“I knew it was useless to argue, so I left it at that.
“Then I guessed O’Hare was getting money from
her. He wasn’t borrowing from anyone else and was
spending money round the town and losing pretty
often at the heads-and-tails school, and then one night
I heard Orphelia ask him to let her have a couple of
quid.
“ ‘Sure, and ye’d be having it as quick as light, ye
would,’ he blarneyed, ‘but it’s right sorry I am that I
haven’t got it, m’dear.’
“ ‘But I gave you a fiver only last night?’
“‘Sure ye did, me darlint,’ he whined, ‘but I
went along to the heads-and-tails school to chance a
couple of bob with the boys an’ I saw big Jack
McNamara pulling a fast one. I told him just what
I thought of him, an’ his mates grabbed me, fleeced
me an’ chucked me out, indade they did.’
“Orphelia didn’t know whether to believe him or
not, but he turned on the blarney again, and I heard
her telling him with a glint in her eye, ‘I can’t stand
liars, and if I could I can’t stand liars who are thieves,
and if I could stand liars who are thieves I still can’t
stand a crooked gambler. Anyway, I never did trust
that McNamara and his mob.’
“I was going to put her right about Mac, but I
knew it wouldn’t do any good, so I let it go, and
practically forgot all about it till the boys came in
a couple of days later and told me the finish of the
story.
“They were up in the shed rolling the bones when
it happened. There was about twenty quid in notes on
the table, and the place was as quiet as a morgue except
for the rattle and click of the dice. Suddenly the door
flew open, and there stood Orphelia with her flaming
red hair blowing in the wind and looking like one of
them female dragons. In her hand she had a long plug
qf cheese-like stuff plugged with a bit of spluttering,
spitting fuse. The fuse had about an inch to go before
it hit the plug. Orphelia chucked it bang in the middle
of the table.
“There was about twenty men in the room, and
they cleared it through two windows and one door
inside an even second. They covered fifty yards or so
in another five seconds and waited for the roar.
“They waited for ten minutes and nothing hap-
pened, so they went back. The twenty quid had gone,
but the plug of cheese-like stuff was still lying on the
table. As I said, there were twenty of them, all
miners, and not one recognised the difference between
a length of ordinary washing soap and a stick of gelig-
nite.
“The crowd didn’t want to cut up on Orphelia,
so they came to see me next morning. I reckoned
I’d have to do a bit of straight talking to her, so I
called her into the office.
“ ‘What’d you do with the twenty quid you col-
lared last night?’ I asked.
“ ‘Gave it to Paddy,’ she said easily.
“ ‘Listen,’ I said quietly, ‘O’Hare is the meanest
little skunk around these parts, and it’s time you knew
it He’s never done a turn of honest work since he’s
been here. He’s borrowed from half the town with no
intention of squaring up, and he’s scattered dud
cheques everywhere. He lost that fiver you lent him ;
McNamara’s never played a crooked game in his life.
And you might as well know that what time O’Hare
doesn’t spend borrowing from you he spends with
Molly O’Shea up at the mess.’
“Orphelia looked at me pretty hard for a minute ;
then she just said ‘Thanks.’
“(■"YHARE came into the bar about midday, and
she collared him.
“ ‘Why, you dirty, lowdown, double-crossing little
rat,’ she yelled, brandishing a pot under his face, ‘l’ve
seen some pretty low insects, but it’s a marvel to me
you keep your chin off the ground.’ She lifted the pot
to crown him and O’Hare gave in.
“ ‘Listen a minute,’ he whined; ‘listen a minute
an’ I’ll explain it all. I know it’s in the wrong I am,
but I’ll tell ye what I’ll do. I owe ye about thirty.”
“ ‘Fifty,’ corrected Orphelia.
“ ‘Well, fifty then. Well, I’ll let ye have my
car for your note for fifty. Then it’s a two-hundred-
pound car ye’ll be getting for a hundred.”
“Orphelia thought quickly, and she took it on.
The deal was completed in my office. She gave
O’Hare a promissory-note for £5O, with my guarantee,
and he made over the car to her. He left for the city
next day and took Molly O’Shea with him.”
“And did she send him the fifty?” I asked.
“In a way. After he’d gone Orphelia was sore she
hadn’t crowned him. She brooded for a day or two,
then, remembering something I’d said about dud
cheques, she toured the town* and collected £5O-worth
for a fiver. She posted them to O’Hare with myself
and the postmaster as witnesses.”
WRECKAGE
By OLAF RUHEN.
HE fish were not biting. Eirik steamed his
/ launch up against the drift again, and as he
passed me he shook his head and pointed up
into the nor’-west. I nodded briefly. We had
both been expecting the storm all morning. Eirik
shouted something, but his words were lost in the
noise of his rattletrap engine.
Hardly a minute later I saw the wind ruffling the
water between us and the shore. Then it hit us.
Eirik did not wet his lines again, but turned and made
homewards. I left mine down while I lashed every-
thing secure and pumped out my bilge.
I was thinking of old Peter. To-day he was
bringing his launch up the coast. I had seen her
when he bought her down at the Bluff a week before,
and I wasn’t impressed. She didn’t cost him more
than thirty pounds, and you can’t get anything much
for that money. ,?The engine was on its last legs. He
had another to put into her, but he had reckoned
the old one good enough for the trip up. He would
have a contract without sails if anything went wrong
in this wind.
I started the engine, and as I turned to make
the run home I saw his mast. I felt better then ;
after all, he was nearly home now. I wondered
whether I should stand by. I knew he could see me ;
my two masts were both higher than his one, and
old Peter never missed anything. If he wanted me he
would hoist a bucket or something.
The shore was a scant hour away in fair weather.
It took me three hours that afternoon to make the
harbor mouth, and I had been ashore a full half-
hour when Eirik came in.
“Old Peter won’t try it if he sees that nor’-west
sky,” said Eirik as soon as he landed.
“He’ll be here in an hour with any luck,” I
replied. “I saw him as I left the grounds.”
Eirik pursed his lips and said nothing.
DETER didn’t arrive that night, and Eirik and I
* were on the wharf at daybreak. We took my
launch and set off. At the harbor mouth we saw the
wreck, a few scattered planks on the reef, a mast
wedged between the rocks, pointing seaward. That
was all.
That reef was our bugbear ; always had been in
nor’-west weather. It kept the harbor sheltered from
the south’ard, but stood too close in. There was no
room to ride at anchor if anything went wrong. Old
Peter’s engine had failed him right by the entrance
inside the reef. Probably if he had time he had
dropped his pick ; in any case it would have made no
difference with that wind. Only one thing to do now,
find the body. That was not important either. Old
Peter would rather be at sea with his friends, but
somehow people expect it.
I turned the launch and we cruised back up the
harbor. Eirik cleared his throat. “That vos von fine
feller,” he said. “You know, old Pete and me, we
are so thick as thieves.”
I said nothing. So the old man had grown wings.
Eirik and Peter the Finn had been about as friendly as
a whale and a thresher shark.
It was nearly low tide, so we ran the launch up
on the beach, dropped the anchor well up on the sand
and set off. That saved us a couple of hours. All
the way along the beach Eirik regaled me with tales
of Peter, by now the best friend ever he had; but
though I had liked the old man my knowledge of
him did not exactly coincide with the images Eirik
was conjuring up.
“Ve vos yoost like two big brothers, an’ only
las’ veek Peter says to me, ‘Eirik,’ he says” His
voice was a tireless accompaniment to our walk.
The beach was bare save for a few logs of drift-
wood, and our search among the rocks at the far
end availed us nothing. At last we gave up, and
walked slowly back along the beach.
Something moved behind one of the logs. I
stopped, and stared at it.
“Von old bull-seal,” said Eirik. “I see him here
often. How you like to be old bull-seal, eh? Lie
round and do nothing.”
A grey head appeared above the log, and two
light-blue eyes regarded us dispassionately.
“Peter!” I yelled, and ran forward.
Peter rose slowly to his feet, a difficult operation,
because hugged close to his chest was a large rum-
jar, from which he appeared disinclined to loose either
arm.
“Bull-seal, is it?” he roared. “I show you bull-
seal.” And he started to dance, rocking his head
and clenching his fists, but keeping his arms well round
the rum-jar.
“Ole fool,” yelled Eirik. “Big fathead, you got
no brains at all!”
I managed to stop them, and get them friendly
enough to share what was left of the rum. Then we
took Peter home and put him to bed.
“Nothing but von blasted old nuisance,” said
Eirik as we walked away. “I thought we seen the last
of him.”
I don’t know what my answer was. My mind
was occupied with a problem. I haven’t solved it yet.
How on earth did old Peter swim a good quarter-
mile against the wind with both arms round a rum-
jar?.


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First . £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
„ Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Out in the Cow Country
MOLESKINS
By CON DREWS
DRAWING BY SUCH.
BEIN’ at a loose end one summer me an’ Finger
Harris thought we’d test the financial stabili-
ties of the gents in the cocky country with a
game called under and over. We should have
stayed in the cushion. The pig sales were on at
Bungebango or somewhere, and everyone who could
raise the fare had ambled off to witness them.
We tried out two or three townships, but they
were as devoid of able-bodied as racecourse
beer is of hops, and meanwhile our bank roll was
gettin’ smaller and smaller. When we’d been about
two weeks on the road Finger suggested that we make
for a town called Halfo, as the dump was due to
hold its annual race meetin’.
We hit the town the night before the races, and
in a room off the billiard-room at the pub we intro-
duced the under and over. We got plenty of lookers-
on, but they hung on to their money as a woman
hangs on to her youth. We packed up the under and
over and put down the mosh layout, but still we
drew a blank. As a last resort we tried them with
the Yankee sweat-wheel, a game which shows a paltry
forty per cent, to the operator. We couldn’t prize a
shillin’ loose from anyone.
“All right, gents,” says Finger, puttin’ by the
gear ; “if you’d sooner work for money instead of
havin’ it given to you the fault is yours, not mine.
The entertainment is over.”
| T was well and truly over. If Finger hadn’t come
1 to light with a frogskin he had smoked away we
wouldn’t have been able to get to the course next day.
The bookies were already bettin’ on the first race
when we arrived, and we strolled around the bettin’
ring to see what was doin’. They were a rough-
lookin’ lot of fielders ; blokes who did nothin’ but
foller the country meetin’s. Deuces the field they
was offerin’.
All of a sudden me and Finger got the shock of
our lives. Perched on a makeshift stand and yellin’
the odds for all he was worth was a bloke we knew
called Scaler Noonan. Scaler had done some high
financin’ in Sydney some three months previous, and
bein’ unable to settle with his clients had disappeared
like a palmed coin. He still swung the same old
bettin’ bag with his name painted on it in glarin’ green
letters. Below them was painted “Long odds and
civility.”
“Hello, Scaler,” says Finger, goin’ up to him.
“How long have you been decoratin’ the local land-
scape?”
“Me and my clerk lobbed here this mornin’,”
answers Scaler. “We’ve been followin’ the race meet-
in’s.”
“Business been good?” asks Finger.
“Rotten,” says Scaler. “We had only enough
money this mornin’ to pay our bettin’ fee.”
“You’re takin’ a bit of a risk bettin’ with nothin’,
ain’t you?” says Finger.
“No more than usual,” laughs Scaler. “If I ain’t
here after the race I’ll be somewhere else, I suppose.”
Just then a bloke in a hat that would have
covered a flour barrel goes over to the blackboard and
starts to write up the jockeys’ names. He writes up a
name or two opposite the number of the horses they
are goin’ to ride, and when he comes to number six
he writes “T. Brogan.”
Cripes! Before you could say Saint Phar Lap
a crowd of punters is rushin’ through the ring back-
in’ Brogan’s mount Frolic * for all they were worth.
Me and Finger follered them round to see the fun. In
no time Frolic had dropped from twos to even money.
“That’s funny,” says Finger, “I’ve seen some wild
rushes when a crack jockey’s name is hoisted, but this
beats the lot. Excuse me, brother,” he says, pullin’
up an old bloke in moleskin pants and a coat which ■
looked about two sizes too large for him. “My friend
here was askin’ for some information about Brogan
the jockey. Could you tell me if he’s a local man?”
Moleskins removes his wide-brimmed hat and
scratches his head. “Well, he ain’t exactly what you’d
call a local man,” he answers, “but he’s been ridin’
in the district for a couple of years.”
“Thanks for the information,” says Finger. “I
can see that the racegoers think a lot of him.”
“They do so,” says Moleskins.
“He must be really good,” says Finger. “I sup-
pose you follow his mounts?”
“I never miss him,” Moleskins admits. “I backed
Frolic just now.”
“At even money?”
“Better than that,” says Moleskins, “I got two
to one.”
“You lucky dog,” says Finger, bangin’ him on the
shoulder. “Why, it’s hard to get on him at evens.
That needs celebratin’. You must join my friend
and me in a drink.”
Without givin’ Moleskins time to reply Finger
led the way to the liquor booth, which was on the
other side of the bettin’ ring. They slugged us up for
three bob, and by amazin’ good luck Finger was
able to pull the weight. Moleskins, who told us his
name was Styles, wanted to return the shout, but
Finger shook his head. “Not just now, thanks,” says
he. “Maybe we’ll have one later on.”
We separated ourselves from Moleskins and went
back to the bettin’ ring.
“You didn’t spend our last three rogues on Mole-
skins just to see him swaller a whisky, I suppose?”
says I.
“Not likely,” answers Finger. “We’ll pick him
up just before the race starts. I’ve a couple of things
to say to him.”
We put in the intervenin’ time strollin’ about
the ring. A couple of times we passed Scaler Noonan,
and he was bettin’ fit to beat the band.
The second time he leans over to
Finger and says: “If the favorite wins
I’m a goner ; he’s takin’ out eighty
quid.”
“Why don’t you lay some of
them outsiders?” says Finger. “It’d
ease your book for you.”
“I’ve tried to lay the cows,” says
Scaler, “but the mugs want nothin’
else but Frolic. If he wins they’ll
have to number me with the missin’.”
“And they’ll ring the Lutine Bell
at Lloyd’s once more,” laughs Finger.
“Oh, well, I suppose it’s all in the
game.” And with that we walk away.
A COUPLE of minutes before the
race we seen Moleskins down at
the fence waitin’ to see the start, and
up we go and breast him.
“Ah! We meet again,” says
Finger. “I see your horse has hard-
ened to an almost prohibitive price,
Mr. Styles.”
“Yes,” answers Moleskins.
“That’s Frolic goin’ to breast the-
barrier now,” says Finger, pointin’ to
a big bay horse in green. “They’ll be
off in a second. Ah! There they go
now,” he cried as the barrier shot up. “I see my horse
Clayton has got a good start.”
Moleskins turns and looks at Finger. “Did you
back Clayton?” he asks.
“Oh, I only put a tenner on him,” says Finger
carelessly. “Where’s Frolic?”
“He’s lyin’ fourth,” I break in, “but they’ll never
catch the horse in front.” As far as that went I knew
they wouldn’t have to catch him. He was one of them
skimpy quick beginners who leads the field a merry
dance until about half-way up the straight, and then
comes back to them as if yanked back on elastic.
They buzzed around the first turn and whipped
along the back of the egg-shaped course. Clayton had
separated himself well from the rest and had a four-
lengths lead.
“I’m afraid my horse will beat you, Mr. Styles,”
says Finger. “Frolic is a good way back.”
“Yes, he is a good way back,” says Moleskins,
lookin’ uneasy. He watched the race for a bit and
says: “They tell me he’s a good finisher though.”
“Well, if that’s the case,” says Finger, “perhaps
it would be wise of us to save.”
“Save?”
“Yes. Save a tenner with each other.”
Moleskins has another screw at the field, which
by this time had reached the home turn. Brogan
on Frolic had not improved his position, and Clayton
was easy six lengths in front. “I don’t mind savin’ a
fiver with you, mister,” he says after a bit.
“It’s a bet, Mr. Styles,” says Finger. “I think
you show good judgment.”
Clayton piloted the horses round the turn and
they straightened out for the run home. It was a bit
uphill now and Clayton didn’t seem to be gallopin’
so briskly. About a hundred yards further on he
threw in the towel, and the field closed up with him.
He wasn’t with the first six horses when the field
reached the distance, and I’m wonderin’ what has
become of Frolic.
All at once I got a sight of Brogan’s green jacket.
He’d been hid behind the leadin’ horses and was
cornin’ round outside them like a streak of lightning.
The speed he cracked on was amazin’. Thirty yards
from the judge he was singin’ ragtime, and Brogan
piloted him home an easy winner.
Finger let out a laugh. “You beat me after all,
Mr. Styles,” he says to Moleskins. “Oh, well, I’m
only losin’ a fiver on the result owin’ to my saving
five pounds with you.”
“And it’ll be a real pleasure to pay you,” says
Moleskins, “if you gents don’t mind cornin’ with me
to collect. I only brought a tenner and I put it all on
Frolic.”
“And showed your good sense, too,” says Finger.
“Let us go and interview your bookmaker.”
“Yes. And then we’ll have a drink,” says Mole-
skins. “He’s a real good bettor that chap, and with
a good Irish name. It’s on his bag in big green letters,
S. P. Noonan.”
The Grasses Bend with Frost.
The grasses bend with frost,
The silver grasses bend;
It has been good here talking
And now, good night, my friend.
Bowed, so bound to-night—
And now the black pines show
The mountain towering white,
The paddocks white below.
Fade down the pathway, ghost:
And seasons ago she went,
But mind still, bound and lost,
At the dark gate is bent
In manacles of frost.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


1
fd
At your request ive shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
c
tiiL^e
tc
New Guinea
& Papua
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS. PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
• Telephone: B 7901
WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
VITA-VIGOROSO FOR MEN AND
WOMEN.
“VIGOROSO" (tablet form) defi-
nitely “STANDS ALONE” as a
German Scientific Hormone or Gland
Preparation. Its use will RECHARGE
THE BODY with Physical Strength
and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity, Strength and Vitality, even
in advanced years. “VIGOROSO”
tablets are well recommended and
prescribed by Dr. E. Schubert, M.D.,
of Munich, Dr. Ludwig Kris. M.D.,
and Dr. S. Leibshardt, M.D., of
Vienna, who attest the efficacy of
“VIGOROSO” as used and prescribed
by them. FULL PARTICULARS OF
INGREDIENTS of “VIGOROSO” will
be supplied to any Bona-fide Medical
Practitioner. Price of “VIGOROSO”
Tablets: 50 Tablets 12/6, Double
Quantity 31/-. JOHN CECIL, Dept.
V.V., Box 1853 K, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., Distributing Agent for Aus-
tralia.
SMOOTH SHAVE
it H
E D
Sole Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling JList Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
he knows it. Sometimes he goes straight ahead being
funny, as in the autobiography of a liar called “Ever
fall in love with a midget?” The most astonishing
example of something coming out of nothing is in the
story called “Ah life, Ah Death, Ah Music, Ah
France, Ah Everything,” which is about world-hunger
and loneliness and correspondence courses and ends
in a wail from the very heart.
Occasionally he turns from tapping out fragments
to write a “real” short story. Such is “Three, Four,
Shut the Door,” the picture of a negro boy of ten
who knows that there is a crowd outside the sheriff’s
office waiting to lynch him. It’s because he set fire
to an empty house —although they know well enough
that he didn’t do it. It is because he is nearly white
and because his white father’s white wife had com-
mitted suicide ; because they resent his being alive.
All the time he is only himself, tired and scared and
near to crying.
Man Hunt.
Pursuit and (fight is one of the great perennial
literary themes. The early moving pictures cashed in
on it heavily. Galsworthy built on it in “Escape,”
Sean O’Casey in “Shadow of a Gunman,” Liam
O’Flaherty in “The Informer” and in “The Assassin,”
and now James Curtis in a book not unworthy to
stand with these, They Drive by Night (Cape).
Shorty Matthews came out of gaol one morning,
and as he was eating the first hamburger of freedom
a mate told him that his girl, Alice, had been playing
up with other men while he was inside. He tried to
shrug it off, but presently his feet, acting on their own
initiative, carried him round to the tenement house
where Alice lodged. She was lying strangled on her
bed in a silent house.
Shorty was aware of nothing but his own danger
and fled. On the stairs he met the landlady, who de-
manded money. He had to push past her to escape,
and was scarcely out of the house before she had run
screaming for the police. Shorty realised that the
rope was round his neck. He lay hid all day and at
night got out of London by picking up a ride on a
transport wagon going north.
He was in a world, unknown to the ordinary day-
light citizen, of drivers and lorry girls, and the patrons
of all-night “caffs” where the drivers pull up. Curtis
knows this half-lawless, ever-moving community.
It carried Shorty in safety for a time and then
things began to happen: a police patrol, a scuffle in a
muddy lane, a crosscountry run over ploughed fields,
theft of the police car, a spot of burglary, to get him-
self a suitcase and overcoat, pursuit, the closing net,
doublings and turnings and narrow escapes. Shorty
meets a lorry girl he used to know, and she befriends
him—that, of course, is in the grand tradition. They
go on with the unequal struggle together till Molly
persuades him to give himself up.
Now and then the story pauses in its headlong rush
and there is a glimpse of Alice’s murderer going on
his way, savoring his victory, until he commits another
murder and betrays himself. The end is convention-
ally happy. Shorty goes back to gaol for his minor
sins, but Molly is waiting for him and they are going
to run straight together.
Shorty is a common or garden little crook, and
the author makes no claim on his behalf to a heart
of gold. The truth of the characterisation and the
speed of narration give the book vitality, and it has
taken immense artistry to make it so fluent and easy.
The Northern Territory.
If reports and commissions could set a country
on the road to prosperity the Northern Territory
should be the most thriving State in the Common-
wealth. It was reported on by a royal commission in
1913, by another in 1920, another in 1925 ; by the
North Australia Commission in 1927-31, and by the
Payne-Fletcher Committee in 1937. Further favored
by Ministerial expeditions and wandering novelists, it
still remains what Henry Hall aptly terms Our Back
Yard (Angus and Robertson).
Hall is a pastoralist—“a western N.S.W. man
outside the artesian belt.” He toured the Territory
last year, entering through the S.A. border, beating
north through Alice Springs and Tennant Creek to
Newcastle Waters, then out through the Victoria
River district to Darwin, then down through the Gulf
country and Barkly Tableland and out through the
Queensland border. Cattle- and sheep-raising is his
main bill of fare, but, although the subject is well in
his sphere, the attempt to cover 27 stations and their
problems individually in the limits of a 100-page
volume was an almost impossible task, and commen-
tary on each is disappointingly brief. He deals with
a station;
(tulgera station covers 400 square miles (256,000 acres).
P n j a £ area there are now 2000 merino sheep and 1000
head of cattle. There are some nice open flats, black
soil, some Mitchell and other good grasses, herbage and
edible bushes on Kulgera.... average annual rainfall is
six inches... .problems are: insufficient area for any-
thing but a bare living, and natives sitting down with a
pack of dogs at wells; with the result that cattle go
bush and perish.
Like Payne and Fletcher, Hall believes that much
of the Territory’s pastoral land will carry sheep, and
suggests a gradual change-over to fifty-fifty beef and
mutton. Naturally, he advocates subdivision of large
stations, pointing out that Victoria River Downs, the
largest single cattle holding in the world, covers 10,432
square miles, an area which he thinks should within 30
years provide 49 living-area homes of 100,000 acres each
and still leave 1,669,120 acres for the original tenants.
He says that companies with bigger interests elsewhere
are neglecting the beef business in the N.T., and quotes
two such companies as having “an absolute strangle-
hold on any beef export from Darwin or Wyndham.”
Mr. Hall thinks that reduced rentals should ease
the burden of many present lessees ; to attract settlers
he advocates freehold tenures; he states “there is not
one man on the land in the Territory making a for-
tune. Very few are making a decent living.” He
recommends “firmness and justice” for natives, favors
sound roads and motor transport against railways,
and finds “population and closer settlement imperative
for the salvation of the Northern Territory.”
Occasionally Mr. Hall scores with a heavy broad-
side :
I should dearly love to see Australians wake up and
see what they are paying for; what they are being taxed
to pay for They [Territorians] are paying two income
taxes... .they had no vote in the recent referendum....
they have not one single State right upon which they
can justly be taxed. The Northern Territory is not a
State; it is merely a disfranchised appendix of the
Federal Capital. They have one representative in the
Lower House who has no voice in Federal politics
except in matters directly relating to the Northern Terri-
tory. And for that one voice (in about 70) on matters
that concern them more directly than all the States put
together they pay two income taxes.
Immortality in Dreams.
To the assistance of the layman whose old faiths
are threatened by modern materialistic concepts,
comes J. W. Dunne, who in The New Immortality
further expatiates upon a theory already broached in
An Experiment with 1 ime and The Serial Universe.
Mr. Dunne writes entertainingly. He is familiar
with the jargon of philosophy and psychology, and
can walk confidently in the four-dimensional world of
Minkowski and the relativist universe of Einstein.
The Quantum Theory and the Lorentz transformation
figure in his expositions, and he no doubt could ex-
plain how multiplying time by the square root of
minus one can produce divers amazing effects. But
as not one in a million of his readers is likely to be
able to follow him into the mathematical stratosphere,
he puts these matters as more-or-less-unexplained
postulates.
Exactly what “serialism,” Mr. Dunne’s new philo-
sophy, amounts to is a little difficult to discover. He
quarrels with the common notion of time as just one
damned thing after another, and says that to regard
it so is an error. Everything which has established
its existence remains in existence. A rose which has
bloomed once blooms for ever.” He regards, it
would seem, the whole
mass of sensory experi-
ences, stretching from the
“now” of our mistaken
view of time in both direc-
tions, back and forward,
as co-existent. Our atten-
tion is a “field” that
travels over this vast
stationary area.
The fact that this
“field” invariably seems to
“travel” in one direction and that the experiences of
any one individual compared with those of a contem-
porary invariably “check up” as to the relative dis-
tance or time-space between objects seen in the field
doesn’t seem to trouble Mr. Dunne. As he put it in
a famous 8.8. C. lecturette, the popular erroneous con-
ception of time is like a rising chromatic scale played
on the pianoforte, whose keyboard represents the
whole contact of sensations past, present and future.
The practised serialist goes to sleep and surveys the
whole of this keyboard, proceeding not by the mono-
tonous chromatic scale, but playing melodies (by skip-
ping backwards and forwards), harmonising his melo-
dies (by combining “memories” of past, present and
future) and even —here Mr. Dunne soars to dizzy
heights—taking part in orchestral performances in
which various personalities contribute from their key-
boards.
Mr. Dunne claims that this culling from memories
and future-projected happenings is easy to the adept.
The best work is put in during “deep unbroken sleep,”
the dreams in which are not remembered at all by
poor uninitiated boobs. “Oxford experimenters” have
experienced all the delights he promises.
The common concept of time being a delusion,
it follows, according to Mr. Dunne, that immortality
is inescapable by those who cultivate the art of time-
travelling, or memory-travelling or whatever it is. But
this commentator, pardonably sceptical, would like
Mr. Dunne to produce just one little accurate pro-
phecy. If the whole field of events is co-existent it
should be easy enough for a comfortably-sleeping
adept to ascertain the names of Derby winners for a
few years ahead —information so valuable that its pos-
sessor would soon be able to devote his whole time
to dreams, relieved of the necessity of making a living.
But perhaps that necessity is also an error of thought.
Chips from the Old Block.
The gentle old schoolmaster of Good-bye, Mr.
Chips found so much favor that James Hilton is loath
to let him go, and has brought out another volume,
To You, Mr. Chips (Hodder and Stoughton), con-
sisting of six short stories, five of them concerning
Mr. Chips, and “A Chapter of Autobiography.” The
stories are genUe, pleasant, innocent little tales on
the themes of “There’s so much good in the worst of
u 5....” and “He who understands all forgives all.”
They are pawky and almost painfully uncontroversial.
The autobiography is the story of Hilton’s own
youth and serves as a sort of embalming fluid for the
fiction. It records a series of negations—with all
Hilton’s usual charm. He wasn’t fond of sports, he
wasn’t oppressed by his masters, he wasn’t bullied by
his fellows for being different, he wasn’t tempted to
evil ways, he didn’t go to the war because he was
just too young. Hilton has robuster talents than he
has used here, and a book like To You, Mr. Chips
can only serve to water down his reputation—for all
the beauty with which he describes “the soft fenland
rain beginning to fall on Cambridge streets at dusk,
with old men fumbling in and out of bookshops, and
young men, spent after route marches, scampering
over ancient quadrangles.”
Verses for Children.
When there are parents, godparents, grand-
parents, teachers, policemen and priggish little brats
of elder sisters to furnish the average child with about
twenty times as much moral instruction as he can
enjoy, it should surely be possible to spare him poetic
admonishment as well. Strong, coarse men who bet
on horses or enter politics are probably reacting
against Longfellow or Eric, or Little by Little.
For that reason there are half a dozen pages of
Eleanor Farjeon’s Sing for Your Supper (Michael
Joseph) that will be removed by all kind-hearted
wicked uncles. It may well be
a singular thing that Ned
Can’t be got out of bed;
the matters of David’s ears and soap may be of pro-
found importance ; but why rub it in?
Apart from that drawback Sing for Your Supper
is delightful. The rhymes, some for the very young
and some for older children, are as fresh as the morn-
ing. They vary from humorous jingles to poems such
as “Bees in Lavender”:
Long, long pillows of lavender flower
Either side of the narrow walk,
And the humming bees hanging hour by hour
Like small gold bells upon every stalk.
There are illustrations by Isobel and John
Morton Sale.


df
v'
\*
Yy
\
s
m
\
r\
*
y\
m
m
m
1
n
rt
flusTßßunn
WIRELESS mfInUFRCTURE
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained a very high degree
of efficiency. Every type of apparatus for use at sea, on land and in the air is now
produced at the A.W.A. Radio-Electric Works.
Over 50 Broadcasting Stations have heen made by A.W.A. for all parts of Australia,
New Zealand, Papua and Fiji. The largest of all, a 60 k.w. station, was manufac-
tured for the New Zealand Broadcasting Board and is the most powerful broadcast-
ing station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Australian manufactured wireless equipment has been installed in over 470 ships,
and A.W.A. regularly exports to Great Britain wireless equipment for vessels build-
ing there for Australian and New Zealand shipping companies.
The A.W.A. works are the largest for the manufacture of broadcasting receivers, as
well as for communication equipment used in the Commonwealth Lighthouse Ser-
vice, Police Departments, N.S.W. Hydro-electric networks, Sydney Ambulance,
Sydney County Council, and many others.
The design and manufacture of radio-telephone transmitting and receiving equip-
ment for use in aeroplanes, and wireless equipment for ground communication
with aircraft, constitutes still another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
Over 1,500 Australians are normally employed at the A.W.A. Radio-electric works
in this great national industry.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
An Australian Factory
in an Australian
Garden


3
■■ &
m.
V :
* ' V' W « 3
&\'£/ 'jjs & (M -
* < ■ ./
•••
.: .
>' ■
1 ■
m.
CP
m
m
m
ffl
m
m
:
-
::
.
....
S'
hi
*y
1
o
>s r
«
r
M
CATALOGUE,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1938.
Owner - - Mrs. A. Jamieson
Trainer - - W. A. McDonald
Jockey - - F. Shean
Weight - - Bst. 41b.
Time - - - 3min. 26^sec.
Aged


THE PILOT WHO WOULDN’T BE DROPPED.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ahs.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
NEWSPAPERS AND MINISTERS.
Clear-headed and serene, and fortified by the know-
ledge that the British public is behind him, Mr.
Chamberlain is going forward with his plans for es-
tablishing peace on foundations of goodwill and fair
dealing.
Thanks largely to his exertions at Berchtesgaden
and Munich, better relations exist not only between
Britons and Germans, but between Germans and
French, and French and Italians. British rearmament,
now in the third year of a five-year programme, is
to go on, but it has no aggressive object. “Our sole
concern,” said the Prime Minister in the House of
Commons, “is to see this country and its imperial
communications safe, and to ensure that we shall not
be so weak relatively to other countries that our
diplomacy cannot enter upon discussions upon an
equal basis.”
There is nothing further from our minds than to
enter upon a new armaments race.
And the Munich settlement, the logical consequence
of which is an extension to armies and air forces of
the Anglo-German naval agreement—so immensely
important to Australia and Maoriland —is, on Mr.
Chamberlain’s part, to be followed up.”
It is our firm determination that there shall be
no sitting down and waiting for peace to come. We
shall try to consolidate the goodwill of the four
Powers represented at Munich and endeavor to restore
European confidence by the removal of fears and sus-
picions.
Meanwhile, Canada and South Africa don’t seem
to be at all alarmed at the outlook, nor are Maori-
land’s slumbers disturbed by fears that Japan will
withdraw from China and begin a Southward Drive,
leaving both flanks exposed to unfriendly Powers.
Mr. Thorby had the “impudence” to refer to
Maoriland as “the weak link in the chain of Empire
defence.” In a stinging reply, Mr. Savage said that his
Dominion, “in common with other Empire countries,
has been co-operating with the War Office for three
years,” and that “the authorities in Britain and the
rest of the Empire countries seem to be well satisfied
that it is making good progress with its scheme of
defence.”
Only Australia, in Mr. Curtin’s words, is “being
brought to the verge of veritable war hysteria.” Not,
as he puts it, “to make scapegoats of Ministers who
are unimportant and to try to re-establish public
confidence in the leadership of the Government,” but
to gratify the New Journalism’s passion for stunting
and scaremongering, and to recapture the influence
it lost in the process of giving the public “informa-
tion” and “leadership” about Abyssinia, Red China,
Red Spain and Czechoslovakia.
The Government has its own, grievances against
the New Journalism. Mr. Thorby has taken to answer-
ing its “misrepresentations” through the medium of
commercial radio, which has misrepresentations of
its own to answer for. Dr. Page, his colleague and
party leader, speaking on Mr. Curtin’s no-confidence
motion, said that “Mr. Thorby has been a victim of
one of the dirtiest and most malicious press campaigns
ever raised in Australia; it culminated in a slander-
ous statement in a Sydney Sunday paper” (the one
that found the Black Box in which Mussolini con-
cealed his plan for sinking the British Navy) “that
Mr. Thorby had left the Premiers’ Conference to
attend a ball.” The doctor went on to say that he
himself has been a victim.
A section of the press misrepresented and distorted
for sensational purposes a truly practical effort at the
Premiers’ Conference to solve a most difficult national
problem. There were baseless stories of intrigue and
imputations of motives which did not exist. Nothing
that was said of myself or of my party at the confer-
ence was accurate.
Mr. Menzies, though something of a hero to the
New Journalism, added his contribution. It had been
alleged that he publicly challenged the leadership of
his chief and might resign. His denial was in these
terms:
The published story that I have served an ultimatum
on the Prime Minister or on the Government is untrue.
I have not done so directly or indirectly. I can attribute
the report onl£ to a malicious desire to create bad blood
between the Prime Minister and myself. We are not
only colleagues but friends. Any question of recon-
structing the Cabinet is for the Prime Minister to deter-
mine, and nobody else.
Mr. Casey has also fallen foul of a newspaper
which supported the Stevens Stunt, and suggested
that defence has been starved because Mr. Casey
would not find the money for it, whereas Mr. Stevens
would. However, the Government has so far sur-
rendered to the newspaper-faked panic as to announce
a succession of proposals for the strengthening of the
fighting services, each justifiable, though all bearing
the marks of haste. But the revival of national training,
though as necessary now as when it was introduced in
1912, and though it always will be necessary, the
Government does not propose.
This journalistic zeal for defence, so belated
now, might have been useful if it had come into the
picture when national training was suspended —the
law was never repealed. It might possibly have saved
the old democratic army, and it might possibly have
been the means of getting useful and honorable em-
ployment in the nation’s service for thousands of
young fellows, ardent and adventurous spirits, for
whom politicians without vision could only find scraps
of donkey work. Even now the holy rage which
these newspapers simulate would be suffered if part
of it were exerted in the cause of national union,
without which there can be no proper planning for
national defence or swift action in an emergency.
Britain and South Africa have national union, and
they get the planning and the action. The defence of
Australia is the sport of seven Parliaments, seven
Governments and a multitude of transport depart-
ments and harbor boards. In the result we have seven
Government railway systems, operating ‘24,780 miles
on different gauges—6oso on sft. 3in., 6193 on 4ft.
and 12,537 on 3ft. 6in. —six of which are run
by departments that look with jaundiced eyes on
road and air competition; and we have five ill-
defended, if not indefensible, coastal cities, occupied
by upwards of three million people, few of whom have
ever seen a gas mask. Sydney is served by a power-
house which Dr. Page describes as “a sore thumb,
already dressed up for attack.” The same Minister
mentions that removal of the steelworks from Lithgow
to Port Kembla, an effect of “State Government
railway-freight policy,” is “costing an extra £400,000
in defence expenditure”—he might have added that the
Unanderra-Moss Vale line is losing £60,000 a year.
In South Africa the same man, Mr. Pirow, is
Minister of Railways and Harbors and of Defence.
As Minister he is responsible for 13,213 miles of
railway, for great harbor-works now under construc-
tion in co-operation with the Royal Navy, and for a.
Defence Act based on universal liability to peace
training and war service. Hitherto the Permanent
Force has consisted of 196 officers and 3957 other
ranks ; the Active Citizen Force has comprised 27
battalions and five battalions of field artillery, and
there have been 110,000 members of rifle associations ;
under a new scheme on which £6,000,000 is to be
spent, there will be three Active Citizen Force divi-
sions totalling 67,000 men, three rifle-association divi-
sions (60,000) and three special rifle-association
brigades (10,000).
It is as necessary in Australia as it is in South
Africa that transport and harbors should be under
national control, and such control—with careful dele-
gation of powers —might give equally impressive
results. But the New Journalism has no use for
national control. Consistent only in a certain surly
inanity, it is provincialist in home affairs and inter-
ventionist in foreign affairs.
Invasions from Mars.
Last week the best scare story of an age prolific in
such things tickled the world’s ribs. A realistically
dramatised version of H. G. Wells’s War of the Worlds
novel, first published in 1898, was broadcast in the
U.S.A. and taken seriously by many of those who
heard it. Cables whisked the account to other coun-
tries. It was vivid and lively, packed with human
interest. It gave the reader a good laugh at the ex-
pense of Uncle Sam.
“Never in the history of the United States has
such a wave of terror swept across the continent,”
it was said. Allowing the customary 75 p.c. discount
for New Journalism exaggeration and invention there
was still plenty left. People who declared they had
seen the “Martian monsters” and described the “ex-
plosions of the death-ray guns” were no tax on
credulity. In the Great War their counterparts in
Australia were under no strain to enlarge porpoises
into submarines and the lights in lonely settlers’ huts
into enemy Morse code stations.
The cry of one weeping woman, “Hell has broken
out! It’s hot even where I am!” might be passed as
pretty smart even for U.S.A. journalism, but Princeton
professors, laden with equipment, hurrying to secure
specimens of a meteor reported to have fallen, would
be no more improbable than Australian professors
hurrying to catch an edition. The coincidence of the
lights failing in the mountain town of Concrete just
as the announcer was “choked with poison gas” after
making what he said might be “the last broadcast ever
made,” with the addendum, “All Concrete took to
the hills,” could be accepted as a tale only mildly
adorned. Likewise the editorial staff of a Memphis
newspaper rushing to get out a special issue was at
least no more unusual than the spectacle of a group
of bridge-players in Uniontown (Pa.) falling on their
knees to pray.
A Pittsburg businessman returning home during
the broadcast and snatching a bottle of poison from his
hysterical wife’s hands, she meanwhile struggling to
drink the dread potion and screaming “I’d rather die
this way than that way!” struck an arresting note in
domestic drama. Deaths from heart failure, people
wearing wet cloths round their faces to counter the
“Martians’ gas,” police struggling to “quieten thou-
sands who were screaming and praying in an agony
of fear,” three inebriates getting down on their
marrow bones in a restaurant, a dozen Orange (New
Jersey) families loading their possessions into cars and
lighting out for the mountains were other reported
occurrences in a “mass hysteria” which “spread across
the nation like a flame.”
There was an undercurrent to the laughter at all
this. It had the quality belonging to true comedy of
being only one remove from pathos. Also, it had the
universal touch ; it was something that could be shared
on a common basis of understanding. The responses
were just a somewhat exaggerated but completely
familiar manifestation of universal jitters. They en-
larged on but no way differed from hysteria lately
brought to a crescendo in Australia. The fears the
broadcasters unwittingly brought out were not peculiar
to the U.S.A. nor evidence that a large amount of
humanity there must be singularly on edge. It could
happen here.
The hocus of “death rays,” “Martians’ gas” and
the rest of it, being the staple of cheap syndicate rub-
bish, has been so implanted in people by repetition for
years that a good many have come to accept it all as
gospel, as they have similarly come to accept astrology
and other cheapjack charlatanry. But that is only a
small part of the loading of fears continuously being
poured into people. Newspapers, radio and films
largely trade in scare stuff. In newspapers it is vamped
up by a welter of circumstantial “evidence” and specu-
lative “proof” ; in radio and films it is “dramatised”
by voices keyed up to a pitch of histrionic excitement.
Daily and nightly continuously the silly traffic goes
on, playing on people’s nerves, setting up the general
idea of impending calamity, implanting fears which
become as real in many people as they are widespread,
and which need only some extra twist to bring them
gibbering to the surface.
That is far from being peculiar to the U.S.A.
Traders in scare stuff are as active in Australia
and have brought their traffic to as fine an art. They
have the excuse that there is a demand for their stuff.
Up to a point that is all very well. Ghost stories,
appeals to superstition, have always enjoyed a certain
popularity, and the scare stuff copiously poured out
by newspapers, radio and films supplies the same sort
of demand. Even though it is a sorry thing to see
“instruments of education and enlightenment,” as they
are pleased to call themselves, descend to such a
shabby level, it can be said with some truth that
people like to be made frightened, like to have bogeys
and monsters conjured up for them, are avid for their
daily and nightly instalment of this endless serial
concoction of impending horror and disaster.
Newspapers, radio and films can fairly claim that
they are only catering to the popular taste. It knocks
the bottom out of their “education and enlightenment,”
but otherwise they are on admittedly good ground. It
is all a kind of drug, and in their interpretation of
the general license called the freedom of the press
they are within their rights profiting as its purveyors.
If it is suggested that the traffic in other drugs is cir-
cumscribed, that is represented as an attack on free-
dom of speech, an exhibition of “Fascist tendencies,”
despite its being admitted that the drug in the case is
monstrously dangerous. Its name is Fear, and even
the general purveyors of it admit that fear is among
the most potent of all causes of war. If the general
run of people in two nations can be made to fear each
other badly enough they will go to war. That is the
horrible menace in all this welter of scare-mongering
that assails the eyes and ears of people daily and
nightly.
There is probably nothing that can be done about
it while the purveyors of the drug interpret their
shameful traffic as legitimate under the mandate of
free speech. While there is free speech there is at
least the opportunity for an independent voice to make
itself heard, as distinct from the state of things where
free speech has been abolished, and where, therefore,
all the instruments of propaganda can be unanimously
directed to implanting a single point of view. That
is to our advantage. There is also always the chance
that newspapers, at any rate, may at last return to a
sense of dignity and responsibility.
That may be too much to hope of radio and
films, which have no traditions, know nothing of the
former struggle for freedom of speech, and are con-
sequently the happy hunting ground of irresponsibles.
Also, with radio there is the great difficulty of prov-
ing that any given statement actually had been made.
In newspapers it is there substantially in print, and
that alone puts a considerable limit on irresponsibility.
Radio babblers are circumscribed by no such limits.
They can make statements —put over with all the
considerable strength of forced excitement of voice—
which are the wildest exaggerations and distortions of
the truth. If only because it is impossible to nail
them positively as liars they may eventually have to
be circumscribed in the common interest.
A real hope possibly is that in time all these
shabby traders in fears will defeat themselves. People
will find once too often that they have been again
worked up to unpleasant hysteria by false scare-
mongering. Their good sense will assert itself, and
they will treat the whole scare outpouring of news-
papers, radio and films with the light contempt the
silly rubbish deserves.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Old Friendship Restored.
Wednesday was an eventful day for Mr. Lyons. In
the morning he took the chair at a party meeting at
which his leadership was to have been challenged,
according to the Stunt Press, although actually there
was no challenge worth two cents. In the afternoon
he had to defend his Defence measures in a full-dress
debate, the Labor leader having spoken on a no-
confidence motion. Almost at the same time he was
cheered in the House of Commons.
The cheers were evoked by the reading of a
message to Mr. Chamberlain:
The Commonwealth Government is convinced that
the Anglo-ltalian agreement should be brought into
operation forthwith as a contribution to peace, and that
de jure recognition should be accorded to the Italian
conquest of Abyssinia.
The withdrawal of 10,000 Italian troops from Spain
seems to be a real contribution. In our opinion a
peaceful and friendly Mediterranean is essential in the
present condition of the world. To refuse de jure recog-
nition would seem to us to ignore these facts, and
risk danger for a matter which is now immaterial.
Every Australian to whom the future of his
country is more than political passion or prejudice
will applaud those words. Friendship with Italy is
necessary to the Commonwealth and Maoriland, and,
except in the Abyssinian affair, friendship there has
always been. Many Australians still think the Italians
were wrong in making war on the Abyssinians; but
then many Australians thought that the British were
wrong in making war on the two Dutch republics.
In 1938, as in 1902, no good could possibly come of
persistent refusal to accept the accomplished fact.
As for Spain, Mr. Chamberlain has received “defi-
nite assurances” that “the remaining Italians of all
categories will be withdrawn,” that “no further Italian
troops will be sent to Spain” and that neither Italy nor
Germany has any territorial ambitions there. They
would be very foolish if they had any, for they should
know, as the British know and as the French dis-
covered during the Napoleonic invasion, that they
would have the whole Spanish people for enemies if
they tried to cut up Spain.
Says Mr. Chamberlain:
Spain is no longer a menace to the peace oL' Europe.
Consequently there is no valid reason why we should
not take a step which obviously will contribute to general
appeasement.
The old Prime Minister aims at a general settlement,
with reduction of armaments, and the settlement with
Italy is another great stride forward.
Correction.
Dear Bulletin, —I never made the statement
attributed to me in the first paragraph of “Political
Points” in your issue of November 2. Mr. Stevens’s
movements are no concern of mine.—Yours etc..
Forgan Smith.
The paragraph was to this effect:
“Mr. Stevens failed to blast his way into the Federal
Cabinet.” — Forgan Smith. For “blast” read “blither.”
The Bulletin confesses its guilt, and in mitigation of
punishment pleads that it got its information from
the “Daily Telegraph.” In the opening sentence of
an editorial published on October 25 the “Daily
Telegraph” said:
Mr. Stevens has failed —to use the pungent phrase of
Mr. Forgan Smith —to “blast his way into Federal
politics.” We think that is a pity, and that the set-
back is only temporary.
The “Daily Telegraph” claims to be the very
model of a modern major journal, and to have “given
Australia leadership.”
Let Australia Do It!
R.A.A.F. aircraft have been falling out of the air so
fast and British deliveries have been so slow that
there was no protest from any quarter when the
Lyons Government suspended its “leave-it-to-Britain”
policy and ordered 50 Lockheed-Hudsons from the
U.S.A.
These fighter-bombers are military versions of the
Lockheed 14’s, the very latest passenger machines on
Australian runs. They will be the first really up-
to-date fighting machines which Australia has pos-
sessed.
The 270-m.p.h. Lockheed-Hudsons, with a wind
behind them, will hit 300 m.p.h., and in power dives
will come near 400 m.p.h. at times. They have three
gun positions. Standardised with passenger ’planes,
as they will be, there will, in case of emergency, be
immediately available from civil aviation a skilled
personnel used to flying and servicing their commer-
cial counterparts daily. They should be excellent for
Australian conditions, except for one thing—they are
foreign. If Australia found itself in a war, it might
be hamstrung by Mr. Roosevelt’s Neutrality Act and
be unable to import replacements.
For that reason and others, Australia would
prefer British machines like the Vickers-Wellesley
bombers, two of which have been flown by R.A.F.
men from Ismailia to Darwin, 7162 miles non-stop,
inside 48 hours. That achievement shows that British
ingenuity, workmanship and courage are still second
to none. But it does not alter the fact that the day
when Australia can wholly depend on Britain for the
mechanism of its internal defence is over.
If backward countries like Russia can construct
aircraft Australia can. Lord Nuffield has undertaken
to build 1000 fighters for the R.A.F. at short notice,
an undertaking which necessitates the construction of
a plant from the ground up. If that can be done by an
individual car-manufacturer, surely it can be done
by a nation which ranks high among the nations
as a pioneer of flying and of aerial designing, and
which has given the world Hargrave, Hawker and
Percival.
Cabinet Minister and Company
Director.
Two years ago, in an article headed as above, The
Bulletin noted that “the Senator McLachlan who is
Postmaster-General” had “taken time off from his
Ministerial duties to attend the annual meeting of
shareholders in the Hume Pipe (Australia) Co. and
address them as chairman.” Actually this Minister
had been chairman for some years, and some of his
remarks “suggested the possibility of a conflict of
interests —or, at least, of convictions —between his
company and his Government.”
For example, the Minister mentioned that “25
per cent, of the company’s net profits were absorbed
by the Governments of Australia and New Zealand.”
The Bulletin put it that the company might con-
ceivably protest on that score to “the Government of
which Mr. McLachlan was a member,” and wanted
to know who, in that event, would make the protest
and to whom.
At the shareholders’ meeting Mr. McLachlan said
also that “Hume Steel, in which this company holds
a large parcel of ordinary shares,” continued to do
well and was expected to do better. It was here pointed
out that Hume products were protected under the
tariff for which Mr. McLachlan’s Government was
responsible, and profited by expenditure on “works”
which Mr. McLachlan’s Government was encouraging.
Mr. McLachlan nevertheless continued his asso-
ciation with Hume Pipe (Australia) and he remained
Postmaster-General till Thursday last. Then, strik-
ing an attitude in the Senate, of which he was leader,
he announced that Mr. George Lawson, the member
for Brisbane, had given notice of a series of questions
touching on said association, that the questions
amounted to “a degradation of democracy,” or some-
ihing like that, and that he had decided to resign from
the Ministry. Resign he forthwith did.
One of the questions was: “Is it a fact that the
Postmaster-General’s Department enters into con-
tracts with some of the companies of which Senator
McLachlan is a director?”
The Prime Minister himself tabled the reply:
Inquiry indicates that the Postmaster-General’s
Department has from time to time made contracts with
Hume Pipe (Aust.), of which Senator A. J. McLachlan
is chairman of directors.... In no case was the Post-
master-General aware of a tender or in any way per-
sonally concerned with its acceptance. v
Mr. Curtin inquired whether “reference to these
contracts was made at an annual meeting of share-
holders in Hume Pipe,” and whether “Senator
McLachlan was present at the time” —as chairman.
Mr. Lyons replied that he did not know, but he had
“no hesitation in saying that a director of a company
which trades with the Crown or the Government
should not be in the Government.” He has taken an
unconscionably long time to say it.
The Bulletin congratulates, the member for
Brisbane on having been the means of ending a
position which should never have been tolerated for
weeks, let alone years.
<►
On "Marginal Land."
In the loan-drunk days Westralian politicians con-
ceived the notion of borrowing enough to put 5000
wheatgrowers on alleged 10-inch-rainfall country
south-west of Southern Cross. They called it the Five
Thousand Farms Scheme. It occurred to somebody
to check the rosy estimates of politicians by having
the soil tested, and an agricultural scientist was called
in. He found it chemically unsuitable for wheat-
growing, and the project was reluctantly abandoned.
Now, “after three seasons of drought and the
general failure of crops this season,” “about 2000”
settlers, who owe at least £2,000,000 —chiefly to the
Government’s Agricultural Bank —and who have been
trying to grow wheat on what is now called “mar-
ginal land,” also alleged to be in 10-inch-rainfall
country, have asked their Government to do some-
thing for them.
For a beginning, the 2000 suggest that “the flour
tax should be paid on an acreage instead of a bushel
basis” —“flour tax” is their blunt expression for the
politicians’ glozing “home-consumption price.” They
add that, “as a minimum crop return of a pound an
acre is necessary to cover working expenses,” the
State Government should guarantee them the full
pound, and “pay it to farmers personally.” They
also demand stay orders and protection of men
who “contracted out of the moratorium or other relief
legislation.” And, for those who want to hang on, aggre-
gation of properties so that holdings hitherto described
as wheat farms may be conducted as “sheep proposi-
tions,” with provision of “the necessary capital for
water conservation, fencing and stocking up.”
Efforts to settle this “marginal land” go back 30
years, and were marked at the beginning by an inter-
rupted flow of departmental pamphlets and Agricul-
tural Bank loans. Old Westralians who knew every
inch of the country issued warnings, but they were
dismissed as dismal Jeremiahs. There is nothing now
to be done but to carry those farmers who are willing
to hang on, but many will leave their arid land, broke
and bitter —many have left already. No doubt it
would have been impossible to keep State Govern-
ments out of the land-settlement business, but their
meddling in and muddling of it have bloated the
public debt and spelt heartbreaking struggles and
wasted years for thousands.
"The Crisis."
“Ignoramus” tries to track it down:
The search began after I heard “The Botchman” scare
Australia into action to meet The Crisis (B. 2/11/’3B). The
Crisis, he alleged, was practically here. But he didn’t define
it, so I rang radio station 2BL. A young lady replied;
she was sorry, but she was afraid nobody at the station could
explain what “The Botchman” meant. I could write to “The
Botchman” if I liked.
Determined to know just what I had to prepare for, 1
tried “S.M.H.” “No, I can’t define it,” a “Granny” man
said. “You make your own deductions.” “But I can’t,” I
replied. “What is this Crisis the papers and the air are full
of now?” “I can’t say,” he answered, “but it affects the
Federal Government.” “Then I needn’t be alarmed?” His
reply to this was an amused laugh.
It was different with the “D.T.” No hesitation there.
“Fascism versus Democracy. A world-fight within a decade.
I advise you not to take too much notice of radio com-
mentators.”
Just to be sure, I tried the head of the State (N.S.W.).
His secretary answered: “Mr. Stevens doesn’t believe The
Crisis is as imminent as that [“The Botchman’s” estimate]; he
gives it three or four years to develop.”
“Yes, but what is to develop?”
“Since he made that broadcast Mr. Stevens has received
literally hundreds of letters supporting his attempts to stir
the Federal Government. He is of the opinion that, now
that Germany is so strong in Europe, Britain could not be
expected to defend Australia against an aggressor.”
Last came A.B.C.
“We refer to your telephone inquiry and have noted
your question. [I asked for a definition of The Crisis.] The
Crisis ‘The Watchman’ may have in mind would be difficult
to know, as this speaker, who enjoys a widespread popularity,
and is regarded as an authority, expresses only his personal
opinion and not the voice of the Commission.”
So now you know. ,
Blood and Fur.
“Goering’s Ghost” : As a born “Fascist cur” —to use
the kindly phrase by which some cultured Reds are
wont to describe their political opponents—l once felt
a burning desire to have a smack at Mr. Stalin, Mr.
Bliicher and some other people in Far Eastern Europe.
Since I read recent Moscow reports on the morale
of the Red Army, any hostilities will find me hiding
in the woods behind Berchtesgaden or Rumjungle,
whichever is the nearer.
My latest issue of the Moscow “News” informs
me that 93 per cent, of young men called to the Red
Army are fit, and that “no greater glory, no greater
honor exists for the young citizen of the Soviet Land
than to serve in the R.A.” So it appears that mid-
September last saw Russian youth “flocking to draft
stations with great joy.” Their eagerness to serve was
“proof of their profound patriotism.” Hundreds of
thousands “volunteered before their time,” mindful
of Mr. Stalin’s dictum that “the people and the army
are one whole, one family.”
And what a family!
The might and strength of the Red Army also
lie in the quality of its men boundlessly devoted
to their country, men who are developed and cultured.
If you don’t believe me, read the official history of
Russia’s only official Great War, that recent hellish
onslaught of shot and shell with which an immense
army —several platoons—of Imperialist Japanese tried
to capture Siberia at Lake Hassan. This is what
happens to enemies when they attempt to encroach on
Soviet soil:
Red Army Man Dracha, with blood pouring from
four wounds, threw himself on 10 Samurai, and fought
furiously with his bayonet and rifle-butt until he had
laid the enemy low. Accompanied by two machine-
gunners Lieutenant Kazakov climbed the top of a hill
on which 60 of the enemy were entrenched and, although
wounded, did not leave till all the Fascist Samurai
had been killed or routed. Such are the men who are
pouring into the monolithic ranks of the Red Army.
And in the West, while Hitler was performing,
“the monolithic ranks of the Red Army” were delight-
ing the eye of Marshal Voroshilov by “digging
trenches, fighting air battles and driving their heavy
tanks through enemy entanglements,” while the “attack
’planes gave tremendous support to the troops, mak-
ing effective attacks on the front line.”
Some things puzzle me a bit though. Where was
this great force during the Czech crisis? And why
do all the anti-Fascist expatriates want to come to
Australia instead of hastening to the U.S.S.R.? That
country, according to the new Soviet nationality law,
is wide open to them.
The Examination System.
“Lord Luvus” is amused:
An amusing commentary on the periodic bellowings of
educationists against the examination system is the fact that
this year entries for the public questions-and-answers business
at Melbourne University were a record. In all 11,404 aspirants
sat for academic honors, as against 10,667 last year, although
one of the dates coincided with the Cup holiday. Such is
the universal frenzy for this kind of distinction that candidates
also sat at 25 country towns, as well as at Canberra, Sydney,
Hobart, Adelaide, Suva, King Island and Cambridge, England.
Headmasters fulminate annually at school breakups against
examinations, but so they did 40 years ago at my college in
Adelaide. The system wili continue so long as parents feel,
as they do, that their children can’t get jobs unless they can
show their prospective employers some diploma. The fact
that the diploma is worthless as an indication of the intellec-
tual capacity or willingness of the owner does not deter
employers, who have the same superstitious reverence for a
piece of paper as a Chinaman, if it bears the hall-mark of an
important institution like a university.
Australians think it funny that a knowledge of the Con-
fucian analects should be thought to give the possessor the
ability to rule a province or win a battle. The Chinese notion
is no funnier than a Melbourne business man’s belief that
stuffing a kid’s head with unrelated facts and extracting them
with questions before he has had time to forget them will
fit the kid to manage a department store or even run errands
without dropping the letter out of his pocket. Nor is it any
funnier than a newspaper proprietor’s belief that a university
professor can teach a young man to write by making him
memorise Latin roots or the works of early English authors.
The most curious thing about it is that successful business-
men like the late Sidney Myer believe, not in the conditions
that made them themselves into great entrepreneurs and
organisers, but in exactly the opposite conditions. Myer
landed in Australia a poverty-stricken immigrant from Russia.
His only university had been fear of starvation, misery and
terror of persecution. His main asset was a desire for power
and a single-minded belief as to how he was to get it; and he
had no more credentials than the average relief-worker. If
he had had an expensive public-school and university edu-
cation he would probably have thought that the community
owed him a high executive position, and would have been
affronted if he had been told to start a business for himself
by borrowing a barrow.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“H.G.D.”: The
manager of one of
the first street photo-
graphy cos. in Mel-
bourne trained a
large team (includ-
ing myself) to make
good money with
the following rules:
(1) Take all women ;
(2) get outside a
popular hatshop and
take at least three
pictures of any
woman who buys a
new hat; (3) take
every couple when
the girl is clinging
to the man’s arm —
give the card to the
girl; (4) take at least
four pictures of a
woman with a
toddler take two of the child by
itself; (5) take as many as possible of a
sailor with a girl—take as many as you
care to of a young sailor alone (they
hand ’em out at all ports); (6) take at
least two of a girl with furs, one from
the back if possible. While it lasted we
made over £6 a week.
* * *
“Yuppieri”: I am glad that Parra-
matta has celebrated its 150th anniversary
by becoming a city, but I wish the local
press would stress the point more strongly
that it has become an Australian city ;
otherwise the ignorant foreigner may
wonder exactly where Parramatta is.
The official advertisements talk of “the
splendid Mardi Gras gaiety of its giant
birthday party,” of its “cabaret suppers
in outdoor Continental cafe style,”
its confetti, Wild-West rodeo, gymkhana,
Coronation Ball at Rivoli, Venetian
carnival, Chinese fireworks and Conti-
nental Ball. It needs only the addition of
a Narrenfest, a Red purge, a korero, a
corroboree and a nautch to make it look
as if Parramatta is the most cosmopoli-
tan city of the age.
“Den”: Parramatta’s second town clerk
was John Henniker Heaton, compiler of
the Australian Dictionary of Dates and
Men of the Time. Heaton spent the
latter part of his life in England, where
he became an M.P. He brought about
Imperial penny postage (1898) and Anglo-
American penny postage (1908). Born
in 1848, he died in 1914. His Parra-
matta job lasted only from December,
1869, to February, 1870.
“Shorus”: There was one thing about
the girls in crinolines and poke-bonnets
in the Parramatta sesqui. celebrations
that would have won the deep dis-
approval of their ancestors. The two
nearside damsels had parked a hefty
arm each on the carriage as they lolled
comfortably under their parasols. This
would never have been tolerated in grand-
mamma’s day, when comfort had to be
sacrificed to deportment. No, our aunts,
at least those who had carriages, sat bolt-
upright in them, and an important point
in the education of a young lady was
to learn how to enter and leave the family
equipage.
* * * *
“S.”: At Proserpine (N.Q.) there used
to be three recognised times rail-
way, mill and post office. A man
had to regulate his watch and hours
by the work he intended to do.
The Shire Council was appealed to
to decide matters, and, as most of the
councillors were directors of the mill
or sugargrowers, mill time won in a
walk. Then a railway employee was
elected chairman. It’s hard to say what
might have been the finish of the en-
suing debate, which lasted for months.
Wireless squashed it all. Now the town
sets its clocks and watches by the chimes
of Brisbane’s town clock.
***>!<
“C.Q.”: In a personal letter to Lord
Huntingfield, the P.M. used a packhorse
mail to convey some misleading infor-
mation from Shepparton to Melbourne
“Our boat's tugging a bit, Henry. Are you SURE it Won't shift their
anchor?”
on the occasion of the provincial centre’s
centenary. He informed his Ex. that the
first mail in Victoria was carried by pack-
horse from Melbourne to Sydney in 1838
by Joseph Hawdon. Wrong. The feat was
performed by John Conway Bourke in
January of that year; Hawdon was
only his companion on the first stages
of the journey. A stone to the memory
of the mailman has been erected over his
grave, and the Historical Society of Vic.
makes annual pilgrimage to the shrine.
A great-granddaughter, Marie McManus,
still lives in Brunswick, Melbourne.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Prior to the Melbourne Cup
the Nat. Safety Council issued a code for
motor-drivers, a number of rural visitors
having arrived in the metropolis in more
or less ancient cars. Among the warn-
ings is this one: “Always remember,
should a pedestrian be crossing the road,
it may be difficult for him to gauge the
speed at which YOU are travelling.” It
is difficult before a Cup ; after a Cup,
from personal experience, it is quite im-
possible. The annual horse orgy has a
strange effect on Melbourne’s inhabitants.
An urgent need seizes on even the staidest
of citizens to do something excessive,
even if their interest in the favorite is nil.
They go to the theatre, or even to the
circus, dine in the most expensive hotels
and find themselves suddenly incapable
of using their legs, and hail a taxi to
travel a block. The exodus from the Cup
looks like a flight from Hankow or Can-
ton, and the urge to speed is shared, not
only by successful jockeys, bookies,
punters and the like, but by the unsuc-
cessful ones. In the circumstances, the
sober Cup motorist is just as much a
menace as the drunken one, for, despite
the late advocates of No-license, alcohol
isn’t the only intoxicant to which
humanity is exposed.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Action had to be taken
in N.S.W. also to prevent women who
were not nurses parading in the regalia
of the craft (B. 26/10/’38); but it was
not aimed against mere attendants in
consulting rooms, as in Queensland. The
complaint of the N.S.W. young Nightin-
gales was that they were liable, when
walking in the streets in the outdoor
uniform they were expected to wear in
those days (to-day they get into ordinary
clobber when off duty), to be accosted
by men who mistook them for women,
certainly not Nightingales, who adopted
colorable imitations of their garb.
The N. S. Wales police department went
into action, and women got up like
nurses who were unable to prove that
that was their occupation were “vagged”
in a wholesale manner. There were
embarrassing incidents, since zealous cops
sometimes made mistakes, but the oldest
profession gave up the Nightingale garb
for good. Street use of the uniform by
those really entitled to it was never
afterwards popular.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Tripper after tripper has re-
turned from London with the report that
Hugh D. Mclntosh has made barrels of
money in the milk-bar business, which
he pioneered there ; so I wasn’t prepared
for the intelligence—it arrived last week
—that the Mclntosh milk-bar concern (or
one of them) had gone bung. Mcln-
stoush has explained to the British public
that it is the first time that any business
with which he has been connected has
turned up its toes. It is 30 years since
he brought Tommy Burns and lack John-
son to Sydney. As pugs went in later
years, he got the pair cheap, and the gate
and the film (first-class photography,
though the fight wasn’t up to much)
turned him in a fortune ; but he didn’t
hang on to it. Mclnstoush was a bit of
a pug himself in his young days, and
signed up to meet a fellow named Jack
Blackmore. The match fell through,
which was lucky for Mac, since Black-
more had a wicked left hook and would
have knocked his head off.
* * * *
“Dhas”: When, in my salad days, I
sent a serious poem to a daily and the
blighters printed it on the children’s page,
I thought that was as informative a ges-
ture as could be made to a poet, but after
seeing what the November issue of Syd-
ney “Newspaper News” has done to
Ronald McCuaig I’m not so sure. “In
the vicissitudes of authorship,” says the
“N.N.,” “Mrs. Ronald McQuay has
brought out Vaudeville, printing the
pages on a galley press.” Since McCuaig
himself is a journalist, he’ll understand
that even a “Newspaper News” can slip,
and no doubt he’ll be grateful to the
paper for following The Bulletin and
others in mentioning the book. But he’ll
want to know why this hitherto-unheard-
of Mrs. Ronald McQuay is bringing out
another edition of it.
* * * *
“Short Whist”: Despite “Methuselah”
(B. 2/11 /’3B), whist is full of conventions
as to leads, returns, etc., which make it
a game for the novice to avoid unless
he is looking for trouble. There is no
need for card exposure, as in bridge.
After the first round the players, if really
practised hands, know exactly where the
cards are. In the palmy days of whist
there were men at the big West End
clubs who, playing the fairest of games
as a regular thing in the card-room every
night, made a solid living at it. A navy
uncle who did several years’ transport
work with the troops to India and back
told me that the return trip with many
fine whist-players hard at it every night
easily cleared him from £l5O to £2OO a
year. A sound game and plenty of play
was the secret, for stakes were not high.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: I would not ques-
tion for a moment the statement of
“Pawang” (B. 2/11 / ’3B) that another of
those miraculous chefs —Italian this time
—made a dish of a mass of loathsome-
looking fungi which “P.” and his family
devoured with enjoyment. Some people
can eat anything. In the betting book
in the Jockey Club rooms at Newmarket
there is a record of a wager made by
Lord Bathgate—called “Hellgate” to dis-
tinguish him from a brother—that for
100 guineas he would produce a man
who would eat a raw cat, a pound of
salt, a cabbage and a “cabbage net”
(whatever that may be) right off the reel.
The wager was taken and won by Bath-
gate within the hour.
* * * *
“West Aussie”: When St. Stephen’s,
Camperdown (N.S.W.), recently held a
service of remembrance, the daughter of
the man who proclaimed one-third of
Australia a British possession was
present. She is Miss Lockyer, and her
father lies buried in St. Stephen’s church-
yard. Although Phillip annexed the
whole continent in 1788, signs were not
wanting in later years that France aspired
to ownership of at least some portion of
it. Governor Darling, in pursuance of
Britain’s claim to sole sovereignty, dis-
patched Major Lockyer from Sydney
with details of the 39th Regiment to
King George’s Sound (W.A.), where he
hoisted the flag on Christmas Day, 1826.
To make assurance surer, Lieutenant
(afterwards Sir George) Grey performed
a third annexation ceremony at Han-
over Bay, in the north-west, on December
17, 1837.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The public reaction to the
Douglas crash in the Dandenongs
paralleled the extraordinary outbreak of
hysteria when the Southern Cloud was
lost, probably in the same range. A
man and woman driving a buggy along
the foreshore near Geelong distinctly re-
membered seeing the ’plane lift out of
the clouds and plunge into the bay.
Several suburbanites saw it almost clip-
ping the roofs of East Malvern, Haw-
thorn and Kew. Explosions were heard
and flames seen in every district from
Westernport to the Kosciusko range. In
the present instance the Kyeema was
seen approaching Essendon and turning
back, and passed various points at such
contradictory times that the only con-
clusion is that people in an emotional
state are more prone to see and hear
what they want to see and hear than they
are in normal times.
* * * *
“laby”: Diver Hughes’s feat of drag-
ging Varischetti back from the air pocket
(B. 12/10/’3B) does stagger the imagi-
nation. There were a hundred feet of
water over Varischetti, and, until the
mine was pumped out, Hughes carried
food down from the 800 ft. level to the
900 ft. depth where the Italian was en-
tombed. This went on for eight days.
The Bonnievale was a dry mine and a
cloudburst caused the flooding. Hughes
was the only available miner who had
experience as a diver. Varischetti was
at first considered to be lost, but the
men in the higher level heard him
knocking on the compressed air pipe.
This pipe, supplying the compressed air
for his drilling machine, also gave him
air during his confinement.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Among certain primi-
tive New Guinea peoples old folk who
could no longer work and were a burden
on the community were made to climb a
tall palm. Their relatives then threw
stones at them until they fell off and were
killed, thus providing their own funereal
baked meats as well as a sporting outing
for the guests. It looks very much as if
something on the same principle,
although presumably different in actual
practice, will have to be done in allegedly
civilised communities before very long.
Birth control is already decreasing youth
in numbers and proportion; scientific
control of disease is increasing the aged
non-productives. Within 40 years there
will be a serious shortage of under-40
workers and an immense body of old-
age pensioners. Even if birthrates were
to rise at once to pre-war figures, it
would take 20 years at least even to begin
to adjust matters.
THE DUKE AND THE DUCHESS.
We’ve had numerous nobs on the figurehead
jobs
Prescribed for our national steerage,
But never, so far, an illustrious star
From the very top row of the peerage.
There’ve been barons and earls to whom debu-
tante girls
Have blushingly paid their addresses;
We’ve memories to strike what a marquis is like
And we know what a marchioness is^
Now we’re due for a score never managed
before,
Our mana high-water mark touches:
They’re sending the goods to this neck of the
woods
In the shape of a Duke and a Duchess,
A real royal Duke and a Duchess!
From the Federal Cap. to all over the map
You may wager that they’ll be “the berries,”
With the ladies-in-waiting of noble estate
And lords for their aides and equerries.
New store will be set upon Burke and Debrett,
And will hands be extended for kisses
When our local elite are assembled to meet
A Prince of the blood and his missis?
They’ll need to know how to curtsy and bow
With easy distinction, for such is
A sine qua non if you want to be on
A date with a Duke and a Duchess,
A real royal Duke and a Duchess.
Here’s luck to the pair whose romantic affair
Was brought to a happy completion
With the pleasant event that identified Kent
With ali that is graceful and Grecian.
Sing hey for the light so blinding and bright
That beats on the seats of the mighty,
On throne and on crown —and reflected renown
Of anyone near them in Blighty!
Won’t Canberra decide 'it has reason for pride
When they’re safely bestowed in its clutches,
Consigned to its care, that paragraphed pair,
The debonair Duke and his Duchess,
The real royal Duke and his Duchess!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Biai”: Is the male pyjama-wearer
one of a vanishing race? Last month
a new masculine fashion, a smocklike
garment, of knee-length, was introduced
to Sydney to take the place of male
pyjamas. Within three days the entire
stock was sold out —to women! Man
has just broken away from the night-
shirt of yesteryear, and it seems that he
is slowly returning to the habit of his
ancestors of sleeping nude, one half of
the male world sleeping without pyjama
coats and nearly all of the remainder
doing without the pants. Shakspearc
gives a hint of the nocturnal custom of
his age in “Venus and Adonis”:
Who sees his true love in tier naked bed,
Teaching the sheets a whiter hue than white.
Mr. Pepys notes, on 21/5/1660, “So into
my naked bed, and slept till nine
o’clock,” and it looks as if what was good
enough for Will and Samuel is about to
become good enough for modern man.
Anyway, nightshirts and pyjamas were
both abominations, and woman is
welcome to them.
* $ * sfc *
“Min”: Practical psychology, is it?
Outside Woolworths’ in Brisbane’s main
street a mendicant showed a large
placard: “I am only a trier. Wife and
ten children.” Thousands of passers-by
must have speculated as to how many
offspring he might have had if he were
less humble, and, pleased with their own
sense of humor, contributed a little
something.
* * * *
“Brass-edged Jason”: I am the
Adelaide man referred to by “Orient”
(B. 19/10/ ’3B) who proposes to go to
Singapore in a schooner, and I’m not
quite such a fool as “Orient” seems to
think. I’m not in any confusion concern-
ing the two sets of Cocos Islands. Any-
way, the Cocos Islands in the Pacific are
between 12,000 and 13,000 miles distant
from the Cocos Island in the Indian
Ocean—not, as stated by “Orient,” 3000
miles. May I add, too, that the treasure-
hunt idea is due to Hhe imaginative
powers of a too-zealous reporter? Only
a completely insane person would go to
hunt for treasure on an island that has
been the property or leasehold of a
Scotsman for a long time.
* * * *
“T.”: “John o’ London's Weekly” notes
that modern women strongly object to
being referred to as “females,” although
their grandmothers saw nothing deroga-
tory in the term. He seems to think the
objection is of comparatively recent date,
but I can testify that—in this country,
at all events —it goes back to the begin-
ning of the century at least. An old-
style pressman whose cub I had been
went to Cue (W.A.) to edit one of the
local papers —there were two. Within
a few weeks he was back in Perth, a sore
and bewildered man. Reporter as well
as editor—the whole “literary staff,” in
fact —he had turned in a column about a
bazaar and placed it on record that the
“males” present had been outnumbered
by the “females,” and that the “females”
were a pushing lot; in fact, the show
was “a worthy result of the efforts of
the females of Cue.” The “males” didn’t
mind, but the “females” objected with
such concentrated fury and gave the in-
nocent author so many “coolers” that he
threw up his job.
* * * *
“Selma”: An overseas woman novelist
who revisited Australia recently relates
that she shudders to this day over a slip
she made when she decided to put a little
Australian color into one of her books
Fortunately she handed the MS. to a
friendly critic for perusal, and he arrived
in some perturbation to cross-examine
“ Wake up, sir—time to read the lesson , sir.”
the authoress on the subject of dingoes.
The lady, whose sojourn in Australia had
been limited to a few weeks at a city
hotel and one country week-end, had de-
scribed a night in the outback “where
the great dingoes flew overhead with
weird cries.” In fact, she asserted, she
had even heard them in mid-air in the
early morn, making a noise like sheep.
It took some argument to convince her
that what she had heard were crows.
* * * ♦
“Fore Royal”: After repeatedly
dreaming that a pirate’s chest containing
treasure had come into her possession, a
young widow living at Gosford (N.S.W.),
while attending an auction sale of the
effects in a deceased estate, saw an old
cabin chest, identical with that of her
dreams, come under the hammer. It
was knocked down to her for a few shil-
lings, and when she got it home she
started to search for the hidden treasure.
She soon discovered that the chest had
a false bottom. This was removed, and
a number of cleverly constructed recep-
tacles revealed, in which were concealed
a bank . book and securities relating to
fixed deposits to the value of £2500.
These were delivered to the local C.P.S.,
who remarked that he had found, among
the late owner’s papers, a note referring
to a ring that was hidden in a safe place.
Further investigation of the old chest
disclosed false sides which yielded a valu-
able diamond ring and other jewellery.
The owner was a wealthy man who died
at Gosford not long ago. Well known
in the district as “The Professor,” he pro-
duced some profitable inventions and
patents. Other items of his furniture
that were in the auction are now coming
under close scrutiny.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Every year on Cup Day a
coach and four departs from the Savage
Club, off Little Collins-street, in Mel-
bourne, and makes its way through the
stream of motor traffic whose spearhead
is Flemington with a cargo of members,
usually artists among them. This year
Charles Wheeler, the Gallery teacher,
was on the driver’s seat, with water-
colorist Harold Herbert beside him.
Cyril Dillon was another passenger on
the antique vehicle.
“Can We help , mate ?”
“Hamer”: An “0.F.M.” contributor
(B. 26/10/’3B) says “it is obviously im-
possible for the head of a big industrial
undertaking to take a personal interest
in his employees.” For one who finds it
not impossible, there is the Macßobert-
son. As pantingly I followed that ener-
getic oldster, who at nearly 70 (at that
time) still went up-
stairs three at a time,
he addressed the em-
ployees he passed as
“Sail y,” “M a r y,”
“Doris,” “Tom” or
“Sam,” and asked
about a mother’s
health after an acci-
dent, the progress of
a sister’s baby, how
the dance arrange-
ments were getting on,
what the fishing was
like on Sunday, or
whether the pigeons
were likely to win
any prizes in a com-
ing homer-race. Mac-
Robertson treats every
one of his hundreds
of employees as an
individual. That was
his attitude when the
business was small,
and no doubt it had a
lot to do with its
growth.
% * Jk
“C.Q.”: A cele-
brated biologist, oc-
cupied with impor-
tant research at Mel-
bourne Uni., engaged
a young lady as his
assistant. One of her
jobs was to attend to
rats which were being
inoculated with some virus or other. One
morning she rushed up to the biologist
in an intense state of excitement and re-
ported that one of the rats showed signs
(which she described) of having re-
sponded to the treatment. The savant
looked a trifle embarrassed, but de-
scended to the cellar and, picking up the
rodent, took it to the laboratory, where
he anaesthetised it and, cutting it open,
abstracted half a dozen small additions
to his biological equipment.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: One of the most artless
theatrical propaganda stunts in Mel-
bourne history, in my experience, was
when Ben Fuller induced the Freemasons
of the city to attend a performance of
“Norma” at the Princess Theatre. If
Ben had sent his invitation to the Druids,
who figure in the opera, the affair would
have been more understandable. But
something more remarkable occurred the
other-evening, when half a dozen Judges
were invited to the screening of “The
Trial of Portia Merriman” in order to
give the management the benefit of their
considered opinion on American court
procedure, as understood by Hollywood.
The proceedings were possibly breezier
than what goes on under their Honors’
jurisdiction, but they were certainly as
remote from actuality as “The Girl Who
Saved Ned Kelly.” The Judges solemnly
attended, but their opinion hasn’t yet
been vouchased to the public.
H* «|«
“Qwert Yuiop”: How and why do
pennies get bent? Count von Luckner
amused himself by doing it with his
fingers during his recent visit, and may
have converted others to becoming
penny-benders, but it scarcely seems the
sort of sport that one would pursue
regularly. Crooked sixpences were once
supposed to be lucky, but even in Scot-
land nobody seems to have associated
crooked pennies with good fortune.
Loving couples of former days were
wont to cut sixpence in half before part-
ing, to wear the exchanged halves in
memory of one another, but never
pennies, so far as my reading goes in
such subjects. AnyhoW, Brisbane’s
Deputy Director of Posts and Telegraphs
is very annoyed with the penny-benders,
because most of the faults in public
telephones are caused by the results of
their efforts in deforming copper
currency. The new stamp-selling
machines are to be fitted with an auto-
matic arrangement for rejecting mis-
shapen or underweight coins.
* * * *
“Shorus”: Quite true that Australia
does not advertise itself widely enough.
“Pawang’s” par. (B. 2/11 /’3B) on the
Launceston woman who, condemned to
a respirator through infantile paralysis,
gave birth to a healfhy child of normal
weight recalls that a similar case in
U.S.A. was blazoned round the world
as “unique in the annals of medical his-
tory.” And Australia happily beat the
American case, in which the baby
weighed a mere two pounds and did not
survive.
A NEW FIGURE OF SPEECH.
“Mr. Lang's bid for political support with a
bizarre taradiddle about a Fascist-Communist plot
argues a desperate plight.”— “S. M. Herald.”
It’s over the odds to anathematise
A fellow, whatever your bias,
By saying straightout he’s addicted to lies
Of the sort that blew out Ananias.
Far better to hint, by word or in print,
That with fiction he frequently fiddles
And freely descends for political ends
To the use of bizarre taradiddles.
There are synonyms fancy will furnish ad lib.
For palpably reckless perversions
Of fact, and for furphies deceptive and glib
And other mendacious assertions.
You may say they won’t wash, of preposter-
ous tosh
They supply the two ends and the middle,
But it’s more picturesque than “a falsehood
grotesque,”
The phrase “a bizarre taradiddle.”
There are plenty of ultra-respectable folk
Who’d reckon it highly improper,
Whatever opinion they hold of a bloke,
To charge him with telling a whopper.
But the point may be made and as clearly
conveyed
Without any wrapping in riddles.
Though one wonders how Justice Curlewis
would snort
If anyone dared to refer in his court
To lies as bizarre taradiddles.
N.S.W.
PIrARDS.


PREVENT
THROATS
W-
O
El 868
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
CRAVENA
..Me so
f
\/obf!
d
fd
POLITICAL POINTS
Butler has given up his State Premier-
ship to stand for Wakefield. When he
goes to Canberra, as no doubt he will,
he will find there another former S.A.
Premier, Lionel Hill, who is chairman
of an industrial board or something.
And he may meet still another predeces-
sor, John Gunn, whom Bruce appointed
to his Development and Migration Com-
mission, now no more. If the three get
together, they will doubtless agree that
State Premiers are two a penny nowa-
days.
Wakefield (S.A.) has never had a
Labor member, though Labor made old
Dicky Foster uncomfortable on several
occasions. Charles Hawker’s majorities
were 4737 in 1929, 10,566 in 1931, 14,604
in 1934 (the wiping-out of Angas had
resulted in number of electors increas-
ing from 37,444 to 53,504), and 13,605
“Australia needs a foreign policy, a defence policy and more population. We must realise that our future lies in the Pacific, and
our foreign policy should be directed to obtaining and holding the friendship of the principal nations whose destiny must be worked out in
the same area. Australia doesn’t make friends by continually telling nations much more powerful than itself what it is going to do to them.”
— J. T. Lang.
“What have I done, friends?”
“ DONE? You’ve said something sensible at last!”
in 1937. Butler will get no 14,000
majority.
The McLachlan who was P.M.G. was
a bit of an amateur actor in his young
days, and his histrionic training stuck to
him when he read to the Senate his letter
to the P.M. resigning from the Ministry
because the Brisbane Lawson had asked
questions about his association with a
company that has received P.M.G.
Department contracts. And he had a
sympathetic reporter:
After reading the letter, Senator McLach-
lan, who was deeply affected, stood for a
second in silence and then added, “My
only regret is that the public life of this
democracy has sunk so low.”
After another silence he added, “I now
move the adjournment of the Chamber.”
Immediately the Senate adjourned.
Senator Foil shook Senator McLachlan
warmly by the hand. Other Senators
gathered around sympathetically.
All very affecting, but if a Labor Mini-
ster had remained on the board of a
concern that got Government tenders,
would the U.A.P. have let him alone?
Butler’s father was Premier of S.A.
before him, and so was Playford’s grand-
father —Playford, the younger Butler’s
Commissioner of Crown Lands, has suc-
ceeded him as Premier. Playford is the
“first member of the A.I.F. to become
Premier of an Australian State”—so says
an Adelaide message which has gone the
rounds of the Commonwealth ; but it is
wrong. Victoria’s Argyle was an A.I.F.
doctor. Still, very few A.I.F. men have
reached high rank in State politics. Per-
haps it is because provincialism didn’t
appeal to Diggers after they had served
as Australians.
Speaking at a North Gippsland by-
election meeting, Premier Dunstan com-
placently remarked that in three years
and a half his Government had added
300 measures to the Statute Book. Per-
haps 30 were necessary. It is one of
the impertinences of the “system” which
imposes seven Parliaments, seven Gov-
ernments and seven Governors on us
that Governments point admiringly to
the quantity of the laws they shoot out
of their surplus factories, quality being
a secondary consideration.
Maoriland returns for the first six
months of 1938-39 show revenue at
£13,400,400, down £164,000, and expen-
diture at £15,902,000, up £894,000;
debit balance, £2,502,000. Mr. Nash is
“quite confident that the finances will
be maintained in a healthy state.” Over-
seas creditors are not quite so confident.
Melbourne’s most intrepid journalist
is the editor of the “Argus,” who is fresh
from Sydney. Nearly a fortnight after
Sydney papers had dropped the Stevens
stunt, the “Argus” was lauding Stevens
as “the most capable man available for
the important task of co-ordinating
national defence,” and demanding that
the P.M., who had spoken so Icily of its
hero, “should give Mr. Stevens a public
invitation to serve in this capacity.” And
except to “Tubby” and his panegyrist
Stevens’s qualifications for “co-ordinat-
ing national defence” are unknown.
Permanents in the Australian fighting
services are to be increased from 10,170
to 20,000. There will be no objections
in any quarter that matters; the pity
is that it wasn’t done eight years ago,
with preference for A.I.F. and R.A.N.
men and sons of the same. There were
crippling “economies” instead.
Curtin weakened his position, never
strong, by his speech at the Lang Labor
conference. He offended the Lang group
by objecting to Lang’s dictatorship, and
the Heffron group by his references to
Communist leaders of organisations that
are backing it. One faction is annoyed
with him for trying to clip Lang’s wings
and the other for failing to do it. But
every Federal Labor leader since Fisher
has found the leadership a thankless job ;
and it is 23 years since Fisher turned it in.
Sydney Snow, the U.A.P. potentate,
says Australia got nothing for the £lO,OOO
or so it spent at the Glasgow exhibition,
and will get no more for the £40,000
proposed to be spent on the New York
Fair. He doesn’t mention the San Fran-
cisco. “Exposition,” but the alleged
National Travel Association is to have
the spending of £21,000 on that, as well
as the £20,000 annual subsidy it receives
from Canberra. It is no time to be
lavishing all that money on frills.
“Are we a collection of States, a Con-
federacy or a real Commonwealth?”
asked Menzies, who now confesses him-
self bewildered.
Our unwillingness to give real national
power to the national Parliament must
make our prospective enemies smile with
satisfaction.
We are certainly not a Confederacy of
the sort that shot up in North America
75 years ago (the States that then con-
federated made secession one of their
fundamental rights), and we are certainly
not a Commonwealth on the Cromwel-
lian model; so we must be a collection
of States. But when did Menzies or
Lyons try to get “real national power
for the national Parliament” in a good
cause?
Talbot Sanderson, a pastoralist, is back
from Africa with the news that the Con-
tinent that was Darkest has thousands
of miles of good roads composed of two
strips of concrete a foot wide. He sug-
gests that they would work in Australia.
They do, in parts. But they don’t con-
sume nearly as much loan money or pro-
vide nearly as much temporary employ-
ment as regulation speedways or rail-
ways, so State Governments are against
them.
In N. S. Wales there are between “350
and 400” workers’ compensation cases
on the waiting list. It is explained that
the Court is not to blame ; but the pro-
cedure should be examined. It is apt
to be dreadfully slow in other jurisdic-
tions, as Bertie Lloyd, M.L.A., can
testify. As for royal-commission in-
quiries and the like, it has come to be
regarded as the accepted thing that they
should drag on for years.
Curtin has a go at his old friend Joe:
The Prime Minister has had many re-
constructions of his Ministry. As a matter
of fact, the number of his ex-Ministers
sitting behind him to-day almost totals
the number of his present Ministers.
A picturesque exaggeration. Joe has 13
Ministers, and sitting behind them are
only seven ex-Ministers —Gullett, Stewart,
Francis, Marr, Paterson, Harrison and
Hunter. And only Francis was really
dropped, Harrison being a stopgap for
a few weeks.
On September 20 “S. M. Herald” de-
scribed Czechoslovakia as “a virile repub-
lic about to celebrate the achievement of
a long-sought independence,” though it
allowed that the Czechs, invoking “long-
standing alliances with France and
Russia,” might fight the Germans first.
There was no fight, and the celebration
came off the other day. The “Herald”
had very little to say about it, but there
is a dark suspicion that Czecho. and Fritz
pledged one another in beer from Pilsen
—still within the Czech boundaries
though German for a thousand y^ars.
Dick Keane, now a Victorian Senator,
has extracted the information that A.B.C.
pays £2500 p.a. for overseas news sup-
plied by Australian Associated Press,
and £2OO p.a. for local news got from
the Australian Newspaper Conference —
much the same thing. Richard should
now try to ascertain the cost to date of
Thorby’s commercial radio broadcasts on
his defence measures, which are prefaced
by complaints that sheets from which
A.B.C. gets its overseas and local news
misrepresent him.
Lord Justice Slesser, who was a Labor
M.P. and Solicitor-General, has decided
an awkward question which arose from
the detention of a Franco steamer by the
British Government at the instance of
the Spanish “loyalists.” His Court held
that, since Britain recognised that the
Nationalists were exercising de facto
control over a large part of Spain,
Government must be regarded
as a sovereign State immune from legal
process in Britain. The Yellow Press
had alleged that, if the case went against
Franco, Nationalist Spain would cease
to trade with Britain.
The, woolmarket is shaping a bit
better. In Sydney one day last week
Bradford paid Is. 9jd. a pound for five
bales from Yass. Then a significant
thing happened:
Representatives of all the wool-buying
nations, led by a Japanese, downed cata-
logues and enthusiastically tapped their
pencils on their desks.
It was sporting of them, for they are
all after bargains; and exchange diffi-
culties are bothering countries which the
Stunt Press is pleased to regard as
enemies. Perhaps they don’t want to be
enemies and have some human feeling
for Australia when the price of wool
falls below a bob.


CUP FEVER.


s.
. *
m mm
Km
«4S
SIZE 72x60
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMICS OF DEFENCE EXPENDITURE
MARKET TRENDS
OUTLOOK IN MAORILAND
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
November Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Spread death and destruction
among the insects that pester
you—lnsectibane powder will
do it with devastating effect.
And Insectibane is safe, non-
irritating, can neither stain
nor taint! For positive results,
INSECTIBANE is your
weapon against every insect
pest. Chemists or stores
throughout Australia can
supply you: ask for Insec-
tibane!
INSECTIBANE
PERSONAL ITEMS
A remarkable record of Imperial ser-
vice is that of Tasmanian-born, Victorian-
educated Bede Clifford, recently moved
upstairs to the Mauritius Governorship
after six years in a similar job at the
Bahamas. At the time of the Bahamas
appointment he was, at 40, the youngest
Governor in the B.E. After doing sur-
veying work in Tasmania and, W.A. he
went to England, and later served through
the war with the Royal Fusiliers in
France. In 1918 he returned to Australia
as private sec. to G.-G. Munro Ferguson,
and afterwards held similar posts under
two South African Gs.-G. until he was
appointed British representative in the
Union of South Africa. In 1928 he led
the British Government expedition across
the great Kalahari Desert, a dangerous
and arduous job which he carried through
with complete success. His father, a
well-known resident of Tasmania for 26
years, who succeeded to the family
barony of Chudleigh, Devon, in 1916,
is a distinguished scientific discoverer in
radiological work and the physics of
light.
Dead in Brisbane at 52, Lange Powell,
designer of some of that city’s finest
buildings and an Australian leader in
ecclesiastical architectural design. Born
at Rockhampton (Q.), he was educated
in Brisbane and articled to G. H. M.
Addison. Some years of study in Lon-
don followed, during which several of
his architectural drawings were accepted
by the Royal Academy. President of the
Queensland Institute of Architects for
several years, he collaborated with
Charles Rosenthal in drafting the con-
stitution of the Australian Institute of
Architects, and succeeded Rosenthal as
its second president. Among his Brisbane
buildings are St. Martin’s Hospital, the
Masonic Temple in Ann-street, the Equit-
able Life building, Exton House and
Griffiths House. Holy Trinity Church at
Mackay, several other country churches
and additions to Brisbane Cathedral are
examples of his ecclesiastical architec-
ture.
Douglas Francis Middleton, partner in
Sydney shipping firm Gibbs, Bright and
Co., has a broad outlook and many in-
D. F. MIDDLETON.
ferests. He’s a pillar of the Legacy Club,
of which he was president in 1932, and
is chairman of the Overseas Shipping
Representatives’ Association. Saw the
Great War through with the Australian
forces —second lieutenant 1915, major
1920, embarkation officer in France
1919-20. Originally a Melbourne resi-
dent, he moved to Sydney 16 years ago.
Plays a sound game of golf, and has a
good record as a batsman.
George G. Harrap, London publisher,
who went out suddenly at 71, was one
of the few of his tribe who took any
interest in the Australian market. He
was here in 1924 and again in 1933, and
produced a number of books in Aus-
tralia. He was the London publisher of
the first of The Bulletin’s novel com-
petition winners, A House Is
Built. Starting on a shoestring
years ago in small premises in
London’s York-street, Harraps
now occupy the spacious
premises in High Holborn
originally built for Kelly’s
Directories.
Well known in Sydney am.
dram, circles was Scott Alex-
ander, who died the other
day. He was born in Eng-
land ; made his first appear-
ance in pantomime at seven,
and for 50 years thereafter
was connected with the pro-
fessional stage. Some years
ago he established the Kursaal
Theatre in an abandoned
church in Sydney’s Kent-
street, where he produced
Shakspeare, Ibsen and many
Grand Guignol thrillers. The
Kursaal has just been re-
moved to more ample quarters
in North Sydney.
A job worth £750 to £lOOO p.a. will
be open to applicants at Melb. Univer-
sity when Prof. John A. Gunn retires
in March from the directorship of exten-
sion. Born in Scotland, the professor
has one of the longest lists of honors,
decorations and prizes among university
philosophers, the most distinguished of
them the Ph.D. granted on a report
from the Sorbonne by the famous Henri
Bergson. Gunn has made a few excur-
sions into imaginative literature, and his
play, “Spinoza, the Maker of Lenses,”
has been translated into several tongues,
though it has never sent a first-night
audience into raptures.
Mrs. Catherine Stewart, the only
woman member returned at M.L.’s
general elections (she represents a Wel-
lington suburban constituency), arrived
in Fernland with her husband as recently
as 1921. Born in Glasgow of wealthy
parents, and brought up a true-blue Tory,
she developed scepticism as soon as she
could talk. Courses in psychology and
economics at Glasgow Uni. confirmed
her in Leftist convictions, and she fought
the election under Savage’s banner.
Maoriland’s only previous woman mem-
ber was Elizabeth IVJcCombs, also a
Laborite. She inherited the Lyttelton seat
on the death of her husband, James Mc-
Combs, and on her death it went to their
son, T. H. McCombs, D.Sc.
Another wine-expert of S.A. has
quickly followed the three who perished
in the Kyeema. H. V. Luff was born
at Talbot (Vic.), and started business in
Melbourne, but moved to Adelaide at
the beginning of the century.
Norman Millar, head of the Queens-
land Council of Churches and minister of
St. Andrew’s kirk, who died recently
was a Hunter River man, 51 at
the end. He was educated at Coer-
wull Academy, Bathurst (N.S.W.), and
Sydney Uni. He was not through his
theological course when war broke out,
so some of his study was done in the
Near East and on the Western Front.
As president of the Council of Churches
he was always fighting for some cause.
In 1936 he was State Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church, but the last two
years illness circumscribed his work,
though he fought bravely till the last.
He had one of the largest funerals seen
in Brisbane.
Adelaide School of Mines and Univer-
sity think they have a coming engineer
in Boris Osman, who came to the city
with a scholarship from Kadina in the
Wallaroo and Moonta copper country.
Last year he won the Automotive
Engineers’ Institution prize, open to all
Australia. Now comes from the U.S.A.
the award of a first prize in the' Lincoln
Foundation’s world competition for an
essay on arc-welding.
William Ewart Hart, of Sydney,
cherishes the first pilot’s license issued by
Australian aviation authorities. It’s dated
W. E. HART.
December 11, 1911. His English pilot’s
license is No. 199. Hart was the first
flier to make a crosscountry flight in
Australia. He served in the Great War
in the Australian Flying Corps. Though
he has at one time or another broken
nearly every bone in his body, and looks
back with almost a shudder on the
rickety contraptions of bamboo and
calico on which he risked his life, he
bears his 53 years very lightly. Born in
Parramatta, and the first pilot to fly be-
tween Parramatta and Sydney.
Charles F. Crosby, who passed over
the Great Divide the other day, left many
conspicuous monuments in Melbourne,
the Y.M.C.A. being only one of them.
President for 28 years, he lived almost
in a frenzy of almsgiving, and the war
only gave fresh impetus to his activities.
While living in camp he made the
Y.M.C.A. an integral part of the A.l.F.’s
front-line organisation. But one of his
biggest projects was Prince Henry’s Hos-
pital, which, had just embarked on a
£500,000 scheme of development when
its skipper’s flag went half-mast.
“Sailor” Webb, Judge’s-associate, just
dead in Adelaide at 60, was famous for
never having dropped his work, although
he came out of the war with an enlarged
heart which would not allow him even
to walk up a flight of stairs. For 20
years he did his responsible job every
day at the Supreme Court, and then went
back to bed at a hospital which he made
his home.
Poet Ronald McCuaig, some of whose
verse has appeared in The Bulletin,
and whose first book of poems, Vaude-
ville, was recently reviewed on the Red
Page, is a tall, loose-limbed fellow with
a genial grin and a pointed turn of speech.
Thirty years old, he was born at New-
castle (N.S.W.). His father had fol-
lowed the unpoetic profession of iron-
mongery in Belfast. At the age of 17,
McCuaig began sweeping floors in a
Sydney softgoods warehouse, and later
was an office boy in an indent office,
where he began writing for broadcast-
ing. He was on the staff of “Wireless
Weekly” for 10 years, and wrote weekly
causeries signed “James.” Vaudeville,
hand-printed by the author, is eagerly
sought by collectors of Australiana.
One of the identities of Yea (Vic.) is
old Daniel McLeish, the white-bearded
proprietor of the Commercial, known
locally as “Father.” Daniel drove bullocks
with the wool clip to Melbourne when it
took a week to do it. At 87 the patriarch
is still almost as powerful a man as he
was when he carted sleepers from Haw-
thorn to Lilydale for the Gippsland
railway, and it is on local record that,
when an unruly customer pulled his
beard, old Dan leapt the bar and knocked
down his assailant.
One of the most accessible public ser-
vants in Melbourne is George Alfred
Gahan. Unlike Harold Clapp, who can
hear the rattle of his trains any time he
has leisure to listen, Railways Commis-
sioner Gahan administers a line at a
distance of 800 miles. He runs the
Transcontinental between Port Augusta
and Kalgoorlie. Commonwealth Com-
missioner since 1929, he got his
experience on Victorian State lines and
on extended leaves in Europe, Britain
and America. He did engineering ser-
vice in the Great War as a captain in the
2nd Australian Light Railway Operat-
ing Corps, and is now Director of Rail-
ways on the staff of Q.M.G. at Army
H.Q. and a member of the War Rail-
way Council. He is a bare 51.
F. A. A. Russell, K.C., had not been
seen at the Sydney Bar .for several years
since ill health claimed him. In an earlier
day he was a familiar figure in courts in
which banking, insurance and industrial
cases were tried and was a well-known
lecturer on the legal side of economics
at Sydney University. He was the author
of several legal textbooks, and the Inky
Way remembers him as the last chair-
man of the old Daily Telegraph Co.
Lord of 820 sq. miles of good sheep
country in n.-w. S.A. is John Edward
J. E. PICK.
Pick, though when he took up Coon-
dambo in 1920 it carried only dingoes
(1000 were killed in the first year). Now
43,000 woollies deploy on these broad
downs. Pick, who will be 70 next year,
has a grazing experience that dates back
to 1892. He has had three years in Par-
liament as Liberal member for Burra
Burra ; was a valued member of the Pas-
toral Commission, and for many years
has been president of the Port Augusta
Racing Club.


0Y!
¥■
Lounge behind the wheel of a Hudson
.. . and LIVE! Pile your friends in.
Three’s never a crowd in a Hudson seat,
for these are by far the roomiest of all
popular cars.
GO ... as long and far as you want. ..
in a car that never tires, and never tires
A car that’s out in front by a cham-
pion’s margin in power, smoothness,
'mMm;r?:* ■■:
i: ,
%zz
m
mmm
m
y>\>:
m
m
performance and endurance, as scores of
official records prove.
Discover the feeling of well-being that
all Hudson owners know. And the
satisfying sense of thrift you get in the
cars that have beaten all the others in
their class in competitive economy tests.
Drive a 1938 Hudson to-day.
HUDSON Terraplane
HUDSON Six
HUDSON Eight
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS;/
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORSs
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
R C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street. Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
3X-S4-F.P.


ABORIGINALIES
“D.Mc.”: “I’ve struck some tough
blokes in me time,” said Joe Staggers,
“but the daddy of ’em all wus a cove
that come ’ere travellin’ with a sideshow
as a strong man. This bloke ’ud lay on
’is back, balance a ’uge boulder on ’is
chest an’ invite any of the mob ’oo could
swing a 141 b. ’ammer t’ ’ave a crack at
it. Big Jim Mooney, a bullock-puncher,
’ops in an’ reckons ’e’ll do it in one crack.
“Will somebody please ring the shark bell ?”
Peelin’ orf ’is coat ’e limbers up with a
few mighty swings, then makes a ’orrible
swipe at the boulder, misses it an’ smacks
the strong bloke fair on the dial. Do y’
know that that ’ammer bounced back,
caught Big Jim on the bean an’ knocks
’im cold? ‘Muscles’ gets up cool as a
cucumber an’ walks over to ’ave a look
at ’is ’ammer. ‘The clumsy cow,’ ’e
snorts, ‘ ’e’s gone an’ chipped the face
of an ’ammer that cost me two lovely
quid! ”
** _ *
“Red Devon”: If “Nagheer ’ (B.
5/10/’3B) toured the Speck’s Lake coun-
try he would find that his. “vanishing”
bullock-dray is anything but vanishing.
There it is still considered indispensable.
Behind a team that knows that a whip’s
bite is worse than its bark and a driver
that knows his job, a bullock-dray can
go over country too rough to ride
through, and provided a tree big enough
can be got for a drag no hill is too steep
for its descent.
* * * *
“Werrimee” : The native companion
(B. 19/10/’3B) was so called by early
shepherds in Riverina (N.S.W.) who
were intrigued by the birds’ morning
quadrilles on the plains. The abo. name
“brolga” comes from a legend of the
Castlereagh blacks. They told that in
the alcheringa (dream time) there was a
beautiful girl named Brolga who was
far-famed for her dancing. She was
kidnapped by two giants, whose incan-
tations changed her into a great crane,
In that form she returned and danced
before the camps. By and by the birds
became many on the plains, and were
known as brolgas. They are sacred to
many tribes, in whose corroborees their
fantastic dances are incorporated.
“Cooramin”: “Cornisher” says he
knows of only two wild birds that have
white flesh—the spinifex quail and the
flock pigeon (B. 19/10/’3B). He can
add the wonga and the squatter pigeon.
Being favorites of the pot-hunter, these
are now becoming scarce. The wonga
has one of the most far-reaching calls
in the bush. The squatter has a fatal
habit of feeding along bush roads, from
which it runs a little way when dis-
turbed and squats down. It has thus been
an easy target for the horseman’s stock-
whip and the teamster’s bullock-whip, to
say nothing of Binghi’s waddy and
boomerang. I take it that what “Cor-
nisher” calls the spinifex quail is the
plumed or spinifex pigeon.
# * * *
“Ophir”: The man who helps his dog
to kill a snake is surely writing Towser’s
future death sentence. That “Sool him,
boy,” which is meant as an encourage-
ment really distracts the dog’s attention
from the job on hand. And when
Ponto’s dealing with death in scales he
can’t afford to let his attention flicker
for the flash of a second. Of course, the
snake-killer inevitably meets his Water-
loo, but he sometimes lasts for many
years—but only if he is left strictly alone
when he’s on the job.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: “J.D.P.” (B. 19/10/’3B)
on the subject of the stopping-powers of
a bullet somewhat departs from estab-
lished principles laid down by scientifi-
cally conducted experiments. Theoreti-
cally, and in actual practice, the chief
factor in the wounding effect of any mis-
sile is its energy of movement, expressed
in foot-pounds by a formula the essence
of which is that the heavier the missile
and the faster it moves the greater is its
wounding- and, therefore, its stopping-
power. The old Mark VI. blunt-nosed
.303 bullet, if its cupro-nickel jacket is
filed down at the point until the lead
core is exposed, will stop any creature
on earth just as effectively as the 12-bore
Paradox “J.D.P.” quotes. Briefly, the
stopping-power of a small-arm missile is
due partly to the nature of the part
struck, partly to the shape and structure
G f the missile, and chiefly to* the velocity
it possesses on impact,
* * * *
“Darkie’s Master”: I put “Towser’s”
proposition (B. 26/10/’3B) up to Darkie ;
here’s his reply: “As a good sheep-dog I
instinctively have a better knowledge of
working sheep than most men, and
‘Towser’ has apparently mistaken this for
telepathy. Once out of sight and hearing
of you I am guided by the impulses of
my conscience, just as a human would be.
At closer range I observe and act upon
the tone and inflexion of your voice and
whistle—in fact, the whole purport of
your actions. If another man ordered
me to ‘Go back! ’ probably I would not
know what he meant. But if he was a
good impersonator and imitated you, es-
pecially your colorful language, I would
respond immediately.”
* * * *
“Chelonian”: Keep a pet tortoise if
you like, but for goodness sake don’t
take “Tom Willie’s” advice and expect
him to eat “every pest in the garden” (B.
26/10/’3B). Contrary to popular super-
stition, the tortoise is a strict vegetarian
like all his kind, and snails and other
flower-devourers are nothing to him. If
he has a particular weakness it is for
fresh and succulent lettuce, and if you
like salads don’t keep a tortoise. If you
want a perfect snail-eradicator get a
couple of ordinary seagulls. A little
wire-netting round the bottom of the
fencing and a sharp eye on the front
gate will- keep them at home.
* » * *
“Scolopax”: Writing of the hordes of
water birds enjoying the good season in
nor’-western N.S.W. (B. 26/10/’3B), “The
0.D.” refers to “the rare snipe.” Given
the conditions he likes, the snipe is
common enough in Australia when he
pays us his annual visit, for he is a
migrant coming all the way from the
Siberian tundra where he breeds. Am
surprised that anyone with “The 0.D.”
for a pen-name should not know this, for
I have always understood that, next to
landlord - sniping, snipe - shooting was
Ireland’s favorite sport.
$ $ ;J<
“K.Mc.”: The fawning jackeroo
downed his crowbar and raced across to
open the gate as the big boss, who is
more often to be seen under a top hat at
Randwick than at the station, ap-
proached. The obsequious one looked
up at him expectantly, but the boss only
said “Please shut that gate, Mr. Jones.”
He then rode up, opened it for himself,
pulled it shut after him and rode off,
leaving Mr. Jones gaping in mid-air.
V * * *
“V.D.”: Was busy in the big packing-
shed of a Tamar (Tas.) orchard when a
neighbor came along to borrow some
case timber. Shortly afterwards, finding
that he had no suitable nails for making
up cases, he was back for a supply.
Next day he returned for wood-wool.
As a half-bale of this was being
loaded into a cart old George, who had
been steadily packing all the while, re-
marked to the boss, “Now he’ll only
need to come back for the apples!”
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Two young fellows from
north of the Divide were holidaying in
our Gippsland village. To their inquiries
regarding a bit of fishing they were
directed to Cash’s dam. “No good going
before sundown, though,” they were told.
About ten o’clock that night those of
us who had congregated for our usual
yarn in the store were attracted by much
yelling from the direction of the dam,
and shortly two harassed fishermen came
along. “No good to us down there,
mates,” one of them said ; “youse blokes
c’n have it on yer own. That water’s
lousy with flamin’ snakes. If we’ve killed
one we’ve killed twenty of the blankards.
We’ve ’ad enough.” Yes, on the bank
were about 20 long serpentine forms, well
bashed and quite beyond tepair. You
don’t get eels in the inland waters, and
those lads had never been south of the
ranges before.
¥ ¥ ' ¥ *
“H.W.”: A product for “pigeon-proof-
ing” buildings now being marketed
abroad should interest Sydney’s civic
fathers. It consists of a sticky compound
which is applied to all ledges, etc., where
pigeons could possibly perch. Getting
his feet tangled up in this mess so annoys
the pigeon that, when he gets unstuck,
he seeks more salubrious parts.
sfc * * *
“Spinifex”: Nature may hoist danger-
signals among the crustaceans (B.
12/10/’3B), but in the plant world she
certainly lays traps. Out from Mt. Mar-
garet (W.A.), with a string of camels, we
were short of both water and fodder
until we struck a little glen in some low
ironstone hills. After a fair bellyful of
water the oonts started to graze, gradu-
ally working towards a bank of entic-
ingly green herbage. They were belly-
deep in this when Old Jack, who had
been scouting in another direction, blew
in. “Goralmighty,” he yelled as he fell
on the feeding camels with a pair of
hobbles. “Don’t you babes in the woods
know that this is wild wallflower and
poisonous?” By tying the oonts down
and dosing them with bucketfuls of
soapsuds, and then bleeding by slitting
the ears, we managed to lose only two.
But the survivors were very sick ships-
of-the-desert for several days after. That
gave us ample time to examine the cause
of the trouble. Succulent green stems,
quite 6ft. tall, well covered with entic-
ing green leaves, topped with clusters of
brownish flowers, not unlike those of the
English wallflower. Later learned that
the scientific moniker was Gastrolo-
bium grandiflorium.” And the botanist
who gave us that mouthful reckoned
that G.g. was only poisonous, or toxic,
as he put it, when very young and milky
or when in flower.
* * * *
“Atrax”: For eight years I have
known these S.Q. creek flats as a place
favored by porcupines, probably because
they are also favored by several species
of ground-nesting ants. In the last
month the spiky little people have moved
to the ridges, where the ant supply is not
nearly so good. It is longer than 1 care
to think of since old Peter Goolagong
told the small boy that was me: “Pork-
pine belenty clever pfeller—more clever
dan ant. He savvy bigpfeller rain first
time, get ’way quick. That antpfeller
stop, gettum drown that antpfeller.” We
had unusual rains last winter, but
neither porcupine nor ant moved until
we got these last swift, heavy falls, un-
heralded by any professional or amateur
prophecies. And, so far, only the porcu-
pines have moved. What are the odds
on a flood summer in these parts, pro-
fessional forecasts or not?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Am surprised at
“Concreto’s” wasps (B. 12/10/’3B) fall-
ing for wet cement. I once watched
them at work in a dam we were sinking.
We bottomed finally where the clay ran
out into quicksand—solid-looking stuff,
blue like the clay, and firm enough until
you disturbed it, when its treacherous
nature was revealed. Frequently the
wasps lit on that stuff, but after a care-
ful inspection they moved on to the
dinkum clay. Couldn’t make it out until
one day we struck a spadeful that had
been puddled and left to dry. It was
almost as hard as cement.
s!e * ❖ *
“Notaden”: A hopeful individual who
lodged two small tin boxes at a Mel-
bourne post office, addressed to a foreign
destination and containing a live lizard
and a live bat, has learned that postal
travel outside the British Empire for live
animals is a very exclusive affair. Only
three kinds are accepted under inter-
national postal agreement: bees, silk-
worms and leeches. Leeches are obvious
survivals from the medical methods of
a former day. Bees are limited to
queens, which do not sting or make
themselves otherwise obtrusive, and no
tamer and less troublesome creature than
a silkworm can be imagined. All are
obliged to travel in special individual
accommodation whilst in postal charge.
Inside the Empire postal delivery is quite
another affair —anyone who’s got the
money can post anything from day-old
chicks to a baby elephant from Prahran
to Saskatchewan and be reasonably sure
of quick and safe delivery. But —the
accompanying letter will cost the same
2d. as it now does to the next street.
Hs # # *
“Turoar”: “This wireless is a wunner-
ful thing,” Old Bob said. “I c’n remem-
ber when blokes use ter go round with a
thing like a barrel an’ a ’andle stickin’
outa it. They’d twist the ’andle an’ out’d
come a lot uv moosic. Pore sort uv stuff
it wus, too, though the blokes useter
make somethink sometimes. But the
other night I’m lis’nin’-in an’ the wire-
less cove says, ‘Yer now ter ’ave the
“ ’Ardly-knoo-yer Chorus” by ’andle.’ By
cripes, it’s marv’lous. Yer’d reckin there
wus a ’undred people singin’, an’ a dam’
good band there, too.”
* * * *
“Hopalong”: Recent discussion on
Binghi loses sight of the fact that he
was not the original inhabitant of Aus-
tralia. There is little doubt that he came
from the north—probably overland from
Asia when Australia was joined to that
continent. He killed off or assimilated
the Tasmanian type, who were here be-
fore him. The subsidence of Bass Strait
saved the remnant of that race from
Binghi—but not from the white man.
The Tasmanian was of much lower men-
tality than his mainland brother, and it
is significant that he had no knowledge
of boatbuilding.
TRAIN JOURNEY.
Some talked of this and some of that,
Of last year’s frock and this year’s hat,
And some to books their leisure gave—
Nor watched the green fields, wave on wave,
Come running by the right of way
From early dawn till end of day:
While all that I could do was sit
And glory in the green of it.
For I had left an arid land
Of burning sun and pitiless sand
Where small white bones defenceless lie
Unhallowed, and the passer-by
Sees heat-mists dance across the morn
Ere yet the hotter day is born,
And where the waters seep away
Through pebbled waste and porous clay.
And so though others failed to see
The flower-embroidered pageantry
Of fields whose roots were fed and blessed
By water from a mountain crest,
And talked at length of this and that
As best pertains to frock and hat—
Still all that 1 could do was sit
And glory in the green of it.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


“Wang”: “Lookin’ fer work one time,”
related Dan, “me an’ a mate landed a
job grubbin’ out a big half-dead gum
near a cocky’s house. It wus the missus
what give us the job; she wore the
strides, all right. Her ole man, a weedy
runt, said he didn’t think the tree wanted
rootin’ out; but she shut him up quick ;
reckoned it had been an eyesore fer
years, an’ it was cornin’ down, an’ that
was all there was to it. We set t’ work,
an’ ev’ry now an’ then the ole bloke
would start across from the house t’wards
us ; seemed t’ be excited about somethin’.
But he never got nearer than half-way ;
his ole woman called him back. We kept
delvin’ away, an’ got busy on the roots,
an’ soon the tree gits a lean on. It wus
hot work, an’ dry, too. Then a puff of
wind made the tree sway, an’ me mate
gives a yell, an’ makes a grab at some-
thin’ that come slidin’ outa a hole in the
trunk about five feet up. Strike me if it
ain’t a bottle of whisky, nearly full! He
dives his hand inter the hole, an’ blow
me if he don’t drag out a coupla bottles
of beer. We wus woke up some hours
later by the cocky’s wife bargin’ at us.
‘Couldn’t yer wait till yer’d finished the
job?’ she snaps, pointin’ t’ the empty
bottles. “If I’d known y’ wus bringin’
booze on t’ it, I wouldn’t have give it
t’ ye.’ Her old man looked as if he
could have murdered us, but we didn’t
say nothin’; we’d have felt the same way
ourselves, I s’pose, if somebody had come
along an’ busted up our sly-grog plant.”
* * * *
“Cicada”: Bushed in a mangrove
swamp one night on the banks of a
N.Q. creek infested with crocodiles, we
heard a noise which was half bark, half
cough. An old prospector said it was a
crocodile heron. The noise continued
almost all night at short intervals. Any
Aboliar heard of this bird?
Jji
“Dewey”: “Spare Walton,” in seeking
to correct the wobbly natural history of
the flapper press (B. 26/10/’3B), is him-
self guilty of inaccuracies. In the first
place the fish is ceratodus, not ceradotus,
a point on which he failed to chide the
“D.T.” Secondly, he confuses the lung-
fish, a survival from remote antiquity, it
having both lungs and gills, and living in
the freshwater Burnett, with the Burnett
salmon, a splendid saltwater fish that
enters the Burnett and one or two near-
by rivers only in winter for the purpose'
of spawning. It certainly does go up
to the fresh water to spawn, but is a true
fish, and good eating too. I live on the
Burnett, and can vouch for the accuracy
of these few words.
5|C * * *
“Cooper’s Ale”: Just out of Manly
(N.S.W.) I came across a redback spider
and his trapdoor relative ; I put them
in a jam-jar together and watched as
good a fight as I have ever seen at the
Stadium—all in, and no ref. They
sparred and sidestepped like light-
weights. After a ding-dong two hours
Redback, who was the smaller and
quicker, managed to wind his web
round Trapdoor until that armor-plated
poisoner couldn’t move. It was getting
dark, so I left them to it. In the morn-
ing all that was left of Trapdoor was
his legs.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: A nineteenth-century
British army-pattern sword was lately un-
earthed by natives at Barred Creek, some
25 miles to the north of Broome (W.A.).
It is curious where the cast-off odds and
ends disposed of periodically by Govern-
ments do fetch up ultimately. My first
recollection of the New Hebrideans was
of grotesque blacks arrayed in scarlet
tunics—nothing else—once the proud
uniform of some M.L. or Australian
“ Aw , you must expect t' be ’it a few times or the show Won't draw.”
militiamen. 111-fitting as they were, their
former glory bedimmed with dirt, each
dusky owner seemed vastly pleased with
his get-up, which, after all, was all that
mattered. Firearms were also commonly
met with in those days, and a more
heterogeneous collection was never seen
outside a museum; they ranged from
the old Black Bess of Waterloo days to
blunderbusses. Possibly some astute
early-day trader accounted for this un-
expected finery and martial display. The
W.A. relic probably owed its presence in
the north-west to a similar source —it
may have arrived per Malay proa. The
only wonder is how its abo. owner came
to lose such a treasure.
« * * *
“W.J.D.”: “Wil” (B. 5/10/’3B) has got
the wrong reason for those flies stuck
under the swallow’s wings. They are
purely parasitic, and will in time kill
their host. Moreover, birds aren’t the
only things they batten on. The Tas-
manian wallaby is a common victim.
* * * *
“Joe”: “W’en I was down in the city
once,” said Old Tom, “I used to ’ave me
tucker at a caffey that ’ad a sign up in
the winder, ‘Best Three-course Meal in
the City, 9d.’ You got a beaut, feed
there, too ; plenty of bread and butter
with everythin’, and two ’elpin’s of pud-
din’ if y’ wanted it. I used to wonder ’ow
they did it so cheap, so one day I chats
the old girl who run the joint (I’d got
a bit pally with ’er through cornin’ in
every day). She tells me she made it on
the turnover. Well, I still don’t get ’ow
she made it pay, becors they on’y ’ad
them twice a week —apple Toosdee and
jam Fridee.”
*
“Murlonga”: Isn’t it time we dropped
that silly myth about “King Billy” and
other dusky potentates? No tribe I ever
met —and I’ve known many—ever had
as its chief, any abo. who claimed blue-
blooded regality. That “king” stuff, with
its brass plate, is only white man’s
playabout. It carries no weight in the
councils of the tribe, and, at the most, it
is valued for what it is worth —a stick of
tobacco or a nip of rum. The conduct
of the tribe was regulated by the old
men —and a boy reached “old man”
status when he had found a corroboree,
done some magic, excelled in the hunt,
gained his place by his fighting ability
and, in odd instances, by his grey hairs.
They were the high, low and middle laws.
Further, I never heard of a Parliament,
a debate, or of a question being put to
the vote —they were unanimous or they
were nothing.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Nominate for the
Longevity Stakes two gateposts erected
106 years ago and still standing in a
Perth (W.A.) suburb. They are stated
to be tuart, a name used to cover a
variety of timbers ranging from the real
tuart to white gum ; but I’d say they’re
the river gum peculiar to Perth. Not
unlike the tuart in appearance, but
harder to cut, river gum has no grain
and defies the toughest wedges. My
first encounter with it, after sampling
some of the stoutest timber the wheat-
belt could offer, ended in a complete
victory for a 2ft.-through log in which I
left five wedges. Weather seems to have
no effect on it, and white-ants don’t take
it from choice. Altogether a wonderful
timber —but all hell to handle.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Binghi’s ingenuity in
getting easy tucker even runs past catch-
ing fish in a hollow log (B. 12/10/’3B).
Times were hard in the East Kimberley ;
game was scarce, and the local copper
was dead nuts on cattle-killers. But
there were still plenty of crows. So
Sandy Mac (correct name Sandimarra)
decided to dine on poultry. But even the
Kellys were shy, and it took consider-
able strategy before one was brought
down with a throwing-stick. But after
that the game was Sandy’s. Tethering
the practically uninjured captive upside
down, wings secured to a sheet of bark
with loops of hair string, legs clawing
the empty air, Sandy then went into
hiding. Distressfully the captive cawed,
and soon sympathetic friends and rela-
tives gathered round, mostly intent, of
course, in giving the distressed one his
quietus. One came close to give the first
peck, and, clutched by the wildly-grab-
bing feet of the captive crow, was held
in a deathlike grip until Sandy arrived.
So the game went on, the free crows
seeming to be quite unable to resist the
cawings of the captive. It was only
when the flock became thin and Sandy’s
bag heavy that they took a tumble and
declined to be further cajoled to doom
by the decoy.
* * * *
“Toto”: Some fellows are fully awake
the moment they open their eyes ; others
spend the first few hours every morning
in a state of sub-normal mental alertness.
Once shared a camp on a country con-
struction job with one of the latter. We
slept within 15 yards of the whistle,
which operated on about 1501 b. steam
pressure and could be heard four miles
away. But it never woke Bill. Invari-
ably I had to drag off his bedclothes and
roll him out of the bunk. Then the
fun would begin. He’d grab his hat and
jam it down over his ears and put on
his boots and lace them tightly. Then
he’d have to take off his hat to put on
his shirt, and his boots to allow the free
passage of his trousers. I spent six
months and never once did he
vary the procedure. If I could have re-
produced the act on the stage it would
have brought the house down. But no
actor could have captured the sullen,
lugubrious expression that was the
essence of the show.
* * * *
“Colonial Experience”: Wish I could
have served my articles on a really naice
refaned station (B.
19/10/’3B) where
they “stamped” their
brand on the stock.
My lot fell in ruder
paths. One day I
reported to the boss,
a hairy-nosed Scot,
that half a dozen
obviously virginal
youngsters had
broken through our
back fence near the
old branding yard.
“Whit a gift frae
Goad,” he shrieked.
“Get the gear, ye
haverin’ fule! Tak’
Tam wi’ ye” (said
Tam was a huge
abo. of pugilistic
ability who usu-
ally accompanied
such expeditions)
“and slap the irons
on as quick as ye
can.” The “slap-
ping” method was
much in vogue in that neighborhood, so
much so that I have seen elderly cattle
whose hides looked much more like per-
ambulating Syrian palimpsests than live
greenhide.
“But the customer insisted on a practical demonstration .”
OF A RETIRING DISPOSITION.
When Dad Mclnerney was sixty and had to
lie up with the “screws,”
His family feared for his reason —thought
inaction would give him the blues.
They knew not the patient: he told them
he’d had all he wanted of graft; _ f
That fellers who plugged away ploughin’ till
they dropped in the furrers were daft.
At seventy Dad overbalanced on top of a
haystack and fell;
He damaged some ribs and a shoulder, and
took a compulsory spell.
He swore then he’d do no more farmin’; a
man was a goat to keep on.
‘.The place,” he explained with a flourish, “ ’ll
be goin’ when I’m dead and gone.”
Just after his eightieth birthday (the “districk”
’d had a big flood)
Dad pulled a collection of muscles while
dragging a cow out of mud,
He thought he was “crackin’ up prop’ly”; this
time he would give the game best,
But he went on with straining fences as
soon as he’d finished his “rest.”
To-day the Old Pot, eighty-seven, still attends
to the barns and the bails,
And rounds up the cows, does the milking
and scours separator and pails.
And still, by his people surrounded, he fre-
quently lets himself go
On the theme that it’s rot to keep working
“when the youngsters can manage the
show!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/--per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request.
Directors-.
P ’ N -- YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND , w. G HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
df
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ . £ £
1928. .369,882 40 p.c. = 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929. .528,646 42*,, ~ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930. .275,663 50 ~ ~350,000 2,064.655
1931. .103,571 8J „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932. .205,752 25 ~ ~175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. .196,565 15 ~ ~105,000 91,565 2,229,293
1934'. .303,355 27* „ ~192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 ~ ~280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. .666,940 70 ~ ~490,000 176,940 2,658,771
1937. .940,628 105 ~ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .505,163 90 ~ „ 630,000 2,738,552
The contraction of £435,475 in last year’s
profit was due mainly to the fall in the
price of metals, average London quotes
for which compare as follows:
Silver
Average— Lead. (Fine). Zinc.
5 years June, 1929.. £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
12 months June, 1932.. £l2/16/7 1/6.4 £l2/18/9
12 months June, 1935.. £ll/0/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.3 £l5/3/11
12 months June, 1937. . £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
12 months June, 1938.. £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £l6/15/1
Because the agreement under which the
smelters buy lead concentrates from the
Barrier cos. covers the period to the end
of July, the average price of the metal
applicable to the latest accounts was
£SI6 15s. 3d. During the year lead
stocks were reduced by 685 tons, as
against 7846 tons for the preceding term
—to provide work the co. produced in
excess of market requirements during the
slump, but stocks were reduced to nor-
mal over a year ago—and costs were a
trifle higher. On the other hand, earn-
ings benefited by bigger production and
sale of silver (985,919 ounces) with-
held from the market under international
agreement, which ran out at the end of
1937.
Mine products turned in £618,140 less,
while the return from investments was
£46,898 better:
Revenue:— 1933. 1937. 1938.
Mine production. . £619,822 £1,900,340 £1,282,200
Investments .. 111,584 127,060 173,958
£731,406 £2,027,400 £1,456,158
Kxpenditure:—-
Mine .. ..£498,157 £774',267 £855,832
P. and 1. items.. 71,684 342,505 125,173
£564,841 £1,116,772 £981,005
Net profit .. .. 166,565 910,628 475,153
Mine expenditure was up £81,565, owing
largely to bigger tonnage ; but p. and 1.
charges were £217,332 lighter, owing to
smaller provision for taxation and royal-
ties (£57,800, down £218,200). Each year
the p. and 1. figures include £30,000 for
•depreciation, treated as profit in the in-
troductory table. The £475,153 (down
£435,475) of profit claimed in the ac-
counts was 67.8 p.c. on capital (£700,000)
as against 130, 90.9, 54.3, 39 and 23.7
p.c. back to 1933. Divs. paid during the
year totalled 90 p.c. as against 105 p.c.
in the 1937 term. For the current term
the first two quarterly distributions have
been at the rate of 40 p.c. p.a.
Of the 471,170 tons of crudes raised,
390,875 (up 15,298) tons came from the
North, and 80,295 (up 21,696) tons from
the British section. The average depth
from which the ore was hoisted was
1881 ft. as against 1753 ft. in 1937:
1930. 1937. 1938.
Crudes raised, tons.. 450.157 434.176 471,170
Mining . . . . 245. 8.2 d. 235. 6.7 d. 235. 8.9 d.
Development.. .. 2s. 2.7 d. 3s. 6.7 d. 3s. 11.4 d.
Milling . . .. 10s. 9.3 d. 7s. 6.1 d. 7s. 2.8 d.
375. 8.2 d. 345. 7.5 d. 345. ll.ld.
There was a drop of about 10s. in the
average weekly lead bonus (approxi-
mately 18s.) paid to employees ; but this
reduction in costs was more than offset
by an increase in the basic wage, in the
volume of development work, in the
price of mining timber and in the
cost of mining at greater average
depth. A pleasing feature is the contrac-
tion of 3.3 d. in milling costs, which
should be further lowered when the new
concentrating mill, scheduled to begin in
February next, is at work ; and mining
costs should benefit when skip-haulage
, in No. 2 shaft, North section, is ex-
tended to the lower levels.
Ore assayed approximately the same
as for the previous year, the average
being 14.5 p.c. lead, 8.70 z. silver and
10.8 p.c. zinc. Compared with the North,
British ore is lower-grade and more diffi-
cult to treat. Here are milling results
for both sections combined:
Ore , Concentrates ,
Treated, , Lead ■, , Zinc ,
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 p.c. 13,730 51.6 p.e.
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 „ 57,746 52.8 „
1935.. 396,175 79,060 73.5 „ 74,370 53.3 „
1936.. 402,097 79,330 73.0 ~ 77,070 53.0 „
1937.. 434,805 80,310 73.9 „ 74,740 52.3 „
1938.. 468,150 86,640 74.0 „ 81.950 52.4 „
A trifle less lead and a bit more silver
were recovered, the figures being 94.3
p.c. lead, 87.1 p.c. silver and 84.5 p.c.
zinc. However, the net value of lead
lost was more than offset by the advan-
tages accruing from greater throughput.
Estimated ore reserves at June 30
were:
1937. 1938,
Tons. Tons.
North section .. .. 4,046,000 4.128,000
British section . . . . 775,000 747,000
Junction section .. .. 200,000 200.000
Total 5,021,000 5,075,000
A lot more high-grade ore has been dis-
closed by diamond-drilling, and more
still is believed to exist. Resumption of
mining operations at the Blackwood
shaft, British section, in May last,
rehabilitation of the Browne shaft, now
in progress in the Junction section, and
other preparatory work in the North sec-
tion, together with the new mill, suggest
continued expansion of production and
treatment figures. The aim—and share-
holders have much for which to thank
the management in this direction —is to
offset the effects of low metal prices and
increasing costs by large-scale produc-
tion and high metallurgical efficiency.
As for prospects, the increasing con-
sumption of lead and absence of im-
portant new finds to replace ore taken
from existing mines make long-term
prospects for the industry look encourag-
ing. The London spot price of lead,
which averaged £SI3 3s. 9d. for June,
has lately been over £SI6 per ton. Now
that the international situation is less
unsettled, European demand is expected
to strengthen, and so is consumption in
the U.S.A. Much will depend upon what
happens in this connection, especially
since lead-producers recently agreed to
restrict output by 10 p.c.
Since January last the ss. shares have
fluctuated between 575. 6d. and 355. 3d.
in the market. The price last week-end
was 515., at which figure the return would
be 3.9 p.c. on a 40 p.c. div. basis, or
8 p.c. on an 80 p.c. distribution, which
would call for £84,000-odd more profit
than was claimed last term.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
This is the co. which was formed in
Auckland at the end of 1936 to take
over the interests of bondholders in N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., which had sold
forestry bonds to a face value of over
£4,000,000 to about 75,000 bondholders,
and planted on their behalf 170,000-odd
acres in Maoriland with Pinus radiata,
etc. The bond-selling co. undertook to
acquire land, plant trees thereon, tend
and maintain the forests thus created, and
then hand them over, together with the
freehold, to the forest owners or their
representatives at the end of 20 years,
or earlier if required. The Products Co.
took over management of the forests on
Dec. 15, 1937, but did not obtain actual
legal possession of the properties until
August, 1938, nor until then did it have
any funds of its own with which to carry
on—advances on loan were obtained
from the trustee for bondholders, Aus-
tralian Forestry Bond Trust Co. Just
before the forests were taken over a fire
destroyed 564 acres of trees, but the loss
was made good by the bond-selling co.
from its fire-reserve plantings.
At the end of March last the
Products Co.’s accounts, a formal
document, showed paid capital at
£4,126,064, which was represented on the
other side of the sheet by bonds (at cost)
in N.Z. Perpetual Forests to a like
amount. Loans from the trustee figured
at £41,267, sundry creditors £904, for-
feited share reserve £249 ; total, £42,420,
which was represented by office equip-
ment £312, debtors £6O, cash £3316 and
a p. and 1. debit of £38,389.
Of the £38,389, £18,996 net was in
respect of management charges, etc., for
the 12 months to the end of NJarch.
Chief work done during the year was
completion of a topographical survey of
the forests, “exhaustive” consideration by
the board of “all phases of contemplated
and possible future activities,” and
presentation of the co.’s case in connec-
tion with the compounding and mainten-
ance contract to the Bondholders’ Incor-
poration Commission.
As for future activities, the board has
not yet made up its mind exactly what
it intends to do in connection with the
forests. To guide it in laying down a
policy of utilisation, it has engaged S. A.
Clarke, forest engineer, of the Council
of Scientific and Industrial Research,
Melbourne, to make a thorough investi-
gation, and his report is to be considered
by a committee of exports.
Since the close of accounts, the two
cos. have reached agreement, to which
the commission gave formal approval at
the end of August, in respect of the com-
pounding and maintenance contract.
Under this agreement the Perpetual Co.
will transfer to the Products Co. cash,
investments and other assets aggregating
in round figures £1,300,000. This, of
course, is in addition to the planted
forests themselves. Of the £1,300,000
about £600,000 is already held in cash
and liquid securities by Australian
Forestry Bondholders’ Trust Co., which
up to the present has acted as trustee for
the bondholders ; it will now be wound
up, there being no further need for its
existence. The balance of about £700,000
will be paid over by N.Z. Perpetual in
cash and other liquid investments, and
also in buildings, plant, unplanted land,
etc. Altogether, there will be approxi-
mately £1,000,000 available for the use
of the Products Co. in cash and easily-
realisable assets. This marks the end of
the first stage of operations, which began
15 years ago with the formation of N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, which sold the bonds
and did the planting, etc.
At present all those who held bonds
in N.Z. Perpetual now hold one £3O
share in Forest Products for each bond
previously held. Obviously the shares
which represent earlier plantings, say
1926-27, are now more valuable than
those which represent later plantings, say
1935-36, the difference in value being
represented by years of tree-growth
standing to the credit of the earlier issues.
The next immediate step will be the for-
mulation of a plan of classification and
valuation of the shares on the most equit-
able basis for the purpose of placing the
different classes on a fair relative footing.
When this is done, present interim share
certificates will have to be returned to
the co. for endorsement or exchange,
and shareholders will know more defi-
nitely where they stand in respect of
their rights inter se.
Very naturally shareholders want to
know when they are likely to receive the
substantial sum which bond prospectuses
and bond salesmen led them to believe
they might receive within 15 or 20 years.
At the annual meeting the chairman
answered thus:
1 desire to say firmly and emphatically
that your directors can accept no respon-
sibility for any estimated values which have
been made of £250 an acre for wood pulp
in approximately 15 years and £5OO an acre
for tjmber in 20 years from the time of
planting. Shareholders must appreciate that
immediate returns are out of the question.
The whole task of realisation lies ahead.
The earliest plantings will not be matured
for large-scale realisation for at least 10
years. Shareholders must look upon it as
a long-term investment. The probabilities
at the moment all point to the fact that
their returns will come in the form of
annual dividends, not lump sums. It is
apparent from the size of the plantations
that it will be necessary for the co. to
develop a large export trade.
The statement confirms what the “Wilff
Cat” has been saying in connection with
the venture for years. With rapidly-
rising costs, including taxation of one
kind and another, in the Dominion, the
prospect of developing a profitable
export trade in either pulp or timber is
not growing any brighter. Any altera-
tion in the value of the Dominion’s cur-
rency would, of course, affect the
problem.
United Provisions, Ltd.
r— —Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928. . 123,460 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 100,854 22,012 028
1929.. 112,094 8 ~ 8 ~ 112,000 94 722
1930.. 102,904 8 ~ 7 ~ 102,500 404 1180
1931.. 30,205 8 „ Nil 30,000 205 1391
1932.. 35,011 8 ~ Nil 30,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 ~ Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,052 8 ~ Nil 30,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 07,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 08,500 • 380
1930.. 55,320 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 320 712
1937.. 30,087 8 ~ Nil 30,000 87 799
Tax refund, £ 407 .. .. .. .. 1200
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 04,600 0,353 7019
* Including 3 p.c. arrears.
This is the holding co. through which
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones, the well-
known ham, bacon and food-canning
people, amalgamated their interests in
1927. The £1,400,000 of capital is in
450,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 950,000
ords. The lot, together with reserves
(there are no creditors), are represented
by shares in the two operating cos.
£1,355,008 (cost) and advances to subsi-
diaries £99,160.
At the start it looked like an 8 p.c.
proposition ; but for the ords. five of the
last eight years have been dry ones,
the average distribution over the period
being 0.8 p.c. The trouble lies mainly
in destructive competition, which takes
the form of not only cutting selling
prices to the bone but of bidding up for
pigs and other raw-material supplies,
prices for which are governed partly by
competition from exporters.
The two operating cos. together own
nine factories in Australia and a subsi-
diary (part of the Hutton business) in
Maoriland, and each has developed an
export trade with Southern and Eastern
Asia, Dutch East Indies and Pacific
Islands, while the Maoriland factory
ships frozen pork to Britain. During
the last term competition from exporters
kept the price of pigs up, while on the
selling side margins remained too fine
to provide a satisfactory return on capi-
tal. Gross earnings (£258,292) stepped
up £37,038, as the following table shows:
Groas Net General
June, Profit. Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1935.. 228,778 55,540 9.7 p.c. = 69,500 293,980
Bad debts reserve disclosed. £19,414 .. 313,394
General additions, £16,145 . . . . 329,539
1936.. 228,381 54,045 7.8 p.c. = 56,000 327,584
Specific reserves disclosed. £25,430 . . 353,014
General additions, £15.366 .. .. 368,380
1937.. 221,254 46,857 5.1 p.c. = 37,000 378,237
Intangibles disappear, £3O .. . . 378,267
General additions, £11,184 .. .. 389.451
1938.. 258,292 69,344 10 p.c. = 71,701 387,094
Including provision for taxation (£16,500,
up £4000), exes. (£188,948) were £14,551
heavier, leaving the declared net result
£22,487 better at 9.6 p.c. on the operat-
ing cos.’ combined capital, compared with
6.5, 7.5, 7.7, 2.8 and 3.1 p.c. back to 1933.
That leaves out of the reckoning unex-
plained additions to reserves (now
£387,094), which are mainly provision
for depreciation. The div. was lifted
from 5.1 p.c. to 10 p.c. Over the last
seven years the operating cos. have dis-
tributed in divs. £31,757 more than the
aggregate profit claimed.
To enable the holding co. to pay its
pref. div., the operating cos. need to pay


d
Young Men!
LEARN
AVIATION
By HOME STUDY
There is a Shortage of Trained Men
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING AERONAUTICAL COLLEGE,
by a Correspondence Course, trains ambitious men and youths
in all branches of Aviation Ground Engineering—Aero-
Engines, Aircraftsmanship, Rigging, Maintenance, etc. Be
trained by Qualified Experts for a Good Pay Job in a young
Industry. The Course is easy to follow and terms may be
arranged.
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION
(W. Kingsford Smith, Principal)
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney (opp. Bridge Street).
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY.
Please send, without obligation, your FREE PROSPECTUS.
NAME AGE.....
ADDRESS
B. 9/11/’3B.
o>*
If
r A
m
■:ir.
M
'm
I,C
Modern nurseries
complete with toys and games so dear
to children * * * the companionship of happy
playmates * * * fun * * * laughter * * * the
attention and supervision of special
stewardesses* * * are highlights of P&O Travel.
o*l tepit otl cS" N (To ( Inconpovottecl in O-Mglcind )
5.02 p.c. on their combined capital. Each
further increase of 1.325 p.c. in their
div. represents 1 p.c. on the holding co.’s
ord. capital. So, to enable the holding
co. to pay its own pref. div. and 5 p.c.
on its ord. capital, the operating cos.
need to send along approximately 11.7
p.c. on their combined capital.
Since the close of accounts, the price
of pigs has come down, but wage
and tax bills continue to mount, and
national-insurance contributions will bite
into earnings from the beginning of 1939.
The market notes all this, and, doubtful
whether the holding co.’s 3 p.c. will be
maintained, prices the pound ords. at
7s. 3d., at which figure the return is 8.3
p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 21s. Id. return 7.5 p.c. The net tan-
gible backing is 395. Bd. prefs. and 9s. 4d.
ords., excluding depreciation reserve
(£209,796).
The financial position improved:
Operating Cos.’ Combined Figures.
1928. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £710,700 £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft . . 98,239 47,707 16,460
Creditors . . 171,705 117,196 124,512 140,046
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 514,996 596,793 631,432 645,112
Stock . . 344,954 193,893 243,228 239,337
Debtors .. 366,310 149,149’ 205,190 212,351
Shares other cos.,
etc. . . 94,506 202,723 215,025 228,003
Cash, etc. . . 4,936 82,908 4,457 8,183
To clip £31,247 off the overdraft, add
£13,680 net to the book value of fixed
assets, £13,578 to shareholdings, £7161
to debtors’ balances and £3726 to cash,
etc., stocks were reduced by £3891, and
the amount coming to sundry creditors
was increased by £15,534. Excluding
shareholdings, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£303,365)
was £22,709.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
r — Dividends >
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13J p.c.=44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 131,, „ 44,555 10,158101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „ „ 32,404 3,496104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2$ „ „ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2j „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. •• 1,403
Profit. ’ Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 2A p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31,668 10,500 4 ~ ~12,962 8,206 29,540
The store is in Bourke-street, in the centre
of Melbourne’s shopping area, and before
the slump the co. had built up a large and
very profitable trade in imported high-
grade fashion goods, the most difficult of
all drapery lines. For the decade to the
close of accounts in 1930 the ords. aver-
aged a shade over 13 p.c., sweetened with
£133,221 of bonus scrip. Over the eight
years to the close of last accounts, de-
clared trading profits exceeded declared
trading losses by £70,118, or £13,882 less
than 7 p.c. to the prefs. called for, and the
ords. received an average of a shade over
2 p.c. The mischief occurred mainly in
connection with stocks. However,
appearances are that difficulties in this
and other connections have now been
largely overcome.
During the last term, there was further
“substantial” increase in turnover, but
the gain in this respect was more than
offset by the rise in costs, due mainly to
increased wage awards. After setting aside
£4901 (up £1868) for the taxgatherer,
and making an unspecified allowance
for depreciation, etc., the net result
was £3157 lighter at £31,668, or enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 6.5 p.c.
on the £324,041 of ord. capital as against
7.5 p.c. and 2 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The div. was raised from 2\ p.c.
to 4 p.c., and the £8206 that remained
lifted reserves £29,540 in excess of good-
will (£60,741), not treated as an asset
herein.
Balance-sheet movements were healthy:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Ord. capital. . £324,041 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital.. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities . . 268,673 376,820 326,428 329,902
Premises, etc. 411,044 468,089 467,411 468,469
Plant etc. . . 83,465 96,320 93,798 94,944
Book debts . . 77,368 59,741 61,767 65,677
Stock . . . . 304,582 199,678 199,143 193,508
Cash . . ■ • 5,323 39,814 23,181 37,388
Stocks, reported in a thoroughly sound
condition and valued in the sheet at cost
or under, were £5635 lighter than at the
previous balance. Debtors’ balances were
up £3910, and £14,207 was added to the
cash holding. When the books closed,
outside liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids, including stocks, by £33,329, an
improvement of £9OOB over the twelve-
month. The floating debt (£104,902, up
£3474) was well covered. Mortgages
were unchanged at £225,000.
As for the current term, appearances
are that business concerns generally will
have to climb a bit steeper grade, and
national-insurance contributions will
further add to the load of costs.
At 19s. 6d. (18s. a year ago) the ords.
return 4.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 265. (245. 9d. a year back) yield
5.3 'p.c. The net tangible cover is £3 7s.
2d. prefs. and 21s. lOd. ords.
Conversion and Defence Loan
The Commonwealth’s £72,000,000 cash
and conversion loan opens on Nov. 9,
and the Treasurer reserves the right to
close it when he thinks fit. About
£68,000,000 consists of securities, now
bearing interest at 3 p.c. and 4 p.c. p.a.,
which mature in December they are
part of the big nation-wide conversion of
£556,000,000 of Government paper which
took place in 1931, when Australia
began to readjust itself to altered world
conditions. The present conversion,
which has been underwritten by the
Commonwealth Bank, is a straightout
par offer of new securities, bearing in-
terest at £3 17s. 6d. p.c. for 16 years, with
the Government’s right to redeem in
whole or part after 14 years.
At the same time the Federal authori-
ties are asking for £4,000,000 of new
money —same terms —for defence pur-
poses. Thus the new loan, which offers
a sound investment on attractive terms,
also has a special patriotic appeal. An-
other attraction is that the new issue will
be free of special tax on income from
property, from all State income taxes,
and from all increases in Federal income
tax after 1930. Provision has been made
for the small investor, who can take up
£lO bonds, payable 10 p.c. on applica-
tion and the balance on or before
February 15 next.
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


& &
m
y'SY.\
ms.
m
mm
xw^fcoioi&^:^W&: : ia£s
How one man
HELPS ANOTHER
ONE family in every two in the Commonwealth and New Zealand
is protected, in some measure, through the possession of A.M.P.
policies. The Society grows in its national service and usefulness
largely through the advocacy of its own members. One man tells
another of the benefits he enjoys, and the other secures similar benefits
for himself.
There was a reminder of this recently when a young man came
to one of the Society’s offices, and took out a policy for £5OO, saying
that he had been urged to do it by his foreman.
“There is hardly a well-to-do man in the community who isn t
a member of the A.M.P. Society,” the foreman had said. I found
that I could be a member on exactly the same terms as any of em.
Same rates. Same benefits. Why shouldn’t I leave my little family
a good round sum of money the same as other fellows do?
This foreman disclosed that since he had been a young man he had
been investing £2/17/1 a quarter (about 4/6 a week) in an A.M.P.
policy for £5OO, and that it had grown with bonuses to £1042.
“Become a member of the A.M.P. when you’re young,” the
foreman had said, and the lad had taken his advice.
Would you care to talk this matter over with an A.M.P. represen-
tative? Write or 'ohone and one will be sent to you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Public Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the Com-
pany.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 9th day of December, 1938.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, the 16th day of
November, 1938, and reopen at 9 a.m. on
Friday, the 18th day of November, 1938, and
shareholders registered on Thursday, the 17th
day of November, 1938, will be entitled to
receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS,
3rd November, 1938. Manager.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * * =£
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
¥ * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. c. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
Rorj
V
I
Luna Park (Brisbane), Ltd.
Luna Park (Brisbane), Ltd., which is
on the stocks in the northern capital, is
offering 180,000 ss. shares, the pro-
moter (T. H. Eslick) takes 20,000
paids but no cash, and 100,000 shares
are in pickle. The idea is to provide Bris-
bane with an up-to-date open-air amuse-
ment park on 6\ acres of ground, well-
suited for the purpose, at Montpelier,
Bowen Hills, within a mile and a half of
the centre of the city and well served
by tram, train and good roads. The area,
which covers a hill about 150 ft. high, is
to be divided into four zones. The first,
or garden, section will contain caves,
grottoes, rustic bridges, waterfalls, etc.,
together with collections of Australian
animals, birds, reptiles and fish ; the two
main features of the second, or family,
zone will be a large picnic ground and
open-air auditorium, designed as an
amphitheatre ; the third, or social, section
will contain a large modern ballroom
capable of accommodating 2000 dancers,
“the largest open-air cafe in Australia,”
and a 300 ft. observation tower, etc.; while
the fourth, or amusement, zone will be
replete with scenic railway and a host
of other amusement devices.
Estimated capital outlay is initial out-
lay on land £2500 (total cost £13,500),
constructions £36,500, and preliminary
exes. £4OOO (mainly brokerage at 1%
p.c.), leaving £2OOO for working capital
when the present issue is fully subscribed
and paid. Including the promoter’s con-
sideration, the co. would then have a paid
capital of £50,000. The board may pro-
ceed to allotment when 100,000 shares
(= £25,000) have been subscribed. The
£25,000 would be used £20,265 initial
cost of land and cost of principal con-
struction, £2735 preliminary exes., £2OOO
working capital.
On an estimated annual attendance
of 350,000 persons, and including £9750
revenue from tenants’ shows and devices
and £1650 from advertising, etc., gross
annual receipts are figured at £47,392.
All-in exes., including £lO,OOO for taxa-
tion, £3675 depreciation and £lOOO for
cost of new devices, are put at £33,845,
leaving £13,547 net, equal to 27 p.c. on
a capital of £50,000. The promoter is
confident that profit estimates will be ex-
ceeded, and 20 p.c. divs- (=£lo,ooo p.a.)
are mentioned.
In this class of business profit earnings
depend very largely upon the manage-
ment’s ability to provide popular attrac-
tions and to hold capricious public pat-
ronage by constant provision of new
allurements ; and that means that plant
loses its earning power long before it is
worn out, and, therefore, a heavy de-
preciation bill —10 p.c. of cost of con-
struction has been allowed for deprecia-
tion, plus £lOOO p.a. for new attractions,
in the co.’s estimates. Brisbane’s climate
is more suited to this class of entertain-
ment than that of any other Australian
capital, and lack of natural counter-at-
tractions, such as beaches, etc., is also
in the co.’s favor. In Melbourne a
similar class of business, designed and
built by Mr. Eslick, has been running
since 1912, and paid 20 p.c. for each of
the last three years, and one which re-
cently set up in Sydney netted 10.5 p.c. on
its capital and paid 7£ p.c. in 1937-
On the board are Charles Stewart
(chairman), T. H. Eslick (managing),
T. M. Ahern and W. K. McLuckie. The
fact that management is in the hands of
Eslick should mean much from the in-
vestor’s point of view.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
Including Is. a share sent out since the
close of accounts, shareholders have now
had £735,000 in divs., or 6£ times paid
capital. With deepening of the workings,
however, cheap opencast methods have
largely given way to stoping, ore values
have diminished, and the stuff is harder
and more difficult to treat. Hence profits
have lately shown persistent decline. Last
term’s drop was £19,727:
—Profit Dividends—
June, Revenue. Exes. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
e £ £ £
1936.. 253,975 58,467 195,508 4/8 4/6 189,000
1937.. 228,109 72,446 155,663 3/8 3/- 126,000
1938.. 225,949 90,013 135,936 3/2 3/- 126,000
The £135,936 netted covered the un-
changed 3s. a share handout with £9936
to spare. The board aims at stabilising
monthly gold output around the 2000 oz.
mark. This has meant stepping up plant
capacity, which, with additions since the
close of accounts, is now 78,000 tons
p.a. The year’s outlay in this direction
was £15,400, and “no further purchases
should be necessary for many years,”
chairman Wallace Smith says.
Last term an extra 8459 tons of ore
was fed to the mill, bulk of it coming
from Nos. 1 and 3 shoots between levels
1 and 2. Yields were only half that
obtained from the rich oxidised stuff
milled three years ago, as the next table,
which also reflects growing extraction
costs as the workings go down, shows:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Treated, tons . . 35,464 45,075 48,453 56,912
Gold, oz 31,375 29,212 25,834 25,729
Dwt 17.69 12.96 10.66 9.04
Recovery, p.c... 97.01 95.76 94.65
Silver, oz. 11,471 20,353
Dwt 0.47 0.71
All-in costs, ton .. 26/- 29/10 31/7
The increase costs also reflects higher
wage bills and development expenditure,
which has trebled in three years. Last
term’s outlay on development (£23,150,
or Bs. Id. per ton of ore milled) added
nothing to proved reserves—l7B,Boo
tons, containing 48,0200 z. gold ; a further
“probable” tonnage (not yet blocked out)
of 35,500 tons is indicated, containing
12,9500 z. Overall grade of the lot is
s.7dwt. as against 6|dwt. a year ago.
So far developments in the bottom
444 ft. level have been disappoint-
ing, owing to irregular values. A likely-
looking make has been driven on in the
east workings for 110 ft., with the face
still in ore, strong underfoot. To speed up
and cheapen this and other exploration,
hampered by the hardness of the
ore, a diamond-drilling plant capable of
horizontal work has been purchased.
Whether the new shoot, in which lOdwt.
values have been met, is a continuance
of No. 3 lode remains to be seen. Hopes
are that it is an entirely new lode, as No.
3 is now making straight down.
Some reduction in costs should follow
increased mill tonnages, but recoveries
are below last year’s. For the 12 weeks
to October 8, 17,328 tons returned
57950 z., or 6.7dwt. a ton. For the four-
weekly period to that date the yield
was 6.1 dwt.
Up to 14s. 9d. earlier in the year, the
3s. 4d. shares are around 9s. There are
840,000 issued, 210,000 fully paid, the
rest paid to 2s. 6d. More or less liquids
amounted to £93,905 at balance day,
when there was only £1674 coming to
outsiders.
Trading in Wilunas is not nearly so
active as it used to be in London, where
dealings are few, bulls lack confidence,
and so do bears. What is wanted to give
the market courage is a major develop-
ment in the main (southern) workings at
depth. There has been some improvement
in this part of the mine lately, but not
sufficient to blow about. Some good
gold-carriers have also been opened up
in the Happy Jack block in the northern
section. These, optimists declare, will
sufficiently sweeten ore reserves to enable
present milling grade to be maintained.
Hopes are that recent borehole develop-
ments on this block represent the con-
tinuation northward of the west lode
system, i.e., the west lode and No. 2
west lode, from which a large tonnage
of ore has been extracted and treated.
It is assumed that further boring both
to the north and to the south of recent
disclosures will be proceeded with ; also
that the management will expedite the
sinking of a shaft on this area to explore
the horizon indicated by the three
diamond-drill strikes to date. Ore-treat-
ment experiments have been continued
by the management with a view to im-
proving extraction, and whispers have
been heard that these experiments might
prove successful.
V * * *
Paringa (W.A.), in which London is
largely interested, reports development
of high-grade ore on the 640 ft. level for
a length, so far, of 33ft. The find is
thought to be part of one disclosed by
a diamond drill 120 ft. further south.
Paringa’s holding, which is on the east
side of the extreme northern end of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, is not noted
for continuity or consistency of values.
Last estimate of ore reserves was 200,000-
odd tons, assaying approximately 495. a
ton Australian. Recent monthly re-
coveries have averaged about sdwt. per
ton.
* # * *
B.H. Prop, is searching for gold in
ground adjacent to Hannans North, at
the northern end of the Kalgoorlie field.
Sampling options on three areas credited
with “small but satisfactory returns”
have been secured, and others reckoned
to be as good, if not better, are being
brought under the co.’s notice.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) has settled down in
its new home at Mt. Magnet, and started
to broadcast reports. The first states
that the lode has been cut at the 220 ft.
level, that values are satisfactory, and
that further information respecting de-
velopments will be available shortly. The
co.’s prospects have a lot of admirers in
Perth, where the shares are mostly held.
* * * Sit
The market for the low-priced Yellow-
dine Areas (W.A.) fainted the other day,
following reports that the shoot had gone
wrong at shallow depth on its new
Yilgarn property, but quickly revived
when these reports were denied. The
secretary says driving at two points is
proceeding in high values, and that the
shoot is going strong underfoot.
* * Sic s{c
The gold profits tax, imposed by the
State Government four years ago, has
cost Westralian mining cos. to date
nearly £350,000. Most of it has been
paid by Kalgoorlie mines, the largest
contributor being Lake View and Star.
Dividends distributed by Westralian gold
cos. for nine months ended Sept. 30
last aggregated £703,619.


*
SMOKE-OH!
Very Striking.
“After many lonely nights, I called on him
and begged him to come back, but he only
punched me about the head.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
Oppressed by long and lonely nights,
She begged to have conjugal rights
Restored to her; and, sad to tell,
He gave her rights—and lefts as well!
T. W. N.
•F 4* 4 *F
“Kirribilli, overlooking Admiralty House,
comfortably unfurnished flat.” — “D.T.”
After all, that’s better than an uncom-
fortably furnished one.
4* 4 4 4
“The New York World’s Fair is to exhibit
apparatus claimed to sober up drunks.”
And no doubt she has her sleeves ready
rolled up as usual.
4 *F *F *F
“A racing greyhound went for a ‘joy-ride’
with a car-thief.” — “Telegraph.”
The police are hounding him down,
and serve him right for putting on dog!
4 4 4 4
“Homes of England stand 400 years.”
—News item.
Some of them must be almost paid for
by now.
4 4 4 *F
“Supper for 96 was upset by police raid.”
— “Sun”
When police attacked the joint the rest
got into the soup.
4 4 4 *F
“Carrier Pigeon Takes Message to Cricketer.”
—“D.T.”
, No doubt he would have objected to
a duck.
4- 4 4 4
“Many men would go to pieces but for their
wives.” — Women’s paper.
Still, some men manage to meet their
pieces in spite of their wives.
4 4 4 4
Even when a man marries the right
woman he still thinks regretfully some-
times of those who were left.
4 *F 4 *F
Some men are born great, others em-
ploy good publicity agents.
“Professor be hanged! Co-re.!”
“The policemen walk their boats as usual.”
— “D.T.”
And are only too glad to kick them off
and get into slippers afterwards.
*s*
“Every woman feels at some time or another
that she has practically nothing to wear.”
— Women’s paper.
Then she gets a cheque from her hus-
band and buys practically nothing to
wear.
•F *F *F *F
Fruits of Success.
“ ‘There is definitely a technique of salesman-
ship, particularly for fruit,’ said Mr. Ward.
‘The salesman has not only to be au fait with
the requirements of his customers, but also to
be a psychologist.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The psychological fruit-salesman
knows when the time is ripe to clinch a
deal and start the customer peeling notes
off his roll. There is nothing very green
about him and he rarely gets the pip. He
never goes lemony if you give him the
raspberry, preferring to set out on a line
of talk that will convince you his bananas
are the apple of your eye!
McM.
“A recent invention is a payroll bag which
discharges a cloud of tear-gas when pulled out
of the messenger’s hands.” — “World’s News.
Wives would call it a crying shame
if a similar invention was affixed to hus-
bands’ pay-envelopes.
•F *F 4* 4*
“Taximen Help Yachtsman.” — “D.T.”
With a fare wind blowing they were
eager to go cruising.
•F 4* 4* 4*
The Minister for Defence appears to
be fully occupied defending himself.
•F 4* *F *F
Then there was the racecourse urger’s
daughter who thought a globetrotter was
some kind of racehorse!
•F *F 4 4
Obvious Remedy.
“it is suggested that the Cabinet might be
slightly increased so that one or two private
members who are considered to be better
equipped for Ministerial rank than several per-
sons now in the Cabinet could be included.”
—“West Australian.”
As an employer I find myself in much
the same position.
Of my office staff of 15 at least 10
are absolute duds. They spend most.of
their time drinking tea and arguing about
international affairs and racehorses.
As the watchword in my office has
always been “Efficiency, First and Fore-
most,” I have decided that the only way
out is to increase my staff to 20 and my
yearly deficit to £l5OO.
Dougal.
•F 4* *F 4*
“Where is the merchant who once offered a
cigar when a customer paid his account in full?”
— Correspondent.
He’s probably gone to the same place
as the customer who paid his account in
full.
“Few men spend racecourse winnings wisely.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
“Wisely” is redundant.
•F *F *F 4*.
“Do You Know Where You Stand?”
—Political advt.
Sure ; in the tram!
■ l ■ *F 4* 4*
“Knitting was first a man’s job.
— Women’s paper.
Why, even Adam had so much wool
pulled over his eyes that he didn’t know
if Eve was a purl or just plain.
•F 4* 4* ❖
According to Lindbergh, it is the
Russian Air Farce.
“A German dentist now cleans windows in a
Sydney suburb.”—“D.T.”
What narks him is that he can’t claim
his work to be paneless.
Feminine Logic.
When Maria announced that she
wanted to go to the races I reminded
her that she had called my humble in-
terest in them “senseless, selfish extrava-
gance,” and declared racing to be a vice.
“But this isn’t your vulgar racing. It’s
the big Cup meeting,” she said. “Of
course I must have a new dress to wear ;
everybody does.”
It was only when she had got the dress
home that she found
she “couldn’t pos-
sibly go” without a
new hat.
My “senseless,
selfish extravagance”
usually costs me a
few bob when I go
on the flat. For
Maria’s splash I had
to postpone the land-
lord, defer the in-
surance and ignore
the tradespeople.
And Maria enjoyed
herself immensely.
Her bets might have
brought her in huge
sums if the mokes
had stood the
faintest chance of
winning.
“It was lovely,”
Maria sighed after-
wards. “I’d like to
go again.”
“Well, you won’t,”
I said. “I’ve been
reckoning up. Your
day’s outing has cost me seven quid.”
Then, just as I thought I had had a
win, her eye darkened.
“Oh,” she said. “Then if you can
afford to waste a sum like that on a single
day’s amusement you can give me an
extra ten shillings a week in my allow-
ance.”
And she’s getting it, too.
H. M.
I Was a Legionnaire.
VHL
Bayonet practice was Sergeant Vin-
blanc’s pet subject, and* at every oppor-
tunity he had us on the parade-ground
going through the monotonous routine.
“Yer whips ’em out an’ yer whops ’em
in!” he’d bellow (in French, of course),
and we would oblige him by taking the
toothpicks out of their scabbards and
slipping them on the rifles ; then at the
given signal we would charge and en-
deavor to puncture several straw-filled
“Wo, you DON’T Wear ’em on your head!”
dummies that were suspended from a
wooden framework.
Owing to a tricky wind, the targets
kept moving, with the consequence that
I was failing to get 100 p.c. of “strikes”
on the line which I had marked down
the centre of my dummy. On the ser-
geant’s demanding to know what the line
was for, I informed him freezingly that
I thought every soldier knew that in
bayoneting a man the object was to pink
him only along an imaginary vertical line
in his anatomy, behind which the bayonet
must inevitably fetch up against his
spinal cord, which would then paralyse
every faculty simultaneously and imme-
diately render him completely hors de.
combat, which mightn’t be the case if
you unscientifically jabbed him only in
the liver or heart.
The latter method, I told him, might
be good enough for sergeants and other
quarter-wits, but not for me. I felt that
it was time I took a stand with the
fellow.
He seemed visibly to swell, and when
his eyes went back into their sockets his
face was twisted with hate as he snarled
an awful oath. “Sacre nom de nom d’wi
petit chien!” he burst out. “So you would
Sergeant Vinblanc, the Terror of the
Legion, instruct in the use of the bayonet,
no? How would you like a spell of au
crapaudine as a punishment, with your
hands tied to your feet behind your back
and your mouth full of sand for a few
hours, you festering whitlow?”
“Do it! ” I said defiantly. “A mouth-
ful or two of grit won’t trouble me. I’ve
been a spinach-eater all my life.”
Realising the futility of that threat, the
sergeant dismissed the rest of the com-
pany, and ordered me to make one hun-
dred charges at the dummy ; he also told
me that if I got off the dead centre of
my own line by so much as a fraction of
an inch he would, with his own hands,
tear me apart to see what was keeping
me alive.
I have never been able exactly to make
out how it happened. Possibly it was
due to some sudden and mysterious dis-
turbance of my hormones, which, so I
understand, govern one’s sense of direc-
tion ; certainly it could be attributed in
part to the small whirlwind which, rising
from the ground (whirlwinds in North
Africa never come downwards) filled my
eyes with sand. The fact remains that
in my first charge my bayonet, instead
of going through the dummy, came out
under the right armpit of the sergeant,
who, standing to the left of the dummy,
had just then turned round to talk to
Corporal Tszrlz.
Have any of my readers ever heard a
strong man scream in the North African
desert before breakfast? It is an eerie
sound. Yet that is exactly what the ter-
rible .Sergeant Vinblanc, scourge of every
legionnaire in the Neufth (Ninth) Route
Army, did. Possibly this was because,
feeling a terrific bump at his back, and
knowing his enemy, possibly overcome
with the dreaded le cafard, was behind
him, he looked down to see about twelve
inches of bayonet apparently sticking
straight out through his chest,
He went a mottled-green-and-yellow
color, like a Stilton cheese, and he
seemed to have difficulty in getting his
breath. He appeared, I thought, to have
suffered a slight shock, and I could swear
a look of haunting fear was in his eye.
In a broken voice he told me to dismiss,
and such was his state of mind that he
begged me, almost with tears in his eyes,
not to try taking my bayonet off the rifle
until I was at least half a mile away from
him.
“Don’t worry about that little accident,
Steve,” I told him ; “it was just that I
didn’t allow for the wind”; then, not
even bothering to salute him, I strode con-
temptuously off. After all, no real soldier
can be expected to have any respect for
one who happens by a lucky chance to
be his superior, and whom he has heard
scream with fright before breakfast. In-
tuitively I knew'that thereafter I was his
master.
Next morning on parade the sergeant,
in the orders for the day, read out a list
of legionnaires who were to prepare im-
mediately to go on active service. Mine
was the first name called out, and the
sergeant’s voice was pregnant with malice
as he rolled my name around on his
tongue. Most of my fellow-recruits were
included.
Popodopoulos picked up seven dif-
ferent furphies at the lavabo as to our
destination, but I got the right oil from
my pal Corporal Tszrlz, who had it “on
unimpeachable, authority” (the phrase
was afterwards copyrighted by the press)
that we were going to reinforce the gar-
rison at Fort Baksheesh, gowns in the
pay of the French Secret Service having
disclosed Bedouin plans to make a series
of attacks in that area.
Sergeant Vinblanc, I learned, was not
to accompany us, which was a pity. I
should have liked to be in action with
him.
S. W. K.


in*!
Ill*
I #» I *
m"!!
|t fri
h-1 rti FFTi
\2
CHILDREN
WELCOME!
Not all hotels welcome children as
their guests. The Victoria, however,
has full facilities for their accomm-
odation, including creche under
charge of trained attendant. “Room
only" tariff: 4/- to 7/6 for singles,
8/- to 16/- for doubles. Write
for illustrated booklet to Dept. I.N.
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
iTy
vnofa wpug'
An investment of impregnable strength with a liberal income
field. Such is FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST, which
has shown the benefits of “Collective Security” to hundreds of
investors. Twenty companies linked for your benefit and the
famous Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., as Custodian
Trustees.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
B.H. Prop., Cum Div.
A parcel of Broken Hill Prop,
shares at last week’s price of 575.
9d. (cum Is. 3d. div.) would return
just under £4 Bs. 6d. per cent, on
the current 124 p.c. div. basis.
“Scare” periods excepted, the net
price (565. 6d.) and the yield are
the best offering for some time.
df
“QUAICAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
o ii d it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualeast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the lfiin.
“Qualeast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West Footscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Emperor’s Result
The Bulletin all along has been scep-
tical of market ballyhoo and of some
official forecasts relating to the Emperor
mine (Fiji). The 10s. shares once rose
as high as 275. ; last week, cum Is. div.,
they were at 12s.
The first accounts of Emperor Mines,
Ltd., issued since the low-grade plant
commenced production cover the year to
June 30, 1938. Those of the working co.,
Emperor Gold Mining Co., are made up
at June 15 each year ; the holding co.,
which now has an issued capital itself
of 1,900,000 10s. shares, owns the entire
issue of 100,000 20s. shares in the mining
co.
The mining co. produced bullion
valued at £227,622 (Fiji) during its year.
Income and outgo may be expressed as
follows (Fiji currency):
Income —
Bullion sales £227,622
Rentals 1,558
£229,18(1
Outgo — ,
Mining £21,286
Milling 50,743
Administration 26,380
Depreciation 23,029
Development 22,838
Royalty ancl realisation .. 17,512
Income tax 3,800
165,588
,Net profit .. £63,592
Though the financial year is June 16 to
June 15, the mining period with which
the g.m. deals is Sept, to Sept. In the
mining period an output of 38,591 fine
ounces is claimed from 128,008 tons of
ore treated.
From Bulletin records, however, it
would appear that during the 52 weeks
approximately coinciding with the finan-
cial year that ended on June 15, 91,611
tons was put through for 29,1740 z. fine.
This ore was treated, and the gold won,
at an all-in cost of £165,588, details
already given, which works out at 365.
(Fiji) per ton of ore. A hundred pounds
Fiji is equal to £ll2 10s. Australian.
The financial period, however, in-
cluded 27 weeks during which only .ue
old, small plant was in operation ; 17,030
tons went through for 66700 z. In the
25 weeks (approx.), from Dec. 26 to Ja.ie
15, the old and new units handled 74,531
tons for 22,5040 z. Costs would natur-
ally be at their highest point in circum-
stances such as these, especially while the
new plant was being run in.
But, making all concessions, any way
you look at it, the Emperor has been a
disappointment to sharemarket specu-
lators. In that respect it has been better
than some of the crazy boom-time floats,
and no worse than a great number. Still,
it was a much-boosted show in the
market, and even some of those officially
connected with the mine made estimates
that have fallen short of actual results.
In the 1936 accounts, for instance,
E. G. Theodore estimated that from the
date the new plant started 150,000 tons
p.a. would be treated for 9dwt. re-
coveries—67,soooz. p.a., worth £540,000
(Aust.). Total costs, including overhead,
were put at 17s. 6d. (Aust.) per ton —
£131,250 in all per year, leaving a net
result of £408,750 (Aust.) a year. Costs
and profits were also estimated as from
the date the plant started.
It is very plain now that these results
have not been achieved, nor is there any
indication that they are likely to be aver-
aged in the future. N. E. Nilsen, the
present g.m., puts operating costs for the
three milling periods preceding the date
of his report at 19s. 6d., Fijian currency,
per ton. That is nearly 225. Australian.
Mr. Nilsen considers these to be “nor-
mal costs.” He points out, however, that
they don’t include Melbourne and Lon-
don exes., income tax or depreciation,
but they do include 3s. 6d. a ton for de-
velopment. Mr. Theodore’s estimates
also included something for develop-
ment. Another source of outgo not speci-
fically mentioned in the latest forecast
is royalty to the Fiji Government; with
realisation exes., depreciation and income
tax these items last financial year ran into
roughly 10s. (Fiji) per ton. Some of
these charges may not be so susceptible
to reduction following full-scale “normal”
operations as mining and milling costs
are. In any case, Emperor may do well
if it gets total costs below 30s. (Aust.)
per ton during the current year. On the
other hand, a better price for gold is now
“It's after hours , Sarge , so finish y'r drink. I don't Want no trouble with the law.”
ruling, worth at the moment perhaps 2s.
a ton more to Emperor.
Leaving costs and turning to ore, there
has been further disappointment here.
In the 1936 accounts 670,000 tons averag-
ing above lOdwt. was spoken of. Latest
accounts mention 328,500 tons oxides
going 6.Bdwt., 145,600 semi-oxides assay-
ing B.ldwt. and 332,500 sulphides show-
ing 10.2dwt. That much is blocked out.
Prospective ore is 40,000 tons of Bdwt.
sulphides. The average of the proved
stuff runs to about B.4dwt. (the same as
a year ago), so that 9dwt. recoveries
over the whole of the known reserves
is out of the question.
Last financial year recoveries averaged
a little better than 6.4dwt. For the three
months to October 5 they ran out at
s.Bdwt. The mill is presumably being
fed with the low-grade oxidised ore. and
a question arises as to whether the plant
(which, with buildings, stands in the
books at £254,422) can later on handle
sulphide ore without alteration at some
cost.
The semi-oxidised ore now going
through the old plant has been leaving
residues of I.l6dwt. a ton, with re-
coveries only 5.44dwt. What it is cost-
ing to get such recoveries it would be
interesting to know. The method em-
ployed in extracting gold from the
adjoining Loloma lease (high-grade stuff)
is at present so costly as to be prohibitive
with Emperor ore. In order to put any-
thing like a true value on Emperor
scrip it is necessary to know what plans
are in hand for dealing with the sulphide
and semi-oxidised ore. The manager is
making experiments in flotation, but
“further experimental work in the flota-
tion section will be necessary before a
definite method of treatment of sulpho-
telluride ore can be recommended.”
Oxides on September 1 represented little
more than two years’ mill feed, so the
problem is by no means a distant one.
Wool improved to 10.7 d. a pound in
Sydney during the week ended Nov. 5
(10.4 d. previous week). This was in
keeping with the higher levels established
in Brisbane the preceding week. The
price is still below the average for 1937-
38, however. Sydney average (greasy and
scoured) for the four months to October
31 was 10.2 d.
* * * *
Australian trading banks, excluding
the Commonwealth Bank, held deposits
of £318,791,000 on Sept. 30, against
£315,283,000 a year earlier. Advances
totalled £310,663,000, compared with
£286,800,000 at Sept. 30 12 months ago.
Net tightening in the credit position over
the year amounts to something more
than £20,000,000. The fact that deposits
haven’t kept pace with advances is due
to the adverse balance of overseas pay-
ments and to the piling-up of deposits in
savings banks. Though savings banks
keep a proportion of their liquid funds
with trading banks, liquids represent only
a small section of the credit operating in
the country. Thus, if there is a flow of
deposits to savings banks out of pro-
portion to the flow to trading banks, the
latter are liable to find their liquid posi-
tion tightening, especially if they are
pressed by clients for further advances,
as is frequently the case at present. Sav-
ings banks, however, do assist industry
with their funds, though in a more re-
stricted sense than their trading brethren.
Except for the different class of business
they transact, ebb or flow in their de-
posits would make little difference to the
general credit position. It is the funds
leaving Australia to meet overseas com-
mitments that cause most trouble.
Deposits in all Australian savings
banks at Sept. 30 last totalled
£242,035,000, which compared with
£232,845,000 a year earlier. Latest figure
represents a record. Increase in deposits
during the year to 30/9/’36 represented
2.28 p.c. ; ’37, 3.47 p.c. ; ’3B, 3.95 p.c.
Before depression struck, the highest re-
corded total of savings deposits (was
£225,963,000. There has been a steady
rise since the “low” of £192,399,000
reached in May, 1932, with pronounced
acceleration this year. Some restriction
of public spending is indicated, among
other things. N. S. Wales and Tas. have
been buttoning-up most.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. (B.
5/10/ ’3B, at 605.) had risen to 665. 6d.
last week, to yield £4 10s. 2d. per cent.
Earnings for 1937-38 were disclosed at
27.6 p.c. on ord. capital, and that in-
cluded the profits of a number of pros-
perous subsidiaries only so far as they
had been handed on in divs. The parent
co.’s ord. div. was kept steady at 15 p.c.
It is a wonderful business —Crown bottle
seals, corks, vinegar, malt, shop equip-
ment, etc.
* * *
In Melbourne last week:
The industrial sharemarket remained quiet
but firm. Speculative activity has been out
of sight for some time. Even Barriers, in the
base-metal group, haven’t shown much varia-
tion, though prices for lead and spelter have
been uneven (within limits) lately. Mt. Lyells,
notwithstanding a firm price for electrolytic,
showed the most noticeable movement—they
dropped to 295. towards the week-end.
Davies, Coop ords., now ex rights to the
bonus issue, sold at the firmer price pf 235. 6d.,
and later buyers couldn’t get scrip at that
figure.
Gordon and Gotch ords., perhaps the
steadiest stock during the war scare, sold at
535. 6d., returning 4.9 p.c.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
( , i with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
• . Are you paying ®/I© TIIS
of the price of a Dutch ?
without getting the pride and prestige of Buich ownership
IJHaybe you are like me.
At heart I’ve always wanted a Buick.
But—somehow I always thought of Buick
as being far beyond my pocket.
So I went on buying cars I thought more
within my means . . . makes that cost round
£460 to £4BO.
I never realised that I was paying about
9/ioths of the price of a Buick without getting
anywhere near the same pride and pleasure
of ownership.
You see, I’ve since found that a Buick lists at
only about £5O more than I’ve been paying
for the average car I have owned.
This is a consideration—but I would not
have needed to pay that extra amount out in
a lump sum.
I’ve generally bought my cars on 18 months
terms. So, buying a Buick would have only
increased my monthly payments by about £3.
And—mind you —I wouldn’t have been
“kissing good-bye” to that extra £3 per
month. Far from it. I reckon I would have
probably got 2/3rds of the additional money
i paid for a Buick back in added trade-in
value when I came to change models. Act-
ually, £1 a month is all the extra cost I would
have had to pay to own a Buick.
So here you are—here’s why I’m going to
buy the Buick I’ve always wanted.
Firstly-—1 won’t need to make a bigger cash
outlay than I would with a cheaper car. My
trade-in will take care of the deposit just the
same, the only difference being that my
monthly payments will be slightly more.
Secondly —l will get back a good portion
of the extra I pay for a Buick when trade-in
time comes again.
Thirdly —l reckon it’s quite possible that
buying a Buick may actually save me money,
for I’m pretty sure I will be content to keep a
Buick at least a year longer than I will my
present car.
That’s how I’ve reasoned it out —and I’m
going to do what I recommend any man who
has a car of good trade-in value to do.
I’m going to see the Buick people im-
mediately.
I’m going to own a Buick.
bui/*
Bate*
‘AIR CHIEF* CAR RADIO —The modern motorist has an ‘AIR CHIEF’ installed in his car, to derive maximum
enjoyment from motoring. A model specially designed for Buick is included in the range at prices from Eighteen
Guineas. Ask for a demonstration. You will be pleased with the excellent radio reception given by ‘AIR CHIEF.’
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
BUICK DEALER
Sold and serviced by Buick dealers all over Australia.
Buy on the Convenient, Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
X 3758
The New York sharemarket, after
reaching a high point about the third
wieek in October, settled down at a
slightly lower level last week. The Dow-
Jones industrial index was around 152.
Railway (or railroad, if you insist) shares
have firmed following better sentiment
between employer and employee; a
higher price for sugar and copper helped
in those respective sections of the market.
Steel-manufacturing activity assisted in
inspiring buying support for steel shares ;
improvement here has been marked.
Merchandising stocks were .supported
strongly following publication of statistics
relating to representative turnovers.
Automobile shares have tended to be
slack owing to labor and output troubles ;
there are hopes that much of these diffi-
culties will be overcome. Oil shares have
been unstable in the States following a
lower trend in prices for crude oil. But
other staple-commodity prices have been
rising, on the whole, though they are
still about \l\ p.c. lower than a year ago.
Australia’s hopes as regards signs and
portents in the U.S.A. lie in the possi-
bility of its increasing its buying of staple
commodities in the world’s markets.
Otherwise there is no direct connection
between Wall-street share prices and
those in Sydney and Melbourne except
as regards base-metal stocks. Wall-
street quotes seem to have an influence
on metal prices.
# * sfe
The ord. shares of P. and G. Finance
are down to 4s. 3d. in Sydney. Market
support has not been lower. An investi-
gating accountant has been looking into
the co.’s affairs, and new blood is canvass-
ing for a place on the board when the
next election of directors is held. The
co., with which John Woollcott-Forbes
was prominently associated early in the
piece (he has retired from the board),
billowed up into great prominence for a
time while its shares were being hawked
at prices up to 475. 6d., but soon after
listing took place on Sydney ‘Change the
rate of profit-earning claimed for some
time could not be maintained ; the in-
terim ord. div. cut out, and the market
crashed in a sensational fashion. As an
investment, P. and G.’s name has been
mud for nearly a year. Though some
people say that while the ords. are worth
a penny the 7 p:c. cum. prefs. must be
worth a pound, there have recently been
dealings in this better-backed class of
scrip at 10s., with a firming to 11s. 6d.
later. On paper, the net tangible assets
behind each pref. a year ago were over
905., and an interim of 7 p.c. has been
paid this year. The assets of the whole
show would need to be greatly over-
valued for this scrip to be worth no more
than its present price. There are only
125,000 prefs., against 547,652 ords.
* * * <r
The metals in their courses:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June ... £39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 . 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. 3 52.2 15.7 14.5 212.2 1465. 2d.
Lead and spelter are exhibiting a
slackening tendency the last week
or two; monthly averages ta the
end of October, however, were show-
ing sustained recovery. Copper (un-
restricted for the time being) and tin
(recently made subject to a pool scheme)
have kept steadiest lately. The specula-
tive side to the recovery in metals seems
to be diminishing in importance ; buyers
are now waiting for the anticipated re-
vival of American demand to show itself
in actuality.
* * * $
During the year to Sept. 30 Cocks
Eldorado, dredging on Reedy Creek
(Vic.), put through 1,839,160 c.y. for
10,555.5 fine oz. gold and 180.45 tons
tin, estimated value £118,193. The results
are here compared with those for the pre-
ceding year:—
Gold, Tin, Est.
Sept., Yardage. Ounces. Tons. Value.
1937 .. 1,899,816 6,484.6 114.6 £80,425
1938 .. 1,839,160 10,555.5 180.5 118,193
in 1937 a net profit of £41,590, after
allowing £lO,OOO for plant depreciation,
was shown. Recoveries represented
10.16 d. a yard, costs 4.91 d., net profit
5.25 d. In the term recently closed re-
coveries were 15.43 d. a yard ; if costs
remained the same, net profit should be
£75,000 or £BO,OOO. Recovered values
have lately been below the average for
the year, but such fluctuations have
occurred before, followed by above-
average recoveries later. Cocks Eldorado
is one of Victoria’s better-class mining
shows.
* * * *
J. and A. Brown-Abermain Seaham
Collieries (what a name!) shares were
up to 10s. 9d. again last week in Sydney.
This co. owns some of the finest coal
pits in N. S. Wales, and it came to light
with the best div. since the amalgama-
tion in its last term. At that it was only
3 p.c., but the year’s earnings covered it.
Good coal shares have attractions prin-
cipally as long-term investments.
* sj: * *
Business was done in North Kalgurli
shares (B. 19/10/’3B) at 255. 6d. again
last week, which is probably the highest
recorded quote for the 2s. counters. A div.
of 9d. (stg.) a share is payable on the 25th
of this month. Production figures for the
current year to date have been some-
what affected by the milling of develop-
mental ore, but the market seems to take
the view that “the mine’s the thing.”
North Kal. certainly looks a fine mine,
with many profitable years ahead.
* * £ *
The ord. shares in Holeproof, Ltd., (B.
19/10/’3B, at 20s. 6d.), recovered to 235.
last week. This is a most progressive
concern, and though the interim ord. div.
dropped from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. p.a. the
return at 235. on the reduced interim
rate (which may be bettered by the final
distribution) is 7 p.c. Lustre Hosiery
(Sydney) ords., on which an interim of
8 p.c. was also paid, are at 20s. 3d.
Market support for Melbourne textile
cos. has taken the sharpest knock for
years. Later on, when problems of the
industry are more precisely appraised,
there may be a recovery. Last year, by
reason of the steep rise and fall in the
cost of silk and rayon, was an extraordi-
nary one.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
An Italian Settlement Scheme.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times" Rome
correspondent, 21 /10/’38.)
The simultaneous settlement on the soil of Libya
of nearly 1900 peasant families, now taking place, will
be a remarkable achievement. Italy claims that no
single operation so gigantic has been attempted in
the history of colonial development. Perhaps never
since Moses has a chosen people been led out to its
promised land in such numbers. This army of
colonists will comprise between 15,000 and 16,000 —•
1900 families, for the most part landless, will be realis-
ing at one stroke the dream of every Italian peasant,
to possess his own farm and fields.
What is known as “demographic colonisation”—
i.e., the transplantation of peasants in self-supporting
nuclei —has been going on for the last five years, but
only tentatively. It has given Marshal Balbo and his
Administration the experience required to settle far
larger numbers. They now know exactly how a
peasant colonist can live, where he can live and what
he can grow.
Thus it is now possible to plant more than 15,000
persons at once, and another 20,000 by 1940. Farms
have been built, roads made, wells drilled, water-
pipes laid down, the land deep-ploughed by tractors ;
all at breakneck speed. Plaster will scarcely be dry on
some of the buildings when their tenants occupy them.
To finance the whole operation the home Government
has allotted credits of 500,000,000 lire to be spread
over five years.
The system is somewhat similar to that pursued by
the Jewish Colonisation Association in Palestine and
elsewhere. The Colonisation Board takes over Gov-
ernment land and prepares it for settlement. It builds
the farms, clears and ploughs the land, encloses the
fields and provides the settler with his equipment and
cattle, and irrigation canals where required.
For a short period the settler works on his farm
as a salaried employee of the board, but as soon as he
is well settled in and knows the ways of the country he
advances to the position of metayer, in which he and
the board become partners and share the produce
of the farm. Careful accounts are kept. The settler
is debited with the value of the food and supplies
provided by the board, and credited with the value of
his produce. This period is reckoned to last for five
years, after which q man enters into full possession of
his farm and begins to repay the capital invested in
it by the board. This is reckoned to take from 25 to
30 years. Each settler, however, benefits by a State
subsidy paid by the Government of the colony,
which is said to amount to about 30 p.c. of 'the value
of his farm.
The settlers have been most carefully chosen
from about 6000 applicants. They come mainly from
the metayer class so common in Italy, but a few have
abandoned small plots of land at home for the better
chance which the 50-acre farm in Africa will offer,
and a few are farm laborers. The first condition for
selection was that the family should have at least
three able-bodied male and two female members, and
if possible no very small children to hinder the parents
in their work. Then the physique and health of its
members were examined, and exhaustive inquiries
made into the qualities as a worker, the character and
political opinions of the head of the family.
Elaborate arrangements have been made to
shepherd them in the early days. From the quayside
(where they will be served by canteens, first-aid posts,
information bureaux and a special organisation for
collecting and redistributing stray children and lost
property) to the village settlements themselves (where
they will be watched over and guided by a team of
officials and agricultural experts) everything possible
will be done to make them feel at home and well
looked after.
Their new homes will be attractive stone-built
houses faced with white roughcast, containing three
bedrooms and a kitchen, with a large covered porch
in front, and at the back an enclosed yard beyond
which will lie a stable and lean-to. In the kitchen
the farmer’s wife will find a good supply of flour, rice,
macaroni and other household necessities. In the yard
there will be a woodpile ; in the stable a couple of
draught animals with a stack of forage beside them ;
in the lean-to a plough, a harrow and other tools. The
fields outside will be ready ploughed and seed-corn
will be provided for immediate sowing by the board.
In many cases there will be groves of olive- or almond-
trees, or vineyards ready planted.
Each settlement will have its village square, com-
plete with church, school, municipio, post office, co-
operative store, headquarters of the Fascio, and sur-
gery dispensary, all waiting to form the framework
of a communal life. It will be another piece of Italy
to the newcomers, but the brand-new, smart and fur-
bished Italy of Fascism, such as one finds in the town-
ships of the reclaimed Pontine Marshes.
Italy is setting out on these lines to turn Libya
into another Algeria, a part of the home country
beyond the sea. She has a long way to go, and it will
be a fairly costly business, for it takes more than
£2OOO to finance the settlement of each family. But
if she can find the money who can doubt that the job
will be worth doing?
Britain’s Crisis Profiteers.
[London “Sunday Express,” from which this article
is condensed, states that Britain’s crisis profiteers are
now sending their bills in, and these bills are stagger-
ing municipal authorities all over the country.]
When the scramble began there was no question
of getting tenders or haggling over contracts. It was
a question of “Take it or leave it. That is our price.
If you don’t pay it someone else will.” Here are a
few examples of what happened.
In Essex the price of sandbags rose in a day
from 2|d. to lOd. One borough engineer had a
quotation of 2yd. a bag and was authorised by the
council to spend £4OO on bags to protect his pumping
station. By the time he was able to telephone the
price had risen to 11yd.
In Yorkshire within five minutes of arrangements
being made for trenches to be dug the price of timber
was raised by £3 a standard. The price of sandbags,
which had been Iyd. each, rose so high that the council
ordered wooden boxes instead.
At Edmonton costs rose from 50 to 100 p.c. on
some emergency orders.
At Barking the price of corrugated-iron, usually
£lB a ton, was raised to £23 a ton. Then it went to
£25 and ultimately £27. Sandbags, usually ljd., went
up to Bd. The council refused to buy and contem-
plated buying paper bags. Then the price of paper
bags rose from yd. each to 2}d.
Business firms as well as municipalities were held
up to ransom by the profiteers. The manager of a
famous aircraft firm said: “A contractor offered me
5000 sandbags at Iyd. each. When I said I would
take them, he wrote back saying that the price was
now lOd. each.” One city firm found that sandbags
quoted at 245. a hundred before lunch had risen to
425. after lunch.
An East End syndicate bought 500,000 sandbags
at 3d. each and resold them in a few minutes for 6d.
each. Sand, to fill the sandbags, was raised in one case
from 11s. 6d. a cubic yard to 225. 6d. in two days.
U.S.A. Views on the Peace.
(Condensed from an article by London “Sunday
Times’’ New York correspondent .)
Sufficient time has elapsed to permit an un-
hurried study of America’s position in the European
crisis and to reflect upon the findings.
One conclusion is that the people of the United
States will have no part in any formal alliance to
guarantee peace. They seem willing to give a
trial to Mr. Hull’s programme of “peace through
freer trade.” But they are certain that any form of
collective security is worthless unless such a union
of Powers is ready and is bound, without equivocation,
to employ force against a transgressor. And America
will not pledge a single soldier to keep the peace
overseas.
This was true in 1919, as Wilson learned. It was
the rock of opposition upon which his League of
Nations foundered in home waters. It is doubly true
in 1938, as events of the past month prove. To be
blunt, only the most stubborn idealist can honestly
believe or hope that the United States will be willing
and ready every twenty years to send 2,000,000 soldiers
across the ocean to make the world safe for democracy.
It may be too much to expect that accredited and
unaccredited emissaries from America will stop pledg-
ing the armed forces of America to every public
gathering they happen to address. But it will be too
bad if Britain and France should continue to put stock
in such bombast.
The “Daily News” of New York, Mr. Roosevelt’s
most potent champion and the accepted voice of the
urban masses, says: “Now that Prime Minister Neville
Chamberlain has averted a general European war, at
least for the time being, various British Liberals
appear to be enraged because, as someone puts it,
peace has broken out in Europe.
“These mature or elderly British Liberals, who
wouldn’t have to fight in this second World War, are
being echoed by various Liberals over here in their
denunciations of Chamberlain. They are not being
echoed by the masses in the various countries
Chamberlain reprieved from war. Those masses, who
would have to do the fighting, are cheering Chamber-
lain from the toe of Italy to the tip of Scotland.
“Further, we think most of the Liberals now yap-
ping at Chamberlain in England and the United States
are sore mainly on Russia’s account. Hitler has frankly
said he wants a piece of Russia —the best piece—and
the Munich conference unquestionably put him closer
to the time when he can make a grab for it.
“This is felt by many Liberals to have been a
crime against Holy Russia. Our feeling is that, if
Hitler attacks Russia, Russia should be able to defend
itself. Russia has 170,000,000 people and huge
natural resources, as against Hitler’s 79,000,000 people
and scant resources. If Russia cannot take care of
itself against Hitler, then it shows there must be some-
thing wrong with its vaunted system. However, it
is our conviction that Hitler could not do to Russia
what Napoleon could not do.
“It is no funeral of ours, or of Great Britain’s.
Why any Englishman should want to sacrifice one
British soldier for Russia, it is hard for us to see.
Still less easily can we see why an American should
want to deposit the bones of one American soldier
in foreign soil for Russia.”
The tone of this editorial may not be delicate,
because the newspaper purposely attempts to write
down to the masses. Hence the Americanisms and
the impertinence. These do not detract, however,
from the fact that the “Daily News” is uncanny in
speaking the mind of the common people.
Chinese Peasant Soldiers.
[The comments here given from a London “Times”
special correspondent’s article help to explain some of
the crumpling of Chinese resistance against much
inferior numbers, as at Canton. There are additionally,
of course, such considerations as the comparative unpre-
paredness in defence.]
The whole system of production in peasant China
is technically at the level reached in England about 250
years ago. The village is practically a self-sufficient
unit, growing its own food, growing, spinning, and
weaving its own cotton, and so on. The average
peasant’s house has nothing in it but the barest neces-
sities.
Coming from this society the Chinese peasant has
no qualifications for military efficiency except the
ability to live on cheap food and under hard con-
ditions and the possession of a fair intelligence. Any-
one from a Western society, with its elaborate division
of labor, has some tradition of working in large-scale
co-ordinated action. It is natural for him to assume
that other people will carry out their part of a common
plan, and, if he trusts his leaders, to obey orders even
if the plan is not fully understood. There is also a
sense of the importance of time in carrying out any
common action.
For the Chinese peasant none of that is true. It
is almost impossible to have anything ready at a defi-
nite time. The Chinese make certain that people are
waiting before they start to cook a meal or saddle a
horse. Mutual suspicion shows even in the parties
raiding a railway ; they carry few tools because every-
one wants his own rifle and would not trust the rest
of the group with spanners and crowbars.
The Chinese peasant is a farmer, not a hunter;
he has no such tradition of following a leader as feu-
dalism founded in Europe ; and in the culture to which
he is heir the soldier is the lowest class in the commu-
nity. Chinese education, with its emphasis on litera-
ture, does little to change this attitude. It is noticeable
among the junior officers that the extent to which the
importance of staff work is appreciated is proportional
to the degree of their contact with Western ideas.
With this human material it is a tremendous task
to build up an efficient army, and only a small pro-
portion of the Chinese forces is at present capable of
combined offensive action. As time goes on the
organisation of the troops will improve. Already they
have successfully taken the offensive in small actions ;
it has not been the policy of the leaders to try large
operations.
It must be remembered that in the plans of the
leaders military effort follows political organisation.
The Chinese village had practically no national feel-
ing. The first task of the leaders was therefore to build
up a national consciousness and a determination to
resist the invader, and to create a new relation between
people and army.
The foundation for this work was laid by the
Japanese Army. According to foreign observers the
original attitude of the peasants was one of neutrality.
They had no reason to like the Chinese Army, and
were quite willing to co-operate with anyone who
treated them decently. It was only after an experience
of the Japanese that they turned to wholehearted
sympathy with the .guerrillas. The experience of Nan-
king merely repeated on a large scale that of thousands
of Chinese villages.
What really shocked public opinion was the innu-
merable cases of raping and the pointlessness of most
Youth Favors War.
The once-fashionable cry of Youth that Old
Men were always ready to sacrifice them in wars
has been effectively answered—for once, at any
rate—by the great stand for peace, against
powerful war-urging influences, made by Mr.
Chamberlain, when younger men, even in his
own Government, would not have hesitated to
decide for war.
Youth's blamelessness in war-seeking has
been somewhat smirched, too, by the Second
World Youth Conference in New York, as
reported in the British pacifist publication
“Peace News,” the special conference represen-
tative of which commented:—
The congress brought together youth from
over 50 countries and all continents.
The general tenor of the congress was
decidedly pro-war.
The congress, in the main, stood and wildly
applauded when representatives of warring
nations spoke.
Like the generation before them, delegates
were ready to fight with military weapons to
maintain peace. They advocated justice —but
only after “Fascist aggression” had been
stopped. They were laying the foundation for
a moral justification of the next war, already
providing a cloak of sanctity.
It seemed as if the youth had learnt nothing
from the last war. They idealistically supposed
that a just peace could be established after
another war to “guarantee the sanctity of
international law” and to “save democracy,”
this time from “Fascist aggression.”


of the slaughter and destruction. The result is that
among all classes there is a conviction that there is
nothing to do with the Japanese except fight them.
In one area with a population of about 140,000
82 villages were recorded burnt in the first six
months of this year, 1036 people being killed
and 398 wounded. With the improved Chinese
defences and the high crops there have been
fewer raids in the last few months, though villages
within range of the railway have been shelled from
the armored train. These villages have recently been
antagonised by orders that they must cut down their
crops before they were ripe, and have often appealed
to the Chinese Army to send men to help them, and
when men could not be spared have asked for hand
grenades to use themselves. A few hundred Japanese
officers court-martialled last year for offences against
the civil population would have conquered a larger
area of China than any victory the army has won.
Spies.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Express" article
by Percy Hoskins.)
New York’s spy trial has hit the front page ; yet
as long as there is a rearmament race nations will
continue to back espionage. The estimated cost to
Britain this year for this form of service is £450,000,
but precautionary measures at the crisis advanced this
by about £lOO,OOO. Seventy-five per cent, of the infor-
mation proves to be just rumor or rubbish.
France is probably the most spy-ridden country
in Europe. Last year the French authorities con-
victed more espionage suspects than in the whole 10
years before the war. In 1936 the number convicted
was 204.
The World War enlisted thousands of adven-
turers in espionage, killed a good many of them, en-
riched or ruined a few, and conferred some enduring
fame on a mere handful. To-day, there are very few
civilians in the employ of the Secret Service. Unlike
the Germans, who employ every type of agent, the
British Government relies upon tried servants, usually
ex-military or naval officers who are linguists. The
work is usually drab, and at a rate of pay which
would not excite an income-tax collector; £lOOO a
year is very good money in the hush-hush service.
No country is overlavish in its payments to secret
agents. Steinhauer, the ex-Kaiser’s principal spy, used
to complain that he was almost invariably kept short
of money. Had it not been for the meanness of the
Wilhelmstrasse the German espionage service would
not have collapsed so ingloriously as it did in the
early stages of the war.
Which country possesses the best spies? For
the amount we spend, as compared with other coun-
tries, Britain can claim first place, although our agents
slipped badly in 1935 when they told Mr. Stanley
Baldwin that the German air power was nowhere near
our own or ever likely to be.
The greatest feat in the history of the British
Secret Service was its round-up of German agents in
1914 which prevented the German General Staff
from hearing of the arrival in France of Sir John
French and his expeditionary force.
The War Office section scored again when it sup-
plied the first clue which led to this present exposure
of the German spy network in the United States. The
British Secret Service purposely delayed the arrest of
Mrs. Jessie Jordan from November, 1937, until March
this year, when G-man Leon Turrou had traced in
America the persons who were transmitting their in-
formation to Germany through Mrs. Jordan’s hair-
dressing parlor.
Mrs. Jordan was already being watched before
she aroused the suspicions of a shipping manager who
noticed that, though poorly dressed, she went eight
times from Dundee to Hamburg in eight months,
travelling in small cargo steamers carrying few pas-
sengers. The War Office asked G-men to trace the
sources of information and sketches which they knew
Mrs. Jordan was carrying to Hamburg. They were
able to trace the destination of plans relating to secret
revolving gun turrets which had been stolen from
British aircraft works.
To-day counter-espionage in Britain is as effective
as it ever has been.
The Palestine Headache.
[ln recent “Uncabled Additions’’ various items—repre-
senting Arab, Jewish and British points of view—have
been given for the purpose of throwing light on John
Bull’s sorry problem in the Palestine Mandate. Further to
that purpose are these added items ; first an article
by Emrys Jones condensed from London “Daily
Express.”]
The Holy Land is a country about the size of
Wales, but with only half its population, yet a murder
has been attempted nearly every day for the last ten
years, and nearly half the attempts have been success-
ful.
When the British were fighting for their existence
in the Great War the Government twice promised the
Promised Land: first to the Arabs, then to the Jews
—or, rather, they promised to find for the Jews a
home in Palestine. However, Jews in Britain, Ger-
many, Poland, Lithuania, Rumania and the United
States have been led to believe that we promised
them Palestine, so now we have the strange spectacle
of the Jewish masses turning their wrath not against
such persecutors as Hitler, but against Britain.
For the last 20 years Jews have flocked into
Palestine; there are now 400,000 of them there. At
their side are a million Arabs, and between them
there is no common ground.
The big Arab argument against Zionism is that
the more zealous Zionists have tried to build a Jewish
State on the assumption that the Arab did not exist,
the Histadrut—a kind of trade union with great
political power—laying down the principle that only
Jewish workers should be employed in Jewish enter-
prises. The Histadrut argued that they were making
the country richer, and that was true, for under Jewish
influence Palestine has prospered. The Histadrut
fought against mixed Arab-Jewish trade unions.
„ . Behind *e shooting is the fanatical, ambitious
H *J al Hussein, Grand Muft, of Jerusalem,
wh °> by an ironic twist ot history owes his position
as imcr of Islam to a Jew. Ex-Turkish soldier,
£6OO a y ear il | , e Bridsh Ad f
ministration, he was sentenced in 1920 to 10 years
imprisonment for inciting an Arab revolt. He fled
and hid until Lord Samuel, a Jew, went to Jerusalem
as High Commissioner of Palestine. Lord Samuel (then
Sir Herbert) put into action his Liberal principles and
pardoned the men on the “black list,” among them
j Amin. To that generous action Haj Amin replied
by inciting the Aiabs to revolt, urging “holy war”
agajnst the British and the Jews. Now exiled in
Lebanon he still controls, encourages and bolsters up
ie revolt -
t
lowards Tearful Retribution ,,
[Condensed from a letter to the “New Statesman”
by Edward Thompson, who fought in Palestine and has
written a number of books dealing with that part of the
world > Ind,a and other interested countries.]
British Labor and Liberai jni genera ,| y
sneaking is in iho wrong ■ihont p, . ,• , & y
’ A , , 8 a f s m ~‘ . .
~ e 'A, S have there ro . m time imrne ‘
mortal, and have seen their country given away over
1 ie,r heads ’ and the Naz ‘ and subsequent persecutions
in Eurooe have t t swirlin „ river of mi<ierv
uurf.ur -f ntout a swirling river ol misery
which British Liberal and Labor opinion seems to
thmk can be crowded into a pint-pot of a country.
We read °f 6000 cables to Downing-street from
New York ’ aad 20 1 00 to our Embassy in
Washington. But who are these American protesters?
I doubt if they contain one American who knows the
Arab world ; the personnel of the great American Uni-
versity of Beirut are, to my knowledge, appalled at the
magnitude of the blunder which we are making and
are ur g ed con ti n ue making. Nor will the Jews
among these American protesters pay the price of
what they demand. It will be paid by helpless settlers
in Esdraelon and the Shephelah Only massacre and
counter-massacre (at present styled firmness ) can
force the Jewish State on the Arabs. No nation has
the right to demand that we drive through such a
course, and not all the churches in the world can make
it out to be Christianity or “honor.” We have kept
one country in our Empire without the beginnings of
representative institutions, which are to be established
only when we have completely overturned the racial
balance And this is a course which the Left support,
and such papers as the Manchester Guardian.” No
wonder we cut little ice when we protest about Spain
or Abyssinia!
Desperation always puts up brutality as its answer
to martial law. Anti-Semitism, from which Asia has
been free on the whole, is growing rapidly, not only
in the Near East, but also in India. We are pressed
to throw away our friendship with the Arab and
Moslem worlds, and in a cause which you cannot
make out to be decent except on grounds of a promise
which we had no right to make and which in any case
is now grossly exaggerated. A Jewish State, even if
you can establish it, has a fearful retribution awaiting
it when this country finds itself at war, and Arab rebel-
lion reawakens, as it certainly will, with the vigor of
hope and with even steadier and stronger pressure
from the Arab world outside Palestine. If there is any
folly greater than ours in this matter, it is that of
Zionist extremists.
Arab Congress Decisions.
(Reported in the “Times”)
[How extremely awkward is John Bull’s Palestine
problem is further emphasised by these resolutions
(reported in the “Times”) of the very widely representa-
tive Arab Congress in Cairo, especially when they are
read in conjunction with the also very widely repre-
sentative urging of the British Government to hold fast
to the Balfour Declaration.!
Resolutions passed at the final meeting of the
Arab Parliamentary Congress were:
Congress (1) declares the Balfour Declaration
null and void in the eyes of Moslems ; (2) demands
the immediate total cessation of Jewish immigration ;
(3) rejects any form of partition ; (4) calls for the
creation of a national constitutional Government in
Palestine with a Parliament elected proportionately
by Arabs and Jews to conclude a treaty with Great
Britain ; (5) demands a general amnesty for political
prisoners and the repatriation of the deported leaders ;
(6) insists that the foregoing resolutions constitute the
only solution of the Palestinian problem and the sole
means of restoring peace and collaboration between
the Arabs and the British (if this solution be not
accepted the Arabs will consider Great Brlain to be
hostile and to be subjected to political and economic
pressure from the Arab and Moslem world); (7) all
Moslem kings, princes and rulers are urged to get
these resolutions —which will be forwarded to them, to
the British Government, and to the League of Nations
—put into effect.
Jewish Viewpoint
(Condensed from a letter to the “Times” by the Chief
Rabbi of Palestine.)
To us Jews the only right solution of the Palestine
problem is the effective implementation of the Man-
date in the spirit and in the letter with a view to the
eventual establishment of a Jewish Commonwealth
guaranteeing equal freedom and justice to all that
live therein.
It may be affirmed without any trace of national
egotism that the connection of the Jewish people with
Palestine is without any parallel in the history of
national attachments. It was the spiritual revelation
that was vouchsafed to Israel in this small country
between the desert and the sea which has fixed for all
time its place in the history of mankind.
The Jewish people never left Palestine of its own
free will. After a tenacious defence to which the
records of antiquity, literary and archaeological, bear
striking testimony it was driven into exile by the policy
of extermination and expropriation pursued by the
conquerors. Even then a remnant clung to the soil
of the Holy Land, and an almost unbroken continuity
of Jewish settlement connects the present Jewish com-
munity with the Jewish polity of old.
In almost every generation there were waves of
Jewish re-immigration to Palestine from the wide-
flung Diaspora, while numerous Messianic move-
ments which sprang up century after century bear
testimony to the spiritual intensity of that attachment.
Ihe Jewish ritual and liturgy are deeply permeated
with practices and prayers relating to Palestine and
with moving supplications for its welfare and its
eventual restoration.
Seeking a Way Out
[London “Times,” which always speaks with special
authority on such matters of British policy, makes these
suggestions in a leading article.]
It is hard to see how Jews and Arabs can be kept
together—save under the domination of a third party
—in a unitary State. Neither community would have
any confidence in its unwilling partner, although such
a State could not survive for six months without their
close and confident co-operation. A Jewish domina-
tion unsupported by British bayonets would founder
in a sea of rebellion. The passive resistance of a dis-
satisfied and distrustful Jewish minority could speedily
reduce an Arab Government to a squalid bankruptcy.
In these conditions the partition of Palestine, for all
its obvious risks, seems less dangerous than its
mechanical unification.
Nor is there any reason why partition should be
tantamount to amputation. In a letter published in
the “Times” Sir Arnold Wilson made the valuable
suggestion that the British and French Governments
should co-operate in seeking a settlement which should
“embrace Syria as a whole, including Palestine, which
was always politically and always must be geographi-
cally a part of Syria.” A federation composed of the
Syrian State, Lebanon, the two Palestines, Jewish and
Arab, and Transjordan would give the Syrian Arabs
the unity which at present they lack, and still more a
confidence and a sense of responsibility which cannot
be expected to flourish in weak, poor and divided
States.
Such a policy requires local French co-operation.
It has hitherto been partial in the Lebanon and non-
existent in Syria. Yet there is no real reason why the
friendly co-operation between the French and British
Governments in Europe should not extend to the Near
East and bear fruit in a settlement that would benefit
the Christians, Jews and Moslems of Syria and Pales-
tine, and promote the general Arab cause far more
effectively than resolutions at Cairo or massacre at
Tiberias.
When Germany Starved.
In “Insanity Fair,” a book on European affairs
which is being widely reat|, Douglas Reed, who first
went to Germany in 1028, says that lie then “began
to look for the crushed anil starving and bled-white
Germany.” Failing'—in 1028!—to find it, he infers
that it never existed.
Reviewing “Insanity Fair,” which in many
respects makes very interesting reading, the Red
Page suggested that Mr. Reed arrived some 10 years
too late, but that the first-hand evidence of indepen-
dent eyewitnesses should have prevented him from
discrediting himself as an observer by making such
a foolish inference. Supporting that criticism —and
also of value as comment on the wretched madness
of war—comes a pamphlet print of a lecture given in
England by E. AV. I). Tennant, 0.8. E.: —
Few people realise the conditions that existed in
Germany at the end of the war and during the fol-
lowing six months while the blockade continued.
I was sent by the War Office on the first mission
to Berlin after the Armistice —that was in January,
1919. There was not a dog or a cat to be seen—
all had been eaten and their skins used for leather.
Very little linen or cotton goods were obtainable
in the shops; most of the sheets and underclothes,
pyjamas and even harness on sale were made of paper.
Men’s shirts were mainly of nettle fibre. Everything
seemed to be “ersatz” — substitute. The coffee was
made of burnt barley and acorns. There was no soap;
even at the Adlon Hotel we had cakes of baked day
and sand in place of soap. There was great lack of
boots and woollen clothing.
There was a great scarcity of most kinds of food,
and especially of butter, milk and fat.
1 visited a number of hospitals and witnessed the
horrible sight of children with hunger madness. Little
skeletons who would not eat, but tried to hide any
food they were given under the bedclothes so as to
keep it in case they grew still hungrier.
The blockade was continued for several months,
which greatly augmented the difficulties of the new
Republican Government. According to figures sup-
plied me in Berlin in January, 1919, an average of
1000 Germans (over and above the normal death-
rate) were dying every day from under-nutrition,
mainly from tuberculosis, diseases of the intestines
and dropsy, and I can well believe that this figure
increased over the next few months.


FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Aureus or
Hammerhead; next, Bodley Head.
Highweight Handicap: Hammer-
head or Shackleton; next, Bull-
dozer or Miss Commond.
Canterbury Handicap: Constant;
next, Klemm Eagle.
Camp s i e Handicap: Friar’s
Switch ; next, Chicola or Bulldozer.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the Victoria Derby a South Aus-
tralian colt, Tempest, finished an excel-
lent second to Nuffield after appearing
to have that odds-on candidate settled
less than a furlong from home. On
Thursday the Adelaide filly French Gem
caused an Oaks Stakes boilover, beating
Talkalot, an even-money pop, by half a
neck.
Turns at pacemaking the Oaks field
were taken by The Decoration (twelves)
and Gay Dell (25 to 1). The Decoration
dropped out three furlongs from home,
and Gay Dell led into the straight.
Desperately ridden by Shean, the favor-
ite had just got her nose in advance of
Gay Dell when French Gem —last at the
half-mile—swept through on the rails
and gave Maurice McCarten his second
winning mount at the Flemington meet-
ings.
French Gem belongs to G. W. Bad-
man, for whom McCarten had scored on
Aurie’s Star at the Moonee Valley Cup
meeting. Both Aurie’s Star and French
Gem are trained at Williamstown by
Sinclair. Six years ago Sinclair landed
an Australian Cup with Madstar, owned
in. Adelaide, and since then he has re-
ceived a good deal of South Australian
patronage.
At the V.R.C. October meeting French
Gem was beaten by Lady Montague and
The Decoration in the Edward Manifold
Stakes, while on Derby Day she was un-
placed in the Wakeful Stakes. These
failures over a mile did not suggest
stamina enough for an Oaks journey of
If miles. Length of her tether seemed
to be about six furlongs, but “book”
form once more proved misleading.
Ajax increased his winning sequence
to 13 by annexing the Linlithgow Stakes.
It was such a foregone conclusion that
backers of the gallant chestnut had to
lay 10 to 1 on. Those who supported
him on the tote got their money back
for a win and a (one-two) place.
Linlithgow Stakes speculation was
chiefly on a one-two basis. Percy Miller,
who owns Young Idea, regarded 6 to 4
about Ajax and his horse as “money
from home,” and gladly seized the op-
portunity. He considered that Young
Idea had run the race of his life in the
Cantala Stakes, taking into consideration
that Breasley was riding the Constant
Son stallion for the first time.
Young Idea is a peculiar horse to
handle, and a jockey needs to know his
moods. Breasley allowed Mohican and
Ena to exhaust themselves in trying to
overhaul Ajax. After entering the
straight Young Idea put in a fine run.
He passed Mohican and Ena without
difficulty, but could make no impression
on Ajax, who scored by If lengths, with
a lot in hand.
That brought the earnings of Frank
Musgrave’s champion to £23,775. He
has eclipsed Desert Gold in that re-
spect, but there are still 22 ahead of him
on the list of great Australian winners.
Xavier had a slight call over Aspire
(Gay Lothario-Sweet Echo) in the Byron
Moore Stakes, for juveniles. Punters
“picked it in two,” Aspire romping home
by If lengths from Girella, who had a
great tussle with the Portofino colt
Glenfino for second money. G. L. Scott
is very proud of Aspire, and intends put-
ting him by until the autumn, with a
view to the classic two-year-old events.
Always favorite and starting at the
cramped odds of 7 to 4, Adios, from the
Randwick stable of George Price, car-
ried McCarten to easy victory in the
Carnival Handicap, minor places being
filled by Caragona (20 to 1) and Tre-
genna (sixes).
Another Sydney victory was registered
by El Senorita (11 to 2) in the Veteran
Stakes. She shot to the front after two
furlongs had been covered and lasted
long enough to win by a neck from
L’Aiglon and Manolive, who dead-
heated. Silenus had a bad spin in this
race and did well to finish-fifth, after
being last at the seven-furlongs pole.
Dominor, from Adelaide, is such a dis-
tinct jumping “find” that, although lifted
91b. for his Cup day triumph, he started
at 6 to 4 on in the November Hurdle.
Alick Fullarton did his level best not to
unduly expose Dominor, who won in
leisurely style from Grey Lash and
Laveur.
Ajax equalled Phar Lap’s record of
14 wins in a row by annexing the C. B.
Fisher Plate ; and now some people are
saying that he is a greater galloper. But
Phar Lap’s consecutive victories were
achieved over distances of 'Seven, eight,
nine, nine and a half, 10 and 16 fur-
longs. He scored twice at two miles—•
once in the Melbourne Cup on handicap
terms. Ajax has never attempted the
marathon journey, and he failed in the
A.J.C. Derby and Victoria Derby—Phar
Lap won both events.
With 19 each, Desert Gold and Gloam-
ing head the Australasian list of consecu-
tive wins by first-class gallopers. Ajax
may reach their level next autumn ; but
will have to win the Melbourne Cup
before he can be compared with Phar
Lap. Latter had won nine races on end
before Amounis fluked him in the War-
“I STILL think We should have come the long Way roundl”
wick Stakes, and the 14 sequence
ended with defeat by Waterline in the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes, which isn’t wholly
explainable by Waterline having a 211 b.
pull in weight. The Lloyd Stakes reverse
w'as followed, after a spell, by eight un-
broken victories ; so that the son of Night
Raid ought really have caught the judge’s
eye on 33 uninterrupted occasions.
Ajax shifted out and finished in the
centre of the course in the C. B. Fisher
Plate. It was almost a repetition of the
Caulfield Stakes display. Hugging the
rails—as Avenger had done at “the
Heath”—Royal Chief for a minute
looked like causing a boilover. How-
ever, Ajax had IF lengths to spare on the
post, and put up excellent time (2min.
31sec.); the concluding half-mile occu-
pied only 48|sec.
......
The ease with which Early Bird cap-
tured the Batman Stakes shows that she
is the best three-year-old filly of the
season. French Gem wouldn’t have won
the Oaks if Early Bird had been en-
gaged. At threes (fives early) Early Bird
shared Batman Stakes favoritism with
Tempest. The Adelaide colt missed a
place, Early Bird being followed home
by Adios (also from Sydney) and the
fast-finishing Atticus, locally owned.
J. T. Jamieson made a rich haul over
Early Bird, but he dropped much of it
when Esperanto misfired in the Flem-
ington Stakes. The winner, El Reo
(fours), a colt by Excitement-Elvira, is
trained in Sydney. His granddam is a
sister to Sir Maitland, runner-up to Julia
Grey in the Doncaster of 1822.
The other two-year-old race on Saturday
went to Cyclist, trained by Lou Robert-
son for his brother Andrew, who is try-
ing to regain health by a holiday on the
Nile. Zonda, winner of the Mimosa
Stakes on Cup day, also belongs to
Andrew Robertson. Held on lease, both
are by Manitoba, whom Andy purchased
in England on behalf of A. T. Creswick
for service at his Nagambie stud.
Backed from 20 to 1 down to sevens,
Cyclist beat H. R. Telford’s fine-looking
Madagascar filly Tarpati in the last
stride. Tarpati (fives) was next in de-
mand to Free Leg, runner-up to Zonda
on Cup day. Last-named finished in the
ruck, but will do better. By Gay
Lothario, she is out of Slavonia (imp.),
by Lemberg.
That Bourbon ought to have been first
instead of second in the Melbourne Cup
was made abundantly clear by his smash-
ing victory in the V.R.C. Handicap. He
met Catalogue on 31b. better terms —
which shows what the handicapper
thought. The Maoriland gelding had
every chance, but could finish fifth only.
Bourbon had the race won as soon as
they turned for home. He beat the pace-
maker, Young Crusader, by two lengths,
with a lot in hand. Quoted early at
5 to 2, Bourbon surprisingly drifted to
7 to 2 at barrier rise.
Horses from Westralia finished first
and third in the Final Handicap, Man-
olive (10 to 1) winning by 2\ lengths
from Othello (15 to 1), with Footmark
half a head farther away. Footmark
was a 5-to-2 favorite. An Australasian
record of 2min. 2sec. was set up; previ-
ous best was 2min. 2fsec. by Phar Lap,
who now disappears from the list of
record-holders. But Phar Lap, had be
been extended, could have beaten 2min.
2fsec. Manolive had a very easy win,
and will be in demand at Williamstown.
Mustella, who won the J. A. MacLeod
Steeple, is a likely Grand National horse
next winter. He belongs to Jerry Molo-
ney, of Warrnambool, and is considered
by that astute trainer to be better than
Belar, with whom he won the G.N.
Hurdle of 1933 in record time.
* * * *
Royal Chief left Melbourne on Monday,
and will be shipped home to ML. from
Sydney by the Westralia on November
19. He is to be spelled until the autumn.
Whether another Australian visit will be
paid at that period is open to doubt.
F. D. Jones, his trainer, doesn’t see any
profitable prospect in tackling Ajax at
weight for age.
* * * *
Backers of Delmestor for the Gov-
ernor Fitzroy Handicap at Rosehill
growled horribly after the race. To get
the benefit of a 71b. allowance, the Del-
mestor party gave the mount to Fleming,
an inexperienced lad. Hughes, a com-
parative veteran, was on Let Slip, and
landed her the winner by a long head.
But Let Slip came away from the rails
in the last furlong, and undoubtedly ham-
pered Delmestor. Though the rules say
a horse must steer a straight course, no
protest was lodged, and the A.J.C.
stewards took no action. June was third,
ahead of Beau Cheval, who suffered a
knock soon after the start. Let Slip was
weak in the market; the price eased
from fours to eights.
The club put up £2OO for the Cum-
berland Handicap, but only three mod-
erates faced the barrier. The Ring
offered 6 to 4 about Constant, who had
won at Warwick Farm and missed a
place in the Newcastle Cup on a wet
track. The mare chased Ken to the top
of the straight, and then came away,
winning easily by a length from Eclogue,
a stablemate of Let Slip, with the pace-
maker nearly a length away. Constant
is raced by the Ascot trainer O’Rourke.
He won many handicaps with her dam,
Ila Tait.
Morning Gift is racing very consis-
tently, and is to be kept going for the
Villiers. Starting at 4 to 1 for the
Parramatta Mile, she recorded her third
successive victory. Commencing the
final furlong, imported Amaranthus
seemed to have Morning Gift settled,
being nearly a length clear, but the mare
raised another effort and Amaranthus
weakened. Lord Valentine (14 to 1)
threw out a strong challenge, but was
beaten by a head, Amaranthus being a
similar distance away third.
This Page tipped them Lord Valentine
1, Morning Gift 2. It’s a wonder Lord
Valentine isn’t tried in races like the
Cumberland Handicap.
Tobasco, carrying the Esperanto colors,
captured the Macarthur Stakes. He set
up a commanding lead, and though
McMenamin eased him near the judge’s
box he won by a neck from Bonny
Loch, with Mirage a poor third. Tobasco,
who is raced by Mrs. Jim Bancks, was
backed from fours to 5 to 2.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt
showed good judgment when he refused
350 guineas for Waireka at the yearling
sales. A well-grown daughter of the 1934
Metrop. winner, Waikare, Waireka
donkeylicked a smart field in the Belfast
Stakes; Bona Fide and Jembra filled
the places. Jembra is smart and will be
all the better for the race. Waireka
started at 11 to 8 on.
Jan Baz, a three-year-old by Heroic-
Our Dell, put up a rather striking per-
formance in the first division of the
Town Trial. He was slow at the barrier,
and was badly placed for three furlongs.
Then he got a lucky run on the rails, and
pace and gameness enabled him to beat
Karingal and the favorite, Astounding.
He started at eights. The second division
went to Mavro (10 to 1), a plain-looking
Rampion mare raced on lease by the
Kensington trainer Hunter —J. W. Cook,
of St. Constant fame, owns her. It was
Mavro’s first win. Moaenza was second
and Chicola third —Chicola finished well.
* * * *
A long-discussed race came off in
Baltimore (U.S.A.) when Seabiscuit,
the crack American five-year-old, beat
War Admiral, the crack four-year-
old, in a 9f-furlong match. Sea-
biscuit won by three lengths. The
loser was 5 to 3 on, the winner 7 to 5
against; both carried Bst. 81b. The
Maryland J.C. had put up a purse of
15,000 dollars, and the owners, Sam
Riddle (War Admiral) and C. S. Howard
(Seabiscuit), each threw a 5000-dollars
wager. Both horses are descended from
the mighty Man o’ War, sire of the last
winner of the Liverpool Grand National,
Battleship.
Seabiscuit’s time was lmin. 56 3-ssec.,
a record for the track; and in these
American races the pace is invariably on
all the way. In the Cox Plate at Moonee
Valley— not a fast track —on Oct. 22,
Ajax, carrying 9st. and never off the bit,
ran 9f furlongs in lmin. 56|sec. On
that performance he is at least the
equal of the American champion, and
if the pair could be brought together
there would be a ton of money to say
that Ajax would beat Seabiscuit.
{Sporting Notions continued on page 32d
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Cup: Manolive, 1 ; Ortelle’s
Star, 2 ; El Senorita, 3.
Seddon Handicap: Beaustone ;
next, Atticus.
Ozone Highweight: Lautus; next,
Pine Peak.


announces even
GREATER SAFETY
AND MILEAGE
i
» 1 I
9
1
/
s
1
B
3
S
*/
<ry>nW'\
m
Kg*
'/HjJswMmi
from.
g»
with the
GOODYEAR’S GREAT NEW
CONSTRUCTION FEATURE
Double Breaker Strip Construction provides these ad-
vantages : *
(1) Greater protection against bruises and frac-
tures.
(2) Greater protection against tread separation.
(3) Greater protection against carcass cuts.
All three ensure Goodyear users greater mileage and
greater safety than has ever before been possible in a
tyre.
For maximum Safety and Mileage, fit new Goodyear
Tyres now.
5-Cl2-S8
Double Breaker Strip Construction is now standard in all Goodyear Tyres.


r
BSS
mm
uopuadap udo no fa
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
for POWER
The power that comes from
strong hot sparks takes you over
the roads and up the hills with
less effort, less fuel and less
expense. Get the greater pow-
er that a new set of Champions
will give. The fuel they save
quickly p ays their small cost.
An Empire product—made in
_ Windsor. Canada,
d
42
fSm
As,.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
fd
fd
rUffiS*
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Victoria
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge,
70/-.
Under the Whip
Catalogue's Cup
Twenty-five years ago an old-stager
called Posinatus won the Melbourne Cup
because his jockey, Shanahan, took him
to the front almost immediately and was
allowed to slow down the field to Shana-
han’s liking. Posinatus wasn't a true
stayer, nor was he really much of a horse
—he never won another race —but the
jockey’s tactics prevailed.
Much the same thing happened at
Flemington on November 1 when Cata-
logue, ridden by Shean, won the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Shean, a Queenslander, is a shrewd
jockey, and has been very successful this
year. He wasn’t obliged to repeat the
Posinatus-Shanahan precedent exactly;
Bachelor King made the running for
nearly a mile at a suitable — i.e., slow—
pace. The mile completed, Shean urged
his horse along, and in no time he had
got a break of lengths on a strung-out
field.
Entering the straight, Catalogue had a
lead so great that it could be bridged only
if his stamina gave out or if he was
tackled by an exceptionally good stayer.
Behind him were Silenus, Allunga,
Ortelle’s Star, Young Crusader and Sir
Regent, and each of them was laboring.
Bourbon emerged from the ruck and
made up a tremendous amount of
ground, rushing past Ortelle’s Star, who
had settled Allunga and the others. “He
must have gained ten lengths over the
last furlong,” the jockey said after-
wards. But it was too late, and
when the judge placed them there
was daylight between Catalogue and
Bourbon and between Bourbon and
Ortelle’s Star. Then came Allunga
(fourth in two successive Cups), Royal
Chief, Sir Regent, Aitchengee, Gay
Knight and Silenus —always well up.
Nuffield finished seventeenth in a field of
22, and The Trump, the 1937 winner, was
last.
The judge made it “three lengths, two
lengths and a half.” Photographs of
the finish, with white fence-posts for
checks, showed that this estimate was all
wrong—“a length and three-quarters,
three lengths” would have been nearer
the mark. The time was 3min. 26|sec.—
4fsec. slower than The Trump’s. Some
rain had taken the sting out of the
ground, but other times were not bad;
Judean, winner of the Yan Yean Stakes,
ran his mile, without being pushed out,
in lmin. 38^sec.
The Ring, which is alleged to be strong
but has rarely been weaker, laid very
poor prices—5 to 1 Royal Chief, 11 to
2 Nuffield, 6 to 1 St. Constant, 8 to 1
Marauder, 9 to 1 Bourbon and L’Aiglon.
Catalogue’s price was 25 to 1 ; the tote
paid £7 18s. 6d. and £1 17s. 6d. for 55.,
together with £1 os. 6d. Bourbon and
£5 ss. 6d. Ortelle’s Star.
No newspaper tipped Catalogue for
even a place. The Bulletin, by giving
Bourbon first (when he was 16 to 1) and
Ortelle’s Star second, got nearest to the
actual result. Ortelle’s Star was 40 to 1.
On past performances and recent form
you couldn’t back Catalogue. A gelding
rising nine and in his seventh year on the
turf, he had never won at any distance
beyond a mile and a quarter. A fairly
good three-year-old, he picked up a
couple of nine-furlongs handicaps, and
ran second in the Great Northern Derby
at Auckland to the Australian-bred Red
Manfred ; was second also in»the Clifford
Plate, at the same Auckland meeting
(January, 1934), to Nightly. But he
didn’t win at all at four or five years,
and the principal prize his sixth year
yielded was a Hack Cup at Feilding.
“Aged,” he twice won the Winter Cup at
Canterbury, and he was second in the
Wellington Cup (12 furlongs) to Padi-
“After you.”
“No, sir, after YOU!”
shah. In each of his three starts in
Australia prior to the Cup, he went out
at 50 to 1, and, though third in the V.R.C.
Hotham Handicap, the second horse,
L’Aiglon, finished faster than he did.
Catalogue is a very plain bay. These
days it seems almost unnecessary to
mention that there is Carbine blood in
him —on the dam’s side, as is the case
with Bourbon. He is by Lord Quex-
Catalina, and Catalina’s sire was Cat-
mint, son of Spearmint, the greatest colt
of his day in Europe, and Spearmint’s
sire was one of the greatest racehorses
of all time.
Catalogue is owned by Mrs. Jamieson,
a sister of E. Barnes, a Palmerston
North (M.L.) publican, who sold out to
her after a stewards’ inquiry into the
running of the bay in the Connolly
Handicap at Wanganui last May. The
animal was trained for Barnes and Mrs.
Jamieson by Mrs. Alan McDonald,
daughter of Maher, a Hawke’s Bay
trainer. She was a show-ring rider before
her marriage. But the queer ban on
women trainers lingers in Australia, and
Catalogue has been looked after in this
country by Alan McDonald, who is a
veteran crosscountry jockey. Ashley
Reed, who rode The Trump a year ago,
got Shean the mount.
* * * *
Another old Maoriland-bred gelding
won a two-miler last week in slow time.
The race was the N.Z. Cupthe horse
(“aged”) was Arctic King ; the time was
3min. 29 3-ssec. Arctic King is by
Rabbi-Snowland. Second to him was
The Buzzer, a son of The Buzzard, and
Milford was third.
❖ * * *
St. Constant’s performances since he
changed hands for a pound:—l937:
Won Highweight at Rosehill (Mohican
was second); second, Chester Handicap at
Randwick; second, Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap at Randwick ; second,
Camden Handicap at Warwick Farm;
won Chisholm Handicap at Randwick.
1938: Won Three-year-old Handicap at
Rosehill; second, Biraganbil Stakes at
Randwick; won High weight Handicap
at Rosehill; won Quality Handicap at
Hawkesbury; third, Epsom at Rand-
wick; won Final Handicap at Rand-
wick ; second, Caulfield Cup ; won Can-
tala Stakes at Flemington. The Aus-
tralian turf has never had a pound horse
like him.
* * * *
Three-year-old races in the south have
been rather uninteresting this season, but
Queenslanders have been privileged to
witness two very interesting tussles be-
tween W. A. Tucker’s Seven Fifty (The
Buzzard-Stable Girl) and W. Hennes-
sey’s Hendra Lad (Bonnement-Lady Be
Good). In the Guineas on October 8
Seven Fifty beat the other colt by a head,
but in the Derby on Saturday Hendra
Lad reversed the positions, winning by a
“short” head ; time, 2min. 36£sec. The
Albatross (The Buzzard-Strongbird) was
third, five lengths behind Seven Fifty,
who was favorite at 5 to 4 on. Hendra
Lad’s backers got 5 to 1. They have a
lot to thank Hill, the jockey, for.
Mr. Felt (Spearfelt-Miss Shirley) won
the Brisbane Handicap from Tooloomba
and Manresa. First in three previous
starts, Mr. Felt was favorite at twos, and
he was going easily, four lengths ahead
of the second horse, at the end of a mile
run in lmin. 37sec. Old King Gee was
one of the beaten lot. Mr. Felt, who is
a four-year-old, was one of three Spear-
felts successful at Eagle Farm; the
others were Brown Lance (6 to 1) in the
C, A. Morris Stakes, and Superspear (10
to 1) in the First Trial.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Miller-Varner Fiasco
One of the oddest k.o. conclusions to
any scrap in an Australian ring was that
of the Miller-Varner affair at Melbourne
Exhibition Ground on Friday night. A
previous meeting of the pair had a wild
and woolly ending, but that was mild to
this one.
Claude Varner was 2|lb. weightier
than Micky Miller’s Bst. ll|lb. In a
willing scrap Miller was slightly ahead
on points when, in the eighth, he was
forced by a heavy punching attack to the
ropes, and fell through them. He got in
again, but once more became tangled
and fell out on the apron of the ring.
While ringsiders were trying to help him
to his feet, the ref. started the count,
which was completed before Miller got
back inside the ropes again, to protest
loudly that the decision, in his opinion,
was up to putty. Miller’s version was
that ringsiders prevented his speedier
return.
Ins and Oufs
“Maitland”: The Maryleboners open
their South African season against West-
ern Provinces at Newlands Ground, near
Cape Town. They are to play five Tests,
the first and fourth at Jo’burg on the
Wanderers’ ground, two at Durban and
one —the second—at Cape Town. Old
hands who have fielded on the rolled
red earth of the Wanderers’ or skinned
themselves alive there at Rugby foot-
ball in the pre-Ellis Park days will be
glad to hear that the Jo’burg arena is
now entirely covered with turf dragged
over the Drakensberg from Durban at a
cost of £6OOO.
This is the jubilee year of Tests be-
tween England and South Africa. In
South Africa the home side has won 11,
lost 19 and drawn eight. In England the
’Boks have won only one of the 21


give improved Plus h
searching
road lest!
Put C.O.R Plus in your tank and seek out
the most difficult traffic—the steepest hills.
Travel at speed over varying road surfaces.
Note the improvement in performance—the
speedy pick-up—the sweet running. Im-
proved Plus never fails to demonstrate its
superiority because it has been specially
developed to meet today’s driving condi-
tions. There is a grade to suit your car.
SUPER PLUS ETHYL —the premium grade the
ideal fuel for modern cars and trucks. Super Plus
is the only full Ethyl petrol that also contains benzol
—and offers you exceptionally high anti-knock quality
together with amazing mileage.
PLUS BENZOL—is the outstanding motor spirit in
the standard grade field. Petrol-benzol blends are
sold in other markets at premium rates but Plus
Benzol is available in Australia at the standard
grade price.
Remember only C.O.R Petrols contain Benzol!
4»
<V
<*
§1
55
f
df
BRITISH
AUSTRALIAN
PETROLS
EXTRA POWER
EXTRA MILEAGE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH C144/27/SP
matches played there, losing nine and
drawing 11. In a few years, with turf
wickets in the three principal cities of
the Union, there should be a better tale
to tell.
The English team will arouse great
interest in Australia, whose turn it will
be to be chewed up next —not only for
the formidable squad of young profes-
sionals who have proved themselves in
England last season, but for the coterie
of really high-class amateurs. It is a
long time since we have had in Aus-
tralia as hot a lot of young lilywhites as
Yardley, Bartlett, Gibb, Valentine and
Fames.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Metropolis v. Country
match in Brisbane saw the townies win
by an innings and 16 runs. Metropolis
declared at 5 for 505 (Rogers 129, Baker
109, Coates 103 and Hansen 100);
Country made 189 and 300, Stibe, of
Bundaberg, scoring 72 and 69. During
the “carnival” Stibe aggregated 505 runs,
averaging 84.66.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Frank Sides, the Queens-
land batsman now playing with Essen-
don (Vic.), will soon be getting a repu-
tation for playing monotonous cricket.
For the third consecutive innings in the
opening grade matches of the Melbourne
season he scored a century, his last con-
tribution being 122. Another importa-
tion, Horrocks, of Westralia, who played
his first match with Essendon, scored a
lively 87. Sides got his runs —they in-
cluded 16 fours and a six—in 132
minutes, while Horrocks smote 11 fours.
The partnership was worth 209 in a total
of 308. Whatmuff, of Uni., was evidently
no muff, for he took 6-90 in Essendon’s
useful knock.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: One result of the sex’s
entry into cricket has been some sensible
innovations. For example, the wearing
of a baseball catcher’s mask by a Sydney
wicketkeeper who played with Australia
when the English girls were here. Re-
cently she took a bang on the conk —
if she will excuse the expression—from a
fast bowlerette and saw no necessity for
risking another. There is no law in
cricket forbidding the wearing of pro-
tection of the kind, and the damsel’s
contempt for convention does her credit.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandiron”: The biggest championship
boilover since David holed on Goliath
in one took place in the N.S.W. profes-
sional championship final in Sydney be-
tween the holder, Cremin, and Norman
von Nida. The latter had been playing
wonderful golf this season, and, good as
Cremin has proved himself to be, no one
gave him a hope against the ex-Queens-
lander. Nevertheless the local man won,
and by the staggering figures of 12 and
10. Briefly, Cremin, whose putting is
not rated his strongest point, tickled them
in from the most outrageous angles and
distances. Von Nida, rated the finest
putter in Australia, on the day could
not have holed out in the Pacific Ocean
if he had wanted to. The victory
gave Cremin his second consecutive win
in the State professional event, and he
has the same record for the Australian
professional title. These fellows ought to
cut enough ice in Manila to travel home
on their own private iceberg.
nr- * * *
“Shirley”: Recovered from a spell of
sickness, Bobby Locke has found the
M.L. courses more congenial than those
in Australia, which did not display him
at his advertised value. In a great
struggle at Masterton, Locke beat John
Hornabrook, well known in Australia, 1
up. Locke led by three at the fourteenth
but was all but caught on the post by the
Maorilander, who took the next three
holes. Locke’s round was 68. Horna-
brook is open champion of M.L. and has
been amateur as well.
Alec Murray, an earlier holder of the
open title, was accounted for 4 and 3 in
a challenge match.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: Speaking at the annual
meeting of the Victorian L.T.A. president
Pitt put our Davis Cup flop down to
the fact that the young players had been
overworked. It is very probable ; and
young players have been overworked for
years. First Crawford, then McGrath—
an outstanding example of an infant
prodigy burnt out by loot-chasing tourna-
ment exploiters —and now Quist is show-
ing the symptoms. Bromwich may be
the next if the peonage system is allowed
to endure.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Cabled that the M.L.
tennis team which was to have toured
N.S.W. has declined to contribute £l5
each towards expenses, and that the visit
is now off. It seems pretty thick when
tennis amateurs are asked to pay. Only
beefy brutes like rowing men are known
to do such things. Maorilanders are
getting a reputation for stinginess in such
matters. Remember the fuss they made
when those world-famous amateurs
Budge and Mako refused to show in
Auckland until paid £4O each?
# * # *
“Hotham”: Victorian tennis heads are
rejoicing over finance. Their year closed
v/ith a credit balance of £3961, and that
after paying £lOOO off mortgages. Tour-
ney receipts were £4520. According
to treasurer Evans, the association is
now self-supporting and will not have to
turn to the circus stuff to fill the old
sock.
Miscellaneous.
“Spike”: The Finns, an unobtrusive
people, announce that they are going
to run their Olympiad in 1939 as a
sporting fixture and not as a medium
of national advertising and political pro-
paganda. It will be' a hard job washing
out "the strong professional taint that now
clings to the so-called amateur fixture,
but it might be done.
* 4= * ~
“The Gaffer”: I note that the profes-
sional Victorian Athletic League hopes
to cut out doping of runners by taking
swabs. Anyone refusing to be swabbed
for further investigation will be dis-
qualified until, he climbs down. A strik-
ing idea, but, in my opinion, futile. In
the course of a longish life 1 have been
much in contact with professional
athletes, and my motto is the same as
the late George Hill’s —“Never back any-
thing that can talk.”
* * if
“H’m”: If this tale had come from
anywhere but Maoriland it might have
been open to doubt. At the annual
sports of a Dunedin — Dunedin —school,
twins —not named—won their heats in
the 120 yards hurdles off scratch. Start-
ing off the same mark in the final, the
two kids made a dead heat of it. And
the times in the heats were identical.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A couple of days
before the Cup a queer procession
attracted Melbourne. A dozen young
women on horseback and a fleet of
Oldsmobiles of the latest models headed
a decrepit vehicle of the same name and
of 1902 vintage which D. Venters had
nursed from Sydney, taking six days to
do it. From the point of view of age a
remarkable achievement; but as nothing
to the job that W. J. Warden took on
in the first Dunlop Reliability Trial over
the same route in 1905. Warden drove
a 7-h.p. single-cylinder Olds, runabout
with tiller steering over roads which now-
adays would be mistaken for virgin
forest. When one of the contestants
came to a hill he ran his ship at it in
10yd. spasms, backing into the side of
the road when she began to run back-
wards, brakes being defective. Never-
theless, the winner did the trip in five
stages of a total of 38hrs. 371 min. of
driving.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: As all who know the
barnacle-clogged outlook of the Victorian
F.L. expected, the annual meeting of the
Australian Football Council threw out
the amended law permitting the forward-
throw pass which proved so successful in
the V.F.A. tourney last season. Little
Tassie was the only State to vote for,the
change.
* * * *
“Twickenham”: Dr. Morgan, the
wing-threequarter who scored the win-
ning try for Wales against the 1905 All
Blacks, has lost an eye in a shooting
accident. Only the old hands can recall
the row over the incident that echoed
round the world when a try by George
Deans which would have at least equalled
the Welsh score was disallowed by the
referee. If Deans is playing football now
it is on the Elysian meads, for, like Stead,
his team mate, he was killed with the
M.L.M.R. in the Sinai-Palestine cam-
paign.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W.R.U. reports a
fat financial season, whatever may be
said about the football end of it. The
Maorilanders’ tour showed a profit of
£7OO, and other fixtures cashed in £6lO.
The season’s surplus brings the.
Union’s funds to £5OOO. Queensland
and Vic. have notified that they agree
with the N.S.W. arrangements in connec-
tion with the tour of Britain next year.
* >l* * *
“Amateur Pro.”: A Sydney suggestion
that the next “Australian” Rugby League
team for England include several M.L.
professional players to strengthen it has
roused the Islanders to a cold fury. They
point out that they have accepted an
invitation to tour the North of England
and France next season, and that if any
players from Australia go with that side
it will be as hirelings of the M.L. body.
And the Australian crowd can do no-
thing about it if half a dozen of their
best men are invited to make the trip.
* * * JjC
“Blade”: The N.S.W. Police four
expected to fly away with the senior
fours at their own regatta on the Parra-
matta, but North Sydney, stroked by
Richardson, did the flying. North Syd-
ney won by 1 \ lengths in smin. 12 3-ssec.
for the mile. Haberfield was third.
S. Hoskins and W. Bradley won the mile
double sculls for Sydney from Stewart
and Turner, of Police. Time was smin.
25 4-ssec.


df
AT THE.
iriw€iii.i
"SWING
IT,”
Frank Noil presents
with
LARRY
ADLER
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
New Oversea Stars.
THE CHANG
SHOW
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
FREE SAMPLE
SENT OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL
Just deposit thru plug holes; reconditions any engine wliile-U-drive. Saves
rebore ends piston slap, oil. petrol waste; restores compression, new power, top-
speed zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles. Harmless finest engine.
TRIAL TUBE, 6/6; or we send C.O.D. Advice, Literature, free. RE-NU, LTD.,
opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne. Agents required ; 20 other lines. Free samples.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
A Wonderful Melbourne
Production.
The Bulletin man attended the Mel-
bourne Cup and was pleased to observe
that Mr. Kewney had left no stone un-
turned to make the frame worthy of the
most important production of the Aus-
tralian genius.
The lawns were as smooth as velvet,
the flowers were magnificent, the bars
were commodious, the bookmakers
were plentiful and the totes expeditious,
and nothing had been left to chance
except the only thing that mattered.
Stimulated by the fact that he had
ten shillings both ways on a horse that
might as well have never existed, the
Bulletin man’s perceptions were sharp-
ened to a degree that was quite unusual,
and when he observed that over the
Hill, which was a serried phalanx of
heads like marbles, a delicate mist was
drifting, he instantly recognised that it
was an indication that the British
Tobacco Co. had more chance of paying
a dividend than the horse he had backed
on a chance remark he had overheard
while he was engaged in sinking a couple.
While he was waiting for the horses
to get into position he engaged in con-
versation with a Chinaman who was full
of indignation at the way he had been
jostled from the moment he had entered
the precincts of Flemington, not only
by men, but by innumerable ladies, and
in the most deliberate manner. He in-
terpreted it as a manifestation of racial
prejudice.
Being sufficiently learned in the man-
ners, customs and superstitions of his
fellow white Australians, however, the
Bulletin man was able to explain to
the exasperated Oriental that the hustling
he had received was, from one point of
view, complimentary, inasmuch as •to
brush against a Chinaman is regarded by
all serious punters as lucky. When the
Chinaman realised that he had been un-
wittingly discharging the same sacred
function as one of his own deities, he
lost his indignation and submitted to
being brushed against in perfect good
temper.
This and other indications confirmed
the Bulletin man in the conviction that
the chief characteristic of Flemington
is the inversion of all reason. The one
faculty which distinguishes man from the
dumb brute creation is in Melbourne
on Cup Day completely abrogated.
When, for instance, you meet a friend
who, after a lifetime of effort, has learnt
a little about mathematics, engineering or
some other branch of human knowledge
and is seeing his first Cup, you have only
to ask him for information for him to
tell you without the slightest hesitation:
“I think Son of Aurous will win.” If
you ask him “Why?” he hasn’t the re-
motest notion.
But the best thing about the Cup is
that it is a great loosener-up of human
beings. People who have lived for a
generation in the same suburb without
speaking address each other instantly
without the formality of an introduction,
and the stranger who would not give his
mother-in-law fivepence to save her from
starvation will supply you with informa-
tion he believes to be worth thousands
and think no more about it.
An American Ballet .
“Union Pacific,” an American ballet
by Massine, was added to the Melbourne
Majesty’s repertoire last week.
Roman Jasinsky, surveyor to a com-
.pany which is building a railway round
about 1860, is revealed squinting
through an imaginary theodolite in front
of an enormous blue print. Blue print
vanishes, disclosing railway right-of-way
east of Promontory Point, State of Utah.
Irish workmen with red hair lay on the
stage a dozen female members of the
corps de ballet disguised as sleepers. A
dozen male members of the ballet are
added as rails and bolted down. Cur-
tain falls.
Curtain rises again to reveal surveyor,
Irish workers and Chinese coolies laying
section of line west of Promontory Point.
Irina Baronova turns up and dances so
seductively that work is declared off for
the day, and the surveyor goes off to
dream of Baronova.
Scene 3is the big tent. Mexicans
and gamblers dance together. By show-
ing a preference for the Chinese sur-
veyor, camp-follower Baronova rouses the
demon of jealousy in the breast of the
Irish surveyor. A free fight ensues be-
tween Irish and Chinese, establishment is
wrecked and the barkeeper escapes with
the cashbox, while a Mormon mission-
ary, with Bible but minus his wives,
Jack Buchanan and Maurice Chevalier in “Break the News,” with Will
Hay in “Oh, Mr. Porter!” the other English comedy at Sydney Lyceum.
walks through the riot after the fashion
of the celebrated Professor Nimbus.
In the last scene the first train arrives,
presumably over the corpses de ballet.
The capitalists responsible for financing
the railway emerge and perform the
opening ceremony. Sleepers and rails
now being on their legs, all group them-
selves for a photograph, which is taken
by cameraman Borislav Runanine.
Though the solemn absurdity of
“Union Pacific” furrowed the brows of
large audiences, the grace and charm of
“Swan Lake” on the same programme
seemed to present commentator a more
than ordinarily refreshing draught by
comparison.
“Two White Arms.”
“Two White Arms,” by Harold Dear-
den, was presented to a packed Melb.
Comedy by Gregan McMahon.
The arms belong to Alison Cary,
young wife of a surprisingly youthful
retired R.N. commander, Cary Liston.
When he saw her only on shore leave the
commander could maintain his interest in
Alison. She wants him to be as obsessed
with her after they marry as before it,
and his inability to feel any concern
horrifies him. He reads that a man got
shore leave from his wife, metaphori-
cally speaking, by losing his memory and
wandering about the country. Simulating
amnesia, he clears out and gets a job
as a motor salesman in a remote part of
London. That part of the play had some
interest, but the piece thereafter fell
away into farce.
In the first act, which was the only one
that merited consideration, Marie Bal-
four, as the obsessed wife, was quite out
of the ordinary. Wilbur Reed acted the
part of the discouraged husband with
real feeling. Sheila Helpman, Gwen
Izzard, Edgar Veitch, John Trahar, H. N.
Gregory, Marie Rendle and Stephen
Staughton suffered under the disadvan-
tage of having nothing but farcical char-
acters to deal with. Scattered through
the play were lines so good that they pre-
vented the audience from going quite off
the bubble.
English Comedies at the
Lyceum.
Jack Buchanan, Maurice Chevalier, June
Knight; also Will Hay.
As funny as they make ’em, Sydney
Lyceum’s two current English produc-
tions are perhaps most remarkable in
that the main idea in each of them could
never have been regarded as any laugh-
ing matter by Hollywood-
The feature opus, “Break the News,”
Hollywood would certainly have served
up as a deadly serious sentimental
romance, as any filmgoer will realise
from its set-up. It has Buchanan and
Chevalier as very minor supports in a
London stage show, which is in rehearsal
with Miss Knight in the leading role.
Miss Knight and her wire-haired terrier
get lashin’s of publicity, and Jack and
Maurice agree that they, too, must figure
largely in the press if they’re ever to
figure any larger on the bills.
So they decide on a murder, Jack
to be the victim, and to disappear until
the crucial moment at Maurice’s trial,
when he’ll enter with a flourish, save
Maurice and with him hit the front
page. If Hollywood is capable of taking
that sort of set-up other than deadly
seriously it is yet to do so ; and neither
could it decline the obvious temptation
to make a lumpy sentimental triangle out
of Jack, Maurice and June, especially as
the motive Jack and Maurice hit on for
their little murder is jealousy centring
on the leading lady.
The English filmsmiths tune it to a
comedy note at once, and keep it there.
The murder itself is riotous comedy. It
is staged to point the finger of suspicion
monstrously at Maurice. Jealousy dis-
played at rehearsal; loud row in their
two-bed apartment; caretaker helping
Maurice carry the “body” out at mid-
night in a cabin-trunk ; taxi depositing
Maurice and trunk at lonely spot near
the river.
And nobody taking any notice of these
queer doings, or of Maurice’s subsequent
efforts to get himself arrested. Mean-
while, disguised, Jack desperately kills
time at Cannes.
So far it is excellent light comedy. It
presently becomes even better comedy
when Maurice is arrested and enjoys
gaol and the trial as a wonderful joke
up to the point where Jack is supposed
to make his entry. Jack failing on his
cue —his disguise having got him into
a spot of bother —the matter is no longer
funny to Maurice; consequently, it is
funnier than ever to an audience.
Not since “The Ghost Goes West,”
which had the same director—Rene
Clair —has a pure comedy been turned
out with so good a plot, quite apart from
bright incidentals that keep cropping
up through it. It calls for real acting
from the principals and they prove well
equal to it, especially Chevalier and Miss
Knight.
The other Lyceum offering Hollywood
would have turned into a violent melo-
drama ; the English filmsmiths turn it
out as a flight of pure nonsense.
Called “Oh, Mr. Porter!” it has Will
Hay, having proved a misfit in every
sort of job family-relation pull has been
able to get for him in an English rail-
ways co., being given the stationmaster’s
job at an Irish siding which has sent his
predecessors either off their heads or into
the cemetery.
It’s a marvellous rustic spot, hung with
cobwebs overgrown with plants, smitten
with moonbeams and run by an ancient
as assistant stationmaster and fat boy off-
sider, who live by helping themselves to
goods in transit or exchanging tickets to
Belfast and elsewhere for local produce.
What happens after the misfit station-
master gets there makes a continuous
riot of nonsense ; especially bright spots
an all-in brawl in the local hostelry, the
stopping of the express just to show off
authority, and, to wind up with a burst
of frantic excitement, the sending off of
an excursion train, its disappearance and
the subsequent chase and capture of it
in the noble Gladstone, a warhorse of an
engine of about 1850 vintage.
Hollywood might possibly have made
something resembling “Break the News” ;
it could never have made “Oh, Mr.
Porter! ” in a thousand years. The humor
of it is authentic and peculiar English.
What has to be demonstrated is whether
this sort of humor is to the general Aus-
tralian taste, which by sheer force of
quantity, if nothing else, must by now
be pretty strongly conditioned to a Holly-
wooden outlook.
However that may be, this English bill
at the Lyceum strikes at least one Aus-
tralian as the best laugh show within
long coo-ee of the Harbor at the moment.
Among other attractive aspects of it, its
brand of comedy is at least a refreshing
change from the wisecracking -Variety,
with its inescapable plus of sticky senti-
mentalism.
“Breaking the Ice ”
Bobby Breen.
In this Sydney Embassy offering
Master Breen is nurtured in the
bosom of a community of Mennonites,
who, according to Webster, are “a de-
nomination of evangelical Protestant
Christians, formed from the Anabaptist
movement of the sixteenth century, and
so called from Menno Simons (1492-
1559),” and who stand for “non-
resistance, plainness of dress, rejection of
oaths, adult baptism, aloofness from the
State, exercise of the ban or excommuni-
cation, restriction of marriage to
members of the group, and practice of
the rite of foot washing.”
The Hollywooden version of them
resembles refrigerated medieval Puritans
who’d need six months at Marble Bar
to thaw them to anything like normal.
If you are a Mennonite you wear
(according to the film) a long, black,
frocklike coat and a parson’s headgear;
if you sing anything but hymns you’re
bound for perdition; you accept only


Limerick Competitions
SEVENTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement concerning the
Seventh £5O Limerick Competition
appears in this issue on Page 41
(Radio Page).
Information about the Sixth and
Eighth Competitions is included.
GANGWAY PLEASE!
*9
A
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITER
IJiCOUf UJIATKD IN ENGLAND
those things you’ve toiled for, and con-
fine your conversation mainly to give
you good-day, Brother So-and-so.”
To such a community belongs Master
Robert until, to raise sufficient oof for his
widowed parent to venture abroad to
her own farm and spouse-to-be, he fares
forth into the sinful world. What follows
includes Charlie Ruggles, a positive delight
as a hawker of antiques, and one Irene
Dawes, a five-year-old adherent of the
Henie faith. An attractive little youngster,
she appears to be barely out of the
toddling stage, but on the ice she’s as
speedy and graceful as a bird. The film
is worth a visit if only to witness her
display.
“Valley of the Giants.”
Wayne Morris, Claire Trevor.
In such color films as this Warner
Bros, opus at Sydney Plaza the setting
becomes the greater part of the enter-
tainment, and can be completely satis-
fying on its own account.
The story, in one or other of its varia-
tions, must have been the staple of thou-
sands of films. It’s a simple yarn about
a fine young son of the Californian red-
wood forest who aims, by careful felling
and reafforestation, to keep the great
valley of the giant timbers as his father
bequeathed it to him a perpetual
national glory.
Very crook eggs in Big City, how-
ever, have found flaws in State laws,
enabling them to bring in hundreds of
bogus settlers to take the timberlands
from hero and all other present settlers,
and so hold them while they are denuded
of their magnificent trees, without
thought for the future. There is, of
course, a girl; she’s in tow with
gambling-joint owner, part of the in-
vasion. The locals, as might be expected,
show fight, and in the end they win—hero
gets girl; the forest giants are held for
posterity.
Familiar as it all is, it’s none the less
a good open-air story, with plenty of
he-man action, excitements, close calls —
good, spectacular muscular stuff. The
plot is quite fair, the players know their
work, and the casting is capital; villains,
very dirty customers; hero, strong and
vigorous; heroine, pretty and with a
heart as gold as her locks.
That is, if you think of any of these
things. The chances are that you won’t,
except for such items as the young lady’s
locks. Women’s hair, for some reason
the experts may be able to give, always
photographs beautifully in color. It
might be owing to some quality of life
in it, accounting for the fact, also, that
nothing really looks so actually alive in
color film as horses, the life in whose
coats seems to be always perfectly caught
by the camera.
Here, however, it is more the whole
general setting in the big-timber country
which, in its color representation, holds
the interest. The tree-felling and -haul-
ing, the enormous logs, the mountain
streams are all so entertaining on their
own that while the camera is turned on
them —and that is most of the time—the
people and their doings are of secondary
account.
They are so easy to look at, these color
films, that it’s a wonder they have not
long since swept the other sort clean off
the board.
Banjo Strummers.
Three hundred or more banjo players
were let loose in Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night in one of the best possible
causes —raising funds to aid the deaf,
dumb and blind children.
The show, put on by Gordon V.
Currie, had other things in it as well,
but the army corps of banjoists, strum-
ming away for their lives, was the big
business of the evening. Decked out in
black and white uniform, they filled all
the pretty considerable stage space and
overflowed to the gallery. They were
billed as the “world’s largest banjo band”
and that seems likely enough. They gave
a capital performance, as did also an
accordion band, a mouth-organ virtuoso
(Horrie Dargie) and one or two other
contributors to the bill.
Mouth-organ , etc.
Larry Adler, a gentle, unassuming
young man with a pleasing deportment,
is giving Melb. Tiv. frequenters an un-
expected taste for classical music.
Mr. Adler’s instrument is a lowly one
but he can make it ring like a full-toned
bell and snap like the keys of a piano •
sometimes he gets almost orchestral
volume out of it. His contrasts are
sometimes harsh and his phrasing
strident, but he has given suburban
musicians a new respect for the humble
mouth-organ.
Other items on a generally satisfactory
bill are Aland and Anise, adagio dancers,
Jack Cavanaugh, the Aristocrat of the
Plains, who whirls ropes around his
head and hurls knives at that of his
assistant. A fat comedian and a thin one
endeavor to make the departure of Mo
less painful for the audience. Marie
Doran sings “Something Oriental,”
which, whatever it is, isn’t Oriental.
Peter Ray, the sizzling cinder from
Harlem, sizzles away at the tail-end of
the programme.
“Broadway Musketeers,” at Sydney
Capitol, seems to point the moral that
a woman who spends her childhood in
an orphanage, marries a prosperous busi-
nessman and divorces him for a lounge
lizard will eventually be compelled to
make a hurried exit through a window
to a stone pavement some distance below
in order to save herself and cheild from
crooks. Margaret Lindsay lifts a stereo-
typed role a bit out of the rut, as does
Henry Davenport in “Young Fugitives,”
the supporting fillum, wherein a Civil
War veteran, awarded 50,000 dahlars for
being the last of his clan, devotes his
declining years to the rescue and splicing
of a female tramp and an aspirant to
gangsterdom.
“Mr. Satan’’ supports “Breaking the
Ice” at Sydney Embassy, and deals
drearily with an armament baron who,
from the security of his mountain fast-
ness, directs the destiny of the world by
starting wars to sell his wares. He is
eventually unseated by the efforts of
news sleuth and his own bewchus hench-
ling.
“Girls on Probation,” support at Syd-
ney Plaza, is all about an hahnest goil
who woiks at a dyer and cleaner’s, and
one night goes to the Hula Hula dance-
joint wearing a dress loaned to her by
a fellow-woikgoil, which dress is recog-
nised by another Hula Hula patron as
the one she left to be cleaned. From
which modest beginnings hahnest goil
durn near gets on the track that leads
to choky, but is fated instead to wind
up in a great clinch with the District
Attorney.
{Continued on next page.)


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1823 of 1938.
BETWEEN MARION JEAN WILLIAMS Peti-
tioner
And ARTHUR WILLIAM WILLIAMS
Respondent.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAM WILLIAMS late of
Annandale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARION
JEAN WILLIAMS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of January next and in the event
of y.our not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of October,
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. H. GARRATT & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO EDWARD JAMES FORREST formerly
of Launceston in Tasmania Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the petition
of CONNIE KATHLEEN FORREST of Laun-
ceston in Tasmania millhand praying for a dis-
solution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid an appearance must be entered at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart on or before the
Seventeenth day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1757 of 1938.
BETWEEN EDITH MARY HODGES Peti-
tioner
And SYDNEY FREDERICK HODGES
Respondent.
TO SYDNEY FREDERICK HODGES late
of Long Jetty Tuggerah in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
MARY HODGES has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your desertion for three years without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twentieth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge. . . „ _
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of October,
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
FRED C. EMANUEL, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matpimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
' ' No. 1877 of 1938.
BETWEEN MAUD ADAMS Petitioner
And HAROLD NORMAN ADAMS Re-
TO HAROLD NORMAN ADAMS formerly
of Adamstown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MAUD
ADAMS has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-fourth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. . t ,
DATED this twenty-eighth day of October,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
JOHN MICHAEL RUGGERO, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 57 Hunter Street, Newcastle;
by his Sydney Agent, BERNARD JOSEPH
McCOOE, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
7
The Best and Quickest Energy you can get
4 /'~\VALTINE,’ mixed Cold, is everything that a Summer
drink should be. Cooling, refreshing . . . and with a
deliciousness all its own. Moreover, it is supremely rich in
the nourishment which quickly creates energy and keeps you
vigorous and fit for work or play.
For your health’s sake drink ‘Ovaltine’ every day. And
remember — 4 Ovaltine restilts are obtained only with 4 Ovaltine .’
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of ‘Ovaltine,’ sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover
cost of packing and postage. See address below.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/- At all Chemists and Stores
Ovaltines^old
THE BEST SUMMER DRINK YET
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
038-18-38.
K
PRESENT-IMENT!
d
WS
$
j
Here is a warning which I send
To every relative and friend
No mittens please, no kittens please
No jokes or trick cigars
No china cats, no Turkish mats
And not a single vase!
No fretwork frames, no gambling games
No home-knit socks or ties
No Christmas pudd. however good
Not even a ‘ surprise.*
But if you want to make me happy
Send a Gillette (—and make it snappy!)
fd
You can buy complete Gillette Sets from as
little as 1/9 up to 45/- each packed in a
special, gaily-coloured “ Christmas-gift ” container
BRITISH MADE OF ALL DEALERS
f
Painter-Etchers* Show.
The Painter-Etchers’ and Graphic Art
Society’s show at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, has etchings as its backbone,
fleshed with pencil and crayon drawings
and monochrome studies in water-color
and oils.
Most genuinely a painter-etcher is Syd
Long. He has a good firm line, his work
is characteristic, and, as he proves in
“Fishing Boats,” he can be richly elabo-
rate as well as dashing.
There is some clinking work also by
Squire Morgan, a print of whose
“Hawkesbury Corn Barn” goes to the
Gallery. Alfred Coffey’s glimpses of
old Sydney are all delectable.
The born etcher of the show is Cedric
Emanuel, a master of line, as demon-
strated previously in his pen-drawings,
and, on his current showing, a master of
etching technique. “Halvorsen’s,” a
characteristic Sydney waterside scene,
goes to the Gallery. There’s some first- 4
class architectural drawing in “Queen’s
Square.”
Vigorous portraits in crayon by
Dattilo-Rubbo, sound pencil drawings by
Douglas Pratt and some excellent pencil
drawings and monochrome studies by
Alan H. Baker and H. R. Gallop catch
the eye. George Finey shows three fan-
tasies in lino, and Elaine Coghlan scores
with a well-posed pencil study, “The
Model.”
C. E. S. TindalVs Water-colors.
C. E. S. Tindall is one of Sydney's
oldest and soundest water-colorists and
preserves the transparency and delicacy
that gives the medium its essential charm.
His show at Rubery Bennett’s gal-
leries has no duds.
Best of it is a six-year-old picture
put in as an afterthought and not cata-
logued —a woodland scene in a pic-
turesque little valley near Fuller’s Bridge,
Chatswood.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them-
although “worry” is hardly the word for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable ’vour
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per pacKet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
If any illustration in Tile Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
3%
/ -
* \
n\
You’ll be full of life and energy
. . . bubbling over with fresh ac-
tivity ... if you get the daily
Golcryst habit! Golcryst keeps
you “in the pink.” At all
Chemists. 4d. . . . BcL . . . 1/3.
COIPtN CWsms V* HEALTH
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It cannot be proved by the speeches at
the Health Week lunch that milk is a
beverage which makes tongue and brain
sparkle into a chain of bon mots. How-
ever, it proved its staying power. Dr.
Earle Page, who announced that he had
been given 10 minutes for speechifying,
was going strong well after that time limit.
Minister for Health FitzSimons had the
second serve of the microphone. Dr.
Harvey Sutton, representing the Health
Week council, and Mayor Nock, repre-
senting Sydney, had their say, too, but
it was to a steadily diminishing audience,
for even in Health Week the job waits
for no man. The Blaxland Galleries
were packed with tables dressed in pink
cloths, bottles of milk and salads —all
very nerve-soothing and nutritious.' The
wonder was how the C. of S. organising
committee remembered to invite such
hundreds of guests. Looking down the
tables it was evident that not an organi-
sation or movement in the city but was
represented.
A Jink between to-day and the be-
ginning of things which the old town
of Parramatta was celebrating was the
arrival of the girl tandem bike riders.
The two come from the hardy West,
and have travelled all the way from
Perth across the continent. It was their
way of seeing Australia, and the
journey was not undertaken as a stunt.
Their outfit for the journey combines a
nice color scheme —browns and yellows,
brown woollen divided skirts and jackets,
yellow jumpers, brown caps with sun-
shield-like peak. Parramatta gave them
a civic welcome. The girls, Vera Hard-
ing and Anna Keenin, looked very fit
and attractive. With them at the recep-
tion were Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Melrose,
who motored from the West, catching up
with the cyclists after their first few
hundred miles. One of the girls is a
hairdresser ; the other is a shop-assistant.
All the Captain Cooks and Christopher
Columbuses aren’t men!
There was a crisp edge to the sun-
shine on the day of Parramatta’s cele-
brations garden party. The background
tor this was, of course, old Government
House in Parramatta Park. For the
occasion it regained something of its old
fashionable air. Its scholastic mien ot
everyday was forgotten (it is now the
junior house of The King’s School) when
young things in panniered skirts and
poke bonnets stepped delicately across
the lawns. The white nankeen trousers
and striped shirts of the First Fleet’s
Marines were in the picture ; so, of
course, were Governor and Mrs. Mac-
quarie. They were the afternoon’s host
and hostess, the duplicates as smiling
and gracious as history teaches us the
originals were. Many of the guests were
“carriage” folk, and stepped from
brougham and landau with the right air.
Parramatta’s Mayor was an interested
member of the official group. Chief
Secretary Gollan was there with Mrs
Gollan.
Rod Quinn’s poem to the young
pianist was a distinguished corner on the
Val Sullivan programme. This was the
Australian girl’s farewell concert before
going to London for three years’ study,
and here is one of four typical Rod
Quinn stanzas:
As thrilling us through your notes grow
solemn,
Or, larklike, soar in the realms of
sound,
Aware we grow for a wondrous moment
Of heights exalted and deeps profound.
Valma sails to-day in the Strathallan,
and her mother, who had come from
Brisbane, was an interested listener at
the Town Hall concert. So was aunt
Mrs. Cassidy, and so was friend of the
family the poet Roderic himself. An-
other clever young pianist who goes off
in the Strathallan is Norah Lurie, of
Bondi. She was being farewelled by
Waverley residents in Harris Hall,
Bondi Junction, while Val’s concert
(sponsored by Chateau Tanunda) was in
full cry at the Town Hall.
Alice in Wonderland might have
blinked at the acreage of vermilion ice
that in true carnival spirit flung its fervid
invitation at the feet of skaters at the
Ice Palais last week. Sydney, deprived of
the Cup, was determined to ignore the
Flemington blight on its social activities,
and in its thousands went giddy on the
ice. Fancy costume was the rule. Bal-
loons strung across the rink and at inter-
vals hanging in great colored clumps like
bunches of grapes, swaying arches of
Chinese lanterns warmed the everyday
austerity of snow scene, ice-bound chalet
and storm-torn pine.
Jolly! That was the word for it all.
That was the word for Phyllis Parkinson’s
little Miss Stars and Stripes. That was
the word for the two lots of Dionne
Quins, one set in blue-and-white checks,
the other in pink-and-white. All had
monogrammed bibs, and each group had
its two nurses. The Angel Gabriel, too,
looked a bright lad. When he wasn’t
preening his wings or dipping his halo
he blew his trumpet with great effect.
Till getting on for midnight everyone
wore a mask. Red was the popular color
for these. Red devils ingratiatingly
waved two-pronged forks, but had for-
gotten to bait them. There was poor
Anne Boleyn running about wildly with
her head under her arm. There were
two-fcfced men, and the man whose hat
was patterned in headless matches and
whose hat-band was stiff with a border
of them. Of course, he was “No More
Strikes!” Mrs. George Brookes, an
attractive Peter Pan, was glimpsed close
beside a lady apache.
Mrs. Gwen Wharton, a stately Queen
Elizabeth in red velvet and stiff white
ruff, hobnobbed with a very small
jockey, daughter Gwenda. Groups of
Hawaiians with swaying leis added their
charm to the ever-changing color pattern.
The Dolly Sisters in their black tulle
frocks, their short skirts sprayed with
pink roses and their hair dressed in the
Edwardian manner, were a good duo.
Peggy Dawes went as Don Bradman and
Nuttie Mackellar was a golliwog. There
were abos. and Swiss mountaineers; also
a woolly ram.
This is Mrs. J. R. Leisk, of White
House, Pretoria, South Africa. This
visitor, newly arrived in Australia, came
by flying boat from the East, and is
staying at Canberra with her brother,
Mr. John McEwen, Minister for the
Interior. With Mrs. Leisk are her two
schoolgirl daughters. Photograph from
Falk.
Helena Rubenstein, the beauty expert,
is paying a month’s visit to Australia. It
was interesting to note that Helena, who
has made a life study of womanly attrac-
tiveness, has not succumbed to the over-
slimming craze. Her hair very black
and her cheeks very rosy, she was wear-
ing, when this writer met her in the Aus-
tralia, a suit of violet-blue cloque. The
self-colored hat to accompany this wore
a swathe of ninon falling to the right
shoulder. Feather hats will certainly
receive an impetus from the cosmo-
politan’s visit. One Jane Austenish little
toque has its boat-shaped crown of royal
blue lightly curled ostrich fronds; its
rim, of the same feathery lightness, is in
geranium-red.
One handsome evening coat is of black
broadcloth and velvet. The velvet fronts
are boldly arabesqued in gold. The
cuffs are stiff with the same richness.
Hanging next to the black was a short
coat of pale coral-pink tapestry. The
front of this was bright with mirror
sequins, and in it was pinned a platinum
and diamond flower spray. Peacock-
blue cloque, an ivory-ground flowered
brocade that might have been worn in
the Royalist days of France, hats by
every designer of international fame are
a few of the colorful treasures of the
visitor’s wardrobe. Husband Prince
Gurielli-Tchkonia is making the voyage
with her. Her gospel is that every
woman can be beautiful, and that there
must be a daytime complexion scheme
and one for evening. Lady Doughty,
who, as Eugenia Stone, wrote The Bul-
letin’s Melbourne Chatter for many
years, is remembered with affection by
Madame.
Singing-girl Billie Williams, on her way
home from travels in Europe,, writes
telling about opera in Milan and in
Bayreuth. At La Scala she heard
“Butterfly” and “Marta.” Gigli sang
tenor lead in the latter. The Opera House
with its famed chandelier of 350 globes
is responsible for an immense note of
admiration. At Bayreuth she heard the
whole of the Ring. These Wagnerian
operas are played through with no
applause and no curtain calls. The
whole town was gaudy with red-and-
black swastikas because of the expected
visit of Hitler. In Italy she heard Tauber,
who was there with a Viennese company ;
and in Milan she had supper with
Sydney’s old friends the Minghettis, and
tea with Tetrazzini, “large and jovial.”
She found that Heidelberg still produces
its gay students who sing wholeheartedly
over large mugs of beer. On the long
train journey to Berlin, she half-wakened
every now and then to find some huge
German creeping past on tiptoe so as
not to disturb her.
loan Lewis Cleary is the eldest of the
W. J. Clearys’ posy of daughters. Father,
of course, is the chairman of the A.8.C.,
and giving daughter Joan away will soon
supply him with another engagement for
his leisure moments. She has just an-
nounced her betrothal to Stafford Gar-
land Crossman, eldest son of the H. A.
D. Crossmans, of Kuring-gai. Peter Pan
photograph.
Another homeward-bound songstress
is Ruth Pierce-Jones. Ruth is coming
back with a signed and sealed A.B.C.
contract in her pocket. This is making
history. She is among the first Australian
students to return to the homeland under
contract. In Vienna the “Neues Wiener
Journal” gives her a headline because of
it, and because of the beauty of her
voice, which has a rich rounded quality
suitable to radio. In Vienna Ruth’s
teacher was Frau Ivenschutz (Joan
Hammond’s first teacher abroad). In
Vienna there is to us an unusual custom
of having the teachers demonstrate
publicly what they teach. So at the
Reichs Kammer Verein Frau Ivenschutz
sang while Ruth played for her, then the
Frau played while Ruth sang. It was on
the strength of records of two of her
latest songs which she had made and then
forwarded to the A.B.C. that her en-
gagement was secured.
To-morrow night the Governor and
Lady Wakehurst have promised to be
present at “The Tales of Hoffmann.”
On Saturday, the opening night, there
was the usual Consular group. Their
seats are always in the middle of
the hall, near those of the Corn’s
director, Dr. E. L. Bainton, and Mrs.
Bainton. The opera, which had been
put on by the Conservatorium School
of Opera, went with a smoothness
unusual in an amateur show. The house
was packed, the audience appreciative.
Saw Hilda Mulligan, the producer, arrive,
very attractive in black. Captain Spring
Brown and his wife came early and held
a small reception in the foyer. Mrs.
Jessica Foster was graceful in black satin
and lace. Her skunk cape was waist-
length. Jocelyn Taggart’s satin coat was
like a cottage garden in full bloom. In
Mrs. Walter Burfitt’s party were fair-
haired daughter Helen, Mrs. Walter Bur-
fitt, junior, and singing girl Bobbie Mc-
Clusky. Dr. and Mrs. Silverton and
Madame Henri were among the ap-
plauders; so was Doreen Lemme. She
is the fiancee of Fred Pentecost, the
Con.’s business manager. '
When the A.B.C.’s “Carmen” came
over the air last week, an admirer of
Emma Calve, who is always quoted as
the ideal heroine of the Spanish opera,
gave this Letter a description of that
prima donna’s exquisite hand movements.
It is interesting to hear that Emma Calve
is still singing. On her eightieth birth-
day she sang Gounod’s “Ave Maria” in
the church of St. Andre de Najac in
the south-west of France. On the previ-
ous afternoon she had made her
for wireless audiences by singing for the
Radio-Toulouse. The same day she had
been at a lunch given in her honor, and
in the evening she attended the local
theatre.
Sylvia Parish, whose slender good
looks adorned many amateur plays in
Sydney, including Ken Brodziak’s
“Desire Brings Welcome” and “Positions
Vacant,” is playing one of the small parts
in “The Women.” Aileen Britton, who
has done some good work in films, and
was the lead in “Day Must Break,” is
another Sydney girl in the much-discussed
play. Charmain Ross, still another who
made a hit in “Desire Brings Welcome,”
has a part in “Mr. Chedworth Hits Out,”
the new Cinesound play.
Cup day was given over to tea parties
where the broadcast from Melbourne
was the big entertainment. Sweeps were
the topic of conversation against which
all others paled. At the Royal Sydney
Golf Club there was a full house for
lunch and bridge, but, of course, the
Cup broadcast was the only thing thought
of from three onwards. Nearly a hun-
dred tables, all told, were surrounded in
the lounge and on the verandahs. The
Wintergarden of the Australia was as
full as a mussel-shell when the tenant is
at home. The Forum Club, the Royal
Automobile and the Overseas were
seething with women. But, alas! Cata-
logue was picked by few. Its owner, by
the way, is a sister of Mrs. F. W.
Thatcher, of Double Bay.
Mrs. Marcus Alexander and Mrs.
Stan Crick have been among the Cup
revellers. During her stay in Melbourne
Mrs. Alexander was the guest of Mr. and
Mrs. Sol Green. This couple, so well
known in racing circles, are now off to
England searching for a mate for Actor.
It didn’t need the Lambeth Walk and
the “Hois” to make the Cricket Associa-
tion’s dance a success. But they did add
to the gaiety of the evening. The party,
which took place at David Jones’s, was a
welcome-home to the Australian XI, and
the list of those present reads like a page
of Who’s Who in Australian Cricket. Of
course there were the Stan McCabes, the
Alan Kippaxes, the W. J. O’Reillys, the
J. W. H. Taylors, the A. Chipperfields
and Jack Fingleton. The Governor and
Lady Wakehurst came to this party, she
very graceful in white and silver. Morna
Mackenzie, who was in the Government
group, wore a spreading frock of leaf-
green chiffon. The Harold Heydons (he’s
secretary of the association), the William
Woodses, the Oxlades, the Neil Blues and
Mrs. Eileen Marks were others at the
official table who were welcomed by
president of the association Sydney
Smith and daughter Marjorie. The pro-
ceeds go to the War Veterans’ home at
Narrabeen.


9K<*
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly.
Price 3d.
Melbourne
Chatter
Never before within Melbourne
memory has a vice-regal ball been as
grty as was this year’s. Soon after mid-
night shouts of “Hoi! ” and the hard slap-
ping of knees echoed up to the ceiling
with all ages and generations doing the
Lambeth Walk and a few experts hav-
ing a go at the Palais Glide. The young
folk who go trucking almost in their
sleep hopped, skipped and jumped
through the new dances by instinct; the
not-quite-so-young took to Lambeth
Walking like ducks to a duckpond—they
found it very easy going after the Alberts
of their heyday. A couple of experts
seemed to be H. P. Ogilvie and his daugh-
ter Jean, who have had plenty of prac-
tice on board ship ; but the Hon. Ava
Baird was well in the running, and so
were Mrs. Claude Couchman, Professor
A. E. V. Richardson, Major Harold
Wilkinson, the M. J. Canny couple, Mrs.
Dickie Dutton, of Adelaide, numerous
Air Force officers and about 1500 other
people. The crush in the ballroom was
damaging to fine feathers until the
supper-room door opened and the early-
to-beds started to move off for home.
Buffets where oysters and sandwiches
could be washed down with a choice of
anything from champagne to straw-
berries afloat in fruit-cup were very popu-
lar, and many people preferred repeated
visits in that direction to several courses
(one for each dance missed) served at
the formal supper. The decorations
were beautiful; plaques of flowers (drink-
ing from hidden sources of gilded tins
fixed to the lattices) ornamented the
ballroom walls and the balconies. Whole
gardens seemed to bloom within the
drawing-room and entrance hall, where
sweet-peas, transported with their pots
and trellises, went climbing up the pillars.
With the Franc Falkiners was Doris
Falkiner, of Sydney, distinctive in her
cyclamen gown with its boned corsage
and absence of shoulder straps. Mrs.
Waddie Watt, who is the wife of Lieut.-
Commander Watt, wore sculptured curls
and diamond nail-heads studding her
black frock. A velvet ribbon around the
throat, of no denser a black than its
wearer’s hair, was an afterthought of
Mrs. Cyril Tonkin. Not only the bloom
of youth in Winterhalter gowns was in
the picture for sculptured shoulder
lines; Mrs. Edmund Collins was a
matron who successfully wore an off-the-
shoulder black gown, with bertha of
silver lace and diadem of pearls. A
newly-engaged couple were Meryl Fink
and Eddie Cohen. The 25 debs, en-
joyed the party and stayed till the band
played the Anthem round about 2 a.m.
One of last year’s G.H. Ball debs., Ina-
Marie Williams, said her good-byes
before the party got lively, her strong-
minded decision being brought about at
the thought of her second-year medical
exams, commencing bright and early on
the following morning.
Those who possessed long trailing frocks
wore them to the G.H. garden party,
for if the day had been made to order
it couldn’t have been more perfect for
spending out of doors. But the long
gowns were in the minority, and so were
sunshades. Mrs. Hylton Dale carried a
parasol of black silk crepe appliqued
with three or four large and modernistic
red flowers and a stem laden with green
leaves. Mrs. Edric Henty’s sunshade was
just for looking at (and looking through
in the case of sunshine and fresh air). It
was a diminutive thing of oatmeal-
colored lace. Several all-white ensembles
(including Mrs. Wilfrid Brookes’s bolero
suit) met with generous approval from
critics, even those with dissimilar tastes.
The Linton lady’s gown of “pink-gin”
chiffon had a wake of train, and was ac-
companied by a black hat, plume-laden
in orange, royal blue and parrot green,
by tulle veil, taffeta scarf and long gipsy
earrings.
White shoes and sandals and the hems
of several long frocks came to temporary
grief in the lawn marquee, where the
damp grass, so firm early in the after-
noon, gradually gave up the ghost under
thousands of trampling heels in search
of tea or ice-cream. Dorothy Horn’s
hem was buried under foot, but she
ripped off the damaged section and went
on with the party undismayed, her flared
skirt hiding “repairs wanted.”
A couple of popular lads at St. Vin-
cent’s Ball were Pierre and Victor Hugo,
from S’Africa, who have been holiday-
ing here and are now on their way back
home via Perth. In the same party was
Sue Fincham, who had interests in com-
mon with Pierre and Victor, for she has
visited their country and will live at Paarl
after her marriage with Ward Gant.
This year St. Vincent’s Ball took the form
of a caberet, with supper-tables around
the Town Hall floor. The procession of
vice-regal guests stepped into the ball-
room between rows of shining brass
helmets, for the Fire Brigade Band
turned out for the occasion. A guard
of honor of nurses from St. Vincent’s
was also expected, but their time off was
cancelled owing to a mild epidemic of
German measles. Joy Newman wore
navy blue and white, Cassi Fanning was
in silver, and an Adelaide visitor, Mollie
Reid, wore wheat-gold chiffon and a little
coatee in melting-moment layers of pink,
green and gold tulle.
In the Broothorn portrait is Marie
Crooke, of the Holey Plain, Rosedale,
who has recently become engaged to
Cedric Wettenhall. The future bride and
’groom received many felicitations
during Cup week, when they met
numerous friends at numerous parties
and were guests of honor at a dinner at
Menzies given by Gwyn Foster, of
Boisdale, Maffra.
Both pictorially and financially the
Ball of Flowers for the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital and the M.D.N.S. was
a great success. Many members of the
committee owned or had access to beauti-
ful gardens ; Lady Huntingfield gave a
generous botanical contribution, Mrs.
W. S. S. Johnson only had to mention
the word to her uncle, Alister Clark, and
his garden gate was open to her, and
Mrs. A. R. Stewart has friends in Kew
who were open-handed and -hearted for
the occasion.
Flowers made a garden of the Palais,
and masses of mixed blooms filled bowls
on tables and pillars, spilled out of hang-
ing baskets and climbed trellises ; more
flowers were worn in women’s hair and
on their frocks and in the form of red
carnations in men’s lapels. Two hun-
dred “special” red carnations brought
from Tasmania by air were sold by Mrs.
C. W. Miller to the first 200 men who
came in the door. More flowers crept
over the lucky-dip baskets, which had
had their faces lifted with white lacquer
so that no one would have interpreted
their Plain Jane origin— “posting-box”
laundry baskets lent by Mrs. Roy
Maclennan and Mrs. Roy Chambers. The
dips were for all tastes and occasions,
from the winning ticket of a trip to
Sydney to cigarettes and bathing belts.
First tickets of the evening were sold
to A. T. Smithers, whose fishing landed
him golf balls, and to Mrs. David
Braham, who became possessed of a
plum pudding. Members of an early-
arrived party, Mrs. R. Whishaw, of
Hobart, and Dr. S. O. Cowen, actually
had the floor to themselves for a solo
until their friends discovered the music
was too good to waste. Mrs. J. P. Major
was among the many wearers of floral
figured frocks, the colors of hers repeated
in the lilac and blue shades of the posy
in her hair. Dissimilar and distinctive
coiffures were worn by Mrs. W. L. Fan-
ning and Mrs Rupert Fanning. The
former, whose gown was of strawberry
cloque lightly striped with gold, only
wanted a tall comb to become a lady of
Spain; her sister-in-law held her Ed-
wardian curls in position with a band of
green velvet ribbon.
Another Cup has come and gone, and
all that remains for most people is the
fun of talking about it. Here and there
is a wad of notes, but more often pockets
that are lighter than they were ten days
ago. On Cup day there were also many
tired feet, husky throats and sore heads
(the last-mentioned having drowned their
sorrows or shared their joys in the ap-
proved fashion). The 30,000 odd visitors
melted away seawards or countrywards
almost as suddenly as they appeared.
Among the busiest people on Cup
morning were the florists, who were open
til] one o’clock or later carrying out
orders for the races and G.H. Ball, and
supplying casual customers with posies.
Among these were more men than last
year, all of whom wanted red carnations.
Orchids could not be had unless ordered
well in advance ; gardenias, too, were rare
and expensive, but lily-of-the-valley was
a plentiful standby. For a dash of color
to evening corsages, rhododendrons,
carnations and gerberas were among
popular suggestions. • •
There was a scramble for shelter on
Cup day when the rain spattered down
just before the Mimosa Stakes—the
crackle in the crowd under the public
stands may or may not have been ribs
breaking. The oyster bar was a useful
refuge for those who got there, and the
oysters themselves- a meal in need for
punters who started a long way back in
the Cup window queues. The queues
moved like snails because every person
in them seemed to be buying tickets for
friends, acquaintances, mothers-in-law
and their friends, etc.
Among private Cup week parties was
a dance No. 9 given by Surgeon-
Commander and Mrs. W. J. Carr, of
Frankston, and Dr. and Mrs. J.
Mclntyre Eadie, of Bendigo, in honor of
their daughters Alison Carr and Shirley
Eadie, both of whom were among the
twenty-five debs, who were presented to
vice-royalty at G.H. Ball. Miss Eadie’s
portrait by Broothorn.
A quiet Flemington backwater far
from the madding Cup day crowd was
the Savage Club’s traditional position on
the course in a corner of the lawn down
beside the old stand. The Savages take
out with them a fine and dandy spread
of luncheon, which they demolish always
at the same table under the. elms.
Throughout the day friends invited to
call upon “The Drag” are greeted in the
right way spiritually and materialisti-
cally. Missed from the driver’s seat this
year was veteran “Bunyip ’ a Beckett,
who has commanded the coach-and-four
for many seasons past. Passengers were
Harold Herbert, F. A. Newman, Major
H. W. Cumming, Tom Russell, Cyril
Dillon, Leslie Middleton, David Cum-
ming, W. F. Morrow, W. Lormer, Charles
Weaver, Arthur Barraclough and J. H.
Cook. Among the many womenfolk who
were invited to pay their respects dur-
ing the day were Mrs. Harold Herbert,
who found the driver’s seat gave her an
excellent view of the track, Miss Doris
Moffatt, Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie, Mrs.
Charles Borrett and Mrs. Osment Smith,
who, with her husband, gives a merry
luncheon every year in the same en-
closure, two from the Savages, under the
elms.
Catalogue’s followers included his
fellow-countrymen, one batch of whom
shouted themselves hoarse in the stand
with “Come on, New Zealand.” Then
there were those who had “the tip” and
sorted it out from all their other innu-
merable tips, also the brides-to-be who
backed him because they receive furni-
ture catalogues in every mail (one of
these was Coral Spiers, who is to be
married to Ken Leicester on December
17), and all the people who peruse weekly
and monthly gardening catalogues, like
Mrs. Harold Brookes. She takes no
interest in racing, but on this occasion
she really did give her friends the tip in
the right direction.
Mr. Pickwick might have been
moderately happy at the Australian Club
Ball, for once he’d rubbed the surprise
out of his eyes at seeing more food in
one breath than he’d ever done before
he’d have noticed the waiters, to whom
time means nothing. They could be
transported back to the age of Dickens
and get away with it. Henry VIII., too,
would have enjoyed the party, with
chicken bones by the thousand to throw
over his shoulder, each one tied with a
gold ribbon bow. There were salmon in
shoals, pheasants in flocks, lobsters in
slow motion travelling over the ocean
beds, whole farmyards of sucking pigs
and plump turkeys of tender age and
superior size.
Something might have happened to
the Pickwickian features if anyone
had demanded plain beer—anything
but champagne must have been an
insult to Charlotte’s Delight in the gateau
room (for the rest of the year it’s used
for billiards), where Mrs. Bee ton, of the
cookery book, would have rejoiced at
such a splendid orgy of egg-breaking for
strawberry souffles and extravagant
morsels on the merry-go-round of con-
fectionery. The only hard-and-fast rule
that the club stuck to, party or no party,
was the No Smoking notices, left un-
covered by the lavish decorations in the
non-smoking rooms. The waiters, their
efficiency dating back 50 years or so,
seem to sniff the smoke where it oughtn’t
to be the moment a match is struck. The
pain in their eyes is enough to subdue
any offender without a word being
spoken.
Social dates for last week kept
visitors and local inhabitants on their
feet from daylight to daylight, sleep
being a rarity fitted in between the
time drowsy garden carts arrive at
Victoria Market and the snack of
black coffee and dry toast served in
lieu of breakfast as a preliminary to an-
other party for lunch. Dates with the
Navy, the Army and the Air Force
clashed when Rear-Admiral Custance,
Captain W. R. Patterson and officers of
the Canberra handed out hospitality on
the quarter-deck of their cruiser while
officers of the R.A.A.F. stationed at
Laverton entertained in their mess with
a cocktail party to begin with, which went
on to become bacon-and-eggs for supper.
On the same evening Colonel Blacke
and staff corps officers gave a party in
their mess at Victoria Barracks. All the
hotels were busy, and ran dinner-dances
practically every night. Menzies had a
full quota of private parties, including
those served up with cocktails by Lieut.
Commander and Mrs. D. M. Hole on
another date, and by Elise and Stewart
Brett (Elise is off to Singapore next week
with her father, Dr. Percy Brett). Pat
Clegg rallied the troops for a welcome-
home to Alice and Marie Louise (other-
wise Puss) Carse, who have been abroad
for some time. Mrs. R. A. Little and
Mrs. M. H. Baillieu were among host-
esses who gave dinner-parties in their
homes. Mrs. Baillieu’s party was pri-
marily for young folk, for daughter
Sandra was one of the evening’s debs, at
G.H. Ball.


*»*«**
m
m
m
\\>
New BETTER WAY
TO CLEAN
FALSE TEETH
'I really think in all my experi-
ence that ‘Steradent’ is the finest pro-
duct I have used,’ writes a Dentist.
This is typical of the professional
opinion of hundreds of dentists now
recommending ‘Steradent’ to their
patients as the finest preparation ever
produced for keeping dental plates
clean and hygienic. Simply fill the cap
of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and pour the
powder into a glass containing suffi-
cient warm water (not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir well. Leave your
dentures in it while you dress, or over-
night. Just rinse, and teeth and plates
are fresh and clean—clean where the
brush can’t reach.
‘Steradent’ cleans away the blackest stains,
film and tarnish. Makes dull teeth and dis-
coloured gums look like new. Makes them
fresh, cool, comfort-
able. Use ‘ Steradent ’
and you will enjoy a
denture comfort and
cleanliness heretofore
unknown. Price 21-
and 3/6 at all chemists.
IMPORTANT:
Be sure you get
‘Steradent’. Dentists
recommend it.
df
RECKITTS (OVER HEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept. ), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
S j
£5/10/
Throw away your brush
and blades arid shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Tennant Creek Press
“Ring Four”: Just on a year ago
Tennant Creek (N.T.) gave birth to a
newspaper. The “Tennant Kreek
Kronikle” appeared once only—on
November 27, 1937. Its editorial was
commendably frank:
In so far as was possible we have fol-
lowed the example of the leading papers of
the world in avoiding the truth at all
costs....We guarantee that perusal of our
columns will not benefit the reader one
iota.... Whatever educational value we may
lack can be made up for by reason of our
value as shaving paper.
Followed a report of the first meeting
of the Tennant Kreek Temperance Klub.
It “commenced in the official drinking
room of Scott’s Hotel just before break-
fast on Friday and concluded out-
side MacMahon’s Goldfields Hotel at
closing time on the same, night.” The
two publicans were elected joint presi-
dents. A moving episode:
After a slight pause, Sam Irvine stood
drinks all round, then Mr. Huge-Bones
stood five feet eleven in his socks, during
which time Mr. Kinlock finished his speech
and beer.
A law report announces that hotel-
keeper Scott, charged with serving beer at
“Think I'll stick around, Ma, in case of ‘ Peepin' Toms.'”
the rate of four glasses to the bottle in-
stead of the usual five, and with shouting
drinks on the house, pleaded guilty on
both counts and attributed his lapse to
a bout of dengue fever. He was re-
manded for medical inspection as one
of the most interesting cases seen for
years.
A couple of columns dealing with the
town’s history are genuinely interesting.
The old settlement grew round the Peter
Pan lease in 1933 and consisted mainly
of a hop-beer shed, a cafe and a store
run by an Afghan. A few months later
the Tennant crashed, and as it recovered
the town sprang up on its present site.
Many prospectors who more or less
pioneered the field are mentioned, and
the list of their names should prove use-
ful and interesting if the Tennant
develops to any size and importance.
A column of Social Notes, by Cynthia
Sulphide, covered a Tennant dance:
Mr. Eddie Butcher looked absolutely
charming in a pair of ankle-length trousers,
a shirt and a bit of a daze Jim Man-
nion favored trousers and shirt and a sweet
young thing in georgette Nick Nichol-
son looked very svelte in a lather of per-
spiration Alick Scott was responsible
for many heart throbs, while Jimmy Mc-
Cann’s natty shoes performed the same
office for many corns.
Eddie Butcher is a Westralian who
went to the war at 17—at least, he said
he was 17. Afterwards he became
welterweight champion of Australia.
“Dungeness”: The first attempt in
Australia to conduct public hospitals
without honorary medical officers began
in Queensland on November 1. The
scheme comprises nine hospitals with a
total accommodation of 1479 beds in
an area extending from Nambour, about
60 miles north of Brisbane, to Canungra
and eventually Southport, approximately
150 miles. A hundred and eighty-one
beds are for maternity, 222 for children.
(Incidentally, the Brisbane General re-
cently had 930 of its 981 beds occupied
on one day.) Full-time medical officers
include four superintendents, five super-
visors, eight senior residents, 20 junior
residents and a special relieving officer.
Sixty-eight others are paid on a part-time
basis. Salaries for 1938-39 are estimated at
£35,233. The advantages claimed for the
new system are more efficient organisa-
tion, longer hours of attendance by
medical staff, more rapid decisions and
action, and cheaper buying of stores
and supplies.
* * * *
“Derrot”: Thus far “three important
decisions” have resulted from the last
Ministerial jaunt through the N.T.:
(1) Clerks engaged in N.T. administration
are to be transferred from. Canberra to
Darwin ; (2) the powers of the Adminis-
trator respecting ordinances, land con-
trol, native welfare and labor problems
are to be “considerably increased,” and
(3) there is to be a “small increase in
the staff at Darwin.” The Payne-Fletcher
Committee’s recommendation for the
conversion of large areas of cattle
country into sheep country is “ac-
cepted” in principle. Cabinet is' con-
sidering railways, but is likely to
prefer roads. If that decision is ar-
rived at, roads should be crowned with
a grader, and not gutted out with a fire
plough, as is the present road between
Alice Springs and Tennant Creek.
* * * *
“G.D.”: In a recent Bulletin para-
graph somebody wrote: “The editor of
the Rabaul Times’ is one of the best-
known authorities on the New Guinea
native.” As a resident in New Guinea for
18 years, I endorse that opinion, and go
further. The editor of the Rabaul
“Times” is one of the finest authorities
we possess on any subject in regard to
N.G. Personally, I can find nothing
wrong with N.G. or its administrative
staff, and I protest against the incorrigible
habit of self-depreciation which is only
too prevalent in this territory. Nowhere
else in the world can a parallel be found
to the results we now obtain in New
Guinea. The fact is, New Guinea is too
modest. It does not advertise its achieve-
ments, whereas other nations know how
to make the most of things. No one
would be left in uncertainty if the U.S.A.
had done what people and Administra-
tion in co-operation have accomplished
in these islands, a proof of the wisdom
of conservative finance, for it is by such
finance that we are escaping the conse-
quences of the depression.
* * * *
“Balana”: Ribbonstone (B. 26/10/’3B)
is plentiful all over the Barkly Tableland.
The best bit ever I saw was roseate pink,
striped with bands which gradually
merged to violet. I and others tested it
with the back of a knife —it struck sparks
as freely as any other bit of flint would
do. That piece didn’t come from
Anthony’s Lagoon; it came up out of a
bore Avon Downs was sinking over on
the desert side, west of the Georgina and
Rankine.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The most dangerous
wild animals in Australia are the de-
scendants of the pigs which Captain Cook
turned loose while the Endeavour was
hove down for repairs at the present site
of Cooktown. After more than a cen-
tury and a half of plentiful food in the
rain jungles, they have evolved into huge
and formidable brutes. An average full-
grown boar weighs over 4001 b. and is as
quick on its feet as a good horse. If
not killed outright by a shot, they charge
ferociously, and it is a bad lookout for
the hunter if there isn ? t a tree handy.
No dogs can hold them when they really
mean business. These northern “Cookers”
are very different animals from the
scrawny, timid wild pigs of the western
country, descended from domestic pigs,
and dangerous to nothing that is not
already helpless. One genuine Cooker
could kill—and eat —a herd of them if he
felt like it. I’d back a northern scrub
boar against any N.T. buffalo bull,
horns and all. And I’ve met both.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Fresh proof of the
urgent need for organised control of
Australian fisheries comes from Great
Barrier Reef waters. For five years past,
the fleets working out of Townsville
have provided a large part of the fresh
fish sold in Brisbane and northern
markets during the last three or four
months of the year. This season, there
has been a heavy falling off in catches,
and the weekly 10-ton contract with the
State Fish Board has had to lapse for
lack of supplies. The simple reason is
that the fish are taken in full roe, and the
heavy catches each season have given the
schools no time in which to build up
again in accessible waters. The obvious
remedy is to close alternate areas each
year to mackerel fishing, enforcing the
closure by prohibition of sale or railing
of the fish from any port in, or adjoining,
any closed area.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane has acquired
over 100 new street names to replace its
former 24 Georges, 26 Shorts, 23
Williams, and 22 Marys. The original
names have been retained in the central
business area, and the new ones are
selected from Empire leaders, Australian
public men, Australian pioneers, British
* towns and abo. words. There has been no
narrow parochialism in the scope of
selection. The Empire leaders range from
Lister, discoverer of antisepsis, to Scad-
dan, whom Australia remembers much
better; the Australian public men
from Banfield of Dunk Island to Brierly,
the marine painter of a century ago, with
Randolph Bedford providing a new
moniker for one of the Short-streets. But
there is no Kingsford Smith-street, al-
though Ludmayor Jones admits that some
such idea is “under consideration.”
* * * *
“Algernon”: The invasion of houses
by animals (B. 12/10/’3B) reminds me
of the time I took over a pastoral
property in the W.Q. sand belt. To beat
fleas I floored the 14-x-lO manor house
with cypress-pine planks about 3ft. above
the old floor, but put in only one joist,
with the result that away from the middle
the floor was a springboard. This came
in handy for rocking the cradle ; if the
wife or I or the fleas made a sudden
move one or the other went up to the
ceiling, to be followed by the party of the
second part when the first came down.
The only thing then was to hold on to
any projecting object until all was still.
We were rescued in a providential
manner. We had a fall of timber ready
to drop, and as a howling westerly was
blowing we went out to see if we couldn’t
start the fall. We left behind the baby
the dog, the cat and the fleas. As we were
looking over the timber a neighbor hailed
us from far off. “I want to borrow a
saucepan,” she said; “don’t bother to
come down—l’ll run in and help myself.”
Before we could protest she did. A
heavy woman, she leapt in at the open
door. There followed a fearful scream,
and a black cloud of fleas, which almost
obscured the landscape, emerged from
the chimney and was swiftly wafted east
by the gale. Then came, more slowly,
the dog, the cat and, finally, the baby, all
unharmed and cheerful. To finish a per-
fect day the house, which was well in-
sured, was burned down.


SNOmiW S.3HHW3
fyj. 11
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give yon com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONI/V STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
df
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
d
fOR W£AK M£N AND IVOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
819 George St., Sydney
821
GL4ND
TONIC
TfIBLfTS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
U.H.F. Beam Oscillator.
The illustration shows a new develop-
ment in the way of a simplified oscil-
lator or final amplifier for use on 10
metres and below. E. H. Conklin, of
American experimental station W9FM,
passes on the details, the originator
being Bob Smith, W3HJO. With this
arrangement all American districts but
W 6 and W 7 have been communicated
with on five metres, with an input of
60 watts. With four watts, and the
arrangement indoors, an R 7 signal has
been put into Baltimore from Washing-
ton.
The circuit was discovered whilst ex-
perimenting with Barkhausen-Kurz os-
cillators below ione metre, nearly 10
years ago. It has been in use on five
metres for three years as an oscillator
comparable in stability with multi-stage
master oscillator arrangements. The
idea is now applied as a neutralised
final amplifier from a crystal-controlled
drive, using the aerial as the tuned plate
circuit, eliminating coils, tuning con-
densers and transmission lines or feeders.
In the .present arrangement the aerial
is similar to a single section WBJK beam,
without any centre crossover, and with
a tilt between the conductors. The latter
are connected to the plates of the push-
pull stage through blocking condensers.
.Spacing of the aerial rods is 11 in. at the
far end, the near-end spacing being
adjusted for proper valve match. This
distance is about fin. for 809’s, which
are the most likely valves for the pur-
pose in Australia. Changing the dis-
tance between the rods affects the
frequency somewhat, a decrease in
spacing causing an increase in frequency.
The change is about 500 kc. for a half-
inch variation in spacing.
The set-up shown in the illustration
is in a weatherproof wooden box
located at the base of the rods at the
usual aerial location. The filament
transformer is placed in the box and the
modulated plate supply and A.C. for
the filament transformer brought in
through a four-lead cable. The box con-
tains, too, the grid leak, sockets, valves,
plate blocking condensers, r.f. chokes,
lOmmfd. grid tuning condenser, and the
grid coil.
The chokes appear to work best when
at right-angles, in the form of a V. Leads
to the half-wave rods are brought out
in feed-through insulators and soldered
directly to the rods. A porcelain bar
can be placed near the current loop at
the centre of the rods, and by moving
this bar the initial rod spacing can be
changed to adjust the frequency. Tun-
ing is best done with a field meter and
a plate milliammeter. With the box cover
removed the plate ends of the rods are
adjusted for proper match of the
aerial impedance to the output impe-
dance.
The spacing at the outer ends is impor-
tant in obtaining maximum radiation
and stability ; at less than lOin. radiation
is sacrificed, whilst at more than 13in.
stability is not as good. Grid coil and
condenser are adjusted in the usual way
to obtain sufficient excitation, this tuning
having little effect upon frequency after
the rod spacing is properly adjusted. By
trying several frequencies the best operat-
ing point for the actual rod length can
be found. If length adjustment is desired
telescoping tubing or threaded extensions
can be placed at the far end of the rods.
Instead of lumped grid coil and con-
denser, parallel rod grid tuning can be
applied, but if this grid circuit is better
than the plate circuit, it will take over
the job of controlling the frequency. To
avoid complication it is better to use coil
and condenser grid circuit. Radiation
pattern for vertical rods is the bi-direc-
tional “Figure 8” in the end-fire direc-
tions, with sharp nulls off the sides.
The angle of radiation is lowered some-
what owing to the end-fire arrangement.
The rods can be used in the horizontal
plane with similar but slightly broader
pattern. The mounting pole rotates
through 180 degrees.
It is suggested that the idea could be
applied to other aerial systems such as
the two-section BJK with crossover.
Also, a single half-wave centre-fed aerial
with quarter-wave feeder should permit
operation in the same fashion. In some
arrangements, r.f. chokes might be
eliminated. One way is to use a quarter-
wave line in the form of a “hairpin”
with the open end connected to the valve
plates and the closed end to the high
voltage. Those who have used the basic
circuit in U.S.A. are enthusiastic about
it. Certainly it gives promise, and further
developmental work may indicate the
possibility of a general improvement in
transmitters, even at low frequencies.
Real efficiency could be obtained with a
final amplifier mounted at the base of a
pole carrying half-wave rods for 14mc.
and link-coupled to the operating room.
W. M. C.
Radio Comment.
“Brassex”: Glancing through a Syd-
ney radio magazine dated April, 1923, I
came across the announcement: “Garden
Island is doing some experimenting in
transmitting music, etc., on Sunday
mornings. An enjoyable concert may be
anticipated by radio experimenters who
stay home from church to put their radio
gear in order.” Wonder what the Navy
would say to-day if asked-to give radio
concerts to amateurs on 1550 metres?
* * * *
“VK2NO”: The small superhet re-
ceiver for the five-metre band outlined
by Jones in “Radio” (U.S.A.) for May
this year and described in B. 29/6/ ’3B
has been made up and tested. Tasma
Radio, Mascot, Sydney, provided the
1600 kc. I.F.Ts. necessary. An im-
portant point to watch in the signal
frequency circuits is the combination of
the Hi-C oscillator portion of the 6JBG
with the low-C mixer side. In the oscil-
lator, tuning is done by a 15mmfd. Ray-
mart midget condenser, with 50mmfd.
variable midget set as padder for the band.
The tuning capacity for the mixer must
be no more than 7mmfd. maximum, and
this is obtained by doctoring a Raymart
15mmfd. midget until stator and rotor
are spaced about three-sixteenths of an
inch. With a seven-turn coil of 14 copper
4in. inside diameter, the mixer can be
made to track between 56mc. and 60mc.
This circuit must be low-C, otherwise
efficiency will be low and signals will be
weak, even though tracking may be cor-
rect. Advantage of the Hi-C oscillator
is shown with the BFO in action. Cry-
stal-controlled stations are rock-steady
T 9 as at lower frequencies. The receiver
outperforms the acorn T.R.F. type used
at this station for a year or so, and with
an 1851 pre-selector ahead of the 6JBG
will be hard to beat as a supersensitive
five-metre superhet.
t »ft Hi Jfc JR
“Querex”: Due back in Australia for
a brief period is Oswald Anderson,
formerly well known in Australian
broadcasting circles in the early days of
2FC and 2UW. A year or so ago he
formed in London Broadcast Enterprises,
Ltd., the only concern of its kind operat-
ing in Britain, to provide specially-
recorded British programmes for Domi-
nion broadcasters. During his stay in
Australia Anderson hopes to discuss the
introduction of television into the Com-
monwealth broadcasting system.
VLR Revised Programmes.
National short-wave station VLR now
has three transmissions daily. These
are: —•
Transmission 1: 6.30 a.m. to 10.15 a.m.
Callsign, VLR3. Frequency, ll,BBokc.
Wave-length, 25.25 m. Power, 2kw.
Transmission 2: 12 noon to 6 p.m.
Callsign, VLR3. Frequency, ll,BBokc.
Wave-length, 25.25 m. Power, 2kw.
Transmission 3: 6.15 p.m. to 11.30
p.m. (12 midnight on Saturdays). Call-
sign, VLR. Frequency, 9580 kc. Wave-
length, 31.23 m. Power, 2kw.
(All Australian eastern standard time.)
Increase in power from lkw. to 2kw.,
the use of a directional aerial and varia-
tion of wave-length for day and evening
transmissions should noticeably' improve
reception.
Amateur Chatter.
Latest VKS to enter the 56mc. lists is
Joe Kilgariff, VKSJT, one-time VKZ of
Alice Springs. Joe is agent for Halli-
crafter (U.S.A.) receivers, and thus is
well equipped with the latest Ultra-Sky-
rider receiver, a job which covers every-
thing between 3.75 and 53 metres. His
56mc. transmitter uses three stages with
crystal control, valves being 53, 837 and
QB2/75, with suppressor modulation for
speech. He sends word of a 56mc. field
day for South Australians on 27/11 /’3B.
Stations will be active all over the State,
one of them on Mount Lofty. Operating
period is from 10.30 a.m. until 6.30 p.m.
E.S.T.
Latest u.-s.-w. information from
W9FM shows that during the DX burst
a station logged as G2MY was heard by
WISS and WIDF.Y. The signal was at
about 56.4mc. and was heard to be “call-
ing America” on speech. The callsign
was not accurately identified, and, know-
ing that an active station in England is
G2MV, a check up was made, and this
station reported that he had been operat-
ing at the time with 50 watts to a two-
section WBJK beam array. G2MV had
previously received reports from two
Wls. It is claimed that the Gs have
been held back in their five-metre DX
owing to the scarcity of stations to work
at the proper distance. How much more
true is this of Australia, where capital
cities are several hundred miles apart
and there are practically no country sta-
tions. If there were stations constantly
active on the band in the capital cities,
something might be done.
During a 28mc. contact on 2/7/’3B be-
tween G2XC and IIER in Milan, Italy,
the latter shifted to five metres and got
an R 9 report. Unfortunately there wasn’t
any use G2XC going to five metres, as
IIER cannot receive on that band. One
wonders if the Italian can be the original
IER ; a station with that call was active
on both reception and transmission as
far back as 1926.
During a contact on 14mc. C.W. with
VK9BW in N.G. on the evening of
29/10/’3B, he revealed plans for 56mc.
working between several VK9s. Apart
from the DX possibilities the band should
be of great value for local working when
static is troublesome.
Things are lively on 28mc. On
29/10/’3B the Westralians were putting
strong ’phone signals into the east, best
stations being VK6MW (R 9) and VK6DF
(R 7). A newcomer to the band is Bruce
Chapman, VR4BA, in the British Solo-
mons, who was heard on C.W. in com-
munication with several VK2s. In the
morning the band is full of strong Ameri-
can ’phones, and around midday K6CLV
comes in as strong as locals. Several ZLs
can be heard, and there is every indica-
tion that skip is rapidly shortening.
Below the band, in the realms of 31 me.
broadcasting, an outstanding American
station is KOIL, with a transmission
reaching R 9 at times. The nine-metre
police stations are a continual hive of
activity, and some rapid tuning is neces-
sary to log the callsigns. Aircraft marker
and main beacons can be heard in opera-
tion at intervals around 9.5 metres, and
it is assumed that these are probably
located in Honolulu owing to the strong
signals heard from K6s at that time.
Latest 56mc. receiver to be tested here
is the Jones 56mc. Super-Gainer. The
long-awaited 1600 kc. intermediates came
to light in two different makes, both
showing excellent gain. This receiver is
a sure-fire type provided that care is
taken to ensure a ratio of very low capa-
city to inductance in the grid circuit of
the 6JBG. Even without any R.F. ampli-
fier ahead, the results on 56mc. are far
superior to much more elaborate re-
ceivers. The number of short-wave lis-
teners interested in 56mc. DX is increas-
ing, and already several in ' the Sydney
area are using receivers of advanced
types recently described by the writer.
This is all to the good and, provided
there is no influx of “squeggers,” will be
a definite aid to the transmitting experi-
menters.
VK2NO.
W.I.A. Notes.
October Meeting of W.A. Division.
At the meeting on 18/10/’3B of the
W.A. division of the W.I.A. details re-
garding VK6 competitors in the VK-ZL
(Senior) DX Contest were given. Sta-
tions known to have entered included
6MW, 6FL, 6SA, 6AF, 6MN, 6CP and
6LJ.
A visitor to the meeting was a new
VK6, one-time 4LX. VK6JS spoke on
receiver design, with particular reference
to amateur and general high-frequency
communications work. Much data were
produced showing the high importance
of coil design and circuit efficiency
coupled with signal-to-noise ratio. Valve
sources of noise were also mentioned.
VK6BB’s NC-81-X proved an interest-
ing illustration of 6JS’s remarks.
VK6WZ.


Limerick
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Seventh Competition
£5O PRIZES
Closing Date November 23.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 7”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than November 23.
Results of this Seventh Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin” of
November 30.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Otherwise
these competitions are open to all, free of
any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin” of November 16, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
SEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
I have heard politicians protest
That the good of the State is their quest.
So when holding such views
They raise their own screws
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Sixth Limerick Competition,
which closes on November 11, will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin”
(November 16).
Also in the November 16 issue the Eighth
of this series of Competitions will be
announced. The same prize-money (£5O)
will be offered, and conditions will be the
same as for the Seventh.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
{Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Briton Theatrette Models.
Something entirely different in the
design of mantel-type radio receivers is
represented by two new productions
recently placed on the market by Briton
Electrical and Radio, Ltd., 152 Parra-
matta-road, Petersham (N.S.W.). The
name “Theatrette” has been aptly ap-
plied, for in appearance both receivers
are strongly suggestive of a small stage
with lowered curtain and orchestra ros-
trum. The lowered curtain is the loud-
speaker grille, and the orchestra rostrum
is the tuning dial. Similar construction
The new light beacon erected on the
Ever Ready Co.’s factory at Rosebery,
N.S.W., as an aid to night-flying aircraft.
is employed in both models, and exami-
nation of the internals revealed that there
is no foundation chassis. The moulded
bakelite cabinet forms the sole fixture
for all components. One very evident
advantage of this departure from ac-
cepted constructional ideas is that any
part of the receiver can be got at in-
stantly for attention.
The two models are respectively dual-
wave and straight broadcast, the former
using valves of types EK2G, 6U7G,
686 G, 6F6G and 5Y3, and the latter
EK2G, 6GBG, EL3G and SY3G. There
are two controls, as shown in the illus-
tration, the knobs right and left affect-
BRITON THEATRETTE MODEL.
ing volume and tuning. The wave-change
switch for the dual-waver is at the side
of the cabinet on the right. The per-
formance in both cases is excellent, there
being no lack of sensitivity and volume,
with tuning made easy by the particularly
attractive and easily readable dial. The
floodlit effect of the dial illumination
adds to the theatre idea by suggesting
the warm glow of footlights. Tonal
reproduction in both cases was found to
be of a high standard, and, although the
receivers are by no means bulky in size,
room has been found in the design for
an Bin. speaker. It is noticed also that
the cabinet design plays quite a part in
the reproduction by reason of acousti-
cally recessed sides on each side of the
speaker. Because of the absence of a
metal chassis, the receivers are particu-
larly light to carry about; a useful point
where a receiver may be needed for use
in various positions in the home.
That much has been got into small
space is shown by the fact that both
receivers measure only sin. deep. The
performance with the dual-waver gives
all local and overseas stations free from
distortion, and is fully equal to that of
much, more elaborate designs. Prices
can be obtained from the manufacturers
on request.
D. B. K.
Aircraft Beacon for Sydney.
A new airway light has been installed
by the Civil Aviation Department on the
tower of the Ever Ready Co.’s factory
at Rosebery, Sydney,
The light is of the rotating type, and
will be visible 80 miles away. This means
that it will be picked up by pilots as far
north as Newcastle and can be used as
a directional guide until Sydney is
reached and the flashing light at Mascot
aerodrome sighted,
An automatic beacon, it will function
continuously from sunset to sunrise, lt
has been erected on 10ft. supports
mounted on top of the tower, 100 ft.
above ground level. It was constructed
by the British General Electric Co., and
consists of a 1500-watt concentrated fila-
ment lamp in conjunction with a 24in.
diameter parabolic mirror which pro-
duces a beam of 1,000,000 c.p. A deflec-
tor mounted on the front glass of the
housing directs portion of the beam up-
wards so that a pilot flying high in the
vicinity will not lose its signal.
The beacon revolves once in 10sec.,
a -j-h.p. motor mounted in the base
supplying the power. The flash of the
beam is about quarter-second. In the
event of the failure of the lamp an auto-
matic changing device comes into opera-
tion and swings a new lamp into the cor-
rect position. A visual and audible alarm
is operated by the changing device to
warn the maintenance engineer of the
failure of the lamp.
D.B.K
The Question Box.
(1) Address of Radiokes, Ltd.? (2) Has this
manufacturer produced an air-cell-operated
dual-wave five-valve kit ? (3) Has the “Listener
In” published a 1938 handbook? (4) Is there
a handbook dealing with air-cell receivers ?
(5) Is the Briton T heat ret te mantel model re-
ceiver made as dual-waver or ordinary broad-
cast receiver ?—732.
(1) Vine-street, Redfern, N.S.W. (2) Yes;
circuit and information can be obtained direct
from Radiokes. (3) Haven’t seen it. (4) Try
the Ever-Ready Battery Co., Rosebery, N.S.W.
(5) Made in both types.
* * * *
What are the wave-lengths used by the new
Broken Hill Flying Doctor radio station ?
I have heard this station just above the amateur
40-metre band. —728.
This station, using the callsign BSK, may
be heard frequently on 44.8, 72.6 or 148.5
metres.
* * * *
(1) When I rebuilt a three-valver on a smaller
chassis it failed to work. Is the circuit, as in
the enclosed diagram, correct? It is simply a
detector and transformer coupled audio stages.
(2) Is the .OOlmfd. condenser in correct posi-
tion ?— 730.
(1) and (2) Can’t say without details of the
particular coil units employed. It is likely that
you have made connections wrongly to the
numbered coil units. To determine exactly
what is wrong it will be necessary to draw
a theoretical diagram showing the appropriate
connections to the coils corresponding to the
numbered terminals.
* * * *
(1) Enclosed is a circuit of an amplifier using
two lb’s in the input and push-pull lb’s driving
push-pull 45*5 in the output. Will it work ?
(2) Are values correct? (3) What will be the
output wattage? —73l.
(1) Yes, but a single 6A6 could well replace
the two lb’s in the arrangement. (2) Change
the .lmeg. resistors in the plate coupling to
the push-pull 76’s for 50,000-ohm resistor, plus
10.000-ohm decoupling resistors and Bmfd.
electrolytic by-pass condensers. (3) Approxi-
mately 10 watts.


c A Cluster of bees
by . •
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S. _ ;
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips,. D.Ph., . _
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph o£ 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD., -
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop. .... of “A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tarlton Ray meat, for which l enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
Iht QtUsUuH*
s.
He will think you’re sensible if you send him a Valet Safety Razor
set this Christmas. It’s a gift a man can really appreciate. Such
a quick, efficient , razor. It just wants a few smart strokes across
the strop of a morning - and the Valet’s ready for a keen, close
shave. No fumbling.with bits and pieces. It’s ready lor its work
at once. Valet prices range from 4/6 up to 65/-
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1652 of 1938.
BETWEEN JOYCE MARY BLACK Petitioner
And THOMAS BLACK Respondent.
TO THOMAS BLACK.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOYCE MARY
BLACK has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court on the grounds of deser-
tion without any just cause or excuse for a
period of three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirty-first day of January One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so in the limited time or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion riled herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of November, 1938.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
fd
A
I
m
m
V VAL
W -
Av
&lr«
=*e
;CK
I
m
■j> «•,*.
£ as
< <
'x !
For Christmas, Valet
razor sets are packed in
an attractive seasonably
decorated Gift Carton.
lAE E T
No. 50 NfCtCEL SET (illustrated above). In highly polished nickel-
plated case. Comprises a heavily plated self-stropping "Valet”
razor, twelve “Valet” blades and strop in hinged container 25/*
OF ALL DEALERS MADE IN ENGLAND
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LIMITED, 181 Clarence St., Sydney
On India’s Hempen Strand.
(By SADDHU TUROAR.)
In spite of sceptics, the Indian rope
trick is a well-substantiated fact. Seeing
that 1 spent some years as junior offsider
to an A-grade fakir from the Punjab, I
ought to know.
My job was to haul down the rope, up
which the senior sidekick, a rather care-
free Kling, had climbed. While I was
thus occupied, the boss was busily chop-
ping the Kling into mincemeat with a
blunt kris. I then gathered up the bits
and took round the hat, whereupon we
adjourned to the nearest bar.
Liking the work, I was eagerly looking
forward to promotion to rope-climber
when my employment was ended in a
disastrous manner.
We were giving a command show be-
fore the Rajah of Binjee. The .Kling,
having swariried up the rope and van-
ished, tried to show how clever he was
by pulling the rope up after him.
“What the- Siva’s lie up to?” snorted'
the boss.
f We stared up into the empty sky for
tin minutes or so, but nothing happened.
So the boss heaved up another rope arid
said I’d better shin up and see what was
wrong.
I was up the rope and had disappeared
before you could say. “Gandhi.”
’Struth! the damfool of a Kling had
got himself tangled up in his, rope. . It
was lassoed round his throttle, and when
I disappeared on the scene he was at his
last gasp.
There was only one thing to do. I
took a flying leap from my rope, straddled
across the Kling and slashed his bonds
with one stroke of my scimitar.
That was the trouble. As soon as I
cut the rope there was nothing to hold
us up. Down we went, a fifty-foot drop.
When we landed I was underneath. I
woke up in hospital with several things
broken, including my neck. The rajah
was so delighted he offered us a lac of
rupees to repeat the performance. The
boss and the Kling were ready enough,
but it was no good to me.
“Under Two Flags.”
(“McM.’s” Revised Edition.)
Captain Beauty, pride of the Guards,
stood over six feet in his socks when he
could afford to buy them.
Cigarette, alias Bumper, was the daugh-
ter of the regiment. Her mother had
been a glamor girl.
All day Beauty and Bumper had
struggled against the pitiless heat of the
African desert; they were pushing on to
the relief of - an outpost that had sent
word of its desperate plight to le Com-
mandant.
For the seven-hundredth time that day
Cigarette started to sing “The Marseil-
laise.”
“Can it!” howled Beauty, his eyelashes
bristling with rage.
' “Ma foi r shrieked' Cigarette, and, like
the pretty little wild cat she was, flew
at Beauty and strangled him with his
Dundreary whiskers.
Hurriedly sounding the Last Post on
her mouth-organ, rearranging her make-
up and collecting Beauty’s insurance
papers, Cigarette pushed on to the
stricken outpost.
As a pallid dawn broke across
the ‘ African desert, Cigarette staggered
through the gates of the outpost to the
rattle of drums and wild shouts of “Vive
la Bumper!”
Making one last desperate effort, she
stood to attention, saluted,.and threw to
the ground the pack of cards for which
the poker school had sent such a frantic
appeal.
Then Cigarette, alias Bumper, collapsed
in a heap. She was fagged out!
“Gryllus”: Hitherto mice have had a
certain human value as laboratory sub-
jects in investigations requiring rapid
breeding, but it has remained for the
fertile brain of an American gambler
to put them to highly profitable organ-
ised work. Roulette having become
illegal at Reno, this ingenious lad
worked out a novel substitute for the
whirling ball on the “game’s quite fair
’cos the monkey don’t care” principle.
It consists of a carefully pivoted hori-
zontal glass wheel, surrounded by 52
little glass cages, each marked with a
playing-card. A mouse is dropped on
the slowly revolving wheel, and as it
runs it spins the wheel faster, slowing
down as the mouse gets tired. As soon
as it can, the animal makes a dash for
one of the cages, and the croupier pays
out on straight bets made on the card
thus chosen by it.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The hoary tortoise at the
Sydney Zoo about which “T. the R.”
twanged his lyre (B. 26/10/’3B) was
doubtless frisking in the Seychelles when
those historical figures of whom the bard
sings were strutting their short-lived
piece ; but it is equrilly certain that this
reptile met none of them. Still gambol-
ling over St. Helena, however, is a
tortoise that whizzed before the brood-
ing; eyes of Napoleon. And what an
opportunity for self-advertisement the
exiled Emperor missed therein! Suppos-
ing he had autographed the shellback,
or carved - upon its horny carapace a
message of defiance to his banishers ; or
even chiselled thereon a testimonial to
his favorite pill!


The Richardson Chain Hotel
1
m
MELBOURNE'S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4141 (1 0 lines).
\
ILU* , 15^^
. voJL-**
IJU
J/^
tr^* L ’ /x 7
Ub
r
f
■
<9^
“■ .&oJ'’° J
rf
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Six Sheep Per Acre.
The Waite Institute, Adel-
aide, where the useful rainfall during the
winter growing period seldom exceeds
15 inches out of a yearly average of a
little over 21 inches, has shown that it
is possible to carry six sheep per acre
and to build up reserve feed with only
paddock fodder under straightout farm-
ing conditions.
The secret lies in close attention to
detail. Initial pasture establishment is
made on a well-worked fallow. The
best results are obtained with a mix-
ture of 51b. phalaris, 51b. Dwalganup
(early-maturing) sub. clover and lib.
Wimmera rye grass. Most failures in
getting a good balanced pasture with the
initial sowing are due to using too heavy
a sowing of rye grass.
During the first season, pasture must
get only enough light, quick grazing to
keep down rank growth. Many pastures
are spoiled during the first year by too
heavy stocking.
The seed is sown with a dressing of
2cwt. of super, per acre and a similar
amount is applied every autumn. As
soon as the spring growth starts, the pad-
dock is closed to stock to allow every-
thing to make the seeding.
The paddock is then closely sub-
divided. In the following autumn, as
soon as the pasture has made sufficient
growth, the stocking begins. Sheep
numbering six times the full area in acres
are put into one paddock, and moved to
the next as soon as it has been grazed
close ; the number of paddocks is deter-
mined by a grazing schedule which en-
ables each to be fed off every nine weeks.
Overstocking eats out the pasture ; too
few sheep let it become rank and uncon-
trollable. When spring comes the pad-
docks on which the feed is longest are
cut for hay, which is stacked before the
sheep are shifted on to them.
During the dry summer months the
feed in the paddocks is supplemented by
hay from the stacks, but at no time is the
schedule of shifting the sheep from one
paddock to the next broken.
Under this system, weeds can’t gain a
footing and no plant is able to domi-
nate the pasture. There is no selective
grazing by stock, and the correct balance
of clover to grass is always maintained.
Both rainfall and climate are more
suited to cereal growing than livestock
farming by accepted methods, and even
better results should be had in areas of
heavier rainfall where Mt. Barker sub.
clover can be grown. The difficulty will
be to convince landowners that the cost
of fencing and additional water supplies,
together with the rigid schedule move-
ment of stock from one paddock to the
next, will be compensated by doubling or
even trebling carrying capacity.
Sheep in the Territory.
“James Rankine”: The Federal Gov-
ernment has decided to support proposals
to make available for sheep large areas
on the Barkly Tableland (N.T.) now used
for cattle grazing. The success of the
project depends largely on the wool
market and the amount of capital behind
settlers.
At present wool prices, sheep-raising
in the Territory is foredoomed to failure,
and there is no indication of the market
improving. Woolgrowers much closer
to markets than those in the Northern
Territory would be are finding things
difficult.
Conditions that will have to be faced in
the Territory are (1) the high cost of
improving the country to make it suit-
able for sheep, (2) scanty rainfall, (3)
difficulty and cost of marketing wool
and stock.
Surface water on the Barkly Tableland
is limited and bores would have to be
sunk. Cost of transporting boring sup-
“Bill lorst ’ees bet. 'E reckoned them chillies Was egg-tomatoes !”
plies, fencing and station supplies is high.
Labor difficulties for shearing, etc., would
be considerable.
The year’s rainfall comes in one lump
—When it doesn’t miss altogether—and
the road is often too dry to get store
cattle out. Prospective pioneers will need
to consider the matter deeply.
Lungworm.
“Bungaree”: Lungworm, which is
causing sheepmen some alarm at the
moment, manifests itself when sheep are
in poor condition —through overstocking,
lack of feed owing to drought condi-
tions or the presence of stomach-worm
parasites. The symptoms associated with
infestation of large stomach worms cr
black scour worms may be passed over
when the familiar coughing that goes
with lungworm is noticed.
Treatment consists in getting the sheep
on to good feed so that they can build
up resistance. They should be drenched
several times to get rid of the stomach
worms. For large stomach worms,
double-strength carbon tetrachloride (two
parts carbon tetrachloride to three parts
white oil) should be given in 5-c.c. doses.
The most satisfactory drench for use
against the black scour worm is blue-
slone and nicotine sulphate.
To treat lungworm direct intratracheal
injections of
Oil of turpentine 1 c.c.
Oil of creosote 0.5 c.c.
Chloroform 0.5 c.c.
Olive oil 2 c.c.
are best. Unless the owner is experi-
enced the injection should be done by
the vet. or stock inspector. For adult
sheep give 4 c.c. of the mixture, and
one-third less for lambs.
The injection should be given slowly
into the windpipe about half-way down
the neck with a hypodermic syringe
which has been thoroughly sterilised by
boiling before use. Grip the windpipe
with the thumb and first finger of the left
hand until it stands out prominently.
The sheep should be sat on its rump and
held by a catcher. The animal generally
coughs severely after the injection, and
may be unsteady on its legs for a little
while. Two injections are generally
necessary.
Prevention of lungworm trouble is
easier than the cure, and so long as sheep
are kept in good condition they should
be able to withstand attack.
Lambs and Irrigation.
“Ghanam”: J. M. Coleman in his re-
port to the Australian Meat Council on
lamb-raising lays great stress on the value
of irrigation. He thinks that the N. S.
Wales schemes are not likely to increase
lamb population to any great extent, but
lays stress on the work which might be
done in producing breeding ewes for the
fattening industry.
Ewe production is the biggest obstacle
in widening the scope of the choice-
lamb industry, and the Riverina irriga-
tion area is peculiarly suited for raising
sturdy crossbred mothers. With abun-
dant summer food, prospective dams
could be carried comfortably till they
reached the two-tooth stage.
It is scarcely payable at present. The
demand is there, but the price is not
enough in most seasons to make it worth
while to carry over ewe lambs, which
mainly go to market with the rest as
suckers. It means that, in many districts,
the best part of the annual drop dies
young. Irrigation farmers should tackle
the problem seriously. In Maoriland,
ewe prices are sufficient to persuade fat-
teners to keep back a section
of their ewe lambs regularly for
breeding.
Since most female breeders
for the fat-lamb business will
soon have to come from N.S.W.,
as the industry expands it should
be possible to create a special-
ised industry along the Murrum-
bidgee and the Murray. Save
for a small part of S.A.,
scarcely any other really suit-
able country for high-grade
crossbred ewe production exists
in the Commonwealth.
Another Green Manure.
“Salmon Gums”: The tick
bean is replacing cowpea as
green manure in W.A. (B.
12/10/’3B). Like the pea, it
has the nitrogen-fixing quality
common to legumes, and it has
the advantage of upright growth,
making it easier to plough in.
Don’t roll or chop the crop.
Attach a cutting disk to the
wheel of a single-furrow mould-
board plough, and fix a chain
from the furrow horse’s swing
to the beam of the plough, leav-
ing slack to allow the chain to
drag in the furrow just ahead
of the turning mould. The disk
cuts any stalks that might clog
under the beam, and the chain
drags the crop into the bottom
of the furrow.
The main objects are to get
as much of the right sort of
organic manure into the ground
as possible, and in winter to
ensure that the ground doesn’t
waterlog. I’ve had good results
with a mixture of tick be&ns
and barley (about 601 b. and
201 b. respectively per acre),
4cwt. super, and lcwt. potash
per acre.
Discarded Wheats.
“Nabawa”: Suggested that from next
year entries in N.S.W.R.A.S. field wheat
competitions should be restricted to varie-
ties recommended by the Department of
Agriculture. The effect would be to
focus the attention of farmers more
directly on hall-marked varieties and to
eliminate undesirable types.
The recommended list includes 15
varieties, of which five are restricted to
special limited sections of the wheatbelt.
There is also provision for the addition
of any new variety under field trial. The
flourmillers, for instance, include special
prizes for half a dozen of these for the
next Sydney Royal—Cailoux, Carrabin,
Pusa 111, Baldmin, Bordon and Gluford.
Point is given to the proposal by the
fact that in the first two local competi-
tions judged for the north-west cham-
pionship crops of Comeback were


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
f
I6H
PER PAIR.
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with hot, tired feet in summer-
time by wearing Sandals.
They’re sensible and comfortable; just the things to wear to give you ease
and comfort. And as they are Abbey Sandals they would give long, true wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
zSr
FOR INCREASED DAIRY PROFITS!
ANOTHER IMPORTANT
ITEM OF NEWS
MASONITE, "The Wonder
Board of 1,000 Uses", is now
available in Australia in its
four forms - PRESDWOOD,
QUARTRBOARD, Tempered
PRESDWOOD, and TEMPR-
TILE. All these are now at the
immediate disposal of those
desiring buildings of greater
durability and permanence,
greater beauty and advanced
economy. The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company (Building
Materials Division) will gladly
send you a copy of the
MASONITE BOOK.
Cl 2-8
• Severe drops in temperature
react on milk production and
effect the health of the herd. Ex-
cessively hot days also lower
production. The surest and most
economical method (and the easiest
method) of off-setting extremes of tem-
perature is to insulate with CANE-ITE.
the high-efficiency insulation which can
be worked with an ordinary saw and
nailed, if necesssary, to existing studs
and rafters.
We'll be glad to send you samples ol CANE-
ITE together with interesting literature. Write
to your nearest branch of the Colonial Sugar
Reiining Co. Ltd. (Building Materials Div-
ision).
THE WHITE-ANT-PROOFED 100 % CANE FIBRE
INSULATING BOARD
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kina St.. Sydney
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying 1 . Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Btd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
df
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
df
• A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
• TOTALLY ENCLOSED. Fully pro-
tected from dust, etc.
• LISTARD (Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
• Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Q'LAND:
Norman Bell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., 403 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD., Stamford, eng.
entered. This is an original Farrer
variety, and the highest quality strong
white yet produced in Australia. As a
farmers’ wheat, however, Comeback has
been officially discarded with the terse
note: “Yields poorly; not recom-
mended.”
Pusa IV has superseded it as a premium
wheat, and won the “Northern Star” dis-
trict competition, in which two entries
of the Farrer production were lowly
placed—an object-lesson that farmers
cannot afford to ignore.
Lupins Worth Trying.
“J. Want”: W.A. has had good cause
to revise its opinion of blue lupin, which
used to be looked on as a pest round
Northampton, where the original sow-
ing was made. Now 19,500 acres carry
the plant—mostly in the northern agri-
cultural division, the biggest acreage
(6930) being at Dandaragan.
Topdressing is essential in the growth
of lupins for stock feed —animals will not
eat natural growth. Some farmers are
sowing lupins in mixtures, using 41b. to
81b. with ly bushels of oats and 41b.
Wimmera rye put in with 1121 b. super.
This gives one lupin per square foot
average.
Around Geraldton, where the rainfall
is 22in., the practice is to allow the seed
to ripen for summer fattening use, and
it is no uncommon thing to carry six or
seven sheep to the acre on lupin-mixture
country. Legumes are the making of
W.A. for grazing and fattening. The
so-called “poorer” coastal districts of
Central and North Queensland and the
N.T. might pay more attention to them.
Improved Pastures Do Pay.
“Yeno Ham”: Returns of Wyong
(N.S.W.) factory show that milk produc-
tion last winter was 25 p.c. greater than
for the previous year. The rise is attri-
buted to the sudden swing towards im-
proved pastures.
More than 20 entries were received
for the pasture-improvement competition
organised by the local agricultural asso-
ciation. Plots of sown pastures ranged
from one to three acres, all were liber-
ally fertilised, and the owners reported
increases in production of up to 40 p.c.
when cows were grazed on improved
areas.
Winner was S. Richards, of Dooralong,
whose plot was on second-class country.
Preparation of the paddock comprised
disk ploughing and harrowing twice
(January and February), spring toothing,
harrowing and rolling (twice each) in
March. On March 23 Richards sowed
21b. of cocksfoot, 21b. of phalaris tube-
rosa, 51b. of perennial rye grass, 21b. of
white clover, 21b. of sub. clover and 21b.
of red clover per acre.
Fertilisers were seven loads of cow
manure and two loads of fowl manure in
June, 1871 b. of super, per acre at time
of sowing, 501 b. of sulphate of ammonia
per acre in August and 601 b. of super, per
acre in September. The sward was dense
and well-balanced, and it gave 1274 “cow
hours” of grazing from August 17 to
October 2. Ten to fourteen cows were
grazed for periods of two hours daily.
On October 16 the pasture was more
than 6in. high, and was ready for an-
other grazing. Richards attributed his
success to thorough preparation of
the seedbed, coupled with the liberal
manuring.
Denmark’s Red Cows.
“Ole Luk Oie”: H. A. Foy, a London
dairy products inspector, who has re-
cently been in Denmark, points out that
that country—about one-fifth the size of
Victoria has 200,000 farms, which
directly support 1,000,000 people. More
than half are under 25 acres and an-
other 47.7 per cent, under 300 acres;
less than one-half per cent, are above
that. Milk sold for consumption from the
1,600,000 cows carried is 9.5 per cent, of
the whole, and over 80 per cent, goes for
buttermaking.
The cattle are 60 per cent, the red
Danish breed, a standardised animal. An-
other 20 per cent, are Jutlands, which
are akin to the Friesians, and Shorthorns
and Shorthorn crosses make up 18 per
cent. Jerseys are scarcely seen and there
are few other outland breeds.
The Danish red has never been seen
in Australia. At first glimpse it re-
sembles the old-fashioned milking Short-
horn or the stockier type of Red Lincoln,
of which the former S.A. Governor,
Archibald Weigall, was a keen follower.
But the Danish animal does not run to the
size of the Melbas, though it has some-
thing of the dual-purpose look of some
of the earlier S. Coast reds. Its wedge
conformation, backline, coat, etc., and
typical head are impressive, but its bag
would get it turned out of any Austra-
lian show-ring, the hindquarters being
of a different type and more inclined to
hang than the front half of the udder.
Still, the b.f. average in Denmark is
4 per cent., while, largely with the aid
of skim, the pig industry, which used to
be worth as much as wool was to Aus-
tralia, is kept afloat at the rate of two
pigs to a cow. Maoriland can manage
only two pigs to five cows, and Australia
nothing near that.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mookau”: Start the calf on milk and
gradually add whey until there is no-
thing else in the liquid ration. Milk
mixed with whey must be boiled ; also,
acidity in whey must be carefully checked
by boiling. Try giving poddy molasses
and whey—good, palatable food.
“Loquat”: Now is the time to get
ready the fruit-fly traps which it is com-
pulsory to hang out in N. S. Wales even
when there is only one bearing tree.
Trapping needs to begin at least five
weeks before fruit ripens. Loquat-trees
are especially attractive to fly along the
coast. Traps can be had at any iron-
monger’s, and should be filled with a lure
—one teaspoonful essence of vanilla, a
tablespoonful of ammonia and a beer-
bottle full of water.
“Lam”: Clean sheep should never be
brought near pens, yards or paddocks
which have held lice-infected animals
until everything they might touch has
been disinfected. And look out for logs
and fence posts in paddocks. Many a,
flock has been infested from wool left
on bark or snags by itching woollies.
“Marrar”: There is new hope for the
wheatgrowers in skeleton-weed areas in
the claim from J. E. Lucas, of Coolamon
(N.S.W.), that a means of control of the
pest has been discovered. A specific is
applied during the growing period of
crop and weed, and, while the former is
unharmed, the top-growth of the weed is
killed. The chairman of the Skeleton
Weed Committee (J. R. C. Higman) is
interested in the discovery.
“Porcine”: Further to the question of
baconer and porker export (B. 26/10/’3B)
the Australian Meat Board urges N.S.W.
breeders to concentrate on baconers in
order to gain the advantage of earlier
maturity to suitable weights. The board
quotes export statistics for 1937-38 to
show the scope for expansion. This State
admittedly is underproducing, but the
home market is also the best in Australia
for baconers, prices at the factories being
better than export offers. In Queensland
prices have been so much lower than on
the N.S.W. side of the border that
dealers have made good profit in buying
and consigning to North Coast co-opera-
tive factories for treatment.
“Yarrunga”: W. J. McSweeney, of
Canowindra (N.S.W.), breeder of stud
beef Shorthorns and Corriedale and
Southdown sheep, cantered off with the
Royal Agricultural Society’s fodder con-
servation competitions. He fed his own
stock on his 760-acre property through
the dry period, and sold during last year
2000 tons of lucerne hay, 500 tons cereal
chaff and 2500 bushels of wheat and
maize. When the drought demand ceased
he still had on hand 200 tons lucerne hay,
350 tons lucerne silage and 50 tons cereal
chaff. His sheds have a capacity of
1050 tons loose hay, or three times that
quantity when baled.
“Stump Jump”: Let the mare foal on
a clean, grassy lot where no other
animals have been run for a month. It
pays to watch her. As soon as the foal
is born, tie the cord with clean, fine string
and then use a small wide-mouthed
bottle, half full of tincture of iodine,
pushed over the stump and pressed
against the belly to disinfect it. Keep
an eye on the youngster for weakness,
grogginess or joint swellings during the
next 14 days. Give potassium iodide,
one-thirtieth ounce, twice daily in the
dam’s milk and call the vet. if symptoms
progress in spite of the treatment.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How do the following breeds of sheep com-
pare with regard to weight of carcass and
weight and value of fleece: Ryeland, Romney
Marsh, Southdown, Border Leicester, Dorset
Horn and Suffolk? —SI 101.
The Ryeland, Southdown, Dorset Horn and
Suffolk ate of the Downs or short-wool family,
and are essentially a mutton sheep. Romney
Marsh and Border Leicester are of the long-
wool family, and will cut from 101 b. to 141 b.
of wool, whereas the short-wools would cut
only from 51b. to 61b. The value of the wool
of the Downs breeds is not high, as it is harsh,
short and inclined to be brittle, whereas the
long-wools grow to 9in. or 10in., but
are mostly of a coarse quality, ranging from
46-50’s. The short-wools average 56’s. There
is very little difference in weight of carcass
of the Ryeland, Southdown, Dorset Horn and
Suffolk, much depending upon the condition,
whereas the Romney and Border Leicester are
much bigger sheep, and when in first-class con-
dition are actually heavier than the short-wools.


Ulik tdlvu*
MODEL 40—
4-valve A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
local reception.
Valves: 6A7, 6F7, 42, 80.
£l2/19/6
MODEL 41—
4- Battery Broad-
cast Superheterodyne
for local reception.
Valves: IC6, IC4, IK6, ID4.
Complete with Bat-
teries . . 19 guineas
MODEL 50—
5- A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
reception of Australian
and New Zealand
stations.
Valves: GA7, GDG, 75, 42, 80.
15 guineas
M
f\ * |
L 5 {' «<; *
aw
m
MODEL 51—
5-valve A.C./D.C. Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves: EK2 1 , CF2, CBCI, OL2, CY2, 01.
19 guineas
MODEL 52
5-valve Vibrator Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves: IC7G, IMSG, IMSG, IK7G, ILSC.
Complete with Battery, 23 guineas.
MODEL 60—
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
for reception of Australian and New
Zealand Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations.
Valves: CA7, 6I>C, 75, 42, 80.
19 guineas
Have achieved outstanding popularity everywhere as rivals of
much larger and more expensive consoles for CLARITY . . .
SENSITIVITY . . . DEPENDABILITY. Despite their compact
size—they measure only 14in. high x lOin. wide x 7in. deep—
they give excellent performance, and all you wish for in radio
entertainment, PLUS the advantage of being easily carried from
place to place.
d
MULLARD CARRY-CASE.
Particularly designed for use with the Vibrator
Mantel Model 52, thus adapting it as a Portable
Radio. The Mullard Carry—base may, nevertheless,
be used as a snug transportable cover for ALL
Mullard Master Mantels. So convenient if you want
to take your Radio with you. Very strongly on /
constructed In attractive leather finish.... “
7/tfIAC
Can do a great job of work where conditions are extremely difficult. They can
outdo in value for money anything else that the market has to offer.
Mullard introduces exclusive features resulting from the combined resources of their
Overseas and Australian organisations. The designers and manufacturers have at
no time or to any degree compromised with quality.
-
m
MODEL 718-5-valve
5-valve Battery Operated Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: 104, IC6, IC4, 185, PM22AA.
Complete with batteries, 28 guineas.
MODEL 728-
5-valve Vibrator Powered Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: 104, IC6, IC4, 185, ID4.
Complete with battery, 33 guineas.
MODEL 808-5-valve
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand Broadcast and Overseas
Short -wave stations.
Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42, 80.
25 guineas
A!*!#*'
1
the 90 SERIES
The Milliard All World de Luxe Consoles
Models 92, 93 and 94 (The Mullard 90
Series) give you all you have ever wished for
in Radio. Truly a superb Series, both in
performance and appearance, providing
clarity of reception and tonal quality without
peer.
MULLARD MASTER
MODEL 81, featuring
New . . . Swift . . . Silent
TELETUNING
5-valve A.C. All World Console for
reception of Australian and New Zea-
land Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations. Introducing the most
fascinating and reliable tuning device
yet offered in Australia—Mullard Tele-
tuning!
Incorporating new type Octal Base Valves:
CABG, 6U7G, OB6G, 6F6G, SY3G.
27 Guineas
$
I
■
•*>
. JH
I ’ *
■ ■■:•■■ ; . : :-,y'
MODEL 92
6-valve Battery Operated All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and
Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporating new “G”type Octal Base Valves:
11>5C, IC7G, IDSG, IDSG, IK7G, IFSG.
Complete with batteries, 38 guineas
MODEL 93
6-valve Vibrator Powered All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporating new “G”type Octal Base Valves:
IDSG, IC7G, IDSG, IDSG, IK7G, IFSG.
Complete with Battery, 44 guineas
MODEL 94
6-valve A.C. Superheterodyne All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Valves: CD6, 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42, 80.
33 Guineas
wm
Milliard
(Hcuw V
MULLARD (AUST.) PTY., LTD., 63-67 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: FLSIBB (4 lines).
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. : Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.; George Brown & Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Westcott Hazell & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
■ * !
Victoria and Tasmania: Howard Radio Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland: Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia: R. C. Woollard, Adelaide.
West Australia: Carlyle & Co., Perth.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and barn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training everwrittcaf
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, 23, well educated along com-
mercial lines, wants job as station book-
keeper.—l4Bo.
Middle-aged reporter, exp. leader-writing, de-
sires position on country paper. Teetotaller
and non-smoker.—l 432.
Experienced turner (38), on munitions 1916-
18, wants work; go anywhere.—l4lB.
Well-qualified man (53), Sydney, wants part-
or whole-time employment day or night, holi-
days or Sundays, office, shop, store, etc. —
1459.
To get in touch with model-ship makers in
Sydney.—l43o.
To get in touch with passengers s.s. Seydlitz
or s.s. Zieten arriving Australia July and
August, 1913.—1454.
To buy “Benediction of Poignards,” Edison
Diamond Disc record, No. 850154, and book,
Alan Bott’s Eastern Nights and Flights, pub-
lished by Blackwood.—l4o9.
To buy early Australian theatrical playbills,
programmes, criticisms. —1455.
Information Sought.
What is the inscription over the grave of
David Livingstone in Westminster Abbey? —
1410.
“Brought by faithful hands over land and
sea here rests David Livingstone, Missionary,
Traveller, Philanthropist. Bom March 19, 1813,
at Blantyre, Lanarkshire; died May 4, 1873,
at Chitambo’s Village, Ilala. For 30 years his
life was spent in an unwearied effort to
evangelise the native races, to explore the un-
discovered secrets and abolish the desolating
slave-trade of Central Africa, where, with his
last words, he wrote: ‘AH I can say in my soli-
tude is, may Heaven’s rich blessings come down
on every one—American, English, Turk —who
will help to heal this open sore of the world.’ ”
* * * *
(1) What is the “Bathybius” myth connected
with Huxley’s name ? (2) Who was Hipparchia,
mentioned in Villon’s “The Ballade of Dead
Ladies” ? (3) In “Paradise Lost” XI what is the
meaning of “livelier than Melibcean” ? And
what is the explanation of the allusion to “the
grain of Sarra, worn by kings and heroes old
in time of truce” ? —1406.
(1) Bathybius was the name once given to
a supposedly primitive form of life recovered
from ocean depths. During the preliminary
work on the laying of the Atlantic cable in
1857, slimy masses without detectable structure
but containing limy concretions, were dredged
up. Huxley in 1868 described this material
as a rudimentary form of life, and bestowed
upon it the name of Bathybius haeckelii, the
second word in honor of Haeckel, the German
scientist. Later, Huxley abandoned the be-
lief, and the hypothesis that such a low form
of life exists is now obsolete.* (2) It is said
that Villon, who was not a learned man, made
a curious error over this name. The word he
intended to use was “Alcibiade,” the French
version for the Greek Alcibiades, since he
ignorantly believed the name to be that of a
woman. The error is perpetuated in D. G.
Rossetti’s “Ballade of Dead Ladies,” a trans-
lation of Villon’s “Ballade des dames du temps
jadis.” It happens that the wife of Crates
of Thebes, a renowned Cynic philosopher who
lived about 320 b.c., was named Hipparchia,
but Villon obviously does not refer to her.
(3) Meliboea was a town on the coast of
Thessaly, between Mt. Pelion and Mt. Ossa,,
where a famous purple dye was made. Sarra
was another popular dye, produced in Tyre.
* * * *
Breeding habits of sandflies? Is it possible
that the eggs of this insect will remain in the
flesh of a human being and hatch out from
time to time ? Is there any cure for them ?
The itching is intolerable. —1374.
The irritant effects of sandfly bites are extra-
ordinarily persistent, and the pain tends to
recur over long intervals. Scratching of the
affected parts also tends to set up a dermatitis
which may become secondarily infected. The
insect does not lay its eggs in human tissue.
If the irritation is acute, hot fomentations give
relief. For the more chronic forms, calamine
lotion, with a drachm of carbolic added to
every eight ounces of calamine is helpful.
* * * *
(1) Is olive or paraffin oil suitable for use
as hair oil? (2) Which is the better for the
purpose? (3) Is there a better substitute? (4)
Do any of them tend to reduce dandruff? (5)
Oil, or a mixture of oils, suitable for browning
the skin without the agony of sunburn? —l3so.
(1), (2) and (3). Preparations with a paraffin
base are the most popular and suitable. (4)
Only to the extent that, when well rubbed in,
they soften scales and crusts and make them
easily removed by washing the scalp. (5) Many
oily and paraffin preparations are used, and
all are of equal value. Remember that, for
people with certain types of fair skin, nothing
yet invented will prevent damage while sun-
baking. For such, excessive sunlight is bad,
not only for the skin, but for the general
health.
(1) How is fibrous plaster made? (2) In-
gredients? (3) How is enamel made? —1344.
(1) and (2) Fibrous plaster consists of plaster
of Paris in which various fibrous materials arc
incorporated for the purpose of increasing the
tensile strength. Common ingredients are paper,
sisal fibre and sugarcane waste. Plaster is mixed
with water, fibrous material incorporated, and
the mixture is then cast in moulds. Various
methods of procedure are adopted in which
the sheets are made in layers of different com-
positions. In come cases the core contains less
fibrous matter than the two surfaces. In other
cases the surfaces consist of paper sheets. (3)
The term “enamel” has been applied to a very
wide range of products. It is most properly
applied to vitreous materials composed of glass
or porcelain mixtures in which opacifiers and
pigments are incorporated. The material is
then applied to the article to be coated and
the whole fired at a temperature of approxi-
mately lOOOdeg. C. The following is one for-
mula: Borax 240 grammes, potash feldspar 410
grammes, saltpetre 30 grammes, sodium car-
bonate 120 grammes, calcium spar 30 grammes
and quartz 170 grammes. This is crushed,
ground with about 60 grammes of tinting sub-
stance and about 20 grammes of zirconia opaci-
fier. Enamel paints consist of copal varnish to
which various pigments are added.
* * * *
(1) How is a Dutch etching-bath prepared?
(2) What is its advantage over the ordinary
nitric bath? —1411.
(1) Chlorate of potash 20 grammes, hydro-
chloric acid 100 grammes, water 880 grammes.
Dissolve the chlorate of potash in hot but
not boiling water and stir well. When the
crystals are entirely gone the mixture is left
to cool and the acid then added. To use, keep
at a temperature between 70deg. and 85deg.
F. while biting is proceeeding, and place a
piece of sheet asbestos beneath the dish on the
heater, with the gas or spirit very low. The
bath gives off chlorine gas when first poured
into the dish, so keep away for a few minutes
before commencing to bite. If deep biting is
desired, well wash the plate from time to time
and dip into the nitric bath to clear the slight
film deposited. (2) Bites deeper than an ordi-
nary nitric bath, but does not enlarge the line
so much and attacks the metal more regularly.
* * * m
How is collodion made and what are its
characteristics and uses? —1420.
It is a colorless liquid obtained by dissolv-
ing pyroxylin in a mixture of ether and alcohol.
This liquid evaporates quickly on exposure to
air, leaving a transparent but matt-surfaced film
of pyroxylin. This form of collodion is princi-
pally used in photography. The addition of
castor oil and Canada balsam provides a flex-
ible adhesive covering for wounds. Salicylic
acid and Indian hemp added to the ordinary
collodion form a corn cure.
* * * *
Aboriginal name suitable for home on a hill,
with good view, surrounded by large tract of
partially-timbered land ? —1044.
Arribri, mountain; Attunga, high place; Bat-
tunga, large trees; Bibbenluke, big lookout;
Binya, mountain; Bolwarra, high; Boogera,
Karta, big hill; Bungendore, Bywong, Chiniala,
Darli, Derain, Erbrai, Keira, Kobada, Yarrinup,
all meaning hill; Weogo, lone hill; Nioka,
green hill; Yeruga, extensive view; Conmurra,
stony hill; Cobbadah, place on hill.
* * * *
What are the proper ingredients and propor-
tions for roughcasting a concrete-block resi-
dence? I want it to have a pebbly effect
and to be a dark-cream color. —1397.
One part cement to two parts of sand and
two parts of screened ashes of about £in. size.
The yellow color is obtained by mixing 51b. of
yellow oxide of iron with cement. This mixture
is made up to a fairly thin consistency, and is
then thrown on to the wall immediately after
plastering, and before the mortar has had time
to set. The mixture may be thrown from a
trowel or applied by means of a stiff brush or
broom.
* * * *
Recipe for office paste which resembles a
solid cream and smells of almonds? —l433.
Boil together half-teaspoon powdered alum
and half-pint water. Mix one tablespoon of
plain flour to a smooth paste with a little cold
water, and stir into the boiling liquid. When
clear, remove from the fire and add half-tea-
spoon essence of cloves. Bottle in wide-
mouthed jars and cover from dust. Use very
sparingly and spread thinly. The “almond”
smell comes from the clove essence, which is
included as an antiseptic and preservative.
* * * *
How to get rid of silverfish and cockroaches ?
—1440.
Silverfish, which secrete themselves during the
day in bookcases, old papers and dark cup-
boards, can be poisoned with a paste made by
heating i-pint of water, loz. flour, l£oz. sugar
and, while warm, stirring in |oz. zinc borate or
ioz. arsenate of lead. Spread the mixture
on white cardboard, and when dry leave the
cards in places infested with the pest. To get
rid of cockroaches, wash down cupboards,
skirting-boards and around sinks and wash-
tubs, then spray or dust with insecticide or
fumigate with sulphur placed on hot ashes.
An effective poison bait for cockroaches can
be made of equal parts of borax and corn-
flour or plaster of Paris and flour placed in
shallow tin-lids on the floor, being careful to
keep it from pets. A second treatment a week
later will kill cockroaches missed in the first
treatment or which may have hatched in the
meantime.
* * * *
What are the concluding lines in Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s poem “The Sick Stockrider” ?
1422.
liet me slumber in the hollow where the wattle
blossoms wave
With never stone or rail to fence my bed;
Should the sturdy station children pull the bush
flowers on my grave
I may chance to hear them romping overhead.
* * * *
(1) Result of Test matches between Aus-
tralia and S. Africa, and where was the first
match played? (2) Averages of Bardsley,
Trumper and Bradman in these Tests? (3)
Highest aggregate by a South African? —1364.
(1) Australia has won 18, South Africa 1
Spd 5 were drawn. The first Test was played
St Johannesburg on October 11-14, 1902, and
Vas drawn; Australia scored 296 and 372 for
1 wickets (closed), S. Africa 454 and 4 for
101.
In. H.S. N.O. Total. Av.
(2)
Bardsley .. 17 164 1 982 61.37
Trumper .. 15 214 x 3 900 75.00
Bradman .. 5 299 x 1 806 201.00
x Not out.
f- @) —
Faulkner ... 15 204 1 880 62.85
* * * *
Results and scores of the Maoriland XI v.
South Australia, Victoria and N.S.W. in 1937?
—1360.
South Australia (331 and 0 for 7) defeated
M.L. (151 and 186) by 10 wickets; Victoria
(141 and 5 for 293) defeated M.L. (210 and
223) by five wickets; N.S.W. (274 and 2 for
136) defeated M.L. (195 and 214) by eight
Wickets.
* * * m
How many Australian XI cricketers took part
in every match while on their tours in Eng-
land? —1316.
Murdoch, McDonnell, Bonnor, Groube and
Palmer in 1880 (37 matches); McDonnell, Scott,
G. Giffen, A. Bannerman and Bonnor in 1884
(32 matches); Ferris in 1888 (40 matches); H.
Trott and Bruce in 1893 (36 matches); and
Bardsley in 1912 (37 matches).
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling figures of Voce
and O’Reilly in the 1936-37 Test matches in
Australia? (2) How was Hammond ( England )
dismissed and his scores in these Tests? —1230.
(1) Voce, 159.5 overs, 20 maidens, 26 wickets
for 580 runs, average 22.30; O’Reilly, 247.6
overs, 89 maidens, 25 wickets for 557 runs,
average 22.28. (2) First Test, c. Robinson, b.
McCormick, 0, and b. Ward, 25; second Test,
231 not out; third Test, c. Darling, b. Sievers,
32, and b. Sievers, 31; fourth Test, c. McCor-
mick, b. O’Reilly, 20, and b. Fleetwood-Smith,
39; fifth Test, c. Nash, b. O’Reilly, 14, and c.
Bradman, b. O’Reilly, 56.
* * * *
Does Bradman hold the highest score in any
match for an Australian team v. an English
side in Australia and in England? If not, who
has better figures? —l233.
No. A. J. Richardson’s 280 not out for S.
Aus. v. M.C.C. at Adelaide in 1922-23 and
Woodfull’s 275 not out for Victoria v. M.C.C.
at Melbourne in 1928-29 are higher than Brad-
man’s 270 in the Test at Melbourne in 1936-37;
and Macartney’s 345 v. Notts in 1921 was 11
runs ahead of Bradman’s 334 in the Test at
Leeds in 1930.
* * * *
(1) A Rugby League team takes the field
short-handed in the first half of a game; can
the side be made up to 13 after the interval?
(2) Who decides the fitness of the playing area?
—1242.
(1) There is nothing to stop a team making
up its playing-strength after the interval, pro-
vided, of course, the latecomers are members
of that club; the R. League rule reads: “If
a team begins a match with less than 13 men
it may fill the vacant place or places at any
time during the game.” (2) The fitness of the
ground is decided by the R. League committee
or on the field of play by the captains; should
they disagree the referee will decide.
* * * *
Is there a football law in any code which
definitely prohibits players from taking part in
first-class games without boots? —1237.
In Soccer it is allowed ( vide the Indian team
in Australia); there is no rule in Rugby Union,
although doubtless it would not be tolerated;
under Rugby League, Law 19 states: “ a
player will not be allowed to play without
boots or shoes,” and a player who takes his
boots off during the game will not be permitted
to take further part in the game until he re-
places them.
* * * *
(1) Is there such a punch as a right hook in
boxing? If there is such a punch, is it used
by many boxers nowadays? —l396.
A right-hook punch is known in boxing, but
it is seldom used by an orthodox boxer, as he
has to punch in an unbalanced position, and
leaves himself open for a counter. Boxers who
shape right-hand forward use a right hook con-
tinuously, however, in the same manner that
an orthodox boxer uses a left hook. Henry
Armstrong (winner of three world’s champion-
ships—the feather-, light- and welterweight)
uses a right hook. Two great old-timers, Jem
Driscoll and Griffo, also used right hooks on
many occasions, but no present-day boxer in
Australia (and Armstrong is the only one
overseas) seems to have a right hook in his
fistic repertoire.
* * * *
(1) Who was the first world's heavyweight
champion under Marquis of Queensberry rules ?
(2) His successors, and years in which they held
the championship? —l447.
(1) John L. Sullivan, 1882 to 1892. (2) James
J. Corbett, 1892 to 1897; Bob Fitzsimmons,
1897 to 1899; Jim Jeffries, 1899 until he re-
tired in 1906; Tommy Burns, 1906 to 1908;
Jack Johnson, 1908 to 1915; Jess Willard,
1915 to 1919; Jack Dempsey, 1919 to 1926;
Gene Tunney, 1926 until he retired in 1928;
Max Schmeling, 1930 to 1932; Jack Sharkey,
1932 to 1933; Primo Camera, 1933 to 1934;
Max Baer, 1934 to 1935; James J. Braddock,
1935 to 1937; Joe Louis, 1937 to date.
Brief Answers.
F.H.: The “Overflow” referred to in “Banjo”
Paterson’s poem “Clancy of the Overflow” was
a cattle station which took its name from a
dam built across a watercourse, with a dip in
the centre for surplus water to flow over
S.T.: Guam Island, in the Mariana Group, has
a length of 32 miles and a breadth of four to
10 miles; area, 225 sq. m.; population, about
500 whites, mostly American, and 16,517
natives. Copra, cocoa, coffee and sugarcane
are the principal products.. . .A.P.W.: The
Murray cod inhabits the waters of the whole
Murray River system and the headwaters of
some coastal streams of N. S. Wales and
southern Queensland. Its maximum length is
about 6ft. and maximum weight about 1501 b.
... .8.N.: (1) The Apollo Belvedere is attributed
to the Greek sculptor Calamis, fifth century
b.c. (2) Called Apollo because it represents
that god, and surnamed Belvedere because it
was placed in the Belvedere gallery of the
Vatican....H.N.T.: Garden Island (N.S.W.) is
used as a depot by the Australian Navy ; on
Goat Island a repair depot has been established
by the Maritime Services Board, and firefloats
are stationed there. Large graving docks are situ-
ated on Cockatoo Island. Spectacle Island is
used for the storage of explosives. Fort Denison,
used formerly for defence purposes, is now a
lighthouse and fog-signal station P.R.M.:
The fish bread used for feeding goldfish is
made only in Japan from rice. It is by no
means the best food. Mosquito larvae, chopped-
up earth worms, dog biscuit finely ground or
even the dry crumbs of ordinary bread are
suitable K.G.: (1) The greatest known ocean
depth (in the Pacific, off Mindanao) is 32,089 ft.
The greatest land height (Mt. Everest) is
29,141 ft. (2) No. The water area is over
twice as large as the land area, and the mean
depth of the ocean floor exceeds 12,000 ft.,
while the mean height of the surface of the land
area above sea level is only 2300 ft E.S.:
The red-chested parrakeet is possibly the rarest
bird in N. S. Wales. It is a tiny bird,
with a green back, blue head and face and
wings, having a scarlet chest and yellow abdo-
men. Formerly it was fairly abundant in far-
western N. S. Wales and Central Australia
G.T.8.: Number of cases and offences for
which the death sentence was carried out in
the British Army during the World War were
as follows: Mutiny three men, cowardice 18 men,
desertion two officers and 264 men, murder one
officer and 36 men, striking or violence six men,
disobedience five men, sleeping on post two
men, quitting post seven men, casting away arms
two men; total, three officers and 343 men
R.S.S.: No figures as to how members of the
A.I.F. in camp in Australia voted at the two con-
scription referendums. At both referendums the
votes of soldiers in camp in Australia were
merged with the votes for the divisions for
which they were enrolled or within which they
were residents... .M.G.D.: Hues are colors.
Shades are various deepnesses or richnesses of
a particular color, and a tint is a more or
less faint shade or overlay of a particular
color W.H.M.8.: Telephone communica-
tion was established between Adelaide and
Perth on December 18, 1930; length of line,
1676 miles... .A.L.G.: In Australia, pure beef
oleo and locally-produced cottonseed oil and
peanut oil are the materials most commonly
used in the manufacture of margarine. In
other countries many other fats and oils are
used.... W.A.N.: A Journalist and Two Bears,
by James Edmond, was published by the
Platypus Press, Sydney, in 1913. It comprised
stories and verse written by the author which
had appeared in The Bulletin and the “Lone
Hand.” The book is now out of print, but
copies can occasionally be picked up in second-
hand bookshops... .B.B.: “Acute anterior
poliomyelitis” is the medical term for infan-
tile paralysis. It is called that because it affects
what is called the “anterior” cells of the spinal
cord. The anterior cells have to do with move-
ment, and that is why, when they are affected,
paralysis results... .M.F.: The overall length
of the Sirius, the guardship of N. S. Wales’s
First Fleet, was about 132 ft., depth from keel to
upper deck 26ft., loaded draft 17ft., height of
mainmast above the deck 122 ft., displacement
612 tons. Her best speed in a favorable breeze
was seven knots J.M.: The origin of
“Tommy Atkins” as a nickname for the British
private soldier is that Thomas Atkins was the
name selected by the War Office to fill in the
specimen form of a manual distributed through-
out the army, in which were to be entered de-
tails concerning each man C.K.: A J.P.
should be a man of some standing in the com-
munity and fitted by good character and educa-
tion to carry out the duties of the office. The
appointment is made in N. S. Wales through the
Chief Secretary’s Department, and such appoint-
ments are most frequently initiated through the
member of Parliament for the district....
J.D.D.: Obtain a copy of the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act 1908 and Regulations from N.S.W.
Government Printer, Sydney... .L.S.: (1) Scien-
tifically, the Adam’s apple is the movable pro-
jection, more prominent in males than females,
formed in the front part of the throat by the
thyroid cartilage of the larynx. (2) The name
was given from a legend that a piece of the for-
bidden fruit lodged in Adam’s throat T.T.:
The King’s School was opened in January, 1832,
Sydney Grammar School on August 3, 1857,
Newington College in 1863, St. Joseph’s College
in 1882, Sydney Church of England Grammar
School in July, 1889, St. Ignatius’s College, River-
view, in 1889, and Scots College in 1893
V.M.: You probably refer to the 100-mile horse-
race arranged to take place at Howlong (N.S.W.)
on June 27, 1876. Viking ran 87 2-3 miles in less
than eight hours. As his opponent, a horse named
John Sullivan, was pulled up, the race was not
finished R.M.A.: A copyright under the
Commonwealth Act subsists for 50 years after
the death of a sole author. In the case of a work
of joint authorship, copyright subsists during the
life of the author who dies first and for a term
of 50 years after his death, or during the life
of the author who dies last, whichever period
is the longer W.G.A.: Try Stanley Gibbons,
391 Strand, London, or T. H. Nicolle, 105 Pitt-
street, Sydney. The names of many other firms
may be found in the “Australian Stamp
Monthly,” Box 1944, G.P.0., Melbourne; 6d.
Some of the stamps of the 1898 issue are very
common, although 40 years old R.E.: No.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright andf
original suggestions accepted.
NO STYLISH CLOTHES
WOULD FIT HER
So Fat She Looked Enormous.
She couldn’t wear anything pretty, for no-
thing smart would fit her. She had tried
ordinary “salts” without avail. At last a friend
persuaded her to try Kruschen, and —well, read
her letter:—
“A few months ago I weighed 14 stone 2 lbs.
and my height is 5 ft. 6 ins. I really had got
‘enormous.’ It was impossible for me to walk
into a shop and buy anything really pretty to
fit me. One day a friend said: ‘Why don’t
you start taking Kruschen?’ I replied:
‘Haven’t I been taking salts for months?’ ‘1
know you have,’ she said, ‘but not Kruschen
Salts, which makes all the difference.” She was
so serious I bought a bottle on my way
home. I am now happy to tell you I weigh
11 stone 3 lbs. I am naturally a lazy person,
but I found that as I gradually lost weight I
got more and more energetic.”—(Mrs.) C.W.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is finished
the fat starts to go. Then, month after month,
the scales tell the same story —a few pounds
less of superfluous flesh to burden the body and
endanger the health.
A central market for 300,000 buyers.
COME TO THE
Twice a year, 300,000 shrewd buyers from all
over the world gather at the Leipzig Inter-
national Trade Fair to investigate the newest
developments in every phase of industry . , .
to gain valuable selling and advertising ideas
. . . and to take advantage of the keen prices.
It will pay YOU to choose YOUIi requirements
from the displays of over 0000 exhibitors who
make the Leipzig Trade Fair their selling
centre!
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
(GREATER GERMANY)
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks) available of LARS G.
BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis
House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P,
Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane; H, C. ITTEKS-
HAGEN, Slienton Park, \V.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
SPRING FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5, 1939.
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photographic,
Sports Goods, Great En-
gineering and Building Fairs.
a
m
m
a
o' 6
i
N
#
©
©
fd
If
cost d^H
little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
*% * ii ■■ s f
Gordons
Gin
Stilled in £mdon , hujUnd
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
C7 he Lityett gin diAtillM in the woild
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.F.: That sort of work is done by staff
men K.F.R.: Can’t use those or anything
like them G.N.D.: Slight... .H.T.8.: Eli-
minate at least half a dozen characters and try
a daily T.R.: Doesn’t make a yarn
H.L.R.: Something very like it appeared in
The Bulletin six weeks ago... .H.F.S.: No-
thing new about that except “leather clouds
and galvanised ocean”... .L.T.R.: It might
stand a chance after a solid revision... .G.8.D.:
Worse than the last J.G.: Don’t talk about
them, send ’em along... .R.C.D.: Horrible.
P.R.V.: Try reading it from a soapbox.
. ...K.R.: Hero washed ashore from wrecked
yacht, rids the little farm of cattle-duffers and
a mortgage and weds farmer’s daughter! Out!
.... J.T.D.: Your typewriter needs a new
ribb0n....K.T.8., R.F.S., J.T. and M. 8.: Try
them elsewhere... .E. 8.: Too sweetly, too
softly N.M.: All close N.A.C.: But that
gibe at Joe is made so often... .H.W.: Inten-
tional or not, that last line is profound bathos.
. ...R.C.N.: As you prophesied, we endorse
the sentiments... .L.H.: It’s out on the open
road again.... M.H.McA.: Lid dipped....
S.A.: Thin... .1.M.D.: That’s original note-
paper 8.J.R.: It came too late; call again.
....8.N.: Try a daily... .W.L.R.: With less
hackneyed themes you’d be closer... .E.E.:
“Battler” still is just that... .M.N.: “Little
blind pit pony” has been said before....
H.McL.B.: So it’s true that Joyce “Haveth
Childers Everywhere” P.H.: Should click
elsewhere W.P.: Off our beat J.C.: Half
a dozen rhetorical questions don’t make a
poem P.K.: Pish!... .1.M.T.: Moralising.
....H.H.H. and J.M.P.: Not quite... .E.L.:
Du 11... .E.W.: Description of a game of
draughts left us breathless L.K.E.: No.
R.R.C.: Don’t like bar-room ghosts
J.M.C.: Too rough... .J.McD.: Advise you
to keep “The Occult in Woggaburra”
H.R.N.: N0....J.D.: Pleased to read that it
was only “ almost” G.W.: Neither of
those M.H.M.: Hardly a yarn E. 8.:
Not for u5....M.A.R.: At least you have a
vivid imagination C.8.H.: Off our beat
N.L.: The idea might be worth consideration
from a different angle... .P.W.C.: Doesn’t get
there W.S.: Merely the bones of an idea.
.... M.A.C.: Nothing for P011y... .H.C.:
Haven’t a pool for your trained frogs....
W.D.G.: Not that 0ne....G.8.: Beller-
drammer... .J.P.McK.: “The Man Without a
Self” is also homeless 0.C.T.: Nothing
there... .1.P.: Heavy “Weather”... .K.T.:
“Outsider” making fast time homewards
8.5. R.: Beyond us 8.N.F.: Sending “Mrs.
Smith’s Prize Leghorn” home to roost
F.G.L.: What’s wrong with the space-bar of
your typewriter?... .N.S.D.: Try something
lighter 8.R.: Hide it....J.T.R.: Grim
drama of prospectors duelling over maiden “dead
these 50 weary years” is not for u5....8.V.:
Sorry, but none of those is for u5....H.R.:
Slight improvement... .F.8.T.: Gave it up
when the damsel began “weeping on the golden
sands to the accompaniment of the sighing
of the waves” P.R.N.: Yarns must have
some Australian interest, and nothing syndi-
cated, thank you... .N.F.C.: Now think of
a yarn... .G.V.D.: Is that all you have to say
in 6000 words?... .H.G.8.: Wouldn’t mind in-
specting some others J.G.R.: Piffle
P. 8.: Not what we want P.L.-S.: Doesn’t
make the grade... .C.S.: Not that one, but
keep at it M.T.: Thin.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.R.8.: Cup drawing didn’t reach the post.
W.K.: Cannot detect any sign of merit.
H.A.: Caricatures bear no resemblance to
their subjects W.M.: You’re still plodding
along the same old groove T.T.: Original!
It was old when Sydney was first settled....
B. : Languishing in the w.p.b J.N.:
Neat, but gags need to be more lively H.F.:
Yes, but “economy of line” doesn’t mean leav-
ing drawings half-finished.... W.W.: Abo. might
have stepped out of an illustrated Harlem maga-
zine G.L.: Your covering letters are better
than the drawings... .A.G.: Try a school maga-
zine M.A.: Plunged us deep in gloom
J.T.: You managed the tangled fishing line,
but you made a hash of the fisherman
C. : Take more time over drawings, and
let us have brighter gags... ,E.N.: Hovered on
the brink for a while, then fell on the wrong
side of the fence... .A.T.: More like a weather
chart than a humorous drawing... .E.F.:
“Hop” did it 40 years ago W.W.: Another
12 months’ study and you should be very
close E. 8.: Reminds us of the sketches
nippers chalk on pavements J.N,: The pea-
shooting parson’s son has had his day
W.R.: Two-up-school sketch showed promise.
E.G.: Send it to one of the women’s
weeklies A.T.: Draughtsmanship is good,
linework scratchy.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Arsenal”: The international Soccer
match between Britain and a combined
team from six nations at the Arsenal
club’s ground at Highbury was won 3-0
by Britain. The visitors were handi-
capped by the fact that none of the dif-
ferent nationalities understood a word
of each other’s language, to say nothing
of any hint from the referee, save the
whistle. There must have been some in-
spiring moments. Imagine a mixed
crowd of Frenchmen, Italians, Hun-
garians, Germans, Belgians and Nor-
wegians yelling furiously to their centre-
forward, each in his own lingo, to
“Shoot, laddie, shoot!’’
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Oldfield, back from
England, has been telling of a wonder-
ful new way of playing cricket, an effect
of daylight-saving. It is known as
industrial workshop cricket, and work-
men leave their factories at 5 p.m. and
play until 8.30 p.m. But that was in
vogue long before daylight-saving, thanks
to the long North of England twilight,
At a big prep, school at Southport in
Lancashire matches against local and
touring clubs were played in this way
three evenings a week. Schoolboys in
the teams began their prep, an hour
earlier than usual; school matches were
played on Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday half-holidays. One way and
another a ot of cricket was squeezed
into the season.
ttT r * » *, * *
Uramao : Old diggers are authority
for a * eat by Ned Devine (“Cabbage-tree
Ned ), over whose grave in Ballarat
(Vic.) cemetery a memorial was not long
ago unveiled When Ned was driving
coacnes in Utago (M.L.) he saw an enemy
coachman on a mountain road. It had
been raining, and there was frost and
snow. An icicle depending from the nose
of Ned’s rival was too great a temptation
to the old coachman. With a flick of
his whip “Cabbage-tree” clipped the ap-
pendage as cleanly as if by a lance,
* * * *
Violinist Daisy Kennedy, of South
Australia, has been named leader and
conductor of the Regent Palace Hotel
orchestra. As a prodigy of 13 Daisy won
Adelaide Con.’s gold medal. She left
for Prague in 1908, made her debut
in Vienna in 1911 and in the same year
in London, and thereafter toured Aus-
tralia, M.L. and the world. She married
first Benno Moiseiwitsch, the pianist,
then John Drinkwater, the playwright.
<<c „* ~ c
S> , * ,P r - r l r / enne ’ who £? centl y
K? d J^° Ugh t Melbourne on ,s way
t 0 h,s at Island s a f {er
being consecrated at Nantes, in France,
“ “* d to J? * he youngest bishop in the
an T d . , on s, ° f n p h< f largest
t™ j * 36 ’ o .°° Polynesians
att * red ° yer an arch ; pe , laB ° -? f 27 f
* lands ’ ™ th u ? pward i of 10 ° miles of
the Pa * lfic between them.
“Mark Over”: That famous shot of
lhe ’seventies Lord Walsingham (B.
12/10/’3B) has left it on record that he
invariably used cylinder barrels. Yet
some of the shots he brought off, well
authenticated, were astonishing. He tells
of going out one morning with a friend
when the ground was covered with snow.
A pair of mallard got up from a pond
under a hedge and Walsingham dropped
them both. Measuring from his stance
in the snow, one bird was lying 110yds.
away and the other 112. R. B. Lan-
caster, who built the gun, also tells the
story in his book on field shooting, and
mentions that he built a four-barrel 16-
bore for Walsingham with which he
brought off a wonderful bag walking up
grouse in the heather with dogs, a most
exhausting form of shooting, as anyone
who has trudged through heather can
testify. Lancaster himself was an original
in his methods. He introduced an oval-
bore method of “rifling” for sporting
rifles and cannon. Some of these were
tried but did not find favor. Writer saw
in India a four-barrelled pistol of this
breed by Lancaster designed for work
on the N.W. Frontier. The bullet was
about the size of a pigeon’s egg, and. the
hardiest Pathan must have wriggled when
it hit him.
* * * *
Arthur Collins, the new head of the
architectural section at the Gordon
Institute of Technology at Geelong (Vic.),
learnt his knowledge of construction at
that institution. He got an appointment
to the Melb. University, won a travel-
ling scholarship and put in a fruitful time
amongst the old buildings of Europe.
Then he landed the job of assistant archi-
tect to the Public Works Department of
Tanganyika, the one-time colonial pet of
the ex-Kaiser. After eight years of
tropical building he returned to his home
town.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
I
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
m
m
m
JOHN DANKS &
SON Pty
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE 'Phone:
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY 'Phone:
Ltd.
CB3BO.
M 6505.
S
n
c
i
Np^
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
“THE BANJO”
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IT is over 50 years since Andrew
Barton Paterson had his first con-
tribution printed in The Bulletin,
and more than 40 years since Angus
and Robertson published his first col-
lected book of verse, The Man from
Snowy River, and there is no exaggera-
tion in saying that ever since he has
been a national character. No other Aus-
tralian writer —I don’t except Gordon,
Kendall or Lawson—has occupied so
settled a place in the regard and affec-
tion of his fellow-countrymen.
This is frankly personal, and any-
one who has the good fortune to know
Paterson personally somehow under-
stands why it is so. He is a bush-bred
Australian of several generations’ pedi-
gree, has always interpreted his country
as a happy land overflowing with
humorous aspects that easily outweigh the
morbidity and gloom sometimes attri-
buted to it by less cheerful bards.
For Australians in exile The Man from
Snowy River volume has again and again
been a tonic.
Over thirty years ago the writer fell
very sick in Leeds —sick enough not to
have cared overmuch whether he lived
or died. As the pnly bit of Australia
available to him in that bleak Yorkshire
city, he took that book into hospital, and
during the tedious process of recovery
learned the title-poem off by heart. He
remains quite sure that “Banjo’s” classic
did more to pull him through than
doctors and nurses and medicine —that
and the other fine things about Australia
which make up The Man from Snowy
River.
Such exquisite pictures of the bush he
knows and loves so much must have
earned for Paterson the gratitude and
affection of more than one exile, sick
and sorry for himself and devastatingly
lonely, in far countries. It is not only
the music in the verses, but there is some
sort of genius of the sort that exists for
Scotsmen in Robert Burns.
Oh rocky range, atjd rugged spur, and
river running clear
That swings around the sudden bends
with swirl of snow-white foam,
Though we, your sons, are far away, we
sometimes seem to hear
The message that the breezes bring to
call the exile home.
Writer’s most vivid recollection of
Paterson has to do with the South African
War, when “Banjo” was attached as a
correspondent to the Ist Cavalry Brigade,
with which were serving two Australian
units. I had plenty of opportunity of
seeing how unique he was among the
many of his kind who accompanied the
troops in the veld. • A fine horseman and
a “hard-doer,” he was always where
things were happening, and in appear-
ance and turnout was one of the most
unconventional war correspondents who
ever rode with an army.
It was the day of the special corre-
spondent, and the tribe was almost innu-
merable in Africa, magnificently turned
out and mostly splendidly tailored in
uniforms of its individual invention. But
Paterson wasn’t like the rest of them.
Always well-mounted, and invariably
with the first line of the advance, he
rather resembled a stray Boer than a war-
scribe of the typical pattern. In the relief
of Kimberley and the hard marching and
starvation and frequent “scrapping” that
preceded the occupation of Bloemfontein,
Johannesburg and Pretoria he was always
up with the advanced scouts —sometimes
a little ahead of them.
When Australian soldiers saw him rid-
ing about keen and sardonic-looking,
they always expected something impor-
tant to happen, and were seldom dis-
appointed. Nothing that he ever sent over
the wires was anything but first-hand
news, and was not exaggerated. Pater-
son always delivered the goods, and never
advertised.
Actually the first “Banjo” verses to be
published in The Bulletin appeared on
June 12, 1886 ; the title was “The Bush-
fire,” the subject Gladstone’s Home Rule
Bill.
The subjoined lines, which illustrate
Paterson’s lifelong love of horses, were
printed on December 21, 1895:
BRUMBY’S RUN.
[At a trial in Sydney a Supreme Court Judge,
hearing of “Brumby horses,” asked, “Who is
Brumby, and where is his run?”]
It lies beyond the Western Pines
Towards the sinking sun,
And not a survey mark defines
The bounds of “Brumby’s Run.”
On odds and ends of mountain land,
On tracks of range and rock,
Where no one else can make his stand,
Old Brumby rears his stock —
A wild, unhandled lot they are
Of every shape and breed,
They venture out ’neath moon and star
Along the flats to feed.
But when the dawn makes pink the sky
And steals along the plain,
The Brumby horses turn and fly
Towards the hills again.
The traveller by the mountain track
May hear their hoof-beats pass,
And catch a glimpse of brown and black,
Dim shadows on the grass.
The eager stockhorse pricks his ears
And lifts his head on high
In wild excitement when he hears
The Brumby mob go by.
Old Brumby asks no price or fee
O’er all his wide domains;
The man who yards his stock is free
To keep them for his pains.
So, off to scour the mountain-side
With eager eyes aglow,
To strongholds where the wild mobs hide
The gully-rakers go.
A rush of horses through the trees,
A red shirt making play;
A sound of stockwhips on the breeze,
They vanish far away!
Ah, me! Before our day is done •
We long with bitter pain
To ride once more on Brumby’s run
And yard his mob again.
“The 0.D.”: It’s me for Amurrica
next time I want a good horse. In the
film “Of Human Hearts” (Walter
Huston, James Stewart) a grey nag, Pil-
grim, is acquired as a four-year-old when
the boy is ten. Pilgrim is still going
strong when the boy goes away to col-
lege at 20, and is full of fire when the
lad emerges as a surgeon iq time to get
into the Civil War. After the war, in
which Pilgrim was an officer’s nag, the
now-decorated surgeon rides him home.
Beat that, you Aussie prad-punishers!
A MIXED GRILL.
“Skull Creek”: I camped one night
with a wayfarer whose carefully-groomed
swag and shining culinary ware proved
him to be an aristo of the track. I was
curious when, instead of busying himself
after tea with the manufacture of a
damper, he made mysterious play with
certain small billies and packets. Just
before turning in he enlightened me. “Set
a jelly and made a drop of custard,” he
said casually; “nothin’ like a change
now an’ then.” I wasn’t at all surprised
to note that a pair of spotless sheets com-
prised part of his sleeping gear.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s “Soapbox Derby,”
so called, is growing into a big thing.
This flat city would seem about the last
place for racing vehicles that have no
motive-power. But just outside, on the
north, has been found the requisite steep
hill with little traffic. This year the 125
starters and 20,000 onlookers took the
promoters and the police by surprise, and
there were several minor casualties.
* * * *
“D.P.”: R.P. reference (B. 19/10/’3B)
to Tristram Shandy invites a query as to
why no one has ever noticed the re-
semblance between Sterne’s work and
Tom Collins’s Such Is Life. The
two men were so much alike in many
ways that a comparison would prove
very enlightening. Both were humorists
in a queer pawky way, and were given to
discursiveness and odd displays of learn-
ing. Mencken, with some justice dubbed
Sterne a “Rabelais in lace-trimmed
pants.” Moleskins or reach-me-downs
were more in Collins’s line. Collins
could have made himself at home in
the England of Sterne’s day, but Sterne
could never have hobnobbed with the
“whalers” and “hatters” of Collins’s
acquaintanceship.
* * * *
..Melbourne “Age” is angry with the
Tramways Board, whose wandering Bell,
while insisting that electric trams are best
for Melbourne, “decides to abandon
trams on a main trunk line.”
A responsible body which acts against
its own convictions is lamentably weak or
extraordinarily foolish describing its
programme as an experiment that will cost
£240,000! There is every reason to fear
that the chairman’s trip abroad will prove
to be a very expensive one for the people.
Has the “Age” ever heard of a transport
boss whose trip abroad didn’t prove to
be “a very' expensive one for the
people”?
* * * *
At Murrin, on the Mt. Margaret field
(W.A.), the wife of the local hotelkeeper
started working a gold-bearing deposit
singlehanded. She has taken out eight
tons, which has been treated at a near-by
public battery for an average return of
6dwt. And she has helped in the house-
work and cooking at the pub as well.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Competition
has been awarded, for the first time, to a lady for a sensible little essay on a subject
important to a country in which there are too few good cooks and far too many
dyspeptics.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
Food
Once upon a time an army was said
to march upon its stomach. Now we
see the whole world flourish or de-
teriorate —still upon its stomach. And
yet what subject is so neglected in our
schools as the vital one of Food —what
to eat, and why?
To teach girls the rudiments of cooking
does no more than touch on the fringes
of the matter, and for every hundred
good cooks in this country it is doubt-
ful if one person with a good working
knowledge of food values could be
found.
Surely the best way to ensure that the
Australians of the future should be
classed as A 1 is to make a course in
dietetics (elementary) compulsory in all
schools. It is not only the children of
the poor who suffer from malnutrition.
Isn’t this a matter of more vital im-
portance even than learning how many
acres there are in Farmer Brown’s
triangular field? Anyhow, what is the
use of having large families if, owing to
Mother’s profound ignorance of how
and what to feed the little darlings,
half of them qualify for the invalid
pension at an early age?
In truth, the health and well-being of
the people of this country might be said
to rest in the hands of the Departments
of Education. —M. E. Moriarty
(N. S. W.).
Three guineas, plus 2|d. a line, for the
foregoing, written by Mrs. M. E. Moriarty,
of Myalla-road, Cooma, N.S.W.
Bookkeeping and the Small Trader
Very few small businessmen keep any
sort of a record of their transactions
from one year’s end to another. When
taxation time arrives confusion ensues,
and the s.b.m. is tempted to, and often
does, evade taxation. It is only after
he is fined that he has learned his lesson
and decides that it would be far cheaper
to keep a set of books. Taxation is a
law of the land, so why try to evade it?
Why not at least keep a book showing
receipts and payments, and, above all,
have a separate banking account for the
business? Then at taxation time this
book and the bank passbook could be
handed to an accountant, if so desired,
and the rendering of a tax return be-
comes quite a simple matter.
Again, where such a record is kept it
is easy to discover where the business
gains or loses. The small businessman
who keeps a record of his transactions
“in his head,” as so many do, is asking
for trouble. And he’ll get it. Further-
more, if he has no separate banking ac-
count for his business, he is at a dis-
advantage should he be involved in a court
action. — Accountant’s Offsider (S.A.).
Hope—But Prepare!
I am no warmonger or alarmist. I
dislike the thought of war. If there was
a war, I’d probably lose my reasonably-
well-paid job and my best friends, who
might get killed, and my lady friends,
whom I would have to leave.
So I don’t want any war. But if I
thought I could rest in peace simply be-
cause the leaders of several powerful and
warlike nations had set their names at
the end of a piece of paper, then I would
be a super-optimist or a damfool.
I am young, so only during the last
few years have I heard considerably of
the peace desire. It’s barely begun to
grow in my mind. When I am old and
sedate and accustomed to dispassionate
thinking, the young men of the day will
be very little less bellicose, thank God,
than I am now.
And, by the way, Hitler’s, Musso.’s,
Benes’s and Chamberlain’s remote an-
cestors may have been mine or warred
“Not s' dam' fast, driver. This edden Melbourne Cup."
with mine. How then can I hope for
peace? I know my own attitude.
I’ll thankfully leave peace in the hands
of Chamberlain and co., but prepare for
anything.— Buster Lyell (N.S.W.).
Danger from the Ether
It’s time we woke up to the danger
lurking behind unrestrained use of radio.
People with whom I have yarned about
it seem to be blissfully ignorant of any
potential danger, and even scoff at the
suggestion that such does actually exist.
Let me explain my angle on it.
First, let’s go back a step. It is gener-
ally considered that the invention and
use of the printing press paved the way
for, and was a vital factor in maintain-
ing, the principles of democracy—which
for all its imperfections, is still a long
way ahead of its rivals. Education and
judicious use of the printed word brought
a healthy awakening to the masses. But
the importance of the press in the demo-
cratic system has been, and continues to
be, that, while revealing imperfections, it
must lack the power to foment un-
warranted mass-hysteria. No matter how
passionately a man might write, the
bigoted passion is removed for the reader
to a great extent when he has it in cold
print. On reading an article, he has
time to weigh the pros and cons as he
goes along —he weighs them superficially,
perhaps, but there is no doubt that the
other side of the argument does intrude
itself in some measure.
Now let us turn to to-day, with radio
at its “best” (?). What do we find?
The blurb-artists on the ether give us no
time for thought—they don’t want us to
think, in fact. It’s my conviction that,
just as the printing-press brought power
to the hands of the people, so the power
of Marconi’s invention can give it to
groups which organise showmanship on
a grand scale by its means. We’ve seen
in Germany, Italy and Russia how
national policy can be dramatised on the
air for the people’s “enjoyment”: let us
therefore guard against the abuse of
radio in working up hysteria.
. There’s not a doubt that, without the
nationally-unified action which can be
obtained in an instant by radio orations
in countries run on the Nazi, Fascist or
Communist principle, modern totalitarian
government would be impossible.
Australia must keep a careful watch
on the activities of irresponsible as well
as unscrupulous ether-blurbers. —R. M. Y.
(Vic.).
Australians and Slang
It surprises me, an Australian youth,
to find such a lack of individuality among
the Australian people in general. A young
country such as this should certainly
adapt from England and some of the
other important European countries part
of their codes of administration and
modes of living. This is essential. But
why should a form of slang which
originates from America take pride of
place in practically three-quarters of the
nation’s speech?
If any “slang” is to be used, why not
that used by the Australian outback
dweller? It is just as good in its own
way as the American import, and, I
should think, equally effective. Some
blame the films, which, though occasion-
ally responsible for an outburst of such
expressions, are on the whole almost free
from slangy language. The real trouble
lies in the fact that Australians like copy-
ing everything they see or hear, so when
something new arrives in the way of
expressions it must become the said thing.
On the whole, the English people, who see
the same films and read the same Ameri-
can magazines as Australians, keep their
speech almost entirely free from any
American slang.—L. W. C. (N.S.W.).
The Friendly North
It would seem to a visitor to a certain
town in Queensland that the less clothes
a man has on him the more amiable he
becomes. This applies especially to the
warmer parts of the State. Cold weather
would appear to damp the friendliness of
man.
To-day two men whom I didn’t know
from Adam and who were dressed in
only a singlet and shorts grinned a
cheery “Good-day; ’ow are yuh?” with
all the friendliness you could wish for. It
seemed merely to be the lovely day and
warm sunshine that made them feel so
happy and want to pass it on. It is a
well-known fact that the farther north
you go in Queensland the more sociable
the people become. I wonder if it is
the effect of the sunshine?—R. Wills
(Q.).
Neglect of National Fitness
A complete Government organisation
for the promotion of national fitness
may be beyond the financial means of
this country, and it may be unnecessary.
But there is no excuse for the wanton
neglect of those existing organisations
which are rendering incalculable service
to the community by keeping hundreds
of young Australians, both men and
women, in perfect condition for any
emergency.
In the amateur athletic associations
Australia has, ready-made in every
State, a recruiting bureau for a national-
fitness campaign of huge dimensions.
These- bodies operate at present under
the most discouraging conditions imagin-
able, and every member is a true ama-
teur if ever there was one. He not only
competes without hope of reward
—it is an unusually important event that
carries a trophy—but he spends hours
preparing the tracks, jumping pits, and
putting and throwing quadrants. Then,
more than likely, he contributes an ad-
mission fee to the ground to pay for its
hire.
Even under these conditions the asso-
ciations manage to keep their members
enthusiastic, and all that is necessary to
make their work of real national im-
portance is some assistance from the
Government. And not a great deal
either. If they were provided with free
grounds, with full facilities for training
and competing, their numbers would run
into thousands instead of hundreds, and
Australia’s drift from the high physical
standards we used to boast of would be
materially checked.
The same scheme could be applied to
a dozen other organisations—gymnastic
clubs and the like. The lifesavers
already receive some assistance and en-
couragement. And the cost? A paltry
few thousands a year!—T. L. W. (Vic.).
Cosmetics, Classics and Cinemas
.A number of films are taken from
novels by famous authors, such as Kip-
ling, Robert Louis Stevenson and
Dickens. A good idea; but the pictures are
usually disappointing owing to the altera-
tion of the plot and characters. Mark
Twain probably turns over in his grave
when his ragged little snub-nosed boys
are portrayed by unbelievably good-
looking, curly-headed children, dressed
immaculately, complete with collar and
bow tie.
In some pictures the stories are prac-
tically rewritten. One finds that the
ugly, pock-marked,
conceited little
man of the book
becomes a tall,
dark, handsome
young man, and
that some Holly-
wood “beauty” has
been introduced
into the story to
create the “love
interest.”
Not only are
these “improve-
ments” annoying to
people who read,
but they are harm-
ful to school-
children. Some of
these filmed novels
are set for study in
the intermediate
and leaving classes,
and the children
attend the pictures
with the idea of
improving their
knowledge. Pic-
tur e s are more
likely to impress incidents upon a child’s
mind than a book, and many a young-
ster leaves the theatre with confused
ideas in his mind.
One secondary-school teacher, mark-
ing the terminal examination papers, was
surprised to find that many of the
children spoke about a carriage coming
down the hill, while the book definitely
said that horses came galloping along.
This was the result of the picture. The
children lose marks for this kind of mis-
take, and it may mean the difference be-
tween a pass and a credit or a pass and
a fail to them.
Often the only resemblance between a
book and the picture is the title. Let
Hollywood influence fashions, cosmetics
and music. Let film stars have as many
divorces as they wish. But, Filmland,
please leave the classics alone.— Willy
(S.A.).
Unification
Recent remarks by Opposition-leader
Curtin gave heart to Australians who are
sick of the multiplicity of Governments.
Mr. Curtin brought up the topic of uni-
fication, but then let it drop, which was
unfortunate for himself and party, as well
as for every other Australian.
Any party game enough to fight a
Federal election on the unification issue
would be certain of strong support, as
the time for elimination of State Parlia-
ments is long overdue.
Unification is still a plank in the
Labor platform. It would be a Federal-
election winner.
Mr. Curtin and his Federal followers
may be afraid of the opposition they
would encounter from the State politi-
cians of their party who would lose jobs
and salary when Australia had one Par-
liament only. However, the Federal men
should be big enough Australians to fight


a campaign on the “one people, one Par-
liament, one destiny issue.” If they don t
do it, some other organisation is certain
to get into the field with unification as
its chief policy, and won’t it wipe the
floor with the others!
Increasing taxation and rising cost of
government call for severe use of the
pruning-knife, and the obvious form ol
economy is to dispense with surplus
Parliaments and their hangers-on. Paul
Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Hand-pick Our Immigrants
l am an immigrant of a good few
years’ standing; came out heie at
15 ; no relations, no money. Do I like
Australia? Well, if I knew of a bettei
country I’d go to it. I was reared in a
poor country home in the shadow or
Ben McDhui, and had never seen a city
until I left for Australia. A hard up-
bringing, but it Enabled me to go through
all the depression years without ever
being unemployed.
Others had other experiences. “Go to
Australia,” the Emigration Department
said in the late ’twenties. “Land of sun-
shine,” etc. “A good shearer can earn
£2 per day, an apple-packer 255. and a
fur-and-skin hunter anything over £l.
Go on the land, and in a very few years
you will own a farm. Go to Australia! ”
The office-boy, the shop assistant, the
bus conductor, the ne’er-do-well heir to
thousands heard, believed and went. Few
of them possessed the physical standards
demanded by farm work. Many of them
had never seen an agricultural imple-
ment, some not even a cow or sheep.
On arrival in the promised land they
were consigned to outback dairy farms,
given plenty work and 10s. per week.
The immigrant was a prey to sandflies
and sunburn, and sometimes his em-
ployer’s witticisms; his back ached, his
hands blistered. There were no bright
lights there, no theatres, no company.
The forests were repulsive, the plains dry
and sun-scorched, the rugged hills an
eyesore. The fabulous money paid to
shearers, etc., was reserved for experts
with years of experience. In brief,
“Choom” was homesick.
Eventually he drifted to the only con-
solation —bright lights. Better to stay
around town, do a little light work when
offering, and perhaps get sustenance.
Is it any wonder that he wrote scornful
letters about “the land of prosperity” to
his friends in England? Australia is,
therefore, in some circles in bad odor.
But such is not universally the case.
Many lads reared in rural Britain are
very adaptable to Australian conditions,
and have made admirable citizens of the
Commonwealth.
I suggest someone with a wide experi-
ence of life beyond the bitumen be com-
missioned to go to the U.K. and hand-
pick all applicants for farm work in
Australia. It would be the least expen-
sive, and in the long run one of the most
useful “commissions” Australia has ever
sent overseas. — RouseabouT (W.A.).
Jaded Spirits Refreshed
I awoke at dawn the other morning.
Instead oi going to sleep again as usual,
I arose, dressed and walked out into the
invigorating freshness. I’m mighty glad
I did, because I got closer to nature than
I had been for a long while.
Passing through several sleeping
streets, I came to a bush reserve border-
ing the harbor shore, and made my way
through rock and scrub and dewy grass
down to a tiny strip of beach. The water
lay as smooth as glass. I lingered.
There is more of an affinity, it seems,
between man and the other forms of cre-
ation in those early hours when all the
world is still than at any other time of
day—more so, I think, than during even-
ing, because creation for the most part
goes to rest as the sun sinks. During all
my recent months of wearying office
routine, coupled with a constant succes-
sion of late nights, I had lost touch with
the beauty of the natural things about
me. This morning walk, with no cars,
trams or noise about, did me far more
good than all the medicinal stimulants
in the world. My experience is one from
which all jaded city workers might de-
rive a worth-while lesson. P. S. C.
(N.S.W.).
Women’s Votes
Most women have neither time nor
inclination to really study political
matters ; when election day comes round
many of them, myself included, just ask
husband whom to vote for and act ac-
cordingly. Many others who possess the
domineering kind of husband who
always says, “Just see that you vote for
So-and-so,” listen calmly and then go off
to the polling booth thinking, “Ah! This
is one thing that I can please myself
about,” and vote just the opposite way,
neither caring nor knowing if they have
voted for the best man.
It seems to me that the country would
be just as well off without such votes.
Many country women have to travel
several miles in sulky or springcart to the
booth, and must take the babies along or,
if left at home, spend the time fuming
and fussing in case something happens
to them. If women must vote I think
the Government should provide a car
to collect such women.
I say, and I think a good many would
agree with me: Let women vote if they
really want to, but do away with the
compulsory stunt. — Woman Voter (Q.).
Let Queensland Do It
Australia has no record of achieve-
ment to boast of in the Northern Terri-
tory. It is 114 years since the first settle-
ment at Melville Island. I suggest that
Queensland is better placed than any
other Administration to make something
of the Territory, and should be given a
chance.
The development of the N.T. is of
national importance, and I advocate its
transfer to Queensland on these grounds:
(1) Tfie Queensland Land Act should
satisfy Territory lessees, as it has satisfied
their Queensland brethren. Since it was re-
organised on lines laid down by W. L.
Payne, and administered by the Land Ad-
ministration Board, which is practically
removed from political control, good work
has been done for the landman in adjusting
rents, giving security of tenure, longer
leases or specialised conditions to land-
holders ready to spend money in improving
their holdings. The Land Board possesses
officers familiar with Gulf cattle country
or dry pastoral country far from markets,
very similar conditions to the Territory,
and it could understand and co-operate
effectively with lessees.
(2) Queensland’s Local Government Act
gives increased powers to local-governing
bodies, and it is local government the Terri-
tory needs.
(3) There are many abos. and half-castes
in the Northern Territory; Queensland has
a policy that commends itself to all who
are familiar with it, and has experienced
officers to administer native affairs.
(4) Queensland’s progress justifies such a
move. In the past 30-40 years it has shown
the world that sugar can be grown by
white labor. Its cotton- and tobacco-grow-
ing industries have been largely established,
dairying now goes as far north as the Ather-
ton Tableland, the prickly-pear menace was
tackled and overcome with the help of the
cactoblastis, good roads were pushed out
ahead of population, up-to-date hospitals
have been erected in many parts of the
State, and a decentralising railway system
takes produce to the nearest port.
The Queensland Administration gets
there. It can show a record of achieve-
ment and help given to far-back grazing,
pastoral and mining people that should
commend it to Territorians. —R. McL.
(Q-).
A Free Defence Census
If Australia’s defence measures are
to be successful, a central authority to
issue orders controlling transport, food
supplies, etc., will be needed. A com-
prehensive census of the population,
transport and food facilities would be
invaluable to such an authority. It
might be said that the cost of such a
census would outweigh the gain; but
I maintain that it can be obtained at no
extra cost.
In Australia there are over 32,000
State school-teachers who get from eight
to nine weeks’ holiday a year. This is
six weeks longer than is considered
enough for other State servants. Neither
the hours nor duties of teachers can be
considered arduous, either mentally or
bodily; some indicate this by taking
any Saturday work available by clerking
in polling booths, totalisators, etc!
Here is a body ideally situated to take
a census. They are spread all over the
various States and have the organisation
needed for such work.— Burr (Q.).
The Problem of Peace
The first step in bringing about uni-
versal disarmament, the prelude to world
peace, is the introduction of a world
currency base founded on natural law.
If sufficient of the principal nations
will agree to an international monetary
standard based on this natural law in-
stead of a commodity, the material part
of the problem is definitely solved. Show-
ing the desire of the world for a suitable
monetary base, the Macmillan Commis-
sion was appointed after the Great War
with this object in view, but it found
no solution because it did not get down
to the one formula on which world
money should be created, namely:
New World Money for New World
Work for the Universal Good.
A World Bank of Issue would be
needed, directed by a representative com-
mittee working definitely to this formula.
This World Bank would also act as a
bank of international settlements, and
would be the world’s central bank. To
commence, the nations agreeing with the
plan would exchange their gold holdings
for new world basic money. When the
plan was fully proven, this reserve gold,
as determined, would be placed on the
world’s market as a commodity, similarly
to other metals. The anticipation of this
would be a further inducement for any
nation standing out to come into line, as
the value of gold, as a commodity only,
could hardly be the value of gold as a
monetary standard also.
Each nation could still continue its
present monetary system, the only change
necessary being the recognition of a
world basic money issued by the World
Bank in place of gold. For international
settlements, and as base to issue national
money, this world money would act pre-
cisely as gold apts now, except that it
would have the same advantages over it
as a cheque has over cash, viz., safety
and convenience.
Gold may be the best of commodities
as a monetary base, but no commodity
is the true base.
The simplest way to issue world basic
money would be in the form of a credit
to the individual nation’s account. On
the application of any nation for further
basic money, either for the expansion of
its own currency or for transference to
another nation’s account in payment of
a debt, the nation would be allotted cer-
tain work for the good of humanity. It
could consist of such as relieving stricken
peoples, destruction of pests, suppression
of drug or white-slave traffic, building
and maintenance of routes, stations,
beacons, etc., for world transportation,
meteorological services, curative pur-
poses, propaganda, research work of all
kinds, irrigation, reclamation and affores-
tation, canals, exploration—in fact,
everything and anything that means world
benefit. The greatest good would be,
of course, the suppression of any nation
bent on bloodshed, for it would be fool-
ish indeed for any such nation, or group
of nations, to prepare for war, let alone
conduct a war, when against it were the
greatest world power known ; the power
above money itself —the power of the
issuance of money. H. E. P. Bracey
(N.S.W.).
Veneer and Jarrah
The age of veneer is upon uS, and
with it the trend of popularity is to-
wards faked furniture. I have seen show-
room displays of a complete bedroom
or lounge featuring spurious pieces,
the veneers of which, on a hot day, are
coming adrift from their gluey and ill-
assorted mates.
Why can’t we inaugurate a campaign
to popularise our own jarrah and other
woods for furniture? What’s wrong
with jarrah, anyway? All my furniture
is made from this warm, red wood, some
of which I have polished myself—some
is simply oiled.
As a Westralian, I say there is no
wood more beautiful in its grain, more
harmonious in its coloring or more
suited to our country than jarrah. Other
States, especially Queensland and Tas-
mania, also have beautiful woods.
P. S. W. (W. A.).
Education and Legal Knowledge
Nothing nowadays is more remarkable
than the strange misconceptions that
exist about the law. Few have clear ideas
on the subject. Yet the famous Paston
Letters of the fifteenth century remain
testimony to a time when general know-
ledge of law was esteemed an indispen-
sable part of education. Grammar
schools of Scotland’s James IV. taught
law “that the sons of barons and free-
holders might have the legal knowledge
necessary for the upholding of justice in
the realm.”
It isn’t here suggested that every citi-
zen should be an expert lawyer, but he
should have a general conception of the
legal system under which he lives. Every
branch of knowledge has a technical
aspect which is the province of the ex-
pert, but it has also general principles
which every educated person should
know. Some instruction in general law
principles should be included in the
curriculum of all our secondary schools.
Intelligently given it would be anything
but dull.
The very foundation of human society,
law should form part of any scheme of
liberal education. By the slow growth
of law the warring instincts of mankind
have been accommodated and subdued
to order, and we live in comparative
peace.— Kyamba (S.A.).
Deterring the Road-hog
Every State is desperately trying to
reduce the toll of the road by speed laws,
publicity and education of both motorist
and pedestrian. One of the great draw-
backs is that traffic police are not suffi-
ciently numerous effectively to patrol
traffic ways, consequently hundreds ol
breaches due to selfishness or impatience
are committed every day ; that many of
them do not lead to serious accident is
due either to good luck or the skill and
forbearance of the other party.
* Pedestrians still roads in bad light
at all angles; furious drivers still race
out of side streets into main thorough-
fares ; roadhogs still cut in on crowded
roads ; motor-bike cranks still give other
drivers incipient heart-failure. Since the
campaign for safety began, such motor-
ing organisations as the N.R.M.A.,
RrA.C.V. and R.A.C.A. have protested
loudly that they are out to help the
police. Here is a suggestion for them
and the police: Call for volunteers from
among motorists for special traffic con-
stables, let the organisations mentioned
test volunteers for their aptitude, give the
“specials” a lapel badge and a written
authority, not to arrest or summon, but
to hail and warn deliberate offenders, or
take the number and report the offence.
Many potential offenders, knowing that,
though no traffic cop was in sight, the
car ahead or behind might contain a
“special,” would hesitate before wilfully
offending. Many a private motorist,
thinking over his narrow escapes from
such gentry, and cognisant with traffic
rules himself, would be willing for the
service.—2o7-007 (N.S.W.).
“High Rents”
Re N. Jeffery and his remarks on high
rents (B. 5/10/’3B). Over the last 10
years I have controlled 10 cottages —
suburbs and country —and I speak with
authority for other owners. Of course
there are bad landlords, but any indict-
ment against the class is most unfair. To
put the whole position as I know it would
take too long. Enough to tell Mr. Jeffery
that he can see my rent statements for
10 years, and I will bet him a year’s sub.
to The Bulletin that he will change his
opinion of one landlord.
Anyone with rents only—small owners
I mean —during the depression who came
through without being broke must have
been very careful and very lucky. Where
does Mr. Jeffery get his “usual cottage
rent 355. to 405.”? At Killara (N.S.W.)
we have a semi-mod. bungalow (not a
usual “cott.,” but a really nice home,
valued at £1500), present rent 375. 6d.
In a country town (a good one, 6000
population), brick cott., good position, two
bedrooms, etc., gas, electric light, water,
sewer —rent asked, £1 ; vacant now, and
has been for over a month. All the
cottages I am interested in are for sale
at recent valuations, but no buyers to
date. And Mr. Jeffery wants fair land-
lords to grapple with a Fair Rents
Court!— Blue (N.S.W.).
One Parliament?
Do “Muff” and his young tram pas-
senger (B. 5/10/’3B) really think that
95 p.c. to 99 p.c. of electors would vote
for one Parliament for Australia and the
abolition of the State Houses? They
are unduly optimistic. Consider the
opposition such a necessary and desirable
reform would stir up:
(1) Big City newspapers, which would be
reduced to the status of provincial papers,
would raise the cry of State rights and
would fight the proposal tooth and nail.
What half-lies, lies and damn' lies they can
get away with can be judged from their
handling of the European situation. That
they influence a great number of people
it is useless to deny.
(2) State politicians. They are all to be
relied on to be noisy and inaccurate in
their opposition. Added to them must be
numbered the hangers-on and those who
hope to be in one way or another —good
jobs, for instance, on the next unneces-
sary board or commission.
(3) State public servants, whose jobs
would be in danger, to say the least
of it. They, together with the Federal
public servants, who could be expected to
vote with them, number not less than 10
per cent, of the voters. If you add only
two relations to each public servant, who
would also be affected, you get 30 per cent.
When you count in all friends and acquaint-
ances who can be influenced by them, the
total reaches an even more considerable
figure.
(4) Vested interests in the big cities, par-
ticularly Sydney and Melbourne, would be
adversely affected by it (the ability to con-
trol and direct all trade through one or the
other big city would be gone from them for
one thing). The Trades Hall could be
relied on to side with the Employers’
Federation, as they need the unions as near
together as possible.
Opposition from both sides could not
be lightly disregarded. When it is all said
and done, a man and woman, as well as
corporations, use what influence they
may have and cast their vote in the
direction they believe their bank book
or pay envelope will be most benefited.
That any of the political parties,
Federal or State, are likely to sponsor
such a referendum is extremely unlikely ;
but the chance of a “Yes” vote is not
to be regarded as anything but a bare
possibility.—l. R. Wynne (N.S.W.).


A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. train you to remember names, faces, appointments, figures and
useful data of any kind, and to call to mind promptly the apt
word or argument;
2. strengthen your power of Concentration;
3. give you a Strong Will;
4. give you a definite Aim in life and the ability to achieve that
Aim;
5. enable you to develop Initiative and the power of accepting
Responsibility;
6. strengthen your Self-Confidence;
7. remove all trace of Inferiority Consciousness;
8. make all your contacts with other people—social, business, and
casual —easy and comfortable;
9. develop your conversational ability;
10. increase your energy, direct it into the most profitable channels
and so enlarge your Earning Capacity;
11. broaden your mind and improve your Judgment;
12. give you a stronger and more effective Personality.
pELMANISM is the most comprehensive system of scientific Mind-Training and
Personal Development in existence. It has won the unqualified endorsement of many
of the most brilliant men and women of the day, and has been successfully adopted by over
half a million men and women of every type, occupation and station in life. More than
40,000 of these are in Australia and New Zealand.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. You
can write us fully, or you can make just a bare application by using or copying the form
below. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have no
outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Headquarters: London. Branches throughout the World.
Sir Arthur Uulller-Coucli,
Kins Edward VII. Professor of
English Literature, Cambridge Uni-
versity, says: “Pelmanism elaborates
well-ascertained, and (believe me)
quite ancient and respectable ‘laics’
into a definite practical system,....
The Pelman system is a real system.
It has unity of design. It has the
root of the matter.”
INTEGRATED
SELF-DEVELOPMENT.
Properly integrated self-development
removes fear expectancy and creates
quiet, but complete, self-confidence, so
that we stand easily—in true humility
at times, but without humiliation always
—in the presence of anyone.
When this stage is reached, the indi-
vidual is prepared to advance in any
direction he wishes. He is happy and
comfortable with others; he learns from
association with them; he hears what
is being done and what is about to be
done, and, sooner or later, he is asked
to participate in activities that will
advance him in every department of life
and give him his proper place in busi-
ness, in cultural groups and in social
life.
Pelmanism is an integrated training
in self-development. In a few months
it gives to younger people a power of
self-management that many years of
experience might not give them. It helps
older people to look afresh, and from
the outside, at their lives, their methods,
their mental processes and habits Oi
will and strip them of all that is super-
fluous and unhelpful.
The training provided by the Pelman
Institute makes habitual the processes of
mind, body and spirit that remove all
kinds of hindrances to happy progress
by setting free native energy and ability
for their real purpose, the understanding
of life as a complete, harmonious and
fruitful whole.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 30 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 40,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Write fully or use
the form printed
alongside.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.I.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
84
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
I
TO “THE BULLETIT-;/ 5
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS^
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
OW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance 0 , x
The World Is Yours - V
Stories by “Kodak”
Pearls of Papua
Blue North
Jungfrau
Karangi
#
/
v '
tJW’
S ‘
’".■ * . • "
A,
o'V’ S>V
. \^-\s\ rtV _ jhC e-. < Vt> oV


• Hutuwai helps to drive out the
injurious acids and poisons from
the system, and eradicates aches
and pains. Hutuwai will give you
steady nerves and an excellent
appetite, and you will sleep well.
Headaches disappear. Colour is
restored to the cheeks. Your friends
will tell you how well you look,
and you will take a renewed interest
in life. Hutuwai is prepared under
the supervision of highly skilled
chemists, and under ideal hygienic
conditions. Hutuwai is different
... it is genuine.
PROOF after PROOF
that HUTUWAI TONIC
gives genuine relief
to sufferers
12 Edward Street,
BRUNSWICK,
Melbourne, NlO, Vic.,
26th September, 1938.
<
“I lost my appetite and could not sleep at night.
I took to bed with MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM
in my back. Since taking Hutuwai I can get about
and do my own work and washing, and can eat
and sleep well. I never felt better for years than
Ido to-day. I meet friends, who tell me how well
I look, and I tell them all it is due to your wonder-
ful HUTUWAI TONIC.”
(Signed) (Mrs.) L. Kennedy.
37 Cardigan Road,
CHULLORA, N.S.W.,
9th October, 1938.
“I was so weak and exhausted that I frequently
collapsed. My health caused my wife much con-
cern and she despaired of my recovery. I
decided to take a course of your Hutuwai Tonic.
Relief came almost immediately. I began to sleep
naturally. My health improved from day to day.
1 have put on 81b. in weight and can continue in
my occupation, and do not feel fatigued after
doing a good day’s work. 1 continue to sleep
well, my appetite is good and my nerves are
excellent.”
(Signed) H. A. Anderson.
McLaren Street,
HUGHENDEN, Q’LAND,
1 4th October, 1938.
“About five years ago I had an attack
of RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS and BLOOD
PRESSURE and I went “out to it” seven or eight
times. I was afraid to go out to any of my friends’
places. After a course of fifteen bottles of
Hutuwai I am beginning to feel myself again. I
am not afraid to go anywhere now. It is interest-
ing to know that I did not strictly follow your
diet: my recovery is due to the efficacy of your
remedy.”
(Signed) W. Richardson.
Balgownie,
Near WOLLONGONG, N.S.W.,
19th October, 1938.
“I was just a physical wreck. Hutuwai Tonic
has resulted in restoring me to normal health. I
am 58 years of age and I feel years younger than
my age. I feel wonderfully fit; aches and pains
have vanished and I am sleeping quite naturally.”
(Signed) John A. Holehauser.
What HUTUWAI has done for others It
can also do for you!
v*i■ ■■ v>■■■ ■ ■ vs'.vy.v.v -'jv'".-.
te
rnrn^m
■<&
ARTH RITIS
MRS.- A. CUNNING.
mi
“A cripple for four years . . . bedridden for two
years . . . now I can walk up and down steep
flights of stairs” —thanks to HUTUWAI.
Dear Sirs,— Woollahra, N.S.W., 26th October, 1938.
It is a pleasant duty to advise you wliat a miracle has been effected for
me with your llutuwai Tonic.
1 was crippled for four years with that dreaded OSTEO-ARTHRITIS.
I was bedridden for two years. 1 was also a victim of acute insomnia.
The pain was terrible night and day. It has cost me over £300; and I was
in three or four hospitals, where they X-rayed me three times. They all
told me they could do nothing and that 1 would never be better. I also
had gold injections. I tried everything I heard of to try to gel relief, but
nothing did me any good until about nine months ago I was recommended
to take a course of llutuwai Tonic.
After a short course of Hut uwal i started to walk again. My condition
continued to improve so much that after three months on Hutuwai I threw
my sticks away, and I was sleeping well.
I am very well-known all over N.S.W.; and since I have been getting
about again people ask me what cured me of the OSTEO-ARTHKITIS,
and I tell everyone of your wonderful Hutuwai Tonic.
It will interest ydti to know that to-day 1 am improved to such an
extent that 1 have jtisl finished washing the household linen and clothes,
and I can walk up and down steep flights of stairs, and bend down and
touch my toes.
I hope other sufferers gain the same pleasing results and return to
health from Hutuwai which it has given to me.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) (MRS.) A. GUNNING.
-y
MRS. I). COXVNGUAM.
'
“Hutuwai built np nerves and
strength to such an . extent that
her eyes regained their sight.”
My Nerves are splendid, appetite good, can sleep
well and have an abundance of energy . . . thanks
to HUTUWAI.
HABERFIELD,
June 11th, 1938.
Dear Sirs, —-
You will be interested to know that there has been a
vast improvement in my health since taking a course of
your Hutuwai Tonic. For quite a long time I had been in
very poor health,
I was suffering from a general run-down condition,
nerves, lack of energy, poor appetite, did not sleep very
well.
I am pleased to state that I am now in a splendid state
of health. My nerves are splendid, appetite good, can
sleep well and have an abundance of'energy. Thanks to
your splendid Tonic, I can recommend' it with every confi-
dence to anyone who is in need of a good Tonic.
(Signed) Mary Graham.
f
: M - -•
■
HUTUWAI
contains the
LIVE JUICE
of
HERBAL
PLANTS
Large Bottle
4'6
(Including Valuable
DIET til ART FREE.)
Also in 3/- Size.
Tlie “Hospital” Bottle
contains five times the
quantity of the 4/6 size>
and costs only 18/-.
SAVE 4/6!
If unobtainable locally,
direct from Hutuwai Distri-
buting Co., 210 George St.,
Sydney, or Hutuwai Tonic,
485 Bourke St., Melbourne,
Cl. Postage 1/- extra per
bottle.
“HUTUWAI is a wonderful medicine
for Indigestion,” says Mrs. E. Lane.
7 Georgina Street,
NEWTOWN, N.S.W.,
20th October, 1938.
“I was a martyr to Indigestion; and I
will say Hutuwai is a wonderful medicine for
Indigestion, as now I can eat anything at all
without ill effects such as I used to experience
before taking Hutuwai Tonic. My nerves are
also improved infinitely. I can confidently
recommend Hutuwai Tonic to anyone who is
not as well as they might be.”
(Signed) (MRS.) E. LANE.
Sold and Recommended by
CHEMISTS AND STORES
throughout Australia.
Get rid of those aches and pains. . . Start To-day on
HUTUW
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
NATURAL TONIC
