

I
\
i
tfjH MBB&
Ain
§i
o.
«s
0
f' v L
,*°
6^>
IP*
All * moulded
BABY
BROWNIE,
6/-
Six-20
POPULAR
BROWNIE,
7/9
Modernistic
SIX-20
BROWNIES
Junior Model;
from
14/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Six-20 Kodak
•JUNIORS from
39/9
Six-20 KODAKS
(as illustrated),
from .. £7/10/-
CINE-KODAK
EIGHT, fo r
glorious Home
Movies, from
£ll/19/6
36-exp. 35mm.
KODAK
RETINA
from
£lO/10'-
SIX-20 DUO
Kodak Miniature
de Luxe from
£B'lo/-
/or those
HARD-TO-GET
SNAPSHOTS
That’s when you want to be
sure and load with KODAK
VERICHROME FILM — it’s
sure to get the picture. Its
double coating double-guards
every precious, never-to-be-
repeated snapshot.
To-day photography is part of our
lives; we must have snapshots of every
memorable occasion. Yes, everyone
wants snapshots, but they must be the
finest possible snapshots. They will
be, if you carry a modern Kodak!
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK
(Australasia) PTY*, Ltd., Sydney 9 MelbournSf
« . , . Ur.i'th ifnhnrf T.n.unraaton .
Newcastle. And. Tl'OD.
LIMITED, Auckland
Dunediiij Christchurch.
m m
A
■
%
i
m-- ■ ■
/
■ m
■V t
1
f
r
Wm
IgMfclM. |
■
# ■
ggP
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 2: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3058.
Wednesday, September 21, 1938,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application -to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD:, '
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
CRITICISM IN AUSTRALIA.
Australia has not been altogether starved for
literary and historical criticism, but as the body of
historic event and artistic performance increases it is
essential that more and more be done if the present
and the future are to be adequately served ; for the
nature of these two will be largely governed by the
truth or falsity of the backward view.
Among recent contributions deserving a warm
welcome are Justice Evatt’s Rum Rebellion, a critical
revision of the overthrow of Governor Bligh," and
Lloyd Ross’s study, William Lane and the Labor
Movement. Two others are by M. Barnard Elder-
shaw, one historical, Phillip of Australia (Harrap), and
the second a critical examination of the work of eight
Australian writers, Essays in Australian Fiction (Mel-
bourne University Press), incidentally a commendable
venture in Australian publishing.
The bulk of Essays in Australian Fiction is
already known to Bulletin readers through a series
of articles printed some months ago, which were con-
densations of several of the essays in their present
form. Two others now appearing deal with Martin
Mills and Christina Stead.
The opening essay includes a swift survey of the
field, including a glance at woman’s relation to the art
of novel-writing that is both penetrating and lightly
humorous:
The novel demands nothing that the feminine brain
at its best cannot encompass. Its raw material is
humanity—a substance with which woman has long been
familiar. Its medium is words, with which she is also
traditionally familiar. It demands subtlety, insight and
observation rather than erudition and logic. It has an
emotional rather than an ideal basis. It is of all arts
the most human and intimate, and the least special-
ised.
The same essay strikes a hopeful note in respect
of Australia’s literary future. The authors regard
Richardson and Prichard, “whose work goes back to
the dark ages of a few years ago,” as the two novel-
ists whose geniuses, “divergent as they are,” stand at
the portals of our new fiction. In respect of the future
they say:
For in a falling world in which so much is doubtful
there are signs of a renascence—or should I say
nascence?—in art and letters in Australia. In the last
few years, not only has the volume of Australian litera-
ture increased and its quality improved, but there is
an increasing will to foster it and ability to appreciate it.
The fist of names —Henry Handel Richardson,
Katharine Susannah Prichard, Eleanor Dark, Martin
Mills, Frank Dalby Davison, Christina Stead, Vance
Palmer, Leonard Mann —combined with absence of
reference to, or comparisons with, other writers of
achievement, suggests that the authors merely made a
book out of work that interested them, and which
appeared significant. It is a pity that its scope was
not wider. Their choice might not be the choice of
others, but their treatment in every case lends signi-
ficance to their subject. Their penetration is nowhere
so apparent as in their dealing with Christina Stead,
a very notable figure, and a writer whom most readers
and reviewers have found difficult to understand:
In the last resort Christina Stead presents not a
transcription of life but an image of it. For the usual
conventional picture and values she substitutes symbols—
words and images—calculated to evoke in the reader
similar emotional reactions to those produced in her-
self by the actual or imagined event. It is hoped that
the shock thus administered will arouse the spectator
sufficiently to jolt his brain into activity and enable him
to apprehend the meaning. Stead’s prose is the natural
vestment of her mind. This is also true of her books
as wholes. They show us, not the world about us, but
an image of it in the dark, polished, distorting mirror
of the author’s mind. Christina Stead (reversing the
usual approach) has applied life to a conception of art.
M. Barnard Eldershaw’js other book, Phillip of
Australia, is a chronicle of the first five years of the
life of this country. Phillip had no biographer, nor did
he leave any intimate writings to reveal his character.
The authors have achieved a picture of him by tell-
ing of the events of his period of Governorship, the
men who surrounded him, the difficulties which beset
him. His portrait rises out of the narrative like a
cameo.
Before the fleet sails a proem deals with the con-
dition of society in Western Europe and Britain in
particular. It reveals the social parentage of the new
colony, and must be, for its length, one of the best
essays in this direction yet written. It was an age
when morality and religion were alike reduced to a
formal gesture. “Never were standards so lax or pro-
nouncements so harsh.” England didn’t want colonies.
The entire story reveals that the success —by a
slender margin—of the colonising effort was due to
Phillip’s character, and that that was called into play
during his struggle with the indifference of authority
before sailing.
The story of the voyage, by way of Teneriffe,
Rio and the Cape is made engaging. The reader is
made to feel the slowness of that long, hazardous
journey without having to suffer slowness in the narra-
tive. Rather, it passes too quickly.. But when at last
the shores of New South Wales are seen, the feeling of
consummation and renewed expectancy is very well
realised.
Then begins the story of the settlement, one that,
because it is the genesis of Australian national life,
will probably be retold many times over, but hardly
with greater insight than in this instance. The authors
summarise:
Australia in no detail approximated to the popular
vision of a new world, nor did it mask, this disparity
in romantic scenery. It was a new world utterly beyond
the scope of any European imagination, not by being
more fabulous, more highly colored, than expectation—
they could have coped with that as the pardonable
exaggeration of an untutored soil —but by being more
austere and disciplined. It was a land that resisted them
inch by inch, not unfruitful, but with the secret of its
fertility locked away from them because it was not the
kind of fertility they were used to—a great amorphous
resistance against which, till they learned its ways, they
were helpless. It was a world differently orientated from
anything they knew or imagined.
The story of the settlement’s struggle is taken up
with imaginative insight, backed, it is obvious,
by thorough research. Phillip’s character emerges in
his treatment of the convicts and the blacks:
In his personal relations with the black people
Phillip was very happy. He showed and felt no fear
of them. He seems to have won the alfection of those
who came into personal contact with him. He respected
them, and in their subtle way they were aware of it.
The austere man who could not unbend to his officers
was immediately on easy terms with the black people.
He never delegated intercourse with them to others and he
was always the first to lay down his arms and go among
them. He laughed and talked by sign language with
them and was obviously pleased with his social success
in that direction.
The journals of Phillip’s officers are drawn on,
and wherever exposition can be enlivened with
anecdote that is done.
The last chapter examines Phillip’s character,
notes the energy of this man who was ill during
half his term of Governorship, who was inhibited
from enjoying the society of his fellowmen, whose
physical courage was possibly rooted in a deep
weariness, but who nursed a dream at the core of an
essentially rational mind. “He was the first man to
believe in the future of Australia as a white nation
while it was still unreasonable to believe. Australia
is his monument.”
An Appealing Elephant.
Hussein, by R. P. Russ (Oxford University Press),
is a first novel and a most entertaining one. The
setting is India, but not Anglo-India. It is the rich
seething India of the highways, the bazaars, the jungle
and the elephant lines, the sort of world in which
Arabian Night adventures seem not only natural but
inevitable. Since Kim there have been altogether too
few books about it.
Hussein was a mahout, the son of a long line
of mahouts, who grew up between the feet of
elephants. He early distinguished himself by soothing
back to sanity an elephant who had gone niusth. He
had sensational adventures in the jungle with leopards
and wild dogs ; and when he grew up he fell in love
where he had no business to, with a betrothed maiden,
Sashiya. This brought down on him the very prac-
tical hatred of a fellow-mahout, Kadir Baksh. Hus-
sein called in the aid of a red-haired fakir, who put
such a curse on Kadir Baksh that he died in terror.
Hussein had to flee from the enraged relatives.
He took to the roads, became a snake-charmer, a
story-teller, a mendicant living by his wits ; but home-
sickness for the elephant lines overcame him, and he
crept back to visit his favorite elephant, Jehangir.
Jehangir had been fretting, and had become recal-
citrant ; ms world was all wrong, and when he saw
Hussein again he lifted him on to his back and made
for the jungle. “Turn, fight of my soul,” said Hus-
sein, very frightened. “Turn and go back before they
find that you are gone. They will say I have stolen you.
I cannot hide you, and they will catch us and put
heavy irons on you.” He stormed, but Jehangir only
ate leaves and rolled his head.
Hussein pleaded with the elephant and wept at
his feet, but Jehangir only ate wild sugarcane and
stood upon three legs to rest the fourth. So they
lived in the jungle and gradually worked south until
they reached a place where no one was likely to trace
the stolen property. Hussein hired Jehangir out until
he got together enough money to buy a plot of ground.
His farming went well until a drought came, and
then he fell into the hands of a moneylender. When
the bunnia tried to seize Jehangir in payment, Hussein
fought him in a temple and left him for dead.
Now he was a fugitive again, and after many
adventures, still in company with Jehangir, he became
a spy —in whose interests he didn’t know—in the
household of a native prince.
It all ends very happily. Hussein discovered that
he was on the Right Side, i.e., the British, that he
had earned himself praise and fame and picked up a
sack full of gold. He lived happily ever after with
Sashiya and Jehangir.
The story is full of gusto ; it is part picaresque,
part adventure, part fabulous. Hussein, a cheerful
rogue with a sense of honor but no morals, always
comes out on top. Murder doesn’t trouble him at all,
but he is thoroughly likeable, simple and shrewd,
ruthless and kind. He may be the principal char-
acter, but Jehangir is certainly the hero. Jehangir
is a creation, an animal almost fabulous but homely
and engaging.
Russ, who is himself 26 years old, has lived the
life of the roads, and all his detail bears the impress
of truth.
Among the Wise Men.
Judging by the torrent that gushes from the
house of Gollancz there must be a pretty good market
these days for political thought, but so many novel-
ists are amateur philosophers that the public for
straight philosophy is probably very small. It s so
much easier to get D. H. Lawrence’s ideas from The
White Peacock or the desperately bad Lady Chatter-
ley’s Lover that his Fantasia of the Unconscious, a
really stimulating book, is neglected.
Wells, Havelock Ellis, Bertrand Russell and even
Keyserling have their audiences, but the first three
have to gild their pills to get them swallowed. An
American gentleman named Dorsey has really dis-
covered how to popularise philosophy: he holds the
flattering belief that all infants are geniuses, and that
it is only environment that prevents Dave writing a
“Song of David.”
From the Bodley Head comes another attempt at
popular philosophising— What Is Happiness ? wherein
ten more or less eminent intelligences concentrate on
that elusive blessing. “What is happiness?” say the
publishers, “is the question we all ask ourselves,” and
it is true that the query has all the unholy allure of
a patent-medicine advertisement.
No one could pick up What Is Happiness ? with-
out at least looking to see what J. B. Priestley pre-
scribes. ft didn’t occur to Priestley—though it nearly did
to Hugh Walpole—to suggest that the ordinary mortal
would count it happiness to be an eminent enough
author to be paid a few guineas to write nine and a
half pages of twaddle about happiness. He is not so
frivolous ; he opens his essay with a sparkling pro-
fundity:—
Happiness is difficult to define [says Priestleyl for
many good reasons.
His recipe for happiness is equally world-shaking:
I like to enjoy material pleasures, but not as ends in
themselves. Thus both the gourmand and the ascetic
seem to me equally wrong, to have both missed the point.
Priestley off the stage,. What Is Happiness ? un-
leashes the platitudes of Gerald Bullett, John Hilton,
Storm Jameson, Eric Linklater and a few more. Hugh
Walpole is quaintly honest:
When, as I constantly do, I realise that J shall
always be the careless, voluminous, rather derivative
writer that 1 am, I become, if l permit myself, unhappy.
As soon as I realise that I am what I am, I become
tranquil again.
Those two old warriors Bertrand Russell and
Havelock Ellis do manage to say something worth
while. Ellis says cheerily: “Happiness is an ideal
which is best realised in the zoo.” And Russell pro-
claims: “Any man who maintains that happiness
comes wholly from within should be compelled to
spend 36 hours in rags in a blizzard, without food.”
But if wine taken can be counted as happiness
from within, Russell is slaying there whole systems
of philosophy —notably the Chinese. For about all
any Chinese philosopher has to say is: “Sit down,
imbibe a little, be gently cynical and be happy from
within.”
The easiest way to sip such a charming ideal is
to read Arthur Waley’s translations of Chinese poetry.
But if prose is wanted, Pearl S. Buck, who appears
both to think and write like a Chinese, is the source
to go to. Or it has all been delightfully restated re-
cently by Lin Yutang, whose My Country and My
People has been followed by The Importance of
Living (Heinemann).
Against the nervous vigor of Western civilisation
Lin Yutang sets Buddhism, Taoism and Confucian-
ism and the quiet, cultivated man who has assimi-
lated those three philosophies and is happy “in having
a haircut once in two weeks, or watering a potted
flower, or watching a neighbor fall off his roof.”
In China a man lives closer to nature and closer to
childhood; a life of profound wisdom and foolish gaiety,
of high sophistication and childish naivete. This philo-
sophy is characterised by a gift for seeing life whole in
art, a conscious return to simplicity in philosophy, and an
ideal of reasonableness in living. The product is, strange
to say, a worship of the poet, the peasant and the
vagabond.
Besides giving a willow-pattern picture of China’s
three thousand years of civilisation, Lin Yutang re-
views every aspect of Western civilisation from the
Chinese viewpoint —art, letters, politics, morals. He’s
so old in civilisation himself that he is able to view
the contemporary scene as a historian of the far future
would see it. The West seems strident and barbaric.
“Out of the sadness comes the awakening, and out of
the awakening comes the laughter of the philosopher,
with kindliness and tolerance to boot.”
But, as Bertrand Russell would have liked to tell
him, or as the experience of his own country demon-
strates, the negative virtues of his civilisation are much
too easy “to boot.”
A book on the life and teachings of Mohammed,
recently published by Cobden Sanderson, is closer
to Western realities than Lin Yutang could ever be.
As a subject for biography Mohammed has been
neglected by English writers—oddly neglected con-
sidering the problems his followers create in India
and Palestine. This book —Mohammed, by Essad Bey,
translated by Helmut L. Ripperger—is really interest-
ing, in spite of flat prose and the lighthearted mingling
of fact and legend.
Essad Bey shows Mohammed poor and neglected ;
rising to affluence as a merchant; suddenly—a normal,
successful businessman of a.d. 600 —becoming a wild,
tortured visionary ; struggling for power in Mecca :
hounded out to Medina, and growing in influence till
he ruled that city and the wild tribes of the desert.
Then war with Mecca, and finally triumph by strategy,
honor and adoration in his birthplace.
Mohammed, as a person, becomes astonishingly
real, with a full allowance of wives and foibles. He
persecuted the Jews in Medina for a very human
reason: they laughed at him. Though he was a poet
himself—the Koran is pure poetry—he had a very
proper contempt for his fellow-versifiers. He put it
beautifully: “The poets write satires which are more
painful than wounds. Among all mortals, the poet
has the best opportunity of going to hell.”
Mohammed, though early in his career and late
in his career he preached tolerance, decided in his
middle period that “the sword, not the word, ruled
the world,” and on the strength of that maxim his
followers have waged their religious wars ever since.
In power, after a fantastic career of robbery and
murder, he ruled Mecca with wisdom and humanity.
He astounded the Arabs by humanising warfare: “Do
o Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—aIways.
THE SENIOR STORE.’
o
• • •
Wfflfflsm
H M
■........ • ...
.
.ij
M::.
'■-*.* ds «>SI 4L'va
<; x. - ;
v '
a!# 1 | ****■'
WHILE I UVE I’Ll GROW
V. %
.v.-
■t\ i \
x&rx >
WIMil
llltt
Jir
fc
bj
Ti
\
mil
\\
;Wm k-
VI
■\ :
1
f- ,1
J
.• '•'•
«<'•••••••
" “tt
\
- '
A
11
r
\
m
m
H
in
Hi
i
wmmmtm M .
I
mil
»■
BRITISH POPLIN BUSINESS SHIRTS
Mon's Striped British Poplin Business Shirts. V cased front.
Two detached starchless collars in a range of Blue, Grey
and Green striped effects. Sizes 14 to 18 in. necks, q/ l
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each • • '/ °
Also in fancy self designs of Blue. Grey, Fawn, with two
soft detached collars with, supports. At Anthony q/i
Horderns . PRICE, each '/ °
| CELLULAR "CHUKKA" SHIRTS
l Honeycomb . Cellular' "“Chukka" - Shirts, made from
j super corded’ combed 'cotton, with button and J°°P
t front Or laced if you prefer it. Grey, Blue/ Lemon,
: Bottle Gree'n and /White. Sizes, Medium, Small
I Men and Outsize. At Anthony Horderns.’. ...
; PRICE, each 4/11
MEN'S BUSINESS SHIRTS
Men’s striped British Poplin Business Shirts.
"Hordura” • (Regd.) make. V cased fronts. Two
starchless collars to match in neat Fawn, Blue and
Grey striped designs. Sizes 14 to 19 inch ...
necks. At Anthony Horderns’. PRICE, each. I I/O
At top:
ENGLISH CESARINE
Made in our own workrooms from wonderful quality
Cesarine cloth. Collar attached . . . and pocket.
Fitted with double yoke and double sewn seams.
Sizes 14i to 19 in. necks. Navy, Putty, Blue or -j /i
Khaki. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each - //O
Van Heusen COUNTRY SHIRTS
Made from a super quality British Fabric, with Van
Heusen collar attached. Sizes 14£ to 18 inch. Pleasing
self shades of Blue, Grey, Green, Fawn and t a / /
White. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each, IT’/O
VELNIT SPORTS SHIRTS
You will be coo! ar.d comfortable in Velmt Interlock Sports
Shirts. Well made with shdrt slee'ves. Attached collar.
Grey, Navy, Marone,. Fawn, Bottle, glue and Cream, Sizes
14$ to 17 inch necks. At Anthony Horderns,'. PRICE, 7/11
With long sleeves, button wrist. At Anthony q/ i
Horderns'. PRICE, each . _ ■—- 7/0
• Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.fr. and seaports m the Commonwealth ,
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
'Phone: M 2401. _ Day and Night


STRICTLY
CONFIDENTIAL
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
DRAWING BY LOCK.
‘ < CUT,” said Skinny, “we’re going to turn
honest.”
I gaped at him.
“There’s times,” said I, “and seasons,
but this ain’t one of them. This is two weeks to
Easter, and the date of the Royal Easter Show ain’t
been changed to Christmas. This is the time when
the yokels bring the profits from the milk-run down
and try to get drunk in milk-bars. This is the time
when sundial demand exceeds supply, and when you
can sell polished halfpennies for their gold content.
This is spring and Christmas, and who cares whether
Santy Claus has got a beard or not? Honesty, it’s the
policy that don’t double the doubloons.”
Skinny grinned.
“Scut,” he said, “quit talking about history and
go out and buy a couple of hats with big brims.”
“Hats?” said I. “What have hats got to do with
honesty? I’ve got a hat, anyway.”
“Yeah,” said Skinny. “I got a hat too, but it
ain’t the kind of hat that reminds people about
ploughs and sheep and cattle.”
“All right,” said I, “maybe I don’t need a hat
to cover my brain, but I’ve got a rough idea that
you could make this honesty and hats with big
brims a bit clearer.”
Skinny stuck his feet through the bars at the
end of the bed and kicked off his shoes.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “the day of the yokel is
gone. They’ve got cars now and radios. They read
all about the confidence gags in the local papers, and
the ones that can’t read have always got someone
to tell them about the number of sundials that their
grandfathers bought. The game is played out.”
“You paint a picture,” said I, “without giving
it a name.”
Skinny’s toe ran round the moulding of the bed.
“Scut,” he said, “it’s the people who don’t keep
abreast of the times that get left behind. Somewhere
there’s a con. man looking for one of the few yokels
that’re left. We gotter spend our days in the lounges
of the big pubs, drinking beer an’ talking about bell-
wethers, two-tooths an’ sheep to the acre, an’ we
gotter wait.”
“I’m beginning to have intelligent reactions,”
said I, “but what happens when and if?”
“Depends,” said Skinny. “We’ll be ready for
any slip he makes, and there’s sure to be a chance
for us to cash in on it.”
NEXT morning we started. Over a couple of pints
Skinny yelled his opinions about earmarks and
sheep-dips. A feller asked him how the drought was
this morning, and Skinny used a few extra words to
say it was terrible.
“You gotter do that,” he said. “You gotter swear
a bit. It makes people think you’re rough and ready,
so you must ’ave a heart of gold.”
“Maybe you’re right,” I said, making those three
words into a rough-and-ready sentence.
Well, after a while we got used to sitting around
in the lounges, drinking beer. But just sitting round
made me think that Skinny had been wrong when he
said the day of the yokel was gone.
“It ain’t the looks,” Skinny explained. “Try
selling them an interest in the Bridge and you’ll finish
up by owing them your watch and fifteen more instal-
ments on a sheep station.”
About the end of our first week of waiting a feller
came into the lounge and plopped himself down
opposite us. Skinny leaned across to me. “Looks
like promising material.”
I took another squint at the stranger. He was a
lean feller with clothes that looked as though they
had been glued on to him. What I didn’t like about
him was the way his mouth turned down at one
corner, and the way his eyes lifted his hat. I caught
him looking at Skinny and me a couple of times, with
an expression on his face as if he was wondering if
it was true.
He sat there for about ten minutes while he had
a drink. He paid for it from a wallet he slipped out
of his hip pocket, and when he got up to go, sure
enough there was the wallet nestled back among the
cushions. It was the old gag. Pharaoh lost a couple
of pyramids in the same way. We were expected
to pick it up, return it and in exchange he’d tell us
a sure thing in stocks, shares or racehorses for which
he would take charge of our dough to invest for us.
THE feller had hardly cleared the door when Skinny
got up and walked over to where the wallet was.
There were a few papers in it, and a card. Skinny
was reading the card, which said “D. G. Soane” and
had the Palatial Hotel as an address, when I was sur-
prised to see an old lady come up and tap him on
the arm.
She was a little old lady who looked like your
mother ought to look when she gets that old. She was
small, and her face had one of the kindest expressions
I’ve ever seen. She wore a little old bonnet kind of
hat, and she looked as though she was almost too
afraid to speak.
“Excuse me, sir,” she said, “but did that gentle-
man leave that wallet behind?”
Well, that made me feel a bit suspicious, even
taking her looks into consideration. I had an idea
that maybe she was an accomplice who was there to
set things going in the right direction. But we were
wise to what we were stepping into, so what did it
matter?
Skinny looked at her as though he was thinking
the same things.
“Yes,” he said, “it must have slipped out of his
pocket. We were just looking to find if there was any
address we could take it to.”
The old lady blinked through her glasses.
“Cruel,” she said. “Ah, cruel.”
“Cruel?” said Skinny politely.
“I’m so glad,” the old lady said. “It might be the
means of bringing the dastard to book. If only you
gentlemen would help me.”
“Madam,” said Skinny, “you bring out our
chivalry. You can confide in us with implicit con-
fidence.”
“I knew. I knew,” said the old lady. “I can tell
an honest face. You’re like my dear, dead son.”
She sat down, and Skinny and I took a seat on
each side.
A little old lady who looked
like your mother ought to look
when she gets that old.
“That man,” she said. “I’ve been following him
for weeks. He’s a thief —a confidence man, I think, is
the expression. He broke my heart.” She dabbed
a handkerchief at her face. “He robbed my son, my
Herbert, of all his savings in the same way as he will
try to rob you if you return that wallet. It is nothing
but a decoy that will lead you into his clutches. Ah!
my Herbert had not the courage to face life.” Her
voice broke. “I have made a vow to bring his betrayer
to justice. And now my opportunity is present. Will
you help me? Will you help a poor unhappy
mother?”
I was beginning to gulp, but Fwas still suspicious.
I looked at Skinny.
“Yes, lady,” he said, “we’ll do all we can.”
The old lady smiled.
“Then,” she said, “will you ring up the police
department—the detective branch —for me?”
RIGHT away that knocked my suspicions sky-high.
It looked as though the old lady was genuine.
Skinny looked a bit startled, but he said he’d ring up,
and we moved over to the ’phone, with the old lady
toddling along behind.
“Just get the department,” she said ; “I’ll talk to
them.”
Skinny looked through the ’phone book, found
the number, swung the dial and told them to hold on.
“There you are,” he said, turning to the old lady.
She took the receiver.
“Hello,” she said. “I’d like to speak to Detective-
Sergeant Shirley Hello, Mr. Shirley. This is Mrs.
Toyer. I’ve got some evidence for you about that
Soane person. Would you come round and see me?
... .Yes, the same address... .In an hour? Very well,
Mr. Shirley. Thank you.”
She hung up and turned to Skinny and me. Just
quietly, I was becoming a bit dubious over the police
aspect of the matter. Still, there didn’t seem to be
anything we could lose. The old lady smiled a creased-
up smile. “Would you gentlemen mind accompanying
me to my hotel?”
She had a room in one of the cheaper hotels,
and the first thing we noticed was the number ot
photos, of a young feller. You couldn’t help noticing
them. Where there was a vacant space was a photo.
“My dear boy,” said the old lady, and she sat
down to tell us all about him. We had a half-hour
session before there was a knock on the door.
“It’s Detective-Sergeant Shirley,” she said, and she
got up to open it.
Detective-Sergeant Shirley came in, and behind
him trailed another six-foot flatfoot.
“Detective-Sergeant Shirley,” said the old lady
“Mr. Hazlitt and Mr. Jamieson.”
“Pleasetameetcha,” said Shirley. “And this is
Detective Fothergill.”
“Gla’taknowya,” said Fothergill.
“Wha’sitallabout?” said Shirley.
The old lady told him about the wallet.
“Ha,” he said, “we got somepin’ to go on at last.
We been after this Soane for a long while, but there
ain’t been nothin’ we could pin on him. There s a bit
of reward out for him, too. A matter of a hundred
quid for information which may lead to the apprehen-
sion an’ conviction of. There's been too much of
this confidence business lately.”
The old lady smiled.
“A reward,” she said. “Then if that’s the case I m
going to divide it with these dear kind gentlemen.”
I began to feel happy again. It looked as though
we might make something out of it after all.
“The question is,” said Shirley,
“ways an’ means. He’s a pretty
slick customer.”
“Marked money,” said Fother-
gill.
Shirley screwed up his mouth.
. “I think you’ve got it,” he
said, “and with these two gents
helping we could do it. We gotter
work fast, though. We’ll mark the
money, give it to these two gents,
let them take the wallet back, an’
when he’s put them on to some-
thing an’ got their money we could
pounce on him. How much money
you got, Fothergill?”
Fothergill pulled two crumpled
notes and a few silver coins from
his pocket. Shirley wrinkled his
mouth again.
“I said money,” he said, “not
change. Isatall?”
Fothergill nodded.
“I got a tenner m’self,” said
Shirley, “but what we want is a
round sum.” He turned to Skinny
and me. “Could you gentlemen
help us out? It ain’t much use
goin’ back to the branch, because
delay might be fatal. We’ve gotter
strike while the iron’s hot.”
“We’ve only got about twenty,” said Skinny, “but
with your twelve it oughter make a fair amount. P’raps
Mrs. Toyer has a few quid.”
(Continued on page 6 .)


The Old School Tie
THE FAITHFUL HOUND
BY DON GRAY
ARISTOCRACY AND OTHERS BY ARIA.
HORACE RAWSHANKS, Sir Cholmondeley
Nincompoop’s imported butler, stood sadly
and pensively at the drawing-room window of
Winoopa station, gazing out across the home
paddock. Despite the heat of the day a huge log fire
blazed in the drawing-room; for the month was
December, and Sir Cholmondeley Nincompoop, a
remittance man who had unaccountably come good,
was a stickler for English customs and conventions.
Beside the drawing-room fire Sir Cholmondeley
himself was seated, engaged in his favorite pastime
of sticking a hot poker into the more tender parts
An arresting figure.
of his favorite wolfhound. He made an arresting
figure, a monocle firmly embedded in his left eye and
clad in an Astrakhan greatcoat beneath which could
be seen the vivid colors of his old school tie.
The figure of the butler suddenly stiffened, and
he turned eagerly to his master.
“Blimey, sir,” he exclaimed, “ ’ere comes yer old
woman riding up the drive on ’er ’orse, and from
the look of ’er she’s as full as a tick again.”
“Eh, what’s that?” exclaimed Sir Cholmondeley
testily. “Whose old woman? I wish, Rawshanks, you’d
be more careful of your language.”
“Orright, sir,” answered the subservient Raw-
shanks. “But she’s certainly got a skinful.”
Wearily Sir Cholmondeley rose from his chair
and, joining the butler, watched the oncoming rider,
who was reeling in the saddle and singing in a raucous
but aristocratic voice:
“When we all used to gather round the Old Dun Cow,
The Old Dun Cow, she’s done for now;
Got no beer, got no gin —
Next week they’re going to have the brokers in.”
“You’re right, Rawshanks,” muttered Sir Chol-
mondeley. “She’s full.”
He sighed dismally, and absent-mindedly picked
his protruding teeth with a diamond-studded fountain-
pen. “Blast her,” he muttered. “I bet she found
the two bob 1 was keeping to put on The Trump!”
Horace Rawshanks drew himself up as haughtily
as his rheumatics and his humble station would allow,
and his eyes were pinpoints of anger.
“Man and boy, sir,” he said tremblingly, “I've
served you for fifty years and done my duty as I’ve
“Oo foo!”
seen it. But I would remind you that er Ladyship
is a woman and your wife.”
Sir Cholmondeley looked at his butler curiously,
and a cunning light crept into his fine old aristocratic
«yes.
“You seem strangely perturbed, Rawshanks,” he
said. “Maybe you feel you have cause to cham-
pion her Ladyship.”
Horace Rawshanks made a rattling sound in his
throat. For many years he had nursed a secret passion
for the beautiful Lady Nincompoop, and his simple
heart had been torn to shreds as he had watched her
slowly slipping down the road to drink. But now
his master’s vile insinuations aroused all the man-
hood in him, and a tigerish gleam came into his eyes.
“You cad,” he said hoarsely. “ ’Umble though
1 be, I v/ill not allow you to cast aspersions on the
fair name of ’er Ladyship. Sooner would I strike
you dead,” and, suiting, the action to the word, he
seized a ruby-encrusted cuspidor and dashed it
violently against the head of Sir Cholmondeley.
BREATHING heavily from emotion, Horace Raw-
shanks gazed at the recumbent form. It was
at this dramatic moment that the door suddenly opened
and Ermyntrude Vansittart, the second maid, entered
with the afternoon tea. Catching sight of the body
sprawling untidily across the carpet, she turned to
Horace Rawshanks with admiration in her tawny eyes.
“ ’Ullo, ’ave yer done the old cow in?”'she asked
curiously. Meditatively she stirred the body with her
neatly-shod foot. “ ’E’s stiff all right,” she said.
“What we got to do is get rid of the body before ’er
Ladyship gets ’ere.”
Rawshanks swore viciously, and tears of self-pity
welled, in his tired eyes. He was rising ninety-three and
getting much too old to have corpses on his hands.
Then suddenly there came an interruption. A
pleasant, well-modulated voice, with a Chinese intona-
tion, fell upon their ears. “May I come in?”
They looked up to see a gaunt-faced man with
piercing eyes regarding them from the open window.
Receiving no reply to his request, he placed his leg
across the window sill and stepped into the room.
“Hullo, what have we here—a corpse?” he asked
interestedly. He came closer and bent over the recum-
bent form. “Oo foo,” he exclaimed softly. “.So we've
come too late! To think that after fifty years the cup
of vengeance should be dashed from Cholly’s lips!”
“ ’Oo are you, anyway?” asked Horace Raw-
shanks angrily.
Before the stranger could reply there came a
third interruption. Into that room of tragedy, from
the walls of which the ancestors of Sir Cholmondeley
Nincompoop gazed down from their diamond-studded
frames, there sailed the stately Lady Nincompoop,
with fire in her eyes and a positively passionate indig-
nation in her aristocratic heart.
“Can’t a woman get any service in this dump?”
she demanded in her haughtiest tones. “Here I’ve bin
yelling for an hour for someone to ’elp me orf me
’orse.” She caught sight of the tall, gaunt stranger,
who had risen politely.
“ ’Ullo—and ’oo might you be?”
She fixed her other eye on the corpse. “Why,”
she said, “if it ain’t old Ninky. ’Oo done it?”
At the sound of the endearing term a sob broke
from the lips of Horace Rawshanks, and he looked at
Lady Nincompoop with all the anguish of a tortured
soul in his eyes.
“I done it,” he whimpered ; “I can’t tell you a lie.”
“You’re damn’ tootin’ you can’t,” said Lady
Nincompoop. With a feminine gesture she smoothed
her grey hairs back from her wrinkled brow,
and wiped her lips with the back of her hand.
“Anyway, you’d better do something about the body,”
she said. “I’ve invited those boys up from the shearing
shed for dinner, and I want the place tidy.”
Horace Rawshanks rose. “Ermy an’ me’s been
'aving a talk,” he said, “and if I might suggest”
He paused diffidently.
“Well, speak up, man ; don’t stand there dodder-
ing,” said the lady of the house.
“Well, we thought that seein' as the
old pot ’as snuffed it it might be a good
idea if you sold all the sheep, and turned
the place into one of these ’ere dood
ranches.” He prodded the corpse with
his foot, and went on: “Call the house
Dead Man’s Folly, or something like
that; it’d be a good drawcard.”
“I’m afraid you can’t do that.” The
interruption came from the tall stranger,
who had been standing in the background
with a bland smile on his face.
“That reminds me,” said Lady Nin-
compoop belligerently. “ ’Oo might you
be? —if I may presoom to ask.”
The stranger came forward and, bowing politely,
proffered his card. “I am a friend—a lifelong friend—
of your rightful husband. That man on the floor ’ —
he paused dramatically—“is an impostor.’
“Stuff and nonsense,” said Lady Nincompoop
tersely. “Think I wouldn't know an impostor after
living with me old man for fifty years?”
“That’s the crux of the whole matter,” said the
stranger. “He’s been an impostor for fifty years —
since the night of your marriage. In a few moments
you will see for yourself.”
“What’s all this about?” said Lady Nincompoop
in annoyed tones. “I know I’ve ’ad a couple, but”
She broke off and stared in amazement at the dog,
who suddenly jumped up with a yelp of delight,
and rushed to the closed door, against which he
scratched with every manifestation of canine joy.
“What’s come over the tyke?” she said wonder-
ingly. “In the fifty years we’ve ’ad ’im ’e’s' never
bc’aved like that.” She hiccupped nervously, and
rubbed the back of her hand across her mouth.
“First I come ’ome and find me old man stonk-
ered, then you”—she addressed the stranger—“pop
up from nowhere, and tell me Ninky ain’t me old
man, and then the dog goes mad. I’ll be seein’ things
next.” She subsided wearily on a settee.
At that moment, to the accompaniment of
frenzied yelping from the dog, the door opened, and
in walked Sir Cholmondeley Nincompoop, complete
with monocle, Astrakhan overcoat and the old school
tie!
“Suffering catfish,” yelled Lady Nincompoop. She
rubbed her eyes, then buried her face in her hands.
“I’Ve got ’em,” she moaned “Ninky always said I
would.”
T'HE newcomer regarded the occupants of the room
* in silence for a moment, a wistful smile on his
aristocratic features.
“Belay there, Dingbat,” he admonished the dog,
who was fawning upon him with rapturous delight.
“The Old Dun Cow, she’s done for now.”
He advanced into the room with a rolling gait, and
gazed for a moment in silence at the prone body.
“So I’m too late,” he said quietly. “The lubber’s
slipped his moorings.” He looked at the awe-stricken
Rawshanks, who was standing beside the equally-awed
second maid. “Well, Rawshanks —and Ermyntrude,
don’t you know me?”
“Strike me pink,” was all Horace Rawshanks
could utter. Ermyntrude could only stand there speech-
lessly.
The double of the murdered man advanced to
the settee, and placed his hand on the shoulder of the
crouching woman. “Don’t you know me, Pudden
Face?” he asked gently.
Lady Nincompoop looked up, wonder in her
tear-stained eyes. “That’s the first time you’ve called
me that for fifty years.” She gazed wildly at the corpse.
“What’s it all mean?” she asked. “If you’re you, then
'oo the devil is ’e?”
“Devil is right,” said the newcomer savagely.
“May his soul” He broke off with a bitter laugh.
Abruptly he asked: “You remember your wedding
night?”
“Do I remember?” Lady Nincompoop sat up and
tucked in a straying wisp of hair.
“That’s when the trouble started,” said the new- ■
comer. “That night 1 met my twin brother when I
left the hotel for a minute to get a hamburger.
He’d always had a snout on me, from the
time I kicked him in the pants for cribbing
at dear old Saint Swithin’s. Anyway, he told me he’d
come out from England especially to make it up —
said he’d seen the error of his ways.” He paused. “I
should have known better than to believe him; but I
(Continued on next page.)


\ X / ELL, that surprised me, because 1 knew we had
“ “ pretty close to a hundred quid in our pockets.
But I supposed Skinny knew what he was up to, so I
didn’t say anything. He fumbled a bit in his pocket,
and I knew he was stripping notes off the roll.
Presently he brought out a handful.
“Twenty-one,” he said. “Now if Mrs. Toyer has
any”
“I have ten pounds,” said the old lady, “all that
my poor dear son left me. I’ll be very glad for you
to use it.” She opened a purse and fished it out.
“Ha,” said Shirley, taking her money and ours
and putting it with his own, “that oughter cover it.
I’ll give you a receipt.” He tore a page from a note-
book and scribbled out two receipts. Then he and
Fothergill got busy marking the notes with a little cross
in the corners. After that he handed the lot over
to us.
“Now,” he said, “if you gents will be so good I
want you to take the wallet back and fall for any
proposition this Soane offers. We’ll be close behind,
and when you come out we’ll pop in and settle
matters.”
“Right,” said Skinny.
“I don’t know how Lean ever thank you,” said
the old lady.
“Don’t try,” said Skinny.
When we got outside, Skinny pulled the wallet
out of his pocket to take a look at the address.
“Palatial Hotel,” he said, and stepped out into the
road to whistle a taxi. But when we climbed into it,
instead of telling the driver that we wanted to go to
the Palatial Hotel, Skinny gave him our home address.
“Listen, Skinny,” I yelped, “this is different. This is
law and order an’ we’ve got a packet of marked
dough. This ain’t sixpence a mile —this is six months.”
Skinny grinned.
“Scut,” he said, “it’s twenty-two quid whichever
way you look at it.”
“It’s the hat,” I said ; “it’s pressing on your brains.
What about the reward? We were set for that an’
it was honest.”
Skinny said nothing. All he did was reach over
and tap the driver on the shoulder.
“Take us to the C. 1.8.„” he said.
“That ain’t right,” I said ; “it’s the Palatial Hotel
we’re supposed to go to. It’ll spoil everything.”
Skinny said nothing again, and ten minutes later
we pulled up outside the C. 1.8. By that time I was
certain that he must have had a touch of the sun. He
walked straight in and up to a copper who was sit-
ting in front of a telephone switchboard.
“I’d like to see Detective-Sergeant Shirley,” he
said.
I nearly swallowed my teeth.
“Who?” said the copper.
Skinny repeated his bit.
“Never ’eard of ’im,” said the copper. “What is
it, a joke?”
Skinny grinned. “Someone’s been pulling my
leg.”
When he came out he still had the grin wrapped
over his face.
“Scut,” he said, “you can still spend marked
money.”
I didn’t know what to say. I was still trying to
think straight.
“Skinny,” I said at last, “what made you wake
up to it? It was one of the best gags I’ve come
across.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “sometimes you dial a right
number and you get a wrong one, but you never dial
a wrong number and get a right one.”
“You” said I.
“Yeah,” said Skinny, “I dialled the wrong
number for the old girl. You can’t be too careful.”
was always too trusting. Anyway, the next thing I
remembered I was on board ship, just going through
Sydney Heads. The swine’d had me shanghaied.
“Since then,” he continued, after a poignant
silence, “I’ve been sailing the seven seas, hunting high
and low for him.”
“Why didn’t you come back to Sydney?” asked
Lady Nincompoop, not unreasonably.
“I never thought of that,” said her lawful hus-
band simply.
The stranger, who had remained in the back-
ground, here interposed.
“I think I can claim the credit for bringing
Cholmondeley back,” he said modestly. “I recognised
him on board the old So Low in Shanghai. I went
aboard to see if I could scrounge a feed, and there
in the galley was dear old Cholly, as large as life.”
“I was second cook on her,” interposed the long-
lost husband proudly. “Though I say it myself, there’s
nobody on the seven seas who can make a sea pie
better than I.”
“As I was saying,” went on the stranger, “as soon
as I saw Cholly I said, ‘Why aren’t you with your
wife in Australia?’ —and then he told me all about it.”
Lady Nincompoop looked doubtfully at the two
men who had appeared so dramatically.
“’Ow do I know you ain’t both impostors?” she
asked. “Your yarn sounds a bit far-fetched to me.”
The man who had sailed the seven seas looked
nonplussed, and regarded his friend doubtfully. “Why,”
he said, “Squiggles here knows me ;we went to dear
old Saint Swithin’s together.”
“Yes,” said Lady Nincompoop, “and ’oo knows
Squiggles?”
A sudden interruption.
“Why, I do, of course ; he”
The dog suddenly interrupted. He had been listen-
ing interestedly to the conversation, and now, without
warning, he made a dash at the speaker and seized the
left leg of his trousers in his teeth. With a savage
jerk he tore them, while the owner danced around,
uttering bloodcurdling nautical oaths. With half a
trouser leg in his teeth the dog retreated, and sat down
near the fire, a look of pride in his eyes.
Lady Nincompoop, her eyes on the bare calf,
sat for a moment as if petrified. Then: “Ninky, dar-
ling,” she cried, “it’s really you. The strawberry,” she
said excitedly, pointing to a vivid red birthmark on the
bare leg. “Don’t you remember that day at Bondi?
I’ve never seen it since the wedding day. You —I mean
that coot on the floor —never let me see ’is legs after
we were married. ’E said it wasn’t decent.”
She turned to Horace Rawshanks. “What are you
standing there gapin’ for?” she demanded. “Get rid of
that stiff there, then ’op down to the shearing-shed and
tell the boys the dinner’s orf to-night; and see if you
can scrounge a bottle of rum orf ’em,” she added.
She looked at her newly-found husband fondly,
and her eyes were sparkling. “We’ll ’ave to celebrate
this,” she said ; “it ain’t every woman ’oo can
get a noo ’usband at my age. Not that I’m old,” she
added coyly.
“I wonder what we can ’ave for dinner?” she
said thoughtfully. “There’s a bit of Irish stoo left”
“I’ll make you a sea pie,” offered Sir Cholmonde-
ley eagerly. “I’ll make you a sea pie such as you’ve
never tasted before.”
As the happily reunited couple left the room,
the faithful hound, with a satisfied sigh, curled down
and relapsed into slumber.
FLANNERY’S FERRETS
BY G. C. B.
I WAS glad to see the Town Clerk ’ad understood
the importance of me job by gettin’ a deputy rat-
catcher to take me place while I was on ’olidays ;
but when I ’ears wot methods me deputy was usin’
I wasn’t so pleased.
“Ferrets ain’t no good, Mr. Wallis,” I ses. “They
might be all right for rabbits and such animals, but
rats ’ave got brains.”
“Is that so, Raggles?” ses Mr. Wallis. “Well,
Flannery seems to ’ave been doin’ pretty good with
’em while you’ve been away. He’s caught more rats
in two weeks than you’ve been catchin’ in months.”
“Just mugs for luck, as the sayin’ is, Mr. Wallis,”
I ses. “I ain’t sayin’ that ferrets won’t catch a single
rat ’ere and there ; but when it comes to married rats
with a wife and family it’s different. It’s a well-known
fact that they’ll fight ’ard to save their ’appy ’omes
when they’re cornered. And, besides, this lettin’
animals fight it out between themselves ain’t my idea
of scientific rat-catchin’. It ain’t civilised ; and it’ll
cause trouble, Mr. Wallis.”
“It ’ad better not, Raggles,” he ses. “I’m lettin’
Flannery ’elp you for a while in case of accidents ;
and pretty soon I’ll expect you to get the same results
as wot he does. We’re goin’ to ’ave a real campaign
against rats from now on and wipe ’em out com-
plete.”
Of course, it ain’t possible to do no such thing,
and even if it was Flannery wasn’t the sort of bloke
to ’elp do it.
A ratcatcher ’as to be able to keep ’is ’ead in a
emergency, and the way Flannery went on in Carter’s
Hygienic Cafe when I spots a rat in the kitchen and
lets them ferrets out after it proved that he wasn’t
suited for a ratcatcher. If he ’adn’t behaved so
excited, chasin’ them animals out into the cafe, there
wouldn’t ’ave been ’ardly no damage ; but by the time
he ’ad finished tearin’ about shoutin’ like a madman
and scarin’ the rat and the ferrets and Carter’s cus-
tomers out of their wits the cafe was ’arf wrecked
and old Carter ’arf crazy.
There was a terrible row about it up at the office
on account of the council ’avin’ to pay for damages,
and, of course, Flannery tries to make me take the
blame for ’is foolishness.
“It ain’t no good you tryin’ to blame me, Flan-
nery,” I ses. “Them ferrets is supposed to catch rats,
so naturally I give ’em a chance to catch that one.”
“Where did it come from?” shouts Flannery.
“That’s wot I want to know. I counted wot we caught
and there was one rat missin’ from the bag you was
’oldin’.”
“The trouble with you, Flannery,” I ses severe,
“is that you ain’t suited for the job, bein’ too temper’-
mental. You gets ’ighly excited”
“Just a minute, Raggles,” puts in Mr. Wallis,
sharp. “You ’eard wot Flannery said. Wot ’appened
to that other rat?”
“Mr. Wallis,” I ses quietly, “I ain’t suggestin’ for
a minute that Flannery’s tellin’ lies deliberate to make
me take the blame for ’is disgustin’ exhibition, because
a ’ighly-excited man like ’im is quite likely to make
a mistake in countin’; and that’s just wot he’s done,
Mr. Wallis.”
“I see,” ses Mr. Wallis. “Well, I’ll give you the
benefit of wot little doubt there is, Raggles, but in
future you ain’t goin’ to ’andle them ferrets at all.
You’re goin’ to be Flannery's assistant, and you 11 do
just wot he says. Understand?”
I was too disgusted to answer ’im ; and after I ’ad
put in a day with Flannery as me boss I was more dis-
gusted than ever. He walks about with ’is nose in the
air, givin’ me ’aughty orders all day and makin’ me
carry ’is nets and things about; and as he seemed to
be doin’ surprisingly well with them ferrets he kept
gettin’ ’aughtier and ’aughtier every day and tellin’
me sharp that if I didn't move a bit quicker he’d ’ave
to see about gettin’ a new assistant.
Mr. Wallis, ’aving got over the damages wot ’ad
been paid to old Carter, was terrible pleased with
wot he called Flannery’s success, and says he’s lookin’
forward to the time when a ratcatcher would only
be needed occasional.
“1 ’ope you're right, Mr. Wallis,” I ses. “But it’s
just dawned on me that Flannery ’ere and ’is ferrets
is goin’ to make it ’arder than ever to keep rats down
permanent.”
“Wot are you talkin’ about now?” ses Mr. Wallis,
starin’.
“Well, it’s like this,” I ses patient; “them ferrets
is findin’ a lot of them ’oles empty, as Flannery will
admit ’imself”
“Of course,” ses Flannery. “I’ve cleaned ’em
out, that’s why.”
“Quite right, Flannery,” I agrees, noddin’. “In
other words you’ve made them rats change their
address. They’ve took the ’int, and now you’ll find
they’ve moved up above the ceilings where it’s more
awkward to get at ’em. And, wot’s more, they’ll live
longer and ’ave bigger families because of the hygienic
conditions.”
“Ridikerlus!” ses Flannery. “Rats lives in ’oles,
everybody knows that.”
“No one wot ain’t studied rats knows anything
about ’em, Flannery,” I ses. “I’ve been keepin’ ’em
for years, studyin’ ’em and trainin’ ’em, and I knows
wot I’m talkin’ about. Once all them rats is livin’ up
above all your ferrets and nets won’t do no good,
and I’ll ’ave to go back to me traps again.”
“As soon as I gets complaints about rats on ceil-
ings I’ll clean ’em out quick and lively, Mr. Wallis,
ses Flannery.
OF course, there wasn’t no complaints just then on
account of them rats bein’ a bit strange in their
new ’omes and not runnin’ about much ; so bein a
bit curious to see just wot Flannery’s ferrets could do
I decides to ’urry things up a bit by shovin’ some of
me pet rats up on' top of Buxton’s grocery when I
was inspectin’ there. And sure enough Mrs. Buxton,
wot’s terrible scared of rats, complains and off we
goes to try them ferrets out.
It was a bit of a squeeze gettin’ up through the
man’ole, and as I gets through after Flannery I
couldn’t ’elp givin’ a bit of a wheeze. It was a wheeze,
definite, and not a whistle, but me pet rats, wot must
’ave been sittin’ round very patient and ’ungry waitin'
for me to feed ’em, must ’ave mistook it for their
usual dinner whistle, and when they all comes rushin’
over, squeakin’ very eager, Flannery starts screaming
that he’s bein’ attacked by ’undreds of rats and dancin’
about temper’mental as usual.
Well, a rafter on a ceilin’ ain’t quite roomy enough
to do much dancin’ on, and it wasn’t long before
o Continued on page 7.)


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Flannery found it out, and the crash as he went
through the plaster near deafened me. But it was
nothin’ to the row wot was cornin’ from below, where
Mrs. Buxton was ’avin’ the finest hysterics I ’ad ever
"eard ; and wot with it rainin’ plaster and rats and
Flannery on to ’er groceries I couldn’t blame ’er.
I couldn’t blame Mr. Wallis neither for the way
he behaved when I broke the news to ’im and pointed
out that there’d be damages to pay Mrs. Buxton ; and
if Flannery ’ad shown ’is face or ’is ferrets in just
then there would ’ave been damages to pay to
Flannery ’imself.
“ ’Owever, I’m back with me old traps now, and
l look like keepin’ ’em judgin’ by wot Mr. Wallis
said when I asked ’im if he was interested in some rat-
catchin’ ferrets wot was for sale. I didn’t ’ear all
wot he said because ’is language was so alarmin’ that
I shoved on the receiver quick without botherin’ to
tell 'im that it was only me ’avin’ a little joke.
YARZACK
BY CON DREW
DRAWING BY SUCH.
*
IT’S hard to teach an old dog new tricks. I’d hardly
got rid of that dud wrestler Zolo than I’m hitched
up with another Adam’s-apple-squeezer called
Yarzack. Handsome breezed into our gym. one
mornin’ when I’m fixin’ up the punchin’-ball.
“We’re set,” he says all excited. “We’re gettin’ a
slap-up dinkum wrestler at last.”
“I’ve heard of ’em, but I ain’t come across many,”
I said. “Where are we gettin’ this marvel from?”
“From Lou Sampson,” says Handsome. “He
reckons he’s a blown-in-the-bottle champion.”
“It’s funny Lou should want to pass him on if
he’s so flamin’ good,” 1 come back. “Lou don’t like
partin’ with his breath for nothin’.”
“He’s goin’ to Melbourne to-morrer and won’t be
back for two or three months,” says Handsome.
“And what’s he chargin’ for the transfer?”
“Nothin’,” says Handsome. “He said his con-
tract with this bird ain’t expired and he’s agreed to
be handed over to us. Lou’s bringin’ him up to the
gym. this afternoon at three o’clock and you can
look him over.”
THEY arrived pretty punctual. Yarzack was a huge
gorilla of a bloke with a chest like the hindquarters
of a dray horse, and his arms were so big that they
were burstin’ through his coat-sleeves in places. His
head seemed to be gummed straight on to his
shoulders.
“There are the gents. I was tellin’ you about,” t
says Lou, introducin’ him to us.
“Vhat?” says the big orang-outang.
Lou gave it to him again. “These are the two
gents I was speak to you about. You remember?”
Yarzack looked us over and says “Yah.”
“Talkative, ain’t he?” says Handsome.
“I’ll admit he ain’t exactly an orator,” says Lou,
“but he’s a ding-dong wrestler, and as straight as a
gun barrel.”
“I ain’t ever heard of him,” I breaks in.
“That’s because he’s done all his grapplin’ in
Melbourne,” replies Lou. “I had him with me down
there, and he flopped the best they could prodooce.”
Lou told us a lot more concernin’ Yarzack’s sur-
prisin’ qualifications, and bein’ an easy talker he made
it sound pretty good.
“All right,” says Handsome. “If he’s all you say
he is we’ll take him on.”
“Good,” says Lou. “There’s one thing. If you
fellers have got a fiver buried on you that’s itchin’ to
see the light of day I”
“All right,” laughs Handsome, and Yarzack was
ours.
I ’LL hand it to Lou. We tried Yarzack out at the
1 gym. with a couple of second-raters, and he threw
them so high they’ve hardly come down yet. Then we
got him a Turk as a partner. This bloke looked big
enough to ballast a fair-sized battleship, and had the
name of bein’ a first-class grappler. He got into the
ring with Yarzack at half past three one afternoon
and landed kerflop on his melon outside it ten seconds
later. He refused to go on with the business, so we
had to engage another bloke.
We made Yarzack go slow after that or we would
have depleted Sydney of mat partners.
“He’s good, ain’t he?” says Handsome to me.
“That’s just the trouble,” says I. “He’s too good.”
“How do you mean ‘too good’?”
“He’s too good a grappler for Lou Sampson to
part with unless there was a catch in it somewhere.”
“How could there be a catch in it?”
“I can’t tell you that,” says I, “but I’ve got a
kind of a feelin’ we’ll get stung.”
HEN we’d had Yarzack a couple of weeks we
decided to get him a match. We didn’t find it
too easy. Grappling was boomin’ extra big in Syd-
ney just then, and most of the halls were booked up.
At last we arranged for a match with a bloke called
The Durable Dane, who had been makin’ a bit of a
name for himself in Melbourne. The match was set
down for the followin’ Saturday week, and we put in
the intervenin’ time in gettin’ Yarzack into extra
special trim. When we landed him into the ring on
the night of the bout he looked fit enough to wrestle
for the Russian Crown jewels.
The Dane breezed into the ring soon afterwards
and squatted himself in his corner. He was easy
six inches shorter than our baboon, but he looked to
be what his name implied—a durable gent, who could
take a deal of knockin’ about and then come up for
more.
While the ref. was instructin’ the grapplers as to
the conduct of the bout Handsome beckoned to a
bloke we knew called Alick.
“What price are they offerin’ about Yarzack?”
he asks.
“Even money,” answers Alick.
“Is that the absolute best?” says Handsome.
“It is,” says Alick.
“Put that on him,” says Handsome, handin’ Alick
thirty quid. “You’re on a couple of frogskins if he
wins.”
After a bit the ref. orders all seconds out of the
ring. Then the gong went and the battle was on.
Yarzack didn’t waste much time. In the space of
a second he was across the ring and had clamped a
headlock on the Dane. Before our gorilla could drag
him to the mat the Dane pulled clear and nailed
Yarzack with a double wristlock. He tried all he knew
to spill him on to the canvas, but Yarzack was too
strong. With a wrench that would have broken a
trace-chain he tore his arm free and grabbed the
Dane round the body. They reefed and strained
for a couple of ticks, then our bloke hoisted the Dane
in the air and heaved him right across the ring. He
landed on the broad of his back, but was on his
feet again before Yarzack could pin him.
After that Yarzack got really busy. He bustled
the Dane from pillar to post and never gave him no
peace. Half a dozen times in the first five minutes
the Dane was in serious trouble, but he always man-
aged to avoid bein’ pinned.
Meanwhile the Dane had drifted in the betting.
We could hear the bookies offerin’ six to four agen
his chance of winning, and a couple were callin’ two
to one. Yarzack did look a certainty all right. He
appeared to have the Dane exactly where he wanted
him.
“What about the catch in it now?” says Hand-
some, givin’ me a nudge. “It’s money from home.”
Just then the chap who had done our commis-
sion comes over.
“There’s a bloke goin’ round takin’ all the two
to one he can get about the Dane,” he says to Hand-
some.
“He must be mad,” says Handsome. “The Dane
ain’t got the chance of a cockroach in a turkey farm.”
“He don’t look mad,” rejoins Alick. “If you ask
me there’s somethin’ funny goin’ on.”
“What could be?” snaps Handsome. “The Dane’s
beat to the world.”
ALMOST as he spoke the Dane grabbed hold of
Yarzack and dumped him pretty heavy. It seemed
to rattle our baboon, and I noticed that he didn't
rush things when he got up. Later on the Dane
dumped him again, and this time Yarzack was so
slow in gettin’ to his feet a cold doubt crept into me
mind.
“Yarzack seems to have lost a lot of his steam
all of a sudden,” 1 says to Handsome. “I don’t like
the way the dice are rollin’.”
“What do you mean?” says Handsome, draggin’
his eyes away from the wrestlers.
“Oh, nothin’,” says I. “But it would be funny if
Yarzack was to sell us a pup.”
The Dane was forcin’ the battle now, and was
followin’ our bloke around the ring.
“Go in and mix it,” yelled Handsome, but Yar-
zack didn’t go in. He made as if he was playin’ safe,
and every now and then I seen him squint across the
ropes as if he was waitin’ instructions from someone.
All of a sudden, when the round was nearly over,
he geared up lively and rushed in at the Dane. The
Dane stepped aside and, as Yarzack dashed past, he
grabbed him by the wrist. With a wrench he pulled
our bloke towards him, and duckin’ underneath gave
him the flying mare. Yarzack went up in the air as
if shot out of a gun and came down on the opposite
side of the ring. He seemed to land on his head, but
he broke the fall with his shoulders and spread him-
self out on the canvas as if he was dead to the world.
It was done so well the crowd fell for it, and
there wasn’t even a murmur as the referee crossed over
and looked down at Yarzack. After a bit he held up
his hand. “The Dane wins, gents,” he announced.
“Yarzack can’t go on with the business.”
HANDSOME didn’t speak a word until after we’d
collected Yarzack and had taken him down to the
dressin’-room. Then he turns to the big baboon.
“Get under the shower,” he says ; “I’ll talk to you
later on.”
While Yarzack was havin’ a shower a cobber of
ours named Peter breezed in.
“I wish you fellers had put me in the joke,” he
says to Handsome, “I lost a tenner on your baboon.”
“We weren’t in the joke ourselves,” says Hand-
some. “When Lou Sampson handed Yarzack over
to us he said we could gamble on him bein’ straight.”
“So Lou told you that, did he?” says Peter.
“He did,” says Handsome. “The day before he
went to Melbourne.”
“Lou ain’t in Melbourne,” says Peter. “He’s just
left the hall after collectin’ his winnings on the Dane.
They say he had the two baboons in his team when
he toured the Northern Rivers three months ago.”


not use trickery or treachery in the field. Do not kill
children.” They couldn’t believe their ears.
The book gives a complete picture of his time —
trading, warfare, blood-feuds, complicated religious
systems where primitive Christians and worshippers
of ancient idols mingled with the first Mohammedans ;
a savage, isolated world, ringed by the yellow desert.
Of Mohammed, the picture is complete to the detail
that one of his wives, a “beautiful but stupid girl,”
was the daughter of a noble called Mu’man ibn Abi
al-Jun ibn al-Aswaa ibn al-Harith ibn Sharahil ibn
al-Jun ibn Akal al-Marar.
"Men Are So Friendly."
Nancy Swift’s Men Are So Friendly (Gollancz)
doesn’t sound like a travel book, yet it is an account
of two young women’s tour round the world, osten-
sibly in pursuit of the American Navy. It is an airy
confection with all the informative stuff left out.
The style, modified from Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes, is that of the enfant terrible, and makes a
bid for piquancy by leaving out most of the punctua-
tion, dispensing with inverted commas and throwing
in capitals wherever the author wants to make big
eyes at the reader. The country of origin is the United
States.
Even the artificialities of style which the author
uses as a sort of literary cosmetic cannot conceal her
native wit. The joke is continually on the travelling
sisters. In Egypt they congratulate themselves on
picking up a most distinguished escort, but he turns
out to be a dragoman, and the expense is enormous.
In India they think they have nailed a maharajah,
blazing with emeralds, but when they go timorously
to stay with him they find he has departed on a
health trip and left them with many flowery apolo-
gies to a fleet of aides-de-camp. They are entertained
with a hyena hunt. The hyena is let out of a cage
and the aides-de-camp chase it with mallets. The
idea is to improve their polo.
In Singapore the entire police force began to
make love to them. To crown all, Nancy fell in love
with an aviator. “I thought he was a god, but the
trouble was that he shared the same opinion.” Japan
meant gentlemen in kimonos, with bowler hats and
gold teeth. Bangkok was a success:
Bangkok was so cute we loved it instantly. It looked
like a silly symphony with its tiny glittering temples,
its little red rickshaws and hurrying miniature people.
Half of it was built on canals like Venice and the river
was full of strange boats and men in big hats yoo-
hooing to each other.
As for Hong Kong:
From a physical point of view Hong Kong gave us
nothing to complain of. It turned out to be both an
island and a hill and when we came into the harbor
at night it was all covered with lights so it looked like
a great glittering chandelier hanging from the sky. My
sister was very excited at the idea of being in China
until the hotel manager informed her coldly that there
was nothing Chinese about it except the people.
Some engaging people are introduced, from the
Scotsman with “a red face and a moustache that
looked like the inside of a carpet-sweeper,” to a
“rubbery little Japanese surgeon with eager raisin-
like eyes.”
England's Social Problems.
Yvonne Cloud’s new novel, The Houses in
Between (The Bodley Head), raises the cry so often
heard in fiction to-day, “There’s something rotten in
the state of Denmark. What are we going to do
about it?”
This question echoes distressfully through 300
pages, but the author doesn’t get beyond stating the
problem in human terms. Her story covers so wide
a field as to be almost a social survey. It begins in
Northumberland, where Charles Brandling wants to
apply “progress” as a restorative to depressed agri-
culture. His plan is to build a road and then persuade
the Government to erect armament factories in the
neighborhood. This would give employment to the
agricultural laborers who no longer get sustenance
from the soil.
His mother-in-law, Mrs. Jesmond, opposes his
scheme. She is a pacifist, and the thought of arma-
ment factories fills her with rage. She struggles with
the depression through the time-honored channels of
charity, spending her energy and her fortune on
women’s institutes, orphanage committees and the like.
Brandling and Mrs. Jesmond go to law about the new
road. He loses the case and is financially crippled.
His wife Hilda, who loves both her mother and her
husband, is the chief sufferer.
Hilda owns slum property in London which she
never visits but which brings her in a nice little in-
come. Among a lot of her shoddy Victorian houses
there is one place, Almshouse Row, of classical
Georgian architecture. A couple of rich dilettanti,
Oliver and Pauline Ferry, fall in love with the largest
of these houses and buy it. This gives the agent the
idea that the district might stage a social comeback.
Brandling, too, sees a chance to recoup himself for
the road fiasco by developing his wife’s property.
The Georgian houses are pulled down, except the
Ferrys’, for they refuse to sell, and big blocks of
luxury flats are put into construction on the site.
Labor troubles arise. The Ferrys pay £lOOO into
strike funds out of malice, because the flats are ruin-
ing their property. This enables the strike to go on
for six weeks and break the building company.
In the end the flats are taken over by the Govern-
ment and turned into model working-class dwellings.
The Ferrys move away to find other expensive hob-
bies, and Brandling, who has managed to lose his
wife’s confidence, has to give up his schemes for
progress.
The Houses in Between is a typically English pro-
duct. All the people in it, or nearly all, are decent,
intelligent and well-meaning. Every side is impar-
tially set out. Sympathy is invoked for Brandling,
Mrs. Jesmond, Hilda, the Ferrys, the strikers.
It is well written. Some scenes, such as that in
which Pauline Ferry entertains a handsome young
striker to lunch, are full of wit and acumen. But
as a whole the book fails to develop power.
Drama on the Hawkesbury.
In Winifred Birkett’s new novel, Portrait of
Lucy (Cassell), drought on the western plains
of New South Wales is used as a foil to
the fertile prosperity of small farms on the
Hawkesbury ; and so, too, does the young heroine’s
life pass from dreary aridity to happy fulfilment.
Lucy Chivers, nineteen years old, inexperienced,
is left alone and penniless by the death of her father.
Her only kinsman is Tom Landels, a farmer on the
Hawkesbury, who takes charge of her with reluctance
and brings her home to his orchard because he can
think of no other place to park her.
There is good reason for his reluctance, because
he has a mistress, Claudine. He would gladly have
married Claudine, who is consumptive, but her husband
is too cynical to divorce her. The neighbors are
beginning to sniff—and in Lucy’s arrival they see
cause to sniff even louder.
Tom explains the situation to Lucy and asks her
to marry him, to preserve his good name and to save
Claudine from ostracism. It is, of course, to be a
marriage in name only. The generous girl consents.
The neighbors call, and Lucy begins her difficult mas-
querade She falls in love with her husband but hides
it. Claudine dies of her malady, but pride keeps
husband and wife apart, though Tom, too, has learned
to love.
A shooting accident in which Tom is badly hurt
looks likely to solve their difficulties, but Tom, despite
himself, makes a miraculous recovery. A “better
man” who guesses Lucy’s secret is now in love with
her, and Tom takes it for granted that she wants to
be free to marry him. He decides to commit suicide
as the only decent course open to him.
A flood on the Hawkesbury offers him his chance.
He is out on the swirling water and had thrown away
one oar when he sees a man’s body caught in a
willow-tree and recognises one of his neighbors. By
a Herculean effort he is able to effect a rescue. The
man subsequently tells Lucy how he saw her husband
throw away an oar. She understands and betrays her
own feelings. Happy ending—and they don’t even
have the trouble of getting married.
The story is suavely and ably written. All the
light is focused on Lucy, who is very much the
heroine. Claudine is portrayed as the enigmatic
woman ; Tom is just a man; Virginia Sprouster, the
maid, and the neighbors fill in the comedy parts. The
natural descriptions—which suffer a little perhaps
from artificiality—are used to heighten or foil the
character of Lucy.
Even in her first “straight” novel, Earth’s Quality,
Miss Birkett showed a surprisingly mature narrative
technique combined with a comfortable prose style.
These qualities are sustained in her latest book.
Using the Vernacular.
Every now and then literature sheds a skin that
has become too tight for it; for the perfecting of a
means of literary expression so often means its stereo-
typing. The vigorous look out for something racier,
more plastic. Occasionally they invent a language,
like the later Joyce; more often they turn to the
vernacular, the language that is always growing up
from beneath, embodying and gradually legitimising
the more expressive and useful slang words.
Dante probably had one of the highest brows
of his day ; he was the man who had read every
book that then existed in the Western world ; but he
could break out of his cultural mould and sow his
genius upon the common. The return to the ver-
nacular is led by men who consciously choose it as
the most living language available. To-day the United
States is the headquarters of the movement.
In Britain there are men such as Hanley, James
Curtis and Sean O’Casey using the vernacular with
power and spirit. In America there are hundreds,
and among them some of the finest stylists, who use
the speech of the farm, of the workshop, of the slums,
the argot of gangsters, the slipshod of the drug-store
circle ; writers such as Elmer Rice, Steinbeck, Ander-
son.
Fred Urquhart’s Time Will Knit (Duckworth) is
a case in point. Vernacular is no longer a shock or
a challenge ; it has been accepted in America by the
rank and file of novelists.
Urquhart, in this first novel of his, makes rather
a welter of it. It is the story of a family told in a
series of reminiscences by various voices. There is
the broad Scots of the grandfather and grandmother;
the even broader middle-western dialect of the grand-
son, Spike Wilson, from Kansas; the cinematised
Scots of the aunts, and the still later vintage of the
Scottish-born grandsons.
It is a cleverly executed patchwork, even if a
little confused. The book is somewhat overpatterned,
a common failing with first novels, and the author
hasn’t quite worked out the difference between labored
verisimilitude and naturalness. This series of solilo-
quies and reminiscences in character is one of the
most unnatural methods available for telling a story.
The story is a large affair of three generations
of Gillespies, living in Harrisfield, one of Edinburgh’s
slum areas. Mirren and Wattie were married in 1880
and brought up a large family in a three-room cot-
tage. The book begins just before their golden wed-
ding with the arrival of Spike from America and a
notice to quit their cottage, which has long been unfit
for habitation.
These three events act as precipitants, and gradu-
ally there comes out the history of the family of
Tom who was sent to prison for assault when a noble
lord ill-used a horse in a stable where he was groom ;
of Grace, Spike’s mother, who went on the music-
halls and came to grief; of Am, who might have been
an artist but ended in an insane asylum through the
strain and misery of war; of Kate, who was not
allowed to marry her man because of religious differ-
ences ; of Walter, who was killed, and Mag and Bella,
who married ; of the grandsons and the neighbors.
The history of this family is in the main a tragic
one, but it is enlivened with flashes of humor and a
crop of comic stories, most of them unsuited to the
drawing-room.
Tales About China.
The Kites That Flew Into the Moon and othei
Chinese stories (Pitman) is by Kathleen Monypenny,
a Sydney girl at present making her way as a writer
in London. It is dedicated to Hugh McCrae's grand-
children and is a very delightful book.
There are six main stories, but four of them have
shorter stories, like kernels, set in them. They are all
well written, gay and of engaging simplicity. Magic
rather than plot is their stock-in-trade.
A little girl, Flower of Heaven, has an adventure
amid the landscape of a Chinese mat; Little-Scholar-
of-the-Crooked-Nose finds a magic pagoda, and an-
other little boy—thanks to a friendly dragon —attends
an ants’ dinner-party. The name-story, perhaps the
best of them all, is a solar myth handled with warm,
natural humor.
The author has taken every care to make her
Chinese settings and decor accurate, a labor that is
as much repaid in working for children as in any
other field. The book is pleasantly illustrated with a
colored frontispiece and some line drawings by Kath-
leen M. Blair.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Powder Smoke Blood: Clay Starr (Nicholson and
Watson). Feud in the cattle country by the author
of Stick ’Em Up, Cowboy.
If I Die Before I Wake: R. Sherwood King
(Master Thriller). The author says his lodging-house
proprietress accepted a week-by-week reading of the
chapters in lieu of room rent. A reviewer can add
nothing to that.
Gun Law: Charles M. Martin (Nicholson and
Watson). Triangular feud ; parties, the three fastest
gunmen in their part of the West.
General . . .
Over the North Pole : George Baidukov (Harrap).
Flight by three Soviet airmen from Moscow to Port-
land, U.S.A., in 1937. The trip may have been excit-
ing, but Baidukov has made only a dull job of the
story.
The Most Powerful Man in the World: Glyn
Roberts (Covici-Friede ; Angus and Robertson). He's
Sir Henri Deterding, the oil man. Roberts, very
“Left,” and full of wild hatred of everyone, from
“pipe-sucking” Baldwin to “squeaking” Wells, says he
was largely responsible for Allied intervention in
Russia and financed Hitler.
Vaeious Verse
Two Trees.
If shadows are under eyes,
And over the whole face
Shade like dark firelight lies,
It is the secret grace
Of tree outside my door
At whose black blaze my hands
Their load of fire implore.
There I have weighed the worth,
In hands, of moving air
And flame struck out of earth
Sparking with dew and star;
And gone into my house
From dark tree to a red
Like blood, warm over us.
Leafing the room with light,
Red gloze on midnight's dangers
And rose upon the white
Of stranger's face and stranger s,
The red tree in the grate,
In talk or laugh, in flesh,
Not in cold earth, strikes root.
Let words be coal on it,
For rooms are deep with death;
Let the warm words be lit
And flare with every breath:
But hands bring in, and eyes,
The dew-dark fire outside,
Strong when the red tree dies.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
They Plough the Last Round.
Some day a child, while playing in the sand.
Will find a rusted horseshoe in his hand,
And run and ask, agog with boyish dreams,
To hear another story of the teams.
For he will never see the heavy load
Swaying behind them on the western road, .
Their heaving sides, sweat-streaked, and bulging eyes,
Nor hear the thud of hoofs and teamsters cries.
He will not see them ploughing the last lound
In the red dusk by sombre ridges bound,
Leaning like one into the twanging chains,
With tortured shoulders, after tardy rains.
They stand now where a brown-green pattern fills
The rolling landscape to the farthest hills,
Where every wind makes ripples on the wheat;
And afterwards, when day and darkness meet,
They'll plough the last round while the sun is low,
Then toss their noble heads and turn to go.
N.S.W.
T.ROSE.


3
“for
pure
enjoyment
»
y -'', *'/'/■ ' /
BBS!
w&
WM
Sk^
ms
iiiiill
/ ' ,
<s« \ 'H ' '-//
|pps
”>avav/*X<X;/av<.'.v;
with
la\nrence
tibbett
COMPTON
bettt
BALFOUR
other celebrities
smoke
smart
Maths
lljfl
JiW
‘fßlii
Afl
op
Now in TINS of 20-1/6. Also Laube boxes 10-9 d., flat and round fifties and 100’s.
Highest
Grade Virginias


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■
■i
. ■
1 V
I :
■
» M
i-V'V
V'
,W;
:? <V;-
■
/
1
ij
■
■
111
i
, /
>*
/ ■-
■
u
m
,i , *
n
■
:
m
I
v:
$
■if '
>6
at*i
til
■
'v
* I.'*
:vri
(■fl
■
'
,
1
'
m
•V.
'
mm
9
Hi
m
■A
■
m
; 8
m
mm
H
13
A~ v .
&
m
■m.
• ‘■•AV
rr?'
II
HHH - ,% v -> m-:.
mtm * *% - 4, :>;■* J
m
w illlliliil iHt
:%. *
E
■
Another View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
Jftfblt Utim'cfWie melleti'ncJSandlouq/ud


A TOTALLY UNEXPECTED APPARITION.
“Hitler demands Wilsonian self-determination-for the Germans in Czechoslovakia.”
“Speak: I am bound to hear.”
“So art thou to revenge when thou shalt hear.”— “Hamlet.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch {Aus.), Ltd..
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America.. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d
WAR? NO. THANK YOU!
IN th reporting of foreign affairs views are nowadays
Considered immeasurably more important than news,
and Hitler’s Nuremberg speech was dished up m + he
new fashion. Scraps of what he said v ;ie spread
between huge hunks of what alleged authorities
thought of the speech and thr'speaker, the alleged
authorities being, of course 'nearly all hostile.
The Fiihrer spojy ' for an hour and nineteen
minutes. Allowing for cheers, he must have uttered
at least 8000 words. The scraps ran to a thousand
words or sp and were presented, now in ihe first
person, »ad now in the third, in an order that varied
according to the taste and fancy of the particular
newspaper.
Perhaps by way of explanation, it was asserted
in one group of journals that “Hitler gave a long and
dull review of Nazi history since 1923.” The people,
who had been told beforehand that his speech would
be the most momentous of the age, and that it might
determine whether they would remain at peace or
become involved in war, wevc entitled to at
. st an honest and intelligible abridgment of this
review. Possibly they would have decided that it was
really enlightening, or that if it was dull it explained
something that it was necessary for them to know.
The speech was, of course, delivered in German,
and translators as well as redactors differed. Signifi-
cant words appeared in some newspapers and not in
others. For example, this was in the Sydney “Sun”
of September 14:
We made the Anglo-German naval treaty, not
because we could not build more ships, but because
of our desire never to cross swords with England again.
We concluded a treaty of friendship with Poland.
The last sentence was omitted from the “S. M. Herald”
of September 15. “Herald” readers must therefore
have been puzzled when they were informed, in a
message from Warsaw, that Hitler had made “the posi-
tive statement that he considers Germany’s French and
Polish frontiers inviolable and final.” Those curious
enough to turn back to the “Sun” report would have
found this:
Germany is definitely reconciled to a large number of
her frontiers. She is determined to accept these as
unalterable and definite, and thereby to give Europe a
feeling of security and peace; but this acceptance does
not mean that Germany is disinterested in all European
problems. Particularly it does not mean that Germany
is indifferent to what is happening to 3,500,000 Germans.
The sentence “Germany is definitely reconciled
to a large number of her frontiers” was repeated in
“S. M. Herald.” But Melbourne “Argus,” which
subscribes to another cable service, made it “Ger-
many is now satisfied with her frontiers,” a most
important difference, preceding it with these words:
The Nazis have voluntarily taken heavy sacrifices
upon themselves to further European peace. We gave up
all claims to Alsace-Lorraine, and we have concluded
a treaty of friendship with Poland.
An amplification of this statement appeared in
the “Sun” —though not in all editions:
We are not revengeful. For the Germans, Strasburg
meant much.
We made the renunciation in the cause, of peace and
gave up our claims for revision because we wanted to
bury the quarrel with France.
We accepted a very great sacrifice to pave the way
to an international settlement.
From France the speaker turned to Geneva, where
Mr. Litvinov and M. Bonnet were listening, and from
Geneva to Moscow and Mr. Dimitri’s United Front:
It is bitter irony that the Soviet should be an honor-
able member of the democratic League of Nations while
it maintains its rule by shootings and torture.
To-day we experience on a large scale what we
experienced on a small scale before we were confronted
with the United Front of Bolsheviks and democrats.
See how the international democrats work hand in hand
with Moscow!
He claimed that his party had united the Germans
of the Third Reich under his leadership, and gave the
need for national unity as the “reason” why “the Jews
had to be eliminated.” Glancing at Britain, he said
bitterly that “ ‘they’ do not hesitate to bring natives
to reason with bombs.”
I will not agree to permit a second Palestine in the
heart of Germany. The Arabs are defenceless, but the
Sudeten Germans are neither defenceless nor forsaken.
The Sudeten Germans he described as “tortured
and oppressed creatures,” “sections of our compatriots
exposed to robbery and oppression,” “creatures of
God, Who did not create them for surrender to hatred
and persecution.” Czechoslovakia he characterised as a
“democracy established against the will of the majority
of the inhabitants,” designed “to bomb German indus-
tries in case of war,” and with a Constitution “based,
not on a nation’s rights, but on the requirements of
oppressors.” He had said in February that “Germany
would no longer tolerate the persecution of the
Sudeten Germans —I ask statesmen to take notice that
this was no empty phrase.”
According to the “Sun,” Hitler asserted that the
Czechs had sought “to restore the intimidation of the
Sudetens by massing troops on the frontier.”
President Benes invented the story that German
troops were mobilising “to march on the Czechs.” Not
one soldier above the normal number had been called
to the colors or moved from garrisons. Germany did
not intend to march.
According to the “Argus,” stronger language was
applied, and a motive imputed, to the Czech leader:
.This year regional elections were to have been held
>i Czechoslovakia. The Czechs were not certain of the
result. President Benes invented the lie that Germany
had mobilised. Such lies are nothing new.
The “Sun” version proceeds :
A Great Power could not tolerate such a base attack,
and therefore Germany took important measures on May
28. She • -ngthened her air force and ordered fortifi-
cations + be built in the west. Since May 28 gigantic
for*'*'‘aueins have been under construction in the west.
The fortifications are ready. Behind this line stands
armed Germany.
“S. M. raid” differed: “The great new
fortresses in the west will be ready by the winter,”
the word “armed” being omitted. The “Argus”
account differed again:
On May 18 I ordered reinforcements of the army
and the air force which were immediately taken in hand
and carried through.
I ordered the fortification of the western frontier —
the most gigantic fortification work of all time. One hun-
dred and six!; two thousand workers were engaged on
these f r -ations, besides numerous infantry divisions
and engineer troops. The fortifications were begun
three years ego. They will be completed before the
winter.
The Chancellor insisted that he aimed at peace:— ■
I am serving peace if I leave no doubt that the
Sudeten oppression must end.
I have made an effort to serve peace, but I am not
willing to look on endlessly while Germans in Czecho-
slovakia persecuted.
Benes has engaged in tactics. He desires
to negotiate according to Geneva methods. That will
not do. This is a question of violated rights. The
Germans demand the right of self-determination. Presi-
dent Benes shall not give mere gifts but rights. The
right of self-determination shall replace oppression.
One weakness of dictatorial systems, more
obvious than their fatal weakness of transience
(the English had a Cromwell and his system died with
him), is the tendency of dictators to let their tongues
run away with them. Prime Ministers in London
and Presidents in Washington weigh their words;
dictators rant, gasconade, threaten: it is part
of the game, as played by Stalin, no less than by
Hitler and Mussolini. Their peoples under-
stand well enough that their bark is worse than their
bite, but the effect on foreign nations with settled insti-
tutions and a tradition of sobriety in speech is apt to
be alarming, particularly at a time when Reds and
newspaper liars abound.
There is no evidence that the Nuremberg speech
produced a dangerous state of mind among the Ger-
mans of the Reich, who went about their business
as usual when their leader had let off steam; but it
profoundly disturbed France and Britain. Especially
as it was followed immediately by reports that Czechs
and Sudeten Germans had come to blows. Accounts
of what happened are confused and contradictory, but
it is clear that a few lives were lost on both sides and
that there was some destruction of property..
A Prague proclamation of martial law in a few
Sudeten districts was denounced by the Sudeten leaders
as an infraction of a pledge given when the Runciman
negotiations were entered upon. They presented an
“ultimatum” demanding the withdrawal of pro-
clamation and the removal of State police from
districts in which the majority of the population is
German,” insisting also on gendarmerie being reduced
to normal numbers and soldiers confined to barracks.
Rejection of the “ultimatum” would mean that they
would “decline any responsibility for future develop-
ments.” Rejected it was, and there followed fighting
which the Czechs described as “organised attacks on
State executives, public buildings and gendarmerie
posts,” and in which 23 persons were killed and 75
wounded, mostly Czechs. The Sudeten account
charged “Czech democracy” with “the perpetration of
plunders and murders comparable only to the Bol-
shevist atrocities in Spain: defenceless women and
children and hundreds of dead and seriously-wounded
people accuse it.”
Meanwhile there were long discussions in Down-
ing-street and signs of perturbation on ’Change and at
Lloyd’s. A few British newspapers remained calm,
and suggested that the self-determination proposal
should be carefully examined, but the New?-
Chronicle” and the “Daily Telegraph” ran , tr y e to
form. So did the League Assembly, over which Mr.
Jordan, of “What’s-going-on-here?” celebrity, pre-
sided. In a speech which brought down the chatter-
house Mr. Jordan warned the dictators that it they
went too far Maoriland would at once mobilise its
3000 soldiers—2996 rather, since the Four Colonels
have been “disciplined.” A newspaper liar, sniffing
round Litvinov’s suite, announced that the Rumanian
delegation had promised that worthy a free passage
across Rumania for the Red army. This was contra-
dicted by the Rumanian Ambassador in London, as
the previous lie that Germany had sounded the Yugo-
slav Government as to its attitude to a German war
on Czechoslovakia was contradicted by that Govern-
ment.
In Australia Professor Roberts laughed merrily
at the idea of a plebiscite, and the Sydney “Morning
Herald” plumbed the depths of inanity:
Italy might demand such a plebiscite in Malta or
North Queensland; Spain at Gibraltar; the Japanese in
Hawaii or the Philippines.
Granny reminded Hitler that he had been “warned on
all sides,” and warned him, for her own part, that she
wouldn’t tolerate “a reproduction of the sinister pre-
cedent set in Spain.” And the “Daily Telegraph”
found in his attitude “the savage intensity of a frus-
trated man —an angry, baffled man with an uneasy
conscience.” It referred also to “the determined
warnings by Britain and France,” and rather sug-
gested that, if one Nazi stormtrooper goose-stepped
over the frontier, the entire French nation would hurl
itself across the Rhine.
This fancy picture was in no wise supported by
messages from Paris. In France nobody talked of
another Sacred Union; Cabinet was at sixes and
sevens, and the nation dreadfully worried at the pros-
pect of a war on two European fronts, and another in
Asia, if the alliance with Russia brought Italy and
Japan in on the other side. “No intervention” was
the cry of Flandin and Chautemps, and the plebiscite
found a champion in the “Matin.” Neither in Aus-
tralia was there the slightest sign of enthusiasm for
war on behalf of the Czechs. There was approval in
all quarters —except that in which Mr. Lang is put-
ting a headlock on Mr. Heffron —when Mr. Lyons
came out with a statement strongly supporting the
Chamberlain policy, but the “measures” mentioned in
it were not preparations for war but “strenuous and
constant efforts for peace.”
Eleven months ago Australia was assured, on bad
authority, that the President of the United States had
declared for “positive action” against Japan, and was
advised to get in behind him. From America there
hasn’t come the shadow of a suggestion of “positive
action” against the Germans to help the Czechs —or
the British or the French. On that issue Uncle Sam
is isolationist, and Uncle Sam is right.
When it seemed to good people who believe
everything they read in newspapers that the world
was drifting to another disaster, Mr. Chamberlain took
a gallant and great-minded decision. With Sir Horace
Wilson, his closest adviser, and a Foreign Office
man, he flew to Berchtesgaden to see Hitler. It was
his first journey through cloudland; and, since the
first machine flew, flying has never been put to nobler
purpose. Other Prime Ministers have gone to Europe
in trying times; no other Prime Minister has
set out on a mission which so captured the imagina-
tion of mankind.
Prime Minister and Fiihrer met in the latter’s
house, “had a very friendly talk,” which lasted for
3 hours and 20 minutes, and parted with the under-
taking that they would renew the discussions “some
time later.” Nothing more has been said on either
side, and newspaper speculations as to what proposals,
if any, were made, and how, if made, they were
received, are useless. There has been too much guess-
ing already on foreign affairs, and often guessing is
indistinguishable from lying. Enough for the present
to know that the situation has improved, and that
there is a fair prospect of a settlement that will satisfy
all but irreconcilable Czechs and their Red friends.
One thing is certain: Czechoslovakia cannot be
preserved in its present form, a form which has given
the Czechs a predominance which they must have
abused or they wouldn’t be hated so much. Whether
the right of secession is granted to the dissatisfied
minorities (among which are even their blood-brothers
the Slovaks), or whether the republic is converted into
another Switzerland —which would seem to be the
best solution —as a house divided against itself it
cannot stand. If the Nazis decided to march into it,
nobody could prevent them —neither the British nor
the French nor the Russians nor the Czechs them-
selves, nor all combined. Nor if Australia were in-
volved in war as a result of such a march could it
send troops to Europe. It has no troops to spare ;
and, if it had, the Government could not reasonably
guarantee that they would ever get to Europe.
A war to prevent a political union or association
of people of the same race —and that a fighting race
who have been neighbors for many centuries, and
who have powerful allies, would be the maddest sort
of war in which the British Commonwealth could
engage. The case of the Sudeten Germans resembles
that of the Belgians in 1830.
For 20 years, 1794-1814, Belgium was part of
France. After the final defeat of Napoleon, with
whom —as every reader of Vanity Fair should know
—many of the Belgians strongly sympathised, Bel-
gium was united with Holland to form the kingdom
of the Netherlands, the arrangement being made at
the Congress of Vienna, at which, of course, Britain
was represented. . ... ,
In 1830, the Belgians rose against the king and
drove the Dutch army out of their country. Did the
British Empire forcibly intervene to place them under
Dutch control again? No ; Britain took part in a
conference —which was held in London and, in con-
junction with four other Great Powers, gave the Bel-
gians independence, a Constitution and a king of their
own. It even joined with France to coerce the Dutch
when the latter turned nasty. The Dutch invaded the
new kingdom and beat the Belgians. An Anglo-French
fleet set out for the coast of Holland ; a French army
besieged Antwerp ; and the Dutch gave way. Hence
Gallant Little Belgium.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Disqualified—He's An Australian!"
The war was a very severe test of national fitness,
and competent observers have said that Australians
did rather well in it. It took brains in all ranks, as
well as rare courage and endurance, to win
Second Villers-Bret. and Mont St. Quentin; and
Lloyd George has testified that an Australian had all
the qualities of a great Commander-in-Chief, and
regretted that he found it out too late.
There are now 2,000,000 more people in Aus-
tralia than there were at the beginning of the war,
and the breed hasn’t noticeably deteriorated. But
when making appointments politicians have a poor
opinion of it.
Every two or three weeks it is announced that
some overseas gentleman has been engaged as a Gov-
ernment actuary, or as Inspector-General of militia
that might be able to put a division in the field (the
A.I.F. opposed five divisions to the Germans alone),
or that another overseas gentleman is to be placed
in command of the R.A.A.F. And there is never a
time when taxpayers aren’t footing the bills of a
parcel of travelling officials, sent abroad to learn how
much better things are done over there. ’
So it surprised nobody to read that “the position
of Director of Physical Education in N.S.W.” had
been “offered to an Englishman living in Canada.”
Offered on the recommendation of the N.S.W.
Director of Education, who “in the past few months
has examined many candidates in Canada and
U.5.A.,” the examinations being conducted with the
assistance of an Education Department inspector,
“who accompanied the Director overseas to study
physical education in other countries.”
We poor damned Australians are expected to
believe that we can’t organise our own system of
physical training or produce our own physical
trainers. We are so ignorant in these matters that
we need to get the whole outfit from “other
countries.”
Yet in Canada, when the Director of Education
and the Education Department inspector were there,
and when “the position of Director of Physical Train-
ing” was “offered to an Englishman living in Canada,”
two Australians raced for the sculling championship
of the world. They are both splendid specimens of
young Australian manhood; and they had to be
trained to the minute, for pulling a shell three miles
for a world title imposes the highest possible strain
on muscle and nerve.
The winner, Pearce, is a member of a family that
has been renowned in Australian sport for 60 years.
He went to Canada years ago because he couldn’t get
a job in his native country —he was on the dole. He
is intelligent, abstemious, likeable, of sterling character
and probably the greatest sculler of all time. In short,
an ideal man to organise a truly Australian system of
physical training for Australians, and command
interest in and respect for it at the outset.
But he is an Australian, and that disqualifies him.
“The position has been offered to an Englishman
living in Canada” by politicians who condescend to
live in Australia, but whose spiritual home is some-
where else.
The Neglected Harvest.
In 1937 the commercial fish-catch in Westralian
waters was worth £130,000. It was harvested by 662
licensed fishermen operating 316 boats, valued; with
gear, at £53,130. During the same period Australia
imported just on £1,500,000 worth of frozen, dried
and canned fish from abroad, although its 244,000
sqifare miles of first-rate offshore fishable waters
contain an edible fish fauna unsurpassed in the world
for variety, and include such species as the blue- and
yellow-fin tuna, which support an immense industry
«in California.
Large numbers of people in overseas countries
are making a substantial part of their living by catch-
ing and processing for Australian consumption exactly
the same kinds of fish which our own home waters
yield.
Unless there is an early waking up, the fate
which has overtaken the pearling industry in northern
waters will descend upon fisheries much nearer to
our too-numerous Houses of Parliament. There is
nothing to prevent foreign factory ships from work-
ing within easy view of Sydney Heads if the returns
were sufficiently promising—the three-mile limit, not
political hot air or lines on maps, settles such matters
unless we are prepared to fight. And who’d fight over
a bit of fish? Certainly not Australians, who aver-
age only 141 b. or so of it yearly in their tucker, com-
pared with Britain’s 42 or Japan’s 129.
No Joke This Time.
In the first of the lawsuits brought against it after
the seizure of Japanese pearling craft off the N.T.
coast, the Government at Canberra has fallen in
heavily.
Plaintiffs in this particular action were the owners
of the lugger Takachico Maru, and they claimed
£20,000 damages. Their- lugger was on June 10
boarded and arrested by Captain Haultain, of that
fatal and perfidious barque the Larrakia, off Boucaut
Bay, Arnhem Land; Captain Haultain alleged that
she was trespassing in territorial waters near an
aboriginal reserve,
Lugger, skipper and crew were brought to Dar-
win. The lugger and its catch of shell were detained,
skipper and crew being placed aboard a sampan, the
Seicho Maru, with orders to clear out.
Judge Wells heard the case at Darwin. Evidence
and counsel’s addresses occupied six weeks. Then
his Honor reserved judgment.
A list of cases at Alice Springs occupied him for
another six weeks, and judgment was not delivered
until Tuesday of last week. It was in favor of the
Japanese, defendants being ordered to return the
lugger and the shell and pay £2OOO damages and costs,
which are expected to exceed £l5OO.
Action had been taken under a section (19 AA)
of the Aboriginals Ordinance. His Honor caustically
remarked that the section was badly drafted, ambigu-
ous where it should be precise and on a cardinal point
indefinite.
Nowhere is there any definition of territorial waters.
So the Judge had to do his own defining.
The words “territorial waters” include a marginal
belt of water adjacent to the seashore, the extent of
which has not yet been determined in international law,
but which, under British law, may now be taken to be
definitely accepted as three nautical miles from low-water
mark.
He added significantly that “the nature of the
dominion” over the “three nautical miles from low-
water mark” is “still undetermined,” both in inter-
national law and under British law. But the Takachicc
Maru had been arrested beyond the three-mile limit.
The seizure took place, not at the place marked on
the chart by Captain Haultain, but at a place at least
half a mile away Captain Haultain took no steps
whatever at the time or for many months afterwards to
check his estimate or work out his calculations.
Many months after the arrest an expert witness, Lieut.-
Commander Hunt, was able to take bearings and hori-
zontal sextant angles from the position marked as the
scene. Captain Haultain’s failure to do so seems to
indicate a remarkably casual and irresponsible attitude
of mind. Facts elicited in cross-examination and his
conduct and demeanor in the box show him to be a man
of impulsive and excitable temperament, careless and
inaccurate in his handling of figures.
Captain Haultain was named as a defendant. He
has since been placed in command of one of the new
patrol boats, and this appointment must obviously
be reviewed.
Mr. Abbott, the Administrator, was also named
as a defendant. Mr. Abbott is the former Ministerial
member for Gwydir (N.S.W.), and when appointed
was alleged to have outstanding qualifications for the
position at Darwin, though what they were has never
been satisfactorily stated. Parliament should demand
to know all there is to know about Mr. Abbott’s asso-
ciation with the appalling blunder of this affair of the
lugger.
Grabbing the People's Parks.
For the spreading giant it has become, Sydney is not
well supplied with parks, playgrounds and other
safety-valves of the sort, though it used to be. Years
ago a chunk of Moore Park was appropriated for a
girls’ school (Government, of course), for which a
situation as convenient could have been found in any
of a hundred places; and ever since political and
municipal vandals have been inspired with corre-
sponding ambitions.
The City Council thinks Camperdown Park a
rare place for a nursery school, and wants to grab part
of the Domain for a swimming pool—“ Olympic” is
understood. To this the Government objects, not
because it regards the Domain as sacrosanct, but
because the Domain figures in its own plans for
“improvements”—a cement road among them; it can
never see a grassy walk without yearning to spread
cement on it. And it aspires to build a new Sydney
hospital, new law courts and, of course, a grand new
Parliament House, though N.S.W. could do without a
grand new Parliament House and without Parliament
itself.
W. L. Hume, secretary of the Parks and Play-
grounds Movement, comes in here:
“In order to close the vista along Bridge-street,”
Parliament House is to be built in the Botanic Gardens.
When the Macquarie-strcet Replanning Committee was
being appointed, the Parks and Playgrounds Movement
sought a place on it for one of its members. Had this
been vouchsafed, the Domain and the Gardens might
have been marked “untouchable.” Is it too late now
to save them?
It is not too late, provided one-tenth of the people
who realise that the Domain and the Botanic Gardens
are priceless possessions go into action. “More Parks
and Fewer Politicians” would be an appropriate
slogan.
A Small-loans Department.
From “Wilkins Micawber, junior”:
Anticipating Canberra, the Bank of Australasia has started
a small-loans department for salaried and wages men in good
standing who are in temporary difficulties.
Character and a job constitute the security, and repay-
ments are generally at the rate of one-tenth of weekly income,
sometimes less. Interest rate varies from 5 per cent, to 6 per
cent.
Seven-tenths of the applicants for loans are public servants.
By arrangement their repayments are deducted from their
fortnightly cheques. Moneylenders who haunt departments
every payday are already showing visible and vocal concern.
Among would-be borrowers were a man who wanted to
buy into a pub and a postman —not in debt —who was
anxious to send his convalescent mother away for a holiday.
The bank is not financing the pub, but the mother is enjoying
her holiday. Young men have been refused loans to pay
deposits on cars. In certain cases, however, business girls
have been helped to buy new outfits of clothes.
The innovation is being tried in Melbourne, Hobart and
Canberra. No angry remarks, please, from Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth 1
Something New at Kronstadt.
“E.L.”: A recent furphy from Russia is to the effect
that the Red Republic is concentrating on building
capital ships. In a war it will “take the offensive and
force the enemy fleet to a decisive engagement, attack-
ing it if necessary in its own waters.”
This is the new naval policy outlined by the
“Red Fleet.” A dispute as to whether submarines
are better than capital ships was settled by the inter-
vention of a naval authority brought up in the
mountains behind Tiflis —Stalin.
The only thing lacking is information as to
when sufficient ships will be built.
A capital ship isn’t the kind of thing that can
be run up casually in a backyard. The quantities of
steel required are immense, and the strains and stresses
the ship has to stand are greater than any imposed
on a bridge, even one like Sydney’s. And it has to be
fitted with a myriad of highly technical precision instru-
ments, among the most precise of which are its big
guns, with the utmost care and regard for the integrity
of the material used.
The records for building big battleships are all
held by J. Bull. He turned them out in two Great
War years, and in time that will never be beaten because
.space and order of operations are determining factors.
Father Bull holds the battle-cruiser records also —the
Renown and the Repulse were each built in a year.
But the work was done regardless of cost, much of
the equipment was ready in advance, and neither was
considered completely satisfactory.
Guns in themselves are a problem for builders
of capital ships. Lathes which can handle big naval-
gun jobs are scarce. Construction of equipment to
make 16-inch guns, apart from dockyards, would
take years to complete. A normal 16-inch naval gun.
with shield and mounting, weighs 1375 tons, fires a
20001 b. shell, is 60 feet long in barrel and projects its
shot with a force which will penetrate cleanly five feet
of wrought iron at the muzzle.
Any fleet which can chase an enemy into its
home waters must be able to chase it into harbor.
This means great numbers of minesweepers, torpedo-
boats, submarines, light cruisers and aerial reconnais-
ance ’planes; and to build these it would take any
country starting from scratch about 20 years. Even
then the fleet would scarcely live against equal land
batteries of any worth-while standard, since big guns
ashore are more accurate and more mobile than any-
thing afloat.
The facts about the Soviet battle-fle6t at the
beginning of this year are that it consisted of four
23,000-ton battleships of Great War vintage which are
being given under-water protection and new engines.
They carry 12 obsolescent 12-inch guns and a
number of 4.7’5. Pitted against the 16-inch and 6-inch
guns of H.M.S. Nelson, they would be outranged and
broken down by superior weight of metal, their
heaviest shells being 14001 b., whereas Nelson can fire
20001 b. shells. The Soviet cruisers (eight in number)
are all reconstructed war or pre-war types, some as
slow as 18 knots and the fastest only 29 knots (the
new French cruisers can do 44 knots): they are all
smaller than our Australia and Canberra. The rest
of the navy consists of destroyers and guardships, with
a few submarines.
To catch up with Japan in actual tonnage —
irrespective of size of guns, speeds and general
efficiency—Russia would have to increase its 222,000
tons of naval shipping threefold. And, going its
hardest, it would have to wait till 1958, at the earliest,
before it could exercise its amazing naval strategy
anywhere except in the pages of friendly newspapers.
*
A Proposed Dryopolis.
“Lord Luvus”: The Bulletin says “Victoria is not
going dry” (14/9/’3B), and I believe it. But to save
Victorians from having to suffer and pay for another
referendum in eight years, and another and another,
I suggest an experiment.
Let the Government select a nice, varied, well-
watered locality where the climate is salubrious and
declare it a Dry Area, expelling all the village drunks
and even the moderate drinkers. Then let it invite all
prohibitionists prepared to have their theories tested
to reside in it for 20 years without interference.
There will be no need to police the area, for the
prohibitionists will be in possession and can be trusted
to throw bootleggers out by the seat of the pants. Vital
and social statistics should be carefully compiled by
a board of Government and Dry nominees. At the
end of the stipulated period a report would neces-
sarily be issued. That report should show, once and
for all, whether the Demon Drink is responsible for
all the sins, crimes, abuses and disasters that have
been fathered on it.
If during the 20 years no husband in Dryopolis
beat his wife or deserted her for another woman; no
mother neglected her offspring; no clerk pinched his
firm’s money; no parson had occasion to deplore the
falling off of his congregation; no motorist ran into a
pedestrian and left him lying, and no rising young
citizen suddenly took the primrose path to destruc-
tion, it would be obligatory on the Government to
extend the system to cover the entire population.
If the statistics were even relatively better than
those of the surrounding country and it could be
clearly shown that trade, commerce, industry, art and
inventiveness were on a higher level among the
Dryopolitans than elsewhere, that honesty, probity,
intelligence, reluctance to use bad language, talk
scandal about the neighbors and buy pornographic
magazines imported from America were their out-
standing characteristics, the Government would have
to do something about it.


"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“C.Q.”: A coastal passenger, travelling
between Melbourne and Sydney, was
having a bad time in the vicinity of
Gabo. A healthy stranger, observing his
“How far is this from the station ?”
“You can do it in about four minutes ' fast running .”
sad plight, came up and commiserated
with him. “I’ve got a bottle of something
in my cabin,” he remarked, “which a
friend gave me in Melbourne. He said
it was a sovereign specific for seasick-
ness. Would you like to try it?” The
sufferer was too low-spirited to answer,
arid the stranger hurried off to get the
mixture. He was pouring out a dose
when the seedy passenger asked to be
given a look at the label. “Thanks,” he
said, “I won’t bother.” “Why not?” said
the kindly stranger. “At least it won’t
make you worse and it might make you
better.” “Not interested,” muttered his
patient. “I’m the chemist who makes it.”
*** , *
“Nakh”: In a trial at Shepparton
(Vic.), an amazing story was unfolded.
A Yalca (Vic.) farmer and his wife were
charged with having attempted (1) mur-
der of one another, (2) murder of their
three-months-old daughter and (3)
suicide. The husband asserted that he had
become distracted by his wife’s threats
to do away with herself and the
baby. He decided to agree to a suicide
pact in order to divert her. Poison was
obtained from a chemist, and it was agreed
that they should take it and then over-
turn their car to make their suicide
appear accidental. The car accident
was duly staged, and all three were in-
jured ; but he was drunk and didn’t know
what he was doing. The pellets she
swallowed under the belief that they were
poison were innocuous substitutes for the
lethal dose obtained from the pharmacy.
The jury brought in a verdict of not
guilty.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A graduate from a univer-
sity school of journalism, unable to get
a job, decided to put his acquired learn-
ing to use by trying his hand at free-
lancing. Selecting an important topic of
the day, he wrote a careful essay and
posted it off to a leading Melbourne
daily. He got it back by return with the
usual intimation, “The editor regrets.”
Scrawled across the slip was the com-
ment, “Too journalistic”!
* * * *
“X.S.”: A manifestation of family
honor which would have entranced De
Maupassant was aired in a Melbourne
court recently. The postmaster of a little
hamlet outside Bendigo, finding himself
in financial difficulties, misappropriated
Commonwealth property to the tune of
upwards of £l2O, hoping to be able to
restore it. But death was imminent, and
the unhappy man consulted a brother-in-
law in Melbourne. In the upshot he
left with his relative a statement that
the defalcation was his own doing, and
no responsibility attached to his wife or
family. After his death in 1937 his wife
carried on as nominal postmistress, with
her son to assist her, but the dead man’s
theft hung over their heads like a spectre.
They were planning to pay off the defi-
ciency out of the sale of their business
when the law took a hand in the domestic
drama and charged the son with mis-
appropriation. Streeton, J., released him
under a bond to be of good behavior
for two years, remarking that, while he
was technically guilty, there was no
evidence to show that he had used any,
of the money for his own benefit.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Victoria is likely soon to have
a whole crop of fresh centenaries. Gee-
long is the first, and this month Bonthar-
ambo, near Wangaratta, is celebrating
the hundredth birthday of the Docker
family’s settlement in the district. On
September 8, 1838, the Rev. Joseph
Docker, his wife and family arrived
from Sydney, where he had been incum-
bent of a church at Windsor. Having
exchanged his clerical collar for a colored
handkerchief, he and his assigned ser-
vants overlanded 3000 sheep, 200 head
of cattle, some brood mares, a stallion,
bullock-carts, tents and wagons to Bon-
tharambo, where he took over a prop-
erty off which a member of the cele-
brated Faithfull family had been driven
by the aboriginals. The property has
been in unbroken possession of the
Dockers ever since. G. J. and H. S.
Docker, two grandsons, are the present
holders.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: “Any article put into this
box will not for the purpose of any
Enactment, Law or Contract whereby the
due posting is evidence of the receipt
thereof by the addressee be deemed to
have been duly posted.” Such is the
ominous legend that has appeared on a
post-office receiving-box in the Sydney
office building where I toil. Looks as
if the P.M.G. didn’t approve of people
posting letters.
* * * *
“T.”: Yes, the astrologers at whom
Dean Swift laughed and the South Sea
Bubble boys (B. 7/9/’3B) would feel
quite at home if—immortal as the Scholar
Gipsy—they found their way to Sydney,
especially if they cased their persons in
modern duds, learned the American lingo
and had their hair waved. That joker
who caught the mugs with “a design
hereafter to be promulgated” was only
one of a band of easy-money entrepre-
neurs. Another floated “a company for
carrying on an undertaking, nobody to
know what it is.” He disappeared with
£2OOO. Another went on the market with
Globe Permits.
Globe Permits were pieces of card with
the Globe Tavern impressed thereon in
wax, and inscribed “Sail Cloth Permits. - ”
Possession of a card entitled the holder at
some future time to subscribe to a Sail
Cloth Company; the price was 60 guineas
each.
And there was Puckle’s Machine Com-
pany. Puckle’s Machine was designed
for “discharging round and square
cannon balls and bullets, and making a
total revolution in the art of war.” It’s
a wonder the Hodsons gang didn’t think
of something like Puckle’s Machine for
Sydney instead of a share-exchanging
racket that got them into trouble—one
or two of them, anyway,
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The proprietress of one
of Melbourne’s oldest and most pic-
turesque hostelries has a variant of the
approved formula for emptying bars at
closing time. Poking her head round the
door,, she says sweetly : “You’ve for-
gotten to put your boots out, gentlemen.’
* .* . *. , * ,
“Qwcrt Yuiop”: A Brisbane man of
hitherto unimpeached integrity is still
hot under the collar when locksmiths are
mentioned. When the first occasion came
to use a valuable case of cutlery which
had been a wedding present, the key
couldn’t be found. He sought a locksmith,
with the case in a bag; that expert, cast
a cold, hard eye upon it, a colder and
harder one upon him, and curtly replied
that he didn’t want the job. Pondering
the curious mentality of the trade, he
found another, who, after gazing even
harder and more frigidly, said that he
would attend to it in a minute, and held
a brief muffled conversation with some-
one on the telephone. Late for an ap-
pointment, the owner suggested that he
would call back later, but the man of
keys refused flatly to go on with the job
unless he remained. Then two bulky
plainclothes men loomed up in the door-
way, and an indignant citizen spent an
excited half-hour in proving to them and
the locksmith that he was not pinching
his own property.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Two sea centenaries
occur this month. The Royal William
crossed the Atlantic in September, 1838,
the first vessel to do so with steam as her
main propulsive power. Nineteen years
before, the American auxiliary ship
Savannah had used engines for 80 hours
of her 29-day voyage from Savannah to
Liverpool, but they were not used at all
on the return trip, and were taken out of
her a year later. On September 7, 1838,
Grace Darling and her. lightkeeper father
performed their rescue of the few sur-
vivors from the steamer Forfarshire,
wrecked on the Fame Islands off the
Northumberland coast, in a heavy gale.
# :Jc # %
“L.C.”: Tell “K.N.” (B. 31/8/’3B) that
there were two Pulteney Hotels in old
Sydney, the one he refers to at the corner
of O’Connell and Bent streets, and the
other in .York-street, near Druitt-street.
This had its heyday, too. Its assembly
hall knew much revelry by night. In
about 1842 the building was taken over
by Sydney’s first municipal council as a
town hall and offices. Later still, it be-
came the Freemasons’ Hall.
* * * *
“Moz”: Times change. Wanted a
chimney-sweep the other day. There
arrived a smartly-tailored young fellow
in a snappy roadster. He took off his
coat and donned white overalls and
gloves. In 20 minutes he was gone and
five shillings with him. He didn’t make
any mess, didn’t need a wash, and retired
without even a speck on his white collar.
9 * * *
“Pitt-street”: I’ve discovered why
Hitler didn’t march his troops into
Czechoslovakia early in the piece. It
was explained by a “Labor Daily”
poster:
SWISS, DUTCH
MAN
BORDERS.
That would be enough to frighten any-
body.
,** * *
“S.”: There is a certain mulish stolidity
about such objects as stones and tree-
trunks that makes it very proper for
harassed human beings to heave them
down hillsides or chuck them into rivers;
and there is a plain hostility in tyres
that have bust or engines that won’t go
that demands kicking. But never till
I prowled Sydney Domain the other night
had I seen a man fighting a tree. Whether
he was a boxer who had slain all other
sparring partners or whether he just
didn’t like trees I don’t know, but he
was prancing round it and letting fly
lefts and rights with all the fury of a
Henneberry. I tiptoed towards him to
egg the tree on a bit, but he leapt like
a startled goat and galloped away in the
darkness, still flinging his arms about and
apparently trying to k.o. the moon. I
leave it to the botanists.
* * * *
“Doon”: Why the mournful wail from
James J. Gorman (B. 31/8/’3B) and
others about the resurrection of “Steele
Rudd’s” characters? Hasn’t every coun-
try its national humorous symbols? Scot-
land doesn’t discourage jokes about the
mon fra’ Aberdeen, and nobody thinks
the worse of England because of the fun
derived from Cockneys, laads from Lan-
cashire, Jeeveses and Bertie Woosters with
eyeglasses and spats. Ireland enjoys its
jokes about Pat arid Moike, so why
shouldn’t Australia get a chuckle out of
“Rudd’s” mildly imbecilic Dad and
Dave?
V %
“Splodger”: My two sons volunteered
for the militia reserve. When the medical
officer examined them he grunted his
satisfaction: “We don’t often get young
men of your type.” They’re good hefty
six-footers, energetic and eager. Given a
slice of luck, one of them may represent
his State at Rugby. The C.O. took all
details for enrolment, and the further
he got the more pleased he seemed to
be. Then came a thud. The nature of
their employment, he declared, would tell
against them if they sought promotion.
He argued for an hour with the boys
to get them to change their occupation,
pointing out to them the disadvantages,
not to say stigma, which it carried. The
boys saw no reason to chuck their jobs,
and insisted their correct vocations
should . appear on their papers. No,
they’re not sanitary removalists or hang-
men. Their vocation is dairy-farming.
IF VIC. WENT DRY.
If Vic. went dry, what a startling State
Would the old place be to contemplate!
What a host of figures we know to-day
Would (none too silently) fade away,
And what gaps they’d leave the ranks among,
The portly brewer, the genial Bung;
And the merry Hebes behind the bar
Who're just as old as they say they are,
What would they turn to, and whither hie,
If Vic. went dry?
Those smiling vineyards that one descries
On slopes that bask beneath summer skies,
Where the grapes grow fat with the juice that
can
(And does) enliven the heart of man,
I wonder what would become of them
Tf all that the Pussyfoots condemn,
From the stiffest tot to the mildest tid,
Were on the roster of things forbid.
And what new trade would bottle-ohs ply
If Vic. went dry?
Tf Vic. went dry, bone-dry, all through,
What in the world would the poets do
With never a taste of Hippocrene
To make a break in their hard routine?
Could they look to tea for the spurs and goads
To tripping lyrics and telling odes?
Did Burns bewitch us or Byron glow
In bardic frenzy on H2O?
Who’d move to Melbourne? I’ faith, not I,
If Vic. went dry.
If Vic. went dry—but I seem to hear
A voice that whispers: “You needn’t fear.
Not till the Yarra backward flows,
And girls scrap silken for woollen hose,
And hosts of jubilant punters grow
Rich from the satchel of Ikey Mo.,
And ‘Possum’ Lasseter’s long-lost reef
Discloses treasure beyond belief,
And stolid porkers take wings and fly,
Will Vic. go dry!”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Avon”: Reminiscences of unconven-
tional doings of Archbishop Julius arc
filling Maoriland newspapers now —
some apocryphal, but
others true and very
characteristic. One of the
best is the story of how,
when opening a new
church - school, it was
found the box containing
the ceremonial key was
locked and the key to the
box missing. “Can any lady
lend me a hairpin?” in-
quired the Bishop be-
nignly. One was forth-
coming, the Bishop bent
over the box, and three
seconds later it was
opened." Locks, like clocks
and motor-cars, had no
secrets from him.
“D.E.”: The death, at 55, of Prince
Arthur of Connaught draws attention to
the astonishing record, for royalties, of
Queen Victoria’s nine children. Three are
still living—Louise, born March 18, 1848 ;
Arthur, the late Prince’s father, born
May 1, 1850; and Beatrice, born April
14, 1857. Four others were Victoria
(born 1840), Albert Edward (born 1841),
Alfred (born 1844) and Helena (born
1846); all lived to ripe ages. In the
history of royal families there has never
been a more successful union than that
of Victoria and her Albert. Yet men
like Wellington who knew George the
Third and his offspring and could not
have disputed Shelley’s description of
them (“An old, blind, mad, despised and
dying King; Princes, the dregs of their
dull race... .mud from a muddy spring”)
must have regarded it with a certain
trepidation. Albert the Coburger was un-
popular in his lifetime, and the feeling
persisted after his death ; there was uni-
versal approval when the “Times” re-
buked the widowed Queen for “her
selfish indulgence of an unavailing
grief.” To later generations he became
a figure of fun, largely because of the
Albert Memorial and of the verses in
which Tennyson likened him to King
Arthur. But he probably saved Britain
from a war with the U.S.A., and, coming
into a clan with a bad medical history,
he became the father of a family that
was as sound as a bell.
* * * -e
“Trevdee”: Townsville (N.Q.) and
Christchurch (M.L.) are each known a:
“The City of Cycles”—but Newcastle
(N.S.W.) should soon be putting in a
claim in this regard. At the B.H.P.
steelworks 15 sheds, each holding 350
bicycles, have been built to shelter the
grids belonging to the workers—s2so
with all stalls occupied. As B.H.P. works
three shifts a day, there’s accommodation
for 15,750 pushbikes at this establish-
ment alone.
* * * *
“52nd Lowland”: The announcement
by the Minister of Defence that the 15th
Battalion is to be formed into a High-
land battalion has aroused a storm of
protest from the Queensland Diggers.
Present battalion affiliation is with the
East Yorkshire Regiment, whose proud
record dates from 1685, and, as one
enraged Digger pointed out, future affilia-
tion will be with the Camerons, whose
record dates from only 1793. It is
unfortunate that the sponsors of the
Queensland kilties overlooked this im-
portant point. Had they secured affilia-
tion with the Royal Scots (Pontius Pilate’s
bodyguard), they would be able to sneer
at any newfangled regiments formed later
than 1520,
“Ologist”: In a Sydney musical-
instrument shop the other day I chanced
to overhear part of the introductory
remarks of a customer to the counter-
hand. Said he: “She was going real
good, and then I dropped her and she
split. And I was just getting used to
her. I s’pose you can fix her. I want
to take her to a party next week.” Ships,
trains and the “old bus” are usually re-
ferred to as “she,” but this was the first
time I had heard a guitar given a
feminine appellation and personality.
* * * *
“Junior Turf Club”: In writing of
the “Pink ’Un” (B. 7/9/’3B), “S.T.S.”
tangles his facts a little. John Corlett
did not relinquish the editorship or
proprietorship of the paper until well
’You grab an' I'll run.”
into King Ned’s time, when he suddenly
sold it without saying a word to the
staff. So great was the indignation
of these men at their treatment by a
man whose fortune they had made that
they left the paper in short order, and,
since each of them was unique in his
line, no substitutes could be found.
Corlett, who began life as a racecourse
tout, was a half-educated “hearty” who
could hardly write a decent paragraph.
He bought the paper for a song, and got
hold of Colonel Newnham Davies (“The
Dwarf of Blood”), a racecourse acquain-
tance with literary leanings, who collected
the nucleus of his staff —'“Nathaniel
Gubbins,” like himself a retired soldier
with an uncanny flair for picking win-
ners, and those masters of jeer and jape
“The Pitcher” and “The Shifter.” Both
Davies and “Gubbins” were members of
good clubs and well known in the jolly
and very harmless night life of those
days; and then other acquisitions of
high caste came along in “Ballyhooley”
Martin, son of one of the oldest county
families in Ireland, and “Dicky” Yard-
ley, the cricketer. These men and others
of the same kidney were quite a different
type from the professional Fleet-street
journalist of that day, and the fact did
much to build up the paper’s huge cir-
culation in county houses, swish’ clubs
and military and naval messes the world
over.
“Fiona”: I was in a train going from
Auckland to Hamilton (M.L.) when a
woman got in with a boy of seven. He
was small for his age and Mum at once
informed the carriage that she did not
intend to pay for him. Her technique
was masterly. It was a long corridor
carriage with the usual glass doors, and
each time the guard appeared on the
connecting bridge Mum arose and little
Harold went up into the roomy luggage-
rack, where, parked comfortably under
a rug, he lay until danger of discovery
was past. So intrigued were the other
passengers with Mum’s ingenuity that
they took it upon themselves to give
warning of the enemy’s approach, and
when Harold sneezed at an inopportune
moment half a dozen sympathisers
sneezed also to cover his lapse.
“Red Marhio”: At Sydney’s King's
Cross at 2 p.m. I saw displayed on the
fruitstalls tomatoes marked “31b. for Is.”
The Potts-Pointers and Elizabethbayites
were apparently eyebrow-high in cock-
tails ,and cards at their mod. self-con.
flats, and the stalls were deserted. At
5 p.m., when trams and buses were
vomiting their city meal, the “31b. for
Is.” ticket had been replaced by one
reading “6d. a lb.”
* * * *
“Miro”: A news-item from Auck-
land (M.L.) concerning the usual
domestic triangular upheaval had an
unusual twist to it, in that the other
woman offered to toss the indignant wife
for the gentleman in the case. It recalls
another widely-quoted Maoriland case
of some years ago, when a husband and
his rival played in gentlemanly fashion
a game of golf to decide the wile’s
future. The rival won the lady, and after
divorce proceedings married her. She
proved to have a violent temper and a
caustic tongue, and led him a merry
dance. His turn came when she one
day remarked on his luck in winning
the match that handed her to him as
prize. “But I didn't win,” said the
genuinely-astonished husband. “However
did you get that idea? I was the one
who lost!”
“Catherine St.”: Reference to Connie
Gilchrist (B. 7/9/’3B) brings memories.
The benevolent old Duke of Beaufort
had her portrait painted, and this was
sent down to Badminton unheralded.
There was a large house party, though
the duke himself was absent, and
when the case arrived the butler was
told to open it before the after-
noon-tea assembly. When the case was
opened a hushed silence fell. The
duchess broke it with “What a charming
child! ” That was the lead for the others,
who followed suit. Then said the
duchess, “I’m sure I don’t know where
to put it; the place is crammed with
pictures.” The butler, who had not been
a tactful servitor since boyhood for no-
thing, chipped in: “If I may presume,
your Grace, I should say ’is Grace’s bed-
room would suit.” “Admirable,” was
the lady’s reply. “See to it, Spoopen-
dyke.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Lord Mayor Barrett’s pro-
gramme was announced in Adelaide the
other day with unconscious humor. He
went on, from a reception to the visiting
negro debaters, to attend a screening of
“colored” films. •
* * ■ 1= *
“Ming”: Accidents aren’t the only
risks in the wrecking business fB.
14/9/’3B). In M.L. not long ago an
owner engaged wreckers to remove an
ancient building from a section on which
he proposed to build, and, strolling
round to see how things were going, was
annoyed to find the house intact and
no workmen visible. But on his way
home he came upon the wrecker-in-chief
viewing the ruins of a one-time dwelling,
and awaiting his approach with the air
of one who is conscious of a duty nobly
done. “Quick work this, Mr. Blank,”
quoth the w.-in-c. “Yes, but what about
my job?” By the time explanations were
over two frenzied citizens were mopping
their brows and wondering what the
damages would come to. A similarity
in street names was responsible for the
mix-up, and as M.L. houses are mostly
built of wood the demolition was too
far ahead to be remedied. The owner
of the demolished house was a reason-
able chap, and an amicable settlement
was made.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The 400 Mennonite Ger-
man families who want to shift from
Mexico to Australia got a colder recep-
tion from the Lyons Government than
their Russian predecessors got from Lord
Dufferin when he was Governor-General
of Canada. He welcomed them with
,open arms in a speech distinguished,
according to historical authority, by ad-
mirable sense and “a noble and winning
catholicity of sentiment.” But circum-
stances alter cases. The Mennonites are
a Protestant sect, founded by Meno
Simons in Friesland in 1496. Although
he was a temperate individual, his fol-
lowers soon got themselves disliked by
their fanatical violence. Before his death
they had split into a dozen factions. But
they were all distinguished by their dis-
like of State schools and conscription.
To-day there are close on half a million
of these dissenters, and their communi-
ties are scattered all over the world. They
still stick to their two main tenets, and
the conditions the applicants for Aus-
tralian citizenship demanded were the
right to establish their own schools and
freedom from compulsory training.
“Slop blubbin '—you can ’ave the NEXT ride!”
BANNED.
O Uncle with the quaint goatee
And singularly ample means,
You’ve many products for which we
Contentedly disburse the beans;
But here is one that contravenes
the canons of this sunny clime:
Our door is slammed on magazines
That specialise in sex and crime.
For years to come we’ll doubtless see
Your dames and guys on talkie screens
Exchanging artless repartee
In more or less seductive scenes,
And kids who haven’t reached their teens
Becoming filmland favorites prime.
But, Uncle, no more magazines
That wallow deep in sex and crime!
We’ll watch your master-gangsters flee
From gunning cops in swift machines;
We’ll bear the phra-se-ology
Of Hollywooden jacks and queens
In loves and hates and spites and spleens;
But kindly note we’ve no more time ■
For cheap and nasty magazines
fhat reck of sex and wade in crime.
Though mostly tolerant souls, one weens,
Our veto’s on the slush and slime
Dispensed by Yankee magazines
That specialise in sex and crime.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


§lillpp
CRAVEN A
nevei varies- tkesfte H
always smooth tfceslt!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
m
"V
m*
m
m
E 1867
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
The war for which Herbert Morrison,
M.P., the “Cronk News,” the Manches-
ter “Garbage-tin,” Madame Tabouis,
“S. M. Herald” and the Sydney “D.T.”
have been preparing in their fashion has
slipped out of their hands. Morrison,
Madame and the editors are still firm,
but the parts they assigned to “the allies”
will not be taken. The French don’t
want to fight, the Americans won’t fight,
and the Russians can’t fight.
Lots of people who talked as if the
bottom had fallen out of the world when
Eden resigned thanked their stars last
week that Eden had. That arid exquisite
would never have done what magnani-
mous old Chamberlain did ; Eden’s plan,
unfolded in a letter to the “Times,” was
“Warn Germany.” As if a warning
could permanently prevent a war or solve
a series of racial problems!
The first effects of the crazy coal strike
were felt in Queensland, where the
miners didn’t want to come in. Train
services were reduced straightway, busi-
ness being lost, perhaps permanently, to
the airlines —they don’t burn coal. To
prevent Mt. Isa closing down, coal at
grass was sent to that concern, at the
instance of the A.W.U. An infraction
of “union principles,” but there will be
more of these infractions if power to
make reckless war on the community is
left in the hands of thickheaded blather-
skites like Hoare and Orr.
Not since 1930-31 has the Government
coalmine at Wonthaggi (Vic.) paid ex-
penses. Revenue last year was £187,000
and expenditure £339,000 ; revenue this
year was expected to be £212,000 and ex-
penditure £365,000: estimated loss for
two years, £305,000. The miners have
gone on strike for something or other
—perhaps to enable Victoria to save
money.
Delegates to the British Commonwealth
Relations Conference, held at the Lap-
stone Hotel, Glenbrook (N.S.W.), talked
themselves out last week. Because it was
supposed to be held in camera, it was
known to the inhabitants of Glenbrook
as “the Under-the-Lap-stone Confer-
ence.”
Afrikanders draw the color line more
strictly than any other white community
in the world. Their policy was chal-
lenged, after a fashion, at Glenbrook
(N.S.W.) by Professor Hoernle, who is
chairman of the South African Institute
of Race Relations, and Major Van der
Byl, M.P., grew hot under the collar. He
said:
Would you like to see South Africa like
France is to-day, with a white woman walk-
ing along the streets nh a buck negro,
and a baby in the pram?
The prof, said he wouldn’t. Both gentle-
men were delegates to the Under-the-
Lap-stone Conference, and the brush oc-
curred at a meeting that wasn’t “under
the lap.”
Bruce has been reappointed High Com-
missioner for seven years. It must mean
that he has abandoned all intention of
returning to Australian politics ; if he
serves the full term he will have turned
62 —too old. He was not quite 40 when
he became P.M. after 4\ years as
member., He would have been more
useful had he had a few more years’ ex-
perience ; but the war prevented it.
Maintenance of the pretence that West-
ralia needs two Houses of Parliament,
with 80 members (at £6OO p.a.) and nine
Ministers, leads to an amazing expendi-
ture of gas, particularly in the early part
of a session. Last month, for example,
Assemblymen debated the address-in-
reply for ten days; and then they fin-
ished before Councillors after an even
start. If the immense State were divided
into provinces, with provincial councils
on the South African model, it wouldn’t
need so many expensive members and
Ministers, and time-wasting talk wouldn’t
be tolerated.
Canberra admits that for two months
of 1938-39 imports of merchandise ex-
ceeded exports by £5,226,000. A U.A.P.
paper explains that it really doesn’t
matter; July and August are always bad
months ; adverse balances for the corre-
sponding period were £2,808,800 in 1937-
38 and £5,796,000 in 1936. Yes, but July
and August, 1936, were Gullett trade-
diversion months.
Assured of lavish Commonwealth sub-
ventions —£20,000 last year—the so-called
National Travel Association talks just as
if it were another Government depart-
ment. It is “arranging Australia’s ex-
hibit, which is to cost £21,000,” at the
BILLY LEADS—SIX MONTHS TO GO.
“Mr. Lyons has now been P.M. longer than Mr. Bruce, and will beat Mr. Hughes’s
record if he remains in office till the middle of March.”
San Francisco show next year and has
“devoted special attention to the appoint-
ment of a staff.”
The exhibit will be under the control of
Mr. A. H. O’Connor, the association’s
manager in the U.S.A., and he will be
assisted by Mr. W. T. McConnell, Director
of the Victorian Government Tourist
Bureau.
“Assisted” is charming. Since there are
Government tourist agents and trade
commissioners and assistant trade com-
missioners all over the place, it seems
rough on the taxpayers to have to subsi-
dise this concern so heavily, even though
a leading draper and a fashionable hotel
think the world of it.
Live koalas and kookaburras are to
be part of “Australia’s exhibit” at
’Frisco, if they survive the voyage. Poor
old Jack —he is expected to laugh—poor
vanishing little Bluegum! Canberra
should not only veto the projected out-
rage, but should withdraw all financial
support from the “National” Travel
Association.
Before Chamberlain flew to Berchtes-
gaden, the “new” “S. M. Herald”
solemnly warned Hitler “to avoid a war
in which perhaps all Europe would be
allied against it.” All Europe! Italy,
which is allied with Germany; Spain,
which is otherwise engaged ; Switzerland,
Holland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway
and Belgium, whose national policy is
neutrality; the Baltic and Balkan States
and the rest. The “new” “S. M. Herald”
is a champion at believing what it wants
to believe.
One of last week’s cables from Prague
had the authentic Canberra touch:
The Government sat until 11.15 p.m.,
after which it was officially stated that no
decisions had been taken.
Is it possible that they have borrowed
Our Joe?
To “S. M. Herald” Czechs are angels,
Germans devils. “The Prague Govern-
ment,” it alleged on Monday, has been
“irreproachably forbearing.” London
“Times,” which is much better informed
and much more candid—it never denies
its readers the truth about the rotten
state of Russia —referred in a leader,
“Lord Runciman at Work,” reprinted in
its weekly edition on August 11, “to the
admitted grievance of the cultured and
widespread German population of not
being allowed in many cases to use their
own language when having business with
State officials.” “S. M. Herald” has never
admitted it; but suppose De Valera had
compelled the English in Eire “having
business with State officials” to speak
and write Erse!
The chairman of Sydney’s Milk Board
has condescended to explain that “the
standard of the milk sold is too low.”
That can never be said of the retail
price—the “cheapest” is 7d. a quart. The
chairman didn’t mention the retail price,
but he said this:- —
Not nearly enough milk is used in the
metropolitan area. Per head of population,
twice as much is consumed in the U.S.A.
as in Australia, and three times as much
in Denmark and Sweden.
His board’s idea of increasing consump-
tion is to spend lavishly on “Drink More
Milk” advertisements, addressed to
people who can’t afford to buy any
more because it is so dear.
Room for a one-eyed political pro-
fessor, name of Roberts:
Some people say take a plebiscite [in
Czechoslovakia] and find out what the
people want. But every practical observer
has ruled this out. Hitler’s own plebiscites
rather discredited the whole idea, just as
Napoleon the Third did 70 years ago.
The Peace Treaties provided for plebis-
cites, and they were taken in Silesia,
Schleswig and the Saar. The “idea”
was all right when Roberts’s aversions
lost; it didn’t become “discredited” till
they started winning.
Madame Two-Blues predicted a harsh
reception for Chamberlain when he
talked with Hitler. The “Cronk-News”
was a bit doubtful on this point, but it
confirmed Madame’s story that the Ger-
man General Beck had resigned because
he refused to lead his soldiers against the
Czechs. The customary denial came
from Berlin —“General Beck has not
resigned.”
The wisdom of Premier Forgan Smith,
who on every subject but borrowing is
the incarnation of commonsense:
No realignment of the Europe that was
parcelled out empirically after, the war is
worth the shedding of a drop of Aus-
tralian blood.
Precisely; but “S. M. Herald” is all
for “France and Britain, bitterly as
they hate the idea of war,” accepting
it rather than let one group, of Ger-
mans unite with others. For unready
Australia and Maoriland that would
mean, not only war with Germany, but
war with Italy and Japan from the
moment the U.S.S.R. came in. The old
girl must be clean off her rocker.
The latest scare set Lang roaring that
“Labor must prepare itself to organise
the people against participation in a
European war”:
The Labor party must now perform its
traditional function of giving leadership to
the Australian people in a time of crisis.
The joke is that he really believes it.
When Canberra announced that it was
sending to England for a Govern-
ment Actuary at £1750 a year, it alleged
that Ministers would have preferred an
Australian but couldn’t get one. The
Actuarial Society’s secretary reports that
they never tried:
The position was not advertised in Aus-
tralia, the council of the Actuarial Society
was never consulted and no offer was
made to any Australian actuary on the
terms reported.
Canberra needn’t think it can recon-
cile Australians to its “No-Australian-
need-apply” policy by feeding them with
humbug.
While the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment admits a loss of £241,590 on the
1938-39 year—this although £30,000,000
was “written off capital cost” in the
unique Australian political way—the
N.S.W. Railway Department claimed a
surplus of £51,400. Not so bad, though,
as usual, £BOO,OOO of tax money was, in
effect, included as earnings, and a lot of
“reconditioning” was charged up to free-
of-interest loans on which the State is
paying round 4 p.c.
Sydney “D.T.,” whose knowledge of
history is peculiar, if not extensive, has
abandoned its notion that France is one
of the Low Countries, but has made an-
other discovery:
Bismarck said “Whoever is, master of
Bohemia is master of Europe.”
Did Bismarck say that? If so, it’s a
wonder he didn’t grab it for his Prus-
sians when they beat the Austrians in
1866. Actually, down to 1919 Germans
( i.e Austrians) had had Bohemia without
a break for just on 300 years.
Just before Menzies and White re-
turned to Melbourne, the “Jewish
Herald” came out with the following:
A telegram was sent to the Department of
the Interior seeking an authoritative state-
ment. The department replied that it was
proposed to approve, during the current
year, of the admittance of 5000 Jewish
immigrants.
The “Jewish Herald” allows that “the in-
crease from a few hundred a year to
five thousand will demand a more effi-
cient and far more comprehensive orga-
nisation than has hitherto existed.” It
will that; and a community entering on
difficult times will demand to know how
it is proposed to prevent competition in
trades, professions and businesses, and
whether the decision was made by the de-
partment or by the Government. In fact,
Parliament should want to know all aboul
the thing, and put it to the vote if the
information vouchsafed is unsatisfactory.


DENTURES FOR DAISYSKI.
“When cows in Voroshilovgrad (U.S.R.R.) contracted a mysterious disease which caused their teeth to drop out, false teeth were fitted to them by a dentist.”


HAND
PIAITEDI
KANGAROO]
SKIN BELT]
new
rind fastener
oJ /A D
price-
IPIIIKG HlMfirlnlllMa
? “t Queen St. Brisbane ,
k--~
mb#
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW SHOULD DEFENCE EXPENDITURE BE
FINANCED?
PROBLEM OF THE WHEATGROWER
OUTLOOK ON STOCK EXCHANGE
MINES AND METALS
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 1.000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Gippsland and the Victorian Assembly
have lost the patriarchal Jimmy Mc-
Lachlan, dead in Sale hospital of a heart
attack. Jimmy got in for Gippsland
North 30 years ago. The district was
Labor then, and after the war it turned
Country party in Commonwealth politics,
but it never rejected Jimmy, although he
left Labor long ago and refused to join
the C.P. His two hobbies apart from
politics were walking and coursing. He
knew every inch of Gippsland and
nearly every person in it.
Well known to farmers in his native
State is Herbert Sydney Henley, general
president of the N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers. Son of the late Thomas
Henley, H.S. was born at Balmain
(N.S.W.) 48 years ago, and is a graduate
of Hawkesbury Agricultural College.
H. S. HENLEY.
Nowadays he’s a big man in the meat
industry, acting-chairman of the Aus-
tralian Meat Board and stock producers’
rep. on the N.S.W. Meat Advisory Com-
mittee. Also, he’s a councillor of Wan-
goola Shire and president of the Hawkes-
bury Old Boys’ Association. Plays bowls
when he gets a spare afternoon.
W. B. (better known as “Doc”) Carr
has been re-elected chairman of S. A.
Jockey Club, a post he has held since
1924; and before that he had nearly
10 years as chairman of Adelaide Rac-
ing Club. He has also been, in his time,
chairman of Adelaide Stock Exchange
and sporting editor of the old “Register.”
F. Aldrich, retired on age-limit from
the Chief Inspectorship of Fisheries in
W.A., must hold the record for intimate,
extensive and varied experience amongst
Australian fish and fishing industries.
Early in the century he succeeded H. C.
Dannevig, lost in 1914 in the Endeavor,
in charge of the marine fish hatchery
at Port Hacking (N.S.W.), and he did
remarkable work in acclimatising Tas-
manian flounders and crayfish in N.S.W.
waters. Going to Westralia, he saw pearl-
ing in its best days, with 200 luggers work-
ing off Broome —also in its worst ones,
with a bare 70 Australian vessels on the
whole north-west coast. Aldrich helped in
the establishment of whaling stations —it
was not his fault that they were Nor-
wegian, not Australian—at Point Cloates
and elsewhere. He was the first to point
out the rich commercial and sporting pos-
sibilities of the great shoals of surface
fish on the north Westralian coast.
On a visit to Melbourne from Malaya
is surveyor C. T. L. Goodchild. In 1928
he was deputed to fix the site of the
Shrine of Remembrance, which citizens
have hitherto believed to be in the direct
line from Swanston-street to St. Kilda
Junction. As a matter of fact, it is
21|in. off it. Goodchild ran a line be-
tween the Swanston-street tramlines to
Bank-street and another from the St.
Kilda Junction. They missed each other
by a fraction, but after considerable dis-
cussion surveyors decided that nobody
could have done better.
“Exdig”: A Digger said to me: “I’ve
got to post a cheque to Dr. Donovan.
He’ll never send me a bill, but he’s too
white a cove for a man to take down.
Anyway, he’ll probably give the money
away to some poor bloke who needs it.”
That was Dr. H. C. Donovan, of Sydney,
now dead, a man who in pursuing his
life’s work never worried about fees and
had to be chased by people who in-
sisted upon paying him. He served with
the A.M.C. in the war, and ever since
his services were available gratis to any
Digger who needed them. He gave a
lot of service to the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, too. During the last
three years he was a very sick man, but
that did not prevent him from carrying
on his work.
John Melrose, dead at 76, was one of
those wealthy South Australians who fol-
lowed what has become the State’s tradi-
tion, regarded their riches as a trust and
made generous gifts to public institutions.
Being a pastoralist he favored agricul-
tural research, and gave £lO,OOO to the
Waite Institute for this purpose, .the gift
being one of many to agricultural and
charitable causes. He was born at Rose-
bank (S.A.), and on leaving college had
some office experience before assisting
his father in sheep-station management.
He was Australia’s pioneer importer of
Dorset and Wensleydale sheep and
Percheron horses, and founded the first
Australian steel smelters. Lost his sight
30 years ago, but carried on with un-
daunted courage. Helped nephew C. J.
Melrose to compete in the Croydon to
Melbourne air race. A knighthood came
his way 10 years ago.
W. W. MONAHAN, K.C.,
appointed Acting-Judge of the N. S.
Wales Supreme Court.
The prestige of the anti-prohibition
cause has got an unexpected boost in
Melbourne. Infringement of personal
liberties has always been the bugbear of
the artist, and Toorak residents were
startled the other day when they saw a
large and handsome poster advocating a
“No” vote in the grounds of the fine old
mansion owned by painter-knight Arthur
Streeton.
H. W. GARTRELL, appointed to the
new Chair of Mining and Metallurgy at
the University of Adelaide.
A busy life ended with the death at
65 of Tom Shakespeare, for many years
a leading figure in country newspaper
circles in N. S. Wales, and latterly head of
the company which publishes the Can-
berra “Times.” Born at Penrith (N.S.W.),
Tom’s first job was in a newspaper office
—that of the Forbes and Parkes
“Gazette.” At 21 he cut loose on his
own and founded the Condobolin
“Lachlander.” Eight years later he
bought the Grafton “Argus.” After many
years as secretary of the Country Press
Assn, of N. S. Wales he became manager
of the Country Press Co-operative Co.,
in which capacity he had scope to carry
out co-operative ideas he had long ad-
vocated. There was nothing he didn’t
know about rag-planting and propagat-
ing, and his advice at Country Press con-
ferences was listened to respectfully and
usually received gratefully.
J. L. Lawrence, assistant superintendent
of Melbourne Telegraphs, due for retire-
ment next month, has had a varied ex-
perience. He was on loan for four years
to the Eastern Extension Cable Co., when
that concern was linking up its sub-
marine communications with the capital
cities of the States and had no trained
landline men at its disposal. He joined
the Postal Department in 1888, passed
over to the Vic. Railways for a period,
and for the rest of his time served in
Westralia and Melbourne. He has held
his present job since 1927.
Doyen of Melbourne wine-tasters
William Wright celebrated his 80th birth-
day on the same day that the annual
viticultural awards were announced. The
veteran has been judging vintages for
the Royal Show in an honorary capacity
for 38 years, and has been in the wine
and spirit business since he was 20. He
can tell the year of most Australian wines
blindfold. He was an inter-State rower
in the ’eighties.
Cecil T. Madigan, D.Sc., who has been
chosen to lead an expedition to explore
the Simpson Desert next year, is a
geologist (lecturer in that subject at Adel-
aide Uni.) who, though not yet 50, com-
menced his explorations over quarter of
a century ago. In 1911, the year in
which he won a Rhodes scholarship, he
was a member of the Australasian Ant-
arctic Expedition led by Douglas Maw-
son. Madigan served right through the
Great War, earning a captaincy, and had
two years in the Sudan civil service be-
fore returning to Australia.
Harold Clapp, the ebullient chairman
of Vic. Railways Commission, is nothing
if not original. He has just sent some
koalas on a coastal voyage to test their
sea legs, preparatory to transporting
them to the Golden Gate Exposition at
San Francisco, Federal Government per-
mitting. Clapp has a son who looks as if
he hasn’t altogether escaped the influence
of his distinguished father. He is R. B.
Clapp, who breeds Southdown crossbred
lambs at Brookstead, in the Q. highlands.
Clapp junior is experimenting in the
rotation of pasture crops, and to keep
his sheep from intruding on his laboratory
he has electrified the fences with a 12-
volt battery stepped up to 2000 volts.
One taste of Clapp’s gadget puts the
jumbucks off wire for their lifetime.
George Hubert Wilkins, photographer,
aviator, naturalist and polar explorer,
was born in South Australia 49 years
ago. A press photographer in the Balkan
War of 1912-13, he was away with
Stefansson’s Arctic expedition when the
Great War broke out, returning in 1917
in time to get a commission in the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps. He won the M.C.
with bar before the Armistice. Since
then he has been active in Arctic and
Antarctic exploration, accumulating
learned societies’ medals by the bucket-
ful—if he gets any more he may have
to hang them on his beard. Wilkins
is revisiting Australia.
Exit, at 74, Ronald McDougall, a
member of one of Queensland’s oldest
pastoral families, and himself a noted
breeder of cattle. Brisbane-born, he was
the sixth son of J. F. McDougall, mem-
ber of Queensland’s first Parliament
and owner of Rosalie Downs ; his mother
was a Darcy, another pioneer family.
As a young man he bought Cooyar
station, 18,000 acres of it, and converted
it from sheep to purebred cattle, with
marked and long-standing success.
Henry Warburton Hodgetts, Adelaide
sharebroker, must be a pretty good boss,
for Don Bradman has resisted strong
English temptations to leave his employ.
Hodgetts, who is 56, was born at Peter-
borough, S.A., and commenced work as
a civil servant. A period as secretary of
Adelaide Stock Exchange followed, and
for many years now he has been head of
H. W. HODGETTS.
the firm that bears his name. In addition
to being a member of the Cricket Board
of Control he’s president of the S.A.
Olympic Council and one of the pillars
of the S.A. Lacrosse Assn., of which he
was president for 14 years. He is always
found willing when an appeal on behalf
of one of his pet charities, the blind or
the t.b. soldiers, has to be organised.
Plays cricket, tennis and golf, and enjoys
gardening, too.


I
, ri
Sechet
behind ihe
ms
■' ' ■ :
" » II $
(fleetsulm seuienuuj
io dwumefjlawuhleM
dUUe^
U
5
m
■ •
.
mi *
WRITE FOR
FREE
COOKERY BOOK
LEA & PERRINS, 96 White Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Name
Address
Bulletin Sl/9/’SB.
Hi
S fi UCE
EXTRA
'something' that
MAKES R MEAL


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I had an old mare,” said
Dan, “what had more intellergence than
hundreds of men I’ve known. I wus
out in the ranges once lookin’ fer stray
cattle. I’d climbed an ironstone outcrop
on the side of a hill t’ see if I cud spot
"Let's have her for a while, sister. I Want t' duck out an' show her to the gang."
’em, when I slipped and rolled to the
ground, breakin’ me leg. Me only chance
was t’ get ole Blossom t’ go fer assist-
ance. She’s standin’ there watchin’ me
sorrerful. It was a cold, bleak day, an’
there wus plenty of dry leaves an’ timber
about to make a fire. I gathers up a
heap, an’ then finds I’d lost me
matches. So I ties a note on the saddle
an’ shoos the ole mare off. She moves
away in a steady canter, diggin’ her toes
well into the earth an’ rootin’ it up ; in-
tellergent ole girl she wus, makin’ a track
what could be easy follered. Then I
made meself comfortable be the fire t’
wait till help come.” “But,” I said, “you
said you’d lost your matches.” “So I
had,” replied Dan; “but Blossom had
fixed things up all right. When she seen
I hadn’t nothin’ t’ light the fire with she
jest turns round, and with her hind shoes
kicked rapid on the ironstone rock till
a shower of sparks fell on t’ the kindlin’
an’ set it alight.”
* * * *
“Nearenuff”: Drilling completed, the
bore was measured and money changed
hands. The wellborer was very down-
hearted that night, and his wife tried
to console him. He finally burst out
with, “What’s the use of sympathy?
That won’t make up the fifty feet the
darned bore is short of, will it? “Why,”
replied his spouse, “the hole should have
measured deeper than you expected.
You see, I sewed an extra two feet into
the centre of your tape!”
* * * *
“Yeno Ham”: Mulga was cursing
about the time and trouble expended on
dipping his cattle, and a little prodding
from the tick-eradication authorities
added to his displeasure. “We can blame
Noah for this,” he told the mob in Slat-
tery’s bar, “Why Noah?” Long Harry
asked. “Well, if the silly old coot had
doubled-dipped all the stock before he
let ’em go on the Ark we wouldn’t have
to bother about it now.”
$ # * *
“N.Q.”: These are the days of white-
washing sinners, but “Tired Tim,” with
his praise for the villainous weed known
all over Queensland as sida retusa
(B. 7/9/’3B), is the limit. The beastly thin-
stemmed plant was introduced into Aus-
tralia years ago for its alleged fibre value.
An undefeatable gum which is part of
its make-up has hitherto beaten all
attempts at fibre recovery. With a wire-
like stem and a root that goes feet into
the earth, it is one of the damnedest
things to eradicate from a garden lawn I
know. The only large-scale campaign
against it I have helped in was on a N.Q.
cricket-ground. There, in season and out,
both cricketers and footballers rushed
after rain—it was easier to pull the devil
out of his undes. res., no con., than to shift
it in dry weather. Bleeding and heavily-
gummed hands always beat us. The
only way for cricketers was to cut it
as short as a horse mower would go,
and that meant dangerous work for the
fieldsman trying to pick the ball up off
a mat of whalebone spikes a couple of
inches long.
* * * *
“Perry”: For seventeen years Bill had
been coming over to see Emmie Blank,
tri-weekly visits with Sunday tea thrown
in, and old Sam Blank, feeling the weight
of years and wanting to see Emmie
settled, decided to speak to Bill. Bill
was astonished. “Spare me days, Mr.
Blank,” he protested, “wot’s y’r hurry?
A feller wants to git acquainted with
the girl he’s goin’ to marry, don’t he?”
“Hurry!” roared Sam. “If y’ can’t git
acquainted in seventeen year y’ can just
marry her without. Or y’ can pay this
bill for the entertainin’ I’ve give y’ all
that time an’ keep away from here in
fewcher!” Here Sam thrust at Bill an
account, roughly estimated at sixpence
a visit, which totalled nearly £9O. “I’ll
give y’ ten minutes to look at it, an Em’s
in the dairy,” he said as he went off.
When the couple emerged half-an-hour
later Sam was in the offing. Emmie’s
expression reassured him. Better make
the weddin’ nex’ week. Bill,’ Sam said
affably. “The parson’ll be along then.’’
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Foxes were pretty bad
on Little Prill when the fates sent wan-
dering that way an ex-sharpshooter from
some circus or other. With a borrowed
.22 he showed the boss and the rest of
us how he could split cards, etc., at vari-
ous ranges. The boss armed him with a
new .32 and sent him after the lamb-
killers. “I’ve only seen pictures ot foxes,
mister,” said the marksman. “Oh, you
can’t mistake ’em,” said the boss ; “they’re
just like a small dog and reddish-brown
in color. Y’ gotta be cunnin’ t’ get ’em,
too.” The foxes must have heard of
the visitor, for they lay low and he saw
none until just on dusk, returning to the
station, he spotted something of a red-
dish-brown color loping through a hop-
bush patch behind the woolshed. In
triumph he threw his trophy at the boss’s
feet; in a hurry he left the station, while
the boss mourned his favorite kelpie
bitch.
* * * *
“Pialba”: When they catch fish in
Queensland the catch is often “news.”
A Maryborough (Q.) fisherman had a
small-mesh net out in about 3ft. of water
for bait tiddlers. Investigating a com-
motion he found two 10ft. sawfish in the
net, each weighing half a ton. He got
one chap by driving stakes on each side
of his saw ; the other —the larger, of
course —got away. Marvellous into what
shallow water these flat brutes can pene-
trate in spite of their huge size. Prob-
ably the pair were after the same shoal
of small fish the humans were trying to
rope in, for they feed on very small fry
or fragments of shoal fish like mullet
cut to pieces by sweeps of the great
swords.
W :fc * #
“Walkagee”: Highbrow farmers? The
last specimen I worked for began the
day by invading my bedroom at 3 a.m.
with a pungent and philosophical mono-
logue on the futility of staying in bed
when life is so short. The coming of
dawn found me in the thick of the morn-
ing milking listening to a discourse on
the rascality and laziness of itinerant'
farm laborers, with special reference
to my own case, as well as a few asides
on the unemployment question and the
clumsiness of some people who allow
cows to kick over the bucket. Break-
fast, a scanty meal of brown bread and
butter with stewed tea, was enlivened by
an edifying recital of the horrors wrought
by youthful gluttony. The: arrival of his
missus with the mail during the morn-
ing’s ploughing called forth an acid
criticism of the morals of the younger
generation who wasted their own and
their employer’s time writing trashy
love-letters to half-witted females in the
city. Altogether, it was an ennobling
experience. The only fly in the ointment
was the three hours I spent each even-
ing helping his family with their home-
work. After all, my English has always
been bad, and could I help it if Johnnie s
teacher had a set on split infinitives, and
gave him the cuts for one I used in his
essay?
*
“Hanko”: Old Ned’s hut held enough
bottled cure-alls, green-colored mostly,
to stock a chemist’s shop. There s
somethin’ growin’ somewhere on the
earth what’ll cure any disease or com-
plaint a human bein’ is likely to get,”
he said. “Trouble is, o’ course, the
plant what’ll cure, say, toothache might
on’y grow in some part of Chiner or
Timbuktwice” I coughed. Ned
grabbed a bottle. “Have yer got a corf?”
he asked eagerly. “ ’Cause if yer have,”
he went on, “this here stuff will burn
it outa yer while yer wait.” I didn’t
wait, and shortly afterwards heard that
a waterlogged limb had fallen on Ned,
smashing his leg. 1 couldn’t help having
a shot at the old bloke when next we
met. “Now what about your good
medicine?” I asked. “A piece of it near
skittled you.” “What yer torkin’ erbout,”
Ned flared up. “The branch what fell
saved me leg. I got all me splints ori
of it. It came in handy, 1 can tell yer.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: And let me, too, finally pro-
test against that even sloppier Aboliar
(B. 31/8/’3B) who alleged that male
spiders are all dwarfs and unable to spin
webs. In the majority of web-spinning
species, the gent, is as big as the lady,
and well able to put it across her if she
tries any honeymoon rough stuff. Also,
the boy friend spins just as good a web as
she does, and for the same excellent
reason —that it is his means of getting
tucker also. There are some henpecked
species where the wife carries the ton-
nage, certainly, but there are far more
where she doesn’t, and plenty, the hunt-
ing spiders for example, where neither
sex spins a web.
* * * *
“Ninety-nine”: Is anything harder to
k.o. than a saltwater eel? I saw a fisher-
man catch an eight-footer as thick as
a man’s arm, and one that size can take
a man’s hand off as cleanly as an axe.
He gaffed it with blow after blow, each
heavy enough to smash the skull of any
animal. It only made the eel flatter.
Then he stuck the gaff-spike into its neck,
but in a twinkling it formed itself into
two knots. The sinuous upward move-
ment of supple muscles shot the head
and neck clear of the spike as quick as
lightning. At the same time, the knots
unravelled and the eel disappeared into
the sea in a streak of phosphorescence.
* # * *
“Valencia Creek”: When I dumped
my swag in the showground shelter-shed
an aged wanderer had just finished fry-
ing a pound or so of sausages. “Here
y’are, mate,” he said ; “have a few oi
these.” As he shovelled them on to my
plate I noticed that the usual sausage
odor was missing—in its place was a
sickly smell that seemed vaguely familiar.
“They’re jake, mate,” my host said as
he saw me hesitating ; “never had no fat,
so I fried ’em in this stuff 1 bought once
when I was on the booze. Been carryin
it round with me for munce —jist shows
how things come in handy if you stick
to them long enough.” He held up a
half-emptied jar of hair-oil. I decided
to dine on my own damper and corn,
but the old chap polished off the snorks.
and even soaked some bread in the fried
oil and wolfed it down without any
apparent ill effects.
* * :|c *
“Skiloperende”: “I ’adn't seen Joe
Blaze for about five years, not since the
time ’e’d been in the nor’-west drovin
with me,” said old Ted Kerrigan. “So
when I spots ’im yesterday down on
’is uppers in the city gardens I reckoned
‘e mus’ be ’avin’ a crook spin. After
we chatted a bit about the boilin’ beer
up at Marble Bar I asked ’im, ‘ ’Ow’s
things?’ It was as I thought; ’is wife’s
sick, kids all laid up with ’oopin’-cough,
an’ the only clothes ’e ’ad were the ones
’e was wearin’. I asked ’im didn’t e
remember ’ow we both ’ad taken out a
life insurance one day in Carnarvon
an’ why didn’t ’e raise a few quid on
that. ‘Aw,’ he says, ‘I couldn’t do that,
Ted ; I’m saving that for a rainy day! ’ ”
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: “Big-End’s” foxie (B.
7/9/’3B) would have to bump its body
hard and often on to the porcupine to
“look like a lump of raw steak” by the
time it caved in. I’ve never known a
foxie mug enough to fight in this fashion.
The tyke that knows its job bares its
teeth and extracts the spiky one’s arma-
ment. The hound’s mouth gets cut
about, but its body is rarely marked.
Rabbit-pack mongs relish the sport; but
is there anything living that these blood-
thirsty fiends would not like tearing to
pieces?
* n. * * *
“Hanko”: I won’t have it that a date
ripe from the palm is a delicious berry
(B. 10/8/’3B). At Mena Camp (Egypt),
before the commissariat and field pay-
master had begun properly to function,
I swapped a few trifles for a hatful ot
dates. Ugh! My palate rebelled at such
mushy, insipid fodder, so I donated the
things to the battalion mascot —a goat.
Had those dates been dried, however,
I’d have felt that the blanket and pair
of slacks I gave for them were well
squandered.
THE LOG FENCE.
Old winds have wrought with it;
Old storms have fought with it;
Old rains have whipped it white!
Yet stoically it stands, its worn logs long
Drained of the sap that once ran swift and
strong
Beneath bark pupas that close-sheathed their
might.
Time was when these bleached bones were quick
with life;
Their great roots thronged the earth in bitter
strife
With other roots that blindly clawed and thrust
With fibrous arms as strong as metal rods
Through wet, dark caverns ’neath deep forest
sods.
Their tapering columns, where slim boughs
a-swing
Slow trembled into flower each honeyed spring,
Swept upward to the hot heart of the sun!
Men named them gums not dreaming they were
gods;
And felled them in their beauty one by one!
The log fence stands as long ago it stood,
The saffron sunshine warming its old wood;
Bush grasses fold it in a beryl sea—
Wild raspberries cling about it lovingly—•
The ripe fruit spills in many a crimson stain
As though old wounds were bleeding once again.
Within the lee of it white violets bloom
With eglantine and yellow-tasselled broom;
And little possums ’neath the friendly stars
Play hide-and-seek among its silvery bars;
Brown bracken fronds caress it, sweetly cool;
The gods have fallen but the gods still rule.
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Quick, Bill—whip it in ’ere!”
“Mat’s Mate”: When the big fellow
was togged up he’d pass for something
better than the bushwhacker he really
was. In Echuca (Vic.) there was an s.p.
joint in a shop. A small girl served
genuine customers while mother took the
bets. Mat was in there having a few
bets when the police arrived. There was
a rush and a scramble. One persistent
John, discovering the stairs, followed
them to a room at the top. His chal-
lenge on the closed door was answered
by the lady of the shop, who let him in.
Half smothered under blankets on a bed
lay the little girl, one of Mat’s big hands
on her chest (firmly) while the other held
her wrist. As the cop entered Mat rose.
“Convulsions,” he said efficiently, ignor-
ing the law, “but not bad. Keep her
in bed a few days. And let me know if
she gets worse.” “Sorry, doc.,” mur-
mured the cop, backing out.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A column of sugar-ants
carrying white scales to their nest re-
minded me to-day of the trouble I got
into as a small boy by telling a religious-
minded aunt that the Jews couldn’t have
found manna in the desert because there
weren’t any trees for it to grow on. What
the ants are collecting is lerp manna, an
excretion from small sap-sucking insects
who live on eucalypts and wattles, much
appreciated as a delicacy by birds, abos.
and country kids of my period. Curi-
ously, its abo. name in western Victoria
was munna. Another and better manna,
a true vegetable product, is the dried sap
of the manna gum, which collects in
whitish lumps on twigs and leaves in
summer. The sugar-wood tree exudes a
brown manna, quite good for sweetening
tea if the sugar has been forgotten at a
summer picnic. After sampling all three,
the female child of this house is of
opinion that they aren’t a patch on even
boiled lollies.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Humping his drum
through the Victorian hill country, my
mate pulled into a dilapidated farmhouse
and asked the sad-loOking, bewhiskered
proprietor for a job. “Well, I dunno,”
Whiskers said gloomily after a few
minutes’ consideration. “I can’t pay yer
wages; care to work for tucker for a
few munce till things get better?” When
my mate said the idea didn’t appeal to
him overmuch, the old chap nodded to-
wards a nondescript female who was
propped up against the back gate. “How
about marryin’ our Liz then?” he in-
quired plaintively, “an’ cornin’ in with
me as a sort of partner? Even though
the farm ain’t payin’, it’d give you a
sort of interest in the joint.” When his
visitor turned that proposition down as
well, Whiskers snorted “You fellers are
all the same —you won’t work an’ you
dodge family responsibilities. No wonder
the flamin’ country’s goin’ to the dogs.”
* * * *
First Blue : These complaints about
the alleged degeneration of the modern
swaggie leave me cold. The present-day
tramp may not have the intelligence
physique, morals, savoir faire or bush-
craft of the old-timers, but he is cer-
tainly more up-to-date in his ideas This
was impressed on me forcibly by the
tragic plight of a bewhiskered specimen
of the tribe I met recently outside Barna-
wartha (Vic.). He had a long stringy
grey beard and a face like a lugubrious
mallee root; I found him sitting dis-
consolately on his matilda by the road-
side. As 1 approached he stroked a
straggly chin tuft with the abstracted air
of a flapper-press editor who has just
got another “exclusive” cable on the
Spanish war. “What’s wrong?” he
snorted, in reply to my query. “Every-
thing’s wrong.” He thrust his unshaven
countenance unpleasantly close to mine.
“Larst time I wuz down in the city I
buys one of them flamin’ electric shaving
machines that’s all the go, an’ strike me
lucky I been six munce on the wallaby
an’ ain’t come across a blanky plug to
work it with yet! ”
* * * *
“Puffinus”: The flocks of galahs con-
gregated about Blackall and its vicinity
afford proof of the dry winter in Queens-
land’s Central-West. They have even
learned to join the hens at feeding time,
and a call of “chook, chook,” with a
swinging arm, will bring a lavender-and-
pink squadron flashing down in perfect
flying formation to share the expected
meal. Corellas, too, hang round for a
chance to fill their long bills with some-
thing better than the too-scarce bulbs
and roots. Budgerigars seem to have
“ Please , Cap’n, will ’ee give young Wilium ’Enry a job? Poor boay
never ’ad a father.”
gone elsewhere, enterprising wanderers
that they are, and it is perhaps just as
well. Caught by drought, they drown
themselves through eagerness on reach-
ing water. In one grim tragedy recorded
by Alec Chisholm, five tons of the
little yellow-and-green bodies had to be
hauled from a station tank in drought-
stricken country and burned; 30,000
others perished in another tank.
“Western”: Someone in The Bulle-
tin recently spoke of bird murder as
“destruction of which no black man
would be guilty.” Queerly, one of the
first abo. killings in W.A. revolved
around just that wanton killing of small
birds. Back in the thirties of last century
a soldier attached to the small garrison
stationed in the Pinjarra district found
occupation in prowling the near-by bush
with a shotgun, popping off small birds.
One day he was found with several spear
wounds in him. Brought to book, the
abos. justified the killing in that one
who found pleasure in wantonly killing
small birds was himself unfit to live. The
blacks of Westralia’s sou’-west wouldn’t
even kill a tree; if sheet-bark for some
reason was needed, a strip was always
left so that the sap could continue to
rise. Social economy was the reason.
Despite lush seasons, droughts would in
turn arrive—and then every tree, every
bird, might be of value in enabling the
tribe to survive.
* * * *
“Granova”: The hardiness of the
Australian sheep was well demonstrated
at Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) recently dur-
ing a severe cold snap. A mob of ewes
commenced to lamb just after a fall of
snow and, although the lambs were
dropped into several inches of snow,
losses were not above normal. Later
the frosts were so severe that fibres of
wool could be found sticking in the
ground where the sheep had camped,
the freezing of the ground apparently
imprisoning loose fibres while the sheep
were lying down, being pulled out when
they rose in the morning.
* * * *
“Painful”: My entry for the agony
stakes is burns. Nine years ago I shared
a small room with 16,000 ft. of burning
film. By some miracle I survived, but
for the first month or so I wished I
hadn’t. But here’s the funny part —after
the first pang of contact with fire I felt
no pain during or immediately following
the infliction of frightful injuries. In the
middle of the awful flames I watched my
skin shrivel and burn with no emotion
other than that I had collected a pretty
bad issue. The fun commenced about 17
hours later.
* * He *
“Miro”: Jumping the rattler and walk-
ing the rails may be exciting, but neither
is in it with hopping the sleepers, par-
ticularly on a railway bridge. With a
venturesome companion I decided to
take a short cut to Hamilton (M.L.) by
crossing the big railway bridge over the
Waikato River. The bridge was long
and, of course, had no side rails, and
stood at a dizzy height above the water.
We consulted the timetable and selected
a time when no train was supposed to be
anywhere near. The first few yards above
earth were not alarming, but when we
got above the river we began to feel
giddy. A third of the way over the dis-
tance between sleepers increased, and
presently we were jumping from one to
another. Prospect of an extra-wide jump
turned us back, defeated. Had we hesi-
tated we would have been shattered as
well, as a special train just failed to beat
us to the bank. And, to add to the tur-
moil, a policeman was waving and shout-
ing from the opposite bank, obviously in-
dignant at such reckless lawbreakers.
* * H= *
“Sou’-west”: Strange the hospitality
that seemingly inhospitable Australia
offers to many exotic plants and animals.
Passing over such imported outlaws as
the rabbit, the fox, the prickly-pear, con-
sider the double-gee of W.A. Like the
pear, this plant has long shown an almost
malignant adaptation to its new environ-
ment. Originally introduced as the
prickly-seeded spinach, a gentle English
vegetable, it escaped from cultivation and
now runs wild over tens of thousands of
square miles, not excluding a vast semi-
desert area where even native grasses
have a struggle to survive. To attain this
its ways of growth altered remarkably:
instead of throwing a mildly-armed seed
the size of a grain of wheat, it developed
a three-spiked atrocity the size and hard-
ness of a large parched pea. These spikes
are needle-sharp, as hundreds of early-
day cyclists, punctured on many a dry
track, can testify. But apart from the
seeds the whole shape of the plant has
altered ; instead of shooting upwards it
hugs the soil, throwing out many short
runners. In this way it defies eradication
by cattle, the common wayside grazers.
Sheep, however, clean it out readily
when in a succulent green condition.
Have seen paddocks so covered with dry
seed that a barefooted nigger couldn't
cross them cleaned right out the follow-
ing season by sheep.
* * * *
“Aragun”: Have noticed that when a
snake-killing dog encounters one of the
carpet variety or a goanna he just wades
in and makes a rough and tumble of it,
but with the venomous kind he
approaches cautiously, attacking from
the side, snapping Joe up and throwing
him high. Once the crawler’s back is
broken the rest is easy. But when Bluey
locates a death-adder he becomes very
agitated, barking loudly or growling
savagely with his hackles well up, and
waiting for his boss to administer the
knockout. The sleepy one’s hard, un-
winking stare and motionless posture
seem to warn the canine that he packs
a super punch and knows well how to
use it. The only dog I saw take one on
killed the reptile after a fierce 15-minute
battle, but he was as stiff as a poker
within a half hour, the scaly one getting
in several lightning-like bites.
He * * *
“Puffinus”: Like many another,
“Hanko” (B. 10/8/’3B) has been taken in
by that blue wren’s charming voice and
seemingly impeccable behavior. But,
when one comes to look into his life with
unbiased mind, good binoculars and op-
portunities for daily observation at all
hours, Mr. Malurus cyaneus is revealed
as far from what a good bird should be.
Sons are hunted away. Relations with
the alleged daughters are as paternal as
those of the American social phenomenon
known as a “sugar daddy.” At least,
that is the most respectable explanation
of what goes on in our neighborhood in
spring and summer. Also, I’ve seen Bluey
qualify as a co-re. in another household.
He begins to collect his harem before
he grows his gay attire, which is in his
third year, as a rule.
“Nordbo”: Here’s a potted biography
for Bully philosophers. Giuseppe came
to N.Q. a lifetime ago, navvied, married
and reared a family. A strongly de-
veloped need for “front-room
respectability,” combined
with a generous nature —
“nice” house, furniture, en-
tertainment of friends —pre-
vented his saving of the
necessary capital for a start
in business. At 63 his home
was partly paid for, but he
was getting old for navvying.
His wife became ill, and
Giuseppe, after paying all his
small savings to the local
doctors, sent her south for a
major operation, mortgaging
his house and ground to do
so. Giuseppe was now back
where he started 45 years
ago. Then the gods gave him
a chance. His insured house
burned to the ground, in-
sured furniture with it. The
insurance money was paid in
full. “Here’s your chance,
Giuseppe,” said a friend;
“pay off your mortgage and
your debts, build a bit of a
shack yourself, keep fowls,
grow pawpaws and vegetables. In two
years you’ll draw the old-age pension.
Take it easy; you’ve done enough hard
work in your time.” Giuseppe smiled
apologetically. “We like ev’rytings nice,”
he said. The “nice” house was built by
contractors, the “nice” furniture bought,
and Giuseppe, shackled to his sense of
conventional respectability, swapping the
substance for the shadow, had sold a
possible peaceful winter of his life for
the long days of arduous grind under
the ganger’s cold eye. Still only
Giuseppe knows what Giuseppe needs.


If you would protect your widow
If you would be certain that the Executor you appoint will live indefinitely—
If you would have your Estate administered in an unbiassed way, promptly
and faithfully, by men with competent judgment and wide experience—
Then you should appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H-Hart,Esq;M J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORGES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 144 Branches and Receivin H
Offices throughout Que4nsland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales also representa-
tion through the lading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
t ds Bank gffe s the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 182,836 7 p.c. = 162,759 20,077 370,839
]929. . 149,755 5} „ ~ 127.882 21,873 39Z.U2
1930.. 162,726 6 „ „ 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 4} „ ~ 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ „ 116.257 9,986 460.463
1934.. 149,489 6 ~ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 ~ ~139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 ~ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ ~ 162.759 10.9i4 50'' firi
1938.. 182,927 7 „ ~102,759 20,168 520,803
This co. had 29 vessels, aggregate gross
tonnage 72,456 (up 6578), engaged in
the Australian coastal trade at June 30.
Two of them, Manoora and Manunda,
cater for the inter-State passenger service;
three others also carry passengers, two
on Spencer’s Gulf and one on Port
Phillip, and the balance handle cargo,
including sugar under contract with the
C.S.R. Last term two new cargo vessels
were commissioned (Beltana, 3043 tons,
in November, and Barossa, 4240 tons, at
the end of June), and an old one (Nalpa,
685 tons) was sold to the A.U.S.N. Co.
Another, the Bundaleer, a sister-ship to
the Barossa, is being built in Scotland,
and is due for delivery in April next. A
couple of the small craft grounded dur-
ing the year, but they were repaired and
recommissioned without any visible dam-
age to earnings or finances.
The earnings of the fleet are supple-
mented by takings from tugs, lighters,
etc., and by pickings from a number of
outside sources, chief of which at the
moment is a fine wad of Government
securities, debentures and cash, which
figures in the books at £1,024,528. Other
interests include 526,784 £1 shares in
J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham
Collieries (paid capital £1,900,007), which
paid its last div. (2| p.c.) in 1934, a con-
trolling interest in Waratah Tug and Sal-
vage Co., operating at Sydney and New-
castle, an unstated holding with Birt and
Co. in the Newstead Wharves and Steve-
doring Co., which recenily built new
wharves, etc., at Brisbane, and an equal
interest (49,998 shares) with Huddart
Parker, Union Steam, Orient Steam and
Holyman Bros, in Australian National
Airways, together with a number of
minor activities.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there were no holdups
on the waterfront, and all the co.’s ships
were kept busy handling an increased
volume of passenger and cargo traffic.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the board called £162,927 (down £76) of
the year’s takings net profit, which was
only £l6B more than the 7 p.c. div. called
for. But that leaves out of the reckon-
ing a net addition of £lO,OOO (same as
for the previous term) to the insurance
account (£310,000) and £lO,OOO dropped
into the repairs, renewals and replace-
ments reserve (£210,000), which had re-
mained unaltered since 1932. Treating
these additions as genuine profit, the net
result was £9924 better than the previous
year’s at 7.8 p.c. on capital as .against
7.4, 6.4, 6.4, 6.3, 5.4, srl5 r l and 4.8 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. was kept at 7
p.c., the final being at the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a., same as for the previous term.
Finances are very comfortable, as the
following table shows: —•
1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors* 74,236 97,781 168,841
Steamers, properties,
etc 1,322,532 1,409,618 1,495,745
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 42,729' 48,782 54,505
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 408,520 577,856 628,398
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 1,068,534 1,024,528
Not including provident fund, £239,656, 1935;
£224,734, 1937; £231,893, 1938.
Additions to the fleet are reflected in a
growth of £86,127 in steamers, proper-
ties, etc., book debts and investments
were up £50,542, and £5723 was added
to stocks. To meet the outlay Consols,
cash, etc., were drawn upon for £44,006,
while £18,328 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors and the co.
went to its bankers for £52,732. When
the books closed, Consols, cash, etc.,
, alone were equal to Bs. lOd. per share.
The new engineering workshops now
going up on the co.’s property at Port
Adelaide are expected to be completed
next month.
It is too early yet to say what effect
the trouble in the coal trade will have
upon earnings during the current term.
Of the co.’s 29 ships, 20 are steamers
and the balance motor-vessels. At June
30 stocks of coal were higher than at
any time during the last eight years.
Some of the freighters are engaged in
the coal-carrying business, which might
be interrupted if the strike continues for
long.
lne market prices the pound shares
at 335., as against 31s. a year ago and
295. 12 months before that. The return
at 335. is 4.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the cover is 245. 6d. in net tan-
gibles.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 48,741 10 p.c. = 37,396 ) ln rQ „ oc
Provident fund, £lOOO j 10,34 j 69,328
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000 .. 89,328*
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 \ , R o-q ms i«7*
Provident fund, £l5OO f 18,8 ° 9 108 > 187
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ) r
Provident fund, £l5OO f 0,993 114,180
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. 49,958 ) B n . Q Igo 000 ,
Provident fund, £lOOO J 8,049 122,229
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 ) 1Q „
Provident fund, £2OOO J 100,371
1933.. 71,575 8 p.c. = 50,000 j 1R 118 04fi
Provident fund. £3OOO J iB,d ' J 118,946
1934. 69,255 8 p.c. - 50,000 ) 1( . „„ „ 5 „„
Provident fund. £2500 f
1935. . 83,539 8 p.c. = 57,115 \ no 004 irg <50 r.
Provident fund. £2500 J
1936. 93,739 8 p.c. = ) 23, 824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 )
1937. . 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 j 07 451 gin goo
Provident fund. £2 r 'on f 210,900
1938.. moe.r.n B n.c.= 90,101 ) g 954 200 854
Provident fund, £2500 j ’ ’
•Subject to an unspeciUeu amount of intangibles.
The result was lower than generally ex-
pected, even taking into account the
brewers’ strike, extending over several
weeks, early in the piece, and support for
the scrip weakened a bit following the
profit announcement. With an eye to
future possibilities, however, investors in
the co.’s shares at 235. continue to accept
one of the lowest immediate yields (4.3
p.c.) offering from a listed brewery stock.
Net tangible cover is 14s. Bd. per share,
and the “Wild Cat” believes there is more
malt and hops in the assets than book
values alone indicate.
With Queensland Brewery, the C.P.
organisation slakes most of the Northern
State’s healthy thirst. After absorption of
Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery, together
with part of its Brisbane plant and the
trade of some 70 hotels, in 1929, the man-
agement began tucking up its sleeves in
earnest. Since, the rest of Perkins’s assets,
chiefly hotel freeholds and leaseholds and
its old Brisbane brewery premises, have
been taken over, while still more hotels
have been bought and others improved
and modernised, thus further extending
the co.’s goodwill and anchoring turn-
over. Also, new markets have been
opened up, particularly inter-State, and
the management has given much atten-
tion to consolidating the business, visibly
and otherwise.
Turnover as a result has run ahead
with the improvement in conditions
generally. Last term unemployment
declined from 9.3 p.c. in the second
quarter of 1937 to 8.2 p.c. for the
first quarter of the current year, and
payrolls lengthened, too. Still, owing to
strike and the co.’s own increased costs
(still on the up-grade), the declared net
result slipped £31,563 to £102,555, equal
to 9.1 p.c. on capital actually at work, as
against 12.7, 11.1, 11.7 and 11 p.c. for
the four preceding years. That was after
openly writing off an extra £13,801 for
depreciation (£29,995), allocating £lO,OOO
less (£40,000 altogether) for the tax-
gatherer, and earmarking something for
contingencies. The div. was kept at 8
p.c., unchanged since 1931 —the 1937
handout had included a 2 p.c. jubilee
bonus.
The latest profit may have been better
than stated ; that depends on whether the
contingency provision is in excess of
actual requirements, and op what, if any,
capital outlay on hotel renovations, etc.,
was charged direct to earnings.
Over the last five years capital has been
exactly doubled by new issues at par, and
the new money has been made to earn at
the same rate as the old. The lot, together
with an additional £347,089 from out-
siders, has gone mainly into hotels, etc.
(up £916,967 net), and in adding
£127,823 to the book value of the
brewery, etc.:
Paid 1927. 1935. 1937. 1938.
capital £372,694 £781,250 £1,041,666 £1,250,000
Diabilities* 09,361 251,984 604,699 457,784
Brewery,
plant, etc. 159,029 ) qoq 7Q*> 422 359' 446 811
Warehouse 23,.>8J 1 3 “ 9 ’ 445,811
Hotels .. 151,095 774,170 1,354,979 1,361,235
Stocks . . 66,516 74,244 84,680 104.218
Debtors .. 107,269 64,710 89,644 82,770
Cash. etc. 8,429 13,715 20,602 25,532
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Last term there was a slowing-up* in
capital outlay. The £208,334 of fresh
share-money gathered was used mainly
lo chop £146,915 off the debt, carry an
extra £19,538 of stock, and add £23,452
net to the brewery, now stated to be
capable of looking after anticipated ex-
pansion of business for the next three
years or so. Only £6256 more than written
off was spent on hotel properties, in “at
cost, less amounts written off and pro-
vision for depreciation.” At balance
date total liabilities, of which £326,054
is secured, exceeded more or less liquids
by £245,285 (down £164,488); the float-
ing debt was covered by liquids with
£80,796 to spare.
Immediate outlook is bright. Though
export prices are down, seasonal con-
ditions over most of the State have
seldom been better, particularly in the
dairying, agricultural and sugargrowing
districts, while about 80 p.c. of the
pastoral areas are reported assured of
a favorable spring.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net , Dividends N Towards De-
Sept., Profit; Pref. Old. Total. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.c. 8 p.c. 644 35 8,061
Added intangibles, £7647 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 .. 16,202
1928.. 5,690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. 3,647 2,043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 8,327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 12,956
Doss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil Nil 51,936
J une,
1931*. 8.901 Nil Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 37} p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7J „7} p.c. 8,522 8,277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 ~12} „ 18,129 4,917 16,733
1936.. 40,823 10 ~15 „ 29,334 11,489 28,222
Added goodwill, £2OOO .. .. 26,222
1937.. 79,076 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 55,128 23,948 50,170
1938.. 101,604 10 „ 15 „ 71,342 30,262 80,432
•Nine months.
The co.’s early history was not inspir-
ing ; much of what had been called profit,
and a lot more, was swallowed by bad
debts in 1930, and Bs. per share (£74,289)
was lopped off capital in 1932. How-
ever, there were changes in the control
and also in the methods of conducting
the business, which has since made extra-
ordinary progress. It is now the largest
of its kind in Australia; it has 23
branches and three furniture showrooms
in N. S. Wales, six branches in Queens-
land and a subsidiary in Vic. with offices
at Melbourne, Footscray and Geelong.
Over the last seven years £354,411 of
fresh capital has been gathered at par,
and £277,250 has been added to the
amount coming to outsiders. The lot,
and more besides, has gone mainly into
advances to customers (up £587,099),
shares in subsidiaries (up £66,698) and
in the buying of a freehold (£102,617):
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £171,766 £176,874 £518,839 £526,177
Liabilities . . 10,500 52,248 229,392 287,750
Freehold .. 97,428 102,617
Equipment . . 3,167 8,151 14,133 18,718
Stock . . 1,073 3,142 9,752 12,068
Investments . . 33,295 24,743 82,493 99,993
Book debts . . 82,563 216,540 601,862 669,662
Cash, etc. . . 1,331 1,504 6,769 5,405
Last term £67,800 net was added to book
debts—there were about 300,000 accounts
current at balancing date, the average per
account being approximately £2. An
extra £17,500 was invested in shares m
subsidiaries, £2316 was added to stocks,
£4585 to equipment and £5189 net to
freehold —-£7589 was paid off the balance
due on freehold, leaving £67,737 still to
come. To meet the outlay the overdraft
(now £116,871) was increased by £53,513,
and the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors (£103,142) by £12,423. At June 30
stocks, book debts, .cash, etc., exceeded
outside liabilities by £399,385, or £10,394
more than at the previous balance.
Obviously the whole position depends
upon the soundness of debtors’ balances.
In this respect the board claims to have
made adequate provision for contingen-
cies. The practice has been to write off
50 p.c. of any debt on which no collec-
tions have been made for two months,
and to write off the entire amount if no
collections have been made for four
months. Over and above this 10 p.c. is
struck off all accounts as a provision
against contingencies.
Of recent years conditions have been
almost ideal for cash-order cos., and
while the present high level of employ-
ment remains and wages continue on the
up-grade a satisfactory volume of busi-
ness should be assured. For the 12
months to June 30 this Amalgamated
Co.’s turnover was approximately
£2,000,000 (up about £400,000). The im-
provement in gross earnings (£298,640)
was £56,845. Including the tax bill (over
£25,000), exes. (£197,036) took £34,317
of the increase, leaving the net result
£22,528 better at £101,604. This was
enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rate (10 p.c.) and show 23 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 22.3 p.c.
for the previous term. The div. was kept
at 15 p.c.
At the moment the scrip is under the
shadow of proposed State legislation
(details of which have not yet been an-
nounced) to control this class of business
in N. S. Wales. Also, there is the possi-
bility that, under less favorable condi-
tions, which means lighter turnover and
a less fortunate experience so far as col-
lections are concerned, competition will
lead to a reduction in the present high
rate of interest charged for this type
of credit, and to the loss, partly or
wholly, of juicy pickings by way of dis-
counts from retailers. The fully-paid
12s. ords. at 15s. 4d. (18s. 4d. a year ago)
return 11.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
At 235. the pound prefs. yield 8.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. distribution, which was
covered 6.7 times by last year’s net earn-
ings. The net tangible backing is 80s.
lOd. prefs. and 14s. 7d. ords.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7} p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£> £> £ £ £
1925. . 54,833 22,500 7 p.c.=21,000 11,333 19,590
1929.. 47,496 22,500 6 J„ „ 19,600 5,496 26,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1932.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1933.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,294
1934.. 12,807 25,594* Nil 2,507
Deficit.
1935.. 13,057 25,594* Nil 10,030
1936.. 19,863 25,594* Nil 15,761
44 p.c.
1937.. 23,607 13,500 1] p.c.= 3,750 6,357 9,404
5 p.c.
1938.. 23,910 15,000 2} ~,,7,500 1,410 7,994
*4 p.c. from l/12/’32 plus £13,594 towards arrears.
What the future holds for shareholders
in this co.—it amalgamated the businesses
of Cheadle, Crase and Co. and Bennett
and Fisher in 1919 —depends upon the
course of seasons and prices. During the
boom the business bounded along, and
the ords. received an average of 7.4 p.c.
for the nine years to the close of accounts
in 1929. But, before much support and
protection for capital could be accumu-
lated, conditions changed, and payments
to the prefs. (there are 150,000 As and
a like number of Bs, which used to
carry a cumulative 7| p.c.) had got
£54,375 behind at the end of 1932. It
was decided to wipe out arrears by four
annual payments (£13,594 each) from
reserves. Also, the div. was lowered to
4 p.c., with the right to an extra 1 p.c.
when the ords. got up to 5 p.c., and the
further right to advance with the ords.
beyond 5 p.c. to p.c., and to share
m future bonus issues, if any. Pref.
arrears were cleared in 1936, leaving the
{Continued on page 24.)


A Sound Industrial Investment
(Abridged Prospectus)
ATLAS PORTLAND
CEMENT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
(A Company registered under the "Companies Act 1936” N. S. Wales.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL ... £500,000
divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each, of which 100,000 are 7|%
Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each, and 400,000 are
Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
100,000 100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been applied for and allotted to the underwriters in terms of their agreement to underwrite for
cash subscription. . , c . , ...
89.500 89,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been arranged to be issued fully paid as consideration for purchase of certain plans, rights,
processes, leases and/or rights under mining agreements, as set out in the Prospectus. (
18.500 18,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been arranged to be issued fully paid as part consideration for purchase of working Colliery,
limestone leases and limeburners’ plant, as set out in the Prospectus. , , , . .
85,000 85,000 7\% Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each, carrying rights as set out hereunder, are offered for subscription
payable as under:—
5/- per share on application.
5/- per share on allotment.
5/- per share 3 months after allotment.
5/- per share 6 months after allotment.
15,000 15,000 Preference Shares of £1 each are held in reserve. Subject to the full subscription of the Ordinary Shares offered for subscription,
the reserved Preference Shares may be issued by the Directors without any additional issue of Ordinary Shares.
192,000 192,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are held in reserve.
500,000
THE SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SALE UNDER THE PROSPECTUS ARE
85,000 71% CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATING PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1
EACH, BUT A LIMITED NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES CAN BE
PURCHASED ON TRANSFER FROM CHURCHILLS, LIMITED, THROUGH
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
The Preference Shares carry cumulative Preferential Rights as to dividend
and as to return of capital and dividends in event of winding up, and after
the Ordinary Shares have received 7* % dividend the Preferential Shares
participate equally with the Ordinary Shares up to 10% dividend, inclusive
of 7 1% preferential dividend, but carry no further rights.
DIRECTORS:
Arnold Stanley Taylor, Esq. (Managing
Director), Company Director, “Hillside,”
Bernina, New South Wales.
Arthur Governor Daniells Shannon, Esq.,
Company Director, 1 Pereival Road,
Petersham.
Charles Bobringer, Esq., B.S.R.A. (Switz.),
A.R.1.A., Architect and Engineer, Kembla
Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Frederick Thomas Smythe, Esq., F.C.A.
(Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
247 George Street, Sydney.
William Archibold, Esq., Manager, H. C.
Sleigh, Shipowners and Merchants, Grosvenor
Street, Sydney.
Alexander Markell, Esq., Merchant, 131
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ralph Humphrey Corke, Esq., Merchant, Day
Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
(To be appointed.)
SOLICITORS:
T. W. Garrett, Christie and Buckley,
Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
BANKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited,
N.S'.W. Head Office: George and Margaret
Streets, Sydney; and King’s Cross Branch,
95 Darlinghurst Road, King’s Cross.
SECRETARY (PRO TEM.):
Sidney Herbert Winter, Esq., c/o F. T.
Smythe, F.C.A. (Aust), Chartered Accountant
(Aust.), 247 George Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
Works Office: Grand Avenue, Granville.
UNDERWRITERS:
Churchills, Limited, 247 George Street,
Sydney. And at Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane.
BROKERS:
Application for shares will be received through
members of any recognised Stock Exchange
in the Commonwealth of Australia or the
Dominion of New Zealand.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects of the Company are fully set out in its
Memorandum of Association.
In particular the Company is establishing at Granville,
Sydney, modern wet process cement works for the production
of the highest grade Portland Cement. The Company’s manu-
facturing plant is at present being fabricated and the first
sections will be shipped at an early date.
Profitable working Colliery and Lime production business
has been acquired, as well as leases covering practically
unlimited supply of high-grade Limestone. Cement has been
produced overseas from the Company’s raw materials, and the
Manufacturers testify in their report to the exceptional
excellence of the raw materials and the suitability for
cement making,
ESTIMATE OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
The Capital of the Company is required for the following: —
Cement making plant, machinery, purchase of
works site, construction and erection of cement
works, buildings, offices, laboratory, quarry
plant, transport and equipment, as per
estimate .. .. .. •• •• ..£136,150
Expenditure on coal storage bins at Colliery
to handle additional tonnage .. .. . ■ 1,000
Part purchase leases and limeburners’ plant,
etc. (Marulan Lime Pty., Ltd.) .. .. S?,000
Part purchase working colliery (Wollondilly
Bulli Collieries Pty., Ltd.) .. .. .. 1,250
Starting up stores, limestone, coal, gypsum,
bags, essential spares .. .. .. .. 8,250
Provision for brokerage and underwriting
expenses .. .. .. • • • • . . 18,500
Provision for working capital and formation
expenses .. . . . . . . . . . . 10,500
£183,650
The foregoing low capital expenditure is made possible on
account of electric power, water, rail and water transport,
roads, and cheap and suitable coal supplies being practically
immediately available without the heavy capital expenditure
for these major items usually associated with the establish-
ment of other cement companies.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
It is for obvious reasons inadvisable to enter into details
of estimated costs and profits, but such detailed estimates
are available to any genuine prospective investor at the office
of the Company, or any office of Churchills, Limited, the
Underwriters. It can, however, be stated with the utmost
confidence that the following summarised figures have been
compiled upon a conservative basis as to income and upon a
liberal basis as to expenditure.
SALES.
By the estimated sales of Cement at conservative
rates .. • • .. .. - • • • £200,000
Less Manufacturing Costs in respect of the above
sales quantities . . • • • • • • • • 105,000
Gross Profit . . • • • • • • £95,000
Deduct —Administration estimated at £lO,OOO
• per annum .. .. .. ..£lO,OOO
Amortisation of leases and depreci-
ation of plant not covered by £4OOO
and 2/3 per ton for which provision
has been made already in costs, say 5,000
£15,000
£BO,OOO
Less Provision for Taxation at, say, 4/- in the
£ on £BO,OOO .. 16,000
Estimated Net Profit .. .. •• £64,000
Slightly more than 20% on the whole of capital, issued and
proposed to be issued.
ADMINISTRATION.
Arrangements have been made- to secure the services of
an experienced and efficient technical and administrative staff.
This will eliminate the necessity of any experimenting or
unnecessary training to secure economic and efficient control
of the Company’s operations.
The Company has the advantage of possessing the fullest
information as to the most modem methods available for the
manufacture of cement, and has arranged to secure, a plant
designed to operate on the most modern methods, and its
executives are fully conversant with all the conditions of
manufacture and marketing. In the preparation of the plans
for Atlas the Company has available the results of expert
experience and research which, in conjunction with the
establishment of the Company’s Works at Granville, will ensure
that the Company’s Works are unrivalled so far as produc-
tion oosts, layout of plant, and accessibility to markets are
concerned. It is felt, therefore, that the Company can, with
these exceptional advantages and with the experience available
to guide it, obtain a position in the industry which will ensure
profitable operation.
Without going into any lengthy technical descriptions,
the layout of the Works as proposed in the plans already
prepared will halve the operation and labour costs as com-
pared with the costs involved in operating other cement works
in the State. The results of experience gained in other vast
constructions will also ensure the wise and economical expendi-
ture of the Company’s capital.
The Works plans submitted have been designed to take
full advantage of the site acquired and the existing facilities
available thereon in respect to rail, road and water transport.
The layout as submitted and forwarded abroad for quotation
has been commented upon in most favourable terms by the
plant manufacturers concerned. The layout has been in-
corporated in their quotations with specified power and coal
consumption provided for a guaranteed output.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Application will be made to the Stock Exchange for the
listing of the Company’s shares in due course.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Application for shares must be made on the form accompanying the Prospectus and forms of application, together with 5/- per share, the amount
of the application money, and with or without the allotment money of 5/- per share, to the Company’s registered office or to any member ot a reoog-
nised Stock Exchange. In the event of the issue being over-subscribed, the shares will be allotted as nearly as possible on a pro rata basis, lhe
Directors, however, reserve the right to give priority to or to reject as they think fit any particular application or applications.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF THE NEW SOUTH WALES “COMPANIES ACT 1936.”
I—All1 —All the requirements of Section 137 of the “Companies
Act 1936” (N.S.W.) have not been complied with in this
advertisement.
- Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of application for
shares may be obtained at the Registered Office of Atlas
Portland Cement (Australia), Limited, 247 George Street,
Sydney, or the offices of Churchills, Limited, at 57 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Brookman Building, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, and Commerce House, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
3 —Applications for shares will be received only on one of
the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon a
printed copy of the Prospectus.
4 This advertisement is an epitome of the Prospectus, copy
of which has been filed with the Registrar-General for
New South Wales, dated at Sydney, Bth September, 1938.
5 The Company has already proceeded to allotment upon
100,000 Ordinary Shares allotted to the Underwriters in
fulfilment of their underwriting.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
1
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
HI
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone: CB3SO.
’Phone: M 6505.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! Tor full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: 1U1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell. K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. ShipWa.v.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
road open for both prefs. and ords. to
benefit from any further improvement
m earnings. ,
During the last erm the co. closed one
branch and opened two new ones, making
the total 18, mainly in the south-east
portion of the State. Except in the west
Darling district, excellent seasonal con-
ditions were experienced, and the co.
handled over 40,000 bales of wool as
against 36,000-odd in the previous season,
and there was a good volume of turnover
in the livestock, skins and machinery
sections of the business, too. So, despite
the persistent fall in the price of wool,
ion
gross earnings (tIO ,281) were up £5327.
Exes. wh,ch are stl on the up-grade,
look alt but £303 of the increase, leaving
enough to hand the prcts. 5 p.c. and
show 2.9 p.c. on ord. capital. The ords.,
which were shown an empty basket for
the seven years to the close of accounts
in 1936, got p.c. as against 1£ p.c. for
the previous term. The £l4lO that re-
mained reduced the amount of ord. capi-
tal unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £7994—goodwill, £27,000, is not
H eated as an asset herein.
, T . , , . r.
Heie aie balance-sheet figuies:
i!i'2S. 1935. 1937. 1938.
l'aid capital.. £ooo,ooo' £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 380,068 234,507 • 27i,C54 268,589
114,113 109,054 i0?, 503 109,078
Advances & bills- 904,429 705,764 750,197 747,607
j ii vestments and
cash .. 18,373 20,458 19,701 19,811
No movements of importance occurred
last term. When the books closed, ad-
vances, investments and cash exceeded the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£498,829. What proportion of the ad-
vances has been made against broad
acres and what proportion is readily self-
liquidating are not ascertainable from the
published accounts.
As for the current term, the seasonal
onttook is bright enough, but wool prices
are down, and costs are difficult to re-
strain. Earnings will partly depend upon
what happens to prices as the year
advances.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the A prefs. at 16s. 6d. and the
Bs at 15s. 6d. At these figures the
return is 6 p.c. and 6.4 p.c. respectively
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The ords. at 10s.
yield 5 p.c. on a 2| p.c. distribution,
The net tangible cover (book value) is
£3 18s. lid. As, £2 18s. lid. Bs and
19s. 6d. ords.
Australian Gas Light (Sydney) £6 A
shar£s were d * Qn
Fridayj thg B \ sue at virtua n y the same,
Q n Monday morning buyers on ’Change
were offering £7 ss. 6d. for the B scrip,
sellers asking £7 6s. for the As. Mean-
time, in Richardson and Wrench’s rooms
just across Pitt-street, 35,000 new A
shares were being auctioned ; after open-
ing near the ’Change prices, some of
them sold as low as £6 12s. 6d., and
towards the end of the sale C. H. Cram-
the auctioneer, was working hard
to clean the issue up at £6 14s. 6d. To
i east of it ,Change quotes for
shares f Un £ h q ave „., in .
dicated , he rea , state o£ , hc market . But
perhaps 35,000 shares in one parcel was
too much.
* * * *
Australian investors are principally
interested in Pato Consolidated, the
Colombia (S. America) alluvial gold
venture, through Placer Development,
holder of 31 p.c. of the former s
share capital. The S. American
J* to declare . .» dlv rf unds “
far have been needed for dredge and
hydro-electric construction work—but
regular distributions shouldn’t be far
off TTfirpp npw HrpHopQ Itjivp fipAn
started up, making five in all, in addition
to hydraulicking equipment. Though the
two older dredges were in tailings, pro-
duction for the quarter ended Sept. 1
was 12 ,5670 z. fine gold from 3,295,000
c.y. ; it compares with 51560 z. from
1,756,000 c.y. for the previous three
months. Bulolo Dredging, New Guinea,
to date Placer’s most prosperous off-
spring, is also stepping along in fine style,
August yield was worth £A 141,829;
£A100,695 was working profit, which
ec hpses all previous monthly efforts,
_ * . * „ *
, ro uc hon of Victoria Gold Dredging,
share prices _ up with a rush> fas been
worth £31,190 to date. Thanks to scoop-
jng-up of coarse gold missed by the
bores on bedrock, recoveries since
regular production commenced have
averaged more than double expected
from the ground dug. The co. will hand
out an initial 2s. on each of its 250,000
issued shares—9ooo fully paid to £l, the
balance to 10s.—on Sept. 29. Gold
Exploration and Finance holds 73 p.c.
of the issued capital and Gold Mines of
Australia nearly 10 p.c.
* * * *
If values persist, Sandy Creek, New
Guinea, may be able to improve upon
last year’s 10 p.c. handout in the current
term. Thanks to better results from the
Sandy Creek sector, 1937-38 working
surplus of Is. lfd. per c.y. of wash sluiced
lifted to a bit over 2s. 6d. for the four
months to August on a proportionately
greater output, and the recently-installed
third sluicing unit on Upper Sandy
Creek has yet to make its presence fully
felt. Production figures from the begin-
ning :
Treated, Gold, Value, Costs,
April, C.y. O/.. C.y. C.y.
1936’.. 21,370 522 3/9.5
1937 .. 116,518 2710 3/5.5 1/9
193 S .. 190,500 3271 2/5.5 1/3.7
t . . 70,563 1807 3/10 1/3.6
* Four months, f Four months to end Aug., 1938.
Total area held at the end of August
amounted to 920 acres. Early in the
term 404 acres of the big breccia deposit
at the northern end of the leases was
abandoned on account of poor values,
but £4094 was spent on purchase of new
areas, most important being 26 acres
lying between the co.’s original boundary
and Bulolo Dredging’s property. Since
the close of the year a further £l6OO has
been laid out on lease purchase, while
£lOOO has been invested in Gold
and Power, Ltd. (proposed issued capital,
£16,031), which is to take over the New
Guinea assets of the old Upper Watut co.
* * * *
Operations of Renison Associated Tin
Mines, formed early in 1934 and operat-
ing the old Boulder, Dalcouth, Dread-
nought and Renison Bell mines on
the Renison Bell tinfield (Tas.), have
reached an interesting stage. The
field lies between Rosebery and Zeehan,
the ore-bodies, which are flat-dipping,
occurring in slate. The tin is in intimate
association with quartz in massive iron
sulphides, but by pre-flotation of the
pyrites and gravity concentration of the
residues a 70 p.c. extraction has been
achieved with a pilot plant. Proved ore
is put at 206,500 tons, with a further
488,500 tons probable, the lot averaging
0.849 p.c. metallic tin. The estimates,
reckoned conservative, are based on
M. R. McKeown’s comprehensive sur-
vey in 1927. Diamond-drilling is to be
put in hand to test the further extension
of the lodes, and the Hydro-Electric
Commission, whose transmission line
runs a mile or so away, is to be
approached to supply power. Treating
400 tons of ore weekly, the initial
throughput aimed at, a working profit of
13s. 6d. per ton is reckoned on with tin
at £2OO London. O. T. Lempriere, of
the ore-buying and metallurgical firm, is
chairman. Paid capital is £18,676 in 4s.
shares.
* * * *
Despite low average tin prices, Storey’s
Creek Tin Mining Co. (Tas.) cleared
£36,458 net in its latest year, thanks
principally to the wolfram content of
ore milled. With Is. 6d. a share, calling
(with tax) for £12,497, sent out since
the close of accounts, the year’s full
distribution is 15 p.c. Throughput was
6316 tons, and production 141 tons
mixed concentrates, a pile of seconds
being stored for re-treatment in addition.
Developments are reported to have made
the last estimate of ore reserves (154,000
tons) “far below the actual reserve ton-
nage of the mine,” latest quantity and
grade not stated. Hydro-electric power
will be available towards the end of
1938, and mill capacity is to be increased
in anticipation of the event. A new
reservoir is expected to obviate any mid-
summer water shortage.
* * * *
A start has been made with the erec-
tion of the first half of a 10,000-ton-a-
-month treatment plant at Tindals (W.A.).
The second half is expected to be com-
pleted before the middle' of 1939. The
co. recently raised £525,000 by a 10 p.c.
convertible note issue in London for
plant, and induced the Westralian Gov-
ernment to guarantee a bank overdraft
to the extent of £A30,000 for develop-
ment. At the end of Oct., 1937, ore
reserves were figured at 250,000 tons,
averaging 4.5dwt., mostly between the
200 ft. and 500 ft. levels. There are
4,480,000 2s. shares issued, including
1,980,000 taken by the vendors.
On receipt of expert advice that to
carry on would mean disastrous loss,
New Golconda (W.A.) shut down and
gave the manager a sub-lease of its mine.
Since then the manager has taken out a
little gold, and now reports that, on the
eastern side of the workings, where very
little prospecting had been done, a new
large lode of Bdwt. to lOdwt. value has
been exposed. The possible extension of
this ore-body is being investigated. High
costs, owing to the scattered nature of
operations and inability to centralise
work, and failure of returns to come up
to assay value caused the co.’s failure.
* * * *
Imperial Gold Mines, Ltd., reports that,
in absence of either an Australian or
London offer for its Kalgoorlie property
and plant, it has disposed of them piece-
meal ; Lake View was the biggest pur-
chaser. Results from diamond-drilling
on the co.’s Broken Hill (N.S.W.) lease
were disappointing. On the recommenda-
tion of W. J. Turner (geologist), the
directors applied to the N.S.W. Mines
Department for assistance, and Mr.
Rayner, Government Geophysicist, is to
make a preliminary examination of the
property. Cash in hand at June 30
totalled £7272. The co. has closed its
London office.
* * * *
Operating since 1935, Mt. Magnet
(W.A.), a mine from which others pre-
viously made a pile, reports small
monthly profits. So far it has taken out
about £200,000 worth of bullion, from
which divs. have been paid regularly on
£50,000 of 7 p.c. pref. money, and Is.
per share has been sent out on the
568,043 2s. 6d. ords. Lord Lee of
Fareham is chairman, and L. C. Amery,
a former Secretary for the Dominions,
is a member of the board.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) has been treating ore at
its new mill on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile during the past two or three months,
but so far neither revenue nor expendi-
ture has been divulged. All that has
been given out is so many tons treated
for a head value of so much. Share-
holders seem satisfied, but the market
doesn’t.
* # * *
In August the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
big four—Lake View, Great Boulder,
Boulder Perseverance and North Kal-
gurli—together produced over £277,000
worth of gold. Lake View led with
£125,000, Great Boulder came next
with £76,417, and Boulder Perseverance
and North Kalgurli dead-heated with
about £38,000 each. Working surpluses
were ' £52,023, £24,741, £13,707 and
£lB,OOO respectively.
* * * *
Because of the revival in the engineer-
ing trades and the activity in armaments,
there has been a strong and growing
demand for tungsten during the last few
years. About 95 p.c. of the tungsten
metal produced enters the alloy steel
field. A typical high-speed steel analysis
is 18 p.c. tungsten, 4 p.c. chromium, 1
p.c. vanadium, and the balance iron,
very low in impurities. Burma is now
the world’s largest producer, with China,
which still finds an outlet for her con-
centrates, despite the struggle with Japan,
running a close second. Concentrates
are sold in 25-ton lots on the London
market, and Australian parcels are
usually at a discount of from 2s. to
6s. per unit compared with the official
quote. The price touched £lO per unit
in September, 1937. Lately the figure
has been around £2 14s.


SMOKE-OH!
“Though a chronic drunkard, he was ex-
tremely fond of children.” — Biographical item.
He liked having a few tots around the
house.
4* 4* 4 4
“While I wander over the bed of the ocean
I often meditate on the wonders of life,” writes
a diver.
A deep thinker.
4 4 4* 4
“Woman Secures Divorce Decree on Birth-
day.”—“Sun.”
Alimony happy returns of the day.
4 4 4 4
“A that he has suits made with
21 pockets.”
His poor wife must have a lot to go
through.
4 4 4 4
“A woman who has had 81 proposals of
marriage ought to understand thoroughly that
strange animal we call man.” — “Sunday Sun.
It certainly proves she Noes her men.
4 4 4 4
“What is considered the most popular short-
story in the world?” — Correspondent.
The one that starts with “You know,
dear, my wife doesn’t really understand
me.”
4 4 4 4
“N.S.W. Licensees Favor S.P. ban.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Bitters, but no bettors.
“Gosh, We made a mistake. It's unbreakable glass!”
“Aluminium clothes for women may become
popular.” — “Sunday Sim.”
It looks as if husbands will now have
to spend Sunday morning cleaning their
wives’ frocks with steel wool.
4 4 4 4
“Patients Like Sardines in Surgeries.”
— “Sun.”
Oil was prescribed, doubtless.
4* 4 4 4
“He enjoyed the comfort of his pip.”
— “Sun.”
And no doubt his wife gave it to him.
4 4 4 4
“Thinking that this was the place where his
friend lived, he knocked. A man who answered
the door swore at him.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
He drew a blank.
■s* 4 4 4
“Keep an eye on all pests and try preventive
methods before they attack the plants in
hordes.” — “Sunday Sun.”
The best method is to beat ’em to it
by tearing out the plants yourself.
“Who are amongst Australia’s most beauti-
ful girls?” — “Daily Telegraph.”
The men, of course.
4 4 4* 4*
“The bridle party proceeded slowly down the
a isle. ” — Brisbane ‘ ‘ Telegraph. ’ ’
To enter double harness.
4 4 4* 4*
“Rory did me the greatest injury one man
could do another.” — Short story.
And then didn’t have the decency to
replace the beer he’d knocked over.
4* 4* 4* 4*
And then there was the typist who
was so ignorant that she thought an
asset was a small donkey.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Social Plumbers.
“Five society girls, three of whom are about
to be married, have just learned how to be
plumbers.”— Woman’s paper.
The society girl who becomes a
plumber has nothing to spout about.
Of course, female plumbers could put
the acid on a man about his tin ; they
could also plumb the depths of a man’s
soul; they might even stop a little
scandal from leaking out. But women
can never become perfect plumbers, be-
cause, like elephants and taxing masters,
they never forget.
McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many of the bombs fell in Jback gardens.”
— “D.T.”
That’s one way to raise vegetables.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Film Comedian Divorced.”
His wife didn’t like his funny business.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jemmies disguised as golf sticks.” —
—News item.
So are spades.
4* 4* 4* 4“
“The Parliamentary system is very old,” says
an item.
Yes! There was chaos even before
Adam and Eve. f
4* 4* 4* 4
“A Sydney society woman recently reported
the loss of a diamond ring. Two days later
she found it in the lining of her handbag.”
—News item -
Detectives were annoyed when told
of the recovery, as they had a valuable
clue to the thief, and an early arrest
was expected.
The Game.
“The payments the Commonwealth makes to
the States, and vice versa, are of no benefit to
the taxpayer; actually they increase his burden.
It is merely a system of robbing Peter to pay
Paul.”
It's a game that confuses, and fills us
with doubt
There’s a chance of our revenue
falling ;
Robbing Peter no sign shows of petering
out,
And the payments to Paul are appal-
“"*■ H.M.
4 4 4 4*
Wedding Preparations.
“A woman needs longer to prepare for her
wedding than a man does.”— Magazine article.
“Well, dear, we can fix the date any
time now,” said the prospective bride.
“I’ve bought all my new undies, shoes,
stockings, got my
glorybox ready, and
my wedding and
going - away dresses
and my hats will be
finished in two or
three days.”
“All right,” the
bridegroom told her.
“I’ve got my shoes
half-soled and my
socks darned, and
the tailor reckons he
can clean and press
my suit in twenty-
four hours. I’m set.”
Eureka.
Gardening Notes.
As fragrant as a flow’r is she,
Her name, indeed, is Daisy ;
Her pansy face and rosy cheeks
Have me completely crazy.
Her skin is pure and petal-pink,
As soft as any lily ;
A bout her eyes of cornflow’r blue
I’ve acted rather silly.
But in the garden of my life
First place this flow’r insists on —
I’m just (to cap this simile )
The poor sap she exists on.
GUY W.
I Was a Legionnaire.
It was after I had
murdered my wife by
pipping a pound of
diamond dust in her
morning coffee (she
had a most annoying
habit of putting dead
matches back in the
box) that I decided to
join the Foreign
Legion. It was either
then or after I had
“liquidated” the man-
ager of the bank in
which I was cashier,
following his discov-
ery that I was short
of something like
£380,000. I’ve for-
gotten which.
I eventually reached Paris, haying
travelled disguised as a British Cabinet
Minister without portfolio. I thought a
portfolio would look suspicious, and any-
way one wouldn’t be much good to me,
as my luggage was limited to a tooth-
brush which badly needed rebristling and
a copy of Burton’s Anatomy of Melan-
choly. I was ever an avid reader of light
fiction.
Leaping into a taxi, I told the driver
to hurry to the Foreign Legion recruit-
ing depot in the Rue de la Hamburger.
He did the three kilometres from the
Gare du Nord in two minutes, skittling
a traffic policeman and two pedestrians
who were waving their arms about in
conversation on a footpath.
Strangely enough, he found he had no
change on him when we got there, and,
as I had only three £lOO,OOO notes on me
I gave him one, telling him to keep the
change.
I couldn’t see anything marked up
anywhere about Foreign Legion, but one
placard read “La Legion
Etrangere,” so I went in,
thinking they might know
where the recruiting depot
was. I entered a white-
washed room completely
bare save for furniture,
shelves, safe and a fero-
cious-looking fellow seated
at a desk. He put down
the hacksaw with which
he was pruning a corn off
his pendulous nose.
“Bien ?” he growled.
“Me, too,” I replied
politely.
“You wish to join the
Legion, no?”
“No, I do,” I said. I
went on to tell him that I
was not without experi-
ence of arms. As a boy
I had won a dart-throw-
ing contest, and my uncle
had once got his money
back in a shooting
saloon by knocking over
a clay pipe. I was willing
to start off as a major and
work my way up to
Generalissimo.
But the fellow seemed
unimpressed. In fact, he
sat back, twirled his enor-
mous moustaches until they had points
on them like needles, and laughed sar-
donically. It was the first time I had ever
heard anyone laughing sardonically out-
side the pages of a romantic novel, and
I took an immediate dislike to him. He
went on to inform me that if I was for-
tunate enough to be accepted I would
start as a recruit legionnaire and the pay
would be one sou a day.
I should have liked to wear a Sam
Browne and have a batman. However, I’m
easygoing. “That’s jake with me, Steve,”
I said, wondering how much a sou was.
His brows came together thunderously
and, jumping to his full height (he must
have gone at least 7ft.), he bellowed:
“Remember, I am a sous-officier. If you
would live, offal, never forget it.”
“Righto, Steve, don’t get your hair
off!” I replied soothingly. I felt that
diplomacy was needed, for I had begun
“ Haircut , nothin'! I Want a SHAVE!”
to put two and two together. He was, as
he proclaimed himself, a sous-officier,
and the pay was a sou a day. Obvi-
ously this understrapper was some sort of
paymaster, and therefore a good man to
keep in with. I took him to be a
sergeant-major—at least he was bad-tem-
pered enough to be one.
After his face had settled back again
to its normal color of deep puce and he
had resumed his seat, he parted his lips
in a cruel grin.
“And just why are you so anxious to
join the Legion, mon enfant ?" he asked
insinuatingly. “Are you a murderer or
an embezzler?”
“Both!” I replied, not without a justi-
fiable tinge of pride. %
His manner, I thought, lost some of its
hostility. Then he fired another ques-
tion: “How many murders?”
I counted up thoughtfully on my
fingers. “Two, I think,” I said.
His look scorched me with its utter
contemptuousness.
“Listen, scum!” he said. “We’ve got a
waiting list for the Legion. It includes
desperate criminals who have killed up
to a dozen men. Don’t you know that
before a man is eligible to become a
legionnaire he must have at least three
murders to his credit? However, I will
see if I can stretch a point in your favor.
That is, if you can” and he slid his
thumb across his index finger in the
traditional manner of the French when
suggesting a bribe.
With a sigh I drew the second-last
£lOO,OOO note from my wallet and passed
it across to him. His eye lit up at the
thought of getting lit up as he greedily
fingered it.
“A nglais, n’est-ce pas ?" he said gloat-
ingly. “Bien! Now I can get a real
cognac. Sit over there,” he continued
sternly, “and you shall be advised in due
course.”
I went and sat on the concrete form
that he indicated. It was close on mid-
night the following night when he re-
turned. By that time my nether organs
were registering 75deg. below zero. “You
will see the Commandant” he ordered.
The Commandant was a kindly man
with greying eyebrows and a wart on
his chin. Instinctively I looked around
for a hacksaw, but I could see none. The
Commandant picked up a green paper on
which were the weights for the Grand
National. Hastily putting it down he
selected another.
“It has been decided that your dis-
qualification shall not debar you from
entering the Legion in the sacred service
of France.” He rose. “Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity!” he declaimed dramatically.
“Veni, vidi, vici," I said solemnly.
He looked at me sternly.
“You will sign this form here, swear-
ing”—
It was here that I interrupted him. “No
swearing, old man, for heaven’s sake. I
don’t want to be reminded of a court!”
He bowed with a politeness typical of
a French officer and gentleman. “Bien,
mon enfant," he said.
I signed. I was in the Foreign Legion
at last!
(Look for a further gripping instalment
next week.)
S. W. K.


The Golden West for Your Holidays
-1938-1939 SEASON NOW OPEN
BY SEA
TO
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
14 DAYS OF DELIGHTFUL SEA TRAVEL AND
SIGHTSEEING.
Round Trip of 4000 Miles
Travel m Comfort by One of the Luxury Liners:—
M.V. “DUNTROON”
M.V. “MANOORA”
M.V. “WESTRALIA”
M.V. “KANIMBLA”
SPORTS —— DANCING MUSIC
SAILINGS from MELBOURNE EVERY TUESDAY
BOOKING PLANS OPEN FOR ALL SAILINGS.
Full particulars on application to —
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.,
31 King Street.
The Adelaide Steamship C 0.,. Ltd.,
505 Collins Street.
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.,
464 Collins Street.
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd.,
96 William Street.
Howard Smith.
At 18s. 9d. Howard Smith ords.
look interesting. The co. has
troubles on its hands at the
moment (Newcastle is well in the
picture), but they should come right
within a reasonable time. The
scrip has declined from a peak of
245. 9d. this year.
f ame is
rjAeflc
(T) c Callums
(1/hiskyis-.
m
m
m
y
m
(D Caujum’s
■
1
Scots CCI hisky
Distributors for the House of McCallumr
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son -
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantl
- - Hobart
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Dilemma
The incidence of war on investments
is a question that has been worrying
holders at various times during the past
three years. Almost exactly 36 months
ago Italian aeroplanes bombed Adowa,
in Abyssinia, and investment prices
sharply looped the loop. From that time
onward, however, until March, 1937,
they showed, in the main, a strong ten-
dency to rise, though there were periodic
setbacks due to scares and other factors.
In April, 1937, when the rearmament
boom was at its height—war scares up to
this stage had been cutting a both-ways
figure on the investment ice—there were
rumors that President Roosevelt was
going to revalue the dollar in order to
check the inflation in commodity and
investment prices then becoming evident.
Devaluing the dollar and other curren-
cies had previously had a notable influ-
ence in lifting prices. Though revalu-
ing the dollar in the other direction
never came, there was a tightening-up in
the credit facilities available for specu-
lation in both London and New York,
and responsible opinion had for some
time been inclined toward a belief that the
soaring commodity prices could never
hold ; out of it all came a crash in prices
in April, 1937, and a pronounced decline
has followed almost up to the present.
Commodities slow to fall at first, such
as wool and wheat, are now at their low-
est level; metals appear to have touched
bottom or thereabouts, and have steadied.
Restriction of output has helped some-
what in several cases.
Obviously the markets have behaved
in an extraordinary fashion over the past
three years ; obviously they have been
subject to extraordinary influences. This
is a nervy age, with remarkable facilities,
both of a mechanical and financial
nature, for speculation. There are hun-
dreds of “investment” publications and
advisers, elaborately equipped Stock
Exchanges and international channels of
speculation, and these, combined with
cables and wireless, make punting on
overseas, ’Changes almost as easy as s.p.
betting.
Imagination and nervousness have
alternately taken charge of the world
markets for some time now. Supply and
demand have ceased to be the obvious
regulators, though they still work a full
influence in the long run. But with cur-
rencies as unstable as prices, the specu-
lator lives in a world where anything
might happen overnight; never before
have politics and political manipulation
of national economics been such a
baffling factor in finance and commerce.
So perhaps it isn’t remarkable that
“nerves” are a great factor in market
tone these days. Eighteen months ago
possibilities of a world war produced
a decidedly bullish atmosphere in most
markets. Lead and spelter went to
above £35 a ton in London, tin to
over £3OO, copra to over £2O, rubber
to more than a shilling a pound, while
wool and wheat both lifted strongly.
Early last week, in a delicate atmo-
sphere brought almost to the electrical
stage by “news” in the Stunt Press,
the tendency was to get out of shares
and other equity investments and to get
into fixed deposits and the like.
If there is any logic in selling out of
industrial equities at the moment and
keeping the proceeds in currency it lies
in the “nerves” factor —in other words,
a belief that the markets will become de-
pressed through a panicky, even if un-
reasonable, wave of selling. That is
essentially a risky short-term view, as is
always the case where “psychology” is
studied in preference to facts.
So far as can be seen at the moment,
inflation and taxation would be the great-
est financial dangers from an outbreak of
War in which the Empire became involved,
and inflation, which invariably means ris-
ing prices in terms of cash, attacks money
itself first, and consequently strikes at
Consols, mortgages and other fixed-
interest securities. Goods and equities
in manufacturing and distributing con-
cerns are thus likely to become more
valuable in terms of depreciated cur-
rency, and to become more of a standard
of value than money itself.
In regard to the affairs of anyone
who can afford to hold his or her
investments, it is good advice to do
nothing in a panic or a hurry. To have
sold out of most things in March, 1937,
would have been good business. That
was when everyone was optimistic. Try-
ing to change gear at the crossroads now
probably wouldn’t be so successful.
After Hitler’s speech early last week,
which disappointed the dailies—they
generally wailed about his “long, dull
review of Nazi history since 1923” —the
Australian sharemarket showed a better
tone. Apparently it prefers “long, dull”
speeches by dictators to scare headlines
in the papers. Broken Hill Prop, led
the way, recovering to 575. after going as
low as 565. In Wednesday’s gloomy
atmosphere there was a weakening again :
by Friday the influence of Chamberlain’s
visit to Hitler had produced a better tone.
* * * *
Henry Jones ords. have been one of
the firmest investments during the upset-
ting conditions of the past few weeks.
They went slightly above 50s. for a while
when the New York “mystery bull
market” was at its top; last week they
were firm at 495. 3d. Meantime British
Tobacco ords. have dropped from 50s.
to 465., G. J. Coles from 84s. to 785.,
and B.H.P. from 61s. to 565. (recovering
later to 575.). A final div. is due from
Henry Jones in December; the accounts
are made up to Nov. 30. Interim div.,
paid in June, was at the unchanged rate
of 10 p.c. p.a.
* # *
Strangely, it was our base-metal mining
stocks that weakened most during last
Wednesday’s war scare. The fact that
metals were firmer in London, lead
especially, seemed to be of no avail. Mt.
Lyell (copper) was Is. 2d. weaker on
the day’s dealings at 265. 3d. Norths
fell 25., to 435. 9d.; Souths and Zinc
Corp. were also down. There was a
pronounced all-round recovery on
Friday.
* * #
Broken Hill Prop, shares suffered par-
ticularly on last Wednesday. The fully-
paids slipped Is. 9d., to 555. 6d., and the
contribs. Is. 3d., to 375. 6d. Most stocks
were weaker, breweries included. The
latter would, of course, suffer in the con-
tingency of war, when a large part of
the male population might be called
overseas. But a marking-down to 325. 9d.
in Adelaide Steam was hardly logical if
war threats were the reason; shipping
cos. usually do all right in such circum-
stances. Perhaps the coal strike had
something to do with Adelaide Steam’s
recession. Cement shares kept firm, but
leading retailers were weak. British
Tobacco at 465. wasn’t as low as the
quotes of a few weeks back.
* * * *
On Friday the Australian sharemarket
appeared to have taken British Prime
Minister Chamberlain right to its heart;
in fact, if any further endorsement of
the timeliness of this flying visit to
Germany had been wanted, Australian
investors gave it wholeheartedly. Many
market leaders firmed, and brokers re-
ported heavy buying orders. General
opinion was that it required only an
improvement in prices for our export
products to “touch off” an all-round
revival in Stock Exchange activity. It
is unfortunate that Czechoslovakia isn’t
the Australian investor’s only problem.
Our internal economy is now calling for
firmer handling, especially as wool and
wheat are so low. But a clearing-up of
the international situation might help
considerably in this regard also.
* * * *
P. and G. Finance (Sydney) ords. were
quiet at ss. 4d. last week-end. Accounts
should soon be to hand, but a cleaning-
up of the finances is indicated as being
in the best interests of shareholders. In-
tangibles would be better out of the
books, and a clarification of some of
the asset values —P.P. Bank balances as
distinct from ordinary debtors —would
do no harm.
*■* # #
During the 36 weeks to Sept. 9 Mt.
Kasi (Fiji) put through 26,143 tons
for 56650 z. fine, an average of 4.34dwt.,
exclusive of slimes. That represents about
375. 6d. a ton in Australian currency.
The co. has reduced its costs to around
20s. a ton, and if ore reserves pan out as
the co. has possibilities. There
are 396,008 shares issued, priced at 4s. 3d.
just now.
sis # * * 4*
George Farmer and Co., the Ballarat
(Vic.) bacon-curing concern the prefs.
in which were recommended here at
18s. 6d. some time back, is considering
repayment of the £60,000 of 8 p.c. pref.
capital at par, plus accrued div. Though
profits lately haven’t been wonderful,
the co.’s strong liquid position should
enable the move to be carried out. The
co. treated 33,000 pigs in its latest term,
compared with 57,500 in 1924, the peak
year. The average price of pigs for
1937-38 was £4 18s. a head ; selling prices
were not increased in proportion.
sfe si; m
In Melbourne last week:
Buckley and Nunn showed profits of
£31,653, down about £1000; but the ord. div.
was raised from 2\ p.c. to 4 p.c.
Australasian Paper ords. at 28s. 3d. still
looked one of the best buys for a reasonably
assured income.
Gordon and Gotch ords. sold during Wed-
nesday’s turmoil at 535. 9d., down very little
on highest quotes.
G. J. Coles ords. relaxed further to 775. 9d.
Dunlop Perdriau’s complete accounts came
to hand —profit £414,597 (up slightly), div. un-
changed at 7 p.c. p.a.
Because of the coal strike and other troubles,
Howard Smith ords. sold down to 18s. 9d.
Lancefield scrip changed hands at 3s. 9d.
and 3s. lid. North Kalgurli shares were
steady at 225. 3d.; they have shown little
change in months.
Golden Plateau shares were at their weakest
for some time; Bs. 6d. was taken for one parcel.
Mt. Morgans kept around 11s.
Die Casters shares were sought after at 485.,
following sales at 48s. 6d. The market for
scrip in this co. (paid capital £145,000) has
been very firm for months. Last div. was 10
p.c. p.a. Accounts for 1937-38 are shortly due.


u
QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
and it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/
In Seaport" Capital Cities.
Australian marie “Qualcast” Land .mowers
have captured' and now ! lipid ! the Aus-
tralian market, by : their efficiency,-dura-
bility and .• cheapness.- -History; is repeat-
ing itSelf nojv'-in regard to the 16in.
••Qualcast” Australian'made Motor Mo.wer.
Write for particulars- to any leading
Hardware Store‘or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUSTO PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, AVest Footscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
Public Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
IN THE MATTER OF “THE COMPANIES
ACT 1893” AND AMENDMENTS.
And IN THE MATTER OF EDJUDINA
GOLD MINING COMPANY, NO LIA-
BILITY (INy LIQUIDATION).
THE creditors ;of the above-named Company
are required on or before THURSDAY, the
20th day of October, 1938, to send their names
and addresses, and the particulars of their debts
or claims, and the names and addresses of their
solicitors (if any) to WILLIAM HAYES, of
Third Floor, Royal Insurance Buildings, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Chartered Accountant,
the Official Liquidator of . the said Company,
and, if so required by ; notice in writing from the-
and, if so required by notice-in writing from
the said Official' Liquidator, are by their
solicitors or otherwise- to prove : their Said
debts or claims at Royal Insurance: Buildings,
St. George’s • Terrace, Perth, the office of the
Official Liquidator,' at such time as ‘ shall be
specified in .such notice, or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit :of ’ any
distribution made before such debts are proved;
Thursday, October 27, 1938, at 3 o’clock in the
afternoon at the said office is appointed for
determining as to the allowance of the debts and
claims.
DATED this Bth day of September, 1938, at
Perth.
WILLIAM HAYES,
Official Liquidator.
WILLIAM HAYES, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.), Third Floor, Royal Insurance Buildings,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
' Patents..
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHOD AND
MEANS FOR INCREASING THE POWER
OUTPUT OF A THERMIONIC TUBE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29005/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above,, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
SPARK ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
.4236/31 is' prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Austrnlis.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
CASTING MACHINES.
THE proprietors-*of Commonwealth Patent No.
19275/34 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of "their rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the. inven-
tion within th& Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
PLAN YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
To Sunny
X'jfßs?' gjjjl
8
T^:
LAND OF INCREDIBLE CONTRASTS
'UW--
m
W
S.f'j
J
w
m
anti
travel
by the new
27,000 ton
SHAW-SAVILL
Fast LUXURY LI A lilt
“DOMINION MONARCH”
A Ricksha Man
' at Durban.
CROM colourful Durban, your first
' African port of call, to stately Cape-
town stretch South Africa's long silvery
surfing beaches, linking these two sharply
contrasted cities.
Beckoning the traveller inland are the
charms of the glorious Drakensberg
Range and the Great Karoo with its
weird mirages and brilliant colouring.
—Northeastward are Johannesburg, Pre-
toria, and Kimberley—the world's trea-
sure chest of gold and diamonds; Kruger
National Park, teeming with African
game, the strange Zimbabwe Ruins,
Rhodes’ Tomb and the mighty Victoria
Falls.
Africa's marvellous transport network
brings South Africa's most fascinating
attractions right to the feet of the
traveller whose thirst is for something
different at every turn.
Maiden voyage of “Dominion Monarch”
from Sydney April 27, 1939,
Calling at Melbourne and Fremantle.
SYDNEY to DURBAN - - - 16 days
SYDNEY to CAPETOWN 18 days
STRANGE HAWS
MAWHDM®
HUGE WMEMUS
COLOUR
Full particulars from
DALGETY AND CO. LID.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
SHAW SAVILL & ALBION CO. LTD
17 O'Connell Street, Sydney
(Inc. in cngland)
He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. I to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
WCOME^;
"i'rS'A CHEQueCV
With gold on the rise again in London,
a hardening in the sterling price of some
other metals and commodities may
reasonably be looked for. As money
(paper currency) depreciates, gold and
other metals, as well as goods and ser-
vices, naturally tend to appreciate in
price. In the following comparison of
average spot metal prices over the past
24 months, base metals are quoted in
tons, gold in fine ounces:
July. Aug. Sept. 14.
Copper—
Stan. .. £39 15 9 £4O 12 8 £4l 9 5
Electro. .. 44 16 9 46 6 6 47 10 0
Lead .. 14 18 5 14 7 5 15 10 8
Spelter .. 14 211 13 9 4 14 3 7
Tin .. .. 192 13 11 193 2 6 192 12 6
Gold .. 713 726 7411
Following restriction of output, there has
been an almost steady rise in the" price
of copper. Lead and spelter came parti-
cularly under the influence of the Dow-
Jones index of U.S.A. share prices some
time back, waxing and waning with New
York temperament; latterly, with gold
on the rise and output to be restricted by
10 p.c., lead has shown increasing firm-
ness. Spelter also has steadied. Tin has
shown very little variation in price since
the “control” scheme was introduced.
lie * * *
Mt. Morgan shareholders have grounds
for grievance against thfe board. The co.
has two treatment plants, one a low-grade
oxide mill, the other a sulphide mill,
treating higher-grade ore. Though the
tonnages put through by the separate
mills are shown in the monthly returns,
the gold recoveries are lumped together
in one figure. The result is that
investors can’t tell how each class
of extraction is faring, though the co.
appears to be in possession of this infor-
mation, as aggregate results of both plants
are given to decimals of an ounce in the
annual reports. Another cause for
grouch is the lateness in presenting the
accounts ; closing on June 30, they don’t
usually come to hand until September or
October. Construction of smelters now
appears to be under way ; that is one
overdue matter being put right. The
others could be rectified with even Jess
trouble.
* * * *
Under the new Victorian Companies
Bill it is provided that a Companies’
Auditors’ Board of three persons may be
appointed, “at least one of whom shall
be a public accountant.” No person
shall act as an auditor of a Victorian
limited co. unless licensed to act by
this board. To get an auditor’s license
a person will have to:
(a) Pass an examination; or
(b) Produce something to show that he
is a Bachelor of Commerce or has a
Diploma of Commerce of Melbourne Uni-
versity; or
(c) Show that he belongs to any body <?f
accountants approved by the Governor in
Council and, “upon examination, satisfies
the board that he has a thorough know-
ledge” of the provisions of the Act.
Practising accountants of long standing
are bucking, and rightly so, against
the automatic granting of licenses to
Bachelors of Commerce, etc., whereas
their particular institute may receive
approval, in which case they will still
have to satisfy the board “upon examina-
tion.” The Chartered Institute of
Accountants requires a period of prac-
tical apprenticeship in the auditing pro-
fession, besides examinations, before it
will admit a member as an associate, yet
Bachelors of Commerce (Melb. Uni.) are
given preference in the bill! The restric-
tion to degrees or diplomas of the Uni-
versity of one State is in itself parochial.
<: >l= * #
Shares in the Bank of N. S. Wales,
down to £3O early last week, were at
their lowest level for several years. Most
depressed slump-time quote was about
£27. On a 6 p.c. div. basis the yield
offering last week was 4 p.c. All Aus-
tralian-registered banks showed definite
unsteadiness; Commercial of Sydney
scrip faded to the low level of £2O, and
National (£5) to £6 10s. On the other
hand, Australasia and E., S. and A.
shares, though weaker, were considerably
above their recent lowest levels. Union
shares aren’t often dealt in, but were
quoted fairly firm.
Bank scrip showed a firming tendency
late last week, ’Wales shares rising to
£3O 10s.—still low by even recent
. standards.
* * +
Claude Neon Industries, Ltd., to
acquire the shares in Claude Neon, Ltd.
(Sydney), and Claude Neon Lights (Vic.),
Ltd., was registered in Sydney last week
with a nominal capital of £500,000. The
new co. issues to shareholders in the
old cos. nine of its own shares for every
five held in the N.S.W. co., and six for
five in the Victorian concern. The
holding co. should, on this basis, start
off with a paid capital of £316,284, as
against present total of £202,381 for the
two working cos. Trade prospects are
claimed to be still bright.
* * * ♦
Gibraltar Gold (B. 14/9/’3B) announces
that an offer of two months’ inspection
of the mine at Adelong (N.S.W.) has
been made to Clutha Development. The
idea is to have a “thorough investigation
of the mine’s possibilities” made. Last.
Wednesday the chairman of Sydney
’Change announced that Gibraltar’s
“explanation concerning recent happen-
ings” had been accepted, and the co.’s
shares were restored to the quotation list.
They opened at buyers 6d, sellers Is.. 3d.
On Friday they were quoted at ls.'-ls. 6d.
If war came, how would goldmines be
affected? Chances are that any inflation
in the currency, and consequent rise in
the price of the metal, would be more
than offset by increasing labor costs.
There might also be acute labor short-
age. War-time inflation is different from
that brought about since the depression
in this respect: During a war prices tend
to rise ahead of the depreciating cur-
rency, while over the past few years in
the British Empire devaluation of cur-
rency has kept well ahead of rising prices,
particularly in Australia.
* * * 4c
David Jones (Sydney) ords. have been
very weak. They could be got last week
at 365. 6d., to return 5.5 p.c. Results for
1937-38 should soop be. published. In-
vestors are keenly interested in how the
new store is faring. • . ...


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Maginot Line.
[Condensed from articles in London “Times by
Robert Leurquin, a Belgian military expert who has
visited France’s amazing fortifications on the Rhine. He
points out that merely by making war between France
and Germany infinitely more difficult than in 1914 the
Line helps to keep the peace in Europe.]
The Maginot Line is the pre-eminent combina-
tion of passive obstacle and active defence. The name
“Maginot Wall” is incorrect; the fortification hardly
rises above the ground.
It will be regarded as one of the greatest engineer-
ing enterprises of this century: \2, 000,000 cubic
metres of earth were dug out between 1929 and 1936 ;
1,500,000 cubic metres of concrete were cast; 50,000
tons of steel plates were set in position ; galleries were
hollowed out which in a straight line would cover
the distance from Paris to Liege ; 15,000 workmen
were engaged. Work never ceases; its defence is
incessantly reinforced.
The builders calculated the thickness to be given
to the layers of concrete, the steel armor plate, and
the coverings of earth not only by putting it to the
proof with the most powerful projectiles, but they
again subjected all the materials to short-range
howitzer fire. It was decided to give the casings a
thickness capable of resisting three projectiles falling
at the same point of impact. In the course of construc-
tion the thickness of the cover was again tripled.
The towers of the underground workings, which
weigh some 120 tons, are monolithic, and no shell can
penetrate their concrete walls.
Defence against gas is assured by electric
machinery, which maintains in the interior an atmo-
spheric pressure slightly higher than the exterior
pressure. The gunners lay their guns as in the turret
of a warship without seeing anything, simply by fol-
lowing the indications on a dial controlled by artillery
officers who see the outside world through panoramic
telescopes built into the armor plate. The telephone
lines are buried five metres deep in concrete slabs.
Behind their projecting embrasures the men of the
Maginot Line can cover the frontier zone with a sheet
of fire. It is practically impossible to occupy the crest
of any fort without being immediately shot at from
all sides.
All this zone of invisible death is further pro-
tected by lookout posts, alarm-signals, periscopes,
sound-locating posts, barrages of infra-red rays. The
whole countryside is packed with concealed positions ;
one does not know where to set one’s foot. It is like
180 miles of haunted country.
On the frontier of the Alps, the “crust” surpasses
imagination in audacity. Here are eagles’ eyries hol-
lowed out at giddy heights by laborers who worked
suspended in space.
The Line can be thought of as a fleet moored in
the chains of hills that lie parallel to the frontier. This
fleet has flotilla craft to scout for it—blockhouses to
delay the assailant for three days ; as cruisers it has a
line of artillery in revolving gun-turrets ; its capital
ships are underground fortresses.
The variety of camouflage keeps the visitor in a
state of complete astonishment. Between Metz and
Besanpon I visited more than 30 casemates and did not
find two of them the same. Some were sunk in the
earth, others crouched under railway embankments,
others hung on the sides of precipices. I even found
a casemate emerging from a swamp.
The big forts are buried barracks with miles of
passages lit by electricity and provided with metalled
tracks ; they have hot water laid on, electric ven-
tilators and cook-houses. Whole hills have been hol-
lowed out and concreted. Every measure has been
taken, including victualling, to make them habitable
for months on end. Civilians have been considered
as well. In several parts of the Line, especially at
Bitche, underground quarters have been made where
they could live under the protecting concrete.
The officers have to watch carefully the morale of
their men. Under the “crust” there reigns a special
form of “blues.” The best remedy for “concretitis” is
work; the men are for ever digging, camouflaging,
stiffening the network of barbed wire and tending
the “asparagus” beds. “Asparagus” is steel rails
driven into the ground with their points upwards to
arrest the progress of tanks. These rails are set at a
slope and planted at different heights, so that the tank
see-saws as it scales them. While the rails are tearing
off the monsters’ caterpillar tracks, the anti-tank guns,
placed at ground-level, will fire direct into their
stomachs. If the tanks escape this, they would fall
upon a second line, the “asparagus farci,” where each
rail has a detonator on top which would explode a
charge capable of gutting the assailant.
Throughout the Line the shelter is distinct from
the casemate and as far away from it as possible. Thus
one fort in the side of a hill has its shelter dug into
the opposite side, to which it is connected by an
underground passage. The galleries are divided up
by movable metal-sheeted doors and interior gun-
chambers which permit the fort to be defended sec-
tion by section.
Surprise is impossible. With binoculars a visitor
can look across the Rhine to where German work-
men are making an identical defence system. These
defences are a reassuring guarantee of peace. Before
1914 both sides strove to prepare the most powerful
jumping-off places for attack. To-day both are dig-
ging for defence.
Britain’s Financial Power.
(Condensed from London “People")
One European country after another is being
influenced by Britain’s financial power —a power which
she alone possesses in the economic life of Europe.
Turkey borrows £16,000,000 to establish her steel
industry. Turkish Ministers, in return, have made it
clear that in case of trouble they will be on the side
of Britain.
Portugal is negotiating for a £10,000,000 loan for
reconstruction work. The old alliance between the
two countries has been cemented. Egypt is to borrow
£6,000,000 partly to reorganise her defences, and
Britain is to receive valuable guarantees in return.
Iran is also negotiating with Britain for £5,000,000
with which to set up her own industries. Rumania
is doing' the same thing —though the figure here will
be nearer £15,000,000.
All these countries occupy key positions in
Europe and on the line of sea communications between
Britain and the Far East. Their co-operation may
prove vital should European crises arise.
Deal with Rumania
(From London “Daily Express.”)
More than £2,000,000 of British money goes to
Rumania for the largest consignment of Rumanian
wheat, 400,000 tons, to be shipped through the Black
Sea this year. The wheat has been bought by a
British firm.
Yet more British money is expected to go to
Rumania. In Bucharest, a British financial commis-
sion is discussing with Rumanian financiers how
British capital can help Rumanian industry.
Rumanian oil and wheat for British capital is
the theme. Problem of the British is how to compete
with Germany. German goods are cheaper in
Rumania. But the British have a powerful argument.
They are ready to pay cash.
Rumania cannot get money from Germany. The
barges which sail up the Danube to Germany with
Rumanian oil and wheat return home, not with
German money, but with German locomotives, cars
and agricultural machinery. The money for the wheat
has to be paid to the Rumanian peasants by the Gov-
ernment. They now want something more in return
than a surplus of cars and railway engines. King
Carol wants Rumania to build them herself to
become an industrial as well as an agricultural country.
Trade with Greece
(Digest of an article by Dilys Powell in London
“Sunday Times.”)
The Powers are showing brisk interest in the
economic position in Greece and the Balkans. The
British and French trade-drive in south-eastern Europe
is being followed by a German trade-drive in the
same area.
Recently Germany has been gaining commercial
ground in the Balkans, and last year her trade with
Greece was roughly treble that of Britain. Now
changed circumstances and a new wariness_on the
part of England make her apprehensive. Turkeys
recent agreement with Britain on a system of export
credit guarantees gives a lead at a time when Greece
is inclined in principle to follow Turkey.
A year ago Greece’s commercial entanglements
with Germany seemed inextricable, and the position
as regards any economic agreement with Great Britain
looked hopeless. Greece had frozen credits in Ger-
many, Germany had consented to repay them in arma-
ments ; Germany gave her for her tobacco a credit
to be spent on German goods and war materials, this
summer the situation was changed. I he debtor-
creditor balance had shifted. Greece, no longer a
creditor, was no longer bound to the acceptance of
payment in goods.
There were hopes that an understanding with this
country might be reached. But the crux was still the
tobacco crop. If Britain were to buy 5 per cent, of
her tobacco consumption from Greece the obstacle
to economic agreement would be removed.
Even the pro-German section of Greek society
has been professing its readiness to welcome an Anglo-
Greek economic understanding.
No Naval Menace.
(Condensed from London “Observer.”)
Under the Anglo-German Naval Agreements the
strength of the future German fleet is fixed at 35 per
cent, of the aggregate tonnage of the naval forces of
the British Empire. In submarines Germany may
build up to 45 per cent, of British strength, with the
right in emergency to increase this figure after notice
and discussion.
Though numerous new warships are under con-
struction, Germany has still a good way to go to
reach 35 per cent. Since the Treaty of Versailles
was ratified she has laid down seven capital s hjps>
the first three being “pocket battleships” of 10,000
tons, which are actually armored cruisers of an
exceptionally powerful type.
Two battleships of 26,000 tons, designed to
balance the French pair of similar displacement, are
being completed this year; and two of 35,000 tons,
comparable in all respects with those building lor the
British, French, Italian, and United States navies,
are approaching the launching stage.
But the total tonnage of the seven is only 152,00 U,
fully 100,000 less than the limit to which Germany is
entitled. It would not be surprising if a couple more
35,000 tonners were laid down.
Two aircraft carriers, laid down in 1936, but
still to be launched, will absorb under 50 per cent, of
the tonnage allowed in this category. Six cruisers of
from 5400 to 6000 tons have been completed, and
eight more, of from 7000 to 10,000 tons, are in hand
or authorised. Destroyers and large torpedo boats
number thirty-eight, ranging from 800 to 1811_ tons.
The total tonnage of light surface vessels is 170,000
as against a permissible maximum of 300,000.
In submarines the allowance is between 33,000
and 34,000 tons. Tonnage completed or building
amounts to about 26,000, and five more units are to
be laid down for this year. If these should prove to
be of the biggest type so far built, the total would still
be below 30,000 tons.
While the German fleet is steadily emerging
from its eclipse, in comparison with the British Navy
it is far from alarming. Moreover, the rate of con-
struction in German shipyards is appreciably slower
than in this country.
British Blockade-runners.
(Condensed from an article by Sir Charles Oman in
London “Nineteenth Century.”)
Among the ingenious propaganda which is being
used to discredit Chamberlain, none is more insincere
than the accusation that his Government is causing
the deaths of British sailors and the destruction of
British ships by its refusal to interfere in the naval
operations around Spain. It is stated that “Franco
has made over 50 attacks on British shipping engaged
in legitimate trade.”
But we are dealing with blockade-running during
a state of war. “Legitimate trade” means running
cargoes into Bilbao, Gijon and Santander in 1937,
or Alicante, Valencia and Barcelona in 1938, while
those places were in a “war area.” There are a few
cases where the interference was a little further out to
sea ; there are no cases of British ships having been
stopped, captured or sunk in waters really remote
from Spain.
The phrase “legitimate trade” brings up a point
of international law: can it be ruled that, if one of
the parties in a long civil war has not been recog-
nised as a belligerent,” any ship may enter any port
in the war area without molestation? This is, of
course, absurd ; the fundamental fact is that war exists,
and that a blockade has been proclaimed by one of the
parties concerned; that it has not been formally
recognised as a belligerent does not make any P rac ,",
tical difference to the situation. To call the side rebels
which is in possession of two-thirds of Spain and
owns all its ports save some six or eight is mere
political quibbling. , . , ,
Coasts of Spain still in the hands of the Repub-
lican Government are very dangerous regions
to approach. Every British shipowner knows this,
and if he cares to risk vessel and crew for
profit that is his business, and not the concern of the
British Government. If any shipowner chooses to
take the risks for his private ends, he is in the same
position as if he ordered his captain to steer out into
the middle of a tornado or a swarm of icebergs. He
is morally responsible for anything that may happen.
The conditions had their exact parallel in the
Atlantic nearly 70 years ago, when scores of British
merchantmen were being captured or sunk and hun-
dreds of lives lost during a period of over four years.
The British Government never interfered, save in the
case of the Trent, which was not a blockade-runner,
but a mail steamer. Lord Palmerston, the most belli-
gerent of British Prime Ministers, looked on, with dis-
taste no doubt, while the blockade-runners were being
hunted or sunk, but made no attempt at mterven-
Federal cruisers used to hang about just outside
the British ports which were the usual bases for
blockade-runners. They kept beyond the “three-mile
limit ” but pounced on any ship that came outside the
harbor. What would English Opposition papers say
to-day if Franco kept warships just three miles out
from Malta (or from Marseilles) and searched every
vessel that came out, whatever its nationality?
Some at least of the blockade-runners of to-day
are said to be bringing into Valencia or Barcelona,
"T he Only Solution.”
When London “Times” suggested that to save the
peace of the world it might become necessary for
the Czechs to cede the border territory occupied
by the Sudetens to Germany, Sydney ‘ Morning
Herald” and other distinguished old ladies were
swift in reproof. London “Hally Mail,” which didn t
want a world war over the Czechs, caine out before
the “Times” with what it believed to be “The Only
Solution”: —
This hybrid State of 15,000,000 people was built
round a nucleus of 7,000,000 Czechs. There are'also
within its borders 3,500,000 Germans, 2,500,000
Slovaks, 750,000 Hungarians, 500,000 Ruthemans
and 100,000 Poles. Taking all the other races
together, the Czechs are in a numerical minority.
It is regrettable that Germany has exercised for-
cible pressure on behalf of the 3,500,000 German
subjects of Czechoslovakia. It is equally regrettable
that the Czechs have been unwise enough to confine
themselves to piecemeal offers, and have created the
impression that they must be driven to give way on
points which could have been ceded at the start .
Czechoslovakia must now give to the minorities
what, indeed, Prague has promised for years — full
self-government within the Czechoslovak Constitution.
Only when the Czechs bring themselves to do this can
they expect the world’s sympathy. Once they have
done it, the crisis will be over.


SEASON^
N
M
I
i
THIS
THE
<•)
V
s
Pf Y
■
e x rwwre n s
Need take only a few weeks.
Lazy days of sea air and sunshine. Big decks where
you can read or play games. Attentive service
and good food. Strange customs in a strange
land . . . You'll feel fit after a Ceylon Holiday.
FARES (plus exchange):
From: £24 from Fremantle; £2B from Adelaide; £3O from
Melbourne and Tasmania; £32 from Sydney; £33 from Brisbane.
Minimum Number of Days usually necessary:
From: Fremantle, 22; Adelaide, 30; Melbourne, 34; Tasmania,
38; Sydney, 39; Brisbane, 53.
Hotel and Touring Rates are shewn in our "Ceylon" Folder.
ORIENT LINE
Z 1
R I ENT STEAM NHVIG RTION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN- ENGLRN
not munitions of war, but foodstuffs. The same was
being done off the American coast in 1864: when
Lee’s army was practically starving, his commissary-
general promised a blockade-runner, Taylor, the equiva-
lent of 350 per cent, profit on any flour or meat that
could be got into Richmond in three weeks. Who
can dispute that foodstuffs are as much munitions of
war as shells and cartridges?
The blockade-runners’ trade is taken up for mere
financial profit by persons reckless of everything save
the huge gains involved, and deliberately risking the
lives of the crews of their vessels, without any con-
sideration of the public interest of their own country.
Many of the technically British vessels recently
destroyed had been purchased from small neutral
traders a few weeks back, and the casualties are in
numerous cases Greeks, Lascars and sailors of doubt-
ful nationality. The plea of injury to British national
pride does not ring true.
Propagandist telegrams stress that a vessel has
been sunk or bombed in the harbor of Valencia, Bar-
celona or Alicante, inferring that when a blockade-
runner has reached its destination it ought to be
immune from molestation. This is absurd: in the
old wars a pursuer did not refrain from shelling the
pursued because the latter had reached his destination,
but only because the sea forts were strong enough to
compel the blockader to keep out of danger. Where
the harbor defences were ineffective, the pursuer con-
tinued to molest the vessel. Cases can be quoted from
the American Civil War in which a blockade-runner,
reaching a practically undefended harbor, was fired
on, and driven ashore or sunk.
To sum up, blockade-running is an industry con-
ducted for private gain contrary to the interests of
the country and the warnings of the Government. I
can see nothing sympathetic in it —especially when I
think oi the loss of life incurred by the unfortunate
crews cajoled into service by these profiteers.
Minorities in Rumania.
[As with Czechoslovakia, the Treaty o£ Versailles left
Rumania with minorities on its hands. Rumania is
trying to solve the problems they have created: this digest
ot a London “Times” article by Professor Dragomir,
head of the Rumanian minorities commission tells of the
steps that have been taken.]
In a population of 18,057,000 the minorities in
Rumania amount to 5,076,000 people, more than a
quarter of the population of the whole country. The
chief groups are Hungarians, Germans, Ruthenians
and Jews.
Only the Hungarian and German elements have
been politically active. The Jewish problem is more
complex, and recently became acute. Their numbers
were increased by a continuous influx of refugees,
and Jewish predominance in commerce, which became
particularly obvious at the time of the world eco-
nomic crisis, gave rise to a reaction among the
ethnical majority. A revision of the citizenship of
all Jews in Rumania is in course of execution.
Since 1918 bitter struggles between political
parties have afforded no time for ensuring minority
rights. So new problems have accumulated from year
to year.
But the Constitution promulgated by Carol
guarantees absolute equality to the minorities and
regularises their position. A minority commission
was created —a permanent body to keep in close touch
with every phase of life among the minorities. Depart-
mental standards have been fixed for the authorities
concerned, and the minorities are able to invoke the
protection of the law.
Italy’s Land Schemes.
(Condensed from London “Times.”)
The news that the Italian Government has allotted
50,000,000 lire for new irrigation schemes in connec-
tion with Lakes Maggiore and Garda emphasises that
land reclamation, temporarily sidetracked for mili-
tary expenditure, has resumed its importance.
The Mussolini Act of 1928 provided for
7,000,000,000 lire (say £7,000,000) to be spent on land-
reclamation within the next 14 years. In 1935, after
years of lavish expenditure, there was a definite slacken-
ing in tempo. However, in January last 100,000,000
lire were devoted to reclamation in the far south.
Much attention has been paid to housing for the
peasants. An inquiry showed that eight per cent, of
all rural houses, 276,810 houses, with 1,968,000
inmates, were fit only for demolition. This pro-
gramme, too, has suffered from the tightness of money
during the past few years.
The indebtedness of rural Italy is deepening. The
total sum lent by agricultural credit institutions in
1936 (1,825,839,000 lire) was just less than double that
standing in their books for 1935. Private enterprise
has suffered a setback, evidently unintended, from
which it can scarcely recover, and the fact that expro-
priation has hardly anywhere been carried 1 out shows
that the authorities realise the landowners’ difficulties.
The next few years should give valuable data on the
sociological experiments in large-scale land settlement.
Many of the 30,000 settlers in the Pontino were
brought from cities. To provide the necessary labor
tamily units were, sometimes artificially made up.
This is the bright side. The reclamation of the
Pontino was a favorite scheme of the Duce, and
nearly one-third of the money spent on reclamation
since 1932 has been concentrated there. Depopulation
o the mountain areas continues. The peasants of the
southern latifondi still live in dire poverty. Many
and schemes embarked upon before Fascism became
imperial lie untouched. The modern exponents of
se r-sufficiency claim that their plans will succeed by
constant reclamation and improvement of the soil
until Italy s agricultural production suffices for the
popular need.
China’s Customs Service.
[ln this digest of a London “Daily Telegraph” article,
Edwin Haward, formerly, editor of the North China
“Daily News,” indicates the importance of the Chinese
Customs Service to British and other foreign trade.]
The Chinese Customs Service is approaching its
centenary. It is unique among the civil services in the
world. Its staff comprises members of 23 nationali-
ties. Despite the Japanese occupation it is still operat-
ing, though there are serious disabilities.
In 1843—under the Treaty of Nanking signed
the previous year—Shanghai, with Canton, Amoy,
Foochow and Ningpo, was declared an open port, and
a Customs House was opened. But the imposition of
a fixed tariff in place of indeterminate charges did
not eliminate dubious practices between traders and
Chinese officials. The system of foreign trade broke
down. Smuggling was rampant, with bribery and
collusion.
A system for collection of dues was established
by the British and American Consuls after the loot-
ing of the Customs House at Shanghai in the Taiping
rebellion ; and in 1854 representatives of the British,
American and French Governments came to an agree-
ment with the Chinese for foreign aid in administer-
ing the Customs.
In the early days the Customs Service, as a
Chinese institution with a staff from all the leading
nations, became the Government’s counsellor and
guide. The Chinese diplomatic service took its first
diplomats from the Customs, just as the Chinese Post
Office emerged from the Customs.
The service is the only sure foundation in which
international trade rests. It secures the “Open Door”
policy and equality of fiscal treatment; it is the
harbor authority on all coasts and along the immense
internal waterways ; its loan department is the Gov-
ernment’s main security organ.
With the Japanese occupation, the Chinese Gov-
ernment had the choice of ordering Customs Com-
missioners to withdraw or authorising them to remain
in office and secure the best terms possible to sustain
the integrity of the service and China’s credit at home
and abroad. The latter view prevailed.
The conflict of loyalties when the vast proportion
of the territory administered is in enemy occupation
is obvious. It has been so far successful.
The Japanese Government is fully alive to the
danger of disintegrating the service, although alert in
using the occupation to advance its own interests. An
agreement between it and the British Government,
with American and French approval, but without
Chinese endorsement, was devised. How far this has
diminished the entry of Japanese goods without duty
it is not possible to judge. British merchants still
complain of considerable evasion.
The Japanese by force majeure have instituted a
lower tariff, but as long as Japanese importers pay
the duties foreign and
Chinese merchants are not
hostile to the change.
Although the Japanese
occupation has not actually
destroyed this important
administrative machine,
the constant pressure of
Japanese demands, as the
war drags on, will seri-
ously embarrass officers
who try to uphold the in-
terests of an absent Gov-
ernment. There is all the
more need for foreign
Powers to support the
Inspectorate in an exceed-
ingly delicate situation.
Uncle Sam’s
Justice.
[This account of fantastic
sentences by American
Courts is condensed from
an article by James Har-
gan in London “Fort-
nightly Review.” Some of
the motoring penalties
are oddly or grimly appro-
priate.]
If Portia were to ex-
change her Venetian court-
room for one in America
she would think the quality
of mercy had become very
strained. For instance,
there is the Judge in
Illinois who sentenced a
man to hike three to five
miles every evening. His
landlady had charged him
with disorderly conduct
because he walked and
talked in his sleep and
kept 17 other roomers
awake to hear what he
was going to say next.
A San Francisco
boulevardier who tore off a
policeman’s badge was
ordered to tip his hat to
every officer he met for the
next 90 days. A New York
janitor was given the
choice of a day in gaol or
a day sweeping up the
street he had littered. A
man who stole 14 cords of
wood was ordered to saw
28 more for the com-
plainant.
When “Golden Rule”
Jones, Mayor of Toledo,
Ohio, had a man brought
before him for stealing
bread, he fined the culprit 10 dollars. He dug the
money for the fine, however, out of his own pocket;
then he sent the bailiff around, hat in hand, to collect
a fine of 50 cents from each spectator in the court-
room. “It is certainly disorderly conduct,” announced
Jones as he gave the proceeds to the defendant for
his family, “for anyone to live in a town where a
man has to steal bread in order to eat! ”
Judge Mattingly in Washington summarily dis-
charged a man who had been arrested for kissing his
wife in a parked car. “I commend any sentiment,”
said the Judge, “that prompts two persons married
for four years to be kissing in private or public.”
A Brooklyn man who annoyed his wife was sentenced
to travel 1200 miles in any direction ; every 200 miles
he must send a picture postcard to the magistrate.
Of interest, too, is the part-time sentence. The
motivation has sometimes been economic; in one
Alabama town, chain-gang prisoners were ordered to
sleep at home and bring a dinner-pail when they came
to work if they did not want to go hungry.
As a more serious project, the week-end sentences
of Rochester allow the petty offender to keep his job
and support his family while serving his sentence. In
Denver a Judge sentenced two partners, who had sent
false reports concerning their goldmine to the mint,
to six months. In order that the mine should not
be shut down and cause unemployment he ruled
that the men take turns in serving the sentence.
American Judges are ingenious in dealing with
drunks. The legislative committee of Massachusetts
has recommended stocks, ducking-stool and whipping-
post. The Mayor of Woburn modernised their idea
by obtaining a circus lion’s cage in which he pro-
posed to parade his drunks up and down Main-street.
Unfortunately his voters disapproved. In Clifton
Forge, Virginia, any man who uses relief money for
intoxicating purposes must wear a sign on his back:
MY MONEY WENT FOR WHISKY, NOT FOR
FOOD.
If you drive carelessly in Hammond, Indiana, you
get three ounces of castor oil and half a day in gaol.
In Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, traffic violators are
shamed by having their front tyres painted red and
yellow. A man in New Jersey who insulted a traffic
cop had to write him a letter of apology each day for
a week.
As for drivers who endanger public safety, a
Michigan Justice would pillory them in a wrecked car
in the public square. In Portland, Maine, they are
forced to make a long-hand copy of a magazine article
discussing horrible accidents. In Cleveland they spend
an hour looking at pictures of gruesome wrecks. In
some cities they are taken to hospitals to peep at the
dying or to the morgues to stare at the dead. Judge
Musmanno, of Pittsburgh, even led 77 of them into
a church and preached a funeral sermon over the
body of a victim of a hit-and-run driver.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1938
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £2600, ONE MILE.
THE COLIN STEPHEN STAKES, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard weight for age.)
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, OCTOBER 3 (Eight Hours Day).
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
(Standard weight for age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8.
THE RANDWICK PLATE, of £lOOO, TWO MILES.
(Standard weight for age.)
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
G Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
People who went to Rosehill on Satur-
day saw excellent racing—the most inter-
esting for many months. The course was
in capital order, and the show of flowers
and flowering shrubs was a credit to the
curator. Ladies who were losing their
money found solace in gazing at a mar-
vellous clump of prunus with a border
of “pigface”—an ugly name for a lovely
thing. But the male of the species didn’t
join them. In these matters the mas-
culine punter is about as romantic as
cement.
The horses racing were about the best
now in Sydney—Avenger, Nuffield and
Royal Chief excepted. The Hill Stakes
field was small but full of quality—Gold
Rod, looking better than ever before ;
Young Idea, Stretto, Nightguard, Allunga
and Old Rowley. The last-named filled
out during the winter, and if he goes on
developing he may end up by being about
the stoutest stayer in Australia. Unfor-
tunately he has been giving Scully a bit
of trouble; and, though it is nothing
serious, he will do no more racing this
spring. With Bst. 101 b. or so he will be
worth considering for the Sydney Cup.
Only the three-year-olds were dis-
appointing. A mere half a dozen came
out for the Rosehill Guineas, and it took
the winner, Aeolus, lmin. 54sec. to
traverse the nine furlongs. Knocked
down for 1600 guineas when Hua was
sold for 700 guineas more, Aeolus has
proved a lucky purchase for the brothers
Gove, even though they paid a bit more
than the actual auction price. The Goves
are interested in the Indian racing busi-
ness, and after the spring campaign
Aeolus will probably be taken to India.
Many far superior horses bought for
much less have gone to that country from
this country.
Petruchio’s rider, McCarten, _ was
allowed to set the pace in the Guineas.
He slowed down the field, and the race
resolved itself into a dash from the top
of the straight. This suited Aeolus, but
not Respirator, who was hopelessly
placed when the pace was clapped on;
in the circumstances his fourth may be
ignored. Aeolus, who went out at tens,
finished resolutely, and beat Petruchio
by a head. Limulet—ridden with queer
lack of judgment by Munro —was half a
length away.
Winners of the Camellia Stakes gener-
ally shape well in the Epsom. Rod-
borough (7 to 1) scored in convincing
style on Saturday, but had nine pounds
less than the Bst. 41b. he will carry in the
mile race at Randwick. It was a good
performance all the same; the Veilmond
horse finished strongly to beat King’s
Head and the pacemaker, Bonnie Legion,
and ran the “seven” in lmin. 24|sec.
Denis was one of the disappointments.
He was sore when doing his preliminary,
and McCarten had to ride him hard from
barrier-rise. He was fifth at the judge’s
box, behind Mark Antony —a discoura-
ing Epsom trial. Courage, from the
Holt stable, ran seventh, and will have
to improve a lot to have a chance in the
Epsom. The Victorian was one of the
early fancies for that handicap.
Gold Rod (evens) won the Hill Stakes
very easily. Young Idea (second) and
Stretto (third) could not extend him, and
he left the mile behind in lmin. 38sec.
Nightguard was a close fourth. _ Had
the Epsom favorite not met with a
check at the home turn, where his rider
tried to get through on the rails, he might
have run second ; as it was he was very
close to Young Idea and Stretto.
Gold Rod has 9st. in the Metropolitan.
Though he won the A.J.C. St. Leger he
may not be a genuine stayer, but he has
done a solid preparation.
. . • • •
Although Silver Standard started at
16 to 1 the chestnut and the rider
(Bartle) were given a fine reception when
they returned for weighing-in after the
Spring Handicap. Silver Standard had
things all his own way in the straight;
outsiders Will Rogers and Highborn
were in the places, and El Senorita was
fourth. Silenus (fifth) was shut in on the
rails and could never get clear. His per-
formance was much better than that of
his stablemate Bristol, who did not shape
at all like a Metrop. horse. Neither did
Genetout, the favorite. Allowing for the
fact that the French horse went wide at
the first turn, he was well beaten com-
mencing the last furlong.
Silver Standard has Bst. 71b. in the
Metropolitan. He has been a very un-
lucky horse, having run second twice in
the Metrop., and once in the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups; but Dalton, his
trainer, has great faith in him.
A Barraba pastoralist, C. P. Wilson,
won the first division of the Highweight
with the Magpie gelding Fakenham (8 to
1); but his horse was lucky. Fakenham
lasted just long enough to hold off Bobby
by half a head ; Bobby had been blocked,
and then his rider lost the whip. The
favorite, Micawber, was third. He is
not as good as he looks. Adios and im-
ported Amaranthus ran on pretty well.
The second division went to St. Con-
stant (9 to 4), who cost Randwick trainer
Joe Cook £1 when Alan Cooper was
in a reckless mood. The pound horse
was badly placed until the last furlong ;
he came fast and beat Coronation Day
by half a head, Excursion being third.
Coronation Day would have had to be
a champion to win as Shean rode him,
and the owner was justly disappointed.
* * * *
Publicity seems to have got over the
effects of the doing he got in the Tram-
way Handicap at Randwick, and unless
he palpably goes off in the meantime he
will be this Page’s choice for the Epsom
and Cooranga for the Metrop. Each has
a decided pull in the weights. For an
alternative, a rough, long-priced double
is Thurles Lad and Perimond.
* * * *
When under orders for Melbourne,
Pandava, the fastest sprinter among last
season’s two-year-olds, died last week.
The post-mortem revealed inflammation
of the lungs. No doubt that experience
at Canterbury Park (B. 14/9/’3B) weak-
ened the colt’s resistance.
* * * *
The condition of Nuffield and Avenger
has been worrying their' trainer, Jack
Holt. There is nothing organically wrong
with either, but both have had to be eased
in their training. It is now obvious that
Avenger was not himself when Royal
Chief beat him in the Chelmsford Stakes
at Randwick, and exaggeration of that
form will mislead.
* * * *
Recent racing indicates that the Syd-
ney colts, taken by and large, are not
in it with Nuffield, Kingdom and com-
pany ; but the Sydney fillies are likely to
prove better than the Melbourne lot.
Gay Romance, Bonheur de Pere and
Early Bird are very speedy. With
a couple of races to her credit, Gay
Romance is off to Melbourne for a pro-
gramme which will begin with the
Edward Manifold Stakes.
A sudden death darkened the Rosehill
meeting for many friends of a good fel-
low —Percy Jones, the solicitor, of Asher,
Old and Jones. He backed Rodborougb
for the Camellia Stakes, and was fated
never to collect; before the next race,
the Rosehill Guineas, came on he had
a seizure when chatting about the
chances, and fell dead. Percy Jones (“P.
Fairie” in racebooks) was one of the
Union Club’s oldest inhabitants. Patron
and friend of William Kelso, he won a
fortune when Statesman carried off the
Melbourne Cup ten years ago, and gener-
ally had a horse in Kelso’s stable. The
latest was The Athenian.
* * * *
Ballarat Turf Club opened a two days’
meeting on Wednesday at the picturesque
Dowling Forest course over which Adam
Lindsay Gordon, the Power brothers
(Robert and Herbert), Norman Wilson
and a host of other enthusiastic Corin-
thians rode in crosscountry events half
a century ago and more.
The glory of racing at Ballarat has
dimmed since the break-up of such big
training establishments as those of
Tommy Wilson, Bob Howie and Alec
Taylor. It might have lasted longer if
James Scobie hadn’t transferred his
quarters from Miners’ Rest to Fleming-
ton.
Ballarat folk, however, contrive to
stage enjoyable turf fixtures, and on this
occasion the mid-week patronage was
large, including many metropolitan visi-
tors. Winning horses all hailed from
Melbourne, local representation being
unusually weak.
Stiff fences no longer exist at Ballarat.
In the Lindsay Gordon era ’chasers had
to negotiate a stockyard fence near the
grandstand and race through ploughed
ground in open country. Rob Mcßeid,
an Ethiopian gelding, started favorite at
5 to 2 for the Brush Steeple on Wednes-
day, but he lost by half a head to a
20-to-l chance, Bannisher Boy, ridden by
Bracken, who won a V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle in 1928 on Longlands.
Longlands belonged to Vin O’Neill,
who achieved his outstanding success as
a trainer with Spearfelt in the Melbourne
Cup of 1926. Old Jack, a Queensland-
bred son of Spearfelt, headed Hurdle
Race quotes at 3 to 1. He finished a poor
third, Sweet Lullaby (7 to 2) leading
all the way to score at her ease from
Windunqua, a half-brother to the 1931
Grand National Steeple winner, Rak-
wool.
Bother ’Em, formerly owned by D. J.
Price, and now raced by D. Judd, who
acted as foreman to Price until the latter
handed in his license, was a 5-to-4 pop
for the Flying Handicap. He took charge
in the straight, but failed to withstand a
late challenge from Brown Ben, the
Brazen gelding prevailing by a head.
Not many weeks ago Brown Ben was
a 50-to-l winner at Caulfield. Punters
didn’t allow him to run loose this time,
best price at barrier-rise being threes. He
is owned and trained by R. Wallis, who
came into the game through striking up
acquaintance with the late Dan Coleman
in a hospital. Coleman won races for
Wallis with Grenadier, who was a good
’un.
Fred Hurley, who gained his knowledge
of horses under the asgis of Dick Wootton
in Sydney, landed the Maiden Handicap
with Miss Gibbthorne, a four-year-old
daughter of Spelthorne. Second in re-
quest at fives, this mare easily accounted
for Elizabeth and Drifting Star.
Class was fairly well represented in
the mile Forest Handicap. Regarded as
a Caulfield Cup possibility two years
ago, The Wizard firmed to 5 to 2. He
could run third only, two lengths behind
the Werribee winner, Love Chatter, who
lost to Wheat Slump by a neck. Wheat
Slump, trained by Jerry Tie, had the
services of W. Elliot, who served his
apprenticeship with Tie, and has been
the leading Melbourne jockey for two
seasons past.
When submitted to auction recently
Greenoss did not reach the reserve placed
on him by J. E. Smedley. Favorite at
9 to 4, the Greenstead gelding credited
Smedley with the Welter Handicap, in
which he was followed home by Albany,
a cast-off from Jim Scobie’s stable.
* * * *
Two horses from Westralia ran credit-
ably in the Mentone Cup on Saturday.
Footmark (7 to 4) lost by a neck to
Pageant (fours). Manolive, who com-
manded little support, finished a close
fourth and evidently is regaining the
good form he displayed in Melbourne
last spring.
Manolive broke down in the Moonee
Valley Cup, and was given a long let-up.
A recent arrival, Footmark made an
unplaced but impressive ddbut in the
race won by Pageant at Williamstown
on August 27. Morley, the leading W.A.
jockey, came over specially to ride him
at Mentone and in impending spring
engagements.
But for running wide when leading at
the turn out of the straight, Footmark
wouldn’t have lost. Followed into the
straight by Manolive, he shook off that
rival, but left the rails half a furlong
from home. Ashley Reed, on Pageant,
made full use of this lucky opportunity.
Victory of Pageant (Windbag-Gay
Element) has somewhat restored him to
Caulfield Cup favor; his effort in the
V.A.T.C. Heatherlie Handicap on Sep-
tember 3 was weak. Mentone form, how-
ever, spoke more for Footmark and
Manolive.
At the beginning of the year Footmark
ran third, in the Perth Cup after winning
the W.A. Derby. A powerful bay and
full of quality, he was bred in M.L.,
being by Defoe (imp.) from Bachelor’s
Picture (imp.). The sire is by Hurry On
from a daughter of Son-in-Law, and
directly descends from a half-sister to
Musket.
Tactical, winner of the Ascot Vale
Stakes in March, is falling far below ex-
pectations as a three-year-old. With
Frank Dempsey up it was thought that
he should have won the Leslie Stuart
Stakes, and punters accepted 5 to 2. But
a change of riders made no difference ;
never prominent, Tactical was eighth past
the judge.
Judean (tens) won the Leslie Stuart
Stakes by a neck from Lilirene (15 to 1),
with El Golea (sixes) half a head farther
away. El Golea shaped considerably
better than in the race which Nightguard
won at Caulfield.
Mentone track was in rare galloping
order. Kerry Bay, originally owned in
Sydney, lowered the course record for
two miles and 20 yards over hurdles from
3min. 43sec. to 3min. 39|sec. Judean
reduced the seven-furlongs record by
three-quarters of a second to lmin.
26sec. Atticus equalled this later on.
Atticus (Gay Lothario-Sweet Echo)
registered the easiest success of the after-
noon in the second division of the Dan-
denong Welter. Trained by Dick O’Don-
nell for a member of the Tyson pastoral-
ist clan, he opened favorite but receded
to fours, Fancifort being supported from
fives down to 7 to 2.
Leading throughout with Dempsey up,
Atticus cleared away in the straight, to
score by four lengths from Tongio King,
with Fancifort a close third. This broke
a long spell of ill-luck for O’Donnell, who
landed the Victoria Derby of 1930 with
Balloon King for the executors of “J.
Baron.”
First division of the Dandenong Welter
fell to Bridge Law (sevens), bred and
owned by P. G. Hay, the Richmond
brewer. Ringmen had a royal time.
Amplify capturing the Yarraman Handi-
cap for three-year-olds at 15 to 1, while
Australasia (14 to 1) credited W. R.
Kemball with the Boisdale Handicap by
the narrowest of margins.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR HAWKESBURY.
Rowley Mile: Autoland; next,
Rosante or El Senorita.
Quality Handicap: Bonheur de
Pere; next, Micawber.
Three-year-old Handicap: Adios ;
next, June.
Grand Handicap: Buzalong;
next, Bachelor King.
Highweight: Rosante or Alad-
din ; next, Fortcello.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Quality Handicap: Ajax; next,
Pamelus.
Tullamarine Handicap: Foot-
mark ; next, Manolive.
Ailsa Handicap: El Golea ; next,
Lilirene.


-
!? 1; d Mi!
LONDON TAILORED CLOTHES
N>
• •■ • *" • -
WM
n
r
m
Mi ■
1
,1
■ % ■•'
|§
§MM
m
9
'NS
ISe-Jm*#*
' 1
*
feps^rrTWwMPs,^
miw
. « ■..
/
IN MULTIPLE FITTINGS
RE AD Y- FOR-INSTANT-WEAR
V
<2
orre
ct
m
2)etalf
No other attire requires more exacting
detail than formal wear, and, by the
same token, no other outfit can appear
so meticulously correct.
The right degree of formality and
elegance is assured if your Dress Clothes
are ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED embodying, as they do, that
indescribable something which is
apparent only in English Clothing.
TAILS .. EIO'IO'-
S.B. DINNER, £9/9/- D.B. DINNER. £B/8/-
timmer
3
orma
Reproduced from Overseas Model
DOUBLE BREASTED TUXEDO
Fashioned in Cream- Woollen Fabric with
Shawl Collar and full-lined Satin. Designed
from an authentic Overseas Model, it is the
last word in style and comfort for Summer
evenings on land or afloat. PRICE ... 95/-
As above, but in Rayon (Shark Skin).
PRICE 707-
Mess Jackets in Rayon (Shark Skin).
PRICE 45/-
s^rccessorie6
Dress Shirt 10/6
Dress Vest 16/11
Dress Shoes, pr. . . 25/-
Silk Half Hose ... 3/6
Dress Bow ...... 1/11
(Black or White )
Dress Collar 1/-
Studs .... 6d. and 1/-
Carnations 1/6
(Red or White)
J
r A
A
\
Mr m
ir
niffs
- -
GRACE BROS.
PTY. LTD. . . . BROADWAY . . . SYDNEY
dJelephone our Order
ice
6506


#^2
*1
bn
RW
m
47
]Jou can dependon^
CHAMPION K
/a-GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Your car will give cheaper and
better service if you install new
Champions at regular intervals.
These plugs of improved design
will preserve power and speed
throughout your car’s life. And
they quickly pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CH ANGE «OIL
INVlNCIBLl!
since
190 G.
j
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
rv—
IS Improved 1939 Models: 3 to ICO Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
G. 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years’
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day. .
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established tn WOO,
Ins and Outs
Leveson-Gower’s crowd pottered along
at about the same rate as the Australians.
They had taken almost a day to put to-
gether 306; the XI added 332 to its
overnight tally, and closed just in time
to give the Australians a few minutes’
resultless batting, O’Reilly and Ward
being unconquered at stumps for nowt.
Resuming their side’s innings with 31
on the sheet, Sutcliffe and Hutton had 57
up before O’Reilly sent back Sutcliffe
l.b.w. for 25. Barnett then stumped
t’other Barnett off Ward for 6. There-
upon Leyland and Hutton raised the
figures to 165, when Hutton departed for
a dull 73, Barnett snatching him up off
O’Reilly. F.-Smith had Wyatt caught
by Ward for a single, and then clean-
bowled Leyland for 51. That was 5 for
173 and good going.
Hardstaff, however, arrived in a nasty
temper. Playing solid cricket, he pulled
the runs out of the air, ’keeper Gibb
aiding and abetting. Gibb was a mighty
useful 40 when he put his leg in front
of a flat-catcher from O’Reilly, and the
big fellow bowled Hardstaff for 108.
Verity (23 n. 0.) had a say before Wyatt
closed at 8 for 363.
O’Reilly had a fair day with 4-75,
but Ward, who still needed nine wickets
for his hundred, could get only one
and that for 92. F.-Smith’s bag was
2-75 and McCabe’s 1-17. Waite and
McCormick went through the motions
without result.
The closing stages may best be de-
scribed in the words of the old song:
Oh, lor, ’twas a norrible tale
Ter mike yer fyces orl turn pale.
With the whole day before them Australia
had to answer England’s first innings
lead of 57. On a first-class wicket the
team, save McCormick, who \yas again
injured, gave a magnificent exhibition of
indifference, to score 102. Hutton and
Sutcliffe (36 and 9 n.o. respectively)
knocked off the runs to win by 10
wickets.
Brown paddled through the innings
from first down, and was 38 n.o. Ward
played well for 20, and Fingleton (20),
for once, batted smartly during the brief
portion that was his. Ben Barnett,
usually a tower of strength in time of
trouble, scratched like a diabetic hen for
12. The others were Badcock, Waite
and O’Reilly, all “ducks,” McCabe and
Barnes 1 apiece, and F.-Smith 5.
Bowes was the chief assassin with 5
for 42. Verity took two and Fames and
Nichols one each.
It was the second defeat of the tour,
the other being in the last Test. If
the team has anything to comfort itself
about it is that Armstrong’s lot of 1921,
which could swallow this crowd without
beer, had to take a hiding in Scar-
borough from what was then C. I.
Thornton’s XI.
The present team narrowly escaped
defeat at the hands of Sussex and York-
shire, and was lucky to dodge it in the
first and second Tests.
It has been a big disappointment; and
remarkable for the number of casual-
• ties, one or two of them serious and the
others trifling—these last encouraged to
an absurd degree by a sensational press.
The selectors were right about Brown,
Barnett and Hassett, wrong about Ward,
White and Walker. Waite and McCor-
mick were just so-so. McCabe played
one first-class innings. Fingleton was un-
dependable. Barnes was a success. He
should go far —to English professional
cricket, unfortunately, if stories be true.
Of the bowlers only O’Reilly can seri-
ously be considered. In and out, he carried
a heavy burden. McCabe has evidently
forgotten the little he knew of bowl-
ing. Fleetwood-Smith was an uncertain
freak whose occasional staggering suc-
cess encouraged his captain to persevere
with him. Ward improved in the last
few matches, but had all the rabbits to
practise on; in any case, he was a poor
substitute for Grimmett or Gregory with
bat or ball. Chipperfield lived on the repu-
tation of his 99 in his first Test last tour.
“ ’Oo Won, Joe ?”
As to Bradman himself, writer hereti-
cally suggests that he has completely
wrecked Australian cricket since he
blazed over the horizon. He made bat-
ting look so easy that many less-accom-
plished players left their own well-tried
methods to emulate his. Even worse is
his example on the youngsters just show-
ing signs of promise—the turf is strewn
with their bones, just as was that of
England with the remains of those con-
vinced they were second “W.Gs.”
The bowlers’ obsession with the
swerve and that later destroyer of young
bowling aspirants the googly has killed
length and variation, which, with con-
trolled break, are the sheet-anchors of
bowling. The swerve is no new thing.
Men like George Hirst constantly used
it while not ignoring the other essentials.
Swerve did not then give the batsmen
palpitation as it does now, since every
batsman was taught the first duty of his
kind was to watch the ball itself from
the bowler’s hand to the blade of the
bat, and not guess at the line of flight
it was going to take. A swerving ball was
no harder to hit than a swerving quail
to those who play to the book.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: It is hardly possible to
get the best team in the country together
when the members are selected by the
captains of their State or clubs or have
chummed up in the playing field with
the men who control their destiny. It
is difficult for a man to inflict a shatter-
ing disappointment on Dick or George
who travels to town with him on the
same train and lives just down the road.
If it is a question of choosing between
him and some youngster he hardly knows
who is alleged to have done wonders in
some far-distant place, dear old Dick
naturally gets the preference. The other
fellow’s chance may come later.
In the dear old days in which the
writer had much personal knowledge of
the game and the players, the little syn-
dicate of “heads” who selected the teams
indulged in some notorious bargaining
with players eager to go, even young
Victor Trumper not being exempt, or
Jack Harry, while I fancy Arthur Coning-
ham could tell a tale. The Board of
Control banished that ugly aspect of the
game, and the ferocity of the fight put
up by the Old Hands against the Board
was proof enough of the necessity for it.
The selection committee should be
chosen from members of the Board of
Control, and the less the selected have had
to do with the possible selections beyond
actually having seen them play the better.
There is no more foolish fallacy than that
old players of high renown are naturally
the finest judges of a great player.
Finally, players who are notoriously
backed in the press by one or other of
the many journalistic experts should be
quietly warned that this publicity is not
likely to do them any good. In recent
years we had in Australia a notable
example of one of the finest all-rounders
the country had being kept out of the
Australian Eleven by the persistent press
attacks of one of these scribblers.
* * * *
The one-day match between a Belfast
team and the Australians was the usual
farce, and an uncommon dreary one. The
Australians wagged their bats in a bored
sort of way at what by courtesy must
be called bowling. In spite of their most
earnest efforts they could not make less
than 145, the only batsmen who really
caught the spirit of the match being
Ward and F.-Smith, who each declared
a misere and got it—o each. Belfast’s
reply was 84, O’Reilly being hastily re-
moved when he had ticked off three of
his opponents for 7. Ward was even less
considerate and sent back five for 22.
T. J. Macdonald hit well for 28. Aus-
tralia by 61 runs.
* * * +
The last game of the tour was a two
days’ fixture at College Park, Dublin.
For a man of his name, O’Reilly again
showed a shocking lack of tact, getting
a wicket first ball. The Gintlemen of
Eire, 100 (Williams 26; O’Reilly 3-7,
McCabe 1-13, Waite 1-12, F.-Smith 2-24,
White 2-12 and Barnes 1-26).
McCabe (62) and Fingleton (37) gave
the crowd a rattling exhibition of bat-
ting, and Badcock and Barnes followed
with 52 and 53 respectively—the total
239.
O’Reilly (5-39) was let loose late to
finish off the Dubliners. The 106 they
made left them still 33 short of the
tourists’ first innings total.
It was back to the boat
before an earnest aspirant
for the position of laureate
to Eire could find his last
rhyme:
By the radio sat a poor exile
of Erin,
His pipe had gone out and
his hot whiskey chill.
“Phwat th’ divil is this,” he
exclaimed,“l am hearin’.
That we’re shtabbed in th’
back be a thraitor named
Bill,
An O’Reilly at that? Wirra,
land av me fathers,
Can yez rare up no hayroes,
no Brian Borus,
To belt all these impident
, divils to tatthers
An’ sind thim back, bate, to
th’ wild kangaroos?”
* * *
“Happen”: Barnes ad-
mits an offer from an un-
named Lancashire League
club of £1250 a year. The
League club wants a two
years’ contract and Barnes
prefers one year. On that
peg negotiations are hang-
ing. Barnes will be able
to start in League cricket
next season, and in two
years will be able to play
for Lancashire. Several
Australians have gone from League
clubs to the county eleven, notably
E. A. McDonald. The League could
afford such screws only with the
backing of wealthy manufacturers, who
are as keen as the men in their
mills and sheds. Saturday afternoon
is the day for the big game, and prices
of admission are usually Is. and 6d.
That is why the League clubs invariably
go after fast-scoring batsmen and bowlers
who try to hit the wicket. Another reason
for the success of the League clubs is
the intense partisanship. When Black-
burn clashes with. Nelson or Darwin with
Bolton it is an all-in go until the last
bail goes flying.
“Tenth Slip”: Loud howls come from
the Sydney press to the effect that if
Barnes accepts the offer from a Lancashire
professional team and thus breaks his
contract with the Board of Control not
to return to England for cricket for two
years he will lose his bonus and be
otherwise dealt with. Not in the least
likely. If Barnes makes formal applica-
tion, putting his case before the Board,
he will get full permission. Nearly 10
years ago when Fairfax, hard-up and
jobless, got an offer of the same kind
the Board readily granted permission and
sped him on his way.
Footbrawl
It’S Collingwood and Carlton for the
V.F.L. grand final next Saturday. The
übiquitous ’Wood is making its presence
felt at the right time. Out of touch early
in the season and seemingly just manag-
ing to push its way into “the four,” it’s
had a triumphal trot since. Geelong
couldn’t go the pace. Ron Todd, the
’Wood forward, kicked 11 goals, and
from a 10-5 to 5-9 lead at the half-
way mark the margin in favor of ’Wood
went to 21-9 to 14-14 —135 points to 98
—at the final bell. There were 60,871
lookers on to do the cheering, a record
crowd for a preliminary final, and the
League heads are worrying how to pack


VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
SPRING MEETING, 1938
General Entries close at the Offices of the V.R.0.,
Melbourne, A.J.C., Sydney, S.A.J.C., Adelaide,
W.A.T.C., Perth, Q.T.C., Brisbane, 0.J.C., Christ-
church, W.R.C., Wellington, A.R.C., Auckland,
D.J.C., Dunedin, T.R.C., Hobart, and T.T.C., Laun-
ceston, at 3 p.m, on Tuesday, 27th September, 1938.
All entries to be accompanied by fl.
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, 29tli OCTOBER.
The Wakeful Stakes, £750. One mile.
(Special weights, for three-year-old Allies.)
L. K. S. Macklnnon Stakes, £lOOO. One mile
and a Quarter. (Standard weight-for-nge.)
Hotlinm Handicap. £7OO. One mile and a half.
SECOND DAY, TUESDAY. Ist NOVEMBER.
Cup Hurdle Race, £7OO. Two miles.
Railway High weight Handicap, £7OO. Si.:
furlongs. (Lowest handicap weight Sst.)
The Mimosa Stakes. £7OO. About four and a
half furlongs. (Two-year-old Allies.)
Cup Steeplechase, £7OO. About two miles and
half a furlong.
Yan Yean Stake's, £7OO. One mile.
THIRD DAY, THURSDAY, 3rd NOVEMBER.
November Hurdle Race. £7OO. Two miles and
a half.
Byron Moore Stakes, £7OO. Five furlongs.
(Special weights, for I wo-year-olds.)
Linlithgow Stakes. £lOOO. One mile. (Standard
weight -for-age.)
Carnival Handicap, £7OO. One mile and a
Quarter. (For three-year-olds.)
Veteran Stakes, £7OO. One mile and a half.
(For four-year-olds and upwards.)
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, sth NOVEMBER.
Batman Stakes, £7OO. One mile. (For three
year-olds.)
Flemington Stakes, £7OO. Five furlongs. (For
two-year-old colts and geldings.)
C. B. Fisher Plate, £lOOO. One mile and a
half. (Standard w.f.a.)
V.R.C. Handicap, £lOOO. One mile and three-
quarters.
.T. A. .MacLeod Steeplechase, £7OO. About: two
miles and a half.
The Ottawa Stakes, £7OO. Five furlongs. (For
two-year-old Allies.)
Final Handicap, £7OO. One mile and a Quarter.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY,
Secretary, V.R.C.
jPunchbomi
BARNEYS
is v lN FULL STHtNCTH^/
m
yaw
fViy-Z
NSE&
HJZia
S»W
m
!•!!
r PULL''
the Rubber
Band to
L Open. J
All in the patent
Everfresh 2~oz. tins at 2/6.
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink—
be thankful ♦ . ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to ♦ ♦ ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys ,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson’s Pleasure , the mild blend.
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
oAt all good tobacconists • . . ask for
jlftavne^s
The Ideal Tobacco
UlB7O
’em in if the odd one brings his wife to
see the Carlton-'Wood tussle.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Dick Reynolds, the
Essendon colt who equalled Haydn
Bunton’s record by winning the Brown-
low medal for best and fairest player in
Vic. League football for the third time,
has just been left behind again by his
brilliant predecessor. Bunton, who trans-
ferred to Perth to be captain and coach
for Subiaco, has won the Sandover
medal, which is the equivalent of the
Victorian distinction, in his first season.
* * * *
“Preston”: Bucked by the renascence
of the V.F.A., the management has re-
stored £5O a year of the secretary’s screw,
which had been docked during the hard
times to £l5O. The treasurer also gets
back £25 docked for the same reason.
Both men earn their money, for handling
football in Melbourne is full of tribu-
lation.
* * * *
“Sturt”: There was amusement the
other Saturday when Port Adelaide’s
football team was accompanied on to the
Norwood Oval, for a keen match, by a
brace of magpies. They were wild ones,
and the stunt was quite unrehearsed,
although the Ports, having black and
white as their colors, have “Magpies” as
a pet name themselves. Nor did the
omen count for anything, Norwood
winning comfortably.
* * * #
West goes up against Randwick next
Saturday to decide Sydney’s Rugby
Union premiership. The Westerners
came late against Drummoyne, galloping
away in the second half to a 20-11 win
after being down 6-11 at the spell and
mV-11 a little before that. In the early part
a creakiness in the backs let Drummoyne.
go ahead. The West forwards were get-
ting their share of the ball against a
weightier pack, but the inside men
couldn’t get moving. Changing the backs
about made a difference, and although
they never worked smoothly the tries
began to come along—five of them to
the Reds’ two before the finish.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: After their draw in
the second Soccer Test at Brisbane the
Indians beat Ipswich (Q.), a strong coalie-
Soccer community, 5 goals to 2. The Aus-
tralian Soccer heads, who resolved this
year to stand the risk and take the profits
themselves, have the £5OOO guarantee in
sight, with Tests at Sydney and Mel-
bourne to go.
The Indians were too sprightly for
the Australians stacked up against them
for the third Soccer Test at Newcastle.
They won by 4 goals to 1, making the
tally Australia two, India one, with two
matches to play.
>K * * *
“Outside Right”: Owing to the engage-
ment of South Africa to receive a British
Soccer side next year, Australia has a
blank in its five-year plan. France,
Hungary and the Czechs are all on the
list, but at present the outlook for a visit
is not too happy. Why not try the New
Guinea players from the Mandated terri-
tory, where the lads round about Rabaul
are both keen and clever? Recently the
cables gave us an account of a match in
which there were 30-odd injuries, includ-
ing replacements. This was due to the
players hiding in their belts or long hair
pieces of broken glass, mussel shells and
knives, and utilising heavy sticks studded
with nails handed to them by their pals
on the sidelines.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Yug tennis
players are coming here. They took a
butt-in letter from the subordinate
N.S.W. body for the real thing, and
replied accepting. The Australian tow-
kays replied they were sorry but they
had issued no invitation. The Yugs there-
upon said they’d pay their own expenses.
Then came a lovely comment from presi-
dent Fuller, of N.S.W., who has a capacity
for putting his hoof in his mouth: “We
will no doubt make enough money out
of them to allow them a grant.”
* * * sf:
“Cash Amateur”: The Yanks are so
sure that Budge will turn professional
as soon as he has won the American
singles that it has put the contract on
his table all ready to sign. The agree-
ment is with the Wilson Sporting Co.,
, the deposit is £25,000, and Budge will
be managed by one Harris. He will
open his professional career against
Vines in January, and will then join
Perry and Vines in a series of triangular
duels.
Nineteenth Hole
“Lakeside”: After all his trouble,
Harry Hattersley has had to pull out of
the American amateur championship. A
pity, for Hattersley was excused the
qualifying rounds by his courteous hosts.
His early rounds brought up a muscle
strain and a glimpse at his card decided
him, “What's the use?”
* * * *
“Brassey”: Foursomes titles are the
Cinderellas of competitive golf. The
N.S.W. event, which opened this year’s
championships at Moore Park, was won
by P. F. Hughes and A. N. Waterson,
the one from Moore Park and t’other
from the Lakes. Ancients Headlam and
Cutler, of Royal Sydney, and juveniles
Lemon and Shepherd, of the N.S.W. club,
tied for second. The winners recorded
two 74’s, and so did the other pairs for
the first rounds. In the afternoon these
wilted and finished with 77, three worse
than the winners.
J|C Jje A
“Divot Digger”: Bobby Locke has
landed in Australia and will make his
first appearance in Sydney at the Lakes
Club on September 30. He shows at
Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne, and so
far the only opponent settled on is Von
Nida, Jim Ferrier being unable to meet
him. His tour will probably include Bris-
bane, while M.L. is also down for a
visit. Rymill, of South Australia, man-
ager of the amateur golfers lately in
England, says Locke can give Von Nida
three strokes a round. There is plenty of
Sydney brass to say he can’t.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Australian open
champion, Jim Ferrier, has refused to play
in exhibitions against Bobby Locke, and
also in future to play in contests against
professionals. The young man is actu-
ated by worthy motives. He feels that
every time he wins such a match he robs
the pro. of the prize-money the wage-
earner would otherwise pocket.
Miscellaneous.
“Whizz”: John Cobb, always described
as an Australian though he once wrote
to The Bulletin indignantly denying the
horrid charge, didn’t leave Eyston’s motor
speed record of 345.39 m.p.h. standing
for long. On the same dried lakebed in
Utah (U.S.A.) John ran one way at
353.29 m.p.h. and the other at 347.11
m.p.h., averaging 350.20 m.p.h. There-
upon Eyston hauled out his bus again
and whacked the figures up to 357 m.p.h.
for Cobb to butt at. By the time this
appears we shall probably have heard of
the funerals.
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralia won the women’s
hockey championship at Perth, defeating
N.S.W. 6-1 in the final. After the game
the Australian team to visit England was
picked. Fourteen will go, captained by
Miss McKinney (N.S.W.), No regula-
tions as to husbands, sweeties or ship-
board flirtations have yet been laid down.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: If an eight-oar crew can
be got together to visit Henley for the
Grand Challenge next year it will be
an expensive affair. With emergencies
there must be 10 oarsmen, a cox and
a coach. Syd Middleton, coach of the
famous A.I.F. eight, and now living in
London, might be called on. It will
work out at £lOO per man for the tour,
and those who go must be prepared to
put down £5O each towards expenses.
The Australians would need to leave
Sydney by the end of March to have
plenty of time to shake down on the
other side.


T 9
IS
!CT
THE
AT
L
MONDAY, 26th SEPTEMBER,
BIG NEW COMPANY.
Emile Boreo.
Peg Leg Bates.
Plans Theatre.
’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
THURSDAY* 29th SEPTExUBER,
NEW OVERSEAS STARS.
WILL MAHONEY,
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Second Limericks.
One of the essentials of a good
Limerick is a touch of fancy or fantasy.
It should surprise ; be absurd ; be impos-
sible. Encyclopaedia Britannica, which
LIMERICK RESULTS.
Second Competition.
FIRST PRIZE, £4O.
Mrs. I. Leigh, 3 Turramurra Avenue,
Turramurra, N. S. Wales.
TEN £1 PRIZES.
Harry Shirley, 4 Carter’s Flats, 559
Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
F. Vernon, 41 Albion Street, Sydney.
Mrs. E. M. Harry, 15 Wright Street,
Perth, W.A.
Mrs. E. Hay, Upper Beaconsfield,
Victoria.
J. W. Gordon, Post Office, Leeton,
N. S. Wales.
Muriel Purdon, Nambour, Q’land.
Miss G. L. Thomas, Thanet, Pacific
Parade, Manly, N. S. Wales.
A. Falk, 11 Weir Street, Balwyn,
E.B, Victoria.
W. Eustance, Hillview, Beaudesert,
Queensland.
Mrs. S. Wilson, 22 Maud Street,
Windsor, N. 3, Brisbane.
treats the high art with the seriousness
it deserves, uses the master —Edward
Lear—to illustrate the point:
There was an old man who said “Hush!
I perceive a young bird in that bush.”
When they said, “Is it small?”
He replied “Not at all!
It is five times the size of the bush!”
In the second Bulletin Limerick Com-
petition there were scores of entries that
were funny enough to be near the money,
but they lacked that extra flick of sur-
prise that does the trick. It can be done
either by letting the mind go simply mad
as Lear does, or by playing upon words:
the first prize of £4O went to Mrs. I.
Leigh, of Turramurra, N. S. Wales, for
“Who? Where?”
a punning line, with which the complete
Limerick reads:
Said a housewife residing at Clare,
“This is more than I really can hear!
Again you black sinner
You’re late home to dinner—
Who’s the counter attraction, and where?”
Another competitor used the same pun,
but fell down in trying to make a rhyme
of “somewhere” with the accent on the
second syllable. Play upon words earned
several other entries £1 prizes. F. Vernon,
of Albion-street, Sydney, was vigorous,
if a bit trite, with:
He said “Chuck it!”—she did—in his
hair!
It’s unfortunate—and possibly tantalis-
ing—that the best play on words sub-
mitted can’t be printed. For a bright,
and printable, effort, Harry Shirley, of
Hay-street, Perth, took £1 with:
Skip the hops, or I'LL go on the tear!
There was complete—too complete—
agreement among the competitors as to
why the hero of the Limerick was late.
Miss C. L. Thomas, of Manly, told him
bluntly:
Now, you beast, you can feast solitaire.
W. Eustance, of Beaudesert, Queens-
land, expressed it:
Say “Sailors don’t care!” if you dare.
And Mrs. S. Wilson, of Windsor,
Queensland, put a really generous gusto
into:
Here goes your last handful of hair!
The comparatively few lines that didn’t
go home to mother or go to war with
the rolling-pin revealed that gifts (ex-
cept the convivial lobster or the skittish
crab) can make the reception less cold.
A. Falk, of Balwyn, Vic., put it with
plaintive resignation:
“Hat or dress, dear?” he sighed in despair.
Among the lines that had the Lear
touch of lunacy, the effort of Mrs. E. M.
“The Hero.”
Harry, of Perth, took a £1 prize for the
accurate and mildly surprising obser-
vation :
And you’ve slipped on a mat that’s not
there.
J. W. Gordon, of Leeton, N. S. Wales,
gave another touching little glimpse off
home life:
Do not sit on the cat—take a chair.
A somewhat grimmer fancy from Mrs.
E. Hay, of Upper Beaconsfield, Vic., also
took a £1 prize:
Go outside and eat worms—l don’t care.
The cat —it and the dog came as
instruments of vengeance into about half
the entries —figured again in a line from
Muriel Purdon, of Nambour, Queens-
land : —-
And your share’s in the cat over there.
In the second competition, as in the
first, many good lines —such as the ones
about “cold shoulder”—missed the bus
simply because several competitors had
the same cheerful thought and expressed
it the same, word for word.
“The Drum.”
Sabu, Raymond Massey and Roger Livesey.
Best English technicolor film since
“Wings of the Morning,” and best repre-
sentation of the Indian scene since
“Toomi of the Elephants,” is this pic-
turisation of A. E. W. Mason’s novel at
Sydney Mayfair. The story is the usual
melodramatic North-west Frontier yarn,
inhabited by a villainous fanatical chief-
tain (Raymond Massey), an engaging
young prince (Sabu), an English officer
adept at native disguise (Roger Livesey),
and the officer’s brave and beautiful bride
(Valerie Hobson). The characterisations
are not so picturesque as those in “Lives
of a Bengal Lancer,” with which the film
challenges comparison, but they are much
more authentic.
Indian outdoor scenes, so it is stated,
were photographed mostly in Chitral.
“Here Goes Your Last Handful.”
Wherever they came from, they carry
conviction. Bazaars, narrow by-ways,
compounds, fortresses and minaret-
studded towns are palpably the real
thing ; the mountain country veritably
Himalayan. Sabu’s engaging smile
flashes frequently. He’s as much boy and
as much Indian as he was in the elephant
fantasia, and in many ways the best
advertisement for his race the Anglo-
Saxon film-going public has yet gazed on.
There’s also a drummer-boy (Desmond
Tester) who is often in the picture and
always good for chuckles. The officers
and white civil servants behave like quiet
English gentlemen ; the natives have dig-
nity, too, and the impression given of
the British Raj is excellent. A long film
—99 minutes —but good entertainment
all the time.
“Safety in Numbers .”
Latest of the popular ‘Tones Family”
series. Save that the father (led Prouty)
is sometimes too comically pompous, the
team, which includes some very clever
juveniles, always gives a recognisable
and pleasant picture of family life, and
the adventures in which they participate
are ingeniously devised. A little more
attention to mechanical fact wouldn’t
hurt the latest opus, in which there is a
motor-cycle side-car which, becoming
detached from the cycle, continues its
career for miles and miles. How it does
it on one wheel, attached to one side,
is an impalpable mystery.
New Sydney News Theatre.
Sydney now has two picture houses
devoted to news films the old-
established State news-theatre in Market-
street and the News-Luxe Newstheatre
in Pitt-street. The new place gets all that’s
going in gazettes, reviews and travelogues,
and it has one feature that endears it to
this commentator —it has a commonsense
indirect lighting system that makes it pos-
sible for the patron coming in from the
sunlight to find a seat without having to
“Eat Worms!”
follow an usherette’s spotlight over count-
less stairs (there are no steps in the
place) or poking a finger in some seated
devotee’s eye while groping for a vacant
pew.
“Our Fighting Navy”
H. B. Warner, Noah Beery, Richard Cromwell.
Last year an English propaganda film
was turned out to boost army recruiting.
Despite or because of the co-operation
of the War Office, it was a deadly-dull
affair. In striking contrast this film, made
under the technical guidance of the
Admiralty, pushes propaganda in the
background in favor of a full-blooded
story. The whole thing rings with authen-
ticity ; nothing is overdrawn and there
has been a faithful attention to details.
Story concerns the activities of a
British cruiser on a foreign station when
a revolt breaks out among the populace.
The rebels seize the Government cruiser
and, in retaliation for the British Con-
sul’s refusal to deliver up the President,
shell the consulate. It is then that the
British cruiser goes into action. At first
the captain, anxious to avoid trouble,
steams between the rebel cruiser and the
land, putting out a smoke screen. But
when the rebels fire on the Britisher it
is “action stations,” and in five minutes
the more powerful rebel cruiser is rent
by two torpedoes.
There is smooth direction and some
capital acting by Noah Beery as the
President, H. B. Warner as the calmly
dignified Consul, Robert Douglas as
the captain, and Esme Percy as the rebel
leader. And there is no lack of excite-
ment. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Racket Busters .”
Humphrey Bogart and Walter Abel.
Main item on Sydney Capitol’s current
bill, this is the nth exposition of the
racket wherein heavy transport lorries
and depots are wrecked to bring drivers
and merchants into line with racketeers.
It is, however, made bearable by excel-
lent casting and slick direction.
Bogart is the “big-shot.” He can play
these roles in his sleep, and manages them
better than Ed. G. Robinson, mainly be-
cause he never lets up on his represen-
tation. It’s a pity that an actor of his
calibre should be relegated to this glori-
fied “Crime Does Not Pay” series after
displaying his ability in such films as
“Dead End” and “Petrified Forest.” Abel
is similarly situated. He seems to have
landed a permanent job as a prosecuting
attorney, a part he handles with sincerity
and a refreshing lack of hysteria. Gloria
Dickson has a negative sort of part as
a truck-driver’s wife.
The film moves at a fair pace through
the disintegration of a truck-drivers’
union and a series of sticky accidents,
culminating in an outbreak of hostilities
between drivers and racketeers. Through-
out are speckled some interesting indus-
trial scenes—particularly of heavy-duty
trucks—and a steady appeal to audi-
ences to co-operate with authorities in
fighting rackets, which seem to be pretty
rampant in Gahd’s Own.
“The Amazing Dr. Clitter-
house.”
Ed. G. Robinson, Humphrey Bogart, Claire
Trevor.
O. Henry created a doctor who ran
burglary as a sideline: object, the sordid
acquisition of pelf. In this screen ver-
sion of Barre Lyndon’s play the medico
dabbles in thieving with a lofty aim—
the analysing of a working criminal’s
medical reactions, enabling the doc. to
write a treatise in the interests of
criminology. O. Henry’s was probably
the truer to life of the two —that is, if
any medical man does crack cribs be-
tween cases. Nevertheless, despite its
more unlikeliness, there is meaty stuff in
this film.
Overwhelmingly, the film belongs to
Ed. Robinson. Here the dynamic little
man grabs no 15-stone six-footer by the
lapels of his coat with one hand and
knocks him cold with a single chop
across the jaw, as is his wont; nor does
he have a gat. in his fist from start to
finish. He gives a highly intelligent
portrayal of a scientist, inflexible of
purpose, taking risks for a belief.
The film makes no concession to
sloppy sentimentalism ; not even to the
conventionally happy ending. When,
finding he is beginning to like crime for
its own sake, the doc. gives it up, he is
blackmailed. Deliberately and calmly he
gives the blackmailer poison, partly to
complete his personal analysis of the
gamut of criminal emotions, partly to
preserve his work for posterity. The
subsequent findings of the jury don’t
outrage logic.
Humphrey Bogart as the crook eaten
up with jealousy of the doctor because
of a fancied rivalry for the affections of
the gang’s “fence” (Claire Trevor) is
sullen and savage. At Sydney Civic and
Cameo.
, “Tropic Holiday .”
Ray MiUand, Dorothy Lamour.
Best things about this lighthearted
musical at Sydney Prince Edward are the
Mexican scenes, singers and actors. The
music assays more melody to the bar
than is usual in films of this type, the
vigorous dances are neatly executed, and
the choruses are splendid. The ballet
numbers in particular are first-rate.
The intrusion of various Holly-
woodeners into the beautiful rural set-
tings does little to enhance the film’s
attraction. Someone has wisely put a
soft pedal on Martha Raye’s raucous
voice, and at times she is genuinely
funny. Bob Burns works hard to raise
laughs, and even succeeds in one
sequence—a rollicking bullfight, in which
good fun has been cleverly blended with
real thrills; but for the most part his
humor is machine-made.
Ray Milland appears as a blase author
seeking inspiration for new screen stories
in tropical surroundings. His romance
with the daughter of the village inn-
keeper is as inevitable as the ending.
Dorothy Larhour plays her alleged
glamor to the limit, and Binnie Barnes
interprets a temperamental and jealous
film star with intelligence. Tito Guizar
and Elvira Rios are singers who could
hold their own in all sorts of company.
It would have been all to the good had
these and other capable Mexicans been
used more and the Americans less.
“It’s a Grand Old World."
Sandy Powell.
Prominent among the screen flops of
recent years have been English comedies
in which some alleged dialect actor has
been let loose on a long-suffering public.
Here is a comedy which, though the


LIMERICK
COMPETITIONS
Fourth Competition
£5O Prizes
The advertisement announc-
ing the Fourth £5O Limerick
Competition appears in this
issue on Page 41 (Radio
Page). Details of the
Third Competition are
repeated in the same adver-
tisement.
five Aeafafa/Hafoot
tfat tint*- -
IM BUYING
OIDSMOBIIE
TO KEEP DOWN
iutmtsHf &&U. f
■m
❖
“and
DO YOU KNOW
WHY?”
“Oldsmobile’s engine showed me a
whole lot more evidence of engineer-
ing skill and foresight than I’ve
ever seen before—more solid, rugged
strength, more features for smooth-
ness and liveliness. On the road, it
gave me a completely new idea of
speed and performance! And, I must
say, the smoothest ride I’ve ever
known I 65 m.p.h. was easy—and
SAFE 1 In traffic, I could crawl
along, or jump out yards ahead of
the rest—and not once was the
engine straining or labouring. Not
much chance of that reserve of
power cracking-up!
"I had a look at the frame—man,
there’s STRENGTH there! It’s
braced and cross-braced to take the
worst any road can give. And that
Stabilized Propellor Shaft, to cut out
"whip” and vibration, sounded like
sense to me as a means of saving
wear—so did the 7-bearing Rear
Axle.
“That Independent Front Wheel
Springing saved me all the road
shocks—so it must have saved the
chassis, too! Not to mention the
Body! Those Super Hydraulic
Brakes have power, and an easy
even grip on all four wheels as
well —no chance of locking one
wheel and throwing extra strain on
the whole chassis. Not once did the
Steering Wheel get a jar—so I’d
say the steering mechanism is well
protected from road-shocks too.
"I went all over that Turret Top
Body and “Unisteel” construction
is strong! I don’t see how squeaks
or rattles can ever get a chance to
start I And, while we’re on it, the
body has a lot of features of lasting
value—Relax-O-Form Seating, Ar-
mourplate Safety Glass in front and
at the sides, No-Draught Ventila-
tion, a new Safety Instrument Panel
without a single projection.
“One more point. Do you know
that Oldsmobile—a big full-sized car
that develops 95 horsepower has
shown, in tests, 23.75 miles per
gallon ?
“That, briefly, is why I’m buying
Oldsmobile—BECAUSE IT KEEPS
DOWN RUNNING COSTS!”
“And, since you’re talking price, do
you know that Oldsmobile is up to
£75 more keenly priced than its
competitors! How can I prove this?
By an analysis of ruling prices, that
anyone can see, at any Oldsmobile
dealers!”
Oldsmobile offers more of those things which count in
reducing ULTIMATE COST and giving you complete
satisfaction. You get quality engineering, faithful con-
struction, matchless performance. It has every single
refinement for complete luxury and is fully equipped to
the last detail. It gives you style with a lasting appeal
—and will show you consistently lower depreciation and
higher re-sale value!
If you want to learn more about the VALUE, the
PERFORMANCE, the STYLE, and LOW RUNNING
COST Oldsmobile embodies, there’s one of these great
cars waiting for you at your dealer’s—to be tried out,
checked over, and summed up as exhaustively as you
wish. Make a point of seeing it, driving it, and
VALUING IT before you choose any car!
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
A special six-valve model
designed for Oldsmobile.
An “Acoustinator” gives
maximum reproduction of
every type of programme.
Tone and performance equal
the best home sets.
“YOUR MONEY GOES
FURTHER IN A G.M.-H.
CAR.”
Ask about the Confidential
G.M.A.C. Convenient Pay-
ment Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS-
HOLDEN’S LIMITED
n'Tilpjnppniipi] 1 i[ h| i r _ nnrr rifji]pnnm r l[l l J
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers throughout Australia
OCS33
comedian is a lad frae Yorkshire, is a
success. Sandy Powell, already known to
Australians through his recorded tom-
fooleries, shows up well on the screen.
He has an accent that doesn’t unduly
grate on the ears and one of those enor-
mous, effortless and continuous grins
that makes the audience want to laugh
with as well as at him.
If the story isn’t remarkable for its
originality it is at least a vehicle suffi-
ciently strong to carry some good honest
fun which starts when, as a happy-go-
lucky loafer on the dole, Sandy wins a
fortune in a football pool. There are
some clever touches in it, not the least of
which is a speech the comedian makes to
his fellow-down-and-outs when pulled up
by the dole authorities for refusing jobs.
He claims to have dope so out of loyalty
to the same dole authorities, in whose ser-
vice he has “given the best years of his
life!”
Gina Malo looks after the romantic
part of it without distinction, and Aus-
tralia’s old friend Cyril Ritchard throws
his sinuous legs around capably. At
Sydney Lyceum.
“Carnival Queen”
Dorothea Kent, Robert Wilcox.
Not, as the title implies, a malodorous
wash of croonanhoof —merely another
moider and bank-busting opus frilled with
shooting gallerys, magicians, roundabouts
and swings. Miss Kent is the rich goil
gone stony who joins her own travelling
show incognito. Of course the manager
proves to be a heel, and Mr. Wilcox,
being the honest young assistant of the
magician and having a generous display
of molars, is elected to managership.
Ensues 5000 feet of murky doings, etc.,
until 55 minutes of the running time have
been occupied, leaving lmin. for the
fadeout clinch. Hobart Cavanaugh does
a mild piece as the magician, and Miss
Kent, who maintains a nasal and mon-
otonous monotone throughout, kept
present commentator in a state of trepi-
dation lest she should burst into song.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Speed to Burn.”
Michael Whalen, Henry Armetla.
This f.a.q. stereotyped turf melodram-
mer has the usual bunch of crooks trying
to nobble the favorite, with the hahnest
people coming out top dog in the final
race when every bean they’ve got is
on the moke that has been under a
cloud. But the races look the real thing,
and excitement goes hand-in-hand with
the vicissitudes of a star jockey.
Henry Armetta takes time off from
his spaghetti foundry to throw his con-
siderable weight around on the side of
righteousness. His method of handling
his family affairs is his inimitable own,
and the dreadful things he does to the
English language are good for several
chuckles. Forget the others in the cast.
At Sydney Civic and Cameo.
“Booloo.”
Colin Tapley.
There is no doubt about the ability
of Clyde Elliott to get the most out of
wild-animal films. His “Bring ’Em Back
Alive” set a high standard ; in “Booloo”
he has surpassed it.
The story is just a thread on which
is hung an endless array of breath-taking
thrills. An explorer alleges in a book
that a Malayan tribe makes human sac-
rifices to a wild white tiger. The geo-
graphical society to which the author
belonged ridicules the idea, so, to vindi-
cate his father’s name, the explorer’s son
sets out to get the proof.
Only those who have treacle instead
of blood going through their veins could
gaze on the spectacle of savage animals
being captured and the sinuous lengths
of enormous pythons being dragged along
seemingly in front of their faces without
gripping the sides of their seats. And
not only animals and reptiles furnish
the excitement; there are hostile Saki
tribes bloodthirstily trying to outwit the
lone explorer in the heart of the world’s
deepest jungle. The climax is, for sheer
suspense, the best yet seen in an animal
picture.
Colin Tapley, the young Maorilander,
acquits himself admirably. Eschewing
all heroics, he acts with naturalness and
sincerity. At Sydney Prince Edward.
Sargent Orchestral Concerts.
Dr. Malcolm Sargent said his fare-
wells to Sydney last week through the
medium of two orchestral concerts at
the Town Hall Nothing could have
been more beautiful than the playing of
the two Delius numbers at the first con-
cert—“La Calinda,” from the opera
“Koanga,” and the prelude to “Irmelin ”
Followed a very just performance of the
80-year-old Fantastic Symphony of
Berlioz, a landmark in orchestral his-
tory. But though Schumann said of it
that not one note could be altered without
harming a perfect composition, it sounds
to-day a strange hotchpotch of weak
themes hysterically developed. Stravin-
sky’s “Fire Bird” suite, that ended the
evening, seemed extraordinarily powerful
in comparison.
At both concerts there were Elgar
numbers—the Serenade for Strings at the
first and the Second Symphony on Satur-
day night. Sargent is the ideal Elgar con-
ductor, and he almost, but not quite,
made the symphony arresting through-
out despite the monotony of the rhythm.
Some Wagner—the two best-known
orchestral titbits from “Lohengrin” and
liberal excerpts from “Die Meistersinger”
—was splendidly presented.
Two-piano Recital.
Two-piano playing is an engaging art,
hampered by the limited field of its
literature. Frank Hutchens and Lindley
Evans at Sydney Con. Hall one night
last week demonstrated the almost
orchestral richness of the effects obtain-
able in Brahms’s variations on a Haydn
these and in an excerpt from Bach’s
Italian Concerto (arrangement by Mr.
Hutchens). A new work, “Vision,” by
Mr. Hutchens, had a gratifying reception,
and Bax’s “Moy Mell” and arrangements
from the works of Saint-Saens, Rach-
maninoff and Arensky were acceptably
performed. Jean Arantz sang pleasantly.
Melbourne Tivoli.
After a long course of the intellectual
drama, this Showman sneaked off to
Frank Neil’s Melbourne emporium re-
cently and found more capable crafts-
manship in the alcoholic gent, who stag-
gers about on a tightwire, in the six
young ladies who perform some of
Chang’s feats of sleight-of-hand simul-
taneously in perfect unison, in the
debonair whistler who must have spent
half his life under hedgerows to be able
to reproduce his surprising array of bird-
calls, and in Will Mahoney than he
came across in a year of amateur
theatricals. He could personally have
dispensed with America’s Velvet Voice
of the Air and the colored vocalist who
sounded as if he had his head in a
bucket; but that is Mr. Neil’s business,
and Mr. Neil seems to be able to keep
in business better than most amateur
theatricians.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
RACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
\sk your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHK
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They g.\e
quick relief and will help to flush out the IS
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
VOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES.
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO!
SENSATIONAL NEW AMERICAN CLIMB-
ING TOMATO! CLIMBS TO 20 FEET on
trellis, fence or netting. BEARS HEAVILY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, yielding ONE
HUNDRED POUNDS (testimonials to prove)
of smooth, red, solid- meaty Tomatoes per plant.
AMAZINGLY PRODUCTIVE! SOW NOW.
Government tested seed (93 per cent, germina-
tion in 7 days), 2/6 packet, posted.
AMAZING NEW PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO! Imported American “WHITE
BEAUTY” (7ft.), A MAGNIFICENT NEW
PURE WHITE VARIETY. The only 100 PER
CENT. NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (non-
iniurious) in existence (result of 3 years’ experi-
ments). VASTLY IMPROVED FLAVOUR,
excelling the red varieties, DISEASE-FREE,
DROUGHT-PROOF (testimonials to prove).
Large, solid, smooth-skinned fruit. Easily
grown. Makes delicious jam. (Government
germination test 85 per cent.). SOW NOW,
2/6 packet posted.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemisphere:
N.S.W. SEED CO.,
17a Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Wakehurst will open Kinder-
garten Week at three o'clock on October
6 in the Town Hall. On the 13th, 14th
and 15th the lower Town Hall will be
given over to a spring fair, and as much
as possible our old friend the basement
will be turned into a spring garden. Com-
ing up as a flower in it will be the
Premier, Mr. Stevens, who will make
the opening speech. There will be danc-
ing around the maypole on a village
green, and the fun will go on into the even-
ing. A special evening entertainment will
be given at the home of knight George
Julius and his lady, when the famed elec-
trically-worked model city will be on
view.
A flower carpet that Hassan or even
Omar might have marvelled at is to be
the great lure at the opening of Kinder-
garten Week. Over a million and a
quarter fresh flowers will be woven into
the carpet’s ephemeral beauty. It will
be woven in a Persian design—reds, blues
and greens on a cream background.
These carpets have already been dis-
played in Adelaide and in Brisbane, and
were a great attraction to flower-lovers.
Mrs. A. E. Colvin, who supervised the
weaving of the Brisbane and Adelaide
exhibits, will see to the one which will
enchant Town Hall visitors from October
6 onwards. Over a million flowers are
not easy to garner, so the help of the
school children is being sought. In other
cities it was proved that they brought in
quite a wealth of blooms, even in small
posy lots.
One of the prettiest girls at the fare-
well Sargent concert was Isabel Ramsay,
from Turramurra. From the smooth waves
of her hair to the rather swirling hem of
her Venetian-striped taffetas she was a
bright figure. She was with Mrs. Walter
Swinson, whose black chiffons were gaily
flowered. The Elink Schuurmans had
summoned a great company to drink a
stirrup cup with Malcolm. They were
at the concert; so apparently were half
their guests. Mrs. Schuurman’s frock
shone corn-gold, and had a bolero iridis-
cent with sequins—blues, greens, reds.
Another pretty girl was pianist Val Sulli-
van. Over her hydrangea-blue frock she
wore a sweeping black velvet coat col-
lared in white fur. She was with Mar-
garet Chalmers. Clara Butter, another
clever pianist, was not only pretty but
out of the ordinary in her fitting long
geranium-pink coat, thick with gold
pagodas and other Oriental embroideries.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, senior, came with
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, junior. The former,
over her jade and silver frock, had a
springlike wrap of greenly-patterned silk.
Mrs. Burfitt, junior, lifted a satin-smooth
black head above a feather cape of
summer-sky blue and black chiffon frock-
ing. The A.B.C. Clearys were there. Her
cape was of sable. Two other guests of
the Schuurmans were Morna Mackenzie
and Marjorie Wilson, daughter of
Queensland’s Governor. Dr. and Mrs.
Crawford Robertson, as usual, were
front-seaters. Her frock and cape were
a shimmer of white. Miss Kate Egan s
velvets gleamed like sapphires. The
Bertie Kellys and the Robert Dixons
were other well-knowns. Heather Harvey,
of the Conference secretariat, was an-
other applauder.
Cranbrook School was a pleasant place
on Sunday afternoon. The stone-flagged
verandahs and paths, the wistaria droop-
ing above at least one porch and the
wide-flung harbor views were bright in
the afternoon sun to the enjoyment of
two hundred or more visitors. How-
ever, there wasn’t a schoolboy among
them, except the son of headmaster
General Mackay. The General and Mrs.
Mackay were at home to parents and
friends of Cranbookians, but term holi-
days meant that no pupilswtere on the hori-
zon. Mrs. Mackay wore a brown ensemble
and an off-the-face brown beret. With
her husband she stood to greet the guests
just below the portrait of Judge Harvey.
Portraits of former headmaster Perkins
and the present head also hang in the
hall. What was the ballroom when Cran-
brook was Government House is now
the dining-room, and here a buffet tea
was served.
Merry motor-yachtsmen flicked over
their calendars to Saturday’s date with
a cheery smile. Saturday marked the
official opening of the club’s 35th season.
The pleasant club on Point Piper was
blithe with meetings and greetings, and
the big glass-fronted porch was crowded
at an early hour of the proceedings. Im-
portant people were commodore W. D.
Lawson and Mrs. Lawson. He took the
salute from his cruiser as the yachts
passed in parade. Mrs. Lawson clothed
her hostess act in white crepe de Chine
and a coat of ice-blue angora. The
Frank O’Briens (he’s commodore of the
Port Hacking club) were there, and
Broken Bay, too, had its representatives.
In the evening the clubrooms were a
cloud of ,pink-and-white peach-blossom,
and the dance was one of the most suc-
cessful of the R.M.Y.C.’s history.
This is Sydney girl Magda Neeld,
whose conquest of London and New
York sounds like a fairy story. Magda
left Sydney three and a half years ago
after appearing as Gilda in the Fuller
co.’s “Rigoletto.” She went to England
more with the idea of having a short
holiday than anything else. The second
week of her stay in England a woman
known in the theatrical profession came
to stay at the same hotel. One morning
she heard Magda singing in her own
room. She waited for the Austra-
lian girl to make her appearance, had
a talk to her, and sent off some tele-
grams to theatrical producers.
The result was an audition with Jack
Hylton, who signed Miss Neeld up for
12 months. After appearing in the film
“She Shall Have Music,” Magda toured
U.S.A. with Jack Hylton, appearing in
leading theatres and broadcasting for
Standard Oil. After her return to Eng-
land she sang for the 8.8. C. and was
televised. She toured the United King-
dom with Teddy Joyce and his band, and
made West' End cabaret appearances.
Last Christmas she was signed up to play
the name-part in “Goody-Two-Shoes,”
in which production she was co-starred
with Binnie Hale. About three months
ago the Sydneyite came back, to get a
ration of home-brand sunshine. She will
make her first appearance in public since
her return at the farewell concert to Val
Sullivan at the Town Hall on Nov. 2.
There were 1500 exhibits from all over
N. S. Wales and even from other States
in the 14th yearly children’s hobbies
competition. This brought a procession
of visitors to the Blaxland Galleries last
week. Some of the work was very clever.
Eva Lindberg, eight years, of Spring-
wood, modelled in colored plasticene
“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.’
Though the figures were but an inch and
a half high, the features were quite re-
cognisable. Fearsome-looking prehistoric
animals (of colored wool and pipe-
cleaners) roamed perilously near model
farms. There were a large bungalow
of varnished wooden matches, a simi-
lar effort contrived from ice-cream sticks
and even an Indian temple.
The exhibit from the Royal Children’s
Hospital at Collaroy was varied. Knitted
cosies, kettle-holders, bags, baskets (repre-
senting Australian animals) were displayed
beside groups of imitation flowers made
by boys from colored shells, while little
Jack Gadsby had crocheted a lady's
dressing-jacket with professional finish.
One young artist had even endeavored to
depict in crayons the harbor fireworks
display.
Dr. Sylvia Hoskisson, B.Sc., of Wil-
loughby, went off a week or two ago to
U.S.A. to do post-graduate study of
anaesthetics. While in America she will
attend a medical conference, and will
thoroughly enjoy herself among the
Mayo and suchlike clinics. Photograph
from Falk.
The Trocadero was a maelstrom of ex-
citement at two o’clock last Thursday.
Nearly 1200 had booked for the manne-
quin tea to aid the Benevolent Society,
and the whole 1200 seemed to arrive at
the same moment. It was as heartening
as a champagne cocktail to organiser
Mrs. H. G. Hassock, who might easily
have gone into the parade herself as a
foreword to spring. Her hyacinth-blue
silk linen suit and her white Baku sailor
had that mid-September air. President
Mrs. O’Malley Wood was the centre of
congratulations all the afternoon. Her
frock of black sheer had touches of
white ; her black hat was straight of brim
and sprouted a white wing or two. Mrs.
Glenn, who was hostess to two large
tablefuls, had a flat collar of ermine
on her black ensemble. A deep-blue
frock with a white collar striped in blue
was worn by Mrs. Chard, whose daugh
ter Jessica swept a deep curtsy as old
world as her crinolined white tulle frock
when she presented posies to Mayoress
Nock and other importants.
Slim-limbed girls with alert shoulders,
flat hips and practically no roundabout,
displayed beach suits in jade, turquoise
and water-blues and other shades that
belong to a summer day. After seeing
these models the idea that your last year’s
swim-suit would do you through 1938
faded right out. Before the beach wear
little Pattie Pye took the centre of the
floor. Pattie danced a tap-dance, as
merry as a bed of tulips, in her Dutch
costume. In between the beach wear and
the frocks, Florence Gordon O’Brien was
a graceful Dying Swan. A prelude to
the evening frocks was Marie Ryan’s
golden voice in “The Indian Love Call”
and other warbles. Last of all came the
“Ten Pretty Girls” number. Noticed
Lilybell Davies in an evening frock of
black-and-pink silk crepe, and Peggy
Minnett, also arrayed for after eight
o’clock, in a gladsome affair of black
and white. Valma Ashcroft was graceful
in green-and-copper taffeta.
Hobart has been feverish with hockey
activities. This year the All-Australian
conference was held in Tasmania, and,
as well as delegates discussing the busi-
ness side of things, teams from every
State were competing in a hockey tour-
nament. From their form in these
matches the girls for the international
teams are picked. At the end of the
Tasmanian play the personnel of the
•team that will tour England in 1939 was
announced. Of course, they will be led
by Mrs. F. J. Davy as manager. Isabel
McKinney, who stayed in Sydney for a
brief sojourn in hospital, will captain the
team. Included in the team is Doris
Carter, of Victoria, Olympic and Empire
Games representative and champion
high-jumper of Australia. The West-
ralian girls have a great athletic repu-
tation, and Queensland’s quota includes
B.As. and science graduates.
Australia is the poorer for the pass-
ing of Lieutenant-Governor and former
Chief Justice Philip Whistler Street.
With his small and alert wife, he
had many avenues of interest, one
of the principal being a love of
art. Concerts and the theatre, too, up
till recently, were among his enjoyments.
On a bright September afternoon he
made his last journey through the city.
He went in state, led by mounted police,
motor-cycle outriders and the police
band. He went in peace with the beau-
tiful words of the funeral service in St.
Andrew’s resting like a benediction on
his passing. Carloads of flowers sent out
their fragrance as the funeral procession
passed along George and Park streets
and so on its way to South Head Ceme-
tery. The Acting Governor-General,
Lord Huntingfield, was represented, and
the State Governor and the Premier were
present at the funeral.
A note from the Metropole at Nice
tells of six weeks of thrill spent by
Jessica Lee on the Riviera. One morn-
ing she woke up to find five Australian
yachts in the harbor of Cannes, One,
the Black Swan, from which the Aus-
tralian flag was proudly flying, was the
admiration of all. Another beauty,
Lucky Lady, had a Westralian owner,
Mrs. Nicholson. Mrs. Lee also met by
chance violinist Balokovic and his wife,
who were in Sydney five years ago. They
travelled in their own yacht, the Northern
Light. The Australian had lunch with
them in their almost unget-at-able
Chateau de la Chevre d’Or at Eze. At
Antibes she caught a glimpse of the Duke
of Windsor’s house.
D. G. Macdougall, who was general
organising secretary of Australia’s 150th
Anniversary celebrations, is back on his
all-the-year-round job in the same
capacity with the Citizens of Sydney
Organising Committee. This committee
supplied most of the events of the cele-
brations programme, and is a hardy
perennial. Among its bunch of budding
activities are Health Week in November,
the annual inter-State band contests in
the new year, an elaborate Garden
Week later on (adapting this Page’s sug-
gestion of a Chelsea show), and the big
City of Sydney Eisteddfod in August.
Other things in incubation by the
C.0.5.0.C. include a star-dusted carnival
week early in 1940. This organisation
is even now rolling up its sleeves over


REDUCED RAILWAY FARES
EXCURSIONS FROM AND TO THE
COUNTRY AT THE END OF SEPTEMBER
On allotted dates during the last few days of September, each
country district will have at least one Excursion service to
and from Sydney.
4
DURING EICHT-HOUR WEEK-END
(September 30 to October 3)
Excursion fares will be charged between Sydney and a wide
range of tourist resorts.
Handbills containing particulars
of these reduced fares, and the
dates when they apply to various
districts, may be obtained at any
railway station or at Challis
House, 8 Martin Place, Sydney.
In addition to the above series of Excursions
RETURN TICKETS AT SINGLE FARE
AND ONE-THIRD
are issued ON ANY DAY for travel
ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
IN NEW SOUTH WALES
except for journeys wholly within the Metropolitan or
Newcastle Suburban Areas.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (44)
*
>?
*o%irj*r4?
A glimpse of Lake St. Clair with
Mount Ida in the distance.
For Relaxation and Recreation
Tasmania provides a diversity of scenic beauty and
historic sites. The Tasmanian Govt., Tourist Dept.,
will arrange everything beforehand leaving you
free to enjoy the delightful sea voyage and numer-
ous interesting trips through the Island State.
FAMOUS COLOUR-LINE TOURS
All arrangements and reservations are made ahead
and you know exactly what your tour will cost
before you start. Call or write for details, now!
TOURS BY OVERSEAS LINERS
Bookings are now being made for forthcoming sailings and
shore trips in Tasmania. A wonderful opportunity to travel
in luxury, from your State Capital and return.
•
CALL, OR WRITE, NOW for literature, details of steamer
sailings, etc. We will gladly plan a tour to meet your re-
quirements, both in regard to time and cost, as far as is
practicable. Prompt and courteous attention, always!
TASMANIAN GOVT. TOURIST DEPT.
SYDNEY - 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
BRISBANE - - 196 Adelaide Street
PERTH - A.M.P. Building, William St.
MELBOURNE - The Block. Collins St.
ADELAIDE - - - - 12 Pirie Street
HOBART - - Macquarie & Murray Sts.
TAKE YOUR CAMERA TO TASMANIA. Enter for the
Photographic Competition sponsored by Tasmanian Government
Tourist Department. Your Pictorial “gem” may win £4O Cash, or
other CASH PRIZES. NO ENTRANCE FEE. Obtain leaflet
from any of the above Tourist Department offices.
the celebration festivities of the centen-
ary of the City of Sydney—a 1942 date.
Yvette Hall and a group of Free Kin-
dergarten workers are arranging a dance
at Romano’s on Friday, November 4,
to raise funds for the Frances Newton
Kindergarten. The affair is to be known
as the Fan Dance, and a prize is to TS>e
given for the loveliest fan carried. First
committee meeting was held recently,
when Yvette Halt was elected president,
Mrs. John Phillips secretary, and Muffy
Johnson treasurer. A tennis tournament
is to be held at Ascham school on Sep-
tember 15 to defray preparatory ex-
penses.
A woman friend just back from New
York quotes pleats and diagonal tucking
as fashion’s latest. Among the smartest
garments she saw were one-piece dresses
with straight, narrow skirts, to which
character is given by pleats that sway as
you walk. Chiffon evening frocks that
are all narrow pleats from camisole-top
to hem are almost a riot. Black
tulle, full and pictorial, with shirrings
and ruchings, has still a great following.
And black or white is the favorite after-
eight-o’clock wear. Hats are to be even
crazily smaller. They will again slant
over the right eye. A flighty scrap of
black baku, bunched up with royal-blue
veiling, sampled last month, had two fine
petunia antenme quivering out, of the
blue. It had also a half-moon of coarse
fisher net to clasp it to the head at the
back. Ostrich plumes uncurled, and little
birds and alert pointed wings flirt with
the newest coiffure ornaments —hats we
can hardly call them.
, The orchestra, with Malcolm Sargent
twirling the joystick, continued to pack
the Town Hall with populace last week.
Noreen Dangar, a concert devotee,
brought ivory laces and a sable cape to
one night’s audience. A large-size
jewelled clasp drew the eye to Mrs. Harry
Hodson’s becurled hairdressing. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, Lady Wavertree and Mrs.
Ewart Chappie were noted. Gloria
Moore Cosgrave wore jade-green net and
taffeta. The swoopy effect of Helen
Blaxland’s black velvet coat was attrac-
tive. Mrs. C. J. Pao and Mrs. Erik
Fischer were two Consular ladies present.
The ball in the s.s. Ceramic in aid of
Sydney Hospital will be held on October
21. The committee includes Mayoress
Nock, president, the T. S. Gordon and
Paul ladies, Mrs. W. S. Bennett, Mrs.
Howard Bullock, Mrs. H. N. Giblin, Mrs.
Leo Quick and Mrs. Falkner Blaxland. A
• v - b • donated fnr the be<;t
P. ff ®
Most music students in Sydney know
and love Madame Ada Baker. Madame
is a teacher of singing, and her studio in
Ash-street now echoes to the vocal ex-
cursions of boys and girls whose parents
or aunts and uncles she has taught. Last
week her students gave their end-of-the-
term concert in Paling’s hall, and with
typical generosity Mrs. Baker ordained
that the takings should go to the Val
Sullivan scholarship fund. A large
f f am ? d Photograph of herself and a mon-
f ", b ®° chocolates were prizes that
went with lucky-numbered programmes.
The photograph winner was openly
envied This little conccrt raised p uit J
a neat cheque for the young pianist, who
has >° be i" London by the end of the
or forfeit hcr scholarship,
1
Have you ever tried a poem party?
Former Westralian Mrs. M. B. Sawers
and daughters Mrs. C. G. Thomson and
Mabel llbery gave one last week, and
each guest arrived with a screed, polite
or impolite, written to some other guest,
Rahnie, Mrs. Sawers’s home on Neutral
Bay heights, was the gathering-spot of
the rhymesters. When the fun of their
own pen-and-ink compositions had died
down guests wandered about the terraces
to see what sort of composition nature
could make with the stars and the
Harbor Bridge and the moon-touched
harbor ways stretching to Vaucluse.
There are changes in the Women
Pioneers’ Society. Earlier in the year
original secretary Carlotta Doyle re-
signed from that task, which she had
carried out so well. Now Mrs. W. A.
Lingham, who has been president since
the society’s beginning, has resigned her
office. Mrs. Wentworth Grayson is the
new president.
xhis month is just one , t £or
Betty Wcih 4 0 marries s & r Xom
p ete j, earl October. There are after-
noon lies and cocktai , , rous .
seau ties {these iven b Betty and
her mother) but on i y one gift afte ' noon .
xhe , ast js , 0 hav / for £ ost e ss es Mrs.
David Knox, Mrs. Garnet Halloran and
Mrs. Spencer Holloway, and all the gifts
will help furnish the kitchen, which is
to be in blue.
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST BOOK
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IN a safe containing the most valu-
able MSS. in Sydney’s Mitchell
Library there is a small quarto
volume which is the rarest Australian
printed book in existence. The first pub-
lished in this country, it made its ap-
pearance in Sydney in 1806, having been
printed by Governor King’s command.
It is a sort of compendium of regulations,
economic arrangements, good advice and
warnings to the evilly-disposed among
the Port Jackson people of that distant
date.
The title-page bears the imprint of the
Government Press. The Government
Press consisted of Mr. George Howe, a
small hand-machine and some cases of
battered type imported in the First Fleet
and previously unused because of the
lack of a competent printer. Howe it
was who, in 1803, became the pioneer
editor, printer, publisher and newsboy of
Australia when he started the “Sydney
Gazette.”
The title of the book —very well printed
on the best of paper—is:
NEW SOUTH WALES
GENERAL STANDING ORDERS:
SELECTED FROM THE GENERAL ORDERS
ISSUED BY FORMER GOVERNORS
From the 10th of February, 1791, to the
Bth of January, 1800.
Also
General Orders issued by Governor King
From the 28th of September, 1800, to the
30th of September, 1806.
The book begins with an index which
is a model of its kind, as is the whole
of the typographical arrangement be-
tween its two board covers with a leather
binding at the back. Part II covers the
same ground between 1800 and 1806.
Governor Phillip opens with a few
observations that are eloquent of the dis-
tressed and famine-stricken condition of
New South Wales in the third year of
the settlement’s existence.
“Although,” he says, “repeated orders
have been given to prevent Convicts
from selling or exchanging their Pro-
visions issued from the public Stores
for money, spirits or tobacco, that
practice is still continued; and as
those who sell their own Provisions
must support themselves by stealing
from others, it is the duty of every
individual to endeavor to put a stop to
a practice which distresses the honest and
industrious, when gardens are robbed and
provisions stolen by those who sell their
Rations. No Provisions are ever to be
purchased or received from a Convict
on any consideration whatever; and the
Commissary is directed to give 301 b. of
Flour as a Reward for discovering any
person who may in future be guilty of
a breach of this Order.”
Probably no other records give such
details of the living conditions of the
common people of young Australia as
these. In 1797 £lO per annum, with
rations, was considered a fair thing for
a farm laborer, and a day’s minimum
wage, also with subsistence, was one shil-
ling—you found yourself and got half
a crown. For felling forest timber —and
the country about the harbor was
densely wooded—nine shillings an acre
was the rate ordained by Government.
Reaping wheat was to be done for 10s.
an acre. A convict without rations could
earn tenpence a day—an axe cost him 25.,
a hoe Is. 9d. and a sickle eighteenpence.
If he left his district without a pass from
the magistrates, any free man was liable
in 1800 to three months’ gaol and a
convict to 50 lashes.
Private enterprise was not encouraged,
as Mr. John Green, in 1801, found out to
his sorrow. For buying up wheat with
rum he had all his capital in spirits, his
wheat and his dwelling-house taken
away from him, and was shipped off to
Norfolk Island, besides being labelled as
an Awful Example in General Standing
Orders.
In 1802, because of the issue of short
rations, it was decreed that all labor
should end each day at 2 p.m.
The book is full of such details of
administration and the daily lives of the
first Australians. And it ends with an
order of Governor King’s, dated August
6, 1806, that strikingly illustrates how
hard were the times.
“Although,” it reads, “a few indivi-
duals appear to have commenced getting
into cultivation the Allotments of
Garden-ground attached to the dwellings
they are allowed to occupy, yet the far
greater number do not appear to pay
any attention to the General Order of
21st of June last. It is therefore to be
understood that those who persevere in so
criminal a negligence at this time, of
getting their gardens into a state of culti-
vation (to meet the scarcity that at
present exists), will forfeit them to more
industrious persons ; for inside purposes
an inspection will shortly take place in
the Towns of Sydney and Parramatta.”


BRANDAUER’S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDADER k CO« Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Bachflat. Lesquare, London.
Missing Friends.
Re Estate of Daniel McErlean.
WILL the father, or any person knowing the
whereabouts of the father, or other next-of-kin
of DANIEL McERLEAN, late of Combjenbar,
formerly of Morwell, in the State of Victoria,
who at one time resided in South Africa, and
came to Australia in 1913 by the steamship
Benalla, please communicate with the CURATOR
OF THE ESTATES OF DECEASED
PERSONS, 283 Queen Street, Melbourne?
MORRIS MONDLE PHILLIPS,
Curator of the Estates of Deceased Persons.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original,
Mwlbourne
Chatter
But for a narrow slice of reserved ter-
ritory near the dining-room, the whole ol
Menzies’ lounge was given over for one
afternoon last week to a bridge and
music party in aid of the Mercy Hospi-
tal. The committee certainly did a noble
job in getting together so many people at
this time when everybody is wearing a
glitter in the eye at the thought of sav-
ing up for the Ballet. The president,
Mrs. James Dwyer, chose music in the
smaller room instead of bridge in the
larger. The hon. sec., Mrs. A. J. Black,
had a double lot of duties to perform,
for she was one of the vocalists on the
musical programme. Mrs. A. Antonie
was in charge of the lucky-numbei
tickets, among which Mrs. L. Whitaker
had a run of good fortune in collecting
two (viz., silk stockings and a bottle of
wine) of the seven prizes. Mrs. L. Don-
nelly had .charge of the sweets, selling
well upon trays carried by Mary Mc-
Carthy, Mrs. D. O’Connell, Pat Mc-
Mahon and Pauline Jackson.
Among others present were Mrs. C. W.
Batten, who brought along a posy apiece
for the musicians, Mrs. R. A. Wright
and her daughter Katherine, and Mrs.
C. J. Goff, who sings as Rita Goff (she
was Rita Wenke in the days when she
used to understudy Gladys Moncrieff).
A visitor from Tasmania was Mrs. E. P.
St. Hills, whose husband is Commissioner
for the railways that run on the other
side of Bass Strait.
Mrs. Essington Lewis, one of whose
good works is the Brotherhood of St.
Lawrence, was president of the com-
rnittee for the production of “Libel,”
which was performed on Saturday night
at the Princess —this being the annual
dramatic effort for the Brotherhood,
which is in urgent need of funds to carry
its mission of help and good cheer into
the poorest districts. Terence Crisp pro-
duced the play, which needed the mini-
mum of rehearsals, for the cast, from the
Melbourne Teachers’ College, had played
their parts previously in the University
Union Theatre in July. Mr. Crisp pro-
duced on that occasion and also for a
former season three years ago, when the
witnesses and bewigged barristers came
from Trinity College. He himself was a
barrister before relinquishing that line of
work for the footlights.
Only six days after their marriage
John O’Sullivan and his bride, who was
Gwen Higginbottom, temporarily cur-
tailed their honeymoon in the Western
District and made tracks for Melbourne
in honor of Roy Ellis and Pat Ramsay,
at whose wedding John had promised
to officiate as best man. The ceremony
safely over, the o’Sulliva.ns turned the
car countrywards once again. Miss Ram-
say, who is the daughter of Paymaster-
Commander and Mrs. H. M. Ramsay,
chose a wedding gown of ivory satin
lightly sprinkled with seed-pearl em-
broideries. Her sister Marguerite, who
was the only attendant, wore honey-gold
taffeta and a little Juliet cap, and she
carried a posy of bronze-tinted pansies.
The bride and ’groom spent the first
part of the honeymoon motoring and
golfing in the Mt. Gambier district, con-
tinuing with a leisurely trip by road at
the end of this week to Sydney, where
their first home will be a flat in
Cremorne.
Among theatres there’s a lot to be said
for the Comedy, cursed neither with posts
nor swirling icy draughts around the
ankles to distract from the entertainment
provided. Gregan McMahon’s ten-night
season of Priestley’s “time” plays, “Time
and the Conways” and “I Have Been
Here Before,’’ enjoyed a great success with
crowded houses (as always) and much
appreciation from the audience —after all,
people do like something stimulating that
they can discuss afterwards, and they got
it in the theory that time is not a cycle
but a spiral track. For the first night
of “I Have Been Here Before"’ most of
the Conways of the previous week were
seen receiving congratulations. Among
them was Maura Kieran, who used her
imagination with black lace mittens and
a coral-pink bow, small-girl style, on the
back of her hair. Her sister Corinne,
wearing white organdie and a silver fox
cape, was with fiance Leo Starr (wed-
ding in November).
Marjorie Nicholas, in two shades of
blue chiffon and earrings to match, ex-
changed views on the play during the
intervals with Jim Einsidel and other
friends. The Eric Grimwades were
noticed, Mrs. Grim wade wearing a lovely
white coat, with silver threads mingling
and disappearing into its silk fabric. The
Cecil Cantors and the Leslie Kirsners
were also first-nighters, Mrs. Cantor in
"a waft of pastel-blue tulle and Mrs. Kirs-
ner in white. Val Cohen came along in
a honey-gold wrap. Only a few weeks
ago she arrived home to paint such a rosy
picture of Dunk Island that Yvonne has
followed in her sister’s sandalled foot-
steps and is now catching fish and lying
in the sun on the Barrier Reef.
Australian native trees are among sub-
jects in common between Hans Heysen
and his new daughter-in-law. While the
famous artist regards a gum with a lov-
ing eye in relation to the sunlight upon
its leaves or the texture of its trunk, Mrs.
David Heysen, who was Lyly Refshauge,
examines the trees as a scientist does.
Until her marriage last week her job was
that of biologist to the Forestry Com-
mission, her particular field of research
being woodrot in mountain ash. Mrs.
David Hey sen, whose photograph is by
Austin-Murcott, is a daughter of the late
F. G. Refshauge and of Mrs. Refshauge,
of Kew. She’s a P.L.C. Old Collegian
and took her degree in science four years
ago. The Hans Heysens and their son
Stephen motored over from Adelaide for
the wedding at Scots Church, which was
followed by a reception at No. 9 Darling-
street.
Mrs. David Hey sen comes from a
clever family. Her sisters, Mrs. Max
Burgin and Mrs. J. R. Walker, have a
number of degrees between them, and,
in addition, Mrs. Burgin hopes for suc-
cess in the finals for medicine at the end
of the year. Brother Bill is also in the
toils of final med., and there is a
younger brother, Jack, at Caulfield
Grammar. Mrs. Burgin may eventually
practise in the outposts of Empire, for
her husband is a surveyor in New
Guinea. During the last couple of years
she has made several trips to the Man-
dated Territory to see him, and is plan-
ning to fly there in December.
Like a duckling taking its first plunge
into the University lake, Vice-Chancel-
lor J. D. G. Medley mounted the plat-
form at the Athenaeum to open his first
art show. As a duck can swim, so can
the Vice-Chancellor speak, and all he
had to do was keep off the subject of
art and his own preferences—his maiden
effort will probably be the beginning of
a long and honorable career as an art-
show opener. The exhibition came from
the studios of the Twenty Painters, who,
incidentally, are holding their twentieth
exhibition. But that wasn’t the cause of
the tea, sandwiches and creamy cakes;
they would have appeared in any case,
being a tradition of the Twenties.
A new idea (brainwave of Mrs. Edith
Smart and Miss A. M. E. Bale) in con-
junction with this show was the holding
of lectures in the gallery on two later
afternoons. On Friday Arnold Shore, his
dark-green tie and handkerchief printed
with small white Irish terriers, took the
floor in front of an interested number of
listeners in “Talking about Art.” At
three o’clock this afternoon, John Rowell
will ask and answer the question “Why
should we interest ourselves in art?”
After the first lecture there was a general
drift with pencils or fountain-pens
towards the lists of names signed in pro-
test against the proposed removal of the
National Gallery steps.
The nursing profession is well repre-
sented among the stewardesses who at-
tend to the women’s exhibits at the Royal
Show. Stewardess-in-chief Mrs. Louis
Monod, wife of the secretary of the Agri-
cultural Society, trained at the Prince
Henry Hospital, and of her ten assistants
at the Show Mrs. H. Ransford, Mrs. L.
Brain and Mrs. M. Worcester trained
with her, with Mrs. Robert Wishart in
their wake as a trainee, while the others
were staff sisters. Both Mrs. Monod and
Mrs. Ransford had some bad luck lately
in the same direction, for they both
broke the back axles of their cars.
Mrs. Monod believes that a nurse’s
training is useful for developing a sense
of methodical organisation which alPthe
stewardesses need to have in large quan-
tities while unpacking hundreds of par-
cels of exhibits, checking and listing their
contents, arranging them for display (in
a space that isn’t always large enough),
and finally packing them up for dispatch
homewards. While needlework and soft-
goods are easy to pack, iced cakes,
pickles, jams, bottled fruit and vege-
tables (particularly those bottles which
have been opened for the judges to taste)
require particular care. The busiest time
of all is on the late afternoon of the last
day of the Show and on the following
Sunday, when numbers of women come
along to the pavilion to call for their
goods. Collection is by card only—one
card with a detachable corner for each
article. The helpers.are as busy as ants,
and there are few delays as the crocodile
files past the distribution counter.
Melbourne steps out in fancy dress
so seldom that the novelty of the Carni-
val Show Week Ball, to be held in the
Melbourne Town Hall on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 27, should appeal to all ages and
both sexes, for everybody has a spark
of fun hidden somewhere in his or her
make-up. There will be prizes for best
and funniest costumes, and those who
prefer evening dress are invited to try
the addition of masks. In this Eve Ray
photograph is Barbara Bayles, of Clen-
don-road, who is sharing ticket-secretarial
responsibilities with Mrs. S. Nicholas.
The ball is the first function of this kind
to be held for the Victorian Society of
Crippled Children.
This society, founded three years ago
through the help of Lord Nuffield, works
quietly but effectively. Its services
throughout the infantile-paralysis epi-
demic were invaluable, and they continue
to be of great help in the after-care* of
victims. The V.S.C.C. has the names of
one thousand children on its books ;
branches are already established at Bal-
larat, Bendigo and Sale, and more bases
will eventually be opened in other
country towns where there are hospitals.
The society’s broad plan of campaign
embraces research work on the cause
and prevention of crippling diseases,
obtaining medical treatment for cases,
keeping in touch with each child,
educating him and giving him a chance
to earn his living. It has been found
that there are many places in in-
dustry that can be filled by cripples.
Craft work is very popular with the
young patients, who receive encourage-
ment to put forward their best work.
The society endeavors to organise the
sale of goods manufactured, and a num-
ber of voluntary helpers who have be-
come interested in the idea are attending
craft classes. When they themselves are
proficient they carry their knowledge into
hospitals, clinics and private homes.
Violinist Harry Hutchins returned re-
cently from an interesting eight months’
study and pleasure trip abroad. He says
his holiday entirely came up to expec-
tations, for he visited many of the places
he had always intended to see, took as
many lessons as he wanted to, and
studied hard in between times. He went
to Colombo by ship, did some broad-
casting in India, flew to Rome and took
a steamer once more for England. He
studied in London, Paris and Belgium.
Referring to broadcasting in India, Mr.
Hutchins says the studios are beautifully
fitted and furnished with every modern
innovation. The standard of pro-
grammes is not as high as it is in Aus-
tralia, and artists and speakers are given
more latitude in what they put over.
The returned traveller tells a story
concerning Toscanini, the application of
which is that to a musician music-making
is often just work and not just art and
the joy of living. About to rehearse a
famous London orchestra Toscanini was
presented with an unknown ’cellist to
replace the usual first ’cellist, who was
away ill. The great conductor disliked
the understudy on sight and refused at
first to accept him, but gave in grudgingly
when assured that he was really a fine
artist. The rehearsal proceeded, the new
first ’cello played a solo passage beau-
tifully but with an extraordinary man-
nerism of facial grimaces. Afterwards
Toscanini congratulated him, but added
a puzzled query about his agonised ex-
pression. The ’cellist’s reply came
through clenched teeth —“I hate music.”
Doctors Jean White and F. W. Alberry.
the two Melbourne medicoes who joined
the flying doctor service in Cape York
Peninsula, haven’t been idle. In their
first twelvemonth they have flown 71,402
miles, some of their single flights run-
ning into four figures. One of the pair
picked up two victims of infantile
paralysis at Mount Isa and lifted them
into Brisbane, 1400 miles distant.
Ex-pupils and colleagues from all over
Vic. attended the funeral of T. C. Allsop,
headmaster of Golden Point (Ballarat
East) State school. The well-liked
pedagogue forwent many promotions to
further his “Eastern-road plan,” whereby
high-school subjects are economically
taught in the large classes peculiar to
primary schools. Teachers all over the
Commonwealth adopted the scheme
enthusiastically, and a host of bankers,
insurance men and other professionals
owe their present positions to Allsop’s
educational pioneering. The scheme got
its name from Eastern-road school in
South Melbourne, where its author
worked throughout the war years. Before
his transfer last year to Ballarat Allsop
set his energetic stamp on Leongatha,
where he taught for eight years.
Antal Dorati, 32, in Melbourne to
conduct the Russian ballet, has, despite
his comparatively tender years, a large
experience in putting orchestras through
their paces. He has conducted in most
of the world’s big opera houses, and
wields the baton three months yearly
over the London Philharmonic. His
coming budget includes a new example
of the choreographer’s art which trans-
lates into the language of the wrist and
ankle the drama of American pioneer
railroading.
Died at Wangaratta (Vic.) recently,
Mrs. Steele, the widow of Sergeant
A. L. M. Steele, the man chiefly respon-
sible for the capture of Ned Kelly at
Glenrowan.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP ..
RESERVE FUND
(Used wholly
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . .
£4,739,012 10 0
£4,300,000 0 0
in the business)
. . . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4 BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
thioughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —fo quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative ■.
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE: Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.. Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Ninety-nine Not Out
“Derrot”: Darwin has had its 99th
birthday. On September 12, 1839,
Captain Stokes sailed H.M.S. Beagle into
the bay and named it after Charles Dar-
win, an earlier shipmate. Stokes hoped
that before he died “cities and hamlets
will have arisen on the shore of the new-
found river [Victoria],” and that “Com-
merce will have directed her tracks
thither.”
If Stokes could see the place to-day
he would be astonished at the aerial
traffic passing through, but in other re-
spects would certainly consider that it
looked more inviting in 1839.
The old captain would find dusty streets;
a few pubs, more houses and shops; a
population of Asiatics, half-castes, abos.
and fewer than 2000 whites—nearly half
Government employees and their depen-
dants. He would see a wheezing train
which nearly bursts its boiler with the
effort of dragging a few dog-box car-
riages 320 miles to Birdum and back
once a week. And, symbolic of most of
the N.T., he would see a £900,000 meat-
works that has been slowly rotting away
in idleness for nearly 20 years. All that,
of course, is allowing that the good man
could see anything—he might be too
dizzy with turning over in his grave every
time a commission or Ministerial party
passes through.
Pearling in the N.T.
“Retrod”: Pearlshell off the Arnhem
Land coast has been practically worked
out by local and Japanese boats. Japan-
ese are moving to new grounds sou’-west
of Melville Island and local boats are
working off Bathurst Island.
Last year five master pearlers in Dar-
win controlled 25 luggers licensed by the
Government, and there are about 190
Jap boats working off the coast. The
Japs have already hauled some good
takes and hope to fish* their 30 tons per
boat ahead of schedule.
Darwin has benefited from the indus-
try. In six years, 1931-37, value of pro-
duction totalled £333,820; of this, between
£20,000 and £30,000 has found its way
into Darwin trading channels every year.
In 1936-37 local boats produced 781
tons of shell, estimated gross value
of which was £BB,OOO, 166-odd tons
being exported to the United Kingdom
and the U.S.A. Value was £19,849 —•
more than two-thirds of value of ex-
ports from Darwin (£27,291) and nearly
half the total value of imports (£58,104).
Local owners have seen better times.
Even with indentured labor (236 at June
30, 1937, for work on boats and for
repairing vessels and gear ashore), it is
difficult for them to compete with the
Japanese. Their application for a sub-
sidy to make up the difference between
the realisation value of a ton of pearl-
shell and £9O might be satisfactory for
them, but who’s going to pay the subsidy
and for how long?
“Terrod”: A young Rothschild is in
Darwin. He contradicts rumors that a
mainland settlement for Jewish refugees
is projected, but regards the idea of an
island settlement—Melville Island is
mentioned—as “sound”: “if they were
placed on an island the drift to cities
would be prevented.” But how could
you keep the islanders from migrating
to a place so increasingly good for beez-
ness as Darwin?
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The wraith of many
a thirsty politician of the past must have
flitted disgustedly from Queensland’s
legislative centre when Speaker Pollock
“Think I've shot meself, Ma. Somethin's tricklin' down me back!"
revealed that the last Parliament was the
soberest that he has known in his 23
years as a member. Last session bar
receipts were so low his Honor feared
that it would have to be closed. In the
more colorful days of contract catering
there were always a few thirsty states-
men who could be relied upon to ensure
a good surplus over subsidy if the
caterer dropped a hard-luck hint at the
right time. Rallying to the rescue, the
stalwart souls would stage a beano that
sent the bar-takings soaring, and gave
“Hansard” men good practice in sorting
out words from hiccups.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A 13ft. dinghy found
on the beach north of the Noosa River
(S.Q.) played a part in a plucky combat
with an angry sea. A 36ft. auxiliary
yacht was bound up the coast on a fishing
trip with Capt. Sam Burns, retired
master mariner and pilot, in charge. In
a heavy north-easter off Double Island
Point the engine broke down. The owner
and his wife were too ill to help, so the
skipper carried on under reefed mainsail.
The wind slewed sou’-west and blew a
gale, taking the yacht 20 miles out to
sea. He doused sail, lashed the helm,
launched the dinghy, and, after several
hours of hard pulling in a heavy sea,
got the yacht’s head round into the wind.
Hopping aboard before she could fall
off, he hove her to, and after a spell and
some much-needed tucker started to beat
back to the Noosa River, towing the
dinghy, which could not be got aboard
single-handed. She broke away in the
big seas, but three days later the skipper
and his charges reached the Noosa and
safety.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane is slowly
recovering from the hangover which the
Royal Show in August invariably leaves
behind. Not the alcoholic variety, but
that wheezing, nose-running, backaching,
all-to-misery complaint which we call ’flu
when we want to speak politely, and
which our doctors confess can’t be pre-
vented, or even mitigated with any cer-
tainty, by all their pills, potions, sera and
vaccines. The big hit of the present
visitation was on E. J. Hanlon, Minister
for Health, whose medical squad could
do no better than to pack him off to the
kindly North, so that the germs could be
sunned out of his constitution. Percy
Pease, his Lands colleague, was too ill
even for that, and Carnarvon, Dalby and
Mirani were unrepresented in the House
for several sittings. Scarcely a gem of
oratory remained unpunctured by cough
or sneeze, but hardy Premier Forgie,
inured to such enemies by years in the
accursed fogs of Glasgie, came through
it unharmed.
* * * *
“Phildee”: “Dorret” (B. 14/9/’3B)
must have been pleased to learn that the
Licensing Bench will recommend to the
Minister that two new licenses be granted
for pubs in Darwin. Prospective Bungs
are H. G. Kirkpatrick, who runs the
Lapstone (N.S.W.) hotel, and A. C.
Weedon, a Darwin contractor. Kirk-
patrick proposes to put up within nine
months a two-storey building with roof-
garden, dancing floor and ice-plant,
about half a mile from the jetty where
the seaplanes dump their passengers.
Weedon has in mind a family hotel.
Estimated costs, £50,000 and £15,000 re-
spectively.
* * * *
From George W. Bellamy, secretary
of the Edie Creek Progress Association:
Lae “free of fever” (B. 10/8/’38)? There is
no place in N.G. not 5000 feet above sea
level that is free of fever. The anopheles mos-
quito is found 7000 feet above sea level, but
apparently does not carry the germ.
Again: “The committee estimates the cost
of 20 miles of road over comparatively easy
country from Lae to Salamaua at £150,000.”
That may be correct; the 20 miles of road
would be a gift to any contractor at £10,000;
and the bridge across the Great Markham River
might cost £140,000. But why go to Lae? The
port for the Markham Valley will have to be
Salamaua in any case.
As for the road, surveyors are engaged on
four different routes trying to find which is the
most suitable. As for haulage on the pro-
jected road being likely to cost more than air
freight, that’s what aviation people say.
In February, 1928, an extra 4 p.c. was added
to the gold royalty for the construction of a
road from Salamaua to the goldfields. Enough
has been collected to build the road three
times over. This notwithstanding, the mining
community is prepared to pay a toll on all
freight hauled over the new road, and still that
4 p.c. will go on as revenue for the Territory.
The only people who should have any say
as to where the road should go are the mining
community.
* * Jfc *
“Tredor”: Minister McEwen, returned
from the N.T., is “more than satisfied
that Darwin will become a city.” It will
first have to become a port. At present
outlets for the Territory are anywhere
and everywhere except on its own sea-
board. In 1936-37 43,183 cattle left the
Barkly Tableland for Queensland, N.S.W.
and Vic.; 4661 from the Gulf country
passed through Newcastle Waters, making
south ; 23,395 were sold into S.A., and
8664 went to the Wyndham (W.A.) meat-
works. Before some or most of this
stream of cattle could be diverted north-
wards a few more “far-reaching changes”
would be required. The existing railway
from Darwin to Birdum would need
overhauling and extending about 140
miles to Newcastle Waters, where there
are good holding grounds on the Sturt
Plain. The Darwin wharf would need
rebuilding—it is a right-angled affair
with a turntable at the angle. Only five
trucks can be accommodated at a time
at the ship’s side, and these, when
emptied or filled, must be pushed singly
and by hand to the turntable, turned and
coupled to the engine, which cannot pass
the table. Further, trucks which gener-
ally convey goods to places other than
Darwin cannot, as a rule, be loaded at
the ship’s side, thus necessitating double-
handling of goods. And then a meat-
works would be necessary. Casting a
black shadow over this is the failure of
Vestey’s £900,000 enterprise. Connected
with that is the question of labor in Dar-
win, a problem which has yet to be
solved.
* * * *
“Prague”: Valentine and Wells, who
were passengers in the Dragon that
crashed at Innisfail, had presence of mind
enough to reach for the roof and hang
on to the ceiling. Thereby they escaped
the worst of the concussion when the
’plane hit the ground. Try it yourself
when you are in a car and see a bad
bump coming. I did—and felt practically
no jar when Lizzie took a bad jolt at 20
m.p.h.


*o* Tff#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONI/V STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONI/S STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
**»««»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain, genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Radiotips.
Only a very small capacity is needed
for neutralising valves of the 6L6 type
when used as r.f. amplifiers and buffers
in experimental trans-
mitters. A handy type
can easily be made up
from odds and ends
as illustrated. A bake-
lite, WT/22 or cer-
amic stand-off pillar is
used as the support
for two aluminium
putes lin. in diameter. Spacing will be
fairly close, as the required capacity is
between .5 and 9 micromicrofarads.
$ $
“R.H.A.”: Electric soldering-irons
consume an appreciable amount of power
when merely “standing by,” and this may
be minimised while still retaining the iron
near working heat by arranging a second
outlet on the workshop switchboard.
This is wired with a socket in series into
which may be plugged a 60- or 100-watt
globe. The globe acts as series resistor
and, when a suitable type is found, main-
tains the iron at a handy heat while it is
not actually in use. When about to
solder again a moment in the normal
outlet will suffice to bring the iron right
up to correct heat.
* * *
“Dee-X”: Reisz, or transverse cur-
rent, microphones are not difficult to
construct except where a marble block
is used for the body. An equally effec-
tive method is to make up a ply-wood
box and to run into it molten wax from
the top of old B batteries. The result is
a non-resonant unit that can be worked
on with no trouble.
HP * * *
."VK6WZ”: If erecting transmitting
aerials for receiving use, spaced feeders
of zepp or 600-ohm type are sometimes
called for, and the problem of fixing
spacers to feeders crops up. One good
method is to use light glass rod of about
Tin. diameter, cut in lengths about lin.
longer than the actual spacing required
and tied to the feeders with cotton or
fine cord. If the rod is heated in a gas
flame until soft and then “bitten” with
side-cutting pliers, a slot can be made in
which the feeder may rest. Cementing
with celluloid dissolved in amyl acetate
will make a really solid job.
Australia to America on
Five Metres.
Reported in the August issue of
the American “QST” that W9CCL,
of Nelson, Nebraska, heard
VK2NO on 56mc. on Sunday, June
5 last, at which time the band was
“wide open” for DX.
No other details are to hand.
Reference to the transmission log
shows that VK2NO was on the air
on five metres at 8 p.m. Sydney
time on the corresponding night
during a triangular telephony con-
versation with stations VK2EM, of
Killara, and VK2AZ, of Kogarah,
N.S.W. The aerial in use was the
vertically polarised twin doublet
(two half-waves in phase), and
directivity was changed from N.W.-
S.E. to N.E.-S.W. (bi-directional).
If this report from U.S.A. is cor-
rect (and in view of the conditions
prevailing across the Pacific at that
time the achievement seems quite
feasible) this is the first recorded
instance of an ultra-short-wave
56mc. signal being heard between
Australia and America. It is cer-
tainly the most interesting ultra-
short-wave happening yet claimed
for Australia.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Jim Malone, chief wireless
inspector for the P.M.G., returned after
having represented Australia at the Cairo
International Radio Convention, has little
to say apart from the subject of radio.
One comment he does make: that there
is more war talk in the Australian dailies
in one day than would be noticed in
Britain in months. Which, of course, is
one reason for The Bulletin’s “Un-
cabled Additions.”
# • * * *
“Querex”: Australian-designed dual-
wave receivers have introduced many
gadgets. In some instances the short-
wave range, instead of covering from
around 15 to 50 metres, starts at 13
metres and knocks off at 38, probably
with the object of making for slightly
greater efficiency around the higher fre-
quencies. Most American and a large
number of British receivers are not
“dual-wave” but all-wave. The short-
wave ranges take in everything between
10 and 200 metres, with bandspread to
boot. It may cost more to produce re-
ceivers which don’t skimp things on the
short waves, but it will soon be necessary,
particularly in view of the new short-
wave broadcasting allocations determined
on at Cairo.
**' * *
“Enno”: A.W.A. chairman E. T. Fisk,
addressing members of the Advertising
Association of Australia, said that ulti-
mately there would be a television re-
ceiver in every home. There would also
be a facsimile receiver for news and ad-
vertisements. The latter would be left
in operation for 24 hours per day and
would, in effect, print a continuous news-
paper in the home. The time, he added,
is far ahead, and nobody can predict
whether these technical achievements will
be fulfilled even in 40 or more years. At
present the biggest difficulty is the cost.
56mc. Progress in U.S.A.
Associate-editor Conklin, of “Radio, ’
passes on the latest information of un-
usual long-distance contacts on the ultra-
short-wave amateur five-metre communi-
cation channel in U.S.A.: “Best news is
of WIEYM working W6DNS on July
24. W6AVR and others were heard
in the first and second districts. On the
same day Clyde Criswell, in Phoenix,
Arizona, heard WBCIR telling a W 6 to
stand by for WBMST—that makes the
eighth district worked by WBCIR. This
and earlier summer crosscountry work
apparently has all been two- or three-
hop E layer jumps of 1200 miles or less.
In all cases 400- to 1200-mile DX has
been heard over the whole distance by
stations in between those working each
other.
“A peculiar thing about signals just
beyond 1200 miles or so is that it seems
hard to make QSOs. WSEHM has
heard the first and second district on
several days—always when 9’s are heard
and worked by s’s and l’s —but only
WICSR was raised. The 56mc. band
was open for 400-1200-mile DX some-
where in U.S.A. for 14 days during May,
17 days during June and 24 days during
July. There was a long run of 17 days
in July, with blank days up to the 26th
of the month reported only on the 2nd,
4th and 22nd.
“Best indication of possible five-metre
400-1200-mile DX still seems to be to
spend quite a bit of time listening when-
ever the summer skip is short on 14mc.
and 28mc. Lots of fellows don’t listen
on five until 10-metre signals from 400
or 500 miles away are heard. It may
occur at any time of the day or night,
though few stations are active from
about midnight to 8 a.m. or later. But
once W9USI called CQ on a dead band
and half the eighth district seemed to
reply to him.
“There is a great need for stabilised
or crystal-controlled transmitters rather
than over-modulated unstabilised oscil-
lators, and for selective receivers that are
not bothered by QRM from frequency-
modulated transmitters. Some amateurs
using selective superheterodynes can
hear only crystal-controlled transmitters,
yet they have worked six or seven dis-
tricts and always turn in a good list of
contacts when the band is open without
having to fight QRM like users of super-
regen. receivers do. Also, they find 100-
or 200-mile DX quite often possible.
“The receiving aerial should always
be resonated so that a decent amount of
signal will get to the receiver input.
Manufacturers have been working on
the receiver problem with promise of
early results. Hallicrafters have a new
receiver for 56mc. and 28mc. using an
1851 television pentode in the r.f. stage
to give better sensitivity and signal-to-
noise ratio than is obtainable with stand-
ard valves.”
These results give some idea of what
could happen on 56mc. in Australia if
there was only more actual co-operation.
At present only a mere handful can be
counted upon to be on the job, and in
such circumstances the outlook is far
from hopeful. The matter should be
taken in hand by the W.1.A., for sum-
mer is fast approaching. If this year
and the next slip by without a serious
attempt to make good use of the band
much of the attraction may be lost for
a decade with the reversion to lower
frequency DX conditions. Despite the
DX attraction the aim should be the
development of the channel even as a
local communication medium. The time
may come when the Australian experi-
menter will rue the day he didn’t give
more consideration to the scorned five-
metre band.
D. B. K.
U.S.A. has 725 broadcasting stations,
controlled by approximately 600 differ-
ent concerns. About 280 of the stations
are owned by newspapers.
* * * *
The Canadian Broadcasting Corpora-
tion now has a mobile broadcasting
station, with recording unit, in a trailer.
Callsign is VE9AZ and wave-length 8.108
metres. The station is used for out-
side broadcasting, providing a radio link
between remote positions and main
stations.
THE LATE ROSS A. HULL.
Accidentally killed in Vernon,
Connecticut (U.S.A.), Ross A. Hull,
editor of “QST.” He was electro-
cuted while experimenting in his
laboratory. Ross Hull was born
at St. Arnaud, Victoria, and was
one of Australia’s earliest radio
experimenters. Recently he was
promoted to the position of editor
of “QST,” after having served for
several years as associate editor.
He was largely responsible for
the introduction of the Radio
Amateur's Handbook, published
yearly by the American Radio
Relay League. Hull’s work lately
had been mainly in connection
with television applications for
amateur use, and his work in ultra-
short-wave radio communication
has contributed materially to the
development and utilisation of ultra-
short-wave channels for amateur
and commercial purposes. He was
an experienced radio engineer,
architect and photographer. Both
commercial and amateur radio
circles will miss him.
D. B. K.
Empire Broadcasting Service.
The following frequencies are used by the Empire station at Daventry:
Frequency, Wave-length,
Me. Metres.
GSA 6.05 .. 49.59
GSB 9.51 .. 31.55
GSC 9.58 31.32
GSD 1L75 25.53
GSE ILB6 25.29
GSF 15.14 .. 19.82
GSG 17.79 .. 16.86
GSH 21.47 ... 13.97
GSI 15.26 19.66
GSJ 21.53 .. 13.93
GSL 6.11 49.10
GSN 11-82 .. 25.38
GSO 15-18 • • 19.76
GSP .. • • • • 15.31 • . 19.60
GST .. -. •• •• • • • 21.55 .. 13.92
The Empire transmitters arc operating on the following frequencies:
TRANSMISSION 1.
Optimum Direction.
GSG .. North-East
GSI .. North-North-West
GSE .. South-West
GSD .. East and West
GSB .. East and West
TRANSMISSION 2.
GSJ .. East
GSH .. South
GSG .. East
GSG .. North-East
GSF .. East
TRANSMISSION 3.
GSJ .. East
GSH .. South
GSG .. East
GSG (to 4 p.m.) .. North-East
GSF .. East
TRANSMISSION 4.
From 5.20-9 p.m. G.M.T.
GSG .. South
GSG (from 5.45 p.m.) .. North-West
GSI .. South-East
TRANSMISSION 4 ( Contd .).
Optimum Direction.
GSD .. South
GSB (from 6.30 p.m.) .. South
■ From 9.15-1 i p.m. G.M.T.
GSG .. North-West
GSP .. North-West
GSO .. South-West
GSF .. West
GSB .. South
TRANSMISSION 5
GSG .. North-West
GSP .. North-West
GSO .. South-West
GSD .. North-West
GSB .. East and West
TRANSMISSION 6.
GSI .. North-North-West
GSD .. North-North-West
GSC .. North-West
GSB .. East and West
ARABIC TRANSMISSION.
From 5.17-6.15 p.m. G.M.T. (approx.).
GSP .. Near East
SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE NEWS BULLETINS.
(1.30 a.m. and 1.45 a.m. G.M.T. respectively.)
GSO ■ ■■ South-West
GSB West


R E P RO°
fd
The same valves that protect life at
sea give longer life to your radio set.
A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better and brighter programmes.
See your local radio supplier
• •
end be sure to Re-valve with micro-sensitive
SMOIIOUTI
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless'vTwTTo^PtyTudT
Third Limerick Competition
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes of £1 each.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the purpose,
cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
“Limericks No. 3 y ” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 30.
Results will be announced in “The Bulletin” of October 5.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she wishes, but
each entry must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to
compete. Otherwise these competitions are open to all, free of any
entrance charge.
THIRD LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME ...
ADDRESS
(In block letters)
The reason I’m stony to-day
Is not just the taxes I pay :
They called it a “horse"’ —
Oh, “a dead cert." of course,
Fourth Competition: £5O Prizes.
Prize-money for the Fourth Limerick Competition is the same as for
the preceding ones: £4O First Prize and ten other Prizes of £1 each.
It will close on October 14, and results will be announced in “The
Bulletin” of October 19. Conditions are the same as stated above for
the Third Competition.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of September
28 and October 5, and coupons may be filled in from those issues or
from the present one.
For the Fourth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick in the coupon
below, cut out the whole coupon and post to reach
“Limericks No. 4,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than October 14.
FOURTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A rebellious young person of Bright
Flung his ledger and pen out of sight,
Saying “A h ! it’s the spring !
I could dance, l could sing —
The Second Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 34.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Ultimate Five-valve D.-W. Vibrator Model.
This new Ultimate receiver, submitted
for test by the distributors, George
Brown and Co., 267 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney, introduces a completely new range
of economical, indirectly-heated, low-
consumption octal-based valves. In-
directly-heated valves mean greater effi-
ciency in a vibrator-powered receiver,
because of their more robust 'nature
coupled with quieter operation. An eco-
nomical power valve for vibrator sets has
not been readily available in the past.
The receiver is a five-valve design,
powered entirely, by means of vibrator
supply, from a six-volt accumulator.
Tuning ranges cover the broadcast band
and short waves from 16 to 50 metres.
The broadcast range is wider than usual ;
at the high-frequency end of the scale it
includes extension to about 1700 kilo-
cycles, to take care of additional future
stations within this range as determined
at the recent Cairo Conference.
The dial is of attractive elliptical
design with edge-lit glass, showing the
Australian and M.L. stations zoned in
distinctive colors. The pointer is the long
single-ended type. Below the centre is
a two-position colored band indicator
which shows whether the receiver js
tuned to broadcast or to short waves.
The action of the pointer allows rapid
Ultimate Five-valve D.-W. Vibrator
Model.
movement from one end of the dial to
the other. One spin of the knob will
permit quick tuning from 1500 kc. to
550 kc. and is extremely smooth.
The valves used are 6S7G, R.F. am-
plifier ; 6DBG, mixer-oscillator; 6S7G,
IF. amplifier; 6T7G, second detector
with A.V.C., plus the triode section as
first audio ; and 6G6G, output power
pentode. Iron-cored coils and I.F. trans-
lormers are standard, with special short-
wave ooils. The circuit has a simplified
switching scheme in which a single-bank
switch controls all functions. Speaker is
an Bin. Rola permag. dynamic fitted with
a new ribbed diaphragm and “isocore”
transformer which precludes burn-out or
failure in use.
It was evident upon testing that a
very effective form of A.V.C. is em-
ployed, lack of fading on distant stations
being noticeable. The receiver controls
are four in number —variable tone con-
trol, main switch and combined volume
control, wave-band switch with positive
locking device, and tuning spinner.
To conserve accumulator current there
is a panel lamp switch fitted at the rear
of the chassis. The battery consumption
works out at an average of 140 hours
per charge when used with the giant
160-ampere accumulator provided, and
this consumption is reckoned with the
receiver tuned to maximum volume.
A crucial test with any vibrator-
powered receiver is to use it in a sen-
sitive condition on a comparatively weak
short-wave station. In this Ultimate
model there was very little sign of
vibrator action with the gain fully ad-
vanced. This is because the vibrator is
supplied as a separate unit for attach-’
ment to the receiver by means of a
five-pin non-reversible plug. Normal
position for the vibrator unit is on the
lower shelf of the cabinet beside the
speaker and accumulator.
The receiver showed up equally well
on broadcast and short waves, with
ample volume and good audio quality.
In the Embassy cabinet, as illustrated,
it is an excellent proposition for the
country listener with access to charging
facilities for a six-volt accumulator.
Price details and further particulars can
be obtained from George Brown and Co.
Testing Sunspot Theory.
Listeners to Daventry, Greenwich
Observatory and the 8.8. C. are co-
operating in the proving of new theories
relating to the effect of sunspots on
short-wave transmissions, and as a result
it may be possible in the future to warn
listeners that one of the long-term fade-
outs is due.
Investigations have shown that com-
plete fadeouts of the Daventry trans-
missions are preceded some 36 hours
earlier by a bright hydrogen eruption
from an active sunspot crossing the
sun’s meridian. This eruption may cause
a short fadeout of the higher frequencies
which follows almost immediately. The
delayed eruption effect on the short-wave
broadcasts is apparently caused by the
emission of vast quantities of charged
particles from the vicinity of the sun-
spot, which travel at a much slower
The 32-watt 6L6G amplifier described in B. 1/6/'38 has been found to require
decoupling between the first and second stages. A modified circuit from A.W.
Valve Co. engineers, incorporating this addition, is shown here.
speed than that of light. As they pene-
trate the ionised layers they considerably
reduce the ionisation levels by collision
with the electrons and give rise in vorv
nnnr ’ anC \.£ lVC nse t 0 VC G
1 or propagation conditions.
A new scheme whereby oversea
listeners cable reports to the 8.8. C.. is
proving most helplul in testing the new
theory. Each week observers in many
parts of the world report details of any
u y • j a
Jddeouts that they have experienced, and
this information is correlated with the
observations of 8.8. C. engineers and
with the accurate solar information cm
ni;J!t / soiar information sup-
plied by the Oreenwich Observatory.
The Question Box.
1 am interested in the Regenerative Super
Three (B. 7/9/’3B), but feel that the cost of the
ready-made coil unit is excessive. Can you give
dctc, . ils unit ‘ so that lt could be made
This rcce i ver uses co ji switching to suit the
bandsetter capacities spccihed ; and the coil
is made U P as a complete unit ready to wire
’ nt ,° the shassis,;5 hassis ,; In the u circumstances it is
not easy to make up such a coil unit. It is
ticklish enough for the experienced short-wave
constructor to make up coils and to get them
lo track well - In an y case » details of the coils
cannot be given, as the receiver design is the
property of the originator, as indicated in the
descriptive article.


H?
LYS
£
proof.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Retting.
Fencing Wire
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants , Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty , Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
The Butler Wheat-price Plan.
Though Premier Butler will accept a
home-consumption price of 4s. Bd. a
bushel on behalf of the South Australian
farmers, he is not exactly enthusiastic.
He would prefer the plan he outlined in
Adelaide “Advertiser”:
“Four and eight a bushel for home
consumption will mean sd. to 6d. a bushel
on the whole crop. On present-day prices
this will increase the price to about 2s.
9d. a bushel at ports or 2s. 4d.
a bushel at country sidings [it will
be a bit more in parts of W.A.]. It will
not be sufficient. Such a price is a long
way below the cost of production.
“If consumers are to be asked to assist
the farmers in times of low prices,
growers themselves should contribute to
a; fund when prices are high. The
only way to stabilise the industry
is to establish a fund which will
ensure at all times a payable price to
the grower. A payable price in South
Australia would be 3s. Bd. a bushel at
ports.
“We must be careful that in deciding
what is a payable price we do nothing
that would encourage uneconomic or
over-production, or inflate land values.
The question is whether it will be pos-
sible to raise approximately £9,000,000,
which would be the amount required to
stabilise prices at 3s. Bd. a bushel at
ports. This is a matter primarily for the
Commonwealth Government in consul-
tation with the States.
“It has been asked to what extent
wheatgrowers should contribute to the
fund. I have suggested that when
prices rise above 3s. -Bd.-a bushel the
wheatgrower should. contribute to the
fund a farthing in every penny rise. This
would be in the nature of a compulsory
saving scheme for* the farmer or a form
of insurance. When prices were low he
would draw on the fund to make up the
difference.”
Wheat or Hay?
“Yarruhga”: The Australian Agricul-
tural Council advises farmers to cut
wheat and oat crops for hay instead of
harvesting grain.
For N. S. Wales it is good advice.
Fodder reserves must be replenished. In
the year following a prolonged dry
period, hay production has invariably
doubled the normal output.
The home-consumption price equalisa-.
tion may not give the grower more than
2s. 6d. a bushel at country stations for
next harvest, and a two-ton-an-acre hay
crop should be worth a deal more than a
20-bushel grain yield. Relative harvesting
costs work out at:
Stripping (Bs. an acre or Is. less with
power) and bag-sowing; equal 5d.. a
bushel, carting to rail (average six miles
or 6s. a ton) 4d., total for 20 bushels
15s. ; net 355. an acre.
Hay-cutting, reaper and , binder and
twine, 10s. an acre ; stooking, 2s. 6d. an
acre ; cartage to stack, 2s. 6d. a ton ; total
17s. 6d. an acre. At £3 a ton at stack,
it nets £5 2s. 6d. an acre. .
On the average value of export lambs
over the last three years, cereal hay has
been worth £5 a' ton for chaff, in supple-
mentary sheep feeding on the farm.
Storing Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Some N.S.W. wheatgrowers
are considering storing wheat in gal-
vanised-iron silos, such as are used for
oats, holding it on the farm for stock
feed now market prospects are bad.
It depends on climate conditions —a
wet or dry season —whether wheat can
be kept undamaged for a year or so. I
have seen wheat kept in tank silos suc-
cessfully at Trundle and Parkes (N.S.W.),
while others have failed.
Experience at State farms has been
confined to keeping wheat from harvest
until after the sowing season in lune.
The department is not inclined to advise
silo-storing after winter. It is suggested
that, if wheat is to be kept all the year
without damage in iron silos, the grain
must be turned periodically.
The sure and safe way is to stack in
bags in mouse-proof sheds that permit
free circulation of air.
Farm Profits.
“Dinkum Farmer”: “S.H.C.’’ (B.
24/8/’3B) says that a 500-acre farm should
grow 200 acres of wheat per annum —
“The horrid thing does this every time I punch the jolly old bag, sir.”
average 12 bushels, price 3s. per bushel —
carry 300 ewes shearing 81b. wool at Is.
per pound and raise 200 lambs at £1 per
head. If a farmer sows 200 acres he
must also fallow 200 acres, so that
• “S.H.C.” expects to carry: 300 ewp, rais-
ing 200 lambs, on 100 acres. It may
have been done occasionally, but not
year in, year out. t •
It would be-necessary to cut 100 acnps
of the wheat for sheep and horses, thus
reducing the wheat income by half, par-
ticularly if the farmer wishes his; ewes to
average 81b. -wool per head, after raising
lambs. Also the average prico of wool
over the last. 10 years is much nearer
lOd. than Is. Here in W.A., 16s. clear
on the farm; is considered a really good
price for lambs. , . ; ;t i
As regards expenditure, the capital out-
lay on a fully-improved and stocked 500-
acre farm would be at least £lO per acre —
£5OOO. ■ Other . incidentals are freight,
labor, sacks, replacements and repairs to
machinery, and losses of stock; £lOO
p.a. would be a conservative allowance
for these items. Thus: —; .
100 acres wheat (12 bushels at 35.)... £ 180
300 ewes'(Blb! at 10d. per,lb.) .. 00 .
200 lambs at 16s. per head :, . • - 160
t .:. ' - - ■•- : 1 £440
Less interest' at 5f p.c: .on £5OOO .. £275
Incidentals ... •• £375
* Balance .'. *’ • : • •• > £65
Now, “SiH.C,” which- would \you
rather have, a job on the basic wage or
a 500-acre farm?'
Sheep-rugging Experiments.
“Valerin”: “M.F.Mc.’.’ (B. 7/9 / ’3B)
avoided the conclusion of the supervis-
ing vet. officer, in the Trangie repot 1
which stated that rugging does not ap-
pear; to be. a sound proposition. Prac-
tically. the .same conclusions have been
reached in other tests.
In 1936-37 C. G. Blumer, B.V.Sc., super-
vised a test at Guyra, New England, with
40 4i-year-old wethers. Twenty were
rugged and 20 unrugged. He decided
that
In (this instance' the'.rugging., of sheep
throughout a New England winter ■ from
May till’ September had--no commercial
value. Indeed, from- the point of view of
body condition the rugged sheep lost more
than the unrugged.
Sheepmen would be well advised to
put their cash into rams and not rugs.
“Murrawong”: Rugging experiments
conducted by the C.S. and I.R. near
Albury (N.S.W:) and in S.A. suggest that,
under the particular conditions of the
tests and in those districts, rugging is of
little benefit.
The interim report on the Brae Springs
(Albury) experiment points to the fact
that in districts with a 20in. rainfall or
better, moderate climate and unaffected
to any extent by dust or burr rugging
makes practically no difference in the
value of wool.
Comparisons of fleece values judged
by appearance and estimated clean-
scoured yields with prices received at
auction and actual scouring results bore
out the contention that buyers tend to
underestimate the yield of rugged wool.
At shearing rugged sheep showed, in-
creased length of staple, more bulk, body
and density, better character and more
condition. Nevertheless, the valuation
of the rugged fleece was |d. per pound
lower than the unrugged. 'The unrugged
fleece opened up bright and dry, but the
rugged had a yellow appearance. This was
actually color, not condition, as rugged
wool scoured, gave an average yield of
64.7 p.c., while similar unrugged fleeces
yielded only 62.4 p.c.
Average weight of wool cut per head
was in favor of the unrugged group,
which cut 10.641 b. as against 10.271 b.
rugged. Classers’ estimates varied in
some cases 8 p.c. to 12 p.c. from the actual
yield. future tests it would be better
to stick to figures obtained from scoured
samples only. Freshly-shorn wool that
is -still warm and with the yolk “alive”
looks and feels, much lighter than after it
has been-pressed. "
The" S.A. experiment was to test the
theory that rugged ewes would give more
milk and rear a better, lamb. There was
practically no difference between the
rugged and unrugged sheep in milk pro-
duction, nor did the lambs differ in
weight -or in rate of growth, but it
should be worth' trying in colder climates
such as- New England or the Monaro.
The ewes under test were already well
covered with wool —six to 11 months’
growth—while bearing the lamb and
after its birth: If the cost of the rug
were expended in supplementary feed
with a high protein content for the ewe
during the winter months and after lamb-
ing, 1 better' results ■ might be anticipated.
In future.tests a .third group of unrugged
ewes might be fed a ration equal in
value to the cost of rugging. A com-
parison not only of milk production and
the effect on the growing lamb but of
wool growth would be of considerable
value. .
Inoculating Lambs.
“J.R.D.”: Chief drawback to inocu-
lating 1 fat lambs against' entero-toxaemia
has been the possibility of setbacks
because of extra handling at a critical
period. In some cases, lambs are given
the first dose of vaccine before and the
second dose after marking, making three
musterings in all. It is
now possible to do the
whole job at marking
time.
This season in N. S.
Wales it will be impera-
tive to inoculate all fat
lambs against e.-t.
Losses have already
occurred in many dis-
tricts, and the sheep-
breeder who neglects to
protect his lambs may
find himself badly hit.
One dose of vaccine
will give a certain
amount of protection
against e.-t., but should
deaths occur within a
month to six weeks of
the first inoculation a
second dose should be
given. The following
technique has been
found successful —using
one of the new auto-
matic syringes and a
s : c.c. dose 200 lambs could be inoculated
from one bottle of vaccine without any
other delay than is needed for changing
needles three times: —•
The catcher places a lamb on the rail
in front of the inoculator, holding it as
for marking, but with the right hand
slipped under the lamb’s right forearm
and gripping the two left legs. The
catcher’s right hand grips the lamb’s
right hind leg below the hock, holding
it straight and exposing the inside of the
thigh..
The inoculator carries in a breast
pocket a swab of cotton-wool soaked in
methylated spirit or iodine. With this
he cleans a patch of bare skin on the
inner thigh of the lamb, then with the
fingers of his left hand picks up a fold
of skin just behind the patch. The point
of the needle is inserted firmly through
the loose skin, care being taken that the
muscle is not pierced or that the point
does not go clean through the double
(Continued on page 44.)


MAKE THE MOST OF
MODERN TRACTOR POWER..
m ■
liliflli
:
X
W>Xwvaw/X
nn
m
V ! •••■
?•• •
-< ■
:•
X, jV
m.
m
/ ■
iiil
m
cm
:< : ¥ ■■■:>: I;
...with the NEW
SUNSHINE POWER-TAKE-OFF
HEADERS and HARVESTERS
After lengthy field tests, which have proved them highly
efficient, we now release
1. The SUNSHINE H.S.T. POWER-TAKE-OFF
(as illustrated above)
2. The SUNSHINE POWER-TAKE-OFF
STRIPPER HARVESTER (Type a.l>
Expressly designed for power-take-off work behind
tractors, they can be operated at constant speeds, getting
more grain and getting it quicker without overdriving the
mechanism. They excel in heavy crops and in sandy or
other adverse conditions where there would be difficulty
in maintaining speed with ground-drive machines.
The Power-take-off is entirely designed and manufactured
at the Sunshine Harvester Works. It has patented
features and gives a smooth, even drive under all con-
ditions. Ball bearings are used throughout the main drive
and gearbox to ensure smooth, easy running.
POWER-TAKE-OFF ATTACHMENTS
Now available for Sunshine H.S.T. Headers
and Sunshine A.L. Harvesters which are already
in use as ground-drive machines.
ONE MAN CONTROL
One man control equipment can also be supplied
for operating any Sunshine H.S.T. Header or
Sunshine A.L. Harvester with a Sunshine Massey
Harris Tractor.
HEADER
Other units in
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST RANGE
OF HARVESTING MACHINES
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
mkf
For the big-area power
farmer. Propels itself and
cuts a swath of 12 or 14
feet. One of these
machines harvested 3300
bushels of wheat IN ONE
DAY during last harvest.
SUNSHINE H.S.T. HEADER
HARVESTER
i
a
m
Very successful in all con-
ditions of crop—light or
heavy, standing or down.
Embodies many recent im-
provements. 6ft., Bft. and
10ft. sizes.
SUNSHINE H.S.T. ENGINE
FUNCTIONED HEADER
sra
wsm wpj
A mechanically-
operated machine for
use with horses or
tractor. Bft. and 10ft.
sizes.
LTD
MASSEY
HARRS
PTY
H
V
Mg KAY
(incorporated in Victoria ) ■. :.j '
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W2O, VICTORIA. BRANCHES AT SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS IN ALL COUNTRY CENTRES. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’ld.) Pty., Ltd., South Brisbane.
See them at the
MELBOURNE ROYAL SHOW
You will find these and many other interesting machines at the
Sunshine Massey Harris Stand, Skene Street, Melbourne Showgrounds.
AH the latest developments in agricultural machinery clearly demon-
strated. If you are not visiting the Show, ask your local agent for
free catalogues, or write direct.
SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
'*\xv
(Type A.L.)
Ample capacity for all
crops. Simple and
light in draught. Bft.
and 10ft. sizes.


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR . ..
If you really want a work-
boot which will give you
absolute comfort, look as
well as any work-boot should
look, and give you excep-
tional wear, try a pair of
Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
sole, full calf lining through-
out and a tough calf upper.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in stout Black or Brown
Calf.
pfe
ffegfcta
•*!> V
X
X
rt
N
fSfp!*
fsfP
A
HP
How shall I Invest?
WEALTHY people are not the only ones faced with
the problem of how to invest. The man or woman
of average means has equal or greater reason to invest
money wisely.
In choosing a sound investment, satisfy yourself that
the security is good and the interest rate reasonable.
Both these essentials are inherent in a Rural Bank Fixed
Deposit.
You can invest any amount from £5 upwards on Fixed
Deposit at the Rural Bank for periods of 3,6, 12 or 24
months and you will receive interest regularly at current
banking rates.
Investing on interest-bearing Fixed Deposit at the Rural
Bank is a simple matter which will take you only
a few moments. You will be personally assisted by
experienced, friendly Bank officers.
RuhJtd RculL
O F • N E W •tIIiUTH • WALES
Head Office s MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Price: Black Calf
Brown Calf
39/6
45/-
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
53 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
TTuTfealleiz/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Be Your Own Agent!
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These Empire-grown Tobaccos are of high quality
—specially blended —aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe. Tobacco Pouch.
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
Per lb
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . . . 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . . 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . • • 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . • . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . - - 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra . . . . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild . . . . 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . . . . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . 6/6
Zig Zags . . • • 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
18 COMMERCIAL ROAD, BRISBANE.
fold of skin and discharge the vaccine
outside.
If the syringe is into the tissue there
will be considerable pressure against in-
jection ; where the dose slips out too
easily the point of the needle is probably
outside the skin. After injection a bubble
will form under the skin, but will dis-
appear without disfiguring the carcass if
the muscle is not touched.
After inoculation the catcher lifts the
lamb on to the rail of the adjoining
panel of the yard for marking. Markers
don’t have to wait for lambs.
Remember especially to sterilise
syringe needles, rubber tubing and con-
tainers (if canisters are used) by boiling
for 10 minutes before commencing, and
to keep a supply of needles handy in a tin
of strong disinfectant. Calculate before-
hand the amount of vaccine required, as
any left over should not be kept for
future use. At the end of the job wash
syringe, tubing and container in cold
water as soon as possible to remove
vaccine.
Fertility in Merinos.
“Corriedale”: Comparisons between
Australian and American lamb percent-
ages (B. 31/8/’3B) aren’t conclusive. In
America, where lambing reaches 130 p.c.,
merinos are not pure wool-bearers, as
our stock are.
Still, low fertility here has definitely
been shown to be due to heredity. Rams
have often been selected for mating
solely because of their wool-covering and
frame. Records show that some of the
best merino strains in the country are
only 40 p.c. fertile.
Breeders should look into the history
of every ram used. If its sire consistently
gets 60 p.c. of lambs and the dam has
never missed in four seasons, the ram is
a safe bet for breeding. But if the sire’s
drop is only 45 p.c. and the dam has
been inconsistent don’t use the lamb.
Oats for Dry Areas.
“Lachlan” : Kurrajong, a new early oat
for western N.S.W. wheat areas, has been
produced at Cowra Experiment Farm
from crosses of Fulgham and Lagga
varieties. It is valuable in early winter
for grazing, and has great powers of
recovery to produce a grain or hay crop.
It combines the best characters of both
parents and is also entirely resistant to
stem rust.
Tested at the Trangie and Condobolin
farms Kurrajong proved the best oat yet
grown at these outposts. It is outstand-
ing in comparison with Mulga and
Gidgee, which are most in favor in the
outer districts.
After a late start the plots were grazed
two or three times, and are well on the
way to making a good grain crop.
Kurrajong should render possible ex-
tension of fat-lamb raising further west-
ward —where success with grazing lucerne
is opening up new possibilities in mixed
farming.
Maize and Super.
“Ager”: Use of super, in N.S.W. South
Coast trials has shown large increases in
maize yields. The soil was semi-alluvial;
the previous crop, red clover, was
ploughed under in July. Ground was
disk-harrowed, and reploughed in Sep-
tember, and twice harrowed before plant-
ing in drills in mid-October.
Golden Nugget seems to be a winner,
yields ranging from 82 to 98 bushels per
acre. It has a strong stalk, makes good
silage, is leaf-blight-resistant and has a
good husk-covering. Its grain is a little
more flinty than that of Funk’s Yellow
Dent.
There was a lot of lodging in the
Funk’s Yellow Dent, and this naturally
affected the yields. Learning did well in
all trials.
Results in detail were:
Super, No Super.
Variety. Bus. Lb. Bus. Lb.
Funk’s Y. Dent ..84 48 69 16
Fitzroy .. .. 80 21 65 8
Golden Nugget .. 82 40 62 40
Yellow Hogan .. 75 12 64 15
Learning .. .. 80 6 64 10
Giant White .. 73 30 68 20
Hickory King .. 63 24 59 6
Golden Beauty .. 59 20 50 48
The grain of Golden Beauty was
affected by mould, and there was poor
germination. The planting machine
could not take the same number of
Hickory King’s large grains, so germi-
nation was light.
Peas as a Cover Crop.
“Lucerne Flea”: The only advice for
the man who is thinking of sowing a
cereal cover crop on newly-cleared scrub
land is—don’t! It has little value as
protection and the return is small.
In half a dozen examples I’ve looked at
there is only a spindly crop with small,
poor-looking clover plants beneath. In
three cases there were adjacent areas
which had been treated in the same
fashion last season ; this season they are
mostly bare ground with an odd clover
plant, though they had two dressings of
a bag of super, to the acre.
No matter how heavy the dressing of
super., it does not do away with the
need for moisture, and on raw, new
land, where the deep-rooting of the
scrub plough has brought a lot of sub-
soil to the surface, it is important to
grow only those crops which will build
up soil fertility. Legumes are the answer
to the problem. Here in the Naracoorte
(S.A.) district field peas have done
famously on new land.
Both pea and clover seed should be
inoculated before sowing. Without
nitrogen-fixing bacteria on their roots
neither legume does much. Cost of the
laboratory-bred cultures works out at a
penny per acre.
Peas should be sown fairly thickly, with
four pound of sub. clover seed per acre.
The peas make an admirable cover for
the clover, and the grazing on the ripe pea
crop makes it profitable.
Many landowners here are switching to
the Dwalganup (early-maturing) strain of
sub. clover for new land and are leaving
the introduction of the more leafy Mt.
Barker strain until later, when the ground
is well covered by growth.
Hints for the Farm.
“Corriedale”: Fifty-fifty salt and
Epsom salt in lick form helps to prevent
sheep from developing bloat on rich pas-
ture. It keeps the bowel moving, which
is the prime necessity.
“Ekib”: When a sow is unable to rear
the litter start the youngsters on cow’s
milk (whole) fed warm and as fresh as
possible, six times daily. After three
weeks, the whole milk can be replaced
gradually by separated milk, reducing the
feeds to three daily. When the change
is being made, keep a trough of dry meal
containing 90 per cent, of pollard, bran,
maize (or wheat) meal, and about 10 per
cent, of meatmeal in the pen. Shelter the
trough and keep it dry. When the dry
food is introduced, keep a constant
supply of water before the piglets.
“Bluey”: Bees are a good sideline on
a mixed farm (B. 31/8/’3B) if there are
lucerne or other good plants about. De-
pending on tree bloom makes returns too
patchy. A small man mostly has a fixed
stand and doesn’t follow the blossom.
In conjunction with grazing, bees are a
nuisance. They need plenty of attention
at shearing time. When a good honey
flow does come the big men with lorries
who follow the blossom cut out the man
with small fixed stands.
“Mt. Boppy”: Perennial rye grass pas-
tures on T. L. Laurie’s property, Glene-
tive, Oxley Island (N.S.W.), have been
there for 30 years. They are kept in
good order by topdressing with a bag of
super, per acre annually, by mowing sur-
plus growth and the use of pasture
harrows. Pastures sown later, and given
the same treatment, are mixtures of
perennial rye, red and white clovers in
small paddocks for rotational grazing.
Balance of rye and clovers is good. The
Jersey herd averages 2501 b. of butter-
fat each per year.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Where can I get information regarding taking
up Crown land on the North Queensland coast ?
■ —S762.
Crown land in Queensland is not now opened
for selection under freeholding tenure. A large
area of scrub land in the Mackay, Innisfail,
Herberton, Atherton and Cairns districts is
being proposed for opening for selection under
perpetual lease tenure for dairying and mixed
farming purposes. Further particulars may be
obtained from Lands Department, Brisbane.
No information regarding land for private sale.
Write to the land and commission agents at
Mackay, Townsville, Ingham, Innisfail, Cairns,
Atherton and Herberton.


NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
CH&f
fd
■ mlw
9 1
With a “JOHNSON”
IRON HORSE” GENERATOR
Lights 12—25 Watt Globes
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
\jI7HY deny yourself the comfort and convenience of Electric
Light and Power for your Radio? With a Johnson “Iron
Horse” Generator Electric Light actually costs you less than the
messy, dangerous, old-fashioned Lamps—for approximately 1/-
you can use 3 lights for 3| hours every night in the week.
Never before has it been possible to offer the man on the land
such real comfort at such small cost. You no longer need to be
inconvenienced with the old-style lighting .... Electric Light,
the great boon of to-day s civilisation, is now available quickly
and economically—at the touch of a switch the Johnson “Iron
Horse” Generator makes possible economical Electric Light for
your home and buildings, and at the same time provides Power
for your Radio and Power for charging Batteries.
Here Are a Few of the More Important Features:
300 WATTS ... 12 VOLTS ... Lights 12, 25-Watt Globes...
ELECTRIC STARTING just push a button . . . FULL
RANGE CONTROL . . . Special Built-in Generator—Johnson
Iron Horse 4-Cycle Petrol Engine . . .
AUTOMATIC CUT-OUT disconnects
when not running . . . Quiet Operation.
. . . Minimum Vibration. CASH PRICE
with 2 heavy-duty 6-volt batteries . . .
143 V
Approx, cost per Point for Material Only 12/6.
Weight when packed 1001 b. Freight extra.
Approved Country Resi-
dents may obtain immediate
possession by paying a
Deposit of £lO, and if the
balance is paid within 12
months there is no charge
for interest.
Write TO-DAY for full
particulars.
f
Manager,
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
Box 4250 Y, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward me specifica-
tions of the Iron Horse Gener-
ator, together with particular?
of your Easy Payment System.
Name
Address
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 4250 Y, G.P.0., SYDNEY
PORTABLE IF DESIRED
s


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and tarn
in Spare Time!
I he most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
The BENGALI. Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
193 4
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGAL, I, BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, Jin., gin., 2in., Black Handle 12/6
» j> .. Xylo. Handle .... 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell'’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks work; used to typing manuscripts. 923.
Youth (18), Sydney, studying accountancy,
some office experience, seeks position. —960.
Racing and sporting writer (24), eight years’
exp. newspapers, broadcasting, seeks position.
924.
Pensioner, N.S.W., wants job as caretaker of
woolshed or similar lor keep. Open one month.
Refs—92B.
Wanted partner in established general busi-
ness and cafe, leading tourist town in N.S.W.
—902.
Young man (19), 5i years’ exp. in grocery
trade, ticket-writer, window-dresser, with driver’s
licnese and knowledge of bookkeeping, wants
job in N.S.W. country town. Refs. —875.
Ex-regular officer Imperial Army, N.S.W.,
educ. English public school and Sandhurst, aged
41, seeks engagement as visiting tutor in city
or suburban area. Fully qualified to teach all
subjects to intermediate standard, including
French and speech training; also coach in
tennis and swimming.—934.
To buy Walton’s Compleat Angler. —94B.
Words of recitation, often delivered by Wilkie
Bard, concerning a drunk and ending “You
can always judge a man by the company that
he keeps. The pig got up and slowly walked
away.”—927.
Copy of any newspaper describing finding of
Union Co.’s s.s Monowai by s.s. Mokoia about
Sept., 1907, when M.L. bound. —933.
Information Sought.
What route was followed by the exploring
expedition which discovered the Canberra dis-
trict, and who were the explorers ? —9Bl.
There were various explorations in the
locality, Lake George being discovered as early
as 1816. The final major exploration of the dis-
trict was undertaken by a naval captain, Mark
John Currie, and John Ovens, of the 74th
Regiment. In May, 1823, accompanied by
Joseph Wild, an experienced bushman, they
left Throsby Park, near Moss Vale, to explore
the country south of Lake George. On May 31
they camped on the river near the site of
Queanbeyan. On the following day they
crossed the Limestone Plains, discovered a
small plain which they named Isabella’s Plain
(now known, as Tuggeranong) in honor of the
daughter of Governor Brisbane, arrived at the
Murrumbidgee River, and, after ascending its
right bank, being unable to cross, camped
somewhere near Tharwa. During the following
five days they travelled southerly, more or less
parallel with the Murrumbidgee River, crossed
the Umaralla River under the impression that
it was the Murrumbidgee, and on June 6
discovered fertile plains which are now known
as the Monaro Plains. The discoveries of this
expedition were almost immediately followed by
pioneer settlement.
■*! * * *
(1) Is the koala a tree-living animal, and is it
at home on the ground? (2) Does it get about
much during the daytime? (3) What food does
it live on ? (4) Do they live in colonies ? (5)
How many are born at the one time? (6) How
are the young carried ? —987.
(1) It is essentially arboreal, and its move-
ments when it descends to the ground are
awkward and clumsy. (2) It is mainly nocturnal,
though it may sometimes be seen moving about
in the daytime. (3) Almost exclusively euca-
lyptus-leaves, but it descends occasionally in
search of other vegetation or to dig for roots.
(4) They generally live in pairs. (5) and (6)
Only one. This is very small at first, and is
retained in a pouch; when it becomes able to
leave this shelter, it is carried about for some
time clinging to its mother’s back or shoulder.
* * * *
What were the circumstances of the “Liberator
frauds” ? —993.
The Liberator Building Society, formed in
1868 in London on the Starr-Bowkett system
to finance the building of homes, became, under
the management of Jabez Balfour, purely an
investing company, with no special relation to
building. Its liabilities, which amounted at the
time of the crash, in 1892, to over £8,000,000,
were incurred in supporting other more or less
shady and shaky businesses in which the
directors were interested —among them the
London and General Bank, the failure of which
the same year precipitated the crisis. There
was a deficiency of over £5,000,000. Balfour
fled to South America, was extradited and sen-
tenced to 11 years’ imprisonment.
ft * * 3|t
A few facts concerning the discovery of the
Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.)? —963.
The accepted version is as follows: In 1835-38
McKeown, a convict escapee, used to levy black-
mail on settlers around Oberon, killing their
stock and holding up their teams. After many
attempts a settler named Whalan, in 1838,
managed to track him to the heart of the main
range, in which his hut was found and he him-
self captured in it. His captors, finding them-
selves in a fertile valley, followed the stream
down until they entered a huge cavern, after-
wards called the Coach-house. Other discoveries
followed slowly, including those of the Elder
(1848) and Lucas (1858) caves, called after J.
Lucas, who in 1864-69 represented Hartley in
the Legislative Assembly.
Who named Botany Bay ( N.S.W .) ?—970.
The name first given to it, according to
Cook’s log, was “Sting-Ray Harbor” or ‘‘Sting-
rays Bay"; the name “Botany Bay” first
appeared in Hawkesworth’s account of Cook s
voyage, and it was for long believed that
Hawkesworth himself christened it. Later evi-
dence cast a doubt on this belief, and the dis-
covery in 1921 of Cook’s autograph journal
has now definitely settled the matter. In it the
words “Sting Rays Harbor,” which were first
written, are deleted in favor of “Botanist
Bay,” and this again is corrected to “Botany
Bay.” The reason for the change is “the quan-
tity of new plants Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander
collected in this place.”
* * * *
Is a leap year every four years or is there
a longer period between at lengthy intervals ?
How do astronomers account for the extra
day?—9l2.
The earth’s journey around the sun is accom-
plished in 365 days shr. 48min. 45isec. The
calendar is kept in line with the seasons by
putting an extra day in the year in every
year divisible by four—leap year. But this
overdoes the correction, the fraction of a day
over being .24103 and not .25. So in the
century years—l Boo, 1900, etc.—-the extra leap
year day is left out. But adding only 24 days
each century leaves the reckoning .00103 of a
day short, so for good measure the leap year
day is inserted in every year divisible by 400—
such as 2000, 2400, etc. This overdoes it, but
it takes nearly 4000 years for the error to
amount to one day.
* * * *
What does Sigmund Freud mean by the
“repetition-compulsion," and does he differen-
tiate between libido and libidinal ? —794.
Freud, in Inhibitions, Symptoms and Anxiety,
defines repetition-compulsion as that state, fre-
quently met with in obsessional neuroses, which
seeks to serve a number of contradictory pur-
poses at once. When any event has not hap-
pened in the desired way, its consequences can
be undone by actions which seek to bring
about the desired result in a different way, and
the many motives which exist for lingering over
such repetitions come into play as well. As
the neurosis proceeds, it is often found that
one symptom-forming motive of first-rate im-
portance is the endeavor to undo a damaging
experience. Thus are discovered new techniques
of defence; these later proceed automatically
under the influence of the so-called repetition-
compulsion. Libido, in Freudian parlance, is
the term used for the sexual impulse in a wide
sense. “Libidinal” is an adjectival form of
libido.
If: * * *
Who are eligible to compete in the Maori-
land centennial literary competitions? —96l
Persons resident in M.L. who were born in
the Dominion or who arrived before attaining
.the age of 10; persons born in M.L. who lived
in the Deminion until attaining the age of 16
but who are now living abroad; persons born
outside M.L. who have resided in the Dominion
for 20 years, and persons born outside M.L.
who arrived there before attaining the age of
10 and lived in the Dominion until attaining
the age of 20.
* * * *
(1) Brief particulars and h.p. of the engine
and drive fitted on Capt. Eyston’s car Thunder-
bolt? (2) Figures for the mile and kilometre
record created by Eyston in November last? —
820.
(1) Two Rolls-Royce supercharged aero
engines, each of 12 cylinders, are fitted behind
the driver, who sits amidships. Behind the
engine comes a train of gearing to an enormous
three-speed gearbox, and behind that again is a
rear axle bevelbox driving the independently
sprung twin wheels at the back. The h.p. de-
veloped by each engine is well over 2500. (2)
Flying mile, mean speed 311.42 m.p.h.; flying
kilometre, mean speed 312.20 m.p.h., thus beat-
ing Sir Malcolm Campbell’s 301.13 m.p.h. with
his Bluebird.
*
What is Athole brose, and how is it made? —
874.
Athole brose is the facetious name given to
the pre-cocktail drink unobtrusively enjoyed
by the Scots. It is composed of equal parts of
old whisky, honey which is clearly strained and
fluid, and sweet cream, all well whisked or
shaken together. The proportions may be varied
to suit any taste; sometimes a dash of brandy
is added, and when a quantity is being made
a handful of oatmeal is sometimes added as a
fortifier.
, * * * *
What flowering plants are suitable for a dry
inland N.S.W. area where the rainfall is about
6in. a year, with little water to spare for them
in the summer months? —982.
Annuals suitable for dry soils are marigolds
(orange and yellow), nasturtiums (all colors),
eschscholtzias (lemon, orange and red shades),
snapdragons (dwarf varieties, particularly pink
and dark-red colors), alyssums (white and
mauve), coreopsis and miniature sunflowers
(yellow), candytuft (all colors), and portulaca
(all colors, very suitable for borders). Get the
plants in as soon as possible to help them
become established before the summer sets in.
During very hot days provide an overhead
shade of newspapers or tea-tree (or similar
foliage), and apply any wash-up and laundry
water to the roots of the plants in late after-
noon.
Reliable method of growing Sturt’s desert pea
(Clianthus dampieri ) ? The soil is heavy and
the district outside the sea-limit. —989.
In a sunny position dig out beds 2ft. deep
and spread in them layers of either cinders or
broken stones. Cover this with sand and
soil (equal parts), press down firmly, and fill
in the beds with light soil in which is mixed
rotted bush leaves and small sticks to keep the
soil “free.” Avoid manures or fertilisers—
both of which are injurious. Soak the seed in
hot water for about six hours, then sow in the
beds, cover with -jin. of light loam and water
lightly. The plants, which carry a long taproot,
will not replant and soon wither if disturbed.
They should be allowed to grow and trail in
their own way. October is the best planting
time.
* * * *
What is the difference between toads and
frogs ? —996.
The typical frog is smooth-skinned, slender-
bodied and long-legged; the toad is characteristi-
cally clumsy, with short legs and a warty and
usually dark-colored skin. The variations in
different families are so great, however, that
distinctions cannot always be made. Certain
relatives of the typical frogs are very toadlike,
and some species of so-called toad families
outwardly resemble frogs.
* * * *
(1) When was lithography invented? (2) How
is it done? —979.
(1) About the end of the eighteenth century.
(2) The design is drawn with a greasy crayon
or a pen with oily ink on a stone which has the
properties of taking a very fine surface polish
and absorbing water. Modern lithographers, as
a rule, use an aluminium plate. When the draw-
ing is complete the stone or plate is fixed into
a press and wetted. That part of the stone or
plate on which no design appears absorbs the
moisture, while no water will adhere to the
greasy lines of the drawing. An ink roller is
applied, which reverses the result, as the ink is
attracted by the greasy design and will not
adhere to the damp stone or plate. The printing
is then done in the ordinary way.
* * * •
What are goatfish ? —967.
Another name for red mullet. They belong
to the family Mullidae, and have two fleshy
barbels beneath the chin, which have been
likened to a goat’s beard; these serve as tactile
organs, and the young fish may be observed
around wharf piles with these members extended
forward, feeling among the marine growths. All
members of the family are richly colored with
brilliant reds and yellows, and with blue streaks
and spots which scintillate as the fish struggle
in their death-throes. I.t was fashionable among
the Romans to have the fish brought alive into
the dining-hall, so that guests could feast their
eyes upon their gorgeous and changing hues
during the dying agonies. Several species in-
habit Australian waters.
v * * *
I wish to lay down a green concrete path.
What material should I use to obtain the color?
Quantity of coloring material and how mixed
with the concrete? —999.
Vetramine green (51b. to 61b. per bag of
cement, 941 b.) for a light shade; lime green (71b.
to 91b. per bag of cement) for a medium
shade; chromium oxide (81b. to 101 b. per
bag of cement) for a dark shade.
The color should be mixed with the cement be-
fore any sand or water is added. Take one
bag of cement, spread on a concrete mixing
board, add the color and well mix by hand
until uniform, then pass through a fine sieve (100
mesh if possible) several times. Too dry a mix
will yield a dull, lifeless tone, and too wet a
mix will yield irregularly-colored surfaces, owing
mainly to efflorescence. A steel floating trowel
gives a darker color than the wooden float. A
concrete cured in sunlight will give a lighter
color than one cured in the shade. Trowelling
on partly-hardened surfaces produces blotches.
* * * *
What were the bowling figures of O'Reilly
and Fleetwood-Smith at the end of each day’s
play in the recent big-scoring Test match, and
their figures for the innings? —9lo.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wickets.
First Day—
O’Reilly .. 35 10 79 1
F.-Smith ..35 3 121 0
Second Day—
O’Reilly ..31.2 9 65 1
F.-Smith ..35 5 114 1
Third Day—
O’Reilly .. 18.4 7 34 1
F.-Smith .. 17 3 63 0
O’Reilly .. 85 26 178 3
F.-Smith ..87 11 298 1
* * * *
(1) What were the batting figures of Hill (in
1896) and Badcock ( with the present team) in
their first Test matches in England? (2) When
did Hill score 99, 98 and 97 in successive Test
innings, and where ? —977.
(1) Hill’s innings were 1 and 5, 9 and 14,
1 and o—3o runs, average 5. Badcock’s efforts
were 9 and 5, 0 and 0, 4 and 5 not out, 0 and 9
—32 runs, average 4.57. (2) Hill scored 99
in the second innings of the second Test against
England at Melbourne, January 1-4, 1902, and
98 and 97 in the third Test at Adelaide, Janu-
ary 17-23, 1902.
* * * *
(1) What were the scores of English cricketers
Fagg and Worthington in the Tests in Australia
in 1936-37? (2) Their averages for the tour?
—991.
(1) First Test, Worthington 0 and 8, Fagg
4 and 27; second Test,' Fagg 11 ; third Test,
Worthington 0 and 16; fifth Test, Worthington
44 and 6. (2) Averages for all matches—Fagg
had 19 innings, 1 not out, 112 highest score,
512 runs, average 28.44; Worthington had 28
innings, 2 not outs, 89 highest score, 658 runs,
average 25.30.
* * * *
What is the exact plan of the football field
under N.S.W. Rugby Union rules? —965.
Length of playing field 110 yards, length of
touch-in-goal 25 yards, width of playing field 75
yards, goal posts lift, high, crossbar 18ft. 6in.
across and 10ft. from the ground to the top
edge of the crossbar. These figures are the
maximum, but where the area will not permit of
the full size matches can be arranged on a
slightly smaller scale. It is advisable, however,
to consult N.S.W. Rugby Union, Spring-street,
Sydney, where it is intended to use other than
the regulation playing field.
Brief Answers.
G.M.: Club in question declined to furnish
figures... .J.A.M.: The eggs of cockroaches are
usually laid in a warm, moist place. The
young which hatch are similar in appearance to
the adults, but are smaller and lack wings.
They take refuge in cracks and crevices and
remain hidden during the day, emerging during
the night to seek their food. Best method ol
extermination is by the use of the poison
sodium fluoride... .J.W.H.: (1) and (2) No in-
formation available in books giving food values.
(3) The dust commonly contains turpentine,
pitch, tar and resin. After removal of these,
nothing much but cellulose would remain.
Ducks will not live on that... .C.J.G.: Ihe
editors of the “Scientific American” have pub-
lished two books on the making of astronomical
telescopes, Amateur Telescope Making and
Amateur Telescope Making Advanced, contain-
ing all the information necessary to the
amateur El. M.: The roots of pussy-wilUpw
shrubs are a danger to waterpipes and drain-
age system. Generally the roots are near the
surface and can be cut off where they enter
your property; but if it means that such work
will damage your cement paths, draw the atten-
tion of the Water and Sewerage Board
to the trouble R.J.: Slaters can be kept in
check by placing shallow tins containing Pans
green or arsenate of lead (one part) and blood
and bone fertiliser (20 parts) about the seed-
boxes. This mixture is poisonous, and there-
fore should be kept out of the reach of animals
or children J.D.: He paid two visits
to India, first being from August, 1935, to
March, 1936. He returned to Melbourne in
April, 1936, but went back to India that year
and remained there only two months. On his
first visit he won the Viceroy’s Cup and the Arab
Derby. He was one of several jockeys whose
licenses were not renewed by the V.R.C. without
reason being assigned. Eventually the ban was
lifted J. 8.: (1) No better or worse than
other places; there has lately been an epidemic
of influenza at Broome. (2) Summer climate
is very trying, with high humidity, the tempera-
ture sometimes rising to 108 deg. (3) 1037.
(4) No. North Westralia is suitable only for
strong and healthy men. (5) No. Annual rain-
fall 16.37. (6) Steamer from Sydney to Fre-
mantle £ll, steamer from Fremantle to Broome
£7 2s. 6d 0.C.: Can trace no book on the
subject A.C.8.: Provided you are prepared
to open a laundry in conjunction with a dry-
cleaning business, there should be good pros-
pects in the town mentioned.. . .S.A.M.: The
cargo steamers carrying a limited number of
passengers for which Gilchrist, Watt and San-
derson, Sydney, are agents are the Blue Funnel
line, which have accommodation for four to
six passengers, the N.D.L., which carry up to
12 passengers, and the Hamburg Amerika line,
in which vessels the accommodation is limited
and varies according to the type of vessel.
The fare by any of these steamers is £55 sterling
from Sydney to Europe or England, and there
is at least a monthly sailing by one of the
steamers of the three lines... .R.F.0.N.: (1)
Aspen is used in the manufacture of the sticks,
and Queensland hoop pine for the boxes. (2)
The aspen is all imported from Sweden or
Latvia. (3) (a) Approximately £225,000, (b)
approximately £12,000... .S.V.P.: Vivian Mc-
Grath was born at Merrendee, near Mudgee
(N.S.W.), on February 17, 1916... .R.S.H.:
Send the drawings for criticism... .R.M.: Sug-
gest that you canvass leading Sydney grazing
companies, also advertise in Sydney press
G. : You have the right to recover from
him all money, with interest, properly paid on
account of the guarantee provided the power
of attorney authorises the attorney to accept
writs and defend actions A.F.: Submit the
Byron letter to Tyrrell’s, 281 George-street,
Sydney... .T.S.: Write secretary, Australian
Council for Educational Research, 145 Collins-
street, Melbourne A.F.: (1) See mineral map
of N. S. Wales and circular giving suggestions
for inexperienced prospectors, obtainable from
Mines Dept., Sydney. (2) Cannot recommend.
(3) The Guide for Prospectors, obtainable from
the Department of Mines or Government
Printer, Sydney; 2s L.G.8.: Kangaroos are
to be found in the western and north-western
districts of Queensland, in greater or less
numbers according to the season. Application
for a license to shoot kangaroos in any par-
ticular district should be made to the clerk of
the local shire council... .K.M.T.: (1) The
monthly return would vary considerably, de-
pending upon the skill of the trapper, the
number of traps used, the district and the
proximity to a suitable market. (2) Communi-
cate with stock inspectors of the various pasture-
protection districts direct. (3) Equipment would
include about nine dozen traps at about 18s.
per dozen. (4) The main trapping season is
from autumn to early spring, but by trapping
in various districts of different climates the
season may be extended. (5) Refer to the
Queensland Department of Agriculture
H. : On an indictment for murder the jury
may convict the prisoner of manslaughter or of
an attempt to murder, but not of a common
assault. This is the rule in English law and
holds good in Australia... .J.V.R.: You, as
the present owner of the sheep, are responsible
in the first instance, but if you can show that
when negotiating the sale the department was
aware that they were “lousy” you may
have recourse against it. There is a legal
maxim caveat emptor —“let the purchaser be-
ware”—that you should have observed when
taking over the sheep A.W.: Consult the
physician in charge of the Diabetic Clinic at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney
F.W.P.: Malley’s, Ltd., 50 Mountain-street,
Sydney. When writing, forward full particulars
and dimensions of the filter J. 8.: Wheat
harvesting will start in the Parkes (N.S.W.)
district about the end of November. It would
be difficult for an inexperienced man to obtain
work there, as usually there are plenty of local
men who are experienced in the work. The
engagements are only casual, covering the
period of harvesting, which lasts for about a
month. The rate of pay is about 12s. per day
with keep.


HEADACHES NEARLY
DROVE HIM MAD
Now Completely Changed
by Kruschen.
The writer of the following letter suffered
from liver trouble, constant headaches and an
unhealthy load of excess fat. Read how he
cured his headaches—toned up his liver—and
lost 36 lbs. of fat—all with the same remedy:
“I was so stout that my general health was
completely undermined. I had constant head-
aches that almost drove me crazy, and I suf-
fered from a continual feeling of liverishness.
I weighed 16 stone 5 lbs. I began to take
Kruschen Salts, and, after 10 or 12 days, my
whole being was completely changed. My liver
does not bother me any more, I feel younger
and more active, my headaches are gone.
Yesterday, to my great delight, I found that
I now weigh only 13 stone 11 lbs.” —M.A.L.
Headaches can nearly always be traced to a
disordered stomach, and to the unsuspected re-
tention in the system of stagnating waste
material which poisons the blood. Kruschen
Salts removes these poisons—prevents them
forming again—and so brings lasting relief
from headaches.
BLUE GILLETTES: ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR 5
d
THE
"MEEKA"
POLEY
SADDLE.
£ll/14/-
(BARE),
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED),
Is full “Somer-
set” type and
is made of best
quality Kip. The
flaps and skirt are in
one piece. The tree
is strongly made
and has a solid gullet plate.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOH^H
33S CEORCE ST. SYDKEY
PTY'.I
LTD.
Z a Ch
°rH £
R
V
A
li
The oii| i>Ja|leJthatf its the
Gillette l|a z o r,/ 1 i s 11 e 11 e
blade. For
them together. *IV::Vy
Years of research and experience are behind the
modern Gillette razor and Blue Gillette blade. They
are made side by side, under the same strict super-
vision, in the great Gillette factory. Because these
two were absolutely made for each other, you
should always use them together—for keen, smooth,
easy shaving every day of the year.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
Vis-a-vis: N0....P.M.: Obscure... .H.J.W.:
all of them promising, but well off our beat....
R.M.: Not for us; try it elsewhere... .L. 8.:
Nothing new there... .F.MacD.: Flapper
fodder... .M.L.: No more than nice....
E.8.W,: Never gets off the ground.... M. 8.:
No tongue could comfortably get round
“shed a soft sheltering shade”... J.M.:
Why?... .E.A.W.: A pot-plant... .E.C.:
Shopworn J.M.P.: Seen worse V.J.:
Mechanical... .M.R.: Doesn’t hold water.
. ...E.A.: Not even a smile for 8i11....
R.K.T.: “She didn’t understand”
L.D.: Couldn’t accommodate the sewing guild
at that length... .A.G.0.: None of them up.
G.E.: Keep on reading 5.0.8.: Well,
“douse the glim” G.F.: Stodgy D.J.L.:
No room for fairy tales R. 8.: Send ’em
back to Noo Yark... .D.M.: An idea there, but
it needs brightening C.McN.: Thin L.S.:
A stretch of g100m... .G.T.: Nothing there
for u5....L.T.: Well off our beat... .Vide:
Vale !... .H.G.: Nearer... .G.L.: No, you
won’t tell us about “a humble workman ... a
deeply religious soul” ... .K.L.-S.: You’ve dived
into bellerdrammer there... .U.E.: No
W.C.: Doesn’t need any assurance that the
story is fictitious A.C. and E.F.: Wonder-
ing. .. .R.R.K.: “For heaven’s sake get on
with the yarn.” You said it T.H.F.: Been
done before... .E.J.H.: No place for Queen
Victoria’s visit to Bath S.H.: Not those
R.S.: Admirable sentiments... .8.5.5.: “Oft
have we heard” too T.P.: Not exactly what
the doctor ordered D. 8.: A just reproof,
but too late... .M.S.: If it had all been as light
as the “questionable egg”! LJ.: Not much
metal in those roads R.W.G.: Can’t you
raise the fare out West? F.A.T.: Bad
1uck....W.: Confused... .D.D.: H0110w....
J. 8.: “Fain?” C.G.: Might click elsewhere.
E.L.K.: Sentimental... .C.S.W.: Sounds
like static... .5.R.8.: Is it something out of
“Chu-Chin-Chow”? ... .F.J.: Alas and alack!
J.W.S.: But “something” doesn’t rhyme
very well with “Nature”... .J.M.8.: Entertain-
ing, but there’s nothing we can do with it....
R.W.L.: Suggest you tie “wandering feet” to
the bedpost P.W.: Take it away, brother.
... .R.W., K.J. and W.K.S.: We think n0t....
J.R.W.: Behave yourself, please... .C.A.: Yes,
we’ve felt like that, t00....J.L.: Try a daily.
E.W.: Slight. .. .E.L.M.: No, n 0!....
J.T.: Doesn't get there... .L.T.G.: Squawking
child soundly smacked and put to bed in the
w.p.b H.R.P.: Not that one, but come
again P.R.C.: Deposited with its mates in
the morgue... .K.H.C.: Possibly... .G. 8.:
Hooray; now write about something gloomy.
... .T.8.R.: Finish spoiled its chances. ...
P.R.8.: Might place it elsewhere N.T.:
“Pitiful, isn’t it?” No, terrible... .F.P.C.:
Good typing N.T.C.: Illustrations mourn-
ful, yarn worse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.: Labored jest and a jcrrybuilt drawing.
T.N.: Missed the mark, but only by a
small margin... .W.L.: Hard to tell where the
rolling-pin begins and the lady’s arm ends....
M.D.: The religious editor fainted at the sight
of that unseemly effort T.A.: Traffic cop
needs to be redrawn on more generous lines.
H.M.: The most common variation of one
of the world’s oldest jokes A.P.: More
likely to send our circulation down than up.. ..
F.F.: Tempted to reproduce it as a horrible
example H.G.P.: Use fixative on charcoal
drawings before posting P.D.: Political car-
toon is a hotch-potch of muddled ideas
J. : Amateurish T.S.: The horse is dead.
R.J.L.: Chestnut No. 1047 is now reposing
in the w.p.b C. 8.: Slightly better than the
last batch, but you have a long journey ahead
of you D.lSt.: Now in our museum of freaks.
S.C.: Operate on the chap on the right
K. Can’t see you'making the grade for
many years to come R.T.: The average nine-
year-old nipper could do better than that....
C.H.: No cheque for those atrocities
R.A.D.: That old Capital and Labor see-saw
idea has long been consigned to the rubbish
heap H.A.: But they’re not abos J.T.:
Quite prepared to believe it is your own un-
aided work B V.: Go to life for your
models P.S.: It’s a bit late in the year to
turn in a winter joke... .G.R.: Promising; let
us hear from you again when your work im-
proves A.D.8.: You belong to the Ancient
Order of Purveyors of Stale Gags... .N. 8.: A
neat drawing M.W.V.: Not a moneymiaker
among the half-dozen... .J.D.H.: Too faint for
successful reproduction... .A.G.8.: As humor-
ous as a postage stamp.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Imbaga”: Some of these anthropolo-
gists only want a pimple to develop a
carbuncle. “Anthropo” (B. 7/9/’3B) is
one when he tries to trace a racial affinity
between the Polynesian Maori and the
Mongoloid Eskimo because both are
totem-worshippers. This is a shaky foun-
dation to build on. In a moderate ex-
perience of the Western Pacific I have
found totem-worshipping —if one can
call it that —living side by side with
people who didn’t bother about it. I
can give two notable instances which
existed long ago in Papua. On one
side of a small river dwelt a tribe with
unspeakable morals and greatly addicted
to concubinage. They were animists.
On the other side of the creek was a
non-cannibal tribe —the Orokolos —who
were rigid totemists. No one of this
tribe could kill his or her totem. But
if he or she were out for a walk with
someone of a different totem there was
no objection if the shark man killed the
gohanna man’s totem for dinner, all
the go.’s supporter being allowed to do
being the utterance of the fae mai, the
cry of sympathy.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: The hobby of an Italian
bird-lover has been responsible for the
final disappearance of malaria from the
Pontine Marshes area near Rome. The
marshes were drained some years ago,
but the mosquitoes remained, and with
them the malaria they carried. Some-
one noticed that swallows never visited
the district, and suggested that they might
be introduced to tackle the insects.
Signor Budini had, years before, inter-
ested himself in taking young swallows
from the nest, transferring them to arti-
ficial nests at his own house, and feed-
ing them on a special paste until they
matured. In spring they migrated to
Africa, but returned in autumn to the
artificial colony. He transferred 2000
young birds to the Pontine area, and soon
established a large permanent colony.
During the 20 days in the nest each
young swallow is supplied with an aver-
age of 134,000 mosquitoes by its parents,
and malaria has gone.
* * * *
“Aileron”: That eccentric bird Roscoe
Turner has won the blue ribbon of
U.S.A. air racing, the Thompson trophy
by flying 300 miles at 283.419 m.p.h. He
won the Thompson also in 1934. In the
Melbourne centenary race he came third
A friend who had to meet Turner in
Melbourne told the writer that, though
much exposed to Yanks, he never struck
one like Roscoe; Roscoe’s voice, man-
ners, attitude to groundlings and cloth-
ing outdid anything he had ever heard
of. A cross between Wild Bill Hickok,
half a dozen of the most unendurable
film actresses and Sam Goldwyn dressed
up in a self-designed uniform like a
South American general’s was about
as near as he could get to it.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Americans are return-
ing to the land-speed-record game. In
the days of the unsafe Daytona Beach
track a couple of drivers were killed, and
the Amurrican Eagle announced it a
waste of good material. Now one
Jenkins, described as “the famous Ameri-
can racing motorist,” is to give Eyston’s
new record of 345.49 m.p.h. a go on the
Bonneville lakebed in Utah. He will use
a twin-engined car of 2400 h.p. and
entirely new design, and says he will do
400 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Yarker”: Yorkshire has won the
county cricket championship for the 20th
time —eleven times since the war. A
wonderful record. Reasons are the
large population, which leaves plenty of
choice of personnel, excellent financial
management, and the care devoted, not
only to developing talent, but to pro-
viding generously for the professionals
when playing days are over. Most of
this system was built up under Lord
Hawke, whom the man in the street
is apt to regard as an inveterate foe to
professionals. Yorkshire had a moral
victory over Australia this season. Five
Yorkshiremen played in the Tests, and
three others, Yardley, Gibb and Smailes,
were selected but did not play.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The lack of sufficient
accommodation at Kennington Oval is
again awakening loud howls from the
English papers. Why the bigger county
clubs and the M.C.C. cannot increase
their accommodation is a puzzle to Aus-
tralians. Cash is lacking in some cases,
but banks would cheerfully back a big
expenditure if revenue from the Aus-
tralian matches was earmarked for repay-
ment. The Melbourne club spent £lOO,OOO,
and all that was borrowed on the strength
of football and cricket dates.* Some of
the London Soccer grounds, holding up
to 80,000 people, have the seating covered
in all round the oval; consequently the
worst weather has no terrors for spec-
tators.


*
>\ v : vvxw
Y,e
O'®
A© 6© fct
>* 6 ’ ‘
Wo** 5
iV®
69
«c©
OK
X>w. of istNCtS '&**jfai
§o^
K*» ' s
**the
Perfect
Pair
WHOLESOME
& DELICIOUS
MADE FROM
ji&ik
7iuit
NO ESSENCE
USED
Gordons
ORANGE GIN • LEMON GIN
;; 3 he latye&t yin dtitillM in the woild
W?A
o
L * sP«,ally 5 P«,ally A
i
ORDONs
ORDONSI
LEMON i
QIN ,4;
|H9
imamm
?ANQUERAy GORDON h C* *•’•'
Th« Distillery
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
Ek
&r\d
STILL
M®
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
wIT(JTFT{ v AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUsmiuVfl nnan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Wood. Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
• Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street S\ DNEY.
rnnpwwfiT Flnlihistones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE.' Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
T\siilANT4- w T Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H C Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
Twelve Thousand. Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXVI
After the Grea, War came ,he Great
esiuence.
Journalists bent on being Picturesque
called it the black plague. oc -
acknowledged that it was just influenza
in an unusually severe form. In a tew
months it killed more Australians than
had been slain in battle and had died of
wounds in Gallipoli in double the time.
The deathrate was highest in New
South Wales, where an enlightened Gov-
ernment had compelled its subjects to
wear masks. People protested that six
o’clock closing of bars, introduced as a
win-the-war expedient, also contributed
to the mortality, since the only effective
treatment was whisky, taken often in
large doses with hot water, lemon and
sugar. Their remonstrances were un-
availing.
A Bolshevik “Consul’ established him-
self in Sydney and there was great talk
of forming Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Coun-
cils. These projects failed everywhere,
farmers being unsympathetic (for one
filing, they would not admit that they
were peasants) and soldiers hostile.
Evidently anticipating another revolu-
tion—“like the beautiful one they re
having at Tomsk,” as someone wrote—
Russians from Queensland country dis-
tricts and others who had come down
from Vladivostok concentrated in Bris-
bane and opened a Russian Club. But
their Red wine went to their heads; they
fell out with the authorities (once charg-
ing into the Domain to hold a pro-
hibited meeting) and with the Diggers.
The Russian Club, a wooden building,
was surrounded by a body of returned
warriors and imperfectly protected by
police. The word went round that a
soldier on crutches had been ill-treated ;
the club was attacked, captured and fired,
There were no Russians in it; the Mus-
covites had made good time to safer
parts.
Little wars were raging in Europe,
Czechs and Poles fought for Teschen ;
Poles and Lithuanians, for Vilna. An
Italian force descended on Fiume; a
Rumanian army appeared in Hungary.
That country had had its Bolshevik
Ma^n
and Szamuelly—and was a close copy of
{he Moscow affair . a frenzy of mass
murder and robbery. Hungarian objec-
tQrs w£re more resolute and better i e d
than the anti _ Red Russ i an s. In a few
months Mr . Cohen was back in Moscow
wjth an unstretched neck . Mr. Samuels
was nQt SQ successfuL
The Germans had had their Red rising
or s par tacist revolt, of much briefer
durat j on than the Hungarian. It demon-
strated that windbags and doctrinaires
can ’ t fi gbt patriots inured to war with
arms j n their hands. Karl Liebknecht
and Rosa Luxembourg, a Jewess from
Poland married to a German, led the
Spartacists ; they were taken, and killed
w j tbout mercy—murdered, their sym-
pathisers said.
These events rekindled the sleeping
Tires of anti-Semitism, which, kept alight
jn ensu i ng years till whole peoples were
persua ded that Communism was the
creat j on G f V ain, clever, ruthless inter-
natjonal Jews, and that only national
un j ty unde r dictatorships could save them
from frightful civil wars aimed at “world
revolution,” have had such cruel results
f or worthy Jews in our own day.
j n Australian Trades Halls and trade-
unjon offices, Lenin and Trotsky were
quoted with reverence, even though the
rank a nd file of trade-unionists showed
themselves exasperatingly unwilling to
profit by their example,
The seamen had gone on strike and
funds were low. Their union had been
well off when its affairs were managed
by a Scot who saw that it got the worth
of every bawbee ; but the Scot had been
expelled for turning conscriptionist, and
the new regime had no bent for finance.
“Nearly broke, are we?” growled one
of the old hands at a strike meeting,
“Then why should we be? What about
a balance sheet?”
The new president of the union, Mr.
Tom Lacey, was in the chair.
“Pwhat’s that I hear?’ Mr. Lacey
thundered. “Is it balance sheet ye say?”
“You heard me,” the veteran replied,
stoutly defiant of threats issued from
several quarters that if he didn’t shut
up he would be “knocked rotten.”
“Balance sheet it was, thin,” quoth
Mr Lacey. “I moind me, comrades, of
Lenin an’ Throtshky. D’ye think that
whin those great men were freein’ their
counthry, whin they were in the thick of
their glorious rivolution, whin they lid
the soldiers and the peasants along the
Nevsky Prospikt, and into the palace of
the Rawmanoffs, and up the shteps of
the Kremlin, dhroivin’ the Whoites before
thim like shape—is it loikely, comrades,
that whin Lenin and Throtshky were
makin’ history, as they were doin’, whin
they were chasin’ the Tsar-r from his
gilded t’rone, whin victory was roostin’
on the Red Flag—is it loikely that they
were intherrupted by some meddlin’
gintleman loike our friend there wid a
Thank yez, Misther Lenin, much ob-
loiged, Misther Throtshky ; but phwat
have ye done wid the dough? We want
a balance sheet ’ ”
Mr. Lacey's reply was voted thoroughly
convincing and the strike went on till the
convincing, and the strike went on tin me
money g .
In the transition from war to peace
the seamen’s minds had been unsettled.
After carrying soldiers for four years and
daring submarines and mines, they had
come down to toting trippers between
Fremantle and Brisbane, and watching
them booze and gorge and flirt in the
oafish shipboard way, and play idiotic
deck games 1 ; and the contrast was too
shattering.
The seamen had solid grievances
withal. The most substantial was that
their war service feceived little recog-
nition from shipowners, who made
money hand over fist, and less from the
Australian Government. They were de-
prived of the war gratuity, which was
granted, not only to the men of the
A.I.F. and the R.A.N. who went abroad,
but to members of both forces who never
left Australia.
“Well, isn’t that jist loike a Gov-
ernment?” said Terry’s acquaintance,
Jim Brophy. Brophy was a Common-
wealth Government inspector who was
spending a holiday in Sydney; he had
been stationed at Fremantle throughout
the war, and the seamen had no warmer
admirer.
"vVny shouldn’t they get their eighteen-
pence a day, Oi’d loike to know? Didn’t
they do more than any of them base
wallahs? Could the Allies have wan the
war without the min o’ the mercantile
marine? If Oi had me way Oi’d give ’em
all the grachuity, Australians an’ British,
too.”
“Pommies?”
“Don’t call ’em that, Terry. Oi’m a
Dublin man born, and ye know where
me sympathies loi now the throubles
have come ; but Oi always take off me
tial to the British seaman.”
“What makes you say that?”
“Personal observation, me bhoy.
Bechune December, nointeen-fourteen,
an’ November, nointeen-eighteen, Oi .‘aw
p-.'vvic-mHs o’ shins Dull out from Fre-
mantle goin’ north. Troopships an'
wheat-ships an’ wool-ships an’ ships wid
their holds full of metals; converted
loiners an’ hookers an’ tramps.”
"Thousands? ’
"Well, hundreds, it ye loike. Fre-
mantle, ye see, was a place ;
the last port o’ call for craft goin to the
danger zone. It a seafarin man didn t
loike facin’ the perils o’ the deep as they
was multiplied thin ; if his heart failed
him at the thought of a German torpedo
blowin the inside out o his cratt, or or a
floatin’ moine sendtn all the ship s corn-
pany skoiward, or of dyin o cold in an
open boat m the Atlantic—and in noin-
teen-sivinteen it was only about six to four
agin any o’ them things happenin there
was nothin to shtop him quittin and
getlin’ a job ashore. A sale job at better’n
sea wages, wid any amount o’ good food,
such as the sailors mver got—sailors were
often on short rations—for the duration.
But no man iver quit. If there had been
wan case of desertion at Fremantle in
any °f thim war years Oi would have
heard of it; but 1 niver did. British and
Australian seamen, they all saw it
through So Qi take off me hat t 0 thirn
lads, and tbe Australians don’t get the
grachuity it will be a damned shame.”
The gratuity was Mr. Pew’s idea. The
war had been won, and why shouldn’t
the winners receive a special mark of
their country’s gratitude? And why
shouldn’t the people decide for or against
it at the general election which had been
arranged, six months or so before the
due date?
What would the gratuity cost? About
twenty-five millions, Mr. Pew thought,
But only soldiers in dire necessity
would be paid in cash ; the rest
would receive bonds, negotiable at the
end of five years.
The Labor Opposition had been rein-
forced by Mr. Ryan, who had ceased to
be Premier of Queensland and was stand-
ing for Mr. Pew’s old electorate, Mr.
Pew’s successor having gracefully made
way for him.
At Mr. Ryan’s instance, the Labor
Opposition offered a bigger gratuity than
Mr. Pew had promised, and undertook
to pay it in cash “before Christmas.” It
also promised the soldiers fatter farms
and prettier villas than the Nationalists
would give them—the Commonwealth
Bank and a Government Commission
were already competing in the homes-for-
soldiers business and beginning to lose
money on a large scale—and guaranteed
high prices for producers, low prices for
consumers and employment for all.
But the soldiers were true to Pew.
Though a Country party, very critical
of the Nationalists and their leader, had
made its appearance,- and a few elec-
torates which had been “Liberal” before
Mr. Pew changed his label transferred
their allegiance to it, Mr. Pew and his
Nationalists were returned with substan-
tial majorities in both Houses. In the
Senate the Labor Opposition was re-
duccd to one member.
The world was not yet sick of clever
men.
(To be continued.)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a South Australian.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
Technique of Strike-making
To the uninitiated it is always a source
of wonder that a few militants can start
a strike when the great majority of the
workers concerned would rather be on
the job. I have seen the tail wag the
dog on many occasions. On one, 300
men met in a public hall. The fire-
eaters, with a strong following of youth-
ful irresponsibles, were in the back seats.
They were well organised, and had their
programme all cut and dried.
The pacifists were individualists almost
to a man. Many were married, some
were elderly, most had a lot to lose and
little to gain by a “class-struggle.”
The first step of the fighters was to
appoint as chairman a nice chap who
was respected by everybody but who was
quite incapable of ruling a rowdy meet-
ing.
When a strike advocate spoke he
received • a good hearing, followed by
vociferous applause from the gang.
When a pacifist rose to his feet he was
immediately greeted with cat-calls, bird-
calls, raspberries, mimicry, and abuse.
Few decent working men are game to
face such a barrage, and the debate was
one-sided in consequence.
As usual on such occasions, the ques-
tion was decided by a show of hands.
The ayes, disciplined and confident,
showed their hands boldly sometimes
both hands —and bullied as many as
possible of their weaker brethren into
doing the same. The noes, uncertain
of support even from their friends, and
certain of a fusillade of epithets from
behind, in many cases failed to respond
when their turn came. The ayes had it,
and the strike was on.
The only possible cure for such
racketeering and intimidation is compul-
sory secret voting, under the eye of some
recognised authority, just as in a political
election. At the end of a losing battle
the militants always plump for the secret
vote in order to save their face and
give them an excuse for being first back
at their benches. — Stroke (S.A.).
“Stroke” is J. Wilson, 307 Angas-street,
Adelaide, S.A. He gets the £3 3s. prize,
plus space rates —2£d. a line.
“Brighter”
A pet abomination of mine is the use
of the word “brighter.” “Brighter”
cricket, for instance, the advocates of
which would have it played either as
baseball or by circus clowns ; “brighter”
newspapers, which find expression in
sensational warmongering and pictorial
supplements of acres of bare flesh;
“brighter” church services enlivened by
the introduction of Wurlitzer organs and
vaudeville stars imitating the bleating of
American sheep; “brighter” Sunday
wireless programmes, which would sub-
stitute dance orchestras and adenoidal
warblers for religious services and good
music ; “brighter” picture-shows, which
get their sparkle from polished bathroom-
taps, glamorous bedrooms and childish
freak theses ; “brighter” clothing, which
usually means more brightness and less
clothing. To me, the word “brighter”
is associated with infantilism, ugliness,
illiteracy and vulgarity. What about an
“anti-brightness” league to restore sanity
to a dazzled, befuddled and bewildered
world? — Kyamba (S.A.).
“Some Day My Prince Will Come”
If the lean and foolish knight for ever
riding in vain down dusty roads to
encounter windmills was unable to recog-
nise them as such in Cervantes’s time
he is even less able to do so now. Not
only has the old gentleman’s stupidity
increased, but to-day his name is legion
Tutored by the movies, the flapper
press, and the ever-present blare of the
radio, many young people, particularly
girls, are growing up to believe in a
romanticism altogether divorced from
reality; and when under its influence
they encounter the windmills a few
hard facts—they wonder what has hit
them.
The heroines of the screen are mostly
luxurious creatures who neither toil nor
spin, the favorite story of the flapper
press depicts luv-overcoming-all and the
“It's your turn , Nellie —I sat on the last one."
happy-ever-after themes, while over the
air comes the assurance that “Some Day
My Prince Will Come.”
The modern flapper believes firmly in
her prince. Hasn’t she been taught to?
When he comes she won’t have to work
any more ; she’ll have an expensive flat,
play bridge, and look decorative. No
children, of course —well, perhaps one
later on. In fact, no obligations of any
kind.
And when her prince, probably
struggling to get above the six-pound-
a-week mark, and consequently with-
out much time for luv or romanticism,
does arrive, trouble starts. She finds
that the job of being married is the
hardest she has ever taken on, and that
she is totally unequipped for it in out-
look or any other way. Lances are
broken, but the windmills still keep
turning.
Tragic as this is to the individual, it
is still more so nationally. The result
increasingly is marriage failures, declin-
ing birthrate —national retrogression.
This is not meant to be a criticism of
the flapper. That so many do remain
sane despite this twentieth-century
romanticism-gone-mad is the marvel.
But the educationists need to get busy,
and quickly, counteracting its effects. It
is more important for a girl to be able
to cook a dinner, run a house on a
minimum and, above all, to have the
right perspective on princes than it is
for her to have “higher” education. —
T.E.P. (N.S.W.).
Cure for Juvenile Delinquency
In a hundred and one ways kids can
make themselves useful on farms,
and there are any number of cookies and
their wives who’d be glad to have a
youngster about the place. On the other
hand, in numerous instances, city kids
are more nuisance than they’re worth,
and know it.
A little co-operation is needed. Any
association concerned with child wel-
fare could easily locate farmers who’d
take one or two lads for a year so so —
or perhaps a girl to assist in the house.
One condition: the children should be
treated as adopted charges for the period,
with all privileges and obligations. A
spell on a farm would give any city boy
the time of his life, a chance of nourish-
ment and an interest in the future ; and
it might help to check the city drift.
—Salmon Gums (W.A.).
More Trade Schools
A professor has lately said that “more
youths should be exposed to a college
education at the public expense, thereby
reducing pressure for jobs at the indus-
trial gate.” This would merely give tem-
porary relief to unemployment pressure ;
some thousands of young persons would
be held out of the job circle for a time,
but thereafter might not find jobs suit-
able to their enhanced values. School
life, when it is all said and done, is a
sheltered existence; prolong it beyond
tfcie adaptable years of youth, and there
is a danger that those finally emerging
cannot meet successfully the hard knocks
of daily living.
At this moment, owing to the decline
of apprenticeship, there are labor short-
ages in many skilled trades. More trade
schools are needed, and more financial
backing for already existing trade schools
which have proved their worth. —N. E.
Irvine (Vic.).
Artesian Water
Australia owes a lot to the great
underground water supplies, now very
much on the decline. Throughout
Queensland and N.S.W. there is an aver-
age annual drop of ilb. in pressure, which
means that a bore with a pressure head
of 201 b. now would cease flowing in 40
years’ time.
State laws on the subject only pre-
vent waste ; something drastic will shortly
have to be done to restore the water
taken out. What can be done?
I have had many years’ experience
with bores, and tender an idea. Most
people listen to discussions concern-
ing the source of the artesian water;
some aver it comes from the sea and
filters through the sand, becoming fresh
in the process. I think it is only logical,
considering the enormous pressure of
some bores, that the source is to be found
in hills which have an underlying
stratum of a porous nature, such as sand-
stone.
Above Hughenden (N.Q.) is a big
basalt tableland. It is interspersed with
great gorges many hundred feet deep,
and probably an important inlet to our
underground supplies. At least Mr.
Ogilvie, of the Queensland Irrigation
Department, is of that opinion.
The walls and floor of these very in-
teresting chasms are composed entirely
of brilliantly-colored sandstone. At irre-
gular intervals water trickles down, to
disappear again at the bottom. One par-
ticularly big stream I noticed ran along
the base, from pool to pool, sometimes in
sight, at others submerged, until it went
out of view altogether.
My scheme is to bore large-diameter
holes at chosen sites to determine
the porosity of the strata. When the
test proves favorable, I suggest a big
cement wall be built across the gorge
below these bores. Of course, .atten-
tion must be given to the filtering of
the ingoing water by some such means
as filling them with gravel.—N. M.
Bode, Jun. (N.Q.).
Save the Trees!
As part of the campaign to arrest soil
erosion, why not a drive to make farmers
tree-conscious?
The pioneers regarded trees as enemies
because of the heavy work they had to
do to destroy them in order to grow
crops and grass, and many present-day
farmers still take this view. In the
wheat-belt farmers can be seen ring-
barking beautiful avenues along the lanes
because they take moisture from a strip
of crop a few yards wide inside their
fences. Very often, when the trees are
gone, the water that is invariably drained
along the sides of the roads washes huge
gutters that engulf adjoining fences.
P.M.G. men cut down trees that
grow near telephone wires, although an
occasional lopping of branches would
be enough to prevent interference with
the lines.
In the hilly country trees are still
being destroyed on steep ridges and on
narrow flats where water gathers. Some
thoughtful landowners are now planting
trees where their predecessors destroyed
them, but on neighboring farms and
lanes the destruction goes on without a
thought of the ultimate consequences.—
W. Schlunke (N.S.W.).
Divorce Anomalies
A man I know lives in a border town.
His wife deserted him a year ago. Under
Queensland law he can’t get a divorce
for another four years. If he lived on
the other side of the border he need wait
only two years.
Different States have different grounds
for divorce. Some have lunacy, some
habitual drunkenness, some conviction of
crime and so on.
And then there is the question of domi-
cile. If a husband clears out of one
State to whereabouts unknown, it means,
except in some States, that the wife is
unable to prove domicile and so enable
the State Court to exercise its jurisdic-
tion.
Does it not add up to this —that all the
important rights and liabilities arising out
of the relationship of marriage vary ac-
cording to a man’s geographical situa-
tion?
Surely the intention of the framers of
the Australian Constitution in giving the
Federal Parliament the power to legis-
late on divorce was to prevent such in-
justices. And yet for 38 years nothin"
has been done. — Equality (Q.).
Traffic Regulations
Traffic regulations should be taught in
schools. Children telling Dad he’s not
doing the right thing will get under his
skin and shame him into good citizen-
ship in this regard. The toll of the road
demands more successful training of the
public. Anyway, children are the motor-
ists of to-morrow, and their education in
traffic manners will not come amiss.—
Wm. H. Cox (Vic.).
The Digger or His Son?
As an ex-Digger, I used to get hot
under the collar when I read articles
saying that preference to Diggers should
go. But I have to face facts, especially
as 1 am brought into daily contact with
them in the sugarmill (Sarina) at
which I earn a daily crust. The mill
has carried out the preference clause in
a manner worthy of emulation by any
co. in Australia, and it still tries to do
so. But Diggers who married on return
from the war now have sons verging on
the twenties, and these in turn have been,
given employment in the mill, and the
youngsters are in a greater ratio than
the jobs offering. The mill manager, an
ex-Dig., is in a quandary. Is he to drop
the Digger, who is nearing the fifties and
about 50 per cent, fit, or the Digger’s
(Continued on next page.)


TRAVELLING ANYWHERE?
JUST PACK YOUR BAGS'
Leave your tickets, reservations
and similar tiresome details to
the Bank of New South Wales.
Travel arrangements can be
made through any branch of
the Bank, and there is no charge
for its service.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
travel department
1 1 r o oar
399C.1938
SV
V: ! /
©MS
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada,
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
Cl * c„j npv 59 William Street, Melbourne.
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
son, who is in the twenties and 100
per cent, fit? If he drops Dad the son
will look with suspicion at any promise
made to him when the call is made to
take up arms in defence of his country,
and if son is dropped he is deprived ol
the chance of becoming a useful citizen
and a potential Anzac if the need arises.
Truly the problem of preference is one
to give all married ex-Digs. food lor
thought.—S. H. Baker (N.Q.).
No Mental Peace
Science, instead of giving us a sense
of security, has taken from us the security
enjoyed by our ancestors. To-day we
constantly use motor-cars, vacuum-
cleaners, telephones and wireless sets, but
their use has seriously complicated our
lives.
For Australia, anyway, in earlier
periods there was not the same terrify-
ing fear of war and accident. Lives could
be planned with more assurance than
to-day. Every December you see thou-
sands of girl typists and boy shop-
assistants flocking into an overcrowded
market irrespective of their capability or
adaptability. Genius and dullard com-
mence shoulder to shoulder from the too-
early age of 14 years a strenuous battle
for the survival of the fittest.
Certainly we have our science, our
outdoor lives, dietitians and psycholo-
gists, but we have lost something in-
finitely more necessary—mental peace
and security.— Fieldash (N.S.W.).
Population and Taxation
The Bulletin Limerick “Father Wil-
liam named Hughes” is in many ways
thought-provoking to the man with a
young family.
Hughes and fellow-politicians may en-
thuse over larger families; but, except-
ing our Joe, very few have had more
than two children. The well-paid mem-
bers and their wives must be well aware
that with even three children to the aver-
age marriage the population must remain
stationary—that is excepting gains by
immigration.
Their taxation methods, outside of the
income tax, do not favor the family man.
The painless extraction by sales tax, a
cool eight million last year, and in most
States wages tax for unemployment
delve more deeply into the pocket of the
married taxpayer than, say, his single
cobber. — Holiday Isle (Tas.).
The Declining Birthrate
Because of the scarcity of competent
domestic workers and the high wages that
such as are competent can command, the
average Australian mother works harder
and for longer hours than any man in
the Commonwealth. Not for her the
week-end respite or the coveted nights-
out. She is always on duty, and, even if
she bears only four children, she works
under those conditions for many years,
meanwhile forgoing everything but bare
necessities so that her children may have
modern advantages.
The remedy? Well, let us tilt at wind-
mills and suggest:
(1) That as long as one boy or man
in Australia is unemployed no females be
given positions in shops, factories or
offices that could be filled by males.
(2) Equal rates of pay for the sexes.
It is inevitable that the carrying out
of either or both of these suggestions
would release a large number of girls,
every one of whom could be employed
in homes which at present are crying
out for assistance for overworked
mothers.
It is the Government’s responsibility to
introduce legislation which would protect
the domestic worker, and, at the same
time, make it possible for even the
poorest mother to obtain some relief
from her arduous duties.
The politician who evolves a workable
scheme which will combine these two
desirable ends will do more to raise the
Australian birthrate than all the pro-
fessors and economists. —Donna Quixote
(Q-).
Leisure Becoming a Penance
It is a curious paradox that in this
age, when it is supposed to be the cor-
rect thing for educationists and parents
to condemn school examinations, the
moment school days are over it is
thought proper that they should compete
against others in everything they take
up. The pursuits which are chosen to
fill leisure hours—too-systematic recrea-
tions, deadly serious entertainments,
businesslike hobbies—are being raised
to such an exacting standard that leisure
is in danger of becoming a penance.
Quite a lot of sensible people eschew'
bridge because they daren t laugh 01
crack a joke or utter a friendly word.
Somewhat the same is happening in
golf. It’s the same with school games—
system all the time, till individualism
and leadership are crushed out for want
of natural opportunities. Concentration
and absorption have their right place
in work; but recreations, amusements
and hobbies are meant to be a relief
and a contrast to work—otherwise' they
are not what they pretend to be.—
Shamus O’Leary (S.A.).
Encourage Prospecting
Young Australians from the age of
18 to 23 should be encouraged to go
prospecting as • their pioneer grand-
fathers and fathers did before them.
Present-day prospecting, especially in
Queensland, is like a picnic compared
with what it was 20 or 30 years ago.
In Bananaland single men are allowed a
pound a \yeek while they are prospecting
in a mineral area; married men get
two pounds.
Though a School of Mines has already
been started in Charters Towiers for
young men interested in the project,
only a few local boys have taken advan-
tage of the opportunity. Everything is
given free, and the young fellows receive
every encouragement.
A good idea would be to carry out
the same schemes in other States, and
an improvement on the idea would be
to send the young fellows out with
reliable old-timers who know their busi-
ness. — Batavia (N.Q.).
Teach Girls to Cook
One thing that women's organisations
have never seriously considered is the
training of girls for positions as cooks in
hospitals, etc. The training of dietitians,
in its infancy at P.A.H., is providing
careers for highly-qualified women ; but
without the co-operation of the kitchen
staff patients couldn’t get the full benefit
of their knowledge.
No doubt the large city hospitals have
well-arranged kitchens and good cooks,
but in smaller ones, and especially in the
country, there is great need for improve-
ment. Numerous complaints are heard
from patients about good food being
spoiled, and matrons complain of the
scarcity of efficient cooks, but nothing is
done to remedy the evil.
Girls who learn dressmaking are able
to earn a living after completing the
course, but there is nothing ahead of the
girls who learn to cook, though many
of them do it well and have a fair know-
ledge of food values.
I would place hospital and other in-
stitutional kitchens under the care of those
who have had domestic-science training,
and make a science of the work, elevat-
ing the status of those doing it, and tak-
ing as probationers any necessary as-
sistants, who must be pupils of domestic-
science schools. As a career foi girls
who have gone through these schools, 1
consider it opens up great possibilities,
and girls could go straight from school
to the work, and on completion of their
hospital-kitchen training be given cer-
tificates of efficiency. — Thrune (N.S.W.).
Cheap Power
All over southern Australia heavy
scrub land is being cleared and put under
pasture. Unless the land lies handy to
a railway, town or city, all cleared timber
is burnt; enough fuel to light a city for a
week goes up in smoke every time a
paddock is cleared. Most of it is excellent
fuel.
There are two ways in which this
potential energy could be utilised in cul-
tivating the cleared land. The first is
in the form of suction gas. Light and
portable gas-producers have reached a
high standard of efficiency and reliability,
but engines to handle gas need highci
cylinder capacity and greater compres-
sion ratios than those designed for light
oil fuel. Given a specially designed
engine, we could run our heavy trucks
and tractors on gas.
The alternative is to make use of the
power in the shape of steam. Both in
theory and i_n practice there is nothing to
prevent the designing of a light, com-
pact and reliable steam unit, using short
lengths of hardwood for fuel. The ex-
perience gained in petrol-engine design
would greatly aid the work ol making
a high-speed steam-engine delivering the
same power as a petrol-engine of the
same size,- but even lighter in weight.
D. E. Penny (S.A.).
The Average Man
Let me present very deliberately a
very common man.
They've called him “the man in the
street,” but that doesn’t place for
he’s anywhere and everywhere. He’s in
the middle and at both ends of the social
scale, and he’s in all countries: Ger-
many, Spain, Japan, France, Russia, Italy.
England, U.S.A.; he’s even in the Balkans
and Mexico. He’s the despair of the
hate propagandists, and he distrusts all
newspapers that use heavy type.
They may think him dull fellow, but be
sure their opinion of him will pass him
by, for he’s a genius at not taking
umbrage ; also, he’s a genius at discover-
ing virtues in the other chap and in the
other chap’s way of running his own
affairs and country. Thereby he saves
this mad world from smashing on the
rocks of calamity. What a ghastly place
it would be without him!
I give you the world's ordinary sort
of bloke. May his shadow never grow
less!— Murdeduke (Vic.).


&
OIL GAJL
a ffloman
¥
Mirrors Tell—
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That’s
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a furry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign—
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
says, “'Let me see your
tongue.” He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, ‘‘that tired feeling,” and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative —with a good gentle
laxative with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Dr. Morse's
K*i!
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a high grade preparation sold at a low price.
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bite 3.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
j sore and tired. The relief is won-
! derful.
| After Shaving. —A small quantity
: of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
| shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing, and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annua] subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
<9
fO
A.%
o°/
#
/
✓
><
*\9
\\ e
_,» S e ~£
VJ\
,^ 1
'9 s
A*
s '
4
'»<>> v V
s c v
*'sN a 'V
0$ \o
§4e*W^°


The Finest MANTEL RADIO
EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA!
s 5
.
*' *
m
mm
v.m
*3*
< V <
* <>? y * ** •
••••••.
>vs
The BRITON
“THEATRETTE”
In the "THEATRETTE," Briton Radio have produced a
new design that is entirely unique. This design is
fashioned after the proscenium of a theatre and will add
an unusual smartness to whatever room it graces.
m The “THEATRETTE” is but five inches in depth and
is therefore truly a MANTEL model. Imagine its com-
pactness ... a depth equal to the width of an ordinary
novel.
• The “THEATRETTE” is a radio engineering triumph,
for, whilst achieving the compactness of the “THEA-
TRETTE” the Briton engineers have maintained all the
essentials of the console models. A full Sin. console-sized
speaker is incorporated. This is a revolutionary advance
in mantel radios.
$ The “THEATRETTE” has NO chassis. This remark-
ably-designed set has all component parts mounted
direct on the bakelite cabinet, eliminating unnecessary
weight, thus enabling this model to be much more easily
handled. Among the “THEATRETTE” models, there are
both broadcast and dual-wave receivers.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS.
For country listeners the ( 'THEATRETI E battery-operated model
is available. This is highly powered, gives excellent reception and is
specially designed to provide ECONOMICAL operation.
to
Messrs. BRITON ELECTRICAL & RADIO PTY.. LTD..
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD. PETERSHAM. N.S.W.
KINDLY SEND ME FULL
PARTICULARS OF YOUR
SPECIAL OFFER
ON THIS UNIQUE RADIO
NAME
ADDRESS
NOTE—THIS COUPON MUST BE
ATTACHED WHEN SENDING FOR
PARTICULARS.
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO!vTX w LTD ‘
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD. PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N. . •
