

mm*.
A
h
A
5s
n
mm
»
r
<
\V
1/
There is no
substitute for
“Schnapps”
Just as Scotland has achieved
pre-eminence in the distilling of
whisky, so Holland excels in the
distilling of Schnapps —that unique
stimulant which, in the hundred
years that have elapsed since it
was first introduced to the English-
speaking world under Wolfe’s
label, has earned world - wide
fame for its absolute purity and
remarkable medicinal virtues.
WOLFES
pmn£
BCHIEDftM !
PS
-
vm,
• -
WOLFE'S
<z^GmdhcSzAwdam
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3047.
Wednesday, July 6, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
"THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE."
In ■ the year of its publication in book form-
atter it had appeared in The Bulletin — The Senti-
mental Bloke sold 67,000 copies. In 1925 the total
was 113,000. It is still selling.
While C. J. Dennis was piling up sales as Brad-
man piles up runs, the work of an English poet was
cutting similarly astronomical capers. Englishmen
at home or in the trenches were reading:
If I should die think only this of me,
That there’s some corner of a foreign field
That is for ever England.
Dennis (in The Moods of Ginger Mick ) put it: —-
There’s a good green land awaitin’ you when you come ’ome
again
To swing a pick at Ballarat or ride Yarrowie Plain.
The streets is gay wiv dafferdils—but, haggard in the sun,
A wounded soljer passes; an’ we know ole days is done.
Fer somew’ere down inside us, lad, is somethin’ you put there
The day yeh swung a dirty left, fer us, at Sari Bair.
Both Rupert Brooke and C. J. Dennis swept into
immense popularity on a wave of war-sentiment; both,
therefore, said something which at that time people
were asking urgently to hear; and fundamentally, as
the above quotations indicate, they had the same
thing to say. In a time of flux they stressed the per-
manence of human values ; when reality meant chaos
for the individual they offered the consolation and the
escape of the common dream. Both in a later age
seem sentimentalists, but it should be remembered in
their favor that their time demanded a measure of
sentimentality from them.
Brooke’s poetry, as all true poetry does, offers the
core of thought with the decoration intrinsic and
incidental ; Dennis—and this is where they part com-
pany —is mainly decoration. The slang, the humor
were a smoke-screen covering a limited range of
thought. But he goes into the richest, if not the
“grandest” company —that of Chaucer, Burns and the
Masefield of “The Widow in the Bye Street.” Through
The Bulletin rhymes that were afterwards published
as Backblock Ballads, Dennis first became known as a
balladist, but in spite of this, and although he had
learned his trade from Dyson and Goodge and the
rest, he is not of that company. As Burns did with
the Scots ballads, he read them, absorbed them, and
then transmuted them. It seems to be true that Aus-
tralian poetry has had to evolve of itself without
direct assistance from the English tradition, and if
this is so then Dennis is a link between the balladists
and the sophisticated poets of to-day. He is probably
“important” in that sense ; but he is certainly im-
portant as the man who expressed the emotions of
thousands of Australians.
When Burns tried to break away from his metier
and write more sophisticated verse, he was a failure.
The jargon of Gray flowed falsely from his pen.
Dennis, not as rich as Burns in his popular verse, was
very much more successful than Burns when he broke
from the territory of the vernacular. The Glugs of
Gosh, though never popular, was excellent satire. With
all its wit, satire and fantasy it is as fresh to-day as
when he wrote it. Sym, in his condemnation of hate,
fear, swank, hypocrisy and wowserism, lacks the im-
mediate appeal of The Bloke, but is every bit as much
an Australian.
Dennis, borrowed unmistakably from Lewis
Carroll here:
Step not jauntily, not too grave
Till the lip of the languorous sea you greet;
Wait till the wash of the thirteenth wave
Tumbles a jellyfish at your feet.
Not too hopefully, not forlorn,
Whisper a word of your earnest quest;
Shed not a tear if he turns in scorn
And sneers in your face like a fish possessed.
But there is his own, more Australian sense of
humor in:
And his parents’ claims were a deal denied
By a maiden aunt on his mother’s side,
A tall Glug lady of fifty-two,
With a slight moustache of an auburn hue.
His satire has lost neither bite nor topicality:
In Gosh, sad Gosh, where the Lord Swank lives,
He holds high rank and he has much pelf;
And all the well-paid posts he gives
Unto his fawning relatives
As foolish as himself.
There is sting, too, in the quatrain:
I’ll make of you a Glug of rank
With something handy in the bank,
And fixed opinions, which, you know,
With fixed deposits always go.
Justifiably in war-time, Dennis flattered his public
in The Sentimental Bloke. In The Glugs he gently
corrected himself:
The Glugs followed fashion and Sym was a craze.
They sued him for words, which they greeted with tears,
For the way with a Glug is to tickle his ears.
In the “Rhymes of Sym,” with which the book
closes, he states in one stanza the philosophy which
is the raison d’etre of all his books: The Bloke,
Ginger Mick, Rose of Spadgers, Jim of the Hills,
Digger Smith and even the birds in The Singing
Garden all proclaim:
We strive together in life’s crowded mart,
Keen-eyed, with clutching hands to overreach.
We scheme, we lie, we play the selfish part,
Masking our lust for gain with gentle speech;
And masking, too —O pity ignorance!
Our very selves behind a careless glance.
With that as the mainspring of his writing, Dennis
had the choice of satirising the bad or portraying the
good. He chose the latter course:
Said he: “Whenever the fields are green.
Lie still, where the wild rose fashions a screen,
While the brown thrush calls to his love-wise mate,
And know what they profit who trade with Hate.”
Said he: “Whenever the great skies spread
In the beckoning vastness overhead,
A tent for the blue wren building a nest,
Then down in the heart of you learn what’s best.”
Had Dennis continued as a satirist his unques-
tionable gifts in that direction would have won him
fame. Choosing to go “down in the heart,” he won
both fame and affection, and his brilliance in that
chosen genre entitles him to the respect of the severest
of his critics. The Sentimental Bloke is full of emo-
tional truth, told with humor that relieves it of senti-
mentality. The story is universal. There are lines
that have become proverbs: “The commin end of
most of us is—Tart”; ‘Livin’ and lovin’ —so life
mooches on.” If they, through too-frequent quota-
tion, have become platitudinous—they were never
“original,” but Dennis did say them in a new way—
there is wisdom and humor in the less-read Doreen or
in Rose of Spadgers : —
It starts this mornin’. I wake up with a tooth
That’s squirmin’ like a basketful uv snakes.
Per’aps I groan a bit, to tell the truth;
An’ then she wakes,
An’ arsts me wot I’m makin’ faces for.
1 glare at ’er, an’ nurse me achin’ jor.
Throughout Dennis’s verse —and his output was
large—there are flashes of real poetry among the
sentiment, quiet humor and worldly wisdom that are
its chief characteristics:
Go as he guides you over the marsh,
Treading with care on the slithery stones,
Heedless of night winds moaning and harsh
That seize you and freeze you and search for your bones.
But as a lover of human nature he wrote better
verse than as a lover of nature. Bulletin readers will
have a particularly soft spot for “Den,” for it was in
these pages that he first dipped his lid to Australia ;
but there is no need for sentiment to keep his memory
alive. His verse, unique in Australian literature, will
do that for itself.
The Girl from Botany Bay.
Lovers of mystery, adventure and romance can
get their fill in the real-life story of Mary Bryant.
Louis Becke and Walter Jeffrey, in A First Fleet
Family, a novel that purported to be compiled from
the private papers of a sergeant of marines, wove a
story that has been accepted as fact by some re-
searchers. It is circumstantially supported in some
degree by a news item in the Dublin “Chronicle.”
Now comes Frederick A. Pottle, of Yale University,
connecting Johnson’s biographer with Mary’s story in
Boswell and the Girl from Botany Bay (Heinemann ;
Preece and Sons).
Mary Broad was transported for highway rob-
bery. In Sydney she married William Bryant, who
had been sent out for smuggling. On the night of
March 28, 1791, William and Mary, with their two
children —one a baby, one aged three —and seven
other convicts, escaped from the settlement in an
open boat. They reached Timor after 10 weeks ; a
journey comparable for length and privation with
Bligh’s voyage. In Timor they ran into Captain
Edwards returning to England from investigating the
Bounty mutiny. Edwards had himself been ship-
wrecked or the meeting might not have occurred. He
arrested them, and took them in a Dutch ship to Cape
Town, where they were transferred to the Gorgon,
homeward .bound from Port Jackson. In London the
survivors were imprisoned. One of the children had
died on the voyage to Timor ; the other, the father and
another convict died on the way from the Cape. The
escapees’ daring won them so much public sympathy
that eventually they were granted pardons, some free
and some conditional upon return to Port Jackson in
military service.
In A First Fleet Family Mary Bryant marries
Lieutenant Fairfax, a squire’s son who had courted
her during girlhood, and who was one of the settle-
ment garrison, meeting her again at Cape Town when
he was returning to England in the Gorgon.
Lending color to this story is the Dublin
“Chronicle’s” account —4/6/1793 —of Mary’s release
after she had been condemned to death and then par-
doned. It says that in the story of her release there is
“something extremely singular.” An officer of the
army—name unknown —visited her in prison. On the
day following her pardon he came with his carriage
“and took off the poor woman, who almost expired
with gratitude.”
Pottle discounts this as “one of those inventions
which eighteenth-century newspapers did not scruple
to mix with their genuine news accounts,” and brings
forward letters to high authority and entries in Bos-
well’s diary to prove that it was the little Scots lawyer
who interested himself in the case of the escapees
and procured their pardon. Boswell was particularly
interested in Mary Bryant. He visited her at the
house in Tichfield-street where she lived temporarily
after her release, and there met her sister Dolly. He
was much impressed with the girls’ reserved and affec-
tionate natures.
The girls received news, through a friend of their
family, that their father, a farmer, had been be-
queathed a large sum of money. Boswell cautioned
them not to place too much confidence in the report.
When Mary sailed for Fowey to visit her father Bos-
well saw her off at the boat. She assured him that
if the report was true he would be rewarded for his
kindness, and he promised her that if it were false he
would see that she received £lO a year allowance.
There is no doubting the authority of the evidence
Pottle brings forward, but it does not entirely destroy
the “Chronicle’s” story. Mary may have had her
reasons for not confiding fully in Boswell. It is
curious that his diary contains no mention of events
on the day of her release ; it “lapses” at this point.
After saying good-bye to Boswell, Mary Bryant
disappears. In 1807 a woman named Mary Bryant
was married to Richard Thomas at St. Breage parish,
but Pottle does not think she was “our Mary.” One
legend has it that she and Lieutenant Fairfax married
and returned to Australia, where they settled per-
manently. Pottle has other hopes of the matter. He
says: “I hope it will prove that she emigrated to
America and became the ancestress of someone now
reading this book. I know of no one whom I should
more proudly claim as my forebear.”
Eleanor Dark's New Novel.
It seems as if Eleanor Dark’s work is solidifying
into a fixed pattern. Her new novel, Waterway
(Collins), following close upon Sun Across the Sky,
is almost identical with it in structure and treatment.
Each is a cross-section taken through the life of
a small community ; each occupies one day; each
begins at sunrise, makes a tour of its characters re-
cording their reflections and so making the reader
acquainted with their past history and present diffi-
culties ; each displays a complex mechanical pattern
violently resolved by accident.
In Sun Across the Sky the accident is a fire plus
a motor smash, in Waterway it is the sinking of a
ferry in Sydney Harbor. Even the characters in the
two books more or less correspond.
Dr. Oliver Denning is taken from the earlier
book, but has replaced his beautiful but cold wife,
Helen, by the gay erratic artist, Lois. Their place as
the unhappily married couple is taken by the Sell-
mans, but this time it is the husband who does not
understand and lan Harnett who is in the place of
Lois. Professor Channon, who has been dismissed
from the University on account of his radical views,
roughly corresponds to the poet Kavannagh, and
obviously harks back to the same original model.
The crass rich man, Sir Frederick Gormley, in Sun
Across the Sky, has his echo in the Hegartys of
Waterway, and the incendiary of the first book is
roughly duplicated by Jack Saunders, who strikes
down a plutocrat with a beer-bottle. These likenesses
could be multiplied.
> Waterway is written with considerable compet-
ence, but of a kind that fails to conceal its method.
The lives of the sufferers are neatly pinned out, and
the accident is executed with the precision of a
scientific operation. It is a highly-successful opera-
tion, the health of the community benefits from it,
and it solves practically all the problems that are
postulated at the beginning. Professor Channon is
drowned, and it is just as well, for he has an incurable
cancer. Arthur Sellman is drowned, which is better
still, for it frees his wife, without damage to her repu-
. tation or loss of the Sellman fortune, to marry her
lan. The shock is beneficial to a number of people,
including Jack Saunders. It defeats itself by being
too logical, too neat, too satisfactory.
In one way Eleanor Dark’s work has moved
nearer life. From an imaginary setting like Thalassa
in Sun Across the Sky she has moved her people to
real ground at Vaucluse and Watson’s Bay. In
Waterway the accident is a real one instead of one
devised to suit the occasion—though how far this
strengthens the tale is open to question.
In style the novel dips in and out of the stream-
of-consciousness method. All the characters reflect
continually; the reflecting is too clear and to the
point, differing only from the author’s statement in
syntax, differing in method not at all. It is part—
unfortunately—of the technique that has come to
cramp this writer’s gifts with her increasing pre-
occupation with the interval novel.
The interval novel —one, two or three days in
the life of a man or a town—even if brought off with
success, as in Palmer’s Daybreak, is rarely a satisfy-
ing document. Certainly it is only to be used where
the nature of the story especially calls for it, and
then only by a writer who can move in restricted
limits with complete freedom. Eleanor Dark is among
the most important of our serious novelists. It is
disappointing that she should be limiting her choice
of material and cramping her freedom of treatment
in pursuit of unprofitable ends. The depiction of the
scene in Waterway is first-rate.
Life of Leichhardt.
In Ludwig Leichhardt (Angus and Robertson)
Catherine Drummond Cotton tells the story of the
scientist and explorer from his birth at Trebatsch in
the sandy Mark of Brandenburg to his death 35 years
later somewhere in unknown Australia.
Leichhardt’s father was a Royal Inspector of Peat,
which raised him a little above the other farmers of
the district and enabled him to give his children a
better education. The study of science became the
devouring passion of young Leichhardt’s life and
remained, as far as can be gathered, his only love.
At Gottingen University he came in contact with
the Nicholsons, first with John and then with Wil-
liam, whose friendship altered his life. William
Nicholson was a young Englishman of means and of
a disposition nearly as erratic as Leichhardt’s own.
Together they studied medicine and roamed about
Europe doing honorary research work in museums,
learning music, learning Sanskrit, learning to swim
in the Seine, preparing themselves for a magnificent
but undefined future at William’s expense.
Almost absentmindedly, while engaged in these
pursuits, Leichhardt failed to present himself for
military training on the due date. He was posted as
a deserter and became an exile. The young men’s
schemes grew wilder and wilder until William, the
more cautious, drew back. His health, he said, would
(<Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
■Always.
THE SENIOR STORE.’
f
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Half Yearly Genuine
SALE
INQUIRE FOR DETAILS
OF OUR EASY TERMS
v ;„
■t> ss
■
Si
aft
mm
r
«1
v*. sZW y ~ i *'*W'" &88Sxm)*i2^ZXW
i&r i
i
<<
<s *§J|-
i-»J'
VMS
. §a
*9"K«
yw
BUe
m
mm
C --J-
-n
9
\d\
IS*
,
m
mm
fr
*Uv
wT w '--
n
/y'^rs
.'T
m
H
22*i
ai
!.»
.<r
ii
&<8»
r- vs-
-lE> a\
oo
B
*«**■
\* V \,
m
" * • n-L *
mm
»< m ;
ll
i 1
I
mm
*£*».
m
mm
m
; i i
£ ::
m
:
Wm,
am
mm
m
ip
a
>;
i
1 S
7*
ISS
i
-.
CW
HI
w
MS
Si
M
£4/7/6 Seamless Ax.
CARPET SQUARES
£3ls'
A full range of new designs and colours in British Seamless
Axminster carpet squares.
Sizes (Ft. & Ins.) Regular Price Sale Price
7.6x6 £4/7/6 £3/15/-
9x6 £ 5/5/- £4/10/-
9x7.6 £6/12/6 £5/12/6
9x9 £7/17/6 £6/15/-
10.6x9 £9/2/6 £7T 17/6
12x9 £lO/10/- £B/19/6
12x10.6 £l2/5/- £lO/10/-
13.6 x 10.6 £l3/15/- £ll/19/6
11/6 BRITISH AX. HALL CARPETS
Sale Price
9/9
11/6
17/9
22/6
26/6
18/9 British Ax. Body & Border Carpet
A particularly smart range of selected designs, in Imperial
Axminster Carpet . . . suitable for squares or close-covering
Size (Ins.)
2 7 Body
I 8 Border
27 Stair
36 Stair
Regular Price
18/9
15/-
18/9
28/9
Sale Price
13/6
11/3
13/6
19/11
/
25/6 BRITISH AXMINSTER SPOOL RUGS
Genuine Axminster rugs.
Sizes (Ft. & Ins.) Regular Price
4.6 x 2.3 25/6
5.3 x 2.8 . 35/-
6x3 45/-
7x4.6 89/6
Sale Price
17/11
25/6
32/6
62/6
I7n
21/- BRITISH WILTON BODY CARPET
This British Wilton Body Carpet is in Blue two-tone
stipple pattern . . . suitable for close-covering rooms,
for halls as well as for squares. The width is 36in.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, yard .... 217-
Sale Price, yard . . . 10/6
/
Carpets—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant”
PROMENADE
By
G. LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
111.
HiEREGRINE, trying to withdraw the old
Neptune from the general confiscation of
everything in order to transport John’s live-
stock, found it even more difficult than he
had feared, since the military (whose only
notion appeared to be destruction) took no
4 interest in reconstruction at all. But at last
it was done, with sheep-pens all over the deck and
Captain Tolley turned out of his tiny cabin for the
ladies, and Tiffany breaking down into farewell tears
in Sally’s arms.
“Oh, darling, if only you could come t 00”...
But Sally’s duty was with papa.
Peregrine saw Darien and Tiffany go with mis-
givings, but it couldn’t be helped now, and Caroline
would not see them go at all. To be fleeced like this
with poor dear Sir John barely in his grave (what
there was of him, and she would put up as fine a
tombstone as though there were the usual quantity)
was quite too much.
“Well,” she said to Peregrine, later coming re-
luctantly on some necessary business, “since you’ve
taken all I had I’d like to know what you mean to
do for me in return. Though with only Heaven to
protect us I really can’t see how we’ll get along,”
sobbed Caroline, so rich in crepe and widow’s weepers
that Peregrine' wondered who was going to pay for
all that.
Tiffany stood in the stern watching Auckland
and old shaggy Rangitoto pass. So much gone now,
and never would she sing “Red plumes of the kaka”
again. A new and terrible meaning to that child-
hood song now . . .
“You can stop calling me ‘Aunt,’ Tiffy,” said
Darien, bustling up. “Just say ‘Darien,’ that’s quicker,
and we shall always be in a hurry in Canterbury.”
IV.
771 AIKATO, Taranaki, Wanganui . . . everywhere
LjLI the wind of battle blew the fire in the fern and
rushed on, leaving destruction and the dead
behind. Wellington, seeing the flames approaching,
built redoubts frantically and screamed to Auckland
in what might be considered Parliamentary language.
“Get something done, can’t you, you perishing
idiots,” cried Wellington. “You have the Government
and the military H.Q. and the church, and you claim
you’ve got the brains. What the devil are you doing
with it all?”
Auckland (very shabby and anxious) was doing
what it could, bringing flour from Valparaiso, bacon
and butter from Ireland, hay and oats from Scotland,
beef from Queensland and regiments from everywhere.
So balls, routs and card-parties redoubled in energy,
and Caroline’s Lucilla quite refused to be out of the
game. “This is no time to think of our own sorrows,
and I can wear white with black ribbons,” she said,
wearing it to such purpose that a sandy-whiskered
Wellington businessman named Piper, up to nego-
tiate loans, presently carried her off.
Poor John’s farm remained desolate, although
Captain Harry Atkinson and his Volunteers cleared the
bush round the town of marauders, and Brian and
Jerry were seeing life spectacularly with the Colonial
Rangers. “We are under Von Tempsky now,” wrote
Brian ; adding that, beside bringing an American war
reputation and a fine scarlet sash with him, Von
Tempsky had a cunning notion of bowie-knives in-
stead of bayonets for scrub-cutting, and knew all the
American campfire songs.
Brian, coming home with a shoulder wound, told
how the Maoris were like fleas. “Just as staccato and
hard to catch,” said dark little dandy Brian, lounging
in bright gown and embroidered slippers, recounting
his adventures to sympathetic young ladies.
Von Tempsky, he said, was the man, though
campaigning with hint was no child’s play, by Jove.
Kept his men so close on Maori heels that a fire would
betray them, and usually their only food was the
leavings'of the Maoris.
“So we had to trot to fill our bellies.” But for
the nightly rum-ration they’d have lain down in their
boots and died. For all their wonderful bravery and
stamina, the Maoris knew nothing of strategy or unity
of command, so we were gradually driving them off
the ranges, said Brian, and out of the deep gullies and
nearer the big guns. But it couldn’t have been done
without the rum-ration, and even with that Brian felt
that if he came safe out of this he would love a girl
and settle down.
“Oh, wouldn’t it be safer not to wait for that?”
urged Sophia. But Brian was watching Alice Whit-
man’s admiring eyes, letting himself go in deeds of
derring-do: talking of the new paddle-wheel steamers
towing barges of troops up the shallow rivers, of the
great bastioned pas which only Britain’s Imperial sol-
diers were crazy enough to attack, of the Maori
flag ...
A pitiful thing the Maori flag sounded in Brian’s
contemptuous voice. Of scarlet cloth, with a star, a
cross and “Aotearoa” sitched on it in white stuff so
very crookedly. Such big stitches they would be,
thought Sally, since Maori women, though clever at
weaving, could not manage the English needle. Such
a little pitiful thing to send two races of splendid
men to war.
“I hope Roddy will come back before all the
fun’s over,” said Brian, establishing himself a hero
in Alice Whitman’s eyes.
V.
UP in his high ranges Roddy heard of the war at
last; and when the prospector bringing the news
lay rolled and sleeping in his blankets Roddy faced
himself, as each man must do at least once in his life.
Man, thought Roddy, is the animal who wants to
know, and his own desire to know what it was all for
seemed stronger than that of his fellows who mostly
took their lives —and wives—where they found the’m.
Working out the brute, that was what he was
doing up here. But since the brute was still very
lively in him at times, he knew what would happen
if he went back. Perhaps that’s the reason for monks
and nuns and hermits, they run away from tempta-
tion, he thought. That didn’t seem so very fine. Per-
haps he wasn’t very fine either.
He got up and walked into the bush. Not like
anything in the luxuriant North, this scant stunted
bush with its dark birches standing apart, strewing the
ground with small, hard, slippery leaves always drop-
ping and yet never baring the tree. The fuchsia was
the only New Zealand tree that stood naked for the
winter. Roddy had seen it reluctantly shedding its
fading crimson and gold into the rivers, stripping
itself before the cold. Nature, strangest woman of
all strange women, seemed more immortal in this land
of evergreens, and Roddy, struggling for his own
immortality, felt that certain parts of him were lustily
evergreen, too.
Hastily he got out his flute to exorcise this mount-
ing fierce desire, and while the moon went down
behind the great white ranges Roddy played himself
out of being a hermit, played himself back into the
world.
ALL the way down now he was meeting men —and
some knew what they were after and many did not.
The usual hoi polloi of a gold-rush ; clerks and dainty
aristocrats ; Russians, Scandinavians, eager Americans,
tall, sinewy Australians who knew their own gold-
fields and never spent themselves for nought. A giant
came walking from Dunedin with a bag of flour on
his shoulders, selling it by the pannikin to gaunt and
wolfish men starving and cold . . .
Further down were the big camps, with all the
claims marked out and gold being steadily won. But
still up into the wilderness went the restless seekers
after the fairy pot of gold. Perhaps that’s all I’ve
been doing, thought Roddy, not very sure of anything
by now, hurrying on to Dunedin.
By nature a douce little town of Scotch elders
and churches, this Dunedin ; now a riot of miners
and camp-followers, and the elders couldn’t do any-
thing about it, though Roddy heard that they had
held solemn meetings against allowing the miners in.
Gold brings pollution, said the elders. So it did, a
merry John Falstaff pollution, full of singing and
dancing and lusting in the taverns, with strong drink to
take the chill out of a man’s soul. Police everywhere
in couples for safety to each other, and dead men
occasionally in threes. And what could the police do
on stumbling over a corpse in dark alleys but enter
it up in their books as “Died by an act of God under
suspicious circumstances”? Roddy, having witnessed
some of the suspicious circumstances, quite under-
stood their difficulty.
He went north at last on a whaler bound for
Wellington, and a jovial crowd drove to Port Chalmers
in a bullock-cart to see him go. They waved gay
shawls and scarves and black bottles, and Roddy
kissed his hand to all and twice to American Sue.
Something cracked in his pocket as he fell into his
bunk, but it was the next midday, with the whaler
lurching through a choppy sea, that he pulled out the
halves of his broken flute.
“So that’s the end of you, you wheedling devil,”
said Roddy, throwing the pieces through the port-
hole. “I’ll get an accordion and play ‘God Save the
Queen’ now.”
Being a hermit was a childish game.
VI.
$0 Roddy joined his brothers under Von Tempsky,
and swore at the stark conditions, as they did,
and thought a good deal about home and Auck-
land.
What will become of the John Lovels? always
revived a flagging conversation in Auckland; and
Peregrine, finding them turn as naturally as sun-
flowers towards his aid, was at last moved to write an
almost pleading letter to Darien.
“I consider it Belinda’s duty to take Emily, who
might marry if separated from her surroundings,”
he wrote. “If she prove adamant could you not have
her yourself? I find the problem of providing for
them all peculiarly severe at present, and I see no
end to it. No lady can earn a livelihood save by gov-
ernessing, and none of these is fit even to instruct
infants.”
A pretty pass for the great' Peregrine Lovel to
go begging to Darien, but there was no other way,
he thought, quite beside himself and going to collect
them at Mrs. Pinshon’s carpet dance. What malicious
fate had made him, once so invulnerable, the squire
of such unenviable dames? War was indeed respon-
sible for a great deal.
At the buffet some of his old cronies were very
cheerful, with Major Henry beaming and snuffing
heartily. “Just in time, my boy. Thatcher is goin’
to sing an impromptu about the Kawau Island busi-
ness,” he cried.
Peregrine wished to hear no more of Kawap
Island, where Grey, with his damned soft spot for
Maoris, had sent the prisoners languishing on the
hulks. So they had escaped, as Grey probably meant
them to do, and now would kill all Peregrine’s sons.
Thatcher, Auckland’s popular entertainer, bowed in
every direction, and began singing to the tune of
“Nelly Gray.”
Oh, ka kino, Hori Grey. For you let us get away,
And you’ll never see your Maoris any hiore.
Much obliged to you we are, and you’ll find us in a pa
Rifle-pitted on the Taranaki shore . . .
Shrieks of laughter, ’heavy hand-clapping proved
the bad odor Grey was in, and Peregrine took his
nieces home in a bitter silence unmoved by their
chatter.
■REELING battered all over, Peregrine received a
■ suggestion from Sally grimly. Sally thought Caro-
line might be persuaded to take boarders . . . gentle-
men only.
“It is the gentlemen who would not be per-
suaded,” said Peregrine. But he looked grateful as
she brought him cakes and wine. Something it un-
doubtedly was to have the refreshment of this sweet
gentle Sally between the buffets of Fate, he thought,
going down to Parliament for further buffeting.
Members of both its branches were chiefly scions
of aristocrat stock, yet they appeared to have brains,,
although ill-directed. Feverishly they were moving
divisions, passing laws for the confiscation of millions
of acres of Maori land (when they could get it). Since
England, enraged and denunciatory from end to end,
was refusing to pay more than half the costs, selling
land to settlers would put a few drops in the bucket
of the colony’s empty treasury. And Grey was always
clamoring for money.
“Do you realise that I am responsible to Eng-
land although you hold the purse?” he cried.
“Take the damn purse. There’s nothing in it,”
replied the members.
Papers talked of near 20,000 men under arms,
what with regulars, armed constabulary, militia, volun-
THE STORY
concerns New Zealand’s
early history so far as it affected Lovels,
who arrived in 1839, a few months before the
country was annexed to the Empire.
Chief among the characters are, of course,
Lovels — Sir Peregrine {he got the title when
his brother John was killed by the Maoris );
his wife, Sally ; their children, Roddy,
Tiffany, Brian and Jerry ; Uncle Henry
{“bluff, bragging old soldier”) ; Peregrine s
cousin Jermyn ; John’s widow, Lady Caro-
line, and her daughters; and Sally’s younger
sister, Darien {Lady Calthorpe), also widowed
during the Maori Wars.
Others are Nick Flower {“own brother to
Peregrine on the wrong side of the blanket”),
Corny Fleete and his brood of half-caste
children.
After John’s death Darien decides to take
his sheep south to some land Peregrine owns
in Canterbury.


teers and artillery. “The Maori fighting force is esti-
mated as well under 3000. Truly we have reason to
be proud of ourselves,” remarked the “Chronicle,”
driving Peregrine into such a rage that he cut Jermyn
dead, promenading with Sally in the gardens. Twenty,
thirty, forty years, went Sally’s reluctant feet, taking
her away from Jermyn standing so lonely under a
tree. Never, never would she run on the hills and
dance in the sun with Jermyn . . .
“Pray keep step, my dear,” said Mr. Lovel.
staidly pacing.
TO Sally, waiting for the rare letters from her chil-
■ dren, they all seemed so far away that they were
often near, as the dead may be. She could hear
Tiffy singing down the stair, catch a gleam of Roddy’s
fair head among the laburnum-trees, feel Jerry’s
hearty kiss dropped on her forehead as she sat sew-
ing of evenings while the clock ticked Du-ty, Du-ty so
loudly in the silence.
Down at the Institute Corny Fleete was trans-
lating the Maori “Marseillaise,” lately inspired by
their distresses and destined to be the heart-song of
their race for generations.
“Ka ngapu te whenua,” began Corny, interpret-
ing: “The earthquake shakes our land. Where shall
we find an abiding place? Hold fast our land, nor
let it from our grasp be torn”
There was a deal more, embarrassing to gentle-
men disliking to be compared with earthquakes . . .
which New Zealand certainly knew something about,
although not very seriously; and young Charles
Macrae, meeting rows of beetling brows, declared
that we were taking quite the wrong way with the
Maoris, gentlemen.
“They are as fine a race as ourselves, and even
the regular soldiers know it now,” said young Macrae,
who had lately married the daughter of a friendly
chief in church. And he was not the only one. Some-
thing mysteriously attractive to young men in the
texture of these high-born Maori maidens, whom they
were now meeting for the first time.
Thumping his eternal umbrella Sir Winston pro-
claimed his predilection for English blood. “ ‘Rule
Britannia,’ ” he cried.
“Good Lord, we’re so sick of this war,” pro-
tested a captain, who had strayed in. “Half of us
feel it’s unjust, and we all loathe killing Maoris.”
“I’ve killed a Maori,” said Corny, who had been
partly drunk ever since he did it. “Killed my own
son Hori six weeks ago. Swore I’d kill ’em all . . .
gone Maori . . . renegades to my blood . . . God
save the Queen,” quavered Corny, trying to stand,
and failing.
“There, there,” said Major Henry, patting the
bowed shoulder. “Forget it, old man. Forget it.”
Corny had lived with Maoris too long. Utu to that
extent was quite unnecessary, since everywhere half-
caste sons were fighting against their relations, and
more than a few white men fighting with the Maoris.
The real renegades, thought Major Henry, were
the white men who were smuggling in cannon and
teaching the Maori how to load them with the lengths
of heavy bullock-chain that did such unpleasant dam-
age, buying quantities of tea-chest lead from traders
in order to run bullets, helping make the stinking
black gunpowder to eke out the Maori supply.
HEMI, now in the bush with his men, sometimes
bought flax-kits filled with bullets out of Nick
Flower’s long canoe on the slow-moving rivers. Once
he sat with him over a campfire] Flower had just
cut his way through an old track overgrown with the
tough supple-jack loops, the springy kia-kia that
reaches from tree to tree and bursts into little palms
in the fork of every branch, and the lawyer-vine with
its little hooks set at such a spiteful angle, and he
rubbed the blood from his arms, saying in his sneer-
ing way:
“With all the bush fighting for you, why aren’t
you doing better? Where are your mantles and
mats now, Hemi Fleete?”
The kingite faction among the Maoris had
crowned their king with the prayer that “the religion
of Christ shall be the mantle of your protection; the
Law shall be the mat for your feet for evermore.”
But of what use were prayers now, thought Hemi,
blazing out: “Why are you here? Why do you not
go to your kind?”
“I do when I want them. I’ve no more cause
to love them than you have.”
Hemi blinked at a lace-fungus bluely phosphor-
escent in the high fork of a tree. His long love for
Tihane was as far off and unearthly as the fungus,
and he had killed many white men. But there had
never been another woman like Tihane, although he
had taken wives as a young chief must. Sons of his
own in the pa now, binding him closer in the bonds
that he so hated.
A tall rata branched above the fire. Is there
anywhere, thought Hemi, treachery like the rata vine
nosing along the ground to some proud tree, climb-
ing with soft tendrils that grow strangling-strong on
the lifeblood of its host so that after years the
enclosing arms drop off, letting the poor squeezed
skeleton of a tree fall, and the rata stands alone, a
haughty murderer tossing scarlet plumes against the
sky.
“That is what the pakeha will do to the Maori,”
said Nick Flower, following Hemi’s thought. Then
he went away and sat like a king above his Maori
rowers in the long canoe. So he came in a night or
two on a camp of fighting rangers, bringing welcome
information, finding Brian Lovel there.
IN the red flicker of the campfires great branches
looked like tents, polished leaves made continual
dance and flicker. Squatting round the fires, men
were singing “My Old Kentucky Home” and “We
Are Tenting To-night on the Old Camp-ground.” No
need for caution now that Cameron would have his
whole force here to-morrow or next day. “Nice to
be out of this,” said Brian.
“Some Auckland girl will probably agree,” said
Flower. And then Brian remembered Tiffany and
asked for the name of the priest who had married her
to Captain Sackville. Flower lit his pipe slowly.
“I don’t know it,” he said at last.
“But . . . this is most extraordinary, sir,” cried
Brian, turning red.
“Why?” Flower was guarded now. So there had
been trouble?
“It is believed that the man was not licensed to
perform the ceremony.”
“Like enough.” Flower’s nerves, always so steady,
did not betray him now. The wheel had swung full
circle, had it? Peregrine Lovel’s daughter was no
better than Flower’s mother had been. The deep
warp of a lifetime began to supple, to straighten out.
“Has Sackville married her again?”
“Na He—he’s returned with his regiment to
England.”
“Then she will be rid of a hound.” Thinking of
Darien he began to laugh. How furious she would
be, her red curls on end.
“This is no jest, sir,” cried Brian, jumping up,
looking so like Peregrine. “Do you not realise that
you have laid yourself open to a criminal prosecu-
tion?”
“Your father is likely to prosecute, ain’t he?”
Brian was silent. Flower had gone straight to the
weak spot, for all Lovels were engaged in trying to
cushion this scandal. He felt there was more to be
said, but he did not know how to say it. He hesi-
tated. “Cowardly skulking dog!” he cried ineffec-
tually, and walked away.
Nick Flower laughed gustily, going down to his
canoe on the river. He was not minded to explain
anything to Peregrine Lovel’s pup. But sliding over
the quiet water to the dip-dip of the paddles he began
to grow concerned about Darien, who would demand
many explanations. To say he hadn’t been sure
would not help him with Darien, who (conscienceless
little pirate though she was) had always been straight.
She probably forgave, even enjoyed as a tribute, his
madness that night. But she wouldn’t forgive what she
must take as deliberate insult. Hell, what made me
such a fool, he thought. And he had felt himself so
clever . . . Yet Darien, receding into the distance,
was dearer than she had been. “Get along can’t you?”
he cried to his men, feeling himself chasing Darien.
VII.
VALIANTLY the young Maoris were singing: “Oh,
when will your manhood rage? Oh, when will
your courage blaze? When the ocean tides
roar”
Then, with a very good imitation of the ocean,
they would come hurling their nakedness against the
cannon, which mowed them down. But the women
were singing less of the warlike “Riria” and more of
the sad waiatas of death.
Now Cameron brought his forces into the Waikato
up the great military road. They came sweeping like
a sea ; endless miles of pack-horses, bullock-wagons,
marching soldiers, floating flags, rumbling Armstrong
guns dragged by the mighty horses, bands with bugles
and drums. The wildest Maori courage could not
face that avalanche. But from pas and camps they
withdrew in dignity ; men, women and children rais-
ing their voices in farewell to their dear land.
“Tena to-tai o kawhia . . . oh, that I could burst
these captive bonds. Aue! Life is drifting fast aWay
. . . Now, now the mighty Io calls. Oh, that I could
burst these captive bonds”
Like the dying chords of an organ, the chant
faded over the hills into the vast, dark bush ranges.
For the first time we have put fear into their
brave souls, thought the officers, looking round on
the smiling valleys won, feeling how little honor was
won along with them.
I.
{HIS surely was the beginning of the end,
thought Auckland, becoming monstrous
gay; with sailor-men making Loafer’s
Corner quite dangerous of an evening, and
young officers climbing Jacob’s Ladder for
Caroline was preparing for another
card-party. Although still tiers of crepe below the
waist, Caroline was alarmingly breaking out into
purple bows and gold chains, brooches and lockets
above, and sewing peacock-feathers in her cap. “I feel
it our duty to think of others,” she told Sally. “And
I’m sure poor dear John wouldn’t mind because I
always tie a crepe bow to each table-leg.”
John was now always “poor dear John” to Caro-
line ; but Sally felt it was not he that was to be pitied,
with the war still going on, since what might have
been a rout in the Waikato if briskly followed up had
resolved itself into another of Cameron’s slow
marches. And Auckland’s Parliament squabbled
fiercely with Grey over the confiscation of rich land
and his lenient treatment of Maori prisoners.
Governmental Ministers and settlers were all for
confiscation and hammering the devils to the limit ;
while Grey, backed up by London’s Colonial Office,
which hadn’t seen the work of years go up in flame,
talked at large of leniency, and the army wobbled un-
certainly between the two. Tamihana, chased out of
the pa of his kingship and reading in the papers what
Parliament proposed to do with them all, prepared
for a last stand ; but the unquenchable Rewi was at
it first, entrenching with some three hundred warriors
under the very nose of a brigadier at Orakau and
quite unconscious of the immortality it was to bring
him.
The three Lovel brothers were with Von Temp-
sky’s Rangers, part of the two thousand pakeha who
surrounded Rewi’s pa ; and Roddy knew well how
there would be little water in the pa and probably
no food but raw potatoes and vegetable-marrows.
Except in long-established pas with the house-proud
women to fill the patakas, the Maoris never thought
enough about the commissariat. But for days Rewi
withstood the battering of rifles and artillery, and
then Cameron, who had always so hated killing
Maoris, pushed up a sap and invited surrender.
“To the General. Salutations,” replied Rewi
politely. “The end of that. This is the word of the
Maori. We will fight for ever and ever and ever.”
“Ake, ake, ake ... for ever and ever and ever.”
shouted his gaunt men above the broken palisades.
“Then let the women and children come out
before we kill you all,” invited Cameron. But Rewi
returned their answer. “The women too will fight
ake, ake, akb.”
“Then, for God’s sake, let them have it and get
it over,” said Cameron, wishing himself anywhere
else.
Roddy, flinging hand-grenades, saw them snatched
by the women and flung back, saw a tall wild-eyed
woman so like Haini Fleete that his mind rushed
back into the past and he could scarcely see for tears.
Wild shouting now, a thrusting of men. To the
south the Maoris were driving out in a swift fierce
wedge through the surprised regiments, spreading into
the thick flax-swamp beyond. So it was “Cavalry!”
now. “Rangers! ”
Can there be a God? thought Roddy, obeying
orders, plunging in the swamp to his waist, cutting,
lunging at the gaunt weak fellows whose one idea
now was to get somewhere and drink in peace. Such
a savage hand-to-hand fight in the suckling, smelling
swamp among the tall, stiff flax-bushes and the crack-
ling koradi-sticks. Such a long fighting in the bush
around, until in the coming night the greater number
of that little garrison lay starkly awaiting burial,
while their dauntless souls went with the little green
lizards to Rienga.
“Ake, ake, ake,” said Von Tempsky, weary over
the campfire. “Has there been anything like it since
the days of the old Greeks? What madness makes
you kill such men when you may want them to fight
for you some day?”
“They’re as strong as we are. We have to,” said
young Jerry, very wise under a head-bandage.
Brian said: “Ake, ake, ake! that would make a
good slogan. I’ll take it back to Auckland.” And
he did, so that cricketers and footballers shouted it
and, fifty years later, Maori regiments, dying for Eng-
land in the Great War, were still shouting: “Ake, ake.
ake!”
WITH a broken leg Roddy creaked back in a bul-
lock-dray to Auckland Hospital. Mamma, so
pretty and gentle in one of these new chip hats with
dove-color ribbons tied under her chin, came to read
him Tiffany’s latest letter. Perhaps Tiffy had found
something to hold on to in spite of Sackville, in spite
of Nick Flower, whom Roddy would have a reckon-
ing with if ever he could find him.
Tiffany, it seemed, had found nothing to hold on
to at first. She had thought some mad old pagan god
must have made the Canterbury Plains, because any
other would have had more imagination. A mon-
strous level living thing, sprawling dun-color against
all the horizons like some neolithic animal, breathing
so steadily and awfully with the wind running in its
tussock hair.
“I couldn't write of it at first, it was so much
more frightening than crossing the rivers, though they
were bad. But, when we had to drive for over sixty
miles across that dreadful live body that seemed as
though it might turn any minute and destroy us, I
felt as though we were adventuring, into hell. Darien
liked it. She said it was such good feed for the sheep.”
Roddy smiled. This practical Homeric Darien,
turning monsters into sheep-feed. But Tiffy finally
had found something to hold on to. There were lovely
clumps of cabbage-trees, she wrote, and a tiny hill


behind Bendemeer up which she ran every night to
watch the sun go down behind the Southern Alps.
The sun has quite a new array of colors down
here,” she went on, “so gaudily grand that each time
you can hear him saying: ‘You can’t beat that! ’ Then
he says good night and winks at me and disappears
into his snowy bedclothes, which are everywhere six
thousand feet above the Plain. So I come down,
well content, to listen to Darien attacking Robertson,
whom she made overseer when she sent the manager
away.
“ ‘Ah’m no drunk, ma ieddy,’ says Robertson who
has been away for a fortnight bringing stores from
Christchurch. ‘Stand on one leg then,’ says Darien.
But Robertson knows better and goes off to the men’s
. huts, while Darien comes glowing in with bundles
of accounts, which she nearly eats instead of the cut-
lets, she is so busy checking them. So I sew and read
the papers and make candles and set bread, and we
are both early abed since we rise at dawn.”
If Tiffy isn’t happy she hides it well, thought
Roddy, remarking that he would go down and see
her as soon as his leg was healed, since papa with
his prayers and politics was less palatable than ever,
and wouldn’t his little mammy run away with him,
too? “I’d enjoy an elopement with you monstrously,’’’
said Roddy, light from the little diamond-panes fall-
ing faint on his white face and yellow head.
Another man had urged that with more meaning.
But it couldn’t be done, and Parliament was removing
to Wellington at the beginning of 1865 and Mr. Lovel
going with it. And he was sending Jerry at once to
Canterbury, said Sally, feeling how life was like the
chain-stitch sewing-machine, never tying its threads.
So many untied threads hanging round her. Jermyn,
who was writing his book all about beloved England
and beloving lovers, with smacks and spikes of Mr.
Disraeli for the gentlemen ; Tiffy, who would have to
gather up her broken life unaided ; Roddy, always
going away ; Brian, who had never been near even
when she put a compress on his sore throat; Caro-
line, Sophia, Maria . . . all untied threads about Sally
so wanting to rush into life’s dim perspective and
challenge it.
11.
TJFTER a few more engagements the Maoris finally
retreated into the wild ramparts about the
Urewera country, where it seemed wise to leave
them, since not even missionaries had penetrated
there. So Parliament grimly assessed the war bill
at several millions, exclusive of quite unassessable
damage to progression, and went to Wellington in
the hope that conditions would be pleasanter, while
for Auckland the bottom fell out of things.
“See the withers of the galled jade wince,” said
Sir Winston, marching off with yellow wig over his
ear in processions of indignant Aucklanders demand-
ing instant separation. Was it to be imagined that
they would bear the rule of that upstart town Wel-
lington? They would drown in their mud-flats first.
“Separation might be excellent if we could also
separate from our debts,” remarked the “Chronicle.”
“Otherwise, the notion of allowing Wellington to pay
them commends itself to us.”
Peregrine selling his houses, at great loss, for
such wealth as there was now flowed southward,
looked on Wellington as merely a step to Canterbury.
Shipbuilding was dying fast in competition against
Wellington and Dunedin, and he meant Jerry to turn
Darien out of Bendemeer soon.
But Peregrine had reckoned without the Angel
Gabriel. Gabriel (who must be more of a joker
than one thought) had appeared among the Taranaki
Maoris, had chosen a gentle madman named Te Ua
for his prophet, and immediately proceeded to ex-
tremes. Von Tempsky and his Rangers, Whitmore
and other Volunteer leaders went out after Te Ua,
and found themselves confronted with the most shock-
ing thing yet.
“We have so embittered the Maoris,” wrote
Brian, “that they loathe us and our religion, and are
setting their subtle wits to debase both. Being very
hearty about it —as in all they do —they have soon
twisted Te Ua’s simple creed of Pai Marire, which I
believed means Goodness and Grace, into the most
revolting heathenism to be compassed by savage and
thwarted souls.”
Roddy was now gone south, and Peregrine (see-
ing two sons meeting Goodness and Grace in such
form) began to wonder seriously if Providence did
love him after all, and went out to meet with fury
Major Henry’s suggestion that they should all go to
Australia,
“I will be a hanger-on in no land, sir,” said
Peregrine. Surely Gabriel must soon relent.
But Gabriel had now provided the head of an
English officer to be stuck on a pole and danced
round until the Maori dancers fell frothing at the
mouth and the tohungas leapt with glee among the
writhing limbs. Old Te Patiti, born and bred on
superstition, seized his sticks and danced, too, feeling
that now we had really got something to destroy the
pakeha at last. Soon all pakeha heads would be on
poles, soon we would dance England off the earth,
thought Te Patiti, reeling over and staring up at the
tohungas with entranced eyes. Haini Fleete stood
unwieldy but majestic among them. She couldn’t be
a tohunga, but she could prophesy and did, letting
loose long years of hate and longing, while Hemi stood
by with bursting heart.
Hemi had weathered the physical war, but this
challenged the spirit. Built with Maori art upon the
Bible, salted with all dark fanaticism, with mesmer-
ism, with the most bloody of pagan rites, the new
religion shook minds which had been stuffed and be-
wildered by missionaries with undigested texts —minds
which were also tormented by the knowledge that the
Maori was a beaten race. We warriors couldn’t do
it. Perhaps Gabriel can, thought Hemi, feeling the
frenzy that is in all Maori blood work in him until
with a strange wolfish howl he leapt in among the
dancers.
ILD and barbarous ritual began shooting up like
™ the upas-tree, and it was soon discovered that
any white head on a pole would do. Gabriel would
take charge of them all, marching with his converts
round the country, destroying and befouling all they
touched. Rangers, Constabulary, Volunteers ploughed
through the clogging bush after that mad flaunting
trumpet, sometimes hearing far off in a still night the
wild cry: “Hapa! Pai-marire. Hau! Hau! ” Gabriel
(consulting daily with Jehovah) promised that the cry
would turn any English bullet.
Von Tempsky heard it, too, that night the
Rangers, moving almost as silently as Maoris, lay
near the Hau Hau camp, dirty and very hungry, hav-
ing had nothing but the .rum-ration for two days.
Brian felt disgustedly at his black stubble, wishing he
was shaving in Auckland with warm water. Jerry
was fretting over Peregrine’s desire that he should
proceed at once to Canterbury.
“I think Von might let me go,” he muttered to
Brian. “I’ve had near four years of this.”
“I’ve had five,” retorted Brian. “And there may
be another five.”
“It’s cursed unfair,” growled Jerry, looking like
Uncle John in a temper. “Taking all our youth”
But war always did that. “So long as it don’t
take our lives,” said Brian, shrugging. Was this
foul thing to go on for ever and ever? He dragged
pencil and paper from his knapsack and began a
love-letter to Miss Alice Whitman. “There seems no
use in even hoping for this trouble to end,” wrote
Brian, “and when I think of you I cannot wait. Can
you consent to marry me on my next leave, my own
dear Blue-Eyes?” And more to the same effect.
A leave for Brian came sooner than he expected.
A brush with the Hau Haus next day in a deep
shadowed gully, and no Brian at the campfire for
that night’s roll-call. Hemi, who had fought with
madness ending in a forced march, thought himself
still mad when he saw a familiar, dark, disdainful head
upon a pole, saw a bunch of gold seals and trinkets
with the Lovel crest strung round the neck of a leap-
ing maniac. Then all his madness fell from him, and
he turned about and walked straight off for a hundred
miles or so to old Tamihana, who had long since made
his peace with God and man.
“Take me for your slave,” said gaunt tattered
Hemi, kneeling down. “For lam not fit to be a
chief.”
111.
(N Auckland Sophia was feeling the world very
unkind, what with Uncle Peregrine selling the
house over their heads, and mamma and Emily
going to Canterbury. “Why can’t I go, too?” de-
manded Sophia, her tongue nearly hanging out at
thought of all the rich station-holders.
Linda, said Caroline, had only sent for Emily,
and, since she knew very well that no young lady
could travel alone, of course she must have expected
her mother, too. “I always think Providence must
have sold the farm for us just when we needed the
money,” said Caroline, pulling old gowns of purple
satin and orange and plum-color merinos and bareges
out of trunks. Even poor dear John couldn’t expect
her to go to Sydney in crepe, and if she did not get
away soon Peregrine might look for repayment of
her borrowings—which, of course, she would be glad
to settle, only no one could do the impossible.
“Did Linda ask you, Mamma?” said Maria, so
ready with awkward questions.
“A mother don’t wait for a daughter to ask her.
She knows she is always welcome. I think you girls
had better go and live with Major Henry,” said
Caroline, feeling that he was too old to put up much
of a fight.
“Oh, yes. And with Jermyn,” cried Sophia,
peeping in the mirror. It may be only because he
thinks he is too old that he hasn’t spoken, since he has
married no one else, she thought.
But neither age nor anything else kept Jermyn
from speaking when an agitated Major Henry put
Caroline’s proposal before him.
“If you take those two moulting guinea-hens I’ll
never enter the house again,” said Jermyn.
“Damn it, boy, you don’t suppose I want ’em,”
protested the Major, dragging at his grey whiskers.
“But I suppose the poor devils must live somewhere.”
Jermyn didn’t see why they should. He went up
to talk to a tremulous Sally, with cap sliding off
her head and boxes half-packed for Wellington.
“Will ye awa’ wi’ me when Peregrine goes to
Wellington? He’ll have so much luggage he’ll never
miss you,” he said.
“He would when he wanted it unpacked,” said
Sally, but her voice shook. He rose and came to her.
“I mean it as I have always meant it, my dear.
All our lives are being upset through no fault of our
own, and yours is so lonely now. Your young ones
will never return to the nest, Sally. Come with me
to England ... to Scotland. And you shall lie in
the heather and play with the fairies, and I’ll make
books out of the running brooks . . . and you and I
will be young again, and so very happy, I think.”
This Sally, who would never really be past the
playtime she had never known, was tempted now as
she had not been tempted before. Almost piteously
she clutched at eternity . . . “We shall have all that,
Jermyn.”
“You know I don’t believe in eternity.”
“I do, dear.”
“That don’t make one.”
“My eternity is so strong it will get you there in
spite of yourself. And Mr. Lovel really does seem
to need me now.”
“Merely to promenade with. Let him take
Sophia.”
Sally began to laugh, suddenly laid her still bright
head upon his arm. “Please, please, don’t make it
harder,” she begged. Virtuous promenade with Mr.
Lovel was surely the very hardest exercise ever re-
quired of a woman . . .
OF the hegira of Caroline and Emily to Sydney and
then in another small steamer back to New
Zealand’s South Island Peregrine heard only that it
had cost very much more than was expected, and
would he please buy Sophia some wool for framing
her texts.
There were also numberless sheets of thin paper
for Sally, who would be so eager to hear of Tiffany
and Darien. Caroline, who considered herself drama
and so often turned out to be comedy, had not
approved of Sydney. “No one seemed to realise who
I was, and very few returned my bows. A vulgar
place. But they have hansom cabs, which Auckland
hasn’t.”
Sally struggled on through Caroline’s gaudy
Italian handwriting, searching for news of Tiffy and
Darien. “Even the ladies here talk of horses and
race-meetings, which I consider most ungenteel and
said so. We travelled across the Plains by Cobb’s
Royal Mail Coach with six horses, but it had no
springs and made me feel so unwell that I almost
fainted a dozen times, and I must say the other pas-
sengers were quite disagreeable, though I had to lean
on them. The Plains are shocking empty. Emily
saw in the distance what she thought were cattle, but
I consider to be lions since none but wild creatures
who knew no better would live here, though Linda
does and she and her children are very well behaved,
I must say, and Andrew should be thankful I took
such pains with her. We came to a big river ”
Caroline’s description of the big river occupied
two pages, describing her anguish when the horses
got into a quicksand, and everyone was nearly tipped
out on shingle-spits and drowned in the swift streams,
and had to avoid the ford because of great trees
brought down by the last flood.
“Yet we were far from arriving since we had
seven more miles to drive in a strange conveyance
called a buggy and not intended for crinolines and
Andrew so fat I didn’t know him, and Linda fat, too,
when we got there. I said at once: You must give
up cream again, Linda, as an example to Emily,
though I haven’t seen any rich station-holders yet.
But we have only been here two days and I am still
so sore I must conclude, and if it hadn’t been for
the devotion of a mother which can even endure my
sufferings I would never have come.... ”
Not one word of Darien nor Tiffy. Sally began
to cry softly, then discovered a sheet from Emily
that promised better. Emily (a natural gusher) was
full of rapturous italics. “The darling children.
You’d never expect Linda’s to be so handsome.
Andrew so broad and jovial. Quite the vieux rose,”
wrote Emily, feeling that French was always so tell-
ing. “Darien says she and Tiffany have taken all
the beaux on the Plains, but they’ll spare me one.
She looks vastly healthy, and so does Tiffy, though
there is nothing but tussock anywhere.
VI.
/TOD, You were tired when You made this country,
M| said Roddy when first he saw the Plains. But
Darien and Tiffany soon cured him of that. So
did the jovial young station-owners (everybody was
young and jovial here) riding down for the mail at
the accommodation house, riding back over twenty
miles or so of tussock, and never failing to call m
at Durdans and Bendemeer on their way. Always
open doors for passers-by on the Plains, and always
room in the men’s houses for tired tramps.
At Durdans young men stayed a night and pos-
sibly two, hanging over pigpens and branding-yards,
talking sheep and cattle with Andrew Greer. At
Bendemeer they sipped of Society as they had not
done since leaving England, basking in such delight
as comforted (or discomforted) them for barren
weeks ; talked and squabbled and jested, ate quantities
of cake and scones and sang every song that anyone
could remember. Roddy’s guitar had been immensely


popular until he to,o followed the new goldrush over
the ranges to Westland, where all the world seemed
hurrying now.
“Can’t keep hut-cooks or shepherds,” complained
station-owners and cadets, condoling with Darien, find-
ing herself in like case. “If the Kaiapoi Maoris turn
miner, too, we’ll have to shear our own sheep,” said
Toby Bayles, his round face solemn over the consump-
tion of buttermilk scones.
Darien was on the hearthrug toasting bread. In
a tight tawny j'upe and flowing skirt she was also
toasting hearts that were eager for beauty and get-
ting little elsewhere. “We’ll have shearing-bees,” she
proposed. “You boys will shear my sheep, and Tiffy
and I will pick-up for you all.”
They laughed together, these young things, tak-
ing chances for the glory of the game. Chances
against the fierce nor’-wester roaring out of the gorges
for three days on end, leaving stripped trees and
roofs, overturned tanks and other ruin in its trail.
Chances against the bitter south winds killing young
lambs by the hundred, against snow in the ranges
and flooded rivers, against loneliness and drink.
But roofs were anchored somehow, English trees
grew lustily into breakwinds, yolk rose in the wool
on the rich grasses, and wealth was coming everywhere
to the Plains. How many of these men in their rough
shabby riding-clothes and undarned socks could show
banking-accounts that would make the mouths of
Northern folk water, thought Darien, wishing she knew
which Tiffy would choose in the end.
Even Roddy had told her she must take some-
one. “Use your commonsense, my dear,” Roddy had
said, speaking as though everyone had it, though he
ought to know better.
V.
PEREGRINE (whose eyes seemed to have grown
closer together with seeing his sons trying to catch
Gabriel) took Brian’s death with few words, but
he went straight to military headquarters and de-
manded Jerry’s release. “My sons have done their
share,” he said, hinting firmly at his own long ser-
vices to the country, which were courteously acknow-
ledged with the reservation that nothing could be
done in a hurry.
This at least was true, since Cameron (heartily
sick of what he called “merely a land-grabbing racket”)
so confined his men to the beaches that the Maoris
called him “The Lame Seagull’ and the “Chronicle”
lightly referred to that king of France who led his
army up the hill and led it down again. Paper quar-
rels between Cameron and Grey grew so dangerous
that trembling clerks were forced to write requests
that “this correspondence be couched in more becom-
ing language.” Then Grey suddenly flung dilly-
dallying to the winds, and went out and won a vic-
tory for himself with the colonial troops.
All that England had said against New Zealand
was nothing to what it said at this. Already it had
been flouted by the colonial Parliament’s bill for a
self-reliant policy, and now its army was ignored. So
England formed regulations against the interference
of colonial Governors in future, but Grey had the
country behind him now. Too many cooks in our
kitchen and all spoiling the broth —we will get rid of
the Imperials and do our own cooking, said gentle-
men, buttoning up their coats and wondering where to
begin.
England began, slowly and with great dignity
withdrawing her regiments. Then wild squalls of fear
blew up and down the country. “The unjustifiable
risk,” cried the southern papers. “We are rushing
headlong to ruin,” cried settlers, who had not rushed
anywhere else for years.
POWN in the Parliament at Wellington Peregrine
was making speeches, and Sally sat with Lucilla
in the Ladies’ Gallery to hear. As he had never been
young (thought Sally) it seemed that he would never
be old. Even this crushing blow of Brian’s death had
not broken or even bent him. With a little added port-
liness for dignity, assisted by his eyeglass, his white
carnation and his undoubted elegance, he made his
points with the cold precision that Sally had always
feared. Never yet have I really been able to feel
that he is my husband. Oh, how can I be so wicked?
What will become of me? thought Sally, looking so
piteous and pretty under a litle blue chip hat that
Lucilla put a hot arm round her.
“Don’t be alarmed. He’ll get through it all right,”
said Lucilla, who would never forgive him for selling
the house and letting mamma and the girls loose upon
the world. Probably she’d have to take some of them
presently, since her Mr. Piper had a great respect for
anyone connected with titles.
Peregrine had no doubt about getting through,
although dimly conscious that being Sir Peregrine
helped. He began at once about the necessity for New
Zealand to fight its own battles.
“Gentlemen, as England has refused financial
help in the future, we can no longer support twelve
thousand of the Imperial Army at forty pounds per
e .^.P er annu m, in addition to all our own volunteers,
militia and constabulary. The country is millions of
pounds in debt. Progress, enterprise of every kind is
being not merely crippled but murdered. Under dual
control we have for years been hampered by the fact
that our colonial Parliament makes the laws and the
Imperial Army is at liberty to ignore them.
The English soldier,” went on Peregrine, who
never forgot that he had been one himself, “is the
finest in the world. But he also is hampered by the in-
structions of the English Parliament, while in methods,
tradition and physique he cannot possibly be so
suitable as our young tough colonials for the very
difficult guerrilla warfare which seems unhappily to be
our lot. This step, which must penalise our young
men still further, has not been arrived at without
grave consideration. But we who are responsible are
assured that the time has come when New Zealand
must stand on her own feet.”
Even if I lose Jerry too there is no other way to
save the country, thought Peregrine, sinking the father
in the patriot for a whole hour yet, and was so ex-
hausted at the end of it that he accepted Lucilla’s
kisses and congratulations with apathy. They’ll never
let Jerry go when this gets into the papers, he felt,
driving home silently with Sally. To sow himself
and his sons that others might reap ... is this what
it means to be a pioneer?
<‘| BELIEVE Parliament has the whole North
• behind it now,” said Jermyn, coming up to
Peregrine’s rented house in Wellington. “But these
papers make me dubious about the South.”
The South, busy at lambing, shearing, rounding
up its mobs of cattle in the ranges, was dubious about
itself. It wanted neither conscription nor war-debts
but was likely to get both.
“ ’Pon honor, y’know, it seems that New Zealand
has cut her own throat,” said an English cadet, calling
in at Durdans and finding it surprisingly full of Lovels.
“Not exactly complimentary to the Imperials, neither.
But let New Zealand cut her own throat if”
Andrew (who had gone colonial with the best of
them since he now had a share in Durdans) ceased
playing with little Deborah to retort:
“Apparently it was that or letting the Maoris
do it, sir.” These young scions of good English
families apprenticing themselves on the stations in
order to learn farming—what did they know about
anything? Never would he have one on Durdans.
“Oh, la! What we have suffered from the
Maoris,” cried Caroline, getting out a black-edged
handkerchief and beginning to sob. “When I think of
my poor dear Sir John”
“There, there, mamma darling. He can’t be
killed again, though Sophy and Maria may be,” said
Emily, running with the smelling-bottle, kneeling in
a flutter of white frills by Caroline. “You see, sir,
the Maoris killed dear papa,” she explained, looking
up, since that was her most effective attitude. Emily
promised to be quite as voluptuous as Caroline, and
had no more sense, thought Andrew, who was finding
it rather difficult to be jovial just now.
“She don’t remember him often, Mr. Morley,”
said Linda placidly. “Only when she finds a mourn-
ing handkerchief in her drawer. You’d better burn
them all, Lu.”
Having beaten mamma in a couple of stand-up
fights, easygoing Linda was beginning to take a high
hand. It was so wonderful to discover that mamma
was but human after all.
“ ’Pon honor ... so sorry to have upset the lady,”
apologised young Morley, riding on to Bendemeer,
where the ladies were never upset. An awful-looking
female, all gimp and bugles, and the other . . . mak-
ing eyes . . . “Who the dickens are they?” he inquired,
sitting down comfortably with Tiffany and Darien.
Tiffany, reading the Northern papers, left ex-
planations to Darien, who suddenly remembered that
she had vowed to marry Emily off, also that Tom
Morley always repeated everything he was told.
“Lady Lovel is going back presently to her mar-
ried daughter in Wellington,” she said, inventing as
fast as she could. “I hope she’ll leave Emily here,
for the poor child can’t call her soul her own. The
finest of girls, and so damned unselfish she lets that
ogre of a mother eat her up.”
“By Jove,” said young Morley, much impressed.
Perhaps those dark eyes had been appealing for help.
But he couldn’t offer it. No cadet with his term to
serve could. Darien followed up:
“We’re giving the dear girl a dance soon. Twenty-
fifth. I never write letters, so you must tell all the
men we know that we’ll expect them, Tom.”
“Delighted. Honored. By
Jove, that is splendid of you.
Except twice at the Christchurch
race-time I haven’t danced since
I left Home. We’ll all be here,
you may be sure. I —l suppose
you wouldn’t give me the first
dance, Lady Calthorpe?”
“You suppose quite right,
my lad. Tell your boss I’m keep-
ing it for him ... or somebody
else. Oh,” cried Darien, seized
with another notion that might
help Emily, “I hope old Lady
Lovel won’t die first. Such a
weak heart she may go off pop
any moment.”
“By Jove,” said Morley
again, and Darien let that sink
in. Young Tom had few ideas,
but what were given him he
held. “If you only did as much
as I do we’d have Emily mar-
ried in a month,” she told Tif-
fany when Morley was gone.
< ES,” said Tiffany, her mind still with the
" Northern papers in what seemed to be another
country. Still the North agonised, she read, in the
struggle that had killed Brian, that had taken Hew’s
right arm, that was taking so much else. Philosophy
didn’t help much, thought Tiffany, though thankful
that General Chute, who had replaced Cameron, was
proving how the Imperials, when led by determina-
hit tin sz°as Vcm Tern nskv S An *t h e rp wa? ard
help now from loyal Maoris, Vho were becomtag
majors and captains under the pakeha. 8
At „„„ c _
that "w™ if 3 I y Wr ° te h ° pefully j° I Roddy
J Lin ht w e u^° l l ie and S ! ie Was
growing used to Wellington with its houses all hung
like wasp-nests on its steep hills, but everyone was
very sorry that Sir George Grey had been recalled by
England.
Matters, felt Peregrine, would be much compli-
cated by the departure of Grey, who, whatever his
faults, had now become an institution and, having
proved himself soldier as well as ruler, was deserving
of all respect. England would never forgive his be-
havior to the Imperials, and she had treated him badly,
cried the papers now, combining to send him off in a
blaze of glory, forgetting for the moment how they
had formerly hated him.
There was, it seemed, so much that it would be
well to forget everywhere. Jermyn, coming down
from Auckland, told of such poverty there that hard-
pressed fathers of families were burning their houses
to get the insurance money, and immigrants, still
hopefully arriving, went north to hard labor on the
kauri gumfields—since America was demanding gum
for something or other —or so crowded the boats
going round to Westland and down to Thames that
there was really not standing room.
“Have to make a living somehow, poor devils ;
but •we English are so improvident,” said Jermyn,
telling how Chinese were scavenging on the worked-
over Dunedin goldfields, making good livings where
the white man had starved. “Westland seems the only
place now, though I shan’t go there. I shall write
another book, since my last had some success,” he
said.
Jermyn had lost his hungry look now, thought
Sally rather wistfully. Always compensations for men
and so few for women. Even Mr. Lovel (it was very
difficult to call him Sir Peregrine) had found so many
that she couldn’t keep track of them: Parliament,
the Wellington Harbor Board, the importing of quan-
tities of English birds —sparrows, larks, thrushes, what
not—to replace the clear native songsters.
Jermyn laid his hand over Sally’s lying quiet in
her lap.
“Still adamant, my Sally? There is yet time for
Scotland and tfie heather.”
“Oh, Jermyn!” The floodgates suddenly burst
in Sally. “I wish I could. Oh, how I wish I could.
I am so lonely”
Jermyn put his arms round her. “At least we
could grow old together,” he said.
But Sally couldn’t even do that, so unaccount-
able are women. So he dried her eyes for her, telling
her how Sophia darned Major Henry’s socks with
variegated wools and how Maria fed him on mush
until he came to Jermyn pleading for a night on the
tiles again. “If I don’t get blind drunk I shall be
rude to those women, poor devils,” said the Major.
So he and the Major had had a glorious time,
though the girls kept the Major in bed for two days
after, and Auckland wasn’t what it was ; with every-
one still mad on the desire for separation, and the
papers so scurrilous about Wellington and Parliament
that the Maoris (having long since replaced the mis-
sionary Bible with newspapers) respected nobody,
not even themselves, and got drunker even than the
pakeha—which was very unpleasant and quite dan-
gerous.
“I don’t feel we have governed this country at
all well,” complained Jermyn to Peregrine coming in.
But Peregrine, who had the undying quality of
absolute belief in himself, wouldn’t agree. Grey, he
said, standing in his old stiff attitude before the fire-
place, was the last of the really executive Governors.
Bowen would be little more than a pleasant figure-
head, and with all power passing into the hands of
the Parliament matters would soon be put straight
now. “It was merely a free hand that we needed,”
Such a savage hand-to-
hand fight in the suck-
ling, smelling swamp
among the tall, stiff flax bushes.
said Peregrine, looking like a Premier already, with
statues and busts preparing for him everywhere and
never any for Sally.
VI.
77 1 ESTLAND, beyond the Southern Alps, was too
LLp drunken with gold to trouble about Parliaments.
Like a woman’s bright scarf it lay between rough
seas and bush-hills, with the Alps peering down on
considerably more life than they had seen since the
Northern chiefs came down several hundred years ago
(Continued on page 50.)


BRANDAUER’A
G*
6C.V
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRaNDAPER k CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS'^^^H
PREE SnnHC
d
fd
fd
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit £ and J blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
York Minster d ”! 1 to Edinburgh, 392
i orK minster. m ii eS( m g j x hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILAVAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
BURNS. PHJLP AND CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
f
not allow him to go to New Holland, so he gave his
friend a gift of £2OO and Leichhardt sailed for Aus-
tralia alone.
The book continues with his experiences here ;
first his bush apprenticeship, excursions in the New-
castle district collecting botanical and geological speci-
mens and learning something of the ways of the
country; then his more ambitious flights, the friend-
ships that he struck up with pioneer squatters, the rise
of that erratic dream of the north —a road open from
Sydney to Port Essington for trade and immigration
—Government delays, his own mad but successful
private expedition from Moreton Bay. At last there
is Leichhardt’s overweening ambition to cross the
continent east-west, from Moreton Bay to the Swan
River, and his two attempts, one ending in fiasco,
the other in mystery. Behind the story the writer
lightly sketches historical progress in the Old World
and the New.
It is an intensely interesting story, but the author
does not do it justice. By far the best chapters are
the two telling of the journey to Port Essington,
“Three-thousand Mile Journey” and “Journey’s End,”
where she has Leichhardt’s journal as her main source
of information. Here the slack prose becomes firm,
the picture becomes vivid and even exciting. Inci-
dents are touched in deftly:
Even their old work-bullock tried to join the life of
the country. Old bullocks when tired, Leichhardt found,
cared little for company. They lost theirs one day and,
going back to search for him, found him happily chewing
the cud in a little brigalow grove all to himself, near a
pool of water, as though already the expedition had
given him plenty to think about for the rest of his life.
It seemed heartless to move him, but they needed him
for food.
And:
On they went, through cypress-pine thickets and
gum forests, past hundreds of emus; past two old men
who shut their eyes and chanted incantations with loud
fervor when they saw the white men; past a crocodile
asleep in the shade of a sarcocephalus tree.
Port Essington reached, the book drops back
into its former tempo. It makes no attempt to solve
or elucidate the two great mysteries that hang over
Leichhardt’s memory, his character and his end.
Catherine Cotton takes Leichhardt as her hero and
is content with that. She forces him as far as pos-
sible into a conventional mould and smooths out
the strangeness of the story by talk of his star, his
destiny, his fated road. Leichhardt and Port Essing-
ton “had been destined to come together since time
began”—which is sheer romanticism. Little is said
of Leichhardt’s fate. She lets slip the dramatic climax
to turn and contest, with more emotion than logic,
those who have aspersed his character. “If Leich-
hardt had been a young Englishman, born in the heart
of the Yorkshire moors, they would have said that
in him the old breed still lived.” On the purely infor-
mative side it is evident that the author’s investiga-
tion of original sources has been very thorough.
Hollywood, Their Hollywood.
Eighty years ago there was no Hollywood, just
a pleasant stretch of country, some citrus orchards
and some shrewd land agents. There was no parti-
cular reason why a city should grow up there except
that the land agents so willed it and the world is full
of suckers. It was a synthetic sort of place from the
start, and once it had been watered with capital and
advertisement it developed a sort of robot liveliness
and no one could stop it jigging.
That seems to be the idea of Cedric Belfrage,
who has made the amazing growth of the cinema city
the subject of his novel Promised Land (Gollancz),
which he variously describes as “Notes for a History”
and “a novel with a great deal of fact.” The story
of the city is packed around the story of a family.
Ed Laurie was a quiet, baldheaded little storekeeper
with a secret, poetic longing for life on the land. His
wife, Evangeline—known as Ma —ruled him with a
rod of iron and thought otherwise, but even Ma could
not resist the Californian land-boom advertisements.
The Lauries took their savings and travelled west.
Ma picked Hollywood as the most likely of half a
dozen settlements pegged out by surveyors on the face
of the desert. She bought a block of land and inter-
ested herself in Progress, which for her meant keep-
ing out Demon Rum. Ed got his lemon-grove, and
for a time was very happy. He was not interested in
Progress. What he wanted was water for his trees.
He got it.
The Owens River was diverted from its course
and brought by aqueduct to Hollywood and Los
Angeles. Another community was ruined. The tax-
payers were saddled with an enormous debt—to pay
for graft as well as for an unnecessarily elaborate
series of dams and aqueducts—and land values soared
so high that Ed could no longer make his orchard
pay. He had to cut it up into building allotments. It
broke his heart, but that was no matter. Eventually
he was drowned when one of the shoddy dams gave
way. Meanwhile Ma held on to her block of land
waiting for a rise, and took lodgers to keep the family
going.
The three children grew up. Clark had a job in
the City Engineer’s department, but made no progress
because he was honest. Later, when the movie in-
dustry developed, he became, to his mother’s horror,
a small-part actor. He did not succeed here either,
for the same reason. Fanny was a bedridden moron
who ended in an asylum, and Ann became a journalist
who exploited the lives of film stars. Her life was
ruined by a disfiguring acne and she drank disinfectant.
The phases of Hollywood life not illustrated by
these five people are picked up by a sixth, a journal-
ist cousin of the family, Don Laurie, who acts the
role of observer. One whole section of the book is
devoted to a magazine article by him on Hollywood
and its morals. The book is heavily documented with
newspaper clippings, fictitious and real, and the quality
of newspaper sensationalism has seeped through the
whole novel. Here is his picture of Los Angeles:
It was a loud, dirty, uncomfortable place. The square
which had been the original Spanish pueblo was like a
mouse lost in a herd of rhinoceros. Around it, block
after block, trolley-cars clanged up and down. The
air was full of fine dust. Men and women rushed
violently in all directions chasing dollars.
He seems to be angry all the time. He certainly
piles together enough human folly and depravity to
make the gods weep. His abrupt style is serviceable
while he is nailing down his satire, but when he uses
it to portray his characters, especially those for whom
he asks sympathy, it is too harsh a medium. Promised
Land —which is loaded with information —is in the
tradition of Upton Sinclair and Charles Norris.
Belfrage has chosen a nice large target and has landed
on it with all his weight.
The Isles of Greece.
Panic Spring (Faber), by Charles Norden, is
strange and very delicate. To the island of Mauro-
daphne in the lonian Sea there come five people, prac-
tically kidnapped by its owner, Rumanades. They
are all hard pressed by life ; Marlowe, the school-
teacher, is oppressed by monotony, vacillating at the
cross-roads of life; Frances, a girl worn out by
poverty, had begun a struggle for liberty, only to find
it was a struggle for subsistence ; Walsh is fleeing from
the memory of his dead mistress and their idyllic love ;
Fonvisin, a Russian doctor, has out of jealousy de-
stroyed his brother whom he loved ; and Gordon, the
most lightly sketched of the characters, is a refugee
from his own rootless character.
The island gives each an escape and a breathing
space, and each uses it according to his lights. In
the end the death of Rumanades disperses his guests.
The dream is over, and no one is nearer his goal.
Charles Norden can write intoxicating prose.
There is a magnificent description of music at night,
a haunting story of the embalming of a woman, a
storm, a deathbed that could scarcely be surpassed.
Sound plays a living part in the descriptions. Here
is the first glimpse of the island:
Only the long arc of gulls acclaimed them like an
aerial bunting,. Otherwise everything was as still as
death. The sudden cessation of their engine left a crater
in the air that took the silence a long time to fill.
Drenched in sunshine, and a silence in which the least
movement or sound—the noise of feet, or voices, or the
shriek of a gull—became a fearful sin, the bay drowsed
in a perfect hypnosis, a trance of fire.
The first couple of chapters jolt, and the author
presents his readers with mild shocks as when he
introduces a Greek sea-captain called Christ. The
main thread of the story, too, is occasionally lost in
a labyrinth of detail. But these things interfere very
little with the flavor of a remarkable book and are
almost concealed by its thick romantic bloom.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Island Interlude: Stuart McDonald (Deaton and
Spencer). Love and adventure on the Barrier Reef.
Good action and plenty of color —but nowadays the
happy return to England is a quaint anachronism in
a locally-written romance.
Explosion : P. C. Wren ; They Knew Mr. Knight:
Dorothy Whipple (John Murray). Indian love and
adventure story ; English rural romance. Florin re-
prints.
To Walk the Night: William Sloane (Arthur
Barker). Murder or suicide? His marriage was un-
happy—among other things. Long Island and Far
West.
Pomfret Towers: Angela Thirkell (Hamish Hamil-
ton). Romance and light comedy at an English
country house party. Rather thin.
The Last Trumpet: Todd Downing (Methuen).
Mexican matador murdered during bullfight. The
’tec is a quiet worker, but he stirs up a full ration of
exciting episodes.
General . . .
Saint Paul: Arnold Freeman (Bodley Head). The
life of Saint Paul should make an excellent play. Bub
this one apologises for itself with 34 pages of preface
and foreword.
Former Bulletin black-and-white contributor
Bertha Bennet Burleigh has had published by Collins
a large tome of her drawings under the descriptive title
Circus. Her work has improved remarkably. Draw-
ing is much more free and easy than in her Bulletin
days, and into the bargain has more humor in it. She
has the circus atmosphere well captured in her book,’
with the camels, elephants and monkeys exceptionally
well done. The work is rounded off with an entertain-
ing essay by the artist on the circus in Europe.
The Story of the Horse: Major A. J. R. Lamb
(Maclehose). The noble prad, in general and in
particular, from mythological times onward. The
necklace of laurels goes to Phar Lap. “He was not
only the greatest stayer the world has ever seen, but
also a phenomenal sprinter as well. He was un-
doubtedly the most perfect racing machine that nas
yet appeared.”
VariousVerse
The Stone.
I came to a high windy place
Flung against the sky’s face;
And it seemed nearer to the sky
Than to the fields that lie,
Dark fallow and pale stubble,
Beneath the sun’s red bubble.
I found among some lichened rocks
A round stone hollowed deep:
Its hollow had withstood the shocks
Of storms that strike the steep.
The thin trees nurse bedraggled locks,
The buds their meagre odors keep:
A hollowed stone among the rocks
Will have speech when they sleep.
Within the hollow of this stone
The lean blacks, crouching, ground
Their nardoo roots, and this alone,
Their epitaph, a stone, I found
Upon a high and windy place
Flung against the sky’s face.
And it is fit this place should seem
Nearer to the sky,
Where the forlorn winds cry,
Than to the fields that sleep and dream,
And peaceful lie.
K.s.w.
T. ROSE.
The Awakening.
(To Norman Lindsay.)
What did you see? Was it a snake in grass,
Or a tall pillar Hushed with your own sunrise
That frightened you to this unknown delight?
Tell me you saw the column full of fire,
Or the snake your temptation; or a boy
Bathing at noon in a sunlit mountain torrent,
Thinking himself not seen, laughing, posturing
As though he were indeed the god of love
Or some hot faun begotten in the mountains;
While you, thinking neither of him nor you,
Caressed your tree-trunk nervously, delicately,
Amazed as never yet. Tell me now,
Lips that have spoken much until this moment.
She cannot speak. Artist, your paint triumphs
And makes her dumb. But there is more than words
in her hand covering her right breast, that one
That had betrayed her to the tree she hid by,
Kissing the bark, no matter its iron hardness,
No matter the hard sun upon her shoulders.
There is more than words, more than sound
In the surprise and darkness of her eyes
Holding the artist as he works, informing
Every lick of the brush upon her body,
Every touch of the brush that’s not for her;
Holding his eyes each time he looks at her,
Until he sees her make the work herself,
Herself the work. Shame, envy and failure
Held off at arm’s length are not immune, no,
Not from the kiss of this fire something kindled,
Some flint-and-tinder fear, delight’s kernel
That will yield up delight. Envy and scorn,
And shame and failure—well, what are they
To the honeyed marble of her limbs, the amber
Of her hair, falling sunburned in the shade
Where now she walks and stops and sighs, remembering
A bodily triumph she had never dreamed of
And cannot speak of?
Well, there is your future,
Beautiful girl: a backcloth for this drama,
This speechless dialogue for you and life.
When you are sucked dry and chucked away
We shall not see it. You may thank the artist,
The sun, and summer, for preserving you
Like this, in a timeless instant, beautiful,
Your triumph the discoverer's, your fame his.
Like his, be sure, your end will seem a passing
Not magical, but careless and unknown;
And your discovery will endure for ever.
n.s.vv.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


c
vO
*
r=%
$
/
4-
V.
\
His familiar Brisk Stride
can be Yours!
Promise yourself a pleasant evening and a
brisk stride the next morning. At the club
or hotel ask for Johnnie Walker by name —
and keep to it. When entertaining at home,
see that the famous square bottle is on the
table. It is not only that you will enjoy
your evening more because you enjoy
Johnnie Walker more. The distinctively
clean and refreshing taste of Johnnie
Walker gives you definite evidence of the
purity and age of the fine whiskies from
which it is so skilfully blended. And so,
next morning, you will be glad that you
kept to Johnnie Walker.
JOHNNIE
With HER
Bom 1820 * Still going Strong
m
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK,
SYDNEY.
JW. 92. B.


9
1
■H
Mfc
■
mm
A
a ■
i
■
Si
■
■
11
I
P
1
*
< '
s
K
-
M
Hi
1
m
a
m
i 11
SH
B B
. '££
■ x..>v. " .... .;■
§Wf
St!l
B «
m
I'
I
*•
M >
a
: >S
I
.
m
v-
L:
■
'
WK
«tn»
«
✓
H §1
mi
M
s i
■
s--:
■
i ■
m
7 V - ' ;;
11
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


JACK FROST TAKES OVER AT CANBERRA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. {Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, lls.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
REVIEW OF CURRENT IDIOCIES.
Somebody makes the discovery that the Woolsack at
Westminster is stuffed with horsehair. This being
considered bad logic, London is diverted by the spec-
tacle of strong men carting the noble roost off to refill
it with wool. Dr. Page acknowledges the tribute to the
Dominion that he and his fellow-trippers represent,
and adds the characteristic, if doubtfully appropriate,
suggestion that the occupant’s wig should be of wool
also. That the country which keeps the heart of
Phar Lap reverently preserved in a large pickle-jar in
its Federal Parliament city is better complimented
through wool than through horsehair seems a toss-up,
but, at all events, wool has it.
Altogether a genial bit of idiocy. Of a happily
abundant sort, it does no harm to anybody, and makes
the world a brighter place to live in. There are
plenty other sorts, of varying degree. Any idle person
with a bent that way who cares to cast an eye over
the contemporary scene must see them sticking out
like nuggets in a prospector’s dream. One only a
shade farther removed from the purely diverting than
the affair of the Woolsack is Mr. Gullett at Canberra
last week criticising the Minister for Defence.
Mr. Gullett, as Minister for Trade Diversion, en-
dowed Australia with a legacy of idiocy—also con-
cerned with wool—which gives him special standing.
He now enhances this position. He does not find Mr.
Thorby a foredoomed washout as Defence Minister
on account of Mr. Thorby’s martial experience being
restricted to perhaps having led a flank attack on a
patch of Bathurst burrs. He finds Mr. Thorby’s job
not too big for Mr. Thorby, but too big for a Minister
for Defence. He wants two Ministers for Defence.
To look after a Navy which is obsolescent except
for one small swift cruiser, to which another may
perhaps be added this year and another perhaps next
year or the year after. To keep a Ministerial eye
on a still microscopic Air Force. And there is a
militia force of slightly-trained boys, plus a permanent
army the strength of which would be thought funny
in Switzerland.
From the comparatively insignificant idiocy of
Mr. Gullett’s line of criticism it is thus only a step
to a really first-class one. The real state of both
these idiocies —Mr. Gullett’s two Ministers for
Defence and the extent of Australia’s defences —is
freely exposed in another little political exhibition.
Mr. Curtin suggests that Sir Edward Ellington, Mar-
shal of the R.A.F., who is investigating the R.A.A.F.
for the Commonwealth Government, should spend
more than a month on the job. Neither Sir Edward
nor Mr. Thorby can see any need for it. Mr.
Thorby: “All phases of Australia’s Air Force organi-
sation will have been thoroughly investigated by Sir
Edward Ellington when he leaves Australia in about
a fortnight’s time.” Nobody doubts this. Having
found the R.A.A.F., Sir Edward could have done the
job of “investigation” thoroughly in a week.
Sir Edward’s passing suggestion that Australia
should buy its fighting ’planes from Britain instead of
from the U.S.A. may perhaps be best accepted as a
happy contribution to the general stock of what is
here under review. Sir Edward’s arrival was preceded
by the Canberra announcement that, because of
Britain’s pressing concern with the building up of
the R.A.F., there would be a delay not merely of
months but of years before the R.A.A.F. could be
built up to even the modest proposals of Mr. Lyons’s
programme. Australians are perhaps a simple-minded
race of people, but faced with that, and with Britain
itself under the necessity of buying 400 ’planes from
Uncle Sam, they may be excused for agreeing heartily
with Sir Edward —and buying ’planes from wherever
these can be had, preparatory to building in Australia
for its normal needs.
To put the matter plainly, Australia, while appre-
ciating Sir Edward’s suggestion, need? no telling where
its true preference lies. It is so much for John Bull
that it not only does not want to embarrass him in
making his own urgent defence arrangements, but it
wants to be itself well defended as a real contribution
to the full-time job it considers he has on his hands
in holding the Empire together by adequate defence.
It now realises, just as he does, that it was dangerously
misled by that greatest of all idiocies the League of
Nations, and it wants to catch up with sanity. It may
be comforting to many to hear from Sir Edward that
this country could not be attacked effectively by air,
but Australians know very well that even with Mr.
Lyons’s increased defence proposals completed Aus-
tralia will not be defended but will be merely con-
tributing that much towards its defence. And that
much also towards the defence of John Bull’s general
scheme of things in the event of attack.
That is another matter on which a good deal of
idiocy is let loose, idiocy of a somewhat darker tint.
It needs no reaffirming that if John Bull were attacked
there would be no patch of the Empire more hotly
up in arms than Australia. But Mr. Menzies was
simply putting a blunt truth diplomatically in his
suggestion in London a week ago for consultation on
common Empire policy. If Mr. Menzies really knows
how the land lies —and he has some of the make-up
of a statesman —what he meant by that was that Aus-
tralia, for one, wants a voice in saying that it would
be willing to fight for no other cause than the actual
defence of the British Commonwealth. It would
be no willing partner in war for any of the rotten
causes thrown up on successive waves of idiocy over
these past half-dozen years.
Of course, there has been a “special correspon-
dent’s” idiocy of reading into Mr. Menzies’s simple,
modest and necessary suggestion a comment on “recent
events, particularly the sinking of ships and the pos-
sible threat to the Empire’s Mediterranean communi-
cations.” What Mr. Menzies plainly suggests is that
Australia should have at least a voice in foreign policy
affecting the Empire as a whole. The “special corre-
spondent’s” idiotic reading of this is that that voice
would be a voice for war. It would urge Britain to
do what Britain, by its present sensible foreign policy,
refuses to do —get itself actively tangled up in the
sorry and shoddy business in Spain.
Nothing could be further from a correct reading
of Australian feeling. Not that a “special correspon-
dent” is to be much blamed for the mistake. Mr.
Menzies has really let a cat out of the bag in making
the suggestion. He has admitted, despite the reiterated
assurances Australia has had to the contrary, that at
present there is no such consultation on foreign policy.
That is to say, Mr. Lyons’s “Tune in With Britain”
is not merely an electioneering catchcry, but a literal
statement of the position. Australia is shunted back
to the colony outlook of 50 years ago to such purpose
that the tentative suggestion has to be made that
perhaps there should be consultation. And when
this suggestion is made it is so surprising that a
“special correspondent” interprets it for the benefit
of dumb Australian newspapers as a desire of Aus-
tralians to see John Bull take action, the outcome of
which would be unpredictable, because ships flying the
British flag, some even British, get sunk while trading
in a war zone for huge profits.
It would be no such idiocy that Australia would
be whispering in J.B.’s ear. It would be words cover-
ing the whole ground exposed through the assorted
idiocies here reviewed. Even wool for the Woolsack
symbolises the Australia that would be heard in those
consultations suggested by Mr. Menzies. That Aus-
tralia is bent on progressively building itself up, with
the vitally necessary aid of continued peace, into a
stronger and stronger unit of the British Common-
wealth, but it is still far from being strong enough
to stand and defend itself if John Bull were engaged
elsewhere, let along strong enough to help him in the
sort of all-in maelstrom into which one false step
might lead us all.
No Call for Jitters.
The Australian wool season is about to end, and it
looks certain that the clip will realise over £50,000,000.
In other days that would have been reckoned satis-
factory, but costs, taxes and new forms of competition
are such that woolgrowers are not satisfied. Nor, with
less wool to sell as the result of drought, particularly
types for which there is the greatest world demand, are
they easy in their minds as to the coming season. Their
disquiet was expressed in speeches at the N. S. Wales
Sheepbreeders’ dinner.
Mr. E. I. Body, the Sheepbreeders’ president, said
that only a fool could disregard the challenge of syn-
thetic fibres, and that the only way to meet it was
to improve the natural product. Senator Guthrie,
himself a breeder and a Dalgety’s man, mentioned that
world consumption of synthetic fibre last year was
equal in value to the average proceeds of two Aus-
tralian wool clips. This is true enough, but probably
70 per cent, of the synthetic fibre was used for pur-
poses other than those for which wool is bought. Much
of the remainder was combined with wool in the
factory.
Germany, chronically short of exchange, has
gone in for large-scale manufacture of wollstra, but
no other country has done so. In a Leipzig factory
that Mr. A. E. Heath inspected when he was N. S.
Wales Agent-General—“the finest piece of mechanisa-
tion and the greatest triumph of technical skill I have
ever seen” —85 tons a day was being made out of
wood-pulp. The material so produced was mixed
with wool in the proportion of 70 to 30. The finished
article, dyed, crimped and waterproofed, could not
be distinguished from all-wool by the average buyer,
but any expert would know it for “composition.”
S. Africa has been surveying the problem in a
research institute. Dr. Bosman, the head, states that
the German output of wollstra wafc equivalent to
240,000 bales of “greasy” in 1935, 1,400,000 bales in
1936 and 2,100,000 bales in 1937. The Italian output of
lanital, a milk-residue product, equals 60,000 bales p.a.
It was found that lanital—much boomed a little while
ago by Australian papers—disintegrated after the first
washing, and scientific durability tests gave wool a
superiority of 4500 to 1 over German vistra. These
and kindred facts explain why artificials, though pro-
duced in immense quantities, have not militated against
the wool market to any serious extent. They wear
out fast, and some of them need to be sold at a Very
low price to become truly competitive with wool. It
is. significant that Germany and Italy have imported
more wool in 1937-38 than in the boom year 1936-37.
Because so much wool has been sold at high
prices in some years, people are apt to view the indus-
try’s earning power in a wrong perspective. Not till
the Great War did Australian wool ever bring more
than £22,000,000 at a year’s Australian sales. In 1924,
when artificials were just arriving, woolgrowers were
selling round 1,600,000 bales. In 1937-38 Australia
and Maoriland, disposing of fleeces from 145,000,000
sheep, sold 1,300,000 bales more than they sold in
1923-24.
Overseas, synthetic-fibre production has not given
the wool trade the jitters. At the World Wool Con-
ference held at London, the chairman, M. Debrulle
(France), scouted the danger ; M. Scheller (Holland)
pronounced the Australian wool-selling system nearly
perfect; and Mr. Frank Young, head of Com-
monwealth Wool and Produce, who before going
to London had been to Japan, expressed the
opinion that wider uses of cheaper fabrics and progress
in scientific blendings meant that “the demand for
wool would increase.”
“S. M. Herald’s” Bradford correspondent declares
that though artificials are “exercising a check on
prices, no evidence is available that, given more normal
trading conditions than have prevailed in the current
12 months, the world’s clip would not find eager
buyers.” Dalgety’s 1937 report pointed out that “dur-
ing the last two years world consumption of wool has
exceeded current production”:
The world’s mills need more wool —especially more
merino wool—than is being produced. Despite increased
use of artificial fibres, the wool industry has been
nearer to the sheep’s back in recent years than at almost
any other period Artificial fibres have proved
welcome to wool users in enabling them to make the
wool go further The world’s wool production has
not increased as a whole....but there has been a sub-
stantial increase in the number of people calling for
woollen clothing.
Winchcombe Carson’s conclusion is that “the
limits of wool consumption have not been reached,
but expansion is possible only at moderate prices.”
It is at this point that defence against artificial
competition must begin. According to Senator Guthrie,
“the first thing to do is to reduce the cost of producing
wool.” Admitted, and the first thing Governments
should do towards this end is to cut taxes and encour-
age the growers, by wise and generous abatements, to
improve carrying capacity, tackle pests and provide
against drought. But the Senator came to Sydney
fresh from helping the Government he supports to
hit the growers with another tax —the National Incubus
one. As a costs-reducer, the Government he supports
has never been worth a row of pins. It prefers to
traipse the world looking for trade agreements which
rarely materialise and are of no particular use when
they do.
A Double-Dutch Stunt.
For weeks three Commonwealth Ministers, complete
with secretaries and “experts,” have been in London
with nothing to do. It may be surmised that most of
the party can accommodate themselves to such a
situation, but Dr. Earle Page is not like that—the
doctor must be doing something all the time.
A happy thought came to him. Australia needs
immigrants, and the Dutch are friendly neighbors in
their East Indies ; why not Dutch migration?
Brimming over with zeal, the doctor crossed to
The Hague. There he found courtly Hollanders in full
agreement with him that “planned migration from the
Netherlands to Australia” would be a wonderful thing.
He returned to London oozing enthusiasm.
There must, he said, be “voluntary societies in
Australia and Holland,” the latter to select “suitable
migrants, preferably from 18 to 22 years of age,” the
former to “care for them after arrival.”
I am satisfied that the Dutch are most desirable
settlers, owing to their splendid character, physique and
agricultural achievement, and also to their strong love
of family life.
The trouble is these desirable settlers won’t settle.
The population of their homelands is only a million
and a half more than that of Australia, and of late
years they have been increasingly reluctant to leave
them, even to go to their own colonies. According
to the Statesmans Year-Book, in chapters dealing with
the Netherlands,
The emigration has been as follows, mostly to North
America: 1928, 2804; 1929, 2970; 1930, 2756; 1931,
365; 1932, 158; 1933, 163; 1934, 243; 1935, 177.
The total number of emigrants, Dutch and foreigners,
who sailed from Dutch ports was in 1931, 2959; in 1932,
1940; in 1933, 1710; in 1934, 1342; in 1935, 505.
At the 1930 census the population of the Nether-
lands Indies was 60,727,233, and only 240,471 were
Europeans. Although the Dutch have had Java so
long that a Prince of Orange three centuries ago
contemplated transporting the entire population to that
island and neighboring possessions rather than yield
to the French, and although the East Indies tradition-
ally offer careers to young Dutchmen, those colonies
have fewer inhabitants of pure Dutch extraction than
there are inhabitants of British extraction in Tasmania.
It is a fool’s game that Dr. Page is engaged in.
Far better it would be to try to arrange with the British
Government for the transfer to Australia of British
foremen and workmen who can make ’planes, guns
and munitions and build ships. If it could get con-
tracts that would keep them thus employed for a term
of years, Australia wouldn’t mind taking unemployed
from places like Jarrow. By all accounts, there are
very good people in the distressed areas.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"After Us, the Deluge!"
Exeunt from the Senate, Messrs. Lynch (president),
Pearce, Tom Brennan, Cox, Massy-Greene, Hardy,
Guthrie, Plain, Duncan-Hughes, Sampson, Millen and
Payne. Enter Messrs. Amour, Armstrong, Arthur,
, Cameron, Keane, Wilson, Clothier, Fraser, Lamp,
Darcey and Aylett, with one more to be chosen by
the Victorian Parliament.
All the departing Senators are old hands. Most
of the newcomers are only names to the nation ; the
As, who were on Mr. Lang’s triumphant 4-A ticket (the
other A was, by the accident of circumstances, enabled
to take his seat in November) are scarcely more than
letters.
On the face of it, the new Senate will be weaker
in personnel than the old. On the other hand, since
there will be 16 Labor men instead of five, it will be no
mere obsequious instrument of the Lyons Government.
Obsequious the old Senate always was, and never
more so than in its closing hours. To enable the
Government to get its National Incubus Bill passed
before the new Senators arrived, the old Senate sat
on a Saturday—a thing almost unheard-of. It is
admitted by even supporters of this measure that it
is altogether experimental and has palpable short-
comings, but the predominant majority of the old
Senate was so anxious to oblige the Government that
the thing was shoved through in fast time, with its
imperfections thick upon it. If it proves a dud, the
gentlemen who retired on Thursday cannot be called
to account.
Hurry now being the order of the day, the old
Senate, as the principal U.A.P. paper mentions, “dis-
posed of eight bills in an hour.” One of the eight
concerned the airmail agreement, and another the
shifting of the capital of New Guinea from Rabaul
to Salamaua. Surely they were worthy of some
deliberation, but deliberation they did not get.
The House itself was in a hurry to quit what
members call “the national capital” before the second
half of the year was entered upon. In so much of a
hurry, that, grotesquely enough, it couldn’t find time to
pass the Inter-State Commission Bill, of which at least
one member of the Senate had high hopes. A 43-hour
sitting was decided upon so that everyone might get
away from the blasted place and enjoy the increased
salary he had voted himself; the tedium of this was
relieved by “amusing scenes,” one of which was the
smearing of the dozing chairman’s forehead with ink.
Prior to this diversion, “Mr. Price and Mr. Lyons,
who was in charge of the House, were the only mem-
bers who were awake.”
If Australia ever falls under a dictatorship, which
God forbid, it will be because members of Parliament
have brought Parliamentary government into contempt.
Chamberlain Is Right!
Britain’s great position in the world is to no small
extent the result of its comparative freedom from
civil wars. In this respect most other nations have
cause to envy it, even the United States.
Not for nearly 200 years has there been a civil
war in Britain. This blessing which, of course, has
been due mainly to the sound political instinct and
humanity of the people, has been valued so little
at different periods by fools in high places that there
have been repeated efforts to involve the British
Empire in the convulsions of other countries, at the
risk of bringing convulsions to the Empire itself.
In foreign wars Britain has often backed the
wrong horse. The last time this happened was in 1922,
when the Lloyd George Government nearly got us
into another war by supporting the Greeks against
the Turks. In the civil wars of other countries the*
interventionist gang has almost always wanted to stake
the country’s manhood and money on the side that
was certain to lose.
In the wars of the French Revolution those in
power in Britain backed the Bourbonists against the
Jacobins. In the wars of the Russian revolution they
backed the Whites against the Reds. In each case the
British Government’s proteges were not only beaten
out of the field, but foreign intervention helped to
establish the supremacy of a minority of extremists
who, without foreign intervention, might at no distant
date have been overthrown.
Intervention in Russia cost the British nation at
least £100,000,000 directly. What it cost indirectly in
Red repudiation, confiscation and intrigue in all British
countries—intrigue which has had to be combated
everywhere, and which often took the form of strikes —
no man can say.
Intervention in Russia was the work of Lloyd
George and Churchill. Age has not brought wisdom
to this pair of limelighters, and they are as hot as ever
for intervention —this time in Spain and again on the
side which can’t win.
The Stafford by-election suggests that a represen-
tative British electorate has got the measure of these
vain old demagogues and their clamorous supporters ;
but that doesn’t alter the fact that their campaign is
mad and bad.
Aloft at Last.
Details of the overseas airmail arrangements have at
length been tendered to the public by Mr. Thorby,
who resents “unjust criticism.” Mr. Thorby is de-
lighted that the arrangements will give Australia “a
complete aerial organisation on lines that were not
contemplated a few years ago.”
The scheme put forward three years ago was to
have involved the Commonwealth in an annual expen-
diture of £140,000, which Mr. Parkhill thought too
much. It provided for joint control of the route. To
this the Government objected, on the ground that Aus-
tralia should control the Australia-Singapore section.
The scheme which has been accepted will, it is
explained, involve joint control and an annual national
outlay of £250,000 —and the rest. The cost of bases
aerodromes, radio and beaconing equipment and
emergency landing-grounds, which should be laid
down every 50 miles at least on all main passenger
routes, has been pared to £30,000 a year. Subsidies
will eat up the rest.
The service will run three days a week each way
from London. Schedule time is 9\ days. It is hoped
by Herculean efforts to reduce this to days in 1940.
There will be no night flying, as there is on all
American routes. The Dutch in 1934 demonstrated
that they could get a passenger ’plane from London
to Melbourne in four days, and they expect to be
doing the journey in 34 days by the time the Aus-
tralian schedule is 7 % days. Since the British Imperial
rate of 14d. per letter will apply to all mail to Aus-
tralia, it seems likely that in a couple of years only
the cheap rate will keep all the inward-mail business
in British and Australian hands.
Internally, all mails are to be delivered by air.
Letters for Westralia, S.A., Victoria and Tasmania
will be unloaded from the flying-boats at Darwin and
picked up by Lockheeds and Douglases. -
Queensland and N. S. Wales will be served directly
by the flying-boats. The internal organisation, which
the Government developed in a tearing few days of
agitation, involves nothing new.
There is no real extension of routes, though there
is of some schedules. With its usual generosity, the
Post Office will make no surcharge on overseas mail
once it has arrived in Australia —the British Govern-
ment would have thrown the scheme over rather than
allow that to happen. But Australians will pay sd.
to send letters to London which Londoners can send
to Australia for l^d.
If Australian air services were speeded up into
line with the velocity with which members rush away
from Canberra, they would be the fastest in the world.
The Jewish Riddle.
Australians who value the contribution which its
Jewish community has made and is making to Aus-
tralian citizenship hate to read the stories that pour
in from Europe about Jewish persecutions in Ger-
many—and not in that country alone. They can
never understand how so gifted a race, the race of
Monash, Reading and Isaac Isaacs, could have in-
spired such a fury of hatred or how the new Ger-
many can possibly gain when men like Einstein and
Freud and thousands of able Jews of less note go into
exile, voluntary or enforced. Their sympathies are
with the exiles.
But sometimes they are given cause to wonder
whether they should believe even half the persecution
stories that are served up to them.
At the week-end, there was published the state-
met of. Herr Buerckel, the Nazi Commissioner in
Austria, that since the Nazification of that country in
March “3780 priso'ners” had been “detained,” of
whom “more than half are Jews.” This will doubt-
less be construed as an admission of a prolonged Nazi
variety of the pogrom for which old Russia was dis-
honorably distinguished ; but it is a very pale shadow
of unofficial reports published on the “unimpeachable
authority” of the British Liberal and Labor press.
Ever since Hitler arrived in Germany, the papers
have filled their odd crevices with persecution yarns—
of Jews exiled, Jews whipped, Jews in concentration
camps, Jews robbed of their properties and made to
scrub pavements. So it was astonishing to read the
following in the anti-Nazi Sydney “Sun”:
According to a high official 10,000 more Jews, includ-
ing 3000 from Vienna, have settled in Berlin in the last
three months. Three hundred new Jewish businesses
have sprung up. This caused the irritation that resulted
in the painting of “Jew” or “Jewish business” on shop
.windows The surprising extent to which the Jews still
control Berlin’s luxury trade is indicated in the fact that
the windows of every third shop in the West End had
“Jew” painted on them.
This doesn’t fit in with the newspaper picture of a
party which is supposed to sing that “Only when Jews
lie bleeding, Can Germany be free.”
Last week the British authorities who are trying
to preserve order in Palestine in extraordinarily diffi-
cult circumstances had a Jew executed. He had
been found guilty of firing on a motor-bus carrying
passengers. An example had to be made. British
authority in Palestine would be at an end, and there
would be grave repercussions in Mohammedan coun-
tries, if it had been allowed to go forth that, in deal-
ing with Palestinians found with arms in their hands
after the commission of violence, British justice puni-
shed the Arab and spared the Jew. But it was con-
tended that British justice should be one-eyed ; and
after the execution Jews in Tel Aviv had a brush with
the police, and British Consulate windows were stoned
in Warsaw and Amsterdam.
Central European Jews are beginning to reach
Australia in some numbers, and a great many more
want to come. It will be necessary to set limits to
this immigration, and the Jew with a Communist his-
tory should be ruled out altogether.
More Pigeonhole Fodder.
Nobody has ever counted the pigeonholes of Canberra,
but they must run into thousands. They are kept
stocked with reports and recommendations.
Two late additions to the long roll of, buried
documents are the Payne report on the Northern
Territory and the report of the expert body which
spent months wandering round New Guinea in search
of a capital.
The New Guinea Committee, after seeing every
available site, favbred high land at the back of Lae,
which is across the Markham River, 18 miles from
Salamaua. There lies the main aerodrome from which
goes the bulk of the heavy air traffic to the goldfields,
traffic which cannot be handled on the malarial flat
that serves Salamaua as a local landing-ground.
The committee found that severe tidal waves and
earthquake shocks occur along the Salamaua coast —
some of the very features which are causing Rabaul
to be abandoned. It advised that the capital should
be considerably above sea level as a matter of safety.
The Kila area, on which Government intends to
build the new Government buildings, the committee
characterises as “definitely and continually malarious,”
as is the landing-ground area below it—the latter
is well below flood level, and New Guinea has plenty
of rain. Nor is the malaria a mild form—it is mainly
a malignant sub-tertian type which develops into black-
water.
On the say-so of Mr. Hughes, apparently, the
recommendations of the committee were buried. More
and more people are to be allowed the privilege of
catching blackwater fever at Salamaua, and a £150,000
road is to be built to the goldfields at Australia’s cost,
The Payne Commission spent several months in
the Northern Territory and produced a comprehensive
and workable plan of reorganisation and development.
But now another commission is leaving to report on
the Payne Commission. It will consist of the
Minister, the Secretary to the Department, the Com-
monwealth Railway Commissioner, the Administrator,
an anthropologist with little Australian experience, a
pastoralist, drivers, Ms.P. and others. The com-
pany will fly part of the way and motor about 5000
miles, and, as it will have half a dozen cars and trucks,
the cost will be considerable. But what does that
matter?
"One and Indivisible."
How far is Australia one and indivisible in its
standards? A. M. Blain, M.P., a surveyor by calling,
has been speaking on the subject at Canberra.
This Commonwealth has no set. standards of
measure. It has not even so few as the seven standards
which exist in many other things. There is no com-
mon standard of length anywhere and no national
standard of level in height.
In Melbourne, Metropolitan Board of Works,
State Rivers and Water Supply, Harbor Board and
Government Railway Department all have different
height standards. In Melbourne and in Sydney, when
a surveyor finds a datum-peg he must discover who
set it before he knows what he is working from.
The N. S. Wales Lands Department laid down
chain and 100-foot standards in the basement of the
Lands Department, produced from a base at Rich-
mond. Remeasurement of the base showed sufficient
variation to affect topographical survey.
When work on Canberra was begun there were
two standards in use, one by Works and the other
by Railways, and between them there was a differ-
ence of ,23ft. But Survey has worked on a local
datum which has no relation to the many in use in
other places.
Queensland has had a uniform Weights and
Measures Act, applicable to the whole State, since
1924.
The Victorian Surveyors’ Institute tried to move
for a standards association to fix the basic measure
and mean sea level for the Commonwealth, but no-
thing was done. Until something is done, it is obvi-
ously impossible to begin an accurate survey of the
Commonwealth such as all major European countries
have been at work on for a century.
Case of the Four Colonels.
Defence affairs in Maoriland under the Labor
Government move with all the speed and irrationality
of Gilsullivan comedy.
It started with the inclusion in the Cabinet —
one thai was to be forced into some measure of
rearmament —of Ministers who were militant anti-
conscriptionists during the Great War. Mr. Jordan,
too fiery even for Anthony Eden’s taste, has kept the
entertainment going by demanding League wars at
Geneva, while the Government that sent him there
has been pondering the fact that fewer than 3000 of
its Territorials attended camp this year.
After Mr. Jordan’s latest outburst over the
Spanish question, in tune with Russia but out of step
with the Empire, Defence Minister Jones, from the
rural seclusion of Dargaville, informed M.L. that the
Government proposed to bring the Air Force personnel
to 900 by 1940, to persuade employers to let employees
attend camp, to issue new blue uniforms and to pro-
vide drill-halls with gymnastic apparatus in an attempt
to increase the land forces from 7400 to 9000.
Four colonels of Territorials, all of whom had
commanded brigades, were dissatisfied with this tinker-
ing, and signed a manifesto to the Government, mak-
ing these points: The present defences are inadequate ;
there aren’t enough volunteers coming forward ; lack
of support is sapping the morale of the existing forces,
and the standard of physique isn’t high enough.
Anticipating disciplinary action under the regu-
lation which forbids persons subject to military law
to make unauthorised statements about military mat-
ters, two of the colonels, honorary aides-de-camp to
the Governor-General, resigned. All four have now
been ‘disciplined” to the retired list.
The affair of the colonels is unlikely to remain
at its present stage. Whether the shockingly
inadequate defences to which they called attention will
be remedied under Labor is another matter. The
National party is making defence one of its main
planks for the.elections. One thing that gives both
parties an excuse for evading the national-service
question is the lack of a lead from this side of the
Tasman.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“G.”: The exploit of that redoubt-
able aviator Clark Gable in baiting out
of a wrecked monoplane power-diving
at a speed of 600 m.p.h. (he does it in
the film “Test Pilot,” currently going the
rounds in Australia) strains my credulity.
Death-defying parachutists have bailed
out at high altitudes and delayed pulling
the rip-cord for six or seven seconds,
giving them a fall of about 800 ft. (air-
resistance allowed for) before the check,
but this Gable person, to all intents and
purposes, has been falling for half-a-
minute, and has dropped 12,000fL Un-
less the acceleration-rate of the falling
’plane is much in excess of the gravita-
tional rate he’s going to have a lot of
trouble in getting clear —particularly as
the partial vacuum in the wake of the
diving fuselage would act as a trap. He’s
going to hit the ground in about 15
seconds if his parachute doesn’t hold,
and if there is any fabric and cordage
on earth light enough for a parachute
that will stand a smack of 1601 b. at
better than 10 miles a minute I’d like
to know the name of the maker.
“Oxmead”: In Philip Lindsay’s book
about Henry VIII. I note that the terms
“M.” and “Mrs.” are sparingly employed
as variants from “Master” and “Mis-
tress.” Surely a mild anachronism,
seeing that the latter persisted till long
after Shakspeare’s time. I couldn’t say
for certain when “Mr.” and “Mrs.” in-
vaded the language, but I question if it
was before the time of the later Stuarts.
It is easy to see how '“Mistress” became
softened into “Missus” and later
shortened into “Mrs.,” but I still remain
puzzled a little as to the why as well as
the when of the slide of “Master” into
“Mister.” Any explanations?
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Struck this gem at a
lecture on the declining birthrate: “Large
families are generally hereditary. If
nations rely upon the children of the
people who have no children to have
children, they are going to fall.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: One of the quaintest figures
in the suburbs of Melbourne passed out
at the 73rd milestone in the person of
old Sammy Edwards, of Ascot Vale.
Thirty years ago I was a schoolboy liv-
ing in the next street. Edwards, until
then a normal hard-working carpenter,
rose early one morning, threaded all
the bedroom crockery in the house on
& rope line in the front garden, and went
off to work. One queer prank followed
another, and when his family objected
he left them, bought the vacant block
next door, and built himself a home on
original lines. It was of five rooms and
five storeys, covered over with flattened-
out jam-tins, and painted red and black,
the Essendon football colors. Old
Sammy claimed to have a wireless set
installed, and in 1915 a squad of sol-
diers (someone pulled the heads’ legs)
raided the tower and premises. A fear-
ful collection of wires and bits of tin
was found, but nothing that would trans-
mit or receive. The yard round the
tower was strewn with objects salvaged
from rubbish-tips, and visitors travelled
miles on Sundays to see it. For many
years Sammy wandered the streets of
Ascot Vale and Moonee Ponds, dad
in rags and pushing a weird handcart.
% * * *
“T.”: One of the things that puzzle
me about our Glorious Press is the pro-
digious publicity it gives to the Duchess
of Kent. For every par. it devotes to
the Duchess of Gloucester, the Duchess
of Kent gets 50 pars.; for every photo-
graph of the obviously charming little
Scotch lady it prints, the princess from
Greece figures in at least a hundred. Yet
Gloucester, whom we know, is the elder
of the two brothers in the line of
succession, and his duchess belongs to
families which have struck their roots
deep in British history, a thing which
cannot be said of the house of which the
late Tino was head in times which our
“If you get this paddick cleared before I come back you can go over to the pertater patch!"
pro-Greek newspapers do not care to re-
call. The relegation of one of the
duchesses to obscurity is totally un-
deserved. Is the other so amazingly
boomed because she has a film face and
figure and “dresses beautifully,” or is
there something else underlying it all?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has officially mar-
shalled the latest. census figures as to
dwellings. Private houses are in the vast
majority—l33,ooo to 600 hotels, 1246
boarding-houses and 3783 tenements or
flats. The two most interesting facts are
the infrequency of wooden houses in the
State —only about 9000 in all; and the
tendency to own one’s own home —
77,580 owners to 51,400 tenants.
% * * *
“Nikau”: When some years ago Auck-
land (M.L.) decided, on account of con-,
fusion caused by duplication, to rename
a large number of streets, there was the
usual shriek of disapproval from the;
inhabitants of renamed thoroughfares.
The City Council had entrusted the mat-
ter to the only lady councillor, and she
was asked to show cause for a number
of apparently irrelevant names tacked
on to disgruntled roads. She showed
that there was no irrelevancy. Where
possible she had turned the original name
into Maori, William-street, for instance,
becoming Wiremu. When that wasn't
possible she had selected a name linking
the old with the new, thus making a
Moore-street Corunna, a Silver-street
Argent and an Oliver-street Roland. Long
before the lady was through with her
explanation an amused council was con-
gratulating her on her ingenuity.
“Nswgr”: The prosecution of a Syd-
ney suburban alderman for standing up
in a first-class railway carriage while
holding a second-class season-ticket will
add fuel to a flame that is burning in the
breasts of many village Hampdens. This
alderman barged into a carriage that
had been second-class ever since he
knew it, and didn’t get a seat at that.
Along comes a ticket inspector and
demands thrippence for the privilege
because some porter had stuck a paper
label on the vehicle and elevated it to
first-class status. This is a little trick
in which N. S. Wales suburban lines
specialise. Frequently it happens that a
carriage is half-full when its paper labels
are altered—second-class scraped off and
first-class gummed on —which automati-
cally makes all the passengers liable for
fines. The alderman, fed-up, refused to
pay, and, although he escaped a convic-
tion through the “previous good charac-
ter” loophole in section 556 a of the
Crimes Act, the act of heroism cost him
13s. and a wasted half-day.
* * * *
“Sib”: It happened on a cold day in
a Melbourne inner suburb. Coming out
of a side lane, the nag dragging a tea-
company’s van skidded on the wet pave-
ment and sank in the traces. All the
efforts and advice of the crowd that col-
lects on such occasions failed to raise
Dobbin. A brewery-wagon driver
summed up the situation and, after a
brief consultation with the tea man, dis-
appeared into the near-by pub, to emerge
a few minutes later with a steaming
bucket. It was beer, diluted with hot
water. Dobbin lapped it up and, after a
shudder of ecstasy, struggled to his feet
unaided. So that’s what makes the
brewery gee-gees so sleek and hefty.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A City Council with a
genuine regard for tree-beauty in its
streets is such a rare Australian object
that the Ballarat body of the kind de-
serves mention. The owner of a garage
in the historic burg complained that a
tree in the street was shedding its leaves
upon the roof, and otherwise interfering
with the business of cars and petrol. On
these grounds he demanded the removal
of the offending vegetable. He was firmly
told in reply that garages were much
easier and quicker to grow than trees,
and that the proper course in the matter
was to move the garage in order that it
might do no damage to the tree. And,
what’s more, the City Fathers saw to it
that it was removed. .
* * * ¥
“Xo”: Thus a Victorian radio an-
nouncer while rattling off a series of ab-
breviated items from the next issue of
the newspaper financially interested in
his station: “.... which will be presented,
I mean prevented —the printing is bad,
as usual.” Not one in a hundred of his
listeners knew enough about newspapers
to realise that he wasn’t referring to the
manner in which the newspaper is printed
but to the typewritten summary from
which such “news” sessions are broad-
cast.
# # *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I’m no more super-
stitious than the next f.a.q. Australian,
but there does seem to be some sort of
hoodoo on a neighbor’s property. An
attractive place, he is offering it at an
attractive price now that the kids are all
self-supporting. His first buyer was on
the way back to town to complete
through his solicitors when he had a
motor accident which killed a child. That
put the deal off. The next had paid a
deposit, and was taking a look round
the district, when he got bushed in the
ranges during a walk and was found two
days later by a search party in a bad
way from exposure and a weak heart.
That deal went west, too. The latest, a
man and his wife, looked all over the
property and fell in love with it. They
would write completing the transaction
by first mail. A month later my neighbor
heard that the wife had picked up a
tick during the inspection and had nearly
died of blood-poisoning. He’s wonder-
ing what will happen to the next poor
cow.
* * * *
“Retired”: Nothing amuses me more
than the frequent announcement that
Mr. Somebody-or-other has been “elected
a Fellow of the Royal Geographical
Society.” In the public estimation, it is
supposed to raise Mr. S. to the rank of
a first-class geographer. In actual fact,
the chief qualifications needed are the
ability to find £5 ss. entrance fee and
£3 3s. a year subscription and to know a
couple of existing Fellows who will move
and second a nomination. There are a
lot of “Fellowships” to be collected in
Britain. You become a Fellow of the
Royal Zoological Society by paying a
sub. to a British zoo ; and a Fellow of
the Royal Anthropological Society by
subsidising a body which studies the
native races. And a few bob will make
any Australian an F.R.E.S. —Fellow of
the Royal Empire Society—who cares to
call with a vouching friend and sign up.
But he couldn’t get into the Royal or
the Linntean that way.
■** * *
“Fisher”: My nomination for this
year’s most unlucky accident victim was
drowned on a macadamised road near
Bathurst (N.S.W.). A truck was towing
a broken-down lorry along the Perthville
Road when the rope broke. The driver
turned back for his piece of salvage, and
became dazzled by the headlights the tow
displayed to indicate its position. A
swerve and a skid tipped the truck over
into a minute puddle by the side of the
road. Both occupants of the cabin were
pinned down into the water. The driver
was able to hold his head out, but his
assistant was jammed in such a position
that he drowned in insufficient water to
cover his boots in the ordinary course
of events.
* * * *
“G. Roper”: Some coves in W.A.
didn’t know their onions on a recent
morning. At Perth Metro. Markets, to
illuminate the dawn vegetable auction, a
blue vapor lamp had been substituted for
the usual installation. At the start there
was trouble at the power-house and cur-
rent was off, but when the fault in the
circuit was rectified some veggies ap-
peared to have changed their guernseys,
and even spuds looked a bit “blue.” One
grower gaped at his stock and gasped.
“Look at me carrots!” he yelled to the
floor boss ; “they’ve turned into par*;
snips!” The old yellow lamp was rein-
stated quickly.
NOT FORGOTTEN.
“To suppose that the war-debt controversy has
been forgotten in the U.S.A. is a profound mistake,
in most American eyes Britain is a defaulter.”
—Uncabled Additions ( Z9/6/’3B).
He’s a friend to count on, is Uncle Sam,
If ever Britain gets into a jamb.
He helped in winning the war, and yet
There’s an unpaid bill that he can’t forget.
A full ten figures it runs into,
And much of it, sadly overdue,
That towering Everest of debt
(And Lord knows how ’twill ever be met)
Which Uncle doesn’t and won’t forget.
Though he has no shortage, beyond a doubt,
Of nearer matters to think about,
Of Wall-street wiles and of New Deals dealt
By that plausible conjuror Roosevelt,
Of bold attorneys who put the fear
Of quod in the heart of the racketeer,
His sour reflections are apt to stray
To the bill that Britain’s been slow to pay
For ever so many a weary day.
What does he care though his bank vaults hold
The lion’s share of the wide world’s gold,
And though year by year it grows and grows,
He still keeps tabs on what John Bull owes.
And he finds a darned tough bullet to chew
In Stanley Baldwin’s lOU,
And feels aggrieved that it’s ceased to be
The real gilt-edged security
That it looked to him in ’twenty-three.
He never forgets, though he can’t but know
J.B. has a harder row to hoe,
With the better part of a continent
To let him whistle for all he lent.
But two wrongs never could make a right,
And it’s hard upon Uncle’s sleep at night.
That ever he wakes to fume and fret
On that thumping sum in his ledger set
Which, try as he will, he can’t forget.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”: Ingrate that I am, reports
that some rich old gentleman has given
a fraction of his fortune to some well-
advertised charity out of the fullness of
his heart always leave me cold. Nine
times out of ten the rich old gentleman
is after a title, and is taking the one
swift and sure way of getting it. There
is good scriptural warrant for saying that
real philanthropy consists in keeping the
right hand’s benefactions a secret from
the left hand. This the rich old gentle-
man who is after a title never does. If
he is too modest (or something) to tell
the reporters all about his gifts, a friend
or protege with a flair for publicity does
it for him ; in a recent case the gratify-
ing news was communicated to the press
by the smartest publicity hound in the
State. I knew a benevolent old party who
was magnanimous enough to tell the
Minister, when the knighthood was being
arranged, that he wanted it, not for him-
self, but for one of his sons. The son
got it.
H* •}• *l*
“Hamfat”: Sydney’s Bohemia used to
be full of stories in which just-dead
harpist Bertie Torzillo was concerned.
One of them implicated also a well-known
character named Burke, who gave a party
on St. Patrick’s Night, plotting a special
surprise for his guests. At a given cue,
when the merriment was at its height, the
sound of a harp playing “The Harp That
Once” was to be heard outside. Burke
“Excuse me, sir, but how do you keep these gadgets in ?”
led up to the dramatic moment. His
guests thundered their agreement when,
calling for attention, he suggested that
they were having a great night. “There’s
only one thing wanted,” said Burke,
“Now, if we only had somewan here
wid a har-r-p to play ‘The Har-r-rp That
Wance Tru’ Tara’s Halls.’ ” There was
no harp.' Burke edged the window open
and lifted his voice. “Oi say that what
we want is a har-r-rp—a har-r-rp —to
. play ‘The Har-r-rp That Wance.’ ” Still
no harp. Burke leaned out of the win-
dow and desperately repeated the cue in
a still louder voice. Came Torzillo’s
voice, faintly, as from a great way off:
“If you w-want the b-blasted harp, call
off your b-blasted dog!”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I like Bradman, not only
because he is an incomparable cricketer
who plays the game with none of the
absurd reverence which makes some
English commentators and announcers
such bores, but because he is intelligent
as well as cheerful. I remember with
appreciation what he
said when taken to
task for shifting to
South Australia —that
he would still be an
Australian, and ffiat the
more people thought
of Australia and the
less of State boun-
daries, the better. So
it was with consider-
able shock that I read
in the papers that
“duties” would prevent
his attendance at the un-
veiling of the National
War Memorial at Vil-
lers-Bret. —especially as
the unveiling was to
have taken place on the
third day of the match
with Der by shire at
Chesterfield. The
National Memorial un-
veiled by the King, and
the captain of the
Australian Eleven,
with nothing on and
only a couple of hours
off by ’plane, not
there! Unthinkable!
As it happened, Brad-
man didn’t play in the
county match and the
unveiling has been
postponed until July 22,
on which date the fourth Test match; will
begin at Leeds. That gives the young man
a legitimate excuse for remaining in Eng-
land ; but if the ceremony had proceeded
according to plan, and Bradman had
absented himself from it, his popularity
with the Diggers would have suffered a
lasting slump,
* * * *
“Isterikus”: 169 Macquane-street, Syd-
ney, which adjoins the Australian Club, is
to be pulled down to make additons.
There will then remain but two houses
of the original Horbury-terrace of 100
years ago. Among distinguished resi-
dents in the terrace was Robert Lowe,
later Viscount Sherbrooke. Lowe
afterwards bought 42 acres of land at
Bronte for £420, and there erected Bronte
House. He was a barrister, but the only
great criminal case in which he played
a leading part was in the defence of
Knatchbull, the ex-naval commander
who murdered the widow Jamieson and
was hanged at Darlinghurst Gaol in 1844.
Knatchbull, incidentally, was related to
the Governor’s lady of that day, and ’tis
said she provided the suit of clothes in
which he met his death on the scaffold.
An aunt of Knatchbull married Sir
Joseph Banks.
* * * *
“Arthur R”: Again one of the cables
linking the mainland with the Speck is
giving trouble. Remember the time
when the sole connection between Tas.
and Vic. was the two cables owned
by the Eastern Extension Co. Then
automatic repeaters were used at
Flinders. Only the most deliberate key-
ing would “go across,” thus limiting these
lines to a few telegraphists. When the
Commonwealth laid its own pair of
cables it was found possible to work
Wheatstone automatic duplex (sending
and receiving simultaneously) at over 40
words a minute. The cables terminated
at Launceston, one being run through
" Ish no good , driver; they've gone to bed. England mush be shtill
battin'."
automatic repeaters over a land-line to
Hobart. When the new telephone cables
were laid a couple of years ago, several
“channels” were available on each cable,
one at least of which was earmarked for
a broadcast connection with the main-
land stations. With the lines showing a
“dead earth” Tasmanian broadcasting
stations have been called upon to supply
their own programmes from local talent
and records. Telephone connection with
Tas. has been entirely cut off and, as if
working in sympathy, the old telegraph
cable circuits have been operating rather
badly.
#
“Lao-dah”: The yarn that some
Japanese engineering genius succeeded in
a month in closing the gaps in the
Yellow River is the latest furphy to be
swallowed whole. Near Kaifeng, where
the breaks occurred, the huge waterway
has been built up by the toil of millions
for countless generations,
assisted by the conservancy
experts of the foreign com-
mission, until it flows like
an aqueduct 20 feet above
the level of the surrounding
country. When a break
occurs an archangel couldn’t
stop it. Before 1852 the
river flowed past Kaifeng,
Suchow and Hwaiian and
found the sea in an im-
mense delta below Haichow
in Kiangsu province. After
1852 it took it into its head
to proceed via Tsinan into
the Gulf of Chihli, a thou-
sand miles further north in
Shantung, a few million
Chinese being drowned and
hundreds of towns inun-
dated. Who started the
present dyke-bursting busi-
ness will never be discov-
ered, but it may be as well
to remember that Chinese
generals have never been
conspicuous for showing
consideration to Chinese
civilians.
“Abel Brown”: Edina, veteran of
screw-steamers, has at last dropped her
hook in the Port o’ Many Ships at Mel-
bourne. Since launched on the Clyde 84
years ago she has sailed between Leith,
Hull and Hamburg; carried troops,
horses and ammunition to the Crimea,
and run the blockade during the Amurri-
can Civil War. With her screw removed
so as not to retard her speed, she came
to Australia in 1863, moved around the
coast from Portland (Vic.) to Cook-
town (Q.), was dubbed R.M.S., carried
passengers and cargo to M.L. during the
gold boom, and so on through a colorful
career until she finally started on the
Melbourne to Portarlington and Geelong
run in 1880, and remained there until
retired. Her adventuresome youth de-
veloped into pugnacious old age. She
splintered her figurehead beyond repair
on the Dandenong during a gale off
Warrnambool, and poked her nose into
the bathroom of the Queensland on the
Mary River (Q.), frightening the day-
lights out of its inmate. In 1898, en
route for Geelong, she collided with and
sank the Manawatu, meted out similar
treatment to the Excelsior in 1899, again
to a Melbourne Harbor Trust tender in
1919, and, just to show there was still
a kick in the old girl, had a lick at the
tug Hovell in the fairway on the Yarra
in 1931. Septimus Dartby, her quarter-
master for 12 years, despite poor health
accompanied the old ship on her last
Voyage—and dropped dead a few minutes
before she berthed at North Wharf.
* * * , *
“Ek Dum”: A hallowed spot which
will lie unmarked beneath the pavement
when Sydney’s Circular Quay scheme
goes through is that plot of earth facing
George-street on which Sydney’s first
newspaper, the “Gazette,” was printed in
1803. The building in which it was
housed has long disappeared ; the street
which is being paved behind the fire-
station will pass right over it, and it will,
indeed, lie beneath the tram rails.
* * * *
“Key”: The new teacher at the small
country school asked the youngsters to
write an essay on “What I Wish to Be
When I Grow Up.” Jimmy, 11, and a
good worker on the farm, declared for
politics, and wrote a fine composition
on his rosy future. The gratified teacher
marked it “Very good,” and told Jimmy
to take it home for his parents’ inspec-
tion. Mum evidently gave it a lot of
thought, for she wrote a note next day:
“Dear Miss Blank, —Pleese don’t put
idears of politicks into our Jimmy’s head.
We don’t want them. Whatever we have
had to go through we have always been
honnest and respectable.”
* * * *
“Ming”: A Maoriiand shipping clerk
sifting with the girl-friend at the pictures
remembered that he had to post an im-
portant document for an early-morning
mail, and invited the lady to go with him
to the office. She was quietly waiting
while he wrote when they heard the lift
coming up and the voice of the boss in
the corridor. As the youth didn’t want
the lady to be found in the boss’s private
office he hustled her out on to the fire
escape and shut the window, she having
slipped off her shoes in the office to
move more silently. The boss, who had
seen the light and come up to see who
was working so late, sat down for a con-
fidential chat, while the lady froze out-
side. Finally she decided to go down the
escape, which she negotiated safely
until she reached the eight-foot drop at
the end ; then she slid into the arms of a
policeman. As a damsel descending a
city fire escape about midnight in
stockinged feet, who declined to say
where she had been, was a suspicious
character, she was led to the nearest
police-station. She managed to convince
them that she was really harmless, and
a taxi took her home. An agitated
young man arrived later with her shoes,
but the lady refused to have anything
more to do with a youth so incapable
of handling a simple situation.
A SLING-OFF.
“ ‘The wealthiest man in the State House was
one of the gibes flung at Mr. Lang’s head at the
conference of the N.S.W. Industrial Labor party.”
— “S. M. Herald.'-'
Few men would be grossly affronted
Or reckon it insolence rank
ll’ abroad it were whispered or grunted
They had oodles of bunce in the bank.
In fact, if about them were scattered
The gentle impeachment of pelf,
There’s many good folk would be flattered —
Among them, myself.
But if all your life you’ve been greedy
Of naught but a permanent pitch
For pleading the cause of the needy
And heaving half-bricks at the rich,
To find yourself suddenly listed
As one of that odious tribe
Becomes, it may well be insisted,
A damaging gibe.
You may ask: But who better is fitted
For handling his countrymen’s biz
Than one whose success is admitted
At his own, whatsoever it is?
Yet when in each speech you release us
Huge dollops of Socialist stuff,
It’s tough to be labelled a Croesus,
Infernally tough.
Since he’s spruiked for the uplift of men in
Full many a fervid harangue
Some counted him greater than Lenin
And featured a Gracchus in Lang.
But none’s found a parallel handy
Tween the tribune from Auburn and Gandhi,
Whose chattels (bar loincloths) are nil —
And I’ll wager a bottle of brandy
That none ever will!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 /or 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer .
CRAVENA
m
mm
MADE
SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
The week closed badly for war-scare
papers and their commercial - radio-
station echoes. In Australia, represen-
tatives of Japan signed trade and ship-
ping agreements with this country. In
Europe, the German Government, while
not admitting liability, agreed to pay in-
terest on Austrian loans guaranteed by
Britain, and to “service” Dawes, Young
and Saarbrucken loans, undertaking also
to “enter into further negotiations with
a view to increasing mutual trade.” “An-
other step towards an international un-
derstanding” is the verdict of the City,
which rarely allows foreigners to pull
the wool over its eyes. But it did not
prevent the perpetrators of the radio
rubbish called “The March of Time”
from concocting another prolonged blast
of anti-Germanism.
Giving the toast of “Parliament” at a
Police Rifle Association “smoker” at
Hobart, Hutchins, P.M., asked the assem-
bled Johns not to drink to the Federal
Parliament, that legislature being “out of
harmony with the wishes of the people
of Tasmania.” Next day John Blyth
Hayes was named President of the
Senate. That means that the three most
important offices at Canberra will be held
by representatives of the people with
whom Parliament is alleged to be out. of
harmony, Bell having been Speaker since
October 23, 1934, and Lyons Prime Min-
ister since Jan. 6, 1932. That Beak and
his constables ought to get together for
another drink.
Only once before have P.M., Speaker
and President come from the same State
—in that case, Queensland. For a little
over twelve months of 1914-15 Fisher
was P.M., Charlie McDonald Speaker
and Givens President.
The mania for striking for “six bob
a week above the award rate” reached
Yallourn (Vic.) in June, the dissatisfied
parties being 150 engineers. Apparently
the idea in undisciplined minds was that
the stoppage would affect Melbourne and
303 country centres, and furrow the
brows of 3000 farmers and 8000 manu-
facturers ; but it hasn’t worked out that
way. Australia is not nearly so dependent
on work-stoppers as it used to be.
A regrettable conflict of opinion on
foreign affairs has arisen between the
Sydney “Sun” and its Sunday issue. The
young lions of the Sunday issue are furi-
ously anti-German, anti-Italian and anti-
Japanese, and over the air, as well as in
print, they give the “brutalitarian States”
beans. One young lion almost lost his
voice roaring at Chamberlain. The daily
issue pronounces Chamberlain “a realist”
whose policy is “peace and security,” de-
nounces “the bellicose British Labor
party, blind in anti-Fascism,” the “senile
pugilist Lloyd George” and the “hysteri-
cal swashbuckler Churchill,” and sug-
gests that an Anglo-ltalian alliance would
make the Mediterranean as “safe as the
Parramatta-road.” There must be excit-
ing debates in that office over morning
tea.
One pearl of information was extracted
from the Government before members
dispersed for the winter. The merit is
shared by Mr. “Texas” Green, who asked
courteously whether the C.S. and I.R.
had found a way of exterminating silver-
fish, and by Mr. Casey who answered
politely that the C.S. and I.R. had. Mr.
Casey explained that you first give the
old humpy a preliminary spraying with
preparations containing pyrethium or
derris root. Then you set bait cards
round the old topper and tail-coat, load-
ing them with barium fluosilicate. The
silver-fish, dazed by the pyrethium or the
derris root, make a meal of the barium
fluosilicate and turn up their toes. Mr.
Green straightway set out for Melbourne,
where pyrethium, derris root and barium
fluosilicate can be bought in large quan-
tities.
Since the politicians completed their
last railway-construction job, Port Pirie
junction (S.A.) has become the pivot of
systems with 3ft. 6in., 4ft. and
sft. 3in. gauges. All Government rail-
ways, of course, and none of them ever
pays.
The trade agreement with Japan is for
12 months from July 1. Japan is to im-
port 350,000 to 400,000 bales of Austra-
lian wool, and Australia to import
51,250,000 square yards of Japanese
cotton piece goods and 51,250,000 square
yards of Japanese artificial-silk or staple-
fibre goods over and above the Japanese
calico bought for bagmaking—ls,ooo,ooo
square yards last year. Provided exchange
and other difficulties can be overcome,
the agreement should strengthen the
“Mr. Winston Churchill and Mr. Lloyd George are still clamoring for intervention in Spain.”
“You try shoving him, L.G., and I’ll hold the hoop.”
W0C)1 P osltlon - The shipping agreement
j for two f July j it
vides for pooling of cargoes carried from
Jr A. lctt . 0
,• ,• f f J • .
J*. *** of steamers (one of four) is to
ge _ 2p ‘ * , , .
tt *? r - Pa S e £ as been delivered .of a
migration scheme, the idea being to
bring youths from Holland to grow
marketgarden stuff on reclaimed swamps,
Victoria would be a suitable place for a
scheme like that; as the Age remarks,
sadly, the Closer Settlement Commission
has completed its work and at least
£19,000,000 has been irretrievably lost,
Another department has been foisted
on this long-suffering country: a “public
relations department.” A.B.C. has
“organised” it, and its “duties” will be to
keep the Commission informed as to the
public’s taste and fancies. It is alleged
that members of the Commission, g.m.,
State managers and “Federal controllers”
can’t get this information for themselves,
In the same spirit of service to the god
Duplication, the so-called National Travel
Association, which got £15,000 last year
from Canberra, sets up foreign branches,
although Australia employs a High Com-
missioner and a flock of Commercial
Agents and Agents-General, plus staffs,
with time enough to look after the tour-
ist business.
Maoriland’s Labor Government has
become extraordinarily sensitive to criti-
cism. Practically every electioneering
speech includes an attack on the Press.
Since dailies don’t disdain any twig with
which to beat the Government, some of
the complaints are justified, but Savage’s
reply to Rothermere when the noble lord
warned M.L. that, undefended, it was
a tempting bait, was unnecessarily
touchy:—
If Lord Rothermere would mind his
own business and allow us to mind ours
he would be doing a service to himself,
New Zealand and Great Britain.
Rothermere might retort that Jordan,
trying to run the whole world’s business
at Geneva, is doing a considerably worse
service to the Empire.
According to Curtin, the revenue from
commercial radio stations exceeds
£2,000,000 a year. In refreshing scorn
of votes, he challenges what he calls their
“monopoly,” and declares for “some co-
ordination of programmes and some limit
on advertising.” Certainly a B-class
license should not be permitted to be-
come a charter to publish dishonest ad-
vertising, allow blatant frauds of tipsters
to make night hideous with their illiter-
ate impertinences and permit the ill-
informed and the one-eyed to hurl in-
suits at foreign countries.
Sydney’s insufferable “County Council”
gave itself another rotten advertisement
last week. It is run by officials and
aldermen, and it came out at a meeting
that officials get “a sustenance allowance
of 15s. Id. a day at sea and £2 15s.
on shore” while they are “travelling in
the interests of the undertaking.” That
night something went wrong with “the
undertaking,” and about 800,000 Sydney
people had to do without lights, even
aerodromes and hospitals being darkened
for hours. That same day a co. which
supplies about 36,000 people round Bal-
main for less than the County Council
exacts announced a further reduction of
charges to four-fifths of its consumers,
and its lights were burning when the
County Council’s were out.
Rev. Wilson Macaulay has interestingly
repeated in Melbourne a Bulletin sug-
gestion that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should, as he expresses it, “offer its
services in an effort to end the struggle
in China by mediation.” The rev. gentle-
man puts it to his fellow-Presby-
terians that, “as the only local
church with large special interests in
Korea,” it has a duty to “our neighbors
in the Pacific who are in dire distress,”
and he puts it to the Government
that Australian or Canadian mediation
would be less likely to be resented than
proposals from any other quarter, even
the U.S.A. —which is conceivable. He
says “press reports of the misery of the
Chinese people are but a pale phantom
of the ghastly reality,” but he admits also
that “there is a case for Japan.”
The McEwen-Paterson C.P. says it is
going to put up a man for the Senate seat
which would have been Jack Barnes’s
had he lived. If it does, it will sorely em-
barrass Dunstan. Cain, Dunstan’s Labor
ally, protests that in these cases “it has
always been Victorian practice to appoint
a representative of the party to which
the deceased Senator belonged.” It has
rarely been Queensland practice—the late
J. V. MacDonald, a Laborite, succeeded
two dead Nat. Senators —and every time
the Macquarie-street
Parliament has to
choose a successor
to a Nat. or U.A.P.
Senator a Laborite
is nominated.
Tom Mutch is in
for Coogee (N.S.W.)
as U.A.P. member,
11 years after he was
passed out of the
first Lang Ministry.
From his Ministerial
perch he can gaze
meditatively at two
other 1925-27 Min-
isters who were
passed out with him
—Dunn, again on
the front Opposition
bench with Lang,
and Lazzarini, now
one of the anti-Lang
Labor group. With
Lazzarini is Horsing-
ton, who was in the
reconstructed Lang
Ministry for 4\
months of 1927. It
is to be hoped that
none of these gentle-
men will suffer any
embarrassing lapse
of memory.
Stevens has evi-
dently given up hope
of raising another £2,000,000 “for the
Water Board” in London this year. That
“semi”-Government enterprise (“semi”
means about 90 p.c.) has “thoroughly
canvassed the loan market” and been re-
duced to paying £4 2s. 6d. per cent., plus
brokerage, for the use of a million for
15 years. It is dear money, and the
manoeuvre can’t possibly help the Com-
monwealth’s impending conversion, but
Casey is nothing if not obliging to
chronic borrowers.
Only appreciation for past services
prevents woolgrowers being wild with
ex-Senator Guthrie. Down for the
sheep show in Sydney, before he became
“ex,” Guthrie warned breeders that world
production of synthetic fibre last year
was equal in value to two Austra-
lian wool clips, and that “the first thing
to do is to reduce the cost of pro-
ducing wool.” And he had come that
day from helping the Government at
Canberra to increase the cost of produc-
ing wool by supporting its National In-
cubus Bill.


ZERO HOUR.


BREWERY PLANT FOR SALE
AT TOWERS BREWERY, CHARTERS TOWERS
A varied assortment of Brewery Plant for sale at sacrifice prices. All guaranteed in good order
and condition. Items include: —
12-head Rotary Bottling Machine ... £lOO
Progressive 1936 Improved Spray Type
Pasteuriser, with Trucks Complete. . £175
Auldjo Compressor £3O
Two Pulp Washers, each
Two Cornish Boilers, price for the two
Fermenting Tun, new
£2O
£B5
£lOO
Also—Fermenting Tuns, Cylinders, Air Receiver, Shafting, Pulleys, Boilers, Pumps.
Full Particulars from
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LIMITED, TOWNSVILLE.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
When Pearce walked out of the Senate
Chamber on June 29, never to return to
it as Senator, Hughes was left in the
unique position of bfeing the only mem-
ber of the fifteenth Parliament who was
a member of the first. There were many
fine physical specimens among those 111
men, Senators and Representatives, who
entered upon their duties at Melbourne
on May 9, 1901. Half-deaf, dyspeptic
and so small and frail that it seemed as
if a gust might blow him into the Yarra,
Billy would have been voted by life-insur-
ance canvassers as absolutely the worst
risk. And yet he has outlasted all his
fellow-members of 37 years ago, and out-
lived nearly all.
P. J. Lynch is no longer President of
the Senate, in which he sat for 31 years,
nor even a member, but he is “Paddy”
once more to all and sundry. He has
always been that to Westralians. To
make his farewell speech as a legislator,
he took off his wig and stepped down to
the floor of the House. In Westralia at
conscription meetings he more than once
took off his coat. No critic in the audi-
ence ever accepted that gesture as a chal-
lenge to have it out on the platform with
both fists, but if anyone had done so the
tall, sinewy, bearded Paddy, toughened
by years of seafaring in youth, and by
other years of following the plough,
would have given a good account of
himself.
Lynch is going back to the land in
Westralia. He has a farm at Three
Springs, on the Midlands Co.’s line. If
he ever wants a change to the Great
Southern district, there are family prop-
erties there. His second wife was a
daughter of Michael Brown, the patriarch
of Narrogin, which sent Bertie Johnston
to Parliament when Bertie was an aspir-
ing young Labor man, with no thought
of combining politics and pubs.
The new president of the Senate, John
Blyth Hayes, is, like Priminister Lyons,
an ex-Premier of the Speck. He was
born at Bridgewater, Tas., 70 years ago,
and has a farm at Scottsdale. He entered
the Tas. Assembly in 1913 and three
years later was a Minister. The job of
forming a Government fell to him in
1922, and in 1923 the Speck sent him to
the Senate.
Head of the Vic. Fisheries and Game
Department since 1917, Frederick Lewis
has made checking the decline in the
koala population an important part of
his job. Anglers know him; as he
F. C. LEWIS.
says, “they call in when they’re not
catching any fish, and want to know
why.” And he does his best for ’em.
Thousands of trout yearlings and fry
are released annually in Vic. streams and
rivers, and quinnat salmon from Maori-
land in Camperdown’s landlocked lake.
Six outdoor inspectors police the hun-
dreds of State sanctuaries, and their boss
says there is far less close season shoot-
ing than 20 years ago. Born in Mel-
bourne, he joined the department 33
years ago ; a son, recently married to
a daughter of Lud Mayor Campbell,
is clerk of courts at Wonthaggi.
As head of the State Electricity Supply
Commission, at present involved in a
GILBERT JOBBINS.
Vic. industrial dispute, 59-year-old Gil-
bert Jobbins should understand the engi-
neers concerned; he’s used their lan-
guage for 40 years. In the earliest days
of Vic. electricity, he was associated with
A. U. Alcock, son of the billiard-table
maker, who repeated in his Melbourne
laboratory most of Nikola Tesla’s im-
portant experiments which paved the
way to present high frequency develop-
ments. With Alcock, now retired in Eng-
land, young Jobbins also took a labora-
tory part in attempts to manufacture
synthetic diamonds and at making cal-
cium carbide. When Electrical Lighting
and Traction took over Melbourne elec-
tricity in 1900, Jobbins stayed on, trans-
ferring eight years later when electricity-
control went to the Melbourne Electri-
city Supply Co. Its boss was F. W.
Clements, whom Jobbins succeeded as
manager and later as chairman of the
Electricity Commission. Further electri-
fication of country areas is one of his
cherished aims.
A lot of Australians know Harry Luke,
who has been transferred from the
Governorship of Malta to that of Fiji,
while Sir Arthur Richards moves on to
Jamaica. Luke is typical Eton and
Oxford, gained his preliminary ex-
perience of colonies as a Government
House aide-de-camp, was on the staff of
the picturesque Admiral Wemyss at the
Dardanelles, and political officer to the
Navy Command at Constantinople at the
end of the war; then British Chief
Commissioner in Armenia and Georgia.
Since, he has filled a rapid succession of
jobs, ranging from the Assistant Gover-
norship of Jerusalem to the Colonial
Secretaryship of Sierra Leone.
The well-housed Australian Institute of
Anatomy at Canberra holds a collection
of anatomical specimens presented to it
by just dead Colin Mackenzie ; the Rocke-
feller Institute had vainly offered half a
million dahlars for the assorted curiosa.
Mackenzie, born in Kilmore (Vic.) and
educated at Scotch College and Melb.
Uni., perfected a system of “re-educat-
ing” muscles which gained him wide-
spread recognition. He was for a while
lecturer in comparative anatomy at Melb.
Uni., in war-time gave service in the
Military Orthopaedic Hospital, London,
and was first Director of the Canberra
Institute. A knighthood came his way
in 1929.
Jack Dunningham, who was Stevenses
Minister of Labor, left £17,286 to his
widow. Though he had a convivial side,
he was a careful fellow —socked *away
the money he made in the Ring and saved
out of his salary.
J. Benstead, retired in Queensland,
educated thousands of young people
whom he never saw. He was for 15 years
head of the primary school correspond-
ence course. Beginning with a staff of
12 and 1000 pupils, his school now has
6000 outback scholars and 120 instruc-
tors. Four hundred of his pupils have
won scholarships, and some hold down
good positions as far apart as China and
Rhodesia.
Ernesto Arrighi, Italian Consul in Mel-
bourne ,and Acting Consul-General in
Australia for nearly a year before the
arrival a couple of months ago of G.
Mammalella, now in Sydney, has been
elevated to Cavaliere Ufficiale on the
recoipmendation of Count Ciano. Italy’s
Foreign Minister was a journalist with
a Rome paper when Arrighi was writing
and sketching for another Italian sheet;
newspaper offices supply many recruits
for Italy’s consular corps.
J. H. Laye, oldest-born Australasian
major-general, who has gone west in
London, first saw the light in Auckland
Shipping Knight THOMAS GORDON.
in 1849, son of a general and of a
mother whose father was a general, too
—Leslie Dean-Pitt, formerly Lieutenant-
Governor of Maoriland. Laye spent
little time in his native Fernland. After
Sandhurst, he fought in the Kaffir and
Zulu wars in the ’seventies, commanded
a battalion of Scottish Rifles and later
some infantry brigades.
When Dennis was writing “The Senti-
mental Bloke” for The Bulletin, Harry
Julius was doing racy drawings for it,
mostly theatrical sketches. In death they
were not long divided. Jolly little Julius
HARRY JULIUS.
died in Sydney on June 29. Over after-
noon tea he said he felt off-color and
thought he’d have to go and see a doctor.
In a few hours he was dead. A, Boer
war bugler, Julius studied art under
Julian Ashton, started a successful Syd-
ney commercial-art business with Syd
Smith, and afterwards ran his own ad-
vertising agency—also successful. In the
days of the silents he introduced film
cartoons. A cheerful, goodhearted talented
fellow, he died too soon at 52.
Gone west at 63, Dr. F. T. A. Love-
grove, medical officer of the Westralian
State Insurance Office and State Com-
missioner of Boy Scouts. Born in Eng-
land, and a graduate of Liverpool Uni.,
Dr. Lovegrove had some years as a
ship’s doctor before he settled in W.A.
in 1905. He served from 1915 to 1919
with the A.M.C., winding up with the
rank of lieutenant-colonel. Ten years ago
he gave up private practice to join the
State Insurance Office. An uncle, Dr. T.
Lovegrove, was at one time W.A.’s Com-
missioner of Public Health, and another
uncle, Dr. Charles Lovegrove, practised
at Mundaring (W.A.).
“F.S.”: Ex-Senator Bob Elliott found
his art connoisseurship come in handy
when he landed in war-scarred Alicante
and was haled before the Republican
commander for interrogation. Having no
Spanish or interpreter, Elliott was getting
an unfavorable reception when his eye
alighted on a painting on the wall which
he identified as a Goya. Highly delighted
by his interest, the commander explained
that the picture had been in his family
for generations, showed him around the
town and gave him the freedom of the
air-raid dugouts. In his Melbourne home
Elliott has the largest collection of
Orpens, private or public, outside Eng-
land.
A Melbourne contribution to the
future development of Canberra is Kings-
ley A. Henderson, one of the new honor-
ary committee of supervision. Principal
of a Melbourne firm of architects, he was
born and educated in the Yarra city,
and the directorates of four invest-
ment trust companies, a private hotel, the
Argus and Australasian, Ltd., and the
Australian board of the Eagle Star In-
surance Co. all carry his name.


100,000 People Have Read
This AMAZING BOOK!
■
m
■
m
DAST the 100,000 mark, and still going strong! If you
* would read something that would stir your very vitals
—if you would learn something the like of which you had
never even dreamed! Then send for this book and read
how YOU can charge your body full of vitality, add five
inches to your chest, acquire the power of battering rams
in your arms, and develop a neck and legs like pillars! It’s
all here in this very book explained in detail, and you’ll
agree, like thousands of others have, that it’s the most
amazing book you have ever seen.
I Build Strong, Hand-
some, Healthy Bodies
People call me the Muscle-maker. I make
men’s bodies strong and healthy.
My list of thousands of wonderful
successes includes schoolteachers and
lawyers, book-keepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men
and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific
body-building, I go all over your body,
strengthening your internal organs, broad-
ening your shoulders, cutting off fat, and
generally turning you inside out until
you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-
man any woman will be proud of in just
thirty days.
WATCH THEM TURN
AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow
who carries himself with head up. Notice
how the broad-shouldered man always gets their
eye. They want a dependable he-man when
they make their choice—one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I
do not only promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now,
don't put it off a minute. Get going to
new happiness and real manhood to-day.
MAKE THIS TEST
TO-NIGHT!
Before you step into your pyjamas to-night, stand
in front of the mirror and look yourself over.
Are you proud of the man you see? Is he a!
strapping, broad-shouldered husky, with arching
chest and rippling bands of solid muscle?
Would you bet on him in a fight?
Be fair to yourself. You can’t expect the respect of
men or the admiration of women if you’re a
physical weakling. Let me get to work on that
body of yours. Let me build a man who’ll be
PROUD to step out in a bathing suit. This free
book shows how EASY it is. You’ll never know
what this book is worth to you until you’ve read
it yourself. It may change your entire life. It’s
a revelation in body-building and muscle-
building. It’s crammed full of pictures and
matter that will make you open your eyes.
Thousands of men have thought it worth while
to send the “free book” coupon below to get
their copies. It won’t cost you one penny. No
obligation—no salesmen will call. YOU be the
judge and jury. Mail the coupon or write —
TO-DAY.
I Don’t Promise You Re-
sults--! Guarantee Them
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid
muscle on your arms; to increase your chest
five inches; to develop your neck to a size
larger collar; to add three inches of powerful
development to your thighs, two inches to your
calves; to give you a firm, slim waistline that
will make you take in a notch or two in ,
your belt.
And I don’t ask you to. take my word for it—
I don’t promise anything—l back every state-
ment with an ironclad GUARANTEE.
I’ve done all this for others. I can do it for
you. Get the PROOF—send for my amazing
new Book—NOW! It’s FREE.
READ THIS AMAZING PROOF!
ALFRED J. BRITOJNI,
World-famous international Phy-
deal Director; Founder of “Health
and Phvsical Culture.”
“I am fitter than ever before —your
course is doing for me more than I
ever imagined.”
R. A. NORRIS', C„ S. Africa.
“The development of my arms and
shoulders has been really wonderful,
and it does my eyesight good to look
at my biceps and triceps, which are
now becoming a ball of muscle. I
wish I had taken your course years
ago and so saved myself much suffer-
ing and ill-health.”
C. J. CROSBIE, S., Vic.
“I am very pleased with your
course, and I feel wonderfully fit —
in fact, I’ve never felt better in my
life. All my friends are talking about
my wonderful physique. I thank you
again from the bottom of my heart
for what your system has done for
me.”
J. MORRISON, S., Scotland.
“I have seen my body pass from a
bony structure to that of a well-
musded athlete. I have gained 7Jin.
round the chest in 95 days.”
J. M. CRAIG, G., N.Z.
“I have completed the first course
and I am amazed. I have gained
eight pounds in weight and inches
around chest.”
K. H. FOULIS, T., Fiji.
“My chest has increased 3J inches
and each arm 1& inches. Every-
one has marvelled at the pheno-
menal development of my body after
only one month.”
■ J. CLARK, Calif., U.S.A.
/
Gains One Stone!
“I am writing you these few lines to
congratulate you and your wonderful
system on the way it has developed
my body. My weight has increased
nearly a stone, and my height nearly
an inch.”
G. SWAIN SON, M. Est., N.S'.W.
Height Increased.
“Gained two inches in height.”
Yours sincerely,
N. GRAVE; Malvern, Vic.
Gains sin. Around Chest.
“I am .now 41|in. round the chest,
which is an increase of 5 inches.”
0. E. JEBREEN, M., Nth. Qld.
Gained 7in. Round the Chest!
“Before I started the Course, my
chest, normal, was 27 inches, but
now it is 34 inches, and 36 expanded;
truly a marvellous difference.”
J. MILNER, C., Norfolk Is.
Now a New Man!
“I beg to write and thank you
for the splendid muscle-building
and health-giving course you sent
me some months ago. I have been
through the whole Course thoroughly
and find myself a new man.”
A. V. HAY, G., N.Z.
Gained 3in. on Chest.
“I have just completed two
months of Excelding, and am glad
to say that I have already made a
marked development, both in muscles
and appetite. Since I have started
I have gained 3 inches on the chest,
and my thighs and calves are each
one inch bigger.”
JOHN WOLF, T., Sth Africa.
Don’t Know How to Express
Gratitude.
“I don’t think you have a more
thankful and satisfied pupil than I
am. In fact, I am that satisfied I
don’t know how to express my
gratitude. I am lost for words good
enough to praise your wonderful
course. No man should be without
it, at least no man would be without
it if he had it a few days. It is
marvellous.”
D. H. MOREHEAD, D„ N.Z.
Great Improvement.
“I have now had about 12 days’
treatment, and already I am feeling
vastly improved, both physically and
mentally.”
K. I. McCALL, G., Solomon Is.
ABSOLUTELY FREE!
This month, to every reader of this paper who is interested
—here is my offer: To prove to you what I have said about
the “Secrets of Muscular Strength and How to Acquire It,”
1 am going to give ONE FREE ISSUE, providing you make
application at once! This book has been the cause of
changing the lives of thousands of men. I have received
countless thousands of wonderful letters and photographs
of actual transformation of men who never
thought they could acquire strength and
development! Make me PROVE these asser-
tions t'o you by sending for your copy this
minute, not to-morrow, you may be too late,
but to-day—NOW. Are you ready?
ALFRED J. BRITON
Dept. L,
107 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
FREE BOOK COUPON >POST NOW
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L,
107 Pitt St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
•>ear Sir.—Please send me absolutely PRKK a copy ot you
latest book, “The Secrets ot Muscular Strength—And How T«i
'couire ft.” Don’t send one oennv—It's FRKR.
MAMB
CTHA ADDKESfe
6/ v:y
Gnothefi 1.500
FRif BOOKS
fendistniOution,
v (use coupon)
/<• fr'
Hi
ini
"*«w>
.v^~
Just take a peep at the physiques ot
these Briton Pupils; they are only a
few. There are
thousands more.
Too, too.
can acquire
mighty
muscles and
sple n d i d
health. Send
the coupon
—NOW!
I
I
85* SSL• .
V .N-y.-,v->>.Wv-X-S->.-.*• j
A«tXW»: \ !
MSISCI/li
mmtm
i
#1
» ■ S?
***** «**<<>*>&.* •** v-*
•****. <■(*** '>*<*


ABPRIGINALITIES
“Kerys”: Young Bill, ninq, and born
and bred in the backblocks, had made
his first appearance at church, and had
listened spellbound to the tale of the
glories of the Court of King Solomon.
“I s’pose it was all right for a king to
have’ seven hundred wives,” said he to
Dad as they trudged home over the
paddocks, “but it beats me what he
wanted to keep three hundred porcupines
for.” Dad, who has had his matrimonial
troubles, looked round to make sure
Mum was well out of hearing before he
replied. “Well, it’s my opinion, me boy,
he kept ’em to throw at the seven hun-
dred wives!”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Tell “V.E.A.C.” (B
15/6/’3B) that I want his attention.
Onion-soaked atmosphere does not cause
tears. They come from the over-affection
of the grower. He weeps with sheer joy
as he handles the brown globe produced
by his own care and industry. He rolls
it over in the palm of his hand, spins it
between thumb and finger and blubbers
while he kisses it. He weeps again when
he sees the bags going off to the station
to be manhandled by the Government
inspector. But he weeps most copiously
when he recalls that a threepenny pound
of onions costs tuppence-ha’penny to
market. See him on the volcanic slopes
of Tower Hill (Vic.), and you will know
the cause of his rheumatics—his boots
are always soggy with his tears.
* * * *
“Ming”: Bill is one of those people
who are ever on the lookout for a
chance to do somebody a kindness, so
when we went along the creek-bank and
found old Henry Dalrymple’s ram turned
off Bill was justly incensed. “Poor old
Henry,” he said. “Just because he’s a
bit swanky all the dam’ kids have it in
for him. Always turning off this ram
and making old Henry walk a mile down
here to turn it on again. Want a good
stoushing, the lot of them.” tie turned
on the ram and we sauntered off. It
was just at the bend we met the appari-
tion, though we heard it roaring long
before its actual appearance. Dripping
pools of water, with his grey locks hang-
ing limply, old Henry was making good
time towards the ram. There was nothing
swanky about his language as he swore
vengeance on the fiend who had turned
on the water and nearly drowned him
while he was cleaning out the biggest
tank. We discreetly stepped behind a
bush while Henry continued his search
lor the miscreant.
* * * • *
'‘lda D.”: “Cooee-Bird” says (B.
15/6/’3B) that he has never known a
sprouting peg or post to take root and
grow. From where I write I can see a
big kurrajong which has grown from a
post; the axe-marks can still be traced
in the bark. It is red sandy soil, and the
tree has flourished through good and
bad seasons. Have also known a tea-
tree to sprout and grow from a post.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Barefooted, Pintpot led the
way along the narrow track to the water-
hole. His mind was somewhat distracted,
for he had promised Mary “one big-pfeller
hiding” when they quitted the company
of the whites. Suddenly something double-
ended flashed up and closed on his ankle:
a death-adder, rare in Westralia. With
a tourniquet, unsparing use of a razor
and the cleanings from Old Ned’s pipe
we saved Pintpot’s life. In the meantime
Mary located and executed the wriggler,
which, unlike the modem gangster, had
been slow in its getaway. Examining
the remains, we, with the exception of
Old Ned, who was a Bananalander, were
a bit tricked as to which was really the
business end—the tail had a horny spur
that certainly looked dangerous. But Ned
reckoned it wasn’t —being just its gripper
—the adder’s technique being to lie half-
hidden in the dust and seemingly dor-
mant, but ready at the slightest touch to
flash up, both ends, gripping its prey like
a spring trap, the fangs at the same
moment going home. This was the way
“There s a combination for y'! *E Won the StaWell Gift and the ’orse Won the Caulfield Cup.”
the deathie got its living ; Mother Nature
has equipped it with a gripping apparatus
that enables it to seize its prey, kangaroo
rats and suchlike, and hold on until the
venom has time to work. The same
thoughtful mother also provides double-
length fangs together with quadruple
volume of poison.
“Uckle”: Tell artist Jolliffe (B.
22/6/’3B) that no bush “ma” or bush
“dad” either would use the edge of an
axe to kill a snake ; the idea is to leave
the paralysed part dragging behind the
wound. Nor does Joe ever swallow a
bird against the feathers. He starts at
the head, so that the feathers do not
impede the swallowing.
* -r- * *
“Cooee-Bird”: The pallid cuckoo has
found it warm enough again this year
to winter away from the tropics. Heard
the tireless piper all through June well
down the Bananaland coast, from which
parts most tropic-visiting migrants have
disappeared by the end of April. The
hanging around of the plain-plumaged
fowl is regarded by some as indicative
of a mild winter; but writer has known
severe late frosts to occur when the
cuckoo has piped himself warm through
the cold weather months in sub-tropical
parts. Generally, however, there is a
good rainfall when he spends the cold-
weather months south of Capricorn.
jjj
“Tom Willie”: If “C.V.S.” (B.
22/6/’3B) is so bad an Australian that
he remains an enemy of the possum he'd
better invent a better tale next time. Did
he ever see a possum’s claws? Let him
take his Darlinghurst bus and try to
shake a possum out of a sapling in the
Brickfield Hill bush. The tree might
snap, his arms wither and break, but he’ll
never dislodge the ringtail from its perch,
Anyway, possums don’t fall with a
“plonk” and they don’t bounce 3ft. into
the air. They don’t leap out of trees,
either, unless there is another one" for
them to jump into. A tree to a possum
is its natural haven of safety. Doubtless
he confused the possum with a climbing
penguin ; the resemblance is deceiving
after closing-hour.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: A puzzle of plant migra-
tion is the failure of the coconut palm
through the ages to establish itself on
this continent, despite the fact that the
nut is admirably adapted for a long sea
voyage. Argued by some that coastal
influences were hostile—the lack of shel-
tered fertile beaches on which the nut
might take root and flourish ; but other
nut-bearers have established themselves,
as witness the Indian banyan of the N.T.
and the African baobab, which has a
range right from the Kimberleys to the
Gulf country. Also, the coconut will
flourish in the Australian tropics. The
Beagle Bay Mission station, some 70
miles north of Broome, has a fine stand
of coconut palms which were planted
a number of years ago. Incidentally,
this gives denial to the general belief that
the Kimberley country is useless for any-
thing but cattle-grazing.
* * * *
“Duckbill”: Bush myths die hard, and
the billy-boiling ceremonial perpetuates
the daddy of ’em all. Long after the
last believer in the miraculous birth of
the kangaroo is dead, bushmen will
solemnly place twigs across the tops of
their billycans with the certainty that it
will prevent the tea from being smoked,
The stick habit is a survival from the
Dark Ages, when peasants laid two twigs
over the cooking-pot in the form of a
cross, hoping to scare away the devil,
who would otherwise put a jinx on the
stew.
“Neighbor”: The queerest fence I’ve
seen was a bandicoot-blocker enclosing
a vegetable garden in the elbow-bend of
a small Bananaland creek. Sunk 2ft.
in the ground, the thing consisted of
huge 7ft. billets of wood standing close
together. The trenching occupied the
constructor (a grey-bearded 6ft. rambler
who blew along from the inland) months,
as s Plhfi. n 8 carting in of
the fencing material. And all the vege-
tables the owner ever raised wouldn t
have tuckered a healthy billygoat for a
day. A bushfire demolished the struc-
ture before the kangaroos and bandicoots
got used to going round it.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: Death of a pioneer grand-
parent the other day set me thinking on
the evolution, of transport. In his young
days we were still careering round on
horseback at the same pace as Julius
Caesar, and neither love nor money could
procure anything faster, unless it hap-
pened to be the newfangled railway that
had been run between Sydney and Par-
ramatta just before he was born. Even
then a good horse could give the engine
a go for it. He was a father long before
he saw his first motor-car, and a grand-
parent before he clapped eyes on an
aeroplane. Trolley-buses, superseding
electric trams, arrived when he was too
feeble to struggle to town to see them,
and he died without ever glimpsing an
airship, a fate which most of his descend-
ants will probably share. Just as he did,
they may see a balloon as a freak. Out
of all this diversity of transport, the
only vehicles grandad ever travelled in
were a buggy and a motor-car. Steam
and sail at sea were alike foreign to
him, for he never saw the coast,
* * * *
“Aglum”: Weather forecasts, from
black cockatoos to corns, have been
sworn at in the bush, but here’s one that
can be sworn by. Moisten the ground, and
then with a stick poke a hole in it, say 3in.
deep and l|in. across.’ Now get a seedling
and, holding it by the leaves, lower the
roots gently into the hole. If the weather is
going to be fine the roots will go straight
down, but if rain is approaching they
will behave like live wires and twist
all over the place. Hold the plant close
to the centre of the hole, and the roots
will swing over and cling to the earth on
the side; release it, and it will go back
again and again,
* * * *
“Salmar”: Three years ago the true
salmon was, after many years of trying,
successfully acclimatised in Australian
waters. The Victorian Fisheries and
Game Department got 10,000 quinnat
salmon eggs from M.L., where the
Western American variety has been estab-
lished for some years, and put them in
Lakes Bullemerri and Burrumbeet. Both
are landlocked, and it was feared that
the salmon, which must return to salt
water before breeding, would not make
good. They did, however, and fish up
to 101 b. weight are now being caught,
though they won’t be able to breed and
must die out unless imported spawn is
renewed. The other day another ship-
ment of 40,000 eggs arrived from M.L.,
and these are to be placed in waters with
access to the sea. If the fish leave these
waters in due course for the ocean and
return to their home water to spawn, as
they are doing in M.L., a great fisheries
problem will be solved and perhaps a
very important addition made to Aus-
tralia’s commercial fishing resources,
* * * 4c
Anthropo : Tell Notaden (B.
8/6/’3B) that I didn’t overlook the Tas-
manian in my speculations regarding the
antiquity of the abo. Big remnants of the
Tasmanians were probably left on the
mainland when Bass Strait cut through,
and were ultimately absorbed—the men
massacred, the women taken—by the in-
vading present-type aboriginal. But there
were neV er any of the Tasmanian race in
th e western part of the continent, which
lay empty fo ' i ong after the eastern half
* F ® .
was peopled by the three successive waves
of: mvasl ° n °t which he speaks. _ e
weste ™ ab ?- was more warlike and less
tractable than his eastern brother, the
comparative mildness of the latter s
nature being due to the mingling of
docile Tasmanian blood. This applies
also to the fierce pure-blooded Queens-
land black, who probably belonged to
the later waves of invasion, which a ls°
crossed the Territory and passed down
the western side. That the West received
two waves of invasion is probable, toi
some tribes practise circumcision and
others don’t. And, curiously, the uncir-
cumcised possessed the best parts ot the
country, at the same time despising the
circumcised, whom they accused oi can-
nibalism. The uncircumcised Bibulumum
race which occupied the area around
Perth had no superiors in type anyw ere
on the continent.
JOHN COMPANY.
In bold Bess Tudor’s distant day,
From Philpot-lane, the records say,
John Company—his charter new—
Envisioned, with an instinct true,
Wide realms where rajahs went arrayed
In ropes of pearls and rich brocade:
And saw how gates of Commerce far
To high adventure stood ajar:
Then in his inkhorn dipped a quill
To send a greeting of goodwill.
The wheel of world event rolls on;
rhe Stuarts and their foes are gone,
The Prince of Orange, with his queen,
Has passed across the shadow-screen.
Swift stabs no more; nor Johnson sneers ;
The curtain falls on Georgian years
And lifts again upon the stage
Reset for action in an age
Of steam and speed. John Company,
A satrap now, in sooth, is he!
His shipwrights toil, with sounding stroke
Of mallets shaping teak and oak;
His smiths at flaring forges mould
Great anchors, that the ships may hold.
From foundry cauldrons redly runs
The molten metal for his guns;
From gabled mills the canvas comes;
The rope-walk rings, the spindle hums—
A legion’s backs are daily bent
I n service to Establishment; ,
While English fabrics, English ware,
Are Eastward sent; and all the rare, .
Rich freights of Oriental goods—
Sweet spices, gems, and fragrant woods,
And jute and calico and tea —
Come rolling back across the sea;
Come rolling back to London town,
To be discreetly noted down
And checked and marked in figures plain
By prudent clerks at Philpot-lane.
The ships! the ships! their white wings now
Are furled for aye. Her graceful bow
No fine East-indiaman e’er dips
In any sea. Gone are the ships.
No trade winds sing in shroud and sheet,
No drums to action loudly beat,
No braided captain takes his stand
With fighting company at hand
When noses from the offing near
A pirate or a privateer.
From Tudor days to Canning’s time
So runs the tale! A half-sublime,
Half-sordid tale of riches built
On conquest and the red blood spilt.
A tale of Transport! Through it all
Long surges break, lone sea-winds call,
Great temples brood ’neath tropic stars,
And crowded streets and bright bazaars
Are strangely linked to ledgers plain
On dusty shelves in Philpot-lane.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“King Cyril”: Mine tinkit too much
yabba belonga blackpfeller wantum Aus-
tralia back. Baal budgeree that one. Close
up mine pretty old man now. No want-
um big pfeller job cleanum up mess be-
longa Joe Lyons. Come up moon few
times now me die. Wantum plenty sit
down rest belonga old age. Young pfeller
king him no good. He piccaninny be-
longa me. Me cuttum dead. That pfeller
gottum greyhound alia same white
brother.
* * * *
“Jibbon”: Always thought the penguin
was one of the slickest dwellers of the
sea, but a post-mortem we conducted on
a 12ft. grey nurse revealed the bodies
of two fairy penguins.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Erbout the closest call me
an’ Tarry Tom ever ’ad,” said Old Bob,
“wus one day down at the sheepyards.
We’d bin brandin’ a mob, an’ it wus
rainin’ like the devil. Just as we’re fin-
ishin’, up drives the John in ’is car, an’
old Jack Brown’s with ’im. They both
eye us pretty snaky, an’ the John says
they’re lookin’ fer a mob uv crorssbrids
—fifty or sixty uv ’em —what ’as dis-
appeared frum old Jack’s paddicks. ‘An’
they don’t walk without no ’ands,’ says
the John. Me an’ Tarry, we twigs what
they’re drivin’ at. ‘ls these them?’ asks
Tarry, pretty sarcastic, pointin’ at the
mob in the yard. ‘Don’t be silly,’ old
Jack snarls. ‘I says crorssbrids, not
Shropshires.’ ‘All right,’ says Tarry, ‘go
er’ead an’ search the joint.’ Well, they
does, but after a nour or so they realisers
they’re barkin’ up the wrong tree an’
clears orf. All the same, it’s a close
thing. They only ’as ter touch them
Shroppies’ noses ter see the black paint
still wet on ’em. Cripes, it’s a good
thing'it was rainin’.”
* * * .1!
“Walkabout”: Hungry sheep’ll eat
anything. My oath they will! During
the drought we untrucked a mob of dying
"Since that Australian joined the Foreign they can't stand
up straight."
“I tell yer Bradman never WAS any good on a Wet wicket!”
jumbucks and left them in the yards over-
night. Feed about the depot was as
scarce as fat on the sheep, and for
security’s sake we -kept the half-dozen
plant horses in with the sheep. “Strike
me pink!” said the boss in the morning,
pointing to the horses. “Never seen
mange develop so quick.” There were
the prads, their stumpy tails plucked as
bare as a goat’s horns and the sheep
“baa-ing” for their next ration of horse-
hair.
ft •* o &
“Tinpish”: The report of the Com-
monwealth Government’s Fisheries De-
partment following the first trip of the
research trawler Warreen mentions that
vast shoals of surface-feeding fish were
discovered, including multitudes of tuna.
The report visualises a vast tuna-canning
industry in Tassie as a consequence. So
may it be, but the question is, who will
eat the tuna? Writer can recall half
a dozen efficient Australian tinned fish
industries —and fish of prime quality at
that—which ,have gone bung because
Australians simply will not eat the local
product, though they come at South
African “smoked haddock” and canned
cray, Japanese canned crab and salmon,
Canadian and Russian salmon and, in
short, any darned seafood made abroad
and imported. As to tuna, writer has
tried this fish, fresh, smoked and in oil,
and will bet real money Australians will
scorn it. In texture it strongly resembles
the coarse horse-mackerel of the tropic
seas, and it is like the London egg the
Cockney preferred to the new-laid coun-
try article—“more flavor to it.”
* * * *
“G.8.T.”: Placed two frogs hauled
from a Well at Cooktown (Q.) under an
inverted basin overnight. Next morning
one of the prisoners had disappeared.
The bloated aspect of the remaining one
put him under suspicion, and a post-
mortem later brought to light the intact
body of his cobber. Experimented later
with two other frogs taken from the
same well, and obtained a repetition.
Isolated cases, or is cannibalism common
among the tailless amphibians?
“Turon River”: A rabbit-trapper with-
out a good dog is akin to a lover with-
out arms. During my first week with
the irons this winter traps were pulled
up and dragged out by a native cat, a
possum, a sheep and six rabbits. My dog
found all of ’em in quick order, which
not only saved me hours of time, nine
traps and mustering a 2000-acre paddock
for the sheep, but also a pound of skins
and the cat-skin. Not a day passes but
what I get about six legs in traps. As
a “legged” rabbit never goes far from the
trap a good dog will scent and find him
almost as soon as the trap is up. Often a
legged rabbit, quite free, will be found
sitting alongside the trap evidently under
the impression that he is still a prisoner.
A good trap dog will also follow a fox
in a trap many miles and finally land
him; and I’ve even seen one scent a
trap taken by a wedgetail eagle to where
the bird took to the air.
* * * *
“Skiloperende”: The comparatively
small yate tree, which occurs in forests
in W.A.’s extreme sou’-west, produces
one of the world’s strongest timbers.
Growing up to 60ft. high, with a 30ft.
bole, which is about 3ft. in diameter
(a relatively thick trunk), its inaccessi-
bility is the bar to its wider commercial
use. Chief characteristics are its rough
and dirty bark, which peels off the
branches easily, leaving them quite white,
and its flowers, which are in dense
clumps on short stalks and resemble
fluffy balls of a yellowish-white toning.
Tests for tensile strength gave it a break-
ing load of \l\ tons per sq. in., which
is only 3| tons less than that usually
specified for fair quality wrought-iron!
For shafts it is incomparable.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Talking of old-time
harvesting methods (B. 8/6/’3B), my
mate and I took on the job of flailing a
ten-ton stack of rye for an old cocky
in the Wimmera (Vic.). Neither of us
had used a flail before, but after a few
days spent in hitting each other with the
contraptions -and unwinding them from
round our respective necks we managed
to get the hang of the art. It was dashed
hard work, and we weren’t sorry when
the contract cut out. Paid off, I men-
tioned to the boss that there would be
many a good bottle of firewater brewed
from the result of our labors. The casual
remark gained us another day’s work.
The old chap was an ardent blue-
ribboner, and when he realised that his
produce might help to swell “the filthy
trade of the liquor bars” every bag was
dumped in the river.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Although there are neutral
feeding-grounds whereon an “all-in”
policy prevails, when once a pair of
white-backed magpies obtain the right
(whether by diplomacy or strong-arm
tactics) to forage over a particular slice
of landscape, they will assert their rights
to it by beak and wing, even harrying
therefrom such small fry as chats and
groundlarks. Also, the white-back usually
.owns to a special perch in a roosting-
tree, from which he defies anything in
feathers to shift him, and nothing can
while a glimmer of twilight remains. But
a dead or sorely-stricken magpie beneath
a tree is proof that sometimes the power-
ful owl accepts the challenge to its
supremacy by night.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: Wombat may be the
best meat bait for crayfish-pots (B.
1/6/’3B), but it certainly isn’t the best
bait. Crustaceans prefer the produce
of the sea itself, preferably a choice fish
like mullet, which is just about the uni-
versal favorite. But a lump of shark
will do, or stingray. Meat is mostly
used merely because it is cheap and
readily obtainable. But even with it the
crustacean shows definite preferences. A
lump of juicy steak or a slab of ox-cheek
will win every time over a sheep-head or
any other meat with a bone in it. The
crustacean knows all about hard animal
bones, dislikes to grip them with claws
or feelers, and so avoids them when
possible. Similarly it prefers its meat
fresh. This is only common reasoning—
there is nothing putrid in the sea.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Fred was a blue-
eyed Bedford farm lad who migrated to
Australia 10 years ago. A steady job at
30s. a week and keep seemed wealth,
after being on “t’varm back ’ome,” and
when the broom-cutting season began
he was content to milk morning and
evening and cut broom in between times
without asking for a rise. One day he
overheard the cocky remark to his wife
“I always thought that Tom was the
fastest broom-cutter on the river, but
Fred has it all over him.” Fred promptly
gave notice. To-day he. owns a tobacco
farm that turns in about £lOOO a year,
his-own home and a car.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Munjee, a local lubra, was
employed as a generally useful at the
township pub. With the shearing-sheds
cutting out, there was a rush of visitors,
and Munjee was hustled to the dining-
room to help wait at the table. The
hungry mob soon had her flustered, and
after frequent requests to pass the bread
Munjee protested. “Why you not make
the bread walkabout yo’self?” she de-
manded. Aside to her white assistant she
said; “Too plurry much passum, this
place.” Then a tea-guzzler, who had
already been served with two cups, called
to her, “More tea, Munjee.” “Ugh!”
growled Munjee, now in open rebellion.
“You wantum bucket like it shearin’-
shed.” The next man who wanted tea
got up and helped himself.
DAIRYMEN EXCEPTED.
“Widow, middle-aged, desires to meet sober, in-
dustrious man on land; any pursuit except dairying.
View mat.”— Melbourne “Agony” advt.
She has, it seems, an ardent predilection,
A hankering for tasting rural bliss;
She’d settle in Arcadian perfection
Far, far from any great metropolis.
Yet, in the main, she has one strong objection,
One ineradicable prejudice:
She’ll swap no solemn, hymeneal vows
With any man whose stock-in-trade is cows.
The lady deems it quite inconsequential
Whether the spouse who shortly may be hers
Goes in for sheep or turnips as essential,
But nonetheless at dairying she demurs,
Maintaining that it’s wholly pestilential;
She even, inferentially, prefers,
To mobs of placid, ruminating kine,
A farmful of obese and grunting swine.
Her swain must have his heart in things bucolic,
That is the first and foremost thing she craves.
She frowns upon refreshment alcoholic,
But otherwise the way that he behaves
Is one to her. He may incline to frolic,
Be lean or fat, neglectful of his shaves;
Her only point is that she’ll give the bird
To any chap who tends “the lowing herd.”
This animosity that she’s displaying
To all cow-cockydom—whence has it sprung?
Perhaps some intuition she’s obeying,
Or maybe once before she’s thus been stung.
Or is the reason that she’s been surveying
Her comforts, and, not being mad and young,
Makes certain that she won’t, when she has
wed,
Be yanked before it’s daylight out of bed?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.unch from 12 noun (Sunday, ,12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.46 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4ROI
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that ofilce
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'. ...
0. E. FRIEND F. N, YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq,; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Rank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
K
©
V
9
©
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queers Bridge St., South Melbourne.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and
, ——Dividend Tax
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., >27.. 48,871 1500 10 p.c.= 26,754 20,617 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c.= 42,531 17,375 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 19,466 542,962
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ ~42,545 19,846 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ ~ 42,545 4,716 567,524
Mar.,’3o.. 67,910 1500 20 ~ ~42,545 23,805 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 14,741 006,130
Mar.,’3l.. 40,580 1500 16 „ ~34,036 5,044 611,174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 ~ ~ 25,527 2,322 613,496
Mar.,’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ ~34,036 10,356 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 37,557 1500 12 „ 25,527 10,530 634,382
Mar.,’33.. 50,301 1500 16 „ ~34,036 14,765 649.147
Sept.,’33.. 39,344 1500 12 „ ~ 25,527 12,317 661,464
Mar.,’34.. 62,023 1500 20 ~ ~42,545 17,978 679,442
S'ept.,’34.. 43,192 1500 16 ~ „ 34,036 7,656 687,098
Mar.,’35.. 52,224 1500 20 „ ~ 42,545 8,179 695,277
Sept.,’3s.. 41,749 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545 692,981
Mar.,’36.. 69,795 1500 20 ~ ~ 42,545 25,750 718,731
S’ept-.’Se.. 50,458 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 6,413 725,144
Mar.,’37.. 63,756 1500 30 ~,,63,818. 723,582
Share premiums, £33,981 .. .. 757,563
Sept.,’37.. 52,632 1500 20 p.c.= 51,041 91 757,654
Mar., ’38.. 67,551 1500 30 „ „ 70,570 747,135
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where
most of the shares are held, but the
profits are earned in Westralia, where the
co. has practically a monopoly of the
trade, and where the consumption of beer,
steadily on the up-grade for the last five
years, is about 50 p.c. greater per head of
population than the average for the whole
of the Commonwealth. Also, the Emu
Brewery (bought about 11 years ago) has
just been equipped with a complete new
plant, the register of hotel freeholds in
both country and metropolitan areas
continues to lengthen, and a lot of
money has recently been spent on reno-
vating and reconstructing the Criterion,
at Perth. It was to help meet outlay
in all these directions that 340,000 new
ss. shares were put out, one for five, at a
premium of 2s. each a little over a year
ago.
The next table gives a more detailed
view of what was done with the
money:
,~ j , March .
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £475,454 £475,454 £475,454 £560,469
Mortages .. 17,128 ■— 6,009
Other liabilities* 122,796 184,584 183,903 162,451
Freeholds and
plant . . 955,838 937,353 950,731 979,733
Mortgages .. 39,121 50,515 42,339 36,756
Stock.. . . 40,663 53,513 50,568 64,484
Shares in other
cos 111,722 111,722 111,722 112,397
Book debts .. 81,206 128,785 143,520 127,142
Cash, etc. .. 71,504 140,925 149,375 233,624
‘lncludes, goodwills accruing.
The £85,015 of fresh capital gathered,
together with share premiums (they were
added to reserves) and the, year’s sur-
plus earnings, enabled £29,002 net to be
added to the book value of freeholds
and plant, £13,916 to stocks and £84,294
to cash, etc. The growth in the more or
less liquid surplus (£293,546, including
stocks and mortgages but not shares in
other cos.) was £91,647, making the im-
provement £200,971 (most of it has gone
into cash, etc.) over the last five years.
The recent accumulation of cash is a
feature which the discerning investor will
not overlook. Another feature, and one
which means much so far as earning
power in relation to share capital is con-
cerned, is that over the decade to the
close of last accounts £260,088 was added
to the cost of brewery, plant, etc., while
£311,260 was written off out of earnings,
leaving their book value at £264,466, or
approximately 32 p.c. of cost. In addi-
tion, substantial sums were spent on
repairs and maintenance. Over the same
period, £432,487 was added to the cost
of hotel freeholds, and £208,513 was
written off, the net growth in their book
value (now £707,396 = 70.4 p.c. cost)
being £223,974.
During the 12 months to the end of
March, £20,666 (down £1911) was spent
on repairs and maintenance, £90,108
(down £2346) was struck off for depre-
ciation and £37,092 (down £3965) was
reserved for the taxgatherer. Allowing
for minor reserve adjustments, the net
result was £5969 better at £120,183,
which was enough to pay the small pref.
div. (£3000) and show 22.9 p.c. on capi-
tal as it stood at the close of accounts.
Divs. were the same as for the preceding
12 months —at the rate of 20 p.c. p.a. for
the first half and 30 p.c. p.a. for the
last half, making 25 p.c. for the year—
though visibly they called for £10,428
more profit than the board laid claim to.
On a 25 p.c. div. basis the ss. f.-p.
ords. at 265. return 4.8 p.c., which is a
very satisfactory yield from an attractive
brewery stock. The net tangible backing
is 12s. 4d. (book value). The market
thus values goodwill, of which no ac-
count is taken in the books, and inner
reserves at nearly £1,400,000. The well-
protected prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Added
to Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 22,082 7 p.c. = 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ ~ 21,000 1,806 119.986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
Special depreciation, etc., £25,025.. 88,978
Profit.
1932.. 2,625 Nil 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12* „ ~12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 t ~ ~ 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 t ~ „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 j ~ „ 16,000 4,398 111,540
* Pref. only. f Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 4 p.c.
* Pref.', 6 p.c.; ord., 5 p.c.
On the average, shareholders in this
biscuit, cake and plum-pudding business
have had only moderate returns on their
£300,000 of capital, which is in 100,000
6 p.c. prefs. (they advance beyond that
rate with the ords.) and 200,000 ords.
After the economic hurricane of the
’nineties it took 18 years,for the div. to
climb to 5j p.c. The average for the
nine years to 1920, including the war
period, was 8.6 p.c., for the next decade
7.4 p.c., and for the eight difficult years
(the first five of them were dry) to the
close of last accounts 1.6 p.c.
Keen competition has always kept
profit-margins fine, and made it difficult
to pass increasing costs on to the con-
sumer. Because of this the factory was
electrified and the organisation over-
hauled in 1928; but mechanical effi-
ciency, which affects both costs and pro-
fits, has greatly improved since then. So
early in the last term it was decided to
iristal new plant, which the board claims
is “equal to anything in the Southern
Hemisphere,” and a new building was.
put up to house it. The estimated cost,
was £45,000 ; the year’s net growth in the
book value of fixed assets was £64,181:
1932. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 91,521 37,739 20,289' 42,740
Mortgages, etc. 24,000 —•—
Other debts .. 23,882 23,546 45,482 86,310
Fixed assets.. 343,560 285,904 '286,823 351,004
Shares other cos. 48,716 48,716 48,716 48,966
Stocks .. 40,109 41,117 50,671 46,847
Book debts, etc. 98,391 97,242 93,581 99,697
Cash .. . . 232 167 121 2,076
The board went outside for the money,
adding £22,451 to the overdraft (£42,740),
£30,256 to deposits (£43,877) and £10,572
net to the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£42,433, including £20,638 pay-
able in respect of the new building).
Stocks were down £3824 and debtors up
£6116. The year’s contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£19,570) was
£59,032.
Trading conditions continued to im-
prove, but gross earnings (£115,022) were
£2527 lighter, owing to a certain amount
of dislocation following the installation
of new plant and erection of the new
building. Exes. (£94,624) were got back
£2643, leaving the profit figure at £20,398
(up £116), equal to 6.7 p.c. on share
capital (pref. and ord. combined). The
prefs. were handed their minimum re-
quirements, the ord. div. was lifted from
4 p.c. to 5 p.c., and the £4397 that re-
mained raised reserves to £111,540.
Although the new plant has increased
the co.’s competitive power and improved
the long-term prospects of the scrip, it is
doubtful whether very much better than
5 p.c. to the ords. need be expected, for
a while at any rate. Costs, including in-
terest on the outside debt, are on the up-
grade, and the trade outlook is not, quite
so bright as it was a year ago.
The market expresses its opinion by
pricing the pound ords. at 16s. 6d. and
the prefs. at 235., as against 18s. and 255.
respectively a year ago. At the lower
figures the ords. return 6 p.c. and the
prefs. 5.2 p.c. on the basis of last year’s
distributions. The net tangible cover,
mainly fixed assets, worth what they can
earn, is £4 2s. 3d. prefs. and 31s. Id. ords.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
& , £ £ £
1928.. 7422 15 p.c. = 7439 ' 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 „ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written off investments, £2500.. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.e. = 7489 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments. £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 2976 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2970 1509 65,091
Written off investments, £lOOO .. *• 64,091
1935.. 4572 6 p.c. = 2976 1596 66,687
Written off investments, £l5OO .. 64,187
1936.. 5069 6 p.c. = 2976 2093 66,280
Written off investments, £lOOO . . 65,280
To Provident Fund, £l5OO .. 63,780
Lumped with specific res., £2550.. 61,230
1937.. 4402 7 p.c. = 3471 931 62,161
Written off investments, £5OO .. 61,661
To Provident Fund, £5OO .. .. 61,161
1938.. 4479 7 p.c.= 3471 1008 62,169
To Building Renovation Res., £5OO 61,569
To Provident Fund, £5OO . . .. 61,169
Apart from the small risk they take when
investing their own funds, these trustee
cos. do not have to risk much. If there
is any doubt about the interpretation of
a will, there is always the Court to go
to for instructions. Also, apart from
major economic disturbances, especially
those affecting interest rates and capital
values, their earnings mostly show small
but regular expansion. For these and
other reasons the scrip has much to re-
commend it as a long-term investment,
though the yield obtainable is seldom
much, if any, better than can be had from
Government securities.
At the end of April, this Westralian
co.’s £49,593 of capital, together with
the reserves and, £1754 coming to sundry
creditors, was invested £61,489 freehold,
investments £47,726, equipment £7579,
debtors £2BBB, cash, etc., £4325. The
amount of new trust business put on the
books during the year was £768,960
(down £104,974). Capital distributions
to beneficiaries totalled £603,316 (down
£83,062), leaving a net gain of £165,644
(down £21,912), and lifting the volume
of trusts on the books to £7,843,345:
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1925.. £4,039,989 £25,548 £18,972 74.2 p.c.
1927.. 6,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 ~
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7 „
1933.. 7,181,905 30,975 26,984 87.1 „
1934.. 7,265,439 32,186 27,701 86.1 „
1935. . 7,337,162 32,986 28,414 86.1 „
1930.. 7,490,145 35,633 30,564 85.7 „
1937.. 7,677,701 37,018 32,616 88.1 ~
1938.. 7,843,345 38,751 34,272 88.5 ~
* After providing for contingencies.
Returns from the co.’s own funds and
from the trustees section of the business
are not separated in the published ac-
counts, but gross earnings from all
sources were up £1733, and the growth
in exes, was £1656, leaving a profit of
£4479 (up £77), equal to 9 p.c. on capital
as against 8.8, 10.2, 9.2, 9,8, 8, 13.7
and 17 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c., the final being at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a., and £5OO was sent to the
provident fund and £5OO was earmarked
for building renovation, making the re-
serve for these and other contingencies
£8706, which is not included with the lay-
by in the introductory table.
The pound shares paid to Bs. are
backed by net tangibles with a book
value of 17s. lOd. On the market buyers
offer 13s. without attracting a selling
declaration. The return at, say, 14s.
would be 4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. To pay 7 p.c. on capital
alone capital and reserves combined need
turn in only 3.1 p.c. In addition there
is the return from the trustee section,
growth of which can be expected to
continue. Still, complications now asso-
ciated with the administration of estates,
though driving more business into the
expert care of the cos., have added con-
siderably to handling costs, which means
only small growth in net earnings from
this source.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-.
Mar., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924
Profit.
1929.. 3,098 Nil 3098 5,022
1930.. 792- 2.7 p.c. = 4911 • 903
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,257 Nil 10,354
1932.. 13,936 Nil 24,290
1933.. 11,643 Nil 35,933
Profit.
1934.. 158 Nil 15S 35,775
Capital written oft, £ 58,939.
Assets written down, £24,052 ;
deficit reduced, £34,887 .. .. 888
General reserves disappear, £859 1,747
Reserves.
1935.. 2,419 Nil 2419 ' 672
1936.. 3,769 Nil 3769 4,441
1937.. 4,096 5.3 p.c. = 6140 2,397
1938.. 4,195 5.3 „ „ 6140 452
That table tells the doleful story of the
sickness in the timber trade in N. S.
Wales which has lasted for over a decade
now. Certainly the co. has met with
more than ordinary difficulties, but of
recent years its experience has been fairly
general throughout the industry. Formed
in 1906, it took over the business of
Hepburn McKenzie, and for the 11 years
to the close of accounts in 1923 paid
divs. averaging 10.4 p.c. p.a., sweetened
with £52,000 of bonus scrip in 1919.
During the 15 years since, shareholders
have had four divs. aggregating 17.3 p.c.,
and more than half their capital has been
struck off as lost. • The first cut, ss. per
share (= £73,674), was made in 1925 to
cover losses in connection with the Pat-
rick line of steamships and the co.’s
Fraser Island (Q.) venture. Three years
later there was a further cut of Is. 6d.
per share (= £22,102), and a like amount
was returned in cash; then, to cover the
evaporation of capital values, etc., owing
to slump, another slash, 4s. per share
(= £58,839), was made in 1934, reducing
paid capital to its present figure
(£117,879).
Profits have been recorded for each
of the last five years, thanks to the’ re-
covery in building and conditions gener-
ally, but competition has been so keen
that none has been able to squeeze much
profit out of the trade. Early in the last
term a shortage of timber supplies from
overseas was anticipated, and the co.
made heavy forward purchases on a
rising market. But the outlook changed
as the year advanced, and prices, especi-
ally for Oregon logs, were depressed by
a scramble for ready cash in the trade.
The need to adjust stock values spoiled
trading results. Gross earnings (£39,834)
were up £6715. Including £4479 (up
£670) for depreciation, exes. (£35,639)
took all but £99 of the increase, leaving
the net result at 3.5 p.c. on capital as
(|Continued on page 1


Business for Sale.
TO Showmen and others seeking a new
and highly lucrative business venture.
The Victorian and South Australian
rights are offered to the man with the
right credentials of a Show Business fully
protected throughout the Commonwealth
by Design Registration. Copyright of
Rules and Trading Name. A winner
that should easily net £2OOO per annum
net profit. Price wanted, £5OO, and
10 p.c. of net profits. Apply first in-
stance L. J. DAVIS, Box 360 F, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN JOBSON formerly of Healesville in
the State of Victoria but now of address
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that MARY GLADYS
JOBSON has instituted proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria for a
divorce for cause of desertion and unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
in Melbourne in the State of Victoria within
twenty-one days from the Sixth day of July
1938 and file an answer in the said office
within ten days after entering an appearance
as aforesaid the said MARY GLADYS
JOBSON may proceed and the said proceedings
be concluded in your absence.
WM. BROCKET, NEYLON & CO., 108
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Mary Gladys Jobson.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 682 of 1938.
BETWEEN ESMAY EILEEN WILSON
petitioner
And JOHN ALBERT WILSON
Respondent.
TO JOHN ALBERT WILSON formerly of
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ESMAY
EILEEN WILSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on <>r before the First day of September
next and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined. your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of June, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eignt.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
a alister johnson'S McDonald,
a t their
CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN* Solicitors
Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney ’
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHERE ARE WE HEADING?
THE TIN POSITION
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION
WHAT’S HAPPENING IN MINING
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
FORD announces
A NEW LOWER-PRICED
UTILITY
AN ENTIRELY NEW MODEL
• Fully enclosed all - steel cab
with safety glass all round.
• Steel loading compartment.
• Complete equipment.
This new, all-steel model is the greatest
buy in the utility field. Despite the low
price it has value-features such as:
V-type, 8-cylinder engine extremely eco-
nomical in operation many owners
obtaining over 23 miles per gallon.
Torque tube drive and radius rods.
Three-quarter floating rear axle with
straddle-mounted pinion. Easy-action,
self-energising brakes with 186 sq. in.
braking area.
The new type of all-steel body provides
a girder-type construction of tremen-
dous rigidity and strength.
Standard equipment includes: Oil bath
air cleaner. Four hydraulic double-
acting shock absorbers. 6.00 x 16
tyres. Let your local Ford Dealer
arrange an “on-the-job” test for you with
this modern utility. Test for yourself
its lower operating costs, greater all-
round value. Easy and convenient pur-
chase terms avail-
able. Price, F. 0.8.
Ford Factory, plus
sales tax
£304
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD 118 UTILITIES
FORD MOTOR COMPANY «F AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F270.24L
against 3.4, 3.1 and 2 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. Shareholders were
handed 5.3 p.c., same as for the previous
term, reserves being tapped for £1945 for
the purpose, reducing them to £452.
Now consider these figures:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £176,818 £117,879 £117,879 £117,879
Liabilities . . 6,082 6,615 11,087 45,384
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 100,786 50,604 56,324 58,159
Stocks . . 44,825 53,515 48,497 80,924
S'hares other
" cos. . . 3,795 3,785 3,785 3,785
Book debts . . 16,031 20,642 21,728 26,967
Cash, etc. .. 10,262 388 7,168 20
To carry an extra £32,427 of stocks (they
appear at or below cost), add £5239 to
debtors’ balances and £1835 net to fixed
assets, the co. went outside for a further
£34,297 last year. The shrinkage in the
more or less liquid surplus (£66,312) was
£3779. Obviously much depends upon
the figure at which stocks appear and the
course of prices over the next 12 months.
The chairman says the position has im-
proved since the close of accounts.
Doubtful of what the future holds for
the business, the market prices the f.-p.
Bs. shares at 4s. The return at 4s. would
be 10.6 p.c. on a 5.3 p.c. div. basis; but
conditions will need to improve a lot for
that rate to be maintained.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
To reduce the book value of property,
now appearing at £482,302, to a figure
more in keeping with its considered
worth, shareholders are to be asked to
cancel half (£300,000 = 10s. per £1
share) of their paid capital. The shares
are then to be subdivided into ss.
counters. The cut is merely in the nature
of a book entry, and, though permitting
of a higher nominal rate of dividend, will
not affect the amount to be distributed in
any one year. The Subdivision should
quicken dealings in the scrip, though
shares of small denomination often lend
themselves to undue speculation.
In exchange for £600,000 of its own
scrip, Larut formed in 1926 to amal-
gamate the old Larut, Tupai, Kota and
Settlements Dredge cos., all at Taiping,
F.M.S. With tin at £289 in London, the
co. earned profits of £107,000 in
its first year. A steady downward trend
in metal prices over the next four years
saw the co. cease operations in 1931.
Dredging was resumed in 1934, and the
table tells the story since:
r—Net Surplus— v —Dividends—',
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1934. . £38,640 £18,790 £19,850 -/8 ~/3 £7,500
1935.. 75,317 42,965 32,362 1/1 -/6 15,000
1936 f 118,793 82,326 36,467 1/2* -/9 22,500
tTo bucket-band reserve, £5lOO.
ig37 j 190,217 96,203 94,014 3/1} 2/- 60,000
ITo bucket-band reserve, £4900.
* Including depreciation: 1934, £4393; 1935,
£10,688; 1936, £21,219; 1937, £21,400.
Last term the co. continued to export
under Taiping Consolidated quota rights,
and, assisted by increased quotas, better
prices and improved recoveries, the year’s
gross income lifted £71,424. After writ-
ing off £l5OO cost of prospecting and
river deviation, and including a practi-
cally unchanged sum for depreciation,
exes, took £13,877 of the increase, leav-
ing the net surplus £57,547 better at
£94,014. Of this divs. at the increased
rate of 2s. per share absorbed £60,000,
and £4900 was earmarked for bucket-
line renewal. A further 6d. per share
was disbursed in April.
Of the co.’s five dredges, two are equal
in efficiency to modern plants, but the
remaining three are old and of compara-
tively small capacity. Total annual capa-
city is in excess of 8,000,000 c.y. Last
term’s output was produced by Nos. 2,
4 and 5 plants:
1935. 1936. 19'37.
Cubic yards dredged.. 3,090,000 5,717,000 5,755,000
Tin oxide, tons .. 515.1 939.1 1,347.7
Assay value, p.c. .. 74.4 74.8 74.5
Recovery c.y., pound 0.37 0.36 0.52
•Costs per c.y., pence 2.19 2.48 2.78
Net t.o. real’n, ton £134/7/11 £l2B/1/2 £146/11/4
Av. London price
metallic tin .. £225/14/5 £204/12/8 £242/6/7
Respective average working cost was
3.44 d., 2.69 d. and 2.59 d higher
than in the preceding term owing to
higher labor and store costs and more
difficult ground encountered.
As for the current term, the co. turned
over 1,313,000 c.y. in the first quarter for
297 f tons t.o. (an average of 0.511 b.),
which yielded a working surplus of
£14,723. Quotas, however, have been
progressively reduced, Larut’s permissible
output for the three months to Sept. 30
next being 33.1 p.c. of assessment (1395
tons); 25.5 p.c. only is for export, the
balance being subscribed to the buffer
pool. Bright spots in the outlook, how-
ever, are much-improved tin prices
following re-establishment of a buffer
pool and signs of industrial recovery in
the U.S.A.
At Dtec. 31 measured dredging re-
serves were figured at 44,532,000 c.y.
containing 9639 tons t. 0., an average of
0.481 b. At last term’s rate of turnover,
~ . .
that is something over seven years
work, apart from ground not yet tested,
with the possibility of further areas being
acquired. The wash is free-dredging, and
water is plentiful. In addition, the co. is
a joint partner with Rawang and Anglo-
Oriental in a Bang Toe project estimated
to contain 55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b. dirt.
The area is at present the subject of «ur-
face rights disputes, unravelling of
which promises to be a long-winded busi-
ness. Under agreement, Rawang is
financing the proposition at 5 p.c. interest
on moneys advanced, repayable when
the project is floated.
To prospect for new properties other
than those adjoining existing holdings on
behalf of companies in the Anglo-
Oriental (Malaya) stable, Anglo-Malayan
Development has been sponsored. Issued
capital is £50,000 in £1 shares, of which
Larut has subscribed for 1692 since the
close of accounts. Though the prospect-
ln« ban . has been nominally shelved,
prospecting licenses are difficult to
6
Larut > s existing £1 shares fetch 14s . 3d .
mar ket. At the end of Dec. the
co bad liquids, including stores, amount-
j ng to £109,543, and owed £10,137.
f '
At Mt. Isa, Queensland’s big lead-
silver-zinc producer, a new level (No. 7)
j s being opened out at 1000 ft. and pro-
duction here on a substantial scale is
expected towards the end of the year,
Meantime, the co. is embarking on a
programme of plant alterations and addi-
tions estimated to run off with £40,000.
The aim is to step up throughput and
at the same time improve the percentage
of recoveries by further fine-grinding.
To maintain full-time working, the plans
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of'interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,000,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
Schick Electric Dry Shavers banish
after-shave soreness . . . Schick
Shavers CANNOT irritate the ten-
derest skin. Over 2,000,000 Schick
users enjoy the sweetest, smoothest
shaves science has found. Fully
guaranteed for 12 months, £5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, ETD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SCHICK
fd
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* h= * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
f
df
Who pays
them
after
you're
yone ?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget? .
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . , whatever happens
Assure your life with the
equitable
PROBATE
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office— 37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
tVinsello *touse. Angel Place, Sydney.
CoS House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
L R. V. PERKINS. General Manager^
will involve some modification of the
co.’s selective mining policy, by which
it has sought to maintain mill feed at the
highest pdssible grade. Prospects are
that another substantial loss will show up
for the 12 months to June 30 last. Over
the past year managerial headaches occa-
sioned by the slump in metal prices have
been further added to by the sharp rise
in both local labor costs and overseas
freight rates.
* * * *
At ss. per share investors place a value
of £32,750 on Beechworth Alluvials, Ltd.
At Dec. 31 its only tangible asset was a
77,800 f.-p. shareholding in Reedy Creek
Alluvials, which the market values at
£3890, or 7d. per Beechworth share.
Investors in Beechworth, therefore, are
obviously looking for their benefits from
that co.’s prospecting activities. Its most
promising holding at present is a Har-
rietville (Vic.’) area estimated to contain
60,000,000 c.y. of gold-bearing alluvials.
Clutha Development, a pup of Placer,
ran its eye over the property last year
without doing anything further, and the
area is now under option to Tronoh
Finance, London, which has just paid
£lOOO for an extension until July 31.
If exercised, £15,000 cash is payable to
the Beechworth co., plus a f.-p. 10 p.c.
interest in any working co. formed with
a minimum issued capital of £200,000.
In addition, Beechworth acquires the
right to subscribe at par for £lO,OOO
worth of shares in such operating co.
On a capitalisation of £200,000, the cash
and free share consideration would be
equal to ss. 4d. per Beechworth share.
Trpnoh is also investigating at depth an-
other of Beechworth’s properties at Free-
burgh (Vic.), where 7,629,000 c.y. of
10.73 d. wash (gold at £8 an ounce) has
been proved down to 24ft. Beech-
worth had originally intended form-
ing a subsidiary to equip this block with
a 100;000-c.y.-monthly bucket-dredge. Of
Beechworth’s other interests, the Buck-
land River (Vic.) and New River (Tas.)
areas have been abandoned, while test-
ing at Morses Creek, where 50,000,000
c.y. was reported to be available, was
suspended towards the end of 1936,
though payable values were disclosed.
The co. is now scoutboring a Tuross
River (N.S.W.) alluvial gold proposition.
Arrangements have already been made
to place the property under option if
results are favorable. Operations at Reedy
Creek have so far been disappointing,
but official hopes are still high.
* * * *
Results at Triton, Cue (W.A.), for the
six months to the end of March compare
with those for the two preceding 12-
monthly periods as follows:
Yield, Costs, Net
Sept., Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1936 . , 77,715 6.94d\vt. 33/11 £91,078 -/6 £24,000
1937.. 75,325 7.11 „ 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
1938*. 41,242 6.18 35/6 32,997 1/- 48,000
* 6 months to March 31.
The drop in the grade of ore treated
was due to inclusion of low-grade de-
velopment ore from the Emu South sec-
tion and to some poor patches met in the
stopes in the main shoot. The profit,
struck after deducting £2142 for adminis-
tration and £1335 for taxation, was 8.2 d.
per share, but Is. per share was dis-
tributed, same as for the preceding 12
months. After allowing £20,000 for
special development work, etc., the board
has budgeted to pay another 6d. in
August and 6d. again in December. Costs,
which * include ss. per ton for develop- 1
ment, were got back Is. lid. per ton,
and for March, the first month in which
the full effects of the increased through-
put were felt, the figure had dropped to
325. a ton. At the end of March ore
reserves were figured at 293,000 tons,
averaging 7.2dwt., as against 2*23,000 tons,
averaging 7.5dwt., at the end of Sep-
tember last. The drop in grade is due
mainly to inclusion of ore in the Emu
South section. There was thus nearly
three years’ work for the mill (now treat-
ing at a little over rated capacity of
9000 tons a month) measured up. This
ore is practically all above No. 6 (675 ft.)
level and mostly in the Emu North sec-
tion. Here the main shaft has reached
a depth of 1176 ft. No. 6 level has been
opened up for 873 ft., with the face still
in good ore, which is 190 ft. north of
the pitch line indicated from upper levels,
where there are also chances of more
pay-ore being developed. No. 7 level
has been driven for a length of 224 ft.,
dimensions and value of the shoot not
mentioned. Early in the year a crosscut
at this level disclosed 18ft. of 4.Bdwt.
ore. Nos. 8, 9 and 10 levels have yet to
be opened up. There are good prospects
of a lot more low-grade but payable ore
being developed in the Emu South sec-
tion. Taking the average grade of ore
for the mine at 7.2dwt. —it might yet be
less —recoveries at 85 p.c., gold at £8 10s.
per ounce and costs at 325. per ton, the
profit is approximately 20s. per ton. At
9s. 3d. the market thus pays about 3s. lOd.
per share for prospects.
* * * *
“Eastern”: At Lady Shenton (W.A.)
ore treatment has ceased in order to allow
a vigorous development campaign to be
undertaken at an estimated cost of £5500,
and the board won’t have to go outside
for the money, either. Developments are
expected to place the mine well ahead of
the mill, and allow continuous treatment
and more economical working in future.
The main (Alpha) shaft is to be sunk
a further 100 ft., and No. 7 level (725 ft.)
opened up. Developments in this zone
have been very promising. A run of
payable ore 180 ft. long has been ex-
posed (full length not yet defined), the
ore-body being generally more continuous
and higher grade than at the level above.
Winzing is to be started below this level,
and indications are that the good ore
should persist downward. It is expected
also to open up a block of ore on No.
4 level in the northern area, which will
strengthen the position. A welcome
feature of the latest report is the reduc-
tion in working costs, mining now stand-
ing at 28s. 2d. and milling at 16s. Id. a
ton, as against 38s. 6d. and 20s. 4d. a
ton respectively in January last. This will
allow ore of a lower grade to be pro-
fitably treated and materially increase
the ore reserves. Generally, prospects
are much improved, but shareholders
appear to have a long wait ahead of
them.
jJ S :fc He
After writing off £24,978 for deprecia-
tion, etc., Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie re-
ports net earnings of £31,232 stg. for the
12 months to March 31 last, compared
with £30,157 and £993 in the two pre-
ceding terms. In the last term, following
change-over to the new mill in Nov.,
throughput was more than doubled, but
recoveries came down from 14dwt. to
B£dwt. On treatment of 16,454 tons,
yield since the close of accounts has
averaged 6.4dwt. With plant capacity
now running in excess of 8000 tons
monthly, the intention is to stabilise
grade of mill-feed around 7-7idwt.
London - controlled, the co. formed in
1934, and took over the remains of a
string of considered derelicts on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.), including
the Iron Duke, Oroya South, Australia
East and Blue Gap. At Aug. 31 last
proved and probable ore was put at
297,000 tons going 7.4dwt. There is
£610,000 of capital to spread profits over
in 10s. shares, for which buyers offer
Bs. in Adelaide. The first div. (4£d. per
share) went out in Oct. last, and a fur-
ther 6d. is payable on July 16. For
the period covered by G.M.K.’s accounts,
Lake View South, a subsidiary, treated
1919 tons at the parent’s mill for
4730 z. fine gold, and made a loss of
£465. The pup’s prospects on Nos. 2 and
3 levels show improvement.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) shows all-
round expansion in its figures for 1937.
After striking off £32,795 for develop-
ment and reserving £70,671 for taxation
in Australia and London and paying divs.
totalling 2s. per share (= 100 p.c.), the
carry-forward was £24,264 (up £19,062).
The quantity of feed put through the mill
was 133,265 (up 21,932) tons, and extrac-
tion stepped up from 87.3 p.c. to 92.7
p.c. The mine’s response to develop-
ment is reflected in an increase of
102,624 tons in ore reserves, making
735,054 tons in all. Earnings continue at
about the same level as last year’s, the
limit of existing plant capacity hav-
ing been reached. Alterations to equip-
ment now in hand are expected to result
in some reduction in treatment costs.
There seems little doubt that last year’s
distribution will be repeated this year.
The most important work under-
ground has been development of the
hitherto unsuspected N.E.D. lode in the
northern section of the Kalgurli lease.
Success has been achieved at various
horizons from No. 3 to No. 15 level, and
deposits above average-grade for the
mine have been exposed, particularly at
No. 6 level, where the average assay is
13dwt. over a width of 32ft. and a length
of 150 ft. The shoots of gold have no
great length, but are generally of good
width, and, though apparently of irregu-
lar pitch, stoping is expected to prove
fairly regular continuity..
* * * *
At the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) indica-
tions are that No. 29 level will provide
substantial additions to ore reserves,
though the level needs to be further
extended before any reliable idea can
be had as to what the extra tonnage will
actually amount to. The main shaft has
a further 200 ft. to go on a steep under-
lay to reach No. 30 level. The deeper
country beneath is to be opened up by
an internal shaft. This stage is expected
to be reached late in 1940. At the end
of 1937 ore reserves had advanced an-
other year,'making six years in all, ahead
of the mill. Grade (6.4dwt.) was down
slightly, but aggregate gold contents are
32,5810 z. more. Dividends last term
totalled 6s. per share, or 60 p.c., as against
60, 45, 60, 50 and 15 p.c. for the five
preceding years. Working costs at 245. sd.
a ton were a few pence lower, despite
increased prices of mine stores and more
onerous labor conditions.
>it * # *
North Kalgurli Central (W.A.), which
has just got six months’ exemption from
labor conditions because it wants to sell
the mine, has spent between £30,000 and
£40,000 above and below ground. All
there is to show for this is some exposed
ore of an average grade not good enough
to justify a co. keeping on. Two small
higher-grade veins were struck by a
diamond drill, but, as a Bulletin man
said at the time, a lot of development
work needs to be done before the value
of any intersection can be determined.
Paringa abandoned the option it took
over the property in 1936.
* * * *
Ingliston South (W.A.) is now testing
the Golden Hope North Block at Hamp-
ton Plains, near Kalgoorlie, and is also
reported to be negotiating for oil in-
terests, whereabouts not stated. Formed
in 1934 as an offshoot of Australian
Mining Trust, the co. acquired a show
at Meekatharra from which practically
all accessible gold had been extracted.
Some more was developed and taken
from a secondary enriched narrow vein
which decreased in size and grade at
depth. A div. of 4d. a share was paid
about the middle of last year, when
better was expected.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.), with some cash in
hand, an additional £25,000 sterling re-
ceived from the sale of convertible notes
and a £A30,000 overdraft guaranteed by
the State Government to draw upon,
has high hopes. It claims to have 322,000
tons of ore, averaging sdwt., awaiting
treatment, and generally a mine worth
blowing about. Treatment of at least
10,000 tons a month is warranted, the
board says, but to start with a plant
of half that capacity is to be installed,
and is expected to be completed within
a year.
* * * *
Big Bell (W.A.) is sending two of its
experts to sample Hopes Hill and Corin-
thian, near Southern Cross (W.A.). Both
are low-grade propositions which have
been on the market for some time. Hopes
Hill has a creditable, though distant, past
as a gold-producer. Corinthian once
proved a costly speculation to the late
Dorrie Doolette and his father, G. P.
Doolette.
* * * *
A blue asbestos venture, promoted by
Harry Urquhart, Norman Stuckey and
others, is now soliciting the support of
Westralian investors. The deposit is (in
the Hammersley Ranges, about 200 miles
inland from Roebourne on the nor’-west
coast, and a lot of the stuff is said to be
visible. White asbestos deposits have
been, and still are, worked in the West,
but this is the first blue asbestos to be
mined there.
* * * *
W. R. Feldtman, a quiet, unassuming
mining engineer of German origin and
one of the early pioneers of the Wes-
tralian goldfields, died at Cape Town
(S. Africa) on May 6. He was consult-
ing engineer to a group of London-
controlled Kalgoorlie mines in the ’nine-
ties, and later had control of a number
of properties in West Africa. Later still
he was g.m. of the Grootfontein Co.,
S.W. Africa, and, until he resigned a few
months ago on account of ill-health, a
nominated member of the S.W. African
Leg. Ass. A nephew is a well-known
Westralian geologist.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J. 8.: Not recommended... .J.C.McC.: If you
cannot afford to lose, keep 0ut.... AJ. J.;
Prospects of shareholders getting anything out
of the yenture look blue.... Stickybeak: The
co. has nothing whatever to do with the church.
. ...A.8.: If safety of capital is important,
look elsewhere. First Australian Unit Trust
certificates are worth consideration... .A.H.L.:
Hold; prospects of satisfactory average returns
are encouraging... .M.E.McG.: No record of
co. mentioned... .G.J.W.: Would place New
Occidental No. 3, otherwise agree with order
stated H.S.: He would be a bold man
who would attempt to prophesy the future of
the metal markets W.R.L.: Hold—for a
while, at any rate... .A.H.O’N.: Cannot trace
syndicate mentioned.


SMOKE-OH!
Many a firm believer in a White Aus-
tralia marries a Tartar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wheat is quiet.”— Market report.
Must be using its ears.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Noted explorer, speaking of capture by can-
nibals: “Our lives hung, so to speak, by the
toss of a coin.”
The chief must have failed to call
“heads.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How to Win a Husband —And Keep Him.
— Woman’s paper.
If she promises to keep him he won’t
be hard to win!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Feet reveal a person’s character!”
— Chiropodist’s advt.
Especially when they are trodden on in
a tram.
4* 4* 4 *
“It is foolish to count our chickens too soon.”
—Cricket writer Howard Marshall in London
“Telegraph."
Aren’t cricketers more concerned
about their ducks?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“On one occasion my husband chased me
through the paddocks with a stockwhip.”
—Divorce evidence.
Evidently he’s given to beating about
the bush.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The P.M.G. contemplates installing ash-
trays, parcel-racks and mirrors in telephone
call boxes.” — “Sunday Sun."
Perhaps he is going to let them as flats.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the theme song of the Volga boat-
men who catch the sturgeon which supply us
with caviare?” — Correspondent in “Argus.”
“Roe, brothers, roe,” probably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s paper says that the women of
to-day are less tearful than their grand-
mothers.” -
They believe in keeping their powder
dry.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Jingled Jitters.
“Though Mr. —— is considered a hard
businessman, he confesses to a weakness for
poetry.”'— Gossip writer.
Dear Sir, —This pretty summons blue
we trust will not embarrass you ; but
rather hope that it might bring a random
thought or two of spring—that is, if you
don’t spring some cash, we’ll do the
springing with a dash. So spring to it
and do your best, or legal men will do
the rest if you don’t send along the
dough. Yours, Jingle, Doggerel and Co.
Per McM.
Among the Records.
“At Lismore (N.S.W.) the Government
poultry expert killed, plucked, cleaned and
trussed a fowl at a public demonstration in
59 seconds. His best effort has been to prepare
a fowl in 45 seconds. As it was, the heart
taken out of the fowl was still beating on the
table when the bird was ready for the oven.”
—Brisbane “Sunday Mail.”
Anyone would think that was fast.
Tch!
I hold the record with 9 4-ssec., and
it was an outsize rooster at that. I had
it worked out to the fraction. The odd
4-ssec. was for the fall of the tomahawk,
7sec. for plucking and 2sec. for trussing
up.
Many, perhaps, will question the time
for plucking. Certainly it is doubtful
whether I could have put up this figure
had I not spent the previous afternoon
loosening the feathers. All I had to do,
therefore, was put my foot on the bird’s
neck as his head was still flying across
the yard and grab all the feathers at once
(I have large hands). I had, of course,
already gutted him the day before I at-
tempted the record, but the look of deep
reproach he gave me when later I
thoughtlessly put before him his usual
nightly feed of wheat cut me to the heart.
My best effort at fast slaughter, how-
ever, was with a huge boar. My be-
wildering speed may be gauged by the
fact that I had him killed, plucked (I
was keeping the bristles in the hope of
one day setting up as a shaving-brush
manufacturer), cleaned and dressed in a
snappy cheesecloth overcoat before the
echo of his final squeal had died away!
Nipper.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Evil for Good.
“ She’ll drown!” he gasped. “She’s over-
board !”
And dived without another word.
She married him for his reward,
And now it’s he who’s overbored.
H. M.
• 4* 4* 4* 4*
“Food for humans tested on rats.”
—News item.
And sometimes vice versa.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Keeping in with the right people is all
right, but going out with them is expen-
sive.
“Now then, clumsy, see what you've done!”
“ 'Sail right, boss; I'm willin' to apologise.”
Progressive.
Cent, by cent.
Saving gent.
Accident.
Monument.
Heir content.
Follows bent.
Fortune spent —
“Money lent.”
H.
Test Hopes.
Australia may win the
Ashes through Bradmanage-
ment, Chipperfielding,
Browndary shots, Stan Mc-
Cable to make runs, Fingle-
tonnage and other Hassetts,
and if it keeps off Badcock-
tails and Wards against mis-
takes. Still we’ll have to have
McCormicksing ’em with
Fleetwoodeners-Smith, while
Barnetts a few wickets and
English batsmen are made
Walkers, and O’Reilly
trundles at a White heat of
excellence.
Let’s Waite and see what
happens!
H. M.
4* 4* 4*
Be Your Own Mechanic!
I. —Oil Changing, Etc.
It should be the aim of every owner-
driver to know as much about his car as
he can. Not only will it be possible—
even if it isn’t probable—to effect a con-
siderable saving on the mechanical work,
but as a fascinating hobby it has stamp-
collecting and beer beaten to a frazzle.
Dryden observed once that men were
but children of a larger growth, and un-
doubtedly the juvenile urge to pull toys
to pieces to see what made them go is
still strong within a man even after his
razor has done a considerable mileage.
The modern car is a comparatively
simple piece of mechanism, and the usual
injunction to start on the easier jobs be-
fore tackling the more complicated ones
doesn’t here apply. Any ordinarily in-
telligent man should be able, say, to re-
time his engine, after pulling it to pieces,
with the ease with which he’d tighten
a few body nuts. In any case, a guide-
book is issued with every car, and it is a
trifling matter to follow the instructions.
Some hints, however, where the guide-
book is silent, may not be amiss.
Take a simple thing like changing the
sump oil. This can easily be done, and
more cheaply, in your own garage. Just
a matter, for a start, of unscrewing the
“Is THAT where me chewin' gum got to!”
cap underneath the sump and letting
the old oil run out. It does sometimes
occur that the idiot who did it last may
have put the cap back on so tightly or
it may have become so rusted on that you
will have to use a hammer to get it off.
Gentle tapping is no good. Only a
good, solid whack will shift it, and then
one of two things may be expected to
happen—the lug will break off, or the
cap will spin right out of its socket. When
the latter occurs, and the subsequent
deluge of blackened oil gushes over your
upturned face before you have time to
get from under, don’t forget to keep your
mouth tightly shut. The flavor of burnt
oil is difficult to remove. It is also a
good plan to wear glasses, thus keeping
some of the oil out of the eyes.
Having allowed sufficient time for the
sump to drain completely, it only remains
to refill with the fresh oil.
Your oil will, of course, be in a four-
gallon tin, and it is obviously difficult,
unless you happen to be a wheat-lumper
or heavyweight wrestler, to hold the tin
under the bonnet while the oil gurgles
into the intake pipe. For those who are
strong enough this method is recom-
mended, as less oil will be spilled over
the engine, fan belt, air-strainer, etc.
It might be asked how the motorist
will know when the gallon the
usual sump capacity—has been put in.
Not only is such a calculation possible,
but it is also simple and accurate. On
being upended a tin of oil will emit a
regular “glug, glug” as the sluggish fluid
flows, out. First of all test how much
oil comes out at each “glug.” If this
is, say, a tablespoon and a half it is
then merely a matter of calculating how
many tablespoons and a half go to a
gallon, and just stand and cease pouring
when you have counted the required
number of “glugs.”
The tin may have to be bashed out of
shape first so that it will fit under the
bonnet. If the tin can’t be knocked to the
right shape the engine may have to be
removed.
The alternative is to put the oil into a
smaller container. A quart saucepan
filled five times will do it, the odd one
being to allow for the spillings, which
should be wiped off the cylinders with-
out delay. The oil thus mopped up
needn’t be wasted. Rubbed over the
leather upholstery it will act both as
renovator and preserver.
After completing what is to the tyro an
arduous job you will naturally dive your
hand into your pocket for a well-deserved
smoke. Your hand will probably strike
a small, round, flanged object. This will
be the cap of the sump which you forgot
to put back before putting in the fresh oil.
Another hint is here worth noting.
Never have the wife or children near
the garage when doing this job ; this will
enable you to say just what you’ve got
to say, without any restrictions, when,
with a sickening feeling as your hand
closes on the cap, you tear around to
the back of the car and see a small lake
where the gallon you’ve just put in has
gone straight through.
This loss need not be wholly irre-
parable. With the aid of the wife’s
egg-slice (after having filled in all the
holes with solder) at least a quarter of
the oil should be recoverable. This will
be found to be full of grit, but there is
no need to worry about this. Grit, being
heavier than the oil, will sink to the
bottom once it’s in the sump.
S. W. K.
Economic Panacea.
"According to an American professor, the
world depression would never have occurred if
women had not gone on reducing diets.
Because they feared their chassis might #
get bigger
The flappers, old and young, cut down
the scran,
Determined to attain the streamlined
figure
Which, so they thought, appealed most
to a man.
Snake-hipped and lolly-legged, with arms
like propsticks
Jointed half-way with scraggy-looking
knobs,
They caused, by going light with knives
and chopsticks,
Several million men to lose their jobs.
Improvement’s seen. Still, if they’d only
nourish
Themselves, taking as model, say, Mae
West,
Ah! how prosperity would quickly
flourish
And womankind by all the world be
blest !
Bo.
Rattled.
s? w * i r ng is down to skeleton
strength. —‘S. M. Herald.”
I care not if old Pluvius
Or even Mount Vesuvius
Pours wrath upon the wicket :
Blit when on skeletons we pin
Our hope j to pull us through and win,
l simply cannot stick it!
D.M.C.


ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP. . .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Brsiness,Rollery,Etc.
The Distant View
The manner in which Australian share-
markets are influenced by the humors of
the American and London Stock Ex-
changes is something that passeth all
understanding. The world prices of
wool and wheat are matters real to us ;
the level of world interest rates is real;
the political “situations” of various other
countries are sometimes of real import-
ance to our own economics. But why
we should be enslaved to the Dow-Jones
and “Financial Times” share-price in-
dexes is a first-class puzzle. It all tends
to make us believe that the habit credited
to Australians of gambling on flies crawl-
ing up a wall has ceased to be a joke
and has become a national instinct.
For many months our own indexes of
prices, progress and profits have been
utterly ignored by sharemarket fol-
lowers. Broken Hill Prop.’s output
figures have had less to do with prices
for B.H.P. shares than have output
figures of United States Steel. That is
no exaggeration, U.S. Steel being such
an important factor in the “tone” of
American markets of many kinds. The
announcement last week that steel was to
be cut in price in the U.S.A. in order to
encourage consumption of the product in
the motor-car and building industries
was given more prominence in Australia
than B.H.P.’s record production figures
for 1937-38.
This habit of “treating with ignore”
our own industrial experience is quite
wrong. Apparently sharemarkets must
have their ups and downs, and any old
excuse is good enough for beating a dog
—or tying a ribbon round his neck. In
this country our industrial outputs gener-
ally have either been very stable or have
shown a tendency to increase—nothing
startling either way. And though the
trade balance, export price level and taxa-
tion position recently influenced a sharp
decline in share prices, the Dow-Jones
index of New York prices soon encour-
aged a steep recovery. A vacillating
position.
Undoubtedly if B.H.P.’s production
were to be cut, say, in halves, there
would be sharemarket consternation. But
since B.H.P. figures have not been cut in
halves, but have shown roughly a 9 p.c.
increase, why the frequent fluctuations
in this stock? Why let Dow-Jones and
other indexes distract us to such a large
extent?
Is it believed that by keeping a tele-
scope fixed on New York or London we
are taking a long view? There hardly
seems to be great intelligence in that,
because the U.S.A. at least is one of the
most distracted and emotional markets
in the world to-day. Possibly Austra-
lian snareuiarKet luiloweis uie capttoie
only of understanding the behavior of
other sharemarket operators in other
parts of the world, and summing-up con-
ditions in their own land (making allow-
ance for the effect on a land-product-
exporting country of lower world prices)
is beyond their powers.
It does appear that metals, represent-
ing possibly 8 p.c. or 10 p.c. of our total
export values (and a
smaller percentage of
our total production),
are regarded by specu-
lators as something of
an index of confidence.
Overseas prices most cer-
tainly govern the out-
look of our silver-lead -
zinc, copper, tin and
other mines, and when
Barrier stocks and Mt.
Lyell are in good shape
on ’Change other stocks
often harden in sym-
pathy. When such sym-
pathy is exhibited, of
course, the position is
more than likely absurd.
Barrier counters may
represent the most
widely dealt-in section
in the share lists, but
7 v.
they are of limited importance in our
economy, as already shown. Though
metal prices through the years are a
good indication of industrial activity,
day-to-day fluctuations, as at present,
mean little or nothing.
Taking a distant view of things may
have its points, but we should watch our
feet at the same time.
Reaction in Barrier shares occurred on
Tuesday of last week. After bears had
been made to pay for their cover, the
pressure of profit-takers forced Norths
down from 48s. 3d. to 445., Souths from
345. to 31s. and Zinc Corps, from 925. to
88s. Rises and falls were the rule as the
week went on, with a great burst of spec,
buying on Thursday following a similar
state of affairs in New York. Reaction
came on Friday. There are bound to be
periodical reactions with the fallacious
method at present in force of buying
Barrier shares on day-to-day metal prices.
During the monthly milling period to
June 18 (ore treated was the highest since
August last) Zinc Corp.’s lead produc-
tion (5500 tons) was higher than North’s
in its last month (5491 tons). Zinc
Corp.’s output of metals for the first 24
weeks of the current term has been:
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1937 (24 weeks) .. 26,216 601,270 14,673
1938 (24 weeks) ~ 28,632 669,732 17,147
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and
lead and silver in zinc concentrates.
Expansion over 1937 figures is evident,
and that is only the beginning of an in-
creased milling programme that promises
to leave other Barrier mines behind in
the near future.
* * * *
Including open-hearth furnace produc-
tion, B.H.P.’s Newcastle steelworks
turned out 854,401 tons of ingot steel for
"But EVERYONE seems t’ be wearin' feathers, Sarge!”
the 52 weeks to June 5, compared with
783,138 tons in the corresponding pre-
vious period. The increase was 9 p.c.,
compared with a lift of 18 p.c. in the
preceding term. At the beginning of
1938 there were lifts of from ss. to 20s. a
ton in mill steel prices—following the
Reddaway award.
❖ ❖ # Hi
Australian Cement shares stand firmly
in Melbourne at 345. 6d., returning 5.8 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Kandos 16s. scrip
at i the Sydney price of 255. 6d. yields
6.3 p.c., and Kandos’s return has rather
more behind it than Australian Cement’s,
Kandps’s holding in the operating co.
being proportionately greater than A.C.’s.
Melbourne people seem to be better
apprised of the efficiency of the Vic. end
of the business than do Sydney investors.
Sydney owns the Victorian end just as
much as Melbourne does the N.S.W. end,
t- * * V
Malcolm Newman is back in Sydney
from Mt. Garnet, Q., where Tableland
Tin is preparing to start dredging its
Return Creek property. The reconstructed
dredge will be ready to dig as soon
as rains fill the dams ; that is expected
to happen by October. Newman has had
three months’ ground ahead of the dredge
close-bored, and according to present in-
dications values are going a pound a
yard or better. This is well above the
averages suggested by the prospectus
issued in May last year, when 73,000,000
c.y. going over half-a-pound was indi-
cated. Messrs. Roberg and Grey Wilson,
before the depression sent tin to under
£lOO in London, had bored 200 acres of
the property to show 12oz. values to a
depth of 42ft., with similar tin content
in “considerable quantities” further
south. Capacity of the present dredge
will be 1,000,000 c.y. a year, and when
operations are in full swing on the area
now being close-bored recoveries of be-
tween 30 and 40 tons t.o. a month are
anticipated, which Newman says should
return over £40,000 a year net with the
metal at last week’s price. The present
call of 2s. 6d., making the scrip paid to
12s. 6d., is expected to' bring the recon-
structed dredge to production. After
that the big 4,000,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge will
be gone ahead with. Alluvial Prospec-
tors, the vendors, subscribed for in cash
half the 240,000 £1 ords. now issued,
and took 120,000 shilling deferreds (hav-
ing equal participation with ords.). The
cash consideration of £20,000 wasn’t
large, considering the careful testing
carried out and the other expenditure
incurred. The scrip hasn’t been listed,
and the £1 denomination of the ords.
has not encouraged speculation. It has
been a well-handled proposition (J.
Horsburgh is g.m. at the mine), with
successful production reasonably indi-
cated. Australian tin is not subject to
output restriction.
* * * #
Although shareholders in West’s, Syd-
ney, agreed to spend “up to £40,000” on
the Olympia Theatre, Adelaide, in con-
sideration of an extended lease to be
taken by Greater Union and a rental
increased to the extent of 8 p.c. p.a. on
the new outlay, the shares have since
fallen from 6s. to 4s. 3d., recovering to
4s. 7d. later. The co. had £24,000 in
Consols and cash on March 31, and
apparently shareholders hate to see
this nest-egg go, although on paper
their div. promises to lift by one-half
or. one per cent., making, perhaps, 2 p.c.
p.a. altogether. On a 2 p.c. div. basis
the return at 4s. 6d. would be just under
9 p.c. p.a.
#
Alfred P. Sloan, jun., chairman of
General Motors in the U.S.A., in the
middle of June announced that, unless
early improvement is shown in demand
for cars, production for the new-model
season, beginning Nov. 1, will be lowered
to 1932 level, the low point of the big
depression. Sloan also Suggests that
wage-hour legislation will be deflationary
in its effects, and he expresses concern
over the trend towards greater regimen-
tation of industry in the U.S.A. Since
Sloan’s utterances U.S. Steel and the
Bethlehem co. have announced a cut in
prices in order to “unlock” demand for
cars and other largely-steel products.
* * * *
J. G. Crawford, economist of the N. S.
Wales Rural Bank, computes that the cost
of average brick and weatherboard cot-
tages reached something like 1929 levels
at the beginning of -1938, since when
there has been a slight easing in rates.
According to the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, building materials reached their
highest point of cost (since 1920) in
August, 1937 ; for the whole of 1937 the
index averaged 2430, against 1969 in
1936. The high price of metals had
something to do with the lift, and by
March, 1938, following the drop in lead,
zinc and copper, the index had come
back to 2350. But bricks and tiles are
still dear, and wages are higher. Increas-
ing structural and land costs periodically
cut the building industry’s throat.
In Melbourne last week:
Herald shares lifted to 615., up 7s. on the
low price of a few weeks back, when a parcel
of scrip was going begging.
K. M. Niall, chairman of Goldsbrough,
Mort, forecast “a somewhat difficult year” for
1938-39, and expressed a hope that the trading
banks would not be interfered with by legisla-
tion during a trying period.
King Island Scheelite announced that
crushing and concentration of ore had com-
menced. The 45.-paid scrip lifted to 4s. 9d.
on a fair turnover, then slipped back to near
par. The property on King Island was worked
profitably for its tungstic acid content for
several years until shortly after the war,
when metals slumped. When the co. was
formed last year wolfram was above £6 a unit
in London. Chinese supplies weren’t affected
by the war, and later quotes fell below £2.
Present quote is just under £3 a unit.
Prestige ords. kept at 12s. 6d. buyer, 14s.
seller. In spite of recent difficulties, this co.’s
history makes its shares particularly interesting.
Normanby Tin (N.Q.) shares attracted re-
vived attention at Is. Bd.


Australasian Paper.
Though slightly higher over the
week, Australasian Paper and Pulp
ords. at 295., returning £5 10s. 6d.
P-c., were still one of the better-
class but depressed issues offering.
• •••
ilii!
8®
■
,‘j
■ li
Pill
m
‘fm
tm
MAPPING OUT
A TRAVEL ITINERARY
When mapping out an itinerary for a trip overseas,
it is equally important to make certain that you
can obtain money at ports of call and on ship-
board. The safest and most convenient method of
so doing is to obtain Travellers’ Cheques and a
Letter of Credit. For small amounts, Travellers’
Cheques are recommended. These are issued in
denominations of £2, £5, and £lO. For larger
amountsj a Letter of Credit should be obtained.
Full information and advice will be gladly given
at the Hank s Branches and its Overseas Agencies.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
53/12,38
V 73
m
m
ft m
m
-3
t
UMEA
NEXT
ORIENT LINE
CRUISE
Summer Cruises to
NEW ZEALAND
(Auckland and Wellington)
Late October . . . "Orcades"
Xmas Cruise .... "Orford"
New Year Cruise . . "Otranto"
Late January . . . "Oronsay”
Book early for choice.
Noumea is fascinating and French. In the shade
of its spreading flamboyant frees, diminutive
figures of Japanese women move gracefully
among the crowd and add a cosmopolitan air.
VIA GREAT BARRIER REEF
LATE JULY by ORAMA
* Commencing from Brisbane and ending at Sydney. Fares
include steamer or rail passage Sydney-Brisbane after the cruise.
LATE AUGUST CRUISE
Carrying First Saloon and Tourist "B" Class; Fares as detailed above.
ORIENT LINE CRUISES
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited, Incorporated in England.
Though there is at present a great
amount of jitters and cock-eyed think-
ing about investments, an investor who
pays Australian money for Australian
shares and receives good divs. in Aus-
tralian money over a long period of
years is likely to be satisfied with his
venture irrespective of what the New
York and London sharemarkets do
meantime. The feverish behavior of
world gamblers is much in the public
eye ; but the share clerks in most public
cos. could probably tell a story that
would put a truer complexion on the
behavior of Australian investors. A very
small percentage of the stock in British
Tobacco, for instance, would be found
to change hands; a still smaller per-
centage of scrip in concerns like Berlei,
Yarra Falls, Australasian Paper and
Kandos Cement, which are good-quality
stocks showing a higher-than-average
yield. Even the depression didn’t shake
as many people out of their holdings as
might be believed. It is true, that in
countries like the U.S.A. and France in-
dustrialists and investors have to waste
far too much of their time in trying to
'cope with new “stunts” put over by
Governments; but Australians have re-
peatedly shown that they won’t stand
for Government financial stunts in this
country. Therefore, why try to imitate
distraught overseas market behavior?
The only people who seem to benefit by
flurries of selling and buying are the
sharebrokers.
* * * *
Financial history of last week:
Monday, June 27. —The sharemarkets opened
generally firm, with a rocketing in base-metal
shares, Norths going to 485., Zinc Corps, to
925. On the preceding Saturday the Dow-
Jones index of New York share prices had
moved up sharply. Lead and spelter had firmed
overseas in sympathy with Wall-street share
prices. Commonwealth export-pfice ' index
strengthened, helped by metals' and slight im-
provement in wool. and wheat.
Tuesday, June 28. —Dow-Jones index weaker,
and metal prices ceased climbing. Norths fell
35., Souths 25., Zinc Corps 6s. 6d. and Lyells
9d. Wheat firmed under good demand. The
less-active industrial shares showed a tendency
still to rise, being slower in recovery than the
market leaders; front-liners Aust. Glass, British
Tobacco, 8.H.P., Dunlop Perdriau, Electro.
Zinc and many others weakened slightly.
Wednesday, June 29. —Federal Treasurer
Casey announced that London funds,
£71,000,000 sterling on June 30, 1937, would
not be reduced “by substantial dimensions”
(whatever that may mean) as at June 30, 1938.
Mr. Casey also stated on Tuesday, published
on Wednesday, that the banks didn’t know
what the Government proposed doing in the
matter of banking legislation, and were barking
at shadows, or words to that effect. It raised
the thought as to whether Mr. Casey knew
what he or the Government proposed doing.
Cables showed a fall in lead, spelter and tin.
Barrier mines recovered slightly, and Mt. Lyells
were steady, as was the Dow-Jones index.
Electro. Zincs fell Is. Less-active industrials
improved, others steady to weaker. Gold
shares were down.
Thursday, June 30. —Metal cables showed
weakness in copper, lead, tin; spelter slightly
firmer. Zinc Corp. announced throughput of
35,380 tons of ore, the biggest monthly milling
of the term, lead assay 16.1 p.c. Report published
of Roma Oil’s meeting on Wednesday; co. now
has shares in Oil Search, and chairman stated
that the “prospect of success in the search for
oil -was brighter now than at any previous
period.”
Dow-Jones industrial index lifted five points,
and Australian base-metal stocks soared —
Norths to 505., Souths to 345., Zincs to 955.
and Lyells to 295. 6d. Industrial leaders again
took the upward path. The old financial year
ended on ’Change in a burst of sparks.
Friday, July I. —Wall-street apparently antici-
pated the “Glorious Fourth” by about four
days; the fireworks on June 30 in New York
share prices were reflected in cabled metal
quotes on July 1, with a strengthening all
round. It is a long time since the world has
seen such a fly-by-mght mixture of jitte'rs-cwm-
optimism.
Barriers and Mt. Lyell were weaker after the
upward surge of June 30. The Dow-Jones
index reacted. Industrials continued to firm on
Australian ’Changes. Tin shares in demand,
gold issues slightly better.
In Sydney, judgment in the Peters case
favored the contributing shareholders. An
appeal is being made to the High Court.
Saturday, July 2. —Metal cables firm; wheat,
though little was sold, kept fairly steady. Metal
shares up; industrials firmer.
$ jjg
Australasian Paper ords. partly re-
covered last week, selling in Melbourne at
295. The scrip is still well below the aver-
age ex-pref.-issue-rights price of the last
few months, and the yield on an 8 p.c. div.
basis is £5 10s. 6d, per cent. Like Mel-
bourne Herald,” Myer and several other
stocks lately, parcels on the market have
kept A.P. scrip depressed. The business
it largely controls (the brown paper and
cardboard merger) is doing verv well
after an excellent depression-time history!
Slower in recovery than a number of
other stocks after the crash of a fortnight
ago shares in Castlemaine Perkins
Bnsbanes largest brewery, may be had
at 225. 6d., returning £4 9s. per cent on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Profits in the term
to July 31 last were £131,118 (after pro-
viding £50,000 for taxation), equal to
12.6 p.c. on average capital. On capital
as since increased an 8 p.c. div. would
call for £lOO,OOO, 10 p.c. (last year a 2
p.c. jubilee bonus made the distribution
up to that rate) would take £125,000,
or 9 p.c. £112,500. During the three
years 1928-30 10 p.c. was paid; for the
six years 1931-36, 8 p.c. p.a. Capital
account has grown from £187,500 in 1926
to £1,250,000 now, and the increase has
nearly all gone into hotels. Development,
though amazingly swift, seems to have
been thoroughly sound.
* * * *
In Britain the registration of new cars
and trade vehicles has been on a decline
for nearly a year.
* * * *
Since its plant started (up to 15/6/’3B)
Loloma (Viti Levu, Fiji) has put through
16,108 tons for 19,6170 z.
Emperor has crushed 74,581 tons for
22,5040 z. during the half-year’s operation
of the new plant (to June 15).
* * * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.),: has
turned out 25,7270 z. gold from 56,912
tons during the 51 weeks to June 18.
Average recovery has been 9.2dwt.,
helped by the milling of rich ore from
No. 1 shoot around Christmas-time. Dur-
ing the past 16 weeks the grade has been
nearer B.7dwt.
* * * *
. Sydney Stock Echange last week began
a useful index of share prices.
• * * * #
■ Sir Isidore Salmon, chairman of J.
Lyons and Co., the London catering firm,
is also president of the Decimal Associa-
tion ; and this year the Lyons accounts
are presented in decimalised form. Profits
are shown at an even £1,011,000, the
value of properties, etc., at £11,287,485.83.
Salmon believes that millions of pounds
would be saved in the Empire by intro-
duction of the decimal system, and he
has many • supporters.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Mimosa” for Barcelona.
(Condensed from a London “Saturday Review” leading
article, 18I6!’38.)
One returning from frequent visits to the Pyrenees
is wont to be asked: “What is this Non-intervention?”
The answer is simple. Non-intervention is a banner,
a slogan, a smoke-screen: it is not, and never has
been, a real thing.
Non-intervention was first proposed by M. Leon
Blum, France’s Socialist Prime Minister. This sounds
a point in M. Blum’s favor, but in fact his proposal
did not derive from any wish to stand aside and let
Spaniards fight it out, but solely from the fear that,
if France did openly give assistance to the Spanish
Republican Government, there would ensue civil
war in France also.
French Reds soon found out how to circumvent
any difficulty this seeming neutrality might present.
The Spanish Republican Government side was enabled
privately to acquire a large number of fine French
fighting machines, to pilot which French airmen
were encouraged to volunteer. From the begin-
ning. and down, at all events, to May of this
year, Red Spanish aeroplanes have flown to Toulouse
to be refuelled and overhauled at the military aero-
drome there.
With regard to man-power, nothing was simpler
than to open recruiting offices under the guise of
agencies for obtaining laborers for well-paid work in
Spain ; they flourished in Paris, Marseilles and Per-
pignan.
When people talk of Italian man-power in Spain
they forget, or have never known, the facts. There
have been perhaps something over 30,000 Italians fight-
ing for General Franco. On the side of Communist
Madrid and Barcelona there have been certainly over
80,000 foreigners, of whom 40,000 or more have been
French: 14,000 Frenchmen have been killed in
action, 15,000 are known still to be serving.
The rest are in hospital, or employed as instructors
and in factories. The maximum number of Italians
in General Franco’s ranks can now be put at under
20,000 ; the number of foreign effectives is therefore
about the same on each side.
As to materiel, the quantity sent to the Spanish
Reds from and through France has been Gargantuan.
Throughout the summer months that preceded the
capture of Irun by the Nationalists, lorries poured
across the bridge at Hendaye. Gendarmes, questioned
on their contents, replied with a genial laugh: “Oh,
potatoes, of course!”
It is true that for some three months this traffic
dwindled. A hundred and thirty or so representatives
were appointed by the Non-intervention Committee
to be stationed along the Pyrenean frontier and point
out the proposed passage of munitions to the French
Gardes Mobiles, who should thereupon stop them. For
ten months now they have been doing nothing. When
Germany and Italy withdrew from the Non-interven-
tion Committee, all these officers in the Pyrenees were
withdrawn from the frontier, being refused by France
their former right of inspection. Once withdrawn,
their entire work has been to avoid anything that
might even suggest inspection. The frontier is taboo
to them, and they while away their enforced idleness
with such resources as retiring little towns like Pau,
Luchon, Foix, Tarbes and St. Gaudens can afford.
This efficient but never complete restraint
removed, the French ‘roads and railways became so
many lines for the continual replenishment of the
Spanish Reds. It could not be expected that French
hauliers and railways groaning under a deficit of
astronomic proportions would not make hay while
the sun shone; nor munition manufacturers able to
get rid of time-expired stocks, nor yet the,docks hand-
ling munition ships from Russia. Impartial observers
estimate that during this period not fewer than five
trains of munitions have passed every night over the
direct railway line from Toulouse to Barcelona ; when
that by Perpignan and Cerbere was blocked, as many
as ten.
Whoever has travelled by road in those parts
cannot have failed to notice fleets of six to ten gigantic
covered motor-lorries, without any haulier’s name or
sign of contents or destination, supervised generally
by men in a small car, all going south. A month ago
one such overturned between Bordeaux and Montau-
ban and burst. It was full of aeroplane parts. The
railways can indulge in a certain pleasantry: trucks
laden so that the springs go almost flat are labelled
“Mimosa” or “Hemp—don’t bump.”
It is a fond imagination that General Franco’s
guns alone have been fed from over the border. Huge
stocks of guns, shells, tanks, rifles, machine-guns, cart-
ridges and dozens of aeroplanes have been dispatched
from France to advance the cause of Communism in
Spain. What makes for greater enthusiasm is that
this is not speculation: transactions in this trade are
for cash. The Reds pay for their munitions from and
through France with gold from the expropriated Bank
of Spain: General Franco, for his, which come by
other routes, with minerals and oranges. Both sides
boast, perhaps with truth, that they are indebted
financially to no foreigner: their debts are paid as
incurred. If they were English they would probably
put it: “No b foreigner.” Neither Spaniard nor
Catalan has much love for the outer world.
Yet Non-intervention has fulfilled its function:
simulacrum though it be, it has saved us from the
general European war that official intervention by
any State would have precipitated. However much
help was given sub rosa did not compel anyone to
do more than try to go one better. An open taking
of sides would have meant Armageddon.
Non-intervention still serves. But it is yet possible
that the hardly-secret flouting of the idea will defeat
the parties of peace. Mr. Chamberlain has plainly
hinted that the only Power desirous of war is Soviet
Russia. If English people do not see this they must
be blind. But they should also see that Soviet Russia
is behind the Red lines in the Spanish war and behind
the supply of munitions to the Reds from France,
If by intensifying this, as has been done during the
last months, Soviet Russia could spin out the Spanish
civil war beyond next September, the date by which
good observers expect General Franco to bring mili-
tary operations to a successful end, the danger of
intervention would be much increased.
China Samples Communism.
~. .. . . . , , ~ , n
munism to China, the article here condensed from the
“Rock” (Hong Kong), wholly sympathetic with the
Chinese, will probably strike a deeper note of echoing
sympathy among humanitarian people of Australia,
Maoriland and elsewhere than has been at all touched
by the palpable Left propaganda with which newspaper
readers and radio listeners are regaled.]
. , , , _ • r c ,
A recent number of the Institute for the Study
of National and Colonial Problems “Review,” pub-
fished in Moscow, has made fully manifest the
part that Russia, and in particular the Comintern, has
played, and is still playing, in the war in China. It
is a revealing and, it is sad to say, a sordid docu-
ment which shows the way Communists are using
China’s need for their own ends.
Dimitrov, general secretary of the Comintern, makes
an opening statement in which he declares that the
Communist party in China has been at work for fifteen
years until at length it has become “one of the best
sections of the Comintern.” The document goes on to
say that the Communist party is devoting all its
efforts “to the solution of the most pressing problem
of the day—the creation of a united front against
Japan.” Also: “The success of the Communist
party’s new policy is assured, because the struggle
for the freedom of the Chinese people is being
directed by the Leninist Communist International.”
What it means by the “freedom of the Chinese people”
it makes perfectly clear. “The ultimate aim of the
campaign in China is the creation of a Communist
society.”
If Japan had invented all this for propaganda
purposes it could not be more damning. Russia is
offensively boasting to the world that it is directing
affairs in China at the present moment, and that it
has not in view the wishes, or even the good, of the
Chinese people, but only the establishment of a new
Soviet State. In other words, Russia is claiming that
its interests in China are purely political, and it is
already treating China as a vassal State.
As a practical form of government, Communism
has already had a trial in China, and no area that has
experienced it wants it back. That is a fact beyond
all denial. Wherever it was established it was intro-
duced by the wholesale shedding of blood, the mas-
sacre of whole classes of people. That again is a
fact beyond all denial. Would Communism, in the
altered form that it is now supposed to be ready to
adopt, be more suitable for China to-day than it
was a few years ago? It would not. Communism
has not changed, and as a political, economic and
social system it is absolutely unsuited to China.
China is a democratic country. In spite of its
age-long imperial rule, there is probably a truer spirit
of democracy in China than in any great country of
the world. Whatever Stalin’s theoretical views may
be, he has never been able to rule by anything but
by tyranny. Anyone who believes there is democratic
rule in Russia to-day is either ignorant or a fool.
Stalin is the most ruthless dictator of this century ;
that is a matter of plain fact. Under his control it
is certain that democracy would suffer in China.
The establishing of Communism in China would
entail the establishment of a completely new social
and economic system. A change of this kind has never
yet been carried out abruptly, by force, with any
success. Least of all is it possible in a vast country
like China. If in a country like Russia, where the
people are less individualistic than they are in China,
it could not be enforced without “liquidation” of
the families of two million farmers —probably about
ten million persons, according to the conservative
estimate of the Webbs —one can imagine the chaos
that it would bring to China, especially as it would
cut across the most sacred thing in all China, the
family bond. China is unique in its wide distribution
of private ownership. Few countries have, funda-
mentally, so sound an economic system. To destroy
it with a stroke of a pen in favor of a system that
has never succeeded at any time in any part of the
world would be utter lunacy.
China wants peace. It is in fact one of the
greatest influences for peace in the world, for of all
the great nations it is the only one that has no terri-
torial ambitions and no desire to dominate ; it holds
no people subject, it has no neighbors angry with the
thought of violated frontiers, it craves only to be left
alone and work out the effort for internal peace that
it has been striving to make a reality for the past
twenty-five years. If Communism comes, it comes
with its creed of class warfare. It will come with,
the message of strife between clans, between rival
aspirants to leadership. It will call on farmers to
murder landlords, factory workers to murder
managers, soldiers to kill their officers. Let there be
no mistake about it —and now is the time to realise
the fact —if Communism gets control in China there
will be a massacre of all those who have done any-
thing notable in the service of their country in recent
years, and the first head that will roll in the dust will
be that of China’s National Leader, General Chiang
Kai-shek, The real traitor to China is the one who
supports such a system in the present crisis.
Germany Substitutes and Squeezes.
[Germany’s No. 1 pip-squeezing hausfrau is Field-
Marshal Goring, directing the Four-year Plan of com-
bined waste-saving and the producing of substitutes for
foreign raw materials, the operations of which Anthony
Mann, recently resident in Germany, surveys in the
article here condensed from London “Daily Telegraph.’ ]
On the one hand Germany’s chemical and scien-
tific organisations toil unceasingly at the manufacture
of synthetic goods from German wood, German
minerals and German agricultural produce. On the
other, a nation-wide campaign against waste is con-
ducted with relentless German efficiency. *
The German housewife no longer consigns all
her household scraps to one dustbin. Into an officially-
provided container go potato-peel, scrapings from
dinner-plates, apple-cores, tea-leaves and coffee-
grounds. These are collected by a special organisation
which transports them to the country to feed the pigs,
Germany’s most important meat supply. The saving
in pig-mash products leaves land free for growing
vegetables for human consumption, and reduces the
imports of foreign fodder.
Every tube of toothpaste and shaving-cream is
inscribed “Save empty tubes!” These also, together
with the lead-foil from the necks of wine-bottles and
“silver” paper, are collected at the door by members
of the Youth organisation. Old newspapers are
similarly collected by official agents, and remanufac-
tured into packing paper, 26,000 tons of which was
consigned to the United Kingdom alone in 1935.
One of the most important single sources of raw
material in Germany is her forests, which cover over
30,000,000 acres. Imported cotton, silk and wool are
being replaced more and more by chemical deriva-
tives of wood, artificial silk and staple fibre. Most
of the earlier faults in the finished artificial “wool”
product have been eliminated. Suits cut from staple
fibre material can, it is claimed, now challenge com-
parison with all but the best types of woollen cloth.
The same wood, after passing through various
chemical processes, forms the basis, as does coal, of
plastic material for wireless sets, insulating material
and ornaments. Charcoal for gas-mask filters is
derived from the same source, while thousands of
German lorries and long-distance omnibuses run on
a cheap form of gas fuel, manufactured by burning
specially-dried wood-shavings.
A material similar to rubber is evolved from
coal and lime. The type used for motor tyres
has a resistance to heat and friction which is claimed
to give the tyres a far longer life than that of tyres
made from natural rubber.
A considerable proportion of the annual German
petrol requirements is covered by synthetic product.
Production of a ton of synthetic petrol requires
approximately 22 tons of natural lignite, or 4\ tons of
coal. Only 12 p.c. of the annual German coal-produc-
tion would be required to satisfy the entire German
demand for petrol and oil. The successful derivation
of fatty acids from coal has opened up the possibility
of manufacturing such products as soap without im-
porting the materials from abroad.
Measures forbidding farmers to feed poultry on
grain capable of being converted into bread and
forcing bakers to use a greater proportion of whole-
meal rye and maize flour are directed to making Ger-
many self-supporting as far as bread is concerned.
The loss in color and flavor resulting from the com-
pulsory admixture of maize and the regrinding of stale
bread for mixing with fresh flour is counted as a small
price to pay for the furtherance of the Four-year Plan.
Possibly the question of edible oils and fats is
the most difficult of solution. Until recently Germany
was dependent on imports for approximately 60 p.c.
of these commodities, and any attempt to increase
home production of cream and butter necessitated an
increase in the amount of foreign currency spent on
imported fodder. Large-scale experiments are being
conducted with a view to increasing the auantity of
Watch Monday!
One of the most extraordinary messages ever
brought to a people in such circumstances was
that which former Maoriland High Commissioner
Thomas Wilford gave out in an interview when he
got back to M.L. from London, creditably published
in the “Dominion”:—
“One message I would like to give to the
people of New Zealand: Please take with a huge
grain of salt any cables that come to New Zealand
on Monday, because Sunday is the day of stunts
in the English Sunday press, and the biggest
stunts are generally chosen for cables to the
Dominions.
“If there, is one day on which the New Zealand
public should read the overseas news with care
it is Monday.”
It is a striking indictment, even though, with
cables served up to them still being drawn from such
dailies as London “News-Chronicle,” Autralians
would be most inclined to reach for the salt on
all days other than Monday. True, it was on a
Monday that Sydney “Sun” came out with its most
frantic scare poster, “Britain, France, Russia Warn
Germany,” but, then, it was the Sunday issue of the
same paper which discovered the Black Box com-
plete with Italy’s plans to sink the British Navy,
and it was the Saturday issue of London “Daily
Sketch” which first let this “discovery” loose.
In any case—Monday, Tuesday or any other day
—cable readers have for their guidance the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph’s” illuminating journalistic axiom:
It is the privilege of intelligent readers to accept
or reject.
The Maoriland papers Thomas Wilford had in
mind should clearly run that axiom regularly in
Monday cable columns; where the “Cronk-News” is
the source it should appear daily.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAO OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
at Newcastle and Lismore.
10RIA: 352—56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelonsr
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings.
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
—r o °* Li,e Assurance > including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
ISon-Frofit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST''
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS. Gener-il lm
B °* Itycc. g.p.S , sydney"'
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you 2
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead*
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you ca»
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout. Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
fd
MWINTER holiday
10 DAYS £lO-10-0
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney ond Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the | N
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
»»•!!!!
liM
w|l«
mi''!
mill
hh+li hi ftl FTTi
fodder produced in Germany without endangering the
crops required for human consumption. The extrac-
tion of albumen from fish, wood-pulp and ox-blood
to some extent helps to solve the problem, as do crops
of soya beans ; soya oil is employed in the manufac-
ture of margarine and soap.
The German sausage industry spent millions of
marks in 1934 on the importation of foreign animal-
gut for sausage-casing. The import surplus alone of
this commodity was 34,000 tons. A German type
of casing is now fast replacing the natural product,
and it is likely that the import of foreign casings will
soon cease altogether.
By such means as these Goring aims at making
Germany, as far as is humanly possible, an indepen-
dent economic unit, free from the necessity of purchas-
ing supplies abroad. The policy is, of course, calcu-
lated ultimately to circumvent a blockade in case of
' war. In peace-time the ideal is to import just sufficient
from abroad—fodder, for instance, and bauxite for
aluminium production—to enable Germany to dis-
pose of her finished industrial products in the world
markets.
Revolt in Jamaica.
(Condensed from an article sent by C. V. R. Thompson
from Kingston, Jamaica, to London “Daily Express.”)
Typical place-names in lush, fertile Jamaica are
“Content Hall,” “Tranquillity,” “Friendship,” “Lucky
Hills,” “Pleasing Prospects,” “Amity.” These are
pathetic misnomers ; better would be “Unrest,” “Dis-
trust,” “Anger,” “Revolt.”
Outwardly Jamaica may have resumed its lazy,
tropical course of living. Strikes, rioting, general
disobedience and lawlessness may have been stemmed
by promises of more pay and threats of more bullets;
but inwardly there is growing in Jamaica the seedlings
of a general revolt against white domination.
Slavery was abolished in Jamaica 99 years ago
by decree of Queen Victoria. Actually, slavery was
abolished in Jamaica not more than a decade ago.
Ignorant, unable to write his own name, hardly able
to think for himself, the negro worker remained a
slave in all but name. He was grateful for the shilling
or two he was given each month.
There came schoolbooks to Jamaica. In his free
schools the negro worker learned, above all, the word
“exploitation.” Gone was his contentment with his
lot. In a few years gone was Jamaica’s feudal system.
The negro worker demanded wages just like workers
of other lands. He. got wages, but not like workers
of other lands. He earned perhaps five shillings a
week. With that he would have to buy his lodging,
his food and solve his own problems. He was worse
off than before.
Some of the negroes went off to Cuba, where the
planters, in the midst of a sugar boom, were paying
higher wages. Others did their best to keep alive by
wandering from plantation to plantation, working until
they had enough to live on for a week or two, then
lying in the sun until they were half-starved again.
Those who did not live in the plantation barracks
lived under appalling conditions.
But, wo*bst of all, there was an ever-decreasing
demand for the worker’s services. The sugar estates
did not want him ; they had already 20,000 tons more
sugar than England’s quota system would allow them
to market. Disease was curtailing banana production,
disease was curtailing pimento production, and the
few other industries in the island had absorbed all
the workers they could. Cuba, which sells England
more sugar than Jamaica, had decided to let her own
people benefit, and began shipping 60,000 Jamaicans
back to Jamaica.
And Jamaica’s population is increasing in
proportions that would please Hitler or Mussolini.
In 15 years the population has increased by more
than one-third to nearly 1,200,000. The increase has
occurred among the plain black.
If you listen to the chief leader of Labor, Alex-
ander Bustamente, you would believe that there were
50,000 children starving and unable to go to school
because their only clothes were a necklace of rags,
owing to the unemployment of their parents.
I have not seen all the- horrors Bustamente has
pictured, but I have seen slums and living conditions
that have made me sick, that have made me ashamed
that the Union Jack was flying over Kingston—evil-
smelling dungeons in which six and ten people sleep.
Figures, though, speak even louder than Busta-
mente and those who damn him. A domestic servant
gets from 3s. to ss. a week, and she has to live out.
Unskilled laborers earn Is. 6d. to 2s. a day, unskilled
women laborers get 9d. a day, sugar workers earn
about 2s. 6d. a day for three days a week. Waiters
are paid about £1 a week, stevedores are paid 9d. an
hour, factory workers receive about £1 a week for
five and a half nine-hour days, skilled laborers are
paid 3s. a day, girl office clerks get 15s. to 455. a
week, mostly 15s.
Those who maintain labor is getting all it is
worth maintain those are fair salaries. Some of them
may be, but what is forgotten is that hardly anyone
in the lower grades of labor works a full week. Even
hotel waiters are laid off alternate weeks to give an-
other batch of waiters a chance to work. Many a
stevedore will get only four hours’ work a week, and
3s. a week is what Bustamente calls starvation pay
to a man who has to buy everything he eats and
cannot grow his “ground provisions.”
There are hundreds who earn only 6s. a week.
For Kingston’s worst hovel a worker must pay 6s. a
month rent. A 41b. loaf of bread will cost him Is. 4d.
Rice, his favorite staple, will cost him lfd. a pound.
He has never been able to afford meat, so he won’t
care that he cannot afford 6d. a pound for tough
stewing beef, but he will be sad he cannot afford a
pound of salt pork occasionally at Bd. a pound.
Mackerel at 3d. a pound, codfish at 4d. a pound,
pickled herrings at 3d. a pound will form his luxury
meals. If he runs short he will buy for a farthing or
so some of the pickle from herrings and dip his bread
in that. Margarine at 9d. a pound is too high. For
home-grown, rough, unrefined sugar he has to pay
2|d. a pound—-England pays only 3d. for it.
Most of his diet will be fruit and mangoes, satis-
fying and sweet-tasting, when in season 3d. a dozen,
bananas 3d. a dozep. When he is really hungry he
will get yams for about 2d. a pound and peas for 4d.
a quart.
When the working man revolted against this diet
and this life, he staged a revolt of the stomach. That
revolt may go much further.
Singapore— a Greater Gibraltar.
[ln this article, condensed from the “Saturday Evening
Post ’ (18/6/’3B), John Gunther, author of Inside
Europe, turns an assessing eye on Australia’s and Maori-
land’s first line of defence.]
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts once said that the
history of the world would be decided at Singapore
some day. There is reason to think that the British
are getting ready for the day. For they have built
Singapore Base, a new, bigger and better Gibraltar, .
one of the most formidable concatenations of naval,
military and strategic power ever put together.
It provides oil storage for the British fleet, dock-
yards for naval repair. It backs up Hong Kong and
is a factor in the protection of Australia. It guards
Colombo and Calcutta. It drives a great armored stake
into a great imperial pivot, the junction of the trade
loutes from India and the west to China and beyond.
And it tells the Japanese that the British still mean
business in that part of the world.
The visit of three American cruisers at the open-
ing on February 14 had much greater significance than
a courtesy call. The opening of the Singapore Base
must be viewed in the light of the war in China, of
Japanese pressure to the south and east. Maybe the
American visit wasn’t exactly a joint demonstration.
But it came very close to it.
Men on the spot say Singapore is as nearly a perfect
fortress as geography and the mind of man can con-
trive stronger than Gibraltar. They believe no enemy
could possibly attack it successfully.
The best military information available is that
the island is open to attack only from the mainland
to the north. A sea approach is almost impossible,
and, though an air attack might do damage, it could
hardly result in the investment or occupation of the
island. To take Singapore, an enemy would have to
land infantry detachments somewhere in Malaya, or
possibly Siam, and march south. New aerodromes
guard this approach.
Singapore is convenient for attack purposes. A
British fleet action against Japan would be as difficult
as a Japanese fleet action against Singapore. But a
Pacific war would be largely a business of intercepting
merchant vessels, plus blockade. For this purpose
Singapore is ideal.
Defences at Singapore include 18-inch guns, left-
overs from the Great War, which fire an immensely
heavy projectile—each weighs more than 3300 pounds
—and outrange any naval guns afloat. They are the
most powerful guns in the world.
Oil tanks hold 1,000,000 tons of fuel. Each is
built in a sort of saucer, to prevent the spread of fire
if there should be an explosion. Underground on
the island are the munition dumps. Enough stuff
underground, safely hidden, to blow the whole base
to kingdom come.
The naval base as a whole covers 21 square miles.
Its chief ornaments are the two immense docks, one
floating, one a graving dock, which lie at right angle',
within half a mile of each other. The docks are the
citadels of Singapore. The floating dock, almost
900 feet long and 200 feet wide, can lift any battle-
ship afloat; 60,000 men can stand in its giant bottom.
The graving dock is 1000 feet long ; to make it took
six years, about £1,000,000 and 500,000 cubic yards of
concrete. Any ship in the world will fit in it readily ;
it held 68,000,000 gallons of water in a recent test.
Adjacent are the paraphernalia of ship repair—
machine shops, power plants, storehouses and the
largest crane east of Suez. Everything is in duplicate
except the crane, so that air raiders—if they got
through—would have to do their job twice.
Contrary to general opinion, the Singapore Base
does not include a large naval establishment. Head-
quarters of the British naval forces in the Far East
are at Hong Kong. Singapore has one defect
from a naval point of view. The surrounding waters
contain submerged reefs which make pilotage of sub-
marines difficult. Of course, this works both ways.
The air base in Singapore is a complex and highly-
efficient group of units. There are three different
military landing fields, as well as a civil airport which
cost £l,oso,ooo—one of the finest in the world. The
chief military field, closely adjacent to the naval base,
similarly provides facilities for both land and sea
craft. There are about 20 miles of what has been
termed “perfect water” for flying boats. About 40
aircraft are permanently stationed at the base. This
isn’t many, but the number may be quickly aug-
mented by squadrons flying from India.
As for the army, some 7000 regular troops are
stationed in the area, but they are not what count.
What counts is the one thing about which Singapore
is really mysterious the secret fortifications, the
great land batteries. There are batteries at Changi.
on the extreme eastward tip of Singapore island, and
on several small islands in the strait and off the roads.
The 15-inch guns have a range of 25 miles.
Singapore Base cost a lot of money. Official
estimates put it at £16,110,000. Unofficial guesses
have it that the services have spent as much as
£50,000,000 in Singapore in the past 10 years, if pay-
ment to officers and troops and similar non-basic
expenditures are included. New Zealand contributed
£1,000,000. Australia gave nothing, on the under-
standing that instead it would build a navy.
Observed at a Health Centre.
{Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” article.)
The Pioneer Health Centre at Peckham consists
of an attractive club containing a gymnasium, swim-
ming-bath, theatre, cafeteria and medical consulting-
rooms. The primary aim is the discovery of the posi-
tive nature of health, which the organisers believe is
best learned from the study of families.
Thus whole families only are allowed to join,
membership being restricted to a district which con-
tains about 4700 families, of which 500 have joined.
Each family must accept medical examination at
regular intervals and pay one shilling per week.
Through this organisation the medical and bio-
logical staff has 1530 persons under regular obser-
vation.
They found that 902 of their 1530 individuals
counted themselves as feeling thoroughly fit or having
a sense of well-being. Investigation showed that an
astonishing number of these were diseased, and suf-
fered from conditions such as bad teeth and anaemia
to cancer, tuberculosis and gastric ulcer without losing
their positive sense of well-being. An apparently
aggressively fit youth of 21 was training as a boxer
and was unconscious of suffering from valvular disease
of the heart, nephritis and kidney disorder.
No fewer than 983 persons out of 1505 suffered
from deficiencies in iron. A heavy incidence of mal-
nutrition was found among the well-fed, and exposed
the great importance of enabling persons to assimi-
late food.
Interesting studies have been made of persons
who show no trace of disease and yet give no sign of
health. Investigators have found that night duty with
day sleep frequently induces this state, and that the
state may be rapidly removed by a return to day
work and night sleep. It appears that day sleep is
much less refreshing than night sleep.
Of the 1530 persons observed for 18 months 9
per cent, appeared perfectly healthy, 8 per cent, were
diseased and under treatment, and 83 per cent, have
something the matter and are doing nothing about it.
The investigators have attempted to analyse the state
of mind responsible for this procrastination. They
find that adults do not usually care to seek treatment
until they are socially disabled. They do not wish to
become a burden to their families even when they are
protected by sick benefits.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Despite the going being so heavy that
the sprinters in the six-furlong Myross
Handicap took lmin. 19fsec. on the job,
excellent performances were put up by
jumpers in both hurdle events and the
steeplechase at the V.R.C.’s Grand
Nationals opening day at Flemington.
Falls were few; almost every contestant
in the G.N. Hurdle at least completed the
course ; and there was some pretty jump-
ing thrown in, especially by Kensington
Steeplechase winner Gnair.
The Hurdle leg of the double was no
walkover; the judge decided for Dak-
wood (by Melbourne Cup winner Back-
woodi-Eaton Blue) by half a head, and
Dakwood then had to survive a protest.
McKee, rider of Wallace Drake, said the
winner forced the Sydney jumper Giant
Killer over on his mount after they’d
taken the last jump, but the stewards’
decision was that McKee had tried to
take Wallace Drake through where there
wasn’t room. Given a clear run Wallace
Drake would have been first; Douglas
had to ride Dakwood hard with the whip
to hold the narrow margin he won by.
Heroic Chief went out with a long
lead and kept the pace fairly strong for
two miles; then Giant Killer took
over with Restford, Koke King, Dak-
wood, Pooley Bridge (who ran a solid
race under his 12st. lib. steadier) and
Wallace Drake the only others then re-
maining in the picture. Koke King
dashed the hopes of hosts when he ran
into the third-last fence; he was coming
again, with Pooley Bridge, at the last,
but they were beaten off there, Dakwood
and Wallace Drake settling down to a
stride-for-stride tussle to the post, where
Giant Killer was within a length and
a half of them.
Dakwood’s price with the bookmakers
was 10 to 1. The tote paid £3 10s. 6d.
and £1 ss. 6d. for ss.
Euphorbus, the candidate sent from
Sydney direct specially to contest the
Hurdle, ran well in second place for
about a mile and a half, but going and
hurdfes proved strange to him and he
finished right out of it. Whernside, de-
spite an early bad jump, also gave a fair
showing and may build into a good one.
As a pointer to the second leg of the
V.R.C. Grand Nationals, the Kensington
Steeplechase (2 miles % furlong) was a
once-horse affair. Though he hadn’t
been over the fences since winning the
Onkaparinga Great Eastern two years
back, Gnair had the Flemington race won
seven furlongs from home; at the
second-last jump Fullarton saw it was
so much a walkover that he was able to
ease him up, and even so won by what
was broadly described as 20 lengths.
Over all sorts of fences, Gnair has
only once been beaten in South Aus-
tralia, and Fullarton makes him what the
professional tipsters call a “special selec-
tion” for next Saturday’s National. Ful-
larton threw in that he doubted if he’d
ever ridden a better horse over the fences.
All going well Gnair —who, as well as
being a fine jumper, has great pace-
will go to the post a hot favorite; the
place-fillers, Ben’s Fort and Sarno, were
wide out in the betting early in the week,
and whatever may upset Gnair’s pot, no-
thing that finished behind him in the
Kensington Steeple should trouble him.
Shere Khan gave Fullarton his jump-
ing double for the day by taking the
Maiden Hurdle (2m.) as he liked from
Royal Mail and Peter Thrice. Favorite
at 5 to 2, Shere Khan cleared out five
from home, giving Fullarton as easy a
ride almost as he was to have later in
the day on Gnair.
The Myross Handicap was run at
picnic-race slowness. Visigoth (33’s) won ;
Brazen Duchess (12’s) was a couple of
lengths slower, with the fairly consistent
Hilton another length and a half back.
Favorite at 7 to 2 Grand Song had 51b. of
the 9st. removed by apprentice allowance,
but couldn’t manage better than fifth in
the going.
Beechwood —not so good in Melbourne
as he is at Randwick —was comfortably
beaten by Somerset (s’s) over the Winter
Handicap mile, after Lady Kooringal had
made the pace. Punters went so strongly
for the Sydney performer King Gee that
he was a joint favorite, but a fair third
in a field of seven was the best Voitre
could get out of him. Lautus (6’s) won the
Iramoo Handicap (7fur.) untroubled,
going to the front as soon as they had
settled down and getting further away
from Othello and Poldean the further
they went.
* * * * *
Melbourne held the first of its 1938
Hunt Club meetings at Moonee Valley.
Rain fell at intervals and the track was
too heavy to permit of reliable form.
Many famous Victorian jumpers
graduated in the hunting field, but none
“By gad , sir, this brings back mem'ries of the ole
college days.”
of the 11 Hunt Steeple competitors at
the Valley is likely to rival them. The
winner, Reminder (9 to 2) was brought
over from M.L. a couple of seasons ago
by G. J. Barton. He proved rather a
washout in open company. Barton
is the king-pin of light harness sport
in the Dominion, besides being a
big patron of galloping. Present trainer
of the Tractor gelding is McKay, a lead-
ing mentor and driver of Victorian trot-
ters. McKay followed the example of
D. J. Price (recently retired) and Lou
Robertson, who were accomplished reins-
men before they took up gallopers; but
he isn’t yet “off with his old love.”
The trotting element was strongly evi-
dent at the Valley. Apart from McKay’s
success with Reminder the juvenile event
went to Lord Syce, owned and trained
by A. E. Moss, who sat behind many a
pacer at Richmond.
Lord Syce (threes) headed the Clyde
Handicap quotes. Relishing the mud he
easily accounted for Acheron, Denhill
and seven others. In five starts Lord
Syce has registered two wins, two seconds
and a third, making a handsome return
on his yearling cost of 60 gns.
Keith Voitre, back to his best form in
the saddle, landed the Welter Plate on
Ngapuna and the second division of the
Welter Purse on High View. Neither was
actual favorite, Ngapuna figuring at fives
and High View at 6 to 1. The strong
finishing effort of Monulus left Ngapuna
with a mere head to spare, but High View
never looked like losing. In the Lynd-
hurst Handicap Voitre tried to score
from post to finish on Erua, who won
over the battens at Mentone. Maluno (5
to 2) followed the pace set by Erua,
secured his measure on the bend, and,
stalling off a late challenge from La
Cannette, beat that mare by half a
neck, with Erua a close third.
The only real turn-up for McShort-
odds at the Valley was when Pertiosa,
a three-year-old filly by Beau Fils, came
from the clouds to beat the heavily-
backed Gay Songster and Voitre’s un-
regarded mount, Silver Horn, in the first
division of the Welter Purse. The
nominal price of Pertiosa in the Ring
was 20 to 1. A leading fielder did not
write her name, and his brethren escaped
lightly. Pertiosa is trained by Jim Pen-
gilly, who presided over A. T. Creswick’s
racing stud when Thracian “split” Ram-
pion and Limerick in the Victoria Derby
of 1926.
* * * *
In Europe within the last month, de-
scendants of Carbine won the Epsom
Derby, the Oaks and the Grand Prix. For
the winner of the French race a fancy
price has been paid. When British buyers
of bloodstock learn that Queensland has
at the stud two descendants of Carbine
who have proved themselves, it is very
likely that they will send commissions
for the purchase of sons and daughters
of Spearfelt and The Buzzard, especi-
ally when they imbibe the information
that Spearfelt and The Buzzard colts and
fillies have hitherto been sold at prices
which in England would be considered
ridiculously small. Indian buyers are
already in the market for members of
these families who have established their
worth on the racecourse.
On paper Syd-
ney was very
strongly repre-
sented in the
Doomben Cup
with Mala, Man-
anui, Cid, High-
born, Autoland,
Dutiful, Bianconi,
Cooranga and
Love from Mag-
gie. They played
no part in the
finish ; the nearest
to the winner was
Mala, and he was
only ninth. Sons
of Spearfelt in
Brown Lance (12
to 1), Vivat Rex
and Spearbleu
(each 7 to 1) were
first, second and
third. They made
a wonderful finish
of it,. “short”
heads separating
them; and the
fourth horse,
Spinifex, from
Melbourne, was
the same distance
away. The race
was a test of stay-
ing power, as the
time, 2min. 19sec.,
indicates. With
six furlongs to go
Brown Lance was
last. From that point Beresford had
to ride him all the way. The four-
year-old responded to the jockey’s
urgings with true stamina and grit. All
the same, there were many who thought
he had just failed to reach the three-year-
old Vivat Rex.
In the Deagon Gift, Brown Lance had
been beaten into third place by Spear
Prince (another Spearfelt) and Jocular.
Just after he passed the post at Doom-
ben Mala, who had been favorite at 5
to 1, came a fearful cropper. The horse
got to his feet, but Shean, the jockey,
lay still. It looked a bad case ; how-
ever, Shean was only dazed and was
back in his hotel that night. It was Mala
who suffered the damage. He died on
Sunday night.
“That’s my finish to racing, at least
for a time,” said Alan Cooper, the
owner, while the ambulance men were
attending to Shean and the vet. to Mala.
Cooper himself was nursing an injury—
the motor-tram accident in which he was
concerned at Brisbane left him with a
fractured kneecap. “I’m going to sell
all my horses and retire to the Barrier
Reef for six months,” he proceeded.
“Watching races makes me too nervy
now. I’ll keep Talking and the Segenhoe
stud; but yachting, not racing, will
occupy me for the rest of the year.”
Russell, the former owner, is the only
one who did well with Mala. He was
not only successful on the turf with him,
but he recovered £l5OO damages from
the N.S.W. Transport Department for the
knock which a tram gave to the ill-fated
steed on the morning of the 1936 A.J.C.
Derby race. Randwick opinion is that
Mala was a good horse, and worth fully
a third of the £7OOO that Cooper gave
for him.
The other Russell —C.A.—saw Mohi-
can (8 to 1) win the Flying Handicap at
Doomben. Aurie’s Star (evens) tried to
give Mohican 51b. and couldn’t do it.
After the victory, the proud Russell was
heard in his usual monologue to the press.
* * * *
During a week in which magnificent
prize-money was hung up by the V.R.C.
at Flemington and by the club at Doom-
ben, the Ascot club was privileged
to provide the Wednesday and Saturday
programmes in Sydney. On Wednesday
it offered £666 13s. 4d. for eight handi-
caps ; on Saturday, £llOO for another
eight handicaps. The cattle were worthy
of the rewards.
The younger Frank McGrath, deputising
for his dad, who was at Brisbane, with-
drew the Heroic colt Publicity from the
Mascot Welter Mile at Ascot, and saddled
him up for the Flying Handicap. A
shrewd move, for the stable was thereby
enabled to get 7 to 2 and better for its
money—the Welter Mile price would
have been prohibitive. Hard ridden
throughout by Ted Bartle, Publicity scored
his first win for W. K. Dalzell, who paid
700 guineas for him at auction. Shackle-
ton was second, and Search third.
Shackleton was ridden by an apprentice,
and his owner growled afterwards that
the boy should have let the big gelding
slip away at the home turn. But it is
easy to ride races from paddock or
Leger.
Monogram, a winner at Rosehill, out-
classed the opposition in the Ascot Han-
dicap. He also was steered by Bartle,
who covered a lot of extra ground on
him. But the chestnut is a long-strider,
who wants heaps of room ©n the turns.
The fast pace set by Alan Verde and
Heroic Faith suited Monogram. Alan
Verde shook off Heroic Faith at the home
turn, but he was beaten quickly when
challenged by Monogram, and missed a
place —Greek Tress and Jovial Son were
place-getters. Heraway, a street-corner
tip, was squeezed six furlongs from home
and wouldn’t or couldn’t stretch out over
the last half-mile.
. • • •
Though she behaved badly at the
barrier and ran off the course at the top
of the straight, Senora (3 to 1) proved
much the best of a moderate lot in the
Nursery. She beat Royal Prince —fast,
but squibby—in the run home, Song of
the Air being a poor third. Pen Name
had the run of the race but weakened.
Knight Folly, a big, angular gelding
who should be racing in jumping events,
let his backers down badly in the first
division of the Novice. He couldn’t
manage the track, and beat only four
home. Bulga Boy, backed from tens to
sixes, outstayed Dan Dee and St. Robert
at the finish. The second division went
to Salazar (3 to 1), Quirindi-owned and
trained at Kensington; but Salazar was
flat out to beat pastoralist G. B. S.
Falkiner’s Fox Comedy and Cadmus. A
protest was dismissed.
Mrs. Dolly Clayton was present to see
Tony (3 to 1) win the Mascot Welter
from Assai and Verlina. The lady’s nag
put in a long run over the last five fur-
longs. Jaccuse, though never a miler, was
backed down to 7 to 4. He had had
enough three furlongs from home.
}|! %
“Thormanby”: The French Grand
Prix, run at Longchamps, was won by
the Italian-bred Nearco, owned by Signor
Tesio and ridden by Gubellini. The all-
Italian aspect of the victory is marred by
the fact that the winner’s papa is the
English horse Pharos and the other party
to his existence, Nogara, is also from
perfidious Albion. Canot, the second
nag, was ridden by Australia’s old ac-
quaintance “Togo” Johnstone, who now
seems permanently settled in France.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Lawn Handicap: Stoic; next,
Othello.
Gooparle Handicap: King Gee ;
next, Fancifort.
Braybrook Handicap: Keeping
Watch ; next, Stevenage.
G.N. Steeple; Gnair; next,
Grantley.
July Handicap: King Gee; next,
Beechwood.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Carlton Mile: Publicity or Heroic
Faith ; next, Flamari.
Moorefield Handicap: Jovial
Son; next, Dulcedo.
Flying Welter: Heroic Faith or
Brown Baroness ; next, Grey Derby.


ma
m
A name that
stands for the
best in Batteries
wherever batteries
are used
EVER since 1890, the name "Exide” has been
synonymous with the best in battery construction.
It was not surprising, therefore, that when, in 1911,
Exide introduced a battery for starting motor cars,
its advent was hailed with confidence and enthusiasm.
But it has never been Exide’s policy to "rest on its
laurels.” Every resource at the command of this great
organisation was employed to improve and perfect
the new product. The result is best measured by this
battery’s world-wide acceptance.. To-day the Exide
plants in England, America, Australia, Canada and
Italy are the largest of their kind. These huge fac-
tories are equipped with costly and up-to-date
machinery. They employ thousands of skilled opera-
tives, as well as retaining the services of brilliant
scientists, whose sole aim is battery betterment.
Is it any wonder, then, that more cars carry Exide
Batteries than any other make? In Australia alone,
60 to 65 per cent, of all new cars are Exide-equipped.
The great car manufacturers specify Exide Batteries
because they know that only in Exide dependability
and Exide length of life will they find those qualities
which best reflect the higher attributes of their own
productions.
f
EXIDE on the FARM
No matter how far you live from the mains,
Exide House-lighting Batteries will provide
a constant supply of economical power for
as many lights as you need, for household
appliances and for farm machinery as well.
Write to your nearest Exide dealer for a
copy of the free book: "Country House-
lighting and Power.”
EXIDE in INDUSTRY
df
Pictured here is an Exide Kathanode
Battery, now at work in an electric
locomotive at Elrington Colliery,
N.S.W. Exides also provide power
for delivery trucks, for the "Silver
City Comet” diesel-engined train,
and many other purposes.
d
EXIDE in RADIO
At left is one of the famous "XH” series of
Exide Radio Batteries which is bringing
clearer reception to thousands of listeners
all over Australia. Encased in genuine hard
rubber, and made in two, four and six-volt
types, these built-for-the-purpose batteries
require much less recharging than most.
V
t BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
THROUGHOUT
OBTAINABLE
Ft 0 M
DEALERS
AUSTRALIA


S 7
Z>/ A <6
¥/<o
fairly
y/
accurate
useless
gauge
—it cannot give you
a perfectly balanced
car. The Kismet “Cadet’
is guaranteed accurate.
Used regularly it ensures
your driving comfort, skid-
less motoring and less tyre wear
CADET
IS
KISMET
GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic
You’ve got to have
ACCURACY
in a tyre gauge
Calibrated up to
501 b. in large, clear
figures. Handsomely
finished in leather
wallet.
7 6
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATOES! (Imported.) Climbs
20 feet on trellis, fence, netting. BEAKh
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS
i fTMn 1 red Meaty Tomatoes per plant.
Kzingly' productive, sow now. 2/6
SES/W. SEED CO. (Dept. 5.8.), 17 Pitt-S't., Sydney.
Ins and Outs
With five of the best gone for 299,
Brown and Barnett started again on the
job of catching England’s first-innings
score of 494. Barnett was caught
by Compton off Verity for 8, and the
same bowler got Chipperfield l.b.w. for
a single. Then came O’Reilly, who in
the early stages of his Sydney cricket gave
evidence of having a sound idea of
aggressive batting. He proceeded to
demonstrate this at the expense of Verity,
whom he hit for two successive sixes.
When Fames bagged him for 42, O’Reilly
and Brown, who was moving along
freely, had added 85 badly-needed runs
for the eighth wicket and raised the score
to 393, saving the follow-on.
Rain stopped play for a period, but the
wet ball and the slippery-topped pitch
were all in the batsmen’s favor. Fleet-
wood-Smith, who succeeded O’Reilly, got
a life from Compton before he scored,
and then played one of his long-distance
shots for 7. His unexpected stand allowed
Brown to raise the Australian total to
422. Brown was 206 n. 0., an achieve-
ment for which it is difficult to find too
much praise. In addition to the rare Test
feat of carrying his bat through the in-
nings, he is the only batsman, save Brad-
man and Hammond, to have scored 200
or over in a Lord’s Test.
By and large, the pitch gave the bats-
men little cause for alarm, though Verity
and Fames both found it suit them in
their various ways.
Verity came out best of the English
bowlers; he took 4 for 103, and com-
manded respect from all except O’Reilly.
Fames took 3-135 and Wellard 2-96.
Wright could do no better than 1-68,
though often dangerous.
Throughout, the luck of the game
turned first to one side and then to the
other, until up to the closing of the Eng-
lish second innings on the last day the
result was in doubt. In the end Australia
did well to make a draw of it.
In spite of doubtful light, Hammond
sent Hutton and Barnett in to open Eng-
land’s second try, with the home side 72
runs to the good. There was woe in the
tents of Marylebone when both returned
to the pavilion with only 28 runs between
them. Verity and Edrich were holding
the fort when rain cut things short.
If the first three days had been full
of interest and fluctuations of fortune,
the closing one provided thrills in plenty.
First, England was deep in the soup, and
then, scrambling out, threw Australia in.
Then the process was reversed, and so on.
On Tuesday McCormick followed up his
dismissal of Barnett by bowling Verity
for 11, and then saw Edrich caught off
him by McCabe for 10 ; 4 for 64. When
Hammond, lame and obviously off color,
was caught by Waite, substituting for
Chipperfield, off McCabe, a win for Aus-
tralia looked as sure as the income-tax
holdup.
But this was where the tide turned.
Paynter and Compton settled down to
run-making, and when the Lancashire lad
was run out for 43 the score had risen
to 128. Ames, also off color with an
injured hand, went early for 6, but here
again the unexpected happened. Wel-
lard, reputed another Jessup, but more
of a swiper, hit lustily for 38, Wright
aiding and abetting with 10 n.o. O’Reilly
had claimed Wellard ; Compton had 76
n. 0., made in faultless style. Hammond
decided to close with 8 down for 242,
leaving Australia 315 runs to win and
165 minutes to get them in.
McCormick again bowled really well,
3-72 ; O’Reilly and McCabe took 2-53
and 2-58. As in the first innings, F.-
Smith’s showing was shocking.
The wicket had kept in marvellous con-
dition, helped by the light rains and roll-
ing, and Brown and Fingleton were ex-
pected to give the Australians a good
start. Verity and Wellard had other
ideas, and both went early. Enter Brad-
man and an exhibition of determined
fast scoring, which again raised Aus-
tralia’s hopes of a win. But McCabe was
caught by Hammond off Wright for 21,
and, though Hassett played a great shot
for 42, Wright saw to it that he stayed
no longer with his fast-moving skipper,
clean-bowling the Victorian.
It was reserved for Badcock to achieve
the supreme distinction. “W.G.” once
said that no one who had not made a
brace of ducks in a Lord’s match could
be rated a first-class cricketer. Then
Badcock is a first-class cricketer.
Barnett was in next. There were only
a few minutes to go and no changes were
expected. He played safe and saw his
captain run to 102 before he himself
tipped the closing ball of the last over
but one to Paynter, who was keeping in
place of Ames. The match was over;
Australia 204 for six wickets.
Still more records were hoisted. Brad-
man passed Hobbs’s long-standing Test
“Now get out o’ this one !”
a ggregate of 3636 made in 71 innings.
The Australian’s figures are now 3721
f or 44 knocks. Brown joins Woodful,
Bardsley and Barrett (1890), the only
Australians besides himself who have car-
ried their bat through a Test innings.
Barrett made 67 at Lord’s and Bardsley
m also at Lord’s, while Woodfull did
the ’ trick twice aga i nst Chapman’s side
{n Brisbane and at Adelaide in 1932-33.
•
Last of all, McCormick bowled his
hundredth no-ball of the tour in the
ma tch.
• . ' ‘ ! ' ,
Verity again led the English bowlers
with 2-29. Edrich took 2-27, and
Wright and Wellard bagged one apiece,
Third Test at Manchester July 8-12.
* * *, , * ,
Aigburth : Bradman s handling of
the Lord s dld not suggest he H ? s
another Armstrong or Collins. His
persistence with Fl.-Smith in England s
second innings when the Victorian was
bowling like an infants’ school. vigoro
change had an important bearing on
the final result. When Smith is in one of
these moods there is only one way to
employ him and that is in a job as far
away from the bowling crease as possible.
Still, to do him justice, it is likely that his
dental trouble had left its mark.
* * * *
Derbyshire, which engaged the atten-
tion of the Bradmanites after the second
Test, has no connection with the Earls
of Derby or the Epsom Derby, though
renowned as the legendary home of a
ram One of the oldest of the first-class
counties, and first in 1936, Derbyshire .
last season was third on the county table,
Derbyshire players recently in Australia
were Worthington and Copson, neither
of whom showed us with Allen’s team
tejrMSs?£S
wim prayer. ....
The weather was dull and bitterly cold,
and the gate on the opening day was
poor—a matter of moment to the county
which like many others, looks to an Aus-
tralian match as money from home to re-
plenish a sock which is never very heavy,
Bradman gave himself a rest, in addi-
tion to McCormick, Walker, Chipper-
field and Fl.-Smith. McCabe captained,
and Barnes made his first appearance
on an English cricket field.
Derbyshire decided to bat on a dead
wicket, all in favor of the ’batsman, but
151 was the best it could manage. Of
these 67 came from a good innings by
Worthington and 23 sundries—lB leg-
byes. G. H. Pope was next-best to
Worthington with 14.
Ward had a good day with 5-45, Waite
snaring 3-50. Though he got only one
wicket, White showed better form in this
match than in any previous one. O’Reilly
took things easy with 1-13. Bro\Vn and
Fingleton opened for Australia and both
batted confidently from the start until
Mitchell sent Fingleton (23) back. At the
end of the day it was 1 for 191, Brown
having topped the century again.
On the second day Australia had 441
on the board for four wickets when Mc-
Cabe declared ; of these Brown made 265
n. 0., a solid performance, marred by three
chances. A pleasing feature of the innings
was the form shown by Barnes (42),
playing his first knock in England. From
the opening over he sighted and timed
the ball without trouble. Badcock had
scored 86 freely before going l.b.w. to
G. Pope. A. Pope’s 2-79 was Derby’s
best bowling performance.
Derbyshire’s second hit realised only
56 (A. Pope 19, Buckstone 11); Mitchell,
a foot injured, did not go to the crease.
Waite got 5 wickets for 40, Ward 3 for 8.
Australia, by an innings and 234.
After a day’s spell, the Australians
went to Sheffield and tackled their old
friends the Tykes, who will give you the
sleeves out of their waistcoats and
through whose fingers pound-notes
notoriously slip like fly-papers. The
game was played at Bramall-lane, where
the stokers in the surrounding factories
add to the element of chance so insepar-
able from cricket by cramming the fur-
naces with damp coal as soon as the
visiting team goes in to bat, thus per-
mitting a heavy smoke-screen to drift
across the ground. Here it was that
Arthur Coningham, disliking the cold,
lit the historic fire in the longfield which
echoed—if a fire can echo—round the
world.
• * ; '
The Tykes rolled up in great num-
bers, the attendance being 35,000—the
best of the tour. Skipper Sellers won the
toss for Yorkshire and sent Australia in
to bat on a rain-affected wicket. The
result might have been worse for the
tourists made 222, and since Verity, the
sticky wicket king, could only get a single
wicket the pitch could not have been
hopeless from a batting point of view.
aswaanaeg
back for 3, and Bowes dismissed Mc-
Cabe for 13. Badcock batted slowly foi
him and not at all surely. He had been
in an hour for 11 when Turner snapped
him off Robinson, a slow off-spinner who
took 66 wickets for the county last
season.
Hassett then joined the skipper, who
was going along well. Smailes and
stumper Wood were responsible for Brad-
man’s exit when he had made 59. Has-
sett was batting like a book, and it was
hoped that Barnes would stay with him.
Barnes went with 10 up, however. The
young Victorian made the pace, hitting
four sixes and eight fours, but his wicket
fell when he had reached 94, and no one
else could do anything. The innings
closed at 222.
Smailes took 6 for 92, and played
himself into the English XI. Verity,
Leyland, Bowes and Robinson also dis-
missed a batsman apiece.
Though the wicket had improved,
Yorkshire’s start was no better than
Australia’s, Hutton (7) and Barber (2)
falling to Waite. The same bowler got
Leyland l.b.w. for 13. It was 3 for 74
at stumps, Waite 3-25. He bowled him-
self into the Australian XI.
Footbrawl
Is Footscray going to win a V.F.L.
premiership at last? All ’Scray believes
that its time has come, and after Satur-
day’s matches not a few people who have
had no connection with ’Scray are of the
same opinion. Carlton is still on top,
but it had only four points in hand
against Geelong (12-16 to 12-10). Foot-
scray, galloping away from Richmond,
13-20* to 7-4, ran into second place. The
defeat of Melbourne by Essendon —the
Same Old scored 13-7 to 11-13—let Col-
linewood back into “the four ; Wood
accounted for Sowth 12-17 to 12-5. In the
other matches St. Kilda (11-8) just headed


ULTIMATE RADIO:
By comparative tests, extending over several months, we now claim for the 1938
series that, model for model, they will outperform in their distance-getting ability,
tone and economy any other make now selling on the Australian market.
Jf >
Ultimate’s new “Regent”
cabinet, made of butt Ameri-
can walnut veneer and
finished to a high lustre by
genuine French polishing.
Overall measurements of this
cabinet are 38in. high, 30in.
wide and 15in. deep.
•V
"
I
mm
★
Sixty seconds after you see
an Ultimate Radio you will
realise that no ordinary
standards suffice for their
skilled engineers. They go
far beyond the requirements
of ordinary radios to produce
a musical instrument of rare
quality and performance.
SIX-GANG SPINNER TUNING EXCLUSIVE TO ULTIMATE!
in a while radio takes a step forward, not only in cabinet design, but also in regard to technical points.
Now to match the beauty of Ultimate’s new “Regent” cabinet finished in rich, highly-figured butt American
walnut Ultimate engineers have perfected a circuit to use a 6-gang tuning condenser (replacing the 2- and 3-gang
conventional type) fitted with a planetary-motion spinner unit.
]S]° other receiver has all the features any one Ultimate model incorporates. . .so no other receiver can
possibly give you the peerless performance that is yours to enjoy with an Ultimate.
FEATURES INCLUDE: All-wave reception, 320-degree dial, planetary-motion spinner tuning, separate
logging hand pointer, volume-control indicator, 10-inch Rola reproducers, switches incorporated on volume
controls, bandspread tuning, iron-cored coils and I.F. transformers, etc.
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEO. BROWN & CO
Pty. Ltd.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
'Phones: M 2544 (3 lines).
Telegraphic Address: Brownlock.
RUSH COUPON FOR FURTHER DETAILS
I Please send me, without obligation, details of the
Special New De Luxe ULTIMATE RECEIVERS.
I NAME . ,
| ADDRESS
(State whether battery or electric.)
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
m
am
LIONEL 818 BY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
.and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
fd
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight';
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, I Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; *yn//+
weight, about 3Jlb. “"/®
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front A*7ln
sight; weight, about 4-|lb. 4//D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
.22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
27in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead Ar\ /
front sight; weight, 61b.
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, .22-cal., 20
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine
handles 20 short,. 16
long, or 14 long-rifle
cartridges; weight, about
5 fib. CK/tZI
Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b. £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 25— IVOR JOHNSON D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 32in.
barrels; both full choke top lever cross-
bolt; Anson & Deeley action. Tested
for nitro powders; weight, __ ,
about 81b . . £B/ 107-
Carriage Paid.
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
—12 G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
choke, 32 W.G.F. rifle barrel, three-leaf
rear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip;
weight, about BJlb.
Originally £l2/12/-. Now db/ 'l/ /Q
Carriage Paid.
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN —I 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for cartridges;
weight, about 7£lb.
Originally £22/10/-. Now..
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled >by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
Fitzroy (10-11), and North beat Haw-
thorn 13-14 to 12-6.
Brunswick looks a good thing for the
Association premiership. It had no
trouble on Saturday in maintaining its
unbeaten record, trouncing Sandringham
13- to 5-10. Brighton beat Northcote
14- to 10-7, and Prahran (9-15) ambled
along ahead of Preston (8-9).
* * * *
West and Randwick, though pressed on
Saturday, still share the lead in Sydney’s
Rugby Union competition. Gordon, with
a hard-rucking set of forwards having
somewhat the better of things, equalled
West in tries (three each), but Barnes’s
13 points from goals gave West a 22-18
win. Randwick beat Drummoyne 11-8.
Manly held its second position, a point
below the leaders, with a tearaway win
over North, 37-3. The Villagers ran
up six tries and Hodgson collected 19
points from goals. Third place is dis-
puted by St. George, Parramatta, Univer-
sity and North. Saints headed East by
one point, 10-9, and Parramatta was
two points better than ’Varsity, 11-9.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The All-Blacks sail from
Wellington by the Wanganella to-day, and
play their first match against N.S.W. at
Sydney on July 16. A match with Wel-
lington (N.S.W.) has been substituted for
one with Newcastle set down for July
20. The Newcastle match will be played
at Coalville on July 27.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: McDonald, who
will be co-manager and coach of the
All Blacks in Australia, was a member of
the original 1905 All Blacks in Britain.
He played in representative football for
17 years, and has since then built up a
great reputation as a coach. Mac took
the South Island in hand before this
year’s North-South match, and knocked
into them so effectively his doctrine of
honest forward work and no shiners, that
South gave North the worst spanking it
has had for many years.
* * * %
The N.S.W.R.U. selectors have picked
a pretty fair team to meet the All-Blacks
in the first match in Sydney on July 16.
The forwards average 13st. 81b., the
backs 12st. But the dropping of scrum-
half Ramalli on the ground of inexperi-
ence is rather ridiculous.
The Queenslanders were unluckily
beaten at Rugby League by N.S.W. at
Sydney Cricket Ground. They had a 17-8
lead at half-time. Playing a man short
during the second spell, they kept ahead
till within a few minutes of the bell:
then a goal, result of a hotly-questioned
penalty, gave N.S.W. the game, 20-19;
four tries to three.
* * * *
After their three matches in Queens-
land, the M.L. League players prevailed
over Country Group 4 at Tamworth and
then downed Newcastle 30-19. They
play their last match in Australia against
a metropolitan side in Sydney to-day.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Indian Soccer
team is running late —it is not due at
Fremantle until August 16. It will play
five Tests —two at Sydney and one at
Brisbane, Newcastle and Melbourne —
and matches against all the States and
minor engagements: 15 games in all,
with travelling from Westralia to Queens-
land and back again. The tourists will
be India’s best team, their tour having
been delayed to allow the Indian clubs
to complete their season and release their
stars. By all accounts, the visitors are
as clever in the field as the Indian hockey
players, and if that is so they will not
lack for gates.
Racquet and Bawl
The Yugs won the final in the Euro-
pean zone of the Davis Cup and will
take their consonantal names across the
Atlantic for the inter-zone final, which
begins on August 18. Australia should
provide the opposition.
Another good bet came home at
Wimbledon when Budge beat England’s
hope, Austin, in the singles 6-1, 6-0, 6-3.
Budge had no trouble with the Briton,
although the latter showed marked
superiority against all his other oppo-
nents in the tourney. The American did
not lose a set during the tourney. With
Mako he won the men’s doubles; with
Miss Marble the mixed doubles (Henkel
figured in each final), and Helen Wills-
Moody beat Helen Jacobs in the final of
the women’s singles. A real All-
American triumph in the All-England
tournament.
It was reserved for Miss Stevenson to
bring a trophy to Australia —the Women’s
Plate. Miss Hartigan was her opponent
in the final; Melbourne overcame Syd-
ney, 6-4, 6-4.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The question of allowing
the Australian girls to return by America
depends entirely on the amount the
Yanks are prepared to put up. The Aus-
tralian L.T.A. is now sitting with its lug
glued to the London telephone waiting
for a bid. Incidentally, the U.S.A. tennis
heads have cabled that they have ar-
ranged for the Australian men to meet
Japan in the Davis Cup on grass courts
at Montreal on August 12, 13, 14 —this,
assuming they down Mexico on August
4, 5, 6.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
L.T.A. should waste no time in inviting
Mdme. Matthieu to this country. In
defeating Nancy Wynne, last of the Aus-
tralian hopes, at Wimbledon, Madame
gave an exhibition which would have
endeared her to the great Australian
public. Annoyed by a linesman’s verdict,
she insisted on his removal before she
would play on, and to calm her the
authorities agreed to the outrageous re-
quest. When footfaulted again, the
lady served underhand, and a point being
purposely presented to her, she “gesticu-
lated and executed a kind of Scottish
sword dance,” hitting the next ball at
the linesman who had annoyed her.
Yes, Madame must come out next
season, and if only Roddy Menzel can
be persuaded too, and the pair starred
in mixed doubles —“Oh, la la,” as they
are supposed to say in France, though
they never do.
Miscellaneous
“Brass Addler”: The final report of
the Empire Games Committee reveals
that the State lug is to be bitten to the
tune of £7600-odd, the loss on the show.
One supposes it was worth while, though
to the unbiased observer the Games seem
to have been responsible for inter-
Dominion and racial antagonism. Total
income was £10,500 in round numbers—
season-ticket selling would have increased
this—-and expenses were £lB,OOO, again
in round numbers.


FREE SAMPLE
SENT OF RE-NU LIQUID
NU-METAL. Just deposit
thru plug holes, reconditions
any engine while-U-drive. Saves
rebore, ends piston slap, oil,
petrol waste; restores compres-
sion, new power, top-speed zip,
etc. Guaranteed good for
■#V
10,000 miles, Harmles finest engine. TRIAL TUBE,
6/6; or we send C.O.D. Advice, Literature, free.
RE-NU LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Agents 'Required, 20 Other Lines.
FREE SAMPLES.
f
W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONTC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitelv
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Gall or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
,310 George St., Sydney
EE
Gl-ftND
TONIC
TfiBLfTS
GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sol. Agent,: JOUBERT £r JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
df
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“To-night at 8.30.”
Two important things about “To-night
at 8.30,” which Fay Compton and com-
pany are doing at Sydney Royal, are
that there’s no such play as “To-night at
8.30” and that anyhow it begins at the
usual barbarous hour of eight.
Other things important are the bril-
liance of Anp Codrington saying “Caikes
or paistry?”, Mr. Bruno Barnabe’s extra-
ordinary neck giraffing half-way across a
table in a love scene and the moment
when the waitress in “Still Life” bends
over to put some coal on the stove.
“To-night at 8.30” is the collective title
given to three entirely unrelated one-act
plays. For comedy—and the three plays,
though “Still Life” has an extra-marital
drama mixed up in it, are all comedies —
it is an excellent idea. The last Comp-
ton show, “George and Margaret,” like
a very large proportion of modern social
comedies, was a flimsy thing, padded
with cheerful piffle. But at one-act
length, slight comedy gets by easily.
“To-night at 8.30” began with “Hands
Across the Sea,” a merry lightweight
about a London hostess who couldn’t
remember the names of some colonial
visitors; then “Still Life,” a more solid
effort, followed by a back-stage farce,
“Red Peppers.”
From a technical point of view, the
idea of presenting three separate plays
has one further merit: instead of the
intervals spoiling the continuity, as they
do in ordinary full-length plays, the
breaks at the end of each play were
wholly natural.
The mild faults of the evening were
Noel Coward’s as much as anybody’s.
“Still Life” is located in a railway re-
freshment-room, and Coward made an
unscrupulous use of its opportunities for
arbitrary entrances and exits. Some of
the sentimental dialogue in the same play
took a bit of swallowing, and it’s another
reprehensible practice to have four char-
acters on the stage, two talking, two mut-
tering in a corner, and switch the pairs
about —talk, mutter, talk, mutter —with-
out any logical justification. Further-
more, Mr. Bamabe shouldn’t have been
encouraged to mar a very sound per-
formance as a medico-Romeo by having
a dolorous chat with the fireplace. He
was supposed to be afraid to look his lady
in the eye ; but it was horribly reminis-
cent of a moment in a Garbo film when
that lady crawled round the wallpaper
“memorising” a room.
The plays gave all the company a
chance to show their versatility; Fay
Compton, Ann Codrington, Stafford Hil-
liard and Michael Wilding all did re-
markably good jobs. Fay Compton was
in turn society hostess, tragic sinner and
then, incredibly, a burlesque music-hall
dancer; Ann Codrington was the colo-
nial frump, the refained manageress of
the refreshment-room, and tnen a wisp
of hauteur in the back-stage battle. Hil-
liard and Wilding were both really trium-
phant when they doffed their usual polish
to become comic railwaymen, one with
a soft heart and the other with a lovely
red nose.
Flagstad Concerts.
The Norwegian soprano continues to
delight Sydney Town Hall audiences,
with the result that two more additional
concerts will now carry her season on to
the end of this week.
The sixth concert last Saturday night
was a popular-vote affair. Apparently it
was left to the voters, whoever they Were,
to decide what Madame would sing, and
she being one of the greatest of all Wag-
nerian performers, the popular voters
naturally chose almost a complete pro-
gramme of sweet and pretty little things
that served mainly to put the magnificent
voice well and truly on the leash.
The voice got loose at times. Begin-
ning with Handel’s “Sommi Dei,” it
flooded the hall with a volume of beauti-
ful sound that must have filled all with
extravagant hope if the programme
hadn’t warned them that this was to be
a “popular night.” Madame also sang
“Der Erlkoenig” very beautifully against
Edwin McArthur’s busy and lovely piano-
playing—his playing was splendid all
through the bill.
There was also opportunity for the
voice in “Ritorna Vincitor,” from “Aida,”
and another item or two, but mostly the
bill was composed of delicacies. These
Madame sang very sweetly, but just on
their merits. Then she let the voice loose
on her specialty, “Brunnhilde’s Battle
Cry,” giving the audience a glorious
Gus McNaughton and (believe it or not ) Fay Compton doing the Nelson act,
with Bruno Barnabe (avec cigar) and Stafford Hilliard in “Red Peppers,” one
of the Noel Coward offerings at Sydney Royal.
taste of what had been denied them by
“vote.”
A really outstanding concert promises
for to-morrow (Thursday) night, when
Madame Flagstad will appear with the
A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra in an all-
Wagner programme. The final bill for
Saturday evening also promises glori-
ously.
Sydney Players f Show.
Quarter of an hour of Comic Relief
Teetotaller getting sozzled called for
a very patient sense of both humor and
drama when Sydney Players’ Club put
on “They Came by Night” at St.
James Hall.
The red nose and the Cockney accent
were just padding, necessitated by the
flimsiness of the plot. Thieves, by
making a jeweller innocently act as a
“fence,” blackmail him into assisting
them in bigger operations. It might con-
ceivably have got by if the jeweller had
been a complete idiot, but the intelligent
young man portrayed by John Howard,
badly cast for the part, would have gone
to the police long before Scene 5.
The Players’ Club is tackling Shak-
speare next, and the really outstanding
talent that was wasted in “They Came
by Night” will get a fair chance. Both
Comic Relief and jeweller were at home
on the stage and there were no duds.
David Wells, as a dope-fiend, was very
good until he started to grunt like Kar-
loff. Murray Chapman, as a cheerful
Yankee safe-breaker, made a good fist of
a part that wasn’t easy, and Clarence
Street, as the master-criminal, would have
won even Edgar Wallace’s heart. James
Flanagan, as a policeman, was so perfect
in speech, manner and appearance that if
he had suddenly roared “Use the sub-
way!” the whole audience would have
vanished under the floorboards.
Tauber on the Air.
With the broadcasting of Richard
Tauber’s first concert from Melbourne
Town Hall last Thursday night Austra-
lian listeners had a foretaste of a musical
treat in store as the tenor goes from
State to State.
Even as heard over the air it was at
once apparent that Tauber possesses not
only a deep musical insight which gives
every note its true worth, but reserve
power which he uses judiciously. Add
a gift of interpretation which makes
opera, lieder, Mozart (his specialty, this)
and the ballad come to him with equal
ease, and A.B.C. has at least one offering
for which it is going to be blessed over
the next month or so.
A group of Schubert’s songs, includ-
ing the popular “Standchen” and “Unge-
duld,” made delightful hearing, but it’s
in the sentimental type of ballad, such
as those of Franz Lehar, that Tauber
fairly revels. And even the stickiest of
these seems to attain musical significance
through his magnificent singing.
Tauber will be immensely popular.
Among other attributes, he sings in excel-
lent English.
“45 Fathers.”
Jane Withers.
At any rate the Withers girleen isn’t
one of those smirking brats who assist
the screen to make priggishness a prime
film virtue. As seen in this sentimental
opus at Sydney Mayfair she’s one of the
very few genuinely-human figures in the
film.
She gives a characteristic performance
—an easily-bearable blend of comedy and
sentiment, acted with plenty of life —and
doesn’t howl more than once.
Those who can’t abide child artists,
however good, won’t find much else in
the piece to hold them. It begins with
fair promise. Jane’s father, member of
a N.’Yark club, having died in Africa,
Jane is taken over as a ward by the
club, and the yarn opens with her aboard
ship on the way, becoming acquainted
there with a touring vaudeville duo ; of
course, she subsequently gets the couple
a joint job as flunk and maid in the
big house in which she’s adopted,
Her entry into the club premises is
about as feasible as a punter’s dreams,
but it has the excuse of being funny.
The idea of the 45 club members be-
coming her collective fathers also
promises well; but at this stage the
directors apparently concluded that they
were heading to make a film on far too
big a scale for mere support purposes.
Therefore the 45 fathers draw marbles to
see who’ll adopt their windfall, and there-
after action is restricted to the loser’s
household.
Comedy touches help this rest of it, but
it’s a toshy business otherwise, with a de-
signing female making a set for rich
nephew of the house and Jane plotting
to help him escape.
Beside Jane’s bright performance every-
body else in the thing seems awkward.
Still, the burlesque court scene in which
it ends is alone funny enough to com-
pensate for its less-happy features.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Reckless Living” at this address, has
for subject a few days in the life of a
likeable lot of battlers who follow the
race meetings up and down the States.
Apparently each track holds its meeting
in turn, and a meeting may last any-
thing up to three weeks with races every
day. When one meeting is over the horses
are moved on to the next, and owners,
trainers, jockeys, bookies, urgers,
hangers-on move along with them.
This little lot includes a pretty crooner-
stepper who works her way from meet-
ing to meeting showing at night clubs, a
millionaire horseowner (he doesn’t
“belong”) who wants to marry her, and
a nice young man who does belong, but
who is only anxious to win enough to
take him away from it back to the old
home town. It makes pleasant light
comedy.
“The Devil’s Party,” fair enough as
gangster-adventuring, misses in its aim
at being “strong” drama. A boyish
escapade in the toughest quarter of Noo
Yark’s slums ends with the eldest boy
refusing to peach on “the gang” and
being sent to a reformatory. Years later
he is owner of a night club and gambling
house. Two of the others have become
policemen, the fourth is a priest, and the
girl a crooner. There are a couple of
murders and a spectacular robbery before
the leader leaps forward to meet the
bullet meant for his friend.
Victor McLaglen has the part. He’s
still the same slow-thinking, lumbering
animal of a dozen other films, but the
usual McLaglen bluster isn’t there, and
he’s so much the less impressive because
of that —it’s disappointing stuff to give
a man who made “The Informer” live.
Lambert, the Artist.
A difficult man to know was George
Lambert, and the biography of him his
widow has written ( Thirty Years of
An Artist's Life, limited edition published
by the Australian Society of Artists) does
not succeed—probably it does not
attempt anything of the sort —in fully
clothing Lambert the artist in the flesh of
Lambert the man. He wrote, himself:
The intense emotionalism of my breed is
such that my children —that is, my drawings,
my paintings, my sculptures and such —
must have proper clothing and protection,
fenced around from the vulgar, and the bar-
rier which their cold aloofness sets up may
be penetrated only by the few who, like
yourself, are good to know.”
That was in a letter to Pitt Rivers. In
a letter to his wife, the year before his
death, Lambert wrote:
Stopped drinking, except in rare bouts,
and this, I think, will shortly disappear,
because it encourages the wrong man to
come up and slap me on the back.
It wasn’t snobbery, but rather an intense
dislike of having his privacy of soul in-
vaded. No snob would quote as the
best-liked compliment he ever got as an
artist the remark of a bush-bred trooper
of the A.1.F.:
“I don’t believe in waitin’ tiff a bloke is
dead to tell him somethin’ nice, so let me
tell you, Capten, that as regards the
paintin’ of women’s ’ands you’re the dizzy
limit.”
Lambert has always been deemed an
Australian, and there is this much
justice in the claim—-that he first
flapped his fledgling art wings in
Sydney, got his first cheques from
The Bulletin, had his grounding
from Julian Ashton in the same city, and
spent his last years here. But he was


little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
»
r*
I
#
uoraons
Gin
Stilled in £ondon, tmjland
d
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUiRAY, GORDON & CO.,
ITP. LONDON, ENGLAND.
Vhe UvigeSt gut dtitilieM in the woild
going to keep fit
this Winter
Jirc you ?
m
m
1 A
m
£w-' *-c-
Make up your mind to-day, that
this winter will be different. Take
steps now to see that you and
your family remain free from
colds and chills and winter ills.
The best way to ensure this is to
strengthen your natural powers
of resistance against infection by
making “Ovaltine” your regular
daily beverage. This scientific-
ally perfect food has special
properties which build up
strength and vitality. “Ovaltine”
is the assurance of health in
countless thousands of homes.
Reject substitutes.
TRIAL SAMPLE of “Ovaltine,”
sufficient to make four cupsful, will
be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps
to cover the cost of packing and
postage.
Jake
and note the difference
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. At all Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
024-18.38
born in Russia, son of an American en-
gineer and his Yorkshire wife, and the
travelling scholarship that sent him to
London and Paris in 1900 inaugurated
a sojourn in the Old World that lasted
for more than 20 years. And when he
returned to Australia he was not accepted
as a British subject, but was invited to
apply for naturalisation.
With two possible exceptions—“ Across
the Blacksoil Plains” and the portrait of
his mother that won the Society of Artists’
scholarship that took him out of Aus-
tralia — Lambert’s most notable work
(outside his sculptures) was done while
he was a denizen of Chelsea. But his
work as an official artist with the military
forces on Gallipoli and in Palestine
GEORGE LAMBERT,
Self-portrait made in his last year.
brought him in contact with Australians
again, and he returned, after the war,
intending “to paint an exhibitionful of
pictures, small and lhrge, •of bush sub-
jects.”
He did not do so. As soon as he re-
gained these shores the itch for plastic
expression assailed him, and what with
portrait commissions and the vast labor
of modelling various important memo-
rials, the nine years that remained to him
of life fled all too quickly.
His headstone in Sydney’s South Head
Cemetery bears as epitaph “Single in
Purpose.” All who knew Lambert in
any degree must recognise the truth of
that. Lambert’s artistic conscience ruled
him with a rod of iron—and gave him
strength as well as austerity. His widow,
using the phrase in its proper Freudian
connotation, says that the artist in his
earlier years had an inferiority complex,
expressed in a rather overdone aggres-
siveness and (one may guess) in those pic-
turesque leanings in attire and cut of
beard that made him such a distinctive
figure. But that phase passed. Towards
the end he could say “I am in danger of
becoming a perfectionist.”
Never a schoolist or a dogmatiser about
other men’s work, Lambert had little
patience with Modernism. Writing about
a year before his death he says: —
Sculpture and music simply cannot exist
for any length of time outside the reason-
able bounds of either significant or tra-
ditional forms. In fine art these two are
one; also, in art, laws and limitations again
become one.
All his life Lambert loved horses. It
was a struggle with his mount, Old Iron,
that fatally strained his heart. He passes
out of the picture a gallant, dauntless soul
who early found his star and steered to
it, steadfast to the end.
The Water-colorists .
The gallery at David Jones’s new store
in Market-street, Sydney (much nicer in
its lighting than was the east-facing top
floor in the George-street store), houses
the 15th show of the Australian Water-
color Institute.
General level of merit is fairly high.
The members are all competent painters,
and most of the names in the catalogue
are well known. There are no surprises;
no cometary visitations.
Norman Lindsay’s odalisques, pirates
and costume-character figures are just as
he has painted them for 20 years—superb
in drawing,brilliant in color. Maud Sher-
wood exhibits pictures in all her most
effective styles: a harbor piece, fruit
and flower studies, a massive gorgeous
sky and a picnic impression. John Elder-
shaw, of Tassie, has gone back to his
grey stone bridges, but paints them
better than ever. He comes back to his
later colorful manner in a cheery picture
of Berry’s Bay, Sydney. C. E. S. Tin-
dall’s sketches of
rivers and beaches
are as dainty and
fresh as ever, and
G. K. Townshend,
who is beginning to
realise that land-
scape is mostly
weather, makes good
pictures in varying
lights.
There are some
excellent pictures by
Harry Julius, who
died about the time
the show was being
opened. Fred Leist,
another painter who
was well known as
early as the ’nineties,
has one entry —one
figure, a cloud and
an aeroplane: “The
Intruder,” a very effective composition.
Kenneth MacQueen represents “Ross’s
Farm” in terms of parabolic curves;
M. J. MacNally, whose mastery of color
grows with the years, paints the South
Australian skies faithfully in all their
most wayward moods; Gwen Barringer
gets an effective picture out of Sydney’s
William-street; Dattilo Rubbo puts in
two rugged heads, and some engaging
work is shown by Albert Collins, Harry
Kelly and E. Monckton. Dora Jarret ex-
periments with many subjects and shows
a nice touch with lighting in all.
The best still-life in the show, Margaret
Coen’s “Oriental Harmony,” was com-
mandeered by the N.S.W. Gallery trus-
tees.
Unk White Abroad .
Black-and-white artist Unk White’s
ramble in foreign parts last year yielded
a rich harvest of sketches, 60 or so of
which are oh view at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney.
A drawing by Unk White says more
about his distinctive merits as a draughts-
“Pay No Rent,” from Unk White’s exhibition of travel
sketches at the Blaxland Galleries, Sydney.
man and a limner of character than
columns of letterpress could achieve, and
as he is a pretty frequent contributor to the
pages of The Bulletin, it is sufficient to
say that his style is his own, that it is
commendably direct and snappy, and is
informed by a sympathetic sense of
humor.
Most importantly this show recalls
that, though his output is mostly in
black-and-white or monochrome, he has
a delightful touch with color. A big
proportion of the pencil sketches in the
present show, originating in Central
America and Europe, are water-colored.
The effect is very graceful when done by
a practised hand, and some of these
sketches achieve a really masterly effect.
Some big slap-dash sketches of heads
in brush-strokes or charcoal illustrate the
directness and sureness of line which are
at this artist’s command, and there is a
delicate pencil drawing, “Irish Eyes,”
that would pass for a Lambert, but the
color-sketches crown the show. As a
collection of travel studies they are
classic.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
i!
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and. Meals .... from ! 2/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve “."ins b.ck.ch.
that the real cause of their trouble may b.
Cl< Medfca^ i authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 Pints
get rid of more than 3 pounds or wasit
m Ifwur kidneys don’t work well, this waste
the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, teg paun i umbago
npn and energy, getting up nights, rumoago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lav vou up for many months
rinn’t wait ! Ask your chemist tor DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fidlv the world over by millions of people
I’ILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Air-Marshal Ellington was the big lion
at the dinner party given by Lord and
Lady Wakehurst at Government House
last week. The guest list included all the
Services. Rear-Admiral Custance, Air
Vice-Marshal Williams, the Major-
General Hardie couple, Captain H. C.
Phillips and Group-Captain de la Rue
and his wife were some of the diners. A
civic reception, and a lunch by the Mil-
lions Club also netted the marshal.
“Saucy” is the word for the new spring
hats. Modernised versions of the pro-
vocative trifles designed for and painted
on ladies whose world did not include
the bundy clock or the gas-mask, they
flitter and flutter backwards, mostly
Edwardian, but with a glance occasion-
ally over the shoulder to the Regency.
The most popular facade when 1938
warm days are here again will be the
Dana Gibson. Hair brushed from the
forehead in a pompadour, the sporty
sailor with mesh veil drawn back under
the chin, blouses, neat waists, and that
alert look—Sydney streets will know them
all again. It will be almost like the
nineties when “doing the block” was the
afternoon diversion.
Blouses are of the fussy kind. Some
of them have fronts like the dress-shirt
of olden days, the box pleat in front
being edged with lace or maybe a frill.
Sleeves will be short, and long gloves are
definitely in. The gloves are feminine,
all appliqued in forget-me-nots and
hyacinth, or maybe a long spray of lily-
of-the-valley in black on white kid gloves,
or in white and pale green on beige.
Color is all! You may have five or
six different colors with your suit or
dress. In other words, waist, cravat,
hat, lapel and handbag may be of sepa-
rate hues, as long as they make a har-
monious whole. Don’t forget, too, when
the first of August appears on your calen-
dar, to discard the red carnation you
have worn in your lapel all winter.
Replace it with lily-of-the-valley or
violets if you wish to keep in step with
the band. Lame blouses, as many-striped
as the braccae of the bards of old Ireland,
will be convivial adjuncts to the cocktail
party.
. They have done something with straw
this year, and have stitched it on end,
instead of flat. The result is that brims
(what there is of them) are thicker
through, and have a roughish finish.
Grosgrain and surah make up many of
the tiny sailors and some of the large
shallow crowned hats, too. If you have
any grey matter in your skull you dis-
tract attention from it by a nest of curls
and bangs on which a small platter of
roses or maybe violets and yellow gorse
perches insecurely, in spite of the
bandeau, often bunched with flowers, too.
The hatpin, small and ornamental, is
once again part of woman’s wardrobe.
You may wear glazed linen, leghorn,
panama hats, pinched, punched and tilted,
and never really useful-looking, or pill-
box toques. In brief, veils on everything.
Feather and marabout capes for evening
wear. Off the shoulder bodices, boned,
some of them heart-shaped, and depend-
ing on a small piece of elastic under the
arms for support. Toe-peepers, last year’s
toeless sandals. Skirts flowing and some-
times bouffant.
While noted citizens of Sydney were
dining with Lord and Lady Wakehurst
at Government House, those citizens of
the world Popeye the Sailorman and
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs went
off to the Movie Ball. During the even-
ing every one of the twelve hundred
dancers visited these internationals. With
true souveniring instinct many of his
callers plucked a spray of Popeye’s
spinach. He was in hospitable mood as
he stood beside the Paramount table.
Here Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Flynn smiled
on many guests. Her draped frock was
of soft and supple green velvet. The
J. J. Collins couple were others who
entertained a large party. Theirs was
the Embassy table. On its polished sur-
face were set silver candlesticks, the
rosy glow of Venetian crystal and a
great silver punch-bowl in which all the
seven dwarfs might have been bathed
together.
The flowers were fragrant masses of
violets and jonquils and even roses,
making the onlooker forget that winter
winds still blow chill. One set of decora-
tors had contrived a Viennese garden,
complete with doves. There was a geisha
garden, goldfish and all. Knight Victor
Wilson brought daughters Audrey and
Joy to the ball. Frances Scully was
among those who sat at the Regent
Theatre table. This showed a model of
the Regent, with flower trams outside.
There were even dainty doll usherettes,
torch in hand. The Frederick Gunns
were others in the large group surround-
ing host Stanley Wright. The A. G.
Gillespies entertained at another glitter-
ing table. The benevolent fund of the
motion-picture business will benefit.
Last Wednesday morning Rosaleen
Patricia Walsh, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. M. J. Walsh, was married
in St. Canice’s, Roslyn Gardens, Darling-
hurst, to William D. Coogan, of Narran-
dera. The ’groom is the only son of the
W. J. Coogans, of Ashfield. Marie Dal-
ton, of Orange, and Pauline Leahy were
bridesmaids. Dr. Ralph Skinner was best
man. The reception was at Elizabeth
Bay House.
Jennifer Maughan, barrister David
Maughan’s second daughter, has just be-
came engaged to Keith Storey, of Sidey
and Storey. Jennifer inherits brains from
both parents. Mother is a daughter of
the late “Toby” Barton, and a clever
public speaker. Jennifer is a JB.A., and
is at present studying for a business
career. She plays all the usual games, and
is a good dancer. Keith is well known as
a footballer. Falk photograph.
The opening of the Water-color Insti-
tute’s show was shadowed by the death
of everyone’s friend, Harry Julius. The
artist’s pictures were surrounded during
the afternoon, in tribute not only to
their beauty, but to the kindliness of
their creator. Justice Rich, who opened
the show, was supported on the plat-
form by president J. W. Maund and John
Lane Mullins. Daughter Mrs. Norris
had come with him, and daughter Mrs.
Philip Parkinson had come with Mrs.
Rolin. Mrs. Rolin is her handsome self
again, having recovered from her recent
illness. The three clever McKenzie
sisters were there, and with them was
Dora Jarrett, whose elephants taking their
sun bath (“Wirth’s” is its title) is one of
the joys of the show. Margaret Coen,
whose “Oriental Harmony” has been
bought by the National Gallery, did the
walls with mother and aunt, Mrs. Joe
Coen.
Younger Sydney was shocked at the
death by accident of Peggy Murray.
Peggy, a daughter of T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., was one of the most popular
girls in her set, and was much in demand
as a bridesmaid. One of the reasons d
her going to the U.S.A., where the fatal
accident occurred, was to be present a)
the wedding of Joy Barrington to Lieu-
tenant Stephen Daunis, of the Louisville
She worked on committees for the Day
Nurseries, and other welfare movements,
but above all she was a home girl. Some
years ago another daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Murray was killed by a motor-
lorry. Patricia Tebbutt, of Manly, who
was in the car when it overturned, was
badly injured, and is now in hospital in
America.
Tpe Norman McLeod dance was one
of last week’s most-talked-about. Tc
begin with, the lounge is about 70ft,
long, so the dancers had nothing to com-
plain about. At one end of the big room
there was an old-fashioned open fireplace
in which logs crackled merrily, and, in
addition, set about shoulder-high, are
four gasfires. These are recessed in the
walls, and are surrounded with oxidised
bronze. The hall, the bathrooms and
some of the bedrooms of this up-to-date
home glow cheerily with the same wall
fireplaces. The night’s color scheme was
red and gold; poinsettia and wattle were
the flowers used. It was a Romany
party, so there were tambourines hang-
ing on the walls, each hung with red
and gold ribbons, and each ribbon
finished with a knot of poinsettia or
wattle. When Jimmy Andrews wasn’t
in the -garage supervising the goldfish
game he’d brought from Colombo, he
and Pat Sykes were giving graceful ex-
hibition dances. Hostess, whose husband
is Consul for Latvia, wore the costume
and headdress of the Russian Ukraine.
Furlough House, soldiers' wives and
children’s holiday home at Narrabeen,
has a very energetic organising secretary
in Mrs. Isabel Johnston. Practically all
the year round there are 12 families in
residence, and whenever there are cele-
brations in the air, such as our 150th
birthday, Mrs. Johnston arranges a boys’
camp. Over 100 boys from remote coun-
try districts enjoyed the sesquicentenary
gaieties under this scheme. Photograph
from Freeman.
“To-night at 8.30” is another of those
early-to-bed entertainments. This show
is one of those that admit of supper
being a leisurely affair even for North
Shore folk, and after that a ferry or so
before the midnight hour can be caught.
AH to the good these sub-antarctic
nights. Hayley Bell’s rolled stocking tops
and flashes of bare skin when she stooped
to fix the fire were much appreciated in
“Still Life.” Fay Compton’s lime suit,
collared and cuffed in mink, suited the
cedar reds and greens of the set in
“Hands Across the Sea.” Also liked the
jacaranda-blue laces which sustained
her later in the same piece. Some
people thought the plays were not very
good drama, but everybody seemed to
find them good fun.
A striking boxful was supplied by the
Consul-General for China and Mrs. Pao,
and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar. Green-
and-gold brocades flashed under Mrs.
Pao’s long ermine cape. Powder-blue
crepes were worn by Mrs. Mackellar.
Her furs, too, were white. Mrs. Lionel
Dare’s pale-gold coat was ground-length,
fitting to the waist, and its sleeves were a
slenderised leg-o’-mutton. The Jimmy
Broadbents were among the gazed upon.
The Bertie Kellys brought a party. Mrs.
A. Talbot trailed black laces. The
McKelvey lady and Mrs. Ellis Fielding
Jones both wore graceful black velvet
coats richly furred. Mrs. Fielding Jones
had a little white bird on one side of her
head, while at the other a blackbird
poised. Quite a nice bit of mink was in
Mrs. Harald Bowden’s cape.
The Town Hall with Flagstad hitting
.the high notes and the high emotions of
“Aida” and Sieglinde’s love song from
“Die Walkure” was one of Saturday’s
islands of light. Cargoes of music-lovers
.anchored here for the evening. With
head unbowed by the cold westerly Flag-
stad stood erect in her classic blue and
silver frock. Dr. and Mrs. Georg Szell
were among the listeners. Sweden s
Consul-General de Dardels were there,
daughter Ebba very snow-white as to
fur cape.
One day last week tall Helen Maclean,
with the gorgeous red hair, only child of
Major Alan Maclean and Mrs. Maclean,
of Potts Point, was married to Keith
Hardie. Helen is the great-granddaughter
of Captain John Maclean, of the 43rd
Monmouth Shire Light Infantry, who
came to Australia in 1837. The newly-
weds are both keen golfers and aie enjoy-
ing golf at Bowral, spending part of their
time at Dormie House, Moss Vale.
Last week the new Consul-General for
Belgium arrived in Sydney. He is Mr.
Felix Jansen, and he is accompanied by
Mrs. Jansen and daughter Lucile. Lucile
has lived in most parts of the world,
can speak about six languages, plays
golf and tennis. Temporary home is at
the Australia.
While most of the visitors to the open-
ing of her husband’s show snuggled into
their cocoons of wool, Mrs. Unk White
was diaphanously clad in the fete dress
of the Republic of Panama. This is made
of the finest white muslin and lace. The
bodice, rounded at the neck, consists
of three lace frills. A red wool thread
runs through the top, and finishes off with
a giddy red pom-pom back and front.
The flounced skirt is sashed with red
satin, which matches the red satin slippers.
A wreath of white and gold flowers and
a lot of white and gold bracelets go with
this dress, which is named “La Pollera”
and is filmy with masses of val lace. If
you’d like to see how Mrs. White looked
in it, go to the Blaxland Galleries and
see her immortalised in it by her hus-
band’s art. All the artists of Sydney
flocked to the opening, Norman and
Peter Lindsay, Maude Sherwood and
George Finey among them. All agreed
on the charm and originality of the
Sketches.
It’s a case of Advance Australia Fair
with the Women Pioneers’ Society. Last
year they felt a little cramped, and this
year their growing pains could be borne
no longer. So the club premises had to
be enlarged. Now they have the whole
of the sixth floor of Shirley House for
their needs. New rugs and curtains, as
well as new flowered linen covers for
the chairs and mountains of new
cushions, were duly admired at the
housewarming party last week. Lieuten-
ant-Governor Street’s lady was the guest
of honor. President, Mrs. Lingham
looked her pleasure at the club’s new
glories, and wore a navy caped ensemble
with great success. The cape and her
navy tricorne hat had touches of grey
Persian lamb. Carlotta Doyle’s fine pro-
file was thrown into relief by black fox
furs. Mrs. A. B. Wilkinson helped do
the honors. The color notes of the
decorations are beige and blue-grey.
To celebrate France’s National Day,
the 14th of July, which to every son and
daughter of France signifies the triumph
of the tricolor and the fall of the Bas-
tille, a ball has been organised. This
is to be even more festive than usual.
Members of the French Alliance and
the French Chamber of Commerce have
the arrangements well in hand, and
Hordern Brothers’ restaurant will be the
scene of revelry. The Consul-General
for France is president of the ball.
Tickets at half-a-guinea are being sold
at the French Alliance, the Messageries
Maritimes and the French Bank. Mrs.
Ivy Moore, incidentally, has just had a
letter from the wife of former Consul-
General Dussap. Madame said that she
and her husband still remember life in
Sydney with affection, and count this
city as one of the happiest appointments
they had ever had.
There is something pathetic is seeing
the household treasures of an old family
under the hammer. Gladswood House,
the Spencer Brunton home, went the way
of many others, for its owners are dead,
and the younger members of the family
have their own establishments. Visitors
to Gladswood will remember the enor-
mous Wedgwood vase that stood in the
drawing-room and always was known
as the Gladswood vase. It brought less
than 20 guineas. Some gracious old
silver candlesticks were bought in by
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, whil£ Oswald
Cheeke bid for the crystal decanter in
which Spencer’s whisky was always
served. _


PAGES FROM THE HUTUWAI
FAMILY ALBUM
- coS« OB ‘ M
IVIRS. v '
•&&Z.
aelgS* 8W b \ttif c4 .’ tb e ** tfa<*
"a«‘V s *«sS "' ....
aU»cfe» e<et „«»«■* st»e
« bc ” e R et abott 4 9 ®t *»* iteW * a
be riUv\- & Bton gooa
sto e . i°d ' eB s-a V fceT »®| e V».*g* be v
teC rtutAit*ftlrtcd l “ na
ot fl SeKa» 1 «oetHc g e » a b oR;
o{|o ® v«pT ato _-r tot i yf3is
r»e»t; Started . * av*a* fiut tt«ai
aJid sbe x too* b d tt,a be t e Hnt
slee? ‘a»d t» e .tfttnß "Can e* tet )jjißlß
g?ld«aW b ain io^&^^°norr(^ x ' e *
g s *is »°« e a«d «
®r«. Sf A
sS«s* «««;',»«/* <S» I " i 0
t 05«,„... «”e« IbSHX o®* 0 ®*
°
Read these letters from
grateful Australians . . .
some of the many thousands who thank Hutuwai for the
Radiant Health they now enjoy! What Hutuwai has done
for others ... it can also do for you! Hutuwai is HEALTH!
CHILD NOW WELL AFTER ARTHRITIS
MARY PETHYBRIDGE
BROOKLYN, HAWKESBURY RIVER,
N.S.W.,
23rd October, 1937.
Dear Sirs,—
With further reference to my little girl
who had suffered so severely with RHEU-
MATOID ARTHRITIS, you will be pleased
to hear that after twelve months of im-
proved health through taking your Hutuwai
Remedy, she is quite well and strong and
the most vigorous and healthy specimen you
would wish to meet.
She is a regular Tom Boy, and tears up
and down the hills as if nothing had ever
been wrong with her. She also shows a
remarkable degree of intelligence for a
child so young: and I can only thank this
marvellous Remedy called Hutuwai for hav-
ing proved such a remarkable and genuine
medicine; and anyone visiting the Hawkes-
bury District can call and see the child for
themselves, and verify these facts personally.
Yours very gratefully,
(Signed) (Mr. and Mrs.) M. A. Pethybrldge.
PRAYED FOR DEATH IS AGAIN FIT
ÜBS. E. M. WOODWARD
EASTWOOD, N.S.W.,
11th November, 1937.
Dear Sirs,—
I cannot praise your Hutuwai Tonic enough
for the way it has restored my health. 1
was AN ABSOLUTE COT CASE WITH
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. I was a patient
at Hospital, and for nearly three months
was unable to do anything at all for my-
self. The pain was so bad it used to make
me scream. I used to pray that I would
die before morning. All my limbs were
terribly swollen; and I bad to have my wed-
ding ring filed off; words cannot convey to
you how bad I was.
Nothing did me any good until my son
got me a bottle of Hutuwai! After a short
course of this marvellous Tonic I began
to improve and to regain my health and
strength again until to-day I am as well as
ever I was—in fact. I have only JUST FIN-
ISHED A BIG WASHING AND STILL FEEL
FIT AND FULL OF ENERGY.
Congratulations and success to HutuwaL
Yours thankfully,
(Signed) MRS. E. M. WOODWARD.
BEWARE COLDS and ’FLU!
Take HUTUWAI regularly and build up your resistance against colds
and ’flu. If you are suffering now from either of these complaints start
taking HUTUWAI to-day . . . you will be surprised how quickly you
will shake it off.
Amazing letters that
PROVE the GENUINE
Health -restoring Power of
, HUTUWAI Tonic
HAS MADE A NEW MAN OF ME!”
A. FADBOTH
I, AARON PADROTH, of MILE END ROAD,
ROUSE HILL, in tho State of New South
Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that two years ago I was stricken
down with Rheumatoid Arthritis. I was a
complete cripple and many of my joints
were locked. I could not get out of bed.
The pain was so severe that it often made
me cry all night. At the end they told me
they could do nothing for me.
Then I saw in the papers about your won-
derful Hutuwai Tonic. I had 32 bottles
and it has made a new man of me. To-day
I can get about again as well as ever, al-
though I am 66 years old. I can even do a
bit in the garden and chop wood. I advise
all who suffer to always have a bottle of
Hutuwai in the house. Hutuwai has over-
come my constipation, which had worried
me badly for years. They gave me three
weeks to live, but I beat them after all. I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provision of the “Oaths Act, 1960."
A. PADROTH.
Subscribed and declared at SYDNEY this
24th day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight, before me.
E. G. McLEOD. J.P.
HAD ARTHRITIS Is Now Daily Improving
MISS LUCY ADAIR
North Sydney, N.S.W.,
17th February, 1938.
Dear Sirs,—
As a result of the amazing benefit I have
received from the result of taking your EX-
CELLENT REMEDY, “HUTUWAI,” I feel it
is my duty not only to tell you, but to tell
the world of the benefits I have received
from taking samel
For over two yeafrs I have been a patient
for a combination of NERVES, NEURITIS,
and ARTHRITIS. I GRADUALLY BECAME
CRIPPLED, and COULD SCARCELY WALK,
so much so that, of necessity, I was com-
pelled to refuse work.
Friends advised me to try “Hutuwai,” and
ultimately in a very half-hearted manner 1
did so. The FIRST BLESSING I received
from same WAS NATURAL SLEEP—some-
thing I had not enjoyed for many weary
weeks. As a result, I naturally felt better,
and continued taking “Hutuwai,” finding
myself DAILY IMPROVING, and becoming
LESS CRIPPLED, and able to get about once
again.
I had occasion to be re-examined by a
Doctor, and a few days later was informed
that I was NOT NOW SUFFICIENTLY IN-
CAPACITATED FOR WORK. This most
gratifying result is the outcome of taking
about five bottles of your famous remedy
Yours faithfully and gratefully,
(Miss) LUCY ADAIR.
Witness: E. G. McLeod, J.P.
wmmimm
: i%x:-w:*>>.<vc*-«wy^:;
**? .:.■■••:■
HUTUWAI contains the live
juice of HERBAL PLANTS
and must do good to all
who drink it!
Scientists have discovered that Herbal Plant Juices and
Human Blood are closely alike; and, when taken by
human beings, Plant Juices change easily into valuable
Hormones, which build a healthy body. Hutuwai Natural
Tonic contains the Juice of Herbal Plants. Hutuwai helps
to drive out the injurious acids and poisons from the system,
and eradicates aches and pains . . . new vigour is furnished to
the nervous system . . . the brain becomes more active and
clear, and the body glows with vitality and vigour. Hutuwai
will give you steady nerves and an excellent appetite, and you
will sleep well. Hutuwai is different ... it is genuine. Head-
aches disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your
friends will tell you how well you look, and you will take
a renewed interest in life. In the Hutuwai Herbal Plant
Juices Nature supplies the minerals and vitamins necessary
to keep the human mechanism in perfect working order
. . . and so these vital life elements are made available to
you in Hutuwai ... in Nature’s own way . . . thus
ensuring full natural medicinal value.
For NERVES & RHEUMATISM
mm
S A
■vlf?
m
m
fit
m
* ■■■*■
m
mi
m
m
m
*gliV
NATURAL
TONIC
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
is sold and recommended by CHEMISTS and
STORES throughout Australia!
IF UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, 3/- and 4/6
PER BOTTLE DIRECT FROM HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 87, 210 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY, or HUTUWAI 87, 485
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Postage 1/- per bottle extra.


Make the WENTWORTH
Home
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and
a 24-hour hot water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Irrespective of changes of season or
of Government every session of Parlia-
ment opens in a packed Council
Chamber, the overflow standing on
benches up in the gallery, clinging to
pillars, breathing down one another’s
necks, and (those who are men) having
trouble with their hats. Last week when
the second session of the 33rd Parliament
of Vic. commenced to operate, surplus
members filled the passageway af :v the
arrival of the Lieut.-Governor an 1 his
gold-epauletted escort, followed by a be-
wigged group surrounding the mace of
power and government. Those with
lowly white tickets who climbed the
back stairs to the side entrances of the
gallery had a glimpse of a courtyard
scene out of a history book —the gold-
braided guard, sleek grey horses, troopers
and Royal Artillery Band, with its
drummers in all the war paint of leopard
skins. They were off duty for the time
being and spent a pleasant interlude of
relaxation against a background that
could have been lifted out of an English
print, so magnificent are the oaks, elms
and beeches at the back of the pile of
grey buildings where the laws of the
State are hatched.
Blue-ticket holders watched proceed-
ings from a lower level of reserved seats,
and those with superimposed pasteboard
entree or with faces known to the officials
on duty had access to the holy of holies,
the floor of the Council Chamber. Mrs.
Clarence Weber was noticed, fur-caped
and hatless, among the members who
slipped inside the door after the arrival
of the mace. Tea for the majority was
served in the main dining-room, to which
members escorted their friends after the
short ceremony in the Council Chamber.
Very special guests were entertaind in the
smaller dining-rooms, where jellies,
trifles and hundreds-and-thousands were
elaborations over the usual Parliamentary
afternoon fare of ham sandwiches and
arrowroot biscuits. Mrs. Fanny Brown-
bill, the new member for Geelong, who
was sworn-in during the day, accepted
the good wishes of the Labor Women’s
Organisation in the tangible form of red
roses for her black coat. A small boy
who was vastly interested in all proceed-
ings was Don Dodgshun, who sat with
his mother, Mrs. Keith Dodgshun. Father
is the new member for Ouyen.
An Adelaide visitor to the opening of
Parliament was Mrs. Jeanne Young, who,
at 78, recently received an 0.8. E. She
is blind, but is such an ardent spirit that
she attaches litle importance to her dis-
ability and therefore made light of injur-
ing her foot on the day of her arrival,
no trifle in view of the 40-odd steps that
are the approach to Parliament House.
One of Mrs. Young’s great friends in
Adelaide is Miss Harriet Cook, an erst-
while teacher of the at-one-time-well-
known Mrs. Hubbe’s School. Miss Cook
is 80, and regularly reads books and
some of the news of the world to Mrs.
Young. The latter veteran is visiting
Melbourne in connection with the publi-
cation of her Life of Catherine Helen
Spence, a lady who was a distinguished
reform worker of her day in South Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Young’s 0.8. E. was in recog-
nition of her political work.
Although there are practically no
flowers in Melbourne and suburbs, Lor-
raine Butler managed to collect armfuls
of blooms for the dance at Earl’s Court,
organised by the Malvern Junior Auxil-
iary for the Brighton and Darling Babies’
homes. Branches, feathery with green
leaves or heavy with golden oranges,
were mixed among the flowers and placed
on ledges down the length of the long
room. The young folk who worked up
the party weren’t content with selling
tickets to girls and lads of their own
generation, but in many cases persuaded
parents and their friends to come also.
Midway between supper and going-home
time, hot soup and bacon and eggs were
a great success up on the balcony. Presi-
dent of the auxiliary Vyvienne Tanner
wore a patterned chiffon frock and
daphne in her hair. Judy Lillies tucked
a nosegay into the waist of her sunset-
pink faille gown. Ann Akhurst’s choice
for flowers lit upon daphne and for
color ocean-blue ninon. Among others
who added blue to the kaleidoscopic
effect upon the dance floor were Molly
Turnbull and Josepha Malinowska. Pat
Hamilton’s dress was striped in several
shades of pink and russet. Judge and
Mrs. Stretton were there, also Mr. and
Mrs. Adrian Akhurst, the G. Soilleux
couple, Mrs. Leslie McConnan, the Rus-
sell Lambles and the lan Sergeants, Mrs.
Sergeant’s chiffon frock striped gaily
enough to, please a Romany rover.
Placed midway between the March
races and the Cup activities, Grand
National Week provides a stirring-up of
the social world. On and between race-
days there are dances, cocktail parties,
dinners large and small when the town
entertains the country, and vice versa.
In the Broothorn portrait is Merrie
Urquhart, who, with Deborah Staughton,
is giving a cocktail party this afternoon
at Menzies for a large number of young
people.
All roads led to Flemington on Satur-
day. Weather was cold, and dressing
inclined to the wintry. Sensation of the
day was the protest against Dakwood,
winner of the- Grand National, on the
ground of interference. The stewards
dismissed it, and backers who had secured
the favorable odds on the steed had much
to rejoice about.
Sidney Officer, secretary of the Gra-
ziers’ Association, was on a subject near
to his heart when he opened the wool
display at the Arts and Crafts Society.
He and most of the other people present
found themselves mesmerised with Miss
Ray Grieve’s broomstick loom, which,
with the co-operation of quick, clever
fingers, can turn out fascinating rugs. It
is simple, inexpensive and small enough
to carry about to a friend’s house for a
wet afternoon’s work and chat beside the
fire. Among present examples in the
society’s rooms of good recipes for
wiping frowns from the faces of gift
hunters are C. R. Caslake’s wrought-
iron “dogs”—almost real dogs, for they
have canine faces and tails and dachshund
bodies, and they can be used in the grate
or as door scrapers of country houses
for boots covered with country mud.
Artful bookbinding is being shown by
Edith Dew, who is first and foremost a
musician. Teasled, hand-woven rugs in
striped designs, in large sizes for study
divans and steamer chairs, or smaller
knee-warmers for the pictures o’ nights,
are being exhibited by O. E. Johanson,
,It was one of his rugs which was pre-
sented to Ruth Draper after her charity
matinee.
Honour Mitchell is showing Grand
National scarves with horses heads, and
doggy ones for those with more domestic
inclinations. Mrs. L. Peake, who prob-
ably learnt in the days when she was a
war nurse that all men are children at
heart, has contributed some furry toys,
kookaburras, rabbits, platypuses and the
rest of them, which are just as captivating
for the not so young as for the children.
Among Alison Davidson’s lampshades
are several boudoir ideas of net over
parchment, with frilled edges and occa-
sional bows of ribbon. W. M. Ratcliffe
has an ingenious invention for those who
breakfast in bed —a tray with folding legs
which can be used also as a low table.
The first meeting in connection with
the golf gymkhana to be held at Eastern
Links took place at Mrs. G. J. Coles’s
home in Kooyong-road, and it happened
to be her birthday. Thus the daphne
upon her lapel, which was part of the
present of flowers from “the family.” The
principal event of the gymkhana on
August 20 will be an open mixed four-
ball against bogey. E. M. Purdy, com-
mitteeman of Eastern, who was present
at the meeting, showed signs of much
experience in the past in running charity
golf days, and his suggestions were
adopted regarding reasonably low en-
trance fees and trophies “in the flesh”
(or the silverware) to be presented during
the afternoon, as against the more syn-
thetic reward of an order on a sports
store.
Among those who were lured into the
band of workers were the Stewart lady,
who is helping with the treasury (she hav-
ing written cheques on so many other
charity occasions). Another “reliable” is
Mrs. Abe Harris, who has helped organ-
ise the Jewish Bachelors’ Ball for 17 years
in succession, with such success that she
was recently presented with a token of
appreciation from bachelors and bene-
dicts of past and present committees.
Mrs. J. A. Campbell was at the meeting,
all in black. Lois Rigg’s morning sports
wear was scarlet cardigan with grey
knitted skirt and jumper. Mrs. Barry
Thomson, who is president of the Alfred,
for which hospital the gymkhana is being
held, has had yet another letter from
Lynn Fontanne. Her son Jack, who has
been with the Lunt-Fontanne Co. before
and all through the “Idiot’s Delight”
season, is now with them in London,
playing in their “Amphitryon Thirty-
Eight.”
With his right hand upon the piano,
his left over his heart and all the Town
Hall lights blazing at their maximum
candle-power (why, nobody knows)
Tauber opened his first concert in Mel-
bourne. He carries no little black book
like Tibbett; words and music are in
his head. He wears glasses for reading,
but the only time he used them was in
conjunction with manuscript and music-
stand for the last encore. As the evening
progressed and the singer got warmed
up he left the piano and gradually came
closer to the front of the platform.
After the concert, the Taubers spent a
quiet half-hour in Menzies’ lounge, he
drinking orange juice, she imbibing coffee,
before going on to make an official ap-
pearance at a dance at the Palais. Mrs.
Tauber wore black chiffon, white ermine
coat with blue fox sleeves, and high on
the top of her head another surprise (for
usually auburn heads don’t take such
liberties with other reds) in field flowers,
red berries and a knot of red, white and
blue ribbons. Louise Lovely wore orchids
high on her platinum locks. Betty Mar-
ron’s auburn head was unadorned, and
orchids were pinned to her squirrel coat.
Lynette Dickenson’s black coat had a
collar stitched in gold thread, and she
wore a flat velvet bow on the top of her
head. Group-Captain and Mrs. Harrison,
who were at the concert as part of their
24th wedding anniversary celebrations,
took their daughter Greta with them and
had a sentimental interest in finding her
contemporary, Margaret Cox, among the
crowd in the foyer. For Margaret is
the daughter of Mrs. G. M. A. Cox, who
as Greta Schumacher was one of Mrs.
Harrison’s bridesmaids.
Dr. Greta Hort, who has brains and
learning in inverse ratio to her size (she
is only five feet), stepped off the mailboat
into one of the coldest days of the year,
but the warmth of her welcome more
than balanced the temperature. Dr. Hort,
who is the Women’s College’s new princi-
pal (in succession to retiring first princi-
pal Miss S. Williams), is a Doctor of
Philosophy, a Research Fellow of Girton
College and a Master of Arts (Copen-
hagen).
Broothorn pictures here Diana, last of
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Stephens’s trio of
daughters to come out and about. Diana
wanted Grand National Week for her
party and chose an early date, the late
afternoon of last Monday. Many of her
guests had been helping that day at No.
9 Darling-street at the bridge party for
the Queen Victoria Hospital, and they
met for a third time, later on, at Men-
zies, at the lavish dance for the same hos-
pital.
At Government House, Adelaide, his
Excellency and Lady Dugan entertained
mostly the younger set at their first social
function since they returned from over-
seas. In the ballroom the two mantel-
shelves were banked with red heath and
proteas. Supper was served in the dining-
room which opens off the ballroom, the
tables arranged with Lorraine Lee roses
and pink sweet-peas, with pale-pink
candles in the silver candelabra. Lady
Dugan’s ciel-blue satin was cut on slim
lines, and she wore a diamond tiara and
ornaments, long pale-blue gloves and a
cape of shaded ostrich. Four debs., Joan
Edge, Alison Bickford, Pamela Heath and
Janet Stoddart made their curtseys, all
in white.


Legal Notices.
TO JEREMIAH QUIRK, brother of Phillip
Quirk, who died intestate in New Zealand
on 15th October, 1935, his children and all
persons claiming by, through or under him
or them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
30th September, 1938, your claims to share in
the estate of the said Phillip Quirk, failing which
such estate will be distributed disregarding your
claims.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor, Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Re ADA JANE CROOK, Deceased.
PURSUANT to the provisions of the Trustee
Act 1928 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
all persons claiming to be the children of
HENRY ALLCARD TURNER, deceased,
WILLIAM SMITH TURNER, deceased, and
JAMES HOBSON TURNER, brothers of Ada
Jane Crook, late of Goodall-street, Hawthorn,
in the State of Victoria, married woman, de-
ceased, and who are entitled as such children
to certain shares or interests under the will or
in the estate of the said Ada Jane Crook, who
died on the twenty-third day of September,
1918, and probate of whose will was on the
fourth day of February, 1919, granted by the
Supreme Court of the said State in its probate
jurisdiction to the UNION TRUSTEE COM-
PANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, of 333
Collins-street, Melbourne, in the said State,
are HEREBY REQUIRED to send particulars
in writing of his or her claim to be entitled
as children as aforesaid to any share or inter-
est under the said will or in the said estate to
the said Company at 333 Collins-street aforesaid
on or before the fifteenth day of September,
1938, after the expiration of which time the said
Company will proceed to pay or distribute the
moneys and/or assets representing such shares
or interests amongst the children of the said
Henry Allcard Turner, William Smith Turner
and James Hobson Turner entitled thereto,
having regard only to such claims, whether
formal or not, of which it shall then have had
notice. AND notice is hereby further given
that the said Company will not be liable for
any moneys and/or assets so paid or dis-
tributed or any part thereof to any child of
whose claim it shall not have had written notice
as aforesaid.
DATED the First day of July, One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight.
SHAW & TURNER,
94-98 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the said Company.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu.
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
3'*‘ 7 I Ous«v. Wellington, N.Z.
M
-< ■'...
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Relief Taxes in Queensland
Premier Forgan Smith has accom-
panied a welcome, if belated, announce-
ment that relief taxes and their applica-
tion are to be thoroughly investigated
with a warning to local authorities that
the golden flow of Government grants
for relief work will be substantially re-
duced.
It is an inevitable corollary if any-
thing real is to be done towards check-
ing the mounting cost of unemployment
which has so far accompanied the large
actual fall in the number of unemployed
in Queensland. More important still,
it will check the development of a sys-
tem which is in danger of creating a
work-shy class, prepared to accept for
themselves and their dependants a lower
standard of living than is conducive to
national welfare, provided their exertions
are strictly limited.
To protests from Brisbane’s Labor
City Council —its cut will be £185,750
less than last year Mr. Smith very
sensibly replied that reduction of the
immense sums received by it for relief
purposes since 1931 should not cause
unemployment if the Council’s own large
revenue is used properly. The Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry should be
eliminated as an interfering factor in the
selection of labor under the reduced
relief scheme; that done, there is no
obvious reason why the Brisbane Coun-
cil and all other local authorities should
not get back to a basis of full-time em-
ployment for all the efficient labor that
they can afford to use.
Then it will be possible to ascertain
how much genuine unemployment re-
mains in the State, and to allot the
diminished taxation returns for its sys-
tematic relief.
One Night of Gore
Badili is a pretty little lockup on an
island at Koki (Papua). Ume was chief
warder; his wife was Boyo, his little
daughter Igua. All three are now dead,
and a naive account of their passing has
been given to the police by Karo, one of
the gaol inmates.
Karo was believed to be almost blind,
and so was allowed special privileges.
Next to him in chokey was a resource-
ful person named Koava,'who had a
grudge against Ume. Koava, according
to Karo, worked on the latter, talking
to him and at him and round him, until
his head began to spin and he was will-
ing to do whatever Koava told him.
Koava also talked to Ume. He sug-
gested that Karo was a sorcerer, his
forte being producing large sums of
money out of nowhere. Indeed, Koava
went so far as to say that if you stuck
a knife in Karo’s leg money would pour
out of it.
Ume agreed to liberate Karo one night
so that he might produce the dibs. He
left the key in Karo’s cell door, and
presently warder and prisoner met on
the steps of the European gaol.
There Karo tied Ume up and cut his
throat. Since he had been told to do it
“Stop foolin', Ma; can't y' see I'm busy?"
by Koava to prevent the chance of eye-
witness stories getting to the Govern-
ment, Karo now called on Ume’s wife,
Boyo, said to her “You sit down here,”
and cut her throat. He rounded off a
night of murder by killing the child.
Then he went back to his cell.
Through the wall Koava asked: “You
do him?”
Karo said: “Yes ; he all finished.”
“Namo hoerea —thank you,” said
Koava.
That is Karo’s story. Before the rest
of the witnesses are examined at the
higher-court trial there may be other
stories.
“E.J.”: The promised justification of
the embargo on iron-ore export did not
materialise before members dashed away
from Canberra for another recess. Silence
can’t improve the position or allay the
anger of Westralians. The embargo has
been a dreadful knock to their North,
already suffering from the slump in
pearling. Part of the arrangement was
that Kimberley cattle should be shipped
as well as the stuff from Yampi; now
the cattle market goes west as well as
the market for Yampi ore. Nor do
North Westralians descry any prospect of
improvement for them in delivery of
overseas mails from Darwin. In their
dejected state of mind they see in this
arrangement the sidetracking of Wynd-
ham.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: That George Pearce was
honest and diligent everyone admits, and
Westralians will allow their rejected
member what Melbourne “Argus” refers
to as “the credit for having grasped the
skirts of happy chance.” Much less seri-
ously than the “Argus” writer, they will
grant that he grasped said skirts again
and again. But the “Argus” assertion
that he never changed his opinions is really
too much for them to swallow. They re-
member Pearce as a Freetrader —and as
a Protectionist of sorts ; as a supporter
of national military training (1911-29)
and as an opponent of it (1934-38) ; as
Laborite, Nationalist and U.A.P.; as a
Hugheselier fighting Page’s group who
left Hughes to form a Ministry in which
Page was second. “He was an Australian,
not a Westralian,” the “Argus” con-
cluded on a smug note. Actually he was
a Senator from Westralia, a representa-
tive of that State in the alleged States’
House; and his last proceeding as
Senator from Westralia was to suppport
an administrative edict nullifying West-
ralian policy—an edict which has de-
livered a serious blow to Westralian inter-
ests
# * * *
tt ~- i Tf’c o innMv life on
“Dick Tafone . Its
the road for those Qu en ,
earn a crust by delivering the ar
which the crust surrounds. Under trade-
union—and State—law they may not have
with them on their journeys anyone who
is not an employee. One miscreant, fined
for having given a lift to a small-boy ac-
quaintance, was so informed by the
Southport (Q.) magistrate: “Even if you
happened to be taking your young lady
out for a drive while you were deliver-
ing bread ” the Beak said, “you would
be committing a breach of the award.”
To those of us who can recall the brave
free days when the flapper thrilled to
sit behind the gallant steed urged by a
dashing baker’s boy, it seems to be be-
coming a hard, grim and unromantic
world.
'** * *
“Bufo”: Each winter north-bound
steamer tourists admire the picturesque
wooded ranges on Stradbroke, Moreton
and Fraser Islands, outside Brisbane and
Maryborough (Q.), with their green sum-
mits ranging up to 900 ft. above sea-level,
Few realise that they are really sand-
dunes, the largest coastal sand-dunes in
the world, and as remarkable in their
way as the Great Barrier Reef itself.
Every foot of them has been built up
of sand blown by the wind—and if the
vegetation which holds them together
should be destroyed, every foot of them
will be blown back again into the sea.
This, indeed, is happening with ominous
activity at the north end of Moreton
Island, where two of the charted Five
Hills of a dozen years ago have dis-
appeared, and the pilot steamer can
anchor in deep water where they once
stood. A few miles away a quarter-mile
of foreshore slipped one night into 20
fathoms of water,
* * * _ „ * .
J. Want : Professor H. J. Wilkinson,
who has been on an “expedition” to the
Centre, has returned entranced with the
possibilities of real Australian food. The
Centralian goanna, he says, is delicious,
an j he approves of grubs. Goanna is
not had, t> u t before it give me a bit of
car p e t snake, cut from a fat serpent not
too j on g j n the tooth. The witchetty grub
j s the best of the lot, properly cooked
0 n a bit of hot iron. In some timbers
he has a rich nutty flavor which makes
him a morsel for a gourmet. One of
these days a real chef will discover the
witchetty; then the only bar to his
becoming a constituent of Hotel Aus-
tralia menus will be his scarcity and the
work involved in hunting him. How-
ever, perhaps some ingenious Queens-
lander will find a way of running a grub
farm.
“Zedo”: In place of the honorary
medical system, Brisbane and South
Coast General Hospitals are to have
general medical superintendents at £l5OO
to £1750 a year, together with houses
and lighting. The hospitals will be de-
partmentalised under medical, surgical,
radiological and casualty supervisors and
a resident orthopaedist. Sectional salaries
will begin at £B5O a year and rise to
£llOO. There will be 66 part-time
medicoes, each handling his special job
—47 at Brisbane Hospital, 11 at the
Children’s Hospital and eight at the new
Women’s Hospital. They will be paid
for three-hour sessions—seniors £3 10s.,
juniors £2 10s. So senior physicians,
who will have five-year appointments,
will be able to take £546 p.a. for nine
hours’ work per week and senior sur-
geons will probably earn more, having
more to do.


"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
front the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
A Useful Pre-amplifier.
A simple and efficient pre-amplifier
has many uses. 'A twin-triode is the
basis of the design here described, and
types 53, 6A6, 6N7 and 79 may be used.
The writer prefers the 6A6. With this
type or with one of the other 6.3-volt
valves the pre-amp. may be used on
either A.C. or batteries, since the plate-
current requirements are small and the
heater voltage is readily obtainable from
a car-type accumulator.
Component values are given and little
comment is necessary. The decoupling
is practically indispensable, as the gain
of the unit is quite high and instability
a potential source of trouble in cases
where a common power supply is in
use for the pre-amp. and the audio gear
following it. The Bmfd. electrolytic by-
passes in the two arms of the decoupling
circuit provide adequate stabilising effect
and do a good job in filtering the plate
supply should there be any ripple present
in the output from the main power-pack.
The plate supply should be as smooth
as possible to avoid introducing mains
hum, which is of necessity only made
worse by the amplification following the
pre-amp.
The Bmfd. electrolytics are available
in 500-volt working rating in pigtail
type, and were used in the original
model with considerable saving of room.
Where the unit is to be built up com-
pactly, the new small insulated resistors
may also be employed to advantage. A
metal case as, container for the amplifier
is well worth while. Small biscuit- or
cake-tins are handy and, painted, look
quite well. A small indicator lamp may
be fitted to indicate when the unit is on.
If the unit is made up in a small metal
box, be sure to guard against the pos-
sibility of a high-voltage point (the end
of a resistor, for example) coming into
accidental contact with the box. A sheet
of paper in the bottom of the case used
in the original unit guarded against shorts.
Long leads to the input should be
avoided, and input, output and internal
grid leads should be carried out in metal-
braided flex with the braid earthed. If
the pre-amp. is used with a power-pack
in which no provision exists for allow-
ing heaters to come to operating tem-
perature before the H.T. is applied and
in which the normal full-load voltage is
400 or more, it would be wise to in-
clude 600-volt (or higher) rating con-
densers in the decoupling filter. Since
no voltage drop exists across the 50,000-
ohm decoupling resistors until the valve
draws current, the full “no-load” voltage
developed by the power-pack while
warming up is impressed across the de-
coupling condensers. Another way out
would be to retain the 500-volt types
and instal a form of bleeder across them
to create a voltage drop through the
50,000-ohm resistors under all conditions.
The most obvious use of the pre-amp.
is to boost the output from low-level
microphones. It will lift the output from
the average Reisz to well above average
single-button or phono, pickup level.
With a modified input circuit to match
the higher impedance of crystal types
it should also serve admirably. It could,
too, be incorporated in a condenser-
mike assembly to serve as head amplifier,
A unit of this kind is surprisingly
flexible in both application and power
demand. As far as plate supply is con-
cerned, it seems to matter little what
voltage is used, and figures between 100
and 400 show but small variations in
performance, the resistance-coupling used
no doubt accounting for a sort of equalis-
ing effect. The bias-resistor for the twin-
triode shown as 1250 ohms should be
1750 ohms.
VK6WZ.
Microphone Mixer.
The advantages of a microphone mixer
on the input of a speech amplifier are
obvious, whether the system is used for
P.A. or modulator for an amateur trans-
mitter, but there are few mixer applica-
tions because constant impedance attenu-
ators are expensive. The circuit diagram
shown is a suggestion by American ama-
teur W3AOC, in “Ultra-High-Fre-
quency News” U.S.A. Ordinary 200-
ohm potentiometers are put to work very
satisfactorily. Provision is made for
three input channels, and it should be
noted that the microphone transformer
should have a 200-ohm output. The
output transformers on most commer-
cially manufactured velocity microphones
have this impedance.
If a carbon microphone is used, a
microphone-to-line transformer must be
fitted. With a crystal microphone a
transformer designed to match an ordi-
nary carbon microphone to grid can be
used, with the grid winding connected to
the microphone and the microphone
winding to the mixer. If a gramophone
pickup is used it should have an im-
pedance of about 200 ohms, and a high
impedance pickup can be connected in
the same way as a crystal microphone.
The output of the mixer should be
coupled to the mixer by means of a line-
to-grid or ordinary microphone trans-
former. To feed the output of a receiver
into one channel for rebroadcasting, a
plate-to-line transformer should be used
after the detector or first audio, if the
latter is a small triode such as a 56 or
6C5. The output of a pentode power
amplifier is too high, and usually the
hum will be objectionable.
D. B. K.
Notes on C and B Batteries.
[These pointers on applications of grid bias
and plate voltage dry batteries are given in
“Radiotronics” No. 87, issued by A. W.
Valve Co.]
Trouble is experienced in battery re-
ceivers owing to the gradual drop in volt-
age of the B batteries. This not only
results in a decrease of power output,
but also in increased distortion owing to
the power Valves not having the most
favorable bias for the low plate voltage.
In the ideal arrangement the grid bias
would be decreased in accordance with
the drop of plate voltage, and under these
conditions the best possible results would
be obtained from the B battery, which
could then be used until it was entirely
exhausted. If an ordinary fixed-bias
voltage is employed, the power valve be-
comes so seriously overbiased that the
B battery is frequently discarded,
although further use could be made of it
with a proportionate decrease in bias
voltage.
It is sometimes permissible to change
the bias voltage as the B battery deterio-
rates, but this is a practice not gener-
ally recommended. It is preferable to
arrange that the bias voltage automati-
cally decreases, for ideal relationship.
This may be accomplished by the addi-
tion of a discharge resistance in the re-
ceiver, s( connected that it is only in
operation during the time the set is
switched on. Thus the B and C batteries
are both discharging when the set is in
use, and if the discharge resistor is suit-
ably proportioned the drop between the
two batteries may be matched for best
performance from the B battery. -
The best all-round performance is
obtained when the voltage of the C bat-
tery falls in accordance with the follow-
ing table:
B Battery Voltage. C Battery Voltage.
Nominal. End of Life. Nominal. End of Life.
180 96 j
135 72 j f2° 5 16
90 48 ! - 45 32
45 24 1
22.5 12 j
In order to give the desired discharge to
the C battery a resistance as shown in
the following table should be switched
across the C battery while the set is in
operation.
Receiver Drain Resistance Resistance for
(Ma., with Nomi- in Ohms per 4.5-volt
nal Plate Volt- Volt C C
age). Battery. Battery.
12 1600 7200
16 1020 4590
20 800 3600
These values apply to heavy-duty B bat-
teries and large C batteries. In calcu-
lating the receiver drain, the average cur-
rent under normal receiving conditions
should be used. In the case of a Class B
stage using type 19 or IJ6G with a load
of 20,000 ohms, the average plate current
may be taken as 4ma.
Radio receivers are usually tested for
sentitivity, power output and distortion,
with new B batteries supplying the full
voltage. In order to check the perform-
ance of the receiver with a run-down B
battery, tests are sometimes made on a
new battery by simply tapping down to a
lower voltage. Although the receiver
then works at a lower voltage, it does not
check under normal conditions as with
a run-down battery.
When a B battery drops in voltage
there is also developed an internal re-
sistance which may be sufficient to cause
“motor-boating,” oscillation or various
other forms of feedback. New receivers
should be tested with a low voltage in
series with an equivalent internal resist-
ance. Tests with a number of B bat-
teries indicate that the internal resist-
ance of a battery will never normally ex-
ceed the values given in the following
table. These values of voltages and re-
sistances refer to a B battery of 135 volts.
When Battery Equivalent Highest Internal
Drops to Resistance is
120 v. 60 ohms.
102 v. 300 ohms.
90v. 660 ohms.
72v. 1500 ohms.
In order to get the best results from
B batteries it is desirable that the receiver
should still function, even with a B-bat-
tery voltage of 72 and an internal resist-
ance of 1500 ohms. Such a test is easy
to apply and is a valuable check on the
performance of the receiver. It will en-
sure that the converter valve continues to
oscillate and that all the valves are in a
reasonable working condition. In cer-
tain cases, particularly where a wide
wave-band is covered, it may not be pos-
sible to obtain short-wave operation
under these conditions, but the test will
indicate to what limit the B battery may
be discharged before the receiver is
“dead.”
V.C.
Amateur Chatter.
A description of applications of the
WBJK “flat-top” beam in a VK amateur
mag. concludes with the observation:
“A possibility that seems to have been
overlooked is the use of vertical Kraus
beams for 28mc. and 56mc.” Not guilty ;
VK2NO was using a vertical WBJK on
56mc. when logged in Wellington, M.L.,
by P. A. Morrison. The array was de-
scribed in detail in B. 3/11/ ’37.
Sydney u.h.f. men have been with-
out a conveniently distant 56mc. station
for test purposes since VK2BP ceased
transmission in the Blue Mountains of
N.S.W. A new station is now active on
the band, this time from Wentworth
Falls, and operated by VKs 2ABC and
2LZ, using both callsigns in a combined
station. Portable equipment of VK2WJ
was tested from VK2ABC recently and
communication established with VK2NO.
Another station worked by VK2ABC was
VK2EM, of Gordon, N.S.W. The new
mountains station will shortly erect a
beam aerial directed towards Sydney.
An interesting feature of the 60-mile
test between VK2ABC and VK2NO was
a receiving test by VK2CE. The latter
is not in a good u.h.f. location in Syd-
ney, and by using 56mc. coils in an
Ideal Amateur Superhet (described in
B. 13 /1 / ’37) was able to hear both ends
of the channel, also transmissions from
VKs 2EM, 2AJH and 2ABG.
The 20-metre band is behaving
erratically in Eastern Australia, being
given to suddenly “folding up” at short
notice. Very strong American ’phones
L. G. WYBRANDS, PCJ Announcer.
may be workable around 10 p.m., and
less than three minutes later only weak
carriers may be heard. Between midnight
and 7 a.m. there are no European signals
on the band at this time of the year.
There is very little 56mc. activity in
Maoriland at present. ZL4DQ is the
most prominent worker on the band, and
ZL4FW has 100 watts and a superhet
available, but he is away in England.
Other stations interested are ZLs IJD,
2UD, 3DJ, 4BK and 4AI, and signals
of a DX nature have been heard, but
as these have been unidentifiable no
announcements have been made.
The writer had a lengthy QSO with
XUBRB, Shanghai, recently, and was told
that, out of more than 40 QSL cards sent
to Australians after QSOs, only four re-
plies have so far been received. VKs


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following mouth: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres. . ... .
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - F 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
are rapidly acquiring an overseas repu-
tation for failure to provide promised
QSLs.
A VK9 with a good signal on CW
day and night in Eastern Australia is
VK9BW, located at Wau Post Office,
New Guinea. That he is reaching across
the Pacific is evident by the strings of
Ws answering his CQs. In Dutch New
Guinea the Archbold expedition, re-
ferred to in B. 26/5/’3B, is now on the
20-metre band with the call PK6XX.
Unfortunately the frequency is in the
middle of the American ’phone band, so
that PK6XX is mostly blanketed by
QRM. Activity is naturally centred on
communication with Americans, but later
there should be opportunities for VKs
to get some QSOs in.
Conditions for European QSOs dur-
ing the afternoons are at present patchy
in Eastern Australia, but before breakfast
things are more satisfactory. Gs break
through as the sun rises above the horizon,
quicKiy reaching good strength. The peak
period is from 6.45 a.m. to 7.30 a.m.
E.A.T. approximately.
VK2NO.
Long-range DX.
Associate-editor Conklin, of “Radio,”
U.S.A., makes some interesting obser-
vations on what is likely to happen to
short-wave long-distance radio communi-
cation between amateur stations in the
next few years.
There are two general methods of
predicting the future the DX cycle,
from which conditions a few months
ahead have been predicted with fair
accuracy, and calculations designed to
show what may happen to the bands
based on the change in sunspot activity.
It is known that 56mc. transatlantic
signals have been reported during the
last year or two, but not previously since
1927, but a more detailed comparison
can be made on the lower frequencies.
When the 28mc. band opened up early
in 1928 little time was lost in making
some good long-distance contacts which
lasted through the winter of 1930. Fol-
lowing that summer, when DX went
through the seasonal slump, few stations
were active. There was one transatlantic
report in 1932 and one in 1933. OKIAW
waS heard in U.S.A. in June of 1934, a
Canadian was heard in Australia in
August, and by the end of the year
W9TJ in U.S.A. and ON4AU in Belgium
were making fairly regular contacts.
Australians got through well for a few
weeks in the spring of 1935, and by
winter that year things opened up for
all continents. On 14mc. in 1933 and
1934 the band would fade out at 5 p.m.
in Illinois, not to open again until after
sunrise. Europeans, without any inter-
fering U.S.A. signals, were heard on
7mc. after 7 or 8 p.m.
An important consideration in mak-
ing predictions will be whether radio
conditions precede or lag behind sun-
spots. Another factor is that the best
signal strength may occur on a frequency
that is nearly the highest which will
support communication. Thus, foreign
7mc. and 3.5mc. signals may be some-
what weaker now than during a period
when the 28mc. and even ’l4mc. bands
are useless.
Conditions are unlikely to change
markedly in the next year, and by 1944
solar activity will presumably be again
at its lowest. Winter DX on 28mc. will
then be very scarce, and 14mc. is
likely to go dead for U.S.A. work
much below 2200 miles in the early
evening, while the Europeans are likely
to fade in mid-afternoon. In the late
evening the band is likely to be com-
pletely dead, not to open up before sun-
rise ; 7mc. may also -be closed for U.S.A.
work at short distances by 8 p.m., but
stay open for DX at distances beyond
about 1500 miles.
There is reason to look to transmitter,
receiver and aerial design that will per-
mit reasonably rapid band-change, in-
cluding the use of “80” for late-evening
contacts in 1944. One very hopeful result
of a long-range study of conditions is
that the 28mc. band, out of every 10
or 11'years, may be open for DX from
as few as five years (of which three have
already passed) to as many as eight
years with somewhat more spotty con-
ditions at the beginning and end of that
period. This is based on what happened
since 1933, and assumes that conditions
will not change for the worse much more
rapidly than they improved following
the last sunspot minimum.
Mr. Conklin’s prediction is based on
papers dealing with “Comparison of
Data on the lonosphere, Sunspots and
Terrestrial Magnetism,” “New lono-
sphere Broadcasts,” “Five Metres on
Parade” and “Forecasting Sunspots and
Radio Communications Conditions”
from “Proc: 1.R.E.,” “Radio,” “R 9” and
“Bell Laboratories Record.”
D. B. K.
Advantages of Self-bias.
Self-bias has many advantages over
fixed or back bias, and is particularly
valuable in the case of output valves,
where it provides a distinct measure of
“Hey, cut out that damn jazz. Don't ’ee know tez Sunday?”
protection and more consistent perform-
ance. There are certain smaller valves
which also are more satisfactory when
operated with self-bias, these including
all the high-mu triodes, such as types
2A6, 75, 686 G, 6F5, 6FSG. These valves
have such a small margin between the
point at which grid current commences
and the point at which distortion be-
comes severe owing to curvature of the
characteristic that care must be taken
to adjust the operating point between
these two limits.
Owing to variations between the valves,
it is far more satisfactory to operate
high-mu triodes with self-bias than with
any form of fixed bias. When only a
small output voltage is required it is
not so essential to employ self-bias, but
in all cases it is desirable.
Any valve which is being operated at
or near its maximum output should be
operated on self-bias so that correct ad-
justment is made for variations in plate
current during life or between different
valves. This is not so important when
the valve is being operated under low
output conditions, since in such cases a
slight misadjustment will not cause any
appreciable effect.
V. C.
Explanation of "Output."
When the output of a power valve is
given as three watts, it is understood that
this is the output into the correct load
through an ideal transformer having a
ratio of 1 to 1. When applied through a
transformer having appreciable losses,
these will, of course, be subtracted from
the rated output, so that the actual output
may be considerably less. Transformers
such as are used for the input to loud-
speakers may have an efficiency of 75
p.c., and in some cases even less, so that
the output measured across the secondary
will always be less than the true output
of the valve.
When it is desired to measure the true
output of the valve, it is well to insert
a high-quality choke of low D.C. resist-
ance and low loss between B + and
plate, and to apply the load through a
large blocking condenser of negligible
impedance directly between plate and
cathode.
In the case of driver valves for Class-
B stages the loss in the transformer
should always be considered. In this case
the efficiency should not be on the basis
of average power but on peak power
drawn by the grids, and the efficiency
under these conditions may be between
50 p.c. and 70 p.c. For this reason it is
necessary to employ a driver valve having
considerable reserve of power. Good
design usually indicates that the driver
valve should supply a peak power of two
to three times the peak power drawn by
the grids of the output stage. The peak
power given by the driver valve is twice
the average power.
V. C.
Stereoscopic Television.
In view of the prophecy by J. L. Baird
during the recent World Radio Conven-
tion in Sydney that before long tele-
vision would not only be a matter of
large-sized screen projection but would
also be stereoscopic, recent work by
Zworykin in U.S.A. is of interest. Baird
experimented with stereoscopic tele-
vision as far back as 1928, but this was
with low definition disk-scanning with
two sets of spirally-traced apertures. The
results were crude, but definitely estab-
lished the possibility of stereoscopic
television. Zworykin has now gone fur-
ther and applied his researches to images
of a high-definition standard, so that the
results appear on the screen with the
illusion of depth.
Two transmitting tubes are used, about
the same distance apart as the average
human eyes. Each television camera in
this way sees a separate image of the
scene being televised, and the conversion
of these optical pictures into television
signals is effected in the usual way by
allowing the beam of electrons to scan the
photo-electric mosaic. Each camera
analyses alternately adjacent lines of the
scene under observation, and the result
is that two separate and distinct electri-
cal pictures, corresponding to that which
each eye of an observer would see, are
broadcast over the ultra-short-wave
channel.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Many radio constructors
put a little machine-oil on such moving
parts as the rotor and bearings of a
variable condenser. It should be re-
membered that 6il is an insulator. It
lubrication z? essential tbe thinf* to use
lUDriCdllun IS ebbenildl me ming lO use
is colloidal graphite, this being a con-
ductor. Even so, it should be use.d
sparingly in order to avoid the setting
up of high-resistance contacts in circuits.
* * * *
“Norwood”: In hitching-up a set,
many listeners are apt to take hum for
granted, as an inevitable heterodyne
background. A few simple experiments
will usually settle the trouble in a broad-
cast receiver. Assume, for a start, that
the hum is coming from some outside
source, such as a generator or telephone
wire. Place the aerial and earth-leads
as far away from the mains as possible.
Next disconnect the aerial. Should the
hum persist, alter the earth to a fresh
position to avoid picking up hum through
the ground. Next, disconnect the earth
also, and, should the trouble remain, try
out a counterpoise with the aerial about
10ft. below and properly insulated.
Should the trouble still persist get a pro-
fessional mechanic or advanced amateur
to check up on the shielding. As a rule,
however, attention to the foregoing de-
tails should remedy the matter.
* * * *
“Mac”: Marconi was supposed to be
working on a death-ray contraption
when he died. Every country is credited
by unscientific minds with having one
or more formulas suitable for the pur-
pose, and experiment has established the
practical possibility of slaying a rat at
a range of 12 inches or so with a million-
volt discharge. The use of any practical
form of death-ray implies
the possibility of trans-
mitting power without
wires over a distance at
reasonable cost. Any coun-
try which had a machine
capable of doing that
would be using it to make
millions out of the inevit-
able improvements in agri-
culture and commerce, in-
stead of storing it away
for a war.
* * *
“Cluny”: People who
buy dual-wave commercial
receivers are often inclined
to expect equal perform-
ance from both ends of
their bands at all times,
and blame the set if they
do not get it. Salesmen
should make a point of
demonstrating that even
inter-State medium - wave
reception varies from sea-
son to season and day to
day, and explaining that
the same effects are present
in short waves. This is
not a mere matter of com-
mercial honesty, but a
sound suggestion for secur-
ing recommendation busi-
ness. A disappointed, though originally
overhopeful, purchaser is the worst adver-
hopeful, purchaser is the worst adver-
tisement any set can have.
“Jachris”: A new problem has
cropped up for 8.8. C. Televising the
Derby from Epsom Downs proved a
remarkably successful experiment, and
50,000 viewers saw the race on their
home screens. But they saw, too, the
hoardings telling the crowds to Drink
Blogg’s Beer and Smoke Smith’s Cigars ;
and when, at Brooklands, a mechanic
came before the camera to tell what
happens in “the pits” his overalls car-
ried quite distinctly the name of a tyre
manufacturer. The 8.8. C. heads are
worried about it, but it seems there’s
nothing they can do. In fact, the Sels-
don Committee’s report on the television
service suggested that programmes might
be given showing factories at work mak-
ing articles which were of interest to
viewers, though without reference being
made to the particular product or trade-
name.


fd
DOROTHY ac
JOYCE MARTIN
Once these children used to say
“Mother, we’re tired.. Can we lie down? IV'e don’t want
to play with the other, girls.’’
Now .they’re ftill, of bubbling health arid spirits always
happy and : fit -—: a
m ira'cle due to
BIDOMAK.
. . .. Z ■
Checked by medical ,
,i authority Joyce’s blood
count was barely'
3,000,000- — Dorothy’s
3,500,000 —' afte,
BIDOMAK 5.000.000
and 4,750,000.
THIS'IS HOW
1
>• Greatly magnified,
here are the small
tuckers ©a.- the * inside
of the small intestine.
After uniting with gas*
trie juices, the vital
minerals of BIDOMAK
are absorbed directly
into the blood stream.
0
P
5/
f i. By the blood, the prec- V
' tout minerals are carried
to every cell ©I the body.
CALCIUM bvildi bone,
tissue. keeps teeth strong.
POTASSIUM helps build
red blood.
SODIUM stops irritability,
clears .the brain, helps
digestion. • .
PHOSPHORUS prevents
nei»e disorders. helps
bund red. blood, lessens
fatigue.
FEftRUM mater new r.ch
red blood.
' ,
&
a. This is o section
of the spinal
cord. In its red
bone marrow fer-
rum in BIDOMAK
new, vig-
orous red blood
to
HI gj B\
i. Here ore magni-
fied red blood cor-
nicles or cells.
These carry oxygen
from the lungs to
burn up poisonous
wastes in the system.
You feel better and
lose thqt sense of
depression, you do
'not feel' tired/ irri-
table or run-down.
0
v_
•..Two sections of
nerve tissue one
' shrivelled, poisoned,
painful— the other
healthy, vigorous an'd
vital. Mineral Starva-
tion causes one con-
dition, extra minerals
in BIDOMAK restores
health in full. Get
BIDOMAK to-day !
I
is. BIDOMAK mokes more red corpuscles. There-
lore, .more oxygen con be carried from the Jungs
by the blood. Hence poisons are eliminated more
quickly ond their unhealthy effects avoided. Ner-
vous and chronic' disorders are all rapidly
alleviated. The more red corpuscles, the more oxy-
gen carriers ate available.
f
w-m.
>y.yy.±>
m
m
m
O*
\Y\e
BN
,Wrf, 0 bV s "
W^'">eV?.-otl 4
**' ”*et* eS .v d«-
ru«-A°r>?! e
V, 'XSV*. eaV. £ <w V'*^ 4 -
$U *??*2 re^
ore
V
'V^
d*V:
BN
°2t-***
P eO 4oeS -e*rt
B'®».
«S» *V««
.4»»V£4 sAA
° •_ a' v
\vis
VWN
e s u
co YY ;
A 1
5 set^
6te \c
•c\vt o^
teS t w .^ e tv
i>S e AV*'
i
v te °A vjas aS v . e ew a c.oo^
eS S&V> et^ W A / 4 ‘
Yvet«* a L
sVSvV' 6 *' '
• V>'
mm
m
6%ay
\\
5 -v ltx • , e
r vjee^ s -
ft r
q •
pays Mr. G. Henry, of Camp'erdowns
“BIDOMAK is a miracle' in medicine
it banished ‘nerves’ and depression
[ike a magician’s wand made me' a
pew • man— ■ built up my body —r
trengthened my memory —helped the
bloodstream to function properly —f
SIDOMAK is paramount as a nerve,
'brain 'and body builder.
“I took it after, a severe nervous
breakdown and months in hospital.
‘lt. made' me well again. Words in
cold ink ■ are poor expressions of my
.gratitude.” " ,
» s °oi *' .
oi lV> e V**”'
rcv etl .
a sto
»n>
t\ve^ T
tve» T
AW®**
««**s
*?* ,m « 1 ? o '4 *>
<v k n® w
n^r| eS ’
ss\o^
Vtvctf o tv£f Q^ pS s- anA oi :^ e -
b o^ \ a t e e \\tvfe * A**^ ~A v^ e
\o\.\ - a a t© 61 * sW®, »w aA° -Aa
vvta'
,Yvrr
Aoa
, *<s*f-*-
ftSV
*' - V*
»*&<*■£»■
*»' 4 £>f> *f& V*
WAS „v»eOt- ... to '.»rvo^ fe tn t\i c \.;n-
S° « st* e vote.
° r
FROM
r BED-RIDDEN
INVALID TO
OLD-TIME
v DANCER,
20 " years a nervous
wreck —with horrible
rash -r- and blood
count of only
3,500,000 Mrs.
Horne, of 136 Lay-
ton Street, Camper-
down, could not do
her housework.
BIDOMAK improv-
ed blood count to
5,500,000:
Now she does all
her work and even
danced \ 5 old-time
dances. ■
Case checked by
fully qualified doctor.
Bidomak is a product
of' the Douglas Drug
Co., Sydney, Adelaide,
Melbourne, Brisbane
and' Perth. Sole
wholesale, agents for
Tasmania: L. Fair-
thorne.& Son Pty.,
Ltd., - 42-48 St.
.T o h n Street,
■ Launceston. New
Zealand Distri-
butors : Q-Tol-
■Flue n z o 1
Lab oratories,
W e l lington,
Chemists & Stores 3-for a Large Bottle
':
END YOU END MINERAL STARVATION - Will
¥
SCIENTIFIC
CONTROL
Attached to the DabbratoK'es
of the Douglas Drug Company
are three qualified -chemists
and a doctor of medicine who
graduated at the
Universities of Edin-
burgh and Glasgow.
M
COW?


I Recommend TRI-CAL-OS.
“Minerals”: Just read that every
gallon of milk a cow produces contains
an equivalent of l£oz. of phosphoric
acid ; a cow yielding 500 gallons gives
the equivalent of 6250 z. of phosphoric
acid. That’s something to think about.
Last winter I commenced feeding that
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour which supplies
over 32 p.c. phosphoric acid and noticed
a great difference in my winter produc-
tion. Tri-cal-os certainly improved the
digestion of the feeding stuffs. Evidently
the herd was not getting enough mineral
matter before to digest the non-mineral
portion of the feed. I am still using
Tri-cal-os, and the herd is looking splen-
did. Davis Gelatine, Sydney, will send
you all particulars about Tri-cal-os for
cattle-feeding. Old Farmer
&
i A
asrf.
JUNKERS (Opposed Piston) DIESEL ENGINES
INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE TYPES.
RIJN ON CRUDE OIL. GENERATE ELECTRICITY FOR Old. PER UNIT.
START INSTANTLY FROM COLD. ENTIRELY FREE FROM “DIESEL KNOCK.”
Ideal for rumping:, Sawinff, Chaff cutting, Electric Lighting, and all Power Purposes.
Junkers Engines are recognised throughout the world as the PERFECT DIESEL.
SOLE AGENTS:
THE FARM & PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY., LTD..
Machinery Merchants and Engineers,
500-502 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Bungaree”: The severe drought in
N.S.W., still unrelieved in most of the
western stud country, no doubt affected
Sydney Sheep Show entries. The schedule
was not representative, and many well-
known studs held aloof.
T. Starr and Son had bad luck in
losing a reserve championship and re-
serve grand championship on account
of the shearing regulation. As it did
not apply to young sheep, their ewe
which was at first awarded reserve
champion medium-wool and also re-
serve grand champion ewe honors was
disqualified. She showed a very even
fleece on the fine side of medium quality,
and should be heard of in the future.
Superfine-wool classes produced some
excellent sheep. The Ledgworth ram
which won the championship is one of
the best of its type seen in Sydney. Its
fleece is of true superfine quality, show-
ing beautiful character, great length
and density, and is wonderfully even
throughout. Bereen maintained its record
of success by carrying off the ewe
championship and reserve in this class,
and also both ram and ewe champion-
ships in the fine wools.
Several of the fine-wool exhibits were
uneven in covering, and in this respect
some of the medium wools were even
worse.
Strong-wool classes attracted some
good sheep, and the champion and
reserve rams went on to win grand
and reserve grand championships
against all comers. They came from
Egelabra and Dalkeith respectively, and
the former stud added to its reputation
by winning the Stonehaven Cup with a
splendid team.
There still seems to be a divergence
of opinion about sheep with black spots
on the nose. According to this year’s
awards, most of the judges do not appear
to regard this as a defect.
The small-graziers’ section received
very poor support, but the Eshcol sheep
that won most of the awards were fit
to hold their own anywhere.
Novice classes brought forward splen-
did sheep from Ledgworth, J. H. Reid
and H. C. Hudson. The last-named’s
entries were a first-class illustration of
what can be done with a small stud.
The dry season had its effect on British
breeds, both in entries and in appear-
ance. Southdown entries were only half
as many as last year, but quality , was
high and awards were widely distributed.
The good results achieved by recent im-
portations were shown in the improved
standards.
E. M. Perdriau again carried off most
of the Ryeland honors, but competition
was stronger.
Corriedale awards were widely dis-
tributed, but J. F. Guthrie collected
most. Whether it was due to . the ad-
verse season, the range in wool qualities
was very pronounced. There was am
unusually large number on the fine side
with a spinning quality of up to 58’s.
Others went as low as 44’s. Neverthe-
less, Corriedale fleeces showed a general
improvement in character.
Romney entries increased and showed
freedom from “tail.” The champion
Gamboola ram was a fine specimen.
Awards generally were divided between
Gamboola and Chatsbury.
Two exhibitors kept the Polwarth flag
flying, but the Jelbart sheep gained most
of the awards. So far this breed has
never anywhere reached the popularity
in N.S.W. that it has in Vic.
Dorset Horns were strongly repre-
sented, . and several new, breeders were
among the prizewinners. The champion
rams and ewes formed a group that
would hold their own in any part of
the world.
Border Leicesters showed the effect of
the dry season more than any other.
The tops were very good, but there was
a lack of uniformity.
Fleece Exhibits.
“Murrawong”: Some interest is at
last being taken in the fleece competi-
tions at Sydney Sheep Show. This year
14 fleeces were entered by five exhibitors,
all of them worth keeping as the nucleus
of a permanent wool exhibit. Last Easter
Show woolbrokers’ offices were ransacked
to find enough material for a general
display, and much of it was of doubtful
interest. The R.A.S. should buy these
fleeces and add to them from time to
time to form a permanent wool exhibit.
Exception might be taken to the typing
of several of the fleeces. The first-prize
ewe fleece in the strong-wool section
was actually of finer quality than the
“Quit twistin' 'er tail, Alf, an' let 'er come of 'er own free will."
second-prize fleece in the medium-wool
section. Most classes were judged on a
scale of points, covering trueness to type,
length, soundness, softness, color, charac-
ter, density, evenness, yield and weight,
but. there was one class for commercial
value only. It is curious, therefore, that
the grand championship should. have
been judged on commercial value only.
The three classes, open to Corriedale
fleeces didn’t attract any entries. {
Wool v. Artificials.
“Ghanam”: Work done by the S.
African Veterinary Research Laboratory
shows clearly how far.; the makersof
artificials have to go before they can
produce anything which will stand real
comparison with wool.
The best German wollstra or vistra
is not easy to tell.from wool on a super-
ficial examination, and the best Italian
lanital needs a second glance. But lanital,
which is a milk-residue product, dis-
integrates after the first washing and
breaks on bending 100 times. Bending
is the main test of wearing quality. Best
vistra will bend 2000 times unbroken,
but that is its limit. Wool’s bending limit
is 9,000,000 times.
Certainly wool-like artificials have
been improved out of sight since the first
specimens came to Australia. at the end
of 1925, but those likely to compete
with wool have a very hard road ahead
of them.
Classing Tender Clips.
; “Classer”: As a result of the drought
much of the wool from the affected areas
will be tender. Not suitable for comb-
ing owing to the big percentage of noils,
tender fleeces should not be offered with
sound wools. If the whole of the clip
is tender, classing can be done with little
trouble. It is the part-tender, part-sound
clip that calls for special attention.
Quality as it refers to fineness of fibre
must be taken into consideration with
length of staple, condition and color. Age
will have a bearing. So the wool from
the various flocks should be kept sepa-
rate. Fleeces showing a break must be
kept apart from those that are tender
all through, the former more likely than
not being sound on both sides of the
break. Unless they are plentiful, fleeces
part-sound and part-tender should be
treated as wholly tender. If there are
enough they can form a lot of their own.
It is a mistake to place well-grown
tender wools with short-stapled ones and
brand the lot “Clo.” These types should
be kept apart.
With a lighter clip certain, sound wools
from many drought districts are likely
to be scarce. Demand and values for
them must not be impaired by the in-
clusion of a few doubtful fleeces.
Fluke.
“Corriedale”: Now is the time to clean
fluke out of sheep. Clean sheep carried
right through the winter mean that the
pastures will not be contaminated by
fluke-eggs to hatch out next September-
November.
<Sheep can have a fairly large fluke in-
festation without showing it, but symp-
toms when they do appear are striking.
The skin and eyes are bloodless and
sometimes jaundiced (saffron-yellow).
A razor-back and potbelly show emacia-
tion together with excess abdominal fluid,
while under the jaw and brisket “bot-
tling” appears. Weariness is another
feature of the disease, which resembles
a good infestation of wire stomach
worms save for the yellow-jaundice color.
Diagnosis can be confirmed by sending
a vet.’s examination faeces to the nearest
Agricultural Department or else by a
post-mortem of one or two animals.
Fluke will be found on opening the
gall-bladder and passages leading to it.
Treat it with 1 c.c. of carbon tetra-
chloride in 4 c.c. of paraffin as a drench,
but if worms are also present use 2 c.c.
of c.t. in 3 c.c. of paraffin.
Two days at an interval of four or
five weeks will kill the present infestation.
The second drench is to catch any im-
mature fluke present at the first drench-
ing. Fluke less than two weeks old is
not affected by the drug.
Footrot in the Blood.
“Corriedale”: Work at the McMaster
Laboratory, Sydney, has already shown
that the causal organisms of footrot (B.
22/6/’3B) can be identified, and that they
are extremely short-lived on pasture. Once
free of the sheep the germs do not live
more than 15 days, hence the 30-day
rotation recommended.
There is no guarantee that “Teg’s"
treatment ever completely cleaned up his
mobs, and, if it didn’t, chronic carriers
of the disease would soon recontaminate
the pastures. That a sheep's feet are
trimmed and it is stood in a footbath
for some minutes does not mean that
the treatment has killed all the germs.
These may be well back into a bad foot,
and can be cured only by isolation and
two or three more treatments.
If all bad-footed sheep are separated
from the rest during the wholesale treat-
ment; of the flock, and kept away until
perfectly sound, footrot will not spread.
The germs can be liberated on pasture
only by sores. They will not get into
.faeces, urine or saliva front the blood.
The actual lesions are the source of all
trouble.
Remember that mildly affected sheep
can be the source of bad infection for a
whole mob.
This is why foot-treatment plus rotation
of plots every 30 days is vital.
Do Sires Transmit Mammitis?
“Mookau”: A sire certainly influences
the development of mammitis, in so far
as he transmits constitution. But the
disease is not inherent. In some herds the
offspring of certain sires contract the
disease more frequently than do those
of others, but this is only because they
have had transmitted to them traits
which make them liable to infection.
However, the sire plays an important
part in mammitis prevention. He can
transmit either resistance or suscepti-
bility to his progeny. So can the dam.
It is safe practice to cull families in
which the disease occurs fairly generally.
Herd Testing.
“Kau”: In spite of constant propa-
ganda there has been little progress in
herd-testing in Australia since the war.
L. Anderson, a Queensland Agricultural
official, told a dairy factory conference
in Brisbane the other day that the aver-
age return from grade herds was little if
anything better than it was 27 years ago.
He contrasted the progress which has
been made in Denmark, where in 1900
{Continued on next page.)


3248.
-n
u
03%
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 45/- in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pi*-t S*»*eet, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY ”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SOMITE BBiBADGERY
LUNBYk°
wt
mi
M
&a°
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
WA
rVI
ww ?/■
«> an mi
Hot acid here re-
moves all grease
and scale prior to
galvanizing.
LYSAGHT
(ORS)
AUSTRALIA
Vgt/RY yfy
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
IN the production of Lysaght's
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, at
every stage the most scrupulous
care is exercised by skilled work-
men, for every sheet which carries
their brand is guaranteed by
Lysaght's. This is your assurance
of long service and absolute satis-
faction. Look for the Red Orb on
THE rigid roofing sheets, used all
over Australia.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
M
S ajjwK
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
only 3000 cows were on test and the
butterfat average was 3.3 p.c. Last year
750,000 Danish cattle were tested. The
minimum butterfat yield for 365 days
was 3081 b., and the b.f. average 3.9 p.c.
Australia’s dairy champions of the
Melba type can lead the best Danish pro-
ducers easily, but it is average that
counts, and the grade herds which make
the butter industry.
Wintering Young Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: When skim-milk is.
short, try this for late autumn piglets
which are to be turned into bacon:
Half-pound meatmeal and root-crops—
carrots, mangolds, etc. —to the limit,
Working on 551 b. stores it should give
one-third pound weight gain per day;
and l|lb. meal, with the other ration as
before, should make the growth about
|lb. per day.
A weekly average with a healthy 551 b.
store pig at the beginning of treatment
should be round about lib. of roots per
11b. of pig, but the ratio rises consider-
ably as the pig increases in size. Half-
way through the course the weekly con-
sumption will be 901 b. or so, and
when grunter reaches his century at
the end of 12 weeks or thereabouts his
root ration will be about 1301 b. if he
runs to normal sample.
Soya Bean for Feeding.
“Zedo”: Soya beans have been con-
sidered in Australia with oil production
in mind, but the plant which provides
the staple food of far more Chinese than
does rice is best worth experimenting
with as cattle-feed.
The plant is not particular about soil,
though it likes it light and loamy and
not too rich. Good drainage, clean
ground and plenty of room and sun are
important. Rows should be about 3ft.
apart, each seed 2in. apart and down
2in. deep. Planted on well-prepared land
in early midsummer, harvest time is be-
tween three and four months later.
Plants run to about 4ft. high, though
special varieties go to sft. The foliage
is heavy and makes a good hay, and
each plant will produce as many as 200
pods.
In U.S.A. soya bean is a great
winter-feed standby in dairy districts,
and is thought particularly good for
bringing on young stock. Also, it is a
fine land-restorer, used at the right time.
Some experiment should be worth while
in preparing a compressed drought
ration with the beans.
Introduced Pasture Grasses.
“K.Mc.”: A. McTaggert, of the C.S.
and 1.R., has, at Canberra, tried out 34
introduced grasses for pastures, and an-
other 21 will be tested soon.
The grasses were sown in silty clay
loam moderately rich in organic matter,
and in reddish clay loam somewhat lack-
ing in organic material. Old-pasture rye-
grass (Hawke’s Bay, M.L., type) and a
species of wallaby grass {Danthonia semi-
annulanis) were used as checks.
Few of the tested grasses proved to
have palatability, persistency and produc-
tivity. Some which gave better all-round
results than the checks included Dactylis
glomerata, a type of cocksfoot. The
four varieties tried responded well. Seeds
were introduced from Canada, France,
Russia and Denmark. Bromus inermis,
a very sweet, awnless brome grass, did
well. Five strains from various countries
were sown, but a mixed pasture and
hay type from Sweden gave best results.
Arrhenatherum erianthum, a tall peren-
nial, with flat, very abundant leaves and
dense, erect flower-clusters, seed from
Holland but a native of Spain, and Festuca
pratensis, a strain of meadow fescue,
passed muster. Two varieties of the
last, both from Denmark, gave good
all-round results.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: A cream separator will keep
its brightness if washed with soap-powder
once a month. Use cold water first, and
then the soapy water. Rinse in luke-
warm water and scald.
“A.Y.”: Waste timber and face-cuts
from a mill make splendid sheds for
stock. The odd lengths and runouts
make good walls, and the face-cuts are
good floors. The cost is usually £1 a
load at the mill.
“Sandy”: Crowbars with hammer
heads become too heavy when used as
rammers all day. Get a piece of 3in. x
2in. hardwood four to five feet long, and
adze one end as a handgrip.
“Bluey”: When lopping trees for stock
it is a mistake to leave several big limbs
to prevent the tree dying. They absorb
too much nourishment. This kind of
pruning affects white box and stringy-
bark worst —kurrajong and apple not so
badly. Leaving a few small limbs pre-
vents lopped trees from dying and gives
new growth a chance.
“Tryit”: Pig medicines are best given
in food. If using powders, mix into a
paste with treacle or molasses, and smear
the paste on to the pig’s lips or tongue.
If using liquid, cut a hole in the toe of
an old boot or shoe. Put it in the pig’s
mouth, and pour the drench in slowly.
While the pig chews at the leather he
swallows the drench without much
struggling. Put a slipknot on his upper
jaw and pull the head up to a rafter
if the patient is a fierce struggler.
“Seenitall”: Last year’s poisoning
campaign against the ’hoppers cost Aus-
tralia many thousands of birds. At the
height of the campaign I saw dead birds
everywhere. Extensive rabbit-poisoning
also has greatly upset the balance of
nature, and I believe that those who
attribute ’hopper swarms to bird destruc-
tion are right. Recent experiments
showed that Scelio fulgidus —the ’hopper
egg parasite—did good work in destruc-
tion, as did the Nemestrinid fly. The
latter’s larvae are highly resistant to
drought. Why not release these parasites
of the ’hopper only, as the Cactoblastis
was released?
“The Barber”: This year shearing
machines will have their fiftieth birthday,
Dunlop station (N.S.W.) having in ’BB
completed the world’s first machine bar-
bering. Prior to the beginning of hostili-
ties on the jumbucks, the antagonism of
shearers caused some anxiety. Threats
were made to burn down the shed and
destroy the new contraptions. But when
they did get under weigh lim Davidson
“pinked” 173 sheep in a day. Still, it
took many years before blades were
ousted from all the big sheds. They’re
still first favorites with some owners of
stud sheep.
“Bundalinga”: There is a lesson for
farmers in the prevalence of “lucerne
grub” on the rich Hunter River flats at
Maitland (N.S.W.). Experts think the
grub has increased because the flats lack
lime. Because of the grub, it is now
necessary to resow lucerne every three
years. Years ago a stand would last
for many seasons. A dressing of about
scwt. of lime an acre would improve such
soil. Superphosphate should be applied
as well. Even rich river flats will lose
fertility after growing heavy crops of
lucerne for half a century or so.
“Jayem”: G. T. Dawson, agricultural
instructor for Hunter Valley (N.S.W.),
considers that more turnips could be
grown as fodder for dairy cattle in dis-
tricts that suit the crop. He points out
that an acre of well-grown turnips will
yield 40 tons or more of sound winter
feed. Variety recommended is Champion
Purple-top Swede. Turnips should be fed
to cows in the morning after milking.
Otherwise they will taint the milk.
“Wundi”: The carrot has great
nutritive properties in stock feeding. In
large-scale planting the seed is sown half
an inch deep in rows about Ift. apart,
at about '2lb. to 41b. per acre according
to the nature of the ground. Carrots
like a fine tilth and a fairly rich sandy
soil, but they are high yielders—3o to
40 tons to the acre on suitable ground.
They store well and make a useful con-
tent especially in horse and calf rations.
Young pigs relish them as a grubbing
proposition.
“E.D.”: Every year shows a slight
increase in the amount of seed imported
into U.S.A. from Maoriland. A small
consignment of alsike clover was taken
last year, and 85,0001 b. of perennial rye
bred from M.L. stock Vvas tried out.
Australian seed was neglected. But Uncle
Sam has taken a few hundred pounds
of sub. clover. That might lead to the
making of a big market.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Would, a flame-thrower destroy lantana
and blackberry? (2) Length of flame ? (3)
Acreage and fuel-consumption per day? (4)
Fuel? (5) Where obtainable? —Sl5.
(1) Yes, provided that a follow-up system is
carried out. About four to six weeks after the
first burning it is necessary to follow up on
the new growth with further burning, and this
must be continued until the plants are com-
pletely destroyed. (2) Flame-throwers are
fitted with two jets —one throwing a short
flame and the other a penetrating flame 10ft.-
12ft. long. (3) Both depend on operator and
material burned. (4) Crude oil. (5) From
Moffat, Virtue, 11 Palmer-street, Sydney.


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’sWeekly EXTRA
through practical training in spare-time home study
J > v
Dm
UK
can quickly qualify by practical
correspondence training in your
spare hours for a well-paid
position in Diesel engineering—the coming
profession for trained engineers with specialised
technical knowledge. Never were opportuni-
ties so great as in this relatively new and
uncrowded field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing rapidly
to this cheaper and more efficient form of
power. The demand for the skilled, trained
man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big, well-
paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more —-if you want to get ahead of the
next man—-to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge—send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 1000 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 1000
students in all parts of Australia, New Zealand,
Federated and Mandated Territories, New
Cuinea and the Pacific Islands. This vividly
illustrates the fact that our course of training
is well and favorably known and our practical
service to all of our students has shown success-
ful results.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
YOU
ruti msection music,
4
nouct
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
engines. The lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc.);
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants for
factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students’
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of either course should, upon its
successful completion, be possessed of all the
necessary technical knowledge required of a
competent DIESEL engineer, and, in recogni-
tion of the fact, is awarded the Diploma of
the College.
FREE BOOK
t
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or
Advanced). Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal ot the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life—may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now—
to-day.
NOTE. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE.
FREE
BOOK
gives you full information
regarding the courses of
this, the largest Diesel
Engineering College in
Australasia.
Post this enquiry NOW.
The Principal,
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to me, please forward full information regarding your
course (state if Primary or Advanced Course
is required).
NAME '
ADDRESS
E. 6/7/‘3«.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Learn and earn
in Spare Tune •
df
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying ami
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
OurService Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside ba£k cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
se lcction and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Soldier’s son (17) wants to learn trade or
business. References wanted and given. No
premium.—105.
Twenty men to grow passionfruit. Good land
(Q.) available, and contract to purchase crop
at point of production, one- to three-year term.
—62.
Information Sought.
When was the first play produced in or
dealing with Australia? —87.
First play dealing with Australia, “Les
Emigres aux Terres Australes,” was produced at
the Theatre des Amis de la Patrie in Paris
on Nov. 24, 1792. It was suggested by the
travels of La Perouse, who had last been heard
of at Botany Bay, and depicted the adventures
of exiled French aristocrats among Australian
savages. Its background was in no ways
authentic. First play produced in Australia was
“The Recruiting Officer,” staged by a party
of convicts on June 4, 1789, in honor of the
King’s birthday.
* * * *
(1) When were grapes first introduced . into
Australia? (2) Production of (a) wine, (b)
table grapes and (c) raisins and currants for
each State? (3) Australian exports and imports
of wine? —70.
(1) Supposed to have been brought out with
the First Fleet in 1788. A report by Governor
Hunter gives the area under vines in 1797 as
eight acres. (2) ( a ) N.S.W. 2,567,812 gals.,
Vic., 1,683,049, Q. 22,569, S.A. 13,023,587,
W.A. 430,941; ( b ) 4376 tons, 4215, 2184, 547,
2676; (c) currants, 864, 4421, nil, 5871, 1958;
raisins, 4158, 35,486, nil, 10,508, 778. (3)
Imported 5701 gals, of sparkling and 24,214 of
other wines, worth £19,017 and £18,258 respec-
tively. Exported 4070 gals, of sparkling and
3,705,557 of other wines, worth £5649 and
£928,955 respectively. All figures are for 1935-
36.
* * * *
How to tell the age of a horse by its teeth ?
—9950.
At six weeks old a foal has six teeth (tempo-
rary incisors), and eight temporary incisors at
nine weeks. At three months four permanent
incisors, six at four months and eight, with the
inside corners not in use, at five months. At
six months eight permanent incisors with inside
corners in use. At seven months marks dis-
appear from the two central incisors, at eight
from the two middle incisors and at nine from
the two corner incisors. Thereafter, depending
on age and food, the teeth appear to be shrivel-
ling up.
* * * • *
(1) Amount of salt in a pint of human per-
spiration ? (2) How much salt is lost with
free perspiration in a day ? (3) Should a
person who perspires avoid eating salt ? (4)
Salt content of sea water? (5) Is immersion
in fresh water more likely to cause colds than
in salt water? —9680.
(1) and (2) Sweat is about 0.496 salt. Amount
of salt lost in a day depends on quantity of
sweat excreted, and that may be anything from
a pint to four gallons, according to individual
peculiarity and nature of physical work done.
(3) No restriction necessary. (4) Mean quantity
of sodium chloride in average samples is 2.68
p.c. Percentage is reduced in enclosed seas
which receive much fresh water from rivers.
The Baltic, for instance, contains less than half
the stated proportion of salt. Owing to concen-
tration produced by evaporation the Dead Sea
contains nearly 10 times the average percentage.
(5) Immaterial.
* * * *
Was the inscribed tin plate left by Dirk
Hartog on the island {W.A.) which bears his
name replaced by a later adventurer ? If so,
what were the inscriptions on both ? —74.
Yes, Hartog left a plate bearing the inscrip-
tion : —
“On the 25th of October, 1616, arrived here the
ship Eendracht, of Amsterdam: The first merchant,
Gilles Milbais van Luyek; captain, Dirk Hartog, of
Amsterdam; the 27th ditto set Sail for Bantam;
under merchant, Jan Stins; upper steersman, Pieter
Dockes, of Bil ; a.d. 1616.”
Van Vlaming visited the island in 1697, took
away the old plate and replaced it with a
new one on which the old inscription was
copied and the following added:—
“On the 4th of F.ebruary, 169'7, arrived here the
ship Geelvinck, of Amsterdam: Captain commandant,
Wilhelm van Vlaming, of Vlielandt; assistant, Jan
van Bremen, of Copenhagen; first pilot, Micheel
Bloem van Estight, of Bremen; the hooker Myptangh:
Captain, Gerrit Collaert, of Amsterdam; assistant,
Theodorus Heermans, of the same place; first pilot,
Gerrit Gerritz, of Bremen. Sailed from here with
our fleet on the 12th to explore the South Land and
afterwards bound for Batavia.”
♦ sfc :f:
(1) What is the legal procedure for a mar-
ried man to adopt a child? (2) Best place to
apply ? —100.
(1) Upon application made to the Equity
Court by husband and wife jointly, o'r a mar-
ried man alone, but with written consent of his
wife, or a man, whether married or not, who,
in the opinion of the Court, is at least 18 years
older than the child proposed to be adopted;
or a woman, whether married or not, who, in
the opinion of the Court, is at least 30 years
older than the child, an order of adoption of
a male child may be made. Applicant must be
of good repute and able to maintain and edu-
cate the child. (2) See or write Child Welfare
Department, Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Words of verse containing the line “Never
the lotus closes, never the wild-fowl wake" ?
Author ? —65.
Never the lotus closes, never the wild—fowl wake,
But a soul goes out on the East Wind that died for
England’s sake—
Man or woman or suckling, mother or bride or maid —-
Because on the bones of the English the English
Flag is stayed.
From “The English Flag,” by Rudyard Kip-
ling.
* * * *
(1) What is meant by “slap bass ” in dance-
band parlance ? (2) Is “slap bass" also called
“swing bass”? —9985.
(1) The term “slap bass” is applied to the
bass viol when the instrument is played pizzi-
cato with the hand instead of the bow. Method
is expounded in Candy’s Slap Bass Method;
ss. 2d. posted from W. H. Paling and Cos.,
Sydney. The instrument is held in a different
position for slap-bass-playing than when it is
played with a bow. The pizzicato is produced
by pulling or plucking the strings, the fingers
always pressed firmly on the strings. The
pizzicato is played on the first beat, the slap
with the open hand across the fingerboard on
the after beat. (2) Not necessarily. The term
arises through the importance of the bass in the
back or rhythm lines to swing numbers.
* * * *
Details of expenditure of the Australian De-
partment of Defence? —68.
1936-37: Defence —chief office £29,785,
military £1,928,415, audit (proportion) £5687,
pensions* and retiring allowances (including
superannuation) £48,610, rents, repairs, etc.,
£66,476, interest and sinking fund £229,301, ex-
change nil, miscellaneous £152,073 ; Navy—chief
office and naval £2,311,159, audit (proportion)
£2434, pensions and retiring allowances (in-
cluding superannuation) £4302, rents, repairs,
etc., £26,964, interest and sinking fund £88,862,
exchange £146,983; Civil Aviation —salaries and
general £53,320, development of civil aviation
£211,032, rents, repairs and maintenance £5948,
interest and sinking fund £5263 ; R.A.A.F. —pay,
general contingencies, general stores and main-
tenance £677,073, rents, repairs, etc., £22,736,
interest and sinking fund £24,745, exchange
£219,444, miscellaneous £4673. Total defence
expenditure, £6,265,276.
**:!!*
To what extent is pig-raising conducted in
conjunction with wheat-farming in Australia ?
—BO.
In N.S.W. 65.7 p.c. (10,462) of wheat holdings
are without pigs and 34.3 p.c. (5461) are with;
Vic., 60.22 p.c. (8298) without, 39.78 (5482)
with; S.A., 42.43 p.c. (5425) without, 57.57 p.c.
(7362) with; W.A., 58.83 p.c. (5318) without,
41.17 p.c. (3721) with. There are 436,944,
314,301, 93,458 and 98,026 pigs in each State
respectively, and of these 13.66 p.c. (59,673),
13.08 p.c. (41,100), 62.73 p.c. (58,628) and
63.33 p.c. (62,079) are on wheat farms. Figures
are for 1935-36.
* * * *
Information concerning the Australian In-
stitute of Anatomy ?— 75.
It is at Canberra in a building erected by the
Federal Government under the Zoological
Museum Agreement Act of 1924. Colin Mac-
kenzie, first director of the institute, presented
to it his private collection. Other donations
include the Horne-Bowie collection (deal-
ing with central Australian aborigines),
Burrell collection (life-history of the platy-
pus), Milne collection (N. S. Wales abo-
rigines), Murray Black collection (aborigines of
southern Vic. and Murray River), Nankivell col-
lection (anatomy of the Murray Valley abo-
rigines), Harvard University collection (archae-
ology of the U.S.A.), Hubert Murray collection
(anthropology of Papua), Rabaul collection
(ethnology of New Guinea) and Basedow col-
lection (anthropology of central and northern
Australia). There are also several endowments,
the interest on which provides for lectures and
orations. Research work is being carried out
in many branches of comparative anatomy and
its application to human health and disease.
The building is used largely for educational
purposes, and from 1931-35 Uni. Coll, lectures
were given there. Educational public lectures
are delivered in the lecture theatre, and confer-
ences dealing with Commonwealth health prob-
lems are held in the institute building. The
general public is admitted to the two museums
of osteology and applied anatomy.
* * * *
I am on a Vic. farm and am wondering if it
would be possible to obtain groceries, etc.,
at wholesale prices for sale to neighbors with
no more profit than that required to clear ex-
penses? Is a license required? How does one
become a grocer, draper, tobacconist; what
are the conditions and qualifications ? Are
there railway freight concessions ? —9927.
Wholesale houses would be unlikely to
accept such custom unless you opened a store.
No license is necessary for this unless the sale
of wine and spirits is contemplated, but there
are provisions of the Health Act, the Factories
and Shops Act and, in some circumstances, the
Country Shops Board to be observed. The
nearest police station could advise you on
the question of tobacconists’ licenses. The
only freight concessions are those operating
where road transporters are in opposition to the
railways and storekeepers have banded to-
gether to obtain slight concessions for the car-
riage of all their goods. The only “qualifica-
tions” for any of the pursuits you name are
the very essential ones of experience in that
line —and capital. For further information,
write to the Vic. Storekeepers and Traders’
Association, 328 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
Cure for large lumps on a canary’s legs? —
9936.
Some are natural wartlike growths and
others contain a white semi-solid substance
like putty. The latter require a small incision to
liberate the contents, and should then be bathed
with boracic acid and smeared with a little
salicylic acid ointment. Ordinary warts need-
an occasional application of the ointment.
Keep floor of cage dry by covering it with an
inch of fine dry sand.
* * * *
Best way to destroy ficus creeper? —9977.
Dig it out by the roots. If tendrils are diffi-
cult to remove from the wall, better to leave
vine until completely dead. If roots are inacces-
sible, bore holes into the main trunk and inject
any weed-killing compound containing arsenate.
More holes bored the quicker the result.
ap * * *
How are streets measured across intersec-
tions ? —9O.
To asceitain the length of either street inde-
pendently, measurements should be taken from
end to end, including all intersections. For
the length of streets within a particular area,
measurements should be taken from the centre
of one boundary intersection ta the centre of
the other.
* * * *
Is it possible to wax natural ferns ? —4O.
Yes. Melt some pure white paraffin wax in a
shallow clean vessel over gentle heat. When
wax is fluid but not hot dabble ferns in it
until they are well covered with wax, then gently
shake off the surplus and allow to dry.
* * * *
(1) What accommodation is available in
Darwin ( N.T.)? Tariff? (2) Source of infor-
mation ? —9692.
(1) There are four hotels: Victoria —upstairs
£3 3s. per week, downstairs £2 10s., board
only £2 25.; Don —£3 35., board only £2 25.;
Club —£2 25., board only £1 10s.; Parap—-
£3 3s. per week. Charges do not include
laundry, cheapest rate for which is about
£1 10s. per month. There is one boarding-
house—£2 2s. per week or £1 12s. 6d. for meals
only. (2) Northern Territory Administration.
* * * *
(1) What is the correct payment for an
abundance declaree in solo whist? (2) Does
the caller have the lead? —72.
(1) Usual range of payments is in the follow-
ing proportion: Solo 4, overtricks 1 each,
misere 9, abundance 12, open misere 18, abun-
dance declaree 24. (2) No; hand following
dealer.
* * * *
(1) How many Test matches have been played
at Manchester, England? Result? (2) Number
of runs scored in these matches by England and
Australia? (3) What were the scores of C.
Barnett in the Tests in Australia in 1936-37?
—69.
(1) Fourteen matches played; England won
three (1886, 1888 and 1905), Australia two (1896
and 1902), drawn nine. (2) England has scored
5110 runs for 172 wickets, average 29.70; Aus-
tralia 4783 runs for 204 wickets, average 23.44.
(3) 69 and 26 in the first Test at Brisbane, 57
in the second Test at Sydney, 11 and 23 in
the third Test at Melbourne, 129 and 21 in
the fourth Test at Adelaide, 18 and 41 in the
fifth Test at Melbourne.
X * *
Before the present series of Test matches
what players have scored a century in their
first Test match, and their scores ?—• 46.
Australians —C. Bannerman (165 not out at
Melbourne, March, 1877), Graham (107 at
Lord’s, Eng., July, 1893), R. Duff (104 at
Melbourne, January, 1902), Hartigan (116 at
Adelaide, January, 1908), Collins (104 at Syd-
ney, December, 1920), Ponsford (110 at Syd-
ney, December, 1924), Jackson (164 at Adel-
aide, February, 1929). Englanders—Grace (152
at The Oval, Eng., September, 1880), Ranjit-
sinhji (154 not out at Manchester, Eng., July,
1896), Foster (287 at Sydney, December, 1903),
G. Gunn (119 at Sydney, December, 1907), Sut-
cliffe (115 at Sydney, December, 1924), Leyland
(137 at Melbourne, March, 1929), Duleepsinhji
(173 at Lord’s, Eng., in July, 1930), Pataudi
(102 at Sydney, December, 1932).
* * * *
Method of french-polishing? —994B.
Should be done in a warm, dustless room
where work can be left undisturbed. Wood
must be very smooth; if porous, rub over with
wet plaster of Paris, smooth and glasspaper;
if white, stain to required shade. When wood
is ready and dry, apply with a thick camel-hair
brush an even coating of polish made from
4oz. white shellac to lpt. methylated spirits
and 4eave to dry. Repeat three times, with
thorough drying between coats, then leave to
dry for one week. Moisten a soft cloth with
a drop of raw linseed oil and rub over the
wood, then smooth it with No. 00 glasspaper.
Take a piece of cotton-wool about the size
of an egg, soak it in polish made from 2oz.
shellac to lpt. methylated spirits, then make a
pad of it in a piece of washed linen and
squeeze tightly. Smear one drop of oil on
outside of pad and rub wood in semicircular
manner until quite dry. Repeat three times,
drying well between applications, and leave for
a week, then repeat the second polishing pro-
cess in all applications and leave for a week.
Rub lightly with a drop or two of oil, follow-
ing very lightly with glasspaper. Another coat-
ing of thin polish with anew pad, leave to dry,
rub with methylated spirits on a pad and leave
until thoroughly dry. Mix polishes about a
week beforehand, keep in a warm place and
shake occasionally until shellac is dissolved.
This is the “piano-finish” method. A great
deal of furniture work is done in one operation.
* * * *
(1) Method of tanning kangaroo skins with
chemicals? (2) Best way to remove fur? —28.
(1) and (2) Fur is removed before tanning.
Soak skins in cold water until as soft as when
first skinned and let drain for 15 minutes.
Place drained skins in a bath consisting of 31b.
hydrated lime to lOgal. water, lift twice daily,
stir thoroughly, and fur can be scraped off in
seven or eight days. Place skins in a bath of
warm water to which has been added 41b
formic acid for every 1001b. of dehaired
move occasionally, leave overnight, then add
41b. boracis acid for every 1001b. skins and
drain them after 20 minutes’ soaking. To tan,
dissolve 12oz. alum and 8oz. salt in 4gal. boil-
ing water; mix a smooth paste, using 41b. flour,
cool alum and salt mixture, then add flour paste’
and make up to lgal. with water. Coat skins
liberally on flesh side, fold over and leave for
a day. Repeat for three or four days, then dry
out. Rub out with pumice, and, if very dry or
hard, rub with neatsfoot oil; 4pt. neatsfoot oil
may be added to the tanning mixture.
Brief Answers.
D.McD.: Sixty-year-old returned soldiers are
not eligible for an old-age pension, but in some
cases may receive a service pension. Inquiries
to the Deputy Commissioner, Repatriation De-
partment, Chalmers-street, Sydney M.J.F.:
It is a superstition adhered to by a few people,
particularly in some of the older countries.
They hold that seed should be sown just prior
to a full moon. No proof available.., .W.R.C.:
See Wild flowers of N. S. Wales, by Florence
Sulman. Wattle... .L.T.D.: Phalanges, meta-
tarsals, tarsals, tibia and fibula, patella (knee-
cap) and femur... .J.T.: An A.T.N.A. nursing
certificate, knowledge of shorthand, typing and
general office work, pleasing personality and
weight not over eight stone L.T.N.: Formula
is a trade secret P.D.N.: Yes, in the Lake
Cave in s.-w. W.A T.D.N.; Archer won
the 1861 and ’62 Melbourne Cups, carrying 9st.
71b. and lOst. 21b. respectively K.T.: Write
Defence Dept., Melbourne T.W.C.: It is
not economical to make shoe-polish in small
quantities. Posting formula H.T.D.: Dec.
27, 1937, was a holiday in all States except
S.A.... .L.T.B.: Write secretary, N.S.W. Roller-
skating Association, 45 Taylor-street, Lakemba,
Sydney.... .P.T.: 58,709 marriages were regis-
tered in Australia for year ended. Dec. 31, 1936.
E.A.M.: (1) Suits have no rank in poker.
If flushes or straight flushes are equal, in differ-
ent suits, holders divide the pool. (2) Leading
authority states: “If any card is faced in deal-
ing the original hand it must be taken by the
player to whom it falls if it was not already
faced in the pack. But if two cards are ex-
posed in the same deal, even to different players,
there must be a new deal.” In the buy: “A
card faced when dealing cannot be taken.
Dealer must supply all other players and then
give an unseen card in place of that which was
seen” R.B.: Constant nagging pain in the
small of the back and legs is a sign. Physical
activity aggravates the discomfort and exercises
are of no benefit. Manipulative treatment is
sometimes helpful, but operation is often the
only method of effecting a cure W.D.McC.:
Bran is composed mainly of cellulose impreg-
nated with mineral matter. Water 12.5 p.c.,
nitrogenous matter 16.4 p.c., fat 3.5 p.c., starch
and sugar 43.6 p.c., cellulose 18 p.c., mineral
matter 6 p.c. May be safely eaten by arthritics.
. ...W.R.: Cannot suggest any remedy if you
have found mnemonics useless... .I.W.W.: Cut
away all hairs from affected area and dab fre-
quently with methylated spirits or tincture of
iodine. Don’t allow uninfected spots to become
contaminated by vigorous rubbing, etc. Weak
mercurial ointment often prevents trouble
from spreading. Boils about to burst should
be treated by a doctor and the injection of
a suitable vaccine often helps... .C.H.: Par-
rish’s Food often produces good results. Any
chemist.... H.N.: Dr. Copeland’s Home Medi-
cal Book (Harrap), 5s. 3d.; Ready Reference
Family Doctor (Cassell), 16s., Black’s Medical
Dictionary (A. M. C. Black), 21s.; Modern
Family Doctor (Nelson), 7s. 6d. All from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney C.H.: Jo Jotte, by
Ely Culbertson, 7s. 6d., post 4d., from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney E.A.C.: (1) Suggest
you join the Kookaburra Universal Corre-
spondence Club, sub. 4s. p.a. Write E. T.
Franks, Jugiong, N.S.W. (2) If you wish to
advertise, write “American Philatelist,” 8118
Dante-avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A M.H. :
No stamp as described. A blue shilling stamp
(1884-96 series) somewhat similar to specimen
submitted is worth about 2s. to 3s J.B.:
Various societies with that object have been
formed from time to time. Know of none
existing at present D.McK.: Matter of a
lion’s ability to live wild in Australia has not
been tested... .S.H.W.: Nearest are Ulamambri
and Yallambi, both N.S.W. abo. place-names
meaning “opossum country” and “to dwell or
stay” respectively K.L.: Rum Rebellion, by
Evatt, 12s. 6d., post 4d., and Savages in Serge,
by Jack Hides, 8s. 6d., post 4d., both from
Dymock’s, Sydney F.R.T.: Write Under-
secretary, Mines Department, Sydney L.T.:
Population of Tokio is 6,000,000, Shanghai
3,550,000, Osaka 3,000,000... .H.T.D.: Annual
examination for entry into the Indian civil
service commences in London July-August.
Candidates must be over 21 and under 24 on
August 1 in the year of examination. Applica-
tion forms from the Secretary, Civil Service
Commission, London, W.l. Examination fee
£8 H.R.: Magnetic declination varies from
time to time and in different parts of the world.
K.T.B.: According to 1938 Whitaker’s
Almanack both Japan and U.S.A. produce
120,000 tons of artificial silk each J.T.D.:
Corbett knocked out Sullivan in 21 rounds in
the world’s heavyweight championship bout in
1892 —the first under M.Q. rules P.R.F.:
Arteries carry blood away from the heart and
veins carry it back. The pulmonary artery takes
“used” blood from the heart to lungs and the pul-
monary vein returns fresh oxygenated blood....
E.B.B.: (1) and (2) Destroyers Mary Rose and
Strongbow were sunk by German cruisers when
escorting a convoy from Scotland to Norway.
British submarines Ml and M2 each mounted
12in. guns during the war... .Vaneka: No prac-
tising solicitor of that name in Sydney. (2) Write
Registrar of Deaths, Registrar-General’s De-
partment, Sydney. (3) Sydney newspapers con-
tain advertisements from which you could make
a selection J.W.D.: Not if there are no
financial obligations of any kind on either side
existing at present or which may possibly arise
in the future Cogis: Cannot trace artist
mentioned. Probably an amateur whose work
is of no great monetary value.


Have You Had Your Copy Yet?
SUCCESSFUL
AUTHORSHIP
It's Free !
Send for your copy of
Stott’s New Literary
Prospectus explaining
llow To Write jor
Profit. It contains par-
ticulars of Acceptances,
Prices Received, Names
of Papers, etc. sent
without obligation.
Address carefully.
STOTT’S
Correspondence
College
(Dept. B—50),
100 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
1
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
#
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
FARMERS!
Concrete Will Increase Your
Properties' Earning Capacity
Concrete Piggeries, Hawkesbury
Agricultural College.
Concrete Trough and Fence Posts,
Navua Stud Farm, Richmond.
That Is Why Model Farmers Make Use of It.
FOLLOW THEIR LEAD!
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
43 Margaret Street, Sydney,
WILL GIVE YOU FREE ADVICE.
Write to the association or cement companies in various States for any of
the following free booklets : —
Method of Making Concrete.
Concrete Fence Posts.
Concrete Footpaths and Floors.
Concrete Walls and Steps.
Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells.
Use of Colour with Cement.
Concrete Blocks, Bricks and Slabs.
Concrete for Farm and Station.
Portland Cement Stucco.
Portland Cement Plaster.
Portland Cement Textures.
Concrete Cricket Pitch.
Concrete Round the Home.
Concrete Silos.
Estimation of Materials for Concrete
and Mortar Simplified.
Concrete Mixing Made Easy.
Leaking Tanks Conquered with Con-
crete.
Concrete Tennis Court.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
TZ mf adL, mus, appear on ,he MS. No KabUUy b undertaken re
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
/-IT VT * a . W onnH either
J. Afraid your satire” doesn’t
stick C-L.: That KtT , a t d 7oS
cant tarry here... .M.E.MacK. .1 boesnt
break any new ground.. . .A.C.. Well-handled,
yes; but you fall down in looking for a plot
to hang the writing on. ...L.J.: Those fisher-
men didn’t get any bites... .W.K.: And we
couldn’t find “the wizard of the hot trumpet”
a job N. 8.: Rather foggy night T.H.:
A rattletraD it is L.T.: Thin D. 8.:
Sooner have fire than “Ashes”... .G.F.T.:
Only “attempts”.... C.J.L.: Sentimental, but
there’s a glTmmer in it... .T.E.McC.: Devas-
tating realism... .P.G.M.: Try a lyric....
G.A.C.! Parodies need to be very g00d....
G.N.G.: A catalogue isn’t poetry, but keep at
it A.S. : “There’s not much lower I can
sink.” That’s a consolation... .G. 8.: You’ve
written better C.E.P.: Not at that length.
haze?” R.W.: What were the wondrous
thoughts” that “did come” to you? J.D.D.:
“Tom the Nark” said one good thing, anyhow:
Frills on a sonnet, trinunin’s on rhyme-
Where was it that you served your time?
.. J.D. and M.Q.: Ode on armament-
makers exploded after first stanza... .B O R..
Lament falls short of its subject.. . .8.V.C..
Just as well the 7 a.m.-ers ask only a smie.
... E.H.: No tramps .R W.J.: Too ob».-
fhatpSk , B.W : Some lines buried
in it. . L.T.N.: Nearly... .P.R.: Reshuffle and
send it in again... .R.8.D.: Afraid there’s no-
thing we can do H.T.R.: Sally should never
have left the farm K.T.V. : Same idea has been
imported 999,999 times from Hollywood....
F.R.P.: It‘s a boomerang... .F.L.S.: Cut, and
try a daily L.T.8.: Not that or anything like
it... .H.T.8.: Send it in... .P.R.N.: You re im-
proving... .P.R.N. : Good character work, but
to voud ; Now ™u" UoT
....L.T.P.: Having read the title we guessed
correctly the number of murders and amount
of bloodshed that would follow P.R.8.:
Taking that as a fair sample, we’d say when
Good Friday falls on a Monday T.P.C.:
Write more for the yarn and less for effect....
K. : “Storm” is only a breeze....A.R.N.:
Nice work, but can’t you hang it on a better
peg? R.P.C.; O. Henry beat you to it
L. “Lethargy” yawning in the w.p.b
N.T.L.: Sikesian person won’t force our coffers,
L.D.R.: No R.M.: Has the merit of
being the most effective sleeping draught we’ve
struck to date... .G.P.R.: “?” Yes, why?....
M.Y.T.: ALsop first spun that yarn... .L.C.:
Its slight merit is drowned in wordiness....
H.T.P.: Dreadful P.A.N.: You’re let off this
time, but don’t do it again G.L.R.: No
baksheesh for “Mendicant”... .T.L.R.: Auto-
matic; take a spell for a while... .K.TP.:
“Dirigible” still up in the clouds L.T.N.;
Little Sammy was given another packet of chew-
ing gum to sustain him on the homeward
journey... .L.R., C.G.T., J.D.B. and E.A.M.:
Try them elsewhere... .F.B.T.: Appears to
have been written with a post-office pen.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.G.B.: Can’t make head or tail of that
nightmare P.W.H.: Subjects of carica-
catures need to be of some importance....
C.W.MacL.: Why the four-footed man?
A.C.G.: You’re months late with that Eden
cartooon C.H.: Yes, we buy jokes without
drawings, but they must be original and funny.
R.A.: Afraid you’ll never live up to those
initials C.G.M.: Ideas good, but get away
from that scratchy, finicky style G.H.:
You’ll have to learn to draw something other
than tailors’ dummies before you reach these
pages P.A.P.: Send them in without the
blots next time R.C.B.: Your friends have
been pulling your leg... .W.W.R.: We liked
the signature K.S.D.: Those freakish women
don’t really live in your district, surely
G.D.: The wheelbarrow’s quite good, but
what’s that holding the handles? F.R.F.:
Gags are cheap and old... .A.E.S.: That
ancient wheeze was blacklisted just before the
war W.N.R.: Why draw all the characters
from behind? ... .F.L.B.: Outsize drawing of
Joe Lyons cutting his toenails had us beat
A.H.DuB.: Couldn’t reproduce that muddy
washwork... .J.W.: Might do for an autograph
album... .J.L.G.: The dust-bin was well done.
M.N.: Frith does that sort of thing better.
C.A.F.-G.: The water-color fairies are
flying back... .H.C.P.: The w.p.b. shuddered
as the dragon descended upon it C.T.:
Merely good, honest student work; keep trying.
A.L.: Afraid you won’t F.H.B.: The
swaggie has two left hands J.F.B.: And your
dog four front legs.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
With its Jordan waving a quaint baton
in Geneva, Maoriland’s Labor Govern-
ment is becoming as sensitive to over-
seas criticism as it has been all along
to internal comment. Savage alleges an
unfriendly “whispering campaign” in
Australia. This is news to Australians.
#
“Uramao”: Thirty-six years ago Joseph
William Mellor was clicker in a boot
factory at Dunedin (M.L.); he recently
died in England, a world authority on
chemistry and ceramics, with a 13-tome
work on inorganic and theoretical
chemistry to his credit. The authorities
found him useful during the war when
communication with German science was
cut off.
%
Better-class boots and shoes made up
and sold in Australia as often as not
carry a tag stating that the uppers or the
entire shoes are made from imported
hides. It isn’t only from England and
Scotland that this leather comes ; France
is also a supplier. Amazing that in a
country which produces an enormous
number of hides and skins and which is
the home of the wattle we have to go
overseas for better leathers!
% 51 s
“K.D.”: It is generally believed that
the world produces enough and to spare
to feed and clothe its peoples. But great
problems crop up where a land under-
supplied by nature, and depending on
manufactures to buy its raw materials,
has a “high” living standard. France is
in something of such a pickle, though
the living standard is fictitious. The 40-
hour week, now being abandoned in
some cases, has brought good tq very
few, and trouble to a great number.
* sfc s>c
“Ecrivain”; London “Sunday Pic-
torial,” a journal not hitherto remark-
able for good taste or reticence, castigates
Compton Mackenzie for the book he has
written about the Duke of Windsor, and,
though it paid him £5OOO for the
rights, will not publish the thing because
it is “a scabrous attack on the House
of Hanover from George I. up to the
reign of George V.—the most bitter and
uncontrolled denunciation of the ances-
tors of the present King that ever dis-
graced a single volume.” The journal
specially stresses one passage:
Throughout that history of outraged
nature, smothered passion, broken hearts,
perjured vows, wives repudiated, mistresses
discarded and children wronged, there is
not one example of a bishop intervening
to denounce the sins against the marriage
sacrament which were being encouraged by
the Royal Marriage Act.
A not unknown writer named Thackeray
wrote, in The Four Georges, things beside
which Mackenzie’s tirade sounds like the
coo of a sucking dove, and hardly anyone
turned a hair. He gave all the shocking
details, and he had the advantage of
living while Georges 111. and IV., William
IV. and their delectable sons and brothers
were alive.
* * * *
“Bow Bells”: Marie Lloyd (B. 22/6/’3B)
was married three times, first to Percy
Courteney, secondly to Hurley, the coster
comedian, and thirdly to Bernard Dillon,
the jockey, but she had no son to be
killed at any war. Possibly Kipling was
referring to Harry Lauder.
* * * *
“El V.”: The latest wondrous discovery
the flapper press has broadcast to the
world is that T. E. Lawrence, in dedicat-
ing verses in his Seven Pillars to “5.H.,”
was honoring a Jewess, one Sara Har-
sonsohn —of course, red-haired in the best
Hollywood tradition —a member of a
young Judaic secret-service group behind
the Turkish lines. The group got the
lady appointed head of a clearing-house
for news. Then German agents discov-
ered her lair, “tracked her to Zirchow,”
and “tortured her for three days
to make her name the mysterious
Englishman who, disguised as a sheik,
harassed the Turks.” Rather than
yield the sacred moniker —which was
as much a household word in Turkish
reward notices by that time as that of
Shaitan himself in ordinary conversation
—Sara destroyed herself with a re-
volver which she seems to have concealed
in the torture chamber, after leaving a
pathetic farewell to her hero which he
never received. I have read the yarn, in
identical words, in papers as far apart as
Liverpool, N’York and Moresby.


Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
i
“The Bulletin" has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations » • • • • • • ft 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawspn Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic- and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “The Cape and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
Ttix Z
W
3 Ut
rs
v
%
sk~
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XIX.
For three years troopships and hospital
ships had been bringing back to Aus-
tralia soldiers who had been invalided
out of the service or discharged for other
reasons. Now warriors who were still
on the strength and (nominally) fighting
fit were arriving.
They were members of the original
A.I.F. battalions—some since transferred
to later formations—for whom Mr. Pew
had got Anzac leave.
Militarily the thing was all wrong, for
it deprived the A.I.F. of its most war-
wise men in the lower ranks at a critical
moment in the history of that army
and of the struggle on the Western Front,
But it did credit to Mr. Pew’s heart if
not to his head. Of all the hosts that
had been embattled for so long in
Europe, only the Dominion troops had
never once been home.
To veterans, Australia had become
“Good Old Aussie,” a land to be longed
for with sick hearts, but to be regained
only at the cost of disabling wounds, if at
all. There could be no peace without vie-
tory, all the statesmen said, and after
nearly four years of the German war vie-
tory seemed as far off as ever. And one-
fifth of the A.I.F. were dead.
Then Mr. Pew bobbed up in France
as a deliverer.
It was his one stroke of policy that
aroused no opposition in Australia. His
bitterest enemies did not cavil at it when
they saw the ravages which war had
made on the Anzacs, particularly the
unbroken succession of fearful cam-
paigns in Picardy and Flanders. They
had left Australia robust and carefree
boys and had in many cases come back
to it emaciated, dispirited and strangely
silent men. Their friends were shocked
at their sunken eyes, sallow faces and
wasted bodies. In four years they seemed
to have passed from youth to middle age.
And some of these homecomings were
not happy.
t ~ r
Molly s mother let rooms. One
her tenants, a friend of her daughter,
was married to a returned Anzac, and he
had taken up his quarters in the house.
The goings-on of soldiers’ wives were
a favorite topic of conversation in those
days. Before Sergeant Barkalay re-
turned Terry had “heard things” about
Mrs. Barkalay. He mentioned this to
Molly, and was sharply snubbed.
“But I’m only telling you for your
own good,” he protested. “If you go
out with the woman, people will talk.”
“Talk about me, you mean?” she said,
“Let them, the good-for-nothing gossips.”
“But it can’t do you any good to get
talked about,” he went on, with the
asinine persistence of men in these mat-
ters. “Everyone in the neighborhood
knows you’ve made a friend of this
woman, and if there is any scandal when
her husband comes back you may be
dragged into it.”
“I can take care of myself and my
reputation, thank you, Mr. Mac Sherry.”
“Aw, don’t get your hair The
woman was a shop assistant, wasn’t she?
Why didn’t she get a job instead of
hanging round with nothing to do except
draw her allowance money, do a bit of
knitting and go to the pictures?”
“That’s her business, and I’m not her.
keeper. But she did get a job, if yoad
like to know. More than one, in fact.”
“Then why didn’t she keep ’em?”
“Because the other girls made things
too hot for her. Told her the Govern-
ment was giving her enough to live on.
Said she was taking the bread out
of another woman’s mouth, and if she
didn’t resign they would report her to
the Government—they wouldn’t let any
girl draw two pays if they could stop
it. And you ought to know they could,
if you know anything about girls and
the Government.”
“But why doesn’t she behave?”
“As far as I know, she does. And
I’m not going to judge her on your
say-so, or even neighbors’ tittle-tattle,
There are lots of bad-minded old hags
throwing mud at soldiers’ wives—poor
things!”
“I don’t see that they are to be pitied
if they don’t go straight.”
“No, you wouldn’t. No good man
ever does. But women ought to remem-
her, especially if they have daughters
of their own, that many of the soldiers’
wives were just kids who were courted,
married and parted all in two or three
weeks. Mrs. Barkalay was, anyway. She
was one of thousands of girls who lost
their silly heads in nineteen-fourteen.
Knew the man for four weeks and hasn’t
seen him for four years. She has neither
father nor mother, as perhaps you don’t
know, and there is no baby, as you do
know, and she's living in a room. And
as you say, there is nothing for her to
do but draw money and knit and go to
the pictures—and 1 suppose she gets no
od t he pictures. And you condemn
Qn ip j don < t and won ’t.”
But Sergeant Barkalay also heard
things,” and one night Mrs. Finucane’s
house was the scene of a fearful row.
Sergeant Barkalay left muttering that he
would find out where the blankard lived
and do him in with the Mauser pistol
he had taken from a dead Fritz at
Corbie. He’d dig up his mate first. Here
such of Sergeant Barkalay’s remarks as
were not profane became incoherent, but
the sense was that his mate would see
retributive justice done,
The Finucanes saw nothing more of
Sergeant Barkalay for two days. In the
meantime Molly had learned that his
pursuit of Mr. Philander, J.P., had been
unsuccessful. While Sergeant Barkalay’s
troopship was on its way from Mel-
bourne to Sydney, Mr. Philander, J.P.,
had left for Queensland, and his clerk
expected him to be away for months.
Sergeant Barkalay was accompanied lo
the Finucane house by his mate, Lance-
Corporal Widderin. In size they were
ill-assorted, the sergeant being tall and
spare and the lance-corporal shorter by
nearly a foot. The latter had been a
plump and jolly recruit, and his fur-
lough was doing him good: he was
putting on weight and his sanguine tem-
perament was reasserting itself.
Molly opened the door to them.
“G’day, Miss Finucane,” satid the ser-
geant, uneasily. “This is me mate, Lance-
Corporal Widderin. Steve to me, an’ I’m
Bill to him.”
“Pleased t’ meecha, miss,” said the
lance-corporal, eyeing her with approval.
“Won’t you come inside?” Miss Finu-
cane said.
“My oath, I will!” the lance-corporal
replied; but the sergeant hesitated.
“Both of you!” Molly commanded,
smiling at the lance-corporal and then
at the sergeant.
“I’ve got to have it out with the
missus,” that lady’s lord slowly explained.
“That’s all right, but you had better
come into the sitting-room. You, too,
lance-corporal,” completing the conquest
of that warrior with another smile. “I’ll
go and get Mrs. Barkalay. Poor thing,
she hasn’t left her room since her hus-
band left the house.”
The Diggers were sitting uncomfort-
ably on the edges of chairs when she
brought Mrs. Barkalay in, her arm round
Mrs. B.’s waist.
The sergeant’s wife had a rather weak
face, but was not a bad-looking woman
in any sense of the word. She gazed
in a frightened way at her husband, and
applied an already damp handkerchief to
her eyes.
“Let us get this thing straightened
out,” said the competent Miss Finucane,
taking full charge of the situation. “This
is no time for quarrelling when you have
just seen one another after four dreadful
years. They’ll have to make it up, won’t
they, lance-corporal?”
“Whatever you say goes with me,”
said the lance-corporal, making himself
more comfortable on his chair.
“No, I won’t make it up,” growled
Sergeant Barkalay. “I’ve had enough.
She’s let me down.”
Mrs. Barkalay began to sob.
“How d’you know she’s let you
down?” asked Miss Finucane.
“Aw, I’ve heard, and I’ve got it in
white and black.”
“In a signed letter?”
“Well, no, it isn’t signed.”
“In an anonymous letter, then. Then
you’ll spoil your life and hers for
what some old stickybeak or scandalcat
has said. And I suppose you’ll take their
word against mother’s and mine, though
we’ve had Mrs. Barkalay living with us
for years, and we’ve never known her
to do anything that wasn’t decent and
proper. And we're respectable, I hope.”
Sergeant Barkalay’s head went down.
Lance - Corporal Widderin’s admiring
gaze was still fixed on Miss Finucane.
Suddenly that young woman returned it.
“There are people who see bad in
everything,” she said very deliberately;
“and they have no more right to take a
soldier’s wife’s name away than a
soldier’s. What would the sergeant say,
lance-corporal, if I asked him whether he
was faithful to his wife in France?”
Now it was the lance-corporal’s head
that went down.
“Are you married, lance-corporal?”
Palpably relieved that he could answer
that one, the lance-corporal replied in
the negative. Then he hurriedly changed
the subject.
“I was speakin’ to a bloke round at
the Lands Department,” he said with
cheerful irrelevance. “Another bloke
gave me a knockdown to ’im, and the
bloke says he’s a Nation’list, an’ I’m
blowed if he don’t lisp. He says, ‘While
you chaps were keepin’ the fwag fwying
ovah theyah, I was helping to keep
it fwying on the home fwont—l and the
othah Nation’lists.’ ”
“What’s this got to do with it?” Ser-
geant Barkalay protested rather feebly.
“Don’t interrupt, sergeant; it’s very
interesting,” said Miss Finucane. “Go
on, lance-corporal.”
“One of them Nation’lists,” the lance-
corporal proceeded. ‘Soljah,’ he says,
‘if I were you I would go on the land.
I know where they’s a coupla bonza
irrigation blocks.’ ”
“Did he say ‘bonza’?” Miss Finucane
interrupted.
“Now I come to think of it, he didn’t,
but he says he’s a Nation’list. ‘Soljah,’ he
says, ‘I know where they’s a coupla
shine irrigation blocks goin’ beggin’ on
the Murray. If you’ve got a mate, you
an’ him can put in for ’em, and it won’t
cost you a razoo.’ I says I got a mate,
and me mate’s married, an’ I’m not, but
I might meet a nice girl some day, who
knows ; an’ the long and the short of
it is, how about it, Bill?”
Barkalay was a good fellow at heart,
and Miss Finucane’s single-standard
suggestion had shaken him. He stole a
glanc6 at his wife.
“The Murray,” he mused. “I’ve always
wanted to live near that big yellow river.”
“Brown river, Bill.”
“I say it’s yellow.”
“Well, ’ave it yer own way. Any’ow,
this bloke the Nation’list, he says we
can put in for it without coughin’ up
a razoo, and when you’ve got your vines
in full bearin’ there’s fifteen notes a
week in it, and plenty o’ swimmin’ and
fishin’, and the profits’ll run to a car,
or at least a motorboat. An’ w’en we
get our first cheque we’ll go down the
Murray to South Oss, or up the Darlin’
as far as it’ll take us, an’ there’ll be room
for you in the boat, miss, an’ we’ll for-
get the ole war.”
Sergeant Barkalay looked at his wife
again, softly this time.
“What do you say, kid,” he said —
“shall we give it a fly?”
“Yes, Bill; we’ll give it a fly,” said
Mrs. Barkalay, bursting into happy tears.
(To be continued).


SHE FELT SENSITIVE
ABOUT HER FIGURE
Kruschen Reduced Her Weight
—Gave Her New Vitality.
Any woman who is burdened with excess fat
is liable to become sensitive about her figure.
This woman did, and in addition she suffered
from weakness which made her feel doll and
lifeless. But there is a happy sequel to her
story:
“I was anaemic and suffered a great deal from
weakness for which I had to have treat-
ment every six months. I was burdened
with superfluous fat. Then two years ago I
started taking Kruschen Salts. Kruschen has
reduced my weight a lot, so that instead of
being sensitive about my figure I feel quite
normal like other people. As a result of losing
unwanted fat I am able to enjoy my food.
From always feeling dull and lifeless, I am
now fit for anything. I find Kruschen mar-
vellous for giving vitality.”—(Miss) M.G.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the internal
organs to perform their functions properly—
to throw off every day the wastage and poisons
that encumber the system. Then little by litttle
that ugly fat goes—slowly, yes, but surely.
Whisky
(PRE-WAR STRENCTH) ,mm
THE PERFECT
WHISKY
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
SSt>,
8y Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
ly
• • •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Was Schmeling Fouled?
IT’S a wonder Australian newspaper
sporting staffs hadn’t the sense to
basket the absurd yarn that Max
Schmeling wasn t hit in the back by
Joe Louis at all, but damaged his spinal
segments to the extent of two fractures
merely by falling down.
Schmeling was hit all right, by a heavy
blow at that; but under the American
version of the foul rule the referee had
to regard the blow as fair. In the U.S.A.
even an intentional foul does not now
lose the fouler the fight. In Australia
a ref. of the quality of Joe Wallis would
not count a fouled man out; but it can
happen in America.
The low punch, with the kind of guard
they wear now, is not so important as
it used to be, though Schmeling, wearing
one of these guards in his previous fight
with Louis, stated afterwards that low
punches delivered in successive rounds
had partly paralysed his legs, making it
difficult even to bend them to sit down
between rounds.
Still, these guards had a thorough test-
ing before the New York Boxing Com-
mission adopted them, and with them
the no-foul rule which says a boxer loses
the round in which he hits low, but does
not thereby lose the fight. The Com-
mission got in two noted hard-hitters,
fitted them with the guards and set them
off in a six-rounder to slug each other
low as often as possible. They carried
“Sign me autograph-book , Judge?”
out the idea with enthusiasm, yet went
through the fight undamaged.
It is generally agreed that these guards
and the no-foul rule together have im-
proved fighting out of sight over in
Gahd’s Own, especially as the ref. is
asked to report to the Commission any
pug who fouls three times in a fight. A
pug doesn’t earn anything by fouling
the Commission.
Even so, the low punch is a dirty busi-
ness, and attempts are still being made
in U.S.A. to better the present arrange-
ments, if possible. One suggestion is
that each boxer should wear, in addi-
tion to the punch-proof guard, a white
belt about two inches wide round the
top of his trunks, any blow landing on
it, let alone below it, to be scored against
him as a foul. Apart from that penalty,
it is suggested by proposers of the idea
that all honest boxers—which is the
great majority of them—would be helped
in their aim to the body by the white
band, while the dirty fighter would be
easier to detect, not only by the ref.,
but by the crowd ; the perhaps some-
what optimistic belief being that the
crowd’s reactions to a clearly dirty fighter
would tend to make even that sort of
scrapper more circumspect.
However that may be, the no-foul
rule does not operate at all well for
controlling the other sorts of fouls, such
as the head bump and the kidney punch,
There are no rubber-and-metal guards
to protect a boxer against this sort of
thing, and it is tough going, to say the
least of it, when he loses a fight through
having one of these fouls put over him.
They can be quite accidental—in fact,
they nearly always are. Both head-bump
and kidney-punch were witnessed in the
Overlin-Sabatino scrap at Sydney Sta-
dium a fortnight back, yet it would be
impossible to see a cleaner fight than
that one. But a fighter can lose a scrap
through running into one of these fouls,
the damage done just affecting him ad-
versely enough to leave him vulnerable
afterwards. He can then be battered to
a standstill, knocked cold, counted out,
and gather such comfort as he may from
reflecting later that, anyway, the round
in whiph he was fouled was awarded his
way.
That happened in the U.S.A. in a bout
between two middleweights, Harry Bal-
samo and A 1 Rossi. Balsamo repeatedly
fouled Rossi in both the first and second
rounds, and was duly told by the ref.
that he’d lost the rounds. Weakened
by the fouls, Rossi was then knocked
cold and counted out. On fouls, there-
fore, he won it, but he didn’t get the
verdict. It being in U.S.A., the ref. had
no option but to count him out; even
in Australia, where refs, still have, and
exercise, a certain liberty of mind, it’s
hard to see what else a ref. could possibly
do in such a case with the no-foul rule
operating, unless he decided on a retro-
spective decision or called it no fight.
In regard to the blow which smashed
Schmeling’s back, there has been such an
insistence on the fairness of the punch
that it’s interesting to go back to the
previous Schmeling-Louis fight, and to
another fight in which the negro figured.
After the scrap in which Schmeling
outed Louis in the twelfth Schmeling
complained of having been repeatedly
fouled. Schmeling saw in this an attempt
to win the contest with a foul but legal
knockout. That there had been fouling
was freely substantiated by ref. Arthur
Donovan. “In the third round,” Dono-
van said, “Louis twice sent a terrific long
right hook to the kidneys, and each time
Schmeling exclaimed, ‘Foul!’ But at
long range that punch is fair, and I told
him to fight on Louis did strike
below the belt in the eighth and I warned
him that he had fouled... .Louis hit a
few low ones in later rounds, when he
was groggy.”
Groggy or not, the performance
doesn’t look pleasant in cold print.
In Louis’s favor it should be said that
he did take the father of a hiding in that
fight, and a man getting such a thrash-
ing is not to be judged by normal stand-
ards. Schmeling stated that the fouls
slowed him down by causing his legs to
stiffen, and it will be recalled how this
effect of partly paralysed legs was also
reported as occurring after Schmeling
was hit in the back in the recent fight.
As for that yarn about his not having
been hit there, in the rebroadcast to Aus-
tralia from the ring the announcer asked
Louis what blow he thought it was that
started Schmeling’s collapse, and the
negro instantly replied, “I think the right
to the ribs.” It is quite understandable
that Louis could have thought that that
was where his blow landed. Anyway, it
skittles the yarn that Schmeling cracked
his back in falling, even if that wasn’t
self-evident poppycock.
After his first fight with Schmeling
Louis met Jack Sharkey. He fouled
Sharkey twice in the second round with
low punches. He was warned by the
ref.—Donovan again—and therefore lost
the round ; but he knocked Sharkey in
the fourth.
That doesn’t read altogether in favor
of Louis ; but something needs adding
about Schmeling also. The German has
been declared by close followers of the
game in U.S. one of the fairest fighters
that ever stepped into a ring. While
himself fighting thus, however, it is
curious that in three of his most impor-
tant fights the matter of his having been
fouled has cropped up. Sharkey fouled
him with a low punch ; and, as has been
recorded, both of his fights with Louis
have had an aftermath of comment on
fouls. That doesn’t read well, either.


If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN” takes your fancy,
write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
to kill all the gentle Maoris living there, because they
would not tell where the sacred store of greenstone
was hid. Perhaps they didn’t know. Perhaps the
mountains didn’t. It was so long ago that one
forgot.
The chiefs had gone back empty-handed, and the
quick bush had covered the dead bones ; so that the
mountains nodded their white heads together, saying.
We have refused man; he knows our power now.
Yet later had come this rabble with white faces, tearing
the fern-clothed hill-flanks to ribbons, grubbing deep,
holes in search of the greensfone . . . which was yellow
when they got it, but they didn’t know the difference.
A displeasing rabble, scaring all the sweet shy birds
with their scarlet campfires, their great blotches of
pale tents, their lanterns stuck on . poles, their end-
less noise. ■■■•'«
We’ll see what we can do this time, said the
mountains, pouring down avalanches, snow* floods,
anything they could think of, on these intruders. But
the intruders throve on that food, coming endlessly
over the glaciers, the swollen rivers, the desolate
shingle valleys, the granite heights ;; round the coast
in little pitching steamers ; down the long deep bush
ways from Collingwood.
Then Cobb’s coach came galloping in over the
new road through Arthur’s Pass, bringing gold com-
missioners, bank managers and other important gentle-
men from Christchurch, seventy; miles off across the
Plains. The coach, with its high red, wheels spinning,
its six snorting horses handled by Ned Devine, that
famous whip of all time, floored the mountains. We
suppose that’s what they call civilisation down there,
said the mountains, veiling their tall heads in clouds
and declining to look at it.
Roddy Lovel, the Graham boys (big bearded
men now) from Kororareka, half the youth of New
Zealand looked at it with gusto ; looked with superior-
ity on these thousands of aliens bringing their strange
tongues with them, their
strange new methods of dis-
patch.
, Although not making
a fortune Roddy had more
than a little in the bank. So
on the whole he was very
content with the world,
lounging in the crowd one evening to see Cobb’s
coach come roaring in through a misty rain,
its gay red wheels and body spattered with mud.
Ned Devine had a new gold commissioner
aboard to-night, so the boy blew the horn
lustily and the horses shook the foam from shin-
ing bits as Ned swung them gloriously up to the
Empire, where all the quality lodged. The great man
descended heavily in his caped coat, the peak of his
cloth cap over his eyes ; and between the flaring lan-
terns the landlord hurried out, very obsequious, since
gold commissioners make a deal of trouble if they
don’t like you.
Roddy, intent on making trouble and being dis-
liked, followed Mr. Nick Flotoer in over the red
carpet, stood before him.
“May I have a word with you presently, Mr.
Flower? My name is Lovel.”
Nick Flower looked with his half-shut blue eyes
in a stare. Despite his working-clothes Roddy had
the native grace of the aristocratic Lovels and
apparently remembered that he was Sir Pere-
grine’s heir, with a clean neckerchief tied in a fancy
knot, clean hands preparing for the heirloom ring.
Finely built, too. Probably as strong as Flower.
Flower said suavely:
“Glad to meet you again, Rod. Have a drink?
“Thanks,” said Roddy, flushing and thinking of
his dear Tiffy, “I will wait until you are at liberty.
I don’t drink with my enemies, Mr. Flower.”
(To be continued.)
MRS. GALLAGAN
By Kay Robey.
MALIGNANT fate would make old Joe Bairing
crash into young Gallagan during my second
week as relieving officer. Of course, if the
regular policeman had been there it wouldn’t
have happened —it never does!
The little chap passed over without a squawk.
He lay pathetically still a few feet away from the
twisted wreckage of his bicycle, his school books flut-
tering in the breeze. Death had stamped a look of
alarm, surprise and a twitch of pain on his freckled
face.
“One of the Gallagan brood,” Doctor Holden
remarked as he made his examination, intoning an
indifference that seemed to multiply the Gallagans to
commonalty.
Naturally 1 had to advise the lad s indomitable
mamma, in whose ample bosom an intensity of love
for her husband had blossomed into family pride.
The Gallagans were not on the ’phone, so I drove
out the two miles to the farm, on the way passing a
fair-haired little fellow running at a jogtrot and whim-
pering all the while. His freckled face twitched with
alarm as he scooted in among the saplings at, the road-
side to let me pass, as though motor-cars had sud-
denly developed octopus arms.
The Gallagan homestead stood on one side of the
road in isolated disdain of the barn, stables and pig-
sties facing it across the way. But chickens ran to
and fro, and pigs grunted intimately near the fence.
The house seefned to have been deteriorating for
years, as though it was being overrun by a horde of
young savages who had not really meant it any harm,
loved it in a way but nevertheless broke windows,
dented the roof and bent the gates, stamped out the
garden and broke the weak branches off the apple-
trees. in the small orchard. The windmill shrieked
weirdly for oil, and the tank was studded with rust
holes. Fence posts leaned drunkenly upon the wires.
Fowls scratched industriously in the front garden,
where only the hardy shrubs survived in a tangled
wilderness of blossom and foliage.
An old sheep-dog greeted me with a few sleepy
yaps. An air of lethargy was pregnant with suppressed
life. Sparrows-squabbled in the grape-vine trellis run-
ning along each side of the path leading to the front
door, and bees, hummed in falsetto as they feasted on
the luscious, bird-punctured berries. Over all was the
hazy midsummer heat.
Linder the front verandah, partly hidden by a
creeper fern, sat a plump woman of middle age darn-
ing socks. After ’ a quick, suspicious scrutiny as 1
introduced myself, a slow chuckle started deep in her
ample bosom, and she waved me to a garden seat at
her side,
“More statistics, 1 suppose?” she began as 1 was
seating myself. “Well, Gallagan ain’t at home,” she
continued, with a note of defiance in her voice and a
slight haughtiness in her expression.
“Gone for a load of wood, ’e ’as,” she added.
“I’m alone with the girls. The boys are carting straw,
and the children ain’t home from school yet, though
Lennie should be cornin’ any minute. He’s got the
bike. So you’re relieving Mr. Hull, are you? How
d’you like these parts? From the city, I suppose?”
In her teens she must have been a lovely minx,
and she still had a mature attractiveness. Life had
dealt kindly with her, though she was the kind of
woman who asked little of life and gave liberally.
Not wishing to be drawn into a futile gossip, 1
ignored her questions and tried to broach my mission
tactfully. “As it happens, to-day I haven’t come to
see Mr. Gallagan in particular. You will do, Mrs.
Gallagan.”
She cast me a birdlike darting look, suspiciously
defensive, and again chuckled. There was a naive
evasion even in her chuckle, as though
with it she wished to hide the mouldering
negligence devastating her home.
“Mother o’ God, it’s strange to hear
that from a policeman! ” she burst out.
“Gallagan used them words every time
he came a-courting me. He never wanted
anyone in particular, but he always said
‘You’ll do, Bess.’ But you were goin’
to tell me about them statistics. Tell me,
what do the Government do with them
all? They’re bad for the country, that
they are. Every time Gallagan sees them
statistics he says we’re producing too
much.”
Her spontaneous subterfuge left me
unable to use her momentary pause.
Also, a large centipede had come out
from a rusting tin of fern and was
crawling straight for the hole in Mrs.
Gallagan’s slipper through which her
pink foot was revealed.
She sighed, then continued reminiscently. “Gal-
lagan didn’t think so when we were younger. Why,
every time 1 told him there’d be more doctor’s bills
he’d just scratch ’is head—luvly mop o’ hair ’e ’ad—
and mutter, ‘They’ll come in ’andy on the farm when
they grow up, Bess.’ Eleven we got. All ’ealthy
youngsters. Yes, Gallagan’s been a good’usband. My
sister often says, ‘Bessie, what you goin to do with
them all?’ But I fell her they’re ’andy on a farm.
But I don’t ’old with puttin’ them into statistics. No,
I don’t.”
The centipede had stopped within a few inches
of Mrs. Gallagan’s hefel. I forced my mind back to
my mission. “Mrs. Gsllagan, statistics reveal that in
the Commonwealth during the last ten years 166,432
persons were injured and 10,030 were killed in road
accidents.”
She chuckled. “What a head for figures! But
it do show that farmin’ ain’t so bad. We has our
accidents, too. I remember when the pig bit Gallagan
in the ’and. And there was the time when my eldest,
George, was sitting on a rabbit-burrow and that
Seegher lout shot in at the other end.”
“Motor-car accidents happen even here, Mrs.
Gallagan,” I said pointedly. “At the crossroads, with
boys on. bicycles.”
Mrs. Gallagan looked at me suspiciously. Front
down the road came the whimper of her son, still
jogtrotting slowly homewards.
• “Mother o’ God!” she demanded now. “Are
you tryin’ to tell me my Lennie’s been roon over?”
Mrs. Gallagan leaned forward, shifting her foot
almost on to the centipede, which scurried back into
the shelter under the fern-pot. Her excited voice
brought three plump girls with freckled noses to the
door, from where they looked at me inquiringly. I
felt safe to abandon any further prevarication, and
revealed the tragedy.
The effect upon Mrs. Gallagan was paralysing.
Her mouth opened, but no words came. She rose,
then sank back into her seat. The girls rushed to
her with solicitous cries, although each was now
weeping.
But presently Mrs. Gallagan's voice came through
their subdued sobs. “Mother o’ God, my Lennie
killed! Roon over by that old droonkard Bairing!
You might have told me at once instead o’ heatin'
about with them statistics. Keepin’ a poor mother in
agony waiting! Mother o’ God, Lennie dead! He
was our drought child. The only one Gallagan
grumbled about. There weren’t a grain in the paddick
that year. But Gallagan was a good father to my
children—yes, he was.”
By now the youngster had reached the garden,
and seeing his sisters sobbing he began to bawl at
the top of his lusty voice, which brought the fighting
spirit back into Mrs. Gallagan. “Roon along, you
girls. Mother o’ God, anyone’d think the house is
failin’ down. Come here, my little lamb.” She lifted
the youngster up in her arms. “No one ain’t gonna
roon over you, my lamb!”
Now rapidly recovering her composure, she
turned on the girls. “Katie, roon and tell your father.
Mary, get out the car and see about the water and
oil. Jenny, put on a clean frock. You kin drive me
in to fetch Lennie home.”
She turned to me and forced a smile. “Thank
you for breakin’ the news so gently. I suppose you
meant well. I’ll be in to fetch my lad almost as soon
as you get back.”
In the vine-trellis as I went out through the gate
the bees seemed to have subdued their humming ; even
the sparrows seemed to have fluttered higher into the
sugatgum-trees shading the outbuildings across the
road.


d
Slow Kidney
Poisoning
BACKACHE, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lum-
bago, Arthritis, Joint Pains, Rheumatic Pains,
etc., are all caused by weak and inflamed
kidneys, which permit impurities to escape
into the bloodstreams.
iBACKACHE 7
Nature has an unmistakable way of letting
us know when our Kidneys are weak and in-
flamed and need assistance. It causes them
to ache and we suffer from what is commonly
known as Backache or Pains in the Sides.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are specially
formulated to assist weak kidneys, and can he
relied upon to remove inflammation, dissolve
excess uric acid and tone up your entire
system.
y will am
YOU RELIEF
THE FIRST DAY YOU
TRY THEM /
rheumatism
Most cases of Rheumatism can be traced solely to
Kidney poisoning. The Kidneys have become
weak and inflamed, and are permitting excess
uric acid to store up in the bloodstreams and
assume sharp crystal-like forms which lodge in
the joints, causing the painful irritation known
as Rheumatism. Since the failure lies with the
Kidneys, it is obvious that to gain relief from
Rheumatism your Kidneys must be made to func-
tion normally again. The quickest way to attain
this is by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills—the
leading Kidney tonic sold in Australia. Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills will stimulate your
Kidneys to quicker action, and in this way assist
them to filter poisons and excess uric acid from
your bloodstreams. The irritation in your joints
will quickly disappear—and with your Kidneys
functioning normally—your blood free from im-
purities—your Rheumatism completely banished—
you will feel full of vitality and enjoy the very
good health that only comes when your Kidneys
are in a normal healthy condition.
“I MOST END
THIS BACKACHE
it’s killing me V*
Gin Pills make
weak backs strong!
Probably pain in the back is the most
common symptom to which the hu-
man body is liable. Weak Kidneys
usually cause this pain, which is
nature’s own way of letting you know
that the Kidneys need . assistance.
Neglect often brings serious Kidney
Trouble, Rheumatism and hosts of
other illnesses.
To correct any weakness or disorder
of the Kidneys, take Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills —the thoroughly reliable
Kidney Tonic. After taking Gin Pills
for a few days, weak backs quickly
become strong again, and backache
disappears.
One of the thousands who have ended
backache by taking Gin Pills is Mrs. M.
Glenn, of Waverley. She writes: —
"The pain I suffered with my back
and kidneys for over four years was
almost unbearable. I was advised to
try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, and got
absolute relief. They seemed to suit
my system perfectly. My health has
improved out of sight."
1/9 IMMENSE SALES 2/9
i DF SHELDON'S :
(gin PILLSI
F 0 R TH E RID Mil
Says “Dr. Sheldo
Pills have benefited
myself , wife and
two grown-up
children”
“I am sending this testi-
monial to let you know how
wonderfully your Dr *. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills have benefited
myself, wife and two grown-
up children. We have found
them excellent for
Backache and Rheu-
matism, and have
been free from ill-
ness ever since we
had Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills in our
medicine chest.”
Mr. George Christie.
Gilberton, S.A.
Gin
NO MORE PAIN
SINCE TAKING GIN PILLS
“Ten years ago 1 suffered a very serious attack
of Pylitis, nearly losing my life. The doctors told
me that I would probably get mild attacks for
years. I did, at the time the pain of my back
being so severe / could not carry on my business.
“Six months ago l started taking your Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, and got relief within two days.
I took two bottles, and have not had the pain since.
“I might add that 1 usually take about half a
bottle every three weeks or so, also that I’m never
without a bottle in case of emergency. I can fully
recommend to Backache sufferers Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills.”
Mrs. G. M. Woods,
163 Todman Avenue,
Kensington, N.S.W.
' ***!
r x
T ake 2 Pills
feel better
to-night — you f ll
to-morrow .
27 PILLS 1/9 (f F 60 PILLS 2/9
HAVE THE HEALTH THAT CAN BE YOUR S— B EG I N WITH GIN PILLS TO-DAY
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ‘
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
o oV s
<y
0
r, 1
o
e
<•/
\o
>1
s e
l#3r
3%
1\
iv*
6\
ae
w s
#
/
O\V
\V$ s n< itf
. • • ■ \ *
, vV 0<
?<v&|
V 0 S': ,v' vf
,\\>°
,vv'


TASMA TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS, No. 4.
f
df
w
Z 3
V
0
m
c.
(A.
((T
V
fr
P
ft)
u
2
(
Cd
£
S'
t
$k
v 5»
e
>JCCUR^ iIS
~*»" * >i%
The builders of Packard, Standard, Ford,
and Hudson cars “timed in” INSTAN-
T4HEOUSLY to the. conviction that the
.1988 Tasnw Auto Radio should be the
equipment for their new model cars,
YO'UR car deserves a Tasnw,. too!
■
; V
THE TASMA "COUNTESS”
(ABOVE)
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5-valve
broadcast, Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE*’
{BELOW)
Meeting the demand for receivers with
full console chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table use.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-wave
A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580” —Broadcast 5-valve.
Battery operated 27 guineas
Air Cell operated 29 guineas
Vibrator powered 32 guineas
Model “585” —-5-valve dual-wave.
Battery operated 29 guineas
Air Cell operated 31. guineas
Vibrator powered 34 guineas
(Prices slightly higher in West Australia .)
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.» OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
The secret of the one-man band is Instantaneous Tuning.
The gent here portrayed has little to do with the
advertisement except to snare your attention to the fact
that Tasma has the fastest tuning equipment of any radio
yet evolved. ‘ One flick of finger and thumb and the Tasma
pointer spins right across the 20-inch floodlit Tasma Dial,
to stop dead on your choice of any one of the 125 broad-
casting stations calibrated. Never before have speed and
hair-line accuracy been combined with such consummate
skill. And that’s just one OTHER reason why Tasma is
the finest radio investment on the market to-day.
In case you are unlucky enough not to know the other reasons for Tasma's leader-
ship . . . here are some of them: —
# New Octal Valves. # Air Trimmers. Q Extended
Tuning Range. # Oversize Dial with 20 inches
of tuning space. $ Automatic Volume Control.
# Variable Selectivity. ® Dust-proof Speakers.
# Inbuilt Magic Eye.
ua4nui
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
