

34-
lip
Isk &
m
a §
,€S
i
m
m nil»
Vi nit«
i|. i
l' l ill
WffiTjffrr;
HIIL';
nun
a- m J»
A
. * HARnv J <
-wes ro 6l
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Kings Head at Shrewsbury is a
fine monument to the prosperity and con-
tentment of the middle classes during the
reigns of the Tudor monarchs. Its sign is
a portrait of Henry VII.
The trade mark of the House of Hol-
brook is an encircled St. George and the
Dragon. This is registered throughout
the Empire as a guarantee of the quality
of my products.”
£
lA
v
3
)
O!RWES,ORAVIE
32£^B
IOLBJf 0 OK &M
O^WOaCESTggg;
WORCESTERSHIRE
£
onas rrwQnser.
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
The Bulletin
Short Story
Vol. 59.—N0. 3061.
Wednesday, October 12, 1938,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
CHRISTIANS CONSIDER WAR.
In England a month or so back the Archbishop
of York and a following of bishops issued a statement
which laid down this remarkable dictum:
It seems to be assumed that our country would resort
to war in self-defence, which is generally understood
to include defence of the territorial integrity of the
British Empire ; from that we do not dissent, though
we should wish the decision whether a casus belli exists
to rest with an impartial authority, unless a territorial
aggression has actually taken place. But we wish to
affirm with all possible emphasis that there is clearer
moral justification for the use of armed force in defence
of international law than for a war of the old type in
defence of territorial possessions or economic interests.
A definition of “international law” was not attempted,
though the bishops instanced China and Spain as
places where it was being violated and gave “the
bombing of British ships in Spanish waters” as an
exceptionally bad example. If this means anything,
it means that they would have been in favor of what
Mr. Chamberlain has defined as a “War of the
Spanish Obsession,” and also of war against Japan.
And either of those wars would have “clearer moral
justification” than a war in defence of territorial pos-
sessions.
That, then, may be accepted as representing the
outlook of a good many sincere Christians. Another
outlook, that will not be faulted on the ground of
being un-Christian, was expressed by an eminent
lawyer who challenged the bishops to define the inter-
national law “in favor of which they want the world
knights to don their armor” and pointed out that
war disintegrates into wholesale murder and unjustifiable
slaughter of the innocent, who cannot retaliate, and who
by their silent submission to unmitigated suffering for
their country’s sake should rank in Christian religion as
the real victors of their tormentors and executioners.
It was impossible, he added, to “bring such warfare
within the four corners of the Gospel.” That all
churchmen do not hold this view could be conclu-
sively demonstrated from the utterances of many of
them during the Great War, and since. When, in
May, 1936, moral campaigning against Italy was being
intensified as the Italian conquest of Abyssinia neared
its end, the Archbishop of Canterbury said, “The use
of the sword is the ministry of God for the defence
of the people.” In striking contrast to that and to
other like utterances made at that time, the recent
balancing on the brink of war brought from church-
men everywhere a unanimous call to prayer for peace.
It has to be said, however, that if war had come
over Czechoslovakia many churchmen would have
had no trouble in finding it morally justified, especially
those who consider it a Christian purpose to uphold
“international law,” whatever that term may embrace.
Mr. Chamberlain, as true a Christian as any,
brought the question of war issues from a vague into
a clear light when he gave out, as the issue recently
at stake, that a country determined to dominate the
world by threats of force would have to be resisted. It
would, of course, have been on that simple and con-,
crete proposal that the call to arms would have been
made.
Though indirectly—since the book must.obviously
have been written in advance of them —all these and
other aspects of the justification of war from the
Christian viewpoint are examined in Rom Landau’s
provocatively titled Arm the Apostles (Nicholson and
Watson). It is a timely and in all ways arresting work
—brief, with the clarity of statement of a speech by
Mr. Chamberlain, and a sincerity of Christian thought
which has brought praise for it even from outright
non-resisters and others whose theories its author
attacks
Mr. Landau traces the growth of the war spirit
in Britain after the dominant pacifism which prevailed
in the early post-war years, especially among work-
ing people. With “the advent of militant Fascism”
the “workmen and their unions began to forget their
pacifism.” “To defend Democracy, at the price of
fighting Fascism,” became “one of the guiding prin-
ciples in the Socialist ideology.”
The word War, which had practically disappeared from
the workingman’s vocabulary, began to loom in it again.
It symbolised not pnly conflict and death but also a
sacred cause. By the tragic swindle of events it became
glorified.
And the workingman was not the only one “for whom
the idea of war turned into an idol.”
Men who all these years had been signing every peace
pledge that came their way, professional men, clefgymen,
schoolmasters, even some of the clever novelists who a
few years previously had been writing books in defence
of Pacifism, were all changing their views.
Even so, and despite the attempts of eminent
churchmen to provide moral justifications, Mr. Landau
finds that, though the war spirit has thus grown,
“many no longer know how to reconcile their duties
as Christians with those of patriots.” The taking of
Christ’s name in the matter he trenchantly opposes.
Christ’s own example provides no justification what-
soever for war.
Those members of the clergy who maintain that
Christ allows man to kill have not yet learned to be
fastidious about their sincerity or their logic. Their fan-
tasies must for ever remain unsupported by any single
deed on the part of the Man whom they claim to be
their Master.
The book must have been with the printers when
the statement of the bishops was compiled, but the
main conclusion reached by the author—his recon-
ciliation as a Christian with the idea of fighting in
Britain’s defence —comes pat as a retort to the prefer-
ence for a war to uphold “international law” as against
a war in defence of territorial possessions. Mr.
Landau does not look at Britain and its Empire and
see only so many billions of acres, so many people
and so much wealth, which is what the bishops, in
their reference to territorial possessions, must have
done. Mr. Landau is not a shallow thinker ; he does
not look at the mere surfaces of anything. He does
not dismiss Britain as a fa?ade ; he looks in and sees
what it means and represents, and therein finds his
justification: .
Her most precious possessions are her respect for
individual life; her sense of justice and fairness; her
freedom of thought and conscience. Without this freedom
all search for truth and all communion with God are
impossible. To defend Britain may therefore become
not only a patriotic but even a Christian duty.
He does not on that account seek, as some do, a
war to enforce what he extols on nations which restrict
or deny individual freedom. He is a Christian
thinker, not an imbecile. And, of course, he does not
accept the criticism of those among whom it is now
the fashion to belittle the specific virtues of what
constitutes British civilisation.
They point to where those virtues have failed, exag-
gerate those failures, and compare them with the tem-
porary successes of some foreign system. What such
people are keen about is change. But they forget that
the change which some foreign country may have effected
is little else than a “change without hope.”
No matter how short we may fall of our ideals of
freedom, justice, collaboration, tolerance, fair play, we
cannot deny that they arc manifestations of real
progress. they have created standards of conduct
which illuminate with an almost unearthly radiance the
more tortured and arid landscape of modern Conti-
nental existence.
Mr. Landau does not imagine that Christianity
and British civilisation are wholly synonymous, but
to such extent as they are identical they represent to
him, as a Christian, something that would be well
worth defending.
Match to Mr. Tilden.
Tilden wins-—six-love, six-love, six-lurv. His
autobiography, Aces, Places and Faults (Hale), as he’d
confess himself, is swell. Apart from anything else,
there are 40 pages of straight coaching advice —a fair
measure for an autobiography.
Nobody could possibly stand up to the demon
service of the dust-jacket for a start —the prodigious
grin that he swipes down the court with eight racquets.
The U.S. Davis Cup committee goes down to a fore-
hand “pigheaded” and a backhand reference to “one
of the few free meals 1 have enjoyed at the expense
of the association.” Lilywhite amateurism and “the
game for the game’s sake” get the simple drop-shot
“guff.”
Borotra is favored with “unethical” and the story
about the time he played Cochet and, having slipped,
kept spitting out pebbles every time he served. “The
crowd howled with laughter, and Borotra ran out
the match with Cochet getting madder and madder."
John Hennessey is “hardly a shrinking violet” ; he
appeared at Wimbledon in striped trousers.
To Perry and some others, Tilden concedes a
point or two. Perry is “neither conceited nor a snob."
In fact, “Fred Perry is swell, a great player and a
grand guy.” Tilden approves of Budge. And in a
chapter on “Famous People” there is Clark Gable, “a
sincere, high-class gentleman, without conceit, easy
to meet and a regular guy.”
The women players go down like ninepins before
Tilden’s attack. People had been saying that a good
woman player was the equal of the top-rank men, so
Big Bill played Lenglen in Paris, and infuriated that
excitable lady by winning as he liked. Her remark
to the pressmen was classic: “Yes, Mr. filden and I
played, but whether he won six games or I did, I really
don’t know.” Tilden likes Helen Jacobs and doesn’t
like Helen Moody, and cheerfully rakes up the feud
between them.
However, this sincere high-class gentleman and
regular guy isn’t wholly concerned with the gossip
that gives Wimbledon the dignity of a knitting circle
or the “temperament” that gives it all the simple charm
of the Stadium when the wrestlers are loose. For the
Australian players he has nothing but kind words and
high praise. Norman Brookes was the idol of his
youth:— , , , .
From a tennis angle Brookes’s was the keenest bram
I have ever met. He left you flatfooted physically
and mentally by the unexpectedness of his strategy. A
picture taken in the Davis Cup match at Auckland in
1920 shows me in full flight into my forehand corner
as Brookes’s volley is dropping on my backhand side-
line behind me.
Crawford, he says, was “the closest thing to
Cochet for ease of stroke I have ever seen.” He has
great hopes of Quist. Noting McGrath and Brom-
wich as important, he warns young players against
copying their freak shots. In Australian tennis gener-
ally, he finds a conflict of styles and no settled method
of grip or stroke, “due possibly to lack of enough
coaching professionals or a lack of unity of method
among them.”
Brookes, whom he considers his most interesting
opponent, figures in his list of the ten greatest players
he has encountered. The others are Cochet, Von
Cramm, Wm. Johnston, Kozeluh, Lacoste, Nusslein,
Perry, Vincent Richards and Vines. The Australians
J. O. Anderson and Gerald Patterson figure in his
second ten, with Borotra and others. For ten out-
standing women players he lists: Cilly Aussen, May
Bundv, Mary K. Brown, Mrs. Lambert Chalmers,
Mrs. Millar, Helen Jacobs, Lenglen, Mrs. Mallory,
Helen Moody and Mrs. Wightman.
Naturally, Tilden has a soft spot for the profes-
sionals. He makes the suggestion:
If Vines Perry, Nusslein, Ramillon, Cochet,
Richards, Stoefen, Lott Kozeluh, Barnes and mysdf
will only stick together the drawing power of this group
may force the amateur tennis associations ot the woria
5 recognise the public demand for an own champion-
shin where Budge, Von Cramm, Austin, Quist, Crawtora,
Parker, Grant, etc., may test their skill against the former
gr He submits Ramillon and Martin Plaa, of France,
and Lester R. Stoefen, of America, as J re %
sionals liftle known to the amateur world. Ramillon
has a slice backhand drive that does incredible things;
Plaa has a fancy “temperament” and a beautiful
ground shot; and Stoefen, “six-feet-four inches ot
blond American manhood,” is a terrific hitter wit 1
the fastest service in the world to-day.
There’s no doubt about Tilden knowing the tennis
racket. He’s played the game all over the world.
Following him from country to country will, ot
course, be interesting to devotees, and even non-
players will find a certain curious charm in his pere-
grinations. When the average globetrotter going to
Mexico talks about revolutions, oil wells or pottery,
there’s at least a freshness in hearing Tilden lament
that the altitude of Mexico City makes tennis difficult,
and “it is impossible to alter the location of Mexico.
Tennis players should demand a plebiscite.
On Czechoslovakia, Tilden has: “If foreign stars
are to play with any pleasure in Prague, something
must be done to educate the Czech public in the
ordinary courtesies of the tennis court.
In Japan he found tennis a national game, en-
couraged in schools. In Egypt: “I look to see some
well-known world-class stars come out of Egypt witnin
the next decade.” Spain brings the observation, m
perfect seriousness:
It will be many years before Spain recovers from her
terrible internal strife. Tennis will have a better chance
under a victory for General Franco than the Keil
Government, since most of the tennis lovers ol Spam
arc among Franco’s supporters.
Having thus dealt with international affairs, Tilden
indulges in some personal revelations, as entertainingly
(and as modestly) as a brass band. He even quotes
some of his own verses. Only Big Bill could have
headed that chapter “My Artistic Activities.”
Seaforth Mackenzie's New Novel.
The Young Desire It, published last year, with its
elusive beauty, its promise and its inequality, focuses
attention on Seaforth Mackenzie’s second book,
Chosen People (Cape).
It is the story of five people caught in a psycho-
logical impasse: Richard Mawley, a law student with
an appetite for solitude; Marjorie, whom he loves
but cannot marry, and whom he draws into his secret
life ; Ruth Elison, a woman of smouldering danger-
ous charm, aged 40 ; her daughter, Deborah, a woman
unhappy and manque at 16 ; Michael, a pale cipher
who was Ruth’s lover and is to be Deborah’s husband.
The tormented relationship between mother and
daughter holds the centre of the stage. Ruth has given
up her lover, but in return she demands the spiritual
enslavement of her daughter. Almost knowingly, she
drives the girl to the verge of suicide. Mawley,
through whom we get the narrative in his role of
observer, is almost drawn into the vortex, and his essen-
tially sane and happy relationship with Marjorie is
imperilled. A sultry threat hangs over the whole
book —the threat of catastrophe or of melodrama, it
is incompletely resolved. Deborah sees her mother
for what she is ; she temporarily frees her nerves by
attempted suicide and its attendant emotional explo-
sion ; she marries Michael. That may very well be
the beginning rather than the end of tragedy.
The setting is Perth, though the blurb says it is
Sydney. No place names are mentioned, but to any
one who knows the West Australian capital the locale
is obvious. The description, early in' the book, of the
University, the Great Hall mirrored in its artificial
lake, is a key which fits the lock exactly. The word
Australia does not occur, yet a sort of aromatic warmth
that is unmistakably Australian clings about the scene.
The descriptive passages have all the sensitive beauty
that is characteristic of Mackenzie’s work:
The day was cold and brilliant following weeks of
continuous rain as though a sudden hand had wiped the
whole sky free of cloud and the earth free of the grey
mists of winter. There was little warmth in the sun,
but an infinite clarity of air made the world sparkle with
the night’s rain not yet dried, and abbreviated distances,
almost bewildering the eye with rediscovered detail so
long forgotten. Even the city’s empty streets seemed not
merely the discarded channels of a stream of humanity
that on Sundays flowed elsewhere. They became strictly
beautiful in their unnatural silence under long bright
tracts of sky, and the thin, brilliant sunlight filled them
to their broken brims like water. Stone and brick and
glass drank in this light avidly, as though after a long
famine.
Sometimes this same quality informs the portraits
of characters. Richard’s father, the sheep man from
the north, is brilliantly struck off in a few lines ; so is
Ruth’s husband. At other times the author is not so
happy, as when he describes Marjorie as “finely
afflicted with the infectious virtues.”
Stories by O'Faolain.
“What can a writer do,” asked O'Faolain, “but
gather up the coins and make his own fumbling effort
to say to what Caesar each belongs?” And so he has
called his collection of short stories A Purse of
Coppers (Cape).
The humor is homely, the style unpretentious yet
with a singing cadence in it. The attack is straggling
and inconsequent, yet there is greatness in these
stories. They stick in the mind.
There is one about Roger Sullivan’s protest
against society and what came of it. “He travelled
for cured pigs’ heads, and he had a face like a pig's
head ; only his face was red and a pig’s face, when
cured, is pale. Nothing would cure Sullivan’s face
but a'regime that he could not have borne ; he loved
his drop.” But for all that he was a staunch man in
the Troubles, sheltering men on the run, hiding their
guns and finding money for them. But when peace
and reconstruction came he was all at sea. The pig’s
head business dwindled to nothing.
At last his senses left him, and in a grand sym-
bolical act on the most westerly point of the Irish
coast he took off his trousers, the symbol of English
{Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
-
❖
m
V
«
m
*r
*
S' t?
s
f ' *&**
# . #**lll
\
1
I I
am
lliipi *
h u ■■■ \ "
, v>
H
'sm*
-v:: !
U
I I
-. r
i »
!!:?»
n ppm
* llirillil
HUmmh
<«■
W;
fp*#i
w
A!
;»i
»!
si?
#■s
mi
Mi
i i \
SILK DRESSING GOWNb
A superior quality Dressing Gown in
effective scroll designs. Silk cord and
girdle to tone. Red, Blue, Navy and
Brown effects. Sizes 36 to 44 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price ... 427-
SALE PRICE 29/6
gf
g
f
ALL WOOL TWEED GOWNS
Men's All Wool Tweed Dressing Gowns, in a
comfortable weight lor Spring. Blue, Grey,
and Brown check effects. Wool cord and girdle
to finish. Sizes 36 to 44in. chest.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price ...: :. 35/-
SALE PRICE 25/-
Postal Address Box 2712 C, G.P.O,
ART. SILK
DRESS'G GOWN
A genuine saving on these
fancy Art. Dressing Gowns,
complete with silk cord and
girdle to match. Black,
Navy, Bottle, Brown, Lido,
and Burgundy tonings.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price 33/9
SALE PRICE 22/8
ALL WOOL TWEED DRESS. GOWN
Here's the Dressing Gown for utmost comfort. It is
made of a soft Wool Tweed in smart, overcheck
designs. Blue, Fawn and Grey tonings. Sizes 34
to 44in. chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
48/6. SALE PRICE 32/S
%
i WHILE I
LIVE I'Ll GROW
THE SENIOR STORE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
f*</
v \m< ■
'A
■=t
gf
NEW SEASON'S COINSPOT GOWNS
Smartly tailored Silk Dressing Gowns with Satin back.
Silk cord girdle and tassel to match. White spot on
Navy, Lido, .Brown,' Burgundy and Black
Sizes 34 to 44in. chest. Anthony Horderns Regular
Price. 42/- SALE PRICE 29/6
Telephone: M 2401
Day or Nigh!


LAST
BUS
By Don Celweusds
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
THE rain beat hard on the roof and windows of
the bus, drowning the noise of the engine. Fred
leant forward over the wheel and peered down
the roadway, watching the splash of the drops
in the puddles and the dripping trees that passed in
melancholy procession through the glow of the head-
lights.
Occasionally a gust spattered against the bus and
threw the trees into sudden wild movements. He
pulled the collar of his overcoat about his ears, and
looked at the watch on his wrist. Ten minutes to
one. He would be there before the express all right,
even if he had to take the long way. The rain had
been falling for three days now. Anxiously he
glanced across the blackness to the spreading lights
of the distant town, then, as if to escape from the
gloominess of the prospect, he looked up at the mirror
that reflected the bright interior of the bus.
The passengers talked or drowsed or lounged in
the seats. “Lucky beggars,” he thought, “able to sit
there comfortably.”
Well, if the rivers weren’t up too high he
shouldn’t have to stop again till he was well into
town, and this was the last trip. He smiled as he
thought of the warm, clean kitchen, with Myra wait-
ing for him. There was no traffic on the rain-swept
road to-night. He swung the big bus down the long
slope that dropped to the river.
A LOOSE spring in the back of the seat prodded
Jane at every jolt of the bus, but she was too
tired to move. When the journey began she had de-
cided that she would sleep, but she was too tired
even for that.
She should not have taken the extra night’s work
at Mrs. Egerton’s party, but she needed the money,
and it hadn’t been too bad till about ten o’clock.
She wondered how the children had managed to-night
without her, whether they had been afraid, and what
they had done after tea. Elsa would have put little
Alan to bed, and then washed up the tea things. She
smiled at the thought of them both sleeping peace-
fully.
A wild gust splashed the rain against the window
and brought back to her that distressingly gloomy
mood that always pounced on her when she gave
herself time to think. Suppose something had hap-
pened to the children. Alan had complained of a
sore throat that morning, and Elsa was little more
than a baby herself. Alan might be sick now, and
there were no neighbors close, and it was a dreadful
night.
She realised that the spring was no longer press-
ing into her back, and she found that she was strain-
ing forward as if to help the bus along. There was
so much to do when she got home, food to prepare
for the morning, and to-morrow was her day at Mrs.
Blatchford’s, so she would have to be up before six
o’clock. Why didn’t the driver hurry? She leant
against the window to see out into the darkness. They
must be getting near the river now. She felt like tell-
ing him to hurry because two small children were
waiting for her.
l__J ARLEY looked round the bus to see whether
1 1 anyone was watching, then quickly he kissed
Miriam’s cheek. “Happy?” he asked.
She smiled at him. “Of course.”
“I’ll get out at your place, Miriam,” he said,
“and tell your people.”
She laughed quietly, “No, Harley. They will
have been in bed for hours. I’ll tell them in the morn-
ing. Besides, you can’t walk the rest of the way home
in this rain.”
“That’s right,” he said ruefully. “But I can’t bear
the idea of leaving you. I never want to leave you
again.”
He stared out into the darkness, and then said,
with relief, “Well, we aren’t to the first river yet, so
we still have a fair distance to go.”
They settled back, pressing close to each other.
Frequently he glanced at Miriam’s face. She had her
eyes closed, but he knew by the pressure of her hand
in his that she wasn’t asleep. His thoughts flew
ahead to a future that was exactly as he wanted it to
be. He would work his way up in the business and
become chief clerk, and later, when old Milford saw
his real worth, a partner. Of course, he wasn’t get-
ting much yet. Perhaps he should save his money and
do a university course in architecture, but that would
mean postponing his marriage for too long. He
would design his own home though, out near Mil-
ford’s big place. They would have servants and a
big car.
He wished that he could show Miriam just how
much he loved her. The man and the woman on
the opposite seat seemed to be quarrelling. He and
Miriam would never quarrel. Of course, they had
a few rows now, but after they were married it would
be different. It would be wonderful to have her near
him always, like to-night. She was asleep now. He
slipped his arm about her and pulled her head down
against his shoulder.
He saw the willows glide past in the glare of the
lights. They were only near the first river. He wished
the driver would go more slowly so that he would
have a longer time with Miriam.
'T'HE black night made a mirror of the window
1 beside him so that Claude could see his reflection.
For a man of forty he was well preserved, perhaps a
little fat, he thought, but his size could carry it. He
drew himself up and straightened his tie. Pompously,
he gazed around the bus, feeling a slight disappoint-
ment that no one was watching him. He didn’t like
the bus. His mind ran back over the circumstances
that caused him to be in it. The breaking down of
his car, his failure to get a taxi at Elaine’s because of
the wet night.
“Don’t go home at all,” she had said to him, and
he had replied, “I wouldn’t, but for the fact that Gwen
will be hbme in the express.”
He looked at his watch. He would manage it
easily. He would get home, have the supper ready
and be waiting for Gwen, like a dutiful husband.
He couldn’t help feeling sorry that she was
returning. He wanted to see Elaine every night instead
of about once a week. Of late he had thought that
Gwen was becoming suspicious. At times he thought
he should stop visiting Elaine altogether, but as soon
as he left her he wanted to see her again, and there
wasn’t much chance of his wife discovering his reasons
for going out.
At any rate Elaine appreciated him. Gwen took
him as a matter of course, didn’t realise his ability,
but with Elaine it was different. She never laughed
at him. He thought of the praise she had given him
to-night, and he sat even more erect, so that he lost
his reflection in the window and saw the river swirl-
ing high between its banks.
LEILA bent down to the little girl beside her and
whispered, “You’re tired, Moira; rest against
mummy and go to sleep.”
In a few seconds the child was asleep. Leila
stroked the curly hair and put her arm about the girl
protectively. The outing was almost over, and the
beating rain and tearing winds made her realise that
soon she must lose her daughter again.
She imagined Ron stalking angrily and impatiently
about the house, waiting for her. The people next
door would give him her message telling him that she
had taken Moira out for the day, but he would be
annoyed. She could imagine what he would say to
her: “You should be ashamed to keep her out till
this time. I thought you agreed to stay away from
her.” »
She would reply simply, “I had to see her again,”
and then she would leave. The thought of leaving gave
her a vivid imaginary picture of Moira going into
the house, and herself walking away into the lonely,
wet night. Perhaps if she pleaded with Ron they
might get along together again, but she thought
of the set of his mouth and the hard, unforgiving
look in his eyes, and she felt hopeless.
If only she could have Moira again. She had
never imagined that it would be as difficult as this.
Being with the girl all day had made her want her
all the more. It would have been better not to have
seen her. Answering Moira’s questions had been very
difficult. “Why doffit you come back home, mummy?”
“Why did daddy say you had gone away for a long
time?”
She looked down anxiously at the Jittle figure
beside her, at the damp shoes and badly-fitting dress.
Ron bought clothes that were too big for her. The
soles of her shoes were worn, too, and now they
were damp. Almost fiercely she pulled the girl
towards her so that she woke up and asked, “Where
are we now, mummy?”
“Close to the river, darling,” she replied ; “go
to sleep again.”
WALLY thrust the few shillings in his hand back
into his pocket. Perhaps he should not have
spent the money on the bus fare. It wasn’t much
good getting a day’s work if he spent the money on
fares, but he couldn’t very well walk on a night such
as this.
It was warm and dry in the bus, and he was
comfortable. He thought of his camp in the'shed
near the river, and of how the rain would be trickling
through the roof and beating with the wind between
the slabs of the walls. It had been bad enough last
night, but to-night the floor would be running with
water, and he would not be able to lie down. It
might be better to go on to town and spend the rest
of the night under the shop-awnings. He wished he
could stay in the bus. Perhaps the driver would let
him. Then he thought that to ask would expose his
(Continued on page 7.)


MONEY
TROUBLES
by Jessie McK. Heason
DRAWING BY PHILLIPS.
< ‘ K I OW, if I were you, Piri, I’d look after this
money. Make it spin out and educate your
I I family on it.”
Piri leaned easily across the lawyer’s
table. “Whose money is it, anyway, Jimmy?” he
inquired amiably. “Yours or mine?”
“Yours for the time being, but don’t forget you’ll
have a lot of friends now, Piri. How about settling
up a few bills before you launch on to anything
fresh?”
Piri picked up his sunburnt Panama and studied
it earnestly.
“Jimmy,” he said, “I know my cousin. He don’t
leave me this money to pay bills. He leave it to use.”
The lawyer smiled. “Well, go easy, Piri! A thou-
sand pounds doesn’t go far. Save a bit for a rainy
day. Here’s your cheque-book, and good luck!”
The book stowed into the pocket of his blue-
and-red blazer, Piri stepped briskly out into the bril-
liant November sunshine and swung along the pro-
vincial street. Twenty years fell from him. He was
a man of means, a gay dog. He admired his reflec-
tion in the pub window.
Mata, his wife, who knew all masculine moods,
took her pipe from her tattooed lips and spat in the
gutter where she sat. Quickly avoiding her eyes Piri
turned to the respectful gaze of his sister Mary and
the subdued interest of his second cousin Isaac. The
wide splash of color which was Piri’s brother Tommy
caught the eye sharply at the bar entrance.
Tommy’s voice flowed with love. “You get the
dough all right, old chap? I think I get the new
suit, eh?”
“What with?”
Who wouldn’t have been crestfallen? “The
thousand quid, eh?”
Piri, remembering items purloined by his brother
and the usual share of shark for which Tommy toiled
not, let his generous Maori heart harden within him.
“I never spent any myself yet,” he said coldly.
Their first cousin Henare, emerging from the bar,
winked a cheerfully bibulous eye. “Fair go. You
have first shot, Piri. We others —we draw lots.”
But Mata, observing the magnetic nature of Piri’s
arrival, spoke up sharply.
Piri smiled appeasingly. “All right, old woman.
I save the dough. I save it like hang. Hear that, you
others?”
Disappointment weighed so heavily on
their faces that Piri’s brittle purpose, so
lately crystallised, was dissolved in pity. He
brought forth the cheque-book as a solemn
promise of those good things to come. They
regarded it wistfully.
“By crikey, I need
the new suit”
“That thousand
quid belongs to Piri,”
said Mary, fierce cham-
pion of her brother’s-
cause. “You want too
much, you Tommy. I
want more than you
do.”
Piri was gentle as
a good father. “I save
the dough, like Jimmy
said. I save him for
the rainy day.”
Isaac gave an
asthmatic cough and
remarked in a beer-
saddened voice that the
Government would get
it all before they had a
chance of seeing it.
“You try and get some
now. You try and get
the beer from George,”
was Isaac’s bitter sar-
casm, “and how much
money you got then,
eh?”
Piri replaced his
cheque-book. The con-
templation of the ex-
peri m e n t set him
trembling. It needed
a furtive glance at the
eager faces of Tommy
and Henare and the tri-
umphant gloom of
Isaac to send him marching into the bar. Leaning on
the counter he addressed the barman deferentially.
“George,” he said, “my cousin up in the Waikato
he die and leave me a thousand quid. How about the
drink, George?”
“Piri,” replied the barman, speedily drying glasses,
“you got more imagination than I ever gave you
credit for, but don’t try any of your funny tales on
me, see? I got no time to waste.”
Piri produced his cheque-book.
“New” he began earnestly.
George paused. “What you got there?”
“Jimmy Dean give me this just now”
“Piri, no bluff now —you mean to say you got
some cash in the bank?”
“Yeh. A thousand quid. You don't believe me
you ask Jimmy Dean.”
George laid down his towel and smiled pleasantly.
“That’s 0.K., Piri. What’ll you have?”
In ten minutes Piri emerged, his wide grin
ecstatic.
“You get one?”
“Four,” said Piri.
They regarded him. “What about us?”
Piri flourished a pound note. “You fellers help
yourselves. I just write the cheque and George give
me the quid.”
They were puzzled. Isaac spat. “You have the
cop after you, or some chap from the Government.”
Piri laughed joyously. “You want tobacc’? You
watch me!”
“Peter,” he said to the tobacconist, “you give me
the tobacc’ I pay you all right.”
“I’ve heard that before, Piri.”
Piri’s confidence was as weeds in spring. “My
cousin up in the Waikato he die and leave me two
thousand quid”
Soon, armed with bundles and happy experiences,
Piri returned to the family group.
“Tobacc’,” he said proudly. “New pipe, choco-
late, tins o’ fish. By crikey!”
His relatives admired. Free drinks had dissolved
their incredulity, and visions of satisfied longings
began to glow rosily in their minds. “What we do
now?”
“New suit, eh?” suggested Piri.
“Who for? Forme?”
“No, for me.”
A dissentient silence fell.
“Anyway,” observed Isaac at length, “you never
pay him yet for the trouser.”
Piri hesitated a fraction of a second. Then
he laughed the powerful laugh of one who may com-
mand. He crossed the main street and swaggered
into the outfitter’s. His nonchalance effected a pause
in the activity there.
“I want the new suit, eh?”
“Yes?” said the assistant, carefully folding a
bundle of ties. “What do you want? A morning suit
or sporting flannels?”
His fellow-assistant laughed.
“I' want the blue suit and pretty dam’ quick. I
got the cousin up in the Waikato and he die and
leave me five thousand quid”
In an hour Piri emerged from the cocoon in a
suit of deep purple. A stiff felt crowned his wet
curls and navy suede shoes his unhappy feet. He
carried a parcel of an extra suit, three shirts, socks
and four pairs of striped silk pyjamas. But the down-
ward grade of his heyday had begun at last, for the
spending here had taken toll of his vigorous enthu-
siasm.
In proportion to Piri’s growing weariness was the
acquisitiveness of his relatives, culminating by a
supreme stroke in the desire of Mary for a fur coat
with a collar of many little tails.
The hot sun beat down gleefully. And the replies
of Mata to Mary's insistence brought the calm eye of
a constable very close.
Piri stepped in between his female relatives. “You
wait till you get home before you have any dam’
fight,” he said.
“1 want the fur coat, Piri” ——
“New suit”
“Wireless set”-
“Move on there, Piri, you and your friends, and
quit this row.”
"T'HE afternoon fought its way on. It was wcary-
-1 ing, this being a moneyed man. Family disrup-
tions sprang from it; violent jealousy accompanied
it. Appeasing and satisfying his relations was rob-
bing him of the simple joy of living. His fifteen
thousand pounds were all trampling on his spirits like
so many cows upon one’s kumaras. Nor would the
family dray accommodate his new belongings.
“We have another beer,” he said without enthu-
siasm, “and then I buy the car.”
Isaac’s cough was sadder than ever. “You can’t
drive the car.”
“I get the car I soon find plenty people to drive
him.”
Down the hot pavement they trudged again.
Piri’s new shoes squeaked a syncopated march into
the car showroom. “I want to see the boss,” was his
refrain. “I want to buy the car.”
He sank on to the running-board of a 1938
model and mopped his brow with a silk handker-
chief of Buchanan tartan. His relatives dispensed
with their collars.
The manager came, beaming his congratulations.
“I heard of your good fortune an hour or two
ago”
“Yeh,” said Piri mechanically, “my cousin up in
the Waikato he die and leave me twenty thousand
quid. You got the big car, eh? I think I like the
dam’ big one.”
The manager began to talk hurriedly about try-
ing one out.
“Never mind about the tryout. I trust you, eh?
You say he’s 0.K., I believe you. I take him now.”
The manager’s eyes were glassy. “What about a
driver?”
“My cousin Henare’s boy can drive.”
Henare winked proudly. “My boy could drive
the aeroplane, by cripes, if he had it.”
“You didn’t think of an aeroplane, 1 suppose?”
murmured the manager.
{Continued on page 7.)
Wholesale recklessness was
his only course. A rousing
cheer greeted him.


A M an of Parts
OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
The King of the Road.
MR. DION MICHAEL M1DDLEMISS—he car-
ried all his impressive name on a large visiting
card with “Bell’s Life in Sydney” printed low
down in the left-hand corner —was a young
man of much importance, a gentleman of fashion and
of letters with his well-pomaded flaxen hair, his fair
Dundreary whiskers, his silken cravat, cutaway blue
coat, peg-top check pantaloons, and gleaming patent
leather boots. His conversation —its bright and spark-
ling persiflage, erudite profundity, and memorable
epigrammatic quality—was all the evidence necessary
to assure such as were fortunate enough to enjoy its
splendors that Mr. D. M. Middlemiss was a man of
culture, a man of education, and generally a man of
parts. Such conclusion could not fail to be reached
by all those who encountered this bright ornament of
the Sydney press of 1863.
There had been a sale of bloodstock at old
Segenhoe station on the Upper Hunter, and “Bell’s
Life” had been represented thereat by Mr. D. M.
Middlemiss. Already his account of the great doings at
Segenhoe and in Scone was on its way to his paper,
and here he was in Muswellbrook obtaining material
for further literary effort having to do with the breed-
ing of horses in the valley of the Hunter River.
He had alighted from the coach making down the
valley to the head of navigation of the Hunter just
before midday, had dined substantially on corned
beef and carrots and plum pudding at Maclardy’s
Governor Bourke Hotel, and washed it down with a
quart of beer. Now he was seated in the parlor,
smoking a cigar and joining magniloquently in the
general conversation of a mixed gathering of male
humanity.
There were old and young and middle-aged men
there, but no class with which Mr. Middlemiss did not
consider himself on an equality, if not, indeed, some-
thing of a superiority. After all, these fellows were
only country yokels, whilst he was one of the bright-
est lights in the bright society of the gay metropolis.
Nevertheless, though Mr. Middlemiss had never heard
of him before, there was one among that bucolic com-
pany who was one of the brightest “lads of the vil-
lage.” This was Mr. Denis Halloran, the Clerk of
Petty Sessions. Better it might have been for Mr.
Middlemiss had he but known the versatile Dinny
Halloran a little bit more intimately.
“Well, you know,” Mr. Middlemiss was observ-
ing loftily to the company at large, “demme if I think
-I could endure the monotony of life in a country town
—such places as Scone or Muswellbrook, for instance.
No, bai Jove —too infernally dull altogether.”
The C.P.S. looked across the room at him. “Oh,
I don’t know,” he said with a smile. “We have our
bright moments. For instance, people like yourself
drop in on us sometimes. And others perhaps even
more distinguished, if such be possible. You never
know who’ll turn up. What would you say, now, if
I were to inform you that at the present moment the
district was being honored by a visit from the King of
the Road, the famous Frank Gardiner himself? That’d
surprise you, sir, I make no doubt?”
Mr. Middlemiss put down his cigar and sat up.
“Oh, I say,” he ejaculated, “you don’t tell me that!
Why I thought the fellow had disappeared—gone
from the colony. Nothing’s been heard of him since
he stuck up the gold escort last year at Eugowra
Rocks. Besides, this slope of the Dividing Range is
clean out of his beat. He’d never come over here.”
“Oh, well—l can’t help that, you know,” the
C.P.S. replied with a shrug. “I’m not accountable for
what a fellow like Gardiner’s liable to do. A law to
himself, you know. That’s what he is.”
“But, Mr. Halloran,” said Dion a little doubt-
fully, “I understand you’re an officer of the Justice
Department, aren’t you? How is it you don’t inform
the police and assist in apprehending the ruffian?”
Mr. Halloran winked —and winked again, screw-
ing up his face into an expression of deep cunning.
“Oh, well,”' he said. “Not my business, you
know. Live and let live —that’s Dinny Halloran’s
motto. Besides, what’s the damned Government ever
done for me that I should do their dirty work? To
hell with the Justice Department, that’s what I say. Let
Jimmy Martin or Henry Parkes come and catch the
fellow themselves if they want him so badly. Not
my affair. But, see here, Mr. Middlemiss, 1 can see
you’re one of the enterprising sort. Ready for any-
thing in the interests of the journal you represent,
aren’t you? Well, now, how’d you like to interview
Frank Gardiner? Don’t be startled. I’m pretty sure
it could be arranged—that is, if you’re game.”
Mr. Middlemiss rose to his feet and drew himself
up into an imposing attitude, throwing out his chest
and squaring his shoulders. He glared at Mr. Hal-
loran a little resentfully. “Game, sir? Game! How
d’ye mean game ? Do you infer, sir, that I may be
lacking in physical courage?”
“Oh, dear, no. Certainly not. But, of course, it
calls for a certain amount of nerve, you know. It’s
not a job I’d take on lightheartedly myself.”
“Let me tell you, Mr. Clerk-of-Petty-Sessions, I
was in the army before coming out from England
and accepting my present position. I don’t think it is
usual to question the —ah —gameness of old soldiers.
Gardiner, indeed! Of course I’d like to interview the
fellow. Such an article as I could make of it would
be invaluable. How is it to be done, sir?”
“You’ll excuse me if I consult with my friends
here. They’re all in the know. There is a good deal
of sympathy with Gardiner in some of the country
districts, you know. Some of us think he’s been
rather badly treated. Of course you’ll give your word
you won’t put the police on his tracks? Supposing,
now, you go out for ten minutes or so —have a drink
in the bar—whilst we consult about the introduction.
You’ll give your word of honor, sir?”
Yellin’ for mercy on account of his wife an’ bairns.
With great dignity, Mr. Middlemiss inclined a
haughty head. “You have, sir,” he said in stately
fashion, “the word of a Middlemiss.”
“Ah—l’m sure that’ll be sufficient, my good sir.
We won’t be long. I’ll send out for you when we re
ready.”
I T was dark when a couple of gentlemen who had
l formed the committee of introduction to Frank
Gardiner of the enterprising representative of “Bell’s
Life in Sydney” called at the Governor Bourke and
inquired for Mr. Middlemiss. They were immediately
taken to his bedroom, where they found him walking
up and down in what was evidently a condition of
high nervous tension.
“Well?” he asked. “And is the business
arranged?”
“Hs-s-t!” said Mr. Robert Dalhousie, the chemist.
“Be varra careful. Dinna speak so loud, or ye’ll spoil
everything. Auld Maelardy, I’m fearful he smells a
rat. Come below, ma brave laddie, and we’ll drink
success to your enterprise. All the same, I ken weel
I’d rather you was doin’ the job than Alec Dalhousie.
’Tis said Frank Gairdiner’s a fiery-tempered lad
when he’s roused.”
Mr. Middlemiss hearkened to this warning, and
the three of them conversed in low tones as they went
downstairs to the bar. Here the hero of the evening
insisted upon paying for the drinks, and whilst they
were being served by host Maelardy the other gentle-
man, a bank manager named Twiss, in order to dis-
arm the landlord’s suspicions, proposed a walk in the
cool of the evening.
Strolling casually down the main street, they
came to the outlying dwellings of the little town, and
before long Mr. Middlemiss experienced a not alto-
gether pleasant thrill as one of his companions whis-
pered cautiously to him. “The hut’s down there. But
we’d better go round through the bush so as to dodge
any chance people who may be coming along the
road.”
As they came to a dark-looking little edifice
standing in a clump of trees, one of his friends whistled
softly a bar or two of “Suwanee River,” explaining in
a whisper that this was the countersign.
From inside the hut came a low challenge. “Who
goes there?”
“Friends, with a visitor, Mr. Gardiner—as was
arranged with you by Mr. Halloran.” .
“Come in, then —but make .no row,” said the
hidden voice as the door was cautiously opened. It
was shut immediately they were inside, and the bolt
securely drawn.
The little shanty was sparsely furnished. There
was a table on which stood a lighted tallow candle in
a tin candlestick, a couple of chairs, and two or three
empty boxes. But the whole attention of Mr. Middle-
miss was focused upon the occupant of the hut, seated
at the table, whom Mr. Dalhousie immediately intro-
duced to him as “Mister Francis Gairdiner.”
His was a striking figure, conventionally the bush-
ranger. He wore long thigh boots of patent leather,
a turned-down collar to his Crimean shirt, a cab-
bage-tree hat flashily cocked on one side, cord
breeches and a grey pepper-and-salt jumper edged with
red. Round his waist was buckled a broad leather
belt from which depended two revolvers in holsters,
and he grew a long beard and moustaches.
Mr. Middlemiss, despite his army experience, felt
himself in something of a funk as the famous outlaw
regarded him with what was unmistakably a look of
anger and annoyance. Gardiner spoke to him abruptly,
in a somewhat arrogant tone. “Well, and what the
devil do you want, mister? What’s the business you
wish to see me about?”
“Well, sir—well, Mr. Gardiner, your friends have
informed me that you might not be unwilling to say
a few words for publication, and, if that’s so, I’d be
very pleased indeed to convey any message you might
have for the general public. And I’d be glad too, sir,
to facilitate the ventilation of your views on any par-
ticular subject. Say what you want to say, Mr. Gar-
diner, and I’ll see it goes into print.”
This announcement apparently had some sort of
softening effect upon the bushranger.
“Well,” he said, “I think it’s fairly game of you
to come here at all, and I give you credit for it, though
I haven’t much liking for the damned newspapers. Why,
me, my friend, the press has been hounding me
down from the day I first took to the bush, charging
me with every silly little robbery that’s been done on
the roads.”


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
failure, and he merely called out in a soft voice, “Stop
at the second bridge, will you?”
THE rain was making Graham nervy and irritable.
He turned to his wife and said, “It’s certainly
pretty miserable to-night, Muriel.”
She looked at him to see if there was any hidden
meaning in his words, and then replied, “Well, it can’t
last much longer.”
That was like Muriel, always attributing a sig-
nificance he didn’t mean to his statements, always
elevating little incidents to a position of importance.
Yet here she was sitting beside him coolly, apparently
unconcerned by the fact that she was going out of
his life. Her scale of values seemed to be all wrong.
He supposed that was at the base of the whole trouble,
the differences between her values and his, between
the things they considered to be of importance.
He could feel the warmth of her body beside
him, smell the fragrance of her, and see the attrac-
tiveness of her profile. When she had said to him
“We just can’t go on like this, Graham. I am leaving,”
he had not fully comprehended what those words
meant. Only now, in the bus, with the rain pelting
down outside and their moment of parting drawing
close, did he understand.
He imagined the train leaving with her, and the
house, lonely and quiet without her when he returned,
and the questions of the neighbors. Surely it must be
possible for them to get along together. He grasped
her arm and turned her towards him. “Muriel, can’t
we do better than this? Can’t we try again?” he
asked, but she moved away impafiently and replied,
“No, Graham. It wouldn’t be any different.”
He had resolved to retain his dignity in opposi-
tion to her aloof attitude, yet here he was appealing
to her. Well, he would see it out now, but he couldn’t
help feeling, though, that if he had more time, if she
missed the train, things might be different.
He’d have to be careful or he would be pleading
with her again, so to avoid seeing her he turned away
and looked out to where the reflected squares of the
windows slithered along the shining surface of the
wet road towards the river.
FRED saw the flooded river rush past in the
headlights. Then the lights shone on the white
rails of the bridge and the muddy water that swept
across the decking.
He drove slowly, watching the water swirl about
the pillars as he tried to decide what he should do.
He could cross here all right, but there was the next
river over the hill, and the water might be higher
there. Perhaps he should play safe and take the long
road, but that meant turning back and adding miles to
the journey. He was tired, and ahead the lights were
beckoning to him, so he sent the big bus ahead on
to the bridge.
The water was deeper on the bridge than he had
thought, and it was rising quickly. Only once before
had the river been as high as this. He could hear
the wheels swishing through the water and the torrent
roaring against the bridge. As the bus left the river
and began to climb the bank towards the hill he felt
relieved.
“I wouldn’t risk that again,” he thought; “a few
more minutes and we wouldn’t have made it.”
He rushed the bus up the hill and down the long
slope towards the next river. It seemed that the
bridge would never come in sight. Anxiously he
peered ahead, impatient for a sight of the white
rails. At the big bend he glimpsed the racing, leap-
ing torrent in the flash of the lights, then the beams
shone across the flooded river. He jerked the bus to
a screeching stop and, swearing to himself, got out
into the driving rain. Then he saw part of the bridge
swinging in the current against the willows down-
stream. Wearily he climbed back into the bus to see
the passengers staring at him questioningly.
“The bridge has gone and we can’t risk going
back,” he said shortly ; “you’ll have to spend the night
in the bus.”
Piri ran a worried finger round the inside of his
collar. “I got no place to put the aeroplane,” he
replied simply.
“You got no place to put the car,” said Isaac.
They considered this fact. Great possessions and
great worries grew on the same stalk.
“You could build a garage,” the manager sug-
gested.
Piri would do nothing more. He was exhausted.
“Me? By crikey, no!”
He climbed into the car and sank among its green
upholstery, all his thousands weighting his tired body.
The twenty years which he had shed so blithely came
creeping back in all their augmented volume. The
gay dog had had his day. “Take us to the pub,” said
Piri.
A T the rendezvous the alUknowing glance of Mata,
*'■ his wife, conquered the remnant of his abandon.
“You come home, Piri!” she yelled.
To save himself from utter annihilation Piri led
the way to the bar. Wholesale recklessness was his
only course. A rousing cheer greeted him.
“You chaps like the beer?” cried Piri. “Hey,
George! Beer all round for these chaps!” He took
off his tie and loosened his collar.
At that moment entered Jimmy Dean, breathless
with haste and worry. “Piri, you great fathead! Do
you realise what you’ve done? You’ve spent all you
ever had already!”
Piri turned from the bar and eyed him with weary
relief. “My cousin up in the Waikato he die and
leave me thirty thousand quid. Eh? Aw, well, never
mind, Jimmy. I think I got enough troubles without
these dashed money troubles, too. Have a beer,
Jimmy.”
“Well, sir,” said Mr.
Middlemiss timidly, “at any rate
‘Bell’s Life’ hasn’t. We’ve gener-
ally given you a pretty fair deal.”
“Maybe—but what about
the ‘Herald’ and the ‘Empire’?
Oh, well, it doesn’t matter much,
for the police are too dam’ silly
to catch a poddy calf. Look at
that fool at Bathurst, Sir
Frederick Pottinger! Nothing
but a nincompoop in topboots,
and better at skiting about what
he’s going to do than doing it.
I’ve got it in for that fellow,
though, and if ever I come
across him 1 won’t waste a
bullet—l’ll give him a dam’ good
horsewhipping.” He shook his
clenched fist. “I’ll be even with
the yet. Just as I’ll be even
with everyone else who doesn’t
act fair and square with me.
You can put that in your dam’
paper if you like.”
Mr. Twiss, at this juncture, produced a bottle of
gin, and after several glasses of it mixed with water
almost friendly relations began to exist between the
journalist and the bushranger. Presently the latter
asked Mr. Middlemiss: “Haven’t you been in the
army?”
“Yes, Mr. Gardiner. For a little while I was a
private in a line regiment.”
“Ah, 1 thought as much. You carry yourself so
well, sir. Couldn’t mistake it possibly. But, look here
I’ve taken a fancy to you, and I’ve got a small re-
quest to make, quite apart from your newspaper work,
Mr. Middlemiss.”
“By all means, Mr. Gardiner. I’ll do what I can
for you. What is it, then?”
“Look here,” the bushranger said confidentially,
“I’ve got a little job on this very night, and as it might
interfere with my plans if anyone leaves this hut
before the time arranged for it, how’d it be if you
joined in with me? Mr. Twiss and Mr. Dalhousie are
doing so. What about it?”
Considerably startled, Mr. Middlemiss hesitated
over his reply, and Gardiner went on. “There won’t
be any danger at all, for you or anyone else. The
fact is, I’ve had the good word that a certain squatter
will come driving along the Northern-road to-night
—he’s almost due now —and as he’s been selling five
hundred head of fat cattle in Maitland his wallet
should be worth taking. Under any circumstances,
your part in the business will never be known, and
you’ll be able to write from first-hand knowledge how
I do my little jobs. Come now —you don’t get a
chance like this every day of the week.”
Bewildered, Mr. Middlemiss had not bargained
for anything like this, but he didn’t see how he could
avoid compounding such a felony by being a witness
of it. So, making as happy a face as he knew how, he
went out with the bushranger to watch the road for
the expected traveller and prospective victim.
I T was a clear, still night, and before long there came
1 a sound of wheels and hoof beats on the metalled
road. Soon after a dogcart with only one person in
it came round the end of a belt of timber. There
was a slight rise just there, and the horse slowed down
from a trot to a walk. At an easy pace it came oppo-
site where Gardiner and Mr. Middlemiss were stand-
ing by the roadside. Messrs. Dalhousie and Twiss
had hidden themselves in the timber.
Bail up!” suddenly shouted the outlaw as he
seized the reins and brought the horse to a stop. “Get
out of that trap, you! ” he called to the driver.
With a fierce yell the man jumped to the ground,
and made a rush for Mr. Middlemiss, punching him
heavily in the chest. He staggered back, and in a
“I’ve got a little job on this very night. How’d it be
if you joined in with me ?”
moment the stranger had him down on the ground,
gripping his throat.
Mr Dalhousie used to tel] the rest of the story
in the bar of the Governor Bourke to interested
travellers
, , tlal , ~ ~ ,
Gairdiner, he used to say t ui y ing o
the Road me frien Dinny Halloran skedaddles into
the timber, an leaves the brave Dion wi th Tartar
he’d caught. Down on his marrow-bones plumps poor
Middlemiss, beggin’ for mercy on account of his wife
an’ bairns, swearing he’d been for-rced into the affair.
Yon Tartar curses him for a lousy thief, an’ nigh
shakes him to pieces, threatening him wi’ gallus an’
gaol a H th’ while. Then he drags him up to his feet,
a "’ stares into his white face as if makin’ sure of him
for purposes of identyfication. ’Tis Tommy Curran
Twiss s ledger-keeper. Sudden he lets go a wild yell
o’ lauchter, and over in th’ timber ’tis chorused by
Bushranger Gairdiner and his twa friends. Pore
Middlemiss! He just staggers back to the Governor
Bourke, drinks a whole bottle o’ three star on his
lonesome and falls into a syncope which lasted seven-
teen hours. But, mon—’twas a gran’ ar-rticle we read
j n yon ‘Bell’s Life’ next week. ‘Bush Liars’ it was
ca’d. Gran’!”


domination, and threw them into the sea. There he
lived, the last of Ireland’s hermits, and legends grew
on him as thick as barnacles.
He recovered his wits and his trousers just as his
friends were unveiling a statue to him. Their dis-
appointment at having their show spoilt was so acute
that they forcibly separated him from his trousers
and drove him forth.
Other stories ar-e more elusive: the conversation
of three men in a railway carriage ; the story of a
woman exiled to a glen in Connemara for one slip in
her youth ; of an Irish sailor padding the hoof in
Texas ; of an old man’s false teeth; of a singing
stationmaster and his great moment; of an old man’s
end in the most moving of the stories, “My Son
Austin” ; of a priest’s very human exasperation with
his penitents.
Just as there is a secret poetry behind the tales so
the unadorned prose flows with an inward fire. It is
always a lyric Ireland that the author portrays under
the guise of individual character.
Too Many Murderers.
In I Killed the Count (Heinemann) Alec Coppel
has written a novelty thriller play. It is a detective
story in highly-concentrated form, ingenious and
genuinely mystifying.
The housemaid finds the unsociable Count Mat-
toni shot dead in his service flat in a fashionable
quarter of London. Detectives appear, discovering
clues by the bushel, interviewing the other tenants and
the servants of the building—a motley crowd who
give the requisite light and color to the scene. Stories
of an American gentleman whom the count feared
and refused to see, and the last word that Mattoni
tapped out at his typewriter—at which he was pre-
sumably working when he was murdered —lead the
trail to a young visiting athlete, Bernard K. Froy.
Froy under examination breaks down and con-
fesses that he murdered the count. The scene blacks
out for a moment and Froy’s story is given in dramatic
form. Mattoni was blackmailing him, he came with
an unloaded revolver hoping to frighten his persecutor
into returning an incriminating bundle of letters. The
count drew a loaded revolver, and in the struggle
that followed he was shot in the forehead by his own
weapon. Checking up the story the detectives find it
correct in every detail, even to the incriminating letters
in Mattoni’s safe.
But an unopened letter on the dead man’s break-
fast tray leads the detectives to question Viscount
Sorrington, whose lying answers arouse their sus-
picions. Under pressure he, too, confesses to murder-
ing Mattoni, and tells a bitter story of how the count
had secretly married his daughter Helen and then so
ill-used her that her mother had died of grief and
the girl herself was on the verge of insanity. A .flash-
back shows this crime also. The viscount is identified
as a mysterious tenant who rented the next flat. His
revolver is found in the next room, and other evidence
rivets the crime on him.
A third claimant is the lift attendant, the epaulet
of whose uniform is found beside the dead man and
whose bloodstained fingerprints are found on the
dead man’s wallet. He, too, is driven to confess that
the count, whom he thought had sunken into a
drunken sleep, caught him stealing money out of his
wallet, and in the scuffle he accidentally shot the
count with his own revolver. This story, too, is proved
up to the hilt.
While the detectives are trying to digest these
facts a fourth claimant appears, Mattoni’s young wife,
the wronged Helen. She, too, is quite convinced that
she shot her husband in a fit of hysteria, trying to
protect herself.
There is, of course, a rational explanation, and
the audience is let into the secret after it has been
mystified completely for two acts. But the detectives
never learn it, and because the law says, “Two or more
persons cannot be charged as principals with a crime
known to have been committed by only one person,”
the case falls through. This meets with everyone’s
approbation, for the murdered count was a very bad
man and the suspected murderers all very nice people.
It ends on a comic note, which relieves the tension.
An American Side-splitter.
Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman, the popular
American playwrights whose Once in a Lifetime and
Merrily We Roll Along were big hits, have now pro-
duced a romantic farce, You Can’t Take It with You
(Arthur Barker), in which the fun is as bountiful as
ever. It is of the simple American vintage, very
remote from the English cocktail comedy.
The Vanderhoff family holds the stage with
Grandpa in the centre of the group. Grandpa gave
up business 35 years ago because he found it bored
him, and life was too short to waste. Ever since he
has lived the good fife, being perfectly natural, attend-
ing university commencement exercises, visiting cir-
cuses and the zoo —though why he wanted to do that
when he already had his family it is hard to imagine.
His daughter Penny lives with him and writes
plays incessantly. Eight years ago a typewriter was
delivered at the house by mistake, and that set her
off. Her husband, Paul, makes fireworks—-without a
license —and is a creative artist in his own line. His
assistant, Mr. De Pinna, is also a self-absorbed
genius. Penny’s elder daughter, Essie, is a dance
enthusiast who carries on a spare-time candy-making
business, and her husband, Ed, is mad on playing the
xylophone and printing. The younger daughter, Alice,
is practically normal and very pretty. The scene is
further complicated and enriched by Rheba, the black
cook ; Donald, her young man, and Mr. Kolenkho,
Essie’s dancing master, who habitually comes to meals
and is very Russian.
The story begins when Alice becomes engaged
to Tony Kirby, her employer’s son, and has to break
the family to him. The family, on its best behavior,
dropping bricks right and left, is quite as funny as
the family being natural.
Tony loves them, but the strain comes when
Mr. and Mrs. Kirby, senior, come to dinner. They
come on the wrong night and discover the family at
the height of its form. The occasion ends in disaster ;
Alice breaks off her engagement, and the two modes
of life, the Vanderhoffs’ and the Kirbys’, draw up in
battle array. Tony Kirby declares that he doesn’t
want to make money, he only wants to be happy. He
discovers a saxophone in his father’s past, and the old
man, made sensible of life’s lost glamor, blesses the
young couple, who have fallen again, as by the force
of gravity, into each other’s arms.
This is an opportunist comedy if ever there was
one. It is made up of three parts by-play and one
part stage properties, with the merest garnish of a
story to hold them together. Faux pas, parlor games,
comic accidents, practical and impractical jokes are
stirred in along with stage props that include a print-
ing press, snakes, a meccano set, fireworks, kittens, a
typewriter and a dart board. No chance of a Jaugh
is missed and few laughs miss of themselves.
Wanderers in Ireland.
In The Charmed Life (Routledge) Jack B. Yeats,
brother of the poet, presents two men wandering
gently down the Atlantic coast of Ireland. One is
called Bowsie, and the other—vaguely—is the author.
Their experiences, days on the road, nights in pubs,
are the substance of the book.
The wanderers, coming into a little town, see a
woman looking out of a window. They pause to tell
her story; her maid’s story ; the story of the maid’s
husband, who was a thief ; of the ,man who betrayed
him ; of the friend of the man, a sailor who had had
a strange experience in Spain long ago ; and so by a
circuitous route through many lives back to the
woman at the window, where the story branches out
again into her thoughts and memories in which many
old stories of the town are embalmed.
Whether these are put forward as real stories or
as a fantasia is a problem left to the reader’s imagina-
tion. That is how the book progresses, slowly, ellipti-
cally, deviously, with endless little stories and pic-
tures caught like fishes in the meshes of its net. For
example: —-
Over the land on our left, zig-zagging round the
marshy patches, came a young sheep-dog; he came from
a long whitewashed house on a hillock. He is a friendly
dog, and looks at us with an inquiring look to his head.
He is worried a little about some obstinate sheep, which
has strayed away from the higher lands. He thinks to
find her on the end of the sandhills. Even in his young
life he has known sheep go a good way to pasture on a
small piece of bright grass—no larger than a quilt. He
is looking for this one from a difficult sense of duty.
But Bowsie looks at the dog’s long nose too quizzically
for the creature to remain all the time in school. All
work and no play would surely make Jack a dull boy.
So this Jack paws a piece of dried seaweed; throws it
into the air, catches it in his mouth, and races away
down the road with his tail waving. A little way and
he stops, and we watch him gambolling from side to
side.
After a time we look back and we see the dog still
on his gambolling-ground, and he has received the reward
of his playfulness, for we see a grey and leggy sheep
climbing over a bank, and going towards the antic dog.
Where dignity had failed in a sheep-dog, plain foolish-
ness had succeeded. Curosity and admiration had drawn
the sheep to come to the shepherd.
At the Dog and Bacon.
Neil Lyons’s latest book of sketches, Tom, Dick
and Harriet (Cresset Press), has its pedigree marked
on its brow: by Barrie out of a Window in Thrums.
But that does not prevent it from having an agree-
ably individual quality.
It is a book of brief pieces each complete in itself,
each the complement and companion of what comes
after and before. Most are set in a village inn, the
Dog and Bacon, caught somewhere in London’s
labyrinth, but preserving its identity like a beetle in
a rock, or in an abandoned hut in Sussex that serves
as the author’s country place, or in railway carriages.
The characters are any- and everybody, persons
appearing at random.
There are the ladies with rival operations ; Willie,
with but one eye, one leg, one arm, who goes to gaol
for bigamy ; Dusty Miller, a lady who ekes out fine
embroidery with gentleman friends; Horace, who tells
the outsize tales ; Susan, a bright little girl; and so on.
The book is whimsical, bright, sweet, tender, natural
to the point of unreality. Yet Lyons has a saving
sense of reality.
The humor is will-o’-the-wispish, but it is there
all right, and the points are made deftly and brightly.
Good humor and friendliness pervade the book, and
now and then there is a nip of satire, but so general in
application as to hurt no one. In “A Bit of Luck,
for instance, young Debrett goes to preside at a
tenants’ dinner “all in” from sitting up two nights
with an old pensioner, his father’s favorite hunter,
and can hardly “keep his peepers open.” In the
middle of a song one of the farmers falls dead.
“What a rotten experience!” „
“Wasn’t it? But lucky for me all the same.
“Lucky ?”
“Yes. I was able to go home, have a bath, play a
rubber and go to bed.”
The book has some very robust illustrations by
Edward Ardizzone.
Life of Tschaikowsky.
Klaus Mann reveals some painful twists in the
soul of Tschaikowsky in Pathetic Symphony (Gol-
lancz ; translation by Hermon Ould).
The book begins in 1887 when Tschaikowsky was
at the height of his fame, touring Europe as a guest
conductor, giving his own compositions in London,
Paris, Vienna and the cities of Germany. A retrospect
shows his childhood in a large family, his irresponsible
father, his beautiful and adored mother, the discovery
of his talent, his struggles, the death of his mother
from cholera —an infection which she had deliber-
ately sought —an unfortunate friendship, a brief un-
happy marriage, a premature old age which descended
on him in his forties. Then the story carries on to
Tschaikowsky’s later triumphs; the writing of his
sixth and last symphony, called the Pathetic, in which
he transmuted all the sorrow of his life into music ;
and to his death from cholera.
This is a subjective study of a man too sensitive
for the world he lived in. Events are few and pre-
sented undramatically. It is the soul’s drama that
holds the interest.
Gradually the image of the man is built up—
abnormally sensitive, morbidly superstitious, irri-
table ; for ever pining for something he cannot have,
to be somewhere else, to return to his childhood ;
lonely, but with a horror of crowds ; beset with the
fear that people will laugh at him, with the dread ol
failure, of breaking down. His vanity drove him to
dispraise his own work, but the best criticism tortured
him like the lash. Spontaneously friendly and trusting,
he was liable to turn cold and suspicious for no
apparent reason. Wherever he turned he was trapped
within himself.
Liszt and Wagner,' newly dead, seem to over-
shadow the scene. Brahms is portrayed as a cold,
stolid, precise man ; Grieg as modest, trusting and
childlike, perennially young; Busoni as a boy of
genius from whom everything is to be expected. Music
binds the book together. It is a sad book, but it has
its sunny spots: the description of a Christmas party,
of Tschaikowsky’s meeting with his old governess,
glimpses of happy lives like Grieg’s, touches of humor.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Penguin Murders: Latest batch of the capital
Penguin paperbacks is a Mystery and Crime assort-
ment, including The Piccadilly Murder, Anthony
Berkeley \ The Waxworks Murder, John Dickson
Carr; The House on Tollard Ridge, John Rhode;
Murder at Chrome House, G. D. H. and Margaret
Cole ; Obelists at Sea, C. Daly King ; The Danger-
field Talisman, J. J. Connington; The Mystery of
Dr. Fu-Manchu, Sax Rohmer.
Mr. Pendlebury’s Hat Trick: Anthony Webb
(Harrap). Victim’s a Cabinet Minister. Mr. P. does
his usual efficient job. F.a.q. lightly entertaining mys-
tery fiction.
Everyman’s: The C. K. Scott Moncrieff transla-
tion of Stendhal’s great novel Scarlet and Black is a
two-volume addition to this Dent Library. Since it
was decided to add such comparatively recent work
to Everyman’s very few things quite so worthy of the
company have gone in.
General . . .
The Lore of the Lyrebird: Ambrose Pratt
(Robertson and Mullens). Fourth edition of this re-
markably successful little book, which first issued from
The Bulletin office. It has been revised and reset,
with new matter added.
Tait’s Engineering Directory, 1938-1939 (Tait
Publishing Co., Sydney). Contains a comprehensive
list of engineering firms in Australia and M.L. and
list of overseas firms and representatives. A classified
section lists firms handling various lines.
Marriage, Past and Present (Dent). Margaret
Cole, wife of Left-Wing economist G. D. H. Cole
and co-author with him of many detective-thrillers,
discusses marriage from the militant feminist stand-
point, with many a hard knock for the anomalies
and hardships of the British divorce laws. She writes
brightly, with a vein of brittle humor, and is fair
enough to admit that while the venerable institution
is not the only means which humans have adopted
of living together “it is one of the commonest and
one of the most satisfactory.”
The Doctor’s View of War (Allen and Unwin).
Counsel of perfection for medicoes is to maintain a
complete neutrality of mind, mending as well as they
can the damage done by the machines and diseases of
war, whether to friend or foe. But war blows the lid
clean off everything, including the best intentions, and
so it has to be recorded that in the Great War not
all doctors were able to maintain that ideal state of
mind. Some took sides, like combatants. Contributors
to this interesting small vol. deal with war diseases,
defence of civil populations, war’s horrible effects
generally, which no one sees more terribly than the
doctors.
A ustratio’s National Interests and National Policy :
H. L. Harris (Melbourne University Press). A well-
informed and well-reasoned exposition and examina-
tion of Australia’s internal policy and foreign policy
(or lack of one), with critical chapters on migration,
standard of living, overseas trade, population. The
author writes clearly and to the point all the way,
packing much into little space. The Bulletin criti-
cism that there is no consideration for Australia’s
peculiar interests in general foreign policy, especially
touching on entanglement in European wars, gets
strong indirect support. Mr. Harris, however, allows
that this is a time of transition, when a clear-cut
foreign policy for Australia is not so easy to formu-
late.


w
w
( J
Wl
£
In
Especially
beneficial to
WOMEN
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS possesses the
characteristic, outstanding amongst
stimulants, of being in a special sense
beneficial to women.
Through its unique medicinal constituents
Wolfe’s Schnapps exercises invaluable
functions as a diuretic, while its absolute
purity as a whole completes its supreme
suitability for home use.
To take Wolfe’s Schnapps as a palliative,
as occasion requires, is certainly a course
that can be wholeheartedly commended
to women at every stage of life.
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
olfei
* i
ifgr.
3s%ATlr- .. This
JBfe'gSg^WWlMa
*"■< °Z&jy ,r, > r 'n m Hollai «i *r
J+*3&
SSpjl*,
lH* Tu,
fwtiu
;•••
••••
«s.
WOLFFS SCHNAPPS
is obtainable in large,
half and quarter size
bottles at all hotels.
Take a bottle home
to-night!
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S
SAKE
W.S.-l 40-B.F.P


A gift in keeping with Yuletide...senc/ your friends
in England a case 0f...
fg
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY ... No freight charges to payl
■*!
V
, l
.' i
YA/vk.' r
r * * *i , / /
>■ YV i '
*■ ,W-
V> v
/ f
r : VV//
■
SSSssiA
i i
r
C 1 c
JL-rtJ#
f
*ws
* r< J
'
itlMI
The Admiralty Arch, London
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.
For full information ring or Write to :
B. SEPPELT & 50N5 LTD.
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London Office: Australia House.


NON-CO-OPERATION.
“The Labor policy is a policy of isolation and non-co-operation.”—Mr. Hughes.
“Take my part, son—quick!”
“No, Father Bull! lam doing my duty to the family by keeping out of these vulgar brawls.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Tus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
tveekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
"NO END OF A LESSON."
For Australia and Maoriland it is a time for self-
examination, in the spirit in which Kipling addressed
his countrymen after they had muddled through in
South Africa.
Let us admit it fairly, as a business people should:
We have had no end of a lesson, it should do us no
end of good.
Because they are British, and because it is British
policy to protect France, and because France was
allied with Czechoslovakia, these countries were very
nearly involved in war with Germany. And war with
Germany might have meant war with Italy and Japan
also if the party with the Mighty Soviet War Machine,
itself allied with Czechoslovakia and its bluff called,
had sent even one aerial fighter or bomber to
Germany. For in that case the so-called Anti-Comin-
tern Pact, which is really an alliance, would have come
into operation.
In the east Poland and Hungary would have
charged in on the German side, and in the west
Britain and France would have had no active helpers.
Nowadays even Belgium is neutral, as well as the
Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries, and it
is questionable whether even Portugal remains in the
British orbit. Portuguese faith in Britain was badly
shaken by the administration of Mr. Eden.
It is now clear to all except those blinded by
prejudice and hate that the Germans, with or with-
out the Poles and Hungarians, would have smashed
divided Czechoslovakia in a few days. Nothing could
have saved it; one battle would have done the busi-
ness ; with the Czechs unable to rely on their Slovaks,
much less their Sudeten Germans, Hungarians or
Poles, preparations for the one battle might have
sufficed. Against such an invasion the French would
have been powerless and the Russians as well. What
could Britain have done? Launched a naval blockade,
no doubt. But, apart from submarine retaliation —
whatever that might have amounted to —the immediate
reply to a blockade would have been a frightful war
in the air.
It is to the eternal honor of Mr. Chamberlain
that, by his homely diplomacy, he averted the invasion
of Czechoslovakia which distant armed forces could
not have prevented. And perhaps if he had been unable
to avert it he would have been able to save the Empire
from the appalling consequences that acceptance of
the U.S.S.R. as an allied or associated Power would
have brought.
One great fact emerges from a situation that was
all the time dangerous and most of the time confused
—none of the Western peoples concerned wanted
another war like that of 1914-1918. It was also made
plain that dictators, as well as leaders of democracies,
are obliged to respect public opinion. Having occu-
pied the Sudetenland, Hitler might have told the world
that he would go no farther; that his country had no
quarrel with Britain and France, and would not attack
them unless they attacked it; and that, although
he has always placed Russia in a different category,
he would likewise in that quarter meet force with
force.
With the inevitable fact accomplished and all the
Great Powers standing on the defensive, an armistice
might conceivably have been arranged, perhaps
through the intervention of the President of the United
States. But it has to be accepted that peace is at the
mercy of “incidents” when blood has been shed and
millions of men —some bad, some crazy—have arms
in their hands.
Mr. Chamberlain’s exertions were successful, and
the Empire was spared war in any form; but had
war come, whether war with Germany or war with
the members of the Anti-Comintern Alliance, Aus-
tralia and Maoriland would have been in it. Though
they could not have sent troops to Europe, and there
would have been local opposition if they had tried to
send troops to Singapore, they could not have con-
tracted out of the war, nor can they ever be neutral
in a conflict to which Britain is a party. Declarations
of neutrality would be worthless, as well as ignomini-
ous. One shell fired at a vessel carrying an Australian
or Maoriland cargo to any British country would
shoot the most explicit declaration of neutrality to
pieces. In any case, it is unimaginable that Aus-
tralians or Maorilanders would suffer any Govern-
ment, whatever its party complexion, to keep out of a
war in which their King and their race were struggling
for existence.
It is, however, the right and duty of Australians
and Maorilanders to take part in the shaping of the
foreign policy which concerns them so vitally. This
right and this duty have been brought home to them
very vividly by the proceedings in the House of Com-
mons last week, when the leader of the Labor party
referred to the leader of the German nation as “a
gangster,” and one of his front-bench associates
described the Czech leader as “the perfect gentleman
negotiating with the perfect Hun, and Liberals and
insular Tories ramped and raged because Mr. Cham-
berlain had reasoned with Herr Hitler instead of
threatening, though if the threat they demanded had
been issued and had failed there would have been no
escape from war.
Mr. Curtin’s “conception of the service which
can best be rendered to the British Empire” is “to give
to Australia the industries without which any defence
would be lost.” Few Australians will allow that the
Labor “conception” goes far enough. Most Austra-
lians will agree, with Mr. Spender, that “Australia
should play a much greater part in determining Empire
policy.” It must be kept in the mind of whatever
British Government happens to be in office that
Australia needs peace with Germany, peace with
Japan, peace with Italy and with all countries, and
that it has neither the power nor the inclination to go
crusading in other continents or to defend the colonial
possessions of any other Power, be it France, Portugal
or Holland.
In respect of peace with Germany, Mr. Chamber-
lain has made arrangements and secured undertakings
the preservation of which, as part of the Empire s
foreign policy, is of the first importance to nations
which hold former German colonies under mandate,
and which remember the damage that a lone light
cruiser commanded by a determined enemy can do.
Another lesson of these perilous weeks is that the
One Big City policy has become dangerous. When
it was thought that Hitler would march, the British
Government had to set about shifting millions of
people in a hurry from smoky and foggy London,
which contains roughly a sixth of the population of
the island of which it is the capital. To quote only
one bad Australian example, Sydney contains nearly
half the population of New South Wales. About Sydney
visibility for bombers is nearly always good, and a
few well-aimed missiles could wreck its bridge, its
main lighting and power plant, its central station and
its railway workshops, and perhaps block its three
main-road exits. When the peril reached London,
and half the men began digging trenches and shelters,
98 per cent, of Sydney’s million and a quarter people
had never seen a gas-mask, much less an anti-aircraft-
gun emplacement.
Mr. Spooner, one of the fourteen Sydney
Ministers, has been talking blithely about planning
for a city population of two millions. Planning for
a redistribution of population, by—among other things
—the development of neglected ports, because the
overgrown cities cannot, without immense cost and
hazard, be defended, is what is really required, in
Victoria, South Australia and Westralia as well as
N. S. Wales— Queensland and Tasmania have done
fairly well.
The Yelpers Carry On.
When the balance turned to peace a feeling of
joy and relief went up from the nations, comparable
only with that which marked the end of the world’s
last disastrous and futile slaughter. For the first time
in history the peoples of all the countries about to
be plunged into war looked over the brink and shud-
dered back from what they saw there. In the final
test only the cranks wanted war, and they were not
game to say so. The great mass of people hated the
thought of it. They left no doubt whatever about that
as soon as it was certain that they had been saved.
In the face of that universal relief even the war
yelpers were temporarily silenced.
But that double relief was not to be for long.
Within a matter of days —as soon as they felt that it
could be ventured with safety—they were back at
their hysterical job, working their hardest to reinstil
the former fears and old shabby hatreds. Their per-
formance for years past has been shameful; it was
never so miserable as in the attempts to belittle the
peace that has been secured and decry the man largely
responsible for securing it.
At the beginning of last week they hawked the
palpable falsehood that Mr. Chamberlain, by his part
in saving Britain, the Empire and the world from a
disastrous war, had weakened his position as Prime
Minister. Even people who had had a misplaced faith
in its hawkers must have been disgusted at being served
up so blatant a lie. The truth is that Mr. Chamberlain
had so strengthened his position that his Parliamentary
opposition did not dare to let itself go in attacking
him. When the peace settlement came up for discussion
the House of Commons was treated to the rare
spectacle of Ministerialists trying deliberately to bait
the detractors into providing an excuse for a general
election.
On the opening day of the debate that great fire-
eater Mr. Attlee refrained from any hint of a censure
motion. It had become clear to Mr. Attlee and
Mr. Eden and Mr. Duff Cooper and Mr. Churchill and
the handful of others that in this matter they repre-
sented nobody but themselves. They had nothing —
they never at any time had had anything—to suggest as
an alternative to Mr. Chamberlain’s policy, except war.
It had been belatedly made clear to them that the
people did not want their war at any price. An elec-
tion now, as they well realised, would have meant a
complete vindication of Mr. Chamberlain and his
peace policy. If they could damage Mr. Chamberlain
they would do so, but where their political safety was
endangered they were warriors no longer. Mr.
Maxton spoke for millions more than the Labor group
he represents when he said that “the Prime Minister
in a limited period has done something that the mass
of common peoples in the world wanted done. ’
Without the test of any election Mr. Chamber-
lain’s policy of appeasement had been thoroughly vin-
dicated. When the issue balanced dangerously on the
brink two important things happened. Tn the rising
obbligato of the yelpers they may be overlooked.
One was the intervention of Signor Mussolini on
the side of peace. That had a tremendous influence on
the final decision, and it could not have happened
if Mr. Eden had been permitted to remain Foreign
Secretary. Restoration of the traditional Anglo-
Italian friendship was the initial step in Mr. Cham-
berlain’s general policy of appeasement; if that initial
step had not been taken there is nothing more certain
than that we should have been at war to-day at war
to maintain the ascendancy of the Czechs over their
German, Slovak, Polish and Hungarian minorities.
Nobody but a fool or some professor or
writer completely out of touch with realities would
say with any confidence that we could have won such
a war in our present state of preparation, and kept the
Czechs in possession of Carlsbad and Marienbad. In
any event, the result must have been unimaginable
slaughter and suffering. Yet to-day all that the entire
yelp of the yelpers boils down to is that that would
have been preferable to permitting a further demanded
assault upon a Peace Treaty which had already been
blotted out of recognition, and which by general con-
sent was a monumental folly in the first place.
The other important vindication of Mr. Cham-
berlain’s policy of appeasement was the assurance of
Irish Free State support extended to the Prime
Minister by Mr. De Valera at a most opportune
moment in the crisis. In indicating Empire unity no
utterance was more significant. It could never have
been made if Mr. Chamberlain’s appeasement policy
had not had as its second step the Irish settlement.
On the whole of Mr.'Chamberlain’s step-by-step
peace policy—taken forward an immeasurable step in
the mutual declaration by Mr. Chamberlain and Herr
Hitler against war between Britain and Germany ever
again—the calamity-howlers and detractors have
prophesied disaster. That is their present wretched
business. Having failed by the narrowest of margins
to bring off a war, they will now make the peace as
uncomfortable as their ingenuity can manage.
Hence their present false representation that this
is not peace at all; that Germany’s inevitable success
in the recent crisis must be taken to presage an in-
definite period of continued tension, culminating in
the war they want; that Britain is still tormented with
anxiety; that Mr. Chamberlain is toppling ; that there
is rising feeling in Britain and France against the peace-
makers. The whole tenor of the House of Commons
debate, culminating in the carrying of a vote of confi-
dence in the Government by 366 to 144, reflects what
the feeling in Britain really is, while the vote upholding
M. Daladier in the French Chamber was 535 to 75,
73 of the 75 being Communists.
Most of the tendentious stuff served up last week
was from such sources as the notorious “News-
Chronicle” and from such exploded “authorities” as
Madame Two-Blues. That still has to be kept in
mind here in reading cabled “news.” But on one
thing there need be no doubt whatever. The peace
that has just been preferred to a frightful war is now
a real peace. All the yelping is merely an unpleasant
phenomenon of the times. The true reality from now
on into a vastly cleared future is peace. It is assured
and certain. It will become more and more stabilised,
for the great reason that that is the will of the mass of
people everywhere. The yelpers will remain as an
affliction, but now only a comic one. Despite their
yelps, people will realise that they can now settle down
to the better things of a real peace.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Changes Required.
Nowadays the strike is as out of date as Marxism,
but there still exist demagogues who believe in both.
Such blatherskites had a lot to do with the coal
stoppage which was thrust on Australia at the worst
possible time.
The grievances alleged concerned the N. S. Wales
coalminers only, but coalminers in other States were
dragged in. Though the appeal to the lesser loyalty
was in every case successful, the Queensland men
came in reluctantly, fearing the effect on their State
industrial award, and—with all too much reason —on
employment in Queensland, which was already giving
an energetic Labor Government worry enough. The
Victorians, for their part, were employed in an
insolvent Government mine which feeds insolvent
Government railways; and before their wages were
increased last year they had received the full produce
of their industry, and more, for years.
Strike leaders alleged at the outset that they had
£250,000 of “credits” with which to keep going. Actu-
ally they seem to have been in financial trouble once
pay ceased. Contributions from other unions were rela-
tively small, and this source began to dry up as more
and more men employed in industries still depending
on coal —a decreasing number —\verc thrown out of
work.
In the end the strike was called off on terms
which had been granted, or could have been got,
without a strike. The “Safety Tribunal” is "to
continue its inquiry” ; another tribunal is to consider
claims for pensions and special compensation, and
“purely industrial matters are to be referred to
arbitration.”
To “gain” all that, the miners lost £300,000 in
wages, and Governments, other workers and private
employers lost considerably more. If during the last
10 or 12 years the miners’ union affairs had been
run as well as those of their co-operative concerns,
they would be a great deal better off. It is a wonder
they don’t dismiss their Red and Pink blatherskites
and get their long-headed co-operators to run the
Miners’ Federation for them.
Three Prophets.
The first is Sir lan Hamilton. In 1923 he wrote “When
Masaryk goes west Benes won’t last long, nor Czecho-
slovakia either.”
Australia's old friend, who got such a raw deal
from the Asquith-Lloyd George-Churchill Govern-
ment, has lived to see his prophecy fulfilled. Czecho-
slovakia as Masaryk knew it has ceased to exist.
And Benes has resigned.
Exhibit “B” is the Sydney “Morning Herald,”
which indulged in prophecy on September 20.
Czechoslovakia is a virile Republic, about to cele-
brate proudly the twentieth anniversary of the winning
of a long-sought independence. It has developed that
independence in the confidence inspired by long-standing
treaties of alliance with France and Russia. The Czech
leaders have maintained consistently through the present
crisis that their concessions must respect the territorial
integrity of the Republic, and that their people will
fight rather than permit that integrity to be destroyed.
If the ultimate meaning of the proposed “peaceful
settlement” should involve such disintegration, it is more
than likely that a people who value freedom and justice
even more than peace will refuse to make the sacrifices
asked of them.
The third prophet is Mr. Stephen H. Roberts,
writer of The House That Hitler Built and of many
newspaper articles. Mr. Roberts also fancied himself
as a prophet, having repaid acknowledged hospitality
with muckraking (“Hitler’s father was an amorous
peasant cobbler, illegitimate for 40 years.... Hitler
was the neurotic child of a neurotic, repressed
mother, a maidservant... .It is an interesting
point to know how much of Hitler’s mental narrow-
ness is due to the habit of his ancestors of inbreeding
for centuries”). Some of the Roberts predictions:
Hitlerism cannot achieve its aims without war; its
ideology is that of war.
Hitler has worked up Germany to such a state
that the people are ready to accept war at any
moment... .The nation has been duped in the sense
that it has been launched along a road that can only
lead to disaster.
Czechoslovakia is enormously wealthy and strong.
The three States of the Little Entente have 60 peace-time
divisions between them, and the Czech frontier fortifica-
tions are amongst the most complete in Europe. Her
Slavonic populations are bitterly anti-Nazi and believe
that their very existence depends on checking Germany’s
imperialistic policy.
Imaginative strategists talk about a German invasion
breaking down Czech resistance before France and
Russia could come to their aid. Such fantasies are
absurd; they completely fail to take into account the
consolidation of power and morale in Czechoslovakia
in the last 15 years. Czechoslovakia is far more likely
to hold the ridges from Eger to the Oder.
If Germany persists in wanting to absorb the Sudeten
Deutsche, it means war.
Austria wants Germanism, but not Hitlerism
Gone is the fighting faith in an Anschluss.
Hitler has not even been successful. So far he has
achieved only one diplomatic victory... .the Saar.
But that is all. None of the other lost lands have
been won back. Indeed the prospects of their reincor-
poration have never been worse.
The result is that Germany stands encircled
Russia, France and Czechoslovakia are closer friends
than ever; Italy shows no sign of surrendering her
freedom of action, and Britain is feverishly rearming.
If ever there was a country without friends, that
country is Germany.
All that rubbish and a lot more can be found in
The House That Hitler Built, which was published after
“I spent most of the study-leave which the University
of Sydney granted me [November, 1935, to March,
1937] in Germany and neighboring countries” —in
Germany, “with the assistance of the Nazi authorities,
who did everything possible to aid my investigations.”
More rubbish may be discovered in the gentleman’s
newspaper articles if any newspaper reader or any
member of the Senate of Sydney University is
interested. Presumably the Senate considers that it
has advanced the cause of university education by
permitting Mr. Stephen H. Roberts to air his essential
ignorance of Germany, and his festering prejudices
where that country is concerned, in a market from
which, of recent years, many newspapermen, trained
and competent, have been excluded, and to be adver-
tised as a Sydney University professor.
Final Exit of Eden.
Mr. Hughes was Prime Minister of the Common-
wealth for seven years three months and thirteen days.
When obliged to resign after the defeat of his party
in 1922 he was 58. Mr. Chamberlain was 68 when he
became Prime Minister of Britain, so Mr. Hughes was
young enough for a comeback, but he never made it.
In 1919 a small Country party arrived. Properly
handled, it would soon have been eating out of Mr.
Hughes’s hands ; but he treated it, first, with con-
tempt and then, when it became inconvenient, as an
affront to his majesty. The result was that, when he
lost his party majority, the Cockies refused to work
in with him. His leadership was the obstacle and
not his party, for the Agrarians agreed to serve in a
Government led by the then-little-known Mr. Bruce,
who in the previous Parliament had not even been the
No. 2 Nationalist.
Then Mr. Hughes made his cardinal blunder. He
showed himself “a bad sport.” Instead of being mag-
nanimous to his junior and the new Government, he
sulked in his tent. This attitude cost him the support
of even faithful old hands like Ryrie. The party of
his creation at once dropped him, and never even
considered him for the leadership again.
The spirit that prevented Mr. Hughes from re-
gaining office, except as a subordinate member of
the Lyons Ministry, will prevent Mr. Anthony Eden
from ever succeeding Mr. Chamberlain.
Eight months ago Mr. Eden was a hero to news-
paper editors, university professors, radio announcers,
Leaguers and the people whom such persons influence.
All these gentry predicted an early triumph for the
young man and his policy, and complete discomfiture
for Mr. Chamberlain.
For a time Mr. Eden look refuge in silence. It
was the wisest thing he could have done, and even
critics who thought him a calamity approved. But
events demonstrated that Mr. Eden could not keep
quiet for long. He began writing articles and making
speeches critical of the Chamberlain policy. It was
shocking bad taste, for he still calls himself a Con-
servative, and Mr. Chamberlain remains the leader
of the Conservative party, but worse was to come.
When the situation was almost at its blackest,
when Mr. Chamberlain was trying to dissuade Hitler
from marching an army into Czechoslovakia, Mr. Eden
came out with his unsolicited remedy for the situation
—which was, of course, that Germany must be
Warned. He, recently the Foreign Secretary, and in-
terfering at a critical hour in foreign policy! Thou-
sands of Conservatives must have said angrily: “It
isn’t done.” Then came the tumultuous scene in the
Commons on the night of September 28. Members
of all parties crowded round the old Prime Minister
trying to shake him by the hand. Mr. Churchill, dis-
appointed careerist though he is, was among them.
But there were two absentees, and Associated Press,
which in February was almost fanatically pro-Eden,
gives their names.
It was noticeable that Mr. Eden and Lord Cran-
bourne | his Parliamentary Under-Secretary], witnout
glancing at Mr. Chamberlain, left the House.
And in the debate on October 4 the blah-
merchants’ idol damned the Prime Minister with faint
praise—’“All feel grateful to Mr. Chamberlain, but....
certain matters seem to have been neglected....
successive surrenders only bring successive humilia-
tions.” And this is the gentleman whom Lord Baldwin
is alleged to have named Prime Minister in his political
will and testament! “A bad sport.”
Eden, Prime Minister? Not if he lives to the
age of Old Parr!
Australians and Indians.
Dr. Kunzru, who headed the Indian delegation to
the British Commonwealth Relations Conference, has
spoken with some asperity of the White Australia
policy in its bearing on his countrymen, and has sug-
gested that “India should be included in any formula
for migration.” He could scarcely be expected to like
the White Australia policy, but so intelligent a man,
even if he cannot admit the necessity for it, should
realise that the nation, in adopting it, was inspired
by the instinct of self-preservation.
Australians are naturally proud of their race, but
they get on very well with people of other races, and
in the working-out of the national policy they try not
to offend racial susceptibilities. As a matter of fact,
they have got to know Indians better these last few
years, with increased good feeling on both sides. This
is one of the beneficial results of international sport,
which is subjected to so much short-sighted criticism.
One of the most popular figures in the wrestling
world at the moment is a giant from the Punjab.
Modern wrestling conventions evidently forbid
grapplers to throw bpponents as quickly as Hacken-
schmidt used to do, but a strong impression exists
that the Punjabi could beat all the other members of
the union in short order if he let himself go.
If wrestling is 50 per cent, showmanship, hockey
is a fine blend of speed, stamina and skill. Indian
teams have shown that they play hockey better than
Australians; better, indeed, than the young men of
any other race.
Association football is another manly game. The
Indian footballers who visited Australia made almost
as great an impression as the Indian hockey players.
Their matches against representative Australian sides
were played in the best sporting spirit, and in
every mainland State they became favorites with
the crowd. Perhaps some day the objections of
authorities on stock-diseases will be removed, and
horses from India will race at Flemington and Rand-
wick. Dr. Kunzru may rest assured that if the Aga
Khan’s colors were carried to victory in the Melbourne
Cup there would be Australian cheers matched only
when Carbine and Phar Lap won.
But immigration of Indians is another pair of
sleeves. What the future may bring forth in the immi-
gration field no man can tell; but what Dr. Kunzru
proposes to Australia no Australian party could in
these days adopt without imperilling its existence.
Crime and Embellishment.
“Lord Luvus”: I should like to be informed of the
arguments, if any, with which Great Dailies recon-
cile their publication of a series of articles by an
American crime-detector with their campaign against
the sensationalism of imported magazines and
films. They may salve their consciences by asserting
that lurid accounts of kidnapping, highway robbery
and public violence perform a valuable social service
by revealing that crime does not pay. But this is
the argument of horror-magazine and crook-film
manufacturers. Solemn assertions that criminals are
cowards and morons don’t alter the fact that readers
see them as heroes rather than the Beethovens and
Shakspeares of this world.
In one lowly little Melbourne cinema theatre
recently there was shown a film in which the master-
gangster bumped off the characters in this order —two
were shot, one pricked his finger on a poisoned bottle,
another succumbed to prussic acid and two were
electrocuted shrieking in agony. While the lethal
business was being carried on a clock ticked to indi-
cate the time when another horror was coming. In
the foyer of the theatre a hooded figure paced up and
down, muttering “You are trapped!” A distinction
might be made between this opus and the serial afore-
mentioned, but there would be less of kind than degree
in it.
The League Commands.
“Feng-Shui’’: Just at the moment when it should not
have done so, the League of Nations, like a husband
whose wife has won the battle, began issuing orders.
It threatened Japan with sanctions if Japan did
not admit it was doing something wicked in China.
The only result was that the Japanese Government
notified the League of its discontinuance of collabora-
tion, which anybody but an idiot or a committee would
have expected. It withdrew Japanese representatives
from the Mandates and Health Commissions.
In other words, the League gained nothing, but lost
something. It got boos instead of handclaps.
A command should never be given unless there is
a reasonable possibility of its being obeyed. This is
well understood by the people who are charged with
the responsibility of running armies, navies and even
department stores, and they take the most elaborate
precautions to see that their employees or the rank
and file have had the idea of unquestioning obedience
instilled into them beforehand ; but the first axiom
of leadership has never been learned by the League.
Nor does anybody nowadays believe that an order
from the League would impress a Zulu, let alone a
Japanese.
The Geneva order having been issued and dis-
obeyed, what is the League going to do about it? It
may say that it is trying to maintain the principle of
international agreement by arbitration. It is merely
bringing discredit on such principles. When a ship’s
captain gives an order and a seaman disobeys it, the
seaman has to rationalise his guilty feeling. He
can do so only by deeming the captain to be a tyrant
or a scoundrel. If the League’s principles have any
prestige in Japan, and possibly they have a little, all
it is doing by giving the Japanese opportunities for
disobeying its mandates is making it necessary for
the Japanese to hate the League and all it stands for.
Relief and the Reds.
From an old Bulletin contributor:
In terminating intermittent relief work in Queensland,
Premier Forgan Smith has taken on a job of national import-
ance ; one, too, which will show the real strength or weakness
of the Moscow element.
In spite of its many inherent defects, relief work in
various guises has provided a means of subsistence for many
thousands of workless men and their dependants over eight
years. Relief workers, and particularly the large number cen-
tralised in Brisbane, have formed the objective of intensive
and highly-organised Communistic propaganda for the greater
part of that time. There has, too, been a steadily increasing
proportion of young, inexperienced men who have had no
opportunity of ever realising what a steady job means, and
who thus provide a particularly receptive field for the seeds of
Moscow in their most disruptive form.
The Communist element has been helped by the exas-
perated reaction of the average contributor to relief taxation.
Those who benefited from his contributions were, at first,
mostly unwilling to accept them. They would have much
preferred any kind of a steady job.
A breach opened between the men in jobs and the men
without Reds used every effort to widen it. They told
the jobless that their charity-dole work was useless, a mere
ransom paid by the bourgeoisie to keep them quiet. They
told the mgn in small jobs that they too would soon be
pushed out on to bourgeois charity.
Both are lies, but Moscow’s main fabric is one of lies.
The work of the intermittent-relief period is, and will ever
be, of permanent value to Queensland. In Brisbane, Victoria
Park has been transformed from an arid eyesore into a beauti-
ful public garden. Many miles of streets have been built and
reconditioned; seawalls and bathing pools, the valuable Break-
fast Creek flood-prevention work, sports grounds, the plant-
ing of thousands of ornamental trees, and many another valu-
able and much needed public work have been done by relief
labor. Toowoomba, Ipswich, Gympie, Maryborough, Bunda-
berg, Bowen, Mackay, Cairns and other centres have acquired
equally desirable improvements in the same way.
Nor have rural areas been neglected. Useful and beauti-
ful highways, over 500 miles of main roads, extensive improve-
ments in school grounds and play areas, new country opened
up for cotton, banana and tobacco cultivation by previously
unemployed families, extensive reafforestation, reclamation of
swamps, all these stand to the credit side of intermittent relief.
The other lie is disproved by the Government’s creation
of 8000 full-time jobs, with free transport to them and all
award conditions of living and pay.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“S.”: Strange what sticklers for con-
vention the most ardent reformers are.
The fiery cries from the Left have all
been reduced to a formula, and when I
stumbled into the banners and bagpipes
of Sydney’s Six Hour Day procession last
week it struck me that the slogans, for
all their enthusiasm, had lost all mean-
ing through years of repetition. “Down
“Excuse me, but these gentlemen are so very much alike... which IS the bridegroom?"
“The boy with ‘Mary tattooed on his chest.”
with” this and “Down with” that and
“Hands off” here and “Hands off” there
must have been applied to every promi-
nent statesman for years and to most bits
of the atlas except, perhaps, Atlantis.
Why not “To blazes with” someone and
“Boots off” somewhere for a change?
However, in spite of the stereotyped
phrasing, “Down with Joe Lyons and
War!” sounded original enough. Poor
old Joe, he doesn’t look like Mars.
“Mac Hoots”: Has anyone ever heard
a crowd shout the things the dailies say
they do —“Heaven bless Chamberlain!”
or “Thank God for the Navy!”? Even
at Salvation Army meetings I’ve observed
that it’s usually one of the lieutenants
who comes in with the “Hallelujahs!”
and at political gatherings interjections,
except those from organised groups,
mostly come from one wild crank or a
vague and solitary drunk. I saw George
V. drive down to open Parliament once,
and, though the papers reported all sorts
of loyal cries, the only sound I heard,
and it sounded like someone sneezing in
church, was a person in a morning coat
saying very quietly and nicely “Hip
hooraw, hip hooraw, hip hooraw.”
He * * *
“Q. 1.8.”: That enrolment officer (B.
5/ 8 / ’3B) who warned applicants for the
militia they had little chance of getting
on if they enrolled as dairy-farmers must
have been an outsize ass. In the two
wars in which I served with Light
Horse a big proportion of all ranks —
the colonel in one regiment—were moo-
cow manipulators. The reason is, I fancy,
that most Light Horsemen come from
dairying districts, the militia close to the
city joining other units. • The far-out-
backers, not liable in the compulsory-ser-
vice days, did not join up at all save for
active service. Further, I record my
opinion that the cocky farmer who got
plenty of chances to drill and missed few
of them was an infinitely better horse-
master and soldier generally than the man
from the Great Open Spaces.
* * * *
“F.S.”: “Hamer’s” merchant (B.
28 /9 / ’3B) who exchanged wine for a pic-
ture was not entitled to a share in the
increment which came about through the
wine subsequently maturing. The com-
mercial value of the wine was improved
by time, not by the wine merchant; the
value of a picture may improve with
time ;it is not improved by time —a very
important distinction. But the value of
a picture may be improved out of all
recognition by its painter’s increase in
prestige. The French law mentioned by
“Mahlstick” is a recognition of this fact,
and could with advantage be copied in
Australia, where the same thing has oc-
curred with a dozen artists one could
mention.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: I have every
respect for French cooks, but I cannot
swallow that yam (B. 28/9/’3B) about
one of them dishing up a delicious ragout
of fox which was served as veal. Any-
one who has handled a fox knows that
not all the spices of Arabia can eradicate
the smell which makes it so easy for
bow-wows to run him down. Writer has
seen more than one fox broken up in
the final ceremony and the bits thrown
to the hounds as a reward. Though
these had left their kennels that morn-
ing in a comparatively starving state, not
one in a dozen would do more than
mouth his fragment and leave it.
* * * *
“Notaden”: “Q” disease, which has
recently provided the central motif of
an application to the State Arbitration
Court, seems to be an essentially Austra-
lian complaint. Except in rare instances
among humans and cattle, the sole
carrier of the microscopic organism
which causes it, one of the Rickettsia
group, is the bandicoot. Dozens of
bandicoots from various parts of the
State where the disease is unknown in
man or cattle have been found to har-
bor it in their blood, apparently without
any ill effects. Nor do infected cattle
appear to suffer in any obvious way. In
human beings it causes fever and lassi-
tude, but the only recorded fatal case
suffered also from tuberculosis. The
conveying agent is supposed to be a tick
or mite, but so far has not yet been
definitely identified.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Cecil Kellaway, in recent
years one of the most popular comedians
in J.C.W.’s entourage, confesses to an
unfortunate experience of Hollywood.
When he attended the world premiere of
the first film in which he had a part he
found he wasn’t in it. His sequences had
fallen to the shears of the cutter. Kella-
way seems to be one of those actors who
don’t fit into the medium of the cinema.
His positive virtues as an actor in the
pictures I have seen negative him as a
screen star. The late Pauline Frederick
was a reverse example. She had no
difficulty in getting herself across to
cinema audiences of a dozen countries,
but she could not get herself across the
footlights to Melbourne and Sydney
audiences.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Another stage has been
reached in the evolution of bathing con-
ventions on Melbourne’s beaches, male
trunks having been permitted by most
municipalities. Time was when the sexes
were segregated both in time and space,
and the long sweep of the foreshore was
decorated with truculent notices instruct-
ing males and females when and where
they could comport themselves in the
briny. The costumes the ladies wore as
they stepped into the water would be re-
garded as puritanical nowadays if they
were seen in the dress circle at a Russian
Ballet first-night. At that time, Adelaide,
though, as now, a highly moral city,
affected customs which would be re-
garded with horror even to-day in Mel-
bourne. The sexes were segregated, but
complete nudity for men was usual, and
if a male had appeared in a public bath
even with a pair of trunks on everybody
would have thought that there must be
something wrong with him. This in a
period when a Melbourne paterfamilias
could write to the “Argus” saying that
a father who undressed in front of a
son must be lost to shame. It is only a
year or two since zealous beach inspec-
tors were haling before Melbourne
Beaks malefactors who lowered but one
strap from their shoulders. By the end
of the present year elderly individuals
will be so inured to ttppless costumes
that they will cease to think about them.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There’s sometimes honor in
one’s own country. Arthur Gask, an
Adelaide dentist and a prolific writer of
detective stories (published latterly in
England), has had his most lurid book,
which is also one of his earliest, selected
for reprinting as a serial in Adelaide
“Advertiser,” It is the confession of a
quiet local citizen who, under the influ-
ence of a dreadful drug, went out and
butchered some stranger each night. To
do Gask justice, the yarn is well told,
and finally there is a suggestion that the
whole thing was due to the drug’s imagi-
nation-stirring qualities.
* v ♦ *
“C.Q.”: Geelong (Vic.) Centenary
Committee was hard put to it to find
a historical incident of sufficient import-
ance to be worthy of re-enactment. The
archives were ransacked without suc-
cess until somebody hit on the burning
of the ship Lightning, 2084 tons, at her
wharf in 1869. Built in Boston, U.S.A.,
she was under Liverpool register. The
fire started among the wool and tallow
in the early morning, and the ship was
ordered out into the harbor, but Gee-
long’s volunteer brigade hastened to the
scene so full of faith and confidence that
the authorities ordered the burning vessel
back to the wharf again. The brigade’s
one and only hose burst, so a floating
stage was fetched and carpenters bored
holes in the ship’s sides, but heat melted
the steel mainmast and sent it overboard
and the holes came above the water-
line. Then the local artillery corps
brought into action a 32-pounder and
commenced a bombardment, but the
supply of powder gave out and the
Lightning still floated triumphantly, blaz-
ing like a Roman candle. At nightfall
she went out as tfie waters closed above
her. Possibly the stirring event is sym-
bolical of something.
* * * *
“Kea”: If people must interrupt al
meetings, political or otherwise, they
might bear in mind that a solitary phrase
repeated at intervals is more effective
than a succession of varying observa-
tions. At a M.L. political gathering the
baronet Joseph Ward essayed to make
a policy speech. At well-spaced inter-
vals a small and sinister-looking indivi-
dual in the middle of the hall inquired
“How’s oats, Joey?” or “What about
oats, Joe?” until Ward, to whom the
remark recalled an old slander, was re-
duced to fury. With a minimum of effort
the little man ruined the meeting.
* * * *
“Selma”: Ours is usually a very quiet
and well-ordered block of flats, so when
raucous noises made evening hideous the
man in the flat below decided to call on
the newcomers in the flat above and have
a word with them. “I wonder if you can
do something about your wireless,” he
said; “it’s annoying the whole neighbor-
hood. We aren’t used to such a row in
this building. Most of the tenants arc
very considerate and they turn the radio
very low. You could do that, couldn’t
you?” But the harassed-looking man
who had opened the door looked at his
caller coldly. “I’m sorry you don’t like
my daughter’s singing,” he said.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: 1 was interested in the
manifesto of those Eminent Persons who
protested against the Betrayal of Czecho-
slovakia and challenged Hitler to come
on, or something. It occurred to me to
look up “Who’s Who” and kindred publi-
cations to get an idea of the risks these
irreconcilables would take and the sacri-
fices they might have to make if it came
to war ; and this is how the investigation
worked out:
Viscount Cecil, 74, married (1889), no
children.
Lord Meston, 73, married (1891), one
son.
H. G. Wells, 72, married, two sons.
H. W. Nevinson, 82, married, one son
(rising 50).
Norman Angell, 64, unmarried.
Richard Acland, M.P., 32, married, no
children.
Josiah Wedgwood, M.P., 66, married,
two sons and five daughters.
Wedgwood Benn, M.P., 61, married
(1920), three sons.
A. V. Alexander, M.P., 53, married
(1908), no children.
P. Noel Baker, M.P., 49, married (1915),
one son.
Sir William Jowitt, 53, married, one
daughter.
John Parker, M.P., 32, unmarried.
Ellen Wilkinson, M.P., unmarried.
Dr. Edith Summerskill, M.P., unmarried.
Eleanor Rathbone, M.P., unmarried.
Wilfrid Roberts, M.P., 38, married
(1928), three daughters.
J. M. Keynes, 55, married, no children.
Laurence Binyon, 69, married, three
daughters.
David Low, 47, married, two daughters.
Geoffrey Mander, M.P., 56, married
(1906), one son, two daughters; (1930) one
son.
Jacob Epstein, 58, married (1906), one
daughter.
Hamilton Fyfe, 69, married, no children.
Wickham Jiteed, 67, married (1937), no
children.
Viscountess Rhondda, married (1882), one
daughter.
Out of that lot Britain might get half a
dozen men for the services, if all passed
the doctor. No wonder the nation rallied
to Chamberlain, who, when the childless
old women of both sexes were screaming
for war, thought of the people and their
children.
HIS CLAIM TO FAME.
“Mr. Lyons spoke, and said nothing.”
—Bulletin, 5/10/’3B.
When over all the Seven Seas
Grim gloom had cast its spells
And prayers were borne on every breeze
Along with shouts and yells,
His voice was heard —with ne’er a word
Of what we didn’t know.
How true to form, in calm or storm,
Shall we remember "Joe!
They waited in that stately hall
Some speech that might define
Our path ahead, some clarion call
To give the land a line,
Some utterance a statesman’s grip
Of world affairs to show.
Vain fancy! Not for leadership
Shall we remember Joe.
Away! Assuming any sense
Of duty done endures
For sitting dumbly on the fence
In time of stress, it’s yours.
For doing naught, as matters arc,
To risk your status quo
And saying in an earth-wide jar—
Well, nothing in particular,
Shall we remember Joe.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“C.Q.”: The liquor referendum
campaign in Vic. was uninspired, but a
Sunday-school teacher provided some
diversion. He drives a truck on week
days and carried the slogan “Vote Yes”
prominently displayed on his tailboard.
After getting a fill-up at the local garage
he proceeded to the booth with his
family on polling day. A wake of smiles
pursued him through the township.
Somebody had added “And Help to Drive
Us Off the Road” in large letters to his
poster.
* * * *
“D.”: Before long there is going to be
a mortal struggle between the directors of
men’s and women’s sporting organisa-.
tions. It will be necessary to pick a
team for the Olympic Games in Finland,
and the team will have to be much
smaller than in past years, because the
Finns are cutting down the programme,
and because there is no likelihood of a
Government grant. If the men have
their way only men will go, but they are
afraid to tell the women this, and already
they are thinking up ways and means of
averting the threatened storm. I’m sure
they will thank me for my suggestion,
which is that they should tell the girls
they are passing them out in their own
interest; if girls were sent to a remote
and bleak place like Helsingfors they
would get fat —far too fat to do themselves
justice, in field or pool or on the track.
And so, of course, the darlings would.
Even on voyages across the Pacific they
put on weight. I’m sure that has been
“ Listen , boay — I'm Jack to Cap'n, John to Passun, an' Mister to you."
the trouble with our latest band of tennis
girls. Their in-and-out form has flab-
bergasted their newspaper champions, but
a glance at their latest photograph ex-
plains it all. One particular flapper, who
was just a well-nourished girl when she
set out on her travels, has become nearly
as broad as she is long.
“Nakhoda”: A 30ft. auxiliary cruiser,
the Conella, sailed from Hobart the
other day to found a modern Utopia “far
from strife, turmoil and social problems ’
in the Marquesas. Its leader is O. F.
Briggs, who resigned fom the Air Force
in Melbourne to further his dream,
gathered together upwards of 100 fellow-
seekers after the Millennium and married
one of them before he started on his
project. Briggs got his idea after a visit
to an island which was vacated by the
French Government many years ago be-
cause sandflies spread disease and made
life intolerable for non-Utopians.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The just-concluded 1938 art
season in Melbourne finally disposed of
the delusion that it helps painters to have
their shows opened by prima donnas,
popular actresses or other visiting celebri-
ties. A quarter of an hour before the
Great One arrives, the gallery is packed
to suffocation. Five minutes after he or
she has sniffed at a few pictures, spoken
a piece and departed with satellites, sec-
retaries and managers, the show is
almost deserted. In previous years Sybil
Thorndike, Austral, Joan Menzies and
Fay Compton have burgeoned
as patrons of a sister art. The
season just completed was just
as successful as any other,
although not a single celebrity
performed an opening cere-
mony.
V * *
“T.”: The methods of a street
photographer who has a pitch
near my Sydney office are an in-
teresting study. Having watched
him for hours, off and on.
I have noticed that on
week days he never snaps a
man walking solus and never
misses a woman. Young,
old, middle-aged, fat, skinny and
nondescript, he takes them all.
And not one in 500 ever refuses
the proffered card. On Sun-
days it is the same, except that
men then swim into his net,
but only when walking with women.
The young couples he stops and poses.
The lads all submit, though few like it ;
the girls, of course, eat it up. The
City Council tried to drive these
photographers off the streets. Had it
succeeded, it might have robbed Australia
of a first-class novelist or dramatist in
the making. No better training for a
budding writer who aspires to be wise
in the ways of womankind could be
imagined.
* * * *
“Loosemouth”: The report of the
House of Commons Committee which
inquired into how a M.P. came into pos-
session of important military secrets
which he made public by asking a ques-
tion in the Commons has been issued.
The matter was complicated by the fact
that the M.P. was a Territorial officer,
and when taken to task by the military
authorities pleaded Parliamentary privi-
lege. The inquiry findings show that the
M.P. got hold of the documents, know-
ing that they were secret and important,
but there is no evidence as to how he
came to get them or from whom he got
them. Shows the folly of putting de-
fence secrets anywhere within reach of
an all-sorts convention like Parliament.
“Dhas”: When poets brood over the
face of the beloved it’s usually, as Mase-
field put it, her eyes and her hair and
“the dear red curve of her lips” that set
them warbling. Such oddments as noses
and ears are occasionally honored with
a line; eyelashes (but not, despite
Shakspeare, eyebrows) are in the
“Oh, go away! Children and fools shouldn't see things half-finished."
picture. Chins, Adam’s apples and the
icy glitter of spectacles have been
neglected, and I’m pleased to see that
Melbourne’s Shaw Neilson has paid
tribute to the first item. In an early
poem he said
I have been a lover of lips and chins,
and in his new book, Beauty Imposes,
he has
Great is the calm irreverence of her chin.
It’s strange that the locality hasn’t
attracted more attention when it’s such
an easy rhyme for win, violin and twin.
And it would be a pleasing variation of
the “silver threads among the gold”
theme to proclaim
Still like a bee my fancy spins
About the blossoms of your chins.
* * * *
“Pick”: Westralian mines have a way,
on occasion, of producing something
finer than gold. At Edward’s Find,
Marvel Loch, an Italian miner, Francis
Pagoda, lowered to the bottom of a 50ft.
winze, was overcome by gas fumes.
Though able to struggle back into the
kibble, he fell out when it started to
rise. A mate, Paul Casserley, went to
his assistance without
a moment’s hesita-
tion, held his breath
at the bottom long
enough to drag
Pagoda to the
kibble, and was able
to give the signal to
hoist. Ten feet
from the surface he
collapsed and fell
out, and his uncon-
scious comrade fell,
too. Mates in home-
made gas masks
went down and
brought them back.
Pagoda is dead ; his
rescuer, when these
lines were penned,
was not expected to
live. Reminds me of
an incident with
points of similarity
that happened 30-
odd years ago, not
very far from
Marvel Loch. Por-
tion of a mine was suddenly flooded
and an Italian miner, Varischetti, was
trapped in an air pocket. “Diver” Hughes
(no connection with the later Parliamen-
tarian) made good his moniker by
wriggling his way through the under-
ground lake and dragging the other fellow
back with him—a task whose difficulty
staggers the imagination. That sort of
thing seems to be all in the day’s work
with miners.
“Royal”: The youthful son of out-
greengrocer seems marked by destiny for
a career as a press photographer. He
has the right spirit. Accompanying his
father on the latter’s round in this River
Murray (S.A.) district, he got out of the
truck one day to open a gate, carrying
his camera. Father, attempting to drive
through the gate, stalled the engine, and
the'truck began to run backwards down
the steep road. The brakes failing to
hold, the truck gathered speed, left the
road and raced towards the edge of the
cliffs bordering the river, with the son
in hot pursuit. Unable to catch the
runaway, the boy stopped, whipped his
camera into action, and snapped a picture
of the truck toppling over the cliffs, with
dad still hanging to the wheel! Un-
fortunately for the news value, but not
for the old man, the truck miraculously
landed right side up on the edge of
the river, at the bottom of a 30ft. drop,
without serious damage to truck or
driver.
* * * *
“Borderer”: To alter the native idiom
of folk songs is to ruin them. To me half
the beauty of “Annie Laurie” (B.
28/9/’3B) vanished when I found that
the genteel editress of this and other
songs had substituted
Her breast is like the snowdrift,
Her neck is like the swan,
for William Douglas’s lines, written in
true Scots:
She’s breastit like the peacock,
She’s neckit like the swan.
“Leon”: Whoever wrote “Annie
Laurie” must be wearing potholes in his
grave. Not only has Tin-pan Alley
“swung” the poor girl off her feet, but
Melbourne youth now takes her name in
vain. Climbing the stairs in a city build-
ing t’other day, a descending messenger-
boy bounced off my waistcoat and paused
to gasp “Annie Laurie” ere he continued
his netherward flight. After deep thought
it occurred to me that “Laurie” rhymes
with “sorry.”
* * * *
“L.C.R.”: “Red Page” readers whose
memory goes back far enough will
recollect that A. G. Stephens produced
circumstantial evidence to show that
Kipling was not above a spot of plagiar-
ism. Rudyard never denied it. In a
letter to W. W. Skeat, formerly of the
Malayan civil service, recently pub-
lished in the “Straits Times,” Singapore,
Kipling frankly admitted that some of his
“Just So Stories” were derived from
Skeat’s Malay Magic. “I took (‘pinched’
is another word for it) my tale of ‘The
Crab That Played with the Tides’ and
used your eldest Magician, including the
phrase ‘Kun? Paya Kun’; the Rat; the
Man in the Moon; Rajas Moyong
Kaban and Abdullah ; the Pusat Tasek,
etc. The evidence of this —shall we call
it delicately ‘adaptation’? —is as plain as
print. Then why not say so? I should
feel honored and, anyhow, it would be
no more ihan acknowledgment after
many years of my just debt to you.”
THE PLAY’S THE THING.
“It is estimated that the percentage of picture-
goers in Australia is half as much again as that in
the U.S.A., and nearly twice that in Great Britain.’’
We’ve certainly more recreations
And methods for filling our times
Of ease than less fortunate nations
In not so salubrious climes.
Yet it gives you to think when it’s written
By those such statistics who fix
That we distance both Gahd’s Own and Britain
In flair for the flicks.
Some revel in sport on the billow
Or nothing more musical wish
Than the crack of the well-wielded willow
Or the racquet’s delectable swish;
Some cluster where wrestlers or bruisers
Their bufTets and carcasses mix,
But there’s mighty few shows that aren’t losers
Compared with the flicks.
We’re most of us willing and ready
To be thrilled by the market that moves
To the cult of the versatile neddy,
The drum of the galloping hooves,
But, ’spite periodic arraignments
And wowsers’ occasional kicks,
Of all our diverse entertainments
Our pref.’s for the flicks.
It’s true that industrious searches
Around these agreeable shores
Might fail to disclose any churches
Or chapels so packed to the doors;
But, though that may deserve admonition,
•It incontrovertibly sticks
Right out for a sound proposition:
We’re nuts on the flicks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVEN
44
99
99
it... nevek Vatoft
gf
POLITICAL POINTS
“S. M. Herald,” while still bellicose,
now admits that “there has been a twenty
years’ feud between the Czechs and the
Slovaks.” Also that, though Carlsbad
and Marienbad will in future be part of
Germany, Pilsen—towards which crowds
of joyous beer-drinkers have been mak-
ing—will remain inside Czecho. So we
were to have gone to war to prevent
Carlsbad and Marienbad becoming
German again, as well as to prevent
Germans drinking Pilsener in a German
dsen -
A 60 p.c. affirmative vote is needed to
carry no-license in Victoria. In 1930 no-
license voters—chiefly women—num-
bered 418,902—43.13 p.c. The years
have so damaged their cause that on
Saturday their total fell to 344,000—34
p.c. Their opponents have gone from
552,339 in 1930 to 666,000, with a good
“There, there, you mustn’t go on like that; our resources are not exhausted yet. P’raps we’ll have
a go at the Eskimos."
many thousand ballot-papers to be
examined.
There are 65 licensing districts in Vic-
toria. In 1920, Boroondara and Nuna-
wading went dry, and in 1930 no-license
majorities were recorded in these dis-
tricts and in Barwon, Brighton, Goul-
burn Valley, Kew, Oakleigh and Pol-
warth. At Saturday’s poll the prohibi-
tionists failed to gain a simple majority
in any district.
As usual, none of the New Tories was
game to vote against Chamberlain when
his European policy was challenged
again. Had they been game enough,
they might have forced a general elec-
tion, though the P.M. magnanimously
declared that he didn’t want to capitalise
feeling which was so obviously felt by
the nation regardless of party. The pros-
pect of an election so scared the
Churchill group that Churchill was heard
whining that he “couldn’t believe any
P.M. with a large majority would be
capable of such an act of constitutional
indecency.” Translated into plain Eng-
lish this meant, “For God’s sake, don’t
go to the country, or it will be the end
of Me!”
Sydney’s “Labor Daily,” which offered
Chamberlain its full support and influ-
ence when it was positive he was going
to bog into Hitler, has now formally
withdrawn the articles. When he was
about to go to Germany for the second
time, the “L.D.” got the straight griffin
about “the massing of 660,000 Soviet
troops right along the border from White
Russia to the Ukraine.” Perhaps “mass-
ing” was a misprint for “missing.”
The conspiracy charge which for
months had been hanging over the heads
of Bertie Lloyd, M.L.A., Eric Campbell
and R. A. Duesbury dragged on to its
conclusion in Sydney on Friday, when
a verdict of not guilty was returned. The
jury was away 90 minutes; the hearing
had occupied 19 days, and there were
long police-court and equity-court cases
before that. A dreadful ordeal for the
accused; and the slowness with which
N.S.W. law is apt to work nowadays has
become matter for serious attention.
Fairbairn, M.P., preaches on a unifica-
tion text:
There should be one capital for New
Guinea and Papua; there should be one
administrative service for these territories;
there should be trained for this service men
who could interchange with all the terri-
tories —Papua, N.G., Nauru and N.T. —
and there should be one pension system
for them.
The House was impressed, and well it
might be. The Victorian said another
thing which is unanswerable —Austra-
lians have shown “a genius for this type
of work.”
After the war, Federal Labor wanted
to convert the A.M.F. into a selection-
ballot and debating-society army, and
Ward and Lazzarini seem to be keen on
this still. They both went off pop last
week because A.M.F. men are not to be
allowed to use military halls for political
meetings, or to take part in political
demonstrations as soldiers. Lazzarini
shouted that “the military forces of this
country are seething with discontent.”
They are not even seething with Laz-
zarini. Thanks to politicians like Lazza-
rini, there are not enough of them to
seethe about anything.
Coalworkers of Yallourn (Vic.), the
State Government’s pet enterprise, have
been presented with the finest washhouse
and retiring-room in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, at a cost of £15,000. Thirty
showers and all-steel hygienic lockers for
180 are included. Wives were presented
with briquettes of bakelite containing
chocolates and a set of playing-cards to
celebrate the occasion. This happened
at a time when the miners of Wonthaggi,
another expensive State enterprise, were
holding up black-coal supplies.
Only 73 Communists and two Indepen-
dents were against the Munich settle-
ment when Daladier put it to the vote
in the Chamber of Deputies, and 535
were for it. This indicates how desper-
ately anxious France was for peace, and
how impossible it would have been
for the French to advance beyond
their frontiers. In the Commons there
is only one Communist, but Tory
Johnnies, Libs, and Labs, made a show
of trying to persuade the nation that
Czechoslovakia could have been saved,
German, Polish and Hungarian districts
and all, if Chamberlain had told Hitler
the Empire would fight rather than let
the minorities secede.
Germans in Australia honor Chamber-
lain if alleged Britons in the U.K. demand
his political head. This is the hundredth
year of German settlement in Australia.
A Protestant Labor alderman has got
in for the Wynnum division of Greater
Brisbane. Old Dart, M.L.A., gave up
the seat on the ground—unusual these
days—that one paid public job was
enough. The new man’s name is Greene.
The high price of coal having been
mentioned in the Macquarie-street talk-
ing shop, Stevens said that the best way
to lower it would be to produce more
coal. Now we know why butter and
sugar are so —er —cheap, and why bread
is going to be —er —cheaper than ever
when the home-consumption oracle is
worked.
One result of Munich is the smashing
of the alleged so-called Popular Front
in France ; hence improved relations with
Italy as well as Germany. Coquetting
with Communism has done France im-
mense-harm, at home and abroad.
In the Commons debate on Czecho.
none of the yappers at Chamberlain men-
tioned the Dominions, neither Attlee nor
Sinclair nor Duff Cooper nor Eden nor
Churchill. Chamberlain did.
The great self-governing Dominions must
be remembered; they have the right of
consultation before we take a step which
might have incalculable consequences for
them.
And he consulted them before each of
his visits to Germany, and has placed 't
on record that he was fortified by the
good wishes of their Governments. And
the old man kept them out of the war
in which the yappers would have landed
them.
Duff Cooper, who resigned because he
wanted the Government to Warn Ger-
many, with the certainty of getting us all
into war if the Warning failed, told the
Commons he had “spent the greater part
of one day trying to swallow the terms”
on which peace was made, but “they
stuck in my throat.” Yes, but the fruits
of his crazy policy would have stuck in
the Empire’s gizzard.
Savage, in the Labor policy speech at
Wellington (M.L.):
On the question of foreign policy, the
Government stands for collective security.
In other words, it stands for what
doesn’t exist.
Campaigning for his Government, Bob
Semple, the Minister for Works, claimed
that “in less than two years 47,000 new
vehicles have taken to the roads”:
We have a car for every five people,
man, woman and child. When I took
office, the country hadn’t one proper State
highway; the first thing I did was to de-
clare 4000 miles of State highways and to
plan the construction of one that would
last for centuries. As for road safety,
our Traffic Department has brought the
mortality rate down to the lowest in the
world —8.8 for 10,000 vehicles.
That is certainly something to brag about.
And it has to be admitted that Maoriland
Labor has gone in for no transport-
strangulation policy such as Lang intro-
duced in N.S.W. and Labor has sup-
ported in other States.
Months ago Casey proudly announced,
in the third person, that rates of and
calculations pertinent to the income taxes
imposed by the seven Australian Govern-
ments were about to be issued in one
publication to satisfy “the many demands
made upon him for information by tax-
payers within Australia and investors in
other parts.” A 69-page pamphlet, lOin.
by Bin., made its appearance; price a
shilling. Now, because Commonwealth
rates are up 15 p.c., most of the infor-
mation is useless. Those who paid a
shilling for the stuff would have got
better value if they had bought beer
instead, even though beer, because of
the outrageous excise, is ninepence a pint
next door to a city brewery.
No doubt it was lan Hamilton who
suggested to Hitler that the British
Legion, the counterpart of our R.S.L.,
should police disputed parts of Czecho-
slovakia during the plebiscite period ; but
Hitler scored a point by agreeing. He
notified his willingness when the situa-
tion seemed at its blackest, but in the
rush of really thrilling matter it was
served up in a small par. Now a thousand
members of the Legion are to go to the
Debatable Land. Good luck to them
and to all old-soldier organisations! They
stood steadfastly for peace when a
horde of editors, novelists, professors,
pacifists and even bishops howled for
war.


// 7
Is that Canberra. .
Smith spea.wc.inc, .
Why didn't they f
call. Hitlers
Bluff ? " %
MR. SUBBUBS PREPARES.


&
vm.
IMpustvhw
(GREATER
GERMANY)
SPRING
FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5,
1939.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports
Goods, Great
Engineering and
Building Fairs.
EVERY MANUFACTURER . . .
EVERY STOREKEEPER . . .
The Leipzig Fair not only offers the finest values in the newest, best
and most uncommon things—it gives nations an opportunity to get
to know each other better on a practical and technical basis.
Your business success depends upon successful trading or manufacturing
—Leipzig is the logical centre of wise buying.
Information, including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks, available
of LARS' G. BRUNDAHL. Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
International Industries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney;
C. N. KEPPBL, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane ; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, S'henton Park, W.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
ONE
COMPANY
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the spread over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
PERSONAL ITEM
Just at present a sanguine-looking,
excited individual with long fair hair
floating in the wind and a knapsack in
his hand may be seen darting about the
grounds of Melbourne University. He is
Percy Grainger, and the object of his
enthusiasm is the nearly-completed
Grainger Museum, the pale brick build-
ing he subsidised and dedicated to the
memory of his Norwegian master, Grieg.
A man as enthusiastic as Grainger is not
content with a museum. He wants to
give it wings and instal equipment for the
study of South Sea Island music and
abo. harmony, and intends to offer prizes
for Australian folk songs. All the money
is to come out of his own pocket, and
he is shortly off to get the wherewithal to
fill it by another world tour as pianist
and conductor.
Fred. Patterson, the A.N.A. flier who
has just completed his thousandth cross-
ing of Bass Strait, is so slight in stature
that strangers seeing him walking across
the aerodrome in uniform ask what “that
boy” does about the place. He handles
the Douglas DC3 Kurana, biggest of the
A.N.A. fleet; yet he was raw to route
flying when he went to Tas. in Sep-
tember, 1934. His only commercial fly-
ing experience before that was with
the Bendigo (Vic.) Aero Club. He is
now the senior pilot on the Tasmanian
route.
Arthur Burley, of Sydney, takes as
keen an interest in the female form as
does Norman Lindsay, but that’s because
he’s managing director and secretary of
Berlei, Ltd. This corset business, now
known in many lands, had its genesis in
Sydney in 1912, when the brothers Fred
and Arthur Burley founded Unique
ARTHUR BURLEY.
Corsets, Ltd. The co. prospered and
subsequently acquired its present name,
under which it penetrated to the U.K.,
M.L. and S’Africa, with numerous asso-
ciations in the U.S.A. and Canada.
Arthur Burley is president of the Aus-
tralasian Institute of Secretaries; hon.
treas. of the Sydney Y.M.C.A. and presi-
dent of the Australian Institute of Indus-
trial Psychology.
Rod Quinn, modelled by Frith, is the
last survivor of the galaxy of poets headed
by Victor Daley that flourished in the
’nineties and established, in the pages of
The Bulletin, a school of verse not so
definitely Australian as that of their fore-
ROD QUINN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
runners, but still in some degree charac-
teristic of this continent. Quinn has
always been happiest as the quiet ob-
server of nature. The gentle poet started
work as a school-teacher, and though he
is best known through his various
volumes of verse his first publication was
in prose the romantic novel Mostyn
Stayne. And he has written memorable
short stories.
Clem Hill, now V.A.T.C. handicapper,
returned to Adelaide for a “farewell”
and presentation, when his past doings
were recalled, starting from his 360 in
the “College match,” his 156 not out
and 56 against Stoddart’s team while
still a boy and his 365 against N.S.W.
He went to England four times, cap-
tained Australia occasionally, was in the
S.A. XI from 1894 to 1919, and even so
“retired much too early,” said chairman
Blinman; for, coming back for the
George Giffen testimonial match in 1923,
he scored 66 and 39. Hill, in respond-
ing, spoke highly of his early coaching
by Giffen, “the greatest all-rounder who
ever lived.”
The star of the Russian Ballet now
appearing in Melbourne is an English-
Irishman, one Patrick Healey-Kay. Pat-
rick was born in Russia, speaks the
language like a native and has danced
almost since he was a baby. He was
one of the stars of the Diaghileff co.
while still in his teens, and he is the only
male member of the present co. in Mel-
bourne who can dance on his toes like
a ballerina, if that is any advantage. His
stage name is Anton Dolin.
L. C. Robinson, late manager for the
Eastern Extension Co. (or Cable and
Wireless, as it is now called) in Penang,
Straits Settlements, isn’t a very impressive
demonstration of the enervating effect of
the tropics on the white man. Born in
Adelaide, he has been 30 years in the
vicinity and on both sides of the Equator,
having served at Cocos, Singapore,
French Cochin-China, and other tropical
Gehennas. On furlough with his family
in Melbourne he looks as if it would hurt
him if he felt any better. His next
station, by way of a change, will be
Colombo.
P. R. Wightman, of Sydney, dead at
44, was a civil engineer with a genius for
map-making. Born in Adelaide he had
his training there as a survey draughts-
man. He joined up with the 18th Field
Battery of the A.I.F. in the Great War,
and his mapping work was so excel-
lent that at the end of 1917 he was
made officer-in-charge of the map branch
of the war records section in London.
In 1919 he was brought back to Aus-
tralia to make maps for the Official His-
tory of the Great War.
Although knight Harold Beauchamp,
dead at 82 in Maoriland, was distin-
guished in his own field as chairman of
a legion of great financial enterprises,
including the Bank of N.Z., which he
steered for 15 years, he is more likely to
be remembered as the father of the writer
whose pen-name was Katherine Mans-
field. Born in Wellington, the financier’s
daughter showed a precocious talent for
writing, and even her earliest stories had
a sensitiveness about them that would
have marked them out in contemporary
writing anywhere.
A. B. Svensson, of Melbourne, is one
of the furniture craftsmen who belong to
the old tradition. His father came from
Sweden to start cabinet-making in Mel-
bourne in 1869, and his son has followed
the same profession for half a century.
His chief carver, H. Chrystal, is 78, and
is the son of an apprentice of the paren-
tal Svensson. When knight William
Clarke built Cleveden Mansions in the
’seventies, Svensson put in a tender for
the furniture. Clarke, distrusting Aus-
tralian workmen, imported all his expen-
sive fixings from England. It turned out
later that most of them had been made
by an Australian, one of* old Svensson’s
apprentices, a son of whom still works
for Svensson, junr.
Prof. W. A. Osborne, who retires from
Melb. University this week, is the son of
an Irish parson and was born in County
Down. He has been professor of physi-
ology at Melb. University since 1903
and Dean of the Faculty for the last
decade. An indefatigable research
worker, he has published a mort of
learned tomes, but it was a lighter mood
which, in 1907, produced The Laboratory,
a book of poems. In his Stawell oration
he gave heart to medical students by
asserting that the human eye, ear and
finger will always surpass the most
delicate machines as diagnostic instru-
ments. Osborne was Victorian film
censor at one time.
“Oran”: Salote of Tonga, one of the
world’s two reigning queens, has just com-
pleted 20 years of ruling. Under British
protection she has happily managed her
island kingdom of about 30,000 subjects,
with the aid of her Prime Minister hus-
band, and probably has less to worry
about than any other ruler on the globe.
All Tonga is gay for the occasion, for the
queen and the prince-consort, educated
respectively in Auckland (M.L.) and
Sydney, are a couple who deserve their
popularity.
Whether the favorite or a rank out-
sider wins the Melbourne Cup this year,
tradition will be broken when the massive
golden goblet is handed over to the
blushing owner. For the past 22 years
the trophy has been moulded by the
hands of A. Steeth, of the firm of
William Drummond and Co. His son,
M. Steeth, is doing the moulding this
year.
Fred Leist’s painting of pergolas which
won the Geelong Centenary £lOO was
declared by judge Harold Herbert to be
a splendid picture which any gallery
would be proud to have in its possession.
Leist got his start on the art staff of
The Bulletin, whence he went in
1908 to London “Graphic.” During his
61 years he has exhibited at the Royal
Academy, the Paris Salon, Venice and
elsewhere in Europe, and his murals for
the Australian Pavilion at Wembley got
him a commission which took him to
Florida, U.S.A., to Texas, New Mexico
and Arizona. The Great War found
him an official artist in France, and he
is now painting instructor at the Sydney
Technical College. He studied under
Julian Ashton, and was one of the
original secessionists who founded the
Society of Artists in Sydney.
Geelong Centenarists are divided as to
who is their most famed son. Among the
living none would dispute the claim of
John Brownlee, Melba’s protege, Who
began as a clerk and sang in a troupe
of local entertainers for the love of it.
When he returned from abroad in 1928
and 1932 with the Williamson-Melba
opera co. he was established as one of the
world’s leading baritones, and his home
town emptied itself on the occasions of
his appearances at His Majesty’s in Mel-
bourne. Among Geelong’s dead sons is
Oscar Asche, famous for his enormous
poundage, his love of good food, his
Shakspearean characterisations and for
“Chu Chin Chow,” which established
*a record in London by running for five
years. Another Geelongite was “Chinese”
Morrison.
George Valder, a vice-president of the
R.A.S., is English by birth, but came
to N. S. Wales young. After farm-
ing experience he studied agricul-
tural science at Sydney Technical
College, and holds the first Associateship
and the first Fellowship in Agriculture
granted in the State. When ifi 1890 N. S.
Wales established a Department of Agri-
culture, Valder was appointed as one of
GEORGE VALDER.
five assistants to Director H. A. L. Ander-
son. Later he was manager of Wagga
Experimental Farm, where he co-
operated with William Farrer in wheat
experiments. Valder was for a while
director of Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege, and after that, in succession, served
as Trade Commissioner in S’Africa,
Superintendent of Agriculture and
Under-Secretary and Director of Agri-
culture. He has been a member of the
council of the R.A.S. for 20 years.
Desire to pick a bone with H. G.
Wells, if and when that celebrity visits
Melbourne, prompted the hasty forma-
tion of a branch of the P.E.N. Club, with
Leonard Mann as first president. A
quarterly dinner is the P.E.N. s chief
rite. The author of Flesh in Armor,
Human Drift and Murder in Sydney is
vocally a man of few words, though
professionally he is a lawyer and is em-
ployers’ advocate in basic-wage cases.
He was associate to Justice Lukin in
’Sonah’s Arbitration Court days.


# # •
‘You’re right
... I can tell
White Horse
blindfold;
M
l; fm v
.
' .Jr •;> , : y MigMl
Itilii
a
White Horse has its own distinctive fragrance, you could
judge the whisky by its aroma alone. But you have your palate
to tell you as well: mellow smoothness such as this is a pleasure
to remember, a joy to find again.
2548
Screw-cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Y* never know yer luck,”
said Dan. “Take the case of Alf Brown.
’E had the bushiest whiskers I ever seen
on a man. Well, ’e useter work on the
next farm to ours ; swaggin’ it he wus
when Peter Larkins give him the job.
One year Alf goes to the annual Show at
Billibilli. Among the usual collection
of sideshows there’s a troupe of boxers
an’ wrestlers, includin’ a coupla women.
Alf, who reckoned he could use his dooks
a bit, accepted an invitation to a bout
with one of the boxin’ gents. ’E’s just
shapin’ up to the bloke he’s picked when
’is opponent’s pushed aside an’ one of the
boxin’ women, a big hard-faced judy,
takes his place, an’ sails right inter Alf
before he had time t’ object. Alf has a
look at her an’ gives a bleat, then pur-
ceeds t’ take it good an’ proper. He never
got his hands up. She seemed t’ go ratty,
an’ if the local John hadn’t stopped it
she’d have killed him. As it was he wus
a cot-case fer nearly a fortnight after.
But in the meantime we got the strong
of things. It appears she wus the wife
of the bloke what owned the boxin’
show ; but she’d been Alf’s before he’d
deserted her an’ a coupla kids four years
before, an’ she had reckernised him in
spite of his whiskers. Serve the cow
right, too ; he’d borrered a quid orf me
t’ go t’ the Show!”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: I met him in Flinders-
street, Melbourne. I’m not defending
his uncombed hair or the dusty patch on
his new coat, sou’-west of the right
shoulder. It was the sadness of his anti-
prohibition attitude that attracted me at
first. He had lost his hat and his watch,
and he stopped to ask me the time.
“Strike him pink,” he had had an
appointment with his wife, and he was
two and a half hours late. The five-
pound note was down to about two
bottles, and he pretended to think that
he didn’t know what she would say. No,
I didn’t drink ; so we parted. But it was
that fiver that puzzled me. He had won.
it in a mouth-organ contest. Playing
the mouth-organ was his profession. He
travelled Australia and attended all the
contests.- Prize-money? Oh, that was
nothing—sometimes as much as £2o—
just nothing. The big money came
from the mouth-organ trade —boost and
advertisement and all that. A great game,
but very thirsty. What do the Aboliars
know about this musical innovation?
* * t- *
“The Moucher”: Sydney papers are
agog over the discovery that Australia,
where grasshoppers are almost as great a
pest as politicians, is importing bottled
grasshoppers for trout bait. A hitch in
this season’s deliveries resulted in hun-
dreds of fishermen who had been
making great parade with flies, dry and
wet, being unable to start their season
until the real bait they always use when
out of sight of the purists had arrived.
To such sportsmen let me recommend
the English poacher’s “wire.” Take a
foot of fine copper wire, and after mak-
ing a noose in it fasten the other end
with twine wrapping to the end of a light,
springy stick some six feet long. When
not on the feed, trout, especially the big
fellows, lie close under the banks, head
up stream, where they can be easily
located. Drop the thin noose gently in
the water some feet above the fish, let-
ting the noose go over his head until
just behind the shoulder. Then give a
smart jerk and your trout is landed. On
no account attempt to bring the wire up-
current from behind the fish. But don’t
exhibit your fish when blowing about
your catch ; the wire leaves a white mark
that nothing will eradicate.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: One of the most-valued
possessions of the south-west W.A. abo.
was, and still is, a hollow log of handy
dimensions, not to be overeasily come
upon in that region of remarkably sound
timber. Old Jacky and his Biddy showed
us just how. Promising marron and per-
haps other fish, they led the way down
to the creek. There in a pool lay a
submerged log about 6ft. long and nine
or so inches in diameter. Gathering each
a ball of tough grass, Jacky and his
missus stepped quietly into the water and
simultaneously each plugged an end of
the log. Lifted out and drained, half a
dozen good-sized marron came clapping
out. Further downstream, where tidal
"Be careful , Joe —I on'y want 'em trimmed."
water meets the fresh, yellowtail bream
and even mullet can be trapped in the
same way. A student of natural history,
the abo. long ago learned that fresh-
water crustaceans and semi-freshwater
fish love to lurk in any handy hollow
log, hence his thoughtfulness in provid-
ing same.
* * * *
“Lespy”: Saw a nice piece of work
the other day. A tipping-truck, loaded
with sand, became bogged to the axles
in a pothole. The driver got a heavy
plank, which he laid on the ground
directly under the tail of the truck. Then
he set the tipping gear in motion. The
tail, pressing down on the plank, acted as
a jack and lifted the wheels clean out
of the bog. True, he lost the best part
of his load, but it was quicker to reload
than to dig the truck out.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Have to thank “Granova"’
(B. 28/9/’3B) for his ingenious theory
that freshly-shorn sheep run straight out
of a yard without jumping, whereas
those still in their pullovers jump be-
cause they cannot see clearly where they
are going. As one much exposed to sheep
at one time, I am on' the side of the
naturalist who says a sheep jumps thus
because the one ahead of him does to
clear some obstacle he cannot see, and
so imitates him. All sheep were once
mountaineers, and nowhere is this jump-
ing habit more noticeable than in the
various breeds of wild mountain sheep
scattered all over the world. These,
when they make off among the rocky
terrain where they live, run in single
file or as near to it as possible. When
the leader comes to a gap he hops it.
The sheep behind does the same thing,
and so on to the last of the gang. Yet all
their lives these wild sheep are innocent
of the shears, though some of them, like
the Rocky Mountain jumbuck and his
cousin the moufflon, of Sardinia, carry
quite a good fleece.
* * *
“Eff”: Either “Bull-ant Bill” (B.
24/8/’3B) is perpetuating a giant leg-pull
or else trees up his way are different
from ours on the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area (N.S.W.). There hundreds of
trees have been incorporated in fences,
and in no case has the wire shown any
inclination to move skyward, although
in some instances the trees have grown
to such an extent that the netting, origi-
nally tacked to the bark, is now hidden by
inches of wood. However, I think the
best answer to friend Bill is one given
by old Black Charlie to a similar claim.
His reply was, “If a baby cuts its heel
is the scar on the back of its neck when
it grows up?”
* # * *
“First Blue”: Add to the list of
marine wonders the annual influx of
snapper into the waters of Port Phillip
Bay. Regularly each year in September
they make their way through the Heads
in countless thousands, keeping along the
eastern shore for the first few weeks,
then being found over the whole of the
bay until they vanish in February and
March. Many fishermen allege that their
invasion is caused by the flowering of
the tea-tree which fringes the shore, and
that in years where this has been de-
layed by unfavorable conditions the fish
have arrived correspondingly later. Some
idea pf the number of fish taking part in
the “run” may be gained from the fact
that in one day at Seaford over 2000
snapper, weighing 14,0001 b., were taken
in one haul.
_ „ * , * .. .*
C.G.B. : [ hate to criticise, but
Ted Scorfield’s study of horse “form”
has led him astray in his cow cartoon
(B. 21/9/’3B), which portrays upper front
teeth where Strawberry wears only a
pad of hard tissue. Reminds me of when
one of Ted’s countrymen and I were
assisting the boss to hand-pick the
“gummies” and “broken-mouths” out of
a mob of sheep we had yarded. There
weren’t many to come out, but when
Choom threw over the fence every one
he examined the boss became suspicious.
Catching and upending one that had just
been tossed over, he drew back the lips
to reveal a perfectly sound four-tooth.
“Hey! ” he yelled, “call this a broken
mouth?” “Naw, zur,” replied Choom,
bending over and pointing to the smooth
upper gum where neither sheep nor cows
(Ted’s excluded) grow teeth, “thaat’s a
goomy ”
s ** ' * *
“Gryllus”: Shifting some rocks in the
garden, I uncovered a nest of jumper-
ants. As the vile-tempered old maids
hopped over for my boots, some small
beetles bolted for cover, and two others
shammed dead, their coloring matching
the nest material. They were what natu-
ralists call inquilines—species of insects,
mostly beetles, which have acquired the
difficult art of living as guests, tenants,
or even pets in ant and termite communi-
ties. Some seem to be merely tolerated,
or even not noticed ; some are thieves or
parasites whose true character the
allegedly intelligent ants fail to recog-
nise ; others are actively taken care of,
probably for the sake of secretions of
which the ants like the taste, just as some
kinds of ants keep aphides. Among the
last are highly specialised species ot
beetles which cannot live without the help
of their hosts. When the community
shifts its quarters the pets are carried
carefully along and housed in special
accommodation.
* * * *
“Concreto”: During a recent dry spell
on the railway-construction works of the
Sandy Hollow-Maryvale (N.S.W.) rail-
way the orange-colored wasp which in-
habits those parts was short of mud to
build her nest, so she substituted a lot
of nice wet stulf she found lying about.
No doubt Ma Wasp will be puzzled at
the eventual inability of the young wasps
to dig their way out of the dry concrete.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: That “fisherman”
who, according to “Ninety-nine” (B.
21/9/’3B), got all hot and bothered over
an Bft. saltwater eel ought to go back
to his far-west bullock team. A conger
is one of the easiest k.os. in the seven
seas. He’s as tough in the head as an
all-in wrestler, but once you land him a
whack on the belly, even with a fist, the
creature swoons away like a well-
brought-up Victorian debutante receiving
her first proposal. Even one on the side
about his mid-section will get his wind
sufficiently to let you land square on his
solar plexus with the next. Gaffing any-
thing with “blow aft£r blow” is the
very way in which a gaff should not be
used, but probably the alleged fisherman
didn’t know the difference between a
gaff and a nutter, or even a boathook,
since the strange tool had a spike on it.
* „ * »
44XT ~ „ ~
Nordbo : The quack had told our
boss that hls heart was bad > so the missus
warned all the station hands to break
any bad news as gently as possible. One
dark ni g ht of a droving trip Jacky Light-
foot crept up to the boss (who acted as
bis own head drover) and pulled him out
of sound sleep by a gentle pluck to the
shoulder. “Say, boss, whispered Jacky,
one pfeller bullick clear out. ’ The
boss turned over. All right, he mur-
rnured sleepily, we ll look for him in the
niorning. Five minutes later his sleep
disturbed again: „ Boss, anodder
pfell er bullick clear out. With n degree
more °f beat * be b°ss gave the same
answer. But when for the third time he
was wakened for the news that again a
bullock had disappeared, he sat up and
let Jack y bave adding at the end of the
worst thunder: “I suppose if all 60 of
them had stampeded me the
news one at a time?” That’s right,
boss,” replied Jacky, much relieved ;
“whole plurry mob clear out all right,
Missus say breakum news gently.
SHEARING TIME.
Where the red dawn wakes the ridges
To the sunlight’s sudden sheen
And the tall trees, bending over,
Shed a benison of green,
the shearing sheds are humming
Now the daisies dot the plains,
And the green-lipped gilgai water
Sings its song of recent rains.
Hear the whipcracks; hear the wailing
Of the wcaners when the ewes
Are hustled up the woolrace
By the swearing jackeroos.
Hear the kelpies giving warning
When the wethers, fighting shy,
Make a sudden dash for freedom
To the timber slipping by.
With the fleeces falling swiftly
It is “Keep ’em running free,”
Till the knock-off rings a warning,
When it’s “Brownie, boys, and tea”;
And the shearers, stooping over,
Straighten weary backs and call
A challenge to McAndrew,
Who’s the ringer of them all.
But when shadows slip the halter
On the daylight’s fiery mane
And the cockatoos are stringing
In formation o’er the plain,
Then the pipe-smoke, curling upward,
Glimmers grey against the light,
And with frogs to call a chorus
Casey’s banjo comes to light.
And it’s “Play us Annie Laurie,”
For the simple singers find
That to lack of tune and learning
Older songs are ever kind;
Till when high above the treetops
Comes a white moon reaching down
To clothe the sleeping mulgas
In a green and silver gown,
There’s a sudden spate of ebon
Winging low against the light
Where the wild duck leave the water
In a tremulous affright,
When a burst of burly voices
Makes the echoes ring again
Where the green-lipped gilgai water
Sings its song of recent rain.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


“Ellenvale”: He pulled in to my camp
at sunset —an aged wanderer, complete
with swag, whiskers and battered felt
hat equipped with the traditional ring
of bobbing corks. We spent the evening
yarning, and as the whisky I kept on
hand for snakebites and suchlike emer-
gencies sank lower 1 found courage to
ask my visitor if the swinging corks really
achieved their avowed purpose of keep-
ing off the flies. “Keep off the flies?”
he repeated bitterly. “Course they don’t.
Jist annoy a bloke, bumpin’ his dial
an’ ticklin’ his neck —that’s all they
do.” He looked surprised when I in-
quired why he bothered to put up with
the things. “Don’ you see,” he explained,
“It’s on account of the public. They
expects a bagman to have ’em —same as
whiskers. There’s nothin’ I’d like better
than to scrape this flamin’ wool off me
face, but what would a bloke in my posi-
tion look like then? Jist a bloomin’
amatoor.” Refusing my offer of a bed
for the night, he staggered out to keep
faith with his public by camping under
the stars. The show must go on.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: “The best testi-
monial I ever received,” remarked
Finicky Fred, “was from a little grey
mare on Windyridge station. I’d just
put in half a day on a scrub-falling job
when the boss, who was a nosey sort,
rode inter the gully to see how I was
getting on. Cripes! When that mare
of his spotted the two-acre gap I’d belted
in the scrub she gave a startled snort,
dumped his nibs into a gorse clump,
an’ bolted four miles away.”
* * * *
“Ophir”: Ever tackle a snake in a
well? It isn’t easy, even though Joe is
at a disadvantage. Certainly, being
panicky, he’s more apt to strike. But
there’s only one rule to follow: keep
above him. Snakes can’t strike up. The
best thing is to go down in the bucket.
Armor-plated up to the knees, and with
the snake below you, it doesn’t matter
if he does snub his nose on the iron
of the bucket.
* * * *
“Langshan”: “Yes,” said Scotty,
“that little mare of mine can turn on a
two-bob bit, but I don’t let anyone see
her do it now unless they find the two
bob. I put one down one day an’ showed
Skinner how she could do it, an’ just
as she turned his mong rushed in an’
heeled her. By the time I quietened her
down the two bob had disappeared, an’
so had Skinner an’ his mong. The two
bob was a dud, but I ain’t gettin’ caught
again.”
* * * *
“Yokain”: The tallyman at the timber-
mill that I haul logs to knows the back-
country well, though he hasn’t been away
from the mill for years ; I was therefore
a bit surprised when he looked at some
jarrah logs, and remarked that they’d be
the trees that used to stand in Flanagan’s
paddocks. “That’s right,” I said. “And
these,” he went on, “are from Smith’s
red-soil hills.” Again I had to acknow-
ledge his accuracy. “These poles,” he
resumed, are from the gravel ridge
by Jackson’s house.” “Right again,”
I said. He looked musingly at
the poles for a while; then, “So
George Jackson’s nagging wife has left
him again, eh?” he queried. This was
a bit too much, even for me. “How the
“ It's the anchor , sir. Must be caught on some seaweed."
hell did you know?” I asked. “Oh, it’s
that shrill voice of hers,” he explained ;
“the poles from out there always have
big watershakes in them when she’s
home.”
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: “First Blue’s” deer that
wandered into the farmhouse (B.
28/9/’3B) confirms my theory that wild
animals are rapidly losing their fear of
humans. In fact, down our way the trust-
ful creatures of the bush are becoming a
nuisance. We don’t mind the rabbits that
have taken possession of the spare bed-
room, and we have adopted a give-and-
take attitude towards the pair of cheery
wombats who make their home in the
bathroom ; but there’s a limit. It may
sound a trifle finicky, but we object to
kangaroos in the kitchen, particularly at
mealtimes ; and some of our guests from
the city seem to grow a little apprehen-
sive when dingoes saunter into the dining-
room. Still, I suppose it’s just a matter
of time until we accustom ourselves to
the influx of friendly animals ; but it
would take a naturalist of “First Blue’s”
calibre to fully appreciate the situation.
* * * *
“0.T.W.”: “Y’know,” said Bung as
he mopped the bar counter, “these city
editors think they’re smart, but I reckon,
they ain’t got no ideer o‘ wot noos is.
Not so long back I was appointed
country co-respondent to the ‘Mornin’
Yell.’ Well, me first batch o’ noos is
snifter; all about Gardiner cornin’
through with ’is big mob of cattle, an’
about Jim gettin’ ’is arm broke, an’
Charlie the dogger landin’ that big dingo.
But they ignores the lot. Next time I
sends ’em the bit about the dance at
the woolshed, an’ the weddin’ over
towards the ’Burra, an’ for good measure
I puts in the piece about old ‘Mingy’
Steve havin’ a calf borned with eight
laigs. An’, do you know, the only thing
they bothers about is old ‘Mingy’s’
calf. Yair, they writes me sayin’ as how
the rest was merely local interest.
whereas the blasted calf was noos.
Local interest? I ask you! Do
you mean to tell me the people
ain’t interested in all them things?
The calf is stale noos, because
old ‘Mingy’ ’as skited all over the
districk. That’s smart journalism
for yer!”
“Nor’-west”: We were hungry, and
the reefs close inshore were swarming
with half a dozen species of crab, large
enough to be edible, but all bright-red in
color. Old Ned demurred at the pro-
posal to cook a potful. “They’re poison-
ous. Red is Nature’s danger signal wher-
ever you go.” Was he right? Or can
some experienced Aboliar who has dined
on bright-red crabs and still lives to tell
the tale give refutation. Incidentally, I
have never seen the abos. —who will eat
practically anything—take on those par-
ticular rock crabs', although with little
effort they could have gathered a potful.
“Snoop”: To see the garfish do its
hydroplaning act is a lesson in stream-
lined speed. Beakie shoots to the surface
and does a run of 20 to 30 yards with
all but about an inch of tail reared clean
out of the brine. Motive appears to be
fear, since his gallop often lands him
high and dry on the beach ; but how it’s
done beats this observer.
* * * *
“Kuaka”: To the hoarders of money
by interment add the Maori (B.
10/8/’37). Henare soon became wise to
the fact that hard cash provided him
with a new and wonderful means of
avoiding the communal division of prop-
erty which is Maori tribal law. Looking
round for a safe place of concealment
he naturally turned to the ground. But,
careful though he was, his fellows, with
the ability to unearth secrets peculiar to
the Maori, would unerringly become
aware that Henare had a hidden hoard.
Etiquette forbade mention of such a
base suspicion, but did Henare betake
himself off for a day’s work or pleasure
the home-staying members of the Kainga
had no hesitation in digging and delving
extensively to seek the buried treasure.
When Henare returned and found the
well-overturned ground where suspicion
had directed the digging, etiquette again
prevented unpleasantness, in that he
made no mention of feeling either sur-
prise or curiosity over the incident. In
the end he probably dug for the hoard
on some dark night: if the cash was
either missing or partly purloined again
he did not pretend to notice anything
amiss.
* * * *
“Beat”: Nothing new about Will
Mahoney’s electric torch on a rifle (B.
31/8/’3B). Over seven years ago, kan-
garoo shooters in nor’-west W.A. began
using focusing torches for murdering
marsupials at the wells and waterholes. It
was murder, too. The hopper’s eyes
glowed like coals in the torch light, and
only the veriest mug could fail to register
a hit at 50 yards. The torch was placed
in front of the rear sight. The light
played on the front sight, which could be
easily seen through the silhouette of the
back sight. Professionals averaged about
90 p.c. kills up to 100yds. Later, motor
spotlights and high-power ammunition
came and the range increased to 200yds.
Past tense is used because these methods
were too effective. There aren’t enough
’roos about the nor’-west now to make
the game worth the candle.
* * * *
“Huglow”: The mud-skipper, common
on the tidal flats of the Northern Barrier
Reef, is surely the most versatile of our
amphibians. Actually a true fish, it is
,'ble, by means of its strong pectoral
fins, to skip as rapidly over the mud-
flats in search of prey as it can swim.
Its gills are so arranged that it can
breathe oxygen from air as well as water.
It is also able to extract oxygen from
the water and pass it into the blood-
stream through the pores of its thin-
walled tail. Apparently both types of
breathing are necessary, as it will drown
if kept under water. Its favorite pastime
is to lie basking in the sun with just its
tail resting in the water.
* * * *
“Komediak”: The ways of some lovers
are strange indeed. An engaged couple
in our outback district have been enliven-
ing the locals for months by the innumer-
able tiffs which have marred their court-
ship. Recently the local parson proffered
a word of friendly advice. “If you and
Maisie quarrel so much, Joe,” he said,
“it’s obvious that you have chosen the
wrong woman. Why don’t you talk
things over, break off the engagement
nicely and pick some other girl with
whom you have more in common?” Joe
pondered, and made practice swings with
an axe. “I been thinkin’ of that,” he
replied, “but I can’t afford to do it yet.
You see, it’s like this. Every time Maisie
an’ me has a row she makes me so mad
l goes home and starts choppin’ down
trees. I’ve cleared half me block already.
If me an’ Maisie keep trackin’ together
fer another six weeks I’ll clear the whole
flamin’ lot. Wouldn’t get it done fer a
coupla years otherwise.”
“Congratulate me, Prendergast. My delphiniums Walked off with
first prize!”
A RURAL WEAKNESS.
“Too many men on the land have that fatal fault
of putting off the odd jobs and other uninteresting
work until some unspecified future time.” — Junior
Farmers’ lecturer.
Those who make the cultivation of the soil
their avocation merit hearty approbation
for the useful work they do,
And similarly praising those whose chief pur-
suit is grazing—whether sheep or kine
they’re raising—is but giving justice, too.
They’re our backbone —rthat admission forms
the verbal ammunition of the touring poli-
tician —but (it’s sad this to relate)
It’s one critic’s strong conviction that they have
a sad affliction, one that causes lots ol
friction: that they will procrastinate.
“Can’t you mend it?” that a phrase is that
they simply hate like blazes, lor to have
their daily laze is what, it seems, they
hanker for,
And their forms they’re ever draping over fences
as they’re gaping at the yakka they’re
escaping; for odd jobs they find a bore.
They’re stout fellows; but reflection shows one
glaring imperfection that they’ve got; a
predilection (and a pretty strong one, too),
Which apparently is chronic : that’s lor drawling
a laconic “Aw, we’ll let it rip, it’s jonick!”
or, “Some other time’ll do!”
What if gates for years are hanging by one
broken hinge, and banging in the wind!
If mum’s haranguing re the door that’s not
been nailed!
It’s in no uncertain measure cockies demonstrate
displeasure at suggestions that their leisure
be in such a way curtailed.
Barns and bails may need repairing, “drunken”
fences all need squaring, but unbridled is
the swearing when these bugbears they
survey;
Though it cause domestic sorrow not a tool
they hunt or borrow, but they put off till
the morrow what they hate to do to-day!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS’.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
kW
n
m
4
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
17 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends)-^
Pref. Ord.f To Rc-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. 14 p.c. Reserves. serves.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 12 J p.c.
1929 . . 205,535 236,159 29,370 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 62,123 200,083
9 p.c. 5 p.e.
1931 .. 154,290 152,650 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.e.
1932 .. 206,275 167,009 30,200 247,035
1933 .. 217,724 107,705 50,019 297,054
1934 .. 220,400 168,083 ) ,9077 -00491
Tax reserve, £40,000 ( 12,877
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
9 p.c. 7 i p.c.
1935 .. 201,402 194,237 67,165 392,847
9 p.c. 84 p.e.
1930 289,664 M 1,682 1 75(082 4 07,929
Staff fund, £3OOO j
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1937 .. 321,011 220,210 ) „ 7 801 r,65.730
Staff fund, £3OOO f >o
1938 .. 319,309 220,210 ]
Written off, £20,000 - 74.159 039,889
Staff fund, £5OOO J
flricluding employees’ shares.
Three of those who were mainly re-
sponsible for the development of this
big and efficient retail organisation have
died within the last four years. They
were Sidney Myer, founder of the busi-
ness, Lee Neil, and E. B. Myer, whose
place at the head of the board table has
been taken by Norman Myer; he did
good work in connection with the de-
velopment of Myer Emporium (S. Aus.),
Ltd., which used to be James Marshall
and Co. There has been no interrup-
tion to the smooth working of the
enterprise, which has been planned
on a system of decentralised co-opera-
tive control, with trained understudies
for every important executive. Other
factors that have contributed to the
co.’s success are manufacture of much
of its own requirements (it owns
woollen mills at Ballarat and has 33
separate workrooms in Melbourne), the
position of the store (it is in the centre
of Melbourne’s shopping area in
Bourke-street), a tight hold upon out-
goings, forceful selling methods, which
mean extensive advertising, and a wide
range of services, which now embrace
entertainment as well as the comfort
and convenience of shoppers.
The co. imports about one-quarter of
its total requirements, and makes and
buys the other three-quarters in Aus-
tralia. During the last term, sales
further increased, and all manufacturing
units worked to capacity. Arbitration
Court awards added about £lOO,OOO to
the wages bill. Still, “the co.’s cost of
doing business appears to be lower than
that of any similar store in the British
Empire or the United States,” the chair-
man says. After providing for depre-
ciation and other contingencies, the
profit on trading was £2910 better at
£342,326, and £37,043 (up £448) Was
received in divs. from other cos. (8.4
p.c. on book value of holdings), making
the net result from all sources £379,369
(up £3358). After deducting provision
for taxation (£60,000, up £5000) enough
remained to pay the pref. and staff-
partnership divs. and show 14.7 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 14.7, 13, 11.3,
9.3, 8.9, 8.2, 5.1, 10.9 and 14.6 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept
at 9 p.c., the average over the last
decade being 7.3 p.c. Of the £99,159
that remained, £5OOO was sent to the
staff provident fund, £20,000 was written
off premises, and £74,159 was added to
the visible lay-by, raising it £639,889 in
excess of goodwill (£250,000), not
treated as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures reflect further
all-round expansion of the business:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £2.479,950 £2.479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages.. .. 662,150 594.150 516,650
Sundry creditors.. 578,230 685,608 778.441
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 2.046,098 2,084,769 2,105,195
Plant, vehicles, etc. 256,666 259.565 269,756
Shares in other cos. 447.247 441.309 441.309
Stocks .. .. 1,045,303 1,051,312 1,093,863
Debtors .. .. 543,414 057,742 706,997
Cash, etc 30,504 27,856 25,314
The net growth of £20,426 in freeholds,
etc., and of £10,221 in plant reflects addi-
tions and improvements to the main
Bourke-street premises and purchase of
a new bulk-store at Collingwood. To
meet the outlay, add £42,551 to stocks,
£49,255 to debtors’ balances (there are
about 80,000 accounts on the books)
and clip £77,500 off mortgages, the
board leant upon sundry creditors for
an extra £92,833. Excluding shares in
other cos. (mainly the woollen mills and
the S. Aus. business), the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£531,083) was £73,931, despite the out-
lay on fixed assets.
As for the current term, extra taxa-
tion and national insurance will in-
crease outgoings, and the national in-
come promises to be smaller, owing
mainly to low prices for wool and wheat.
Still, sales and profits are reported “quite
satisfactory” since the close of accounts,
and, now that the international situation
is less disturbed, there is nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest that the 9 p.c.
div. is likely to be interfered with.
The market for the ords. has fluc-
tuated widely, partly owing to liquida-
tion of blocks of shares from deceased
estates. A year ago the figure was 345. ;
it dropped to 265. 6d. during the recent
war scare, then rose sharply, reaching
295. 3d. last week-end. The return at
295. 3d. is 6.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 345. 6d. yield 5.2 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £4 15s. 2d. prefs.
and 275. 3d. ords.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
, Prefs. Re-
jnne, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ " £ £
1928.. 74,094 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,800 79,961
1929.. 72,701 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 38,700 98,272
Portion of goodwill sold to subsi-
diary, £7140 105,412
Transferred to contingency reserve,
£15,000 . . .. ' . . .. 90,412
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.c. = 25,800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5OOO 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwill, £9384 .. .. 88,655
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
To tax reserve. £16.547 .. .. 99,880
Unexplained addition. £5925.. .. 105,755
Portion goodwill sold, £5588 .. 111,343
1932.. 48,919 1 1,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,930
Added goodwill, etc.. £Bl6 .. .. 132,123
1933.. 44,096’10,463 1697 0* p.c.= 18,565 145.494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 .. 148,780
1934.. 56,830 13,500 2141 9 p.c. = 25,705 164,276
1935.. 76,170 13,500 2190 10 ~ ~ 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5OOO . . 191.195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6OOO .. 216,569
1937.. 93,240 13,500 2100 15 p.c. = 42,843 251,270
Added intangibles. £1443 .. .. 249.833
1938.. 94,432 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 285,732
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
Originally cork merchants, etc., this
old-established and well-handled concern
and its subsidiaries have developed a
large and very profitable turnover
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. Activities cover a wide
range, including manufacture and/or im-
portation of yeast, vinegar, bottle seals,
supplies and equipment for aerated-wate:
manufacturers, brewers, bottlers, bakers,
confectioners, and restaurant- and hotel-
keepers. The co. trades under its own
name in Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland,
as Harrison, San Miguel Pty. (a wholly-
owned subsidiary) in Vic., S. Aus. and
Tas., and as F. A. Henriques (another
subsidiary) in Westralia.
In 1926 ord. capital was doubled by
the issue of £126,000 of bonus scrip, and
the div. dropped from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
remaining steady until 1930, when the
rate fell back to 10 p.c. No div. was
paid in the following year, though, after
meeting pref. requirements, enough profit
remained to show 9.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
Earnings have since stepped along in
fine style, and the div. advanced from
5 p.c. in 1932 to 15 p.c. again in 1936, at
which level it has remained with widen-
ing margins.
A lot was done to extend and consoli-
date the business just before and at the
beginning of the slump. During this
period the co. sold its old Castlereagh-
street warehouse at a profit of £17,681,
bought Arthur Cocks’s York-street (Syd-
ney) premises and a property in Bris-
bane, put up a new factory at Waterloo
(N.S.W.), took over the rest of Hen-
riques’s business —previously the pair had
passed t the bottle-seal part of their busi-
nesses to a subsidiary for scrip—and the
vinegar section was amalgamated with
Champion’s Vinegar Co. In March last
the importing section of the organisation
was further strengthened by the forma-
tion of a subsidiary in London in con-
junction with Stevenson and Howell, Ltd.
After allowing £8265 (up £263) for de-
preciation, declared net earnings for the
12 months to June 30 last were £1192
better at £94,432, or enough to pay the
prefs. their full contract rates and show
an attractive 27.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 27.2, 26, 21.2 and 14.4 p.c. back
to 1934. The high earning power of
capital suggests that assets are well worth
their book value, and the position may
be even more attractive than it looks,
because the profits of subsidiaries have
been taken into account only to the
extent of dividends received.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1928. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital £429,900 £457,520 £457.520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 94,142 41,909 107,489" 109,180*
Freeholds .. 169,545 209,083 209,083 210,259
Plant, etc... 37,192 34.463 45,809 47.078
Shares suhsid ) g 8 544 2 24,016 \ 2^'™ 2 2 |M* 2
Loans subsid. ) ( 11,211 22,012
Stocks .. 128,845 82,231 124,471 132,487
Book debts.. 152,460 57,082 59,079 62,609
Mortgage .. 64,000 51.130
Cash, etc. .. 8,837 94,130 163,528 102,851
t Includes provision for taxes and contingencies.
The addition of £12,040 to shares in
subsidiaries reflects the formation of the
new London offshoot already referred to.
Loans to the pups were up £lO,BOl, stocks
advanced by £BOl6 and debtors’ balances
by £3530. Including loans to but not
shares in subsidiaries, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£270,779) was £19,970.
The £457,520 of capital is in 150,000
A 9 p.c. and 21,900 B 10 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital, and 285,620 ords. At 345.
6d. the A shares return 5.2 p.c., and the
ords. at 625. 6d. yield 4.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, with possibilities. The well-
protected Bs seldom come on to the
market. The net tangible cover is visibly
£4 19s. As, £27 Is. 9d. Bs and 40s. ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Not To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95,000
1929. . 75,000 10 „ „ 55.00 C 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65,000 10 „ „ 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 64 „ „ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 „ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 ~ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935. . 20,200 44 „ „ 24.750 1,450 111,598
1930. . 22,348 4} „ „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 4} „ ~ 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28,665 5 ~ ~ 27,500 1.165 111.692
The foundations of this big drapery busi-
ness, which has strong mail-order con-
nections in the country, were laid by
James McWhirter when he began shop-
keeping in the Valley 40 years ago. Turn-
over expanded steadily, thanks to shrewd
buying and a sound trading policy, super-
imposed on a solid financial structure.
Before the slump the store had become
the busiest retail establishment in Bris-
bane, and the co. had developed into a
steady 10 percenter, with wide margins.
With the big change in conditions came
increased competition from chain-stores
and others, and, worst of all, a drift of
the shopping public to Queen-street. In
these circumstances, McWhirters has not
been able to recover its old volume of
turnover, while margins have narrowed,.
and, of course, earnings and divs. are
not what they used to be, as a glance
at the table shows. Still, the position is
improving.
Early in the last term a dry spell in
the country affected the mail-order sec-
tion, but things improved as the year
advanced, and city turnover kept on
expanding. The growth in gross earnings
was £10,273:
1028. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Gross profit. . £201,880 £100,779 £174,077 £184.950
Exes.* .. 180,379 140,431 140,840 149,780
Profit* .. £75,001 £20,348 £27,831 £35,105
* Before providing for taxation.
The increase of £2939 in exes, was on
account of the lift in wages, which was
largely offset by savings in advertising—
an intensive advertising campaign had
been adopted in the previous term.
Actual trading exes, took 16s. 2d. of
every pound of gross earnings as against
16s. lOd. for the previous term. After
allowing £6500 (up £2000) for taxation,
the net result was £5334 better at 5.2 p.c.
on capital as against 4.2, 4, 4.7, 4, a loss,
5, 6.5, II and 13.6 p.c. back to 1929.
Three-quarters of a point was added to
the div., making it 5 p.c., the average
for the last decade being 5.5 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1930. 1932. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £550.000 £550,000 £550,000 £.550,000
Overdraft .. 7,817 109.395 09,258 60,213
Creditors .. 50.153 37,917 46,625 45,552
KroelioM and
plant . . 324.500 453,000 444,862 442,600
Stocks .. 296,908 262,092 *238.809 * 234,155
Book debts .. 109,710 115,484 103,579 108,311
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. . 40,665 5,772 3,949 3,122
* includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
Last term £9045 was lopped off the over-
draft, making the reduction £57,104
since 1931, when the board went to its
bankers to help finance extensions to
the premises. Stocks, down £4714, are
the most vulnerable point in the co.’s
armor; they have been “carefully
checked, and are priced at cost or re-
placement value, whichever is lower.”
The year’s improvement in the more or
Jess liquid surplus (£239,823) was £9309.
As for the current term, trading has
continued to improve since the close of
accounts, but national insurance and
extra taxation will make outgoings diffi-
cult to restrain. Although the price of
wool is down, seasonal prospects are
bright enough, and the board hopes to
show better figures at next balance. It
is doubtful, however, whether any in-
crease in the div. need be looked for.
At 14s. the pound shares yield a satis-
factory 7.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 245. Id. in net tangibles.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 24,024 25 p.c. = 19,130 4,894 68.797
1936 . . 30,034 25 ~ „ 22,956 7,378 76,175
1937 . . 30,610 25 „ ~ 25,507 5,103 81,278
Special tax assessment, £2099 . . 79,180
1938 .. 28,209 20 p.c. = 25,500 2,709 81,889
This lusty youngster has given an excel-
lent account of itself. In 1929, just
before the economic barometer began
to fall, the co. set up at More-
land (Vic.) as Progress Products Pty.
in th 6 hosiery and lingerie field,
where aggregate plant capacity was,
and still is, capable of taking care of a
much larger demand than has thus far
been experienced. The name was changed
to the present title in the following year,
and the public became interested in 1935,
when the scrip was listed. Since then a


steadily expanding turnover (the co. now
has strong inter-State connections) and
juicy profits have been won in a highly
competitive market.
During the 12 months to June 30 last,
turnover further expanded, but there was
a recession of £6005 in gross earnings
(£60,511), which was partly offset by
savings of £3604 in exes. (£32,302, in-
cluding an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion). A special tax assessment of £2099
in respect of undistributed profits for ’32
and ’33 was charged direct to reserves.
The slip in gross earnings might be due
to provision for depredation, unspecified
but believed to be liberal. The net result
(£28,209, doWn £2401) was 22.1 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the close of ac-
counts, compared with 30, 32.7 and 31.3
p.c. on average capital for the three pre-
ceding years. Actually last year’s profit
was equal to about 27 p.c. on average
capital employed. In May a one-for-four
par issue brought in £25,472 of fresh
capital, which ranked in full for divi-
dends from 1938 profits. The div., which
had been steady at 25 p.c. for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1937,
dropped to 20 p.c., leaving £2709 for re-
serves, now visibly £Bl,BB9 —there is no
goodwill to weigh down the earning
power of assets.
Finances are comfortable :
1930. 1987. 1938.
Paid capital £ til ,286 .£ 102,292 £127,704
Overdraft .. .. 20,020
Creditors .. .. 12,808 19,917 25,208
Freeholds .. .. 49,322 55,647 09,908
Plant, etc 135,803 74,027 84,823
mtockN 59,810 68,085 112,280
Debtors 14,059 17.229 23,700
Cash, etc 4,408 21,573 3,772
During the year obsolete machinery was
disposed of, and its cost written off. Addi-
tional machines Were installed in the silk-
throwing section, and printing and box-
making plant was installed —the co. in-
tends to cater for outside as well as its
own requirements. The net addition to
the book value of plant was £10,926, and
freehold £4361. Stocks were up £44,251,
due to heavy purchases of raw silk (the
board feared another embargo on Japan-
ese exports), expanding business, and
materials required for printing and box-
making. Debtors’ balances increased by
£6537. To finance these additions to
assets, the board got in the extra capi-
tal already referred to, went to its
bankers for £20,020, added £5291 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, and
drew upon cash, etc., for £17,801. When
the books closed more or less liquids ex-
ceeded outside liabilities by £94,596, an
improvement of £7676 over the twelve-
month.
The market, which notes the still
upward trend of costs and the fact that
trading in hosiery, etc., is likely to be-
come more difficult, doubts whether the
20 p.c. div. will be maintained, and prices
the f.-p. ss. shares at 9s. At this figure
they appear to be worth consideration,
the return being 11 p.c. on the basis of
last year’s distribution, or 5.5 p.c. should
the div. drop to 10 p.c. Visibly the net
tangible cover is Bs. 2d.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1927 .. 355,207 45 p.c. = 300,000 1,265,390
1928 . . 233,855 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 . . 316,936 32.5,, „ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 .. 152,803 10 „ „ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 .. 276,199 15 ~ „ 120,000 1,834,601
1934 .. 260,884 25 ~ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 . . 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5,, „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 .. ~ 560.000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 ~ „ 640,000 2,071,400
Over the period covered by the table
adverse economic and other factors have
been largely offset by the good work
done by the management and technical
staff, who have substantially quickened
and cheapened production and recoveries
by installation of new plant, in-
cluding a jointly-owned central power
station, and by sinking and equipping a
new shaft, etc. The work, completed in
1935, cost about £750,000, and was paid
for out of surplus earnings, current and
accumulated. Also, since early in 1932,
£SIOO has been worth £AI2S, which has
meant much so far as profits and divs.
are concerned.
The sharp contraction of £365,846 in
net earnings for the 12 months to June
30 last was due mainly to the fall in
the price of metals, average London
quotes for which compare as follows:
Silver
Average— Lead. (Fine). Zinc.
12 months, June. 1925.. £35/4/- £34/9/1 •
5 years, June, 1929 ..£2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
5 years, June, 1934 ..£l4/6/- 1/7.3 £l5/11/-
12 months, June, 1935 ..£ 11/6/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months. June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.4 £l5/3/11
12 months, June, 1937.. £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
12 months, June, 1938.. £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £l6/15/1
The drop in the average price of lead
was £SS 12s. Bd. and in zinc £S3 7s.
Sales of lead exceeded the year’s produc-
tion by only 272 tons as against 7596
tons for the preceding term —to provide
work the co. had produced in excess of
market requirements during slump, but
stocks were reduced to normal over a
year ago. Also, owing to lifts in the
basic wage, extraction and development
costs per ton of ore raised were 4.2 d.
and 8.2 d. higher respectively, despite a
drop of approximately 10s. in the aver-
age weekly lead bonus (approximately
18s.) paid to employees:
1925. 1937. 1938.
Crudes raisedf. .257,879 tons 368,461 tons 382,926 tons
Extraction .. 275. 6.5 d. 225. 1.4 d. 225. 5.6 d.
Development .. 2s. 5.0 d. 2s. 7.3 d. 3s. 3.5 d.
Treatment .. 13s. 11.5 d. 6s. 6.2 d. ss. 11. Id.
Cost per ton 435. 11.Od. 31s. 2.9 d. 31s. 8.2 d.
f Sulphides.
The pleasing feature there is the con-
traction of 7.1 d. in treatment costs, which
reduced the increase in total costs to
5.3 d. per ton.
As against these adverse factors the co.
treated an extra 12,675 tons of richer
ore:—-
Crudes Assay
Treated, t Lead. S'ilver. Zinc.
1937.. 369,790 tons 13.8 p.c. 5.10 z. 11.1 p.c.
1938.. 382,405 tons 14.5 „ O.Ooz. 12.2 „
t Sulphides.
Selective mining is not practised, and
over 80 p.c. of last year’s tonnage was
drawn from stopes down to the 1270 ft.
level. The metal contents of the lead
and zinc concentrates and the percentage
of recovery compare as follows:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1925 j 31,003 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
( 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
J 53,405 tons. 2,297,9690 z. 41,840 tons.
1935 > 95 4 p. c . 90.0 p.c. 87.7 p.c.
IMI 1 50,290 tons. 1,899,3320/.. 37,524 tons.
1y36 ) 94.9 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 80.5 p.c.
, OQ „ 1 48,678 tons. . 1,693,1180 z. 35,587 tons.
l yj7 ') 95.3 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 80.6 p.c.
, o , a ( 53,071 tons. 2,053,7480 z. 41,074 tons.
\ 95.5 p.c. 90.1 p.c. 88.0 p.c.
A trifle more of the lead and silver was
recovered, and the zinc recovery (up 1.4
p.c.) was the best yet. Another factor
which helped earnings was realisation of
the silver withheld from sale under the
international agreement, which expired
at the end of 1937 and was not renewed.
Silver stocks were reduced by 374,1190 z.,
worth £32,735 at Is. 9d. an ounce. Also,
lower rail charges (£168,848, down
£11,205) and lighter provision for taxa-
tion (£47,700, down £105,300) and royal-
ties (£15,000, down £46,000) helped to
reduce exes.
After making a donation of £12,500
towards a new hospital at the Barrier,
the profit on mining account was
£388,644 lower at 34.5 p.c. on capital.
Investments brought in an extra £22,829,
or 15.8 p.c. on capital:
Net profit— 1935. 1937. 1938.
Mining .. . . £255,869 £664,803 £276.159
Investments .. . . 86,641 103,513 126,342
£342,510 £768,316 £402,501
The difference between the profit claimed
(£402,501, down £365,815) and that
shown in the introductory table
(£437,432, down £365,846) is represented
by the allowance for depreciation
(£33,000, same as for previous term) and
an unexplained addition of £1931 net to
other reserves. Including these additions
the net result was 54.6 p.c. on capital as
against 100.4, 64.9, 44.4 and 32.6 p.c. for
the four preceding terms. Divs. aggre-
gating 80 p.c. (up 10 p.c.) were paid.
Owing to continuance of relatively low
metal prices, quarterly distributions since
the close of accounts have been at the
rate of 40 p.c. p.a.
Ore reserves are conservatively esti-
mated at 2,900,000 tons (down 100,000
tons) to the 1480 ft. level. The main shaft
is now down to 1786 ft., and the diamond
drill has disclosed some nice widths of
ore, assaying 18 p.c. and more lead, on
the 1630 ft. level.
Since the close of accounts the world’s
chief lead-producers have agreed to re-
strict production by 10 p.c. That was
because output of lead outside U.S.A. has
lately run from 10,000 tons to 15,000
tons a month ahead of consumption. On
the basis of last year’s figures, and with
lead at £SIS per ton, the cut will affect
South’s revenue by about £575,000 p.a.
The effect of this, however, would be
offset by a rise of £SI 13s. in the London
price of the metal, making it £SI6 13s.
per ton. Last week-end the London spot
price, which had dropped to an average
of £SI3 3s. 9d. for June, was £SIS
17s. 6d. Now that the international situ-
ation has become less unsettled, Euro-
pean demand is expected to strengthen,
and so is consumption in the U.S.A.
The basic wage at the Barrier, which
advanced by quarterly steps from £4 10s.
to £4 14s. 6d. during the last term, rose
to £4 15s. 6d. on September 1. Also,
the industrial agreement with the miners
runs out on October 29, and the men
have lodged a new claim for a basic
wage of £5 10s. per week, reduced hours,
longer paid holidays, abolition of con-
tract work, and a lead bonus on the old
scale, but with no upward limit (present
limit £2 weekly) and a minimum of
10s. weekly.
The market for the scrip has mainly
followed the market for the metal. Since
the beginning of 1938 the price of the
55.-paid shares has fluctuated between
375. 7d. and 245. Id., the figure last week-
end being 325. 6d. The return at 325. 6d.
('Continued on next page.)
AUSTRALIAN PAPER COMPANY’S
EXPANSION OF ACTIVITIES
Mr. Norman Brookes Reviews
Activities and Prospects
The annual meeting of the Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., was
held at Manufacturers’ House in Sydney at noon on September 30 last.
Mr. Norman E. Brookes, acting chairman of directors, presided and
apologised for the absence of Sir Hugh Denison, the chairman, who is in
Europe. He said that the directors were in constant touch with Sir Hugh
Denison and that they looked forward to his return within the next few
months.
The chairman’s speech dealt with the capital
structure of the company, with the increasing
supply of the necessary raw materials from
Australian primary products, and with the satis-
factory results of research and developmental
work of the company’s scientific staff.
Mr. Brookes said that unsettled conditions,
presaging heavy price falls, began to develop
towards the end of 1937. While these puce
falls have been less in evidence in the heavy
industries by reason of the enormous world-
wide expenditure on armaments, they have de-
veloped seriously in other industries, including
that of paper and paper boards. It was there-
fore satisfactory to be able to report that the
year ended June 30, 1938, was one of progress
and development.
The net profit previous to making provisions
for taxation and other charges for the year
ended June 30, 1938, was £289,555, as com-
pared with £265,679 for the year ended June 30,
1937. The company was in a strong and safe
position, and was moving certainly and not
slowly towards the provision at competitive
costs of more and more of its raw materials and
other requirements in Australia.
New Plant.
Important extracts from the chairman’s
speech are given below:
The main developments in which we have
been engaged are: —
1. The erection of anew plant in Gippsland
(Victoria) for the production of pulp of
various types and qualities from Aus-
tralian raw materials, including Australian
timbers.
2. The erection of a large new board machine
at our Botany (N.S.W.) mill, with an
ultimate annual capacity of 50,000 tons.
3. The design and erection of a large fast-
running paper-machine at our Maryvale
(Gippsland) mill, with an ultimate annual
capacity of 30,000 tons of paper and/or
board.
Brief comments upon the three main objec-
tives are of interest.
We are all fully cognisant of the importance
of utilising Australian raw materials. There-
fore the development of the knowledge of the
methods by which suitable paper pulps can be
produced from Australian timbers has been of
considerable importance to us. We are proud
to have made much contribution to this know-
ledge.
Our chairman advised you a year ago that we
hoped to have our new board-machine at our
Botany mill in operation in March or April
of this year. In spite of many difficulties we
were able to achieve this objective. This mag-
nificent new unit of production, after a com-
paratively short period of initial operation, is
now running steadily and successfully and at
costs which are satisfactory.
The trend of technological improvement leads
directly towards the utilisation of paper pulps
at their point of production, so far as is eco-
nomically practicable. Therefore the decision
of your board of directors to erect a modern
fast-running paper and board machine at our
Maryvale (Gippsland) mill to utilise the pulps
produced from Australian timbers in the ad-
jacent pulp mill was inevitable, and will in due
course still further enhance the ability of our
company to produce and sell at low and eco-
nomic prices.
Paper Prices.
Prices of Our Products in Relation to
Australia and Overseas Price Levels.—
As you are aware, the price levels of the
products of the paper and paper board industry
vary in the world’s market from year to year
probably to a greater extent than those of many
other commodities. This fact is due to a con-
siderable extent to the huge productive capacity
of the industry.
In 1937 prices of paper pulp, paper and paper
boards increased rapidly and greatly—partly
due to demand for actual consumption and
partly to a speculative anticipation of still
further rises in price.
During the greater part of 1937 we held our
prices at much lower levels than those which
were usually relative to overseas prices. It
was only towards the latter part of the year
that we found it necessary to raise our prices in
order to provide certain reserves for equalisa-
tion of our prices.
We are approaching the end of a period of
adjustment, due to the transference of the
manufacture of strawboards, straw paper, paper
boards and other products from our Broadford
and Melbourne mills to our other mills. These
adjustments naturally involve considerable non-
recurring costs. Again we are facing, in
common with all other industries, extra costs
caused by the unsettled overseas political con-
ditions and by the dispute in the coalmining
industry.
As soon as conditions are more settled we
hope again to make adjustments in our price
lists in conformity with our policy—as pre-
viously defined. Meanwhile we are making
every effort, even at considerable extra expense,
to ensure that the full requirements of the Aus-
tralian markets for our products will be
; promptly supplied.
We are sure that you will agree that the
policy of highest efficiency and lowest prices
and greatest turnover is sound and in the best
interests of the community and of our par-
ticular company.
I have mentioned elsewhere that we antici-
pate having the first unit of our new pulp mill
at Maryvale (Gippsland) in comparatively
full prbduction of not less than 20,000 tons
of pulp annually by July, 1939.
We approach this development with confi-
dence, because of our policy of operating on a
pilot mill fully equipped and producing on a
semi-commercial basis, so that we have a
trained personnel knowledgeable not only in the
methods of production, but also those of utilisa-
tion of our new raw materials.
Early in 1940 we hope to have our new
paper-machine operating at Maryvale, making
high-grade wrapping papers, container boards,
corrugating papers and other products. This
machine will make a sheet of paper 15ft. wide,
and will have a maximum speed of 1250 ft. per
minute, that is, of over 20ft. per second. It
will have an ultimate normal capacity of 30,000
tons of paper annually.
Competition from S.A.
Doubtless you have seen references to the
proposed inauguration of a competitive indus-
try in .South Australia. As you know, proposals
are being made that a considerable portion of
the capital for this undertaking shall be pro-
vided partly in the form of debentures by the
State Bank of South Australia and partly by
the Government of South Australia from con-
solidated revenue, underwriting £IOO,OOO for
capital.
We told the Premier and others that, in
our considered judgment, the proposal to make
comparatively low-priced products in South Aus-
tralia, which would have to be sold to a very
large extent in the more populous States,
where our own mills with ample capacity are
situated, was economically unsound. The con-
tinuous reduction of our costs of production,
our large output, our margin of capacity to
meet extra demands, our proximity to the main
centres of consumption, which ensures lowest
cost of delivery, and our ready access to ample
supplies of all necessary raw materials at eco-
nomic costs are some of the reasons which
justify our judgment.
We make no apologies, either to the Premier
of South Australia or to anyone else, for the
action we have taken in this regard. A study
of the industry in North America shows the
serious effect of over-capitalisation involving
large surplus capacity which cannot be usefully
employed.
The policy which we have followed, and to
which reference has been made earlier, of maxi-
mum turnover, minimum prices and strictly
reasonable returns on capital has been adopted
by us after close consideration of economic
trends.
I would like to remind you of what our chair-
man told you a year ago, when he said:
“Although we are warned by a number ol
friends among our customers that this policy of
ours for the maintenance of the lowest pos-
sible prices irrespective of overseas conditions
would soon be forgotten, because people have
short memories, we are satisfied to rest upon the
fulfilment of our promises and obligations.
Further, we face the future with confidence
based upon our knowledge, our efficiency and
our ability to meet competition from wherever
it comes.” We have nothing whatever to add,
except to say that we are confident of our
ability to meet competition, and that we have
no fear for the future, because we are en-
deavouring to give service and not to make
undue profits.
Overseas Experience.
We have continued and are continuing our
policy of sending our senior officials overseas
for education and reciprocation. Our managing
director spent some weeks in the United States
of America during February, March and April
of this year, in company with several of our
senior technical officers. We are benefiting
by the exchange of knowledge and by the im-
portant touch with our opposite numbers in
other parts of the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen, my colleagues join
with me in assuring you that the interests of
your company are having every possible thought
and attention from the members of your board,
and from the whole of the staff and employees
of your company.
I desire to express on behalf of my col-
leagues and myself our appreciation of the
work of the staff and the working force. The
adjustments due to the closing down of two
of our older mills and the unavoidable dislo-
cation in the lives of a number of people who
have served us well and loyally for a number
of years have given us great concern. We have
done our best to make these readjustments as
little difficult as possible.
We feel sure that in the end the results of
these changes will be to the benefit not only
of the shareholders of this company and of
Australia, but of the large number of employees
in our various mills and factories.


HOW HIS TWO
INVESTMENTS
TURNED OUT
THE man who owns his own home is a wise man, but he always
has the need to watch the amount invested in it.
A member of the A.M.P. Society said lately that he had made
only two kinds of investment in his life: (1) he had bought a house
and (2) he had invested in some A.M.P. policies.
He said that in 1910 he had paid £llOO for a house but, owing
to changes in styles of architecture and other influences, it was now
worth only £950 at the most.
On the other hand, in the same year, he had begun to invest less
than 10/- a week in his first A.M.P. policy, for £lOOO. To date he had
invested a total of £B2O in that policy, but with bonuses it would now
be worth £l7BO to his estate; this, apart from the other policies he
had added from time to time.
A.M.P. policies never depreciate. They enable men to build up
reserves that make for peace of mind and security. Ask the nearest
A.M.P. office to send a man to talk over YOUR risks with you. He
will discuss them with you in confidence. If you prefer, a copy of
“Investing in Happiness” will be posted to you on request. Write
to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davie*,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammer*,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metal*.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY r ., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
. 430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne. ,
worn
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
is 6.1 p.c. on a 40 p.c. distribution. The
investor at 325. 6d. who looks for his
money back, plus an average of 6 p.c.
p.a. over a period of, say, 20 years, counts
on divs. averaging 70 p.c. p.a. Exclud-
ing the mine (£83,694), plant (£1,272,282)
and shares in other cos. (£901,732), sur-
plus liquids at June 30 amounted to
£719,491, equal to 4s. 6d. per share
Mt. Morgan
Mt. Morgan’s first quarterly statement
of production and estimated earnings
covers three months to Sept. 21. The
board is careful to point out that, as six
months may elapse between production
and realisation of concentrates, the
figures must be taken as estimates only.
The separate sulphide and oxide milling
figures have been asked for by this paper
for some time; proceeds of realisation
aren’t so important, as the investor who
watches the metal markets can make his
own estimates, provided he knows what
production costs are.
Partly because of the opencut prob-
lem which has developed at the mine,
costs have jammed the profits aspect into
an awkward position. Owing to the sys-
tem in the past of charging large sums
of expenditure to reserves, the awkward-
ness of the situation hasn’t been so very
apparent until now. In the quarter cov-
ered by the latest summary, for instance,
£32,181 “has been expended in remov-
ing overburden in excess of the ratio of
three tons of overburden to each ton of
reserve ore.” Not charging this to p.
and 1., estimated working surplus for the
quarter is £62,550 ; other charges to come
out of that balance are overhead £B4OO
and mine preparation £1893. Capital
outlay of £37,768 is also mentioned,
some of which would be in respect of
the smelters.
If the removal of excess overburden
had been charged to p. and 1. during the
quarter to Sept. 21, estimated net profit
would have dropped to around £20,000.
Pref. div. charge in respect of the period
would have been about £4OOO. Obvi-
ously prospects for the ords. depend to
a great extent on how this overburden
problem is met. The whole matter
should be thrashed out thoroughly at
the annual meeting on Oct. 27. Whether
overburden-removal is charged to p. and
1., to reserves or to capital, it plainly has
to be paid for out of shareholders’ funds.
Even if it improves the mine it is a drain
on finances.
During the full year to June 30 last,
in spite of higher millings, lower prices
for copper and lower gold content in
the sulphide section produced a drop of
£27,000 in the declared net earnings
(£116,064). In arriving at that figure
£23,734 of overburden-removal costs and
£35,162 of mine-preparation exes, were
not included as ordinary exes., but were
charged to reserves. Depreciation on
plant (£24,096) was also charged against
share-premium reserve, not against p.
and 1. There is now nothing left in
share-premium account, so a question
arises as to how profits and divs. will
behave during the current year. In 1936-
37 £95,297 of depreciation, plant instal-
lation and reconditioning and mine pre-
paration was charged to share premiums ;
last year’s total was £89,059. This matter
is so vital to the co.’s financial future
that it deserved special comment in the
annual report. A bare statement that
such-and-such was charged to this or
that reserve is hardly enough.
Satupulo, N.L.
With 48,500,000 c.y. of 9oz. wash re-
maining to be dredged at March 31
prospective life of this Takuapa (Siam)
tin-producer with present equipment is
something like 40 years. Negotiations
are proceeding for acquisition of an
additional 90 acres, expected to provide
a further three years’ digging.
The co. formed in Melbourne in 1926,
but, owing to buried timber, heavy
sands and the hard clay bottom, it was
not till 1934 that the div. list was
reached, pref. arrears of 16s. per share
being then cleared. The ords. got a
look-in the following year, when 3s. a
share was handed out, and the table tells
the story since:
f Dividends x
t —Per Share—
Star., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Pref. Ord. Amt.
1935.. £54,220 £26,372 £27,848 4/- 3/- £24,420
IQ o fi f 55,269 34,328 20,941 6/- 3/- 25,470
ITo suspense accounts, £3200.
I<m ) 64,413 27,470 36,943 5/- 3/- 24,945
( Written off development account, £9OOO.
, qoq S 84,313 33,497 50,816 6/- 4/- 32,910
'' (. Written off development account, £7293.
* Including depreciation: £2325, 1935; £5074,
1936; £3279, 1937; £3502, 1938.
After providing £3502 for depreciation,
net earnings last term lifted £13,873
to £50,816 —the best yet, thanks partly
to better average metal prices. Dividends
of 6s. a share to the prefs. and 4s. to the
ords. absorbed £32,910, and £7293 was
written off development account, re-
ducing intangibles to £6OOO.
Over the last three years the dredge
has been in wash well above the average
of the property:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards dug . . 1,329,000 1,230,000 1,312,000
T. 0., tons . . . . 411.8 481.6 517.2
Average per c.y.,
Pound . . . . 0.69 0.87 0.88
Assay, p.c. .. 74.1 73.9 74.3
All-in costs, c.y... 5.2 and. 4.54 and. 5.29 and.
Net ore realisation,
ton .. .. £l4O/17/9 £149/1/7 £IOO/19/-
Growing operating costs, due mainly to
rising repair bills and higher labor
charges, are prompting the board to con-
sider installation of Diesel engines for
driving the pumps now that the old steam
plant is nearing the end of its tether.
As for the current term, Satupulo has
already produced its July-December
quota—production for the six months to
September was 253{- tons t.o. from
851,700 c.y., an average recovery of
0.831 b. Efforts are being made to secure
additional quotas, which, however, are
difficult to obtain. The co.’s nominal
assessment is 589 tons t.o. annually.
Handouts of 4s. a share to the prefs. and
2s. to the ords. have so far been made.
Capital is in 10,500 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 148,800 ords., all of £1 each. Mar-
ket price of the ords. is 295. 3d., but the
prefs., which have first call out of profits
for a 10 p.c. div., participating in any
further distribution equitably with the
ords., seldom come on to the market. At
March 31 £61,457 of the balance-sheet
total was liquid; there was only £2297
coming to outsiders.
In the matter of litigation, which has
been hanging fire for years, with the ven-
dor of its original property over ex-
penses incidental to the transfer of the
leases, etc., judgment has been awarded
against Satupulo for £14,500 Australian
since the close of accounts.
Production at Riverina, the De Ber-
nales show at Menzies (W.A.) run by
Murchison Gold Development, was
worth £56,549 Aust. for the 12 months
to the end of June. Altogether 18,417
tons was treated by the 10-head battery
(monthly capacity 1800 tons) for 64980 z.
fine gold, an average yield of 7dwt.
Working exes, took 48s. 3d. a ton, leav-
ing a surplus on working account of
£A 12,090. Development faces are all re-
ported in good-grade ore —the 518 ft. level
is at present receiving most attention—
and difficulties attending treatment of
fibrous ore from the south shaft are
officially expected to be soon a thing
of the past. At the Emu, the Develop-
ment co.’s other interest, there is a 5000-
ton-monthly mill running. Operations
for the six months from beginning of
production in January to June last pro-
duced a working surplus of £A10,282 on
treatment of 23,667 tons, average yield
being 4.4dwt. gold. Costs here are
around 295. Bd. a ton. The Develop-
ment co. has 1,203,459 f.-p. ss. shares
issued, as well as £145,000 of 10 p.c. con-
vertible notes, redeemable 1942 at latest.
Obviously both mines will need to do a
lot better if shareholders are to get a
look-in.
* * * *
Ora Banda United, Ltd., has been
taking stock and finds that it has (1)
£2462 sterling in London and £A13,000
in Westralia, and (2) positive ore reserves
of 727,600 tons, adjusted minimum value
3.Bdwt. gold per ton. A year ago the
management reckoned reserves at
1,143,000 tons, averaging 3.Bdwt., of
which 543,000 tons, averaging 3|dwt.,
were blocked. On a throughput of
100,000 tons, operating profit was then
estimated at £A 102,000 a year. Past
year’s operations have been confined
principally to diamond drilling, over 150
bores being completed. The co., which
is London-controlled, took over the
Mopoke, Gimlet South and Victorious
blocks at Ora Banda (W.A.) from the
B.A.N.Z. Cos. late in 1934. Portion of its
holding was worked years ago as a
second string by the now-defunct Associ-
ated Northern Cos. of Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Shareholders in Spargo’s Reward
(W.A.) have authorised the board to
raise up to £IO,OOO by the issue of deben-
tures. The chairman says every avenue
had been explored, without success, to
raise money by other means. At present
the primary crushing units enabled an ex-
traction of only slightly less than 50 p.c.
of the gold to be obtained, but, accord-
ing to tests carried out by the Kalgoorlie
School of Mines, addition of anew section
should enable an extraction of approxi-
mately 90 p.c.
* * !K »
“Throgmorton”: Prospects of Paringa
(W.A.) are being boomed in London.
The Is. shares, it is gleefully pointed out,
have already received an interim div.
of each; another distribution
of a similar amount is tipped before
long, and it is suggested that the market
is bound to go higher. It may, but if it
does it is taking a risk.
* * * *
Chapmans Gold Mines, N.L., is about
to be wound up. Formed in Oct., 1932,
co. first acquired 700 acres of auriferous
ground at The Granites, Centralia, but,
following an unfavorable report by R.
McKeown, it took fright and left. Two
years later the old Great Western mine,
at Wilson’s Patch, near Leonora (W.A.),
was given a trial, and so were the
Quartzite King and Donegal, at Lawlers
(W.A.). All three were turned down.
Last year the co. became interested in
the old Quartz Hill, at Chewton (Vic.).
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.J.8.: A speculation. Impossible lo say al
the moment what returns are likely to be
obtained. Prospects look anything but bright.
.... J.G.McG.: Hold Carriers, leave the others
alone... .R.H.F.: (1) Not recommended. (2)
The shale occurs in a thick coal seam composed
largely of inferior cannel coal, about 160 ft.
beneath the top of the upper coal measures.
. ...T.A.8.: No open market for the bonds;
write secretary and ask if he can find a buyer.
. ...A.S.: Can find no official record of crush-
ing referred t 0... .E.H.V.R.: Castlemaine-
Perkins took over most of the assets. Perkins
went into liquidation about the end of 1935.
The auditors, W. C. Horstmann and Son, Bris-
bane, might be able to help.


&
w**
iSS®
SMOKE-OH!
“In Chicago living is dear —a high rent is
charged for an absurdly small apartment."
—Luxury tourist in interview.
Barely room to swing a gat., in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The policeman who hung around cooks is
disappearing fast.”— News item.
He has to if he wants to keep up with
the cooks.
“WE could be just as glamorous if We spent OUR beer money on clobber."
“Taking it all round it was a very happy
team, with Fleetwood-Smith, as usual, the chief
comedian.” News item.
The wag of the tail, in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A certain amount of bitterness us
appreciate the good things of life.
—Sydney parson.
Especially when it has gin with it.
* * *, * . ,
Too many rounds of drinks are liable
to put circles under e^ es '
4* 4* *r 4*
“The human body is, after all, just a
machine,” states a doctor.
Then that’s the reason why so many
get well-oiled. ...
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Because his conscience pricked him, a tax-
payer sent £5 to the Taxation Department.”
What’s puzzling the Taxation Depart-
ment is the meaning of conscience.
.7" * * * .
The special correspondent ot the “Daily
Blurb” learns that well-informed persons
gather from an unimpeachable source
that a reliable authority believes that the
League of Nations is disappointed be-
cause Mr. Chamberlain spoiled its
chances of stopping a war.
Bets for the Babies.
“In Sydney small children on scooters run
bets to s.p. bookmakers.” — News item.
The “Daily Screech’s” Children’s
Corner fills the demand:
Dear Tinies,
I expect you were all disappointed
when our Ace Super Special was beaten
at Kenso on Wednesday, but believe me,
dears, we went within a canary’s breath
of landing the Lactogen. It was only in
the last teeny-weeny bit that that rank
outsider (blast it) poked its dirty nose in
front. But still, as the editor says, “a
quid in the bag is worth ten on the
ticket,” whatever that means, so never
mind, chicks, we’re going to get all of it
back again to-day, aren't we? Now get
your form gujde and your crayon and
put a mark against:
To-day’s Nappy Nap.
I.3O—SAFETY PIN—I.3O.
Yours till the books are busted,
Aunt Hetty.
•f* 4* *f* 4*
‘‘Refined young woman offers services as
ladies’ help for few months in return for
good home and trifle.” —Melbourne advt.
No mere jelly and cream for her!
4* 4- 4* 4*
“For days he hung about the house and then
found the courage to call. The servant told him
that Diane was out.” — Women’s paper story.
He took a long time to find her out,
anyway.
4- * * *
“A play is coming to Sydney in which women
will have all the 40 roles.”— “D.T.”
What a talkie it would make!
•F *l* 4*
“Man spends three pounds a week to keep
dog in good health.”
In other words, the sap is responsible
for the quality of the bark.
4* 4*
“Don’t you love being at home sometimes?”
— Women’s paper.
What woman doesn’t, especially if she’s
dressing to go out?
“For your health’s sake endeavor to sunbake
in your garden.”— Women’s paper.
Flatites can stretch out in the sand
on the bottom of the canary cage.
.% .?. .r.
“Surely sun-loving Australians will adopt
homes made entirely of glass.”
—Women’s paper.
Not if they’re only a stone’s-throw
from the station.
.g.
“The more workers fight for better wages the
dearer grow essential commodities.”
—‘Labor Daily.”
Fighting for “dear” life, in short.
.j. .$. +
“He had been married for 23 years, and at
least 20 of these had been placid years.”
— “Woman.”
But not e very husband can get rid of
his wife after three years,
+ +
“He said it was ‘good-bye for ever,’ and
went out and got drunk. He returned home next
day.”— Divorce report.
He said farewell, and well he fared,
But next day he got hell:
He wasn’t fair, his wife declared,
And he was far from well.
jj. m
“Many spring frocks
were ruined by the dirt of
the betting-ring.”
—Sydney social note.
For once the betting-
ring couldn’t make a
clean-up.
“Are your parties always
a wow or a flop?”
, — Women's paper.
Well, if the guests
finally flop we reckon
they're a wow.
*f*
“Cotton socks are being
issued to prisoners in
United States gaols, be-
cause one prisoner managed
to saw through a one-inch
iron bar with a yarn from
a wool sock. It took him
seven hours to do it.”
Sounds like another
American yarn.
The Poor Heathen.
A missionary says that some tribes in the
bouth Sea Islands are still incredibly backward.
1 hey haven’t the faintest conception of, nor
apparently any desire to benefit from, white
civilisation.”
Can it be that they’re unwilling to
improve their ways of killing
By using gas and bombs instead of
axes ?
Don’t they yearn for unemployment, or,
conversely, the enjoyment
Of coughing half their incomes up in
taxes?
Have they no appreciation of the bliss of
syncopation.
Especially as wireless crooners rend it ?
Can’t these poor, benighted niggers see
that poring over figures
Year in, year out, has much to recom-
mend it ?
Isn’t it a thousand pities they don’t want
to live in cities
And breathe the healthful fumes of
motor gases,
Read of murders, wars, divorces, and go
broke on tardy horses ?
Why, damitall ! they are a lot of asses !
BO.
I Was a Legionnaire.
IV.
As Popodopoulos with
his spiggotty English
was more of a hin-
drance than a help in
getting into my uni-
form and accoutre-
ments 1 decided I could
do better on my own.
I didn’t chop my
tunic sleeves off, as I
considered they would
come in handy to keep
my hands warm in case
I was ever compelled to
sleep in full marching
order during night
operations in the
desert, the sands of
which, 1 had heard
somewhere, had a ten-
dency to grow cold.
Still I found the long
sleeves particularly
awkward when at shooting practice,
necessitating my slitting a hole half-way
up the sleeve to poke my firing finger
through. I wasn’t altogether satisfied
with their appearance, for, like all good
legionnaires, I took a pride in being
smartly turned out; but, after all, com-
fort is everything, and I simply can’t
sleep if my digits are registering below
79deg. Fahr.
By putting my arms through two holes
that I chopped in the top of my trousers
I was able to take up the slack so that I
no longer tripped over it. As it was
they concertina’d so low that they
almost eclipsed my spats.
I had a devil of a job getting all the
other things into place. The bandolier
containing 100 rounds of ammunition
looked so untidy on the outside that I
put it under my singlet. After all, as I
pointed out to the furious sergeant later,
the prudent man invariably keeps his
valuables in a belt next to his skin, and
what could be more valuable to a legion-
naire than his ammunition? I had
always understood the French to be a
logical race, but the idiotic attitude the
sergeant took over this completely shat-
tered this illusion.
The camp-oven I suspended under -my
left armpit. This naturally caused my
left arm to be held out at the horizontal,
a position which seemed to annoy the
recruit on my left whilst on parade, for
whenever the order was given to dress
by the right he’d poke his eye into my
fingers.
The axe proved a problem, but in the
end I slung it by a bootlace between
my shoulder-blades, a position that held
two advantages: the cold head kept me
reasonably cool in the heat of the day ;
also, I had only to shrug my shoulders
—a Gallicism I had so mastered that I
could maintain a ten-minute conversa-
tion solely by this means —to effectively
scratch my back, a luxury which I have
ever enjoyed.
But it was finding a possie for the half-
hundredweight of firewood that gave me
a real headache. 1 eventually strapped
it across my back underneath my tunic ;
not only would it be less untidy there,
but it would be kept dry in case of rain.
Luckily the dixie had a handle to it, and
as my right ear was the only vacant space
left I hooked it to that.
Everything is done at the double in
the Legion, and when the “fall-in”
sounded for our first full-dress parade
the rattle made by the various gadgets
strung about me as I raced across the
drill-ground was fairly deafening. Ser-
geant Vinblanc went a bright purple
around the gills when he saw me, and his
eyes stuck out like an alderman’s when
they bring the first course in at a civic
dinner.
“Is that the way for a legionnaire to
stand at attention, you—you carbuncle?”
he bellowed. “Do you have to look
“He reckons he'll be able to get a car outer THIS
' compensation .”
like a camel as well as have half the
brains of one? ' Let’s see if this will
straighten you up, then! ” and he brought
a terrific blow down on to the firewood
that he had mistaken for the hump on
my back.
I should have liked to catch some of
his choicest expressions, for patois is a
particular study of mine, but unfortu-
nately he spoke rather fast. It wasn’t
as voluble as I had hoped, for there
was the matter of a fistful of splinters to
be extracted. To my polite “Stiff luck,
Steve!” he bent on me a look of awful
malevolence that would have chilled the
heart of anyone less intrepid than I. Giv-
ing him a hearty raspberry as he strode
off cursing, I rearranged the firewood he
had so boorishly displaced and turned
to give the corporal my unremitting
attention, for I was determined to become
an efficient soldat.
There is, as my readers may have
guessed, no room for weaklings in the
Legion. Carrying several hundredweight
of equipment over the burning sands at
a steady hand-gallop for hour after hour
without a pause would spell death to a
soft man. But this rigorous training
develops steel muscles ; in fact, after a
few months of it I found that, after a
heavy dew at night, all my muscles would
start to get rust around them.
After four hours of “right-turning”
and “left-turning” the corporal must
have suspected that we were able to tell
which was which, for he then gave us
the “run-march.” It was only a light
work-out of about 40 miles, which we
did in 2\ hours. The corporal roared
us up for being so slow, and punished
several for puffing when we at last halted.
It was, he said, just a jaunt, and heaven
help the bleu who lagged at all in the
real marches that were to follow!
S. W. K.


|NOBEL
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, EM-
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
EERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company. Limited.
ADELAIDE. S<A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company. Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLI).: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. 8. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company , Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
gf
Meggitt Ords.
Meggitt ords. looked interesting
at last week’s price of 295. 3d., re-
turning 6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. They are down consider-
ably by recent standards.
gf
QUALCASr
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
and it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast" hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 16in.
“Qualcast" Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road. West Footscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Costs the Big Item
The Tariff Board has suggested that
it' employer and employee were to co-
operate in the problem of keeping costs
down our national economy would not
be so embarrassed, as at present, with
excessive imports—or words to that
effect.
Elementary, perhaps, but all the more
important because of that. The public
mind has never been more apt to become
distracted by non-essentials than now.
The Bulletin has waged war on high
costs and fictitious values for generations,
and it has never found any reason to
regret that policy. Cost-of-living is stiil
the cornerstone of national economic
structure ; a high cost of living has been
our Achilles’ heel for much too long, and
it has interfered with raising our stand-
ard of living.
Rises in money wages have nearly
always been defeated by lifts in living
costs. Increases in prices by manufac-
turers are inevitably frustrated in the
long run by inflation in wage and other
costs. “Pull devil, pull baker” between
employer and employee always brings
that financial revolution “inflation” in its
wake.
Costs have been rising in Australia, and
the buying power of our money has been
falling as a result. It hasn’t fallen to pre-
depression levels yet, however. But the
movement is quite definite. Between
August, 1937, and August, 1938, the in-
crease in cost of food and groceries (six
capitals) was 7.3 p.c. This during a
period in which prices for our principal
exports, wool and wheat, have fallen
heavily. Butter has been artificially lifted
within Australia ; overseas it is selling at
better prices under the usual competi-
tion.
Australia’s population had struggled
up to 6,881,848 on March 31, an increase
of 15,258 compared with three months
earlier. Migration was slightly in our
favor for a change. For 1936-37 the
gross value of our national production
was £456,200,000, made up as follows:
Agricultural .. .. .. £91,200,000
Pastoral .. .. .. 109,300,000
Farming 46,300,000
Forestry and fisheries .. 12.000.000
Mining 27,400,000
Manufacturing .. •• 170,000,000
In the manufacturing production of
£170,000,000, wages accounted for
£90,158,000. The importance of wages
and other costs in keeping the wheels
of industry turning is obvious when the
two lots of figures are placed side by
side, and when the resultant price level
is set alongside prices of overseas pro-
ducts.
Sydney wool sales covering the three
months to Sept. 30 (actually about a
month’s real selling) totalled 186,719
bales (11,864 scoured). Average price
for greasy was 9.5 d. (9.9 d. greasy and
scoured). Over the whole 1937-38 season
the average price realised for greasy and
scoured was 12.7 d. a pound (lid. May,
10.5 d. June). In that period higher prices
in the first half of the season helped.
Wool in Sydney last week averaged
10.3 d. a pound—an improvement.
After a few days of remarkable re-
covery on Australian ’Changes following
the Munich agreement, there was a shak-
ing-down of prices toward the middle of
last week. Market leaders mostly settled
down at 6d. or a shilling lower than the
highest point reached in the buoyancy
that followed the scare, and it was gener-
ally slow-moving stocks that continued to
register gains. Some observers attributed
this steadying-up to the natural effect of
profit-taking ; others reckoned that the
drum-rattling which some newspapers
thought they could still hear from the
direction of Berlin was likely to affect
confidence later, and that there was a
tendency to get under cover. It seems to
be a fact that most sharemarkets are in-
clined to be overbought, and that those
people who previously bought share?
“You’re taken far too much off."
“ That's all right, sir; no extra charge, sir."
at higher prices than those now prevailing
are in no position to support the market.
Hopes of settling the coal strike brought
further confidence to the sharemarkets
late last week. Broken Hill Prop, scrip
showed special response with a rise of
3s. a share (to 595. 3d.) between Thurs-
day morning and Friday morning. Gas
co. scrip also showed improvement,
moderate but definite. J. and A. Brown
colliery shares recovered to 9s. 3d., and
there was a liift in Caledonian and
Bellambi.
* * * *
A swift rise in New York industrial
share prices on October 5 brought an idea
to Australian investors that London base
metal prices would follow suit; they
therefore, on October 6, sent Mt. Lyell
shares up 2s. (to 295.), North B.H. 2s. 9d.
(to 465. 3d.), B.H. South Is. 6d. (to 31s.
3d.), and Zinc Corp. 3s. (to 895.). A
few hours later (night-time in Sydney)
London metal buyers were doing all ex-
pected of them ; the best rises for weeks
were registered in base metals. On
Friday (October 7) Hills and Lyells
showed further gains.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell’s year ended on September 30.
This term the Tas. West Coast mine
turned out about 450 tons less copper.
the production was sold on a market
averaging £44 18s. sterling for electrolytic
during the 12 months. In the preceding
term electrolytic averaged £6O Bs. 3d. in
London. Profits on approximately the
1936 scale (when £4O 14s. Bd. was
averaged in London, with lower produc-
tion costs than at present) seem indi-
cated—say between £170,000 and
£200,000. Boardrooms, however, rarely
give up their secrets as to the basis on
which profits are eventually arrived at.
In 1936-37 Lyell’s profit, as announced,
was lower than generally expected.
* * * *
Bank of N. S. Wales shares picked up
smartly after the war panic at the end of
September. Last week’s prices were the
best for a considerable time, especially
the £3l 7s. 6d. paid on Friday. On a
6 p.c. div. basis the yield offering became
slightly under 4 p.c. There was a sub-
stantial turnover in the scrip for a time.
* * * *
Metal prices have been showing, on
the whole, a firming during the past
three or four months. The slump seemed
to have touched bottom in May and
June, just over a year after the re-
armament price boom reached its peak.
The New York “mystery bull market”
coincided with the first early steps in
metal-price recovery; and though the
New York market is still a mystery,
, fluctuating rather widely, the trend in
metals has been sustained. Averages for
the past four calendar months are here
compared with a quotation in London
last week:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June .. £39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept... 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. 6. . 49.5 15.9 14.7 202.5 1445.' sd.
The figures are, of course, sterling.
Copper and tin (restriction schemes are
now operative) have been the items
chiefly to benefit, though lead and spelter
have also participated in the recovery.
The lift in gold has been a cause rather
than an effect of rises in other metals ;
sterling has been depreciating, largely on
account of the appreciating dollar (the
U.S. has had a very favorable trade
balance with the world), and prices in
terms of sterling have firmed to some
extent for that reason.
*** . *
New Occidental’s negotiations with
“an oversea group” for the sale of its
Cobar (N.S.W.) property have been
terminated. “The international situa-
tion” is responsible. The ord. shares,
up to 13s. this year, fell to 9s. last week.
Changing story of Lancefield (W.A.)
over three years: —
1936 — Ore extracted, 106,218 short
tons; net profit, £114,624; divs. declared,
£100,000; ore assumed to exist below No.
J 1 level, 850,000 tons.
1937 Ore extracted, 122,858 short tons;
net profit, £125,247; divs. declared,
£112,500; ore assumed to exist “between
No. 12 level and line of boreholes,”
400,000 tons. “This, however, may prove
a conservative estimate.”
1938 Ore extracted, 107,132 short tons;
net profit £83,352; divs. declared, £50,000;
probable ore assumed to exist below No.
13 level, 100,000 tons.
On August 1 the ore in sight above
No. 13 level was about 71,000 tons,
average 7dwt. The co. started off with
330,000 tons believed to exist above
No. 11, and this turned out to be the
most reliable of the co.’s estimates. Up
to June 30 last, about 358,000 tons, (re-
turning £874,055 gross) had been taken
out of the mine ; so that, if latest calcu-
lation showing 171,000 tons left
altogether proves correct, the co. will
have developed ap-
proximately 200,000
tons more ore than
what it started off with.
Pinching of the lode
and faulting at depth
have been principally
responsible for original
ideas going astray. On
No. 12 level there was a
600 ft. length of ore ; on
No. 13 dimensions were
unpayable in the south
end ; below No. 13
level a lode length of
220 ft. only is indicated.
The disappointment
Lancefield mine has
brought to its backers
is really a great pity.
It was one of the clean-
est flotations in the
West, and on the min-
ing side it was well
handled. Original in-
vestors in the show
have already had ss.
9d. back for each 4s.
share. Market value is
now 3s. 3d., which includes something
for “prospects.”
sk % *
North Coast Steam (N.S.W.) shares
changed hands again at 40s. 6d. last week.
In B. 3/8/’3B the shares were pointed
out at 395. They sold at 38s. 6d. between
that time and last week. The co. is doing
well (the butter industry is compara-
tively prosperous), and the div. was
recently increased.
♦ * * *
Dealings in Castlemaine Perkins
brewery scrip were resumed last week in
Brisbane after a lengthy period of in-
activity. Very few shares in the concern
changed hands during the war-scare
period ; last week 225. 3d. was offered
and taken. The return is just under
£4 11s. per cent.
❖ * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Associated Pulp ords. were up to 225. again.
Commencement of operations will be made
on imported pulp; a 100 p.c. Australian pro-
duct is looked for early in 1939.
Holeproof ords. were quoted at 215., to
return 7.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Australasian Paper ords., cum 9.6 d. div.
payable on Oct. 24, firmed to 295. 9d., but
were still under the market level of three
months ago. Melbourne Steam, another stock
favored by this page, was firmer at 275. and
still interesting.
Yarra Falls, one of the more stable issues
during the war scare, kept around 38s.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were a few pence
lower at 525. 6d.


7 WANTED THE ID WEST-
PUKED FUUSIZED CAP
WITH THE SAFETY OP
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
■- -SO I BOUOHT
Chevrolet!
/#
¥ T NTIL he checked the features of competitive cars, this motorist didn’t
realise that Chevrolet is the only. low-priced, full-sized car with the
safety of Hydraulic Brakes. Chevrolet was once the largest user of
mechanical brakes but discarded them in favour of the more efficient
and dependable, though more costly, Hydraulic system. The greatest
safety factor in brakes is equalisation Chevrolet’s Hydraulic Brakes
are permanently equalised and they give you the additional efficiency of
double-articulated brake shoes, ensuring full contact with brake drums
at all times. Chevrolet’s modern Hydraulic Brakes are typical of the
extra value you get in every detail of this beautiful, luxuriously-appointed
1938 car. It is modern in design —— it has every tested modern improve-
ment. Check the actual cash value of its modern features and you’ll
prove that the 1938 Chevrolet is your safest investment.
QUICK FACTS ABOUT CHEVROLET
6 CYLINDER OVERHEAD VALVE ENGINE.
Proved 10% more efficient and economical
than other types Costs less to service.
INDEPENDENT FRONT WHEEL SPRINGING
(on Master de Luxe models), with Shock-
proof Steering makes Chevrolet the safest car
to drive.
STABILISED FRONT END. Headlamps,
radiator and front mudguards attach rigidly
to a sub-frame which floats on rubber in the
ear frame.
"UNISTEEL TURRETOP" HOLDEN BODY.
Strongest, safest made in Australia. Features
include Cenuine No-draught Vein ilation;
Armonrplate Safety Glass in windscreen and
side windows; Mammoth Luggage Trunk.
HYPOID REAR AXLE GEARS make possible
flat floors front and rear no “humps” to
trip you.
NEW REDUCED PRICES, because of record-
breaking Australian sales, make Chevrolet for
1938 a great buy. Arrange now with your
dealer to have a Free 5-Mile Drive.
OPEN BODY MODELS FROM .... £304
CLOSED BODY MODELS FROM £33?
(All Prices Plus Soles Tax)
Easy Terms Available
Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
t GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED.
FROM JANUARY TO AUGUST, 1938, 1470 MORE PEOPLE BOUGHT CHEVROLET THAN ANY OTHER CAR.
ctfieac / £5O aheacJ— with
'hevralet for iaaa
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet dealert throughout Australia.
C 635-44
After Howard Smith shares were
picked out as an interesting stock in B.
21/9/’3B—the price was then 18s. 9d. —
quotations crashed to 15s. 6d. ; that was
on Sept. 28. Last week they had re-
covered to 19s. 6d. again. The co. had
special troubles of its own on account
of the coal strike at Newcastle, which
affected shipping as well as agency earn-
ings; now settlement has been reached,
recovery should follow. Otherwise the
co.’s prospects had been improving until
quite recently. Southern Portland Cement
has become handy contributor to
earnings.
* * * *
On Tuesday of last week bargain-
hunters were still buying up Mauri Bros,
and Thomson ords. at the depressed quote
of 60s. 6d., only 6d. higher than the recent
lowest. That day 500 shares changed
hands, and on Wednesday there was
further buying at the same figure. Friday
saw quotes up to 625. 3d. The yield
ol nearly 5 p.c. offering was distinctly
good from such a high-class stock. In
its last term the 15 p.c. ord. div. was
almost twice-covered by disclosed profits,
The shares were one of the bargains of
the week.
XT * _ * . * *
Norman Brookes, in his address to
shareholders in Australian Paper Manu-
facturers at Sydney on Sept. 30, spoke
confidently. Referring to the probability
of Government-aided competition from
the new South Aus. board-making enter-
prise, he said, “We face the future with
confidence based upon knowledge, our
efficiency and our ability to meet corn-
petition from wherever it comes.” The
co.’s new pulp mill in Gippsland (20,000
tons p.a. to start) is expected to be in
commercial production by July, 1939 ; a
paper machine alongside of the pulp mill,
capacity 30,000 tons p.a., will begin
operations in 1940. A 50,000-ton-p.a.
board mill in Sydney was started up in
April last. The enterprise seems to be
entering a new era of co-ordinated manu-
facture, with plant up-to-the-minute. The
old Broadford and Melbourne mills are
being closed, activity in future to be con-
centrated at Maryvale (Gippsland) and
Botany (Sydney). After charging what
is described as “the lowest possible prices
irrespective of overseas conditions” (“it
was only towards the latter part of the
year that we found it necessary to raise
prices in order to provide certain reserves
for equalisation of our prices”), A.P.M.
disclosed a net profit, subject to “taxation
and other, charges,” of £289,555, up
£23,876, for the year to June 30 last. The
available profit (after allowing in all
£119,224 for depreciation and obsoles-
cencc of fixed assets) was £240,055.
• • • •
Apart from the £1,000,000 of 6 p.c.
pref. capital held by the public (priced
at 255. a share), the sharemarkets have
an equity interest in A.P.M. through
Australasian Paper and Pulp ords. and
participating prefs. .and Cumberland
Paper dilto. In all cases these shares can
be bought at the present time to give a
yield above the average, and with pros-
pects tn ratio to those of the operating
* * *
Emperor (Fiji) has declared its first
div.—a shilling a share, payable
November 10. Before it is paid the
vendors of the property (Theodore,
Packer and Cody were among the largest
shareholders in the original float) will
exercise their option over the 140,000
shares set aside for them (until Oct. 18)
at par. and these shares will participate
in the div., so the vendors will virtually
get the scrip at 9s. a share. The market
was not excited by the div. and option-
exercising announcement. The shares
kept c - will now have
1,900,000 shares to spread future profits
ovcr -
* * * *
Nuffield (the lord, not the horse) has
arranged a deal with the receiver
of the Riley car manufacturing con-
cern in England. There will be little
or nothing in it for Riley shareholders,
Last year the ord. scrip was worth 40s.
Morris has taken a number of well-known
makes of English cars under its wing
in recent years. British car sales have
shown a sharp drop over the past year,
* * * *
Myei Emporium (Melb.) ords., which
lifted to 30s. in the after-scare period
(the chairman spoke encouragingly at
, he annua , meet f ng) <lro| , pcd b ba b ck to
295. 3d. last week, then recovered to
30s. 6d., ex Is. 2d. div. That compares
very favorably with the 265. touched on
September 28. In .Sydney, David Jones
ords. (the co.’s profit for the year ended
July 31 was £11,638 higher at £176,687)
rose from a low of 30s. to 375., and then
slipped back to 355. 9d., steadying at
365. 3d. This stock was the classical
example of market panic as demonstrated
on Sydney 'Change during the Czccho-
slovakian affair,
* * * *
Earnings disclosed by Drug Houses of
Australia for the term which closed on
June 30 are disappointing. The £159,331
exhibited represents a reduction of
£15,189 compared with the preceding
year. The div. rate is unchanged at
61 p.c. It is probable that stocks of the
subsidiary cos. (£865,491, up £44,494)
were the trouble, following a heavy
decline in all commodity prices over the
past 18' months. The shares in D.H.A.
came back a few pence on publication
of the accounts.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain Prepares for Air Raids.
[Nobody capable of facing realities can have any
doubt tfiat the war from which we were saved at the
eleventh hour would have included terrible air-raid
bombings of each other by the nations involved, putting
to the test in Britain the still-far-from-completed pre-
cautions described by Henry F. Pringle in the article
here condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post.” Even
in Australia and Maoriland, remote (or seemingly so)
from the scene, the relief was great enough. This article
should convey how much greater it must have been in
Britain and what feeling went into the acclamation of
Mr. Chamberlain as a national hero.]
In Britain a volunteer army of 1,000,000 men and
women is being recruited to take charge if the evil
day of air raids arrives. “ARP Calling You,” “Air
Raid Precautions Calling You!” “Get in Touch with
Your Local Council,” blare forth from posters in
every city and village.
Plans for a bombproof cellar can be obtained at
nearly every news-stand. There is a magazine called
the “A.R.P. News,” which appears monthly. At the
chain drugstores may be found a catalogue of medi-
cines, first-aid equipment “and accessories which would
be useful in a refuge room.” For Gasproofing
Rooms: Transparent window rolls; brown paper
sheets, thick; brown paper gummed tape; self-
adhesive tape. First-aid: Bandages ; aspirin tablets ;
chloride of lime; eye lotion, etc. Reserve lighting:
Electric torches and lamps ; night lights (for extreme
emergency).
A typical Englishman will insist on certain mini-
mum pleasures even if crouching in an air-raid dug-
out. So the following wares are also advertised as
necessities for every shelter: Air cushions, card games,
hot-water bottles, jigsaw puzzles, library books, play-
ing cards, spirit flasks, etc.
The English air-defence programme is probably
two years behind that of Germany and measurably
inferior to France’s, but the Home Office is launching
a publicity and propaganda drive in which movies,
television, radio, magazines and newspapers will be
used. One big cigarette company has agreed to aban-
don enclosing small pictures of cricket players, cinema
stars or racing drivers in packages. Instead, there will
be a series telling how to extinguish incendiary bombs,
how to build shelters, how to fight gas. Alert young
men from the Home Office are touring the British
isles to give instruction in all phases of air-raid
defence.
Nobody can do anything about a direct hit from
a high-explosive bomb. Everybody in the house will
be killed, and even an underground shelter will, in all
likelihood, be demolished. Such is the grim conclusion
of the experts. But adequate steps can be taken against
the splinters and debris of an indirect hit, and gas can
be blocked. It will be months and years, though,
before adequate underground shelters can be built.
Meanwhile the householder need not be idle.
The air-raid officers in each borough will have
adequate supplies of tough, transparent paper to be
pasted over windows. A crude form of shatterproof
glass is thereby created. There are vast stocks of
brown paper with which to darken windows at night.
Adhesive tape to shut out gas is ready.
I was escorted to one of the central depots on the
outskirts of London where sandbags, gasproof clothing
and masks are stored. Something over 2,000,000 bags,
still empty, were piled up at the depot. A total of
1,300,000,000 will be needed, they told me, for all
England. At the central depot had been built, too,
a model branch gas-mask centre for instruction pur-
poses. Squads of 30 girls each had been trained to
assemble the masks ; a squad can put together 30,000
masks in eight hours.
In the “Evening Standard” one day when I was
in London appeared a small advertisement:
Be Prepared!
AIR-RAID WARNING —A MATTER OF MINUTES.
Take no chances! Be Independent! Have Your
Own Gas Mask ready to slip on and FEEL SECURE.
. . . Protection for eyes and lungs. Proof against all
known war gases. ... In two sizes, STANDARD for
adults and older children. CHILDREN’S for kiddies
2 to 8 years. Get one NOW for every member in your
household and office —equip your car. POST FREE.
10 shillings.
When I dropped in to buy my mask, a pleasant
girl apologised for the fact that the stock of masks was
exhausted, owing to excellent business. She promised
to send one to my hotel. In type, it was similar to
the official civilian respirators, which will be avail-
able, free, to every man, woman and child. Already,
40,000,000 are waiting in central depots, and careful
plans for distributing them are being worked out.
The Englishman who is building a new house can
put in an adequate bombproof cellar room. A very
simple shelter —a corrugated-iron tube covered with
concrete —for four or five people could be built in
almost anybody’s backyard. But this would be crude.
In one London residence there is being constructed
a stout concrete lean-to with air-conditioning, lavatory
facilities and with room for perhaps 12 people.
Upon the factory owner, although there is yet no
legal compulsion, falls the responsibility of taking
care of his workers, and the expense is going to be
heavy. Few such shelters have yet been started in
England, although in France and in Germany the law
compels their construction. No one in England doubts
that Parliament, too, will use force if it is necessary.
The Theatre Royal at Churchgate, Bolton, has built
a bombproof shelter where the entire audience could
remain in relative safety for four hours.
The most comprehensive plans yet drawn up are
for the British Broadcasting Company. It is recog-
nised that the morale of the people will suffer greatly
if broadcasting is halted. Even more serious, the
Government will be without this form of communica-
tion, whereby to issue advice and instruction. Broad-
casting House is being equipped with gasproof doors.
A subsidiary power plant has been installed in the
cellar. Each day squads of 8.8. C. workers are taken,
with gas masks on, through chambers filled with gas.
Evacuation must be one part of the programme.
Secret headquarters for the Government offices in
Whitehall have already been found. All roads leading
from London will be one-way routes ; similarly from
other big centres. If the arrangements perfected in
France are emulated —where evacuation tickets are
already printed—householders in exposed city dis-
tricts will in due time receive a ticket with instructions
about as follows:
“You are to board the eight o’clock train from
Paddington Station. You will take your wife and
three children with you and travel in seats Nos. 11-15
inclusive.”
At a given signal, probably some form of siren
or a radio broadcast, each person with such creden-
tials would go at once to the proper terminal. It is
believed that 3,500,000 could leave London in 72 hours.
“The French Were Misled.”
[ln the pro-war propaganda served up to Australia
and Maoriland during the Czech crisis nothing was
more persistently put forward as truth than the picture
of a united France committed to uphold the Czechs’
domination over the Sudetens, Poles, Hungarians and
others, and eager for war with Germany on that account.
Such representative French views as those expressed
by M. Flandin in the article here condensed from
London “Evening Standard” were, of course, not
included in cables. M. Flandin’s attack on the propa-
ganda racket applies just as strongly in Australia and
Maoriland, where passions were deliberately whipped
up by similar means.]
The noble and courageous initiative taken by
Mr. Chamberlain has been warmly appreciated in
France by every party except the Communists. They
have never hidden their desire for war, and after
constantly shouting for intervention in Spain they
wanted it in Czechoslovakia.
But the French people are seeing through moves
which would end by dragging not only France but
all Europe into a catastrophe.
An efficient and subtle propaganda by those in
control of many newspapers and radio stations pre-
sented the Czechoslovakian problem to French opinion
in a manner totally different from the real facts. This
propaganda tried to convince the public that the
internal agitation in Czechoslovakia was kept up and
created by Germany and Germany alone. The man
in the street in France was induced to believe that
the claims of the Sudetens were entirely unjustified and
that they would never have been put forward if Hitler
and the Nazis had not terrorised the Sudetens into
starting trouble for the Czechoslovakian Government.
It was due to this subtle propaganda that the
average Frenchman believed that Czechoslovakia s
only difficulty lay with Germany, and that Hitler
wanted to attack Czechoslovakia, invade and destroy
her. When the newspapers published maps, the
French saw for the first time that Czechoslovakia was
composed of a mosaic of minorities, and when, above
all, it was learned—and this information had been
carefully hidden —that the other minorities existing
in Czechoslovakia, and even the Slovaks themselves,
were agitating for a change in the constitution of the
State, French opinion understood that the question
was not so much an international problem as an
internal conflict.
This was of enormous importance for the follow-
ing reason: The same subtle propaganda had already
convinced the French people that they were so tied
by formal agreements that they would have to mobi-
lise and go to war at the first call of the Czecho-
slovakian Government. This automatic intervention
by France was taken for granted, and we who ques-
tioned it were violently attacked and practically
accused of being traitors. The text of the agreement,
however, was quite clear.
The Franco-Czechoslovakian Treaty, which was
part of the Treaty of Locarno and was included within
the framework of the Covenant, only applies in the
case of an unprovoked aggression by a foreign Power
which has been previously declared to be the aggressor
by the Council of the League of Nations.
As a former Minister, Senator Charles Dumont,
wrote recently, “The integrity of the Czechoslovakian
State can only be safeguarded by inviolable neutrality
promised to all neighboring States and guaranteed by
the Great Powers.” Because they did not understand
this in time, the Prague Government exposed their
country to great risks. But that was no reason why—
because of the internal conflict which so deeply
divides the peoples assembled within the Czechoslo-
vakian State by the Treaty of Versailles—general war
should flare up in Europe, and I think I am able to
say definitely that this is now the opinion ol the
great majority of Frenchmen.
Furthermore, the French people have kept in their
minds the principles which justified the creation of
the new map of Europe according to this same Treaty
of Versailles. And this principle is the right of the
people to choose for themselves. Those who object to
violence being applied in any way in international
relations ought to meditate at the same time that it
is also an abuse of power to link together associates
who wish to be separated.
Collapse of the League System.
[With supporters of the League “ideal” still yelping
about the “outrage to morality” in the Czech settle-
ment, the article by Patrick Dormer, M.P., here con-
densed from London “National Review” comes as a
timely reminder of an occasion when they and their
“ideals” succeeded in destroying the Hoare-Laval Pact
and with it Haile Silassie. Mr. Donner’s reference to
the statement of Sir Samuel Hoare that Australia and
Maoriland were the only nations prepared to go to
war against Italy gives what could by now have been
a tragic illustration of The Bulletin’s contention that
present foreign policy hereabouts can be summed up in
the one word Yes.]
The failure of the League of Nations has freed
us from the trammels which have warped the judg-
ment of our people. The atmosphere has changed.
Men are prepared to admit that collective security is
not in itself a policy but the result of identical poli-
cies undertaken by many Powers.
If some (or as to-day the majority) of the world’s
seven great Powers reject such policies the whole
“system” collapses. If talk of “collective security
persists Geneva becomes not merely a sham but a
menace in that reliance may be placed upon an empty
illusion with disastrous results.
The limitations and the fallacies of the League
have become apparent to all. An overwhelming
majority of our fellow-countrymen admit, what Lord
Stonehaven recently pointed out, that no justification
whatever existed for attributing almost divine inspira-
tion and origin to a particular part of a treaty (the
Treaty of Versailles) which by common consent is
singularly rich in foolish provisions.
Nevertheless, the supporters of the League “ideal”
assume unto themselves an air of possessing a higher
sense of morality than those who refuse to believe
that a guttering candle stuck in a turnip constitutes
the dawn of a new and superior civilisation.
Sir Archibald Sinclair, the Opposition Liberal
leader, speaking in the House of Commons, recently
said that “if with only a few sentences I must trouble
the consciences of honorable members by referring
to Abyssinia.” The then British Foreign Secretary,
Sir Samuel Hoare, placed before Parliament at the
time an account of the events.
He described how in an atmosphere of threatened
war a stage was reached at which, Australia and New
Zealand apart, no single nation was prepared to be-
come involved in a military conflict with Italy for the
sake of Abyssinia. Not a single nation had even taken
precautionary military measures, faced though they
were by the gravest consequences of their common
act, the application of economic sanctions. Sir Samuel
Hoare was explicit. No nation had moved or was
prepared to move a man, a ship, or a gun.
It was under these circumstances that he con-
trived to secure a compromise, now known as the
Hoare-Laval Pact. The matter and the manner of
its publication led to hostile criticism. The League of
Nations Union blew the big trombone. The Liberal
Opposition screeched its unrepresentative dis-
approval. Some 50 Conservative members, myself in-
cluded, tabled a resolution of support of Sir Samuel
Hoare.' The action proved inadequate and passed
unheeded, indeed unnoticed, in the tumult. Mr. Bald-
win wobbled. Sir Samuel Hoare resigned.
The pact was dead. The problem remained.
Amharic Abyssinia, which the pact would have saved
Our Own Minorities.
In Australia also the sort of “minorities”
scathingly attacked in this extract from a
London “Evening Standard” article worked
themselves up to a hysteria of warmongering
and inciting:—
Britain, like Czechoslovakia, has its
minority question. Our minority does not
equal the 34- million Sudeten Deutsch in
number. But it surpasses them in the intran-
sigence of its attitude, the size of its agitation
and its potential danger to the whole common-
wealth.
It is the minority of jingoes. Those men
and women who, when war is near, open their
throats and bay for blood. The people who
will not be happy till they get it.
This minority of ours is recruited from all
sections of political opinion. On the Left
flank march Sir Walter Layton, the “News
Chronicle" and the “Star" in step.
Away to the Right the ranks of our
minority stretch. There Mr. Winston Churchill
holds up his banner.
This minority of ours clamors for war
when anyone calls this country bad names.
Jt appears to prefer the sacrifice of a million
British lives to the acceptance of a hypothetical
humiliation.
A rid now, like vultures deprived of carrion,
some of our minority start to scream.
So long as we keep watch on our own
minority we can feel sure we shall never go
marching off to settle the affairs of minorities
in any other country.
Probably the most nauseating thing about
these people—whose counterparts in Australia
are not politicians, but newspaper leader writers
and radio babblers —is the lip-service they end-
lessly pay to Peace. It is never off their lips,
until, as in the recent crisis, war looks certain.
Then they openly incite, screaming for war.
Their performance in the late crisis should not
readily be forgotten.


"to
Kfcfc v
IB
rim?
K 5 i i
LL
- 2,3.
v>
■
82891
7/?y A DERBY TOP THIS SUMMER.
Probably different from the type you already wear, but extremely smart and
comfortable. Special imported single soles of heavy Continental sole leather.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Black or Brown Calf. Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it's an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wh oily in the b usiness)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
for the Emperor, was lost to him for ever. His ruin
was complete. Outraged “morality” was appeased.
Sir Archibald Sinclair did not approve of the
pact. He rejected it. To-day he speaks of “troubling
the consciences” of honorable members. What of his
own conscience? Did it never occur to him that the
day upon which the members of the League decided
not to support the cause of Haile Silassie with their
combined armed strength they were one and all under
a moral obligation to secure a compromise and one
which comprised the most favorable terms obtain-
able for him?
The League had encouraged him. The League
had bolstered him up. The League had led him on.
And then the League let him down. The obligation
to save something from the wreck was manifest. The
Hoare-Laval Pact would have secured Amharic
Abyssinia. Haile Silassie could not have hoped for
more.
By rejecting collective security as imposed by an
ineffective League of Nations, we reject neither ideal-
ism nor the conception of international morality ;
the ideal, not idealism, has been wrong. The object
to be attained is international amity, not international
enmity ; the spirit to foster is to teach those who will
listen that the way to become a good European is to
be honest enough to recognise that in public affairs
no man can serve the interests of others by disregard-
ing his own national interests.
The “Great” Purge Goes On.
[Manchester “Guardian," anything but unfriendly
towards the Soviet, misses some familiar faces from the
council table at the Supreme Soviet’s second session, as
recorded in this condensed report by the “Guardian’s"
Moscow correspondent. Since this report was published
416 persons are reported to have been “deprived of their
citizenship” in what is described as “the most recent
purge,” its bag also including M. Krylenko, Commissar
of Justice and thunderer-in-chief at the Great Purge
trials; he is “under arrest.” None of this, of course,
shakes the confidence of “S. M. Herald” and professorial
and radio windbags, who laud the Soviet as a powerful
and trustworthy ally.J
The Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R., frequently
proclaimed in the Soviet press to be the “world's
newest and most democratic Parliament,” has con-
cluded its second session. There was no record of a
negative vote’s having been cast throughout the pro-
ceedings.
What could not escape observant eyes was the
absence of a number of faces which had been promi-
nent during the first session. The official dismissal of
three commissars had been announced during the
interval—Bakulin, of railway transport, Popoff, of
State procurements, and Pakhomoff, of water trans-
port. What further has happened to them has not
been divulged, as is usually the case these days.
Eiche, the Commissar of Agriculture, who dis-
appeared from his post about May 1, was a Bolshevik
and revolutionist of long standing. Just before the
session opened it was reported that the first com-
missar of the newly-created Commissariat of Naval
Affairs, P. A. Smirnoff, had been removed. Earlier
there had been similar reports involving Bruskin, of
machine-building, Gilinsky, of the food industry, M. P.
Smirnoff, of internal trade, and Boldyreff, of health.
An announcement on August 28 that “wreckers” in
the Naval Commissariat had been “liquidated” prob-
ably points to the fate of P. A. Smirnoff.
Two other members of the Council of Com-
missars whose rumored disgrace was confirmed by
their non-appearance at the Kremlin session were the
members of the all-powerful Communist party Polit-
bureau V. Y. Chubar and S. V. Kosior. Chubar had
become recognised as the oratorical mouthpiece of
the Kremlin, and his talents had been employed in
January to denounce “enemies” and “wreckers” to
the deputies. The score on the Council of Com-
missars may be summed up by reporting that of the
28 members nominated by Molotoff for his Cabinet
in January 11 apparently have been cast into limbo in
six months’ time.
Two figures raised up by the Supreme Soviet to
prominence also have passed into the shade —Segis-
bayeff and Levitski, vice-chairmen respectively of the
Council of the Union and the Council of Nationalities.
New appointments suggest that the Kremlin is
meeting with difficulty in finding men experienced
in directing the unwieldy economic apparatus who at
the same time are trustworthy and display the
dynamic qualities which the present situation in Russia
calls for from its leaders. The purge, through its
executions and arrests, took heavy toll of the front-
rank administrators. With these men disappeared as
a rule all the men of second rank who might have
been prepared to take over the vacated posts and
fill them with a show of experience and familiarity
with the responsibilities. They had to go with their
chiefs because they inevitably were suspected of hav-
ing been in complicity with them or, at least, of having
failed to reveal their alleged wrongdoings.
This accounts for Cabinet appointments of men
little known to the public. One of these was A. V.
Bakulin, who had already been acting as Commissar
of Railway Transport since L. M. Kaganovich relin-
quished the post late in 1937 to become Commissar
of Heavy Industry. Now Kaganovich, whose drastic
tactics in the Railway Commissariat won him the
sobriquet of the “Iron Commissar,” has displaced
Bakulin, taking on his stolid shoulders at the same
time the two most Herculean and heart-breaking tasks
in the Soviet Union —the piloting of Russia’s chroni-
cally chaotic railway system and the co-ordinating of
the heavy industry. And, as if this were not enough,
he also has become deputy Premier.
Fugitives Invade Britain.
(Condensed front a London “Daily Express" article by
, Sidney Smith.)
Political and economic fugitives of Europe are
teaching us, at our expense, that a foreigner in Britain
enjoys less supervision from official sources than he
would in any other country in Europe.
A Home Office solicitor, speaking in open court,
has stated that “illegal landings are on the increase
and the authorities are very perturbed about the state
of things.” A London police magistrate has said that
the way “Stateless Germans are pouring in from every
port in the country” is “an outrage.”
In the first three months of this year 419 people
w'ere refused entry into Britain. In spite of the Aus-
trian panic, that is only 49 more than for the same
period last year. Altogether last year 1685 people
wanted to land in Britain and were told they could
not do so.
But this year already the police have found 24
men and women in London and on the south coast
who had managed to enter this country without pass-
ports. They have discovered the exact means of entry
of only one quarter of that number of persons. That
means that 18 foreigners, now in gaol, know a method
of entering the country which the police are not
certain about.
After those people have served their prison sen-
tences, will they be deported? Probably not. They
will plead, quite rightly, that they are political refugees.
When Mr. Metcalfe, Old-street magistrate, sent two
men and a woman who had smuggled their way into
the country to prison, he added, “To be recommended
for deportation—for what it is worth.” Any refugee
who manages to get into Britain and stay long enough
to be sent to prison will probably in the end achieve
his object and obtain food, shelter and work.
And all it costs is a six months’ prison sentence.
For many refugees the alternative would be death in
Europe. It’s a good bargain. And the refugees who
are accepting it are good businessmen.
A convenient way, and widely used, is the day-
trip from England to France, where no passports are
required. A simple system is in use by German and
Austrian women. There are 8000 servant girls of
German and Austrian nationality working in Britain
now. They entered the country with all facilities
because they had work to go to. They got it at wages
far below those that would be accepted by any Eng-
lish girls, and therefore the servant employment
agencies are able to say that there is a shortage of
English labor.
Then the German or Austrian servant girl leaves
her job and drifts off into the wide open spaces of
free Britain.
A City Stops Its Road Deaths.
(Condensed front an October “Reader’s Digest” article
previously published in the U.S.A. “Rotation.”)
For more than four months recently the city of
Providence, Rhode Island, enjoyed a holiday from
motor vehicle deaths.
This record of 125 deathless days, the longest
ever achieved by a large American city in modern
times, would be still mounting but for the fact that
on two occasions cyclists have crashed into the side
of slowly moving automobiles, and once a child
darted beneath the wheels of a truck. After these
mishaps Providence began another record-breaking
period, determined to drive death from its streets.
Even now, almost eight months from the beginning
of the campaign, not a single death has occurred be-
cause of the negligence of a motorist.
Providence has a population of more than
250,000 and is the shopping centre of another
500,000 people. It has narrow, tortuous streets, blind
corners, and many other traffic hazards. Yet this
congested area has become the safest large city in
the country.
Last December the Board of Police asked
Superintendent Parker to do something about the
appalling rise in motor deaths. He analysed fatal
accidents occurring over a period of years and found
that speed was a major factor in 85 per cent, of the
fatalities. He suggested a top speed of 25 miles an
hour. The Board agreed to try it for 60 days, and
it and the District Courts promised to enforce that
speed limit.
Some objectors protested that the top of 25
miles was unnecessarily slow ; that they were being
penalised because of a few witless drivers. To counter-
act this criticism, Superintendent Parker gave one
driver carte blanche to speed from one end of the
city to the other. He was told to “beat” the lights
and do anything else to accelerate his progress. A
second driver was instructed to drive well under 25
miles an hour, and to observe every rule of the road.
The two cars arrived at their destination less than two
minutes apart, and the citizens of Providence were
shown graphically that speeding in the city didn’t
really save time.
By press and radio, citizens were warned well
in advance that the 25-mile rate was the absolute
maximum.
Parker told his men: “Stay out there where you
can be seen, and remember this safety drive applies
to everyone: rich and poor, politicians, officials and
even personal friends. Treat ’em all alike.”
Safety was preached from the pulpits of every
church ; the Providence “Journal” and “Bulletin”
devoted column after column to safety news ; radio
stations co-operated ; police went into the schools to
talk about safety. Children playing with toys in the
streets had their playthings confiscated by police and
were told to come and get them with their parents.
When the parents arrived they were given a safety
lecture.
Citizens of Providence became as interested in
their safety score as they were in the big league base-
ball results.
As the record continued to grow, public interest
grew with it, and driving became more careful each
day —and more pleasant. There was no longer any
blaring of horns, no screeching of brakes; cars
moved along smoothly, quietly —and slowly.
Meanwhile, in grisly contrast, accidents in near-
by cities helped to make Providence feel that its
slowness was worth while.
Remember that Providence presents one of the
worst traffic problems of any city of its size in the
country. It gets heavy tourist travel. Yet, in addition
to its 125 deathless days in succession, it has reduced
non-fatal accidents from 679 to 267 ; reduced ambu-
lance calls by 60 per cent. ; established a new low
traffic deathrate in the United States for the first
six months of the year, reducing deaths less than
half of what they were for a similar period last year.
It is merely a matter of choice: speed or safety.


SPORTING
AOTIONS
Under the Whip
In his seven wins out of ten starts
Nuffield never had an easier victory than
in the Caulfield Guineas. Running away,
C. B. Kellow’s colt reached the judge 3y
lengths in advance of Tactical (16 to 1),
with Carpentier (100 to 1) a moderate
third. Backers had to lay twos on Nuf-
field, but it was “money from home.”
Nuffield travelled so tractably that
Darby 4 Munro had nearly two lengths of
daylight between his mount and three
leaders —Hilton, Raeburn and Atticus—
at the half-way stage. Nuffield obviously
was unextended. It merely remained for
Munro to choose the moment for a de-
cisive effort.
With supreme confidence in the Heroic
colt, Munro clung to the rails, trailing
Hilton. A furlong or so from home
Hilton shifted out ever so little. Nuf-
field flashed through and bounded away
from the others. His stake earnings have
reached £13,360. The Victoria Derby
is a certainty for him, and Melbourne
Cup prospects are roseate.
Tactical’s second in the Guineas indi-
cates that this colt has made a sudden
move towards regaining autumn form.
In March he beat Nuffield and Pandava
in the Ascot Vale Stakes, meeting them
with a weight pull of 101 b. Carpentier,
who was bred by the late Philip Russell
and is raced by his daughter, improved
even farther on recent efforts than Tac-
tical by finishing third in the Guineas.
Another interesting feature of the race
was Fort Regal’s fourth. Beforehand his
trainer, P. B. Quinlan, remarked, “No
one can tell me what is the matter with
Fort Regal. I wish somebody could.”
Juvenile events went to the first pro-
geny of their sires, Esperanto (by Lo
Zingaro) taking the Debutant Stakes and
Zonda (by Manitoba) the Debutante
Stakes. Esperanto belongs to Mrs. J. C.
Bancks, wife of the black-and-white man.
Zonda is held on lease by Andrew Rob-
ertson, globetrotting salesman of thor-
oughbreds, now on a health trip up the
Nile.
Old Red, winner of the Fulham Park
Plate in Adelaide, was at odds-on in the
Debutant Stakes, and J. T. Jamieson
had heard such glowing accounts of this
colt that he didn’t support Esperanto with
any confidence. Moreover, Esperanto
had drawn No. 13 barrier position and
Jamieson is superstitious. Fives could
easily be obtained.
Worried by Eastbourne as far as the
home turn, Old Red snuffed out, and
Esperanto, assuming control at the dis-
tance, scored brilliantly from Romford
and Xavier in 47|sec. —record time for
four furlongs in Australia.
Among the fillies Limerick Lace (5 to
4) did much better than Old Red had
done in the event for colts and geldings.
She led until close to home, succumbing
by a length. Zonda’s finish was sugges-
tive of stamina. Her dam is a sister to
the dam of Hall Mark.
Paddock bookmaker Wallace Mitchell
landed the Herbert Power Handicap with
Marauder, who was supported from tens
down to 6 to 1. Ortelle’s Star (11 to 2)
and Tuckerbox (25 to 1) filled the places.
Ortelle’s Star was unlucky, being carried
out wide at the straight entrance.
Mitchell is sanguine of Marauder’s
chance in the big Cup, for which he has
been heavily backed. A punter from
Sydney, known as “The Bullfighter,” pro-
fited handsomely over Marauder, and
has him coupled for large sums with
prominent Caulfield Cup aspirants. But
Marauder is to compete in the Caulfield
Cup, as well as the two-miler.
Aitchengee’s failure in the Herbert
Power Stakes need not be taken too
seriously. Darby Munro was strange to
him, and the gelding is peculiar in tem-
perament. W. Elliot may make a dif-
ference in the Caulfield Cup. He knows
Aitchengee “inside out.”
Ena (6 to 4, favorite) had to be con-
tent with a dead-heat for first in the
Toorak Handicap. After leading she
was caught in the last stride by El Golea
(25 to 1). Judge declared Prince Sion
third, but pressmen considered that
Balkan Prince filled that position.
* * * *
Sydney followers of racing were
astonished at Avenger’s remaining favor-
ite for the Caulfield Cup after his defeat
in the Colin Stephen Stakes. Not only
did Royal Chief beat him pointless, but
Perimond and Allunga finished within
a neck of him. Avenger has 9st. 31b. in
the Caulfield Cup. Caulfield has been
an unlucky course for him, and it is
difficult to see him winning with that
weight.
The Trump has 9st. 61b. He doesn't
seem to have regained his splendid form
of last year. Spear Chief is evidently to
be a runner, but 9st. 21b. seems a little too
much for this Queenslander, especially
as his preparation was interrupted.
However, Spear Chief is a good horse
and should prove it to the satisfaction of
southerners before he leaves Victoria.
Horses that have run well in the Metrop.
are always to be respected in the Caul-
field Cup, provided the change to Mel-
bourne conditions doesn’t cause them to
go off. Silver Standard, second in the
Metrop. in 1936 and 1937, was second
in the Caulfield Cup in 1936, and fourth
in 1937. Journal, the Metrop. runner-
up in 1934, won the Caulfield Cup the
same year, and this was a repetition of
Rogilla’s dual achievement in 1932. Will
Buzalong equal it this year? Very prob-
ably, if nothing goes wrong with him.
The Queensland horse was a perhaps
unlucky second to Royal Chief at Rand-
wick in an unusually good Metrop.
field. Had they finished at the Caul-
field Cup distance Buzalong would have
been the winner. He has Bst. 61b. at
Caulfield —lib. more than at Randwick —
and he has shown that he can take up a
good position early and that a reason-
able weight doesn’t bother him at all.
Horses from Westralia have been con-
spicuous in past Caulfied Cups. Euryth-
mic won in 1920 and Maple in 1928 ;
Easingwold was second in 1923 and
Feathernest in 1924. This year the West
is represented by Balkan Prince (Bst.
121 b.), Manolive (Bst. 61b.), Footmark
(Bst. 41b.) and Temple Coyn (Bst.): all
good horses and consistent, as good
horses should be. On Sydney running
Nightguard can scarcely be recom-
mended, even though he has only Bst.
21b. Aitchengee is well in with 7st. 131 b.,
But Caulfield Cups have rarely been won
by horses that were slow to get up steam.
Some Sydney people have hopes of
Tuckerbox (7st. 71b.), who ran a fair
second to Cooranga at Warwick Farm.
He is a gelded half-brother to Avenger,
and as a five-year-old should be at his
top.
Saturday’s running said something for
Marauder (Bst.), St. Constant (7st. 121 b.),
El Golea (Bst. 71b.), Ena (7st. 131 b.) and
Bachelor King (7st. 111 b.). Ena is nicely
handicapped if she can go the distance ;
but Ortelle’s Star (7st. 71b.) beat her in
the Oaks, and may do it again. St. Con-
stant is such a stout finisher that he must
be respected.
It is a very open race, but this Page
has a preference for Buzalong. The
much-travelled Queensland horse is
almost up to w.f.a. class, and three horses
beaten by him in the Metrop. (Silenus,
Young Crusader and Bourbon) have
since won good races.
* * * *
The Bulletin had a notion that the
strenuous Metrop. race would leave its
mark on Royal Chief and Gold Rod
for the time being, and picked Stretto
to beat them in the Craven Plate at Rand-
wick on Wednesday. Beat them she
did, but she in turn was defeated by
Young Idea. There was only a “short”
neck between them, and with the riders
reversed the decision might have gone
to the little Maoriland mare ; O’Sullivan,
her jockey, though no slouch, is far from
being Darby Munro’s equal in a finish
where every ounce tells.
Royal Chief was favorite at 5 to 4,
Gold Rod being at 9 to 4, Young Idea
9 to 2, Allunga tens, Stretto fourteens and
L’Aiglon any price. Gold Rod made the
running, but was joined in the straight
by Young Idea ; then Stretto made a dash
at them, and so did Royal Chief. Gold
Rod beat the favorite for third, but was
three-quarters of a length behind Stretto.
Royal Chief is a good horse, but no
iron horse. Wednesday’s race told on
him a bit more, and he was taken out
of the Randwick Plate and the Caulfield
Cup.
Young Idea ran the mile and a
quarter in 2min. 4 l-ssec. ; he carried
9st. 41b. With Bst. 51b. Mosaic, a three-
year-old, anything but robust, took only
half a second longer in winning the
Members’ Handicap. Bartle brought him
up late on the inside, but in a few strides
he had settled the place-getters, Adios
and Anpapejo. Mosaic was favorite at
10 to 9. He is off to Melbourne, and
it ought to be a profitable journey lor
J. H. Abbs, who owns and trains the
colt.
Son of a great horse (Windbag),
grandson of another (Magpie) and him-
self the most brilliant racehorse of his
day up to a mile and a quarter, Chatham
has already made good as a sire. The
first Chatham filly to race in Sydney was
the little bay called Merry Smile ; the
dam, Merri Merrigal, used to be a
sprinter about Sydney and Newcastle.
Ridden by Shean, Merry Smile jumped
away from a poor position at the barrier,
and led all the way in the Gimcrack
Stakes, doing the five furlongs in just
a quarter of a second over the minute.
Second to her was Ann, by Clmtham’s
contemporary and relative Winooka,
also by Windbag ; Pigeon, a sister to
Creditor, was third.
Merry Smile was rather substantially
backed with the bookmakers, who had her
at 8 to 1, but her tote dividends for ss.
were £3 Is. and 17s. 9d.
Condition won the Suburban Handi-
cap for Micawber (14 to 1), who was
turned out in beautiful trim by his owner,
Payten. In a great finish he just caught
and passed King Gee (20 to 1), who
might have been the better for another
gallop in public; the favorite (Coro-
nation Day) was a good third. Micawber
ran the mile in lmin. 36isec. Dismissed
as a squib a few weeks ago, he is about
the most-improved handicap horse in
Sydney. The luckless Publicity was
badly interfered with again.
At Randwick, Bristol is held to be a
better stayer than Silenus—both are
trained by William Kelso —but he doesn’t
seem nearly as honest. Anyway, he has
done badly lately, whereas Silenus (6
to 1) won a good race for Kelso by beat-
ing Sir Regent and the favorite, High-
born, in the Sydney Handicap, Cook
bringing him along at the right moment.
The Sydney Handicap was won by
Statesman —also trained by Kelso, and
owned by him withal —before Statesman
was taken to Melbourne for the 1928
Cup. Like Statesman then, Silenus is
a four-year-old, and has the same Cup
weight that Statesman had —Bst. But
at that point the resemblance ceases.
Silenus was a starter in the Waverley
Handicap on Saturday, but was kept too
far from the leaders, El Senorita and
Young Crusader, to have any chance.
The mare made the pace a cracker, and
Bartle on Young Crusader —whom he
rides more intelligently than any other
Sydney jockey —chased her to the home
turn ; then he came away. Finishing full
of running. The Bulletin’s old favorite
beat Bachelor King by three lengths,
El Senorita being another 2\ lengths
away, with Silenus a close fourth. Gay
Knight, Red Sails—backed from tens to
sixes—and Sir Regent ran disappoint-
ingly. ....
Young Crusader put up another Aus-
tralasian record by galloping the mile
and three-quarters in 2min. 55sec. He
is now to go to .Melbourne.
In the Clibborn Stakes Respirator (6
to 1) put in a real Windbag finish and
beat Adios (7 to 2) by a long head. The
margin would have been greater had he
not lugged badly over the final furlong,
as he had done in the Canterbury
Guineas and the Derby. Aeolus was
third, and as he carried 9st. 31b. it was
not a bad performance. But Limulet
and June shaped poorly,
F. W. Hughes won the Canonbury
Stakes with Rival Chief (5 to 2), a son
of Manfred and Scotch Song, and has
an interest in the runner-up, Dashing
Cavalier. Rival Chief, who cost 550
guineas as a yearling, scored in quite the
Manfred style. Progress was third and
Chickabiddy—showing plenty of pace-
fourth, ahead of Gold Crest, one of
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt’s big
team.
The Randwick Plate gave the Ring a
pleasant surprise. At the finish Allunga
(5 to 4 on) was outstayed by Bourbon
(7 to 1), who finished like a shot out ol
a gun, L’Aiglon being a poor third. Old
Silver Ring made the running for a lew
furlongs and then dropped out. Its a
shame to keep him racing.
Bourbon ran the two miles in 3min.
25sec., so it was a capital Melbourne C up
trial. He is a good type of four-year-old
by Tippler, not hitherto a sire of stayers,
but the dam, Spearfoot, traces back to
Carbine. Bourbon has 7st. 121 b. in the
Cup.
Fakenham (8 to 1), ridden by Billy
Cook, had the Chester Handicap won a
furlong from the finish. Brazandt ran
himself to a standstill ; then Fakenham
went to the front and scored by two
lengths ; Red Thespian beat Arabia lor
third. Bodley Head’s fifth is worth keep-
ing in mind ; he missed the jump and
came home fast.
For some odd reason St. Constant was
weak in the betting on the Final Handi-
cap. Though his form had been excel-
lent he went from fours to tens and back
to sevens. His condition was perfect,
a rumor that he was sore was shown
to be groundless when he did his preli-
minary. With a long run from the home
turn St. Constant passed the early leader,
Speardale, caught Sedunum, and beat
that horse by a long head after Sedunum,
putting in a good finish, looked a certain
winner. Highborn was third ; he was
very unlucky at these meetings. Bobby
ran a fair race, and so did Bianconi.
St. Constant gave Cook his fifth first;
the young man was on the winner of the
last race on each of the four days. Bartle
also completed the round with five win-
ning mounts.
(i Continued on next page.)
Dead in Brisbane at 83, F. C. (Fred)
Lea, whitest of men and straightest ot
sportsmen. He was known to his
intimates as “The Old Bird, and
it is difficult to say which of
the many interests he controlled
after retiring from the civil service wiil
miss him most. He came from a great
Rugby county, Leicester, and when he
found, to his astonishment, there was then
no Rugby in Queensland, he went about
founding a Rugby Union. As the
Northern R.U. a side invaded Sydney m
1882 and was defeated in two matches.
Next year N.S.W. returned the visit to
Brisbane and was gloriously defeated
in the first match. For years Lea was
hon treasurer and sole selector to the
Q.R.U.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The nations that
didn’t go to war are now concentrating
on the international Soccer match to be
played on Arsenal’s ground at Highbury,
England versus a European team. The
European side is to be made up of Ger-
mans, Italians, Czechs, Austrians and
Hungarians —no French. October 26 is
the date.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Sydney Soccer folk,
who are a dilatory lot, have for some
years been bothered by the fact that many
of their teams are far below the standard
of the others. In England, many years
ago, the controllers of the game early
woke to this obvious fact and cut their
clubs into divisions according to their
football capacity. Every year the two
lowest clubs in each division sink into
the one below and the two leaders of the
lower division are promoted. It has just
occurred to the N.S.W. lads that some-
thing of the sort might be tried in their
State, so they are thinking over it.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Caulfield Cup: Buzalong 1 ;
St. Constant, 2 ; Ortelle’s Star, 3.
Burwood Handicap: Amigo;
next, Mosaic.
Windsor Handicap: Pamelus;
next, Beechwood.
FOR RANDWICK.
Flying Handicap: Bodley Head ;
next, Bonheur de Pere.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Sedunum
or Troy ; next, Fakenham.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Coronation Day; next, Mil-
dura.
Club Welter: Troy or Rival Hit ;
next, High Class.


Silent’9o'-the new tyre that
has already sold itself to
89,000 Australian motorists
m
A OW AVAILABLE IN
ALL POPULAR SIZES
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER
/tfeccuiAe
merle certain
MILEAGESAFETYSILENCE
Since its release, and without advertising,
Silent 90 has already sold itself to 89,000
Australian motorists —proving beyond doubt
that this new tyre is the greatest mileage
giver ever built. This great army of
shrewd tyre buyers is enthusiastic about
Silent 90’s deep, wide extra mileage tread.
Silent 90 gives safer riding, greater
traction and quicker stops on any
road—straight or curved, wet or
dry. The exclusive tread pattern—r
full-width (shoulder to shoulder)
road grip ensures your safety.
without loss oft saftetcj
Because silence is a quality demanded of the
modern car, Dunlop have introduced the
Silent 90—the only tyre which provides
silence without loss of road grip.
g
The World’s Master Tyre
fg
Built with Weftless Cord
F. 703.48
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
OUNIOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD i INCORPORATED IN VICTORIAI
Under the Whip
Perimonri \/i T r* i.
H t r?i Ca /“ y -
o well ’ f nd A°' nB
so well that he seemed likely to take a
bold part in the finish ; but he subsided
all of a sudden and finished nearer last
than first. After the race it was dis-
covered that he had “gone” in a knee
which troubled him a year ago. He raced
no more at Randwick and is to be spelled,
Tough luck for the owners, Moore and
Barkess, and the trainer, Johnson, for
Perimond’s third (with Allunga) in the
Colin Stephen Stakes was capital form.
Incidentally, Perimond is more like Veil-
mond than any other of that sire’s
progeny.
* * x. *
It’s a wonder Cooranga wasn’t norni-
nated for the Melbourne Cup. In the
Metropolitan she proved herself a real
stayer. Last most of the way, and still
a long way back at the home turn, she
had the misfortune to get into a pocket
when the whips were cracking. O’Sulli-
van extricated her somehow, and she got
U P i n ti me f° cu * Gold Rod out of third
place. Royal Chief is a first-class horse,
but it has to be accepted that his Metrop.
task was simplified because Buzalong
tr>r, lan>
e to ° so d Cooian S a to ° *
* * ... u; c ud r
e Plectrum penalised 71b. for his V.R C.
Stand Handicap win, registered another
Y IC in the Spring Handicap of 8 T
furlongs, at Geelong on Wednesday.
Opening in equal demand with Maluno
at 5 to u , 2 » the Irish-bred stallion unac-
countably eased to fives, while Maluno
hrmed , to 5 to 4. Half-way through the
race , Plectrum didn t appear to have an
farlhly chance being fully a dozen
lengths behind Lalmom and Maluno,
who were disputing control; but from
the home turn he put in a wonderful
run, and was going away on the post to
win. by half a length from Maluno, with
I.almoni a good third,
......
Phil Heywood, owner of Plectrum, pre-
pared Artilleryman for a Melbourne Cup
triumph of outstanding character in 1919.
Before that he landed a Caulfield Cup (as
far back as 1883) for Donald Wallace
(subsequent owner of Carbine) with
Calma. He also trained Hymettus when
that horse achieved his second Caulfield
Cup win in 1901.
Some years have elapsed since Hey-
wood handed over the conduct of Orleigh
Park stables at Flemington to his brother
Jack, and went into retirement in the
Albury district. No man is a more astute
judge of form than “P.T.” By no means
an optimist, he stated at Geelong that
Plectrum will take beating in the Mel-
bourne Cup. “Plectrum,” he said, “was
farther out of his ground to-day than 1
expected. He was sore, and that’s why he
drifted in the market.” Plectrum will be
ridden in the Cup by Ron Bones, who
served his apprenticeship with Heywood.
Tom Bradficld, who went close to cap-
turing good stakes in Sydney with Even-
ing Mist—last year she was third in the
Doncaster and third in the Epsom—tried
to win the Three-year-old Handicap at
Geelong with Nelson, a castoff from the
stable of Jack Holt, bought as a yearling
by C. B. Kellow for lOOOgns. Nelson car-
ried a lot of stable money, starting at
threes, but with every chance he could
only run third, Broussa (7 to 2) beating
the favorite, Cocotte, by a head. If she
hadn’t begun slowly and hung out when
nearing the judge Cocotte must have won.
This filly is owned by her breeder, A. J.
Staughton, the Colac sportsman.
Ted Temby, who recently paid a suc-
cessful visit to his old hunting-ground,
Kalgoorlie, annexed the Highweight
Handicap at Geeiong with Great Legend.
The event was for approved jumping
riders: with Fullarton in the saddle
Great Legend (5 to 2, favorite) cleared
out from his rivals and arrived home four
lengths in advance of Padale, whose
owner, J. E. Smedlcy, like Temby, spent
a number of years in the West.
(Continued on next page.)


iwmri«iy
for DEPENDABLE
W CIHtKRFOB«‘ NC '
On good da J S t ° i ts best ability i f
will serve you OTlftn dable
un ' t „ ;t s besi
will serve yo Spendable
equipped Plu gs.
Cli amp ion S P ope r ig-
These plugs in r car ’ s
al
7*
B
m
K
PWi
inn
liiin|JJ
mins
ill?!
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
S II
and clean spark plugs when, you change oil
CHECK
f
J! child can do itf
The Kismet Foot Pump is no muscle-
builder in fact, it isn’t even exercise!
A simple foot' pressure operates the
double-cylinder (supercharger) action to
put a double charge of air into the tyre
at each stroke. Twice the air in half the
time means only a few minutes to inflate
all four tyres. You check them accurately
with the built-in Kismet Gauge.
PRICE 95/-.
KISMET
2 CYLINDERS STAOt
FOOT PUMP
Factory Representative in Australia
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Made by a famous firm of pneumatic- engineers—built
to rigorous standards of precision to give many years
of easy, exact service. Judge for yourself—at
your dealer’s.
W'M. TURNER k BRO.. LTD., SHEFFIELD, EX(L
gf
g
FREE
Trial
Offered
Don’t be Bald—Grow Hair without Medicine or Tonics—or Money Back.
Remarkable intermittent Vacuum Helmet used PRIVATELY BA HAND, or by
vacuum water tap pressure (no water touches the head). AMAZING INVENTION.
Scientifically renews THICK HAIR through STIMULATING deep-lying Wood vessels.
HAIR FOLLICLES root after few treatments. NEW HAIR GROWS. COKKEOIs
GREY HAIR, BALDNESS, DANDRUFF. ALOPECIA, EXCESS DRYNESS', OILINESS.
For men and women. Price 49/6. Free trial and advice offered. Agents requned ,
25 other lines. Re-Nu Co. (Estab. 1932), Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Also optional Weight Reducing and Health Building Vacuum Pads.
M.Q. and Rafferty
With the grapplers turned loose at most
stadiums and congregations apparently
wanting nothing else—there wasn’t even
standing room left at a recent Sydney
Stadium presentation of the Wild Men
—Australian boxing has been badly in
the doldrums. And it can’t be said that
Australian boxers haven’t deserved the
famine. Over the past year or two they
seem to have been positively ring-shy.
A notable exception was the perform-
ance last week of junior lightweight
champion Joe Hall. A blocky warrior,
and a pretty good one when he’s in a
winning mood, Joe figured in the main
pre-grapple event at the Rushcutter Bay
address on Tuesday night, and on
Wednesday beat the challenger for his
title, Bub Anderson, in 12 rounds at
Carlton.
But, generally speaking, most of the
present tribe of pugs, once they have
some reputation to stand on, don’t like
to risk it any more often than they can
help. Quite a number of fights have
had to be postponed or abandoned for
a variety of reasons. Some of the lead-
ing pugs consent to get into the ring
about once in six months. Fight pro-
moters have been in the position of hav-
ing topnotch imports on hand and no-
body to fight them. Nor do local
lads seem eager to fight each other. The
Australian ring has never enjoyed such
a stretch of pacifism.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip'*: Alan Kippax has
earned merit by stoutly advocating more
frequent visits by Australian teams to
M.L. Alan stressed the point that a tour
just before the Australians were due to
go to England would make it evident
enough as to which players are likely to
come off in batting and bowling under
English conditions, which closely re-
semble those in Maoriland. But it is
much too sensible an idea for the old
diehards of cricket to take up.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: One way of bringing Tests
in England to a decision would seem to
be a return to the three-a-tour system,
which prevailed there for years after
Australia had adopted the play-out plan.
To these games six days might be allot-
ted. That, besides ensuring a win for
one side or the other, would prevent a
broken week for county cricket, now
one of the minor nuisances. Two of the
present Test centres woulu have to be
dropped each tour, but these could be
compensated next time, as Sydney and
Melbourne are when one or the other
has to be content with a single Test;
special three-day fixtures, such as Aus-
tralians v. N. of E. and v. a professional
side, might fill in the former Test dates.
Gates could be maintained by improving
accommodation for spectators; there is
not a ground in England where holding
capacity could not be increased by 20
p.c. at a little cost. As far as the Aus-
tralian play-out Tests are concerned, vic-
tory in these, as well as the English fix-
tures, could be decided on a percentage
basis, as is the case with our Sheffield
Shield series and the English county
competition.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Roger Kimpton, who
went to Oxford from Melbourne
Grammar to win a cricket blue and play
regularly for the Gentlemen and
Worcestershire, is back in his native city.
He kept wickets regularly at Oxford, but
was also a fine field in the deep, while
he could get an occasional wicket. He
was second in the batting averages during
his three years at Oxford, and will be a
useful addition to Victorian cricket
should he be able to play.
* * # *
“S.T.S.”: Two of S.A.’s veteran
cricketers are retiring from club play.
Both are Port Adelaide men, and both
were in the State XI for years and helped
it to win the Shield. Gordon Harris
was for a long time an opening batsman
“ Listen , Leo; when I say ‘ three ’ roar like blazes .”
for it. He has had 25 years with Port
and made over 8000 runs. Norman
Williams, a tricky slow bowler of 20
years’ experience and 900 wickets,
headed the aggregate for bowlers in
district club matches for ten consecutive
seasons.
* * * *
“Arbiter”: More worry about the laws
of cricket. In an English match a fields-
man caught a ball which bounced off an
umpire. One ump. ruled that the hit was
a boundary, the other wouldn’t decide,
and a third party claimed a catch. It is
expressly laid down in the instructions
to umpires that an umpire is not a boun-
dary. He is neither a hedge nor a tree,
nor yet a building, though he may be
an old ruin, and thus a man cannot be
caught off him (Law 22). But in these
cases the best gambit is to fall back on
good old Law 42, which says that when
umps. dispute with one another, as they
did in this instance, “the existing state of
things shall continue” —that is, the bats-
man resumes his innings.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Cricket Year-Book for
1937-38 is now out. No better cricket
annual is published outside the British
Isles. International and inter-State
matches and related statistics are faith-
fully recorded by editor Harold Heydon,
who, as compiler of this work, secretary
of the N.S.W.C.A. and temporary secre-
tary of the Board of Control, is playing
a full hand.
Nineteenth Hole
“Lakes”: Locke and Ferrier met after
all, and their match drew a big crowd to
Manly. At one time the Australian
looked an easy winner, Locke being 5
down at the sixteenth. He made a grand
recovery: squared on the 33rd and was
square at the 36th. Ferrier, however,
was very solid, and the Australian won
with a birdie on the 37th. Each finished
with 143 for the day ; Ferrier’s contribu-
tion was 71-72 and Locke’s 75-68. There
will probably be another match when
the South African returns from Brisbane.
The South African can’t say he wasn’t
warned to look out for Von Nida when
the money was up. The pair met for a
£5O side wager on the N.S.W. club course
and the ex-Queenslander prevailed, one
up. Locke again made a strong finish,
but the other fellow got there when it
mattered.
In Brisbane the pair met again and
positions were reversed. Locke, at the
34th, 3 up and 2.
Locke put up about his best perform-
ance in Australia by beating Cremin, the
Australian professional champion, at
Kensington, 2 up and 1. As in other
matches Locke’s long game was masterly,
and he handled the heavy wind perfectly,
hitting low and hard in the teeth df it
and sending the ball soaring high and far
when it was behind him. Once more his
shorter game and putting called for
improvement.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Jim Ferrier is certainly hav-
ing his best season: to date he’s been
beaten only once in singles champion-
ships—by Von Nida in the Lakes open.
Last week he bolted with the N.S.W.
close title for the fifth time, clearing out
with 281 for the four rounds —72, 70, 70,
69. V. S. Richardson led with a 67 for
the first round, but fell away to finish
second with 294. There were only two
others below 300. Von Nida wasn’t in
the field.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: English golferettes
want a team of Australian ladies to take
part in the Curtis Cup international
match with the U.S.A. next year. So
far England and American women have
been the only competitors, but since the
Cup was given “to stimulate the rivalry
between women golfers in many lands”
it is considered that Australia and South
Africa at least should be asked to
come in.
“Jachris”: Sydney's Lakes club is
pushing the idea of an annual public-
course championship for golfers who
don’t belong to a club. The first is to
consist of 36 holes medal play, 18 on
October 28, the second 18 on November 4.
Entry costs four bob and includes green
fees, and forms can be had from sports
stores and public courses. The convinc-
ing ground is the Lakes club’s public
course at Eastlake. The idea is new to
Australia, but week-end golfers in Eng-
land have had their championship for
years.
* * * *
“Cleek”: Much fuss is being made in
the Old Country about a new golf
machine which enables a full round out
of doors to be played in a room about
16ft. by 12ft. by 10ft. It is apparently
one of those tricky devices which save
the expense of a professional coach. I
am trying to awaken interest in a real
golf machine, consisting of a light central
mechanism actuated by electricity con-
cealed in the bosom of a voluminous
pullover. From this jointed rods run
down the sleeves to do all the work. All
that is wanted from the player is grip


Become an
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE
BOOK Offer to Young Talent !
pOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black
and' white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of his
new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all readers of
“The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Let Brodie Mack
Teach You at Home
’ I ‘HIS Boole will amaze you with its possi-
bilities and the vast field it opens up to
you. At last you will be able to learn all
branches of the black-and-white art under
the supervision of Brodie Mack. This amaz-
ing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home. If you have an inclination
for drawing, an inclination that many of us
possess, then why compete with the crowd in
ordinary occupations? Brodie Mack can
develop your ability for this fascinating
accomplishment. Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illustrations, advertising,
catalogues, pamphlets, books, comic strips, cartoons,
etc. Many have developed this fascinating hobby into
a highly remunerative profession, embracing magnifi-
cent opportunities to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the bundy-punching
ruck of mediocrity and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop, or office routine; in addition to its
lucrative achievements, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of importance in the
public life of the community.
Make Money in
Your Spare Time!
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means of this
remarkable course for you to earn money in your
spare hours. He shows you how to "cash in" on his
experience. He teaches you how to rapidly develop
your latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you
reading this announcement points to you having a
desire to be an artist—then send for this amazing
book and let us prove that we can make you a
skilled artist. _
ARTIST
//
7/
. C-'-
p:;
ft
%
m
&
m
..<3
SPyS
*^v
7tosx«9r;
as
71
si
M
M* * .
* *r
\ *VV
W
✓
Sw
s<w»
9>bj«
H*.
WS
$
: 'V
OT
*
»*
WHAT THIS FREE !
BOOK TELLS YOU!
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your
Spare Time.
• How to Develop Latent
Ability. J
• How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature. |
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the
Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book
TO-DAY.
Hurry Coupon
Along
NOW!
Learn to Sketch
-THIS EASY, RAPID WAY!
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men and women how to draw by easy, natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished drawing—the drawings that will bring
m good £ s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw by post successfully; the letters
Mr. Mack receives daily are ample proof of this. Many famous illustrators learnt this
way—they were not born famous. This is your opportunity to become a real artist,
capable of making faithful sketches that will surprise your friends, delight yourself and
take you out of the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR opportunity—are you
going to pass it by? Then get that coupon into the mail this moment. NOW!
*****
M
O'-**
4 '
i**"
%
I
‘
/#z£
THIS FREE BOOK Tear Coupon —Post Now!
IS FOR YOU!
“HowTo Be An Artist” is FREE!
before has a book of this nature been offered free;
that is why you should send for your copy now. This
brand-new book shows you how to draw develop your
talent—how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, and
how money can be made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post now —at once,
before you forget.
THE BRODIE MACK
CORRESPONDENCE ART SCHOOL
DESK L, 107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE a copy of your famous
book, “How To Be An Artist.” I enclose twopence in
stamps to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
1 2/1 0/’3B.
and stance. A small gauge, protruding
from the breast of the pullover, decides
the shot. It may be set, for instance,
at “60 yards pitch to stop dead” or “300
yards carry over trap” or “explosive from
sandbunker.” Another button starts the
machinery, which brings off the shot as
desired.
Racquet and Bawl
“Lakeside”: The Pacific Coast tennis
championships ended in a rare panto-
mime atmosphere. After Quist had
proved his infinite superiority over Budge
in singles, Hopman and Schwartz downed
Budge and Mako in the semi-final of the
doubles. Hopman then walloped Brom-
wich in the singles semi-final, only to be
himself defeated by the “irresistible”
Quist. Then, to ring the curtain down
on the fantasia, Hopman and Schwartz
collared the doubles title from their team-
mates.
“Cut Shot”: The Australian Davis
Cup team is leaving for home to-day.
In-and-out to the last, Quist was beaten
at ’Frisco by one Gene Smith, hitherto
unknown to fame. The departure of
him and his associates was to have been
cheered by the announcement of Budge
that he was turning professional and
leaving a rung at the top of the ladder
empty. Some of the rating experts put
Bromwich in the to-be-vacated place, but
one would like to see him a bit more
consistent.
# * * H
“Top Spin”: Though they could have
got the .Yugs almost free of charge the
Australian tennis heads messed about
until South America snared them. The
A.L.T.A. was confident it could manage
a couple of leading Americans. The
Yanks said “no” to that, and now the
mob in Melbourne are trying to induce
Alice Marble and Dorothy Bundy to step
this way.
Miscellaneous.
Sydney High hung on to its G.P.S.
athletic title at Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday, leading St. Joseph’s by 10
points, with Grammar in third place,
The junior championship was again
Grammar’s. Times didn’t approach the
scarcely credible performances put up at
the State schoolboys’ turnout the previous
week (B. 5/10/’3B). Sefton, of Grammar,
who then clocked 9 9-10 sec. for the hun-
dred, was beaten into second place by
B. L. Ryan (St Josephs) m 10 l-ssec
R ya " also “°,V he 220 m 22 i sec - and
the 440 m 50 4-ssec Best, perhaps, was
the 15-year-old High boy R G. Faggs
2r "‘ n - „ !l‘nn
Open. Also meritorious was the 120
yards hurdles effort of F. P. Kaad (High).
He brought his last year’s time down to
15isec., and should do even better an-
other year hence.
* *
.
A rare outsider in Haberfield walked
off with the Boone Memorial Eights at
Mosman (N.S.W.) regatta. The distance
was a mile, and Haberfield bolted at the
gun and wasn't seen again. Sydney and
North Shore, the holders, filled the
places. Now, according to custom, it is
up to Haberfield to challenge for the
Grand Challenge Cup at Henley-on-
Yarra.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The carelessness of
average Australian amateur body
about professionalism has received an .
other advertisemenl xhe matter has
been settled, one way or another, by Ihis,
bu , be worlh ti as an exam le
An - ainateur
oarsman” was selected to
row in a Boone's Cup crew at Mosman
.
rega ta. It was pointed out
hfesaveis had paid him a
sa Hry as a beach inspector. To be while-
washed the sinner had to apply to the
secretary of the swimming body in
Perth, which didn’t give him much time.
All s trouble, and a lot more periodi-
C ally occurring, could be dodged if a few
copies of the rules of the Internationa!
Amateur Federation were passed round
the athletic clubs.


fg
f
rnTTTTrrn
Twice. Daily-2'30-&
AT THE.
w
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
ROY
RENE
And 10 Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent.
928-929.
WILL MAHONEY,
and New Stars in
“WHY BE SERIOUS?”
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
Musical.
SONG-POEMS and SONGS required for
early publication. Known or unknown writers
invited submit original MSS. —Paramount, Ltd.,
Dept. CD, 9 Denmark Street, London, W.C.2.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“South Riding.”
Ralph Richardson, Edna Best.
Though put on as the support at
Sydney Prince Edward, this London
Films production is miles better than the
Hollywooden main attraction.
It deals with the retreat of one of the
landed gentry and the relinquishment of
his lands and manor before the advance
of a commercial generation with its road
developments, housing schemes and
vigorous industrial outlook. For the
purposes of the film other elements repre-
senting a drain on squire’s resources are
introduced to hasten the decline, but the
basic statement remains ; a sincere and
thoughtful portrayal of the changes that
are sweeping England to-day, as tradi-
tional squirearchy crumbles before local
government and county councils.
Setting is a fictional Yorkshire village ;
cast, a selection of characters represen-
tative of country towns all over England.
The fox-hunting squire, with his back-
bone stiffened by a few centuries of
tradition and breeding ; a young school-
mistress, caught up in the changing
scenes, striving to see the new estab-
lished, but loath to see the old one go ;
a young socialist idealist, out of touch
with a practical world.
The film makes no argument and levels
no criticism at either of the conflicting
systems. Even its attack on land-sharks
profiteering on a changing social scheme
is done mildly, with a touch of humor
and almost without malice.
Ralph Richardson is squire, Edna Best
the schoolmistress. Their performances
are fine, sincere portrayals. Supporting
cast is extraordinarily good, except for a
little overacting from Edmund Gwenn.
Directing is fairly sound and photography
excellent; some scenes of wind- and
cloud-swept downs country with long-
woolled sheep scattered about are
arrestingly real and beautiful.
An altogether thoughtful and satisfy-
ing entertainer, the film penetrates deep
into the spirit of a country and its people,
a remarkable change from the pomp and
pageantry and mock heroics that arrive
weekly by the canful from Hollywood.
“Kentucky Moonshine”
RitZ Brothers.
There’s no doubt about the laugh-
raising propensities of the Ritz trio, at
present perpetrating their damfoolery at
Sydney Cameo and Civic. They need
only the bare bones of a chuckle to dish
out a walloping regalement of guffaw.
This time, as they’ve been before,
they’re three down-and-out radio artists
trying everything they know to land an
audition; somewhere along the line
they’ve picked up with a pert little minx
chasing a similar job. Also in difficulties
is young chap who runs radio session
sponsored by soap baron. Programme
of yawping and “swing” is rapidly losing
its listeners, and soap baron threatens
young chap with order of boot if some-
thing isn’t done about it.
Hillbillies, decides young chap, are
just what his audiences are pining for—
not synthetic studio stuff, but the genuine
article, evidently to be captured only in
the wilds of Kentucky.
Ritz trio and offsider get wind of what’s
going on, and straightway migrate to the
wilds, where young chap intends sleuth-
ing for future radio stars. Here the four
migrants from N’Yark land among
genuine samples of their impersonations
—long, straggly-whiskered mountain-
men, clad in “nothin’ much before and
rather less than arf o’ that be’ind,” and
engaged mainly in trying to shoot out a
brace of a rival family.
This section, all carried out on a note
of glorious burlesque, is the best of the
film. Thereafter the going is more rest-
ful on the ribs but still funny enough.
Marjorie Weaver is the lass and a
corker, though she shouldn’t yawp ; Tony
Martin, the young chap, is appropriately
pretty. They don’t matter much. The
Ritz brothers take the spotlight most of
the time.
“Always Good-bye”
Barbara Stanwyck, Herbert Marshall.
This offering at Sydney Prince Edward
is of the sad, sweet, suffering variety.
Miss Stanwyck is waiting at a marriage
bureau for her spouse-to-be. He drives
his car too fast, hits a lorry and is killed,
poor chap, but he doesn’t suffer much.
Barbara is due to have a cheild, so she
sobs her way to the waterfront and is
about to end her suffering when she is
forestalled by Mr. Marshall, who sits
Dad (Bert Bailey ) and Dave (Fred MacDonald) encounter Alec Kellaway (plus)
in “Dad and Dave Come to Town,” the Cinesound uproar at Sydney Capitol.
sorrowing in silence in the shadows of
a pile of timber. He suffers dreadfully,
too. He is ship’s sawbones on a cattle
boat, the cattle are placid and silent, and
don’t interrupt his suffering. Anyway,
they both suffer together for a while,
and Barbara’s babe is born and adopted
by a married couple, also suffering be-
cause their union is childless.
The amount of suffering that ensues
is agonising to witness. Barbara becomes
a mannequin or something, and poor,
dear Herbert goes away again to suffer
among his cattle; he returns to suffer
while she goes to Paris, meets her now-
five-years-old son, and suffers because she
can’t have him. Foster-father of cheild
also suffering from death of first wife, and
second wife-to-be suffering from cheild
who is suffering from her.
Barbara now has to choose between
suffering for cheild and marrying Her-
bert because they suffer for each other,
or marrying foster-father to alleviate
suffering for cheild and leave Herbert
and herself still suffering for each other.
So you get oodles of suffering whichever
way it works out.
Can be recommended only to those
who like suffering for an hour or so.
A Masterstroke Astray.
He’d be a niggardly or humorless cuss
who’d withhold admiration for the
makers of the “Movietone Air Mail
Special Dramatic Review of World
Crisis,” seen by present enthusiast at
Sydney Regent and going great guns at
other Harborside addresses.
Had the war arrived, the reactions of
audiences would have been all that could
possibly have been desired. The thunder-
ous dramatics of the commentator
wouldn’t have been heard for boos and
hisses and, alternatively, cheers at the
right moments.
What sort of an uproar wouldn’t there
have been at the spectacle of Hitler
delivering an impassioned address! What
cheers for our brave and gallant allies
the Czechs!
Alas! it went as flat as a sodden pan-
cake —all of it a squib sacrificed on the
altar of peace! Devil a hiss or a boo
for even its most inviting passages! The
worked-up voice of the commentator
shouting his artificial excitement at a
dumb and unresponsive audience!
There was only one response to the
whole lot of it. Mr. Chamberlain
appeared, and the audience instantly
broke into applajuse. The peacemaker
had his due, even though the work of
genius fell on barren ground.
The picture is worth seeing for one
reason. It should make any audience
feel doubly relieved, realising what, if
war had come, audiences would have
continuously had fed to them as the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the
truth.
Filmed “Crisis.”
A look into Sydney’s News-Luxe News-
theatre last week found films exploiting
the “crisis” for all it was worth.
Paramount announced that in view of
the great importance of Europe’s near-
boil over that firm’s usual assorted news-
reel would be devoted to those events
alone. It duly was, and remarkably
fairly and reasonably, all things con-
sidered.
Plenty other “crisis” stuff in the same
bill. One commentator,. speaking to a de-
piction of crowds in London, said that
“the newspapers called them riots, but
all that happened in the way of riot was
that one or two young men became a bit
noisy,” or words to that effect. The film
showed one of the young chaps being
lumbered ; otherwise the crowds were of
the usual orderly London variety.
One of the most remarkable offerings
on the bill —and also concerned with the
“crisis” —was a British recruiting film, put
over in such a way as to be topnotch
general entertainment. It postulates that
war has broken out, and depicts enemy
bombers approaching the coast, some to
be located and brought down by fighters
and anti-aircraft guns, others finding a
gap in the defences, getting through and
bombing London.
Two things are taken completely for
granted in it —that the bombing of
Britain’s civilian population will be not
only inevitable, but the first assault in
war ; and that gas will be used at once.
Though the bill is somewhat heavily
loaded with such “crisis” stuff, there's
a fair enough sprinkling of local and
overseas general happenings to make it
bearable to people who now would pre-
fer a break of relief from all that.
“Time Out for Murder,” support at
Sydney Regent, carries the threat of
being the first of the New Thrilling
Roving Reporter Series. The Roving R.
does the sleuthing, his camera offsider’s
the funny one, the G-men are a lot of nit-
wits, the goil manages to be both good
and clever, the gangsters are a frightful
lot, the motor-cars and motor-bikes race
with sirens blowing. Bang, Bang!
Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang,
bang, bang! Say, what’s going on here?
“Mr. Chump,” now going the rounds,
is notable for the frenzied efforts of
Johnnie Davis with his trumpet to be
the noisiest person in the fillum —a feat
in which he is horribly successful. Most
of those in the piece finish up in clink —
where they all should have been in the
first place.
“Secrets of an Actress,” going the
rounds, has to do with bewchus actress
who encounters wealthy architect over
whisky and soda. Architect decides to
finance show, which, of course, is a howl-
ing success. Architect’s partner falls for
bewchus one, and follows some noble
self-sacrifice until everything works out
just as the audience knew it would from
the minute the opus began. lan Hunter
and George Brent are the rule-and-set-
square gentlemen ; their roles are shallow,
and what they make of them doesn’t
matter. There is no doubt as to Kay
Francis’s ability, but her last few films
have been dreadful.
“I Have Been Here Before.”
Inns in the Yorkshire moors may have
been peaceful places once, but since
novelists and playwrights took them over
anything from a Tibetan monk with a
grudge to the body of a button manu-
facturer is liable to pop in. In J. B.
Priestley’s “I Have Been Here Before,”
put on by Sydney Players at St. James’s
Hall, the beard of a professor crept
through the door.
The professor, who followed, had a
theory about time: unless the cycle is
deliberately broken, people live their lives
over and over again. Having travelled
into the future to discover that business-
man, wife and handsome young school-
master staying at pub were fated to form
a disastrous triangle, professor steps in
to warn them.
Landlord and landlady (Clarence E.
Street and Joan Hall) were as pleasantly
real as Yorkshire pudding, but the neces-
sity of creating a “psychic’’ atmosphere
put the others in difficulties. Everyone
tried to create it by gazing tragically at
the back of the hall, but there weren’t
any ghosts there at the interval. It was
really Priestley’s fault, because it’s always
a bit hard to believe in mystical beards.
Incidentally, professor might have
stroked ziff a little less gingerly, or, if
it wasn’t firmly rooted, not stroked it
at all. And Charles Kilburn (school) and
Hylton Read (business) turned their
backs on each other and talked to the
walls more often than was necessary.
In spite of the unreality of the time
business, however, it made a convincing
and unusual triangle. Priestley worked
a double climax, first wife and then hus-
band being noble, and the players made
the most of both. Valerie Scanlan was
the wife, and Bert Wightwood had the
difficult job of the professor.
Russian Ballet.
Last week balletomaniacs thronged His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, and were served
with an issue of two ballets new to Aus-
tralia.
“The Gods Go A-Begging” was set to
the music of Handel, arranged by Sir
Thomas Beecham. Loose boards in the
stage militated against the unalloyed en-
joyment of the music, and the ladies’
limbs had to contend with crinolines.
But Shabelevsky, as a shepherd whose
rags conceal his divinity, danced after
the fashion of a piece of thistledown,
and the noblemen and ladies against the
scenery of Bakst made a picture after
Watteau.
“Petrouchka” is regarded as a master-
piece of Stravinsky. The angularities of
his music were matched with the gro-
tesque gyrations of the puppets.
“La Concurrence,” by Derain —done
for the first time here —belongs to a class
of ballet for which present commentator


S ggk SHj..
u
A
■p
£5/10/-
K
Throw away your brush
and blades and shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
VITA-VIGOROSO lOK MEN AND WOMEN
“VIGOROSO” (tablet form) definitely
“STANDS ALONE” as a German Scientific
Hormone or Gland Preparation. Its use will
RECHARGE THE BODY with Physical
Strength and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity, Strength and Vitality, even in
advanced years. “VIGOROSO” tablets are well
recommended and prescribed by Dr. E.
Schubert, M.D., of Munich. Dr. Ludwig Kris,
M.D. and Dr. S. Leibshardt, M.D., of Vienna,
who attest the efficacy of “VIGOROSO as
used and prescribed by them. FULL PAR-
TICULARS OF INGREDIENTS of “VIGOR-
OSO” will be supplied to any Bona-fide Medical
Practitioner. Price of “VIGOROSO” Tablets:
50 Tablets 12/6, Double Quantity 21/-. JOHN
CECIL, Dept. V.V., P.O. Box 1853 K, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W, Distributing Agent for Aus-
tralia.
Limericß
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Fifth Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
• Closing Date October 28
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 5,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than October 28.
Results of this Fifth Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin’’ of
November 2.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin’’ of October 19, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
FIFTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
An old person who surfed at Dee Why
Wore his boots, plus a collar and tie.
When they mocked him he'd say
“It is warmer this Way —
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Fourth Limerick Competition,
which closes on October 14, will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin”
(October 19).
Also in the October 19 issue, to give
readers in distant parts a fair chance to com-
pete, the Sixth of this series of Limerick
Competitions will be announced. It will close
on November 11, and the same prize-money
will be offered.
can feel no enthusiasm whatever. The
competition of two tailors for the busi-
ness of a town, the rivalry of lovers and
the emotions of the citizens, jealous for
the reputation of their village, were ex-
pressed in elaborate pantomimes and, in
the case of the tailors, in shadow spar-
ring.
If we can be interested in symbols as
symbols, the ballet was extraordinarily
skilful. But if we happen to be more
interested in what the symbols repre-
sent a ballet like this conveys less feel-
ing than a row between two newsboys
for a beat. Baronova was a recurrent
graceful note in the fantastic panto-
mime.
Bustabo in Melbourne.
The youthful Bustabo continues to
shake her long locks over her Stradi-
varius at Melbourne Town Hall.
In the absence of Sargent the audi-
ences are not so good, but there was an
ovation on Saturday for both Bustabo
and pianist Marshall Sumner over the
lady’s playing of the Kreutzer sonata.
Fifteen Painters.
The “Independent” part of the title
“Fifteen Group of Independent Artists”
is rather obscure, unless it means that the
members have broken away from older
societies. Only one of them, George
Finey, produces the sort of picture that
gives conservative hanging committees
cold shudders.
Anyway, the group’s show, at Farmer's
Blaxland Gallery, Sydney, justifies its
new eclecticism.
Norman Lindsay, who has been per-
fecting his oil technique during the last
few years, shows himself as a master of
flesh painting. The virility of his work
in this medium is tremendous.
An utter contrast is the work of elder
brother Percy —quiet, low-toned, search-
ing for beauty in greys and greens, and
always distinguished. Mists, smoke and
moonlit clouds have lately captivated his
attention. “Into the Light,” in this
mood, goes to the Gallery.
Syd Long, who riots in romantic color,
has pictures to suit all tastes. “Rhythm”
is about the best of a series that need no
signature.
Howard Ashton, stern realist, and,
when he gets a subject that really suits
his style, as good a landscape painter as
any in Australia, is a wee bit below his
usual level in a Blue Mountains study.
Son Richard shows an increasingly firm
touch in his one landscape.
Gallery Director Will Ashton is at his
best in “Winter Sunshine, St. Ives,” which
has caught the eye of the trustees. G.
K. Townshend’s graceful water-colors, a
flowerpiece by Margaret Coen, Squire
Morgan’s etchings, paintings in a variety
of moods by Fred Leist and B. J. Water-
house’s exquisite architectural drawings
give the show variety. Leist’s “Taos” is
to grace the Gallery walls.
A versatile artist is d’Auvergne Boxall,
who tackles all sorts of difficult subjects
and all sorts of mediums and shows a
competency of technique everywhere.
His “Papal Palace, Avignon,” goes to
the Gallery.
Dattilo Rubbo is represented by some
excellent heads. James R. Jackson shows
some old paintings (or new versions of
old paintings) that are better than his
recent original work. George Finey’s
pictures, made out of sticks and string,
terrestrial globes, boot soles and twigs,
interspersed with duco, fail to obscure the
fact that when he hasn’t his tongue in
his cheek he can exercise a vast amount
of decorative talent.
Felton Bequest Purchases.
Three Felton Bequest purchases for
Vic. Nat. Gallery have been on view in
the boardroom of the Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Melbourne.
The largest —and most pricey—is
Augustus John’s portrait of Mr. Challoner
Dowdall as Lord Mayor of Liverpool,
plus his sword-bearer. According to Lon-
don adviser Sir Sydney Cockerell, it is
“one of the half-dozen masterpieces by
this artist.” If so, Augustus John’s ability
as a painter, in present writer’s opinion,
has been overrated. The long-forgotten
Lord Mayor is 7ft. high, the painting
is dingy and lacks sparkle. The price
paid was £2500.
The Degas is a sketch of a female
dancer bending over. It is a typical
Degas study, but of the slightest texture,
and its price, £2200, will be justified only
if Degas maintains his reputation.
Nothing could justify the purchase,
even for a mere £220, of “Tracing the
North-West Passage,” by J. J. J. Tissot.
Tissot was a once-popular French
academician, no more or less conven-
tional than a hundred British ones. All
that can be said about his picture is that
it was once in fashion, but so are 99
out of 100 girls who walk down Collins-
street.
A.B.C. Unpunctuality
The frequent broadcasting by A.B.C.
of entertainments in public halls—
the Commission says, perhaps justi-
fiably, that it needs the box-office re-
ceipts of the celebrities it imports
brings up again the old fiction that even-
ing musical shows in Sydney and Mel-
bourne commence at 8 p.m.
They don’t. Only one celebrity
who has visited Australia in the last 10
years has insisted on punctuality—Galli-
Curci, whose first notes used to ring out
coincident with the last stroke of the
hour from the Town Hall clock. With
all the others it has been 8.10 to 8.20
before the trickle of the audience to its
seats moderated sufficiently to let battle
begin.
What happens to the hundreds of
thousands of listeners who sit round their
firesides is this: Announcer: “This is
National Station 2BL ; stand by for time
signal.” (“Bong” eight times.) “We will
now cross over to the Town Hall for
the celebrity concert by Signor Flus-
torini. You will now hear Waldo Winkle
play ‘Medulla Oblongata in F,’ Columbia
gramophone recording.” There follow
two, three, four or five recordings before
a burst of applause and the sounds of
“God Save” announce that A.B.C.
imported performer has got his audi-
torium quiet enough to sing or play in.
8.8. C. does better than this. It
sticks to its timetables and provides its
listeners with authentic programmes.
Of course, 8.8. C. isn’t torn between
its duty to its listeners and its respon-
sibility to a box-office. But there’s a
way out. Evidently 8.15 suits Sydney
and Melbourne (and more times than
not Brisbane and Adelaide) better than
8 sharp, so why not recognise the fact in
show advertisements and radio pro-
grammes?
Festival of Remembrance.
The United Returned Soldiers’ Fund
secretary has asked this Page to let it
be known to Diggers likely to be within
Big Bertha range of Sydney Town Hall
on Armistice Night that the Festival of
Remembrance will occur there and then.
A good many Diggers apparently don’t
know they can book in advance ; some —
including present writer —do know that
booking in advance is necessary.
The Festival is one kind of production
in which Sydneysiders excel. It is on
impressively spectacular lines, with such
features as a 400-strong choir of school-
boys, sons of Diggers; a final “Act of
Remembrance,” in which 500 people are
grouped on the stage; and the fall of
100,000 poppy petals, each for a Digger
who lost his life in the war or has died
since.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDHEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up Ask your chemist for DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is_ bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Ypu might just as well take coals to
Newcastle as orchids to the Union Club s
spring party. Yet there are some who
do so. Just around the corner from
where Consett Stephen and Rodney
Dangar had handed out handclasp with
smile, girl attendants extended trays on
which hundreds of orchids nestled
together, each managing to look dis-
tinctive. The staircase was a triumph
and blossomed in Arcadian mood. Each
room was like a flower festival. Silver
standards decked with flower compo-
sitions —sweet-peas, tulips, irises anddat-
fodils among them. Star-shaped, they
glowed down on buffet tables. A garden-
party doll, exquisite in organza, smiled
coyly across from one buffet to her twin
in the smoking-room. The vice-regal
table in the dining-room had a delicate
a j r —nothing but orchids and lily-of-the-
valley here. A fountain plashed radiantly
in the middle of the room. Irises on the
stairs, tulips in the windows, gold cups
in the smoking-room! Not a yawn in
the whole party.
Of course, this was the famous party
for which the bright awning is spread at
No. 2 Bligh-street at the end of each
spring meeting's Ladies’ Day. fhe vice-
regal, as usual, came along. Lady Wake-
hurst with her black-and-white race
ensemble wore a white ostrich be-
plumed hat. Mrs. H. H. Dutton was
another in the Government House group
to wear a feather-encircled hat. Mrs.
Rodney Dangar’s seal cape, with its spray
of orchids, was notable, and Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s dove-grey suit and small, straight-
brimmed hat were among the after-
noon’s smartest. She reported a busy
morning with son-in-law just going into
hospital. Sue Rankin’s navy sheers
bubbled into multicolored embroideries
above the waist.
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar was one of
the handsome in black. Trig tailorings
suited Mrs. Don Taylor. Mr. and Mrs.
Swinson were there ; her black hat wore
a thick pink posy above its slightly-
curved brim. Black and gold gleamed
as Mrs. W. S. Bennett passed. Miss Kate
Egan’s dark sapphire-blue hat was corn-
flower-trimmed. The Sheldon, the Kelso
King and the Davidson ladies were
glimpsed. Miss Thea Milner Stephen
and Miss Nancy Consett Stephen were
among the flower-admirers. Knight Nor-
man Paul and his lady and Margaret
Burns were others.
Up till nine-thirty on the night of
the P. and B. Ball the Trocadero re-
sembled a peach orchard populated with
waiters. But just at the half-hour in
surged groups of pink-and-black-clad
ladies whose squires acquired the essen-
tial dash of color in the foyer. Here
flower maidens, radiant as a beauty
chorus, proffered trays of pink car-
nations and man, producing the silver
coin, passed on his way, a flower in the
buttonhole. Thousands, or maybe it was
millions, of blossoms gave the Troca-
dero a look of enchantment.
Mrs. Dudley Hardie arrived carrying
a very revue-ish hatbox. It was blithely
pink-and-black, tied up with pink rib-
bons, and was part of the guessing com-
petition. Black and pink lace mingled
in her frock, which had black lace butter-
flies poised on its shoulder straps. Mrs.
Roy Buckland’s black nets were merry
with sequins and orchids. Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar, who had been one of the
night’s many hostesses, brought on a large
company of dinner guests. Like the
blessed damosel, she had stars in her
hair, and tiny stars of sequins flashed
on her black net frock. The wife of
China’s Consul-General Pao was dressed
in stiff black silk. This had a matching
cape of the same silk made with the
square shoulder line. Its lining was pink,
and pink was the tulip in Mrs. Pao’s
hair.
Mrs. Lennox Bode’s rose taffetas and
finely-pleated net were sophisticated sim-
plicity. Another pink frock which would
cause a furrow in the brow of the home
dressmaker was worn by Mrs. George
Beresford Grant, and won its wearer the
prize for the best pink outfit. Shirley
Arnott’s tiers of filmy black were placed
first. Nea Arnott, who sold pink car-
nations, wore clusters of pink hyacinths
on her swirls of black organza. A pretty
girl in pink was June Chamberlain. In
a party from Government House came
Mrs. Dutton, of Adelaide, daughter
Helen, bright Sue Rankin, from New-
castle, and Morna Mackenzie.
Nuttie Mackellar, who, with Bob Brad-
ley, gave an exhibition dance, was among
the pinkly-clad. Good-lookers were Mrs.
Rosenthal, from Melbourne—pink jade
brightened her blacks —and Mrs. John
Faviell. Mrs. Sam Hordern, Mrs. Tony
Hordern, Mary Hordern and Mary Bail-
lieu were dancers. The Alfred Stephen
lady, the Stokes Hughes couple and Con-
sett Stephen were in the picture. The
Keith Morrises were there, filmy rose
lace her choice, and the Colonel Lorenzo
couple. Pat and Lesley Curtis and Betty
Maxwell were a pretty trio. The most
outstanding coat was one of soft grey
ostrich feather. This was fitting, ground-
length and enviable.
The Letter’s pet milliner nearly had a
stroke on the Friday before the Derby.
Just as the afternoon’s rush had reached
fever point a tall, slinky female entered
the shop. After picking up half the
models and putting them down again
with an ill-concealed sneer, she turned to
the lady of the shop and drawled : “These
are very obvious. What I was looking
for was something in the shade of shark’s
tonsils! ”
The hat triumph of last week’s races
went to Lady Wakehurst for a Duchess-
of-Kent-likc model. This was of fine
exotic black straw, its brim lined with
white kid. The brim turned up at the
right side, and, starting here, a white
ostrich plume drifted towards the front
of the hat. The slim-fitting black coat
which she wore over her black dress on
Wednesday was strikingly arabesqued in
white. The posy perched in the front of
Helen Dutton’s toque was demure, and
Mrs. Alexis Albert’s Breton sailor
was large, white and singularly docile
considering the wind. Pat O’Shea brought
his Irish charm from Brisbane to the Syd-
ney meeting, and more or less hob-
nobbed with the vice-regals. This Letter’s
friend Sadie Budge is reported to have
beaten the books for £5O : and the lunch
given by Dr. and Mrs. Nigel Smith was
one of Ladies’ Day’s successes.
Mrs. George Brookes, with her sable
tippet and muff and her grey antelope hat
with its maroon loops, might have been
one of Louise Alcott’s Little Women.
With her was Mrs. Clement Chapman,
her jade-green sheers pleated and caped,
finished with a demure little bonnet. A
waist-length buff jacket and a skirt of
soft grey woollen was worn by Mrs.
Tony Hordern. Peggy Buchanan, Mar-
celle Bishop, Mrs. Stewart Jamieson, very
tailored-looking in black, Claudia
Beazley, Daisy Osborne, from Jugiong,
and the McMaster lady were others noted
in the week’s gaieties. Also catching the
gaze was the blue and ivory enamelled
bag carried by Mrs. Parsons.
Joan Dawson is another young Sydney
musician who faces London and the
Royal School of Music, to which she
goes on an exhibition scholarship. Joan,
who is a pupil of Laurence Godfrey
Smith, has already won several gold
medals and scholarships for her musician-
ship. Assisted by violinist Ernest
Llewellyn, she will give her farewell
recital at the Conservatorium to-morrow
night. Photograph by Dayne.
Linen, white and colored, has been
among the smartest wear at the races. At
the final flutter on Saturday Lady Wake-
hurst wore a suit of natural linen. Dur-
ing the week one of the successful figures
in it was that of Midge Nelson. A trig
jacket of slub linen was among Mrs.
W. F. Buchanan’s race outfits. Mrs.
Harry Dangar was a country visitor.
Mrs. C. V. Walker’s white Baku hat with
its black plume was among things ad-
mired. Navy banded in white was effec-
tively worn with a white hat by Mrs.
H. C. Mclntyre. Unusual hats were Joan
Hodgson’s; one was a tiny toque of
small white flowers. This finished off a
frock of black sheer, its neckline out-
lined in white.
Last Saturday under their white and
spreading sails a fleet of yachts went
through a series of graceful evolutions
off the front doorstep of the Royal
Yacht Squadron’s H.Q. at Kirribilli. The
yachting season had opened. At first the
afternoon was hot and breathless, and
this made the cool comfort of the wide
verandahs popular. Later on, when the
cold, squally wind drove followers of the
sailing from the garden, the verandahs
were doubly popular. Here was music,
and here was dancing. Waratahs blazed
in the entrance hall, and the steering-
wheel from H.M.A.S. Success shone with
eye-blinking intensity. One member de-
clared that the polishing thereof takes
a whole week.
There are more orchids per square
inch at one of these openings than at
all other parties of the week. At Satur-
day’s make-merry there was almost an
imperial opulence of them. It really
needed the balance of the splendor of
the Alberts’ Boomerang, which lay a
snowy dazzle with flags a-flutter just
beyond the foot of the garden path. The
Governor-General went off in the Harry
Maxwells’ yacht, after he had been re-
ceived at the club by a group of com-
modores and their wives and Mrs. Don
Taylor. Mrs. Don was in her usual
good looks, garnished with a wine-
colored crepe frock patterned in white
and a wide-brimmed white hat banded in
the wine shade. Mrs. Furber’s blue and
white matched the day. Daffodil was
Mrs. Milson’s suit. Chief color impres-
sions of the afternoon were green chairs
on green lawns and the red of the gigan-
tic lilies in the drawing-room. Prettiest
hat among the verandah audience was
worn by Miss Nellie Veitch —a thick
mass of white hyacinth. A handsome
neighbor was Mrs. M. Cohen, jade-
green relief to black suit in scarf and
handbag.
Isabel McKinney has been selected to
captain the All-Australia girls’ hockey
team which is to travel to England and
Europe next year. Isabel is a graduate
of Sydney University, where she got her
hockey blue. She is now on the council
of the Old Girls’ Union of P.L.C.,
Pymble, where she was head prefect, and
in her final year dux of the school. One
of her great interests is the administration
of girls’ schools. Raymond Sawyer
photograph.
Most striking ensemble at the Yacht
Club’s party was worn by Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal. Frock, coat and hat were white.
The hat was bound and lined with the
red-purple of a Russian violet. Her white
bag, an outsize square, was slung from
the shoulder by a cord of the same shade.
The Garnet Hallorans were there, her
blouse of many colors worn with a trig
black suit. Blue as the sky were Mrs.
Garment’s linens. Dr. Praed, Mrs. Colvin
(of flower-carpet fame) and Myra
Stephens were together. Mrs. Colvin’s
hat had its puffed brim stabbed with
colored glass pins—red, green, purple.
Mrs. Searight came from Neutral Bay.
Mrs. G. H. Sautelle brought daughter
Len. With Moira Kennedy and Gillian
Hanks she made a pretty threesome.
White was Jean Mark’s happy choice.
Major and Mrs. Manley, the Major Ellis
and Major Booker couples and Mrs.
T. J. Gurr were together. Mrs. Harold
Arnott told of the family’s new yacht,
Lantana, to be launched on November 9.
Latest London tidings tell of the en-
gagement of Hermione Llewellyn and the
Earl of Ranfurly. Hermione was secre-
tary to Lady Wakehurst when Lord
Ranfurly aided Lord Gowrie. Both re-
turned to England early this year. If
Hermione puts as much dash into wear-
ing a tiara as she did into wearing a hat,
the other peeresses will need to look
lively.
In the 51 years of its life woman's
closest touch with the New South Wales
Club was driving up to its portals in
the brougham of the ’nineties or in the
car of to-day to call for the men of
the family. But on Saturday all this
was changed. The N.S.W. gave a party,
and greeted the influx of the sex with
an orgy of flowers. Roses or orchids
were piled on trays held by two small
page boys in airmail-blue uniforms.
Gaily-striped sun umbrellas, a wealth of
horticulture and music soft and gay
turned the strangers’ room into what
might have been the corner of a terrace
in one of those fashion resorts in the
South of France beloved by E. Phillips
Oppenheim. But the soaring note of
the decorations was struck by the blue
delphinium bird of paradise, its out-
stretched wings showing a tulip-pink
lining that matched its beak. It perched
on a column draped in wistaria,
delphinium and pink sweet-peas.
Vice-president Douglas and Mrs.
Douglas received. Her flowers were
tulips, her becoming outfit navy. At
their back arose flower compositions of
Watsonia, sweet-peas and arum-lilies
tinted to pale gold. One towering piece of
roses, wistaria, irises and lilies reached to
the club’s crest. From below, the stair-
way disappeared in a flowery vista. Into
the midst of the brightly blooming hall-
way the first guests stepped at four
o’clock, many of the wives confessing to
a slight tremor as they passed the dead-
line marked on ordinary days by the
hall porter. At six o’clock, the hour
signified on the cards for farewells, cars
were still popping up to the doorway with
newcomers. It was one of those parties
which nobody wants to leave.
The vice-regals weren’t there, but
George Gee was. Knight Sam Cohen
came with his lady, and tall E. F. Moates
and his sparkling little wife were sur-
rounded all afternoon. Lola Douglas,
whose black hat showed a slight Russian
influence, Mrs. Green, wife of the club’s
helpful secretary, who girdled her pat-
terned silks with emerald, and Mrs. M.
Asplin were a smiling trio. The Harold
Botts were rather late comers. Her navy
frock was worn with a tiny white sailor
tied up with a pert veil. Her opals won
approval. Colonel and Mrs. Storey,
Brigadier and Mrs. Morshead, the
medical Diethelms and E. J. Tait were
among the noted ; so were the Vernon
Heaths, knight John Butters and his lady,
the Alan Harveys and the A. C. Brom-
leys. Mr. and Mrs. Andrews (he’s
secretary of the Australian Club) and
Mr. and Mrs. Tomalin (he’s secretary of
the Union Club) were of the company.
While Sydney, as a whole, was pop-
ping out to the races the national pop-
ping of corks, so to speak, occupied the
attention of the Federal Viticultural
Society of Australia. Its 19th confer-
ence was opened by Minister for Cus-
toms White, and delegates from every
State in Australia, particularly S’Aus-
tralia, read or listened to papers on one
of this country’s oldest industries. Mrs.
Amy Fiaschi, the only woman present
holding official winegrowing status,
showed how the housekeeper could help
the industry with a dash of sherry in
the sauce or soup and a soup?on of
liqueur in the sweets.
Eight of the principals in Clare Booth’s
much-discussed play “The Women” were
greeted with cocktails and coos by the
management of Australian-N.Z. Theatres.
The Gloucester room of the Australia
was the setting. Irene Purcell, who will
play lead, is the lucky owner of two
islands surrounded by the St. Lawrence.
Mary Dees, tagged as “Jean Harlow’s
double,” played Jean’s parts when she
was ill, and completed Jean’s last picture.
She is the fortunate owner of a neck-to-
knee red fox cape, and wore it through-
out the party, though the afternoon was
warm. Marjorie Crossland is an actress
with an uninflated ego. She has the
rare gift of listening with an unroving
eye. Debby Dare’s thick black curls
seem to have their roots in vivacity.
Junior boys of St. Aloysius’ College,
North Sydney, have in preparation a
performance of “The Gondoliers.
Mumps delayed matters, but on the 20th
Mr. Bourke and Will Caspers hope that
the Conservatorium will resound to the
well-known tunes.


I 1 !
i i :
m
£
* iff
r A
Z
M
'A
S'
* *■'
* **
tM
tr.
m
i. it
m
n
w.
m
i Vt
m
m
v,
•A
i t
M
R i
l
1
V
' | i
“in
a
/
II
MU
Overseas Wireless Telephone
Beam Wireless Service
Wireless Service to Ships
New Guinea Wireless Service
Fiji Wireless Service
Broadcasting Services
Aircraft Services
Picturegram Services
Wireless Manufacture
Wireless Research
Broadcasting Stations
The Fisk Radiola
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AU STRALIA’S
NATIONAL WIRELESS
ORGANISATION


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-
page woman’s paper pub-
lished in the Common-
wealth. It features every-
thing a woman ought to
know. Once you read it
you will never be without
it. Every month six to nine
patterns are given away
free for a penny stamp for
postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL WILLIAM ARTHUR DYKE, formerly
of Canberra, communicate with the under-
signed? He may hear something to his advan-
tage.
WALSH & BLAIR,
Solicitors, Wagga Wagga.
WILL FREDERICK CLAYDEN PRATT, last
heard of in 1936 at Mackay, Q., communicate
with No. 290, C/o Advt. Dept., Bulletin,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney?
TO ALFRED BERNARD RALPH, formerly
of Gilmour Street, Coburg,
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne within twenty-one
days from the date of the publication hereof
the case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs. If you enter an
appearance and desire to defend the suit you
must file an answer within ten days from the
date of your entry of appearance.
MAURICE BLACKBURN & TREDINNICK*
of 431 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
Re Mrs. Mary Bowen (formerly Brinn).
INFORMATION is desired in regard to
MRS. MARY BOWEN (daughter of Abraham
Brinn), born near Tenby, Pembrokeshire, Wales,
who came to Australia about the year 1876, or
her children.
CHAMBERS, McNAB & CO.,
Solicitors,
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, wl\o will quote you price
for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
The day before the Caulfield Guineas
up went the temperature right into the
eighties, and those people who hadn't
prepared for such an early summer
thought they’d been caught on the wrong
foot over clothes; but back came winter
on a south wind for the races on Satur-
day, and most women present were
pleased with the comfort of woollen
coats and suits. An exception was Mrs.
Len Buxton, whose final choice was a
figured navy-and-white ensemble with a
morsel of white hat. (Her first decision
of a short-sleeved frock was vetoed by
her husband as a short cut to pneumonia,
her second of a suit rebounded to the
children’s criticism of “far too hot.”) A
group of actresses from “The Women,”
including Jean Harlow’s double, Mary
Dees, made punters right-about-turn
from the horses. The Wilkins lady also
likes her glamor to suit her moods, and
left everybody a lap or two behind with
her platinum hair. Her cravat was of
many colors, and her tall green topper
was veiled with green and cyclamen.
The genus purple in all branches and
step-relations was popular. Mrs. Dennis
Moore wore it in two dissimilar shades
for hat and check coat; where the hat
went right into the violets the coat was
heart and soul in tune with red cabbage.
Joan Purnell’s frock was a hand-in-hand
arrangement of fuchsia and ice-blue, the
i'.olero opening in an unexpected manner
down the back. Grey or beige suits,
invaluable standbys, were worn by Mrs.
C. C. Moore, Mrs. Snowy Russell and
Pen Stead, both Mrs. Russell and Miss
Stead adding white shoes as a conces-
sion to springtime. Mrs. George Grif-
fith’s lightweight oatmeal coat was a
compatible accompaniment for the Lon-
don tan of her frock and a little Regency
hat, perky as the ostrich feather shooting
upwards from the crown. Frontpiece of
Mrs. Charlie Lane’s white hat was a
flower bobbing merrily forward in the
breeze over her forehead.
Confetti has been falling in quantities
during the last two or three weeks.
Among the hundred-odd reasons which
many brides give for choosing October
nuptials are the masses of flowers avail-
able at this time of year for decorative
purposes and the fact that with the
racing season just around the corner they
each have a wardrobe full of new things
to choose from to suit any change of
weather. Then there’s an opportunity
for slipping into the wedding gown for
G.H. Ball and other dances of the gay
week.
Among last week’s brides were Edna
Lowe, Pat Wenzel and Joyce Dixon
(Joyce married Block Whitehead). Edna,
who is the only daughter of Mr. Justice
and Mrs. C. J. Lowe, showed her origi-
nality in choosing a pale lilac wedding-
day ensemble, with a long coat of silk
boucle over a chiffon frock. Her mar-
riage to Bill Wark took place in the
chapel of St. George’s, Malvern, with
intimate friends and relatives only as
invited guests, and was followed by a
reception for a larger gathering at No. 9.
A bride and groom as well-known as
Pat Wenzel and Jack Manton find it
hard to be alone and unknown on their
honeymoon. The day after the ice-blue
satin and delphinium chiffon wedding in
St. John’s, capped by a reception at
Merlewood, the Arthur Wenzels’ home,
the newly-wedded pair sought coffee and
asparagus rolls during a quiet midday
hour at the Ace of Spades in Toorak
Village, and they discovered two
acquaintances among the half-dozen
coffee drinkers already on the spot. Their
honeymoon plans included a few days
at Macedon before catching the Mari-
posa this week for Honolulu, and after
wards continuing their travels to South
America.
Joyce Dixon and Block Whitehead
chose an evening wedding followed by
a reception of dinner and dancing at
Grosvenor. The bride made a beauteous
all-white picture in finest velvet and
masses of tulle, and her six attendants
in turquoise had ostrich feathers sway-
ing in their hair, and in their hands white
lilac and gardenias. One of the most
elaborate frocks worn among the guests
was Mrs. Gerald Ormiston’s black tulle
gown, which at the back became a sweep-
ing train in pastels of palest apricot,
green and pink. Upon the front panel
of the frock was a hand-painted spray
of flowers and ears of wheat, which
decoration was repeated in the flowing
veil of the sari of black sheer.
Womenfolk are finding the matinee
idea an easy way of returning hospitality
and a welcome change from bridge.
Those who will be present at to-morrow’s
preview matinde at the Regent, South
Yarra, will also feel that they arc doing
a good work for the D.N.S. and the
Toorak, South Yarra and Prahran
Creche. In the Dickinson-Monteath
portrait is Betty Fogarty, who has been
assisting the matinee committee with
plans and preparations.
The International Club proved its
identity recently, for it went right ahead
with its original plans for the organising
of a German party, even with the inter-
vention of a grim week just before the
Munich Conference. The speaker of
the afternoon party was Frau Elisabet
Delbruck, and among other guests were
the president of Tivoli (otherwise the
German) Club and Mrs. Fadaris. Frau
Delbruck spoke about her travels, jump-
ing from Vladivostok to Lenin’s tomb
in Moscow, with a sudden left turn down
to Mombasa and the sources of the
Nile. She has been holding an exhibition
of modern German art, including some
of her own pictures and a section of
prints by famous masters. The show
was in the Exhibition Building, and Frau
Delbruck made the innovation of a
charge for admission.
Last week Mr. and Mrs. Algie Hay
had two successive days of welcoming
their progeny home again. The first was
for daughter Hilary, the second for son
David; both travellers have returned
from England, but by different direc-
tions. Hilary and her aunt, Miss Hay,
took the eastward route, and David
journeyed westwards through the
U.S.A. He’s an old boy of Geelong
Grammar, and has successfully com-
pleted three years at Oxford. Hilary is
a masseuse, and during her 11 months’
holiday devoted some time to visiting
hospitals and clinics and seeing in action
some of the latest electrical inventions
pertaining to her line of work.
T. S. Nettlefold, one of our city fathers,
in the course of a tour abroad with his
wife and daughter which included M.L.,
Fiji, the U.S.A., Canada and most of
the countries of Europe, made a special
visit to the parish of Melbourne in
Derbyshire, bearing a message of good-
will from our Lord Mayor Campbell.
Mr. Nettlefold had preceded the visit
with a monetary donation that enabled
the churchwardens to have the bells re-
hung in the parish church, and when he
arrived the bells were in position. The
Nettlefolds are homeward-bound in the
Orontes.
Mrs. Guy Smith, who left Australia in
the liner Empress of Britain, returned
last week with her head filled with ideas
about furnishing fashions. Radical
changes within the home allow for
plenty of variety, even to licking the
kalsomine off one of four walls of a
room. Experimenters are now trying
three walls of one color and a fourth in
something different. Movie stars and
other wealthy Americans with million-
dollar spoons in their mouths are inter-
ested in spun glass for iridescent cut -
tains and frostily-covered bathroom
walls.
]t takes all sorts to make up an audi-
ence. Present at one of Guila Bustabo s
concerts in the Town Hall, where the
audience was appreciative and there were
few vacant seats, was a couple who could
not have heard one note of the Men-
delssohn Concerto in E Minor nor the
final group of Debussy’s “La Fille aux
Chevaux de Lin,” Gluck’s “Melodic and
Suk’s “Burlesca.” The man slept with
his chin forward on his chest, the woman
with head back and her mouth untestheti-
cally open. It seemed such a waste, with
her long kid gloves and her hair looking
as if had been specially waved for the
occasion.
To this concert the youthful Bustabo
wore four frills of pastel-pink net
attached to a slim puffed-sleeve
corsage. In the audience was Eliza-
beth Halkyard (fiancee of associate
artist Marshall Sumner), who took up
all the shoulder-room her chair allowed
for with the starched white piqud of her
square-cut collar. Paddy Wilkinson had
a flower in her hair to match her little
white ermine cape. Betty Schofield was
all in black. Mrs. G. C. Burke was
there with airmail news of daughter Joan,
who was married on her arrival in Lon-
don three weeks ago to Graham Camp-
bell Mclnnes. The couple sailed in the
Empress of Britain for Canada and their
home in Toronto. Others present at
the concert were Dr. and Mrs. W.
Bryden, Robert Montgomery, Margaret
and Jean Picken, Judy Amadio, Helene
Jacoby and Joyce Robinson, glamorous
in a full-skirted gown of black moire
figured in gold.
For those who win at the Caulfield Cup
(and thus feel pleased with life at large),
and equally for the others, the larger
majority who need cheering up, there
will be histrionics stimulating to the sense
of humor at the Princess on Saturday
evening. It’s to be Bridie’s “Storm in a
Teacup,” a testimonial performance for
Brett Randall, produced by Collins Hil-
ton. The film was shown here, but the
stage play has not previously been per-
formed in Melbourne. In the Dickinson-
Monteath photograph is Irene Mitchell,
who is Victoria, the wife of the Provost
(in the film Victoria was the Provost’s
daughter). Edith Bell is playing Sara
Allgood’s part of the old Irishwoman,
and Bob Bennett is Burdon, the reporter.
The masses of dogs who bound over the
screen don’t appear in the play, but some
members of the cast paid a visit last week
to a dogs’ home to choose the canine
over which the storm brews and breaks.
Among Ballet first-nighters were
members of “The Women” cast, Irene
Purcell and Arden Young —Miss Purcell,
a honey-colored blonde, in a white fur
wrap, and Miss Young, also a. blonde,
wearing a long mustard woollen evening
coat in the high-waisted swinging style of
the Cavaliers, with hooded epaulets over
the shoulders. A pair of glossy dark
heads in the stalls were located as be-
longing to kindred spirits in the matter of
balletomania —Mrs. Bill Fanning, whose
coiffure allowed for a high horseshoe
curl, and Una Ryan, with smooth swathes
on each side of her head to the nape
of her neck.
Margery Nicholas, wearing a pink-
and-silver lame cloak over a gown
of pastel sheer, was with her brother
Maurice and his wife, but their cousin
Lindsay Nicholas and his youthful
Hephzibah were absentees. Pat Outh-
waite found that she liked the color ot
her scarlet woollen evening coat so much
that she added a little cap of the same
material. An accessory to Peggy Finkel-
stein’s blossom-pink gown was a white
ostrich-feather cape.
One of the happiest children in Mel-
bourne last week was June Mac Kay, the
eight-year-old pupil of Eunice Weston,
who was chosen to dance the child’s part
in the ballet “La Concurrence.” June
learnt her role in three short rehearsals,
the last one only with the orchestra. This
was the first time she had ever danced to
an orchestra, and as the music is diffi-
cult her teacher had cause to be proud
of her. Baronova has made young June
her adorer for life, has given her en-
couragement about her work, made her
up for the ballet and invited her to share
with the principals the applause of the
last curtain. On the first night June's
three posies were a surprise, and for a
moment a problem to her mother, Mrs.
Eccles Mac Kay, and to Miss Weston, but
the child’s instinct coped with occasion
and she got an extra thrill in sharing her
flowers there and then with her beloved
Baronova.
Still suffering from the effects of a
slipped cartilege, due to an accident on
board ship, David Lichine was unable to
appear in his own choreography of “The
Gods Go A-Begging,” but watched from
the wings the part he created for himself
danced by Shabelevsky. Afterwards he
applauded “Petrouchka” from a box.
Anton Dolin also had no work in that
particular programme, and came along
to the foyer during the intervals on the
first night to talk to Mrs. J. F. Chambers
and other friends.
In “The Gods Go A-Begging,” Riabou-
chinska and Shabelevsky are serving
maid and shepherd until they discard
their tatters and reveal themselves as
divinities. “La Concurrence” is a piece
of miming among two tailors and their
customers, “victims” over whom they
squabble and dress up in the height of
late-Victorian extremes, mutton sleeves,
feather boas, button boots, etc. Baronova
as the girl has a chance to reveal her
sense of fun as well as her dancing tech-
nique. Shabelevsky is the vagabond
exuberant in his new fine clothes, and
Borovansky and Lazovsky are the rival
tailors. Setting for the ballet is a street
scene preceded by a curtain of a tree
full of birds who twitter through the
opening bars of the music.
■Ballet Bogies, an unpretentious
shillingsworth on the bookstalls, should
appeal to admirers of the ballet (provided
they have a sense of humor) and to that
section of the audience persuaded into
boiled shirt and led along to the ballet
by its wife when it would feel happier
at the fight. The authors of Bogies
are Arthur Smalley and Alan McCulloch.
Alan produced the quaint drawings, ex-
cept two pages of decoration contributed
by his brother Wilfred. Bogies, printed
locally, was born just in time for the
opening of the ballet season. Alan’s
job in life is a commercial one, and
drawing is his favorite vice. During the
centenary he brought out, alone and
unaided, So That Was the Spot,, a
booklet on the doings of this town of
Batman’s foundation, which netted for
him the modest sum of £1 profit. The
first edition sold out, but the second
missed the ‘bus.


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF WAR
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK IN AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION
MINES AND METALS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
c
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: B 7901
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Big Man in New Guinea
“Kaloa”: Feeling on the goldfields is
that if Hitler raises the colonial question
the N.G. issue should be decided by
single combat in a 20ft. ring: parties,
Goring and Judd. Judd is president of
the New Guinea Miners’ Association.
As any medical board would have ex-
plained a few years ago, he is a technical
invalid. At 22 he joined the Ist Battalion,
A.LF., from Yarck, Victoria. He was
first noticed officially at Lone Pine, when,
hearing a disgruntled general complain
that nobody had brought any Turkish
weapons and missiles back with him,
Judd strolled out into no-man’s-land
and calmly collected some.
Judd was in France with a commis-
sion. His chances of rising to high
rank, which were good, were cut
short at Brooseinde, when a Fritz gunner
saw something like the size of a small
wall rising over a parapet and let fly
at it. The victim was sent out of the
line looking as if somebody had carved
his head up with an axe. They riveted
the pieces together at some hospital and
sent the owner home.
Officialdom looked Judd over and de-
cided that he would make a good member
for the N.G. Expro. Board. When the
board went out, Judd felt so ill that he
made for the health resort of Edie Creek.
There he built the only road in mainland
New Guinea (the more modest grades are
one in nine, and the highway runs through
200-inch rainfall country several thou-
sand feet above sea level), put in most of
the big races, some of them among the
largest in the world, and generally com-
passed many of the other difficult gold-
field jobs at which the average con-
tractor would baulk. Also, he has ac-
quired some good gold claims of his own
on the Watut. His Queensland wife is
as much a pioneer as himself, and their
daughter, one of the first New Guinea-
bred Australians, talks, at 14, about
taking the ’plane as other youngsters talk
about taking the tram. Judd, when he
visits Canberra, is apt to begin a conver-
sation quite unaffectedly: “Last Wednes-
day, when we were over a bit of uncon-
trolled area”
The New Guinea miners are confident
that Judd could beat Goring in the ring.
Indeed, they are good sports enough to
aver that if the latter wants an assistant or
two —say Brother Jonathan, Tom Lurich
and Man Mountain Dean —he is welcome
to them. The much machine-gunned,
fever-racked and tropic-riven Judd,
however, is modest about it.
After all, though active as a cat, he
is only 58 inches round the chest and
weighs not much more than 20 stone of
bone and muscle combined with a mini-
mum of adipose. And the only opponent
of international reputation he has so far
had to face since the war is W. M.
Hughes.
Aerial Progress
Australian commercial flying is in-
creasing by leaps and bounds ; and it is
a good thing for the North that it is.
Routes cover 4037 miles, and ’planes
travel just on 40,000 miles a week with
passengers and mails. About half the
services have no mail subsidy. Some —
including Brisbane-Cairns, 899 miles —
have to compete with Government-sub-
sidised machines picking up what they
can on the way to New Guinea. That is
felt as a distinct grievance.
The service with the greatest mileage
records is Qantas, which covers 28,000
miles a week and has done it for a year
on the Darwin route without any mis-
hap worth speaking about. Next comes
Guinea Airways, which has taken over
the Darwin-Adelaide route and given it
’planes that are among the fastest in
Australia, and which traverses 10,000
miles a week. The inter-capital services
are machined with Douglases compar-
able in size, comfort and equipment with
those on modern American routes, and
fares and parcel rates have been brought
down so much that thoughts of transport-
strangulation lurk in heads swathed in
red-tape.
There are now 11 companies operating
21 routes. The largest machines in use
—Douglas D.C.3’s and Short flying-boats
"See that you shut the gale properly, Ma .”
—carry 21 passengers, and it will not be
long before 40-passenger Douglases will
be on the inter-capital routes.
One drawback is that aerodromes are
far behind machines and flying men. And
Australia has had to turn to the U.S.A.
for aeroplanes, Britain apparently being
content with heavy-machine types. It
keeps its market for light, fast machines
chiefly through the efforts of Australian
Edgar Percival, who set new standards
in speed and construction.
“Fillup”: The Public Works Com-
mittee which went north to see about the
proposed Darwin hospital considered
£85,000 and £120,000 projects. It has
recommended a £67,000 hospital pro-
viding 60 beds. And to arrive at this
decision five Ms.P., two Senators, a sec-
retary and a reporter were sent from
Canberra to Darwin, which already has
over 800 Government employees and
their dependants!
* * * *
“Tredor”: In 1937-38 Queensland re-
ceived £716,257 from Canberra for
Federal-aid roads. A fraction of that
amount could have been well spent
overhauling the Mt.
road. One of the main leads to the
cattle country on the Barkly Tableland
(N.T.), Mt. Isa-Camooweal is in a shock-
ing condition, scarred with gulleys likely
to rip a gash in a benzine tank, and
sown with stumps hidden just beneath
the surface of the dust and waiting to
tear slices from unwary tyres. I doubt
whether there is a worse stretch of
road from Camooweal west to Tennant
Creek, or from Alice Springs north to
Darwin. Minister McEwen recently made
the trip, and should have dropped Forgan
Smith a hint to look into the matter.
**. * *
“Fi. fa.”: Given a sound legal training,
kept well up to date, the proprietor of a
small mixed shop in Brisbane has a
reasonable chance of avoiding the courts.
In storing and displaying his goods he
need understand only a few Acts, bylaws
and ordinances —Local Authorities, Fac-
tories and Shops, Health Act and Fruit
and Vegetables, 1927-35. If he sells eggs,
the Primary Producers’ Organisation and
other Acts—Marketing, 1926-35, Farm
Produce Agents, 1917-32 —naturally need
attention. If an odd customer wants a
pint of milk the shopkeeper must obvi-
ously acquaint himself with Health Act,
1937, and register his premises under
Dairy Produce Act, 1920. To sell
cigarettes he must be licensed under
Tobacco Act, 1894, and bear carefully
in mind the penalties incurrable under
juvenile Smoking Suppression Act,
1905, should he sell a box to any person
under 16. He will also be wise to study
Fruit Marketing Organisation Acts, 1923-
30, as well as Abattoirs Agreement
Ratification and Meat Industry Acts,
1930-32, should he get a customer for
a pound of sausages.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.” : The Ithaca election tribunal,
at which G. S. Webb, the Protestant
Labor candidate, sought to unseat E. M.
Hanlon, Minister for Health, was the
first since 1912, but they were common
affairs before that; 1912 was in fact a
peak year. Such squabbles were de-
cided, under the Griffith system of 1886,
by a Judge of the Supreme Court to
pronounce on the legal aspects, and a
panel of sitting members to assess the
facts. The juiciest case under it was the
Mackintosh-Daniels one, in 1899. A
number of used electoral claims dis-
appeared from the Pittsworth Court-
house, and a select committee reported
that 51 of them had contained false
statements, and 10 were forgeries. Mack-
intosh won, and kept the seat until 1915.
The Griffith system was changed in 1915
by eliminating the 'political panel and
vesting in a Judge nominated by the Chief
Justice sole discretion in both law and
fact, subject to appeal to the Full Court
on points of law.
* * * *
“Tredor”: The A. H. Stuart party —
touring the N.T. to collect, among other
things, material for a Territory exhibi-
tion in Sydney—is satisfied that the Adel-
aide River country could be farmed, with
irrigation. Over 100 miles further south
at Katherine (country which “S. M.
Herald” blithely describes as “desert”)
they were surprised to see the thriving
cabbage patch of Tim O’Shea, who keeps
the pub. I hope that the party makes
the 70-mile trip east from Daly Waters
to Nutwood Downs. Nutwood is man-
aged by Mr. and Mrs. Ivor Hall, and
Mrs. Hall, with the aid of a few abos.,
has developed one of the finest gardens
in the N.T. Rows of cabbages weighing
up to 121 b. and 141 b. apiece; pro-
fusion of tomato plants with fruit that
goes up to 1 lib. ; more pawpaws than a
whole Ministerial party could eat in a
week ; big-hearted cauliflowers, egg-fruit,
carrots, lettuce, celery and a dozen other
vegetables—including even asparagus—
thrive under her care. Then, of course,
there are flowers, and their heavy scent
drifting through the rest-house in the
centre of the garden is enough to make
any John Citizen loath to return to his
metropolis. Of course, some of the
northern end of the Territory will stand
farming with irrigation, but the same old
problem arises—what to do with your
produce when you’ve grown it.
* * * *
“Phildee”: An interesting point
cropped up at Darwin when a Japanese,
Captain Okishima, of the New Guinea
Maru, one of the luggers arrested by the
Larrakia, acknowledged that he was un-
able to recognise one white man from
another. In limited experience, I’ve
found it difficult to distinguish Chinese
from Chinese and Japanese from Japan-
ese ; while as a cadet I could never pick
a single individual from a group wear-
ing similar uniforms. It all bears out
the old argument that we humans are a
singularly unobservant bunch, and recog-
nise persons and articles only by out-
standing or peculiar features—if they
have any.


Build the
Veletron Microphone
From Our Kit.
Kit contains ail the essential parts, all
material being cut to correct size. The
brass backplate is not drilled. A stand
is not included in the kit.
Kit I Plus
Price, * ™ Postage
PRICE'S RADIO is Sydney’s leading
short-wave store, and can supply any
part or complete kit for all Bulletin
receivers. Let us know your require-
ments. Our quote will be reasonable.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
PRICE'S RADIO SERVICE
(D. G. McINTYRE),
5 and 6 Angel Place, Sydney.
Tft#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Veletron Microphone —
Further Details.
A home-constructed high-quality micro-
phone of a new type was described in
B. 6/4/’3B as the Veletron, the
N.Z.A.R.T.L. magazine “Break-in” hav-
ing mentioned it as a popular microphone
with experimenters across the Tasman.
From the same source there come
further details. It is claimed for it that
frequency response is particularly good.
Tests show that, while some crackle is
present with the average form of Vele-
tron when gain is wide open, no sign of
Fig. I. —Showing the constructional details of backplate, ribbon and
clamping arrangement.
such residual noise can be heard with
the design illustrated here.
Two points were considered in the
planning: firstly, that if the ribbon could
be mounted at the correct distance from
the backplate frequency response would
be maximum and distortion minimum ;
secondly, that if very narrow pieces of
foil were cut completely out of the
ribbon no brush discharge would result
through friction of the edges where the
ribbon was cut.
Material needed for the construction is:
A brass backplate sin. by 3in. by sin.
with 350 holes ; two pieces of insulation
(formica or WT/22), one 3in. by -}in.
by |in. and one 3in. by liin. by |in.; a
window-display stand or other suitable
mountinga small piece of brass about
2|in. by 2in. by l-16in. ; six small bolts
with nuts and washers; one small flat-
headed bolt with nut and washer;
shielded flex and plug; enough per-
forated zinc to make a shield ; tinfoil
from block chocolate and some cellu-
loid film.
Construction.
Drill the holes 1,2, 3 and 4 in the
backplate, as .in Fig. 1, and holes 1 and
2 in the formica end-pieces. A hole is
also drilled in the centre of the larger
formica end-piece to take the flat-
headed bolt. Countersink hole until
the bolt is just flush with the surface.
With the nut screwed on the bolt, this
serves later as the “hot” terminal.
Next coat the backplate with clear
duco —four coats allowed to dry thor-
oughly. (Instead of duco an excellent
varnish for this purpose is the special
“coil dope” made up in Sydney by
Price’s Radio Service. This is known as
bakelite varnish and sets with all the
hardness of that material.) Then with a
hacksaw cut a slot in the top of the
stand to take a stiff brass strip soldered
or bolted in position.
To make sure that the tinfoil from
which the ribbon is made is flat and
even iron the sheet between the pages
of a writing pad. The ribbon is cut to
the shape shown in Fig. 1 so that it will
clear bolts 1,2, 3 and 4, which project
through the backplate. Cut the ribbon
into three strips by taking about l-20in.
strip out with a safety-razor blade, using
a straightedge or ruler for a guide
whilst cutting on a flat surface. Com-
mencc cutting about Tin. from the top
of the ribbon. This leaves the ribbon
in one long piece, but with three sections.
The formica piece No. 1 is clamped
to the brass piece on the supporting
Fig. 2—A side aspect of the microphone
assembly on the stand.
stand, as shown in Fig. 2, by the bolts
through holes 5,6, 7 and 8. With the
backplate supported on packing such as
a thick book, with the bolts through
holes 3 and 4 from the underside, three-
strip celluloid washers are placed over
the holes to space the ribbon, with the
uncut end of the ribbon at the top. The
stand is then tipped to a horizontal posi-
tion, bringing holes 1 and 2 in the strip
No. 1 over the bolts through the back-
plate. The flat-headed bolt then comes
into contact with the ribbon. Pressure
is put on the nuts until the ribbon is
clamped enough to prevent it from being
squared up.
It is important to make sure that the
ribbon is set satisfactorily and that it
is clear of the bolts projecting through
the backplate before tightening the nuts.
Insert bolts through holes 1 and 2 in the
backplate, placing three-strip celluloid
washers over the bolts, and, after pulling
the three sections of the ribbon over the
celluloid, place strip No. 2 over the bolts,
clamping the ribbon sections tightly. The
nuts are tightened until there is just suffi-
cient pressure to hold the ribbon from
slipping back. During this operation the
tension on the ribbon can be adjusted
by pulling on the portions marked “extra
length” in Fig. 1.
The ribbon sections must be squared
separately, and it will be found necessary
to move each to the right or left very
slightly to eliminate buckle. With all
three set in position correctly, the nuts
can be finally tightened. It may be
found helpful after tightening the assem-
bly to run a thumb over the ribbon with
just enough pressure to leave the
marks of the perforations in
the backplate on the ribbon.
This causes the ribbon to lie
closely to the backplate and
leaves no curl on the edges of the
sections.
Shielded flex is used for con-
nection to the microphone, with
the braid connected to the back-
plate lead and the conductor to
the countersunk headed bolt
used for the “hot” terminal. The
braid is soldered to the brass
piece on the stand as close to the
“hot” terminal as possible, and a
lead is run to one of the bolts
1 and 2.
The microphone plug must be
completely shielded. ZL4AF dis-
mantled an ordinary plug, dis-
carded the bakelite and soldered
the conductor to the centre or
tip lead of the plug. Insulating
sleeving was then placed over this connec-
tion and a brass sleeve slipped over with
each end soldered, one to the body ol the
plug and the other to the shielding. By
this means the connection from the
ribbon was shielded all the way from
under the microphone case to the inside
of the chassis of the speech amplifier.
A casing can be made for the micro-
phone from plywood and perforated zinc.
The microphone can be used with poten-
tials from 15 to 150 volts, but some-
where around 90 volts is the average.
D. B. K.
A.W. Valve Co.'s New 6K8G.
A recent production from the Amal-
gamated Wireless Valve factory is ,a
triode-hexode frequency converter in the
form of the 6KBG. It is a glass valve
corresponding with the metal 6KB re-
cently produced by the R.C.A. Co. in
U.S.A. As with all modern Radiotrons,
it is fitted with the octal base.
The most important feature of the
6KBG is its application to short waves.
Previous frequency converter valves have
been designed for medium frequencies,
and have been pressed into service on
higher frequencies with the extension of
the short-wave band. The 6KBG was
designed with high-frequency require-
ments in mind and gives these H.F. ad-
vantages without recourse to special cir-
cuits. Weaknesses of previous frequency
converters at high frequencies have been
largely those of poor oscillator amplitude
and large frequency drift with variations
of electrode voltages; others have been in
the heavy damping of tuned signal input
circuits owing to inter-coupling within
the valve, resulting in poor image and
noise ratios with reduced overall sensi-
tivity. The high oscillator transconduct-
ance of the 6KBG enables oscillation
easily to be maintained over the short-
wave band, thereby simplifying the prob-
lem of band coverage.
The separation of the oscillator triode
from the hexode or mixing section of the
valve helps bring about a number of im-
provements. High-frequency conversion
gain is maintained at a value commen-
surate with that indicated by the valve
characteristics, and equal to that at
broadcast frequencies. The valve has a
negative input conductance, raising the
Q of the signal input circuit, thereby im-
proving the image and noise ratios. The
frequency drift with signal grid bias is
reduced from lkc. per volt with the
6ABG to 100 cycles per volt maximum,
enabling A.V.C. to be applied without
bad effects on tuning and signal distor-
tion.
Variations in screen voltage compen-
sate for variations in oscillator plate volt-
age in their effect on oscillator frequency,
so that, by supplying these two electrodes
from the same voltage source, this cause
of instability is eliminated and the ten-
dency to frequency flutter is materially
reduced.
Operating Points.
The 6KBG may in general be substi-
tuted directly for the 6ABG (6A7) with
the following changes: (1) Under stand-
ard voltage conditions the screen grid
and oscillator anode should be supplied
through a common 15,000-ohm dropping
resistor from 250 volts. The screen grid
current changes only by approximately
5 p.c. with the full range of signal-grid
bias, permitting good regulation with a
dropping resistor. (2) The oscillator feed-
back coil may have its turns or coupling
ratio reduced considerably to obtain the
optimum grid current values. The grid
current should be maintained between
approximately 100 and 200 microamperes
over the short-wave band.
No additional filtering to prevent fre-
quency flutter in the receiver at audio
frequencies is required in the oscillator
supply circuit, as is the case with con-
verters having poorer frequency charac-
teristics. No additional circuit modifica-
tions are recommended, and with the
6KBG Radiotron.
standard type of grid-tuned oscillator
circuit the oscillator frequency should
be higher than the signal frequency. It
will be seen from these details that the
new 6KBG is an ideal valve for dual-
wave receivers, and of particular
interest to constructors and experi-
menters. Descriptions have appeared in
amateur radio journals overseas in which
this type of converter valve is applied
with the oscillator operating fundamen-
tally on 20, 10 and five metres.
Electrical Characteristics.
Direct Inturelectrode Capacitances.
Mmfd.
Hexode grid No. 3to hexodc plate .. 0.04
Hexode grid No. 3 to triodc grid and
hexodc grid No. 1 .. .. ..0.1
Triode grid and hexodc grid No. 1 to
triode plate .. .. .. .. 2.0
R.F. input (hexodc grid No. 3 to all
other electrodes) .. .. .. 5.5
Osc. output (triode plate to all other
electrodes except osc. grid) .. .. 4.0
Osc. input (triode grid to all other
electrodes except triode plate) .. 7.0
Mixer output (hexode plate to all other
electrodes) .. 5.5
Maximum Ratings.
Hexodc plate voltage .. .. 250 max. v.
Hexode screen (grids 2 and 4)
voltage 100 max. v.
Hexode control grid (grid No. 3)
voltage .. .. .. .. —3 min. v.
Triode plate voltage .. .. 200 max. v.
Total cathode current .. 16 max. ma.
Typical Operation.
Heater voltage 6.3 volts
Heater current .. .. .. 0.3 ampere
Hexode plate voltage .. .. 250 volts
Hexode screen voltage .. 100 volts
Hexode control-grid voltage .. 3 volts
T.iode plate voltage .. .. 100 volts
Triode grid resistor .. .. 50,000 ohms
Hexodc plate resistance .. 0.6 min. meg.
Conversion transconductancc 350 mmhos.
Hexode control-grid voltage for
conversion transconductancc
= 2 micromhos :. .. —3O volts
Hexode plate current .. .. 2.5 ma.
Hexode screen current .. 6.oma.
Triode plate current .. .. 3.Bma.
Triode-grid and hexode-grid
No. 1 current .. .. 0.15 ma.
Oscillator transconductance for
triode plate = 100 volts,
triode grid = zero volts .. 3000 mmhos.
D. B. K.
Unlicensed Operator Fined.
There are well-defined regulations gov-
erning the operation of experimental
radio stations. One says that the person
doing the operating must hold the P.M.G.
certificate of proficiency. Before the


Business Going West
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO., |
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
gf
Cessnock (N.S.W.) Court on 26/9/’3B,
Edward Davies was fined £5O with costs,
having pleaded guilty to the unlawful
operation of a radio transmitting station
to communicate with his daughter and
son-in-law in England. Schedules had
been kept with one or more experimental
stations in England, thus depriving the
legitimate channels of charges at the
rate of £6 per three minutes. The magis-
trate told the defendant that under the
Act he could commit him for trial, and
if the country had been at war he should
have had no hesitation in so doing.
It now rests with the Chief Inspector
of Wireless to determine what shall be-
come,,of the apparatus. Tn all probability
it will be confiscated and the license sus-
pended. The license —it did not belong
to Davies —was obtained for portable
purposes. Radio inspectors know that
there are several such offenders. They
should take heed of the warning. A few
careless offenders may bring restrictions
upon all.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The question of harmonic radiation
from amateur stations deserves attention.
In the Sydney area a number of stations
operating on the 7mc. band are R 9 on
14mc., and several 14mc. stations are
dumping a full-strength signal into the
28mc. band. The presence of unwanted
harmonics in already over-populated
bands does not help. Their elimination
is simple—a matter of attention to aerial
couplings.
Interesting to make up a receiver to
cover the 600-800-metre marine com-
munication band, and to listen to the
busy Morse traffic between shore and
ship stations around the coast. Signals
vary from deep-throated roars to piping
chirps and raspy buzz-saws, and lessons
in operating brevity can be had from the
swift time-saving methods of the marine
op. In any case, it is a relief to find
a telegraphic channel where key work
is not swamped by aimless vocal “See
Kews.” One trouble with the present-
day “ham” is that he does far too much
calling in ratio to listening, and thereby
clutters up the bands. Amateur radio
may yet “talk itself off the air.”
A powerful C.W. signal observed calling
CQ DX in the higher-frequency regions
of 14mc. turned out to be WIAW. This
is the new station installed by A.R.R.L.
as a memorial to the late Hiram Percy
Maxim, founder of the league. WIAW
was Maxim’s personal callsign. The new
station is to serve as A.R.R.L. head-
quarters station, and has been made
available for operation by visiting
amateurs.
On the morning of 18/9/’3B the 28mc.
band was particularly lively, several
Americans putting an R 9 signal into
eastern Australia. Higher up the fre-
quency scale the nine-metre regions
showed American police station signals
strongly, most outstanding signal being
from W2XHK in New York.
The other extreme in frequencies was
found in the region of 160 metres during
the evening. The new Broken Hill
station, BSK, of the Aerial Medical
(Flying Doctor) Services was heard very
strongly on 148 metres, working with
pedal stations. One of the latter, signing
BXU, could also be heard strongly.
Station BSK was recently installed by
Colville Co. for the A.M.S. In the
vicinity of 140 metres the Sydney City
Council station VKK can also be heard
conducting tests with mobile units in and
around Sydney.
“T. and R. Bulletin” (Eng.) gives
details of contacts on 56mc. between an
English and an Italian station. Officially
there are no Italian amateurs, so that no
location details are given other than the
callsign. The communication occurred
during the 56mc. DX boom in U.S.A.
on July 2. Stations were GSMQ, of
Liverpool, Lancashire, and IIIRA. With-
out any prearranged schedule unbroken
communication was maintained between
1500 and 1600 G.M.T. on frequencies in-
side the amateur 56mc. band. Signals
from both stations peaked at S 7, with
fading to S 5, and
both used I.C.W.
and telephony.
Measured distance
between the stations
is just over 800
miles.
The transmitter at
the Liverpool end is
crystal controlled
from a 7010 kc.
crystal. A 6A6 is
used as oscillator
and first doubler,
followed by two
doublers using 6L6
valves and a single-
ended T 55 final
stage. Plate voltage
on the initial stages
is 300 volts, screen
voltage for the 6L6’s
being taken from a
divider across the
supply. Modulator
uses two Class A
trio d e s of the
PX2SA type. The
aerial, used both for
transmission and re-
ception, is simply a
vertical dipole 30ft.
above ground and centre-fed with
twisted-pair made from lightly twisted
flex. Feeder impedance approximates
80 ohms, and the length is 60ft. Although
it gives a comparatively weak signal at
close ranges, it is the only aerial on
which European signals have been heard.
The Italian was using a vertical dipole
aerial erected in a garret, and the trans-
mitter comprised a long-lines oscillator
driving two T2O valves at 130 watts input.
His receiver is a home-made replica of
the National 1/10 receiver.
GSMQ heard another Italian station
signing IITKM for a brief period, fol-
lowed by a Swiss with such rapid fading
that identification was impossible.
GW2NF has heard IITKM twice on a
super-regenerative receiver. These erratic
DX signals attain tremendous strength
for short periods, so that they can be
picked up on the crudest of super-regen.
receivers—looo miles’ DX has been pos-
sible on such receivers in U.S.A.
Visiting Australia is Tom Beaumont,
G6HB and ex-VU2FP, who handles a
commercial key afloat. On this second
trip to Australia he has with him a
VK2EM and G6HB (right) during a visit to A.W.A.
receiving centre at La Perouse, N.S.W.
National NCBOX receiver. It covers
from nine to 600 metres with bandspread
tuning for the 160-, 80-, 40-, 20- and
10-metre bands, and, although there is
no R.F. stage ahead of the mixer, the
receiver is no laggard on 10 metres. The
I.F. channel is 1560 kc., which helps
enormously in the suppression of second-
channel interference. The quartz-crystal
filter cleans up the C.W. selectivity prob-
lem, and the automatic plug-in coil
mechanism is a combination of simplicity
and mechanical perfection.
From England comes a report that
VK2NU was heard on 11/9/’3B on 20-
metre ’phone calling HCIFG. VK2NU
is the writer’s callsign for portable work
only, and has been used only for special
56mc. mobile work. The only callsign
of the writer’s that will be heard on 3.5,
7, 14 or 28 me. is VK2NO. If VK2NU
is used in any of these bands it is the
work of a “pirate.”
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah,. Queensland;
receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver,
described B. 28/4/’37.
Since the last report more time has been
spent listening to overseas news than in
seeking new stations. Daytime reception
is about finished now, but signals hold
“ What's going on here?”
“7 hat’s our business! 'Oo d’yer think YOU are — Mr. Chamberlain?”
up strongly until 8 a.m. Best stations
then are DJC and ZRH on 49 metres,
TPBII on 31.41 metres, GSB and OZF.
The latter is probably the station heard
for a few mornings around 31.62 metres
at great strength. On the 25-metre b%nd
12R04 (Rome) and OLR4 have the
strongest signals. Others are TPA2,
RNE, GSD and DJD. At 7.30 a.m. OLR
gives news in English. EAQ is at present
at its best with news in English at 6.45
a.m. and 5.45 p.m.
The 19-metre stations still come in
merrily in the mornings, and the three
Daventrys, three Berliners and three
Americans can be heard well around
8 a.m. At 4 p.m. the only Daventry
station worth while is GSB, but there is
much improvement by 5 p.m. The DJB
transmitter is especially fine on 19
metres, and night reception on the 19-
and 31-metre bands is excellent. Thirteen
and 16 metres make a poor showing
early, but are in full swing by 9.30 p.m.
PHI frequently operates now on 13.96
metres, as well as
16.88 metres, but the
lower frequency is
usually the best here.
Delhi opens at
10.30 p.m. with a
short news session
on 31.28 and 60
metres, and most
nights now a good
station, probably
Russian, can be
heard on 16.7 metres.
At 7.30 a.m. W2XE
on 19.64 metres is
very good. Rome
has been heard on
19.62 and 19.74
metres, and other
stations noted were
WBX K, W2XAD
and JZK. During
the week of the in-
ternational crisis it
was easy to pick the
subject from foreign
stations with words such as Sudeten,
Czechoslovakia, Daladier, Hitler and
Chamberlain continually cropping up.
K. B. G.
Amateur Radio and the
Crisis.
War, on September 28, was a near
thing, and amateur radio throughout the
British Empire was very close to en-
forced silence. One lesson should have
been learned—the desirability of amateur
radio being prepared to play a useful
part in the event of a national emergency.
The amateur organisation in Australia
should be able to offer the services of
prepared and trained operators for emer-
gency work. Last month such an offer
could not have been made. The per-
sonnel is there, but amateur methods of
operation do not make for speed in
traffic handling. Training time in service
procedure would have to follow. Emer-
gency work is only possible where
apparatus is of such a nature as to be
able to carry on when normal power
supplies fail for some reason. Very few
amateurs in this country possess appara-
tus which could be put to use with the
240-volt A.C. mains dead.
Much interest could be found in the
organisation and working of an amateur
radio emergency corps, and it is to the
credit of the ZLs that on the other side
of the Tasman the N.Z.A.R.T.L. has
already made a move in this direction.
There is an R.E.C. to deal with earth-
quake and similar emergencies, and now
comes the R.N.Z.A.F. wireless reserve.
There was such a reserve in Australia a
few years ago, but it has not been
prominent for some time now. Recently
the Commonwealth Government sug-
gested that radio amateurs could be
formed into a wireless reserve for co-
operation with the fighting services if
needed. Nothing was done about it.
Scant consideration in such circum-
stances could be expected by Australian
amateur radio should war ever involve
the Empire. Some measure of real
utility along suggested lines should be
demonstrated.
VK2NO.
British Amateurs in War-time.
It has been decided by the British
G.P.O. that in time of war all amateur
stations will be closed down and the
apparatus taken away, stored or sealed.
The magnitude of this undertaking can
easily be appreciated. Also, with modern
valves and circuits, a simple single-
valve transmitter can quite easily be built
from scrap materials. This point was
raised, and the G.P.O. agreed that it would
probably be impossible for all apparatus
to be confiscated, but put forward the
suggestion that, with most of the amateurs
off the air, it would be a simple matter to
locate any illicit transmissions. A very
heavy penalty would be imposed upon
those transmitting without a permit. It
seems highly probable that something of
a similar nature would be put into effect
by the Australian P.M.G. in the event of
the British Empire being involved in hos-
tilities.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
(1) /am enclosing details of a receiver circuit
published in an English magazine described as
suitable for television sound signals and five-
metre reception. Is it a good one for the be-
ginner ? (2) Is it likely to cause interference ?
(3) Would sufficient volume be available? (4)
How high would the aerial need to be? —724.
(1) The circuit is of a single-valve super re-
generative arrangement primarily intended for
use as a single-valve receiver, but it could be
used as an autodyne frequency-changer for
application as a superhet converter with any
existing receiver. In the vicinity of Sydney
you would hear with a suitable coil the seven-
metre transmissions from 2CH Sydney. These
are from a special transmitter located on top
of the Grace Building. With a coil for five-
metres you should hear one or two of the
stronger Sydney amateurs, on Sunday even-
ing particularly, but the band is only used
spasmodically. (2) The circuit might cause some
interference locally, but would not interfere
with broadcast receivers. (3) Depends upon the
aerial and smoothness of detector action. (4)
About 30ft., vertical.


• '.•X :
m
m
~ : famcmTßc^ie'BuUAe
Hew Zealand
LAND OF VARIED SPORT AND THRILLING SCENERY
Open the portals of the newest, richest travel field New Zealand
—a beautiful bewitching land; a new adventure in happy living,
a world of education in scenic splendour, unique variety, and
facilities for thrilling sports. And best of all for Australians it is
so accessible, and so economical.
FREE TRAVEL SERVICE
And the beauty of a New Zealand holiday is that .all
those irritating details attendant on travelling in other
lands are not allowed to disturb the pleasure of your
trip. You just communicate your wishes concerning
itinerary to us, and we supervise arrangements for
transport, accommodation, luggage, etc., throughout
the whole trip.
G. Bernard Shaw:
We cannot leave New Zealand with-
out acknowledging our obligations to
your Tourists Department in the con-
duct of, our tour.
Everything,has been done for us in
the friendliest and completest fashion.
We have had no trouble at all and
we quite agree that we never had
such a tour in our lives. Travelling
without worries did not seem pos-
sible, but you have achieved it for
us. Many, many thanks.
Sir Harry Lauder:
There is nothing in the world to equal
the sport at Taupo. The glow-worm
cave at Waitomo is the most won-
derful and fascinating sight 1 have
ever seen in my life, and I have been
round the world four times.
Zone Grey:
A strange, beautiful country with the
most wonderful coast I have ever
seen.
(Believe It or Not) Ripley:
... Ihe Glow Worm caves —out-
standing world wonderamong the six.
vim
am
pH—
■::■■■
■•■■#&.■■■■■
ROTORUA
Ask your Travel Agent for Free Literature
and full details, or write, call or ’phone:
g
Cardinal Ceretti:
Truly, New Zealand is a most won-
derful land—wonderful in what it
has been and ... in what it will be.
. Nature seems to have showered
her choicest blessings on it.
Lord Burnham:
New Zealand has exactly filled my
expectations. The standards of well-
being are higher than I recollect see-
ing in any other country.
Lady Craigavon:
The most beautiful, the most curious
. . . place I ever visited.
Vicki Baum:
To go touring through New Zealand
is like opening a huge box of exotic
toys. Besides being amazing and
interesting and beautiful everything
you see is unique. Roam through the
world as you may, you’ll never come
upon its like anywhere else.
WViyy W:':'-;
s?
W,
* ■. j
New Zealand Government Tourist Bureau
14 Martin Place, Sydney. ’Phone: 87043 (directly opposite <f.P.<X).
Colonial Mutual Buildings, 318-320 Collins Street, Melbourne. Phone.
Cent. 3110. King House, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
(And all travel Agents.)


The Richardson Chain Hotel
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 141 (10 lines).
BONE CHEWING.
“Tri-cal”: I don’t like the sound of
“bone chewing”—you must get on to that
right away. Some time ago*l found that
feeding Tri-cal-os Bone Flour quickly
remedied this trouble, and my cattle have
steadily improved in condition, and stood
up to the last dry spell splendidly. Stock
of all ages take readily to Tri-cal-os.
You know our coastal lands are more or
less mineral-deficient, and inland, where
you are, bone chewing and osteomalacia
are being observed on a widening area.
Write to Davis Gelatine, Sydney, for
notes about this Tri-cal-os. It will cost
you only 2d. for a stamp.
Old Farmer.
sa
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef Cattle in Queensland.
“Doddie”: After seeing the Short-
horns at the recent Brisbane Exhibition
1 agreed with the judge that “there is a
definite swing to the Scotch type,” but
there is no cause for satisfaction in that.
Mainly, the Scotch type is short of leg
and long of hair, excellent in its proper
place, but that place is certainly not the
western downs country.
It is no use saying the country should
suit the type ; it is better to have the
type to suit the country. The Scotch
type is not suited to seven-eighths of our
cattle country. Where feed and waters
are plentiful the feed is rank and ticks
play the devil. On the western plains
water and feed are scarce, and we don’t
want the short-stepping creature which
can’t cover the ground.
Until improvements of waters and
pastures change our grazing areas we
must have a type that can sling the
distance behind it, forage for a living
when conditions are hard, come up
smiling after a drought, and provide
killers at three years. We can’t mature
earlier than that, and it is good work
to market the whole of a branding at
three years. I can’t see the blocky, short-
legged, hairy fellows doing that.
Tasmanian Fodder Competitions.
“C.V.S.”: Fodder conservation in
Tasmania has not been developed to the
extent it has in other States more subject
to drought; but the fodder-conservation-
and-supplementary-feeding competition
sponsored by Hobart R.A.S. should
bring it into line.
The island is to be divided into four
zones, the winner in each to be judged
by the Superintendent of Agriculture.
Points will be awarded for suitability
of fodder, quality, location, protection
from stock, fire, weather, etc., production
economy, carrying capacity (20cwt. of
clover hay or its equivalent per cow and
3cwt. per sheep being considered neces-
sary), and for excess fodder.
One hundredweight of clover hay will
be considered equal to ljcwt. cereal or
grass hay, 2jcwt. silage, 4cwt. straw or
icwt. grain.
Points will be given for supplementary
fodder on the basis of suitability, area
in relation to stock carried, quality and
the method of feeding growing crops.
Strong White Wheat.
“Namoi”: Carrabin, a premium wheat
of the strong white class, is showing
promisingly among crops on parts of
the N.S.W. north-west slopes.
Like the popular Nabawa, Carrabin is
a Westralian wheat of early maturity,
developed from unfixed material of a
cross (Cedar x Florence) made in N. S.
Wales. It produces grain of the high-
baking quality sought by millers, and in
field tests has compared favorably in
yield with the standard Pusa 4. Carra-
bin is worthy of more extensive culti-
vation in the northern and western early
districts as one of the very few strong
white wheats capable of being economi-
cally grown in N. S. Wales.
Entero-toxaemia.
“Bungaree”: “Corriedale” is correct in
stating that single-shot vaccines do not
give lambs immunity from e.-t. (B.
28/9/’3B), but I do not agree that vac-
cine is useless if losses have already
occurred.
Lambs may be infected in varying de-
grees, and, while the vaccine will not
check deaths when lambs are already in
the acute stage, it will be serviceable to
those in the sub-acute stage and those
not affected. Where deaths are already
occurring they must be expected to con-
tinue for a fortnight after the first inocu-
lation, but a second dose of vaccine at
the end of that period will take effect
within a day or two.
Where sheep are on very rich pastures
deaths may be checked by putting them
on poorer feed, but, of course, it will
check the growth of lambs. Where inocu-
lation is carried out at the same time as
"This lucerne's marvellous stuff, sir. Daisy's only been in half an hour an' she's put on half a ion!"
marking any ill-effects are practically
nullified.
The chief trouble, in my experience,
results from faulty inoculation. If sheep
are allowed to struggle or jump about
while the needle is being inserted it is
almost impossible to avoid damaging the
tissues and leaving an unsightly lump.
Where proper care is taken and the dose
injected under the skin, the bubble that
forms disappears within a day or so.
With Commonwealth Serum Lab.’s
vaccine a 5 c.c. dose is not too large
for one injection. The only deterrent to
giving a larger dose is the cost. In actual
experiments sheep have been given doses
of vaccine aggregating 40 times the
amount prescribed.
Strangles.
“Kyamba”: Young horses, under five
years, are the most susceptible to
strangles—a fever associated with in-
flammation of the nasal passages and
throat and usually accompanied by
abscess formation in the lymph glands
of the head. Overcrowding and over-
working, poor feed and housing, and
exposure to weather predispose horses
to contract strangles by lowering their
resistance. Most outbreaks occur at the
change of seasons
Infection in most cases results from
horses taking feed or drinking water
contaminated with nasal discharge.
Typical attacks begin with dullness, lack
of appetite and a swelling between the
branches of the lower jaw and stiffness
of the neck. A profuse nasal discharge
difficulty in swallowing A few
days jatera s/ell'ng below the
jaw, enlarges and becomes hot, tense and
painful to the touch, and finally bursts.
.r . , , ’ , . „
Treat by placing the horse in a small
paddock. Feed on warm mashes and
green feed. On no account drench with
fluid food or stimulants, as, owing to
partial paralysis ot swallowing muscles,
it is liable to be drawn into the lungs,
As soon as the abscess sol tens lance it
at its lowest point. It it does not come
a , / lcad * a , ! tdc lull-strength blister
should be lightly rubbed over it red
oxide of mercury one part, liquid
paraffin two parts, and vaseline six parts
is suitable.
Apply mustard plaster to the throat if
swallowing is difficult. Treat discharg-
ing abscesses by washing out with warm
water and Condy’s crystals. Keep
healthy horses away from those infected
and disinfect stables.
Worms in Horses.
“Stump Jump”: Bots are not nearly
so troublesome in horses as worms. They
remain in the stomach for from eight to
12,months, but are then passed out.
Have a correct diagnosis made of the
worm-type. Send the vet. about 2oz. of
fresh fasces from each horse, enclosed
in a tin. He’ll recommend the correct
drench. Once diagnosis and drenching
are completed, the job is to control
further infestation.
The horse paddock, where eight to ten
horses are turned out at night, is the
cause of most trouble. Manure contain-
ing eggs is dropped over the soil and
larvas hatch out. Since the grass is nearly
always clipped short, horses feed close
to the ground, where they pick up the
maximum infestation.
Cattle or sheep worms do not infest
horses, and vice versa, so that it pays to
have two or three horse paddocks, which
can be grazed in rotation. This controls
worms easily. Long grass also is fairly
safe.
Manure from stable or horseyards
should be moved out often and spread
on sod at horses never approach.
?*,*22,;* a P' 1 w .!?. ere ‘J c ? n n h l at
l a ar «"’' sht before s P read '"S, to k ' n the
‘ ‘ ’
R • «•>..
< ID , . „ ,
•. r ofia<: ; D<>n 1 take °*} hees as a
r ~ /sram' ° mak l ng , m ,?" ey
SL »V leave them a/oT
'! s a j® l ! thal lakes understanding, and
''""“I s SHJ""; b “ s cal ’" ot W
'°
Dmin., thr.’ • r i
During the depression scores of people
j n S.A. bought hives and plant. To-day
good double-storey colonies, in factory-
made hives, arc on offer by the hundred
a t 15s. each, with no buyers in sight,
Further, the industry is not officially
recognised here ; no research work is
undertaken, and we receive no encourage-
ment, bonuses or rebates. Overproduc-
tion has worried us for years, and we
haven’t been able to secure a market
overseas.
Some districts produce a lot of honey
during a few brief weeks every two or
three years. They can be worked only
by men with trucks who shift their bees
to them during the honey flow, and
remove the bees the moment it is over.
In areas where a variety of honey-yield-
ing trees enables bees to be kept all the
year, every lease of Crown land and the
bee rights to all the timbered country
were taken up years ago.
Go in for pigs, poultry, dairying or
anything else where there is an overseas
market for surplus production, but don’t
have beekeeping on “as a sideline.”
Cowpeas for Green Manure.
“Hortus”: There’s nothing like a cow-
pea crop for building up soil fertility.
Its deep-rooting and nitrogen-fixing
qualities adapt it for the purpose.
On the N.S.W. North Coast the cow-
peas are sown as a green-manure crop
in summer. Sometimes they go in with
the early maize crops. The stalks of the
maize and the cowpeas are ploughed in.
Roll the crop first, then run over it
with a cornstalk chopper or disk culti-
vator, and finish off with a single-furrow
disk plough. It’s best to plough under
soon after pods are set. If kept later.
{"Land” continued on page 44.)


WE WANT YOU TO TRY THIS
ONE-WIRE
i v
ELECTRIC FENCE
L V \
Saves up to 80 per cent, fencing costs
. . . holds your horses, cattle, pigs or
sheep with a single wire . . . only light
stakes required about 30 feet' apart.
Ideal for temporary fences and feeding
off lucerne, oats, etc.—and harmless.
Your Money Back in 30 Days. Give the
Parmak any test you like. If you are not in
every t way satisfied —if it does not hold stub-
born fence-breakers better than any other fence
—return it to us within 30 days after dispatch
from our store for a full and immediate return
of your money.
Terms £B/10/- Cash with Order.
To EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY., LTD., 188 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated leaflets and all particulars of the Parntak Electric Fence.
NAME i
ADDRESS
/MOIAZE
c
*s*?**/
Weather protection and constant tempera-
ture are more important with pigs than with
almost any other stock. You'll make bigger
profits il you provide your pigs with dry, sanitary and comfortable
IMPORTANT NEWS
In THE MASONITE
BOOK (available FREE
from your nearest
branch of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Com-
pany ' Ltd., Building
Materials Division) you
will find valuable and
interesting information
on the use of Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered
Presdwood, Quartr-
board and Temprtile—
"The Wonder Boards of
1,000 Uses" for the
economical erection of
durable, weather-proof,
outhouses and for
almost every exterior
and interior structural
purpose.
conditions. A shelter insulated with CANE-
ITE is an economical, easily worked pro-
position. A Cane-ite insulated shelter saves
feed, discourages disease, enlarges pork pro-
duction and increases your earnings. Write
for samples of CANE-ITE, the white-ant-proofed
insulation which can be worked with an
ordinary saw and nailed to existing studs or
rafters.
C UNE'i.T I
THE 100% CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
Cl 4-8
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TTw'^'dlleS/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
TOTALLY ENCLOSED,
tected from dust, etc.
Fully pro-
• LISTARD (Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
# Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
<?' LAND:
Norman Bell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., 403 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray.
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD., STAMFORD, ENG.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
fg
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
16. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
the stems become woody, and are hard
to deal with.
Poona is a popular late-maturing
variety. It does not mature its pods as
evenly as the Black, but it produces
heavier yields of green fodder. It is up-
right growing and facilitates cultivation.
Often the second and successive crops
of cowpeas succeed better than the first.
The soil is inoculated every time. Super,
(lewt. per acre) gives even better results.
Tomato Seeding Hints.
“Ager”: Don’t plant seed in soil which
has previously grown tomatoes, or pota-
toes, and so avoid contaminating young
seedlings with soil-carried disease. Don’t
have rows too close together—that makes
for spindly and soft plants. Four to six
inches apart is ample. Make depth of
little furrows uniform all over the bed.
Plant out when first fern-like leaf
shows. Don’t overwater. Keep soil
damp, but not overmoist. All the trouble
of damping off is caused by early over-
watering. Give plants as much sunshine
as possible. Make beds in the best
“sunny spot” available.
You can prevent plants leaning towards
the light by whitewashing the back wall
of the seedbed. They grow stronger
straight up.
Spray regularly with Bordeaux mix-
ture at 1-1-20 strength to prevent attack
of fungus diseases.
“C.V.S.”: In the Mallee country, at
least, rugging sheep pays for itself. It
improves character, density and length
of wool. Rugged wool is well nour-
ished and comparatively free from dust,
whereas best unrugged wool from the
Mallee opens up dry and bright at the
butt, showing half a staple carrying
heavy dust, while other fleeces show dust
to the butt. Most Mallee wool is part
tender, but rugging gives sound, shafty
fleeces.
“Cootharra”: If sheep are to do well
they must have clean drinking water (B.
14/9/’3B). Yes. Then rail the troughs.
Open troughs are no good: if one or
two sheep get pushed in a greasy scum
rises on the water. Put a rail on each
side about 9in. above the edge of the
trough. This Will allow the sheep to drink
but prevent their getting in. Length of
troughs depends on class of country. In
thick country where sheep don’t mob up
but dribble in for hours, five or six
lengths are ample. In open country
where big mobs come with a rush,
troughs must be longer.
“Jumbuck”: Record-breakers at lamb-
marking (B. 14/9/’3B) get short shrift
from owners who hope to have a maxi-
mum of lambs turn up at shearing time.
Careless and rapid marking causes more
deaths than disease. But if it’s records that
are wanted, what about the performance
of a mate and myself who, with eight
catchers, two earmarkers and swabbers,
marked 3600 lambs in aMick under five
hours —half an hour was lost in yarding
and penning up. I heard of an overseer
who with four cradles in use marked
1000 in an hour. He got the sack.
“Aerogenes”: Two things were notice-
able about the bull sales at Brisbane
Show (B. 24/8/’3B). In the beef cattle
the increase in popularity of the polled
breeds and the higher prices brought by
hornless bulls are signs that beef-breeders
are at last waking up to the demands
of the meat trade. In the dairy cattle,
some bulls sold well, but many others
fetched little, because their dams had
not been tested. Testing costs nothing—
the Government does it free —but success
in testing calls for good farming, and
farmers seem loath to put their methods
to the test.
“Yarrunga”: The 69j-bushel weight
recorded for a prize exhibit of Boomey
wheat at Melbourne Royal Show is
claimed as a world’s record. The sample
was grown by J. W. Eade, of
Euchareena (N.5.W.)., who won with this
variety at the International Grain Exhibi-
tion at Calgary (Canada). Boomey, from
Narromine and Pallamallawa, was placed
second and third respectively in the last
Commonwealth championship at Sydney
Royal. A local production, and similar
in breeding to Gallen (Yandilla King x
Zaff), another great show wheat, weak-
ness of straw rules it out as a farmer’s
wheat. “We do not want to see a
Boomey boom,” says the Vic. Director
of Agriculture.
“Corncob”: Last season nine different
strains of Wellington maize were tried
out at Glen Innes and Armidale (N.S.W.)
(B. 31/8/’3B). A W. Holloway variety
planted by three growers averaged 48
bushels 151 b. to the acre. A sowing on a
fairly light loam, previously potato-
cropped, produced 54 bushels 541 b. per
acre ; a black loam, used for oats before,
gave 51 bushels 241 b., and a third patch
of medium alluvial loam, which housed a
crop of maize previously,. 38 bushels
221 b. The first and last plots were
boosted up by 841 b. of fertiliser and
1121 b. of fertiliser respectively. One thing
stands out: it does not pay to grow
maize twice running on the same land.
“5.8.”: Though attempts to establish
legumes like lucerne and white clover
may have failed, sometimes a few plants
will thrive among the crop of spindly
ones. Pull out the fresh plants and send
them packed in moist fine soil to the
Agricultural Department to have a cul-
ture made from their bacteria. Local
strains of legume bacteria will, when
inoculated on. to fresh seed, usually allow
a plot to be established whefe even
standard cultures have failed. Remem-
ber, though, that failure to establish has
often been blamed on absence of bac-
teria, when it was really due to lack of
super, or poor soil preparation.
“Porcine”: The Australian Meat
Board’s porker- and baconer-carcass
competitions (B. 28/9/’3B) serve an edu-
cational purpose that might be widened
by introducing a feature of similar com-
petitions in the Argentine. In 1925 the
Argentine Pig Breeders’ Association in-
stituted block-test contests. The judging
is done entirely in accordance with the
measurements and weights system. From
the inception the champion carcasses
have been kept in cold storage, and all
are retained side by side for comparison
of progress and types. Australia in 1937
shipped 622,448 cwt. of frozen pork
to the United Kingdom; the Argen-
tine (under Ottawa quota restric-
tion) 691,393 cwt. Maoriland, with
1,740,074 cwt., kept well in the lead.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
How to remove wool from sheepskins? Is
there any chemical solution which can be
painted on the skin side? —5912.
A chemical process is used by several fell-
mongering firms, but the solution is not on the
market and is not known. Your best method
would be by sweating. Sort skins according
to quality and length of wool, and treat each
type separately so as to ensure evenness.
Freshly-butchered skins require less initial treat-
ment than those which are being dried. Soak
skins until they are pliable and soft, then drain
in the shade for about six to 12 hours and trim
off ears, shank pieces, etc. Then hang skins
by the neck on hooks in a shed from which all
air or draughts are excluded and leave until
the wool can be plucked off easily. If no
building is available skins may be stacked close
together, in a spot where the wind cannot reach
them, and covered with sacking or a tarpaulin
until the wool is ready to be “pulled.” Great
care must be taken to select the right moment
for “pulling.” If left too long the hide decom-
poses, and it is impossible to sort the wool
from the skin. If unevenly sweated, the pro-
cess will have to be repeated, and this will also
tend to damage the skin. When the wool can
come away easily from the skin, throw the pelt
over a beam —use a fallen tree-trunk —and
“pull” the wool by pushing it off the skin with
a large blunt knife or similar instrument. Take
care not to mix wool of different length or
quality, and keep free wool apart from the burry
edges. This wool, when thoroughly dried, is
known as “slipe.” It may be sold in this state
or scoured. Unless a fair number of skins are
available for handling, better results may be
obtained by selling the skins in the wool.
How are basils made out of sheep pells ?
SlO2B.
See reply to No. 912 for removing wool.
Tanning process is additional. It is cheaper to
buy basils than to waste time experimenting with
a job full of technical difficulties.
* * * *
I am told that breeding from a young heifer
spoils her for milking at later calvings. Would
killing the first calf at birth help towards in-
creasing her milk supply after the second calf ?
— SIOOO.
If young heifers are bred from before they
are mature the strain of pregnancy and subse-
quent lactation will interfere with growth,
weaken th* constitution and lower the milk
production. The killing of the call won t help,
as the heifer has already been drained of vitality
and still has to produce milk whether the calf
lives or is killed.
* * * *
How can l store oranges and lemons ? No
refrigeration is available.-. 5925.
Valencia late oranges picked during October
and November can be stored in sawdust Iree
from woody taints, or in chaff, in a cool cclbt
for a period of two or three months if care is
taken in the picking. Lemons can be similarly
stored, but, unlike the oranges, they should be
picked when green, sweated in an airy shed lor
four or five days and then placed in the saw-
dust or chaff. Careful handling is essential, and
frequent inspection and culling of mouldy liuit
are necessary. Waste should not exceed 5 p.c.
or 6 p.c.
* * * *
What is the quickest and easiest method of
plucking ducks? —51043.
The usual practice is to immerse the bird
first in cold water, seeing that it penetrates to
the skin, and then dip in almost boiling water
as in the “hard scald.” As soon as some of the
feathers become loose, remove the bird from
the water and wrap in a bag. This al [°^ s 1
steam to thoroughly penetrate to the skin, a >id
after a few minutes the duck can be plucked
in the ordinary way. Sending pamphlet.


Age 40!.
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic, Kidney, Bladder,
Acid or Associated Disorders.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians— are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
1 feel 1 cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
:•>: \ «' ■ \
.. ■•*.'/
*s:i...- 'fSSK■:■:;.' v
' • :< 'M\
• x
, \
HI
v* v*
S.<-Vvv
' .. mmm
m
«-3
SSS?
:• -k
IMI
|Bf $ .:<
k'P ,
K
*&&shm
prf&V':
i :;$»
w-3?3E*:x:*S
mm
ss&■ ■
kSKSsJ?
. • m®m
- • ■
taaawßtt
m
41
sg*
ssv
?•:«
is
• s
Be.-7*Bl
1
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
m
Diaqram shoaiinq Tuipes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crystals
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpointg that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you, and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time sufferers
from Kidney-Bladder-Acid Ills who have fuiled lo get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
WEARY BODIES REVIVE - YOUTH Returns
as Harrison's Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and iinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Hills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them—they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKellar."
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and 1 feel not a day older than 60. 1 have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson."
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week, I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know.—(Signed) J. Taylor.”
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(guarantee!
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects .you in making a trial—if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails—it is free! Titee
sizes: 2/-, 3/-, 5/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated Laboratories, Daking
House, Sydney.
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and . Acid Ills-With
HARRISONS PILLS


fg
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written t
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work from authors; used to manu-
scripts; neat and —ll7O.
Writer, Sydney, going three weeks’ bush walk
late this month, would like to hear from suit-
able companion.—1192.
Lecturer, Sydney, literary topics, seeks en-
gagements, evening.—1178.
Gentleman, Sydney, requires accommodation
three weeks, private family, quiet holiday spot
within 50 miles from Sydney, moderate terms.
■—1172.
To buy cheap edition of While Rome Burns,
by Alexander Woolcott. —1200.
To buy copy of the Anzac Gift Book, pub-
lished during the Great War. —1189.
To buy horse caravan, cheap; must be in
good condition and of neat design.—llB4.
To buy autographed copies of Australian
books published before 1900. —1180.
Photographs of the Torrens, vessel in which
Joseph Conrad visited Australia in February,
1892, and January, 1893; also would like to
hear from any of the crew who sailed in the
ship.—llB6.
Information Sought.
(1) To whom is the N.S.W. Government
subsidised training scheme applicable? (2)
What trades does it cover? (3) Is a man born
August, 1912, eligible? (4) Are positions
guaranteed? (5) Any premium payable? —
1165. 1
(1) To youths and young men of 19-25 years
who are genuinely unemployed and registered
for employment with the State Labor Exchange.
(2) The scheme has been extended to most of
the skilled trades, including the various branches
of the metal trades and building trades. (3) No.
(4) The State Labor Exchange will make every
endeavor to find positions for those registered,
but a youth so registered is advised to make
a personal effort to find an employer who would
be prepared to accept him as an indentured or
trainee apprentice under the scheme. (5) No.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the State Labor Exchange in the district in
which you reside.
* * * *
What is the largest known flying bird natural
to Australia, its natural life span, and number
of eggs usually laid? —998.
The largest flying bird native to Australia is
the wedge-tailed eagle ( Uroaetus audax), though
the native companion and the jabiru stork each
have a body which may be larger than that of
the eagle. Eagles are very long-lived, and in
captivity have attained ages upwards of 70
years; there is no record of their life span in
the natural state. The number of eggs to a
clutch is generally two, though occasionally
clutches of three or one only have been found.
r * * »
(1) What causes waterspouts ? (2) What
height do they generally reach? (3) What dis-
tance do they travel and at what speed? (4)
Do they occur frequently in Australian waters ?
—1093.
(1) A waterspout consists of a central core or
funnel in which the pressure is very low, and
around and up which the air revolves and
ascends at tremendous speed. The funnel ex-
tends downwards from the clouds, and where
it meets the sea the water is violently disturbed
and in the centre is actually drawn up to some
distance. Tornadoes and waterspouts, when
they occur, are associated with a wide area or
trough of low-pressure and with warm, un-
settled, thundery weather. (2) The dark funnel
or core reaches up to cloud height, which may
be up to 3000 ft. or 4000 ft. (3) Up to 50 miles
at a speed from 10 to 50 m.p.h. (4) Only
occasionally. The majority of those reported
have been off the east coast.
* * * #
(1) How was the Australian terrier evolved?
(2) What are its distinguishing characteristics?
—lllO.
(1) Probably from the Yorkshire crossed with
the Scotch terrier. (2) Typically rather low set,
compact and active; hair of wiry texture, coat
about 24in. long; weight 101 b. or 111 b.; head
long, with powerful jaw; eyes small, keen and
dark color; ears small, set high on skull, pricked
or drooped towards the front, free from long
hairs; back straight; forelegs straight, well set
under body; slight feather to knees; black toe-
nails ; hocks of hind legs slightly bent; thighs
strong; color («) blue or grey body, tan on legs
and face, top not blue or silver, ( b ) clear
sandy or red.
* * * *
What was the reason for the dissolution in
1914 of both the Senate and the House of
Reps.?— llls'.
Under Section 57 of the Constitution, it is
provided that, should the Senate fail to pass
or should it amend any proposed law previously
passed by the House of Reps., apd should the
latter House, after an interval of three months,
again pass the proposed law, with or without
the amendments made by the Senate, and the
Senate for a second time reject it or pass it
with amendments to which the Lower House
will not agree, then the Gov.-General may dis-
solve the two Houses simultaneously. This
situation arose, the Cook Government, hope-
lessly outvoted in the Senate, being desirous
of getting a majority in that Chamber. It was
defeated in the elections for both Houses.
What is the story of the abandonment of the
steamer Pilbarra in the Pacific about 25 years
ago ? Mil.
On the run from Noumea to Suva on March
4, 1905, she lost her propeller-blades, and on
the night of the 7th, drifting close into the
s.-e. point of Erromanga (New Hebrides), was
abandoned. The crew, who had landed in
Dillon Bay, saw her at daybreak drifting into
the s.-w., and some of them rowed after her
and boarded her on the Bth at noon. The s.s.
Induna picked up those of the crew who re-
mained at Dillon Bay on the 13th, and then set
out after the Pilbarra, took her into tow off
D’Entrecasteaux Reef (New Caledonia) on the
17th, and took her to Vila Harbor (New Heb-
rides) on the 21st.
# * * *
What are the common characteristics of the
verse forms known as rondeau, rondeau of
Villon, rondel and roundel, and how do they
differ? —1108.
In a rondeau of Villon, which is of 10 lines,
the same refrain is used after the sixth and last
lines. In a rondel, which is of 14 or 13 lines,
according as it ends with a refrain of the first
two or only the first, the first two lines recur
after the sixth, and the first two or the first only
at the end. The word roundel is, as ordinarily
used, the English for rondeau or rondel. They
are poems of fixed forms (named as ending
where they began) with the common character-
istics that the opening word, words, line or two
lines recur at stated places, and that all rhymes
are set by the first two different endings. In a
rondeau, which is of 13 lines, exclusive of
refrain, the first half-line or less recurs as refrain
after the eighth and last lines, either or both.
But it is also applied to a metre of Swin-
burne’s of nine lines, exclusive of refrain, with
a refrain of the rondeau kind after the third
and last lines.
* * * *
In a story dealing with life in early Sydney
a reference is made to a person as being a
writer of “pipes." (1) What were “pipes"? (2)
Where could I obtain full information regarding
them and see specimens? —lll7.
(1) The name given to scurrilous papers
lampooning high-placed officials or other well-
known persons. The word is a slang term and
is the noun of the verb “to pipe”; that is,
to watch a man and in some way victimise him.
The first “pipes” were circulated in 1803
against Governor King, whose efforts to pre-
vent the sale of rum met with much hostility.
(2) See article on the subject in the Australian
Encyclopcedia. The Mitchell Library, Sydney,
has a collection of manuscripts and printed
copies.
* * * *
What is the difference between the account-
ant and the secretary of a company as regards
their respective duties and qualifications? —lll9.
An accountant, strictly speaking, is respon-
sible for the proper keeping of the financial
and/or factory books of a business. He usually
attends to the receipt and payment of accounts,
etc., and comes mostly in contact with people
doing business with his firm. A secretary is
more concerned with the constitutional affairs
of a limited liability company; he is respon-
sible for the proper keeping of the share-
register and the filing of statutory returns. He
should be present at meetings, and is- usually
the public officer for taxation purposes. He
may also do the work of an accountant or
manager. Where there are both an accountant
and a secretary in a business the accountant
usually has a much wider bookkeeping experi-
ence ; the secretary, on the other hand, is
usually much better qualified as regards know-
ledge of company law, conduct at meetings,
correspondence, etc.
■*< * * *
I intend making fishing-rods from Queens-
land timber. Can you tell me (1) how to select
pieces from the felled tree, and (2) how to
season the timber? —ll24.
(1) Straight-grained trees must be selected, and
in subsequent splitting of billets and sawing
the direction of the grain must be followed.
Once straight-grained billets have been split
from a log it is more economical to have middle
and tips sawn from these than by further split-
ting, provided the sawcuts are made to follow
the grain. Mature wood from fully-grown trees
gives the best results. (2) Timber should be
seasoned for at least two years when in billets
and then sawn up when dry. This avoids warp-
ing and twisting of thin pieces while drying.
The timber should be dried very slowly in a
cool place under cover to prevent air cracks
from developing. The ends of the billets should
be painted or greased to prevent too rapid
seasoning and consequent splitting. Small sizes
when freshly sawn should immediately be tied
in bundles, and protected from dry winds, to
keep them straight until the freshly-sawn faces
have reached an air-dry condition.
* * * *
How to prepare a snakeskin for belt-mak-
ing?— 1128.
Soak skin in water for two days, then place
in solution of 31b. slaked lime to 10 gallons
of water. Handle skins each day until scales
can be scraped off the skin. Wash well and
scrape off all loose flesh. Tan in a jar, using
weak, clean wattle-bark liquid obtained from
the bark with cold water. Wash after tanning.
After tanning, lay skin out smooth and flat on
a board and give it a light coat of oil, then
allow to dry. If skin receives too much oil
reduce by immersing 10 minutes in petrol. To
finish, give skin a coat of thick starch solution,
and iron with ordinary domestic iron on the
scale side.
I want to grow roses in a sandy area near
the Sydney coastline. How should the soil be
prepared? —lo9s.
Dig out trenches of sand at least 2ft. 6in.
deep x 2ft. across to the required length and
place sides of boards or galvanised-iron to
keep back the sand. In the trenches pack a
6in. layer of clayey soil, then cover with corn-
bags, old linoleum, coconut matting, grass, rags
or newspapers. Make the top 18in. of soil rich
with rotted leaves and cow manure and plant
the roses in this. Another method is to plant
roses in kerosene-tins and place them in the
trenches. The life of roses in sandy areas,
however, is about five years, when the layering
will have decayed, so the work is purely a
gamble.
* * * *
What bright-flowering plants are most suit-
able for a rockery, the attention to which will be
very limited? Sprinklers are installed so that
there will be plenty of water. —1098.
Plants suitable are geraniums and pelar-
goniums (shades of red, pink, white and purple),
salvias (red and blue), lantana (purple and varie-
gated), mesembryantheums (various colors),
gazanias (a wide variety of colors), pentstemons,
heuchera (coral bells), variegated grasses, irises,
calliopsis (yellow), erigeron (white), physostegias
(white and mauve) and cannas (all colors).
Where pockets of earth are made plant alyssum
(white, yellow and mauve), lobelia (blue) and
Phlox drummondi, all of which will seed and
raise plants. With care in arranging colors at
planting a gorgeous show will result for nearly
all the year.
* * * *
Does it impair the vitality of bulbs to dig
them immediately they have finished flowering ?
—lll3.
Since bulbs store up energy for next year’s
flowering while the foliage carries sap it is pref-
erable to leave them in the ground until the
leaves turn yellow. However, if the beds are
required for other flowers, give the bulbs a
heavy watering, then lift them and store in
sand. Stir a sprinkling of naphthaline into the
sand to destroy insects, which will attack the
bulbs while they are drying.
* * * *
(1) Serviceable fertiliser mixture for chrysan-
themums, and when to apply it? (2) Correct
time to set out young plants in the open
garden ? —ll3O.
(1) Mix together lib. sulphate of iron, lib.
sulphate of potash, 21b. superphosphate and
bonedust, and apply it at the rate of
l£oz. to the square yard, or where each plant
will be grown. Dig it thoroughly through the
soil to a depth of about 12in. A week later
add rotted leaves and ashes to the beds. A
second dressing can be given in February. (2)
Chrysanthemum plants should be set out about
the middle of October. In hot areas shade is
necessary to help plants make quick root-
growth.
* # * *
Recipe of sweet gherkin pickles ? —Bl4.
Choose well-grown but young gherkins and
wipe them with a damp cloth. If they are
wanted soft, they should be gently simmered
with just enough water to cover until they
can be pierced with a knitting needle, drained
and packed into jars; if wanted hard, as when
raw, drop them into boiling water, withdraw
almost immediately, drain slightly and pack into
bottles which have been heated in the oven.
Flave ready a hot pickle mixture made from
sufficient vinegar to cover all the gherkins in
the jars, salted to taste, with one teaspoon of
sugar to every pint of vinegar and a dessert-
spoon of allspice, a few blades of mace and
one or two cloves to every quart. Tie the loose
dry things in a muslin bag and drop into the
vinegar, bring to the boil and keep very hot
for about 20 minutes, then pour over the
gherkins, allow to become cold, and screw
down. More sugar can be used to taste if
wanted very sweet. The addition of a few bird’s-
eye chillies to every jar improves the appear-
ance and imparts a peppery flavor if cooked in
with the vinegar. There are many recipes to
suit different tastes.
* * * *
(1) Did Jimmy Hill, former featherweight
champion of Australia, have any fights in
America? (2) If so, how many contests did he
have, with whom, and results? (3) Is Hill
living, and what is his age? —lo6s.
(1) and (2) Yes, three contests —a four-round
draw with Monk Fowler, a 12-round draw with
Barney Adair, and six rounds with Benny
Volgar, who knocked him out. (3) Hill lives
in Sydney, age 46.
* * * *
(1) How old is the visiting boxer Gus Lesne-
vich ? (2) Was he born in Russia or the United
States? (3) When did he begin boxing? (4)
How many contests has he had? (5) Is he
rated highly in America? —ll66.
(1) 24. (2) U.S.A., of Russian parentage. (3)
As an amateur in 1933, when he won the New
York Golden Gloves middleweight champion-
ship. This championship was again won by
Lesnevich in 1934., (4) He turned professional
in 1935, and has had 56 fights for only two
losses —to Freddie Steele in 1936, and to Young
Corbett a year later. (5) Many critics there
regard him as the world’s uncrowned light-
heavyweight champion.
* * * *
What is the difference in methods of N.S.W.
Rugby Union and Rugby League regarding
putting the ball in the scrum after an infringe-
ment ? —969.
Under Rugby Union the side not responsible
for the infringement has the right to put the
ball in the scrum, but if the referee is in doubt
he shall award the right to the team in whose
half of the ground the scrum has been formed
(Law 15). In Rugby League the half-back of the
side in whose territory the scrum is formed has
to put the ball in the scrum.
* * * *
If a player is injured during a Test match—
to wit, Bradman and Fingleton in the fifth Test
in England—and does not bat, how is it shown
in averages? —BB9.
Under the Laws of Cricket, “when a batsman
has retired owing to illness, injury or some
other unavoidable cause, his innings must be
counted as ‘not out.’ ” The averages of Brad-
man and Fingleton were, therefore, not affected
by their failure to bat.
Brief Answers.
K.T.R.: Milk is the best of foods for the
purpose. Chocolate contains 20 p.c. of fat
and 50 p.c. of sugar; it is not constipating.
Bran is a useful adjunct as roughage, but should
not be eaten to excess, as it is likely to aggra-
vate any tendency to colitis... .F.C.M.E.:
Best plan at the outset would be to consult your
own doctor or a skin specialist about the pos-
sible worth of the remedy. Any solicitor will
tell you how to protect your interests in the
matter Rex: Impossible to suggest the
nature of the complaint without examination.
Itching of the skin is a common symptom in
either parasitic or constitutional affections....
M. (1) The sentence means “All good things
go in threes.” (2) Quotation, especially
in foreign languages, is a risky business. It
should not be above the heads of likely readers
—a pretty problem —nor convey any hint that
the writer thinks himself profoundly learned
and wishes to show it. Douglas Reed is not
guilty on either count; and, in any case, he
uses the same quotation, with a translation,
on p. 211 of Insanity Fair... .M.H.: Write New
Zealand Government Office, 14 Martin-place,
Sydney... .E.G.S.: The Story of Philosophy,
by Will Durant; 7s. 6d W.A.M.: Model
Sailing Yachts (2s. 3d.), Building Model Yachts
(2s. 3d.) and Model Boat Building (Is. 6d.).,..
A.E.H.: If legally it can be established as a
loan to the deceased recipient it would prob-
ably take precedence over the claim of the
hospital for the balance of its account
E. It must be established that a member
of the forces has attained the age of 60 before
he is eligible to receive a service pension based
on age. Documentary evidence should be for-
warded with application to the Deputy Com-
missioner of Repatriation of the capital city of
the State in which claimant resides... .J.M.D.:
Thackaringa station is about seven miles west
of the Pinnacles and 15 miles south-west of
Broken Hill. There is no active mining in the
immediate locality. Particulars as to value, etc.,
are obtainable from the Western Lands Com-
missioner, Sydney... .K.T.: J. J. Quinn is
N. Parliamentary Librarian. He has held
the office since June 1, 1924 N.T.: Britain
Looks at Germany, by Sir Edward Grigg (55.),
published by Nicholson and Watson, London.
. ...H.W.: At the 1933 census, Broome (W.A.)
had a population of 754, of which 438 were
males and 316 females... .P.N.D.: Radio
Advertising in Australia, by W. A. McNair.
. ...A.L.: A recent study of the case of the
Dorsetshire laborers is H. V. Evatt’s Injustice
Within the Law, published by the Law Book
Co., Sydney... .H.S.: Write Defence Dept.,
Melbourne, for copy of pamphlet “The Royal
Australian Air Force as a Career” J.T.:
George Elliott, N.S.W. featherweight champion,
was born at Leichhardt (N.S.W.) on May 11,
1917.. . .E.A.: A special article dealing with
“Australian Hurricanes and Related Storms”
appeared in the Commonwealth Official Year-
Book, No. 16 D.S.: S.A. was the first of
the Australian States to grant women’s suf-
frage (under the Constitution Amendment Act
1894), the franchise being exercised for the first
time at the Leg. Assembly election on April 25,
1896.. . .J.W.T.: (1) The standard weighty of
the sovereign and half-sovereign are respectively
123.27447 grains and 61.63723 grains, but these
coins will pass current if they do not fall below
122.5 grains and 61.125 grains respectively.
(2) Gold coins have ceased to circulate in Aus-
tralia, and Commonwealth Bank notes are legal
tender to any amount... .N.N.: Broadcast
listeners’ licenses in force at June 30, 1937,
were as follows: N.S.W. 356,859, Vic. 288,717,
Q’land 101,324, S.A. 98,917, W.A. 61,151, Tas.
29,780, N.T. 116, F.C.T. 1433; total for Aus-
tralia 938,297... .P.R.: Eamon de Valera re-
ceives a salary of £l5OO p.a. Other Cabinet
Ministers of the Irish Free State receive a salary
of £lOOO p.a. each... .R.M.C.: Queen Mary re-
ceives an annuity of £70,000 from the Civil
List; the Duke of Gloucester and the Duke
of Kent £23,800 each... .N.F.: The House of
Hanover comprised George I. (1714-27),
George 11. (1727-60), George 111. (1760-1820),
George IV. (1820-30), William IV. (1830-37),
and Victoria (1837-1901) D.C.J.: British
Guiana was first partially settled by the Dutch
West India Company about 1620. The Dutch
retained their hold until 1796, when it was
captured by the English and was finally ceded
to Great Britain in 1814....P.T.: The “Rabaul
Times” is published weekly at Rabaul. The
editor is Gordon Thomas... .C.S.: In America
a highball is a whisky and soda served with
broken ice in a tall glass... .J.D.P.: Victor
Gollancz, 14 Henrietta-street, W.C.2, Gerald
Duckworth and Co., 3 Henrietta-street, W.C.2,
Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford-square, W.C.I,
William Heinemann, 99 Great Russell-street,
W.C.I, Methuen and Co., 36 Essex-street,
W.C.2, J. M. Dent and Sons, 10 Bedford-street,
W.C.2—all L0nd0n....W.8.: W.A. Ministry is
as follows: J. C. Willcock (Premier, Treasurer
and Forests), M. F. Troy (Lands and Immigra-
tion), Harold Millington (Works), F. J. S. Wise
(Agriculture and Education), A. R. G. Hawke
(Labor), W. H. Kitson (Chief Secretary),
F. C. L. Smith (Justice and Railways), Hugh
Panton (Mines and Health), E. H. Gray (Honor-
ary Minister) A.W.A.: (1) From Angus and
Robertson, Sydney. (2) Files can be seen at
the .Mitchell Library, Sydney. (3) It is ex-
pected that another edition will be issued early
next year... .K.L.: The phrase is from Goethe
and reads, “Hypotheses are the lullabies where-
with the teacher lulls his pupils to sleep”
M.G.: Translated, the phrase “Actis cevum
implet, non segnibus annis” reads: “He fills
his lifetime with deeds, not with inactive years.”
It is attributed to Albinovanus Pedo, a con-
temporary poet with Ovid G. 8.: At the
elections held on May 19, 1935, the variou
political parties secured the following repre-
sentation in the Czechoslovakian Chamber of
Deputies: Republicans 45, Czechoslovak Social
Democrats 38, National Socialists 28, Czech
Populists 22, Traders 17, National Unity 17,
Fascists 6, Slovak Populists 22, Henlein party
44, German Social Democrats 11, German
Agrarians 5, German Christian Socialists 6,
Communists 30 and United Hungarian parties 9.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
LAID OP FOR WEEKS
BY SCIATICA
At 76 Kruschen Conquered
His Complaint.
At 86 years of age, this man is still going
strong, yet 10 years ago he was laid up
for weeks with an attack of sciatica. But he
conquered the trouble and it has never come
back. Read how he keeps fit in spite of his
advanced age:—
“Ten years ago I was laid up for about a
month with a severe attack of sciatica. I was
quite unable to sleep and 1 suffered very
much. I tried several remedies, but obtained
little relief. At last I saw one of your adver-
tisements, and decided to give Kruschen a trial.
I stuck to it and took about half-a-tcaspoonful
every morning in my tea, and my sciatica gradu-
ally went. 1 was 86 last month—still going
strong —and my friends ask me how I keep my
clear skin and healthy looks. I tell them all
it is due to Kruschen Salts.” —C.T.L.
Whether you are in your ’teens or past your
prime, it is neither too early nor too late to
start on the “little daily dose.” Just a tiny,
tasteless pinch in your morning tea or coffee —
that’s the Kruschen rule for constant fitness.
CUCKOO
.
N
■amm
later
I've just bought a
VALET
#
OF ALL
DEALERS
BRITISH MADE
Don’t hurry! Don’t scramble! Don’t panic! Buy a
Valet and take your mornings easy. What a quick, slick,
clever razor the Valet is. Strop for a few seconds then
shave! That’s the way the Valet works. No bits or
pieces. No fiddling about, taking out old blades, putting
in new. For when you put a Valet blade into a Valet
razor there’s literally week after week of perfect
shaving from that one blade. So it isn’t only time
that a Valet saves it’s money as well. Valet prices
run from 4/6.
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSOIS & COMPANY (PTY) LTD. *lBl Clarence Street, Sydney
VALET AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
H.L.E., X.H., A.E.S., P. 8., E.W. and S.C.:
No more war, please... .8.C.: Flat... .W.J.M.:
Praiseworthy—politically....M.P.: The farmer
“grateful for Nature’s lavish hand” was original
anyhow R.T.M.: Liked mooger droody,
but that’s all E. 8.: Just verses L.P.:
Prefer not to comment... .0.C.: “O Love!
thou art indeed a mystery.” O Poesy, too
R.McD.: Yes, but writing enthusiastic verses
won’t really help the birthrate P.H.: Should
click elsewhere... .F. 8.: Get a wife who can
darn your poems, t00....E.5.: Moralising....
R.D.: And “The Wages of Sin” unpaid....
A.V.P.: You’d have to spell it “lampoom”
to make a rhyme... .8.L.D.: Stick to the
mine... .P.G.: “If this joyous piece of spon-
taneity doesn’t suit, consign it to the w.p.b., as
1 have dozens of copies for other editors.”
Send ’em to our enemies then... .E.L.K.:
Might suit a women’s paper....D.B.: Admon-
ished and discharged... .F.J.S.: Much too im-
proving M.H.: Sitting that dance out
C.N.H.: Perhaps... .M.N.D.: Horrible
C.P.: Christmas-card verses... .A. 8.: Noble
sentiments, but “Australia, it’s up to you” is a
dreadful refrain K.O’L.: “The Fireside”
needs kerosene... .F.McG.: Haven’t a corner
for “good old Dogger Bill” L.V.L.: She’s
no Pygmalion.... R.P.: Poem with “did de-
part” in it did depart rapidly L.H.: Not a
successful “Transfusion” P.K.: Over the
hills and miles away VJ.: Why?
E.A.H.: It’s been done to death... .M.D. and
R.L.: Slight... .D.1.C.: Guessed it in 0ne....
H.E.G.: Not much S.T.: Something there,
but it needs better handling G.C.G., D.G.
and A.F.: None of those... .D.W.: Hocus-
pocus... .T.G.N.: 0ut....T.P.: Seen it before.
. ...G.N.: Tut-tut... .J.P.D.: You frighten us.
.. . .8.V.: “Marksman” missed... .L.D.: You’ve
a long road to travel J.L.: You, too
P.C.A.: Subject has been growled about
several times lately V.F.: Time, please
P.D.N.: “Fruits of Virtue” a little seedy
S. : Trifling... .N.F.: Purple sunsets, green
lightning, yellow dawns! Out!... .R.F.M.:
Keep trying... .P.T.N.: Not that one, but we
wouldn’t mind inspecting some more....
A.T.L.: “Short Story” too short and not a
story... .8.L.T.: Neat, but not for u 5....
K. : Fair; come again N.S.T.: No
place for fairy tales 8.N.N.: “Explosion”
only spluttered.... W.C.S.: Yes, we’ve read
worse, but not much C.C.C.: You’re let off
with a caution... .F.L.M.: Finish spoils it....
T. : Characters too flimsy H.M.H.:
“Drama Unfolded” folded and returned....
N.McM.: This week’s worst... .M.F.F.: Con-
signed it to the morgue with 6,548,291 of its ilk.
T.L.H.: We had almost dared to think
that the last prospector had died of thirst
in the desert for the last time J.M.T., G.T.,
L. and D.C.V.: Not up... .J.H.8.:
You’re not up to handling it C.L.K.: It
earned a second glance W.G.: Not far off.
N.L.: Cut drastically it might get in
S.M.: You should find Old Andy a berth else-
where... .A.C. and E.F.: Thanks for the ex-
planation. ... D.H.C.: Interesting, but not quite
up S.S.S.: It isn't a story H.S.R.: Think
n0t.... A.S.S.: We used that idea a couple of
months back.... W.D.F.: Not for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.R.: No handout for the freakish swagman,
no bone for his d0g....P.L.: Lost count of
the mistakes C.S.: A familiar friend....
M. There’s an idea there, but you’ve got
too many signposts and too many funny little
men with labels on their backs C.A.: Can’t
find any improvement K. 8.: Missed the
bu5....H.J.: Nothing funny about that stodgy
effort... .M.W.: Another veteran.. . .W.C.D.:
Try again; linework is too heavy and figures
are badly posed N.K.: Gags must be new.
. ...N.T.: “I’m a very raw novice.” We know.
. ...S.S.: Joke has some humor, but the illus-
tration is rough as bags R.G.: The deco-
rative border is the best part of it W.M.:
It’s an oft-drawn subject K.M.: You
should have made a better job of the P.M.
than that F.H.: Political cartoons need to
be red-hot; yours is stone-c01d... .G. 8.: A
hopeless tangle of jagged lines... .N.J.S.: Why
are all your characters bent up as if they had
violent stomach aches?... .P.J.: The lad is
shaping well, but he needs a fair amount of
training J.O’S.: Many a strange bloke blows
into this office, but never before one like
that... .G.T.: Promising... .W.J.8.: Have re-
fused hundreds of drawings of gents standing
in their bathtubs while the “National Anthem”
was played 8.K.: Lacks polish L.A.C.:
Not bad, but you’re weak on anatomy....
S.M.: Three misshapen children, a lopsided
mother and a musty joke... .D.D.S.: Barber-
shop bores have been circulating that wheeze
for decades... .W.W.: Try working with a finer
pen and a smoother board F.T.: Can’t
use your curate or the lady organist with an
overdose of pimples A.J.: Can’t you draw
two people without making them look like
Siamese twins?
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Ninety years ago two little toddlers
arrived in the Philip Laing, one of the
two migrant ships that went to
Otago (M.L.) from Scotland to settle it
as a Presbyterian community. The two
surviving passengers died recently within
a day of each other Mrs. M. Stewart
at Wellington (M.L.), and Mrs. J. L.
Soutter at Sydney, where her husband
was associated with the firm of Johnnie
Walker.
* * * *
“Delia”: Intelligent dogs? Certainly.
Let me introduce one vouched for by a
Boston (Eng.) correspondent of London
“Times.” It was a lady dog, a fox
terrier with a family of puppies. When
its master died and the family went into
mourning, it was observed to be greatly
distressed. Later the family was
astonished to see both mother dog and
her family changed from white to black.
The faithful creature had discovered a
large bottle of ink on the library floor
and, after upsetting it, rolled herself and
puppies in the liquid until all were in
mourning from head to foot.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Marathon golf at-
tained its peak—to date, at any rate —
with the undertaking by one Ferebee to
play 600 holes in four days across the
United States, for the usual alleged wager
of 100,000 dahlars. He began at Los
Angeles, flew to the Phoenix club in
Arizona, and on to Kansas City, St.
Louis, Milwaukee, Chicago, Philadelphia
and N.Y. Every 18 holes had to be done
under 100, and Ferebee averaged 85.5
strokes a round. He finished “drawn,
haggard and footsore.” Writer empowers
his executors to wager a pound (Scots)
that the next Yankee ass will play a
round of the world—’Frisco, Hawaii,
M.L., Australia and home, via Malaya,
Western Asia and Yurrup, with a final
jump of the Atlantic.
* * * *
“Double Express”: Much interested in
the theory (B. 14/9/’3B) that there is little
or no shocking power in the big-bore
game rifles compared with that handed
out by the high-velocity .303. That is
not the writer’s experience. Shot once
at close range with a 450 Martini-Henry
firing a soft lead projectile, his impres-
sion was that someone —writer was lying
in the firing line of a South Africa scrap
—had crept up behind and hit him on
the back of a thigh with a huge sledge-
hammer. The bullet, fired from a few
yards away, ran down the outside of the
thigh and came out in the popliteal space
at the back of the knee, removing much
meat and later that night causing a frayed
artery to burst. That did not seem im-
portant beside the unbelievable knock ex-
perienced. In the same hospital tent was
a mate who had taken a Mauser bullet
through his chest. Comparing notes he
said that beyond a burning sensation
for a moment he had no idea he was hit.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The death in Shanghai
of Tang Shao-yi, aged 78, is an example
of the long hand of Chinese vengeance.
Tang was educated in America, and be-
came a high official under the Manchus.
When the accidental explosion of a bomb
at Wuchang in 1911 inaugurated the
Yellow Republic, Tang, as a venerable
symbol satisfactory to all parties, became
first President. He hastily resigned four
months later in favor of Yuan, who had
sidetracked the revolution in the interests
of the monarchy. Yuan was poisoned
when he tried to reinstal the Son of
Heaven, and Tang went into exile. He
reappeared as one of the four heads of
the revolutionary Canton Government in
1918. He held a bewildering variety of
posts under various Governments, but
finally retired to the Shanghai Inter-
national Settlement to end his days in the
extravagantly cultured manner of the
Chinese intellectual. But his association
with the Manchus and Yuan was never
forgotten, and the other day assassins
entered his home on Grange-road and
battered him to death with axes.
* * * *
The exuberant Edgar Ansel Mowrer,
reporting the Chinese war for Melbourne
“Age,” and quoting the statement of
one Sokolsky, made in 1932, that “the
essential struggle in China is between
Nationalism and Communism”:
Obviously he could not foresee that in
1935 Stalin and Dimitrolf would swing the
Communist International squarely behind
democratic nationalist movements wherever
Communist co-operation was acceptable,
that a Communist reconciliation with
Chiang would be 1936’s Christmas present
to China.
Dimitroff is a Bulgar. Stalin, of course,
is a Georgian. In world affairs and in
things of the mind and the spirit Bulgars
and Georgians have never amounted to
a row of pins. But writing men, trade-
union hierarchs and even British noble-
men and bishops have been taking in-
structions from or placing their legs at
the disposal of members of these back-
ward races.


The Call of
The Bell
m
m
(Above Bell cast for a W.A. Church.)
BELLS OF FINE TONE AND
ACOUSTIC QUALITIES CAST
FOR • RELIGIOUS • CIVIC
• FESTIVAL and • MEMORIAL
PURPOSES.
Iron towers supplied for holding
the bell if desired .
Write for Leaflet.
PHONE: M 6505 18 LINES-LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY 8.30 P.M.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)!
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Banish
Backache and
Bladder
Weak n ess . . .
“The intestinal tract is the most
prolific source of disease’*... Prof. K.
Schmeidler, famous German doctor.
f
Backache and blad-
der weaknesses are
now traced to self-
poisoning (autox-
ima), a condition
brought about by
modern foods
which deny the
necessary exercise
to the intestinal
tract. Because of
this the colon walls
become encrusted
with acid-produc-
ing, bacteria-breed-
ing food waste. The
acid poisons seep through the system, the
kidneys and bladder are attected. Getting
up at nights, painful urination, lack of
vitality, and backache result these can
only be remedied by removing the cause
. . . self-poisoning.
“ I am cured . .
“/ have much pleasure in telling you what
COLOSEPTIC has done for me,” writes Mr.
£. A. S., Fielding. “It has cured me of long
standing weakness in kidney and bladder.
I could not walk any distance . . . Now I
can say that COLOSEPTIC has done its
good work —/ am cured.”
COLOSEPTIC brings rapid relief from
backache and bladder weaknesses be-
cause it immediately rectifies the cause
self-poisoning. COLOSEPTIC tones up the
walls of the colon, restores muscular elas-
ticity, and removes all poisonous food
waste. Moreover, COLOSEPTIC stimulates
the pores of the skin, the respiratory
system, and the kidneys - other organs
which remove poisons from the body. Thus
acid conditions are ended ... a bacteria-
free alkaline reserve is built up. You gain
permanent relief from kidney trouble and
bladder weakness . . . you regain perfect
health, comfort and peace of mind.
TRIAL OFFER: Send your name and address,
the name of this paper, and 3d. in stamps to
Coloseptic ( Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell Street.
Sydney, and a FREE sample of COLOSEPTIC
will be sent to you, together with an intimate
book telling you all about autoxima.
1111
(O^
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
gf
45>
o
-v
When
a Woman
tells you:
that people often take
her for year*
younger than she
is owing to her
white teeth,
that she’s used no-
thing but Calvert’s
since she left
school—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
yA AR/r
v 5
Wf
v 4
a
0»»
A MIXED GRILL.
In 1933 116,000 people in N.S.W. were
i . i-
employed by public authont e.
Stevens’s calculation and expression.
Last year the number was 151,000. The
35,000 added, and many thousands more,
have a vested interest in the borrowing
pohey, which is confidently expected by
eV f e o n r S ev a e?. d
startling show if they all had to wear
unitorms. + * *
“Mine-Tinkit”: Not all country
policemen are as hard as one is led to
believe. Two “rattler-jumpers,” caught
at a small N.Q. town, were taken to the
“clink.” Passing that place a few hours
later, the guard of the train was astounded
to see the two prisoners playing marbles
with the lockup keeper’s kids while the
Jimb o’ the law was pulling a crosscut
through tough ironbark with the black-
tracker
* * * *
“Notaden”: There seems to me to be
a large and promising field for co-opera-
tion and collective effort among scientific
workers. Take, for example, dairying,
Why don’t the genetic crowd sort out
their genes so as to get some improve-
ment from a cow’s mere four teats to-
wards a sow’s 14? Or, better still, why
not eliminate the horns, hoofs, tail, moo.
an opening at the top'for raw
d the m?lir 1 Take it a sten
drawing off the milk. Take it a step
further, and if you want butter inoculate
the bag with malaria. The shivers and
chills would churn and cool the contents.
Dairying on these lines would cut out
all the present uproar me s and early
i. , 5* n S; 1 offer the idea to th C.S. c
I.K. tree of charge. *
*, . »*•.!, t,: O Kiocctrw*•
kwakprak, with his bless ng-
Royal commissions often collect a lot or
useless information, but a request of Chief
Judge Dethridge, chairman of the commission
on the National Incubus, was completely
to the point. He wanted to know whether
Australians to-day are making more, and how
much more, use of free hospital services than
did those of 20 years or so back. Also, he
realises the tendency of g.ps. to send patients
to public hospitals as an honest effort to limit
infection risks or prevent serious later conse-
quences. The fact is that the Australian pro-
fessional outlook has changed remarkably even
m the last 10 years. The B.M.A. itsejt is
guided by men Australian-born and -trained,
Australian-minded, mostly war-tried with the
A.I.F. and alive to their social and national
duties ajid responsibilities. * *
.. Ma * ndurah ,. * xhc main reason why
Aus(ra|i d ~ rush Austra l ian lin „ed
S r in
quantity worth tinning. Cold-water fish,
soft in bone and firm of flesh are
required; and, apart from Bass Strait,
where are the breeding-grounds. All
along the Bight to far past Cape Leeuwin
is thousand-fathom water only a short
distance from the shore and tinnablc
fish don’t breed in that depth. Up north
the continental shelf is extensive, and the
fish swarm : but not the sort tor canning,
rhe broad-headed mullet is certainly a
canned product de luxe— when you get it.
I have bought sand- and silver-mullet
which, in the tin, became a mass of slops
surrounding a backbone comparable to
a steel comb. The best smoked fish
ever tasted was snapper, done with real
smoke here in W.A. 1 tned smoked
snapper impoited from anothet .State-
no good! +
,* an effort to dodize trouble
• • „ , when its
new Gaming and Betting Bill is enforced
XtotraZ? whiehto ySs has kt
lawbreakers and taxdodgers have the use
telenhones and wireless and co their
“ telephones ana wireless, ana go ineir
narc,e * * * *
MUe „. Talking of bi n ieS) I
aU one that hel d to make hist ory.
Around the big c J cretc tank on . top of
Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie, were assembled
twenty thousand spectators and a galaxy
of politicians and their ladies: all there
to see John Forrest turn the valve that
, ~ ft „ufl o u c
opened the goldfields water -ch m ,
then the greatest work of its kind in the
world. Old John turned the valve and a
f oun ( a j n 0 f water, clear and sparkling,
. . j ■ , O ,J
came gushing up. What about a drink.
someone suggested. That portion of the
ceremony was obvious. But authority
.1 npnlpctpfl to nrovidc a. bucket or even
naa negiectea to proviac a DUCKei, or even
a bright new billycan. A navvy offered
his billy. On a string it was lowered,
blackened and battered with the smoke
and knocks of a hundred boilings. But it
brought up the magic water: water that
was shared, round, drunk in a kind of
sacrament to the genius of O Connor,
the dead engineer who had made the
miracle possible, and to the vision and
courage of Forrest himself. Most
Premiers have a small museum of gold-
mounted shovels, keys and the like. John
Forrest failed to collect that historic
billy: with most of the crowd gone its
owner lowered it again, for a fill to boil
for midday tea.
* * * *
“Debil-debil”: Customs have changed
since I was in the bone-pointing pro-
fession. None of my victims was ever
honored with a post-mortem, but that
distinction was accorded to the remains
of an abo. out Mt. Isa way who turned it
in for keeps after learning that some false
pretender had pointed the thighbone of
a turkey at him. The dying part of the
business would have been quite under-
standable to the deceased’s cobbers,
but the verdict given by the M.O. who
conducted the post-mortem would have
them tricked ; death was due to “obses-
sion and a persecution complex.”
* * * *
Westralian Labor claims that the
Government trading concerns showed a
surplus for the year to June 30. It admits
losses on meatworks (£20,385), ships
(£23,896), implement works (£6085) and
brickworks (£2940), but declares that
quarries (£9B), pubs (£9337) and sawmills
(£54,235) turned them into a profit of
£10,404. It also reports a surplus of
£69,726 —the first for 10 years—on public
utilities. Some of the public utilities arc
as chronic cases as the ships and the
meatworks, but on one the Government
can always depend—Fremantle harbor,
which supplied all the £69,726 surplus
and £44,823 more. The explanation is
that the Fremantle Harbor Trust is used
as a taxgatherer.
* * * #
“Yarra Ben”: For a first-class old-man
mine I give the Victorian blue ribbon to
the Morning Star, Woods Point. It was
discovered in 1861, and the first crushing,
by dolly, yielded 330 z. from 15cwt. of
stone. A crude eight-head battery was
erected —no part weighed more than
2001 b., the limit a pack-horse could
carry. In 1864 the stampers were found
to be moving in a solid bed of amalgam,
and the output was 1200 oz. a week.
Between 1862 and 1866 five shareholders
received dividends totalling £120,000.
With occasional breaks the mine has
been going ever since.
* * * *
“Maloola”: If ever the rails are
joined between Alice Springs and Birdum
on the north-south line, one of the sights
that should be exploited is the vast array
of termite castles that dot the landscape
over hundreds of miles. Beginning as
mere huts, these weird buildings grow in
height as northing is made, attaining any-
thing from 15ft. to 20ft. when approach-
ing Darwin. As hard almost as con-
crete, these castles withstand the wildest
hurricanes of the wet season equally with
the aridness of the dry. Science esti-
mates that many of the larger ones occu-
pied hundreds of years in their building.
Shapes are infinite and weird: domes,
blunt minarets and, far to the north, the
magnetic type, rather rare. But the ob-
vious puzzle to the casual observer is
what the teeming life inside these mounds
finds to live on. Timber is not over-
plentiful, but trees of a sort do exist
where one would expect everything to
have been eaten up long years ago.
Apparently the termites prefer grass;
storerooms on being broken into will be
found packed with chaff. Harvesting is
done at night, the workers, under a guard
of soldiers, pouring out from openings
kept sealed through the daylight hours.
Queerly, almost every mound shows
colonies of black ants which have taken
possession of abandoned galleries.
* * * *
“Wings”: In giving thumbs down to
nitro-glycerine as possible motor-fuel,
“H.A.L.” (B. 24/8/’3B) merely restates
common knowledge. The real point is
this: Petrol is a bulky, rather inefficient,
and quite dangerous fuel derived by dis-
tillation from a subterranean oil; nitro-
glycerine is a synthetic product obtained
by the action of nitric and other acids
on a fatty or a cellulose base. As an
explosive nitro-glycerine is nearly 100
p.c. efficient. A fractional drop of it
would force down the piston of an in-
ternal-combustion engine just as effec-
tively as petrol does; the real danger
would lie in the possible explosion of
the supply tank. But Edison didn’t sug-
gest employing n.-g. as we know it;
he advised using it as a starting point
for investigation, with the possibility of
discovering a synthetic fuel, less hair-
triggered but, compared with petrol,
infinitely more powerful. Our Govern-
ments should be encouraging chemists
to do this. And don’t say that such a
synthetic fuel couldn’t be produced,
because that’s what the bow-and-arrow
man used to say about petrol and a few
other modern things.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a Victorian for an interesting challenge to accepted
standards.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
Challenge!
The incidence of wages and salaries
is all wrong. As a man gets older in
business, in industry and in Govern-
ment services, he rises higher in position,
more often than not just because he is
older, and therefore becomes entitled to
draw higher wages. When he is about
60 he gets the highest salary of his career
—and needs it least. At that age his
family has grown up and gone away from
him, he spends more time at home, and
is quite content to do so —yet he gets
more money.
A man’s needs are greatest when he is
between 30 and 50, when his children are
growing up, when they have to be edu-
cated, when he likes to knock about
more, to see places, when he actually
spends more in proportion to his wages
than at any other time in his life. Give
the man at that period the money to
spend, and he’ll spend it, not wastefully,
but on his home, on his wife, on his
children, on his own comforts —which
would be all to the good of the com-
munity, because it is the man that spends
who keeps the wheels of industry mov-
ing. After 50 the amount received in
wages should get less and less, slowly but
surely, for after that age a man’s powers,
no matter what his experience is, are on
the wane. (Mind, I’m referring to man
in general, not to the extraordinary
specimen who keeps going till 70 or even
80.)
This idea is partly carried out in the
uolice force, but rather more drastically,
because when an officer reaches the early
police retiring age he is dropped suddenly
back to a pension basis. Even so, for the
benefit of the community at large, what-
ever the method, the idea should be uni-
versal.—Two Jays (Vic.).
Three guineas, with 2 id. a line added,
for “Two Jays”—R. J. J. Affleck, 847
Canterbury-road, Box Hill (Vic.).
Godmother to Foreigners
In a radio talk on the situation in
Europe I gleaned that Britain, having
already guaranteed the neutrality of
Sweden, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland,
etc., is to add to this list that of Czecho-
slovakia. Therefore, these countries,
backed by the might of Britain, need not
tax themselves out of existence to main-
tain the mad race in arms. It also means
that Britain should impose heavy bur-
dens upon its people to be able to honor
commitments in this direction. So, while
Britain is spending money in this way,
the countries I mention can spend theirs
on developments in industry, etc.
I contend that these “adopted chil-
dren” should contribute so much per head
of the population to the British Treasury,
thus to relieve the taxpayers of England
somewhat, and also leave her something
with which she could help develop her
overseas dominions, such as Australia.
It is all right to be the godmother of
the rest of the world, but pretty hard on
“our family.”— T. Howarth (Tas.).
A New Word
There are probably quite a number
of as yet unmade words that would widen
the English language. An extremely use-
ful one would be the common gender,
singular number of “they” (and, of
course, “them”). To be clearer still, we
require a word like “it” that could be
applied to a person.
It would do away with this type of very
awkward sentence: “Each entrant will
submit his or her result by the end of
July.” With animals things are so much
simpler: “Each dog must be submitted
w ‘ d P ctl >e icc -
Such a new word would be much more
useful than many thal no w fill the Oxford
Dictionary —words like “diazotize,” “por-
istic” and others which are probably used
only by one person in a million every ten
years.
It is strange that the Americans, with
their wonderful if slightly perverted
facility of word-forming, have not filled
up this very empty gap. — M. K. Green
(N.S.W.).
“ There's nothing like toast made over a Wood fire."
“Unto Others”
j n t j mes sucb as tbe p resen t, when the
international outlook is so very unsatis-
factory, it behoves every citizen to do his
or ber part in promoting the welfare
of the world at la for a start to
adopt a certain to i eranC e towards our
fellows in countries beyond the bounds
of Empire . We of the British Common-
wealth F seem to be endeavoring to set an
example for our neighbors to follow,
Surel F then . our * duty to see the
other fellow’s point of
We honor P ur King as a great and
worthy leader of his people, ready at
ad times to further their interests. We
are rightly indignant when outsiders
make bold to criticise his high office
yet it seems to be a common practice
0 f our own citizens to launch bitter
attacks against the leaders of other
nations We heap insults upon these
leaders which, if directed against our
own sovereign, would evoke the great-
est possible outburst of indignation.
We in Australia are far too apt to
tread on the di Bnity of others, yet deeply
resent being trodden on ourselves. Let
us be more rational in our outlook. —
Brolga (Q.)
' ’ ’
The Jewish Problem
Th P u i * ui u *
Jews ~7“ ,rouble tfT
and rev °lutlon IS the query Shak-
speare puts into the mouth of Shylock:
“If you wrone m chall not reverb”
In AmtS h’ • %“£
Jews hav,K duri “«. a “ d the nar,
Governor. Govemor-GeneraT and com'
mander of the A.I.F. In Russia, during
the same period, Jews led a savage revo-
lution. The reason is that Jews had
always been free citizens in Australia,
persecuted outcasts in Russia. This has
an important bearing on the refugee
question. So long as we don’t admit them
in sufficient numbers to form alien com-
munities, German Jews should be just as
desirable as German Christians.
There is one point for the Jews
themselves to consider. At present, rural
development is our chief need, while
most of the trades and professions are
overcrowded. If a reasonable number
of Jewish immigrants could make a suc-
cess of land settlement, it would knock
their opponents’ chief argument endways.
—Heresone (Q.).
Modern Cultural Standards
The adoption of universal free educa-
tion and the invention of such potential
aids to instruction as the radio and the
cinema led us to expect that our general
cultural standards would be considerably
raised. Such is obviously not the result.
The cinema and wireless, especially under
the influence of commercial interests, are
used for the so-called “entertainment” of
the multitude. And since the tastes of
the multitude in music tend to be super-
ficial and shoddy, those are the predomi-
nant standards set.
In literature the position is even more
deplorable. The spread of popular edu-
cation created an enormous public for
the “literature of escape.” But in the
modern frenzy to avoid life by seeking
artificial stimulation of the senses, even
Ethel M. Dell and Clarence E. Mulford
are losing sway. People have no time for
reading. Thus we have the growth of
comic strips, adventure strips, mystery-
story strips and similar monstrosities to
replace reading material. These, far
from trying to raise cultural standards,
drag them into the depths. People want
them, we are told. The depressing thing
is that this appears so largely true. A
very few papers like The Bulletin are
fighting the tendency, and anyone who
has a love of literature will wish them
victory.—Y. G. H. (Maoriland).
Standard of Living
Surely one of our worst national
shibboleths is this much-vaunted “Aus-
tralian standard of living,” claimed to be
the highest in the world, and mouthed
by everyone who seeks to excuse a strike,
a bounty, a State grant or a “home-
consumption price.” We have no
national standard of living ; instead we
have many standards, ranging from that
enjoyed by captains of primary or
secondary industry to that “enjoyed” by
families depending on relief work. And
the range is a vast one. Instead of
“keeping up our high living standard” we
should set about raising it for some sec-
tions of the community and lowering it
for other sections. As an instance:
It might be economically necessary to
make Australians pay high prices for
their own butter so that the same butter
can be sold cheaply to Englishmen, but
when it is obvious that, because of the
home price, thousands of Australian chil-
dren don’t get nearly enough butter to
give them a good physical start in life,
it seems like a sacrifice of future national
fitness. This country produces some of
the best food in the world, but far too
many of us only hear about it. Our stan-
dards of living are a national disgrace.
Any other nation suddenly given the
country would produce supermen on
what the land offers. — Mat’s Mate
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
Everyone seems to be asking everyone
if it is advisable to compel our youth to
become accustomed to handling arms,
and I, for one, think it is. Not that I am
in favor of force in anything. After all,
it is a free country, apart from any reser-
vations about the “freeness” when
income-tax assessments come along
annually.
I feel sure ihat army discipline and a
bit of hard work would do the post-
proppers outside our bars and s.p. shops
a lot of good.
However, my opinion, in the eyes of
my own family, doesn’t matter, because I,
as they mention, am a mere child of 19.
But I have been in the militia for nearly
two years, and I see no reason why I
should prepare to defend Australia and
make posts more secure for idlers to
lean upon while they stand by and hurl
remarks which are not even witty. I find
the time I spend at parades and camps
very interesting, not only in the actual
art of warfare, but also in the fellowship
of my battalion. The army is a great
leveller, and there are some splendid
types in it —a large number of them,
incidentally, being “mere children.”
Some people are of the opinion that if
compulsory training were enforced the
rag-tag that would be accepted in the
various battalions would tend to lower
the efficiency and appearance
of the unit; but I feel sure
that once they were in the
army the spirit of the thing
would get into them, and they
would want to snap out of
their trance and improve
themselves up to the level of
their volunteer fellows. —
Noel H. T. Bird (W.A.).
Reintroduction.of compul-
sory military training has be-
come a national necessity.
The voluntary system has
failed dismally to gather to-
gether anything like a re-
spectable standing army,
while fatuous beckoning ad-
vertisements and “brighter”
uniforms have proved quite
useless.
Apart from the defence
aspect, the average Aussie is
an easygoing, casual bloke,
and a little discipline and
training would do him no
harm. Lack of pedestrian
training and obedience is re-
sponsible for a big percentage
of the terrible deathroll of
the road. Further, it would
provide an outlet for the energies of our
workless young men, with a suitable
career for those showing talent and ambi-
tion in their service. Australia can, and
will, produce another Monash when the
time comes. War or no war, the Federal
Government must act now. Peter
Piper (N.S.W.).
Our Own Heroes
Why do we forget our great Austra-
lians? Melba won the world with her
art and focused overseas attention on the
land of her birth, to which she always
returned. I see no memorial to her in
Melbourne, from which capital she took
her stage-name.
And Kingsford Smith, who for years
flashed Australia’s name before the eyes
of newspaper readers all over the globe.
I see no monument to honor his
memory. Nelson is honored in every
sailor’s uniform; could we not have
every R.A.A.F. button embossed with
the “old bus” (the Southern Cross)
or with Smithy’s profile? Surely we
could afford that.
There are others, too, we forget to
remember. Yes, I know they did some-
thing about Phar Lap—but I mean
humans. —W. H. Cox (Vic.).
Parliament on the Air
Australia could well take a leaf
out of Maoriland’s notebook and
broadcast Parliamentary debates. At
present the public rarely sees or
hears its politicians except at elec-
tion times. If Parliamentary debates
were broadcast the public would get a
far greater insight as to how election
promises were being carried out. The
average man has no time to read long
and often tedious accounts of them in


l.— ..l. V:.L
CSI cs
nM.
COMMONWEALTH
&AVINQS BANK
O/ AUSTRALIA
Tf
4
if
Go in with your savings —
and come out well-to-do
THE way to do a thing is to
go and do it. If there be a
particular disagreeable task
before you, begin with that, and
so save yourself several hours of
dread. The men who have suc-
ceeded in life have been able to
turn the spare moment, which
most of us frivol away, into pro-
ductive work or thought.
So it is with Money. The way to
away what you can well save.
Let your money work for you;
put it in the Savings Bank against
the day when you will have your
Opportunity.
The man who wins is the aver-
age man; not built on any peculiar
plan, nor blest with any peculiar
luck; just steady and saving and
full of pluck.
There is a Commonwealth Savings
Bank near you. Use it. It is
be well-to-do is to begin tucking there for you to use.
Commonwealth
Savings Bank
♦ • ♦ of Hustralia ♦ ♦ •
“AWfITEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
gf
the newspapers. Anyone who has listened
to the Maoriland broadcasts of Parlia-
ment cannot fail to be interested by the
procedure alone, even if their politics do
not interest him.
If Parliament knew that it had a vast
listening audience good results would
come in time. Members would conduct
themselves with more decorum, and
cease personal quarrels and the hurling
of abuse at others. Thus more time
would be left for serious work.
A little more knowledge by the aver-
age man and woman of the inside work-
ings of Parliament and compulsory vot-
ing would be unnecessary. They would
want to vote, and would know whom to
vote for and why. —P. Lambert Smith
(N.S.W.).
Soap-box Pacifists
Judging by the attitude of certain soap-
box orators, one would imagine that they
are the only people who are concerned
about world peace. Many citizens have
been hoodwinked into membership of an
organisation by these “anti”-war dis-
ciples.
Peace propaganda, in many instances,
is only a plot for deceiving the unwary.
Nevertheless, how successful it has been!
To-day every man and woman out-
side of a mental home wants peace,
though they do not proclaim it from the
housetops. In my opinion the comrade
who rants for peace is a self-styled hum-
bug, since he supports an organisation
that exists for no other reason than to
stir up violent revolution in every coun-
try on earth..
The Marxists are stupid enough to
believe that a general conflagration would
be a blessing in disguise, because Social-
ism would emerge out of it. But this
is not included in the oration.
Not so long ago we heard that “war is
hell; let the capitalist go there.” What
has become of that slogan?
A warmonger is not an agreeable per-
son. Nevertheless, 1 prefer him to one
who talks with his tongue in his cheek. —
A. Giles (S.A.).
Racial Differences
For months the racial-purity “tyranny”
of dictators Hitler and Mussolini has
been rammed down our throats by horri-
fied Australian newspapers. Screaming
headlines have told of frightful Jewish
persecutions—it’s a wonder to me that
any Jews still exist in Germany, but
there still seem to be plenty—and we
are piously expected to swallow the lot
and thank our lucky stars that we are not
as the rest of men —ruthless persecutors.
To judge from the abuse we hurl at
others one would imagine that the breath
of intolerance had never fouled the air
of White Australia. What is the attitude
of the same newspapers to strangers on
our own soil? What about the Italian
“invasion”? Where are the welcoming
headlines for the Austrian Jews who are
supposed to be coming to Australia in
their thousands? And how does this
advertisement from the Adelaide “ Tiser”
(20/9/’3B) sound as an example of our
racial tolerance?:
Wanted, smart housemaid-waitress,
salary 40s. per week, for leading hotel;
no Irish need apply.—BX, this office.
We needn’t go to Germany or Italy for
racial fanaticism.— Kyamba (S.A.).
Unemployment and Aid
The majority of the permanently un-
employed are the less efficient workmen.
Inefficiency must not be encouraged. The
dole has done untold evil, and has
proved the greatest single impediment to
the resumption of normal conditions in
industry.
State intervention can only be by sub-
sidy, an evil thing, apart from the general
undesirability of State action in economic
affairs. The insurance schemes are un-
objectionable as long as they remain on
an insurance basis ; but political forces
in a democracy invariably tend ,to re-
move them from that basis. If the State
undertakes, industrial enterprises, it is in
competition with its own citizens, either
directly or for the use of credit facilities.
The State is not the proper organ for
relieving the misfortunes occasioned by
unemployment. Since “capitalist” indus-
try depends on a reserve of labor, each
industry should be made to support its
own unemployed. This is a charge which
ought not to be spread over the general
population. If each trade had to meet
its own problems it would quickly turn
to reorganisation of its production and
marketing, with most beneficial results.
State maintenance of the unemployed
discourages thrift among the workers and
fosters idleness and inefficiency. On
present standards there are unemployed
who draw allowances of as much or
nearly as much as their fellows get for
a week’s work.—E. Smith (S.A.).
National and International Welfare
For weeks peace has hung in the
balance, and, while statesmen make
their moves on the chessboard of world
affairs, the anxious masses await the
result. Surely a gleam of light piercing
ominous clouds is evidence of the strong
conviction in the minds of the ordinary
people that war is utterly futile. Never
has the thought of war been so hated as
it is to-day. In spite of the rampant
spirit of jealousy and greed, or perhaps
because of the resultant effects of it, the
rank and file have come to realise that
sanity demands the human race should
build and uplift, not degrade and destroy,
and that “a war to end wars” only sows
the seeds of further dissension.
If that is the attitude of the masses
towards international affairs, surely the
same light of reason should be turned
on national affairs.
Individually and collectively much may
be done for the upbuilding of our young
and virile nation; much for its pros-
perity ; much for the harmonious rela-
tionships among ils people. Jealousy and
greed will cause as great a conflagration
in our national life as it threatens to do
in wider spheres. If we have learnt
wisdom, no attitude will have our indi-
vidual support that has not as its basis
national fundamental good, nor any
movement that threatens disintegration
within the nation.
If such be our national mind, then in
confidence may our voice be raised in
the peace conferences of the world.*
Unity (Q.).
That “Other” Fellow’s Mincf
The other fellows mind is an interest-
ing subject, always supposing we let him
make it up for himself. When it ex-
presses itself only at the promptings of
others it is apt to be rather a feeble affair.
Since the radio announcer has come
into his own the “follow-the-bellwether”
attitude of the average crowd has been
brought home to me very forcibly. How
many of us at the end of an entertain-
ment have heard these words from the
radio, "And now put your hands to-
gether to show your appreciation,” etc.
Now this fellow’s mind may be a con-
trary one, but my reaction to the up-to-
date version of “Now, Willie, be a little
gentleman and thank the lady nicely”
is to stubbornly refuse to clap at the
other fellow’s bidding. What the feeling
of the performer or exhibitor may be
at the made-to-order clapping 1 can only
imagine.—A. M. Macdonald (Q.).
Schooling Country Children
More opportunities for higher educa-
tion should be given bush children,
especially those living in rural areas far
distant from high schools.
There are many bright children tem-
peramentally and physically unfitted for
farm work who, although not possessed
of the exceptional ability required to win
a bursary, would nevertheless, if given
the opportunity, make good in another
sphere.
When the parents of these youngsters
find it impossible to raise the money
necessary for board and clothing to send
them to high schools in distant towns
they are forced to become farm-workers
—“square pegs in round holes” who
will never make a success of things.
If correspondence courses could be ex-
tended to embrace a secondary course
to the intermediate certificate, with the
lessons supervised by the small-country-
school teachers, and corrected and dis-
tributed by the correspondence school,
other avenues of employment, such as
office work, public service positions and
many other branches requiring a higher
education would be open to these chil-
dren. — Bush Mother (N.S.W.).
The “Service”
If Arthur Woolley, at Amiens (Q.), is a
fruitgrower (B. 28/9/’3B), I suggest, quite
dispassionately, that he will find himself
in one of his own “public-service uni-
forms.”
I am one of a group of public ser-
vants whose job it is—and no sinecure
either —to instruct young Queenslanders
in the art of farming, and I claim both
interest in and knowledge of the public
service and its relation to agriculture.
Amiens is a soldier settlement in the
apple district of S.Q., where the returned
men have had large assistance from “the
public purse” to set them up on orchards.
All well and good! But there is still a
continual drain on the public purse in the
shape of assisted freight rates on the rail-
ways, so that livings to all growers, effi-
cient or not, will be assured, and these,
in common with many other farmers,
have a habit of yelling for the Govern-
ment to “do something” about the many
problems which beset them.
The Government is reluctant to im-
pose on the people any more control
than is necessary, but where the people
simply will not solve the problems by
their own commonsense the Government
is forced to employ a few more experts
or policemen or clerks to do the job, and
thus swell the ranks of the despised
public service. I have in mind the way
veterinary officers and dairy inspectors
are considered expensive nuisances until
a cow falls ill or an epidemic such as
three-day sickness breaks out. In the
Stanthorpc district there were loud cries
for aid in controlling fruit flies —and all
the time fruit inspectors were having
to compel growers to take ordinary pre-
cautions.
1 am well aware of the rotten spots in
all public services, but I would suggest
that critics might reflect a while on the
reasons why such large services are neces-
sary, and also to think whose sons and
daughters are clamoring to enter them.
If they only knew! — Aerogenes (Q.).
Children and Libraries
In the last few weeks I’ve watched
Young Australia come into the Perth
Public Library every morning from a
near-by school. They come in, keen-
eyed and eager, for their hour’s reading,
but soon puzzlement seems to creep over
their faces, and as they wander from shelf
to shelf, wondering what to read,
precious minutes slip away.
Could not some understanding person
accompany them and study each child
and its particular taste and help them
to choose accordingly?
These delightful, eager-eyed kiddies arc
our statesmen, doctors, nurses and mothers
of to-morrow, and the right choice of
books could help greatly in determining
their future lives, and so indirectly the
destiny of Australia. — Spooks (W.A.).
An Empire Outlook
Frequently we hear the cry “Why
should Australians go overseas to fight?
Let them stay in their own country.”
People who utter this protest are over-
looking the fact that Australia’s means of
defence are totally inadequate, and that
if we were left alone we could not keep
out any invader who might come.
Our strength lies in the fact that
behind us stands Britain —her armies, her
navy, her air force, the presence of these
having a definite moral effect on any
nation casting undesirable eyes at Aus-
tralia.
Britain stands behind us; therefore,
Australia is in duty bound to stand with
Britain. We cannot say “Come and help
us” when we are in need if we say
“Fight your own battles” when Britain
calls. We are not a lone country, but
part of the British Empire.— Coll (Q.).


“The key to a man’s Career” — Dr. F. I V. Norwood, D.D.
“The results endure” —Canon Hannay .
■mm
A?
m
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Pelman Course.
It is impossible to
speak tbo highly
of it.”
m
The Barones* Orczy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant. to many just
the difference. be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
Canon Hannay.
(O. A. BiriniiiKham.)
“Pelrnanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
arc formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
Dr. F. W. Norwood.
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp o£ it
would save any -life
from futility It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
m
iir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I -say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than 1
can reckon.”
■ - 'A'f
tJnme Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
i ightly ’■
yr }{
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
COURAGE
PURPOSE
defined and affirmed.
COURAGE, firmness of spirit
and swell of soul in the face
of danger and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration to
effort, developing character
and increasing courage by
enlargement of confidence.
The following extracts are from
letters published in “The Efficient
Mind,” copies of which are
posted free:
“I have become much stronger in
Will Power, and 1 am now not afraid
to say ‘No’ when it is necessary to
do s^”
“My fears arc things of the past.
I have gained in mental energy, in-
terest, alertness and concentration.'’
“Fear is practically eliminated. The
Course has given me faith in my
abilities and the power of more per-
sistent effort.’’
“Childish fear of ridicule has de-
stroyed or marred much of my work
in the past. Now Pelmanism has
shown me how to conquer that fail-
ing.’’ .
“It gives one more self-confidence
and courage in expressing his opinion.”
“I have learnt the value of plan-
ning ahead, of having a settled pur-
pose. of consecutive thinking.”
“I now have a definite aim; my
powers*of concentration, memory and
will have b.ceh greatly improved.”
“Occasions often arise when a sud-
den crisis, small or otherwise, is apt
to throw one off one’s balance. 1
have found that the Pelman Course
is of the greatest benefit in helping
m e , to retain my equilibrium in such
cases.” ■
“My aim is clear and more defined.
My powers of observation are very
much keener all round. I gained very
much from the study of the Lesson oi)
Will Power.”
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pclmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:—
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
• Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
•—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-,
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect—it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over
40,000 have enrolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
The Telman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years' standing:. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 3(> years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Peiman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)i Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Wt> shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin’’ a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry ivill be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
306 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
SI
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PA
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo anc
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainabh
only
from
a#:
&
t*V
/
c °/ r,<
<*s?* S e ,#
0 «\' 0 '
,\G «
*' <r*
oft*
x.\v®
# ,s
• ••' ..o'*’
V'S<*
°'


5
T ASM A
TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS,
rrr
A
,
%
r.
L
w
4
A
2
\
4
V
*
X
✓
K 1 *0
Tu N > Mg
To build a radio set without extended tuning range is like putting a growing
boy into a skin-tight suit. It may be all right for the moment . . . but what’s going to happen in two
years’ time? New Stations are continually coming on the air, but unless there is room at both ends of
the dial you won’t be able to tune them! Only the other day the International Conference got busy at
Cairo extending wave bands and making room for new stations. ONLY TASMA FORESAW THIS
.. . only TASMA provided sets with an extended tuning range. In other words - your Tasma dial
wilt still be modern in jive years' time. Look ahead —buy a TASMA!
V* .
HERE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA'S LEADERSHIP
• AIR TRIMMERS • INSTANTANEOUS TUNING • OVERSIZE DIAL WITH 20in. OF TUNING SPACE
• AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL • VARIABLE SELECTIVITY • INBUILT MAGIC EYE
• NEW OCTAL VALVES
• DUST-PROOF SPEAKERS
it
THE TASMA “PRINCESS”
Described by a leading critic
as “the most outstanding
receivers of their type on
the market.”
Model “530”—6—valve, dual-
wave A.C. model. 35 guineas.
Model “500” —7-valve, dual-
wave Universal current (A.C.
or D. 0.). 39 guineas.
Model “585” Battery-
operated 5-valve. 35 gns.
Air Cell operated, 37 gnr.
Vibrator operated, 40 gns.
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
g
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE”
Meeting the -demand for
receivers with full console
chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table
use.
Model “525” —6—valve, dual-
wave A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580”—Broadcast 5-
valve, Battery operated. 27
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 29 gns.
Vibrator powered, 32 gns.
Model “585” —5-valve dual-
wave Battery operated. 29
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 31 gns.
Vibrator powered, 34 gns.
,vM
:
• i•? : v
m s;% ~CW \
k
THE TASMA “COUNTESS”
(ABOVE)
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525”—6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast. Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 giu.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
fg
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
(Prices slightly higher in West Australia.)
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL *
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
'North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUST.; OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
fg
QUEENSLAND; G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90 92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville, Toowoomba and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
