

i-S,
im
-; .
bs
h LA \
W
Ok fa ke a Came£f
Anddo you/i ctUnkmy ky fke yuani
wsttkmkofi ike enjoyment
You couJ&lyetfoom Hnjo/ekHrf
t
WINE
Ane/Heveft yet i/t* WuimA.
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 5: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3064.
Wednesday, November 2, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE ARTS TO-DAY.
Because it is a series of essays by critics with
varying standards, The Arts To-day, published by The
Bodley Head in 1935 and now in a cheaper edition,
gives a provocative rather than a complete picture
of the contemporary scene. There is the pleasant
middle-brow of Louis MacNeice on poetry, the in-
telligent high-brow of Arthur Calder-Marshall on fic-
tion, and the utterly bald-brow of Humphrey Jennings
on the theatre ; there are essays by other writers on
psychology, painting and sculpture, music, the cinema
and architecture.
It is a pity that the editor, Geoffrey Grigson, did
not attempt a more thorough summing-up. In the
essay on architecture (one of the most interesting in
the book) John Summerson indicates a point from
which such a summing-up could be attempted. The
“problem” of all the arts except architecture, he says
—that is, the realisation of the idea in the artistic
medium—is rhetorical only: once the authority of
tradition is discarded, anything can be called a poem
or a novel, a painting or a symphony.
But in architecture it is not possible to call any
haphazard pile of materials a house. The idea of a
house being a box with holes to let in light and air
can be very greatly modified by testhetic theory, but
jthe architect still has to build a house in which people
can live. It needn’t have a front door, but it must
have an entrance of some sort, a tunnel from the
rose garden or a capacious chimney pot. The concept
of the architect is governed by function, and the
execution is ruled by certain physical laws whose
fundamentals cannot be altered by theory or fashion.
Though Mr. Summerson carries the thought no
further, it might be suggested that the other arts are
similarly governed by function and method. The
“problem” is not merely rhetorical. The artist has to
erect a structure which the human mind can inhabit,
and in execution he is limited by the capacities of
the mind.
In all the arts in the twentieth century there has|
been a tendency to demand an increasing effort from
the intellect: Eliot in poetry, Joyce in fiction, Cdzanne
and Picasso in painting, Rodin and Epstein in sculp-
ture and Schonberg in music have all erected more
or less difficult structures. Whether or not their
creations are to be accepted as works of art, in the
way that a house is accepted as a house, depends on
the ability of the mind to inhabit them. Even if the
definition of function is the enlargement of experi-
ence the structure must be one that the mind can
enter. And that means doors.
The easiest door to any work of art is tradition
(which implies, incidentally, easy tradition ; Tenny-
son is “traditional” ; Blake is not). The pioneers of
twentieth-century art, who may be said (with reserva-
tions) to have scrapped tradition, offered other doors.
Just as writers once expected their readers to have
some knowledge of classic mythology and traditional
philosophy, later writers have demanded a working
acquaintance with The Golden Bough, with Freud,
and with modern theories of space and time.
Those are essentially reasonable requests. Joyce
is within his rights in asking for Ulysses to be under-
stood in terms of Freud. •
But there is a limit to the demands that can be
made of the intelligence if a work of art is to achieve
any popular esteem. Many of the new artists asked
too much. Pound’s “Cantos” and Joyce’s Work in
Progress are examples. Work in Progress may be a
building; or it may be a heap of rubble. Edward
Crankshaw in The Arts To-day cannot see Schonberg’s
music as anything but rubble.
From the too great sophistication of which the
end is delight in imbecility for imbecility’s sake (it is
significant that the worshippers of the most “high-
brow” art are united in admiration of Charlie Chaplin)
there is a reaction towards simplicity. But not
towards ignorance. Spender, Auden and the rest of
the “new” poets are striving for a simplicity that has
digested twentieth-century experience. In short, the
arts to-day are moving towards an informed tradi-
tionalism.
Appropriately, the first essay in The Arts To-day
is by Auden on “Psychology and Art.” It is a scrappy
piece of writing, largely because Auden shrinks from
“pointing out the obvious” and it is no use writing
about Freud’s influence on art for more or less popu-
lar consumption without going into detail. Freud’s
influence on surrealism, on Lawrence, on Auden him-
self, on a whole host of novelists has been of tremen-
dous importance. Auden quotes (and attacks) Freud
on the artist as an introvert, but fails to observe the
“shame-of-the-T ” Freud imposed on so many con-
temporary writers, resulting in “clinical” novels and
deliberately obscure poetry; the abashing of the ego
that leads in one direction to the frolicsomeness of a
Beverley Nicholls and in the other to the violent re-
action of a Roy Campbell.
Louis MacNeice, himself a good poet, follows
Auden with his essay on poetry, in which he very sen-
sibly dismisses Pound and Eliot as “too literary.”
His most significant comment on his own period is un-
intentional. “The new poets,” he says,“ have a theme.”
Or in other words they are all saying the same thing,
and just as one never knew which of the Georgians
was counting the bees any week-end, one never knows
now which of the nuts-and-bolts school has dodged
up a pylon to get a proper view of the slums.
Geoffrey Grigson writes the next essay, on paint-
ing and sculpture. His theme is:
One thing we in England should now be able to
accept without pain or surprise—the series Cezanne-
Cubism-“ Abstraction.” Cezanne died in 1906; he was
born two years after the accession of Queen Victoria.
Picasso was born in 1881, Cubism in 1908. These
names with what they signify should be as firmly stuck
in our pavements as lamp-posts, as Lord Tennyson,
as August 4, 1914.
From that point, taking surrealism as “a method
of dealing with tije irrational without sacrificing a
rational point of view,” he proceeds to admire Bran’-
cusi, Paul Klee, Mird and Hdlion abroad ; Wyndham
Lewis, Ben Nicholson, the late Christopher Wood and
sculptor Henry Moore in England. Of Lewis he
says what could be said of Pound in verse, Schonberg
in music and Lewis again in fiction ( The Childermas)
—that he is perhaps worth more as an example of a
method than as a performer.
Lewis is to the fore again in The Arts To-day in
Calder-Marshall’s essay on fiction. With Joyce and
D. H. Lawrence he is selected as an “influence.” On
its own plane (“The purpose of all art is fundamentally
to delight: but it is not to entertain”) this is one of
the best of the essays. It is true that the Priestleys
and the Walpoles, even the Morgans and the Powyses
of contemporary fiction, cannot compare with the wild
torrent of Joyce, the passion of Lawrence, the savage
intensity (“butchery” is Calder-Marshall’s word) of
The Apes of God. He finds Dostoievsky, Joyce and
Lawrence deepening the novel; Tolstoi, the German
Kafka and Dos Passos broadening it.
Huxley, Virginia Woolf, the Powys brothers,
Hanley and others are given qualified approval. There
is surprisingly little said about Proust. Calder-Marshall
is waiting for a novelist to state the complexity of
modern life with simplicity and power. Joyce is the
one man who might have done it, but from Work in
Progress it looks as if the complexity beat him.
In the succeeding essays, Crankshaw on music
finds Schonberg incomprehensible, but thinks highly
of Sibelius; Humphrey Jennings finds the theatre
rotten, but thinks highly of Humphrey Jennings ; and
John Grierson finds the talkie directors have “rational-
ised the hopes-and-dreams business.”
Only, therefore, in comedy, in epic, in occasional
idyll does the commercial cinema touch the world of
art. Comedy is of these the surest ground.
Grierson has the usual rather pathetic hope in a
future for “documentary” ; but consideration of the
talkies as an art is a difficult task. He is more interest-
ing when examining the sociological significance of
the films: in 115 talkies analysed, he says, there were
406 crimes committed and 43 more attempted. As
for the occupations of the characters portrayed, there
were “a few agricultural laborers to decorate the
Westerns.” The rest were “no-occupation” and “com-
mercial,” followed hard by gangsters, bootleggers,
smugglers, thieves, bandits, prostitutes and black-
mailers.
Last in the book there is Mr. Summerson’s fas-
cinating survey of modern architecture. His illustra-
tion of a house by Le Corbusier indicates the dilemma
of all the arts to-day. A “modern” house in anti-
quated surroundings looks ugly or fantastic. But a
whole city of modern buildings (Napier in Maoriland,
for example) can look really beautiful. The Arts
To-day, as a whole, makes an effective plea for
twentieth-century art to be studied in its twentieth-
century environment.
Land of Parrots.
Neville W. Cayley, in Australian Parrots: Their
Habits in Field and Aviary (Angus and Robertson),
remarks that although these eminently noticeable
birds have been kept in captivity for over 150 years
little has been published regarding their habits, and
that little scattered in overseas journals. “Field obser-
vations are by no means complete ; in fact, this beauti-
ful group of birds has been neglected by field orni-
thologists.”
The parrots of Australia excited admiration in
very early times. A map of the world by Mercator,
a.d. 1569, shows a land mass in the approximate posi-
tion of Australia marked “The Land of Parrots.” The
cartographer was probably indebted for his informa-
tion to early Portuguese navigators.
Cayley says: “Here are found no less than 59 dis-
tinct species. Nowhere in the world are parrots more
numerous, more beautiful or in greater diversity of
form than in this island-continent.” Protective colora-
tion is almost universal throughout nature, yet these
birds don’t conform. They are very conspicuous in
a landscape noted for its neutral tones, and this in a
land where hawks are plentiful. The fact provides
ornithology with a problem.
Some of the species have a very limited area of
distribution and occasionally one is reported missing.
The princess parrakeet, inhabiting the Centre, was
missed for many years. There was no explanation.
The species, never numerous, was thought to be ex-
tinct ; then, as mysteriously as it had departed, it re-
appeared. Rumors of its reappearance had reached
scientific circles, and a member of the Horn expedi-
tion to the interior identified it while camped at Glen
Helen in the Mac Donnell Ranges. Baldwin Spencer
describes the incident graphically in one of his books.
Cayley notes other cases, in one of which Alec Chis-
holm was successful, after following up many false
reports, in identifying a supposedly lost or extinct
species.
Cayley’s book is based on a thorough search of
all available sources of information, beginning with
Phillip’s Voyage to Botany Bay, taking in Gould’s
Birds of Australia and Adjacent Islands and numer-
ous lesser-known works, and including much interest-
ing data supplied by widely scattered correspondents.
In dealing with each bird the scientific reference
is given, followed by a detailed description that, taken
with the colored plates, should be of great help to
the amateur ornithologist and birdlover ; distribution
is shown by sketch map.
Each section ends with aviary notes, not intended
to be of use in commercial breeding and exploitation,
but to help keep in existence species threatened with
extinction. Cayleys asks country-dwellers to help by
forbidding trapping on their holdings.
From the general reader’s standpoint some of
the most interesting matter is provided by Cayley’s
correspondents, people who have been attracted by
an unusual bird cry or flash of color and are thus
able to add something to general knowledge. These
contributions are word-pictures of the birds drawn
from their usual haunts by some change in the food
supply, or migrating under difficulties in the face of
advancing bushfires.
The book is illustrated with ll color plates and
19 other illustrations, including photographs and re-
productions of old prints. Standing where orni-
thology, art and letters meet Neville Cayley has
been able to do more than any other man to make
Australian birds popularly as well as scientifically
known. Australian Parrots increases the indebtedness
to him.
Fiction Version of Marlowe.
Not very much is known about the Elizabethan,
Christopher Marlowe, beyond his splendid and high-
flown poetic dramas, a legend of a roistering life and
the fact of death by violence in a tavern. He is
proper meat for a novelist, and George Cronyn has
re-created him in Mermaid Tavern (Jarrolds).
When Marlowe was a student at Cambridge, so
runs Cronyn’s story, he became involved out of
curiosity rather than ardor in the plots to rescue Mary
Queen of Scots, lying under protracted sentence of
death in an English prison. Christopher soon found
himself in a maze of intrigue which involved
Lord Treasurer Burghley, Sir Walter Raleigh, Secre-
tary Walsingham, all working with different ends in
view ; the foolish young man, Anthony Babington,
who was everyone’s dupe; Catholics, whose interest
it was to dethrone Protestant Elizabeth and set Mary
in her place.
Marlowe strode through the web like an honest
man, won Burghley’s patronage for a time, but made
many enemies. He sickened of the whole tortuous
affair and longed to be rid of it, but it clung like a
spider’s web. Poetry was his real business —and love.
On a secret mission to Paris he met and loved a
Huguenot girl, Margot Louel, killed a man for her
sake and at last left her for England and poetry. Fate
brought them together again and Marlowe killed an-
other man. The lovers stood siege in plague-stricken
London, but Marlowe’s enemies discovered his retreat,
lured him to a tavern with a false message and there
dispatched him. Margot took poison in the grand
manner. And so ends the book.
Renaissance England is spread out like a gaudy
tapestry, and considerable scholarship has gone into
its weaving. The Queen, vain and subtle, Essex, the
brilliant Court, the cold and crafty politicians behind
the brilliance, the free-living ladies, the spendthrift life
of the taverns and the stews, Will Shakspeare and the
high tide of poetry are all faithfully portrayed. Great
events 100m —the execution of Mary, the Armada,
the Plague.
The detail is also realistic. There is one vigne' k
that rings true of all times. The scene is betw .
Marlowe and Henslowe, the Elizabethan equivalent
of an impresario. “ ‘Mr. Marlowe,’ he said, ‘your
“Tamburlaine” is a success. We have made it a suc-
cess.’ He drew out his purse and counted ten shil-
lings into Kit’s hand.”
The past suits Cronyn’s gifts far better than the
present scene, and Mermaid Tavern almost reaches
the standard of his earlier success, The Fool of Venus.
Mr. Funk Will Now Debunk.
As his title proclaims in advance, it is no shrink-
ing violet of an author who addresses the reader of
So You Think It’s New! an Australian edition of
which erudite and somewhat characteristic product of
Gahd’s Own Country has been put out by Angus and
Robertson at five bob a pop —that is to say, at five
shillings a copy; W. E. Funk’s literary style is a bit
infectious.
The work belongs to the Ripleyish class of literary
effort. Like Mr. Ripley, Mr. Funk is attracted by
the more extravagant curiosa of the human scene,
but, instead of just throwing the oddities he collects
at his readers’ heads in unrelated fragments, Mr.
Funk binds them together with loose ends of narra-
tive twine and heaves them in a lump. There is pur-
pose in it, too. Mr. Funk, while filling the nooks
and crannies in his readers’ craniums with quaint
items of information gleaned from present times back
to antiquity, seeks to substantiate the slightly shop-
worn axiom that there’s nothing new under the sun.
That, too, with a purpose. Mr. Funk aims to
prick the bubble of modern egotism. He is out to
tell the world, personified in the You of his title,
that in most of the things to which it thinks it holds
the patent rights it is merely plagiarising. He also
aims to show up those who fulminate against wanton
woman’s wicked ways and suchlike signs of de-
generacy. They have been burdened down with their
forebodings throughout history, Mr. Funk discovers ;
and where has it got them? Madeline goes, in her
own delightful and sometimes wanton ways, down the
ages, and to-day faces up to the future as bravely
pencilled, prinked out and painted as ever. She
changes, as do men in their coarser manner, but she
and they are eternal.
Mr. Funk delivers himself of this thesis in the
vigorous style of one of Mr. Lindsay’s small boys
o Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”—aIway
“THE SENIOR
STOREr
MEN'S NATS
UK
A
i' l 4
>- wr
A i'j±Lii±k v i
iI'■ 1 '■
A /-> i .
A
A-
; A:
.LU,
/ >
C
w
y
A A
/
' I'
A-'
Vi
V.
K
A
A
M\
* *?” ■
YTZzSLxL,. Is. rmt,
\r*.
D
■r
w
7
W?:'i
M
m
!/
i
i % m
t m
X «
. ■'■■ .
mm
m
A
*\k
ass
: ,c
Hi
■
araa:
ky
• y » . x <'■••,
WHtUn UVfc Vti PROW
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
★ “BATTERSBY"
A.: High grade English Hat. Smart Snap brim style. Satin lining. Med-
ium width brim. Light, Medium and Dark Grey shades . . also Fawns
and Browns. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each 30/-
★ “WOODROW”
B : Another important style 1 . . and one of England's best. A quality hat that
bears the stamp of excellence. Medium width snap brim. Silk lining. Grease-
proof Leather. Light, Steel or Slate Greys, Fawn and Browns
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE - 37/6
★ “SOVEREIGN”
c.- Smart for the business man 1 The "Sovereign" Hat is blocked in
Pure Fur Felt, with medium width brim Choose from Light Grey.
Fawn or Brown. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each 20/-
★ “AKUBRA”
D • "Akubra" Pure Fur Felt Hats featured in three famous qualities,
brims from 2to inches wide. Colours are Light, Zinc, Steel and
. . Fawn and Brown also. Qualities. Boomerang. High
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICES, each .—— 19/6 25/-
Dressy snap
Slate Greys
. Superfine.
32/6
★ “SERVICE"
E: A popular make in Pure Fur Felt. 2 \ to 2* inches wide. Dressy
snap brim shape. Light, medium and dark Greys, Fawns and Browns
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each 17/6
★ “TREE” BRAND
F • The "Tree" Brand Hat is of Pure Fur Felt and a
94. to 91 inch snap brim. Light, Mid, Steel and *Slate Grey,
Fawn and Brown AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRISE.; each. 12/6,,
V
• Men’s Hats-Greund Floor-Gcorpc Street. Freight pntd to aji%aihvay stations
and seaports itt. the Commonwealth.
'PHONE: M 2401
DAY OR NIGHT
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


Troublesome Doubles
DOUBLES LTD
By S.H.COURTIER
ILLUSTRATIONS (both of ’em) BY UNK WHITE.
NOW that the royal commission sitting on the
affairs of Doubles, Ltd., has had its thousand-
page report—a slashing indictment, by the
way, of modern political methods—safely
pigeonholed, there is little likelihood of the public
learning the truth by official channels. As former
managing director of Doubles, Ltd., I am therefore
taking this opportunity of giving you the facts. In
view of the many libellous statements in circulation
to do so is only bare justice to myself.
Doubles, Ltd., resulted from a somewhat amus-
ing case of mistaken identity. At the request of my
young nephew I paid a visit to the Scout Jamboree.
I went along purely from a sense of family duty with
not the slightest idea of the tremendous issues hang-
ing upon the simple act.
Somewhat bored already, I entered the camp to
find the entire force drawn up in review order. My
appearance was the signal for an astonishing furore.
An augmented bugle band burst into a blare of noise,
which I presently distinguished as the National
Anthem, and the troops, in fair accord, presented
broomsticks.
It took me but a second to comprehend, stag-
gering as it may seem, that this display was in my
honor, so I stood to attention and nonchalantly ele-
vated three fingers. When the fanfare died away, a
squad of aged and portly scouts approached me at
the double. They were very plainly perturbed.
“Your Excellency,” they panted, “this is a surprise.
We’d no idea you’d be so early. We were only re-
hearsing then.”
I replied that I was sorry if I had incommoded
them, and added that I had no fault to find with the
enthusiasm of their welcome.
“But,” I went on, “what’s the idea of this Excel-
lency business?”
The squad gasped in unison.
“Surely your Excellency is joking,” said the or.c
who, judging by the boniness of his knees, was Deputy
Chief Commissioner.
“Then it’s on me,” I retorted.
But I was wrong. The joke was really on them.
They thought I was the Governor, who, it appeared,
was booked to visit them that same day. Some ten
thousand keen-eyed Scouts, trained to exact observa-
tion, had looked at me and believed me to be the
Governor! I knew a glow of pride.
“Sorry, boys,” I said, “but you’ll have to blow-
bugles-blow again. I’m not the Governor. It’s a
nuisance, but there it is.”
They took the knock like the Scouts they were
and returned manfully to their stations. As for myself,
I sought a post of vantage, for I was naturally anxious
to get a good look at the Governor. He duly arrived,
two hours late, gorgeously uniformed and escorted by
several aides. There was no doubt about the re-
semblance. I was the Governor’s dead spit.
I was still patting myself on the back when one
of the aides came to me. He carried a message. The
Governor had expressed a desire to meet me.
His Excellency was very gracious.
“Delighted to meet you, Mr.—er” he began.
“Coggle,” I said, as we shook hands, “Thomas
Coggle.”
When I was told of the unfortunate mistake that
occurred earlier,” the Governor said, “I felt I had to
s ?e you. And now, seeing you, may I congratulate
myself, Mr. Coggle?”
“Thank you, your Excellency,” I returned. “For
the first time I realise what a really fine-looking man
I am.”
After this interchange of compliments, the Gov-
ernor tucked his hand confidentially in my arm and
led me aside. His, or I may say our, face became
grave.
“Mr. Coggle,” he began, “I want to put a delicate
proposition to you. I find I’m supposed to put in
some days here tying knots and building bridges and
things. Frankly, I don t find the prospect altogether
pleasing.”
I nodded in understanding.
“Besides,” the Governor continued, “there’s a
chap wants me to go fishing. So, Mr. Coggle, I’m
wondering if you’ll do me a good turn by looking
after this confounded Jamboree. Of course,” he
added, noticing my reluctance, “I’ll make it worth
your while. Would a tenner cover the damage?”
I admit the idea was not attractive, but mention
of a tenner overcame my objections, and I told the
Governor I was his man. Accordingly we retired
behind some bushes and swapped clothes. Looking
at the Governor attired in my rigout reminded me.
“By Jingo,” I said, “you’d better keep away from
my place. The wife won’t know the difference and
she’ll have you chopping wood like a flash.”
The Governor promised to be careful, and, after
telling me not to open any letters marked “Personal,”
he wandered unostentatiously out of the camp.
|—| E told me later he had a grand time with the
couta. But for me those three days were not
altogether enjoyable. What with all the saluting and
being prepared and bellowing campfire choruses I
was a weary man when I got home. Even the tenner
did not entirely compensate me, for most of it went
in mollifying the wife when she raised Cain at my
absence.
However, I did not refuse when the Governor
made a second request for my aid. He wanted me to
represent him at an Agricultural Show up in the bush,
and this time the offer was more attractive —a tenner
plus exes., with drinks and other perks thrown in.
After that, his Excellency was continually calling
on me to do odd jobs for him such as opening Parlia-
ment or being the prize exhibit at the Lord Mayor's
Ball—in fact, anything awkward or nasty. I don’t
blame him for wriggling out of them. I wouldn’t
have done them myself only 1 was being well paid.
By this time the Governor and I were on friendly
terms, and I often slipped up to Government House
for a yarn. One night I was surprised to find the
Prime Minister there. After gazing at me in astonish-
ment, the Prime Minister turned to the Governor.
“Jove,” he said, “I reckoned you were pulling my
leg, but, by Gad, he’s like you.”
The Governor explained that he had been telling
the Prime Minister about me, and the Prime Minister
had immediately wished to meet me.
“You see,” the Prime Minister said, “I’m in a bit
of a hole. You’ve seen the newspapers?”
I nodded.
“Then you know all about the market gardeners*
strike. A bad affair that.” And the Prime Minister
shook his head gravely. “What makes it awkward
is I’m supposed to go down to-morrow night and
pacify the brutes. It’s going to be a tricky job. And
the trouble is I’ve got to fix my income-tax returns
to-morrow. I can’t see how to spare the time to face
the gardeners. I’d give, say, a fiver for a decent
double.”
‘I think,” 1 replied, “Teddy Blomer’s the man.
He d pass for you anywhere. But he’s rather a modest
chap: a fiver mightn’t get him.”
“Oh, I don’t care,” the Prime Minister said, “so
Jong as I can get at my income tax to-morrow night.”
I saw Teddy the next morning. He was quite
willing to act for the Prime Minister, so that evening
we bowled down in the P.M.’s Rolls-Royce to deal
with the gardeners. I, needless to say, went merely
in my private capacity.
It was not a happy night. The strikers were
armed with carrots, cabbages and cauliflowers. They
also had several tons of blood-and-bone. All the
newspapers, however, agreed that the Prime Minister
was a sportsman, and they acclaimed the clever way
he caught the missiles and returned them with unerr-
ing aim till he was finally snowed under with the
blood-and-bone.
When I called on Teddy next day he was still in
bed. He complained that he felt like a turnip under
forced draught.
“Oh, well,” I said, “that doesn’t matter. I’ve got
a brilliant idea to put to you.”
“If it’s quelling any more strikes, forget it,” Teddy
snapped peevishly. “If those fellers had been coal-
heavers last night, you and the Prime Minister would
have had my widow on your hands.”
“It’s not as bad as that,” I told him. “It’s only
that you and I go into partnership to provide doubles
for prominent men.”
“But is there much demand for that sort of
thing?” Teddy asked.
I said he ought to look at men like Hitler, Musso-
lini and Robert Taylor. Surely he knew that they all
had stand-ins to occupy the public stage when they
had urgent business elsewhere. Some of these dic-
tators even had up to a dozen doubles and more. The
scheme just wanted fostering in Australia. It would
catch on like a bushfire. And with our numerous
Parliaments and Government boards, there would be
plenty of scope.
“Hold on, though,” Teddy said. “How are we
going to do the lot? You and I can fix up the Gov-
ernor and the Prime Minister, but what about the
others?”
“Make-up,” I said. “We’ll have a trained staff o#
out-of-work actors to double for those we can’t.”


“Might be all right,” Teddy admitted. “But,”
rubbing his bruises, “it’s likely to be dangerous at
times.”
“Think of the profits,” I said.
'“TEDDY did think of the profits, and so Doubles,
* Ltd., came into existence. I need not say that the
Governor and the Prime Minister were well behind
us and passed on the good news to all likely to be
interested. The result was that we had an immediate
stream of clients seeking our services.
“There’s one thing, Coggle,” the Prime Minister
said, “you must keep this under the lap.”
“0.K.,” I said. Thus Doubles, Ltd., was known
to the general public only as the most up-to-date tip-
ping agency in the country. And, as far as tipping
goes, we certainly knew as much about winners as
anybody else. It proved a profitable sideline.
Work poured in. Once politicians knew of us,
they thronged into our offices. In fact, so much did
they come to depend upon us that we frequently
doubled for them in the various Houses —particularly
towards the end of sessions. The splendid attendances
during the last session in the Senate were due in no
small part to Doubles, Ltd.
One cannot say that politicians are nbt ready
to sacrifice themselves. Never once were we asked
to face the rigors of a trip overseas on their behalf.
As they said, it would cost the country far too much
to send substitutes all round the world. But, with that
one exception, our Parliamentary work comprised
everything that falls to the lot of the average politician.
Reference to the books of Doubles, Ltd., shows
that, on behalf of politicians of all parties, we made
43,205 promises, met 4995 deputations, addressed
6704 meetings and kissed 65,208 babies. It constitutes
a record in public service, and never was the country
in a more prosperous condition.
It must not be imagined, however, that politicians
formed all our clientele. Big businessmen, for in-
stance, when faced with meetings of irritated share-
holders, often availed themselves of Doubles, Ltd.
Frequently famous visitors to our shores, sick to
death of having to address clubs, literary and other-
wise, and sign autograph-books, paid us to do the
work for them. Only Doubles, Ltd., knew that a
famous tenor, an extraordinary box-office success,
spent his entire visit here in the centre of Australia.
One of our best men doubled for him. The critics
raved over his voice.
Our most amazing triumph, however, more than
parallels the historic occasion when M. Stalin was
alleged to be examined for a kidney affection in the
company of fifteen doubles. An illustrious Australian
—I dare not mention his name —came to see me one
day. He said he was suffering from appendicitis. It
was imperative that the public be kept in ignorance
of his state of health, so he wanted sixteen doubles
to undergo the operation with him. He had to fork
out a whacking big cheque, but we did it for him.
In passing, I might say that one of the fifty-one
doctors officiating at that carnage told me it was the
most thrilling event of his life. The Town Hall was
taken for the occasion in order to give the news-reel
cameramen elbow room. There were the seventeen
victims in a row. A gong sounded zero hour. Like
one man the anaesthetists switched on the gas. Then,
stroke for stroke, in perfect time, the surgeons did
their work. It was, my informant averred, a triumph
of disciplined knives.
DOUBLES, LTD., was paying handsome dividends.
And it would have continued to do so, I’ve no
doubt at all, but for the last general elections.
The Prime Minister gave me the tip they were
coming off.
“You’d better hop in and make special arrange-
ments, Coggle, old boy,” he said. “You’ll have plenty
of work to do.”
Never were truer words spoken. We addressed
meetings everywhere ; we carried out fighting cam-
paigns ; we travelled from one end of the Common-
wealth to the other. Old political correspondents
confessed they had never before seen such energy
expended on an election.
We represented all parties. The Government’s
clarion call, the Opposition’s wonder-working pro-
posals, the Cross-benches’ idiotic plans, the broadcast
speeches, the striking advertisements, all emanated
from one source —Doubles, Ltd.
“We’re home,” I said to Teddy as we made our
monthly accounts out; “we’ll take a trip round the
world after this.”
Then came the deluge.
It was my fault. The trouble was I didn't stop to
think. Addressing a huge gathering one night as the
Treasurer, I was stupid enough to make a really
brainy suggestion about reducing taxation.
There was a stunned silence. Then uproar broke
out. Not one in the crowd but realised there was
something very wrong. An inquiry was immediately
begun, and it was discovered that the Treasurer was
actually at home listening in to his own speech.
You can’t imagine the horrible result. Oh, yes,
the royal commission was bad enough, but the electors
actually wanted to put me into Parliament. And
not only me, but Teddy and the rest of our staff as
well. We wouldn’t have it on at any price.
It was the end of Doubles, Ltd. Even if the
public could have been enticed again into ignorance
we were settled. The politicians dropped us like red-
hot bricks. They weren’t running the risk any more
of their substitutes permanently taking over their jobs.
EUCHRE
BY F. RHODES FARMER.
DRAWING BY LOCK.
JIM was the quietest old bloke on the joint. First
job he ever did, so he told me, was to lift cattle
from the Darling Downs to Kimberley in West
Australia. He was fifteen then. Droving was in
his blood, and in a small way he was still a drover.
The boss used to fatten up bullocks as a sideline ;
every Wednesday Jim left Orungel Downs with a
mob of fat bullocks ; he fed ’em dpwn to Jackson’s
Siding ; he got there Saturday morning, trucked ’em
late Saturday afternoon and started home Sunday
morning. He always stopped the night at Jackson’s ;
used to camp under a big red-gum, just outside the
town.
Jim never drank. I dunno why, but he never did.
I never knew a drover that swore less. He never
spoke out of his turn. He never looked sideways at
no one. That was old Jim. Straight as a die ; sober ;
good at ’is job ; liked be everyone. Then ’e went
and pulled on euchre!
A Progress Association started up at Jackson's.
Reckoned the town was dull, so they advertised euchre
tournaments every Saturday night—with prizes—at
the Church Hall. From that day old Jim begun to
go wrong.
1 was up in town when the notice went up.
Saturday afternoon it was. Old Jim sauntered over
and had a screw at the notice. He stared at it for
ten minutes. Then he called me over.
. “Too much dazzle,” he says, “for me eyes! I
can’t read her.”
1 knew very well he couldn’t read. So 1 says:
“They’re starting euchre.”
“Euchre!” he says. “You mean cards?”
“That’s it!” I says.
“Why,” he says. “Droving we uscter play euchre
every night.”
“There’s prizes,” 1 says.
“Prizes!” he says. “Prizes for playin’ euchre!
When is she?”
“She begins next Saturday night.”
“Prizes for euchre!” he says. “I wouldn’t ha’
believed it!” And off he walked.
[ FORGOT all about this here euchre until the
* Sunday following. It was evening ; and there 1 was
at the homestead, sitting in front of the harness-room,
oiling harness. Presently I seen old Jim come trot-
ting along ; usually he got back from Jackson’s regular
as a clock ; this time he was on the late side. I seen
something glitter on his offside saddle dee. He pulled
up with a whoa and a clatter. And strike me days
if he didn't have a whacking silver dish strapped to
his dees.
“What’s that?” I says.
“Sandwich dish,” says Jim, and swung ofl his
horse.
“Sandwich dish!” 1 says. “What for?”
“For eating sandwiches,” says Jim, undoing his
girths. “I won it at euchre.”
“What the hell you going to do with it?” I says.
“That’s my business!” snaps Jim.
Well, we heard hammering down in ’is humpy by
the crick. Next time I looked in there was a shelf,
and on the shelf was the sandwich dish. 1 never
said nothing. I didn't want to rile old Jim. But J
could see he was pleased 1 noticed it.
“Brightening her up!” I says.
“That’s it!” replied Jim. He took down the dish,
spat into it, and give it a polish up with an old shirt.
“Getting her homelike!” he says.
Well, come next Sunday he was later still.
I seen another glitter to ’is saddle.
“Blirrtey!” I says. “What's this?”
“Cakestand,” says Jim.
“Stone the crows!” I says. “Don’t you let the
cook see it!”
We heard more hammering in Jim’s hut. And
there was the cakestand stood on another shelf.
“Giving a party?” I asks. “When you win the
mugs?”
“Mind your own business!” says Jim. Then he
nailed a padlock on his door.
Next Sunday I was all of a doo-dah waiting for
old Jim. Me eyes nearly tumbled out. Tied to ’is
dees was a tin fakus with three horns to it.
“What’s that?” I says.
“Stand for flowers,” says Jim.
“Flowers!” I says. “The stock's crying aloud
fer a blade of grass! And back you come with
flower stands! Don’t let the boss see it!”
“You ignerant bumpkin!” says Jim. “It’s etiket.
Don’t I go to town and lick all them town nobs! ”
'"THAT was the snag!
* The town nobs begun to rear up. Miss Swig
was the ringleader; her that’s sister to the post-
master. She had a screw nose and a mouth like a
penny ruler. And if you wanted to send a telegram
private you caught the train twenty mile to the next
siding.
Of course, old Jim never knew. Poor old Jim!
He was as trusting as a kangaroo in the pouch ; he
('Continued on page 7.)
"That’s it!” snaps Miss Swig. “We don’t want you.”


NOT
SO
SIMPLE
By H. Drake-Brockman.
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
PEOPLE who like to find the worst iflotives for
everything would have said that the real reason
Fin Campbell talked so much about his kids
and his missus was because h.e never stayed
at home. But Fin couldn’t help that. His job took
him away. He’d been a surveyor’s assistant all his
life, earned good money that way, was just as handy
on the track and in the bush as chopping wood or
doing chores at No. 9 Vale-street. And the worst
cynics might have thought twice after they’d seen
Fin’s kids. You couldn’t altogether blame Fin for
being a family man!
The night the abos. came into the camp Fin had
been thinking about Vale-street more than usual.
He’d got a headache; he was getting a cold —though
heaven knew how he’d caught a cold in a stony
desert hot as an oven under a blue enamel sky! But
he couldn’t mistake it. That nasty burn at the back
of the nose and the feeling he’d bite Ryan’s head off
if he spoke again. Back home the garden would be
in flower and the wireless putting soft music over so
a man might rest in peace—not just unroll his swag
on the cobblestones of hell. Without even a wash!
The stock-route well was full right enough. Full
of dog!
They’d have to clear out the muck to-morrow.
But they’d made camp late, and there was enough
water left in the tanks for tea. To-morrow they were
leaving the inland route and cutting into the unknown.
So the dingoes would have to be cleaned out of the
well if they were to fill the tanks on the water-camels.
Blast the dogs, not to mention the abos., who took the
lids off the wells and left them off so the fool dogs
fell in!
Ryan came up to where Fin peevishly kicked at
his swag and pointed out the abos. They stood over
against the sky, a group of three or four bucks, a
half-dozen gins and some piccaninnies.
“I tell the boss leave ’em be,” said Ryan. “Un-
less they show fight. Only he reckons you know this
country best, and what do you think?”
“Oh, I dunno. Might get us a good name if we
give ’em some tucker. They don’t mean to fight, not
with kids around. Let’s feed and see what happens.”
What happened was that the abos. crept nearer
and nearer, attracted by the fire and the smell of tinned
kipper. Fin kept one eye skinned, but the bucks held
their spears harmlessly in full view, and the picca-
ninnies and gins crept up beside them.
The glow faded and the first stars came out, and
the white men fetched out pipes. The black men,
tormented by odor of tobacco and kipper, eaten-up
with curiosity about the gear and camels, pushed a
couple of gins into the circle of firelight.
The gins meant peace. So, after a lot of jabbering
and giggling, the whole lot came into the camp, but
wary, suspicious like cats. And after a bit longer—
fed with kippers and jam—they got quite tame and
at home. It turned into a regular spree, and bucked
Fin up no end.
He had the piccaninnies leaving their mothers’
legs and guzzling apricot jam off their fingers in no
time. Funny little apes, they were. Skinny ; but their
big eyes had a way of looking at a man over their
sticky cheeks, just like the kids at home. Only the
best of the bunch wouldn’t leave his mother. Fat,
he was, round as a melon, and though the gin tried
to make him move he stayed put and stared at all
Fin’s beguiling efforts without so much as a wink.
“Losing y’r dash, Fin,” grinned Ryan. “Not the
family man yer useter was.”
That put Fin on his mettle. He opened a tin of
pineapple, stuck his fingers through the holes of one
or two slices, and thus decorated approached the kid.
Waggle, waggle, there were plenty of giggles and
laughter. The bucks got hold of the pineapple and
decorated their fingers too. One, a big chap short
of an eye and a couple of fingers, went on funny as
a clown. The kid’s father, it looked as if he was. But
the solemn piccaninny wouldn’t see the joke at all.
Squatted on his ma’s hip, he watched Fin coming
closer and closer, till his eyes looked big as the pine-
apple wheels. His ma coaxed and chattered at him.
But it wasn’t any good. He just let out a yell the
second Fin touched him.
Put Fin out a lot, that yell. But he laughed it off,
fed the other piccaninnies on his rejected rings of
pineapple ; only, just to make-up like, he gave the
baby’s ma a tin on her own when the boss sent the
abos. off with a few pounds of flour, some tobacco,
sugar and a couple of tins of bully beef. Not that the
baby’d be likely to get any; only Fin didn’t like the
little feller being left out.
The fire died. Fin took a mouthful of quinine ;
he was starting to shiver and his nose burnt worse
than ever. The abos. melted away across the land,
as if they’d been miraged.
f NSIDE a week the fat baby was dead.
* He caught Fin’s cold. And because he got hot
to carry, and cried because he felt thirsty and hot,
his mother sat him in a troughful of water they hauled
up at another well. When he started to shiver, the
gin remembered Fin and his wagging fingers. The
piccaninny cried and moaned all day long, and
wouldn’t eat. Nothing she could give him would he
eat, and the flesh fell off him till he looked skinnier
than the worst mongrel. And presently he gave over
crying, and his breath made dreadful roarings and
hissings when he drew it, and he lay without moving.
The gin wailed in terror, remembering Fin and his
wagging fingers, remembering the way he had wagged
his fingers only at her child and none of the others.
When the baby died the natives knew what had
happened. They knew for certain that the white man
had wished them evil; he had pointed at the baby in
some white man’s evil way and it had died! The
white man had bewitched the baby and it had died.
Its spirit must be appeased or the tribe would suffer.
117 IN CAMPBELL got back to the bosom of his
1 family some six months later. Very warm and good
and appreciative he found it, too. He’d sit over the
fire telling yarns by the hour. The missus and the
kids would listen with their eyes popping out. They
liked especially the story about dad with the pine-
apple stuck on his fingers trying to make the solemn
piccaninny laugh.
“They’re a good friendly crowd of abos. up there,”
Fin would finish, nine times out of ten. “We did ’em
no harm, they done us none. They wouldn’t hurt
a boodie rat, if you treat ’em proper”. . .
He’d just said something like that one night when
he opened out the evening paper and saw what had
happened to Ryan and Scott.
When they’d got back and the party disbanded,
Ryan had taken on a sort of guide job, gone back
over their tracks with young Scott, who was a geolo-
gist and needed a thoroughgoing bushman like Ryan
to show him the ropes. Nice cove, he’d seemed,
young Scott; you wouldn’t think him the sort to
make trouble anywhere! And poor old Ryan. You
couldn’t meet a kinder, cheerier bloke from Darwin
to Melbourne and back again!
It had happened at well No. 156, too ; the very
one where they’d struck the abos.
Fin said “Good God! ” and not another word all
tea-time.
Afterwards, he took the paper with him, left his
family to look after itself and went down to the pub.
Ryan had been a mate of Fin’s. And Fin had a sick
feeling in the pit of his stomach.
“Lousy abos.!” said one man, blowing the froth
off his schooner. “Sooner we clean ’em up the better.
What d’you make of this here yarn in the news
t’-night?”
“Oh, they probably deserved all they got,” stuck
in a young chap. “Tampering with the gins, I bet.
Same old trouble.”
“Don’t you believe it,” Fin got all hot and
bothered.
“Well, you should know,” they conceded. “But
if it ain’t somethin’ like that, what then?”
“I dunno.” Lame as a kicked dog, Fin felt. And
sicker. Ryan was a mate of his ; he wasn’t going to
The solemn piccaninny wouldn’t see the joke
at all. Squatted on his ma’s hip, he watched
Fin coming closer and closer, till his eyes
looked as big as the pineapple wheels.


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is
offered as a practical encouragement of
Australian writers and Australian litera-
ture —■“Australian” being adopted as a
convenient term to include Australia, New
Zealand and Pacific Islands. All writers
born in these parts are included, no matter
where now residing; so also are bona fide
residents, no matter where born.
The Prize is an annual award of £lOO,
but the judges in the last two years found
no entry worthy of it. Therefore, the
amount has built up to £3OO for the
present competition, closing June 6 next
year.
This 1939 Competition is open to
Novels, Biographies, Autobiographies and
all other kinds of works in prose. Each
MS. must be submitted under a pen-name,
with full name and address in an accom-
panying sealed envelope. These will be
considered as confidential, and no other
name and address, except that of the
winner, will be published.
The winner will be free to have his
or her winning work published in book
form by any publisher preferred. Serial
rights will be a matter for arrangement
between “The Bulletin” and the winner and
the writers of any other entries selected,
payment for such rights being in addition
to the Prize. All other rights—book,
stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be
had on application to the Secretary,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office,
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
never knew town ways. He kep’ on bringing back
tinware Sunday after Sunday. One week he landed
back with a thing resembling a ladylike quart pot.
“What’s that?” I says.
“Castor-sugar shaker,” says Jim.
“Can you drink beer out of it?” says I.
“You cannot!” said Jim. “It’s woman’s truck!”
“It all is!” I says. “Every skerrick you win”
“And a woman’s welcome to it!” says Jim.
“Stone the crows!” I says. “Is that it? Now
it’s marrying”
“I got money tucked away,” says Jim. “I could
marry to-morrow if I had a mind to.”
“Don’t tell me it’s Miss Swig!” I says.
“I’ve told you nothing!” says Jim. He shut up
like a saucepan.
Off I goes to Lanigan the pub-keeper.
“Look here, Jack,” I says. “What’s the strength
of Miss Swig and old Jim Pike?”
“Well,”' says Lanigan, “Miss Swig give it out
she was a champeen card-player. Then along come
old Jim. Miss Swig buys them prizes. She spends the
week going over catalogues. She sends all the way
to Sydney. Up comes the prize. And old Jim steals
it off of her. That’s the way she works it out! She
reckons Jim’s luck must break. But Jim never misses.
Off he goes with Miss Swig’s picking week after week.”
“Euchre’s Dutch to me,” I says. “Why does
Miss Swig act like she’s all over Jim Saturday nights?
Sitting beside of ’im. Leaning on ’is arm”
“Why?” says Lanigan. “Miss Swig’s got the
sharpest eyes north of Sydney. She reckons Jim
cheats, but she ain’t caught him yet!”
“Nor ever will!” I says. “Old Jim’s too honest
even to stop ’isself winning. He’s as straight as a
gun-barrel.”
CANE Sunday Jim arrived back at the joint with
empty saddle-dees; it was a relief like to see no
tinware.
“Hello!” I says. “Slipped, did you?”
“I won a piller,” says Jim, “to sit on!” He
unrolled his swag. And out he hauled a round black
piller covered with flaming dragons.
I opened me mouth —“Blimey!” I says. “When
are you aiming to sit on it?”
“A man might sit smoking,” says Jim, “watching
the teams on the main road, and the mist coming
over the bush, and the smoke floating through the
trees. Then ’is missus might sing out Tea’s ready! ’ ”
I give ’im a look. “You’re a case!” I says. “A
dinkum case! You better look out”— —
Jim never even winked ’is eyes. “I’ve looked
out!” he says. And off ’e went with the piller under
’is arm.
I will say this: it tricked old Jim to know what
to do with that piller. You oughter seen the inside
of ’is hut. His own furniture was simple: a canvas
bunk, a,fbox stood on end and a row o’ nails. The
rest was filled with cake-dishes and tin trays and egg-
poachers and toast-racks. The centre beam carried
coffee-pots and flower vases and sugar shakers, all
tied to bits o’ twine. It was all he could do to find
arm-room to light ’is pipe. His hut rattled every time
he turned in bed. There was even talk o’ Jim sleeping
under a tree to make room for ’is prizes. But it never
did come to that. And I’ll tell you for why.
Wednesday as usual Jim went off with ’is bul-
locks. On Saturday the boss give me a Sunday off,
so I saddled up and rode down to Jackson’s.
“Well, Jack,” I says to Lanigan the pub-keeper.
“How’s the euchre front?”
“Pretty crook,” he says. “Miss Swig’s fair rearing
up. There might be trouble,” he says.
“Trouble!” I says. “Miss Swig can’t do
nothing!”
“She’s a woman,” says Lanigan. “And where
there’s women there’s trouble.”
“They can’t stop old Jim playing euchre,” I says.
“I’m not so sure,” he says.
“But if he pays his zack and he don’t cheat”
“There’s ways and means!” says Lanigan.
I tossed down a few more drinks.
“Old Jim,” I says, “ ’ud marry Miss Swig.”
“Why don’t he speak?” says Lanigan. “Old
Swig’d have him if on’y to get them prizes back!”
It was bearing on eight o’clock, so I took a drift
along to the hall to see ’em go in for euchre.
Miss Swig was keeping the door. A mob paid
their zack and walked in. Then along come old Jim.
He had on a new blue suit he’d bought, and he was
shaved as clean as a new potato.
“Good luck, Jim!” I says.
Jim always looked awk’ard on the ground, with
’is bow legs. He sorta shuffled along.
Well, he took off his Stetson. “Good day,” he
says to Miss Swig, staring hard at the ceiling. “How’s
things?”
Miss Swig never said nothing. He mouth shut
like a trap.
Old Jim was that surprised he looked her fair
in the face. “Here’s me sixpence,” he says.
“We don’t want it!” says Miss Swig.
“What’s that?” says old Jim, leaning forward.
“We don’t want your sixpence! ” says Miss Swig.
Jim scratched his head. “Free to-night, is it?”
“We’ll be free of you!” says Miss Swig.
Old Jim didn’t collect this. But he knew things
was goin’ crook. He run his thumb round his collar.
“It’s euchre, is it?” he says.
“Yes,” says Miss Swig. “But not for you!”
“You —youse don’t want me!” says old Jim, going
white.
“That’s it!” snaps Miss Swig. “We don’t want
you! ”
Poor old Jim! He looked like a poleaxed bul-
lock. He give a look round the hall. Then he pulled
back ’is shoulders. “You don’t want me —to play
euchre —no more?” he says.
“That’s right!” snaps Miss Swig. “Not your
sort of euchre!”
“I can’t play no other sort,” says Jim. “Guess
I’ll be getting along.”
Miss Swig never said nothing. Jim got as fur as
the door. Then he stopped and turned. Like all
horsemen he was slow moving.
“Ma’am!” he says. “I had summat to say to
you. You’ll never hear it now!”
He walked straight across to the pub. I went
with ’im.
“That’s right,” I says. “A few drinks’ll make
you forget them.”
But he didn’t reply. l4e banged the sixpence in
his hand on the counter. “Hi!” he says to the bar-
man. “Buy yourself a drink!” Then he made for
’is camp.
Well, what could a man do? I stayed in the
pub and got well shickered. Later, when I rode past
his camp under the red-gum I seen it wasn’t there any
more. He’d shifted.
f GOT back to the homestead just as the moon went
down over the horse paddock windmill. It might
ha’ been three o’clock. There was no sign o’ dawn.
It was that clear the stars sprung at you. Well, I
unsaddled and fed the old mare; and I was jest
walking across to the quarters when I happened to
look up. I seen a stream o’ sparks on the edge of the
flat. D’ye know what it was? It was Jim’s hut. A
mound o’ red coals and some bits o’ twisted tin. That
was all.
I roused the joint, but we couldn’t get sight nor
sound of Jim. We never found him until the next
morning. One of the yammagis follered ’is tracks
down the crick. When we found old Jim he had a
bullet through his head. There was a .44 rifle along-
side of him.
For weeks afterwards them euchre-players in at
Jackson’s looked the other way when they seen me.
As for Miss Swig—l’ll say this for her —she came to
old Jim’s funeral in mourning, and mourning she wore
from that day to the day of her death.
Did she hear as old Jim reckoned to marry her?
That I don’t know. I never asked her. It wasn’t
etiket to mention old Jim Pike at Jackson’s Siding.
have him run down in any damn’ bar! He’d bet
Ryan hadn’t done anything to hurt the abos., or
vScott either! Anything ... Or nothing. “Nothing
those two done, anyhow! Paying for somebody else
like as not; one white’s as good as any other with a
native when it comes to vengeance. A bit of under-
standing, that’s what’s wanted. Why, at that there
same well we had a beano with a mob of myalls
who’d never seen a white before. We done them no
harm, they done us none. You see — they’ll be cobbers
with the next whites they meet, all along of the way
we treat ’em”. . .
The chap with the schooner laughed. “Maybe!
I’d shoot the lot, anyhow. Come on, if it ain’t gins,
what was it?”
“I tell you I don’t know! Anything. I wish I
did know ; mate of mine, Ryan”. . .
A WEEK or so later Fin knew. Or thought he
did. Scott wrote to him:- —
“I understand Ryan was a mate of yours;
he told me to give you his possessions. They’ll
arrive later on, what’s left, which won’t be
much. I had to abandon most of our gear.
“We didn’t even see a native till that night
—not once! It’s all a mystery to me. We
got in late to the well, tuckered up, unrolled
our swags and had a smoke and yarn before
going to sleep. We found the well in good
order. Ryan told me your party had trouble
there. And then he got laughing, telling me
about the natives who came into your camp and
the way you were so glad to see the children.
He talked about you quite a bit before we
turned in.
“I don’t know what wakened me, unless the
chap who hit Ryan was a fraction ahead with
his blow and I heard the thud. Imagine feel-
ing the whizz of a waddy landing where half
a second before your head had been ! I yelled.
I was on my feet with my revolver out from
under my pillow before I was properly awake.
I.could see two or three figures; don’t know how •
many really. A spear rattled somewhere on
the right. I went on yelling and firing. Then
I heard ‘Ya’ —a sort of cough which made me
hope I’d got something. I ran forward in the
dark, calling to Ryan to get going. He didn’t
answer, so 1 went back.
“The waddy had got poor Ryan on the side
of his head bashed off an ear —and then the
brutes had speared him through and left the
spear in so he was fixed to the ground. I
thought he must be dead, till I saw he was still
breathing.
“Well, it was up to me. I reckoned the natives
would be after us again in the morning. I
didn’t reckon there was any chance really, but
I bandaged him as best I could. And then I
had to get the camels, and strap him on. We
got away as dawn came.
“Ryan died the second day. I did all I could
for him — that’s what I want you to know. It
wasn’t much. I fetched his body on into the
town with me. He wasn’t conscious often. But
when he was he talked about you, so that’s
why I have written. He was a game chap. Kept
telling me to get on and leave him be. There’s
nothing else to tell you. Only that one of my
bullets did find a mark, and I’m glad! The
swine! A great big buck it was, with a vil-
lainous face; he was short of one eye and a
couple of fingers. If anybody had ever told me
I’d get so much satisfaction out of killing an-
other human being, I’d have called him a liar !
“What still beats me is why this should
happen. The police are going out, of course,
to investigate. Between you and me, 1 think
they mean to have a bit of a clean-up. And I
won’t be sorry, If you’d seen Ryan”
“The treacherous brutes,” roared Fin, thumping
Scott’s letter. “The treacherous bloody brutes! That
one-eyed buck was the fat baby’s father. They must’ve
got greedy and reckoned to steal Scott’s stores. My
God, missus, generally I’m all for the niggers, but
this time I hope the police give ’em bloody hell.”
They did. So now Fin Campbell and other bush-
men give travellers the low-down to keep their eyes
skinned along that route ; the abos. are a sulky lot,
with a reputation for treachery.


h
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting yon.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Eon-
York Minster.
don to Edinburgh, 3.92
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHIEP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman. B. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
BRANDALt R*S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUJSR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
throwing stones at an outhouse. He views the brand-
new superstructure of modern pretension and pelts
it with hoary resemblances. He looks at modern
Madeline, for example, and throws royal Egypt at
her. Untroubled by any Shakspearean modesty, he
won’t have such feeble stuff put over him as that
Cleopatra’s appearance “beggar’d all description.” She
reclines in her burnished barque, to Mr. Funk’s some-
what hardboiled eye a somewhat hardboiled. houri.
Languorously, she goes forth to the eternal feminine
attack. In natural beauty? No. In full and flaming
make-up.
Her brows are plucked to thin lines. They are
darkened and lengthened by antimony paste. Yes, we
use it now. Her lashes and lids are stained with a bluish
tint, to flatter her black eyes. Her face is rouged with
—what? Perfumed paste of iron oxide. All rouge
to-day has this for a base. Her lips are seemingly
touched with lipstick. And here is that scandal again.
Her fingernails and toenails are dyed red with henna.
A very modern eyeful, indeed, and a nice set,
too, for Hollywood, as Mr. Funk declares. And what
old stuff is the same Hollywood! In far-off Greece
pictures were painted on pillars in progressive fashion,
the idea being to ride by them on horseback and thus
get the effect of “motion.” Then some smart inventor
devised a better method. He painted a series of pic-
tures in a spiral sequence on a single revolving pillar.
This was spun by a rope, and thus the audience en-
joyed the first cinema.
Dog races? says Mr. Funk; they were rat races
in Roman days, and a sausage was dragged in front
of them instead of our mechanical rabbit. Football,
very old stuff; polo, very bewhiskered, indeed.
Wrestlers? Euripides said that of all the ten thousand
evils that afflicted Greece these “grunters and groaners
were the worst.” Modern “two-bottle men” and
bibbers generally have heaved at them such giants as
Alexander the Great, “one of the better alcoholics of
antiquity,” or Socrates: “This bibulous hero of Greece
drank every member of his party under the table,
stayed on his feet all night discussing intellectual sub-
jects, then enjoyed a shower in the grey dawn, and
started a new day.”
Our Mr. Stevens, says our Mr. Casey, threatens
us with inflation. Mr. Funk can tell ’em both where
and when that sort of thing started and what stagger-
ing results it has sometimes had. Tammany Hall?
Greece had the identical thing. Nudists? They have
existed and persisted through the ages, susceptible
to the one shaft —ridicule.
Mr. Funk salts his parade of ragbag erudition
with bright, sometimes giddy, anecdotes ; among the
nudists and in Madeline’s boudoir his enthusiasm is
especially striking. He also throws off such pleasing
information as that Madeline at large spends nearly
£400,000,000 a year for 170,000 tons of cosmetics and
beauty treatments. It seems a lot? Mr. Funk is there
to remind you that Napoleon’s Josephine paid
£40,000 in a single year for her cosmetics. Some of
the old-time beauty prescriptions, he admits, seem a
bit silly to-day,
But notice the common element that ties our time
to theirs —the element of magic—a voodoo charm that
will bring back beauty, youth. The same hoopla will
come over the radio to-night about some beauty
preparation.
The Australian edition of Mr. Funk’s diverting
work runs to one of the most accurate, as well as the
most meandering, blurbs ever committed. It starts
on the front jacket, turns over the flap, does a leap
to the back inside flap, then all over the outside back
of the jacket. Among other of its accurate pointers
to the nature of the contents it declares the book to
be “the very thing to put in the hands of your week-
end guest on a rainy day.” For ourselves we are
specially earmarking it for the pending visit of the
curate.
Maurois Reads Thoughts.
Andre Maurois has produced another little book
full of meat and acumen, The Thought-reading
Machine (Cape; translated by James Whitall).
It purports to be the private papers of a French
professor, Denis Dumoulin, who recounts for the
information of his children in years to come the truth
of a curious episode. He met when lecturing at an
American university an English physicist named
Hickey, who had invented, more as a toy than a
serious experimental apparatus, a thought-reading
machine.
Hickey lent Dumoulin a machine, and the pro-
fessor listened in to his wife’s most private thoughts.
She discovered the trick and listened to his. The
two sets of “confessions” cancelled out, and a low-
comedy episode ended in a better understanding
between the two.
Hickey had no intention of making his discovery
public, but a laboratory assistant used it privately to
cheat in a game with results that couldn’t be hidden.
The newspapers got hold of it, and after it had been
used in a criminal investigation it was famous all over
America. Big Business smelt money, and soon it was
on the market making a fortune.
Dumoulin carried it to France, and by means
of it established sympathetic relations with a brother-
in-law he had always disliked, discovered that his
strait-laced mother-in-law was a libertine at heart and
that his pompous father-in-law didn’t think at all.
His wife’s sister, Henriette, whose husband had
deserted her, begged him to let her record her own
reveries and develop them herself. The result was
fatal. “Not only do I know now that my life is
hopeless, but I know that I know it,” she wroth before
she drowned herself.
The psychograph was useful in some ways, dan-
gerous in others, but in the end was seen to lead
exactly nowhere. The inventor has the last word:
“Interior language is no more authentic than ordinary
speech ; the latter is a precaution against others and
the former against ourselves.”
Lost (?) Atlantis.
“Lost” Atlantis is no preserve of poets alone.
They have managed to extract dividends out of it,
but, that apart, it is fairly common property. Las-
seter’s Lost Reef is a local translation of it. President
Wilson was well and truly there when he hatched
out the League of Nations. Herr Hitler, back to
building bird’s nests at Berchtesgaden, is maybe at
large in Atlantis. So, no doubt, is Mr. Chamberlain,
taking a turn at trout-tossing. The place, in fact, is
as good as a public park; nothing could be further
astray than to go on regarding it as a once-actual
place that was dragged out to sea and sunk, or other-
wise carelessly mislaid.
Consider what proof there is that it ever had any
such actual existence. Not only the first but the sole
“documentary evidence” is a yarn Plato had from his
grandfather when that old gentleman had turned 85.
It will not be disrespectfully suggested here that the
old gentleman was probably doddering when he told
Plato his glorious rigmarole about Atlantis sinking
into the sea and vanishing for ever, taking with it its
warriors, its temples and grottoes, and the whole
elaborate and beautiful city which the Atlanteans had
evolved through the centuries. To the old chap
Atlantis was conceivably just as real as Las-
seter’s Lost Reef is to those of us who yet wouldn’t
put a bad florin into a search for it. Plato, however,
did not hand it on as any such splendid reality, but
as an ordinary actuality, as some have sought to do
with the Lost Reef. And, as again like the conver-
sion of the Lost Reef legend into supposed fact,
that has had some remarkable and disastrous conse-
quences. Some of the more Startling are to be found
enshrined in James Bramwell’s Lost Atlantis (Cobden-
Sanderson).
In referring to it as lost Mr. Bramwell ( falls into
the common error. At first sight he seems to err even
more deeply in having map endpapers to his book
in which Atlantis is depicted about the size and shape
of India sunk in mid-Atlantic under the Azores and
beyond, with the Gulf Stream flowing across the top
half of it. But he attributes this map to another,
and those who may object to their Atlantis being
mapped out and sunk at sea like that for the fish to
squat on will be relieved to find Mr. Bramwell’s book
much better than it therein promises. He displays
considerable erudition in dealing with the legend of
Atlantis; covers the story over its currency of 2000
years very fully and interestingly. But he also
measured up to his own prescription to the effect that
most writers about Atlantis have lacked a sound
liberal education on Erewhonian lines, crowned if
possible by what Samuel Butler calls “a degree in
Hypothetics at the Colleges of Unreason.”
In other words, they have taken it solemnly,
instead of rightly taking it seriously. A case in point
was the schism that occurred in the Societe d’Etudes
Atlanteenes, founded in France in 1936. Rivalry
between the groups grew so strong that finally, during
a meeting at the Sorbonne, the Society's proceedings
were violently interrupted by two tear-gas bombs
thrown into the hall by the other Atlantomaniacs,
who were described in the report of the proceedings
as “visionaries.” The trouble here was a confusion
of ideas about Atlantis. Those who remained in the
Societe after the schism believed in pursuing a strictly
scientific investigation. Quite evidently they took it
most solemnly. The breakaways took it every bit as
solemnly, but on rather different lines. Their idea
of Atlantis was to be signified in going for loijg hikes
wearing Atlantean emblems in their buttonholes, and
having Atlantean picnics, with the initiates speaking
a strange jargon derived from the technical vocabu-
laries of Cabbalists, Freemasons, Boy Scouts and
Celtic Bards.
As a further example of what he calls “the lengths
to which people may be driven by the desire to put
Atlantis on the map,” though it can be more appro-
priately given as an example of what comes of asso-
ciating the place with maps at all, Mr. Bramwell
records the activities of a group of “Danish scientists”
who in 1933 “organised and founded the Principality
of Atlantis.” They have already issued stamps and
money and even designed a flag for the Principality
of Atlantis.
In 1912 Dr. Paul Schliemann, a grandson of Henry
Schliemann, the great German archaeologist who dis-
covered the sites of ancient Troy and Mycenae, pub-
lished in the New York “American” an article called
“How I Discovered Atlantis, the Source of All Civili-
sation.” He went on to declare that his grandfather
had left secret documents concerning Atlantis, and
had, on his deathbed, scribbled a note charging who-
ever opened the secret papers to break “the owl-
headed vase.” He then went on to tell how he had
duly misused “the owl-headed vase” as directed and
had thus been led to discover Atlantis, full details of
which discovering he would divulge in a further article.
Thereafter nothing was heard from Dr. Schliemann
but an appalling silence, whereupon critics, especially
German critics, arose in swarms and called his name
bogus.
Nobody, apparently, was struck by the singular
point of resemblance between this “discoverer” of
Atlantis and- Plato, the begetter of the legend. That
is, of course, that they both had grandfathers. Only
Plato, had this clear advantage: that, written in his
day, a glorious yarn such as Dr. Schliemann concocted
would have been accepted on its merits as a right and
proper treatise for a degree in Hypothetics at the
Colleges of Unreason. Plato has had his degree, and
merited it. For a treatise in some respects better —
Plato never thought of “the owl-head vase” —all the
hapless Doctor has won is the bitter designation,
Fraud.
Tales of Unrest.
Pity the Tyrant, by Hans Otto Storm (Heine-
mann), belongs to the spate of books inspired by the
disturbed state of the world. It is brilliant in
detail but chaotic. Even the point indicated in the
title fails to appear. Certainly a fallen dictator, an
old man languishing in prison, is mentioned from
time to time, but his bearing on the story is remote.
The scene is Lima and the local color is the best part
of the book. The story promises a lot but frazzles.
The Guns Look Back, by Lajos Zilahy (Heine-
mann), is the story of Balder, an international arma-
ments king. The stage is set for melodrama, but the
fuse is damp. The characters are stock types except
for Zombar, the blind husband of the armament
man’s mistress.
Balder wearies of his trade and starts looking
round for a means to end war. He proposes to enlist
an army of traitors in high places who would systemati-
cally betray their country’s secrets. It is a childish
and mechanical solution and it doesn’t work. Balder
is arrested and turned over to a firing squad. In the
instant of death he recognises guns from his own fac-
tory, and dies shouting their patent numbers —a nifty
notion on the author’s part; but Zilahy has done much
better work, notably in The Two Prisoners.
James Hanley’s Grey Children is a case book of
one of the so-called “special areas” in a Welsh mining
district. The specialness consists in almost universal
unemployment, and its record is one of the blackest
tragedies of the modern world. Hanley describes the
miners’ houses, ugly, damp, with communal water-taps
and communal lavatories; he notes their food,
penn’orths of broken biscuits, tins of sardines and the
everlasting fish and chips, which has become such a
dietetic habit that there are boys and girls who can’t
digest anything else.
It is a story of unemployed becoming completely
unemployable, for moral as well as physical reasons.
It is a grim picture. Hanley is content to thrust it at
the reader. He has no political panacea up his sleeve.
A Poetic Drama.
Christopher Hassall’s Christ’s Comet (Heine-
mann) is a poetic play in the grand or Shakspearean
manner. Its theme is the pilgrimage of the wise men
to Bethlehem.
To the biblical story, following the tradition of
Henry Van Dyke, Hassall has added a fourth wise
man, Artaban, who felt himself unworthy to pay his
homage to the Babe in the manger and, instead of
jewels and frankincense and myrrh, offered up a life
of humility and service. Old and blind and poor he
comes at last to Calvary, and is vouchsafed a vision
of the Nativity.
Hassall takes an established mould—as it might
have been the sonnet form —and pours his poetry into
it. the time-honored devices, the changes from
poetry to prose, to mark variations in the emotional
temperature; the exaggerated jesting of the muleteer
as relief; rhetoric, pageantry ; but these devices are
well-handled. Christ’s Comet is effective and moving.


V.' .
c^i
n yfOm
\ -•■
i Sill I
CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
C
»
0 $
C TTTTC
W U II II lv
131 FITTINGS
4 W*
#
\T^
a
ft
It
i
7 7:
JSIj
HHH
v:M
: . ' ' 'V.,
1 -
I gj
M ft „ ft;
h.
\
■
:
■
ft:
■ <
S?
m
I 11111 A* ft
'>> „*’ .*** ,
Iftftft
v***.
s»
WSlmm
;ftft : ft
n;
■HI
1
Si
: ft ' : ••
■
.
ffl—B
\
"tA
Ready
for
Instant
Wear
Largest
Size range
in
Australia
GRACE BROS.
“THE MODERN TAILORING”: How
uncommonly sensible this modern way of
choosing clothes by putting clothes on.
By looking at yourself in a suit of clothes
you see the final effect at once.
What a blessing to be able to buy clothes
in certainty, with a full knowledge of
their suitability, their cut and fit, and
what a saving of time and elimination
of doubt.
Don’t hesitate if you are “Tall and Slim,” “Short and Thick Set,”
“Portly,” “Corpulent,” “Stout,” or the “Athletic Type”; or if
you weigh EIGHTEEN STONE or NINE STONE, your fitting
is in stock; and remember, a thousand words couldn’t speak as
eloquently as one try-on.
PRICE RANGE:
i:» a - to £1212 -
LESS SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER OF
10% DURING NOVEMBER
SYDNEY
TELEPHONE OUR ORDER OFFICE, M 6506
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD. -- « - - * BROADWAY


A gift in keeping with Yuletide...senc/ your friends
in England a case 0f ...
g
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY ... No freight charges to pay!
A
HHHH'
mm
wgim
a m m |
V «
I
'
-X
■
nM. * •,* ’
m
n
•:■ • <
ill I
'
■1
>,, . , . :
11111
...
■■•■ ■■ J
■ ~ ~ - - -■ ' ■ - J—. —n—
Australia House, London.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.
For full information ring or Write to:
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hi .
London Office: Australia House.


THE INVASION OF 1939.
“Welcome to our imperilled country, your Royal Highness; and are you SURE you haven’t seen any foreign invaders about?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
THE STEVENS STUNT.
Melbourne “Age,” which preserves the David,Syme
tradition, was recently moved to make some remarks
about newspapers with other standards.
There is, unfortunately, a species of stunt journalism
which tarnishes, while it trades upon, the traditions
that the reputable press has established. Its imper-
tinences and its vulgarities are a serious social blemish,
and those who patronise it share the blame for it, the
shame of it.
The “Age” did not mention names, but there was no
need. Australians know this stunt journalism and are
familiar with its marks and brands.
The Stunt Press is “profusely illustrated” with
reproductions of photographs, the staple subject being
a grinning flapper, posed in the nearly-nude. It goes
in also for comic and “mystery” strips, drawn and
written by imbeciles for imbeciles, for syndicated
serials and short stories, all imported ; and it is a
mine of information about the private fives of Holly-
wood morons —the dirtier the better —and the beach
and cocktail parties of “socialites.” Australian art
and letters it ignores or dismisses in brief occasional
paragraphs ; but it has a mercenary interest in
astrology and is never without its war-scare or its local
“sensation.”
In foreign politics the Stunt Press is militantly
interventionist. It was hot for “sanctions” when that
fiasco was attempted, and it has made heroes of Haile
Silassie, Largo Caballero, Benes and the Chiang Kai-
sheks, the last-named being presented in portrait and
story as- if they were a set of moving-picture actors.
It effusively predicted success in war for its Ethiopian,
Spanish and Chinese idols, and it was positive that the
Czechs would fight, with the French and British along-
side them and the Mighty Soviet War Machine to
make victory certain.
For news about these impending triumphs and
the ludicrous weakness of the Fascist Powers, the
Stunt Press drew heavily on the “Cronk-News,” the
Manchester “Garbage-tin,” the “Daily Dillygraph” and
“L’CEuvre,” whose bright particular star is Madame
Two-Blues. The performances of these authorities it
supplemented with articles from the fluent pens of
Edgar Snow, Edgar Ansel Mowrer, Winston Churchill
and Ernest Hemingway. It celebrated the deeds of
embattled Amazons, fighting for Abyssinia, Red Spain
and Chiang’s China, and published exclusive portraits
of the Amazons showing their legs. Also it demon-
strated, by means of simple arithmetic, that the Demo-
cratic Powers (the U.S.A., Hungary and Poland always
among them) had more men and machines than the
Fascist Powers, and therefore must beat them in the
Inevitable War.
Naturally the Stunt Press had no use for Mr.
Chamberlain. Circumstances might, for the moment,
be in his favor, but how could an elderly gentleman
with an untidy moustache and baggy pants stand up
against Mr. Eden, that answer to a “socialite’s” prayer?
Besides, the old boy was a member of the Cliveden
set, and there were no Bright Young Things in the
Cliveden set, the leading lady being, in fact, T.T.
Mr. Chamberlain went to Berchtesgaden. The
two Prime Ministers, the Fiihrer and the Duce deli-
berated at Munich. The Germans marched into
Sudetenland, the Poles into Teschen. Dr. Benes
resigned. The Japanese began their military promen-
ades to Canton and Hankow.
Gloomily the Stunt Press recorded the progress
of these unimagined events. Moodily it reported
that Mr. Chamberlain and the Chancellor had set
their hands to a memorial rejecting the idea of another
war, that Germans and Czechs had settled the new
boundaries without recourse to plebiscites, and that
10,000 Italians had been withdrawn from Spain so
that the Anglo-Italian agreement might come into
operation at an early date. Let others point the moral
if they chose; the Stunt Press preferred to adorn
its own tale. Australia, it cried, was in Danger. Aus-
tralia must have a Savior. But, contrary to custom,
it need not send abroad for the article. It had a
Savior on the premises in the person of Mr. Bertram
Sydney Barnsdale Stevens —in hours not big with the
fate of nations, “Tubby.”
The call came to Mr. Stevens when he was medi-
tating retirement from the Treasury, so that he might
become Premier without portfolio, and “restoration”
of Ministers’ and Assemblymen’s salaries. He is really
a dull specimen of the borrowing politician who has
been the bane of N. S. Wales for half a century. The
Auditor-General notes that “the loan liability to the
Commonwealth has increased by £66,058,501 since
1931,” and that the accumulated deficit (the accumu-
lation of ten years) has reached £30,643,900. At the
same time thumping loans have been raised for un-
employed-relief expenditure through the Sydney Water
Board. It is also Mr. Stevens’s pleasant fashion to
extort “emergency” taxation at the rate of nearly
£600,000 a month, while announcing periodically that
the emergency is at an end.
Nevertheless, Mr. Stevens read in the Stunt Press
that as a financier he was a blend of Gladstone and
the second Pitt, and that, though hitherto a man of
peace who has never fired any weapon more lethal
than a peashooter, he combined the outstanding quali-
ties of Kitchener and Carnot. One panegyrist added
that he was withal “a great Parliamentarian, a consum-
mate judge of public opinion and a master at framing
a popular policy.” Intensely gratified, Mr. Stevens sped
to the microphone and made the speech in which he
demanded “a Drive for National Efficiency, an
Advance on All Fronts.” Then he hurried off to
Melbourne complete with personal staff.
The expedition to Melbourne was a mistake. The
Stunt Press had announced that Mr. Stevens would
“enter Federal politics” and straightway become either
Treasurer or Minister of Defence. It was now deli-
cately suggested that the highest post of all might be
reserved for him, it being “no secret that the last
few strenuous years have taken serious toll of Mr.
Lyons’s strength.”
The alleged invalid read this on reaching Mel-
bourne from Tasmania. He had an engagement at
Shepparton. Going straight to that town, while Mr.
Stevens was in Melbourne, he said, with a beaming
smile, that although “certain people” had decided that
he should retire, the only point on which they differed
being “the method of disposing of the body,” his
“health and strength” were such that he had “no inten-
tions of becoming a political corpse for a long time
yet.” This was not only exceedingly disconcerting to
Mr. Stevens and his barrackers, but it recalled Mr.
Stevens’s way of explaining why he dismissed Mr.
Weaver from his Ministry (“Mr. Weaver has enjoyed
bad health for a long time”). And it obliged the Stunt
Press to explain that Mr. Stevens had gone to Mel-
bourne, not to confer with the P.M., but to see Mr.
Dunstan, another superfluous Premier.
Having seen Mr. Dunstan, Mr. Stevens “left for
Albury by car to attend a gathering in honor of Mr.
Mair,” now his Treasurer. And so to Canberra and
the Loan Council meeting, which was such a chilling
frost, especially for him. By the time he was back
in Sydney—where he returned to the task of adding
£14,000 p.a. to the salaries of Ministers and members,
with four months’ back pay for all hands —even the
Stunt Press had to recognise that it was all up with
the Stevens stunt. Mr. Stevens, it was announced,
had patriotically resolved to devote himself to his
Big Job (at £l4 a week more for less work); never-
theless the reconstruction of the Lyons Ministry would
proceed, U.A.P. members being in full revolt. Actu-
ally, those members gave Mr. Lyons a unanimous
vote of confidence, and the C.P. members intimated
that they would prefer him to any other U.A.P. leader.
In home politics the Stunt Press stands for rancid
provincialism and boom-and-bust finance. Hence its
selection of a dull Sydney borrowing politician as the
Man of Destiny. In March, 1937, it and its senile
imitators declared that the dairy-farmers and dried-
fruits people would be ruined unless the people voted
inter-State Freetrade out of the Constitution so that
the home market might be manipulated by boards.
The people voted nearly 2 to 1 (2,214,388 against
1,259,808) for inter-State Freetrade, and the dairy-
farmers and dried-fruits people have not suffered a
bit —the dairy-farmers, in fact, are doing uncommonly
well.
That marketing referendum should have been a
warning to would-be Rothermeres, Beaverbrooks
and Hearsts that Australians would not tolerate
government by newspaper; but the Stunt Press is too
stupid and arrogant to be capable of learning from its
own blunders.
Defence—Not Dictatorship.
Australians, it is now gratuitously flung at them,
are a casual and careless lot. That being thought a
shade insulting, in the next breath they are told that
they have the right stuff in them. Mr. Menzies to
that effect: —-
Australians are a good-natured, easygoing people,
who, probably more than any other people, are prone to
put their heads in the sand. They do not want to be
troubled with uncomfprtable facts. But when they are
told the facts, and believe in those facts, they have an
unrivalled spirit and capacity to face those facts, and
act accordingly.
There is not much doubt about what is in Mr.
Menzies’s mind. He is talking mainly to the new
panic-jazzed defence tune, and his implication is
that Australians in the mass are the ones responsible
for the weakness of this country’s defences. Mr.
Menzies’s prescription for this enervated patient also
has a familiar ring. What the patient needs is to have
applied to it the galvanic touch of “Leadership’s”
electric battery.
For some 30 years no Government of this country
has been without a mandate to carry out a vigorous
and sufficient defence policy. The state of the world
for at least 10 years past has made the building-up
of adequate defences a matter of necessity. That
obligation- has been dodged and neglected. One
Government —Mr. Scullin’s—not only neglected it,
but took positive action to smash such defence as
there was. In the face of such a record it is a stag-
gering exhibition of political hide when Australians
are now told that the blame for it all is theirs. They
may be a good-natured and easygoing people, but they
are not going to stomach that sort of face-saving
impudence.
Mr. Menzies and other gentlemen are getting
acres of space in newspapers and lots of time on the
air for this crusade to wake Australians to a sense of
duty. Australians have one straight answer for them.
The Lyons Government has its mandate. Let the
Lyons Government get on with it!
The general run of Australians need no further
telling that the defences of their country have been
a joke for ten years. They will not be told by Mr.
Menzies or Mr. Stevens either that this is their fault
or that their mode of fife, their democratic traditions
and beliefs will have to be revised and remodelled, or
abandoned, before their country can be made safe
to five in.
The answer again is that the Australian Govern-
ment has a clear mandate and an open go to pursue
the most vigorous defence policy.
The Australian public does not stand in the way
of that; neither do any democratic traditions and
beliefs, nor the system of government. It can be
carried out now, by the Cabinet brand of leadership,
without seriously interfering with the Australian mode
of life.
The fulsome “leadership” accompaniment to the
defence hullabaloo is another thing Australians have
had enough of for the present. Mr. Menzies, on
“leadership”:
Why was it that Hitler could remilitarise the Rhine-
land without firing a shot? Why was he able to tear
up the Treaty of Versailles, absorb Austria and the
Sudetenland without firing a shot? The dominating
reason why he was able to do it all is that he gives the
German people a leadership to which they render
unquestioning obedience. If you and I were Germans
sitting beside our own fires in Berlin, we would not be
critical of the leadership which has produced such results.
Agreed ; but why the sneers at democracy? “Aus-
tralians can no longer remain smug and self-satisfied
with democratic platitudes”—Mr. Menzies speaking.
Echo, in the shape of Mr. Stevens, answers: “The
traditional beliefs of the past will have to give place.”
The German sitting beside his fire in Berlin is
not critical of the leadership which has produced such
results compared with the desperate straits he had
been in. It is not mentioned that along with those
advantageous results go disadvantages that Australians
—who have neither experienced them nor been ren-
dered immune to them by desperation—would find
unbearable.
What has failed in Australia is not democracy
but the mockery of it called “our Federal system,” the
thing which saddles this country of 6,900,000 people
with 13 Houses of Parliament, seven Cabinets, seven
Cocked Hats and a multitude of boards and depart-
ments, with the confusion and looseness of administra-
tion which all that makes unavoidable. It is not
democracy but this clumsy abuse imposed on it that
will have to be revised.
Even as it is, admittedly clumsy and unwieldy,
it provides no excuse for shunting the blame for
neglected defences back on the people, or dodg-
ing the clear mandate and not getting on with
the job. There is no call to get into a panic over it.
The position is not desperate.
The truth is that it has materially improved
during the past three years. Thanks chiefly to Mr,
Chamberlain, the old amicable relations with Italy
have been restored. The Anglo-Italian agreement will
keep clear the path through the Mediterranean,
of vital importance in the general defence system
on which Australia must still in part depend
for a long time to come. Singapore has given an
added security. Germany’s natural economic expan-
sion in Europe constitutes no direct menace to Aus-
tralia, and may be beneficial. Japan’s operations in
China postpone to a distant date any other expan-
sionist ambitions it may have; in any event, Japan
has the U.S.A. on one flank and the U.S.S.R. on the
other. Above all, the Czechoslovakian affair strik-
ingly demonstrated that none of the great European
peoples wants war. And if Downing-street thought
this part of the Empire was in any danger it would
send a soldier or an admiral to the Commonwealth
as Lord Gowrie’s successor, rather than a prince of
the blood.
None of this is excuse for neglect of Australia’s
defences. However, Australia is still in the position
of Being fairly safely sheltered, while from no point,
at the moment, directly menaced. Now is the oppor-
tunity to make it as impregnable as possible. That
calls for no will of the people, and no fancy form of
dictatorship. Democracy, working through one Par-
liament and one Government, is fully equal to it.
Cabinet leadership will do. The Lyons Government
has its clear mandate. It is up to that Government to
push calmly but vigorously on with a plainly necessary
national job.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Kyeema Crash.
Australian airlines carry more people per head of
population than those of any other country in the
world, and there are no faster or safer machines than
those flown on inter-capital routes. In the few acci-
dents that have occurred on such routes no structural
defect or engine failure has been traced. But some-
one must have blundered, something must have been
left undone, when the Dougfas airliner Kyeema plunged
to her doom in the Dandenongs on October 25.
The liner was on her way from Adelaide to
Melbourne with 18 passengers and crew. It was a
return journey, and the greater part was done around
11,000 feet. The pilot gave his position regularly,
together with his altitudes.
At 1.4 p.m. he was 20 miles north-west of St.
Arnaud. At 1.32 p.m. he acknowledged a weather
report from Essendon and advised that he might ask
for a bearing. At 1.44 he requested a barometer read-
ing. This was given, and he was asked again and
again whether he wanted a bearing. No further mes-
sage came from the machine. It had got off its course
and shot beyond the ’drome. There was fog over the
Dandenongs ; in thick fog it crashed into Mt. Dande-
nong. Witnesses hurrying up found the Douglas a
scattered wreck and the 18 persons in it all dead.
Among them were noted South Australians- —
Charles Allan Seymour Hawker, M.H.R. for Wake-
field, whose dauntless spirit triumphed over the war
wounds that left him a cripple ; Sidney Hill Smith,
Thomas Maitland Hardy and Louis Hugo Gramp,
heads respectively of the Yalumba, Hardy and Orlando
wine concerns. Among them also were Leonard
Sydney Abrahams, K.C., Alfred Cecil Gain, James
lan Massie and Lancelot William Shirley, who had
represented the B.M.A. before the National Insurance
Commission. The pilot was Captain Webb, his
assistant Allan Steen. Mr. Gain, Mr. Smith and Mr.
Hardy were returned soldiers.
The Government immediately ordered a public
inquiry, and the tribunal lost no time in entering upon
its task. It can be depended upon to do its best to
collect the facts, fix the responsibility and recommend
preventive measures- regardless of anyone’s feelings.
The public, conscious of the loss that Australia has
suffered, and alarmed at statements that have been
made, will be satisfied with nothing less.
The Prince and the Yawper.
Members of the royal family are never sent for long
periods to countries which are thought to be in any
danger of invasion. For this reason, as well as others,
nervous people who read war-scare papers and listen
to radio alarmists must have welcomed the news that
the Duke of Kent had been appointed to succeed
Lord Gowrie as Governor-General of the Common-
wealth, much as they respect Lord and Lady Gowrie.
The greatest relief was felt by those whose blood had
been chilled by the braying of an ass whom a national
station presents as “The Watchman.”
“The Watchman” put on his blood-chilling act
on the very night when intelligence of the Kent
appointment was trickling over the cables. He de-
clared, in effect, that Australia was in so perilous a
situation that it could be saved only by a war effort that
would make that of 1914-18 look feeble. There was
not a moment to be lost. Australia would have to
become a conscript nation, fully equipped with
modern weapons and munitions, and relatively as
strong on sea and in the air as on land, and go in
for heroic financial measures. The gentleman didn’t
precisely state what they should be, but he mentioned
conscription of wealth, and suggested that his listeners
could decide whether they would prefer a capital levy
or doubling of the income tax.
Obviously “The Botchman” knows no more about
Australian taxes on income than he knows about
foreign affairs or the population of Britain —he gave
that as 48,000,000. Doubling income taxes would
mean that many Australians who employ labor
would have no income to employ it with.
Before 15 p.c. was added to Federal rates, the
Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation prepared
a return showing the taxes payable by resident
taxpayers without dependants on £5OOO of income in
the different States. On income from property, they
amounted to £2471 in Queensland (shillings and pence
omitted), £2136 in S.A., £2077 in Tasmania, £1991 in
N.S.W., £l9Bl in Westralia and £lBl2 in Victoria.
And on property income in excess of £5OOO, the Com-
monwealth rate is 6s. 9d. in the £ plus 15 p.c., while
on anything over £BOOO Queensland charges ss. in the
£, plus 20 p.c. super tax, plus 21\ p.c. “additional”
tax and lid. in the £ for unemployed-relief. Other
State taxes on higher incomes are almost as steep.
Indeed, doubling the taxes would necessitate private
capital levies to pay them.
It is bad enough for commercial radio mud-
throwers and alarmists to do their stuff; and in some
cases they have outdone the war-scare newspapers. But
for a national station to permit a pseudonymous
ignoramus to spout wild and disturbing nonsense is an
impertinence which the national Parliament should not
suffer.
"The Commission Recommends."
A Macquarie-street excuse for the Salary Grab is
that the screws restored” were, in substance, recom-
mended by the late Justice Edmunds, acting as Royal
Commissioner, in 1920. That revives the question of
why the matter was ever referred to Justice Edmunds,
particularly in the light of the late Justice
S f on lm a ft er the coal strike of 1916
had been taken out of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court and referred to the Sydney Judge as special
commissioner.
An Arbitration Court counsel, speaking in another
case, asserted that Justice Edmunds had been appointed
“with instructions to concede the coalminers' de-
mands.” As Ernest Scott in his Australia During the
War reports it, Justice Higgins thereupon remarked:
The Prime Minister wanted me to act as commis-
sioner under these instructions, and I refused It
would have injured the prestige and influence of the
Court irretrievably if I had. Mr. Justice Edmunds
has said clearly that he did not regard himself as an
arbitrator in the matter, but was there to grant what
the men asked for. It was a most baleful precedent.
This was denounced by Mr. Hughes “as a deliberate
and monstrous fabrication.” Mr. Edmunds declared
that it was a reflection upon his probity and was
false.
No communication, written or verbal, other than
the appointment itself has ever passed between the
Prime Minister or any other person and me with
reference to the exercise of the authority vested in the
Coal Tribunal by the War Precautions Act.
There is no record of Justice Higgins having apolo-
gised, but he did say that the P.M. had sent him “a
written statement of the demands which were to be
conceded.” The P.M. admitted having forwarded
“a pencil note of what the men demanded,” but “re-
peated that there was no shadow of foundation for
the charge that he had in any way attempted to
trammel the commissioner.”
Mr. Edmunds was an honorable as well as a very
good-hearted man, but it was unfortunate that he
should have accepted the coal-commissioner appoint-
ment in such circumstances, and still more unfortunate
that he should have acted as commissioner four years
later, when the Storey Government was bent on rais-
ing Parliamentary salaries and a shield became con-
venient. As it was, in consequence of his “recom-
mendations” the annual bill for Assemblymen’s
salaries jumped from £40,700 to £57,800, and for
Ministers’ salaries from £11,040 to £21,800.
It would be a good thing if the judiciary refused
in future to undertake any of this commission
work. The public in no way benefits when Judges
become involved in the proceedings or shifts or ex-
pedients of Governments, and the business of their
Courts is too apt to suffer.
A Plea for Friendship.
Dear Bulletin, —May an Australian from near the
centre of the recent storm record the convictions
which stood out more clearly than ever during those
flashes of lightning? The first is of our urgent need
to cultivate the habit of friendship with other coun-
tries even if their ways be not our ways. It was the
existence of a friendly feeling between Chamberlain
and Mussolini in the supreme moment which pro-
vided a way out from tragedy.
During the last three years, not without difficulty
and defamation, a number of us, British and Ameri-
can citizens, resident in Rome, have been endeavoring,
within the limits of the loyalties we owe to King or
President, to save some of the old bridges of kindli-
ness between our peoples and Italy. Yet all this time a
section of my own population has been waging war.
Is it necessary to wait before speaking till it comes
to guns?
In too many pulpits there have been self-appointed
Prime Ministers preaching not Christian love but
rabid hatred. Professors have forgotten the objec-
tivity of their own disciplines in a display of frenzied
partisanship. How long will churches and universi-
ties continue to permit this? Some of our newspapers
have been virulent in acrimony. From the hatred all
these sow our sons may some day reap a whirlwind
of war. We must give up the ancient Australian habit
of jeering at everything foreign from a distant pavilion.
Secondly I can never understand how any Aus-
tralian can refuse to conscript himself for the defence
of something he holds to be unique. We cannot go on
for ever taking out. Shouldn’t we begin to put some-
thing in? We all responded once in an amazing
fashion, but in the next war the critical period will be
the first three months. Where shall we be then?
It is surely time we began to hold our tongues
and, with peace in our hearts, commenced to form
fours.—Yours etc., H. M. Moran.
"Right Turn!"
One phase of foreign politics on which Australians
have been grossly deceived by newspapers, radio
blah-merchants and writers of volumes recommended
by Left Book Clubs is the attitude of the French.
At the 1936 election parties of the Left won
62 p.c. of the seats in the Chamber of Deputies, among
the 618 deputies being 146 Socialists, 116 Radical
Socialists, 37 Dissident Socialists, 72 Communists and
10 Dissident Communists. Left-Wingers had also
won the Senate election held in October, 1935.
The 40-hour week was introduced under the
Administration of Leon Blum. The foreign policy of
that gentleman and his associates rested on the alli-
ances with Russia and Czechoslovakia, on “collective
security” and the goodwill of Britain. The Little
Entente was hailed as a masterstroke of French
policy; the Poles were alleged to be as attached to
the French Republic as their forefathers were to the
Empire of the first Napoleon.
In respect of Spain, though a show of non-inter-
vention was preserved, the predominant parties sided
openly with the Governments of Barcelona and
Valencia. The Pyrenees passes were placed at their
service, and their soldiers and airmen were armed,
munitioned and reinforced from France. The Italians
made no secret of the fact that they were backing
the Burgos and as the war lengthened
relations between the %aris and Rome Governments
became increasingly unfriendly.
At home difficulties accumulated. The 40-hour
week not only gravely handicapped French industry in
its competition with neighboring countries that worked
longer hours, but had a serious effect on the output
of naval dockyards, armament and munition factories,
and on the national finances. Wages had been raised,
but cost of living rose higher. The Budget had gone
to the bow-wows, and there were ghastly fears for
the franc.
The Germans marched into the Rhineland. They
annexed Austria. They threatened to dissolve Czecho-
slovakia. “Now you’ll see what the French will do! ”
said the foreign correspondents and editors,
the writers of Left books and the blah merchants ;
“the French will fight.” But the French didn’t fight.
It flashed on their startled minds that the Synthetic
Republic was falling to pieces and that the Russian
alliance “wasn’t worth a cracker.” If it had come to
war the nation would have defended its frontiers with
sombre tenacity. But at the pinch its logic asserted
itself and it hailed Mr. Chamberlain’s visit to Berch-
tesgaden with delight. Blum having fallen, it threw
its weight behind Edouard Daladier, whose de-
clared object was to get it out of the Czechoslovakian
mess and keep it out of war.
The changed feeling of the French has been made
evident at the Senate elections. Senators are “elected
for nine years from citizens 40 years old, one-third
retiring every three years.”
The election is made by an electoral body com-
posed (1) of delegates chosen by the Municipal
Council of each commune in proportion to popula-
tion, and (2) of the Deputies, Councillors-general and
District Councillors of the department.
At last week’s election, Republicans of the Right
won 26 seats, gaining nine ; Socialists of the Left
won three seats, losing four. In general, there was a
pronounced turn to the Right. The result will en-
courage the Daladier Government to continue its
negotiations with the German Government for an
enduring settlement based on existing frontiers. From
these negotiations English-speaking peoples have every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose. Admirers of both
great Western European nations, they don’t want to
be involved in any more Franco-German quarrels,
and they will count it a blessing if Germans and
French contrive to live in their necessarily separate
republics as amicably as they have lived together for
centuries in happy little Switzerland.
The Terrible Javanese.
“Feng-Shui” refuses to be alarmed:
Mr. Hans Schwarz van Berk, formerly editor of “Angriff,”
resuscitated an old bogey when he pointed out that the
possibility of a breakdown of the Dutch power in the East
Indies would be a great danger to this country because the
millions of Malays and Javanese had been infected with
Bolshevism.
There are upwards of 80 million Malays, Javanese,
Buginese, Dyaks and representatives of other native races
in e . P u * c h East Indies. More than half of them are
stacked in Java; the rest are scattered about in islands and
could be completely immobilised by any nation with a
moderate amount of sea power. The Javanese are gentle little
creatures who live for the most part in basketwork villages
and make a living out of rice and other easily-cultivated
cereals. A few work in factories preparing sugar, tobacco,
tea and coffee for exportation. Their economy is so simple
that in the Great Depression, when the white community was
well-nigh ruined, the natives merely became reabsorbed in
village communities, where communal festivals are almost
endless. The Dutch have tyrannised over them in a bene-
ficent way for several generations without making them in the
slightest bit interested in secondary industries.
Inasmuch as armies and navies that would be required
to invade Australia would have to depend on a vast and com-
plicated system of manufactures it is difficult to see how the
Javanese could threaten Australia, even if they were stuffed
from head to toe with ideas by the emissaries of Bolshevism
If you told the average Dutchman that the Javanese could
build a modern fleet or even man a hired one, he would shake
like a jelly.
There is always a possibility of anything that has been
set up breaking down, because that is a law of nature; but
there is also a possibility of its not breaking down but
building up. Although the Dutch have plenty of trouble on
their hands in Java, there is not the slightest indication that
they are in measurable distance of being supplanted by some
chocolate-colored Stalin.
The Wandering Jew.
“M.S.” considers him:
A party of Austrian Jews who arrived in Melbourne in
a Dutch hner told a pitiful tale of persecution at the hands
ol the Nazis and expressed unbounded joy at being in one
of the few countries which do not discriminate against their
race.
This , is very flatt enng; but why are the Jews persecuted?
liiere is hardly a country in the world nowadays which likes
them. There must be some reason for it.
This is not to say .that Jews haven’t very admirable
qualities. Everyone can name able Jews: most of us are
acquainted with charitable Jews. The vitality of their race
impresses everyone who goes to one of their meeting-places.
But there must be something about them which makes it
difficult for people to like them. They should look into them-
selves and not go about the world exhibiting their self-pity and
asking for sympathy. As Bernard Shaw said, the world is
for those who know how to live in it.
If nobody sympathises with them, it is no use their
demanding sympathy. If a fellow doesn’t like me, it is no use
my running to the policeman and asking him to have the
fellow arrested. John Bull, whom so many people expect to
be the world’s policeman, with the best intentions in the
world tried to get the Jews liked in their own ancestral land.
He has failed completely.
In what does everybody agree about Jews, even Jews
themselves? That they tend to put a higher, valuation on
moneymaking than most other races. The typical cultured Jew
is not the artist who makes art, but the connoisseur who
makes money out of art. The musical Jew may attain to a
high degree of virtuosity in playing the violin or the piano,
but he never fails to make money out of it. Young Menuhin
makes a lot of money out of playing the compositions of
Gentiles. Would a Jew respect him as much if he made as
little out of music as Beethoven did but wrote his own
sonatas?
The Australian nephew of a Jew who became an enor-
mously wealthy middleman told me one day that if he could
write one little poem he would get more satisfaction out of it
than out of all the moneymaking of his uncle. But when
his uncle died he succeeded to the business and devoted him-
self to making money with just the same passion. His racial
tradition was too strong for him.
The Jew hates his isolation, but nobody has isolated him.
He has isolated himself. Americans, French and Germans are
not isolated in Australia. If they find they are not liked,
they work to make themselves likeable or leave the country.
We hate the way Hitler and Mussolini are treating the
Jews because it only serves to confirm them in their belief
that they are an unfortunate and persecuted people. But
what use does it do to give them harborage in some other
country? They merely take their prejudices with them.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: Let me have the satisfaction
of quoting myself—from B. 6/7/’3B:
One of the things that puzzle me about
our Glorious Press is the prodigious pub-
licity it gives to .the Duchess of Kent. For
every par. it devotes to the Duchess of
Gloucester, the Duchess of Kent gets 50
pars.; for every photograph of the little
Scotch lady it prints, the Princess from
Greece figures in at least a hundred. Yet
Gloucester, whom we know, is the elder
of the two brothers, and his duchess be-
longs to families which have struck their
roots deep in British history Is the
other duchess so amazingly boomed because
she has a film face and figure and
“dresses beautifully” or is there something
else underlying it all?
Clearly there was “something else,” but
I question whether our Glorious Press
ever suspected that the Kents would
come to Australia to succeed the
Gowries. The House of Windsor is very
well served by its press agents. Though
not called that, they are the subtlest and
most successful of the breed. The man
who prepared the fifth George’s speeches
and broadcast addresses was a genius.
* * * *
“Koura”: There was another Maori-
land M.P. who felt the urge for the
simple life (B. 26/10/’3B). Gordon
Coates, when he was Finance Minister
in the last Coalition Government, an-
nounced one day that he was “going
away into the country to think.” It was
in the depression days when the wisdom
of wage-cuts was being contested, and
the ribald laughter of the Labor people,
who took the statement as an admission
that he didn’t do his thinking in Parlia-
ment, spoilt his holiday.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Great Dailies have a weak-
ness for referring to a lady who has lost
her husband as “the widow of the late”
So-and-so. One expects to find this
redundancy in departmental reports, and
it always figures in N.S.W. Budget Papers
—four relicts on the pension list are each
described as “widow of the late,” and
“the late” is also applied to a Premier
who died 48 years ago—but one doesn’t
look for it in newspapers that claim to
have hundreds of thousands of readers
and international reputations. Perhaps
they get too excited about foreign politics
to attend to such matters as correct
English.
* * * , *
“Kerys”: A keen Sydney yachtsman
had his faith in the modern lass badly
shaken last week. He moors his yacht
some distance from shore and rows home
round a point, and he was a good way
off land when his dingy began to fill
rapidly. Baling furiously he looked
round for some assistance, and was grati-
fied to note a flapper on the point not
only observing him but dancing wildly
and screaming at intervals. This
heartened him tremendously until he
observed another flapper rush out with a
camera and point it at him just as his
craft sank beneath the wave. Help came
from a launch that had seen his predica-
ment and rushed to the rescue. The
flappers presumably retired to develop
their records of the disaster.
“Clio”: Add to Sydney clock towers
without a clock (B. 26 /10/’3B) that of
the church of St. John’s, Darlinghurst.
This fane has an imposing tower in which
are a set of chimes that strike the hour
and the quarters, but no outward indi-
cation of horological machinery. This
faceless clock has a bewildering effect on
strangers, who involuntarily glance up
to check the time and then fall to won-
dering where the sound comes from.
* * * *
“Alpha”: The pleasant, kindly city
of Parramatta,, currently celebrating the
150th anniversary of its founding, has a
flavor not to be found in its neighbor,
the great sprawling city of Sydney. The
difference is that between, say, Rich-
mond, Virginia, and New York, to take
a parallel from a still-earlier colonial
settlement. Where Sydney’s links with
the brave early days are overgrown and
eclipsed, Parramatta’s survive and flour-
ish in mellow dignity. It isn’t possible
“Our new neighbor's a dreadful stickybeak, my dear. I've been watching her through the blind all day."
to envisage Lachlan Macquarie in Syd-
ney’s George-street, but it would occa-
sion no shock to meet chaplain Sam
Marsden or the forcible John Macarthur
in one of those sunny by-streets lined
with old cottages that help to sustain
Parramatta’s charm. The town shrines
Australia’s most characteristic begin-
nings. Here the first harvest was reaped ;
here were the first grapevines planted
and the first beer brewed; here was run
the first horserace; from here the first
wool cargo was exported to England,
and here the first loom was operated,
The King’s School, oldest of the Aus-
tralian G.P.S., is a Parramatta institution,
and here may be seen, side by side with
dozens of other architectural relics of
pioneering times, the quaint old circular
bath-house of the early Governors,
There’s an old-English touch about the
celebrations, too—dancing in the streets
under the stars.
« * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Queensland’s Parlia-
mentary refreshment-rooms show an
annual loss which has to be made up out
of the taxes. For the last financial year
the shortage was £945, an average of
about £l5 per member. Total returns
were £B2O for drinks and smokes, and
£lOBB from the dining-room, £l9OB in
all. Which means that to every 3s. round
of legislative drinks the taxpayer con-
tributed a bob, and to every six-bob
feed o„e-,hird of the bill. .
“Cauboy”: Ballerina Baronova had
an unprecedented opportunity of passing
her opinion on ballet music written in
her honor last week. M. Emanuel, a
young composer in London, having com-
pleted his opus, got himself put through
on Beam telephone to the lady’s dressing-
room at His Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Then, while madame attached herself
to one headphone and her husband,
Sevastianov, to another, the composer sat
down and played his piece on a piano
at Covent Garden Theatre. Afterwards
Emanuel was informed that it sounded
very nice in Melbourne. The recital cost
£27, and the ballet may be included in
the present co.’s repertoire before it
leaves Australia.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Six months ago a Laun-
ceston woman was admitted to the
General Hospital suffering from infantile
paralysis. She was kept continuously in
the respirator for two months and then
allowed out during the day and replaced
at nightfall. The other day she gave
birth to a healthy baby weighing 61b.
lOoz. There is a general consensus of
medical opinion that a child is influenced
strongly by the environment of the
mother before birth. Should a psycho-
analyst have to delve into this particular
baby’s unconscious some day he ought to
find an extraordinary set of associations
bound up with machinery, which might
make him think he was dealing with
something in the nature of Franken-
stein’s creation.
“Rappee”: “Roly” (B. 19/10/’3B)
needn’t go all the way to Ingham (N.Q.)
for snuff. A dozen or more Sydney
tobacconists stock it, one in particular
having his mart only a few feet from
what used to be The Bulletin pub.
There was a great rush on the stuff
when influenza was last raging, and sales
are solid, especially in winter, for snuff
is a champion cold-killer.
* „ * * . *, „
Mossy : Brisbane civic officials, set
the task of renaming streets after Empire
leaders, made some mysterious selec-
ti° ns - Scaddan, Labor Premier of W.A.
for five years fro™ 1911, later a Nat.
and later stilL a C.P., is understandable
enough, though he wasn t a very strong
Imperialist. The Newdegate selected is
presumably the quiet English country
gentleman, now deceased, who governed
in both Tasmania and W.A. between the
years 1917 andl 1924. Far from aspiring
to Empire leadership, his exile was oc-
casioned solely by war taxation; his
large but heavily-mortgaged estates were
his chief concern. Pearson is another
curious name in such a list It cannot
surely be that Brisbane’s Labor Council
has decided to honor Weetman of that
ilk, the oil magnate who became Lord
Cowdray and left 12 millions, so it must
be the C. A. Pearson who founded
“Pearson’s Weekly.” What Lockhart,
Somervell, Chancellor and Merewether
did in the way of Emp.re-lead.ng beats
* * * *
“Double Express”: Glad to hear of
an old friend which I thought had van-
ished off the map, the Paradox gun (B.
19/10/,’38). This weapon was not
peculiar to the Dutch hunters of Malaya,
as “J.D.P.’s” paragraph might imply. It
was specially evolved by the famous
Greener firm to supply the needs of im-
pecunious subalterns and civil servants
in India who wanted something that
would enable them to help the pot from
jeel duck and snipe and yet bring down
much bigger game in emergency. The
Paradox was built a bit heavier than the
ordinary shotgun, and the barrels were
rifled for the last six inches of their
length only. The rifling took the round
bullet, if that was being used, and gave
it the necessary spin and accuracy. The
small area of rifling does not clog the
barrel as when firing shot from a fully-
bored rifle. A drawback against which
the makers used to warn buyers was that
for nasty customers 30-50 yards was the
absolute limit when the bullet was being
used.
* * * *
“Inshallah”: I agree with “Tired Tim”
that the Turk was no mutilator of the
dead (B. 19/10/’3B). His cousin the
beastly Bedouin is, however ; and more
than once after viewing a dug-up corpse
of a Light Horseman, buried after Rafa,
I have wished for the power to seize one
of these delectable sheiks and, having
forcibly removed him to Australia, to
have “arranged,” as the “S.M.H.” puts
it, a marriage between the flea-bitten
chieftain and one of the females who go
to worship him on the flicks. Kipling,
who knew his man, wrote not of the
Arab but of the Pathan. Even that good
fighter does not mutilate, though he is
as pretty a throat-cutter with his Khyberee
knife as any could wish. It is Mrs.
Pathan who does the surgical work after
the scrap, and when she is finished she
doesn t bother to put the pieces back in
their proper places. The idea is that
when the departed enters Paradise in
such unseemly guise no houri will have
any time for him.
* * * *
“Admiral”: “Centurion” (B. 5/10/’3B)
must f, e trying to bluff the lesser breeds
w j t j lout t he law when he states that a
first _ class shot j s expected to fire 30
aimed shots a m i nute with the Lee-
Enfield The staiK j arc i laid down for
Australian m iHti a is 10 rounds per
minute and for the British Army 15.
* - chamberlain
A. de G. . It Neville cnamoeriain
had accepted the Garter which, accord-
j n g to re port, the King wished to confer
Qn y there would have been estab-
lished a ’ un i que record in this connection
Chamberlain familv Sir Austen
“ of Neville had
Chamberlaini
barter
V. forliß P ar * “ w"”e that the latest
. , ’ Garter who not be-
-8 . p - Knollvs
* a ' n had accepted the Garter it would
presumably have been without a peer-
age, and the double event of two Gar ter
Knights, not peers m one family would
have been a record without parallel.
THE CRY OF THE UNPAID.
“The bill raising Assembly salaries and allowances
was passed without opposition by the N.S.W. Leg.
Council, every member who spoke, except one,
advocating payment also of Ms.L.C.”
Poor devils! Hard to have to serve the nation,
And to your post assiduously lob
To put the brake on hasty legislation
Based on the transient impulse of the mob,
Without a stiver of remuneration
To reimburse you for your arduous job,
No quid pro quo for the incessant strain
Imposed on fluent tongue and fertile brain.
The rank injustice of it! Surely, surely,
When every M.L.A. accounts his due
Two quid a day, and pouches it securely,
Some wages ought to be allotted you.
You should be recompensed, however poorly,
For all you signify and say and do.
'Tis little wojider in your throats it sticks,
Having your services assessed at nix.
On to the charge, you slighted politicians!
Elaborate the theme with force and fire
That in this land, from fettlers to physicians,
Whether one swings the pick or twangs the
lyre,
In every walk of life and all conditions
The laborer is worthy of his hire,
And it’s a stigma in the meanest trade
To buckle to the humblest task unpaid.
Though some may hold reviewing and revising
Worth while, for all the pleasure it affords,
And jib at the idea of subsidising
A joint with functions like the House of
Lords,
And sooner sit serene, alike despising
Material honors and mundane rewards,
Such altruists you mighty seldom meet
Or even hear of in Macquarie-street.
N.S.W.
IERD.


“Mac Hoots”: During my investi-
gations of the neighbors’ lives I have
occasionally seen notices they erect to
warn them not to blow themselves up
with the gas-heater, but until I saw
“Keep off the Grass!” on a Sydney
suburban path I hadn’t realised quite
how far this passion for official-looking
prohibitions in the home could go. It
made it all the more poignant that the
notice adorned a strip of lawn about
12ft. long and a yard wide between two
concrete wheel-tracks. Presumably the
only regular callers would be the boys
of the butcher, the grocer, the baker and
the milkman, and since they could be
warned without any necessity for a notice
to interrupt the sweep of the pasture, I
can only suspect a secret passion for
notices on the part of the householder.
I suggest to the psychologists that the
continuous bellow of traffic signs, neon
signs and hoardings to which we are
subjected is making the race notice-
minded. Soon we shall have “Use the
Ashtray!” posted up in every suburban
drawing-room.
H* H 1
“Moz”: The latest “investment”
around Adelaide was a sealed card “con-
sultation” on the Melbourne Cup. On
the inside of each card were printed the
names of the 90 horses nominated, three
of which were marked off in ink. The
card was stitched up and offered for sale
at threepence, with a prize of a tenner
for the holder of a card on which the
first, second and third horses were marked.
Eight hundred to one seemed good
odds—and the cards sold. Actually
there are 704,880 combinations of three
possible, and the winner had one chance
in that number—if the possible number
of different tickets were sold. If they
were, the promoters would rake in a gross
of £BBll.
'fc
“Umpire”: Lord Hawke, of cricket-
ing fame, recently dead in England, had
a most appropriate motto for his coat
of arms. It was “Strike.” Debrett houses
some other curious crests. Some noble
families seem to have a liking for puns;
for instance, the Dukes of Cavendish,
whose Cavendo tutus (“safe by caution”)
is pardonable only as a play upon the
name. That same motto, by the way, is
also sported by Lord Hayter, who has
the surname Chubb, and who belongs
to the lock- and safe-manufacturing
family. There is a nice old-fashioned
and truly Irish ring about the Duke of
Leinster’s Crom a boo.
* * * *
“War Baby”: Maoriland’s candid
woman flower-seller (B. 19/10/’3B) re-
calls the yarn of a battalion of the A.I.F.
some of whose members, on leave for
the first time in England, cooked up all
sorts of excuses when wiring head-
quarters for extension. From Scotland
came the following: “Not sick nobody
dead got plenty money having rorty time
please wire two days’ extension.” He got
an extra week, and report had it that the
telegram was framed and hung over the
C.O.’s cot.
* * * *
“H.W.”: An American co. publishes
an ingenious work called The Plot Genie.
It consists of a book full of lists and a
numbered wheel. You spin the wheel,
note the number at which it stops, re-
peat the process for each of the book’s
nine plot requisites, then look up the
numbers in the lists, and there you have
your plot ready-made. Tried it, and got
this: In a Westralian mining town”
(locale), “a sun-bronzed surf-god” (lover)
“falls in love with a Russian princess”
(beloved). A complication appears when
“the hero is gaoled for razor-slashing,”
and they get in a predicament when
“kidnapping is threatened by parties
"Why did I sack him? Because he lost me brandin'-iron
an' borrowed Regan's."
desiring valuable information.” The
crisis comes in a big scene where
“disaster is threatened by a tidal wave.”
But everything ends happily at the
“climax or surprise twist,” wherein it
develops that “confusion has been caused
by the presence of twins.” I understand
that the method is largely used by
American movie writers.
* * - * *
“Native”: Since the Country Press
Conference met in Sydney the claim of
the Armidale “Express” (established
1856) to be the third-oldest newspaper in
N.S.W. has been challenged by the Illa-
warra “Mercury” (established 1855). The
distinction really belongs to the “Free-
man’s Journal,” which has been going
strong since June 30, 1850. Founded in
the interests of the R.C. Church adherents
by an early Australian cleric, Archdeacon
John McEncroe, all its editors have been
laymen. A notable one was J. K. Hey-
don (father of the late Judge C. G. Hey-
don), who occupied the editorial chair
late in the ’fifties. In those days the
“Freeman’s” news columns were not en-
tirely devoted to church matters, and it
was, apparently, found to be a good plat-
form by politicians of all shades. The
old paper had its troubles, as witness
McEncroe’s thanks to Henry Parkes for
placing at his disposal the staff and
machinery of the “Empire” to bring out
“Freeman’s.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: This came to me on a Syd-
ney bus, the two ladies being in the seat
behind. They were English. “Ow, yer
wooden ’now Lunnon neow. It’s
changed. There ain’t now dignity. Lor’,
’ow Hi missed the old ’ouses and their
brass*knockers. Big new Park-lane ’otel
—ain’t the same.” “That’s what Hi say.
Yer down’t miss the dignity ’ere ’cos
there ain’t any, but it’s ’ot when yer go
’ome to look for it and it ain’t there!”
“It ain’t there any more; the plice is
become too democratic. Even the haris-
tocrats is gettin’ that wy” Interval
of gear-changing by the driver. “Connie’s
’usband is* a butler, but such men are
’ard to get. Hi met a butler at Charin’
Cross ; ’e got a bit warm ; but Aunt Amy
alwuz used ter sye, ‘Never marry a gent.’s
gent.” The words blurred and died
away. I heaved a sigh for the lost dig-
nity of London.
*»' '!>
“Dhas”: Apparently someone in the
Old Dart can’t appreciate the powerful
simplicity of the single wreath of red
poppies lying on the slab of black stone
that marks the grave of the Unknown
Warrior in Westminster Abbey. The
" I thought I heard the hens cackling, Prendergast. Slip down and see if
there are any eggs!"
cables say that “a stately monument,”
complete with a niche for a perpetual
flame, is to be raised over it. Why that
should be necessary when the whole
soaring grace of the Abbey serves as the
tomb has me beaten. Kipling, Hardy
and William Ewart Gladstone (whom I
trod on by accident) are perfectly happy
just as names on the floor. There’s no
danger of treading on the Unknown
Warrior’s grave, and in its present sim-
plicity it has that peculiarly English dig-
nity that is found in the speeches that
are written for royalty on momentous
occasions. Too frequent use of “per-
petual flames” has made them, like flights
of pigeons, a little vulgar.
* * * *
“Centurion”: An ingenious test is
applied to the Arabs who are suspected
of sniping in Palestine, but are unarmed
when captured. Their clothes are stripped
off the upper half and if the skin of the
right shoulder shows signs of bruising
from a rifle butt it is a case for a firing
party. A careful soldier, using his rifle
regularly, does not' mark; not so the
amateur. Long ago in the days of the
Commune in Paris, Le Gallifet ordered
his troops to shoot all men not
in uniform showing the black powder
mark in the fork of the thumb from the
“back-spit” of the old chassepot. After
Appomattox, at the end of the Ameri-
can Civil War, the bushranging bands
which carried on with murder and rob-
bery in the Southern States were identi-
fied in the same way, the marking here
coming from the muzzle-loading revol-
vers they used.
“Lightning”: It is likely that the two
old telegraph cables between the main-
land and Tasmania will be placed on the
emergency list soon. Experiments with
the new cables have proved that, by using
what is termed “voice frequency,”
several additional channels are available.
The old cables, though not used, will be
tested daily and kept as standbys.
* * * *
“King Bombo”: The trouble about
carnivals on the Continental style in this
country (B. 19/10/’3B) is that the Aus-
tralian is too self-conscious to make a
clown of himself. A Frenchman of good
class would make no more fuss about
togging himself up in ridiculous guise,
dancing the can-can in the streets in light
of day and singing “Mademoiselle from
Armentieres” in duet with an indisput-
able tart than he would in going to the
Quartz Arts as Adam.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Reported that Adriana Case-
load, the “voice” of Snow White, is
suing Walt Disney on the score that he
and the Radio Corporation of America
made millions of dollars from phono-
graph records of the film sound record-
ing, and she got no rake-off. Disney’s
lawyers swear that there was nothing in
the lady’s contract to give her the right
to cash in on recordings. The misused
damsel says she drew only a bare £2OO
for her share in the opus, and demands
£50,000. If she doesn’t get it, she can at
least, solace herself with the thought that
her voice is still a more valuable asset
than ever was Melba’s so long as “Snow
White and Prince Charming” is going
the rounds of the world’s cinema. Frank
Neil has engaged the lady to appear at
Melbourne Tivoli.
THE UNBREAKABLE.
These be the days, the pleasant days of spring,
When racing fever holds us in its grip
And sanguine punters negligently fling
Caution to blazes, and glib tipsters tip;
Pleasant for all the goodly fellowship
Who on the turf their patronage bestow,
Down to the humble and the dip,
But pleasantest of all for Ikey Mo.
The packed stands surge as into line there swing
The steeds designed each other to outstrip,
Surge until comes the final reckoning
When nimble jocks apply the spur and whip.
This name or that is upon every lip
As streaking past the post the leaders go,
But whosoever loses on the trip
I’m laying odds it won’t be Ikey Mo.
Banks may be broke, and birds with broken
wing
From air to earth incontinently slip,
But none will ever break the roaring Ring
Or have it, so to speak, upon the hip,
Or give the penciller the sort of pip
To make him sky the towel, chuck the show
And from his occupation do a skip—
He’s on a sounder pitch, is Ikey Mo.
Punters, he’ll always have you on a string
And ever in the end annex your dough,
Which, after all, may hardly be a thing
For dour complaint or gloomy cavilling.
Where would it be, the sport where Horse is
king,
Without the helpful hand of Ikey Mo?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


h
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVE NA
m
10 for 9d...20 for V 6
E 1866
E SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
“Mr. Stevens failed to blast his way
into the Federal Cabinet.” —Forgan
Smith. For “blast” read “blither.”
The Japanese are in Canton and Han-
kow, and if Australians had taken the
advice thrust on them a year ago by
Sydney “D.T.”— i.e., “positive action
against Japan,” supporting an allegedly
“positive” U.S.A.—the Commonwealth
would be in the cart. The “D.T.’s” boast
at that time was that it had “given Aus-
tralia leadership.” Leadership of the
same quality was shown by its flapper
“Weekly,” whose short way with Hitler
is to catch him somehow—perhaps by
sooling Mandrake the Magician on him
—and send him to St. Helena.
The “Dominion” to the electors on
the People’s Day of Power:
If the Socialist Government is returned
your vote to-day may be the last free
individual vote you will ever be given the
opportunity to exercise in New Zealand.
The seven electorates closest to the
“Dominion” office returned seven Labor
members.
Hawker, M.H.R., who died in the
Douglas that crashed in the Dandenong
fog, was “Charlie” to members of all
parties. Lyons and Curtin expressed
what all thought when they wrote in their
unique joint tribute to his memory that
“his great ability and untiring energy in
the service of the country were an in-
spiration to those who were associated
with him as friend, Cabinet Minister and
member.” Hawker resigned from the
Ministry in September, 1933, because he
couldn’t support rises against which he
had spoken on the hustings. He could
have joined it again, and the invitation
might have been repeated this year, but
it is improbable that he would have
accepted it.
Hawker’s last speech in the House was
in denunciation of “a very poor Budget.”
It is utterly grotesque to ask Parliament
to vote another £Y, 750,000 for postal
works, while the whole of the defence vote
for new works is to be only £1,618,000.
In regard to defence expenditure, these
estimates display lukewarm procrastina-
tion.
Then he suggested “one or two things
which are badly needed.”
A great deal more might be done to pro-
vide landing-grounds for the Air Force
and proper accommodation of those
grounds. There is a glaring deficiency of
air bases in North Queensland. Another
very urgent need on the mainland is a
dock capable of docking a battleship.
Here was no Australian whose vision
was bounded by imaginary lines or cow-
paddocks.
At the instance of young Shakespeare,
of Canberra, the N.S.W. Country Press
Association is to ask the Lyons Govern-
ment for “a committee to investigate
newspaper and radio combines.” A Par-
liamentary select committee could do the
very necessary job, and it should be com-
posed of members familiar with the
Stunt Press and with broadcast elabora-
tions of war-scare “news.” Also it
should be invited to discover, as far as
it reasonably can, the extent to which
commercial radio programmes are im-
ported.
New “business” was included by the
Two Jacks in their comic act, as seen at
Sydney’s Australian Hall. Entering alone,
Jack Curtin brought down the house by
saying that N.S.W. Labor would have to
give up its dictatorship and let the Par-
liamentary party elect its officers. Then
he departed ; and Jack Lang, entering
alone, brought down the house. He
didn’t say a word, but the house decided,
by 520 to 40, that it wouldn’t let the
Parliamentary party elect its officers. So
the second Jack’s dictatorship remains,
and the first Jack goes back to Can-
berra to think up something else.
Invercargill (M.L.) went dry in 1905,
and has since been reverently bracketed
with Maine by prohibitionists in these
parts. But at the last two local-option
polls Wets have preponderated in Inver-
cargill ; and on October 15 they nearly
got the three-fifths majority required
for restoration, the voting being 7548 to
5513. Mataura went close also, voting
5566 for restoration and 3992 for no-
license.
Pacifist organisations which claim to
represent the youth of Australia have*
issued a manifesto to the effect that said*
youth is against the reintroduction of
national military training. They trium-
phantly mention that universal military
service was put to the vote at Sydney
University.
Of the students, 409 were in opposition
and 135 in favor.
Yes, but 102 women were among the
409 ; and there are 2784 male students.
It is “explained” that “all the ballot-
papers provided were used up.”
Stevens s Government is constructing
railways from Sutherland to Cronulla,
Bungendore to Captain’s Flat and Sandy
Hollow to Mary Vale, and but for
the crooi Commonwealth Bank it
would be constructing more. Nowa-
days it is not even pretended that
new railways will ever pay: the yarn
"Lookit here, if you guys don't watch your steps I’ll have something mighty
strong to say.”
j s that they “promote settlement” or
“assist production” or “plant the stand-
ard 0 f civilisation further into chaos” or
something. When it was still pretended
that they would pay, Glenreagh-Dorrigo,
43 miles, was built and equipped for just
on £1,400,000. Nowadays it is reckoned
a good year when Glenreagh-Dorrigo
turns in £7500 in fares and freight-rates.
The last annual loss was £72,500.
Great Dailies report that if the Czecho.
affair had flamed into another world war
Nationalist Spain would have be6n neu-
tral, Franco having issued a notification
to that effect; and that the Germans and
Italians are anxious to quit the Peninsula,
This makes nonsense of (1) a thousand
Great Daily assurances that Franco had
agreed to let the Germans and Italians
carve up his country, and (2) of a hun-
dred Great Daily declarations that
Britain and France —and, of course,
Russia —ought to fight them to prevent it.
Stevens, defending the Sydney Salary
Grab:
In the .Commonwealth Parliament and
every State Parliament except Queensland
there has been a full restoration of allow-
ances and salaries to members, Ministers
and officers of the House.
The exception is very creditable to
Queensland Labor. Indeed, taxpayers
might regard the Queensland example as
an argument for one-Chamber Parlia-
ments.
Chamberlain policy was a direct issue
and was endorsed at the Oxford City
by-election: Quintin Hogg (Cons.),
15,797; A. D. Lindsay (Ind.), 12,363.
Hogg was pledged to support “Mr.
Chamberlain’s brave and devoted efforts
in the cause of peace.” The first line-up
included also the Socialist who unsuccess-
fully contested the seat at the last general
election and a Liberal. When Hogg
made it a direct Chamberlain-policy issue
they withdrew, leaving the field clear for
Lindsay, who, as Master of Balliol, had
strong personal support.
France, hitherto a home from home
for Communists, is giving up that thank-
less and dangerous part. Daladier has
said bluntly that Red propaganda
directed against other nations will no
longer be tolerated. Nor will “foreigners
or men with police records” be permitted
to be “trade-union delegates.” There
were no Communists among the Senators
elected last week. Three years ago
Communists were on a Popular Front
ticket that returned 20 Senators.
From his microphone at Washington
Mr. Roosevelt has issued another Warn-
ing to (1) the Foe from which —leav-
aniumaS f Se i out i * s se Pf r^ d by
the width of the Pacific, and (2) the
£S -i r ? m r I hlC il, H IS J e^ ra T T ed , h J,
the width of the Atlantic. S. M. Herald
geetufiy pronounces it ‘a counter-
attack on the sworn enemies of represen-
a ive government. On the other hand,
it may only be the babble of an elderly
gentleman who talks too much.
In answer to the active Barnard, Earle
Page admitted that for the year to June
30 Australian imports from the friendly
Dutch in the N.E.I. were worth
£9,431,900 Australian, and exports to
the same £1,467,700. Being the benevo-
lent patron of Trade Commissioners, the
doctor added blithely that “effective work
is being done by the Trade Commissioner
at Batavia.” What sort of work?
Yeates, the C.P. member for East Too-
woomba, has been rubbed out for saying
that the last redistribution of Assembly
seats “was made to order.” He repeated
the assertion when challenged by the
non-legal Attorney-General, and was
named and suspended on a party divi-
sion. The gates are to be shut against
Yeates for 14 days.
One of the things that recent events
have made clear is that the Minister of
Defence should be a man who has seen
war at close quarters. Britain’s Inskips
and Hoares possess this qualification,
even though they practise other profes-
sions. Since Tom Glasgow had to quit
(Oct. 22, 1929), our Defence Department
has been run by a succession of tyros.
Nor does any of the State Premiers know
anything about the thing, though some
of these worthies have rushed in with
unsolicited advice.
Jewish settlement in the Kimberleys
has been discussed by Westralian poli-
ticians. They are nearly all against it,
but George Miles, the heavyweight mem-
ber for the North Province, is a sup-
porter, and he claims M. P. Durack, a
member of the family of Kimberley
pioneers, as a sympathiser at least.
George suggests that Jews might raise
pigs.
Pigs have been bred in the north for
fifty years. They were introduced in the
Kimberleys by a Jew—Mr. Emanuel. The
progeny of those pigs are still there, and
they’ve gone up to 4001 b. killed.
Miles added defiantly that a Palestine
Jew “who arrived here with £lOO and
seven children” pioneered light-land
farming in the Great Southern district,
and was doing well again after having
been “worth £lO,OOO before the depres-
sion.” Baxter, the first C.P. man elected
in Westralia, interposed with the remark
that he knew three Jewish farmers,
brothers, and all successful.
A report that Prague Czechs had
turned against Jews made Sydney Reds
tremble for Kisch, of whom the last in-
telligence was that he had been returned
on the Communist ticket at the fateful
municipal elections; but the “Labor
Daily” found Kisch in Paris, where his
skin ought to be safe enough. Kisch’s
last exploit in Australia was to shake
his fist at the crew of a German freighter
in Fremantle Harbor. Multiply Kisch by
10,000 or 100,000 and anti-Semitism in
Central Europe is not difficult to under-
stand. The unfortunate part is that it
has been extended to Jews of the sort
that Australia knows and esteems.
The Spirit of Progress having whetted
his appetite, Clapp, of the Victorian rail-
ways, is considering plans for a new Adel-
aide express. It is to cost more than
£200,000, half to be borrowed by S.A.
and half by Victoria.
Though sesquicentenary, Anzac Day
and Easter crowds brought in a lot more
business, N.S.W. railway-refreshment-
room profits for 1937-38 were down
£746,. declining from £BB3B to £8092.
Considering that turnover amounted to
£647,380 and that there are no rates or
insurances to pay, the result was poor,
though not so bad as in other years when
substantial losses occurred. The Govern-
ment could lease the whole outfit for at
least £20,000 p.a., plus taxes, and leasing
ought to be tried. The same applies to
the Government caravans at Jenolan and
Kosciusko and other places, which
during the last decade have shown con-
siderable losses.


MATCH DRAWN.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMICS OF DEFENCE EXPENDITURE
MARKET TRENDS
OUTLOOK IN MAORILAND
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
November Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
a
:
M
S
QoS
*4
►
Out
SIZE 72x60'
PERSONAL ITEM
Charles Allan Seymour Hawker, one of
the Kyeema victims, came of an old
South Australian pastoral family. He
was at Cambridge Uni. (where he later
graduated M.A.) when the Great
War broke out, enlisted in the Somer-
set Light Infantry, and reached
captain’s rank before being invalided
with injuries which made him perman-
ently a cripple. In post-war times, after
three years as president of the S.A.
Liberal Federation, he entered the
Federal Parliament as member for Wake-
field, and was Minister for Markets and
Repat. in the first Lyons Administration.
He resigned after nine months rather
than dishonor a pledge to support reduc-
tion of members’ salaries. In 1935 he
travelled extensively, investigating mar-
keting conditions. He supported the
Federal Government’s referendum re-
quest for marketing control, though
the proposal was very unpopular in his
own State and electorate. In short, in
politics as in every other department of
life, he played a straight bat. Cut short
at 44.
The Australian wine trade lost three
of its leading men, all South Australian
vignerons, when the Douglas airliner
Kyeema crashed last week. Thomas M.
Hardy, head of Tintara, Louis Hugo
Gramp, head of Orlando, and Sidney H.
Smith, who steered Yalumba, were
among the victims. They were on their
way to attend a conference at Canberra.
Each of the dead men, all under 50, was
a grandson of the founder of the vine-
yards he controlled.
Though he runs Adelaide’s Oriental
Hotel, the principal claim to fame of
Herbert R. Walsh, pictured here by
Peterson, is his pre-eminence as a breeder
of pure-blooded stock. He’s a past
president of the Pure Breeders’ Assoc.,
has judged cattle at Perth Show, is
owner of the Morelia Jersey Stud,
breeds Romneys and Cheviots (he intro-
duced the latter sheep to S.A.) and also
breeds blood horses. Such time as he
has left over from his pub, his cows,
HERBERT R. WALSH.
his sheep and his horses, he devotes to
his duties as president of the S.A. Am.
Athletic Assoc.
The four members of the crew of the
Kyeema who perished when the ’plane
crashed into Mt. Dandenong were all
comparative youngsters. A. C. D.
Webb, the pilot, was born 27 years ago
at Vryheid, S’Africa, was trained in the
R.A.A.F., and had a refresher course
with the R.A.F. in England. He left
the military for the civil air service two
years ago, and had flown hundreds of
hours and knew every route of the Nat.
Airways. Junior-Capt. A. J. Steen was
25 and a Bendigonian. He was assis-
tant instructor in the Vic. Aero Club
before he joined up at Essendon. P. D.
Pring, the baby, had a B license as a
pilot and was aboard for wireless ex-
perience. He was twenty. Elva Jones,
the air hostess, was born in Ballarat.
She left the nursing profession for the
air a bare nine months ago.
Counsel (all residents of Sydney) repre-
senting the B.M.A. before the Royal
Commission on National Insurance were
all victims of the Kyeema tragedy.
L. S. Abrahams, K.C., a leading member
of the N. S. Wales Bar, wasi in
his prime at 51. Younger still were
junior counsel A. C. Gain, an authority
on moratorium legislation, who was 42 ;
accountant G. H. Goddard, 30 ; and soli-
citors L. W. Shirley, 27, and J. I. Massie,
25.
The amazing George Brown, of Adel-
aide, has had his 106th birthday, which
means, he claims, that it is just 98 years
since he first went to work in a Welsh
coalmine. He has been nearly all
his long life in South Australia, was a
farmer and postmaster, but as soon as
his time was his own devoted it to the
odd pastime of attending Parliamentary
debates.
R. A. Farquarson, who was Govern-
ment Petrologist in W.A. for many years
from 1910, has turned up again in Perth
after 17 years spent in Somaliland as a
Dominions Office geologist. He married
a Perth girl, daughter of the late Colonel
E. W. Hughes, a former headmaster of
Perth High (now Hale) School.
If H. G. Morton heads the field of nine
at the Wollondilly by-election on Nov.
12 he will be the fourth of his line to
sit in the N.S.W. Assembly, three uncles
having preceded him. H.D. represented
Macleay, P.H. spoke for Shoalhaven and
Mark, whose death left the seat vacant,
held Wollondilly for many years. “Tup”
Morton, the 16-stone Deputy Shire Clerk
at Port Kembla, is a slightly different
figure from the lightweight who collected
swimming medals with Bondi Suff Club
in the years after the war, and added
them to the Military Medal he picked
up in France after getting past the A.I.F.
doctors at the age of 16, but there should
be room for his sort in Macquarie-street
even if, as some of his friends rudely
suggest, it necessitates structural altera-
tions to the building.
Celebrated his 80th birthday the other
day, Alderman Frank Stapley, father of
the fathers of Melbourne City. The
veteran might also be called the father
of most of the city’s parks and public
gardens, of which he is committee chair-
man. He has seen the expenditure on
this department grow from £lOOO a year
to 30 or 40 times that amount. Within
12 months his civic office will have gone
west owing to the passing of the Cor-
porations Bill abolishing aldermen.
David Comber-, passed out at Black-
town (N.S.W.) at 92, was reputedly the
oldest living Maori War veteran. He
was born in Sussex, and at 18 was one
of a contingent sent to suppress Maori
disturbances at Wanganui and Taranaki.
Later, he was a mail coachman in N.S.W.,
and he was one of the first to arrive
at Inverell and Vegetable Creek when
tin was discovered there.
Dr. Robert Linton, reported from
London as having discovered the origin
and a cure for the mysterious type of
epilepsy traditionally called “moon
madness,” is a son of knight Richard
t * i D - fam?
Linton Of Vic. Big Brother fame
Richard Linton was hon. Minister in me
McPherson Government and subse-
quently A.-G. for Victoria. His medico
T . j ..LiL Lp. wn<j
son started on research \vhiL
still an undergraduate at Edmburgn
Uni., and he gave his discovery to the
scientific world a bare three months after
, . , . TT , • „ , 1 r*i,rprl
his graduation. He claims to have u
a 35-year-old man and an 11-year-old
gi rb
.
C. H. Crammond, managing director
of Richardson and Wrench, one of Syd-
ney's largest real-estate ageneies, left his
C. H. CRAMMOND.
native Scotland—he was born at Brechin,
in Forfarshire, 68 years ago—as a young-
ster, and entered the real-estate business
in Sydney in 1888. Six years later he
was a partner in the firm he had joined
as a junior Clerk. Dissolving the part-
nership he started out on his own in the
then fashionable suburb of Petersham,
and later opened branches in the city.
In 1917 he amalgamated with Richard-
son and Wrench, becoming one of the
managing directors. He became senior
manager-director in 1927. For several
years he was an alderman at Petersham
and Mayor from 1913 to 1915. His home
is at Gunnamatta Bay, Cronulla, and
reports state that he has established
friendly relations with every kookaburra
in the Port Hacking district.
John Buckley Castieau, well known
to Bulletin readers of 40 years ago, has
died in Melbourne. Under his own
name and the nom de plume of “Paul
Mell” he wrote many fine tales during
the ’nineties, and was represented in The
Bulletin Story Book with a yarn called
“Jessop’s Coat.” Born at Beechworth
(Vic.) in 1868, he was connected with
the Industrial Schools and Police Dept,
of the Vic. Public Service. He retired
in 1925, and was a familiar figure in
literary circles.
Percy Edgar Everett, chief architect
of Vic. Public Works Dept., is a strong
advocate of Australian woods, and a
couple of world tours only served to in-
crease his enthusiasm. He was born and
educated at Geelong, and was its Harbor
Trust’s architect for two years before
he got his present job in 1934. He is
the man mainly responsible for the
design of the proposed new layout of the
National Gallery front in Swanston-
street, which a host of Melbourne artists
swear will never be brought about
except over their dead bodies. He has
just passed his first half-century.
Some November birthdays:—-
Prof. John Anderson (Syd.), 45, Bishop
Frewer (W.A.), 55, Bishop McCarthy (Sand-
hurst), 80, and Prof. Skeats (Melb.), 63, on Ist;
Justice Douglas (Q.), 61, and Senator McLach-
lan (P.M.G.), 66, on 2nd; Prof. Bailey (Melb.),
40, on 3rd; T. A. White (Diggers Abroad), 52,
on 4th; E. W. P. Chinnery (New Guinea), 51,
on sth; ex-N.S.W.-Senator Massy-Greene, 64,
knight Walter Leitch (Vic.), 71, and Keith Mc-
Keown (Aus. Museum, Syd.), 46, on 6th; Francis
Birtles, 56, on 7th; novelist J. J. Hardie, 44, on
Bth; J. A. Beasley, M.H.R. (West Sydney), 43,
and A. E. Heath (former N.S.W. Agent-Gen.),
51, on 9th; knight James Elder (Melb.), 69,
on 10th; Prof. Cotton (Syd.), 55, Maj.-Gen.
Dodds, 65, knight Hugh Denison (Syd.), 73,
and W.A. Min. for Justice and Railways
F. C. L. Smith, 55, on 11th; W.A. Senator
Collett, 61, on 12th; knight Mark Sheldon
(Syd.), 67, on 13th; Dr. J. S. Battye (Perth
Public Library), 67, on 14th; flautist John
Amadio, 52, and novelist Leonard Mann, 43,
on 15th; Dr. Catalan (Abbot of New Norcia),
60, artist Elioth Gruner, 56, and Monsignor
Hayden (Syd.), 74, on 16th; Maurice Duffy
(C’wealth Bank Board), 52, author William
Gosse Hay, 63, Justice Long Innes (N.S.W.),
69, and knight Arthur Rickard (N.S.W.J, 70,
on 17th; war historian Dr. C. E. W. Bean,
59, Justice Davidson (N.S.W.), 60, and
pastoralist knight Norman Kater (N.S.W.), 64,
on 18th; Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R. (Bourke),
58, knight Donald Cameron (former M.H.R.
for Lilley), 59, and Prof. Sadler (Syd.), 56, on
19th; W.A. Chief Sec. W. H. Kitson, 52, and
Thos. Paterson, M.H.R. (Gippsland), 56, on
20th; J. M. Baddeley, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 57,
A. M. Blain, M.H.R. (NX), 44, Principal
Griffith (Congregational Coll, of Vic.), 63, and
Justice Owen (N.S.W.), 40, on 21st; Willie Watt
(formerly Federal Treasurer), 67, on 23rd;
Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 72, knight Simpson
Newland (Adel.), 65, Vic. Min. of Water
Supply F. E. Old, 63, author Con Drew, 63,
and poetess Dora Wilcox, on 24th; Col. Harold
Cohen (Vic.), 57, N.S.W. Min. for Health H. P.
FitzSimons, 40, and Flynn of the Inland, 58,
on 25th; Bishop Cranswick (Gippsland), 56,
and poet Rod Quinn, 69, on 26th; author
Frank Clune, 44, astronomer Walter Gale
(N.S.W.), 73, and Prof. Windeyer (Syd.),
63, on 27th; Kenneth Binns (Federal Parlia-
mentary Librarian), 56, Federal Speaker George
Bell, 66, Justice Henchman (Q.), 64, H. E. Guy
(C’wealth Tariff Board), 55, and Prof. Giblin
(C’wealth Bank Board), 66, on 29th.
Dr. James Arthur Prescott, recently
appointed Director of the Waite Agricul-
tural Research Institute at Urrbrae, S.A.,
though not yet 50, is one of the world’s
leading authorities on agricultural chemis-
try. Born in England and educated in
France, Germany and England, he spent
four years at Rothamsted, and for eight
years after that was superintendent of
field experiments at the Bahtim Experi-
Prof. J. A. PRESCOTT.
mental Station in Egypt. Came to Aus-
tralia in 1924 as Prof, of Agricultural
Chemistry at Adelaide and Chief of the
Division of Soils of the C.S. and I.R. His
work in recent years has brought him
into close connection with the Waite
Institute.
“Father” of the new M.L. House of
Representatives is Maori leader Apirana
Ngata, again returned as representative
of the Eastern native electorate. He has
been a member of the House for 33
years. Next in order of Parliamentary
service comes former Priminister George
Forbes, who has sat for 30 years.


Your best Bet
/
'capstan mild'
better known as
i
CAPSTANS
Also Medium Strength in
the Blue Packs.
Full Strength in the
Brown Packs.
***«&&&& s aiAs&a
m
W%
c .:•s 1
%
J
Y
Also Flat and
Round 50’s and
lOQ’s.
£
&
<os
tl!
l ON£
10 for 6d.
20 for 1/-
They're GOOD because They’re absolutely PURE
88208-10-8


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: To the chagrin of young
Mason, Louie the Boy persuaded the
skipper of the Murray steamer Pearl that
he could fire a boiler, and was taken
aboard. Mason, who’d had visions of
being promoted from deckhand to stoke-
hole, stood by as the engineer explained
to Louie that the boiler was a return
underfire multitubular, and that one tube
was leaking and had been plugged.
Mason could see that Louie was timid
about the thing, and skilfully implanted
the idea of great danger. Struggling
against the current near Mallee Cliffs,
under a full head of steam, pressure in
the leaky tube blew the plug. It hit the
smoke-box door with a bang, Louie went
over the side into the river, and Mason
calmly went into the stokehole and set
about replacing the plug. When they
fished Louie out he looked fearfully up
and down the river and, in an awestruck
voice, whispered, “Blimey, blown to
atoms with all hands!”
Jfc * * *
“Terrinjal”: “Ophir” (B. 12/10/’3B)
must be a Potts Point bushman to talk
about going down a well to tackle a
snake. The right way is to fetch the snake
up. Pass a couple of leafy branches
through the handle of the bucket and
lower this to the water. Joe will accept
the hospitality and may be drawn up
without fear of his climbing off. It is a
simple matter to push the bucket over the
kerb and dispatch the wriggler before
he can escape.
if: * sk *
“Adelaide”: S.A. has decided to draw
the line at 1845 for its Pioneers’ Asso-
ciation, and descendants of those arriving
earlier have met at the Morphett home.
John M. had been in the new province
even before it was “proclaimed” in
December, 1836 ; and 96 years ago he
built the house, a mile from the beach
at Glenelg (and now having the Mor-
phettville racecourse alongside it).
Several of those now entertained by the
Morphett family were pioneers them-
selves, being nearly as old as the house.
The women seem to live the longest.
* * *
“Huglow”: Further evidence that
sheep leap when leaving a yard because
of instinct inherited from their moun-
taineering forebears can be found in the
woollies’ eagerness to clamber on to any-
thing that may in the least resemble a
crag. Let dissenting Aboliars watch the
next mob of sheep that they see yarded.
Where there is a rock or stump in the
yard the sheep will scramble on to it,
and there stand surveying the lower areas
just as their ancestors did from their
rocky heights.
* * * *
“Prad”: Every worth-while stockman
knows that when he goes to a strange
station he’ll be swizzled if he can pick
one horse from another if the sire is a
prepotent stallion. The same principle
applies to sheep and cattle. But after that
man’s been there a week or so, and when
his senses get their proper focus, he can
distinguish one horse by the way it swings
its tail or lops its ears ; a sheep by a
thousand different points which can’t be
put on paper ; and the cattle arc an open
book to him, with each one of its thou-
sands of pages interesting and different.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Tell “Snoop” (B. 12/10/’3B)
that it wasn’t the garfish that he saw do
that surface run. The fellow he was
looking at was a Long Tom, alias skip-
jack, alias alligator gar. If he only saw
it propelling itself with its tail he only
saw half the fun. When the long ’un
decides to open out in earnest, which is
if a porpoise is after him, he just taps
the water here and there, doing jumps
of 15 yards or more, and keeps on doing
it with kangaroolike -consistency. If
“Snoop” likes to take a sitting shot at
me he can: The porpoise is a dolphin—l
know that.
* * * *
“Louis Mattil”: Judging by his stric-
tures (B. 19/10/’3B), “Tom Willie” did
not know how to use his quart-pot. It
is not stood on a fire to boil, but set
firmly on the ground, full, and a fire of
twigs, chips, leaves, etc., built up against
its handleless side. In a good flame it
boils almost while the scran-parcel is be-
ing unwrapped. To lift from the fire a
couple of twigs are inserted St. Andrew’s
"Hey!"
cross fashion through the handles and
pressed taut in the manner of a lazy-
tongs. The pot can not only be thus
lifted with one hand, but can be poured
—more than can be done with a billy
without slopping a divided stream round
the shaking handle. The “hang” of the
pot also permits it to be used as a small
carryall for tea and sugar bags, even a
packet of food. And its lid is a proper
pannikin.
“F.Y.7”: The old quart-pot was going
strong when I last blessed its black face
in Sinai. I fancy “T.W.” learned his bush-
manship in a correspondence school when
he says it cannot be stood up to boil,
can’t be hung over the fire and can’t be
lifted off the fire. The proper way to
boil the pot is to stand it in the coals of
the fire—if you are a chum there is nowt
to prevent you hanging it by the handle
from a forked stick with one end shoved
well in the earth. As to lifting off the
fire, if “T.W.” hasn’t learned the old
bushman’s trick of lifting it with two
small sticks crossed through the two wire
handles he had better get him to the
nearest bore and fill up there.
* * * #
“Nagheer”: One of the very few
recorded instances of a dingo, even a
half-breed, as in this instance, resolutely
tackling a man has occurred in the
Boonah (S.Q.) district. Gordon Philp,
pastoralist, of Wyaralong, found a big
half-bred dingo mauling a six-month calf.
He put a charge of shot into the assail-
ant, and ran in to beat it off. It came at
him, only slightly wounded ; he fell into
a creek while stepping back to avoid it,
and the dog rushed after. The gun-butt
broke when he missed a swipe at its head
near the bank, and the dog took to the
water. A strong swimmer, the man
wisely made for deep water, with the dog
still following and snarling, savagely.
Once in swimming depth he got it by the
neck and an ear, and after a lively 10-
minute struggle managed to drown it.
He is having the record-sized skin tanned
to remind him of a highly exciting and
risky experience. ,
* * # SK
“K.Mc.”: The shed was a thirteen-
stander, with two shearers to each catch-
ing pen and No. 13, a little man, having
a pen all to himself. The 12 were averag-
ing well over three figures a day, while
No. 13, who had boasted loudly of what
he had done elsewhere, could manage
only 30. Mindful of a well-known port-
able shearing plant, the shed wag printed
in tar above No. 13’s stand: “The Little
Wonder.”
* * * *
“Jay Fuller”: “Some of these ’ere
rabbit-trappers you see kickin’ round now
think they’re dead smart at the game,”
said old Jerry. “But us old-timers could
run rings round ’em. Out in western
Noo South in the days before me
whiskers started to sprout, I worked out
a neasy way of bonin ’em. Useter take
the dorgs, saw down an old gum, paint
a black centre on the end of the downed
log with ma’s stove polish, muster the
paddick, move ’em gently on to scene of
our labor, and then wait for the stupid
blankards to break their necks jumping
into the hollow log they hadn’t noticed
before. Useter git so many I ’ad to
borrow the Gallopin’ ’Ghan’s wagonette
to bring ’em in.”
* * * *
“Cheops”: A bottle-oh recently
cleaned-up Cooktown (N.Q.) of its relics
of the roaring days of the Palmer and
after, shipping 40 tons of “dead marines”
south. Passing over the old Geraldton-
Muchison (W.A.) route recently 1 found
a very different state of affairs from that
which existed in 1910 when I was last
there. Then pyramids of empties pleas-
antly broke an otherwise uninteresting
landscape. They marked the path of the
pioneers of ’9l in their long trek from
the coast to Nannine, where gold was
first reported on that field. The largest
stacks were on the ancient camp sites
used by old Abe Baxter’s gangs when
they pushed through the line from
Mullewa to Cue 198 miles. As in the
case of the Palmer, these lone places have
been bereft of the last mementoes of a
hardy race of men whose like old-timers
swear they H never see again. Somehow
the Murchison didn t seem quite the
same without its Pyramids.
* * * *
“Brolga”: As “Bill Boredrain” suggests
(B. 19/10/’3B) the native companion
probably got its name from its fondness
for human companionship, and especi-
ally for that of shepherds, whose wan-
dering flocks stirred up insects which the
brolgas avidly snapped up. Moreover,
the sheep were never far from water,
where plenty more of the bird’s food
was available. In the same way, our
nickname for the willie-wagtail was the
“shepherd’s companion,” and for the
same reason the insects kept moving by
the sheep were universally known as
“the monkeys.”
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Talkin’ of bullet veloci-
ties,” said Old Bob, “me an’ Tarry Tom
onct ’ad a spell up in Noo Guinea. We
wus pruspectin’ an’ implorin’ up on the
Fly We’re marchin’ at the ’ead uv our
gang uv tame cannonballs wot we ’ad fer
porters when all uv a suddin we runs
bang inter a nambush. There must’ve
bin a thousin’ ’ead-’unters ’idin’ be’ind it.
First thing we knows is erbout a dozen
wallopin’ big spears cornin’ straight at
me an’ Tarry’s chists. There’s only time
fer one thing. We’re carryin’ a coupla
Germin Schnorter automato rifles, 38’s,
with a muzzled velocity uv 5000 feet
per sec. We ups with ’em an’ lits drive.
Tarry’s a crack shot, an’ I ain’t much
better, so it ain’t no surprise we stops
them spears in mid-fly, like. An’ as fast
as the nigs ’eaves spears at us, me an’
Tarry pinks ’em orf in the air, gittin’ ’em
fair an’ square on the point ev’ry time.
But it can’t last. The nigs gits all round
us, an’ we gotter suspender. Our own
crew uv savigers ’as done a bunk long
b’fore. Thin the ’ead-’unters starts
pickin’ up the spears, which is where the
shock c,pmes in. The velocity uv our
bullits was so great they’d gone clean
through them spears ffum end ter end,
turnin’ ’em inter the ’andiest blowpipes
yer ever seen. It saves me an’ Tarry
frum the stoo-pot. Ev’ry nig wants one
uv the noo blowpipes fer ’isself. But
there ain’t ’nuff ter go round, so they
grabs the Schnorters an’ starts ’eavin’
spears at each other ter shoot ’oles
through ’em. O’ course they ain’t the
shots me an’ Tarry is, an’ b’fore sun-
down they spears themselves all ter
death.”
* * * *
“Chelaka”: Among the nomadic tribes
of North Australia human hair is one of
the most valuable commodities, and as
such is put to a variety of uses, chief
among them being bracelets, fishing lines
and nets, as well as a dozen other useful
articles. Therefore it seems strange that
Binghi’s tribal law ordains that, on the
death of her husband, the widow must
cut off her hair and burn it, in its place
wearing a cap made from kangaroo- or
emu-skin. At a conservative estimate the
woman’s hair would be equal in value to
half a dozen spears, plus enough pitcheri
to put the lucky owner under the weather
for a week ; yet this hair is burnt with-
out the slightest reluctance. Reason is that
Jacky knows the spirit of the dead man
is watching to see that the widow carries
out the mourning rites according to age-
old tribal law. He also knows that if
Mary didn’t mourn sufficiently the spirit
would return and make things darned
unpleasant for the rest of the tribe,
* * * *
“Mac”: An old-age pensioner camped
on Government reserve in our district
(pict N . S .W.) always bakes at the be-
ginning of t he week a damper large
enough to last him the week. Marked
out into seven equal portions, each rep-
resenting a day, it thus serves as a calen-
dar as well as equalising his daily con-
sumption of damper. One Tuesday even-
ing he had as his guest a visitor who
took a disconcerting liking to the
damper. The old chap watched in silent
and growing consternation as the damper
disappeared; then, as his visitor began
to cut off another slice, his concern got
the better of his hospitality. “Hey, go
steady with the bread,” he said ; “you’re
down ter Friday already!”
* * * *
“Roger”: Touching pn this argument
re growth of trees. Camped five years
a g G j n a clump of young gums. I threw
an old coat over a limb, then about
shoulder-height. To-day the coat, still
on the same limb, flaps six feet above
my head. A few yards distant is an old
gum which has acted as corner-post in
a fence for years, the wires remain at
the same level as when attached. Ap-
patently branches move skywards in
young trees and remain stationary when
the tree is mature.
BILLY BOY.
Where have you been all the day,
Billy boy, Billy boy?
Taking my shivering trick at the wheel,
Froze that stiff 1 c’d ’ardly feel,
A-watching the greybeards, all forlorn,
That roll from the Crozets round Cape Horn;
Taking the slack from a bucko mate
That showed his teeth at the Golden Gate
And bared his gums as we crossed the Line
(He ought to be clove from skull to chine),
An ugly gun in his ugly paw;
Paying out for a crack on the jaw!
And that’s where I’ve been all the day, aha!
What do you say of the ship,
Billy boy, Billy boy?
I’d say she’s built from the timber that
Was took from the Ark on Ararat,
A sister ship to the Groan-and-Wheeze
What fell apart in a ten-knot breeze;
I’d say she’s cranky, I’d say she’s queer,
A-floatin’ around since forty year;
Leaks like a sieve an’ steers like a scow,
Ought for to die but she don’t know how.
I'he strength of her bilge is all that saves
Her hungry hands from their waitin’ graves—
And that’s what I’d say of the ship, aha!
What did you say was her master’s name,
Billy boy, Billy boy?
Binnacle Brown is the blighter’s name;
From Martha’s Vineyard I’m told he came,
With his long frock coat an’ stove-pipe hat,
His whiskers wavin’ like this an’ that;
He mounts the poop when the breezes blows
Singin’ a psalm through his frosted nose;
Hard as his biskit, tough as his junk,
He grinds his crew—but he’ll never funk.
He holds the Bible fast in his fins
An’ beats the devil—for all our sins,
Does Captain Binnacle Brown, aha!
What will you do when you gets ashore,
Billy boy, Billy boy ?
A porterhouse steak I’ll order fust
And fresh shore bread with a nice brown crust,
’Taters, afloat in the gravy clear,
And apple pie and a mug o’ beer;
And when that’s stowed, I’ll up and I’ll go
To see a young gal that I useter know,
And if she’s married or if she’s dead
I’ll find me another gal instead.
It might be old of it might be new,
But that’s my fancy and that I’ll do
If ever we makes our port, aha!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Puke-hena-hena”: From my friend
Hori, who looks on me as a sort of cow-
doctor, I received the following note:
“Please, I want you to come and see my
cow. He the very good cow, but I
think he got the tubergoloshes.”
* * * *
“Bunker”: As we sat outside the feed-
shed having a snack the mice showed
their contempt for the genus homo by
running out from a hole in the side of
the shed, picking up crumbs and darting
back in again. Suddenly there was a
“swish,” a black, blurred streak flashed
past our faces, and one Mickey Mouse
disappeared. A few second later the
sparrow-hawk was soaring for the
empyrean.
?
“Reformed Gun”: That racing spiel
of “Joe the Battler” (B. 19/10/’3B) in
which a bucolic “stipe” discovers that the
nag is three years older than its sire has
a Hahlywooden flavor. What I want
to know is how the owners filled in the
horse’s entry form satisfactorily without
knowing his age, as they admit is the
case ; also, how did they get over admit-
ting his full parentage and standing in
life? All these would be printed later
in the racebook, together with the weight
the nag would carry. There is no men-
tion of his rider, who would have to
weigh out and in for each race, and
would have to be well known or produce
a “ticket.” The usual fillum version has
as the hoop the squatter’s lovely daughter
who steals the jockster’s kit, rides the
prad to victory without weighing in or
out, and so saves the Old Homestead
from the villyan.
* t- * *
“Gryllus”: When the coo-ee bird and
his handsome lady can be heard in their
distressed-motorist duet, one can be sure
that spring has really come in south
Queensland. It sounds exactly like some-
one coo-eeing at intervals and grinding
a self-starter in between. So much so
“Let go 'andle, stoopid."
"Can't let go 'andle. Cap'n's cornin' up in bucket."
“ Mister , there's someone bangin' on be'ind !"
that city visitors have been known to set
out on rescue expeditions, returning later
with caustic remarks about bush prac-
tical jokes. He, a stalwart blue-black,
red-eyed, long-tailed chap, as big as a
currawong, does the coo-eeing. She,
garbed in striped brown and greenish-
white, with a handsome barred front to
her costume and a black toque, operates
the self-starter. They are great travellers,
a range from Timor and New
Guinea to as far south as Mallacoota in
Victoria; but their yearly trip seldom
extends much further south than the
Hawkesbury. I admit their awful voices,
but please don’t be irritated into shoot-
ing them. They are as charming love-
makers as any naturalist ever sticky-
beaked on.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The Hallidays used to
boil enough tucker in a brace of kero-
sene-tins to suffice for several days. Our
lad-of-odd-jobs came rushing in one even-
ing with a story hot from the mulga:
“Hey, three of them Hallidays are in
hospital with toenail poisoning from eat-
ing stale food!”
* * * *
“Balanus”: The Cyrtid —about the
most interesting of those flies which turn
the tables on the spider—lays her eggs
on the bare twigs of trees, and as soon
as hatched the young grub, which is ex-
tremely active, seeks a spider as its
natural food supply. Once attached, it
burrows into the spider’s body, and for
the whole of its larval period lives in
there as a parasite. Since the grub must
have air, it adjusts its position to have
its own breathing spiracles within the
spider’s lung.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: Practically every small
lizard has the power of discarding its
tail at will; this is done to distract a
pursuing attacker’s attention while he
streaks for safety. A new tail soon starts
to grow, sometimes two. Malays reckon
no good luck will attend the house
unless a two-tailer is picking up flies
along the rafters. So when Ahmat can’t
find a gecko properly equipped he
catches one of the wrigglers and handles
him until the tail is discarded ; then with
a sharp knife he slits the stump for a
fraction of an inch. In a few weeks
two distinct tails will have commenced
to sprout.
“Granova”: When I am driving the
tractor in daylight my black-and-tan
kelpie is very bored with the proceedings.
At night, however, he seems to thor-
oughly enjoy himself, and runs up and
down the paddock in the light of the
headlamps, casting backward glances at
the tractor as if to urge it to greater
speed.
* * * *
“James W.”: One needn’t go to the
nether regions of the ocean for fish vis-
ibly susceptible to changes of depth. Any
Barrier Reef fisherman can tell of the
effects of comparatively small changes
of pressure on fish ranging from cod to
the dreaded reef-eel. None of the reef
fish live deep enough to grow their own
illumination systems. Hooked, they fight
like a devil possessed for a start, but
those from a great depth lose interest in
the stoush when nearing the surface
quicker than those that keep to moderate
depths. They flounder weakly, obviously
victims of decreased pressure, and
stricken with paralysis, “bends” or what-
ever you like to call it; meningitis would
be more correct. The one exception
appears to be the coral cod. He’s just as
ready to bite off your fingers when you
haul him in from 200 ft. as from 20ft.
His immunity is probably due to the
thickness of his flesh, the fine texture of
his gills and the small size and extreme
toughness of his swimming bladder.
* * * *
“Komediak”: “Coriander” is barking
up the wrong tree (B. 19/10/’3B). “Bag-
man” did origi-
nally have the
meaning he attri-
butes to it; Dick-
ens’s story of the
Bagman’s Uncle in
Pickwick was a
case in point. But,
unfortunately for
such conservative
souls as “C.,” the
meanings of
words, like
woman’s fashions,
have an irritating
habit of changing
with the times.
Nowadays nine out
of ten of the younger
generation apply
the term to our
swag m e n, and
though it’s a few
weeks since I
humped a bluey
myself I still have
enough in common
with such wander-
ers to know there
is nothing dero-
gat o r y in the
name. This is in
stark contrast with
some of the old-
time descriptions
used for carrying
matilda, ten out of which are listed by
Harry Lawson in his Romance of the
Swag. If “Coriander” is such a stickler
for old-world nomenclature, let him
accuse the modern swagman of “tea-and-
sugar burgling” or of “jabbing trotters,”
phrases apparently at one time in
common use. The reception he will meet
with should prove enlightening.
* # * *
“Hanko”: Nature, puts up a headachy
problem when she fumbles her jigsaw
pieces and misplaces lumps of landscape
and vegetation. In Eastern Gippsland
(Vic.) there are sub-tropical patches
where grow lianas, cabbage-palms,
aerial orchids, etc., and, similarly, patches
of jungle occur along N.S.W.’s North
Coast. With its crown of lush, moisture-
laden growth, South Queensland’s Tam-
bourine Mountain emphatically does not
belong to the surrounding terrain. But
perhaps the best example of Nature com-
pletely jettisoning a seemingly hard-to-
fit piece occurs at Werribee Gorge,
Southern Vic., for there she has dobbed
a wedge of mallee scrub ; a semi-desert
growth that has no business whatever in
such rich volcanic soil.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Scares?” said Dan.
“Trampin’ along the road one day I wus
overtook by a mounted trooper, who
asked me if I’d seen a big red-headed
cove anywhere in my travels. ‘No,’ I
said, ‘what’s he done?’ ‘lt ain’t so much
what he’s done,’ said the cop, ‘as what
he’s likely to do. He’s a homercidal
case what escaped from the asylum last
night, an’ is thought t’ have made in this
direction.’ He rides off, an’ I continues
on me way. About half an hour later,
as I’m passin’ a thick bunch of scrub, a
big ginger bloke, carryin’ an axe, sud-
denly pushes out of it. His eyes are
shinin’ madlike ; he’s in a state of great
excitement. An’ there’s blood on the axe.
‘Hi, mate,’ he sez, ‘come an’ I’ll show
yer Somethin’ y’ ain’t never seen in yer
life, I’ll bet. I’ve wiped out two whole
families at once ; smoked ’em out, an’
donged ’em, one after the other, as they
tried t’ get away.’ He grabbed me by the
arm, an’ started draggin’ me inter the
scrub. The sweat started pourin’ outa
me, an’ shivers run up an’ down me
back. It wusn’t no use tryin’ t’ bolt or
put up a scrap; the on’y thing t’ do wus t’
humor him an’ trust t’ luck. After about
a hundred yards he pulls up. ‘There,
whatcher think of that?’ he sez, pointin’
to a big holler log with a fire burnin’
at one end of it; ‘ain’t they a lot of
beauties?’ An’ they wus, too ; four full-
grown foxes an’ half a dozen half-grown
ones.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: No other species of ant
stands any show when mobbed by those
little black brutes which make long trails
from nest to nest. They grab the bigger
ant by the ends of his legs, dig their toes
in to hold him spread-eagled, tuck their
tails under and squirt him with formic
acid, which eats holes through his body
armor. Once mobbed in this fashion, no
big ants try to fight clear; they seem to
realise that it’s hopeless and wait for the
end. A stag-beetle, however, never says
die while he’s got a kick in him ; whether
the ants which tackle him are big or little
he wades into them, grabbing them off
his legs and biting them in two. But
the real terror of the insect world is the
praying mantis; he fears nothing, grabs
at everything moving, edible or other-
wise, and when once in the grip of those
cruel spiked vices of forelegs no other
insect can fight back.
PROOF POSITIVE.
We were watching the axes that rose and fell
in the Championship of the West,
And of one competitor’s mighty bulk my praises
I had expressed.
“Mallee” Mike bit at that: “Why, these out-
size coves are only a lot o’ mutts.
They may look all right but y’ll always find
that they ’aven’t got any guts!
“I’ve seen it too orfen. The ’uge galoot ’oo
can bust a weighin’ machine,
’E’ll swoon like a girl at the sight o’ blood
or if ’e gits tapped on the bean.
You give me the bloke ’oo’s got Duck’s Disease
with ’is legs dead close to the ground,
’Oo’s stringy an’ bony; it’s ’im that’ll ’ave the
reel fightin’ ’eart, I’ll be bound.
“Now, I’ll give yer an instance of ’ow big
blokes’ll crack at the slightest strain.
Some years ago I’m clearin’ scrub with a big
cove, Bill Mcßain;
Well, ’e rushes over to me one day an’ sez ’e’s
been bit be a snajke;
When I offers to chop off ’is arm right there —
why, the pore cow started to shake!
“Now, I’d read where a psycho-somethin’
joker claimed y’ could cure a bite,
If y’ ’ad the inside to stick it out, by thinkin’
yerself all right.
Bill’s windy an’ don’t seem to like it much,
but, ’struth! I tell ’im it’s jake,
An’ why all the fuss for a triflin’ nip from a
lousy-lookin’ Joe Blake?
“I urges ’im just to forget ’e’s bit, but ’e
starts to give up the ghost;
An,’ blimey! the very next day I finds ’im as
stiff as a flamin’ post!
The coroner cove ’e went crook a bit, but 1
know it wasn’t the bite
That settled Big Bill; ’e just ’ad no ’eart, an’
’e died, of a simple fright!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422*24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1883.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE,
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: Jame 3 Kidd; ,T. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Joliy, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through° the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
June, Profit. All Shares. Off. Reserves.
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 228,820
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 291,252
Charged to development, £lB4l .. 289,411
Pref. Ord.
p.c. p.c.
1930.. 428,156 10 10 260,000 137,532 320,035
1931.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 174 173 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
The last line in the table is the second-
best showing since the co. was formed
in 1920. The contraction of £86,542 in
profit was due mainly to lower metal
prices, average sterling quotes for which
were:
Tear Zinc, Lead, Silver, Gold,
June, Ton. Ton. Oz. Oz.
1936.. £l5/3/11 £l6/4/6' 2/2.4
1937.. £2O/2/1 £23/2/8 1/9.9 £7/0/9
1938.. £l6/15/1 £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £7
In Australian currency lead averaged £2O
18s. lOd. (down £4 3s. 9d.) and spelter
£2l 17s. 6d. (down £7 os. lOd.) last
term. The blow was softened by the
co.’s long-term contract for purchase of
zinc concentrates from the Barrier mines,
which supply about three-quarters of its
total requirements. Under this con-
tract, E.Z. benefits or suffers by only
about 40 p.c. of the rise or fall in the
price of the metal.
Gross earnings on working account
(£584,435) were down £97,078. Divs.
(£12,759) brought in an extra £4689, and
interest (£35,682) was up £11,290. After
deducting p. and 1. charges, including
£125,416 (down £5118) for taxation, de-
clared net earnings were £77,089 lighter
at £459,524, which is reconciled with
the figure in the table thus:
Profit and loss balance .. . . .. £459,524
Net addition depreciation reserve, etc. . . 144,774
Unexplained addition sinking fund . . 504
Net profit as per table £604,802
The net addition to depreciation reserve,
etc. (now £2,431,890, equals 55.8 p.c. of
book value of mines, property and plant
at June 30), is then shown as written off,
though the reserve appears to be some-
thing more than ordinary provision for
wear and tear. However, after deducting
the allowance for depreciation, etc.,
enough remained to show 17.7 p.c. on
the £2,600,000 of capital as against
20.6, 12.4, 9.8 and 8.9 p.c. for the four
preceding terms. An all-round 15 p.c.
div. was paid, the 2\ p.c. bonus sent out
in 1937 being dropped.
There was no major movement in
output:
Cad- Cop-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, per, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1925 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1930 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1934 53,464 197,800 2024 166 85 -~
1935 58,889 207,400 1983 175 97
1936 72,122 247,500 2403 253 140
1937 70,082 389,480 2266 216 248 3780
1938 69,718 360,450 2772 193 230 4132
* Excludes residues from cadmium plant.
About 50 p.c. of the year’s zinc produc-
tion was sold locally as against 36 p.c.
in the previous term. The by-products
are obviously handy contributors. Pro-
duction of sulphuric acid was 90,920
(up 1843) tons, and sales of super.
(26,542 tons) increased by 1839 tons.
On the West Coast, where the co. has
nearly half a million invested on which
it got no return for upward of four
years to Feb., 1936, the mill treated
153,344 (up 3381) tons ore, assaying 20.4
p.c. zinc, 6.23 p.c. lead, 0.58 p.c. copper,
6.780 z. silver and 2.lBdwt. gold, with
the following results:
, Assay
Sil —
Zinc, Lead, ver, Gold,
West Coast— Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Zinc concentrates . . 51,816 53.87 3.57 5.57 1.84
Lead concentrates . . 12,369 14.44 54.55 48.70 11.75
Residue .. .. 89,158 1.90 1.06 1.67 1.04
In addition 150,394 (up 28,841) tons
zinc concentrates, assaying 53.08 p.c.
zinc, 1.46 p.c. lead and 1.390 z. silver,
were bought from the Barrier cos. —the
management took the opportunity to
stock up while prices were low. ■
Blocked ore in the West Coast mines
is:
t Assay— N
Zinc, Lead, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Rosebery .. 594,196 21.0 6.0 7.0 1.8
Hercules .. 450,349 24.8 6.4 6.7 1.9
Reserves of known and probable pay-
ore in the two mines combined remain
at 1,500,000 tons, though the diamond-
drill suggests that more will ultimately
be available.
The already very comfortable financial
position further improved:
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Debentures and
interest . . £404,033 £401,697 £401.600 £401,949
Sundry creditors 274.082 138,140 309,718 197,332
Deposits and
interest .. 240.835 87,354 59,585 256,127
Overdraft .. 37,56.3 8,460 8,296 17,923
Mt. R e a d-
R o s eb ery
mines . . 449,783 457,524 457,524 457,524
•Properties, plant,
etc. . . 3,654,539 3,787,542 3,835,137 3,893,808
Book debts .. 238,804 161,315 287,916 197,624
Shares other
cos. . . 226,179 246.733 353,781 459,614
Stocks . . 444,088. 368,869 439,148 494,391
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 281,694 775,407 1,286,105 1,403,860
To add £58,671 to the book value of
plant, etc., £105,833 to shares in other
cos., £55,242 to stocks (they include
142,688, up 55,091, tons of zinc con-
centrates), strengthen cash and invest-
ments by £117,755 and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£112,386, an extra £196,542 of deposits
was gathered, £9627 was added to the
overdraft, and debtors’ balances were re-’
duced by £90,292. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,682,158) was £94,406.
The offshoot which is to manufacture
aluminium—in it British and Canadian
interests will also be represented—intends
to erect a rolling-mill, etc., at Alexandria
(N.S.W.).
As for the current term, hopes are
that the co-operative agreement among
zinc-producers, recovery in the U.S.A.
and the possibility of increased pro-
tection for Empire zinc in the U.K.
market, will strengthen the price of the
metal. In June the London spot quote
had fallen to £ll 18s. 9d. per ton; last
week-end the figure was £l5 10s. Further
improvement will largely depend upon
developments in America and Britain.
Since the close of accounts the co.’s sales
have run ahead of production.
The ords. at 455. 6d. return 6.6 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis,
the prefs. (they carry a cumulative 8 p.c.
and advance with the ords. beyond that
rate) yield 6.2 p.c. at 48s. 6d.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.e.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. .. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.e.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073. . 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932.. 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 1 aQI . „ 0Q
Written off premises, £40,000 ) 16,891 1,689,65*
1933.. 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,652 Ann
Written off premises, £40,000 J 13,752 *,703,409
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263,681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 j Q „
Written off premises, £30,000 J 93,986 2,178,432
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.e.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.e.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
With one eye on the past and the other
on the future, the market prices the 10s.-
paid shares —the pound scrip was split in
twain last year—of this 66-year-old Auck-
land-controlled fire and marine office with
world-wide connections at 475. 3d. At
.this figure the return is 3 p.c. on a 14.1
p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 4.2 p.c. on his money counts on a 20
p.c. div., or a one-for-one bonus scrip
issue and a 10 p.c. distribution, which
would then call for £206,328, or £123,097
less than was netted last term. Indeed,
only for three out of the last 14 years has
less than £206,000 of profit been shown.
The last gift was £257,910,. or ss. per
£1 share in 1927. It raised paid capital to
its present figure (£1,031,640), of which
£907,000-odd came from reserves, yet the
pile was heaped over 2\ times higher than
paid capital at the end of August last.
During the last term, net premium in-
come sprang £160,926, reaching a record
£1,342,535:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 309,194 256,543 46.4 ~ 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1933.. 791,538 431,505 295,571 54.5 „ 37.3 „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9*, 31.0 „
1936.. 1,040,070 562,000 295,461 56.5 ~ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609- 704,128 293.578 59.6 , 24.8 „
1938. . 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 02.8,, 23.5 ..
Although the larger business was written
at approximately 265. p.c. less cost.
Losses, a factor over which the manage-
ment has no direct control, ran away with
an extra 645. p.c. Still, the underwriting
surplus was only £1739 lighter at
£182,164, equal to 17.6 p.c. on capital.
Interest and rents turned in £147,261 (up
£5507), equal to 14.3 p.c. on capital, or
a bit more than the div. called for, thus
leaving the whole of the underwriting
surplus available to swell investments
and returns therefrom. From the two
sources combined the return on capital
was a juicy 31.9 p.c. as against 31.7, 30,
25.3, 23.2, 18.5, 18.8 and 13.2 p.c. back
to 1931. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained reduction of £13,229
in the investment fluctuation reserve (now
£304,181). The div. was lifted from 13.7
p.c. to 14.1 p.c., more being put on the
shelf than was distributed.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Premises .. .. £470,990 12.1 £504,742 12.4
Mortgages .. . . 208,326 5.4 267,719 6.6
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 554,515 14.3 617,312 15.1
Stocks, debentures, etc. 684,932 17.'7 748,262 18.3
Municipal debentures, etc. 447,451 11.5 390,355 9.6
Government securities. 1,435,906 37.1 1,473,370 36.1
Book debts .. .. 75,122 1.9 79,666 1.9
Assets can be taken as well worth their
book value, and at the close of accounts
policy-holders could see net tangibles
equal to 278 p.c. of last year’s net pre-
miums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends v
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
■4? £
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40.000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217.390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
5 p.c.
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6i p.c.
1935.. ,77,424 12,000.28,000 25,000 234,044
74 p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 101
Staff fund, £5OOO j 249,20 l
8J p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) o-zn eoo
Staff fund, £5OOO f 693
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) on . rn .
Staff fund. £5OOO .. .. 295 ’ 904
The outlook for shareholders in this
big department store continues to im-
prove, although the price of the scrip has
eased in accordance with the general
trend of the market. The million of
share capital is in 200,000 first 6 p.c. and
400,000 • second 7 p.c. cum. prefs. (not
subject to N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act) and 400,000 ords. A year ago
the ords. fetched 335. 6d. on ’Change;
last week-end the figure was 30s. 6d., at
which the return is 5.7 p.c. on an
8i p.c. div. basis, with prospects. At
245. and 275. the first and second prefs.
yield 5 p.c. and 5.1 p.c. respectively, and
their combined annual requirements were
over 2\ times covered by last year’s net
earnings. The net tangible cover is £6
9s. 7d. firsts, £2 14s. 9d. seconds and
£1 14s. 9d. ords.
During the last term there *was a
healthy expansion of retail turnovers
generally, and the co. got its full share
of the increased business, thanks largely
to its attractive window displays, infor-
mative advertising and keenly-priced
high-grade merchandise, while improve-
ments to the store, which occupies the
entire end of one of the busiest blocks
in the city, helped, too. After making
an unspecified provision for depreciation,
taxation and other contingencies, declared
net earnings were £3749 better at
£105,211, the best yet. It was enough
to pay the pref. divs. (together £40,000)
and show 16.3 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 15.3, 12.5, 9.3 and 7.5 p.c. back
to 1934. The div. was kept at 8J p.c.,
making the average over the last nine
years 4.5 p.c. The board considered a
lift in the rate, but decided the time was
not opportune, because there are indica-
tions that “business concerns may be
required to climb rather a steep grade in
the next 12 months.”
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging:—
1931. 1930. 1937. 1938.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000
Creditors*.. 181,952 215,017 211,788 290,307
Freeholds &
plant. .. 1,436,822 1,403,636 1,402,618 1,416,14 S
Stork . . 313,077 326,959 347,191 396,843
Book debts 77,006 151,741 162,740 189,738
Cash and in-
vestments . 82,240 91,725 109,933 123,542
2 Including unspecified provision for contingencies.
To add £13,530 net to the book value
of fixed assets, carry an extra £49,652
of stocks, a further £26,998 of debtors’
balances (now more than double the 1931
figure) and strengthen cash and invest-
ments by £13,609, the board leant upon
sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera is an
unspecified provision for contingencies—
for a further £78,579. Including the deben-
ture debt, outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £80,244 when
the books closed, an improvement of
£11,680 over the twelvemonth. The float-
ing debt was well covered.
During the year “satisfactory” ar-
rangements were made for retirement of
the debentures —issued in ’27 to help
finance the new building, they mature at
the end of July next, and carry interest
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a., reduced to 5 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act. Also, half a dozen new escalators
were installed, providing transport from
the lower-ground to the fourth floor, and
erection of four additional bays on each
of the first six floors of the new build-
ing . and of the first section of the new
service block was commenced. The
cost of these improvements is to be met
out of the debenture sinking fund, which
will amount to over £llO,OOO by next
balance.
Bundaberg Distilling Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 9,133 6 p.c. = 9,000 133 7,069
1934.. 11.873 7 „ „ 10,500 1,373 8,442
1935.. 13,775 8 „ „ 12,000 1,775 10,217
1936.. 14,398 8 ~ „ 12,000 2,398 12,615
From suspense account, £31,588 . . 44,203
1937.. 59,556* 8 p.c. = 12,000 47,556 91,759
* Including surplus from fire and loss-of-profits
insurance.
This co., which distils rum at Bunda-
berg (Q.), is an offshoot of Millaquin
Sugar, which owns 72 p.c. (£108,230) of
the £150,000 of paid capital. With the
improvement in conditions generally,
profits stepped up from 6 p.c. on capital
in 1933 to 7.9, 9.1 and 9.5 p.c. for the
three following years, and the div. was
(<Continued on page 24.)


New Issue of Shares:
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN PAPUA)
Nominal Capital... £250,000
In 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
Subscribed Capital ... £25,000
In 1 00,000 fully paid Shares of 5/- each
»
DIRECTORS: W. M. Marks, Solicitor, Sydney; R. S. Haynes, Topo-
graphical Surveyor, Papua; the Hon. Sir Charles W. C. Marr,
K.C.V.0., Company Director, Sydney; the Hon. J. C. Watson,
Chairman N.R.M.A., Sydney; W. H. Taylor, Solicitor, Bendigo;
J. McA. Ritchie, Company Director, Parramatta; Theo. J. Marks,
Architect, Sydney.
SECRETARY: C. A. Le Maistre Walker.
/ COMPANY’S OFFICES: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
In view of the excellent reports received from the Company’s Geologist,
Mr. Launcelot Owen, regarding the Oiapu Anticline, and to carry out the
programme of further development as set out by the Commonwealth Oil
Advisory Committee, the Directors have decided to make a new issue of
Shares,
A further issue of 150,000 Shares of 5/- each is now being offered to
Shareholders in the proportion of three shares for every two held, but
without regard to fractional interest. These shares will be payable 1/ 6
per share, including application and allotment, and the balance, as and
when required, in calls not exceeding 1/- per share per month.
The transfer books of the Company will be closed from November 10
to November 1 7 (inclusive) in connection with this issue.
Application for the new Shares will close at 5 p.m. on December 5, and
should be made to the Secretary of the Company.
Shareholders may apply for more than their quota of shares; but, if the
number allotted be less than the number applied for, the surplus money
can be refunded or credited in payment of calls.
Should any balance of shares remain through omission of shareholders
to take up their quota, they will be dealt with at the discretion of the
Directors.
Dr. Arthur Wade and Dr. L. Keith Ward, the technical members of the
Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee, recently visited the Company’s
area in Papua for inspection and consultation with Mr. Owen. Their
report appears hereunder.
The latest progress reporf received from Mr. Owen stated that the scout
drilling at Oiapu had reached a depth of 1,076 feet and that oil and gas
appeared from 1,047 feet to 1,065 feet.
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
REPORT OF OIL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
1— We have to report that we have paid a visit of inspection to the Permit
held in Papua by The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co., Ltd., in the
vicinity of Oiapu and Cape Possession, about 100 miles to the north-
west of Port Moresby. Full facilities for the inspection were afforded
by the Company,
2 The area embraced within the Permit contains several structures.
The present permittees, on assuming the prospecting rights, started
on a scout-boring campaign to obtain geological information, the
work being done on the Apinaipi structure. When Mr. L. Owen was
appointed he made rapid traverses of the whole area and decided that
the Oiapu structure offered the greatest promise of success and recom-
mended the concentration of effort there, and the transference of
the drill from Apinaipi. This recommendation was adopted by the
Company, and the drilling of the first scout borehole had proceeded
to a depth of 774 ft. by the termination of our visit. We are in entire
agreement with Mr. Owen over the desirability of the moves that have
'been made in accordance with his recommendation.
3 We are impressed by the possibilities of the Oiapu structure, which
exhibits general features that are entirely favourable and is of such
magnitude that an extensive scheme of drilling operations can be
drawn up when further work has been done. This further work
involves, first and foremost, a detailed geological survey and an exten-
sion of the scout drilling. We do not consider that, after the com-
pletion of the present hole, any scout borehole need proceed to a
greater depth than 500 ft. save, perhaps, near the Miaun Swamp, where
it is necessary to determine the relationship of volcanic rocks (which
cover a very limited area) to the argillaceous sediments.
Experience in other parts of Australia, as indeed elsewhere in the
world, has shown conclusively that it would be premature to embark on
a deep test borehole prior to the completion of this preliminary wor •
Moreover, it would be absurd to consider that the boring of a single
deep test hole will give conclusive results as to the potentialities o.
the large Oiapu structure. What is required is the design of a boring
campaign to include a series of holes, after the whole area has been
mapped in full detail and after the scout drilling has been done We
are aware that this method of attack, which we consider to e t e
only sound one, requires a considerable amount of capital.
•The time to be consumed in completing the detailed survey can be
reduced materially if Mr. Owen is given competent field assistance.
The field lends itself admirably to fairly rapid plane table geological
surveying if experienced men trained as geologists are appointe
6—Drilling, which is being carried out purely for geological information,
is already in competent hands. The drilling results are being properly
recorded and the cores are being carefully preserved. We ourselves
have selected samples for examination by the Commonwealth Palaeonto-
logist, and these are on their way to Canberra.
7 On the day prior to our departure from the field a small showing of
light oil was noted when the hole reached a depth of 774 ft. The
showing is undoubtedly genuine, and the cores drawn from this depth
in our presence revealed traces of oil. This fact is not regarded as
having any economic significance, but shows clearly that the conditions
in the area being drilled are not unfavourable for the generation of oil.
The character of the sediments from which the showing was obtained
was not such as to favour the occurrence of any material quantity; but
nothing is yet known of the nature of deeper portions of the oil-
bearing formation, and more porous beds if they exist may be expected
to permit greater accumulations.
B—Under existing conditions the field is difficult of access, and landing
heavy machinery on an exposed beach on which surf breaks heavily
must be attended with considerable risk. We hold that the Company
should make the fullest enquiry into the possibility of using aerial
transport such as has been adopted with marked success in the Man-
dated Territory of New Guinea. Alternatively, the provision of a
motor road, for a distance of 26 miles from Hall’s Sound, should be
considered.
When the area has been fully examined and mapped, safe transport
provided and adequate capital made available for drilling (under competent
management) a sufficient number of deep test boreholes to test’ a structure
of this magnitude, the question of providing a plant on a hire basis will
receive consideration.
(Signed) Arthur Wade, D.Sc. (Lond.), A.R.C.Sc., F.G.S., M.1.M.M.,
M.1.P.T., F.G.S. (America), M.A.A.P.G.
(Signed) L; Keith Ward, D.Sc., 8.A., B.E.
Canberra, A.C.T., 20th September, 1938.


ICollective Secutitu
Tot Capital. . .
SECURITY
fog
This is a fact now for hundreds of investors. Every man and
woman possessing approx. £2O and upwards can shelter their
savings profitably in FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST,
which combines the shares of 20 Companies to give you real
Collective Security. Custodian Trustee: Union Insurance
Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
’Phone 85294.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager;
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, S*ydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
Who pays
them
after
you're
gone 9
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . , whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Win gell o House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
lifted from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. and then 8 p.c.
Just as the co. was getting into its stride
again fire destroyed the manufacturing
and storage assets and stocks. That was
on November 21, 1936. The property
was insured, and a loss-of-profits policy
was in force ; plans for reconstruction
were put in hand at once. The distillery
commenced operating again at the end
of August, 1937, and has been working
satisfactorily since.
When the books closed in 1936, insur-
ance settlements were still in process of
completion. The figures then showed
£109,827 due from the insurance cos.,
against which appeared a suspense
account of £71,387 on the other side of
the sheet. Out of this suspense account
a reserve of £31,588 has been created.
The profit for 1937, which was mostly
surplus on insurance settlements for
stock and loss of profits, was £59,556 (up
£45,158), making total surplus on account
of insurance and four months’ restricted
trading £91,144. Out of this, £12,000
(8 p.c.) has been paid in divs., and
£79,144 sent to reserves, lifting them to
£9),759, of which £32,500 has been
labelled “provision for taxation.” At
the end of 1937 shareholders could
thus see reserves, including provision
for taxation, equal to 6s. Id. per share
as against 10id. a year earlier.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Suspense account ■ —- 71,387 •
Sundry creditors 4,155 4,823 5,598 852
Freeholds and
plant .. 37,498 33,515 17,682 63,375
Stocks . . 39,077 36,366 5,748 12,072
Debtors . . 1,879' 2.068 3,068 2,709
Cash, etc. . . 88,022 99,842 109,276 171,956
Insurance cos. -- —■ 109,827
The year’s net addition of £45,693 to
fixed assets raised their book value
£29,860 above the written-down 1935
figure. Stocks (up £6324) were £24,294
lighter than in 1935, but the new plant
was working for only about one-third
of the 1937 term. Consols were in at
£105,110 (face value £110,010), up £8978,
and cash (£66,846, of which £65,500 is
on fixed deposit) was strengthened by
£53,703. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£185,885)
was £4951, making the growth £22,432
since 1935.
As for the current term, trade pros-
pects are bright enough, but stocks will
take a couple of years to mature. Costs
continue on the up-grade, and seem
likely to continue so, for a while at any
rate; still, new plant should mean much
so far as costs are concerned,
When the books last closed, the 10s.-
paid shares, which are not listed, were
covered by net tangibles (including tax
reserve) of 16s. Id., of which 12s. 4d. was
surplus liquids. Cash and Government
securities alone were equal to 11s. sd.
per share. It is a very strong position,
and when the co. gets into its stride
again it may be in a position to pay a
bit more than 8 p.c. and/or return part
of the capital.
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum is offering
150,000 new ss. shares, three for two,
to those on the register at November 10,
payable Is. 6d. application and allot-
ment, and the balance as and when re-
quired in calls of not more than Is. per
share per month. The money is wanted
to further test what looks like a promis-
j ng oil-bearing area held by the co. at
Cape Possession, about 86 miles nor’-west
Q f p or t Moresby, Papua. The possibili-
jjes 0 £ ffrjg area, which comprises about
f; 00 ? acre *’ situated in the Tertiary oil
belt, have been favorably reported upon
by the Anglo-Persian (now Anglo-
Iranian) Co. and others, including the
Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee,
On the recommendation of its own
geologist, Launcelot Owen, the co. has
discontinued boring on the Apinaipi
dome and transferred the plant to the
Oiapu structure, where seven of the eight
fundamental criteria considered neces-
sary for the occurrence of oil occur,
Before the end of October, the drill at
Oiapu had reached a depth of 1076 feet.
Gas came in at 224 ft. and 774 ft., and
light oil at from 774 ft. to 842 ft. and again
from 1047 ft. to 1065 ft. The character of
the sediments from which the showings
were obtained is not considered favor-
able for the occurrence of large quanti-
ties of oil, but nothing is yet known of
the deeper portions of the oil-bearing for-
mations, and more porous beds, if they
exist, may be expected to permit greater
accumulations. According to the Oil
Advisory Committee, “what is required is
the design of a boring campaign to in-
clude a series of holes, after the whole
area has been mapped in full detail and
after the scout drilling has been done.”
This method of attack, which the com-
mittee considers the only sound one,
means expenditure of a lot of capital.
* * * #
Including £38,268 surplus on sale of
its Thalang (Siam) area to Siamese Tin,
London, Burma Malay Tin shows profits
£44,303 higher for year to March 31 at
£57,913 ; payment of Bs. a share to those
on the register, compared with 6d. in the
preceding term, absorbed the lot and
£1587 besides. The co. is a prospecting
and holding concern, principal interests
being a 24 p.c. shareholding in Renong,
25 p.c. in Katu (both Siam), 17 p.c. in
Briseis Tin (Tas.) and 11 p.c. in Mataki
Junction Gold Dredging (M.L.). Renong
and Katu have long been the backbone
of investment revenue, but Briseis is now
contributing to the pool, while the Maori-
land gold venture, which has paid 5 p.c.
in each of its last two terms, has been
showing much-improved returns over the
past couple of months. Latest invest-
ment is Sangka Dua Development Co.,
which is exploring a tin lode on the main
Kuala Lumpur road (F.M.S.).
* * * *
So far the recovery factor, now only
60 p.c., the gold being in an extremely
fine state, has beaten Barrytown Gold
Dredging, the Pratten venture at Grey-
mouth (M.L.), but flotation of the gold-
bearing black sands is expected to achieve
better results, and a pilot plant is being
installed on the dredge for experiment
under working conditions. After pro-
viding a nominal £49 for depreciation
and £2938 for Maoriland’s iniquitous
gold-export tax, £12,102 (Is. 2d. per share)
was earned in the 12 months to March
31 ; that enabled preliminary and de-
velopment expenditure of £9429 to be
written out of the accounts, leaving
£2673 to carry forward. Dredging com-
menced in May, 1937, 1,306,000 c.y.
being turned over for 47010 z. smelted
gold, average fineness 935.9. Recovery
per c.y. was 1.73 gr. and working cost
3.7 d. Results would have been better but
for buried timber undisclosed by the
bores. For the six months since 1,101,000
c.y. has been dug for a working profit
of £10,050; yields slipped to slightly
under lgr., but costs were lower at 3d. a
c.y. Treating 200,000 c.y., the prospectus
mentioned monthly working profits of
£6750. That was on the basis of the
wash, of which 22,000,000 c.y. was esti-
mated to be measured up, going lOd. per
c.y. (gold at £6 an ounce). At March
31 more or less liquids amounted to
£13,220. The debt stood at £53,748 ; it
will call for reduction before divs. can be
considered.
* * * *
Two of Westralia’s unlucky ones,
Southern Cross Development and North
Boulder, have resolved to wind up. The
first-named was formed in London in
April, 1934, to acquire from Gt. Boulder
Prop, the old Frasers group at Southern
Cross. The consideration was £26,500
cash and 300,000 fully-paid ss. shares. In
all 966,533 shares were issued, of which
the public took 660,000. The co. later
issued £75,000 worth of 10 p.c. con-
vertible notes. These notes are a first
charge on assets. Most of the capital
was mopped up in reconditioning old
workings, developing new ground, and in
purchase of equipment. Crushing was
commenced last year, but as returns
didn’t match official expectations, based
on mine sampling, a halt was caused in
treatment. Since then expenditure has
been reduced to a minimum. North
Boulder is refunding capital at the rate
of £1 Is. 6d. per 100 shares to scrip-
holders. It was formed in the same year as
Southern Cross by Aust. Gold Develop-
ment to acquire the North Boulder and
Bank of England blocks on the eastern
side of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
Previously 67,0000 z. had been taken out
of them, the bulk of which came from
North Boulder. Disappointment followed
reopening of the old deep levels at con-
siderable expense. The shallower levels
encouraged hopes for a time, but out-
goings exceeded receipts.
* * * *
Big Bell (W.A.) is steadily climbing
the gold-production pole. Its first year’s
return has added more than half a mil-
lion Australian pounds to the value of
the State’s yield. Treatment began with
a banquet in October, 1937, and to the
end of September last production was
estimated at 63,000 fine ounces. Average
extraction (a little under 3|dwt. per ton)
was low, but the owners in New York
and elsewhere are quite satisfied and are
looking for other Westralian Big Bells.
*J» * 4*
Apex Gold (W.A.) has emerged from
retirement and taken an option on the
New Moon at Norseman. It is also nego-
tiating for an option over another show
on the same field. The co. was formed
in Sept., 1933, to develop an area, in-
cluding the Alicia mine, at Morgans.
This property was abandoned owing to
poor results from sampling. Later
options were taken over the Mountain
Maid, at Broad Arrow, and Harrop’s, at
Bardoc. One was thrown up because
values were poor, and the other because
an appeal to shareholders failed to bring
in enough. The board now reports the
sale of 130,000 forfeited shares at 3d.
each.
* * * *
Marble Bar, one of the oldest and
most isolated of Westralia’s northern
goldmining centres, is threatened with an
invasion of new capital from both
London and Australian sources. Not
long ago a Governmental survey party
reported that Marble Bar and other
centres on the Pilbara field offered good
inducement to search for gold, and
that increased production could be
brought about in a number of cases by
more satisfactory mining and treat-
ment methods. Both the Comet and
McKinnon’s block, worked by the De
Bernales group, are at Marble Bar.
* * * *
Ora Banda North, which has already
met with four or five disappointments on
the Westralian goldfields, has taken an
option over the Trump prospecting area
near the Empress and Blue Bird group
at Norseman. A narrow reef from which
a small tonnage of payable ore has so
far been broken and treated is said to
run through the property.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.A.M.: (1) Not recommended. (2) De-
tails not available here. (3) In absence of
fuller information cannot say E.W.K.:
Quite sound, and a good avenue for the
small investor Goldmine: Better discuss the
matter with your broker M J.: Proposition,
which is a speculative one, still in the incuba-
tion stage. 0.T., Ltd., did much better over-
seas than locally F.C.H.: Doubtful. Q.M.E.
looks like a better spec.


Take your Camera. Enter
for Tasmanian Photographic
Competition.
CASH PRIZES. NO
ENTRANCE FEE!
MAKE
RESERVATION
VOUR
NOW
Plan to spend your
next holiday in
TASMANIA . .
The lovely Island State provides a complete change of
scene, in a bracing climate. Incomparable scenery,
historic buildings that stir the imagination, sporting
facilities innumerable.
Get full details of all-inclusive tours from your State
Capital and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST DEPT.
Sydney 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne The Block, 286 Collins Street
Adelaide 12 Pirie Street
Brisbane 196 Adelaide Street
Perth A.M.P. Building, William Street
Hobart Macquarie and Murray Streets
0 I I
11
m hi Miiii
la
11l Kg!»Hfi
HI
m
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“More and more women are turning to
business for a career and a crust.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Others still prefer marriage and a loaf.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“A swagman I knew always flavored his tea
with a gum-leaf.”— Correspondent in a weekly.
Some boardinghouse-keepers have even
been known to put a tealeaf in it.
4* 4- >!« 4*
“Police Find Man in Ceiling.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
After getting their assurance that his
wife’s relatives had all left he decided to
come down.
4- 4*
“Strain and serve after standing on ice.”
—Extract from drink recipe in women’s paper.
But that would surely give any host
cold feet.
►l* 4- 4* 4-
“If tea is spilt on the tablecloth immediately
cover the stain with sugar.”— Women’s paper.
That is, if the sauce-bottle won’t cover
it.
4* 4* 4' 4-
“I don’t know why, but Australian men are
almost always opposed to any really smart
styles for older women.” — Women’s paper.
In other words, elderly wives will get
a dressing-down if they’re caught dress-
ing up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Learn Piano Jazz for Profit or Pleasure.”
— Advert.
Or revenge.
•£• »J« •!*
“Radio announcers must be physically fit.”
—Wireless paper.
For running commentaries?
F -I* •]' 4*
“Champion professional golfer is a strict
vegetarian.”— Sporting paper.
Been on the greens for years, in fact.
4* F 4* F
“Not all pedestrians are prone to careless-
ness.”—“Sun.”
Some are just prone.
4* 4* 4* 4"
Truth in Advertising.
“And so, listeners, another bright pro-
gramme from Punk’s comes to an end.
Remember the word is Punk’s. Punk’s
Powders for all digestive troubles ; for
flatulence, hiccups and that next-morn-
ing feeling. Take Punk’s and eat what
you like. Start the day with Punk’s and
you start it well. So, till next Wednesday
evening at 10 o’clock, Punk’s bid you
‘or-wah’... Well, here’s Claude with
the ‘Daily Pain’s’ news session. And
this is Percy signing off. Good-night,
listeners, good-night...
“Ah-h-er! Thank heaven, that’s over.
Now for some baking soda. This blasted
heartburn’s nearly killing me! ”
Turoar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Melbourne Art Gallery grounds to be
remodelled.”
Not by surrealists, we hope.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. , before presenting the gifts to the
guests, said there was very little left for him
to say, but wished them both happiness, good
health and long levity.”
—Chinchilla (Q.) “News.”
That’s pretty roar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sydney’s traffic laws are a disgrace and the
laughing-stock of the world; but the worm
will turn.” — Correspondent in daily.
Yes, but only in the direction that the
traffic-cop tells him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mosquitoes can keep on the wing for 12
hours without alighting.”— Entomologist.
Then why don’t they?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How to treat husbands.” — Women’s paper.
How often is more important.
4* 4* 4* 4* '
Do Your Own Kicking.
“A North Carolina garageman has installed
a machine so that people who are annoyed
with themselves can get the apparatus to give
them a good kicking.”
If I weren’t game enough to kick my-
self for my own mistakes I’d consider
“Get a bag, mister !"
myself a poor sort of worm. And when
I kick myself I don’t make it any half-
hearted prod at the shin. I give myself
a real he-man kick in the neck with the
heaviest pair of boots I can find.
I just stretch two wires across the yard,
one neck high, the other ankle high,
insult myself unpardonably, and rush at
the wires in a fury. One foot catches in
the bottom wire, while the other foot
comes up in a perfect rabbit punch on
the back of the neck, which is, of course,
held snugly by the top wire. If I feel that
I deserve a kick in the face I simply go
at the wires in reverse.
In trying the idea out don’t forget to
leave the wires a little slack. If they are
too tight you’ll only bounce off, and tire
yourself needlessly.
Angus O’Cohen.
“Children should not be punished on an
empty stomach,” says a Victorian welfare
officer.
On the contrary.
Very Strangeski!
“Officers and men on Soviet warships are
said to fraternise socially on board when off
duty.”
Though it may seem rather rummy every-
one gets very chummy
When “eight bells” rings out aboard
the Kummathudski;
Though the weather may be soupy
they’re all bent on making
whoopee,
Caring not if someone runs it on the
mudski.
And it wouldn’t be surprising if they
keep on fraternising
Till an A.B. gets the ear of some high
Redski,
Then becomes a Commissarski smoking
bour-ge-ois cigarski,
Starts a purge—then cuts the offtcahs
all deadski.
BO.
I Was a Legionnaire.
VII.
Intensive training in the use of arms
and the eternal astiquage aren’t the only
activities of a “swaddie” in the Foreign
Legion. Between, say, a 50-kilometre
run with full pack up and the two hours
of clothes-scrubbing and equipment-
burnishing which follows, there will be
an hour devoted to recreation. This usu-
ally takes the form of some such sports
as trench-digging competitions or lugging
a five-hundredweight roller over the
parade-ground to flatten out the sand
again after a sirocco has changed it into
hills and valleys.
The job of allotting these various
amusements fell to Corporal Tszrlz, and,
as I stood joker high with him, I was
given the juiciest of the pickings.
I had got in good with the corp. as
the result of a little joke of mine. He
was in charge of the caserne in which
we all slept, and his bed and mine were
foot to foot. He was an exceedingly
tall man,' and his feet encroached con-
siderably on to my bed. He also suffered
from insomnia, and one night as his
huge feet were waving about above me
I tickled them with a porcupine feather
which had worked out of the ticking
beneath me. It hadn’t the slightest effect
on his casehardened pedal extremities,
which continued to weave about with
maddening restlessness. -Exasperated at
last, I gave one of them a hearty prod
with my bayonet. Immediately, by some
reflex action of nerves or something, his
leg shot up, causing his knee to connect
with the point of his chin and knocking
him clean out.
The next morning when I awoke I
was somewhat apprehensive of the cor-
poral’s reaction to the incident, and ex-
pected as punishment at least a day’s
onion-barbering, but he was quite chirpy,
and actually thanked me for being the
means of his enjoying the soundest
night’s sleep he had had in months.
Thereafter it was my nightly task to
jab the sole of his foot with my bayonet,
and when this method of snooze-induce-
ment lost its effectiveness through repeti-
tion I hit on another plan.
Most men come over all soporific
when their hair is being fooled around
with, as any barber will testify. The
corporal was no exception., Though he
had no hair his burnished dome was
sufficiently sensitive to react to the
coarse sandpaper with which I rubbed it
vigorously, and he was asleep in a few
minutes.
It was in appreciation of these thought-
ful ministrations that the corp. invari-
ably detailed me for the easiest of the
“recreation” jobs. This was keeping
Mustapha, the camel attached to our
platoon for carrying the hogsheads of
absinthe and wine when we went on
active service, in good nick.
At first I took a real pride in turning
him out smartly. After a good curry-
combing and brushing (I had to use a
ladder to do the scenic-railway act over
his hump with the currycomb) 1 would
marcel his mane, clean his teeth, put
black boot polish on his feet and de-
gibber his sandshoes. It may not be
generally known that camels in the
Legion wear special rubber shoes. These
serve the dual purpose of preventing the
camel’s slipping on the sand and acting
as silencers, so necessary when operating
against the keen-eared Arabs.
It was the upshot of a friendly argu-
ment between the corporal and myself
that led to my taking a violent dislike
to the beast. The corporal bet me a
gallon of wood alcohol that it didn’t go
more than 25 hands to the top of its
hump. I maintained it went 30. In
measuring the oont by spans I must have
tickled it, for its head came round, and
in a flash it had bitten through my kepi
and taken a mouthful of my back hair.
As punishment I at first refused to clean
its teeth, but its halitosis got so bad I
had to resume that daily operation for
my own comfort, using a steel brush on
a long broom handle. And didn’t I give
the brute’s gums some curry!
lncidentally, I won the bet. When the
corporal asked me later how
many hands he went I told him,
quite truthfully, two dozen. The
corporal was a hopelessly igno-
rant fellow who knew no means
of calculating other than by the
French metric system. It was
useless trying to explain English
, mathematics to him. “Does that
J mean that I win, bleu ?” he
asked hopefully. I was com-
pelled to break the news to him
that he had lost the bet.
As time went on my dislike for the
camel, which was heartily reciprocated,
increased. Every time I absentmindedly
walked behind it I’d collect a back-kick.
Still the oont didn’t have things all its
own way. I’m no slouch at kicking my-
self, and, although his were harder, mine
were delivered with greater frequency.
Moreover, a camel can’t wear spurs, so,
by and large, I had the best of our many
differences.
But I never forgave it for catching me
a trimmer in the slats one day when
Sergeant Vinblanc was looking on trying
to find fault. And he did, for he gave
me three days’ field punishment for what
he described in the charge sheet as “deli-
berately trying to injure the camel’s hoof
with his stomach.”
But I bided my time, determined to
“get” Mustapha. And I was shortly to
get the opportunity.
S. W. K.


TENDERS are invited and will be received up
to noon on MONDAY, the 28th DAY OF
NOVEMBER, 1938, for the PURCHASE of
the COMPANY’S UNDERTAKING as a
GOING CONCERN or for ANY ONE or
MORE OF THE LOTS or portion of lot
specified hereunder:
Lot 1. Mine Properties ( O.K. Group). —Gold-
mining leases Nos. 1317 D.S., 1405 D.S.,
1480 D.S., and W.R. 217, 220, machinery
lease 42, containing in all 37 acres or
thereabouts.
Lot 2. Buildings. —Office, garage, engine-room,
changeroom, foreman’s cottage, etc.
Lot 3. Furnishings. —Desks, cabinets, chairs, etc.
Lot 4. Plant. —Engine-room (main) —
1 Crossley 104-h.p. Diesel.
1 K/L 250 c. ft. compressor (lOin. x 12in.).
1 Air receiver cylinder.
1 440 v. 15kw. D.C. generator.
1 440 v. 15kw. alternator.
1 A.C. switchboard.
1 D.C. switchboard.
2 Air bottles (engine-starting equip.).
1 Single-cylinder air compressor.
Countershafting, pulleys, belting.
Lot 5. Crushing Plant —
10-head battery, including—
-2 35-ton elevated ore bins.
2 Challenge feeders (automatic).
2 Amalgamating plates, countershafting,
belting, pulleys.
2 Wilfley tables, countershafting, belting,
pulleys and launders.
Sand launders, tailing pipes.
2 Return water-settling vats, 6000 gals.
each (one cemented).
Lot 6. Return Water System —
-1 h.p. ASEA elec, motor.
1 3in. two-stage centrif. pump.
1 6in. threethrow Taugye 26/ duty pump.
Lot 7. Water Supply (Lake Cowan)—
400 ft. x 3in. pipe line.
1 4000 gal. tank.
1 15-h.p. McDonld Diesel engine.
1 3in. two-stage centrif. pump.
100 ft. x 3in. galvanised piping.
9600 ft. x 4in. wood pipe.
Lot 8. Haulage—
-1 Thompson double drum winding engine
(8 x 10), 1 Cornish boiler (20 x 5)., 1
Ingersoll Sargent air compressor (steam)
(12 x 14).
Smokestack and condenser unit.
2 750 ft. x jin. steel cables.
6 End-tipping trucks.
Lot 9. Ore distribution and air and water re-
ticulation plant. Mining, blacksmith and
surface equipment. Stores, etc.
Lot 10. Assay Equipment, including fur-
nace, scales, etc.
GOLD MINING LEASES AND PLANT
For Sale by Tender
SOUTH NORSEMAN GOLD MINES, N.L.
SOUTH NORSEMAN, W.A.
Lot 11. Sundry Tools.
The principal items only are set out herein,
but in addition there are numerous quantities
of equipment and materials available.
Further particulars of the mine properties,
plant and equipment may be obtained at the
mine, or at the office of the receiver, with
whom arrangements may be made for inspec-
tion.
The receiver accepts no responsibility for
errors of description in the assets or of the
quantities thereof, and gives no warranty in
respect of any assets.
All tenders must be sealed and envelopes
marked “Tender South Norseman” and be
accompanied by a bank-marked cheque for an
amount equivalent to 10 per centum of the sum
tendered, the balance to be paid forthwith to
the receiver on his giving notice of the accept-
ance of the tender, unless other arrangements
are made to his satisfaction.
A small portion of the leases only are being
worked on tribute. Any sale of leases is sub-
ject to this arrangement expiring on 24/10/’39.
No tender necessarily accepted.
DATED this 25th day of October, 1938.
A. L. GNIEL, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
RECEIVER AND MANAGER.
Selborne Chambers,
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Castlemaine Perkins.
At 225. 9d. last week the shares
in Castlemaine Perkins, the Bris-
bane brewery, yielded £4 Bs. per
cent. The price is attractive and
the stock a good one.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Guilty Until Proved Innocent
When the S.P. Betting Bill was going
through the N. S. Wales Assembly
a clause was noticed providing that
the averment of the prosecutor to the
effect that a person was an s.p. book-
maker would be evidence of the “fact”
unless the person charged was able to
prove the contrary. In other words, the
accused would be deemed guilty until he
proved himself innocent—a decided re-
versal of one of the most cherished prin-
ciples of British law.
But the clause didn’t become law.
There was such sustained objection to it
that it was deleted from the bill, and
rightly so. However, there are Aus-
tralian laws affecting hundreds of thou-
sands of people by which the old basic
principle of British justice is specifically
denied in the statute. The ones that
first come to mind are Commonwealth
enactments.
Under the Customs and Immigration
Acts the averment of the prosecutor that
a person has committed certain offences
is deemed to be proved in the absence of
evidence in rebuttal. Under the Sales
Tax Acts a certificate signed by the Com-
missioner is accepted as prima facie
evidence unless the taxpayer can show
otherwise. But perhaps the Act affecting
the greatest number of people is the
Commonwealth Income Tax Act. Under
Section 83 of the old Commonwealth
Act it was provided:
In every taxation prosecution the aver-
ment of the prosecutor or plaintiff con-
tained in the information, declaration or
claim shall be deemed to be proved in the
absence of proof to the contrary, but so
that when an intent to defraud the
revenue is charged the averment shall not
be deemed sufficient to prove the intent.
Under the Commonwealth Income Tax
Assessment Act, 1936, this subject is
more spaciously dealt with. Section 243
begins:
(1) In any taxation prosecution, every
averment of the prosecutor or plaintiff
contained in the information, complaint,
declaration or claim shall be deemed prima
facie evidence of the matter averred.
Subsection 4 excludes averments relat-
ing to “intent” (to defraud) from this
section, or “proceedings for an indictable
offence or an offence directly punishable
by imprisonment.”
But lest the taxpayer should get too
much encouragement from that subsec-
tion, a final clause (Subsection 5) pro-
vides :
This section shall not lessen or affect
any onus of proof otherwise falling oh the
defendant.
The whole thing boils down to this: If
the legislators considered it unfair to put
the onus of proving innocence in the case
of major offences on the shoulders of
the accused, is it just that the onus should
lie on him in cases where anything except
intent to defraud or indictable offences
is charged?
Victoria, Queensland and South Aus.
have practically the same provisions as
the Commonwealth—a result of “consoli-
dation” of the law; N. S. Wales, how-
ever, makes one further exclusion from
the operation of the principle; the aver-
ment of the prosecutor won’t cover:
any matter relating to the income or
deductions in a return of the defendant
if he has produced to the Commissioner....
sufficient records to enable the assessable
income and allowable deductions... .to be
readily ascertained.
An amazing thing for N. S. Wales to
consider the rights of a taxpaying sub-
ject more than other States, but there
the provision is, for what it is worth.
The North and South Barrier mines
declared quarterly divs. at the unchanged
rate of 6d. a share last week. Scrip in
Broken Hill cos. has kept very steady for
“ I bought this chair yesterday and, if you really don't mind, I should like to change it."
a week or two. Metals on the whole
have been firm. The prospects for favor-
able lead prices over a long period are
satisfactory, in the opinion of Colinj
Fraser (North’s chairman).
* * * *
A. W. Fadden, M.P., W. J. O’Sullivan
and J. Malcolm Newman were elected to
the board of Mt. Morgan at last week’s
annual meeting. Two retiring directors
and two others had nominated for the
board, but withdrew before the actual
time of the meeting. Members of the
board, old and new, have what looks like
an intricate problem of mining and
finance ahead of them. Outgo on over-
burden removal in excess of the 3-to-l
ratio has been a heavy charge lately,
and considerable capital outlay, much
of it on the new smelters, has been
necessary. The whole aspect of finance
needs a good deal of clarification before
appraising share values will be more
than guesswork.
%
sis * *
The slip in the pound sterling, reflected
in the high price of gold in recent weeks
(£7 ss. 7d. in London last Thursday), is
causing some concern in the U.S.A., and
there has been talk of revaluing the
dollar in order to bring it to its former
ratio with sterling and protect Ameri-
can trade. The argument, of course, is
that British manufacturers are gaining at
the expense of U.S. exporters. Well, the
poor old British exporters haven’t been
able to cope with British importers of
recent months; the trade balance has
been slipping, while that of the U.S. has
been growing more favorable. Admit-
tedly the U.S.A.’s surplus of exports has
come about mainly by reason of cur-
tailed imports ; but Uncle Sam has never-
theless been able to maintain his exports
of U.S. merchandise. Excluding re-
exports, John Bull’s overseas sales of his
manufactures have been suffering from
dullness. Possibly rearmament demands
at home are partly to blame. But, what-
ever the cause of the decline, America
hasn’t been hit particularly so far by the
depreciating pound.
* * * *
Although business in the U.S.A.,
especially in the motor-car industry,
seems to be picking up and influencing
general confidence, the recent very strong
market for American securities may be
part i y due to the flight of capital from
Britain to New York, following the late
war scare . Gold has been going west-
wards across the Atlantic at a great rate,
* * * *
„ 0 ,
Support for Meggitt shares in Sydney
as been very weak lately, 295., the lowest
price since “scare” Wednesday, being ac-
cepted last Wednesday. The co. showed
just under 13 p.c. on its ord. capital last
term, against 12.5 p.c. in the preceding
year. Competition appears to be grow-
ing in the stock-food section of the busi-
ness, but the Meggitt concern has a
strongly-established connection, especi-
ally since it linked up with Michael
Nairn, the lino, people, and Blundell,
Spence and Co. Meggitt’s last ord. div.
was 10 p.c. (paid for two years now);
interim for 1938-39 isn’t due until
January. Activity in the building trade
largely governs Meggitt’s earnings on
the oil side.
* * * *
The 12s. 6d.-paid shares of Tableland
Tin, Malcolm Newman’s Mt. Garnet
(Q.) flotation, were unofficially quoted at
1 Is. 3d. buyers last week in Sydney. All
the forfeited shares have been placed,
and, with projected production only a few
weeks off, tin above £2lO in London and
the war scare back in the shades, the
sharemarket is prepared to sit up and
take more notice of Tableland than it
has hitherto done. Whatever the eventual
results of the flotation, it has never been
a “Pitt-street” stock; the shares haven’t
been listed, and the board’s attention has
been given completely to the mine—
which is only as it should be, but a rare
practice, nevertheless. Close-boring of
Tableland's property encompasses an
area equal to a year’s supply of ground
for the small dredge, and values of a
pound a yard are spoken of. If these
results are achieved, and tin keeps up,
a good kick-off is indicated.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Herald shares recovered to 595., the best
price for several weeks. The tone for Vic-
torian industrials was generally better all round.
Yarra Falls firmed to 365. 9d., George
Farmer ords. lifted to 125., Henry Jones to
495., and Holeproof to 225., buyers.
Electrolytic Zinc announced that approxi-
mately half its spelter output is consumed in
Australia, and an even greater consumption is
looked for later on.
Mt. Lyell shares kept above 30s. in spite
of the lift in the production quota from 95 p.c.
to 105 p.c. The statistical position has im-
proved since the last cut in the quota.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Meeting.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-FIRST ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held at the
Company’s Offices, 23 and 25 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, on TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1938
at 2.15 p.m. ’
BUSINESS: To receive the Directors’ Report
and Balance Sheet to September 30, 1938.
To. elect Two Directors in place of Sir Thomas
Buckland and Cecil Howe Doyle, who retire
under Clause 81 of the Articles of Association
and who offer themselves for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert
W. Nelson and Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), who retire under Clause 124 of the
Articles of Association, and - who are eligible
for re-election, and to fix the amount of their
remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
E. V. T. WHITTLE,
Manager.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23 and 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
October 25, 1938.
FREE SAMPLE
SENT
LIQUID
Ur RE-NU
NU-METAL
Saves
endfnfsion shrf s ’ t r l econdltlons any engine while-U-drive. Saves
soeed *o, , P ’ * pe rol waste; restores compression, new power, t.op-
TRIAT TTIRF fi/« G teed R00(1 for 10 - 000 miles - Harmless finest■ engine.
Inn Riil ;til- or v 7 e SGnd C.O.D. Advice, Literature, free. RE-NU, LTD
opp, Richmond Station, Melbourne. Agents required; 20 other lines. Free samples!
m l
r% \
3*
tJle'fyJc±£fl
If you are contemplating travelling—either at
home or abroad —the Union Bank offers a
Travel Service fully equipped to deal with your
individual needs. The service, for which no
charge is made, includes drawing up itineraries,
bookings, etc.
Arrangements can be made to safeguard your
funds while travelling and to ensure that
money in the currency of any country which
you may be visiting will be readily available
to you.
In addition to Letters of Credit, Travellers’
Cheques are issued in Sterling, and United
States Dollars. Italian Tourist Lire and German
Registered (Travel) Marks can be made avail-
able to bona-fide visitors to Italy and Germany.
Bunion bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( ESTABLISHED 1837 )
Incorporated in England
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
KOSCIUSKO for Your
Summer Holiday
AWAY ABOVE EVERYTHING IN AUSTRALIA
Golf a Mile Above Sea Level
Tennis Trout Fishing
Alpine Lakes Riding Trail
\ v 1
1
■
;■
V- , •
■ W;
Tariff at Hotel Kosciusko:
17/- per day, f.4/4/- per week;
19/- per day, 14/18/- per week.
Ask For Free Pictorial Folder.
Information and Booking at
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House— -8 Martin Place——Sydney.
Tel. 8W4471 (4 lines). Branch Bureau at IVynyard Station.
Salesmanship in Asia
From “Grouch,” Philippine Islands:
I am not aware whether your correspondent
CB. 14/9/’3B) who voiced the criticism of Aus-
tralian businessmen in reference to their train-
ing of salesmen has ever travelled outside
Australia, but I can .assure him that the criti-
. cism is warranted.
Factory representatives and salesmen periodi-
cally visiting the Orient to further trade
have found themselves confronted by many
obstacles, in the main due to lack of training.
This has hampered their efforts and reduced
the possibility of securing satisfactory results.
As a resident of Hong Kong, Shanghai, Japan
and the Philippines, it has been a pleasure to
meet my own countrymen during a period of
eight years. Yet many of those seeking busi-
ness and the furtherance of trade have been
sadly lacking in the essential qualities of sales-
manship.
Firstly, many of them have had scant know-
ledge of their projected markets. Secondly,
they have been uninformed as to the function-
ing of foreign trade and market trends gener-
ally. Thirdly, few possess knowledge of foreign
exchange—one of the main factors. Fourthly,
they have been financially handicapped owing
to insufficient allowances. Usually their allow-
ances have been on the basis of Australian
currency, which, being at a discount as compared
with American and English money, has made
them curtail essential expenditures, necessary
when endeavoring to break into new markets.
Lastly, they have to compete with American and
other foreign trained specialists completely
equipped with organisation and knowledge of
the requirements of foreign markets.
Certainly there is a fair amount of trade in
flour, meat, wheat, wool, butter, canned goods,
cattle and coal. Yet the volume is small com-
pared with what could be effected. If Aus-
tralian manufacturers would send only special-
ists to survey these Oriental markets, and then
act accordingly, no doubt some tangible results
would be shown.
With the amount of money which has been
spent by itinerant representatives, many manu-
facturers could, have established subsidiary
companies, fully equipped with trained men,
familiar with the products to be sold and
acquainted with the policy necessary.
The Philippines alone is a large potential
market, and if the Filipinos do get complete
independence there will be ample opportunity
in 1946 for the furtherance of Australian ex-
port trade. Meantime, why not send men to
the Orient in order to make trade surveys?
The foregoing does not apply to the many
Australians who have done a lot of excellent
spadework in the furthering of foreign trade.
But I must say that for each representative
who has • succeeded in conducting profitable
business in the “East,” there is a large major-
ity who have been unsuccessful.
Noticing an advertisement of the Com-
mercial Credit Corporation in the “Why
I Publish” weekly, a Sydney man dropped
a line to the C.C.C. and asked for a
balance sheet. The ad. indicated that the
C.C.C. was “prepared to accept savings
deposits” and to pay 5 p.c. p.a. on short-
call moneys (“not exceeding £500”),
and 7 p.c. p.a. on three-year fixed de-
posits—“special facilities for country and
inter-State depositors.” In due course the
inquirer got a balance sheet of the C.C.C.;
it was dated June 30, 1937, and a cover-
ing letter (Oct. 26, 1938), signed by
R. C. Moulton, as secretary, said a later
one wasn’t available. But the 30/6 / ’37
sheet was of some value to the inquirer. It
showed nominal capital at £191,471,
issued capital £50,453, paid capital
£10,191. The shares were of 205., 19s.
and 10s. denominations; uncalled capital
and calls in arrear figured at £40,263.
The co. had succeeded in raising £4617
on debentures, £18,133 on deposit, and
£452 was owed to sundry creditors. Re-
serves were £4BB. Assets comprised
“plans and systems,” £10,000; invest-
ments, £2854 ; debtors, £20,790; cash,
etc., £74; establishment,' £164. ,A loss
of £23 was shown for the year. The co.
has been established nine years (formed
July, 1929). In 1930 it boasted an issued
capital of £BO,OOO, and at that time the
shares were all of £1 each. An offer
of “collateral trust secured 8 p.c. parti-
cipating gold debentures” was then on
tap; those watching the flow of “8 p.c.
participating gold” were informed:
The Commercial Credit Corporation of
Australia, under the C.C.C. system, is
operating under a system of banking de-
signed especially to accommodate certain
commercial enterprises and the industrial
classes.
Changes have since taken place with the
lapse of years; the co. is now “the
pioneer of the Morris Plan system of
small character loans.” But time hasn’t
removed E. S. Moulton, R. C. Moulton,
Macintosh Ellis or W. J. Austin from
the board. They are still on deck. And
now, “practically the whole of the un-
called ord. capital is to come from a large
co. with net tangible assets of over
£300,000. This ord. capital is now being
called up, with the result that the secu-
rity position for the depositors is much
stronger.” It might help if the name of
the affluent co. and the date and shape
of its subscriptions were told in black
and white.
* * * *
There has been steady buying of Cum-
berland Paper ords. in Sydney for some
time, the market price of between 255.
6d. and 265., cum 9.6 d. div., being at-
tractive, especially as the yield offering
was 6.4 p.c. On Monday of last week
a vestibule sale of 1000 shares at 265.
was recorded; a few months back a
similarly large parcel of the co.’s par-
ticipating prefs. passed from one seller
to one buyer. Next day quotes lifted
to 275., with interest active. Owing to
Cumberland’s smaller proportionate hold-
ing in A.P.M. and its larger pref. issue,
the ords. aren’t so well secured as those
of Australasian Paper; but the ruling
difference of 4s. a share in market prices
is hardly justified. For that matter, both
Australasian Paper and Cumberland
ords. look good buying, with the latter
favored for holding purposes. A.P. has
a more active market.
* * * »
In Sydney, Beard Watson shares
haven’t shown much recovery from the
low figure reached following publication
of accounts and the market effect of the
“crisis” a month ago. Last year’s earn-
ings of 5.7 p.c. on ord. capital com-
pared with nearly 8.6 p.c. in the preced-
ing term; ord. div. dropped from 6 p.c.
to 5 p.c. Dealing in high-class furniture,
the Beard Watson concern should have
had a good year in its last term ; cer-
tainly trade isn’t likely to be any better
in the year now current. Earnings in
1937-38 bore some writing-down of “cer-
tain imported stocks to a level of present-
day market conditions.” Holders of the
scrip may gather a grain of comfort from
the fact that writings-down of this kind
may not be necessary this year. Last,
week s market of 14s. for the ords. gave
a return of 7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks and Co., the Sydney
concern that has inter-State offices for a
Commonwealth-wide distribution of its
optical goods, jewellery, clocks, watches,
fancy goods, etc., paid a comfortable 10
p.c. ord. div. in its last term out of the
16.8 p.c. earned on that class of capital.
The div. (25.) was paid a month ago ;
now the ord. scrip, which sold at a lowest
price of 225. 6d. this year (it was then
recommended on this page), is back to
245. 6d. again, returning £8 3s. per cent.
The market is paying little or nothing
for goodwill, either. Assets appear a
very sound lot.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Communism’s Disguise and Dupes.
[The remarkable article here condensed from the
English pacifist publication “Peace News” was written
by Ben Greene, secretary of the British Association of
Constituency Labor Parties and Labor candidate. It
deals further with Communism’s “Trojan Horse” policy
discussed in previous “Uncabled Additions” articles
1 /6/’3B and 27/7/’3BJ
The new technique of Communism is something
of which democracy has had no previous experience,
and against which no sound system of defence has
yet been devised. Even the Labor party, with its long
experience of Communist tactics, suffers to-day from
the paralysing influence of Communist activity.
With the exception of the pacifist movement,
which by its very nature is more or less immune, there
is not a single body of progressive opinion which has
not fallen victim to influence of the Communist party.
This despite the fact that there is in modern Commu-
nist outlook nothing which can be associated with
progressive thought.
In one feature Communist technique has been
consistent since its inception, and that is an eagerness
to fish in any troubled waters. But its method of
fishing has altered considerably. It is no longer the
incitement to workers to strike, the cry of class war,
virulent denunciation of democracy, of the Labor
movement and of the League of Nations.
To-day it is co-operation, even where it is resented
and unwanted. We hear the cry for unity, for popular
fronts, for peace alliances. We hear a great deal
of Communist patriotism and Communist concern
over British prestige and British imperial rights. In
fact, if we compare the policy of the Communist party
of to-day with that of ten or fifteen years
ago, it is almost impossible to believe
that it represents the views of the same
political organisation.
This contradiction of its old policy
-has made the new technique possible
whereby the Communists are enabled to
infiltrate all progressive and peace organi-
sations. They join Labor parties, trade
unions, peace societies, and even capi-
talist political organisations solely for the
purpose of either destroying them or cap-
turing them for their own school of
thought.
That school of thought is not peace,
is not progress, is not internationalism
nor working-class welfare ; but it is a
blind service to Soviet Russia and Rus-
sian power politics.
The Communist party is controlled
and financed by Russian Communism,
which is concerned solely with Russian
political exigencies. It is the duty of the
Communist party to present Soviet Russia
as a perfect, peace-loving, democratic
State. It is the duty and purpose of the
Communist party to attack and vilify anything which
endangers, threatens or thwarts Russian interests.
Supported by the big financial resources of the
Russian State, the Communist party, through its mem-
bership inside the progressive organisations, has pur-
sued a vigorous propaganda directed at “Fascism,”
and, with the support of Jews arising out of Nazi
persecution in Germany, has had an amazing and
far-reaching success. The irony of all this lies in the
fact that the Communist party is despised and derided
by the most unwitting victims of its tactics.
The dominating factor in Russian European
policy is to-day the same as it has been in the past,
and it springs from the age-long rivalry between Slav
and Teuton. There is nothing Russia fears more than
a powerful Germany, and, though her methods of
opposition may differ, her policy has remained constant
whether Germany be democratic or Nazi.
The issues that face us are not conflicts between
Communism and Fascism nor even between democracy
and dictatorship. What we are faced with are the
power groupings which spring from this age-old Slav-
Teutonic antagonism.
We have on the one hand the Russian policy of
the encirclement of Germany, shown in the French
and Czechoslovakian alliances. We have on the other
hand the anti-Russian proposals of Germany based
upon a Western Power pact. Britain, true to her old
theory of the balance of power, is as yet committed
to neither —though, previous to the Eden crisis, the
policy of collective security brought this country pretty
near to throwing in its hand with the Russian group.
To the Communist, therefore, the British position is
of supreme importance.
Chamberlain has fairly effectively turned down
British support of the Russian proposals, and therefore
Chamberlain is the arch-enemy of peace and Chamber-
lain must go. To this end the Communist is now pro-
moting an endless series of movements which aim at
some form of coalition of the Left parties sufficiently
strong to defeat Chamberlain.
Besides, the Communist party has felt confident
that its influence in the progressive movement is suffi-
ciently strong to guarantee that a Left Government in
Britain will support the Russian group, in the belief
that this means supporting peace and democracy.
The one section of the progressive movement
which is not likely to accept this thesis of a peace
policy is Pacifism. Therefore Pacifism is also an enemy
of peace.
To win support for the Russian power group, the
Communist party is exploiting to the full the horrors
of the wars in Spain and China. It all helps to feed
the flame of prejudice against “Fascism” and helps
to give a variation to the exploitation of the horrors of
the Nazi revolution.
' “Fascism” of the German and Italian type is
presented as the black atrocity from which the world
must be saved. No question may be asked, no dis-
cussion may be provoked, no inquiries may be insti-
tuted. The only attitude which the Communist party
will permit is one of undying and uncompromising
onnosition tn this “Fascism” which it describes as
PP ltl ° n , t 0 t , IS , ascism >
the most brutal phenomenon in the history of the
world. We know how widespread and effective this
propaganda has been.
It is difficult even for pacifists to remember that
Communism in Russia and Nazism in Germany mean
practically one and the same thing. Both have great
achievements to their credit; but both are dictatorship
countries which suppress individual liberty; both
represent a system of human relationships which is
repugnant to the conceptions of freedom and sanctity
of the individual.
Thus we see to-day the tragedy of the peace move-
ment, which began with conceptions of international
justice and equity, with dreams of conciliation and
disarmament, of a world order of economic suffi-
ciency, now being gradually and systematically sub-
verted to the position of a pawn in the game of power
politics ; the peace issue is now no more than a dis-
cussion as to which kind of war is a peaceful war.
Nuffield on Peace Prospects.
[The “self-appointed House of Commons Inde-
pendents” attacked by Lord Nuffield in this (condensed)
London “Daily Express” interview are the same lot
whose criticisms of Chamberlain policy and forebodings
about war and ruin are continuously served up in
Australian dailies as representative of British feeling.]
“It makes me sick the way things have gone since
Mr. Chamberlain returned from Munich.
“At Munich the Premier tried to cement world
peace. He averted a world war, a struggle between
every nation that might have lasted till long after
the end of our generation. He comes home. And
what takes place? The backbiters, the warmongers
rise and start to shout. They bleat about principles,
of peace without glory, of anything but peace.
“It is peace that the people of this country want.
That is why they were behind Mr. Chamberlain to
a man when he threw over diplomatic platitudes
and faced Herr Hitler across the table. Mr. Chamber-
lain could not have done more. He settled the Czech
dispute. He brought back a pact from Germany that
there should be no more war between the two most
powerful nations in Europe.
“But neither he nor any other man can silence
the pipings of the warmongers, the self-appointed in-
dependents who jump up in the House of Commons
and shout their own opinions, words that will upset
other nations, words that may bring the cloud of
war above us once again.
“I say talk in the direction of peace. Avoid
another war. Pessimism is bad. It never did any
good.
“We have an understanding now with the other
great European Power that can help us to keep peace
throughout the world. Let us make the most of it.
Let us silence the fractional minority who want to
rave against our neighbors. These little independents
only do great harm. Worse than that, they do not
voice the sentiments of our own people.
“We should be strong, of course. We should
arm till we fear no nation. That is going on now.
But while the floor is given to the handful of dis-
consolate Ms.P. who want to stir up international
feeling, the threat of war will continue to be with us.
“We must talk, think, believe in peace.
“I am convinced we shall have peace. That has
the background of months of study I have made on
the foreign position. I have good informants. 1 do
not believe that Germany wants war any more than
Britain. Rather do the Germans want to stand with
us, to lead the world with us in peace.
“We must mind our own business. That means
we must attend to our own strength, see that we can
defend ourselves against any aggression. But it does
not mean that we must be prying into the private lives
of other nations. ...
“My sentiments are typical of a non-politician, ot
the man in the street. Stop the cacklers, the men who
are not in the Government because they are not
wanted. They must not be allowed to stir up any
more international ill-feeling. Businessmen, rational
thinkers, the general public, are with Mr. Chamberlain
all the way.”
Outlook on the China War.
[Of the items here given for the light they throw on
the war in China and its possible developments, the first
is condensed from a brochure, “Japan in 1938, .Pub-
lished by the very sound Tokio periodical the ‘ Oriental
Economist,” which is sometimes candidly critical of
Japanese outlook, though here mainly concerned with
arriving at how long the “China Incident” will last.J
The China Incident has developed entirely con-
trary to Japan’s original expectations and it is still a
question how long the hostilities will
last.
General Chiang Kai-shek approving
the influence of the Communists and re-
solved to continue resistance on a long-
term basis, the Chinese tactics have been
to offer a certain measure of resistance
and then retreat, aiming to exhaust
Japan’s resources through guerrilla war-
fare. As a result, it is possible that the
China Incident may not be truly ter-
minated until the Communist influence is
completely driven out of China.
The point has now been reached
where the leading capitalist nations such
as Great Britain, the United States and
France must definitely determine their
attitude. There are signs that they are
about to do so, and the gradual clarifica-
tion by both Germany and Italy of their
positions regarding the Anti-Comintern
Pact with Japan and of their attitude
toward China will no doubt exercise a
far-reaching influence upon them as well
as upon the Chinese.
Considerable importance is attached
to the activities of Great Britain and France. Latest
reports state that the French Government has suddenly
begun extending more assistance than ever before to
the Chiang Kai-shek Administration.
Of the three Powers, Great Britain has the great-
est interest in China and has been the strongest sup-
porter of the Chiang Kai-shek Administration to date.
She is therefore not in a position to change her atti-
tude toward China easily, but it is reported that
opinion in favor of Anglo-Japanese collaboration is
gaining ground among the British businessmen in
China, and it has been stated that Britain is willing to
use her good offices to bring about peace if both Japan
and China will accept such mediation.
It is still premature, however, to assume that
Britain has changed her attitude toward China. Prob-
ably her real intention is to see that the Sino-Japanese
conflict ends in a draw.
Abandoned by Germany and Italy, and with the
attitude of Great Britain and France after all rather
uncertain, the National Government must eventually
strengthen its policy of co-operating with the Com-
munists. Clearly the National Government must
strengthen its relations with the Soviet Union and in
return permit the influence of the Communists in China
to increase, if it means to continue its anti-Japanese
resistance. However that may be, it is likely, in
view of the widespread influence of the Communists,
that a Well organised Leftist, anti-Japanese Govern-
ment will continue to exist in the hinterland and carry
on malignant guerrilla warfare and terroristic activities.
When the situation is viewed from this angle it
is impossible to foretell when or where the China
Incident will end. In fact, present conditions are such
that no one can feel safe in predicting that the China
Incident will be terminated in a year or two years.
Japan Grows More Anti-British
(>Condensed from an “Oriental Economist article .)
The views in Japan which are critical of Britain
can be summarised as follows:
Firstly, while recognising as a historical fact
the world-wide expansion of the British Empire, past
experience shows that whenever Japan has attempted
to expand it has always been Great Britain that offered
obstacles. This has been the case with emigration,
territory, raw materials and particularly markets. The
conflict of interests is too important to permit of a
solution through diplomatic compromise/
At the bottom of this attitude lie the blasted hopes
of past negotiations with Britain, all of which have
merely been wasted effort, as Japan’s lot has never
been bettered and she has merely fallen a victim to
Britain’s tricks. Only force is useful in order properly
to cope with a nation of Britain’s type, according to
this body of opinion. .
The second view is more ideological. Conflicts
between the “have” and “have-not” nations are as
Propaganda Poker.
“Daily Telegraph,” Sydney, published this
picture on October 22, with the caption:
“Hitler Sitting ‘Pat.’ They have all winning
hands, but Hitler holds the Aces —and he’s
laughing up his sleeve. Postcard caricature of
the Munich Peace Conference, in which Cham-
berlain, Daladier, Mussolini and Hitler play
the cards of diplomacy. The postcards were
issued in Switzerland soon after the Confer-
ence.”
The hands depicted on the original post-
card are: Hitler, four aces; Mussolini,
four kings; Daladier, a full-hand; Chamberlain,
a straight flush. As any poker player will
gather, there should be some easy money to be
picked up among the “D.T.’s” bright staff. The
quip of the postcard simply is that at the
Munich conference it was Mr. Chamberlain
who played the winning hand.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways,
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “The Cape' and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
= ■
“■
at
1
££
E?A
%
M
3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. . . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE .
In
Sydney
Stay
at the
m
L
<1
, rw
-
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated m an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added
24-hour hot water service.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director*
inevitable as those between Capital and Labor within a
country. Great Britain is the leading “have” nation.
Britain stole a march on the rest of the sleeping world,
appropriated the principal rights and interests, and
attached thereto the label of private property. The
status quo is the ideal situation for this class of nations.
But the “have-not” nations must oppose such an
arrangement for the sake of their existence.
Thirdly, from the beginning of the China hostili-
ties public opinion in Great Britain has been sym-
pathetic toward the Chiang regime and entirely unfair
in its criticism of Japan. The newspapers of Eng-
land have abandoned their past tradition of fair play
and have boycotted Japan’s case in news and comments.
The fact that the Japan-China trouble has been aggra-
vated to its present extent must be blamed on the
British attitude toward Japan and Britain’s support of
the Chiang Government.
The fourth anti-British argument in particular
cannot very well be ignored. It is based upon irri-
tation given to Japan by British Government officials
and other British nationals in China.
The foregoing are the more important Japanese
grievances against England which are being expressed
to-day. Not only are some of the grievances the
result to some extent of misunderstandings and short-
sightedness, but if one puts himself in the British
position he will undoubtedly find that Britain has her
share of complaints against Japan.
It is clear, however, that, no matter how grossly
public opinion may have been misguided, international
relations can hardly be adjusted in utter disregard of
that opinion. It is also patent that diplomatic inter-
course must be conducted on a basis of the existing
conditions. Even assuming that Japan’s actions and
policies were at fault, it would obviously be impossible
to restore the pre-incident situation because the actu-
alities have already changed so greatly.
The Japanese Government is treading a difficult
P a th owing to the existence at home of a body of
opinion advocating a strong policy toward Great
Britain.
Hitler’s Views on Propaganda.
[Condensed from one ot a London “Evening
Standard” series of articles which aim to provide a
clear exposition of the full contents of Hitler’s Mein
Kampf.]
Hitler began to study propaganda in the trenches.
The first lesson was bitter disillusionment —with
the German propaganda. What a ridiculous,
monstrous mistake, cries Hitler, ever to suppose
that the English were “just crafty and incredibly
cowardly businessmen! Only the professors who im-
parted knowledge in pre-war Germany could have
been such fools as to believe that Britain had built
up her world empire by mere swindling and double-
crossing ! ”
The British propaganda was brilliant. They por-
trayed the German as a Hun. Thus they built up an
enduring psychology of hate at home, while among
-their troops they steeled the individual soldier against
the horrors of war, preparing him for the most fright-
ful blows that could be rained upon him. Indeed, the
more terrible the German weapons the more con-
firmed was the view of that enemy which his Gov-
ernment had already implanted in his mind. The
Tommy’s faith in his leaders was strengthened ; his
rage against the villainous foe was heightened.
How well the British understood the way to
appeal to the idealistic side of men! While Germany
fought for daily bread, Britain fought for “freedom”
—not even for herself, but for little nations! The
German propagandists had not the faintest conception
of the nature of forces which could lead men to their
death of their own free will. When a man fights only
to fill his belly he quickly comes to the situation when
he will fight—or not fight—for anyone who will pro-
vide that much for him.
But Hitler confesses that his chief admiration is
reserved for the size—and simplicity—of the lies put
out by the British propaganda machine! A lie that
is a good lie (that is, an effective one) is always a
better lie if it is a whopper! The capacity of the
masses for absorbing an idea is limited. So make
it simple. And give it to them in black-and-white,
no half-tones! For otherwise you miss the entire
purpose of propaganda, which is to present a clear
view of the situation on which the masses are willing
to act.
“An immense majority of people are womanlike
in nature and outlook,” Hitler confides, “so that their
thoughts and actions are governed more by emotion
than by reason. This emotion is not a complicated
affair. It does not differentiate much but it is either
positive or negative, love or hate, truth or lies, never
half one and half the other.”
The British realised this “with real genius.” No
half statements which might give rise to doubts came
out of the lie-factory! What should we say, demands
Hitler, if in advertising a new soap the poster described
other brands as being good?
It was nonsense then for the Germans even to dis-
cuss the possibility of the enemy having any right or
justice. What monumental folly to suggest that Ger-
many could not be held alone responsible for the out-
break of war! “The proper thing would have been
to lay the full burden of it without cease upon the
enemy, even if this did not correspond with the true
course of events —which was nevertheless the fact.”
Don’t try to be too clever with propaganda! says
Hitler, master propagandist. The effectiveness of your
mass appeal depends upon the numbers who can grasp
it. In preaching a gospel to a nation you do not need
to worry lest you bore a handful of super-educated
asses.
The success of every advertisement, whether in
business or politics, is due to the continuity and con-
sistency with which it is driven home. Throughout
the entire war the shrewd British stuck to this prin-
ciple. The impudence of their assertions appeared
lunatic at first, says Hitler, later on unpleasant, and
finally—believed.
So Hitler brought back into the peace the weapon
of war propaganda. And thus armed: with a
prophet—Hitler ; a faith —National-Socialism ; and a
sword —the method of mass-propaganda: the Nazi
party advanced to the conquest of Germany.
Dean Inge’s “Face the Facts!”
[Condensed from a London “Evening Standard”
article by Dean Inge, written to the text: “We cannot
police the world ... To ride abroad redressing human
wrongs makes Don Quixote ridiculous.”]
We had no treaty with the Czechs, and no in-
terest in their country. The alliance of France with
Czechoslovakia was obviously part of her plan to
encircle Germany, and this is no part of our policy.
Even the war of 1914, to help Serbia, was less remote
from British interests than this war would have been.
No one would have known what we were fighting
about, and, in spite of patriotic assertions to the con-
trary, nine out of ten Englishmen were strongly
opposed to war.
We could have done nothing to help the Czechs,
who as a conquered country would simply have been
expunged from the map of Europe. I have not met
■ any military authority who believes that an invasion
of Germany from the west is a possible operation,
even if Italy did not threaten the southern part of
the French frontier.
I have always been opposed to our vague com-
mitments —quite as dangerous as a formal alliance —
with France. These commitments (called obligations
of honor!) have twice brought us to imminent risk
of destruction. For 25 years we have been dragged at
the chariot-wheels of that ambitious Power, which
has devoted friends at the Foreign Office.
But the French people are wiser than their rulers.
The French have suffered a resounding diplomatic
defeat. Their ring of alliances against Germany has
broken to pieces. The pact with Soviet Russia is prob-
ably at an end.
And yet the French are overjoyed to have escaped
war. A friend of mine has just returned from France.
Everywhere he found posters which were torn down
by the police and put up again. They contained a
pithy demonstration of the folly and futility of war.
They were signed by about 40 leading royalists and
socialists. This combination is most significant, as
was the support of the Independent Labor party to
our Prime Minister.
It is true that when the French heard that he and
Hitler had signed a no-war pact there was a grim
silence. But soon the question was asked, “Why
should we not sign a similar pact? If the Germans
do not wish to fight us, why should we not be friends?”
This no-war pact may be the most important out-
come of the crisis. For the Germans do not want
war on the west. They have certain ambitions in
the east of Europe, which may possibly conflict with
our interests in the future. But if we wish to wage
preventive wars, to stop some Continental nation from
becoming too strong, we must scrap our social ser-
vices and pile up an enormous army and fleet, although
we have solemnly renounced war as an instrument of
policy. We have made our choice, the right choice.
We cannot police the world.
Japan in China.
On October 22 cables reported the fall of Canton.
Only eight days earlier (Oct. 14) “S. M. Herald”
headed a cable “Japanese Facing Defeat.”
Cables of that date reported that ‘‘1,000,000 pro-
vincial troops, reinforced by several regular divisions,
are available in Kwangtung province to defend Canton.
Large forces, moved southward on receipt of news of
the invasion.” Therefore, according to cable, “Military
experts consider that the Japanese are facing almost
certain defeat.”
The day previous (Oct. 13) Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” cables reported: “Canton will prove difficult
to capture. It is strongly defended, and 1,000,000
Chinese troops are reported to be in the vicinity.”
All along cable-reporting on what the Japanese
euphemistically call the “China Incident” has been
similarly misleading. The explanation is not that
journalism has suddenly become utterly incompetent,
but simply that almost the entire reporting on the
China War, like that on the Spanish Civil War, has
been from a fixed point of view.
It cannot have escaped anyone interested in foreign
affairs that the reporting point of view in both these
wars has favored the side that Communism has also
favored. In Spain Communism is on the Government
side, and so are cables; in the China War the same
thing applies.
Again, in the Czech crisis Communism favored
the side whose point of view was favored in cables.
In the Abyssinian affair cables were strongly against
Italy; so was Communism.
This is so palpable that the point of view which
cable-reporting would favor in the event of an out-
break of war anywhere in the world could probably be
safely forecast. It seems too much to accept that
all this is mere coincidence.
The immediate result of this journalism—in which
what is presented is views, not news—is that people
in Australia and Maoriland are being steadily misin-
formed and misled, to the extent that such inevitable
events as the fall of Canton come as a series of sur-
prising shocks.
One of the purposes of “Uncabled Additions” is
to keep the Australian and M.L. reader more fully
informed by publishing comment, from as sound
sources as possible, in which the point of view is more
realistic than that monotonously favored in cables *
That applies to the items on the China War in this
issue. The purpose of these is to present representa-
tive Japanese feeling and comment; to show how it
all strikes the Japanese. The anti-British feeling dis-
cussed in the second item would seem to have especial
importance to Australians and Maorilanders. It is not
improving but steadily growing worse as Japanese
success in China becomes more assured.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Nuffield didn’t win the Victoria Derby
with the ease expected of a 3-to-l-on favor-
ite. Actually, he was in danger of defeat
less than a furlong from home when
headed by Tempest. Darby Munro had
to use the whip ; but be it said f° Nuf-
field’s credit that a few clouts sufficed.
He drew away to score by \\ lengths.
Caragona was pacemaker, and was
allowed to maintain the role as far as
the entrance to the straight. A Veilmond
colt who went out at 500 to h he took
lmin. Bsec. to run five furlongs and Imm.
21isec. to complete six.
Such lack of speed in a classic contest
was farcical. Third for most of the jour-
ney, Munro clung to the rails with Nut-
field, as he had done in the Caulfield
Guineas, and again it became a case ot
getting through a narrow opening or
facing certain defeat by a change ot
tactics.
Tempest revealed fine courage. If left
in the Melbourne Cup he would not have
lacked backing with 7st. 41b. But per-
haps it is just as well for his future pros-
pects that the Windbag colt did not have
to face such a gruelling test as a two-
mile handicap at this stage of his career.
Kingdom (eights) was in greater de-
mand than Tempest (10 to 1), but he
failed to finish “inside the money, the
Maoriland-bred Adios —game and im-
proving with racing—coming from the
rear to deprive him of third place. Aeolus,
second on the home bend, dropped out
suddenly. He may have suffered through
the race not being soundly run, but the
chances are that he has had enough
racing this spring.
C. B. Kellow, the owner of Nuffield,
isn’t the plunger he was a few years
back. His only wagers on the Derby
winner were £5OO to £2OO and £5O to £2O.
Not much for a man who would have
shaken the Randwick Ring to its founda-
tions if Heroic had landed Murray King’s
(1926) Sydney Cup. At the beginning
of that day Kellow won a packet on
Metellus and played the lot up on Heroic
in the two-miler.
The stake earnings of Nuffield aggre-
gated exactly £17,000 on Derby Day.
Whether he would be allowed oppor-
tunity to follow in the footsteps of Hall
Mark and win the Melbourne Cup as
well was in serious doubt after the race.
Veterinary examination disclosed heat in
the colt’s near foreleg. Holt, the trainer,
announced that a decision regarding the
Cup engagement wouldn’t be made until
2 p.m. on the Monday ; at that hour
Kellow announced that his colt would be
a starter.
Though juveniles from Sydney were
considered far superior to local young-
sters, none gained a place in the Mari-
byrnong Plate. Merry Smile (9 to 4
favorite) snuffed out after a short spell
of leadership. Aurania won by half a
neck from Aspire (Gay Lothario-Sweet
Echo), with Zonda. (Manitoba-Mistral)
half a neck farther off.
Despite his second to Esperanto on
Moonee Valley Cup Day, Aurania was
allowed to go out at 33 to 1. On the
tote his div. (for 55.) was £2O 11s. Bred
by Harry Telford, the owner-tramer, he
is by Manitoba-Rondalina ; Rondalina,
a Beau Fils mare, often acted as gallop-
ing companion to Phar Lap. Much is
expected by Telford from the foal
brother to Aurania.
Ajax broke a course record in the
W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee Valley, but
he wasn’t pushed in the L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes on Saturday, and took
2min. sisec. for the 1| miles. The best
time for the distance at Flemington is
2min. 2fsec., shared by Sylvandale and
Young Idea. ....
The booming of Royal Chief by people
who ought to have known better enabled
backers of Ajax to get 5-10 and 4-10 for
their money. Royal Chief was solid at
5 to 2. Not only did he fail to extend
Ajax, but he seemed hard put to it to
pass Silenus, who was a capital third.
Marauder was fourth. Bartle, on Royal
Chief, launched his challenge two fur-
longs from home. At the same
moment Badger made Ajax move along
at top speed. The difference was pro-
nounced. Up to a middle distance, Royal
Chief is not in Ajax’s class.
Three of the six events went to horses
from Sydney: Early Bird (7 to 2) won
the Wakeful Stakes, St. Constant the
Cantala Stakes and Spear Chief the
Hotham Handicap. J. T. Jamieson and
his followers threw in for a rich haul
over Early Bird, but the other two were
12-to-l chances.
In the Dundonald Handicap at Moonee
Valley, Early Bird was third and Talk-
alot fourth; and, though Early Bird
AT THE 1888 CUP.
(Drawn for “The Bulletin” by “Hop” on one of his rare visits to Melbourne.)
was giving the other filly 131 b.,
Talkalot finished much the faster. In the
Wakeful Stakes, with the weights the
same, Early Bird (7 to 2) was first and
Talkalot (9 to 1) second, the difference
being two and a half lengths. It tran-
spired that Early Bird had met with a
mishap at Moonee Valley and it was a
well-kept stable secret. Lady Montague,
the favorite (at 5 to 2), was third, a
length and a half behind Talkalot. All
three are pretty good, and if Early Bird,
who is by The Buzzard-Early Girl, had
been a Derby runner she might have
given Nuffield more trouble than did any
of the colts.
Early Bird was bred in Queensland,
and so was Spear Chief, who is by
Spearfelt-Serevale. An interrupted
preparation prevented Spear Chief from
showing his best form at Randwick,
Caulfield and Moonee Valley, but in the
Hotham Handicap he showed that he is
a high-class horse. The favorite,
L’Aiglon (4 to 1), and old Catalogue
from Maoriland (50 to 1) made a close
race of it with him, necks separating
them at the finish. Next to the three were
Plectrum (7 to 1) and Bourbon (12 to 1),
both finishing fast. Young Crusader and
The Trump, both substantially backed,
faded over the last couple of furlongs,
and Bachelor King was last of the six-
teen.
• •
Again the tote returned far better
prices than the bookmakers. Spear
Chiefs dividends for ss. were £9 ss. and
£2 7s. 6d.
In the autumn of 1937, Gold Rod,
after winning the A.J.C. St. Leger, failed
to get a place in the All-aged Plate, a
mile race run at the same meeting ; and
after the event it was plain that the 14-
furlongs essay had knocked him out.
However, after his good fourth in the
Metrop. he was a close third to Young
Idea and Stretto in the Craven Plate,
which suggested that the attempt to make
a stayer of him wouldn’t have the same
effect on the chestnut, now five years old.
Punters were of that opinion, anyhow,
and they made him a 5-to-2 favorite for
the Cantala Stakes, in which, with only
21b. more than the weight (9st. 31b.) with
which he won the Epsom easily as a
four-year-old, he was attractively handi-
capped. Unfortunately for punters’ cal-
culations, Gold Rod cut up badly, and
so did Pamelus, who shared top
weight with him. Together they were
last in a field of 16.
Ena was another who failed because
she had been racing beyond her favorite
distance, which obviously is a mile ; but
the filly ran a fair race, and finished
seventh. On the other hand, St. Constant
showed that there are horses that can
return immediately from long journeys
to shorter ones without loss of speed. As
in previous handicaps, Cook let St. Con-
stant get set, and those of his backers
who had not seen his manner of racing
before gave up hope. But he got up top
speed quickly, raced up to the leader,
Judean (8 to 1), and came right away
from him. A good race for third be-
tween Mohican and Young Idea (each
16 to 1) ended in favor of Mohican, but
it was a near thing.
In the ring St. Constant had been
backed from 20 to 1 to 12 to 1. On the
tote his divs. were £5 Is. 6d. and £1 65.,
and Mohican paid £1 10s. 6d. When
they read these figures Sydney people,
especially those who had taken the odds
offered by local bookmakers betting on
Melbourne races, simply gasped.
Alan Cooper bought Talking for
19,000 guineas and Mala for £7OOO, and
sold St. Constant for a pound. ihe ti
horse has won more races than botn
expensive purchases, and over all dis-
tances he is probably a better horse than
either. Having evidently heard that Joe
Cook might sell him, Cooper mentioned
the question of ownership to the V.R.C.
secretary last week. Cook said he had a
receipt for the payment of £1 and could
have got the horse for 10 shillings if he
had had a 10-shilling note in his pocket—
he had nothing short of a pound and mag-
nanimously said he didn’t want change.
A condition of the sale was that the
horse should be returned to Cooper at
the end of his racing career. The V.R.C.
is satisfied that Cook is the rightful
owner ; it has not been asked to express
an opinion whether Cook could sell the
brown conditionally on his being returned
to Cooper, as provided.
St. Constant was the first horse to
attempt the Cantala Stakes-Melbourne
Cup double. No previous Cantala Stakes
winner ever started in the Cup.
“Third in the Melbourne Stakes, first
in the Cup,” used to be a turf maxim that
was followed all over Australia. It
worked in Windbag’s year (1925), and
also in Statesman’s year (1928) and Night-
march’s (1929). William Kelso had
Statesman and he put the polish on
Silenus, owned by Dr. Harold Ritchie,
who was third on Saturday in what was
the Melbourne Stakes for generations. It
is now called the L.K.S. Mackinnon
Stakes, and punters have scarcely grown
accustomed to the change.
Metrop. winners have failed so re-
peatedly in th- Melbourne Cup that to
make Royal Chief favorite for the Cup
seemed flying in the face of tradition.
San Fran (1901), Mooltan (1907) and
Kennaquhair (1918) were Metrop.
winners who ran second in the Cup in
their respective years; but Solution
(1906), Duke Foote (1912) and Sir Regent
(1927) failed dismally to bring off the
double after figuring as Cup favorites.
Nuffield is a good colt, but a better
one ran in the Victoria Derby 50 years
ago —Carbine. Jockeyship brought about
his defeat; Tom Hales, on Ensign, out-
witting Carbine’s rider, Derrett. Carbine
was not only a great racehorse but a
great sire ; this year his descendants have
done wonderfully well in France, Italy,
England and Australia. In fact, English
horses of other strains have been beaten
so decisively by colts with Carbine blood
in them that an English demand for sons
of The. Buzzard and Spearfelt, in the
hope of redressing the balance, is by no
means unlikely. Forty years ago, Aus-
tralian-bred horses, notably Mer-
man, Newhaven, The Grafter and Aus-
tralian Star, had a great reputation in
England, and English patrons of the turf
have long memories.
Bourbon must have been one of the
V.R.C. handicapper’s Cup fancies. For
the Hotham Handicap he had 91b. more
than his Cup weight, whereas L Aiglon
and Son of Aurous were up 21b., Sir
Regent 31b. and Young Crusader 61b.
The Trump and Spear Chief were
down 21b.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Oaks: Talkalot; next, Lady Mon-
tague.
Linlithgow Stakes and C. B. Fisher
Plate: Ajax.
Carnival Handicap: Adios ; next,
Tempest.
Veteran Stakes: Gay Knight or
L’Aiglon.
V.R.C. Handicap: Gay Knight or
L’Aiglon ; next, Marauder.
Batman Stakes: Early Bird; next,
Bonheur de Pere.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Governor Fitzroy Handicap:
Bodley Head ; next, Hammerhead.
Cumberland Handicap: Cid;
next, Constant.
Town Trial Handicap: Aladdin
or Astounding; next, Haughty •
Clare.
Parramatta Mile: Aladdin or
Lord Valentine; next, Morning
Gift.


YOU TOO SHOULD FIT
Silent 90 - the neui tyre that
Lia itcaif tn 89.000 motorists
1/ou'tt sttft ftecrfeb
*wU eexHtift.
A A ppvif
11 :
*11: -lII® IMS Ipli
without to& of Safety
' * / *
IH
- J
Wiillm
y.
ft:
'%m
m
u
life
m*
v§
1
' 7
W:7^
■3? '/*
OW
A
\ \
NOW AVAILABLE IN
ALL POPULAR SIZES
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER
m
i
The World’s Master Tyre
Built with Weftless Cord
S3HAI doiNna no 3am
31d03d ISON 3dldN3 HSIIIH9 3HI inOHDOOdHI
OUNLOP PERORIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. i INCORPORATED IN VICTOR!Ai F 731-48
Under the Whip
A crowd 40 p.c. above the average at-
tendance at the course went to Moore-
field on Saturday. Except for two or
three young animals, the quality of the
cattle on exhibition was poor. Pro-
prietary clubs will have to put up more
money if they expect to get better pro-
grammes.
The scratching of Cid left four horses
in the Moorefield Handicap. Alan
Verde, known as “the Phar Lap of
Ascot” (a libel on a great name), won
easily after drifting queerly in the market
—from 5 to 4 on to 7 to 4 against. His
opponents were Salazar, Fireman and
Ilissus, and he was never off the bit.
Since Morning Gift had beaten Let
Slip, King Gee and other fair horses at
Warwick Farm, 4 to 1 in a field of six
in the Carlton Mile was a good price, the
class being inferior. Her rider, K. Wat-
terson, made good use of her pace, and
got a required break at the home turn.
Miss Commond (10 to 1) was second,
and the hot favorite, Aladdin, a poor
third. He would not stretch out at any
stage of the race.
Mandel, the bookmaker, made a good
purchase when he gave 200 guineas for
Belle Rose. She won easily at Warwick
Farm, and her penalty of 71b. did not
stop her in the Juvenile at Moorefield.
She began smartly, and easily held off
Sun Call at the crisis. Tel Asur was a
poor third. Belle Rose started at evens.
She is by Beau Fils from Merrily, and
though on the small side is likely to
improve with racing.
June (Heroic-Winter), a stablemate
of Morning Gift, was a 6-to-4 favorite
for the first division of the Three-year-
old. Her prospects did not look bright
at the home turn, when Ilona (25 to 1)
shot away with a nice lead ; June, how-
ever, responded gamely, caught the out-
sider, and was running away at the box ;
Last Chance was third. Intacta, Bathurst-
owned and -trained, was backed from
eights to fours, but shaped badly.
The second division drew a poor lot.
Marie Bruce (14 to 1) led throughout.
Her sire, Mr. Bruce, was a champion
at the pony tracks.
Roginer (6 to 1) appeared lucky to beat
The Card, a Victorian-owned galloper,
in the first division of the Flying Welter.
She was hard ridden in the early stages,
whereas The Card was going easily in
front. When Roginer ran to him at the
top of the straight she cut him off rather
quickly, and The Card was beaten
by a head. A protest was dismissed.
The second division proved a soft snap
for Dungala (5 to 1). The Nineteenth
and Salutation filled the places.
Mares won every flat race except the
Moorefield Handicap.
* * * * -
Kyneton, one of the oldest provincial
courses in Victoria, was the venue on
Wednesday of a meeting which attracted
numerous people who are visiting Mel-
bourne for the spring meetings. Ben-
digo suffers from a water famine ; but
Kyneton, nearer the metropolis, has an
abundant supply, and the racing track is
green and springy at all periods of the
year.
Commencing “on the wrong leg,”
Kyneton punters made Flavikin a hot
favorite for the Hurdle Race. Opening at
7 to 4, this horse from Broken Hill
touched 5 to 4, easing a trifle subse-
quently. Though he ran down nearly
every obstacle, Flavikin looked a certain
winner until 50 yards from home: Gal-
vano beat him on the post.
Quoted at 15 to 1, Galvano paid £ll
3s. in the tote —the biggest local divi-
dend since machine betting was installed
at Kyneton. He is trained by Fullarton,
the leading jumping jockey, who rode
Dolphin, third favorite. Stewards
(Continued on next page.)


pqm^r
Lf- 1
and
STILL
la
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 166 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt arid Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
<L
1
%
The “STETSON”
A new shipment has just arrived
featuring the latest shapes and
shades in 2§, 2\, and 2§ inch
brims. Silk Lined 63/-
Unlined 59/6
PIKE BROTHERS. LTD.,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
severely reprimanded Fullarton for caus-
ing interference to Flavikin and another
horse leaving the straight.
The Pioneer (Backwood-Birthday Girl)
forfeited his Hurdle Race engagement to
compete in the Kyneton Handicap. It
looked like flying at too high game, and
eights could be easily obtained about the
gelding. E. J. O’Dwyer, his breeder,
pulled off a nice coup, as The Pioneer
took charge with three furlongs to go
and scored handsomely from Beaustone
and Hardwood.
O’Dwyer made a big “killing” over
Textile in the Toorak Handicap and
Caulfield Cup of 1927. In 1934 he landed
the Williamstown Cup for Harry Boan,
of Perth, with Gothic Gem. Not long
after the latter success Ned surrendered
his trainer’s license. With Birthday Girl
(imp.), dam of The Pioneer, O’Dwyer
won a race at Flemington for W. S.
Robinson, whose brother Lionel raced so
successfully on English and Australian
courses in conjunction with William
Clark.
Luck as an owner is returning to
“S. A. Rawdon,” the Melbourne news-
paper proprietor. He scored unex-
pectedly in a juvenile event at the Caul-
field Cup meeting with Girella, while at
Kyneton his colors were carried to vic-
tory by the 11-to-2 shot, Tifone (Drake-
Ouragan). This four-year-old mare may
go on to better things. She is a sister
to Ruach, who captured an Adelaide
Guineas and Birthday Cup, besides run-
ning second to Peter Jackson in the
Moonee Valley Cup of 1933.
Jack Smedley must be delighted that
Greenoss didn’t find a new owner when
submitted to auction a few weeks ago.
Since then the Greenstead gelding has
caught the judge’s eye three times. A
shade of odds had to be laid on him in
the Welter Handicap at Kyneton, but
it was quite as good a thing as the price
indicated.
Surviving, a protest for interference,
King Canute was returned the winner of
the Novice Handicap at 7 to 2. Red
Morn, whose jockey lodged the objec-
tion, was at half those odds. King
Canute is by Manfred (sire of The
Trump). His dam, Clarehaven, has a fine
pedigree, being by Lucknow from
Auraria’s Daughter, by Pistol (son of
Carbine) from Auraria, by Trenton (son
of Musket).
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards Defeats Lesnevich
Fought in the open-air ring at Sydney
Sports Ground, this rigorous 12 rounds
of heavy scrapping could almost be
summed up in one reference to the
American —as game a beaten lad as could
ever have pulled on the gloves.
Handicapped by a left eye badly dam-
aged in the third round, when he was
down for the count of nine to one of
Richards’s swinging rights, his head
near jolted from his shoulders half a
dozen times by wonderful uppercuts,
shaken by clean left hooks and those
staggering rights pounding and pulver-
ising the damaged side of his face, his
knees several times all but giving under
him, his eye cut, blackening and com-
pletely closing, his visage knocked into
lumps and blotches, he still fought back,
cleanly and desperately, with a miracu-
lously clear head and great fighting spirit.
Nature sprung him tough as ironbark.
In the third round he went through a
fearful gruelling, and that was only the
beginning of it. The punch that put
him down smashed on his jaw with
crashing force. It clean knocked him
down to the canvas. To the count of
five he looked dazed; he was clear-
headed when he rose, but weak, with
little defence against the two-handed bat-
tering he then had to survive. As the
fight went on from round to round other
telling punches rocked him; yet right
to the end of the eleventh he fought back
freely from all of them, never hitting so
hard as Richards, but getting home clean
punches every round. One or two of
them, had he had the fire or the will
left to follow them up regardless, might
have beaten Richards, as Palmer beat
him.
The twelfth was the American’s worst
round. He would know when he went
out for it that he had already lost the
“Now can y see anything?”
fight, and, anyway, the pounding had
now told, as such a pounding must have
done, even against his measure of« tough-
ness and fitness. Even so, he fought it
as well as nature would allow, and the
feeling of everyone with any feeling at
all must have been a wish that at least
he wouldn’t now be knocked out.
Richards, who weighed out at list.
111 b., giving away 31b., gave an exhibi-
tion right at the top of his form. The
Queenslander has improved greatly in the
past couple of years ; he is altogether
faster, hits harder and with greater
variety. He started the fight instantly
with a long left lead, eager to mix it
from the beginning. ‘ Anyone less tough
he’d have knocked long before the end
of the seventh, when he had a clear lead
on points. Over the next few rounds
he slowed down, and an opponent who
now had only one eye to see him with,
and even that Nelsonian outfit lumpy and
swollen, outboxed him. But he was on
top again in the desperately fought
eleventh, and in the twelfth and last was
untroubled.
All the way the fight was desperately
waged. It had its moments of excite-
ment, but it could not be called spectacu-
lar. It was best for both the weight,
frequency and variety of punches. Rich-
ards tried out every weapon in his pretty
fair arsenal. His best punch is a right
uppercut; he used it freely, and nearly
every time it cut up clean under the
point. His right cross is also a telling
punch, and it was it that wrought most
of the damage. He snapped in, too, some
very nice left hooks and some fine jolt-
ing punches to the body, though most of
the fighting by both of them was for the
head.
Lesnevich hadn’t anything like this
variety. On this showing his best is a
straight left. He held back his right
when he could, and should, have con-
tinued in with it. He stands very erect,
as do Sabatino and other 'good recent
imports, has tiptop poise and balance,
and generally scraps on orthodox lines.
Richards crouches and weaves, lets loose
unexpected punches, and is now a deter-
mined counter-fighter. Against this Les-
nevich’s straight left, though a beauty,
had little chance. It seemed, though, that
had he got Richards into anything like
the bother that he himself was in in the
third, he’d have ended the fight there
and then by sheer quality of tradesman-
ship. As it was, though shaded by Rich-
ards’s superior class, he fought finely
with grand gameness under a severe han-
dicap throughout a battle a punch-for-
punch description of which would reach
from here to North of Twenty-eight.
Before the main scrap came on the
somewhat serried multitude bivouacked
about the playing-field under the clear
night had already had a Gargantuan
spread of stoush —two four-rounders,
two six-rounders, an eight-rounder and
a 10-rounder. The promoters evidently
believe in abundance for the money.
One of the four-rounders ended in the
second, the 10-rounder in the first; all
the rest went the distance. The best of
them was the showing of the Alabama
Kid, a cullud fighting machine who
sports a mo. and appears to train on
cigars. He knocked out Jimmy Starr,
said to be a Victorian champ., inside the
first minute of the 10-rounder.
Present Australian scrappers should
have something to learn from the current
crop of imports, nearly all of whom are
splendid punching fighters. Apart from
the two or three top-liners, who, as Rich-
ards demonstrated, are equal to the occa-
sion, there isn’t much of promise in sight
in the authentic fighting line; there are,
of course, plenty of light boxers of sorts.
One of the few in the fighting line with
promise is the Marrickville lad Al
Walker. Fighting a shade over list., Al
has had some 29 fights and won 25 of
them, pretty well all with a very short
right-hand knockout in the second
round. At the Rushcutter Bay Stadium
he had won that way on several succes-
sive Monday nights when this page went
to the printer. He fights in the erect style
favored by the present American school,
and looks like the makings of a good
one. Another, somewhat less experienced
as yet, is Dally Moran, in a lighter divi-
sion ; a sturdy little fighter, also of the
upright school, and, though of a pocket
size, bearing an extraordinary resem-
blance to Les Darcy.
ins and Outs
“Lancaster Park”: Sir Julien Cahn’s
team for M-L. reads a pretty hot lot.
In addition to Australians Jackson,
Mudge, Lush and Walsh, and the Maori-
lander Dempster, the team includes
Dyson (the Glamorgan opening bat),
Oldfield and Phillipson (Lancashire pro-
fessionals), Hardstaff, Watts (a Surrey
bowler), Goodway, Astill, Maxwell (the
Notts amateur ’keeper) and Smith, of
Essex, who many think should have
bowled against the Australians. Astill,
for many years one of Leicestershire’s
most successful all-rounders as amateur
and professional, comes as scorer.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”: Larwood has an-
nounced for the umpteenth time that he
is retiring from cricket, and has asked
the county to cancel the remainder of
his agreement. He says he does this
with great sorrow, but “may consider an
offer from some minor county” or take
up coaching. If the eggs from the young
man’s poultry farm are only half as big
as his head has grown since his last
visit to Australia he should be well on
the way to a fortune.
w * * *
“.Simmer and Jack”: South Africa has
not forgotten Cameron, the Afrikander
’keeper-batsman who died so tragically
just before the Australians paid their last
visit to the Union. Over £7OOO, mostly
raised in Jo’burg, has been invested for
his widow and children,
* * * *
“Rangi”: Polynesians and other
islanders do not as a rule attain great
heights at cricket, though they show an
aptitude sometimes, especially for bowl-
j ng . old Brisbane hands will recall Harry
Murray, a New Hebridean, who had a
style rese mbling that of Tom McKibbin ;
and we have had Fijian teams in Aus _
tralia A p i ayer w ho may be an ex-
ception is a young Tongan named Finau,
who was an a n_ ro und athlete at Newing-
ton. jj e kas deen playing lower grade
with Sydney Western Suburbs, and the
other day, in a match against the N.S.W.
coaching team, took five wickets in
seven balls, including the hat trick. He
has a good deal of pace and proved too
much for the colts,
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Frank Sides made another
century for Essendon in the pennant
match with Prahran, scoring 140 n.o. in
196 minutes. That makes his second
three-figure score in his first two matches
of the season. For Camberwell Laurie
Nash skittled eight Malvernites for 35.
The fast bowler is in good buckle, and
should find himself in the Cabbage
Garden team again if he can manage a
larger measure of control.


m
. . . . Buying
in FOREIGN MARKETS
Wherever Australian business extends, the
National Bank provides a full range of
financial facilities. Its commercial Letters of
Credit for financing imports are readily
accepted, and its experience enables it to give
assistance to both import and export trade. If
you are buying or selling abroad, the Bank
invites you to discuss your problems with its
Foreign Departments at Head Office, in Mel-
bourne, or at any of its 430 Branches and
Offices spread through the various States.
When overseas, the same facilities are readily
available through its London Office and a
world-wide chain of Banking Agents.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia (lncorporated in Victoria )
- S5/16/3S
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
m
■
LIONEL It I BUY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
g
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in.
round barrel, pistol grip, bead
front and adjustable rear sight.
Weight, about 4Jlb. —-/i /? /
Price il/lb/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front a<-j in
sight; weight, about 4 Jib. 47/ D
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
—.22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
2 7in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead a(\ /
front sight; weight, 61b. "
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY RE-
PEATER RIFLE, 2 2-cal...
bolt action, 24in. round
barrel, bead front and
adjustable ladder rear
sight, walnut stock,
pistol grip; magazine
holds 12 short, 10 long
or long-rifle cartridges;
weight, 4|lb. £3/7/6
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
about 7£lb. £l3/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 FOX STERLINGWORTH
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
3 Oin. steel barrels, left full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2fin. cartridges. „ .. _ .
Weight, about 7£lb. £ll/15/“
Carriage Paid.
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
—12 G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
choke, 32 W.C.F. rifle barrel, three-leaf
rear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip;
weight, about B|lb. wy mg
Originally £l2/12/-. Now d& / ' 1 /|0
Carriage Paid.
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN —I 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for 2 fin. cartridges;
weight, about 7-Jib. A
Originally £22/10/-. Now..
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Bobby Locke did not
leave Australia without giving a butter-
ing to Australian golfers in the press.
Indeed, he piles it rather thick some-
times, as when he says that many of
Australia’s best players are superior to
most of the British players— amateur or
professional. Of the amateurs, he thinks
Williams the outstanding player if he
would take the trouble to keep up his
game. Of the professionals, he places
Von Nida in a class of his own. Plenty
of others get some butter and a little
jam, but the foregoing about sums up
Locke’s verdict.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: The Ryder Cup, played
for annually between British and
American professional golfers, will be
staged nex,t year at the end of the
American season, thus avoiding the hot
weather which has troubled Britons on
former occasions. There is a strong
move, too, in Britain to play the Open
and Amateur championships later in the
season when players have got right into
touch with their game. The amateur
event is held in April-May, the Open
in July-August; a change to September
is suggested.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Dai Rees, the Welsh pro-
fessional golfer, is not often heard of
this side the world, but he must be
a useful sort. He has won the “News
of the World” match-play tourney for
the second time in three years. It is
worth £1250, a thundering reward for a
professional in Britain or anywhere else.
In each final Rees was opposed to one
of the Whitcombe family: in 1936 it
was Ernest, and this time it was Eddie.
The family must be mighty popular with
the Rees menage.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The players just back
from America had scarcely got their land
legs before they were hard at it giving
exhibition matches. Writer’s experience
of long sporting tours is that the return
is followed immediately by a hurried
rush to work, often to the accompani-
ment of queries as to “What the blazes
kept you so long?” Not so the patricians
of tennis. As amateurs their only work
is play, though, to be sure, sometimes one
sees signs of their being worked to death
at that.
# * * *
“Centre Court”: They are still arguing
over footfault overseas. Wallis Myers, in
objecting to proposed alterations to the
rule which would allow the lifting of the
back foot while serving, points out that
Brookes, Patterson, Wilding and Tilden,
as well as Perry, Vines and Budge, found
fault with the existing rule. “A complete
player can conform easily,” he says.
“Only a careless and preoccupied player
infringes it.” He might have added that
the haughty individual who declines to
be shown his faults or is too lazy to
correct them when shown is the worst
offender of all.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Budge is still
holding out on them. An American
writer says the champion is making heaps
of money as an “amateur” ; a sports-
goods firm pays him a heavy salary, and
he has a contract with a broadcasting
outfit. Both make him a professional
without any further argument.
* * * *
“Railroaded”: Cabled that Cramm,
just released from jug after serving part
of his sentence, has asked permission to
play for Germany again. This will put
someone in a hole. The desire to have
the German champion playing again will
be strong, for it will give Germany a
strong claim for the next Davis Cup.
On the other hand, if he is allowed to
appear again for Germany, the charge
made against him will have to be with-
drawn, for it carries with it a social
stigma that no mere pardon can remove.
Miscellaneous.
“Shell”: Back from Canada, Evans
Paddon admits that he found Bobby
Pearce too good for him; and pro-
nounces Bobby the greatest sculler that
ever lived. Paddon likes the Canadian
system of rowing, with two turns round
buoys. This keeps the oarsman within
easy sight of the spectators all the time,
and with a little practice calls for no
special skill. Evans is full of admiration
for the American amateur, Burke, win-
ner of the Diamond Sculls and the
American and Canadian championships
this year. Burke rows a short, fast 44
from start to finish, mostly with leg
drive. Australia may see him as a pro-
fessional.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: For the Senior Fours at
the Police Regatta on the Parramatta next
Saturday eight crews will face the
starter: two from Sydney and one each
from Balmain, Haberfield, Mosman,
North Shore, Pittwater and Police. Only
Uni. and Nepean are missing. Haber-
field, Pittwater and Balmain are making
maiden appearances in this class.
* * * *
“Tasman”: Maoriland sailing men
challenge Australians to send over craft
of various kinds to take part in a sailing
carnival at Auckland in February and
in the M.L. centenary sailing events in
1940. Eighteen-footers are wanted for
the February affair, and local folk are
reminded that four Maoriland boats came
to Sydney last year for the “world’s
championship” races. Finance will be
the trouble.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Australian swimming
heads are being asked by N.S.W. to invite
Nyoski Nakami to swim here in January.
If the Australian body squibs it N.S.W.
will issue the invitation itself. Nakami
is rated as second only to Ralph
Flanagan, with whom he had some great
duels in the season just past in all free-
style events from the quarter to the mile.
Nakami’s best spins are 4min. 50sec. for
the quarter and lOmin. lOsec. for the
half. If Nakami comes many Australians
will welcome an old friend in his coach,
Hawaiian Kahanamoku, who made a
wonderful record-breaking tour of Aus-
tralia a generation ago.
* * * *
“Spike”: N.S.W. will soon harbor the
only Australian athlete who can be ex-
pected to win at the Finland Olympiad:
Decima Norman, the Westralienne
who made hacks of the opposition in the
Empire Games. If our Olympic authori-
ties really have cash enough to send ten
people to Helsingfors, my nomination is
Miss Norman, plus two formidable
chaperons, a special cow, a cook, a mani-
curist, a beauty specialist, a medical at-
tendant and a couple of chuckers-out.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: For the first time in its
history a Bananalander, L. Rodgers, won
the Warrnambool-Melbourne road race
for the Dunlop Cup. Cycling is in his
blood—his father headed the field in
many past “Warrnambools,” and in the
Dunlop Grand Prix in 1927 he was
among the prizewinners. Rodgers’s time
for the 165 miles was 7hr. smin. 56sec.
Dean Toseland, a South Australian,
notched the fastest time —6hr. 46m:in.
55sec. There were 196 riders. Next year
the race will start in Melbourne and end
in Warrnambool to celebrate the potato
metropolis’s centenary.
* * * *
“Huon”: Half-way through the Aus-
tralian cricket season the North Hobart
footballers turned up in Sydney for a
week before going on to Melbourne.
There are 32 in the party, and they raised
funds for the trip by running a “Bingo”
show, “Bingo” being our old friend
“housie-housie.” It brought in over £3OO
in three days of the Hobart centenary
regatta.
* * * *
“Pincher”: Having been banned from
scouring Australia for professional foot-
ballers the English Rugby League is after
Maoriland and Australian amateurs.
Sullivan, of M.L., was approached, and
now it is Carpenter, the Westralian
Union centre who played good fooball
against the All-Blacks. As Carpenter is
certain of a tour of England with the
Australian Union side next season he
will be a mug if he drops the substance
for the shadow.
* * * m
“Gate”: To what base uses may we
all not come at last! At a Sydney Rugby
League meeting it was actually suggested
that when the next League team goes to
England it should invite the help of half
a dozen Maoriland players since, as the
N.S.W. secretary said, “it was now hard
to get 28 players of sufficient standard
from N.S.W. and Queensland to tour.”
It’s a horrible come-down. Not so long
ago the Australian crowd would no more
have thought of including M.L. players
in their teams than they would of play-
ing the game for nothing.
* * * *
“Chaw”: We neglect many manly
sports in Australia which flourish in other
countries. Have just been reading about
the tobacco-juice spitting championship
of Idaho, won after a desperate struggle
by one Mclndoe, who topped the runner-
up by an inch, recording 17ft. 6in. The
journal describing the event says “the
winner has an easy, two-legged stance,
utilising two fingers.”


h
i.'.utMihrni
Twice. Daily-230-3
iravtoiLil
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 250-Q
SWING
IT,”
*' rank Keil presents
with
LARRY
ADLER
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
Dast Days
WILL MAHONEY,
Famous
Comedian
“WHY BE SERIOUS?”
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: MGB3S.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Women ”
, Ernest C. Rolls’s latest gift to Mel-
bourne, “The Women,” was received with
titters, bursts of laughter, snorts and
other manifestations of incipient hysteria
by a full house at the King’s last week.
The cause was not the advertised spec-
tacle of a young lady having a bath in
full view of the audience. She was more
chastely clothed in imitation soapsuds
than three-fifths of her colleagues in the
entirely female cast. The cause was that
Clare Boothe, the author, was being
naughty in a more than usually audacious
way.
She is out to show what abominable
creatures women are. Forty of them,
drawn indiscriminately from various
grades of N’York society, snap and snarl
at one another, listen at keyholes, tell
tales about each other’s husbands and
defile the sanctities with a directness and
gusto not seen in Melbourne since
“Cradle Snatchers” and “Our Betters.”
They do this at bridge parties, in beauty
parlors, at physical culture institutions,
lying in hospitals and their baths, and
they do it with a rapidity which keeps
the sceneshifters on their toes.
An expectant mother reviles her
biology between bouts of morning sick-
ness, and, as a nursing mother, subse-
quently heaps vituperation on her baby
because it has jaws like a dinosaur. Mary,
the ideal woman of the play, learns at a
beauty parlor that her husband is unfaith-
ful, and goes to Reno to divorce him.
When she subsequently learns that his
mistress, who has since married him, is
playing him the same trick as he had
played her, Mary stages a comeback in
the ladies’ powder-room of a casino,
ousts her rival and is confidently await-
ing a reunion with her ex-husband when
the curtain descends on the opus, not one
male character having made his appear-
ance from first to last.
In other , words, Miss Boothe tells us
what every police-court reporter knows,
and she brings to the enterprise no more
sympathy, understanding or capacity to
identify herself with the sufferings of her
victims than they themselves have for
each other. She presents current gossip
snappily on an expensive dish and does
it with no more skill than a photographer.
Consequently, although the dialogue
produced stunned silence and hysteria
alternately, the characters did not live,
and the prejudices of the audience were
confirmed rather than their heartstrings
touched. On the other hand, the dressing
was extravagantly well done, and the
stage settings came and went on ball-
bearings in three acts and a dozen scenes.
Irene Purcell, as the heroine, is pretty,
appealing and showed capacity to plumb
what depths were in her part. Marjorie
Crossland made an excellent job of an
undiluted draught of poison, and Jessica
Rodgers made the most of the expectant
mother caught like a rat in a trap.
Australian women included Patricia
McDonald, Barbara Smith, Molly
Hurley, Sylvia Parish, Joyce Hunt, Pearl
Schweig and Betty Upton. They were
not the least competent members of the
cast.
Willie Howard and Co.
The Hollywood Revuers carry on at
Sydney Royal with a change of bill-
some good items of the first show re-
tained. Willie Howard providing the best
of the new stuff, the Peaches and Lovelies
giving the impending surfing season
something to live up to, the production
generally bright and pleasant entertain-
ment.
Willie is the bright particular star of
this constellation. He adds two or three
sketches that will further help Harbor-
siders to remember him as an authentic
original. His best this time—which is to
say, the cream of the show —is a radio
teacher of French in 10 eas-y les-sonnnns
or five hard ones. A rib-cracking 10
imputes or so, and a sweet bit of satire
on radio charlatanry.
Willie’s satirical comedy is something
almost entirely new in these parts. It
differs widely from Mo’s, being sharper,
as clean as a knife, and not cheaply ob-
sessed with sex, but always addressed to
something that seems worth cutting at.
Another nice item of his in the present
show is a slash at silly litigation. It
would be worth Australia’s while to re-
fuse to let Willie leave this country. What
he could do to the Australian Royal
Commission habit, the Cocked Hat bat-
talion, the political legions, wowserism
and bureaucracy might eventually clear
the psychological air here out of recog-
nition, to say nothing of eventually saving
the country a million or two quid.
“Marie Antoinette”
Nonna Shearer, Robert Morley, etc.
This M.-G.-M. production at Sydney
St James serves one unintended purpose
—it shows up with damning emphasis
what a lot of froth and piffle is the
general staple of films.
In point of spectacle the film has
arresting magnificence. Such vast and
brilliant interior scenes as the wedding
of Marie to the Dauphin and the scene
at the palace ball where Marie’s femi-
nine equipment proves a shade more than
equal to even the Du Barry’s are spec-
tacle in the lavish style presented with
Robert Morley, mainly responsible for “Marie Antoinette,” at Sydney St. James,
being far above the general Hollywooden level.
the maximum effect through sparkling
photography. The mob scenes in the
streets of Paris and the sentencing scenes
in the Assembly familiar as they are, yet
have their own originality in vigor, and
gain a new strength from not being
lingered over, but presented briefly and
in nicely-judged contrast. The scene
approaching the end, when Louis, Marie
and their two children take their last
prison meal together, with the impend-
ing execution of Louis hanging over him
and Marie, is most moving stark drama.
There are striking little incidental
glimpses—photographic asides —that re-
main memorable. Glimpses through their
structural surroundings of priests per-
forming the wedding service or the ser-
vice for the dying king; the Dauphin
looking down through an upstairs
wrought-iron decorative piece at the ball
going on below ; registered facial expres-
sions of all kinds, from ethereal happi-
ness to horrible cruelty. Finely etched
vignettes of character, too, not only in
such secondary acting roles as Joseph
Schildkraut’s epitome of sinister intrigue,
John Barrymore’s King and Gladys
George’s Du Barry, but in scores of
others who make only fleeting appear-
ances in the varied scenes.
In these respects it is a superbly-made
film; but other films have spectacular
magnificence, clear and novel photo-
graphy, plentiful good acting, rich and
gorgeous montage. This film especially
arrests in that, not because of that array,
but almost in spite of it, it holds the
onlooker by the beauty of its tragic core
or truth —not academic historical truth,
which is immaterial, but the artistic truth
centred in human emotions that are
genuine, positive and abiding.
Miss Shearer’s Marie, apart from its
appearance of loveliness, is sustained fine
acting, right through from the girl dazzled
by the prospect of marriage and being
Queen of France to the pitifully tragic
figure of the finale.
There is an effect of age detracting
from it, but that is not the fault of
the actress. She has to play the part for
considerable stretches opposite Tyrone
Power. Whatever merits Mr. Power may
have as a screen attraction, he is not
an actor. He can be seen at his best in
another current film, “Alexander’s Rag-
time Band,” at the Regent. There he is
conductor of a jazz band; a part that
calls for certain puppet vim and liveli-
ness. In that Mr. Power is in his element.
In this other film he is asked to play
the part of Marie’s young Scandinavian
Count lover. It is far beyond hirm The
only attribute he has is the “young” part
of it, and even that is a miscasting. It
throws Miss Shearer’s comparative matu-
rity into false relief. Beside a more
mature or a better actor —the part calls
for the qualities of a Marshall —she would
seem as young as she is meant to be.
It is a marvel that she makes the part as
effective as she does against such a
wooden counterpart.
The male actor of the film is Robert
Morley, who makes of the Dauphin one
of the greatest parts in film history. It
stands out clearly even against Miss
Shearer’s Marie. Whenever the two of
them are together the film touches chords
of deep emotional feeling, just as it is
most electrical when he and Schildkraut
face each other in their utter dramatic
contrast.
Morley’s is a most striking conception
of the Dauphin— not a mere effeminate
weakling, but a weakling by the sheer
inability of his brain to think, and yet
well aware of his hopeless shortcoming.
To turn such an unsympathetic part into
one that touches feeling more kindly than
pity is nothing short of a masterpiece of
acting. By the end, through the power
inherent in his interpretation, the
Dauphin has become a figure of pathetic
heroism. It is a most telling and, it
must be said, a very rare performance.
Other Film Offerings.
Except for “Marie Antoinette,” the
most recent releases in Sydney film-
houses are generally dull.
The State has “The Road to Reno,”
which aims at something like “The
Awful Truth” —a fast moving matri-
monial tangle with wife chasing divorce
and not too sure that she wants it, while
husband and prospective supplanter are
rather enjoying each other’s company.
The set-up has possibilities, but little is
made of them; Randolph Scott and
Alan Marshall are poor froth-shakers,
while Miss Hampton’s abilities are con-
fined mainly to light warbling.
Sydney Capitol offers “The President’s
Mystery,” claimed to have originated
from a magazine story suggested when
the U.S.A. President asked if it were
possible for a public personage with
several million dahlars and business and
family ties to disappear completely. It
is an exposition of yet another branch
of the racketeering industry. The lay of
it is that a large canning company, by
judicious use of lobbyists at Washington,
forestalls the passage of a bill to enable
small canneries and co-operative con-
cerns to recover from the “recession.”
Central figures are a lobbyist who repents
and goil-owner of a small cannery. Film
has the merit of neat acting, but other-
wise rates as f.a.q. melodrama.
“Sing, You Sinners” at the Prince
Edward is notable mainly for the
appearance of Bing in a part that fits
him like an old boot. Even those who
can’t trust themselves within throwing
distance when Bing lets go will be bound
to admit that he has seldom been better
cast. He’s a family ne’er-do-well with a
hundred devices for making money and
a strong aversion to anything resembling
hard work.
The distressing array of supports is
the best of all arguments for some drastic
alterations in the film-importing and
-exhibiting business.
National Theatre.
The National Theatre movement, as its
first large-scale operation, projected itself
fiercely at “The Flying Dutchman” of
Richard Wagner at Melbourne Princess
last week.
Veteran Gustav Slapoffski, who intro-
duced the work to Australia away back
in the Dark Ages, was in the place of
authority in the orchestra. Despite his
70-odd years, Slapoffski steered his ship
with distinction, although it was manned
from truck to keelson by amateurs.
In the majority of the choruses there
was a well-marked tendency with some
singers to outwarble their neighbors, and
the long concluding symphony was a
trifle monotonous in tone and tempo.
But Mary Brown made an appealing
Senta, with a voice well above the aver-
age ; Edmond Nelson was an effectively
vocalised if ineffectively dressed Daland,
and Frederic Collier, as the black-
visaged, inky-bearded Dutchman, was
masterful, full-voiced and altogether
impressive.
Garnet Carroll worthily attempted to
solve the difficult problems of Wagnerian
scenery, and although the ill-fated Flying
Dutchman was brought up all standing
with its stern in full view of the appre-
ciative audience after it had started on
its fateful voyage, the foaming seas, the
lightning and the fleeting cloud rack
were very cleverly contrived on the ex-
tensive backcloth.
Xhe Ballet.
The balletographers at Melb. Majesty’s
continue to string new ballets on the
lengthening string of pearls.
The latest and one of the best was
“Bolero,” set to the music of Maurice
Ravel and handed to Anton Dolin as, so
to speak, a solo recitation in the language
of the limb. Dolin interprets the Spanish
dance by sharp staccato gestures and
genuflexions which nevertheless match
the music admirably. Dolin is a superb
figure of a man with muscles as developed
by his art as a prima donna’s bust is by
hers.
Of other pieces, Fokine’s “Le Coq
d’Or” was the most ornate. Riabouchin-
ska, as the golden cockerel, danced likfe a
bird and crowed silently amidst Oriental
scenes of successive magnificence.
Melbourne Art Shows.
That inveterate wanderer John A.
Gardner has unpacked a fresh cargo of
Centralian canvases at Melb. Athenasum.
His technical facility has increased
since his first essay in 1932, and four
trips and a total of two years’ sojourn
in the Centre haven’t sweated out of him
his enthusiasm for the strange spectral
white illumba gums, which look like dis-
torted Greek Aphrodites, the Reckitt’s-
blue hills and the rocks carved by Nature
into pyramids and sphinxes.
Gardner has a literal way of recording
what his eye sees, and his pictures give
back the brittle sharpness of the desert
sunlight in an uncompromising fashion.
Ballerinas in motion and at rest, doing
up their shoes and reclining on benches
waiting for their turns, leading dancers
flying through the air and other aspects
of the Russian Ballet observed from
backstage decorate the dress-circle foyer
of Melbourne Majesty’s, where Daryl
Lindsay has hung his latest show. Lind-
say has refined his illustrative technique,


GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTlM'•■■■■
g
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept ih order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle ig /6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit £ and £ blades, 3/6 extra.
ITK. George St., Sydney
Fifth Limerick Competition.
THE PRIZEWINNERS.
First Prize £4O.
Mrs. D. P. Robinson, 4 Duffy-street,
North Essendon, Melbourne.
Ten £1 Prizes.
H. Bracey, Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Head Office.
H. McMartin, Pullen Vale, Indoo-
roopilly (Q.).
Mrs. A. McDonald, 9 Victoria-street,
Stanton Hill, Townsville (N.Q.).
Mrs. L. Powell, Channon-street,
Gympie (Q.).
A. G. Bembrick, 81 Ocean-street,
Woollahra (N.S.W.).
Arthur B. Williams, Public School,
Burren Junction (N.S.W.).
L. William Slade, Box 172, Ren-
mark (S.A.).
Mrs. Edith Andrews, Post Office,
Elgin-street, Carlton, N. 3 (Vic.).
N. A. Corr, c/o Post Office, Nudgee
(Q.).
Miss Merle Harvey, 15 Bundarra
Road, Bellevue Hill (N.S.W.).
Limerick Competitions
SEVENTH COMPETITION.
For the Seventh “Bulletin”
Limerick Competition conditions
have been altered to allow more
competitors to share in the £5O
prize-money. Details are advertised
on Page 41 (Radio Page).
In the same advertisement par-
ticulars of the Sixth Competition are
repeated.
A
FFI C E
V * S
m
r
' P
m K
for your incidental
TRAVELEXPENSES
Carry Bank of New South Wales Travellers'
Cheques. They are cashed throughout the
world on ships, in hotels and leading stores as
well as by Banks.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers'
Cheques are available in denomina-
tions of £2, £5 and £lO in Sterling ,
Australian and New Zealand
currencies.
BANK
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVELLERS 1 CHEQUES
402C.1938
but has also developed his capacity to
seize on a momentary impression, con-
vert it into the appropriate symbol and
put it on paper in pastel and line.
The suggestion of movement, however,
is necessarily less pronounced than the
definition of the dancers’ physical attri-
butes. Consequently Baronova and
Riabouchinska look much more muscu-
lar and burly than they do on the stage,
and Anton Dolin, who conveys lightness
to the eye in real life, in his pictorial
representation gives an effect of weight.
Hence the slighter sketches look the most
vital.
Harold Herbert’s annual bouquet of
assorted landscapes and seascapes in
water-color is being presented to Mel-
bourne at the Fine Arts.
Nobody can hit off the obviously
pictorial more slickly than Herbert, but
a deeper note is struck in one or two of
the pictures. The sunlight glitters more
subtly and the shadows fall on trees
without destroying their solidity.
A Charles Bryant Show.
While not quite up to the standard of
the memorial exhibition held a few
months after his death, the collection of
pictures by Charles Bryant brought from
his London studio for exhibition at
Farmer s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney,
contains some meritorious and charac-
teristic examples of this popular marine
painter’s art.
Towards the end of his life Bryant took
great joy in depicting the colorful skies
of late afternoon and evening in Cornish
surroundings. “A Quiet Sea and a Glow
m the Western Sky” is one of the most
successful and genial of his essays on
this theme. “Dull Weather,” another
study made at St. Ives, treats wet mud-
flats interestingly and gets the spirit of
a bleak scene.
Sydney Harbor provides the material
for several of these pictures. “The
Moonlit Sea,” “Paddle Steamers, Cir-
cular Quay,” “Yachts in Neutral Bay,”
Yacht Race in Sydney Harbor” are
cleverly painted, and “Port Jackson
Heads from Manly” and “Sydney from
Farm Cove” immortalise aspects with
which every Sydney ferry passenger is
familiar.
In Bryant’s best “occasional vein” are
“Renown Leaving Portsmouth,” “Hood
in Farm Cove” and “Royal Yachts at
Cowes” (Britannia and Victoria and
Albert). • The painter’s facility with
figures, curiously enough hardly ever
exercised, is demonstrated in an English
beach scene, “A Summer’s Day.”
A number of sketches painted while
touring the Pacific Islands supplement the
oil section of the exhibition.
Among the few water-colors “London’s
River is easily the best. The medium
is one in which Bryant seemed seldom’
thoroughly at home.
Art of Lloyd Rees.
A collection of drawings and paint-
ings by Lloyd Rees at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, covers a period from
1917 to this year, and is of interest as
showing the development of a style of
painting which, whatever else may be
said about it, is as distinctive as it is
conscientious and consistent.
Rees was first principally known as a
pencil artist. His work in this medium
is always happy. He can suggest atmo-
sphere, texture, weather and the spirit
of a scene. On canvas, even the best of
his work suggests an old master copied
in tapestry. A scene may be very faith-
fully copied, its values in correct pro-
portion, but the coloring is always a
trifle dingy, and the general effect is
somewhat as if every mass in the land-
scape had been taken out, carefully flat-
tened and put back. But Rees can paint
flowers very prettily, as in “Hydrangeas” ;
and in scenes in mist, where the flatten-
ing process is quite in order, he can
evoke some quite charming effects, as in
the 11-year-old “Autumn Mist, Parra-
matta.” “Fig-tree House, Lane Cove,”
remarkably bold in conception, demon-
strates both the best and the worst points
of the Rees manner in oils.
Repertory Juniors.
Adelaide Repertory has launched a
junior movement —though above school-
going age—and some 65 aspirants have
been training.
Their first public showing was an
evening of five scenes, Mrs. Langsford
producing. The programme was am-
bitious ; as president Talbot Smith said,
it was rather like setting cricket colts to
start by bowling to Bradman and batting
to O’Reilly.
In a highly creditable all-round lot,
the best showing was made by Viviertne
Oldfield as Madam Butterfly (the non-
musical version), Betty Atack as Kundry
in “Parsifal” and Shirley Worthley as
the temperamental prima donna in
“Romance,” with Len Turner as the
earnest young parson uncertain whether
to “save,” murder or love her.
South-street Competitions.
Ballarat’s South-street Competitions
this year had record entries in all sec-
tions, and the “Aria from Opera,” carry-
ing with it a prize of 120 guineas, packed
the local hall four nights in succession
for the preliminaries (150 vocalists were
heard) and the Melbourne Town Hall
for the final hearing of eight excellent
voices.
The winner, Alfredo Luizzi, is a bari-
tone likely to follow in the footsteps of
Brownlee, another South-street discovery.
Last year’s aria winner, Joan Jones, is
abroad, beginning what promises to be
a very successful career.
Metropolitan and Covent Garden top-
liners Marjorie Lawrence, Arnold
Matters, Laurence Power and May
Craven got their start at South-street.
Coming Stage Shows.
Ernest Rolls, who used to specialise
in musical leg shows and extravaganzas
at Melbourne Princess, has travelled
60,000 miles looking for attractions on
behalf of Australian and N.Z. Theatres,
Ltd.
Among the loot he has collected are
(1) “I Married an Angel,” a musical
affair which requires an ice-skating rink
as part of its props., (2) a promise from
Paul Robeson to sing to Australia, (3)
upwards of 20 dramatic shows of all
sorts, (4) 170 artists, including a trinity
of film stars, and (5) “The Women.”
In addition, A. and N.Z.T. is sponsor-
ing the Russian Ballet, about the most
costly enterprise that this country has
ever supported.
FIFTH LIMERICKS.
Mrs. D. P. Robinson, of 4 Duffy-street,
North Essendon, Melbourne, won the
fifth Bulletin Limerick Competition.
The complete Limerick, with the last line
for which she received £4O, reads:
An old person who surfed at Dee Why
Wore his boots plus a collar and tie.
When they mocked him he’d say
“It is warmer this way
And I’m not such a blot on the eye!”
Mrs. Robinson had written a last line
on the space provided and had then
pasted the winning version over the other.
If it was a last-minute alteration —per-
haps the arranging of the internal rhyme
“not” and “blot” —it was a profitable
one.
H. Bracey, of Sydney, landed a £1
prize with the thought
But I wish that the fish wouldn’t pry.
H. McMartin, of Indooroopilly (Q.),
who took a £1 prize in the Third Com-
petition, scores again with the far-fetched
but pleasing notion:
Mr. Bruce!—How the dooce?—Did he fly?
Mr. McMartin was the only competitor
to go so far afield for a political refer-
ence. Nearly everyone stopped short at
Spooner. Mrs. A. McDonald, of Towns-
ville (N.Q.), put it with the right note of
pathos:
And, besides, Mr. Spooner’s so shy.
So many entrants used the rhyme
“shy,” and the word was so suitable,
that selecting a line for a prize became
a matter of searching for the best ad-
verb. “Painfully shy,” “terribly shy,”
“exceedingly shy” were all good, but
Mrs. L. Powell, of Gympie (Q.), was the
only one to think of “abnormally”:
Besides, I’m abnormally shy.
A. G. Bembrick, of Woollahra, Sydney,
showed that Mr. Spooner hasn’t any
corner in modesty:
And the sharks get most frightfully shy.
Among the lunatic lines, which are
always welcome, the suggestion from
Arthur B. Williams, of the public school,
Burren Junction (N.S.W.), was outstand-
ing. He had the old person in collar and
tie not only for warmth but for the very
good reason: —
And the soap doesn’t get in your eye.
L. William Slade, of Renmark (S.A.),
put it: —
And it keeps my new bathers quite dry.
And Mrs. Edith Andrews, of Carlton
(Vic.), submitted: —-
And when swimming I know which is I.
Miss Merle Harvey, of Bellevue Hill
(N.S.W.), and N. A. Corr, of Nudgee
(Q.), were two other competitors who
suspected insanity. Miss Harvey’s line
was: —
And it keeps me both dressy and dry.
Mr. Corr’s line, one of the brightest the
competition produced, goes: —
People stare!—Is my collar awry ?
There was one sad thing about the
Fifth Competition. A wild wire from
Westralia came in to 252 George-street,
and after it had been examined by the
Sporting Editor and the “Wild Cat” de-
partment it was recognised as an entry
for the Limerick Competition. Whatever
the telegraph people thought about “Two
old maids drew straws near by,” it wasn’t
a bad line, but it didn’t quite make the
grade.


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
' itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
Personal and Missing Friends.
SMITH, William, eldest son of William and
Isabella Smith, who were married at Greenock,
Scotland, in 1851, and who were parents of
nine other children bom in Tasmania and New
Zealand. Please communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 401-403 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sidney William Stevens.
WILL SIDNEY WILLIAM STEVENS, for-
merly of No. 1 Tower Hill, Chipperfield, Hert-
fordshire, England, then of 96 Fitzgerald
Avenue, Christchurch, New Zealand, and last
heard of at Dillon Street, Blenheim, New
Zealand, or any person knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. DENNES & CO., Cliffords Inn,
London, E.C.4, who are concerned in certain
legal proceedings and wish to get into touch
with him?
Other papers please copy.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The news that the Duke of Kent is
to be Australia’s next Governor-General
has caused great excitement among thoSe
in our social swim. Even the paddlers
on the outer rim have quite a rush of
blood to the head when they practise
an imaginary curtsy, murmuring “Your
Royal Highness!” The Duke is 36, good-
looking, an excellent dancer, a good
mixer. The Duchess has charm, style,
is a leader of fashion, a talented painter
and a devoted mother. The children
will accompany their parents.
Already the vice-regal homes in Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Canberra are being
criticised by tea-table enthusiasts. For
peers the places might be good enough,
but when it comes to princes! The 15-
and 16-year-olders are being looked on
with something of envy by mature 18.
They will probably make their coming-
out bob to royalty. Press photographers
will be in clover, because the Duke and
Duchess take well from any angle. One
of the queerest notes of congratulation
was struck by a girl lunching in a smart
restaurant: “That settles it,” she said.
‘‘We’re safe! While the Duke and
Duchess and the royal babies are in Aus-
tralia the British warships will come if
we just coo-ee!”
The Guild of Empire gave an honor-
able tea-party (as the Japanese might ex-
press it) to Mrs. David Maughan last
Thursday. Mrs. Maughan is the guild’s
retiring president, and for six years she
watched the growth of the society, which
started as a very small acorn indeed, but
which will eventually become a sturdy
oak. The figure of speech is Mrs. Pank-
hurst Walsh’s. She it was who presented
the graceful lalique bowl on behalf of the
company. Mrs. Maughan, who had had a
slight accident to one of her knees and
who was making a first appearance after
some time in bed, had said when told
about the party: “Well, I won’t accept
any flowers.” Little did she dream that
her gift was already bought. That there
would be no difficulty in her greeting the
guests she sat very pretty and graceful
at a table near the door.
Here, too, at various times sat Mrs.
Dettmann, president Mrs. Dewez, the
Sheldon lady and Miss Fairfax. Mrs.
Wilfred Fairfax, her schoolgirl com-
plexion bright with health, told of a
caravanning trip taken by her and her
husband. They did their own cooking.
When the sausages caught fire they
always knew they must be cooked
enough. Liked the provocative hat on
Mrs. Metcalfe and the Irish Elegance
roses that bloomed on Miss Phillip’s hat.
Sylvia Pankhurst was with her mother,
and representatives from Redfern and
Waterloo centres were keenly discussing
their Christmas party. The Gordon,
King, Davidson, Harvey, Allard and
Butters ladies were among the tea-
drinkers.
Mrs. C. P. Sellards is the publicity
officer this year of the Night in Hono-
lulu Ball, and the American Society
intends this to overtop even its success
of 1937. On November 24 this
Thanksgiving party will ' fill the
Trocadero with light and color. The
great prize of the evening will be a trip
to Honolulu. Last year the “Night in
H.” Ball was spectacular in decorations
and effects and in the resulting
profit. The Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb and the Blind, the Golden Fleece
Kindergarten and the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme will benefit. Mrs. Charles
Brown is chairman of the ball committee.
Josephine Bell’s pianoforte recital last
week was one of the notable Conserva-
torium concerts of the year. The pianist
had bidden her friends to supper on the
roof of the Con., with the intention of
announcing her engagement under the
stars and a sliver of new moon. The
weather altered the details. The supper
was indoors, but the ring and the young
man were duly admired. He is Thomas
Herbert, a Bachelor of Economics. Jose-
phine played a few nights previ-
ously the accompaniments for the
song numbers between the acts of the
play-reading of “The Sea Chest.” This
was to aid the Val Sullivan Scholarship
fund, and Mrs. Harold Bott, who helped
in the organising, sang Kahn’s “Ave
Maria.” Tenor Albert Jones’s singing of
John McCormack’s old favorite “Mollie
Bawn” made quite a hit. Photograph
from Raymond Sawyer.
An unusual exhibit in this year’s Arts
and Crafts show is the pottery of W.
Ricketts, of Victoria. This seems to be
inspired by aboriginal folklore, and is
worked out mostly in unglazed clay.
From a greeny-blue base that might be
a float bowl the stump of a tree arises.
On top of the stump sits an abo. boy,
and clinging to the trunk is a frilled
lizard. The gnarled roots of the tree
resolve themselves into four abo. figures,
each one hunched in a different posture.
The written words can give no real pic-
ture of the grace and originality of the
design. Then there is his emu totem.
On each side of what appears to be a hol-
lowed gourd in cream clay are the heads
of Australian abos. in relief. The head-
dress of each, woven stiff with white clay
and ending in a tuft of emu feather,
come together to form the handle. A
shell-shaped platter has a sort of Merlin
abo. head emerging from a tree at the
top, and flowing down the length of its
side is the wise one’s beard. Here and
there out of its deeps hop baby kan-
garoos. A hunter launching his spear is
the decoration on a vase.
This year the society makes a special
display of lace. There’s a wedding dress
trimmed with point d’argentan. Its train
of Brussels lace was originally the wed-
ding veil of Lady Duckworth. This is
one of Mrs. Morell’s treasures. A deli-
cate lace collar of deep ivory was made
from pineapple fibre over 100 years ago.
A lace dress that arrived in Australia
in 1823 came all the way from Castle-
bar, Ireland. This comes from the Gotha
Mann treasure-chest. A triangular scarf
of Limerick is the possession of Mrs.
Caryll Cooper. A lace fan with ivory
sticks was lent by Florence Sulman.
Nance Mackenzie gets applause for
her original ties. With Olive Nock she
is responsible for a decorative effect in
wine and turquoise. Grace Seccombe,
who comes from one of Arnold Bennett’s
five towns, shows bowls in Aus-
tralian black clay, marking this clay’s
debut in the society’s shows. The bowls
have white fishes swimming about in their
inky deeps. Vi Eyre’s big frog that looks
as though it might go basso profundo
at any moment, and her panels with
seagulls winging, are very close to nature.
A still-life exhibit (these are arranged in
boxlike cubicles) headed “Barbecue
Menu” has its list of sausage, beer and
so on flanked by a hand-wrought grill
and a toasting fork.
A bride in a hurry can get her entire
outfit —dress, veil, pearl-stitched gloves
and lace hanky. Rita von Drehnen’s
gloves —very dashing—Beatrice Follett s
exquisite flowers, Nell Holden’s glowing
pottery all help the illusion of some
Eastern bazaar. Then there is all the
beaten silverware and the little mush-
room cigarette-trays. A specialty this
year is Christmas wrapping-paper. Joan
Mackenzie, of Neutral Bay, designed it,
and made the lino, cut —blue, green and
brown gumleaves —on a white back-
ground.
Mayoress Nock, very trig in navy
bolero suit with wnite levers anu
a soaring navy-and-white hat, opened
the show, supported by president
B. J. Waterhouse and Public Librarian
Ifould. A garden basket brimming
with bush flowers was in her hand.
Miss Mary Fairfax did the rounds,
a conscientious vice-president. Navy
sheer was the suit worn by Mrs. Water-
house. The Parker and Butters ladies,
the good-looking Mrs. Leo Quick with
her Commander, Mrs. Wills, Mrs. Byron
Beans, knight Francis Anderson and his
lady, Margaret Windeyer, Mrs. Clinton
and Mrs. K.en Prior were other admirers.
Mrs. Aubrey Biggs (she was a McCon-
nell, of Brisbane), who plans to open an
arts and crafts shop in Turramurra, was
an interested visitor. Two pretty girls
were Shirley Poynter and June Cham-
berlain.
There is the never-failing lure of the
sea about Charles Bryant’s posthumous
exhibition in the Blaxland Galleries.
Charlie, born and brought up within
coo-ee of Manly beach, was irresistibly
drawn to the sea in all its aspects, and
the pictures show the waves and the tides
as they break or ebb and flow around
the Solomon Islands, Cornwall, Brittany,
New Britain, Cowes and Farm Cove.
Two of the painter’s old friends, Will
Ashton and Frank Hutchens, stood side
by side on the dais. Will Ashton, Direc-
tor of the National Gallery, introduced
Frank, who in turn opened the show.
Charlie’s two sisters and his brother
Marcus, Norman Pope and the city’s art-
lovers,- including Mary Makinson and
Mrs. Will Ashton, were at the show.
Up at the Conservatorium, Hilda
Mulligan, Guenda Bainton and Roland
Foster are busy putting the last touches
on the “Tales of Hoffmann,” which will
cascade in all its melodic charm on
Saturday at eight o’clock. Deborah
Julius, from Brisbane, will sing the part
of Antonia. Deborah has already sung
the part of Marenka in “The Bartered
Bride,” and was Kate, the wife, in Arthur
Benjamin’s operetta. As Donna Anna
in “Don Giovanni” she also showed her
talent for acting and singing. In the
Offenbach production each State of the
Commonwealth and Maoriland are repre-
sented by a girl singer. Photograph
from Dayne.
Hilda Marion (Cherub) Abbott, who
has just announced her engagement to
Colin Bednall, of Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, is the elder of the two daughters
of the Aubrey Abbotts, of Darwin. On
both sides of the family wool and poli-
tics have been mixed. Papa, who runs
the Northern Territory for the Common-
wealth Government, was formerly grazier
and politician, and held a portfolio in
the Bruce Administration. His uncle was
knight Joseph Abbott, Speaker of the
N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly for many
years, and he is a cousin of writer J. H.
M. Abbott. Mamma was one of the
Harnetts, who are found in battalions in
the Cooma district, and her uncle was
that picturesque figure Laurie Harnett,
Sergeant-at-Arms at the Sydney law-
making establishment. Cherub at present
is in London on a visit.
Lloyd Rees’s show in the Macquarie
Galleries might be likened to an un-
demonstrative but very sincere friend. No
blaze of polor to stun the eyes, no bizarre
subjects, just a sort of intimate friendli-
ness. “Thompson’s Corner” and “The
Road Across the Hills” are this writer’s
favorites, though due admiration is ex-
tended to the South Coast landscape
which gained for Lloyd the silver medal
at the Paris Exposition last year. The
show was opened by Norman Carter, and
the room was sweet with deep-red roses.
Mrs. Rees, Roland Wakelin, Sydney Ure
Smith, Mary Edwards and Dorothy
Thornhill were some of the visitors.
Parramatta on its 150th birthday last
week was proclaimed a city. But even that
will not take away its special charm. Here
were some of our very beginnings, and
Church-street and Phillip-street and the
Park, with its oak-trees and its river,
will still show the imprint of pioneer
days when to-day is dust and the revels
and pageantry with which the 150th
birthday was celebrated are but a page
or two in the Mitchell Library. Still the
doings up to date have been grand. Lord
and Lady Wakehurst helped to launch
them. There was dancing in the streets,
in quite the Continental way, there have
been fireworks, and pretty girls in period
frocks sold oranges—a reminder of one
of the district’s orchard activities —to
possibly the largest crowd that the old
town has ever seen gathered together.
Writing in her diary of a visit to Gov-
ernment House, Parramatta, in the late
spring of 1824, Mrs. Forbes, later a
knight’s lady, says: “We were warmly
received by Lady Brisbane, who intro-
duced her little daughter as a playmate
to my little sons... .official business took
Sir Thomas almost daily to Sydney, mak-
ing the trip in a carriage with four horses
and postilions —returning same evening
.... we often used to dance after dinner,
the Scotch reel with Sir Thomas and his
guests, Lady Brisbane’s sister playing in
good time. Happy days!” And now
Parramatta, having, so to speak, spread
its skirts and put on old-time frocks and
billycock hats, is going to burn 150 birth-
day candles at both ends. Chief Justice
Forbes’s lady mentions calling with her
kind hostess on the “principal people in
the neighborhood the McCarthurs
[Macarthurs] at the Vineyard and the
Blaxlands at Newington.”
Gladys Verona, whose soprano rose
crystal clear at Charles Philip’s recital
last Sunday, gives her own end-of-the
year concert in the Con. on November 9.
Gladys will sing in costume, and she is
copying a Goya picture for her Susanna
(“Marriage of Figaro”) frock. Sunday
night revealed Charles Philip’s piano-
playing at its best. Mozart, Rubinstein,
Bach and some of the very early Italian
masterpieces flowed from his fluent
fingers. Mrs. Philip and a small daughter
in mignonette green organdie were in
the audience at the Independent Theatre
rooms..
This week we are concentrating on
health and its manifestations. Well-set-
up girls and boys march briskly along
the city ways or display gymnastic feats
in Martin-place. The poets in their
wildest moments have not hymned the
grape more loudly than health promoters
laud the daily gallon or so of milk. The
orange is a golden orb of Health, the
apple the elixir of life! Most of us,
prodded by conscience and the headlines
in the papers, start our stretching and
bending exercises once more. Some of
us re-start with such enthusiasm that we
are stiff as pegs for the rest of the week.
Still we must be health-minded. All
Europe is. Somewhat ironic is that, side
by side with its appetite for health,
marches its appetite for lethal munitions.
This Letter believes in keeping a healthy
mind in a healthy body, and, since humor
is the best antidote to “isms,” why not
have a humor week?
On one of the wettest afternoons of
last week Victoria Leaguers made for the
Women’s Club in Elizabeth-street. Dame
Mary Cook, just returned from London,
was the guest of honor, and nothing short
of an earthquake would have prevented
a good rally. Dame Mary, who has been
conferring with other leaguers in Lon-
don and meeting old friends made when
her knight was High Commissioner, men-
tioned, among women she designated as
interesting, the wife of Britain’s Prime
Minister Neville Chamberlain. After a
reception at No. 10 Downing-street Mrs.
Chamberlain asked the Australian to stay
on for a quiet talk. Then she took the
opportunity of showing Dame Mary a
portrait of knight Joseph, which now
ornaments one of the corridors of No.
10. Deputy-president Miss Macarthur
Onslow, Miss Fairfax and Mrs. Violet
Bennett smiled a greeting on each guest.
There were League visitors from Perth,
Brisbane and Melbourne and from
Christchurch and Auckland (M.L.).


FORD mfmdmem
BAKED ENAMEL
P
S-xz=z?==Z&
GREATER BEAUTY ★ PERMANENT LUSTRE
PERMANENTLY beautiful and of
■*“ brilliant lustre, this new Baked Enamel
Body Finish is actually baked on. It
retains its superior gloss for years, even
under the most gruelling climatic con-
ditions and seldom needs polishing.
The equipment necessary for its applica-
tion has been installed at considerable
cost in Ford factories throughout Aus-
tralia. Baked Enamel is now the standard
finish on all-steel bodies at ordinary list
price. It adds further beauty of appear-
ance and helps to maintain resale value
at a high level.
Visit your local Ford Dealer and check Ford V-8
values against prices. Easy and convenient pur-
chase terms are available.
Ford-Tasma car radio is optional at
£25. Installation and aerial extra.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
mil
H! & II u. CARS
UTILITIES TRUCKS
F3.27V
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
FORD V-8 Lowest-priced,
fuli-sixe SEDSNS *COUPES
COUPES
from
£325
SEDANS
£347
(PricM F.Ofi. Ford Plant Plus Sales Taf).
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS THIS XMAS!
g
ĥ
ħ
■
a
JMMMM
/a
Landtakers —a story of pioneering days in Queensland,
by Brian Penton, 496 pages; 7/6, postage sd.
All That Swagger — winner of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, by Miles Franklin, 500 pages;
6/-, postage sd.
Pageant, by G. B. Lancaster—sales well over the 10,000
mark, 407 pages; 6/6, postage 4d.
Knights of the Boomerang, by D. H. Basedow,
who knew the abo. better than anyone; price 5/-,
postage 3d.
Psalmist of the Dawn —Mary Marlowe’s delight-
ful Lord Howe Island story; 4/6, postage 3d.
The Animals Noah Forgot —verse by Banjo
Paterson; 2/6, postage 2d.
OR IF YOU WANT BARGAINS
Any Four of the Following for 5/-
The World Is Yours (G. B. Lancaster) ; Jungfrau
(Dymphna Cusack) ; Giving Amber Her Chance
(Jessie Urquhart) ; Blue North (H. Drake-Brockman);
Stories by Kodak; Pearls of Papua (Commander
Brewster, R.N.R.) ; Forty Six (Stewart Howard).
The Bulletin , Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney .
Have you ever tried a profile compe-
tition to make a party go? That
was one of the ideas at Marjorie Cunliffe-
Jones’s “do.” As the guests arrived
they were shown, one by one,
into a room lit by a candle, and that
on the floor. The subject was placed
between candle and wall and told to
press the side of the face against a blank
piece of drawing paper fastened to the
wall. The artist then ran a pencil around
the outline. Later on the profiles were
all tacked up and the guessing as to
whose they were was on. Another
absorbing game was the tearing of those
tissues that wrap sweets. All the tissues
were of equal size, and the test. was
who could tear it into the longest un-
broken strip. The winner produced a
long fine strand —yards in length. The
thing is to do it round and round, like
a maze.
Comtesse de Vilme Hautmont (Vinia
de Loitte) is back from her tour
through England, France, Italy and Ger-
many, and can throw some interesting
sidelights on conditions in Continental
countries. As Vinia de Loitte she has,
of course, also renewed all her friend-
ships abroad in Gilbert and Sullivan
circles, and has much to tell local
devotees of “G. and S.” about the films
being made.
Meta Maclean in her London travels
met Hollywood’s famed Edward Everett
Horton, and through her he sent a special
greeting to The Bulletin. Meta has
been appointed as part-time demonstrator
in class management at one of the insti-
tutions of the National Society of Day
Nurseries. In Australia she broadcast
from the national stations 4QG and 2FC
on child education for eight years. She
was principal of Chelwood School, Bris-
bane, and gave public lectures about
child problems for the N.C.W. She
wrote words and music of the Queens-
land C.W.A. song; collaborated with
Sarah Sheldon in a song introduced to
Australian audiences by Florence Aus-
tral and John Amadio ; composed the
prize-winning waltz in the Music Makers’
(Sydney) competition, welcome songs to
Amy Johnson and Kingsford Smith, and
“Wonderful Moth of Moonbi.”
An officer of the Coldstream Guards,
Lieut. John Hood Bowman, is going to
marry Pamela Lindsay-Browne. Mar-
jorie Williamson, elder daughter of theat-
rical J.C.W., was Pam’s mother. She
died a few months after Pam was born,
leaving the baby heir to her fortune
and in the care of the father, Captain
Lindsay-Browne. The captain’s big form
is well known on the golf courses of
Manly and Leura, and Pamela as a child
spent many happy days in their home
overlooking the South Steyne breakers.
Mrs. Wallace Horsley is an aunt.


m
LETS ALL
ENJOY LIFE!
Let’s ail h ave a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
v Whoopee! Nogrouch-
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life , n
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets wijji the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wisl/... with never
bad Kead or a touch of indigestion
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in 2' • or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
tablets
/v
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1757 of 1938.
BETWEEN EDITH MARY HODGES Peti-
tioner
And SYDNEY FREDERICK HODGES
Respondent.
TO SYDNEY FREDERICK HODGES late
of Long Jetty Tuggerah in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
MARY HODGES has commenced a suit
against you in this- Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your desertion for three years without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twentieth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of October,
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
FRED C. EMANUEL, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner. 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1877 of 1938.
BETWEEN MAUD ADAMS Petitioner .
And HAROLD NORMAN ADAMS Re-
spondent.
TO HAROLD NORMAN ADAMS formerly
of Adamstown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MAUD
ADAMS has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-fourth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this twenty-eighth day of October,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
JOHN MICHAEL RUGGERO, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 57 Hunter Street, Newcastle;
by his Sydney Agent, BERNARD JOSEPH
McCOOE, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Derby Day crowd came from far
and wide, arriving in Melbourne by road,
rail, sea and air to chase its luck around
the course and down the straight with
bets on favorites and pot shots on the
long ones. Such an outsider was
Aurania, after whose win the fat sum of
£2O 1 Is. went up on the straightout tote,
much to the glee of Richard Linton and
of Mrs. R. P. McMeekin, both of whom
went home with fistfuls of money as the
result of their respective hunches. Winnie
Kellow followed the family s Derby
winner Nuffield in a pink-and-black
figured frock and upbrimmed black hat.
Mrs. Douglas Carnegie’s Derby colors
were green, gold and black for a cleverly
made frock with a plain black panel at
the back of the skirt, allied to a frontal
flare of diagonal stripes. The Villeneuve
Smiths were there, pacing the lawns arm
in arm. (Talkalot has an admirer in Mrs.
Villeneuve Smith, who means to follow
him among her other fancies during the
season, for her small son, whom she has
brought over from Adelaide, has started
to talk since he arrived here.) Also en-
joying meeting old friends and making
the acquaintance of new ones were Cap-
tain and Mrs. H. H. Louch. Before her
marriage in Singapore early in the year
Mrs. Louch was Mrs. Ivan Gutmann.
They are off to Peninsula Country Club
at the end of the week for some golf,
and are planning to leave for Singapore
in the Nieuw Zeeland on November 16.
Cup-time always means double bank-
ing, and it was inevitable that some
people were invited to both the Bradford
twins’ and the Alan Nathans’ cocktail
parties and afterwards wanted to keep
faith with “The Women” and the Red
Cross Ball all on the one date. The open-
ing of the new play made little differ-
ence to the Red Cross function in Myer’s
mural hall, at which there was such an
excellent attendance that tables over-
flowed into the grill room. Decorations
were outstanding, especially at the vice-
regal board, which carried masses of red
roses and red candles in antique cande-
labra. *
Among lovely frocks which made
their debut that night were Mrs. Nor-
man Myer’s glittering creation, its floral
patterning outlined in twinkling sequins,
with breakers of sky-blue georgette at
the kneeline to match accompanying sky-
blue gloves. The Norman Myers brought
on to the ball their dozen dinner-party
guests, among them the Tom Pattersons,
brunette Mrs. Tom looking her best in
pintucked white chiffon. At the dance
Lorna and Betty Bradford met Jenny
Outhwaite (in purple-grape), Beth Camp
bell (in bronze taffeta), Dick Linton and
some other guests they had entertained
earlier in the evening with cocktails and
an inspirational orchestra.
It being housewarming for their lavish
new home in Toorak with its acre or so
of lawn and garden, the Alan Nathans
had no plans for attending the ball after-
wards, which was just as well, for
although invitations read 5.30 to 7 a
much later hour brought about no flutter
of dispersal among the housewarmers
Among those present who afterwards did
their bit for the Red Cross in white ties
and evening apparel were the John Grif-
fins, the Stuart Hancocks and the Ivor
Mantons, Mrs. Manton enjoying her first
flutter since the family (Jack Manton-
Pat Wenzel) wedding, ever since which
she has been a cot case with influenza.
An example of how well women can
work together on committees is the
annual “Show Boat,” organised by 100
women, representatives of four St. Kilda
auxiliaries. Charities benefiting from the
“Show Boat,” which is launched with a
bridge party in the afternoon and comes
into port with a dance in the evening, are
the Alfred, Children’s and Eye and Ear
hospitals and the St. Kilda Balaclava
Free Kindergarten. The function took
place last week in the St. Kilda Town
Hall, which was all ready for the dance
a couple of hours after the last card-
players had departed, the furniture-
moving being carried out by gardeners,
chauffeurs, etc., lent by the committee
people.
In the kitchen things also moved fast
through the presence of Mrs. Arthur
Oldham, Mrs. M. Block, Mrs. W. G. L.
Spowers and Miss Myra Bull, on whom
the younger generation have nothing for
the efficiency of aprons on and sleeves
up. Mrs. J. A. Campbell organised the
bunch of youth and beauty which distri-
buted tea to 200 tables in half an hour.
“Show Boat” president Mrs. Archie
Michaelis was at the party, having re-
turned from Europe only three days
previously. Her luck being in, she won
an evening bag which afterwards became
a present for Mrs. H. D. Robertson’s
daughter Peggy. Mrs. George Rodd was
the hon. sec. who helped with the check-
ing of lucky envelopes and the disposal
of some 50 prizes.
One of the week’s debutantes is Alison
Adams, of Gilgai, Nagambie, whose por-
trait is by Broothorn. Miss Adams’s
coming-out party was at No. 9 Darling-
street, where she helped welcome guests
with her father, A. Parker Adams, and
her aunt, Mrs. John Carse. Second deb.
of the evening was Anne Winter-Irving,
daughter of the Stanhope Winter-Irvings,
also of Nagambie.
Built to look at and not to ride in, a
Lockheed Electra fulfilled its destiny
over the heads of the dancers at Earl’s
Court for the Ansett Airways Ball. The
’plane was made by Captain Angwin,
who is a pilot, and Colin McDonald,
the co.’s traffic manager. Also parts of
the decorative scheme were a revolving
beacon and two radio towers, about the
design of which M. J. Nicol and several
other committeemen had co-operated.
R. M. Ansett was present with his wife,
whose deep-red presentation bouquet of
roses looked well against a frock of silver
lame. The ticket secretary was Iris Salis-
bury, who recently learnt to fly. She
is the daughter of Captain and Mrs. A.
W. Salisbury, who were present (Mrs.
Salisbury receiving birthday congratu-
lations after midnight). In their party
were the Marella’s Captain Duddell and
his wife, down for a holiday from
Sydney.
Lady Stonehaven and her daughter, the
Hon. Ava Baird, showed their interest
in Centralia by being present at lohn
Gardner’s exhibition, which was opened
by Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy. The
canvases, glowing with the vivid colors
of the inland, are the results of the artist’s
caravan-truck tour with Bob Croll and
Biff Rowell. Jack Gardner is as handy
with tools, weapons and cooking pots as
he is with paints. He was the party’s
mechanic, and with fellow-artist Bill
Rowell showed himself fairly handy with
a rifle in relation to wild duck around
the waterholes, rabbits and kangaroos,
and afterwards in the preparation of kan-
garoo steaks. The truck travellers visited
Coober Pedy (abo. name meaning white-
man-hole), which claims to be the only
place in the world where post office, bank
and general store are hillside dugouts.
They met a few of the opal-diggers, but
only one woman, though there are several
underground housekeepers in the district.
In Melbourne the principal subjects of
conversation at the moment are the
horses and “The Women.” Everybody
who possibly could squeezed into the
King’s for the first night of Clare
Boothe’s satirical farce, for they were
frightened they might miss something on
succeeding nights (for the censor in Eng-
land disapproved so much that he kept
the play out of the country). The pre-
miere went over uproariously, for the
humor, broad and seldom subtle, gets
across in the twinkling of an eye. The
audience learned among other things that
when a man has spent a lot of money on
a girl he might want to protect his in-
vestment and that the tale that blondes
are cold is only brunette propaganda.
The feminine section also stowed away
in their minds the intention of “crawling
up the wall” every morning for the sake
of their abdomens. “Crawling” and other
exercises were practised by the idle rich
in the exercise room scene at the beauty
parlor.
Platinum blonde Jean Harlow double
Mary Dees, who plays Crystal, a gold-
digger of calibre, is glad that summer is
coming. She takes a foam bath on the
stage in so much foam (produced with
compressed air worked by a back-stage
motor for an hour before bath-time) that
there is little room for warm water in the
bottom of the tub. The bath, which came
from the U.S.A. and was a prop in the
original production, is about eight feet
high and is designed for a bather who is
content to soak and not splash. It’s
shaped like a magician’s cabinet, with
waterproof curtains in front, and inside
has upholstery just above foam level of
wine-colored satin.
In the play are 12 changes of scene,
spread over four movable stages, so that
no sooner is the curtain down than it’s
up again with complete change of locality
and characters, pushed into position on
castors. One elaborate scene is the red
lacquer and chromium cloakroom of a
nightclub, with white horses painted on
red velvet curtains and furnishings cov-
ered in black-and-cream hand-blocked
linen. *
Decora right through were well exe-
cuted and interesting regarding color,
and the show is particularly well dressed.
The American girls have lovely figures
and certainly know how to wear their
clothes. On the first night everything
backstage went without a hitch, and all
characters were word-perfect. Though
applause was noisy and laughs were in-
sistent, controversial opinions shot back-
wards and forwards at ensuing supper
parties. On the whole those folk who
appreciate the American type of humor
were far happier than the supporters of,
for instance, London “Punch.”
Among first-nighters was Judith Lawry,
noticeable for the perfectly-cut flare of
her full-length coat of lightweight bur-
gundy wool, with which she wore a black
velvet scarf. Sharing Anton Dolin’s box
were Mrs. J. F. Chambers, Mrs. Larry
Adler and Otis Pearce, Mrs. Adler an
old-world picture in gold lame with
puffed sleeves and crossed straps over the
shoulders and every curl perfection in her
Edwardian coiffure. A tall black feather
pointing skywards was Paddy Wilkinson’s
top-of-the-head decoration.
The Edwardian coiffure is worn suc-
cessfully by Deirdre Grantham, daugh-
ter of Captain and Mrs. Tom Grantham,
of Melbourne, who has recently become
engaged to an Englishman, Frazer Evans.
Broothorn portrait.
Mrs. George Nicholas and her step-
daughter-in-law Hephzibah, otherwise
Mrs. Lindsay Nicholas, have twin frocks
of heavy white crepe, with puffed sleeves,
heart-shaped necks and shirring around
the waistline. Under their long coats
they wore these frocks to the Ballet last
week, where they sat in the front row of
the circle with their husbands and Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Cozens. Mrs. Cozens
was also in the all-white picture with her
ermine cape and tailored frock of dull-
surfaced white jersey, made with a plain
shoulder line and long tight sleeves, its
only relief from severity a gathered panel
in the front. Adelaide visitors over for
the races were the lan Haywoods and
Margaret Jolly, whose frock was in hori-
zontal spinning-top stripes, the skirt
pleated from a hip yoke.
An ordinary woman visiting Eve Fel-
stead’s handwork being shown at Peter-
son’s comes away feeling like a slug. This
one-woman exhibition includes 36 quilts,
half a dozen sets of curtains, 10 rugs,
many cushions and several designs for
furniture. All craft work shown has been
executed during the last three years. In
addition Mrs. Felstead looks after her
home, husband and two sons. The elder,
Roy, who is a qualified pilot, left by the
Stratheden on Cup day, and hopes to
continue his training in aeronautics in
England. The younger, Noel, is study-
ing architecture. There is also a daugh-
ter, Mrs. D. Hinwood, and her small son,
the newest and probably most important
addition to the family.
The art of applique in all its intricacies
has been mastered by Mrs. Felstead (her
applique quilts for the nursery are par-
ticularly charming). She also shows
candlewicks, puffing and Italian quilting
and some frilly examples with enough
flounces to have delighted the ladies of
the Victorian era. A mosaic quilt in
many colors is made from 3000 circles of
material, each circle gathered round the
edge like a miniature beret, placed flat
and joined to its neighbors.
Daryl Lindsay’s Ballet pictures, always
best-sellers, kept up their reputation at
the opening of the Lindsay show in the
foyer of His Majesty’s. Some members
of the Ballet were present, but not for
long, time off being too precious in be-
tween rehearsal and evening perform-
ance. Among spectators who did the
rounds of the walls were Mrs. Wilbur
Ham, honoring the warm day with a
rainbow chiffon scarf, the Roy Whites
and their daughter Mrs. John Griffin
(who made one another presents of their
favorite pictures), Mrs. F. W. Thring,
also a purchaser, and Mrs. Jim Camp-
bell, a summer poem in blue and white
with white shoes and hat, who was ac-
companied by her sister Valerie Downes.
Next Tuesday Mrs. Harold Cohen
leaves on her first trip to England, her
destination being Oxford, where she wifi
spend several months with daughter Bar-
bara and her daughter’s distinguished hus-
band, Dr. Falk. Colonel Cohen means
to go abroad later to collect Mrs. Cohen
and escort her homewards. Fast week
she had a birthday, in honor of which
various members of the family went
shopping in the travel departments.
Colonel Cohen’s purchase was something
superlative in cowskin dressing cases;
son Geoffrey’s was a sapphire-blue lock-
and-key jewel box, and Mrs. Montague
Cohen’s a brocade bag for “odds and
ends,” with white kid compartments for
cottons, scissors and the rest of a tidy
woman’s stock-in-trade.


m
m
m
X
sp'
to\ e ,
\U*'
e^ 3
c vote 0 te
\e.a
b<?„ A
\\®'
oPV
Vcv°
h
Even a trained radio engineer cannot tell the differ-
ence between an old valve and a new one by looking
at it. Be sure that the valves you buy are new. Insist
on Radiotrons in the factory-sealed carton.
For better and brighter radio entertainment . . .
amn
N E W
MICRO
SENSITIVE
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co.
Pty. Ltd.)
Eimericß
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Sixth Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date November 11
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 6,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than November 11.
Results of this Sixth Limerick Competition will be announced
in “The Bulletin” of November 16.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd,,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
SIXTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A speedhog when trying to show
What a demon his car Was to go
Ran it far up a gum,
And remarked, looking glum,
Seventh Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize . £lO
Twenty Other Prizes . . £1
Closing Date November 23.
The total prize-money for the Seventh Limerick Competition
is the same as for the preceding ones, but in order to allow
more competitors to share in it the First Prize has been reduced
from £4O to £2O; there will be a Second Prize of £10; and
there will be 20 £1 prizes instead of 10 as formerly.
Previous Competitions closed on for convenience in
judging the Seventh will close on a Wednesday—November
23. Results will be announced in “The Bulletin” of
November 30.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
November 9 and November 16, and coupons may be filled in
from those issues or from the present one.
For the Seventh Competition, add a last line to the Limerick
in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to
reach
“Limericks No. 7,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than November 23.
SEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
. „ (lo block letters)
ADDRESS
I have heard politicians protest
That the good of the State is their quest.
So when holding such views
They raise their own screws
The Fifth Limerick Competition Results
are announced on Page 35.
Cheaper Television.
One of the arguments continually used
in Australia to support the idea that tele-
vision will not be possible for many years
has been that of price. The wail has
been raised that nobody can be expected
to pay 130 guineas for a receiver. Most
of the receivers in this class on the Eng-
lish television market are combination
jobs. In addition to the sound and vision
channels for the Alexandra Palace ser-
vice they contain a world-range radio
receiver and, in some cases, electrical
turntable and pickup for reproduction of
records through a good audio channel.
Expensive radio-gramophone combina-
tions are manufactured and sold in Aus-
tralia, priced in many cases in the vicinity
of £l2O. If Australian capital cities had
their television systems, it seems more
than likely that receivers would find
ready buyers, especially if all-wave radio
reception were part and parcel of the
design.
In England there is no longer any tele-
vision price bogey. Reference to over-
seas advertisements shows that leading
manufacturers have at least five models
of television receiver to suit every home,
ranging in price from 29 to 120 guineas.
As a point of interest, the 29-guinea re-
ceiver is illustrated. The chassis com-
prises a television receiver of the super-
het type, giving a clear picture on the
screen of a cathode-ray tube sin. in
diameter, and combined with a six-valve,
three-waveband, all-world radio receiver.
Even at twice the cost in Australia, this
receiver would still be regarded as
reasonably priced.
Spot.
Trade Notes.
Jack Allen, manager of the radio
department of George Brown and Co.,
Sydney, has been appointed Sydney
representative for Melbourne’s Rola
Speaker Co. He is in Country Traders’
House, Clarence-street, Sydney, next to
B.G.E.
Inductive Deaf-aid System
for Theatres.
Knight Ambrose Fleming, the English
wireless pioneer, himself a sufferer from
deafness, has developed a new type of
deaf aid for use in theatres and the like.
The apparatus consists of a small port-
able receiver, somewhat larger than a
cigar-box, plus a pair of light head-
phones. The deaf person is thus not
limited to sitting in specially
wired seats.
The receivers are miniature
three-valve amplifiers, providing
a high order of reproduction
quality. Instead of radio-fre-
quency radiation, speech-fre-
quency induction is used be-
tween specially arranged loops
of copper foil underneath the
carpets and a search coil in the
base of the receiver. No plug-
ging-in or attachment to any
point is required, and volume
■control is secured by a simple
knob device attached to each
receiver.
The system is proving of
great value in theatres and for lec-
ture purposes. For instance, a man
on a stage wearing a regulation gas
mask can speak clearly to all those
with receivers, although people stand-
ing close and without receivers can
hear only muffled sounds. It is possible
in a cinema equipped with the apparatus
to walk about in the auditorium or outer
vestibule and still hear the programme.
By using the new midget valves in the
receivers the design can be kept to a very
compact size, hardly larger than a packet
of cigarettes. Installation and upkeep
costs are small, and the system is rapidly
becoming popular throughout Britain.
D. B. K.
"Radio," October, 1938.
The current issue of “Radio” (U.S.A.)
is somewhat different in make-up. It
contains a detailed description of the
amateur radio work in connection with
Howard Hughes’s recent world flight.
Charles Perrine, of W6CUH, was mainly
responsible, and accompanied Hughes as
operator on the stage from California to
the east of U.S.A. W2BRO describes a
simple and effective direction indicator
for rotary aerials, basis being a milli-
ammeter, special potentiometer (easily
home-made), and a gaseous voltage regu-
lator tube. Other articles include ‘‘Relaxa-
tion Oscillator for Code Practice Sets,”
“Inductive Tuning,” “Dial ’Phone Remote
Control,” ‘TOO - watt Band - Switching
Exciter,” “Remote Frequency Control,”
“Newcomer’s Special,” “Broadcast Type
Modulation Indicator,” “Inverse Feed-
back for Amateur ’Phones” and “Modern
U.H.F. Mobile Installation.” Annual
sub. to “Radio” is 18s. 6d., payable
through The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney.


2
nr
/'
7//^
*
AMERICA
'mWu.
f
Rivers— long and short, swift and slow
—create beautiful and fantastic
scenery, and regions rich in sport ex-
press the wide variety and vitality of
America. The Mississippi Father of
Waters —joined by the Missouri, rolls
through the heart of the land for 4,221
miles! Along the Klamath in California
is some of the world’s finest fishing. The
Colorado, cutting its way deep into
the Plateau, fashions the unequalled
spectacle of the Grand Canyon. The
plunging Niagara makes the far-famed
Horseshoe Falls. The dignified Potomac
proclaims a nation’s history.
Strikingly similar is the pattern of Amer-
ica’s great railway systems, that interlace
the land. History followed their, steel
rails and progress marches over their
smooth roadbeds. New streamlined
trains foretell tomorrow. On fast, fre-
quent schedules, over mountain ranges,
across the deserts and plains, they man-
ufacture their own air-conditioned cli-
mate. They compress 3000 miles into as
little as 60 hours (just one change of
cars) and stress economy with low fares
and generous stopover privileges.
Artistic schemes of decoration, varied
Pullman sleeping accommodations of
supreme comfort, justly-famed cuisine,
and personalized service from courteous
attendants —-valet, ladies’ maid, barber
—all contribute to the most enjoyable
and effortless travel.
From the time you leave Australia, there
is no departure from this high standard
of travel service. You start aboard the
Matson-Oceanic liners Mariposa or
Monterey —sail in most modern and de-
lightful luxury through the South Seas,
calling at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii reach California in 18
too-swift days! Then choose from the
many available transcontinental routes
the one that most appeals. From the
Atlantic Coast you’ll find another wide
choice of ships— to complete the short-
est, fastest, most inspiring travel-way to
England!
"England Across America,’’ our illustrated booklet,
' will fill in all the.details. Write for your free copy.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
gf
(Incorporated in U. S. A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street • Sydney • Phone B-798U3


(tYS
MTS
tk
proof.
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
rsm
he***-
s- r.
M
'm
m
•*»
WKSpay
s|gg?
as*
UFA*
i:*r ■&?’.■' •
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED. . ,
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Wool Improves.
“Ghanam”: The wool market is show-
ing a little body for the first time this
season. Melbourne and Geelong sales
began the improvement, and Brisbane
October sales continued more heartening
than any yet held. They began on
October 15 with enough wool in store
for all auctions up to the first of the
New Year series. The offering was typi-
cal. All leading districts were repre-
sented. As a result of the off season
wool was on the light side, though most of
it was well grown and reasonably clean.
The Brisbane offering was practically
all cleared up under strong bidding, the
most hopeful sign the demand for
weaners, bellies and lower grades gener-
ally. This seems to promise a generally
rising market, when it is associated with
the better demand for higher-class wools
on a market which tops prices do not
justify.
British, French and German buyers
were most active. The Japanese bought
lightly ; they still have a long way to go
to meet their quota. And the U.S.A.
may be in the market before the season
is over.
Prices are now on the shilling level,
but it must be remembered that the
quality of lines has been improving with
the development of the season. Every
week shows brighter prospects, though
buyers and prophets are gloomy.
Comparisons with previous seasons are
more hopeful. In 1935-36, for instance,
September prices were 12.2 d. greasy, but
figures hit 14.2 d. by November (despite
the fact that the clip was almost a
record), and 15.3 d. in January. The
real trouble this season is not so much
the price fall, but that plus the fall in
output per sheep, which in many dis-
tricts averages 21b. per animal shorn.
Does Pasture Improvement Pay?
“Valerin”: In Riverina the benefits of
topdressing and laying down pastures are
considerably diminished by the rapid
development of parasites and diseases on
treated areas.
Where pastures are luscious, footrot
and “scalding” are prevalent, and pulpy
kidney is difficult to combat in fat lambs
and hoggets. Fatty liver in breeding
ewes is more common on pasture-im-
proved country where feed can be got
with little effort than where it has to
be hunted for.
For nearly all these diseases there are
remedies, drenches and vaccines, but
there are often' heavy losses before any
signs of sickness are seen.' The cost of
treatment makes a big hole in profits.
It would be well to test the chemistry
of pasture-improved plots under different
climatic conditions.
Sheep Vaccination Hints.
“Corriedale”: Vaccination should be
carried out in late spring. If the weather
is hot or the feed dry and sheep are
going back in condition, losses are in-
evitable.
Don’t hurry on the job. Much vaccine
is wasted by pushing the needle in and
out of the skin, while plunging it deeper
into muscles causes lameness and ab-
scesses. Lameness should be less than
1 p.c. with careful operating.
Never put in vaccine close to joints.
It causes swellings. Select flesh-covered
parts —deep in the groin, behind the
shoulder or backwards from the foreleg
on the chest and near the midline.
Clean the skin first with swabs of
methylated spirit or other disinfectant.
The tip of the needle is best pointed
downwards, so that the opening faces
the operator. This picks up the skin
easily. Enter the needle quietly and lift
the skin slightly when it is in. This gives
a guide as to how far it has penetrated.
Three-quarters of an inch is enough. In-
troduce the vaccine without squirting.
Always keep vaccine cool, and never
pour out more than 200 doses from the
bulk lot into the filling bottle or cup.
Cover the poured vaccine always with a
thoroughly disinfected towel.
A clean, disinfected needle, from which
the disinfectant is blown out, must be
used for each filling of the syringe. A
rotation of eight or ten needles is best.
“After all, lady, you're built for comfort, NOT for speed."
Turnips for Sheep.
“Hortus”: Try turnips for winter feed
in the drier and colder districts.
This year a 64-acre paddock of un-
treated natural pasture was sown down
to neaps, then subdivided into 16-acre
blocks for stocking. Each block was
stocked in its turn for four weeks with
1900 to 2200 comeback hoggets and
merino ewes. It was cultivated to lift
the remnants out of the ground. These
provided a further fortnight’s feed. In
this way the whole turnip was used. The
sheep held their condition right through
the winter, and were in excellent order
in August. The turnips, weighing from
61b. to 81b. each, went 20 to 25 tons to
the acre.
Almost all soils are suitable. It is best
to have a fair percentage of sand.
The crop is a shallow rooter. So
plough deeply a couple of months at
least before sowing. Replough lightly
just before sowing. Harrow and cross-
harrow several times to get a few inches
of very fine tilth.
Turnip seed is very fine and delicate.
If it does not germinate quickly, the
percentage strike will be low. About
Jib. to lib. seed will give a good stand.
Allow a fair amount of room for each
plant. The roots must be well spread
to collect food.
On the N.S.W. Tablelands it is safer
to sow when the ground has warmed up.
See that the fallow has been worked so
as to allow moisture to enter uniformly.
A dose of 901 b. or lcwt. super, to the
acre improves the crop.
Purple Top White Globe seems to
make the best growth and turn out the
most palatable* Champion Purple Top
is a good second.
Check aphis by grazing the tops. This
will not cause any setback to growth and
development.
There’s one warning: don’t grow tur-
nips unless there is a fairly large area
of rough grazing to supplement them.
They are extremely laxative.
New Quality Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Splendid crops of Gular,
one of the new wheat varieties, are a
feature this season in north-west N.S.W.
—l2- to 13-bag yields are possible.
A Cowra farm cross, Gular is an early-
maturing type of the medium-strong flour-
class. It is drought-resistant, and one of
the few varieties from which fair crops
will be harvested in the drier parts of
the wheat belt this season. It is of high-
standard baking quality, though not quite
equal to the Pusas.
Grown on 31,000 acres for last harvest,
principally in the Narrabri, Gunnedah,
Dubbo-Gilgandra and Eugowra districts,
Gular held its own. At Condobolin
Experiment Farm it looks the most likely
yielder in a district in which the crops
are mostly washouts. One Gunnedah
farmer has a prospective 4000-bushel
crop which he expects to distribute for
seed.
Hall-marked Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: The culling of wheat
varieties advised by the N.S.W. Flour-
millers’ Association —it wants the State’s
varieties down to half a dozen —is being
done. Farmers cull continuously, in
accordance with the annually-revised
recommendations of the Agriculture
Department.
The 1937 census of acreages sown for
last harvest covered 41 varieties and a
total of 4,756,000 acres. The three lead-
ing varieties —Ford, Nabawa and Dundee
—represented 2,569,000 acres (54 p.c.) of
the area. Add Bencubbin, Baringa and
Waratah and the six leaders totalled
73 p.c. Include Ranee, Pusa 4 and
Geeralying and the nine made 83 p.c. of
the whole 41.
For all practical purposes the State is
concentrating upon six or seven varieties,.
The others do not count for much in the
general f.a.q. sample. Of the 12 officially
hall-marked wheats seven are recom-
mended only for limited districts for
which they are especially suited.
Winter Housing of Cows.
“Yeno Ham”: George Barrett, of
Wyong (N.S.W.), has tried an idea new
to Australia —keeping his cows in stalls
during winter nights.
Stalls are cheaply built of sawn
timber, with corrugated-iron roofs,
space for each cow being 9ft. by 4ft. 6in.
The cows are put into the stalls at the
beginning of winter and stay there until
mid-October. They are fed a ration of
chaffed saccaline, maize, linseed meal
and bran (for laxative purposes) and are
grazed on improved pastures during the
day.
Barrett prefers his cows to calve in
paddocks, and rugs those that are close
to their work, turning them out into a
sheltered area. Stalling has maintained
winter production at a high level, and
the animals come through the cold
weather in splendid condition. Bedding
in the stalls is bracken
fern, which, with the
manure, is spread
when soiled on pas-
palum-white clover
pastures and har-
rowed. Results from
this treatment are
striking, clover growth
is heavy, and pas-
palum is leafy and
succulent.
Barrett has 15 acres
of second-class light
soil. He milks 16
cows and runs pigs.
Every foot of the
farm is in use, and a
pasture of prairie
grass, Phalaris tube-
rosa, cocksfoot, peren-
nial rye, red, white
and sub. clover,
stimulated with liberal
applications of super,
and farm manure, has
paid good dividends.
Weaning the Calf.
“Silky Bag”: Leave
a n e w-b or n calf
with its mother for
about 48 hours. If
it is taken away earlier it is usually fed
two or three times a day with about 41b.
to 61b. of the mother’s milk in a bucket.
If left to suckle it would take the same
amount in 20 or more lots during the
day.
The large quantities of milk cannot be
handled by the stomach, where big clots
are formed, causing indigestion and
scours.
The treatment for simple scours is to
withhold all food for 24 hours to let the
large clots become assimilated. Then
give equal quantities of limewater and
fresh dam’s milk for the next two days,
at the rate of 21b. of the mixture live or
six times a day. After this'slowly sub-
stitute milk for limewater, and reduce
the number of feeds a day until the calf
is on the usual routine.
Treatment for Strangles.
“Stump Jump”: With a strangles case
(B. 12/10/’3B) first look to the horse’s
general condition. Give an aloes ball or
(Continued on next page.)


"V.
dmr&
v
82591 HiUijJ
**w „ ,
TRY A DERBY TOP THIS SUMMER.
Probably different from the type you already wear, but extremely smart and
comfortable. Special imported single soles of heavy Continental sole leather.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Black or Brown Calf. Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
r
■
■
What is a
Good Investment?
TWO things, states the man of experience,
should be demanded of a good investment
■—"Undoubted security, combined with a reason-
able and assured regular return on capital
invested/'
Wise investors, large or small, appreciate that
these essentials apply to fixed deposits with the
Rural Bank.
It is simple and convenient to invest money on
fixed deposit with the Rural Bank in amounts
from £5 and upwards and thereby earn interest
at current banking rates.
All inquiries concerning fixed deposits or the
opening of cheque accounts are attended to
personally by experienced officers of the Bank.
RaJialßaitk
OF 'NEW
©
U
TH * WALES
The Rural Bank is YOUR bank—
Serving you—Serving the State.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD- Kinn St.. Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Be Your Own Agent!
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These Empire-grown Tobaccos are of high quality
-—specially blended —aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
The Man on the Land.
(Continued from page 43.)
get the vet. to drench with a stomach
tube. Then feed laxative foods, and try
adding sodium sulphate to the drinking
water, lib. to eight gallons daily. Rug
the horse if the weather is cool, and
place in a stall with clean straw daily if
possible.
For nasal strangles, a creosote inhalant
is good. Try loz. creosote in a bucket
of boiling water, kept steaming by drop-
ping in heated horseshoes or stones from
time to time. If the bottom of a chaff-
bag is slit open it can be tied around the
bucket and the mouth held loosely over
the horse’s muzzle.
In irrigating the abscesses very little
pressure should be used at first, as the
infection can easily be pushed in more
deeply.
Trees and Nutrition.
“Ek Dum”: The nutrition values of
the leaves of scrub and forest trees com-
pare surprisingly.
Tea-tree is rated about 79 n.v., with a
very low fibre content, but only 10 p.c.
of water. Mulga and gidya are about
p c water, and theif nutrition value
is about 31. Myall shows 49 p.c. water
and 29 n.v.; kurrajong 35.6 p.c water
a J} d 47 n - v - Wattle JoifAt ? n v ooes to
10 - 4 P-c. water. The highest n.v. goes to
trees of the N.S.W. yellow jacket type at
93.4; but their water content is only
The saltbushes all range about 75 p.c.
water, and some have nutrition values as
high as 19 5, comparing favorably in
detailed analysis with lucerne Pnckly-
P ea r is theoretically poor stuff—all of it
over 85 p.c. water, some as much as
94 p.c. , . . . ...
Chemical analysis however is not the
sole § ulde t 0 the va l ue a fodder, and
is not always even reliable. I have seen
bullocks with little to eat except pnckly-
P ea r which seemed as fat as butter,
Grapefruit Canning.
“Jethro Tull”: Murrumbidgee can-
neries are experimenting with grape-
fruit. During the last few months, Lee-
ton has processed a considerable ton-
nage. Costs are high. Preparation in-
volves hand-peeling, dividing into sec-
tions and the removal by hand of the
fine membraneous envelope covering the
sections. Very ‘few varieties will stand up
to the treatment.
Canning provides no outlet for low-
quality fruit. A certain size is essential;
the wastage in small fruit is too high.
Low seed content is desirable, as seeds
rupture the sections and cause them to
break down at some stage or other.
The amount of rag is important, as
this influences flavor and yield of pulp.
Flavor is vital. There is a tendency to
destroy the delicate grapefruit flavor by
the use of too much sugar.
Some lower grades may be used for
juice, but as the juice trade is an inno-
vation it will need time to make the
public “juice conscious.” So far, only
one variety, Marsh, appears to be suit-
able for canning.
Hints for the Farm.
“0.W.W.”: If it’s a waterproof dress-
ing for leather that’s wanted melt and mix
together 6oz. beeswax, 2oz. powdered
resin and boiled linseed oil, stir in
a pint of neatsfoot oil, and half a pint
of turpentine. When cold, rub the mix-
ture well into harness or boots with a
piece of flannel.
“Terrinjal”: Put the paintbrush hard-
ened and clogged with paint into a tin,
half cover the bristles with ordinary
vinegar, then bring to the boil. Keep
taking the brush out and working it on a
flat board. It will soon soften, and when
clean of paint may be washed in turpen-
tine and will come out as good as new.
In bad cases use two or three lots of
vinegar.
“Carbon”: An inexpensive farm cement
or putty can be made with coal-tar one
part and powdered slate (slate • flour)
four parts. Mix thoroughly. It is easily
applied with an old table-knife or flat
stick. Although it hardens on the sur-
face, it remains soft and elastic under-
neath and can be kept in bulk unspoiled.
It will not melt under the hottest sun,
and the heaviest frost will not cause it
to crack or peel off. Leaky tanks, water-
irrigation pipes, casks or milk-pails can
be repaired with it. The cement will
stick to any surface that is not oily.
“Zedo”: There should be a good in-
come waiting a new type of grazier in
the Queensland Dividing Range or the
hills of the Dee and the Dawson if the
Local Authorities’ Association gets its
way and persuades the Lands Depart-
ment to pay 10s. per head for dingo
scalps. Somebody has asked how the
scalps will be checked, and the answer
is that the Minister must either trust the
councils or supply them with refrigera-
tors to keep the booty in for inspection.
“X.T.”: The Darling Downs (Q.) is
the centre of this year’s worst caterpillar
plague. Arriving at Willowvale, the
crawlers literally made the crops sway
with their weight. The pests have been
discovered shinning up the legs of farm
animals in thousands. From Glengallan
to Willowvale, from Emu Vale to Clin-
tonville, they have caused havoc in young
maize and the fine-seed crops so popular
in the district. Poison, so far, has proved
of little use. Luckily most wheat is well
enough advanced to be safe.
“Molecule”: Nicotine sulphate, now in
general use in n.s.-bluestone sheep
drenches, has always been sold by-
weight, though it must always be
measured by volume for drenching
purposes. The formula for drench-
ing for hairworms is 16 fluid
ounces of nicotine sulphate, lib. blue-
stone and sgal. water. As n.s. weighs
well over 101 b. to the gallon, if only 16oz.
weight (in which size the stuff is often
packed) is used the drench will not be
strong enough. Adding “a bit more” is
dangerous, because the poison is so con-
centrated. Best for the small flockowner
to buy the drench ready mixed in bottles,
one bottle being exactly enough to mix
with a stated quantity of water to drench
a certain number of sheep.
“M.L.W.”: Best to market fat lambs
at three to four months old. Only hold
them over when the market is low and
there is plenty of green feed. Should
the market be good, it requires only a
fall of Id. per pound to offset the extra
weight gained by holding longer than
3£ months. Should feed be drying off
it is better to sell, even in a low market,
than risk feeding and being compelled
to sell the youngsters as stores. It means,
too, lighter stocking, with resultant better
feed and less risk of drought.
“Gwydir”: A. F. Manchee and Sons,
Biniguy, Moree (N.S.W.), have demon-
gtrated that first-grade export lambs can
b g produced there, and delivered in the
blo o m at Homebush in spite of the 430
miles transport by rail. In recent weeks
3320 five-months-old Romney-merino
« oss sold to 30s.JlArowhich
255. lOd. This compares with 38UU wnicn
j season ranged to 345. 7d. and aver-
aged 2 9 s 7 d A proposal to build kill-
*ng wor at \v err i s Creek to serve north-
west NSW j s under consideration,
« Ta Qne lesson from the Aus-
Me y at Board^s porker and baconer
carcass competition 12/10/’3B) is the
importance of length of body. The judges
emphasised that the consistently low
marks for body length where the Middle
White is used in cross i ng cannot be ig-
nQred Jhe Queensland entries, all of
wbich were of var j ous M.W. crosses,
averaged ordy 31 6p c> f or body length
compared y with 50 p . c . for all States,
N.S.W. are being educated up
tQ restr i c ting the choice of breeds to
Berkshire, Tamworth and Large White.
Some ma i nta j n t h a t porkers should
be shorter than baconers> with rela-
heavier devel nt of ham and
shou j der xhe comp etition results cor-
impression.
.« Valerin ». Low wheat nrices have
eros ' ion enormous £ Spriig-toothing
dods , 0 the surface and
,*a t 0 find its way , 0 the
shou|d b< _ done jn , he ear|y spring .
Another cultivation just prior to seeding
is enough. Of course, sheep are essential
Jjdb A weed growth and compact the
suriace.


; • :•*
'
' f i' % K
, ’ *? ! ;?
£
:
1
mm
m
% \
A
'>-
m
5
m
%
% -
>
ill
:v;
1
W
,P
/
t ■; i
<r-
m
H
/
:/
*
■?
*
a
M
Vvvs
I
IS
K,
I
//
is
mw
Xm
m
;
Club Lager—a drink tre ved for Australian
palates and Austra ian thirsts. Sparkling,
full flavored, refreshing as a “southerly
buster” on a summer’s day... It is the
beer that inspires happy smiles and radiant
health.
Tooheys
CLUB LAGER
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Every Razor
Fully Guaranteed.
“BENGALL” RAZORS
Will Last
for Years.
5410
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-grround Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable from All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. ’
Specially File-cut and
176*
Combining
ail the latest improvements,
gimpted for firm handling.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pensioner, N.S.W., active, ship’s carpenter,
own tools, well up in yachts, painting, sailmak-
ing, wants job in boatshed or as caretaker of
week-end cottages.—l3l4.
To buy cheap copy of Pollock's The Course
of Time. —1332.
To buy Chums, volumes 1893 to 1909 in-
clusive, good condition not essential if com-
plete. Give date and price.—1317.
Canadian will exchange Canadian or U.S.
stamps for Australasian, Fiji, Cook Islands,
etc.—l37l.
To exchange stamps, 30 different foreign for
100 Australian or M.L. —1368.
To get in touch with any young person inter-
ested in a bicycle tour of the South Island,
M.L., in December and January.—l 392.
Whereabouts of Charies Fredrick Andrews,
left M.L. 1935. Was butcher at Turakina.
Sister Teresa inquires.—l32l.
Information Sought.
(1) When Australia captured German New
Guinea what happened to the German civil
officials, army officers and residents? (2) What
was done about property belonging to German
residents? —1426.
Civil officials were returned to Germany and
officers of the regular army sent to Australia
as prisoners of war. Of the other German
colonists, many were deported for military
reasons and others left voluntarily. (2) The
treaty of peace provided that German
nationals resident in her former colonies might
be repatriated and that their property rights
and interests might be retained and liquidated
by the Allies, the proceeds being credited to
Germany in part-payment of reparations. In
pursuance of these powers, in September, 1920,
the property of the principal German cos. in
the Territory and in March, 1921, that of a
large number of German planters was vested
in the Public Trustee. In 1926 and 1927 these
plantations were transferred to private owners.
* * * *
According to a standard English dictionary
the spelling "harbour,” "honour,” "labour,”
"odour,” etc., is followed. Why does The
Bulletin adopt American style and drop the
"u” ?— 1424.
Most English dictionaries (and American
ones, too) authorise both spellings. Though
Noah Webster and other American lexico-
graphers dropped the “u” they didn’t originate
the practice, which, as Webster remarks in a
preface, is merely a reversion to the original
English spelling. Since the “u” is not sounded
and the practice saves space the reform com-
mended itself to the founders of The Bulle-
tin, and their successors see no cause to
quarrel with their judgment.
* * * *
What is the difference between a gulf and a
bay ?— 1429.
Says Fowler’s Modern English Usage:
“Apart from the fact that each has some senses
entirely foreign to the other, there are the
differences (1) that gulf implies a deeper recess
and narrower width of entrance, while bay may
be used of the shallowest inward curve of the
sealine, and excludes a landlocked expanse
approached by a strait.; and (2) that bay is the
ordinary word, while gulf is chiefly reserved as
a name for large or notable instances.”
* * * *
(1) In what way does the Lord Chamberlain
control the staging of plays in England? (2)
Are plays produced in Australia subject to any
official scrutiny before being staged? —l39s.
Every play must be submitted to the Lord
Chamberlain’s Examiner of Plays. If the Lord
Chamberlain is “of opinion that it is fitting
for the preservation of good manners or oi
public decorum or of the public peace” so to
do he refuses his license or, more often, sus-
pends its issue until the objectionable features
are eliminated. (2) No.
* * * *
What was the fate of Peter Heywood, the
midshipman aboard the Bounty who was forced
by the mutineers to remain behind with them ?
—1415.
When the Pandora visited Tahiti in 1791 in
search of the Bounty, Heywood was the first to
give himself up, and although innocent was
treated by Captain Edwards as a pirate. Sen-
tence of death was passed on him, but he was
afterwards pardoned and rejoined the Navy.
He later did good service in South America,
and was appointed to the command of H.M.S.
Nereus.
* * * *
(1) When did the Mclvor gold robbery occur
in Victoria? (2) Names of the robbers? (3)
Were they captured, and what happened to
them? (4) Was the gold recovered? —1369.
(1) 1853. (2) and (3) Five (out of 12) were
accounted for. John Murphy (or John Francis)
was arrested aboard the Madagascar in Port
Phillip. Admitting guilt, he turned informer,
repented of this and committed suicide. His
brother Jeremiah (or George), arrested in
Queensland, gave information, thus escaping
punishment. George Wilson and two ex-
convicts, Melville and Atkins, were tried for
murdering the bailed-up driver, who had died
of wounds. (4) Gold valued at £5OOO was
taken; little was recovered.
* * * *
(1) Why was Martin Cash transported ? (2)
Was he sent to Tasmania direct ? (3) Who were
his bushranging companions ? (4) What tern-
lory did they range? (5) His ultimate fate? —
1389.
(1) For trying to murder his rival in a love
affair. (2) No, he settled there after serving his
sentence in N.S.W. (3) Kavanagh and Jones.
(4) Southward to the Derwent, northward to
the Macquarie and westward to Lake Echo,
with headquarters on the Dromedary, north
of New Norfolk. (5) He was arrested in 1843
and sentenced to death. Reprieved after 15
months of suspense, he was sent to Norfolk
Island. Good conduct won him a pardon, and
he returned to Tasmania in 1853, becoming
caretaker of Hobart Botanical Gardens. He
died in 1877.
* * * *
(1) How is the cinquain verse form con-
structed? (2) What manner of thought should
it seek to express? —l3Bl.
(1) It consists of five lines, the first line
containing one iambic foot, the second line
two, the third line three, the fourth line four,
and the fifth line one. Each foot contains
two syllables; and there is no need of rhyme.
(2) The thought must be led gracefully and
gradually up to the end of the fourth line,
where, as an authority says, “the sentiment
should remain an instant poised on a dainty
toe, then sharply and neatly regain solid ground.
The final figure of the pirouette may be either
comedy, pathos or any variety of the gro-
tesque or unexpected.”
* * * *
How did the “inverted swan” 4 d. stamp of
Westralia come to be printed? —l367.
Transfers were taken from the penny plate,
the frame portion being cut away, leaving the
central part of the design, the swan. They were
laid down on a sheet of card at equal dis-
tances apart, and a new die was engraved
bearing the frame device only, from which the
required number of transfers were made. One
of these frame transfers was cut out and pasted
around each of the swans. While pasting the
transfers in position one was accidentally in-
verted.
* * * *
I am an executor and trustee of a small
estate. What are my duties, and what should
I pay out in legal fees? —1402.
Generally speaking, your duty is to bury the
testator, protect his property and draw up a
schedule of it, then call at the Probate De-
partment, Supreme Courthouse, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, and get instructions with regard to
taking out probate. Insert in newspapers notice
to creditors, see to any necessary realisations
and gather in money due. Then pay debts and
legacies, attend to any trust under the will and
any bequests of residue of the estate. Death
duty and the stamp duty payable on transfer of
real estate depend on value. File accounts at
end of 12 months.
# * * *
What privileges are conferred upon the con-
sort of a reigning English queen ? How many
examples have there been in English history of
such personages, and what were their titles ?
—l4OB.
The Constitution provides no special privi-
leges, it being a maxim of English law that a
woman can receive honor from her husband
but cannot confer it upon him. There have
only been three consorts in English history.
Philip of Spain, though designated King Con-
sort, and though the statutes were enacted
under the joint names of “Philip and Mary,”
was most rigidly excluded from anything more
than a nominal dignity, and in disgust thereat
quitted England after a year. The husband of
Queen Victoria again, after having for years
been known simply as “Prince Albert,” re-
ceived the title of “Prince Consort” by indi-
vidual creation, as he had previously received
that of “Royal Highness.” Prince George of
Denmark, husband of Queen Anne, constitutes
the remaining example.
* * * *
Characteristics of the boxfish ? —1404.
The head and body of this fish, which is
plentiful in Australian waters, are encased in a
hard, bony covering, leaving only the fins free.
Most of the species are highly ornate, with
amazingly brilliant colors and patterns. They
are also known as coffin or trunk fishes. • A
common tropical representative is called cow-
fish, on account of two long spines that pro-
ject forwards from the forehead like a pair
of horns.
* * * *
(1) In what year was electrocution introduced
into the U.S.A.? (2) Was it a State or Federal
matter ? (3) What was the accepted form of
capital punishment before electrocution? —1290.
(1) and (2) It was first adopted by the State
of New York by a law passed and approved by
the Governor on June 4, 1888. The first execu-
tion took place on August 6, 1890, the criminal
being W. Kemmler. The validity of the New
York law had been previously attacked as
being “cruel and unusual punishment in viola-
tion of the Constitution,” but it was sustained
in State courts and finally in Federal courts
and is now adopted in 23 States. In addition
to electrocution, hanging is practised in some
States, while others have abolished capital pun-
ishment. (3) Chiefly by hanging, which was
often done publicly. Burning alive was a
penalty sometimes inflicted in the earlier days.
$ 3(: $
(1) What price could be obtained for fairly
large quantities of mutton-bird oil? (2) What
firm would buy it ? (3) How is . the oil re-
fined? (4) Most suitable containers? —752.
(1) No information available. (2) Elliotts
and Australian Drug, Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney. (3) Filter to remove turbidity
if necessary. (4) Wooden casks or steel drums.
(1) Is there a cure for paralysis agitans? (2)
What is the treatment? (3) Is genoscopolamine
efficacious ? —ll4l.
(1) There is no certain cure, but the rigidity
and tremor characteristic of the disease may be
reduced by proper treatment. (2) The drug most
used is hyoscine hydrobromide, given under
medical supervision in carefully increased doses.
Preparations containing tincture of lobelia are
also employed, and for some reason certain
patients seem to improve by drinking small
quantities of beer. (3) It is a French product
said to contain hyoscine and picrotoxin. Results
compare favorably with those obtained by other
forms of treatment.
* * * *
Best method of treating a linen fishing line?
—l4OO.
To one gallon water put about one handful
of crushed and chopped wattle-bark and boil
for half an hour. When partly cool, pour over
the line, which should have been loosely coiled
in a wooden or enamel receptacle; the tan
should be the color of strong tea. Let the line
stand in the tan for six to eight hours, then
spread it in the sun to dry. Repeat the tanning
till a good brown shade is obtained, the first
bath merely producing a light-red shade as a
rule. Add fresh bark to the bath, and boil
up again for repeated baths. After using the
line wash in clean water, and loop up loosely
to dry. Repeat the tanning at the beginning of
each season. The wattles Acacia decurrens and
A. pycnantha yield suitable bark.
* * * *
Aboriginal name suitable for watercourse
country, canegrass or flat, open, dusty stretches ?
—1347.
Aldina, plenty trees and water; Awaba, plain
surface; Beetaloo, springs and creeks; Billeroy,
running water; Bingara, creek; Broula, trick-
ling water; Bulgerup, running spring; Carawa,
creek; Euduna, Brin, spring; Willandra, little
waters; Werberdup, head of stream; Allomba,
spring; Allowrie, bubbling water; Kiella, ex-
tended plain; Turragong, dry land and water;
Urawilkie, long grass; Boonal, blady grass;
Tingha, flat or level; Mallawa, flat; Orroroo,
dust; Koorongal, long grass..
* * * #
Methods of treating gladioli to get high-class
flowers ? I bought bulbs, and the results have
been far from satisfactory. —l 349.
Unless the soil is well manured and deeply
dug, also the plots well drained, gladioli will
not give high-class blooms. Superphosphate
(loz. to the square yard) and rotted cow
manure are the most suitable soil-enrichers.
When the flower-heads break from the centre of
the plants give regular weekly doses of liquid
manure. To keep the flower stalks straight
and also avoid damage from winds, each
gladiolus plant should be staked.
* * * *
(1) How to make malt from Cape barley
for brewing ale? (2) How to make yeast for
the same purpose ?— l3BO.
(1) Pile a heap of barley on a stone slab or
in an enamel tub and moisten it with a water-
ing can. Keep it in a warm place, damp, and
stir daily, until it begins to sprout. When
the sprouts are about an inch long, rake it
apart to dry a little, then bake it quite dry
in an oven. But consult excise people before
brewing. (2) Boil a handful of hops in one
quart of water for 20 minutes or until the hops
fall to the bottom; strain and cool. Blend
three tablespoonfuls each flour and sugar with
a little of the hop water, then stir all well to-
gether. Bottle, cork and tie down; stand in a
warm place. Ready in 24 hours. Thereafter
use the same bottle for fresh yeast.
* * * *
What are the essentials of the “liquid smoke”
process of curing fish? —1383.
Brine sufficiently dense to float a potato or
a new-laid egg is used as a covering solution.
Smoke essence, about one pint to three gal-
lons, is added, and the fish to be preserved are
placed in the mixture and left there for two
to six hours, time depending on size of fish and
how long they are required to be kept. When
the fish are taken out of' the mixture they
should be dipped in fresh water to remove sur-
face salt and then allowed to drain for an
hour. They should then be hung in a smoke-
house for half an hour and dried off in a
thick, warm smoke produced from sawdust.
For dry salting, sprinkle coarse salt on the
fish, stack them in a heap and leave for three
to six hours, time depending on size of fish.
When considered sufficiently cured, dip the
fish in fresh water to remove surface salt,
and allow to drain till flesh becomes sticky,
then paint smoke essence on with a brush.
Hang up in smokehouse and dry off in half
an hour in a thick, warm smoke.
* * * *
First-aid treatment for wounds from fish-
spines, catfish, stingrays, etc.? —1373.
Encourage bleeding by keeping the injured
part hanging down and by soaking it in tepid
water. The wound may be sucked by the
mouth without danger. Condy’s fluid or some
alkaline solution, such as weak ammonia or
baking soda, or the household bluebag, should
be well rubbed into the wound. If pain is per-
sistent, hot foments should be applied to the
injured part. Strong coffee or tea or a little
spirit qnd water may be given if the patient
be faint. Should serious symptoms arise, medi-
cal attention should be obtained as soon as
possible.
* * *
How can I drill small holes in glass? —l4l7.
Use an ordinary twist drill lubricated with
oil of turpentine in which some camphor has
been dissolved. When the point of the drill
has touched the other side put the glass in
water several inches deep, and proceed with
the drilling very slowly. If not possible to do
this, reverse the work by turning the glass over
and drilling very carefully from the opposite
side.
* * * *
Did Barnes (N.S.W.) score over 1000 runs
in first-class cricket in Australia in 1937-38 ?
If not, what were his figures? —l3s3.
Barnes did not top the 1000 in first-class
matches. The fixture v. West Australia in
which he scored 99 not out and 127 not out
was designated a second-class fixture by N.S.W.
Cricket Association. Barnes’s first-class figures
were 17 innings, 1 not out, 110 highest score,
809 runs, average 50.56.
Brief Answers.
A.M.D.: No material of any great value as
a repellent for flies is known, and no mixture
can be recommended which is likely to be
even as useful as a fly veil for horses in the
country. If fairly frequent applications of an
oil are possible, a mixture of kerosene one part,
coconut oil one part and citronella two parts
will give relief; but it may have to be re-
newed at intervals of an hour.... J. 8.: (1) 2d.
postage came into operation in Australia in
August, 1930. (2) The postage rate was never
reduced from 2d. to l£d J.G.S.: Write
Deputy Federal Registrar, Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, Darlinghurst, Sydney
W.J.C.: The note has no value... .E.A.: It
does not come under the heading of fiction.
A.F.G.: Write Secretary, Civil Aviation
Department, Melbourne, Vic G.L.8.: Send
description to W. T. Octigan, care Allan and
Co., Collins-street, Melbourne. If description
is insufficient, it may be necessary to send in-
strument J.J.8.: Write Agricultural Depart-
ment, Brisbane, for leaflet giving means of con-
trol of fruit f1y....D.G.: No data available
regarding the annual consumption of petrol in
aircraft in Australia... .H.H.: Write Les
Wilson, secretary, Amateur Cycling Associa-
tion, Box 35, Auckland, New Zealand
F.M.: There are no colleges of that descrip-
tion in Brisbane. Persons wishing to learn the
trade must serve a five years’ apprenticeship.
A.A.: N.S.W., 207,195 registered motor-
cars (7.62 per 100 of population at June 30,
1938), 305,611 all motor vehicles (11.24 p.c.);
Vic., 144,429 motor-cars (7.74 p.c.), 252,937
all motor vehicles (13*.55 p.c.); Tas., 16,724
motor-cars (7.14 p.c.), 24,948 all motor vehicles
(10.65 p.c.)... .F.L.: Write Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .M.H.: When a State Governor
is present at a function presided over by a
mayor, an address should be prefaced by “Your
Excellency, Mr. Mayor (or Mr. Chairman) and
gentlemen” FI.R.S.N.: Australian salmon
are being canned commercially at Narooma
(N.S.W.) by the Narooma Fish Canning Co.
. ...W.L.H.: A favorite is Flewlett’s Mixture,
which contains pepsin, strychnine and other
drugs considered to benefit digestion and stimu-
late appetite... .8.A.C.: Dentists do not
“copy” extracted teeth by any process of
sculpture; they carefully match them wtith
ready-made artificial teeth. Any given tooth
can be supplied in 30 different shades and
with about 28 modifications in shape. The cost
ranges from £7 7s. upwards, and the teeth are
made of porcelain. The two products called
respectively “Anataform” and “Solarex” have
a wide reputation for their natural appearance.
. ...G.L.: The word “auricular” means “per-
taining to the ear” or “shaped like an ear,” a
description which is not inapposite when applied
to the wings of a butterfly. But Huxley indi-
cates pretty clearly that the writer of the
“poem” used the adjective mainly because he
approved of its sound. ‘The dialogue on the
word “carminative” which follows shows that
Huxley is enjoying himself at the expense of
literary preciosity... .E.L.: There is practically
no demand for hair and it is very unlikely tliai
you can dispose of it; if you receive an in-
quiry, the price is a matter of bargaining. You
could try Supaperm (Aust.), Ltd., 58 Margaret-
street, Miss F. Dickison, 16 Castlereagh-
street, and Madame Granger, 155 King-street,
—all Sydney... .T.O’D.: Battunga, large trees;
Bibbenluke, big lookout; Binalong, towards
the high place; Callemondah, plenty of hills;
Bundaleer, among the hills; Carramar, shade
of trees; Carbeen, shade; Derribong, green
trees; Budgerabong, big trees; Willunga, Wil-
liugga, green trees; Koorawatha, pine-trees;
Pindari, high ground; Quandeine, many large
trees; Yarrunga, tall trees; Yuruga, extensive
view; Kanangra, beautiful view... .K.L.S.:
The inscription, which is in Russian, is trans-
lated thus: “Paul Booreh, purveyor to his
Highness”... .P.F.G.: Adina, good; Alkoomie,
very good; Allambie, quiet place; Amaroo,
beautiful place; Enimonga, Woongarra, Koi-
yong, Koowong, Kundi, Wol Mirang, Mooray,
Oorong, Wahratta, Wybari, Weabra, all mean-
ing camp; Noorla, Tabulam, Wyangari, Lenna,
dwelling; Warrina, place of rest; Wid-din, stop
or remain; Kalang, beautiful; Gwandalan,
rest, quiet; Murrawal, plenty; Mawarra,
pleasant place; Yiada, good; Yourana, loving;
Karingal, happy home... .E.D.G.: The Gov-
ernment Printer, Brisbane, has for sale copies
of the Heavy Vehicles Acts, 1925 to 1931,
and Regulations thereunder, the State Transport
Act of 1932, and the State Transport Regula-
tions, 1933. The operation of a passenger or
goods service in Queensland is subject to the
approval of the State Transport Board, to
which application would have to be made....
E.R.: Apply motor-hood dressing, sold in tins
and procurable at most hardware stores; if
unprocurable in your district, write to Horderns,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney, for sizes and prices:
obtainable in black or clear finish... .L.W.:
(1) Yes, if trespassing without lawful excuse.
He may stop anyone from dumping rubbish on
the land without his permission. (2) Yes. The
council has full power to compel the payment
of rates, and if unpaid has recourse against the
land itself. (3) He should have a plan of the
proposed dwelling made out, preferably by an
architect or builder, and submit it to the council
for its approval. (4) The rights of a landowner
are not specifically set out in any Act of Par-
liament. They are determined by common law
and statutory enactments passed from time to
time... .8.W.: In assessing the amount of a
pensioner’s income for the purpose of deter-
mining the rate of pension, the net income of
the pensioner for 12 months is taken as a basis
for the assessment, except in cases where the
income will not continue at the previous rate.
Applicants when furnishing statements to the
Pensions Department should show gross and
net income from all sources N. 8.: Timbers
suitable for the building of a sailing dinghy
are bollygum, free of sapwood, for planking,
and spotted gum, free of sapwood, for ribs,
stringers, keel and stem. These timbers can
be obtained from most of the larger timber-
yards, but if difficulty is experienced inquiries
should be made from the Division of Wood
Technology, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney.
Boatbuilding fittings can be obtained from any
large hardware firm in Sydney L.V.N.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Department for In-
sects Pests leaflet No. 46, “Ants and Their Con-
trol.”


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
THE
lIMITFn ,NSURA NCE
U 111 ICU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
Australian Institution
t. c. Reynolds'
Asst. Gen. Manager.
SHE WAS X-RAYED
12 TIMES
Tried Electric Treatment for
Rheumatism.
To suffer for five years with pains in the
back ... to be X-rayed 12 times ... to
undergo electric treatment for three years . . .
and then to find that Kruschen was what she
really needed to get relief. That was this
woman’s experience. She writes: —
“Five years ago I was taken ill with pains
in my back. After three weeks in bed I was
sent to hospital. At first spine trouble was
suspected, but after 12 X-rays I was found to
have serious lumbar rheumatism. For over
three years I . was given electrical treatment
three times a week. Last year I tried Kruschen
Salts, and it has done wonders. I have left
off hospital treatment, and last winter, the
first for five years, I was free from pain.
My friends are amazed to see me so well, and
no stick to help me along.”—(Mrs.) E.P.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschen Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid —the cause of those aches
and pains—-and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.
I
No. 125,
THE
'GOONDI'
STOCK
SADDLE
£B/7/-
(MOUNTED)
It has deep
hogskin seat,
kip flaps with
extended
panel points,
wide Vic-
toria facing
and is fawn serge linea.
N.S.W. Rail Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER* STEVENSON CTJ.
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
THE
GILLETTE BLADE
registered
KNOWN THE
STAIN
TE
v 2
i
For years Gillette engineers have grappled with the problem
of how to make tough stainless steel really sharp sharp
enough to maintain the standard established by the world*s
most famous shaving system ... the Gillette blade in the
Gillette razor.
To-day the Stainless Steel Gillette Blade is an accomplished
fact. You can buy your first packet at once and discover
for yourself how smoothly this new blade shaves you.
.. . And remember !.. .No Washing, No Drying, No Rusting.
Damp, steam, water, rust none of these can touch this
wonderful new Gillette. Try it . . . To-day!
fg
OF ALL DEALERS... .MADE IN ENGLAND
2/- per packet of five
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.J.8.: No blister there... .P.G.L.: Tags
spoit it... .D.Macl.: No place for the lopped
Limericks... .L.H.: Could’t catch on to the
something ever gripping” H.R.: Not a bad
dream.... L.J.D.: Call again... .J.McL.: “Ah,
Youth!” Ah, we 11... .R.S.: Better send the
soda... .E. 8.: “Records” broken... .H.M.:
Other vein more successful S.G.J.: Tumble-
down, indeed... .A.S.: Lightweights....
P.H.M.: Bright, but parodies are too easy....
T E.McC.: Flat out for Tonga M.F.A.:
Elsewheria” perhaps C.W.C.: Pedestrian.
T.E.S. and F.MacD.: Close C.W.R.:
Bunkered.... J. 5.8.: That wouldn’t set the
Waikato on fire... .8.W.5.: Keep on having
fiu; it was pleasant medicine A.L.:
Sizzle’ with sausages, but not with foam
J. 8.: No, not suitable.. . .N.A.R.: Can’t see
anyone “commercially utilising” lines such as
muted pals are haunting me” S.P.: Teacher
should have added that “yawned” doesn’t rhyme
with “adorned” 8.W.: Wasn’t “Walt”
Wat? F.W.M.: Not far off... .P.K.: You’re
not the first poet to get a shock on finding
himself up at sunrise... .T.W.H.: Not for us.
... . J.G.M.: A. C. Headley makes a better job
of that sort of thing. V.C.: Nothing in it.
• ■■•L.T.C.: Cut it by half and try a daily
L.P.T.: Don’t like flapper who rolls on the
floor and screams for a new coat D.G.:
“Proposition” not acceptable L.P.R.: Arti-
ficial. .. .N.R.D.: Can’t see what you’re driving
at 0.C.T.: Never heard a swaggie talk like
that. .. .P.R.C.: Your humor is heavy....
L.R.P.: Sooner see one good yarn than a dozen
like those... .L.T.S.: Not for us “The Siren
of Little Wenchup” 8.V.F.: Not up, but
try again... .M.D.S.: Couldn’t pass the third
page... ,N,F.: Write legibly and on one side
of the paper 0n1y... .M.M.T.: No use for
yarns about South American exploration
J.F.D.: “The % Vision Splendid” faded half
way L.F.D.: “Picking Time” not very fruit-
ful... .N.D.C.: Piffle... .K.T.: Material is too
solid for the length 8.R.W.: Dull
P.C.E.: Managed to struggle through it, but
that was a 11... .8.R.D.: A chuckle here and
there... .J.P.: Don’t do it again... .R.F.:
“Sultry and torrid” females leave us cold
L.R.V.: No return for “Chance Investment.”
T.B.N.: Carefully, brother, carefully
T. 8.5.: Resignedly awaiting further contribu-
tions N.R.: Waiting for its return fare.
. ...K.G.D.: You can’t grind your axes here.
G.L.: No, only with view to publication.
L.R.C.: You have a remarkable gift for
writing voluminously about nothing H.C.:
“Friends advised me to send this to you.”
Well, 'they weren’t our friends G.L.: Im-
proving steadily; keep it up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.C.: Study from life P.W.: Reason-
ably neat, nothing more R.M.: Didn’t open
our chequebook 8.L.H.: Tenth-rate imita-
tions of Norman Lindsay and out-of-season
gags... .K.S.: Promising; but draw on a
larger scale S.T.: Showed crooked-faced
barber with the withered arm gently to the door.
A.G.F.: A few more years yet... .P.P.G.:
Sketch not without quality; gag has seen better
days D.W.: Can’t give that deadbeat a
handout... .P.C.: Not for us, but fly it else-
where 8.W.: Arrives just before Christmas
every year; you’re first this time B.B.: The
lad is a trier, but he will need lessons....
T.R.: You’re the first artist of our acquaint-
ance who ever made Billy Hughes six feet high.
O.G.; Tied a bag of quartz around your
deformed prospector and dropped him down
the office we 11... .J.M.: Wash drawings are
the better, though too photographic A.R.:
That rustic is the dead image of a cove who
has been appearing lately in an American
magazine N.F.: Crude, trivial and not
original... .A.J.W.: No kennel for that dog.
... .T.C.: Study hard and let us hear from you
later F.H.P.: Not The Bulletin; but some
temperance paper should jump at it H.F.:
Received six political cartoons, all of them
hackneyed situations, crudely drawn L.R.:
Can’t tell who the old gent, with whiskers is
supposed to be, unless it is Henry Parkes come
back to life J.S.: Tucker-box passable, dog
not so good, dog’s master dreadful... .A.P.':
We have a dismal feeling that now you
have started drawing those wretched freaks
there’ll be no stopping y0u....E.K.: Next
time it rains play ludo instead of turning your
hand to art R.J.H.: Drawing might have
scored with a brighter gag G.T.: Just
slapped together D.C.: Think twice before
you perpetrate any more.
FROM CHINA TO PERU
“In a few years’ time an electric tram
running on rails will be as rare a sight
in England as a hansom cab is in London
to-day.” So said the “Times,” comment-
ing on the fact that the Manchester Cor-
poration “will replace trams by buses,
as the London Passenger Board has
done.” Britons who may yearn to feast
their eyes on trams will be able to see
plenty of the Government variety in
Australia.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Malaria has bumped up
against a new enemy in atabrine, one of
the seemingly endless coal-tar products.
Where there has been intensive use of
the drug, results have been impressive. In
a Georgia (U.S.A.) county in which 80
per cent, of all schoolchildren were in-
fected, the disease was wiped out over
54 miles of country in a single season.
Yet in other parts of the State the
malaria deathrate was 10.9 per 10,000.
Atabrine is taken in pills—three pills per
day for five days. There are none of the
effects of quinine, except that susceptible
people go yellow in the skin for a time.
* * * $
“Dog and Duck”: An unfortunate
contretemps upset the world’s shove-ha’-
penny championship in London. One
of the players in the final was making
what might have been the winning shot
when a flashlight bulb exploded—an
army of press photographers was present
—putting him off. He claimed another
shot, but this was refused, and his oppo-
nent won the title. There was much feel-
ing among backers of the loser, and it
was felt that the Asso-
ciation should be asked to exclude photo-
graphers in future from such important
fixtures.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungsiarter”: An unexpected
feature of the war crisis was an unpre-
cedented boom in English rural residen-
tial properties. Two days after matters
began to look really serious there was
not a house to let within 50 miles of
the furthest western outskirts of London,
and the most dilapidated of laborers’
cottages from Berks to Hunts were being
bought at competitive prices. A day or
two later the competition had extended
to the West Country, and even to Scot-
land. Counties eastward of London were
comparatively little affected, evidently
owing to the fear that they would be in
the line of attacking aircraft, also of
shell fragments from anti-aircraft fire.
Another evidence of the seriousness with
which the position was popularly re-
garded is the fact that the entire
stock of new and second-hand motor
caravans held by London dealers was
cleared out, and manufacturers were
snowed under with rush orders for more.
* * * ?
Just when the Japanese were closing
on Hankow, a dispatch from Edgar Snow
reached Sydney by air mail from the
doomed city. It announced that “an
International Brigade,” modelled on the
wonderful Communist formation in
Spain, was about to “play an important
part in the defence of Hankow.”
Wataru-Kaji, famous proletarian writer,
and Aoyama believe that the mere presence
of the International Brigade will have
a serious demoralising effect on the Japanese
troops. The shock of hearing anti-mili-
tarist slogans shouted to them in their
own language and reading anti-imperialist
literature, which the brigade is preparing
in large quantities, is likely to weaken the
Japanese conscripts’ will to fight.
Edgar Snow is one of the blatant push
of American reporters who have been
stalking through Europe and Asia boom-
ing Reds everywhere and issuing pro-
phecies which events have made prepos- j
terous. Acres of their rubbish have been
printed in Australia, and the cocksure
books some of them have written have
been quoted as if they were standard
works.


“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in M.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
f
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fane}, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
"IT'S A WINNER I"
son THOUSANDS OF NEW USERS ABOUT
PEPSODENT containinq IRIUM
Thousands of NEW users say “Pepsodent’s a
winner!” They know now that brilliance and
lustre CAN be restored to dull, surface-stained
teeth, by the regular use of Pepsodent containing
IRIUM. Because of this wonderful new cleansing
discovery, Pepsodent will do it pleasantly,
thoroughly and SAFELY! Because of IRIUM,
it needs NO SOAP, NO GRIT, NO PUMICE! Try
it yourself today, and SEE how Pepsodent gives
you a naturally sparkling smile!
AU 1038/24J THE PEPSODENT co (aust.) pit. ltd (incorporated in victoria?
gf
ON
t vo i wo n o o a «
T/murd dwsunp
JISVd HlOOl
a h i.
\af
s i a 1 1 $ -/Z
SHI
1
iNiaosdad
HOLLWAY, MILLANE
AND OTHERS
BY “CHEVROFORD.”
HOLLWAY, the Victorian M.L.A.,
was echoing a popular fallacy
when he held forth on the
oppression of the motorist
(B. 26/10/’3B)—he said that person was
weighed down by the mass of legal
enactments passed concerning him. The
motorist is no more burdened by the
laws than is the non-motoring citizen,
The average citizen knows nothing
about the laws except that he must not
steal, bear false witness, and so on and
so forth. With this simple equipment,
999 persons out of 1000 manage to steer
a course through life without ever having
a policeman say a harsh word against
them or seeing the inside of a law court,
If Mr. Hollway doesn’t believe this, let
him ask his friends and relations how
many times they have had to suffer the
rigors of the laws through ignorance.
The thousandth individual gets into
trouble because he wants to get into it.
He wants to break the laws because he
thinks he is being victimised by them,
In short, he is reacting against society,
whereas the vast majority react for it.
Recall the case of Rupert Millane.
Millane started to put up a dwelling of
kerosene tins filled with concrete in a
Melbourne suburb. It might have turned
out to be a perfectly good building, but
it contravened council regulations, and
an injunction was taken out.
Millane went to law about it. In the
course of the next few years he had be-
come the author of some 400 writs,
warrants, summonses, caveats and other
legal processes, and the cause of the law
issuing an equal or larger number. His
affairs occupied Courts, Judges, jurymen
and policemen to such an extent that
in the end Parliament brought down a
special law making Millane’s access to
justice subject to the discretion of Judges.
In the process Millane gained such an
impressive knowledge of the, laws that he
could argue on a basis of equality with
the most learned counsel. On one
occasion I heard him put a magistrate
into such a pickle that his Washup ad-
journed the case in desperation.
One morning when the taxi men turned
up on their rank in Queen-street they
found Millane had staked out a mining
claim under some Act he had been study-
ing. There were more writs and sum-
monses. Then he appeared as sponsor
of a line of buses running on a route
declared by authority to be unauthorised,
_ .u i u■ . a
Once more the law machinery started
. j.
grinding
Something was obviously biting Millane
and making him believe he was a martyr.
The only way he could have been pre-
vented from fighting society was for
society to find out what was biting him.
But the laws don’t concern themselves
with these fundamentals, and that is why
legal enactments tend merely to multiply
offences. If Mr. Hollway had argued
with his fellow-Parliamentarians along
these lines he would have been doing
something constructive. But his idea is
that the Ministry should draw up a
simplified code for motorists,
So it should ; but the simplest code
would still be broken by some people,
In Victoria there are three simple traffic
signals for motorists and not one in a
million knows all three of them. Mosi
make one serve for t e ot, wit t e
result that one motorist following another
i»uu ui<u uu &'
never knows, when the man ahead puts
his hand whether he is going to turn
tQ the right? turn to the left or draw up
alongsidc t he pavement. Probably he is
nQt going to do any of them, but is
knocking the ash off a cigarette, point-
j n g out the scenery to a fair companion
or feeling if it is raining,
It is much the same with laws in
general.
A MIXED GRILL.
“S.”: Dead in Melbourne at 66, Hugh
Linaker has left a memorial to himself
in the Shrine of Remembrance environs,
which he designed and supervised. Vic-
toria’s leading landscape gardener, he
was criticised for making a waste
of the Domain where the Shrine stands,
but as Nature takes a hand his
design begins to be seen in better
perspective. His handiwork is also
to be seen in the model township
of Yallourn, Yarra Bend National Park,
the Yarra Boulevard and half a hundred
other parks and gardens, including the
grounds of all the State’s mental asylums.
sfc * #
“Dick Tafone”: Are Queenslanders
more forgetful than citizens of other
States, or is the same large collection of
forgotten false teeth retrieved weekly
from railway carriages south of 28?
Thermos flasks, umbrellas, suitcases, even
prams, one can understand, but complete
upper and lower sets of shop fangs should
surely be missed by even the sleepiest
traveller who gets out of one of Mr.
Dash’s caravans in the early dawn. And,
even if forgotten then, how do they
manage to stay forgotten for ever after?
A large proportion is never claimed, and
as buyers at the four-monthly auction
sales are scarce the department has a
large amount of old-model stock on its
hands.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The American footfault
fuss has set the N.S.W. tennis heads hunt-
ing suggestions for eradicating it. I
have long thought of an idea —it is on
offer gratis—that the back foot of the
server be held in a trap behind the base-
line and released by a string in the hands
of a careful observer the moment the
racquet makes contact with the ball. Net-
rushers might lose a fraction of a second
in their gallop for the twine, but it would
make little difference to back-court
players, and in any case would be fair
for all.
!(»
“Golden Mile”: The awed admiration
with which the average Big City citizen
regards the hookman on some construc-
tion job as he floats serenely 50ft. to
100 ft. above the pavement makes me
smile. Use is everything. Unnumbered
times I and. hundreds of other miners
have stepped casually from the surface
brace across a foot or more of space
on to the thin rim of a rope-suspended
kibble, and then been lowered (dropped
would be a better word) anything to
1000 ft. Similarly, old-time shaftmen
thought nothing of sitting in a primitive
bos’n’s-chair and then voyaging down
anything to 2500 ft. One simply didn’t
dwell on the black abyss beneath and
what would happen if one even momen-
tarily loosened one’s grip of the rope.
But for a really windy job give me the
time when it was decided at a big
Boulder mine to add 15ft. to the top of
poppet legs already 110 ft. high—and with
haulage operations going on all the time.
That was some thrill, when the 10ft.
winding drums whipped up the 30cwt.
skips at a speed of 30 m.p.h. The vibra-
tion and side swing were terrific. But
the real irritation was the way that tools
and bolts threatened constantly to slide
off on to the heads of persons beneath.
# # ❖ %
“Pawang”: “Vieux Marcheur” (B.
19/10/’3B) couldn’t believe that a French
chef in Melbourne served up fox as
veal. Perhaps he will have less diffi-
culty with this one. In my district in
Victoria I often see huge yellow, bilious-
looking fungi almost as big as cartwheels
growing by the roadside. No animal eats
them, or they would not flourish in such
magnificence, and no local cook, to my
knowledge, has ever attempted to make
a dish of them. Recently the proprietor
of an Italian caf6 I frequent in Mel-
bourne turned up on my property with
a basket of them. They smelt atrocious
and looked awful. But he offered to
cook them for us, and, having brought
the necessary ingredients, in half an hour
he served up a dish which was nicer than
the orthodox white mushroom of com-
merce. He told us that he habitually
makes dishes of 20 or more other
varieties which are, round here, con-
sidered loathsome or lethal.
* * * *
No musician has a higher prestige in
Melbourne than pianist Edward Goll,
who is a Czech. A pupil of Emil Sauer,
who was a pupil of Liszt, Goll was
accompanist to Kubelik in a European
youth, and before he was 15 gave up-
wards of 100 pianoforte recitals in Eng-
land and the Continent. In Australia
he became the friend and musical asso-
ciate of Verbrugghen in the height of
that lamented conductor’s great career.
* * * *
“Methuselah”: Whist was as stately a
game as was the minuet a dance; it
beguiled the long evening hours for our
forebears in a day when amusements out-
side the home circle were few and far
between. Card sense alone made the
good player ; no words were spoken or
cards exposed to indicate the contents
of other hands. With this century came
bridge. As played in 1938, it is not as
good as whist. The Culbertsons have
turned what was once a pleasant pastime
into a tedious maze of conventions. A
good partner to-day is not he with the
highly developed card-sense, but the one
who knows all the rules; even then it is
necessary that he should favor the school
beloved of his partner —and the systems
are legion, and growing with the months.
Bidding has reached a . stage where the
indications given by ever-changing con-
ventions amount to cheating from the
old-fashioned whist-player’s point of
view. The revival of the whist drive
would delight thousands.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Competition
has been awarded to a Sydney man, whose argument is that Australians ought to
see more of Australia.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
What Do They Know of Australia?
Very few Australians can speak with
any basis of knowledge on national prob-
lems because the great mass of the people
know litfte about their country other than
their immediate environs. Only men
who follow seasonal occupations such as
harvesting and shearing move about, and
their number is dwindling. High cost of
fares and accommodation is the bar that
stops most people, especially the young,
from travelling extensively in Australia.
Some attempt is being made to provide
cheap travel, but it is not enough. Means
should be found whereby Australians
can see, not their own State, but their
own country.
The average city family, on holiday,
goes to some handy seaside or mountain
resort. Youngsters crowd the guest-
houses. How many New South Welsh
have seen Mildura, the Goulburn Valley,
Melbourne, Gippsland, Bendigo, Adel-
aide, Perth, the jarrah forests, Tasmanian
mines, Queensland’s tropic areas, a cattle
station, the Barrier mines? This applies
to people in all other States. They should
see, and understand, these things if they
are to have a national outlook and be
saved from the mentality engendered by
the flapper press and the talkie. This is a
continent we have, not a suburban street
or a small farming town, and only by
travelling about it can we begin to appre-
ciate that. Here is a chance for the
Australian National Travel Association
to justify itself. — The O.D. (N.S.W.).
“The 0.D.” gets the £3 3s. plus 2|d.
per line. He is C. Shaw, Vaucluse,
Sydney.
The Public Service Question
Apropos once more of the public ser-
vice question, isn’t the following example
typical of the whole situation?
Recently I spent some time on one of
the largest stations of western N.S.W.
Forty-seven thousand merinos, averaging
111 b. of wool per sheep, passed over the
board. Yet the folk on that station joined
in the usual moan against the p.s.
Returning to Sydney I played bridge
in the luxurious home of a brilliant
mathematician—a most eminent public
servant. During the evening the afore-
said wool clip was mentioned, and imme-
diately there arose a comparison between
the two sets of conditions. The balance
of attractiveness and gain in the mind of
Mr. P.S. and his family certainly lay
with the woolgrower.
Isn’t it just the old case of the other
fellow’s garden looking better in our
eyes? And aren’t we all just a bit envious
of each other? — Would-be (N.S.W.).
“A.R.P.”
Muddling through? Don’t you believe
it! I went with some other Aussies on
that memorable Wednesday of the last
week in September to a depot near
Berkeley Square, London, to get my gas
mask.
There was a long queue of people, all
sorts and conditions, from the lady and
gentleman who arrived in their Rolls-
Royce to the scared little “tiny” with his
worried-looking mother. The queue
never ceased to move along, with the aid
of a cheerful soul (of the 1914 vintage
I would say) who raised many a smile
on a day when smiles were few and far
between.
Inside, courteous and efficient persons
directed us in the first place to a room
where cards, setting out our names and
present addresses, were quickly filled by
A.R.P. workers. We then passed into
another room where the masks were
fitted and our cards rubber-stamped as
to sizes we should need. We left the build-
ing by another door and joined a second
queue, filing into a room where the
masks were in groups in accordance with
their sizes ; we handed in our cards and
received the masks. All over in less than
five minutes —no fuss and no bother.
It was the same everywhere: the
organisation was perfect. It was origi-
nated by the civil service and carried out
by it and the different local authori-
ties with the aid of volunteers. Of the
"You haven't seen our navy about , have you ?”
last-named one can’t say enough in
praise.
Although I know their counterparts
exist in Australia, and indeed wherever
Britons congregate, I envied a country
with a civil service and local authorities
that could think nationally and work
quickly without that awful strangulation
of forms and regulations which, even in
these parts, is earning for Australian
methods an unenviable name.— Forbes
McGee (London).
A Fair Tax
A really fair tax would be one im-
posed on pushbike riders. Motorists
in many ways—petrol, registration,
licenses —pay to keep State road§ in good
condition, and yet thousands of cyclists
use these roads all the time without pay-
ing a penny towards their upkeep. A
five-shilling registration or a half-crown
tax on every bike-tyre sold would rake in
a fair amount to serve a good purpose.
—Austin McCallum (Vic.).
Encourage the Volunteers
Since defence has become popular with
our Governments these last few weeks,
and there is talk of compulsory train-
ing, cannot something be done for the
lads who have worked faithfully and well
in the ranks of the voluntary citizen
force?
Some of these boys have for years
attended the drill-halls regularly when
there has been no official encouragement
given. Though they have had the mini-
mum of training, they have risen to be
corporals and higher.
When new defence expenditure is con-
sidered, these boys should be considered,
too. Many of them are in factory posi-
tions requiring unskilled labor. Why
cannot they be sent to Duntroon and
trained in the very walk of life they have
singled out for themselves? There is
far too much snobbery in our tiny force
now; students “from the ranks” would
do a great deal to stamp it out.
Money spent on hon. members’ salary
rises could pay for their lodgings, and a
definite asset would be produced.—
Joyce Martin Skinner (N.S.W.).
Workers’ Shares
The road to a better, happier land is
pointed out plainly by a very prosaic
finger in the shape of sections 165-168 of
the N.S.W. Companies Act of 1936, re-
ferring to workers’ shares.
Briefly, these sections give to com-
panies the power to issue to employees
special shares, having no nominal value,
being not transferable and entitling the
workers to share in the profits of the
company.
Holders of these workers’ shares may
attend and vote at shareholders’ meetings,
and, subject to certain conditions, enjoy
all the privileges of other shareholders.
It is self-evident that if all companies
were to issue these shares most of the
just demands of labor would be satisfied.
Give to the worker a more equitable
share of the wealth created by the joint
effort of Capital and Labor and most of
our industrial and economic troubles
would disappear.
Large aggregations of capital, increas-
ing by their mere economic weight and
crushing the small economic unit to the
detriment of the national welfare, will
have to be tackled sooner or later.
When he has a real financial interest in
the profits earned by his company the
worker will co-operate with efficiency and
loyalty.
It is out of date to object to workers’
shares with the argument that while the
employee would partake of profits he
would not contribute when losses appear.
Hard times hit the worker hardest. The
loss of his job generally means the loss
of his all; why shouldn’t he share in
the fruits of prosperity?— F. Bradley
(N.S.W.).
The Reign of the Pannikin Boss
Recent history shows that some men—
great in their own way—can’t be trusted
near a basket of eggs with a big stick in
their hands. They simply itch to make a
big splash. But there are many others,
not so great, who get just as drunk with
power.
The depression has put an economic
stick in the hands of pannikin bosses the
world over, and it is both tragic and
amusing to see how they brandish it.
Millions of mere grafters, compelled to
hang on to their jobs with both hands,
have to submit to a petty tyranny that
makes their work a long-drawn misery.
Bullocking is the order of the day, not
because it is necessary but because the
drivers know that the dumb-driven cattle
dare not answer back.
Sabre-rattling and whip-cracking cccie
from the same source—human vanity—
and many a contented wage-earner be-
comes a soured Communist under the
continual bullying, blaming the whole
“capitalistic system” for what is only a
local irritation. That he would stick
out his chest just as far if he got the
chance does not alter the fact, but rather
goes to prove it.
The real quart-pot bosses would get
better service and keep their employees
in a more contented frame of mind if
they saw to it that there was less blar-
ing and more tact used in driving their
teams.
It has been proved that operatives
work much more efficiently under good
conditions as regards light and air. They
would just as certainly work more
pleasantly and profitably if they had not
to swallow so much lip, and were not
so continually humiliated by one of their
mates who happens to be dressed in a
little brief authority.— Bawbee (S.A.).
A Permanent Military Camp
At the present time most people are
concerned about the weakened state of
Australia’s militia. Compulsory training
—which has its drawbacks has been
suggested (B. 12/10/’3B) as one way of
increasing the numbers and efficiency of
our army; but, to my mind, a far better
method would be by the establishment
of a permanent military camp.
Thousands of Australian youths would
jump at the opportunity of spending
from three to six months in such a camp,
and not only would it raise them well
above compulsory-training standard, but
on their return to civilian life they would
be able to fill specialists’ jobs and per-
form other important duties in the
militia.
Another advantage would be that Aus-
tralia would always have a comparatively
large body of trained men under arms.
—R. F. (Vic.).
Freedom of the Press
We are proud of the conditions under
which we live within the British Empire,
and particularly so as regards freedom
of speech and freedom of the press. I think
it is open to discussion whether absolute
freedom of the press is to-day a good
thing in the interests of the Empire and
the world at large. In recent years, and
more so during the last months, the press
has undoubtedly been detrimental to the
well-being of our Empire. News-
papers have made a specialty of foster-
ing hate and dissension among the
nations. They have been feeding us on
poisonous lies for months past, and done
their damnedest to work up a European
war-scare.
It might be a good thing if all news
regarding international questions were
subject to severe censorship. Had this
been done lately I feel sure the recent
crisis would not have been such a touch-
and-go. When the nation is engaged in
war all papers are censored ; but would
it not be better to censor beforehand and
save a possible war from eventuating?
This might be the means of cleansing the
newspapers and bringing them back to the
days when they were respected by all.—•
M. K. (N.S.W.).
Developing the North
When considering development of
North Australia more recognition might
be given to the worthy part the aboriginal
and half-caste natives could play in solv-
ing labor problems and helping in the
development of the country, the main
pursuit of which is grazing and the labor
required mostly for stock-work, for
which the black and half-caste are emi-
nently suited. These colored people are
accustomed to the climate and the lone-
liness, and inured to hard conditions;
also, it is their country, and they do not
feel the pull to temperate climes or long
for the amenities of city life.
The Queensland department which ad-
ministers native affairs recognises the
possibilities of the colored people, and
.the policy is to make every native a use-
ful citizen and an asset to the State. On
many missions church and Government
work out this policy in very close co-
operation. One example of its success
may be seen at Mapoon Mission, Gulf of
Carpentaria, where there are native-built
churches, neatly and strongly erected, of
adzed and pitsaw timber; stockyards
built by unsupervised native men which
for fitting, mortising and standard of
bushwork would compare with station-


yards anywhere, and where natives attend
to mustering, branding and breaking, or
handle a rough horse with consummate
skill
There are men who sail the boats
and effect repairs neatly and capably ;
there are women who have carried on
the school of 80 children for considerable
periods in the absence of a white teacher
and kept it at a high standard ; other
women do all mission sewing and excel-
lent crochet work, while others can turn
on a clean, well-cooked and daintily-
served meal. r *
We learn by doing, and the policy of
missionaries here has been to let the
native, both full-blood and half-caste, do
all the work, the missionary giving essen-
tial leadership and instruction. The result
is a large number of native people who
are capable, responsible, self-respecting
and useful, people who can turn their
hands to any work requiring to be done
among stock or about a station.
R. McL. (Q.).
“Go on the Land!” How?
Two letters (B. 14/9/’3B) interest by
the fact of their contradictions: one, by
“Sago,” deserving a pat on the back for
its presentation of the facts ; the other,
by “B. Cubbin,” which says “go on the
land, young man ; you don’t need ex-
perience or money.” That’s rot.
The labor market is full of young
chaps willing to go on the land who can
get no land to go on.
Take a look at the ballots. Four and
five thousand applicants in for the one
block. Certainly the Government will
help when you are on the land. But if
“B. Cubbin” knows some way for young
chaps to get on, there are three or four
of us here with experience and only too
willing to try. .
So come on, “B. Cubbin ; its up to
you. — Jackeroo (Q.).
Why Not the Bright Side, Too?
What is in the other fellow’s mind?
Well, I’ll tell you: “Gloom” —and I’ll
tell you why. _ „
Listen to the “news” per the A.8.C.,
and if you hear one cheerful or com-
forting item the drinks will be on me.
Are Australians only getting mur-
dered, run over, drowned and having
their houses burned down, robbed and
so on? I don’t believe it, you don’t
believe it!
I worked in Australia House during
the war, and the Australians who came
there to have their Australian domicile
established proved to me that they were
a fairly alive lot. They came from
almost every part of the world to London
to join the A.1.F.; that wasn’t possible,
but they did not want to be made to join
the British army, so they claimed Aus-
tralian domicile.
Australia is still producing men of that
type. Let other Australians know about
them before they get run over, knocked
down, etc.—in short, let our virtues have
a bit of an airing now and again.
I went to the Arts and Crafts Exhibi-
tion in Melbourne and saw a rock
garden displayed by a Digger—a wonder-
ful job. A much-travelled lady said she
didn’t know that there was a man in
Australia capable of doing that class of
work ; outside the Chelsea flower show
(London), she hadn’t seen better.
Two Melbourne papers said nothing ;
one passed it off with one line. —H. C. P.
(Vic.).
Schooling the Brilliant
Queensland has opportunity schools,
where pupils who are backward because
their mentality is either stunted or
warped from some unfortunate cause, are
given special and individual training. In
many cases this special care develops
them so that they catch up to the
standards of normal children, and they
rejoin the ordinary schools. In other
cases natural aptitudes are discovered
and developed, so that the children be-
come useful, and consequently happy,
citizens.
There was a suggestion that the un-
usually brilliant pupils should also be
drafted to special schools where they
might go ahead, under favored con-
ditions, to reach heights of learning that
might be of great value to the com-
munity ; but this idea was discouraged
by the chief inspector on the grounds
that such schools would give further
occasion for snobbery, and that the
brilliant ones, after their cloistered
training, would be of little practical use
in the hard, cold world!
The rough and tumble of a big public
school does seem to be a fair prepara-
tion for life —as we mugs live it—but
it is still too much a system by which
youngsters are taught to'fit into the social
machine like good little cogs, and not
give any trouble. Couldn’t a few bright
sparks be trained and encouraged to
give plenty of trouble —to brush away
the cobwebs of useless conventions which
are suffocating our civilisation, to scotch
the spiders of lust, fear, ignorance, sen-
sationalism, materialism which are spin-
ning new webs about us?
Such men as Jenghiz Khan, Napoleon
and Martin Luther were great in spite of
the efforts made to restrain them. How
much more successful, then, could be
the efforts of the right men, trained and
encouraged to be enlightened rebels!
Aerogenes (Q.).
War Complex
“Thank God it’s all over! But I still
think Chamberlain crawled down to
Hitler.” This is typical of expressions I
have heard in the past few weeks.
Relieved though the world was at the
conclusion of the Munich agreement, the
fact still remains that many people were
disappointed because there was no war!
One young woman actually remarked
to my sister: “How lovely it must be for
a man to go to war and come back
knowing he had done his duty! ”
Such morbid sentimentalism can only
be the product of a thrill-crazed mind.
Nevertheless, twisted thoughts beget
twisted deeds, and the sooner the man
(and woman) in the street realises the
importance of “right-thinking” the better
it will be for this world of ours.' —
Dougal (W.A.).
Useless State Parliaments
The abolition of our useless State Par-
liaments has been consistently advocated
by The Bulletin, and although most
people in the Commonwealth are en-
thusiastically behind the proposal-
excepting, of course, the politicians and
the small army of public servants who
would thereby lose their jobs—very little
thought has been given as to what would
be the best form of government to be
instituted in place of our present system.
My suggestion is that when abolition
does take place —and 1 hope that it won’t
be long delayed—the present method of
election to the Federal Parliament be
retained without the addition of further
members.
Secondly, that the States be governed
by a commission of not more than eight
members, comprising two engineers, two
accountants, two successful farmers and
two representatives of the Australian in-
dustrial unions. Thirdly, that the coun-
try towns and shires be governed on the
same principle as the States, only instead
of having eight on the commission the
number be halved, making four mem-
bers on each country commission.
By this means we would ensure that
practical builders, financiers, farmers and
workers would have charge of our affairs
in the States and run them on a real
businesslike footing ; the politicians re-
maining at Canberra would have to toe
the line and do some real work, other-
wise they would share the same fate as
their little brothers in the States. The
money we would save by sacking our
600 superflous politicians and abolish-
ing our conglomeration of equally super-
fluous boards would enable us to pay our
businesslike commissioners a decent
salary that would place them beyond the
clutches of grafting job-seekers and con-
tractors.—Jim Sweeney (Q.).
Bounties for Quality Only
Barely a session goes by in any of our
Parliaments without the introduction of
some bill or amendment to help the
primary producer. Politicians trip round
the globe after trade for him. To pay
for all this munificence, the man who is
not a farmer has to accept additional im-
posts and higher prices, yet he has no
say in respect to quality.
I am all for helping the man on the
land to help himself, but for my palate’s
sake, and his popket’s, give us some
quality. With every bill to assist him, with
every bounty or tariff, the Government
should stipulate the grade of goods for
home consumption. Look at the prices
we have to pay for inferior beef and
mutton, vegetables, fruit, flour, bread,
milk and greasy butter. The best market
is going to be right here in our towns
and cities, and the only way to improve
consumption is to improve quality. It
is futile to complain about poor con-
sumption of meat, butter, milk, eggs, etc.,
at monopoly prices. To make us an A 1
nation give us good food at reasonable
prices, and farmers will have little cause
to complain about disposal of their pro-
duce. —A. Wood (N.S.W.).
Beating Soil Erosion
In Australian wheat districts where
soil erosion is serious, perennial wheat
should be given a trial.
Russian and American plant-breeders
have made great progress with perennial
wheat, which will yield for several sea-
sons without resowing. It is not necessary
to fallow land for each crop of peren-
nial wheat, and little cultivation is
necessary once the plants are established.
Therefore, the soil is not disturbed, and
the roots of the plants bind the soil and
prevent erosion.
Departments of Agriculture and the
C.S. and I.R. would be doing this country
a service if they began trials with peren-
nial wheat. Tests under Australian con-
ditions may reveal other uses to which
perennial wheat could be put. If it is
developed to the same extent as our
present wheats, it will be of great im-
portance, as less working of the soil
means lower cost of production—a vital
necessity these days. — James Mahoney
(N.S.W.).
Migration
Why all this assisted migration to Aus-
tralia? Is there something lacking in us
that we have to buy people with which to
populate our country? What is wrong
with the country that we must pay them
to come here?
It has taken us 150 years to evolve an
individual Australian character, so that
surely we should strive to cherish it by
increasing our own birthrate.
How many other countries in the world
increase their population by migration?
None. Should the money allotted for
assisted passages be placed toward mar-
riage and baby bonuses, and a bachelor-
tax imposed, the result would be surpris-
ing. This plan is successful elsewhere,
so why not here? Assist the married
people to assist the country by keeping
up the national character.
Of what value to Australia is a migrant
who cannot afford to bring himself out
here? Perhaps of military use, but of
none commercially.
Failing that, must the influx of
Southern Europeans be endured? These
people live on practically nothing, spend
nothing and do not mix with the Aus-
tralians in any way. The majority never
even learn to speak English, their children
do not attend our schools and do not be-
come naturalised unless there is some
threat of a war in their home country,
as was recently witnessed.
Must we become a cosmopolitan race
because Mr. Hughes is the only one who
encourages us to be fathers and mothers?
If so, Australia will be a different place
another 150 years hence. — Dinky Di
(N.S.W).
Defence
The present provisions and proposals
for Australian defence by concentrating
the best of the big guns and most of the
air force in Victoria, Tasmania and the
south of W.A. seem to contemplate the
possibilities of potential attack from the
direction of the South Pole. Queensland,
to protect its 2000 miles of coastline, has
two 6in. guns and the promise of aero-
planes. It has been indicated that the
’planes and their service workshop will be
located at or about Brisbane. I suggest
that these —if to be in southern Queens-
land —would be better 80 miles inland at
Toowoomba. An aerodrome on the
coast could be bombed in a few minutes
by a machine launched from a hostile
raiding vessel, which would not have
such a good chance of success if it had
to travel 80 miles inland and return.
Instead of spending a million on a
cruiser, I would build a mosquito
fleet of, say, 100 steel motor-boats,
approximately 30ft. long by 6ft.
beam and showing no more than
about 3ft. above water-line. Into the
hull and right down on the keel there
would be built a cylinder containing a
charge equivalent to that of a torpedo,
with percussion detonator in the nose.
Power would be provided by a petrol
motor at the stern sufficient to drive the
craft at a minimum of'2o miles an hour,
aiming it to strike at near as possible to
the centre oL an enemy vessel. A crew
of two could run the engine and steer,
and remain under bullet-proof cover till
they slipped over the stern, having fixed
the rudder when 100 yards or 150 yards
from the target. Lifebelts would keep
them afloat till picked up by a . following
boat. There would be no lack of sport-
ing lads to form a suicide squad to man
such a fleet. — Dad (Q.).
Live and Let Live
Now that the European nations have
decided on peace and not war, is not the
way clear for a wider outlook in inter-
national affairs than ever before?
Competent authorities have asserted tne
fact that there are 27 vital necessities
for the happiness and well-being ot a
nation. Of these the British Empire pos-
sesses 18, Germany eight, Japan ve.
It is the duty of the leaders of every
nation to endeavor to obtain these neces-
sft£s for their people. To proem*i them
they must first obtain money. They have
only one way—by trading. Hence the
main cause of war —markets to obtain
money for the things they can produce
and cannot sell at home, that they may
buy the things they want.
Assuming that, coincident with a
failure in the German harvest, France
produces more than sufficient for her
own needs, under the present practice
France debates whether it will burn this
surplus or utilise it in the manufacture
of munitions to slay humanity. Why not
give it to Germany?
This is one example—there are many.
Could not an international commis-
sion be constituted to deal with a fair
distribution of the bounty of this earth
to prevent nations warring with one an-
other? What is to prevent it? The
economic system, perhaps? Then was the
economic system made tor humanity or
humanity for the economic system?—
J. T. Oller (W.A.).
“Why Should 1 Go?”
During the recent hullabaloo I was
asked on several occasions, as a returned
soldier, what my attitude would be in
regard to again becoming an active-
service volunteer. It was a very difficult
question to answer. If it is conceded
that the issue is the continuation of
enjoyment of a comparatively free
democracy, sans guns, massed parades,
and huge military reviews, etc., then my
sentiments are along the following lines
of universal service for all: —■’
Conscription of all industry, productive
property and man-power.
At the outbreak of war, value of all in-
ventories, stock-in-trade, etc., and balances at
the banks to become frozen “for the duration.”
Issue of a special war-time currency immediately
for the conduct of business. Cancellation of
all gain and profit through war during its cur-
rency.
A concentration camp on a no-work-no-
grub” basis would take care of the “what's-thc-
use” species.
With the conclusion of hostilities and the
signing of peace, the war-time currency to be
cancelled, inventories to be adjusted, bank
balances released and business resumed “as
you were.”
The only persons to receive a re-eslabhsh-
ment gratuity from the country to be those men
and women who left their civil occupations
and went on active service, taking as it were
the greatest physical risks of loss of life or per-
manent injury.
We should not need, swastikas and
massed parades to enable us to realise
the privilege of living within the British
Empire.—B. E. F. (Q.).
Truth and Tradition
Having read The Bulletin for over 20
years, and in places as wide apart as
Invercargill and Klondyke, as Boulia
and Bourlon Wood, I think the idea that
has impressed me most from its pages is
one from Professor Murdoch when he
wrote that whatever Australian education
did he hoped it would produce a student
who would honestly seek the truth, no
matter how unpalatable that might be.
The Manchester “Guardian” once
called the Anzacs “the greatest storm
troops in the world” ; and I would like
to examine how their pugnacity was
developed. We know they “fought not
for flag nor King nor Emperor” ; most
Diggers might brush the question aside
by saying “For the kids.” However,
years ago someone referred to the doings
of the Kelly gang as “unfortunate inci-
dents in our history which should be for-
gotten.” But the Australian boy refuses
to forget. In every part of this country
and in Maoriland I have been delighted
to be halted by juvenile would-be Neds
pointing their toy pistols at me with
“Stand i Bail up and produce! ”
The sight of an escaped Ned Kelly
coming back through a cordon of armed
troopers to fight and die for his mates—
was there ever a finer cobber? He was
as straight as a gunbarrel and as unbend-
ing as Doyle’s “Private of the Buns to
. the inevitable finish. It is an evil of any
education system if truth has to be found
out surreptitiously.
Around the Anzacs there is a new
glory being woven. Why hide the fact
that a bushman blew a light out in
Jerusalem when he was told it had been
burning for 2000 years, or that Bull
Ryrie’s cook, when, at the conclusion or
an English hunt, he was presented with
the trophy of the day, was so disgusted
with the snobbery and conventions
that he immediately carried it to his lord-
ship’s chef ? King Albert gave the
Anzacs the freedom of Brussels. It was
a unique distinction, and he wept as
he spoke to them. He might have wept
again also when, in the main street of the
city, hardly a wheel dared to move lest it
kill one of the inebriated “gods of Gal-
lipoli.” Men who had been the point ot
the spear in a valiant attack were now
suddenly informed the war was over and
they got drunk. They were human,
after all.
Some day Murdoch’s Australians may
be produced in large numbers. They will
make a stir in the world. —Opihi (Q-l


3*
tSr
a
HI
s
* v
ii
.7
m
r
i
(ITCdUuirfs
Scots (Übisk^
tAMMIM ( f**-»«« '!«/»••••'
his masterpiece is (Perfection,
{he spirit he always serves.
(P c CaUuro’s
x aajsfy a-
/w4msw u %^
IN*'
w
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GQLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gf
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
name
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance
The World Is Yours
Stories by “Kodak”
Pearls of Papua C o '^
Blue North
Jungfrau i*
•V « 0 &
Karangi
#
/
&
jfp
V 66
*9>
0*
# ss
.. • *
o'* 1 ?»
0,.^/


MILLIONS STARVING
MINERALS ALE NEEDED BY
FVERY CELL IN
YOUR BODY.
CALCIUM
(HEART, TEETH, BLOOD,
I BONES, NERVES
.PHOSPHORUS
(BRAIN, GLANDS,
{ BLOOD
FERRUM
( BLOOD
POTASSIUM
{ MUSCLE, BLOOD
.SODIUM
\ [blood
g
BIDOMAK
contains them ail ...in
an easily assimilated
a pre-dissolved liquid form
ON 3 SQUARE MEALS A DAY
Terrible Diet Deficiency of Vital Food Minerals!
Amazing discoveries of Modern Medicine strike
at root of NERVE TROUBLES.
BENEFIT GUARANTEED
OR YOU PAY NOTHING
is Offer made by Discoverer of
B/DOMAM
“The lonic of the Century
MILLIONS are starving on three square meals a day! That may seem a strange
statement, but it is a true one. Due to over-refinement, many modern foods
are short of vital mineral substances. Without these minerals the blood becomes
impoverished . . . nerve cells and tissues are starved . , . perfect health is impossible.
Why? Because hard work, worry, over-indulgence drain the natural supply of
minerals from our bodies. When our food does not replace them, we become ill. All
the following nerve and constitutional troubles are caused by Mineral Starvation.
Read How Bidomak
has Benefited Sufferers
from many Complaints
"I FELT I WAS DYING BY
DEGREES"
1 was in bed for three months. The doctor said
it was my nerves that caused my illness.
First of all 1 lost the use and feeling of tny left
hand. Two days later 1 lost the feeling in my left
foot.
This dead feeling travelled up my leg, then sterteo
in my right foot. And so it travelled 4 all over tny
body. I honestly felt that 1 was dying by degrees.
I only took 2 bottles of Bidomak and 1 was so
much better that 1 wanted to start work. I am now
feeling fit and well.
(Signed) Miss Del Whelan.
PERMANENT BENEFIT IN CASE OF
NERVES AND INDIGESTION
Dear Sir,
tem toy nervous system to such an awful state
that 1 could not possibly sleep at night and my
digestion was so weak l was living on bread and
butter and soda water; in fact my Doctor feared
Duodenal Ulcer. I tried all kinds of Iron and
other tonics, but my stomach could not take them.
At last I tried BIDOMAK, and after the first bottle
l felt a little better, so I persevered with it and
at the end of two months I was sleeping welt and
eating anything I wanted without the slightest pain.
(Signed) (Mrs.) F. Delury.
"I FELT SO TERRIBLY DEPRESSED
AND WEAK THAT I ACTUALLY
BROKE INTO TEARS . .
/ was in such a rotten state of nerves that I hated
to talk to people. Td just snap their heads off.
My nerves were all shot to pieces, and / felt so
depressed and weak that I would burst into tears for
apparently no reason at all,
I couldn’t sleep at night, and I lost my appetite
CO "when*l had taken three bottles of BIDOMAK
the difference was marvellous.
I was a new being— m l can eat anything now, and
l sleep like Rip Van Winkle.
Yours truly, (Signed) J • Haydon.
Full names and addresses on request
EVERY BOTTLE OF BIDQMAK
CONTAINS ALL THE FOLLOWING
VITAL MINERAL 'FOODS:
1
c.
AS MUCH “FERRUM" AS 800 OYSTERS
550 pts of Milk
50 lbs. of Beef
66 lbs. Lettuce
5 lbs of Spinach
50 pts Orange
Juice
AS MUCH “CALCIUM” AS 80 EGGS
4 pts of Miik
40 ozs Cheese
130 Ik Bananas
22 lbs Lettuce
5 pts. of Orange
Juice
AS MUCH “POTASSIUM” AS 22 OZS. OF LETTUCE
5 lbs Cabbage
17 mu Carrots
22 ozs Spinach
AS MUCH “SODIUM” AS 10 PTS. OF ORANGE JUICE
12S lbs Cabbage
10 lbs Bananas
5 lbs of Lettuce
13 lbs Spinach
44 pts Orange
Juice
44 lbs Carrots
90 lbs Bananas
134 Ik. Cabbage
LJL
&
Money Back Trial Offer
go certain are we that you will notice these
benefits quickly that we guarantee to refund your
money if.the Tery first bottle of BIDOMAK does
not benefit you and you return the nearly-empty
bottle to the Douglas Drug Co. within 14 days.
Nothing could be fairer than that.
Lack of Ferrum causes . ,
Lack of Calcium causes, ,
Lack of Sodium causes, .
Lack of Potassium causes.
Lack of Phosphorus causes
MINERAL STARVATION
•se Complaints
Anaemia, Headaches, Weak-
ness and Lassitude.
Stomach T roubles, Chilblains,
Ecxema.
Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble,
Stomach Trouble.
Heart Disorders, Acidosis.
Constipation.
Insomnia, Brain Fag, Nervous
Exhaustion, Irritability.
How to Overcome These Disorders
When you get enough of these minerals, you get well quickly and
naturally. The simplest way is to take BIDOMAK, as thousands
are doing in all parts of,the world. BIDOMAK contains the neces-
sary minerals in the form of glycerophosphates and phosphates in
the most quickly assimilable liquid form.
Bidomak Benefits Quickly-^
Ne Waiting for Weeks!
30 seconds the ingredients in BIDOMAK have entered
the bloodstream through the blood vessels of the
small intestine. They are carried thereby to
every part of the body.
Here they restore to buoyant health the starved
nerve cells and tissues. They stop the cause
of nerve pains. They banish that irritable,
depressed feeling-—end headaches and
chronic nervous dyspepsia.
They tone up every part of the system
and make you feel really well. They put a
sparkle in your eye—a spring in your
step —color in your cheeks.
So stop feeling run-down and weary. Buy
your first bottle of BIDOMAK from your
chemist or store to-day. Take it
as directed under “No Benefit No
Pav” Guarantee.
smoi
C^iZiTi
ppm
THE TONIC OF THE CFNTIIRY -for Nerves. Brain and that DepressedFeeling_
Get a bottle
TO-DAY
31-
All Chemists
and Stores.
(New Zealand
3/6.)
