

iff
f 4
y
G.L
f
o
&
3ft
£
M*
Stamina Counts
in the Long Run
MODERN life is only a hard, long race in which the unfit
drop out early, leaving the stayers to thrash out the finish.
Absolute fitness of mind and body is so essential to success
that the adoption of sane measures that will ensure increased
staying powers is absolutely necessary. The moderate use of
Wolfe’s Schnapps is one such measure, for Wolfe’s is both a
stimulant of the highest order and a medicinal beverage with
pronounced benefits to the system. Wolfe’s stands pre-eminent
as a diuretic, assisting the kidneys to function more thoroughly
and easily in their task of cleansing the system. Thus Wolfe’s
is directly responsible for bringing about a greater resistance
to disease, greater powers of endurance.
WOLFES
C3777TWM& Sc(uuUur)
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
OLFE
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND.
-1
=sr- THIS
ALCOHOLIC |
R iiiftaufacturcd io & ■a= 4 a
EB*SRS»M n<* ontjr pure fr«x ; |
waasroperiy and ingredient. fcu ; i
ifczriot possible ******! |
4
X~-iUilOe an i-routlkw ppalrut
rrmrirna imiU»tioft*. i/k'c'fyl*
mi
y£c f/C/To
raarajwnwry at tempt at intrii*
»-_^^AJy«. , niUni«Jat>d tlwinfrii
IT: 1 Will 8 FI. OZ
Wolfe’s Schnapps is ob-
tainable at all Racecourse
Booths, or in large, half
and quarter size bottles
at all hotels. Always keep
a bottle in the home.
’¥.‘S>l4l B.
The Bulletin
The Last of Lang?
Vol. 60.—N0. 3085.
Wednesday, March 29, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
»
This Book
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL ~
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. /W«*<ro/«rf
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement system
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
TWO FROM MAORILAND.
If the author of Unclimbed New Zealand (Allen
and Unwin) had had the literary and journalistic
ability of the author of First with the Sun (Dent),
or if the essayist had had the enthusiasm and special
knowledge of the mountaineer, two interesting books
might have become one outstanding one. As it is,
both are well worth reading, First with the Sun
because Alan Mulgan always writes pleasantly,
Unclimbed New Zealand for John Pascoe’s pictures
of unfamiliar territory, the white wilderness of the
Southern Alps.
Slightness of theme is the chief drawback to
Mulgan’s essays. Most of them were first published
in newspapers, and some of them have that slightly-
faded air nearly always worn by articles so reprinted.
No doubt when his farewell to the lonic was first
published it was topical; reading it now, though its
sentiments are still valid, is a bit like trying to read
the Sydney “Morning Herald’s” Saturday supplement
on the following Thursday. A similar “gone-with-
the-wind” feeling arises from brief essays on apples,
servants, razor blades, printer’s errors ; they are pass-
ing thoughts, not the last word, on apples and razor
blades.
At their slightest, however, the thoughts are
interesting enough, and the articles that have lost
their first vigor still have local color to attract Maori-
landers. Without ever descending to the horror of
“whimsicality ” Mulgan contrives throughout to be
lightly amusing. Sometimes it’s a phrase—“the warm,
somewhat Rotarian exuberance of Auckland” ; some-
times an odd piece of information —a dairy-farmer
who named his cows after the All-Blacks ; sometimes
a quotation—Alec Waugh, distinguishing between the
prolonged suspense of cricket and the wild excite-
ment of football, remarking, “At Lord’s one does not
suddenly leap to one’s feet, wave one’s hat in the air
and shriek ‘England! ’ ” ; Dean Inge observing that one
should not take “the Australian national adjective”
too seriously because “often it merely indicates that
a noun is to follow.”
One of the best of the essays is a statement of
the present position of the Maoris and a forecast of
their future. Noting that the half-caste Maori is
increasing at a much faster rate than the pure Maori,
Mulgan thinks that absorption is the destiny of the
race. And the effect on the pakeha—“The admixture
of blood should perceptibly darken the complexion
and create a somewhat Italianate type, dark, stalwart
and handsome.” It is a prophecy that could be dis-
puted, as could be his corollary that “a race so
imaginative and so rich in story will substantially
affect the poetry and the prose, the painting and
sculpture of the newcomers”: though there must be
some effect, it’s easier to imagine a Maori imitating
Keats than a white man composing hakas. Mulgan’s
remark, “the New Zealander is not yet ready to
assimilate Maori culture ; he has often used Maori
subjects, but nearly always it has been with a dis-
cernible alien touch,” states the present position
correctly.
Another good essay deals with Rugby football.
Mulgan laments that no descriptive writer of the
Neville Cardus variety has written the stirring history
of Rugby in M.L. It’s a job Mulgan himself might
tackle ; one of the highlights of his novel Spur of
Morning was an account of a football match, and
from the essay in First with the Sun he seems to
know all the proper details about George Smith
“curving like a swallow to snatch victory from defeat
against Wellington,” and Auckland Grammar’s “mag-
nificent defence against New Plymouth in 1929 ” and
Absolum doing derring-do in the ’nineties.
Similar detailed knowledge, applying to moun-
taineering, is at once an attraction and a disadvan-
tage in Unclimbed New Zealand. Pascoe doesn’t
seem to have been quite sure whether he was writing
a book for the general public or for his brothers of
the crampon: the result is a book which Maoriland
climbers can hardly afford to ignore, one that should
greatly interest Australian climbers, and one that
offers the ordinary reader a very pleasing view—if
he’s prepared to turn mountaineer and clamber over
such obstacles as the bare records of climbs from
here to there, topographical information of purely
local importance, advice to climbers and the remarks
people made in the logbook at some hut or other.
For both the expert and the novice, the technical
side of Unclimbed New Zealand should be very valu-
able. Pascoe’s territory comprises the Rakaia, Ran-
gitata, Perth and Adams Valleys; he knows it
thoroughly and there are full details concerning
routes and huts. For the beginner or the tourist
there are notes on provisions, equipment, how not to
get lost and what to do when you are. It really is
an unci imbed New Zealand with which the book
deals; all Pascoe’s ascents should interest climbers,
and the account of his attack on Mount Evans, with
its dangers and delays and the rigors of a night in a
blizzard on a snowfield, is exciting reading for a
much wider audience.
Other chapters for those who like to do their
mountaineering in an armchair tell of bushrangers
and their crimes in the early days, of alpine tragedies
and rescues, of famous climbers, of the malicious wit
of the mountain parrot, the kea. Pascoe has kea
stories of motor tyres and hoods ripped to pieces, of a
mattress torn up, and an amusing anecdote of a bird
that “stalked” a contemplative mountaineer, hop-
ping cautiously along a branch and suddenly screech-
ing in his ear “with the concentrated intensity of
forty thousand trumpets.” On bushrangers, he quotes
the last statement of a gentleman with the appropriate
name of Kelly:
Good morning! But an unpleasant morning to you
all, gentlemen, countrymen, brothers and spectators of
one of the most awful, terrible, dreadful, fearful, shame-
ful, painful, mournful, reverential, hateful, wrongful,
unjustifiable, ignominious, inglorious deaths and murders
that ever took place in the wide world since the creation
of Adam; and a sad morning to my poor self.
There is a chapter on Samuel Butler’s associa-
tions with the Southern Alps, an identification of
some of the country referred to in Erewhon. Pascoe
does not claim to be a descriptive writer —“a pen
cannot lilt like a bellbird, roar like an avalanche,
growl like a river, or shimmer like a blue icefall
hanging from the red rock ramparts of a serrated
peak”—but he has really magnificent photographs to
make up for any shortage of adjectives. Besides
documenting a little-known territory, Unclimbed New
Zealand gives a very vivid picture of the mountaineer,
a man who boils the billy, battles with blizzards, is
always about to be drowned in the turbulent rivers
of the south, and who quotes very good and extra-
ordinarily bad poetry with equal fervor upon the
mountain-tops.
The Lost People of Sikkim.
There are still a few unexplored corners of the
world, and John Morris seems to have found one in
a valley of Jongu in the Himalayan State of Sikkim.
Sikkim is a British protectorate. In 1835, as a
thank-offering for British help in a Nepali invasion
and in consideration of a pension of £2OO a year, the
Rajah ceded Darjeeling to the Empire. It was the
thin edge of the wedge. Britain soon found cause for
complaint against its ally, for Sikkim was a slave
State, and the Rajah frequently demanded the return
of slaves who had escaped over the border. When
this was refused in 1849 he seized two English scien-
tists, Dr. Campbell and Dr. Hooker, and held them
up to ransom. The Rajah’s pension was stopped, and
he was fined part of his territory.
In 1860 another crisis arose. When the Sikkimese
kidnapped several Bengali British subjects, a punitive
expedition forced a treaty on the Rajah giving the
British freetrade, protection of travellers and the right
to make roads. In 1888 the Rajah allied himself with
the Tibetans, who massed on the Sikkim frontier.
Britain sent troops into Sikkim and defeated the
Tibetans.
Thereafter the Rajah was given a British adviser.
In 1890 the protectorate was declared, and in 1904
the British political officer at the Rajah’s Court was
made directly responsible to the British Government
of India. This, as pretty a piece of quiet history-
making as you would find anywhere, is the political
background of Morris’s book, Living with the Lepchas
(Heinemann), whose main interest is ethnological.
The Lepchas are the aboriginal inhabitants of
Sikkim, a dying race. In order to save them from
being completely overwhelmed by the more vigorous
Gurkhas who possess most of the country by conquest
and peaceful penetration, the Valley of Talung has
been declared a Lepchas’ reserve. At first glance it
looks a little like Shangri-la, for the gentle inhabitants
live in a state of primitive socialism, tilling their soil
in guaranteed peace ; but on closer inspection it proves
as much a habitation of sorrow as the rest of the
world. Living conditions are squalid, a state that is
little palliated by being equally shared ; infant mor-
tality is high and agriculture incompetent. Morris
quotes with approbation the captured Dr. Hooker’s
account of the Lepchas:
They are of short stature—from four feet eight
inches to five feet; rather broad in the chest, with
muscular arms, but small hands and slender wrists.
The face is broad, flat and of eminently Tartar charac-
ter, flat-nosed, oblique-eyed, with no beard, and a little
moustache. The lower limbs are powerfully developed,
befitting genuine mountaineers; the feet are small.
Though never really handsome, and very womanish in
cast of countenance, they have invariably a mild, frank,
and even engaging expression, which I have in vain
sought to analyse, and which is perhaps due more to
the absence of anything unpleasing than to the presence
of direct grace or beauty.
Indolence when left to themselves is their besetting
sin; they detest any fixed employment, and their foulness
of person and garments renders them disagreeable
inmates: in this rainy climate they are supportable out
of doors. In disposition they are amiable and obliging,
frank, humorous and polite without the servility of the
Hindoos; and their address is free and unconstrained.
Their intercourse with one another and with Europeans
is scrupulously honest; a present is divided equally
amongst many, without a syllable of discontent or
grudging look or word: each, on receiving his share,
coming up and giving the donor a brusque bow and
thanks.
The Lepchas’ history is in the form of oral legend,
and their “saint” Lha-tsun is represented as an actor
in any events, ancient or modern, that they relate.
Their religion is a diluted form of Lamaism. Their
world is inhabited by good and evil spirits whom they
constantly placate by offerings or circumvent by spells
and magic. Their marriage customs are exogamous
and roughly similar to those of the Australian abori-
ginals. Love is an affliction unknown among them.
Their criminal code is on a cash basis. There is a
scale for murder according to the social standing of
the victim and a fine for adultery, but “should a man
and a woman cohabit on a journey there is no fine.”
Their trial by ordeal has a medieval flavor. They
use boiling oil, “which must be supplied by the Gov-
ernment and must be of the finest quality.” It is
boiled in a pan about three inches deep, and in it are
placed a black and a white stone of equal size and
weight. He who has taken the oath has his right
hand bound in a cloth and sealed, after he has washed
it in a solution whose ingredients rival in unpleasant-
ness the materia medica of the Middle Ages. This is
done a day or two before the ordeal to give him a
chance of confessing. The vessel with the boiling oil
is placed so that the stones cannot be seen, and he
has to take one out. If he takes out the white one
without being scalded he is acquitted. If he happens
to pick up the black one he is—supposedly, at least-
sure to be burnt, and loses his case. Should he be
slightly scalded in picking up the white stone it means
that he has spoken the truth in part and judgment is
pronounced accordingly.
The Lepchas have no intellectual interests and no
recreations except drinking. Their medicine is a system
of sacrifices which keep the country denuded of
poultry.
Vocational guidance, as in Australia, comes from
the stars. A baby’s horoscope is drawn at the age
of three days, and his or her future is settled. If he
is to be a lama a yellow sash is tied around him;
if she is to be a woman of loose morals she is dressed
in lilac from the beginning. The future is inescapable.
These people are dying out because they know
that they are dying. They haven’t the stamina to live
side by side with more vigorous people. They have
simply despaired without knowing it.
Living with the Lepchas is somewhat chaotic in
its structure, stiff with quotations and wandering in
its attack, but it is interesting nevertheless. There are
many photographs. John Morris has had an interest-
ing life. Bred to the army, he resigned from it on
attaining his majority, and began a new career study-
ing ethnology at Cambridge, where he gained two
important prizes. He has travelled extensively in
India, Turkestan, Indo-China, Siam, Tibet and Japan.
A Priestley Farce.
J. B. Priestley’s new comedy, When We Are
Married (Heinemann), is thin to the point of emacia-
tion. Priestley seems to have become so expert at
writing plays that his technique is able to run along
smoothly by itself with no play inside.
The plot of When We Are Married is probably
unique, although the play itself is one of that vast
regiment begotten by French farce upon the English
climate. It has the slickness and speed of its. Conti-
nental parent, with the outrageousness leavened by
coyness and anti-climax substituted for denouement.
The action begins and ends on one evening 30
years ago when three worthy citizens of Cleckley-
wyke, Alderman Helliwell, Councillor Parker and
Herbert Soppitt, are gathered together with their help-
meets in the alderman’s house to celebrate the twenty-
fifth anniversary of their triple wedding. They are
overeating themselves in the acme of bourgeois com-
placency, and to round off the evening’s entertain-
ment they have sent for the chapel organist, Gerald
Forbes, to haul him over the coals because he has
been seen walking out after dark with a girl. The
girl is, of course, the alderman’s niece, though he does
not know it.
Gerald does not come unarmed on to the carpet.
On a recent holiday he had met a missionary from
Africa who, when he heard that the young organist
was from Cleckleywyke, confessed —and in writing, too
—to a load on his conscience. As a young man he
had gone to Cleckleywyke as a temporary substitute
direct from his theological college and had performed
a marriage ceremony—a triple wedding, at that
without taking the proper steps to qualify himself
to do so.
By informing his employers that they have been
living in sin for 25 years Gerald is able to blackmail
them. The whole thing might have ended with his
moral victory had not the cook been listening at the
door. Mrs. Helliwell unwittingly dismisses her, and
she bounds away to tell the neighborhood. Whilst
the distracted six are discussing their situation, there
arrives an intoxicated photographer from the local
paper to take the silver-wedding group, a barmaid
with dyed hair to claim the alderman on the ground
that he had often told her that were he not already
married he would marry her, and a monumental
parson who had heard of the trouble and had come
to offer his services.
Mrs. Helliwell prepares to go home to mother.
Mrs. Parker seizes the long-overdue opportunity to
tell her sanctimonious husband that he is dull, stingy
and domineering, and that she will be delighted to
escape from him. The henpecked Soppitt finds the
strength to put his Clara, now that they are no longer
married, in her place and to declare that next time
he marries it will be Annie Parker. When things are
at their merriest it is discovered that the whole affair
is a mare’s-nest. The legality of the marriages did
not depend on the qualifications of the parson but
on a document signed before a civil registrar. Every-
one subsides. Mrs. Helliwell sums up, “We’ll have
to make the best of each other. But, then, perhaps
that’s what we’re here for.”
The fun —for those who don’t gag at a yarn at
once thin and tall —is enriched by two comic servants
and the broad Yorkshire of most of the characters.
The dialogue is mostly backchat.
In Rural England.
Lady in the Dark, by Myfanwy Pryce (Bodley
Head), subscribes to a certain snobbish English middle-
class literary tradition which assumes that persons
below the rank of gentry are sub-human and exist,
o Continued on page 8.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” always.
1823
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW" —1939
"THE SENIOR STORE
7
i
HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
\\
ix
,’"T I Vs.
X
r'
3m~
8^
s-i
-A
7S
//A i c
<tk
■■■■'::
t
v %
*2llRls—Frames and Braces. The strong channel-steel frame
and braces that hold both ends of each gang down to their
I work, and at the same time give the desired flexibility.
Pole. Now dispensed with, a two-wheeled foretruck taking its
place, doing away with all friction on the horses, and enabling
operator to turn his team in their own length. ,
Hollers. Anti-friction rollers over the draw irons, by which the
gangs can be placed at any angle without strain or friction
and with least power. Also fitted with 2 and 3-Horse Swingle
Trees, i.e., 2 for sft.; 3 for 6ft. .
Bearings. Most durable bearings, with oil-holes protected from
dust with spring steel covers. , ~; , , ,
Complete Machine. The whole excellently finished and made
with every modern improvement and convenience, and to be
'operated with greatest ease for man and team.
3ft. wide, 6 discs, size of discs 16in., 1 horse. Price .. £l5/10/-
Light 2-horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, size of discs 16m., 3021bs nett
weight. Price *.». •». £2O/-"/
2 or 3 Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs, size of discs 16in., 3691b5. neh
weight (211R15). Price • “ 3 , /10/ “
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
/3
r ~ f *sßB3m
v
//
211R15
7
nt Spadinq Harrow
211R16
211R16—"Morgan" Patent Spading Harrow. We stock the
following sizes.
Price
£l4/7/6
£lB/-/-
£2O/-/-
£27/-/-
If with two-wheel Fore Carriage, 72/6 extra.
Harrows 4ft. and over supplied with two levers.
All these styles have the Cleaner attachment, preventing
loading or clogging when ground is wet and trashy, and
when harrowing in manure, straw or rubbish. ...
The frames of all these Harrows are made of the best
wrought iron and steel, and are arched so that they will
easily pass over uneven ground and any ordinary
Style Description Spades Spades Weight
A 3ft.—One horse 8 16in., 2901 b.
C sft.—Two horse 10
C 6ft. —Standard
,two horse (211R16) 12
C Bft. —Heavy two
or three horse 16
,18in. 4001 b.
18in. 4501 b.
18in. 6001 b.
ODSIIUUUUIIS. ,
The blades are S-shaped, each being made from one solid
piece of spring steel; they cut into and lift the soil to a
depth of four to six inches, turning and pulverising the
ground precisely like the hand spade. The gangs can be
adjusted to any desired angle by the hand lever; they float
freely and thoroughly pulverise and level hard, lumpy and
uneven fields. For deep and fine cultivation no Harrow
equals the Morgan. Unploughed com stubble, or hard-
packed soils are made loose and pliable to a depth of five
to six inches, and if used on light and mellow ground, work.,
as shallow as desired can be done by taking off the weight!
of the driver and setting the gang at a single angle,,
team
VISIT
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
PAVILION
AT THE
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
[WHILE I LIVE I'll PROW|
211R88
211R88 The "Fiddle" Broadcast Seed
Sower. Suitable for lucerne and other
small seeds. Price 1. 21/-
211R89
211R89 — Seed Sower. A
splendid machine for the
broadcast sowing of
clover, Sudan grass, mil-
let, lucerne, and pasture
grass, or small areas of
seed grain. Breadth of
cast varies according to
weight of seed or grain,
but usually it is about as
follows: Clover, millet or
lucerne, from 20 to 24 feet;
grasses, 8 to 12 feet; wheat
or rye, 30 to 36 feet; bar-
ley, 27 to 33 feet.
Price
39/6
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
• Agricultural Dept.—Fourth Floor—Pitt Street
211R90
CORN & COTTON PLANTER
211R90 —Hand Cora and Cotton Planter.
Price - 15/ *
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
SYDNEY
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


The People
Were Ditterent
By
Donglas Stewart
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
FACING Larry as he huddled in the corner of
the compartment was a fat Maori woman and
a little brown boy with a runny nose. They had
been eating bananas, one after another like a
chain-smoker with cigarettes, all the way along the
line. The child was restless, squirming and whimper-
ing, and the womdh, dropping a banana skin on the
floor, took him on to her lap and crooned to him
in a soft voice. He snuggled to her, and she lit a
clay pipe and blew clouds of smoke over Larry and
against the windowpane. Unaware of the action, he
brushed away the fumes, and then his hand fell to
the arm of the seat again, gripping it until the bones
and the veins stood out.
While the Maori woman smoked and the other
passengers read their cheap magazines or dozed, Larry
stared at the countryside. Soon they would be pass-
ing the farms he knew. As the train roared and
rattled across a bridge, the pent-up horror of a year
broke upon him. His face that, sullen or flashing
with devilment, always had a softness about it, set
in a white rigidity. His lips were dragged inwards,
making his mouth a hard line turned down at the
corners. He wanted to tell somebody, to stand up and
scream it to the whole carriage, “Fve been in the
Borstal, that’s where I’ve been.” How they would
stare!
Instead, he began to talk to the Maori woman,
very rapidly, about anything at all. How far was
she going? What was the little boy’s name? Once on
the beach at Pukearuhe he had grilled young shark
over an open fire. Tasted like mullet. The storm in
him died down in the calm of her soft monosyllables
and softer chuckling.
When he looked out of the window again it was
his own countryside. Every house, every cowshed,
every paddock, every chance-seen pool he knew. A
pine-tree lifting its dark spire to the blue autumn sky,
a haystack covered with a tarpaulin like a Jersey
rugged for the winter, a long glittering reach of river
fringed with willows seemed calm and tremendous
things, as if they were monuments commemorating
some great event. Everything, he felt, would be the
same. He knew he could have his old job at the
foundry again ; the boys would stick by him ; there
would be work again, football again, dances —every-
thing as it had been in the old days. A passion of
fear and longing overcame him, and he stood up
abruptly and walked out of the carriage.
His own face in the mirror reassured him. The
black waves of his hair were neat from the comb,
he smiled confidently, and with only his squared
shoulders to indicate the terror he had locked away he
stepped out on to the station.
“Nice to be home, Ma.”
“Larry,” his mother said, “you look well. An’
you’re so fit-looking. It’s done you good.”
He disentangled himself from her arms. She was
Irish, dark, short, fat, with little eyes as black as
coal. To see her crying, when she had always been
so hard with him, irritated him.
“It’s done me good all right,” he said bitterly.
“I’ve had a fine time.”
The mother whimpered. “You’ll go straight now,
Larry?”
“Now don’t go starting that,” he warned her.
“I’ve had about all of that I want. Hell, do you think
I want to go back there again? You dunno what I’ve
been through or you wouldn’t start that sort of yap.”
“I only asked you, didn’ I?” she complained.
“Seems it hasn’ done you so much good after all.
You’re jus’ the same.”
Larry was contrite. “Come on, Ma,” he said,
“cheer up. I’m not the same at all. You don’ know
what I’ve been through, that’s all. I’m hard, see? I
got hard. I had to. I know a few things now. You
got no need to worry about me any more.”
Their eyes met for a moment, his tender, hers
hard and miserable. She began to cry again.
“How’s Cora?” he asked quickly.
“She’s all right.”
“Still working at Hawkins’s?”
“Yeh. She’s off this afternoon, you know. Satur-
dee.”
“Well, I s’pose I’ll be seeing her.”
“If you go straight, she will.”
He looked at her angrily, then he laughed. “All
right, old lady, have it your own way. Look here,
Ma, you’re going home in a taxi. I got money.”
“Think you’re flash! Come on then.”
“No,” he said. “I’m not coming. Want to walk
through town and see how things are. I’ll see you
lunchtime. Say, did you register the bike like I
said?”
“It’s registered. I wish you’d sell that darn motor-
bike. It’ll only get you into trouble.”
He laughed again, bundled her off in the car,
and turned to greet Bob Williams, the carrier’s son.
“Well, how’s things, Bob?”
“Pretty good, Larry. How’s it with you?”
“I’m 0.K.,” Larry said. “Got a good team this
year?”
“Should have... You gonna play?”
The sharp curiosity, the probing, angered Larry.
The look in Bob’s eyes, as if he were staring at a
cripple or a dwarf, had been hard enough to bear.
“You gonna play?” Larry remembered how he had
always despised the carrier; whistling and singing and
fooling all the time at the dances ; playing round and
making up to all the girls and none of them would
have him. Too windy to play football himself. Liked
to be the line umpire and shout out silly advice.
“Yeh!” he shouted. “You can tell them I’ll be
playing.”
'"THE town hadn’t altered a bit. First the station
1 garden, a little splash of roses above trim dark
earth and trim green lawn ; then the courthouse, where
he had stood in the dock thinking he was pretty good
and pretty funny and they’d never convict him because
they couldn’t find the cigarettes. You stood in the
dock, and the room was full of people, but you were
alone. You didn’t believe it was happening, or if it
was happening it wasn’t happening to you. But you
knew it was, and the high wooden walls of the dock
cut you off from everybody in the room. At the side
of the courthouse was the lockup. He hadn’t known
that the police could be so tough ; but that was all
right; he was as tough as they were.
Round the corner and along the street were the
shops and shopkeepers he knew —Wong Yu, who
chased them with a knife the day they pinched the
cauliflowers; the grocer; Tod Mackintosh, the
butcher ; the madheaded fishmonger ; the bookseller
who tried to blame him for the missing magazines.
Old Sam got away with that lot all right!
He’d have to ring Sam before the foundry shut at
twelve. It’d be good to see him. Not like all these
other cows with their “Well, Larry!” and then that
pause. Why couldn’t they say what they were all
thinking? “Well, Larry, what’s it like in the Borstal?
Well, Larry, going to go straight? Well, Larry, what’s
it feel like when you’re out of Borstal and have to
meet everyone?”—that’s what they meant to say.
Yes, the town, sleepy in the sunshine, was just
the same. Water running in the gutters over a thin
film of greenstuff; Mackintosh’s fat dog asleep on the
footpath, dreaming of sausages; shopkeepers drows-
ing at their doorways, dreaming of customers. But the
people were not the same.
It was as if he were seeing them all for the first
time. “Well, Larry!” and then that pause. He didn’t
want to be so stiff and polite with them, but they
made him be. Treating him like a stranger. Larry
began to realise that he had never really known them ;
he d been away, and they’d all been going on with
their lives as if it didn’t make a scrap of difference.
The buildings that had seemed so friendly and secure
because they were just the same were hateful to him
now ; they were in league with these sly, insolent shop-
keepers who hadn’t cared a tuppenny damn that he
had been away, and who didn’t care a tuppenny damn
now he was back. Strange that he’d never noticed
their faces before ; old Porson had three chins ; Mack-
intosh’s moustache was yellow with tobacco and
there were little bits of meat sticking to his fingers.
Larry was glad to see the policeman, O’Reilly,
again. Even if he did make him feel silly, like a kid
that had had a hiding, even if he did say “Going
straight now, Larry?” it was a manner he understood.
The cops had nearly all been like that; as if they were
your ruddy father. You could feel them fatherly,
and hard as rock at the same time. It made you mad,
but because you knew they were tough and they knew
you were tough, you understood each other. You
didn’t have to feel a fool about the Borstal with them ;
you could talk to them.
“You go straight now, Larry. If there’s anything
goes missing round the town I know where to look
for it. But you go straight and we’ll get along fine.”
“Think I’m a fool?”
“You’ll get the cheek knocked out of you yet!”
“That’s all right! You wait till Ido something
crook before you come jawing at me! ”
Cocky, pleased with himself, Larry strutted off to
the post office to ring up Sam and Cora.
C? AM was easy. It was just the same old Sam. The
same drawly, sarcastic sort of voice, making a
joke about everything. “Ai hope you enjoyed your
trip to Europe, deah old boy!” Trip to Europe!
That was a beaut. That was Sam all over. Sam
couldn’t talk, anyhow; he’d only just escaped by the
skin of his teeth that night. O’Reilly’d get him some
time if he hadn’t chucked the game. Larry hadn’t
wanted to go up to football practice with Sam. “Don’t
want to see any more of the cows to-day,” he’d
thought. “Take Cora for a ride on the bike and get
out of the damn’ place.” But Sam was hard to refuse ;
and he might as well get it over. No grog, though;
no more of that. He wondered if he could talk Cora
out of going to the dance. “Better go, blast it!” She’d
sounded different; but she always did sound a bit
cold on the telephone when she was talking at
Hawkins’s.
Somehow the tirade of abuse from his mother
when he was late for lunch was comforting.
“Shut your face! ” he told her affectionately. “I’ll
go back to the Borstal if you don’t leave me alone! ”
She laughed, and they went out together to have
a look at the bike. Larry’s heart leapt when he saw
it shining like silver even in the dusty gloom of the
shed. Memories of jaunts with Cora, of hot afternoons
at beaches and rivers, of long, solitary journeys at
night with the headlamp spearing the darkness and the
hedges streaming away to right and left flashed into
his mind. He started the engine and was sitting
astride the machine as happy as a child when Sam
appeared in the doorway.
“Hop on, hop on!” Larry called gaily, and the
pair shot away, leaving the mother to mutter “Young
fools. A pack of young fools! ”
D EFORE they had been long at the football ground
* Larry was thinking very much the same thing.
He had wanted to get Sam alone for a while ; he had
so much to tell him about what it was like in there —
so much that he couldn’t tell anyone else except Sam ;
all the year when anything happened he’d been think-
ing “Must remember to tell Sam about that.” He had
felt in a way, because Sam had been in it as much as
he was, that he was doing time for the pair of them.
He wanted to say “Look, Sam, it was tough in there,
see? I learnt something. We was only kids playing the
fool; it was like robbing orchards. But it’s not like
that at all; or it doesn’t work out that way. You
gotter grow up some time, that’s what it is. You
gotter go through what I’ve been through an’ then
you know. You find out who's your friend an’ who’s


your enemy, an’ you ain’t got any friends when it
comes to a showdown. You gotter go through it
by yourself. I’ve been through, an’ I know.” He
wanted to tell him about some of the things they did
to you, and about some of the fellows that were in
there. “Tell you what, Sam,” he wanted to say, “I
know something now. I’ve been through the mill an’
I know! Like when they went to the war.”
But Sam was too busy playing the fool in front
of the mob. Perhaps Sam was trying to help him
through with the boys, or perhaps he was just a bloody
fool. Sam didn’t want to talk to him, that was the
strength of it; wasn’t interested, or wasn’t game to hear
about it. And he ought to have gone through it him-
self. By God, if everyone had their rights Sam would
have done time too, and you’d think to hear him
there that butter wouldn’t melt in his mouth!
“If he makes that joke about a trip to Europe
again I’ll land him one,” Larry decided.
Sam made it again, and Larry looked wildly about
for some escape. The boys were all crowding round
him, shaking his hand, clapping him on the back,
making a hero of him. He heard himself joking about
the trip to Europe.
“Yeh!” he thought. “I’ve been one year in hell,
that’s where I’ve been.”
Sam, with his high, shrill, girlish laugh, his flop-
ping fair hair and his buck-toothed grin, looked the
biggest fool of the lot. Larry felt like telling them
all he knew about Sam. “I’m one of the unlucky ones
that got caught,” he’d say. “There’s others opening
their silly jaws right now that wouldn’ think every-
thing’s such a helluva joke if they got what s coming
to them.”
He spent a miserable hour on the sideline watch-
ing the practice game. Mooching up and down with
only Bob Williams for company. Though Bob wasn’t
as bad as the rest of them, at that. Larry found him
friendly. After the meeting in the morning he was
more at ease with him than with the others. Bob told
him, without any fuss, how much the team had
missed him last season and how glad they d be to have
him back.
“Get any football in there?” Bob asked him.
Hell, he was a fool! But at least you could talk
to him. When the game was over Larry felt quite
calm, as if he were a visitor whom the footballers had
invited to watch the game. Like a stranger, with a
stranger’s inescapable obligation to receive and return
hospitality, he went to the pub with them, determined
to have one drink with Sam, shout a round himself,
and go. But then he didn’t feel like a visitor any
longer; he remembered that he used to be the ring-
leader of the mob. He was the one they looked up
to. He tossed his drinks down. “I could’ve got out,”
he boasted. “We had it all fixed, only somebody
blabbed. We know who it was, too ; the boys’ll get
him. They’ll fix him, you wait! ”
“They must be pretty tough, eh, Larry?”
“Tough’s the word. They’d eat you, boy!
“Anyhow,” went on Larry, “show you re glad I m
back. Shake hands with me. I’ll buy a drink. I’ll
buy three drinks for anyone' who shakes hands with
me, and I’ll knock any cow that won’t. How’s that—
fair enough?”
“Fair enough, Larry,” they said, crowding about
him.
Larry shook hands with them all; shook hands
with the barman ; shook hands with three or four
strangers who would have liked to refuse but were
afraid of his wild air. The boys were uncomfortable.
It was the old Larry, the old reckless Larry, but some-
how he didn’t ring true. Flashing his money round the
bar was all right, but they knew he couldn t afford it,
and they didn’t want to have it said they’d got him
into trouble the first day he was home.
Larry himself felt foolish ; but once he’d started he
had to go on with it. The boys made their excuses,
and Larry, unable to bear any more of Sam’s com-
pany, went home to sit in sullen silence till teatime.
His mother was furious, ostensibly because he was
going to the dance with Cora, but really, he knew,
because he had been drinking. The beer had made
his head muzzy, and he felt sick and tired.
AFTER tea, when he rode the bike round to Cora’s,
he was gay and confident again. She came to the
gate when she heard the bike, and with her warm
young loveliness in his arms he felt that he was com-
pensated for all the bitter year, the nerve-racking day.
“Larry, Larry!” she was saying over and over again,
crying and laughing against his chest. “Oh, Larry,
it’s such a long time”...
“You don’ mind, Cora, you don’ mind about
what’s happened?”
“Of course not,” she said. “You will go straight,
Larry?”
He winced. Was she, too, going to harp on it
when it was all over, when he had paid, paid like
hell, when any fool must know it would never happen
again?
“What about your mother?” he asked roughly.
“She wants to talk to you. It’ll be all right.
She’ll probably talk a bit, but it’ll be all right.” She
squeezed his hand. “Don’t mind if she talks a bit,
Larry.”
Cora’s mother talked more than a bit. “Now,
look here, Larry, we’re glad to see you back an’ all
that; hope you’ve learned your lesson. But, you goin’
straight? That’s the point. It’s no good bottlin’ it
up ; I’m tellin’ you straight. You can go on seein’
Cora if she wants to see you, but you gotter go straight
and that’s the finish of it. ’N’ that doesn’ mean jus’
cuttin’ out breakin’ into shops an’ that lot. You gotter
cut out this drinkin’ and goin’ wild. You smell of
drink now, an’ I don’ mind tellin’ you I don’ like it.
An’, what’s more, I don’t like you sneakin’ round here
at the last minnit and takin’ Cora off to a dance on
your first night home. I’m not sayin’ she can’t go
with you, but I’m tellin’ you straight I don’ like it.”
“Look,” said Larry, “I know all about that. I
ain’t heard anything but ‘You gotter go straight’ for
months. ‘You gotter go straight, you gotter go straight!’
All right then, I’m going straight. You got no need to
tell me about it. I told Ma that, and I told O’Reilly,
and now I’m telling you.”
“Well, that’s as may be,” said Cora’s mother. “I
notice you ain’t sold that motorbike yet. An’ what
you been drinkin’ to-day for?”
“I had a couple with Sam,” Larry answered sul-
lenly.
He found himself wishing he was back “in there,”
or at least that he had one of his mates from “in
there” to talk to. Cora’s mother with her jaw made
him sick. She had no call to go rubbing it in. He
looked from the mother to the daughter and winced.
If Cora was going to look like that! And she was.
If you looked carefully at the mother’s face you could
see Cora’s in it, Cora’s face lost in fat and hair and
wrinkles. Cora was one to talk, too. She’d started
on that “Go straight” racket. He wondered if he
cared a rap for her, and if he ever had cared.
AT the dance he felt that if he didn’t love her he
could hate her. She had no right to drag him
there, he thought as he leant moodily against the door-
post ; she knew he didn’t want to go. And, seeing she
had dragged him there, she might at least take some
notice of him.
That first dance, holding her tight with the feel
of her against him, looking over her head and nodding
at the people he knew as if nothing had ever happened,
was good. If that fool of a Bob Williams hadn t come
up shuffling and stamping and clapping his hands and
giggling like a girl it would have been all right. They
might have danced together all night. Nobody had any
business cutting in on him when he’d been away so
long. And Cora had no business to go playing up to
them, making him look a fool. But Bob had the
second dance with her, and Sam the next. They
were all having a helluva good time, while he stood
there like a fool. She was dancing with Sam now,
the band going, all the colored streamers over them,
and her laughing at one of Sam’s stupid jokes.
Larry thumped his fist against the doorpost and
strode out of the hall. After a while Cora came out
to look for him, and was sweet to him. He pleaded
with her, “Let’s go home, Cora ; I’m not much use
to-night.”
She took his hand. “No, Larry, no. It’s miles
too early. If only you’d come in an’ dance instead of
hanging round looking blue. Come on in an’ dance.
She tried to pull him by the hand, but he resisted.
Suddenly he tugged her towards him and began to
drown her in kisses, and then he put his arm round
her and led her towards Sam’s car, and they sat there
together. Everything was as it had been before, and
everything was going to be all right.
“See the pretty lovebirds!” Sam’s voice had a
harder quality than usual. He climbed into the back
seat beside them and offered them a gin. Larry felt
he couldn’t refuse. They had several gins. Cora, a
little drunk, chattered away to Sam like a sparrow.
They seemed to have a lot to talk about, things that
had happened while Larry was away.
Sam said “What about a hop round the floor,
Cora? You don’ mind, Larry?”
The three went into the hall, and Sam swung
the girl away. Larry watched them, Cora looking up
into Sam’s eyes or laughing at his jokes. Once she
broke away from him and playfully slapped his face.
Larry interrupted them. “Gonna get a bottle of gin,
he said. “Be back soon.”
He was gone before Cora could remonstrate. In
his mind, with a lurking jealousy of Sam, was an
overwhelming desire to get away, to get away any-
where. To get on the bike and ride and ride till the
weight blew away from his brain.
Instead of going back to the town he rode away
down the main road. The speedometer leapt from
thirty to forty, from forty to fifty; sixty round the
bends and a roaring, delirious seventy on the straight.
It was alive, bucking under him like a horse over the
bumps, swaying with him as he cornered. The wind
was in his hair, and sharp and cold on his face.
Pierced by the long spear of the headlamp, the dark-
ness crumpled and fell away to right and left in a dark
fantasia of pole and tree, hedge and paddock, house
and shed, little church, little school, gleam of the
river. Moths, looking as big as birds, appeared and
vanished. Nothing existed but the roar of the bike
and his will controlling it. He laughed as he flashed
past the sleeping farmhouses. How green were the
boxthorn hedges, how dark the top twigs stiff against
the sky! He had forgotten that there were so many
stars, and that they could burn so fiercely silver.
He was gone before Cora could
remonstrate. In his mind, with a lurking
jealousy of Sam, was an overwhelming
desire to get away, to get away anywhere.
To get on the bike and ride and ride till
the weight blew away from his brain.


Mrs, Parsley and a Regular Circus
THE FOOLISH
GONDOLA
By Harold Mercer
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
‘ ‘ * KA Y husband’s very humorous ; he’s a reg’lar
I VI circus >’ she says. Directly I heard that it
I \ was enough for me,” said Mrs. Parsley. She
had been called away and had returned
from showing a prospective tenant a flat. “ ‘l’m sorry ;
I’m full,’ I says. I daresay they may have been a
very respectable couple; but I’m taking no more
risks of having circuses in my establishment.”
The suggestion that Mrs. Parsley had been land-
lady to a circus startled a question from me.
“Well, not exactly a whole circus,” she replied,
“though I must say that it seemed that way at one
time ; if a camel had walked into my kitchen, hump
and all, I would not have been surprised. It was bad
enough having the place overrun with, lions and
monkeys, so that you never knew when you were
going to meet them. Which I am sure that sort of
thing was enough to send anyone’s heart down to
Nero, as the saying is, which everyone must know
where a man like him, who went on fiddling when
the place was burning, must be. And on top of all
that was Mr. Pallotti, who had sworn a gondola, and
when he got excited showed how he was going to
kill the man he had sworn it against.”
“Gondola? Vendetta,” I suggested.
“Something Eyetalian anyway,” said Mrs.
Parsley; “being foreign I don’t think much of it,
whatever it is. I scorn the foreign yokel, as the
song says. This Mr. Joe Pallotti was quite a nice
little man. But even Mr. Pugwuggle seemed to think
he might kill the man he was after, him having made
a vow to do it.
“ ‘Soma day I weel finda heem and then I weel
keela heem —like so! ’ he would say.
“IT was Mr. Pugwuggle who arrived first. ‘I am
I Pugwuggle’s Mammoth Circus,’ he said depres-
sively.
“It knocked me all of a heap, him looking to me
only like one man, and I had always been led to
believe that a circus was a crowd.
“ ‘What I mean to say is I am the interpremier,
grovelling head, manager and directorial supper-riser
of that marvellous aggravation of circus stars known
as Pugwuggle’s Mammoth Circus. I want a com-
modious and elegant flat for myself, my wife and my
daughter, the Adorable Angelina, Undeputed Queen
of Equine-Turpentine Acts!’
“Although he was fond of using words of a lot
of syllabuses until he climbed off his high horse and
got friendly, he seemed very respectable, and I let him
Number 10. Even Miss Perry admitted that they must
be respectable because he wouldn’t dare to talk in the
rough way he did to his wife if they weren’t really
married. But Miss Perry didn’t like the way the
Adorable Angelina came downstairs walking down the
bannisters on her hands with her body balanced in
the air and her skirt hanging down the wrong way.
“ ‘I don’t think you should allow your daughter
to do that,’ says Miss Perry one day.
“ ‘Oh, that’s kid’s play to Angel,’ says Mr. Pug-
wuggle. ‘She’s all right. She’s a clever little so-and-so.’
“He was certainly a rough diadem, was Mr. Pug-
wuggle. His wife was very fond of him and used to
call him the roughest names to show it; and their
Angel was as pretty as a picture.
“They came when there was a lot of flats empty,
and as nobody objected to the Pugwuggles, but some
of the tenants, especially the men, seemed to like to
see Angel doing that on the stairs or springing up
and hanging to the ceiling, I let the others come.
Though the day after Mr. and Mrs. Choochin came
I thought them pugilists had come again, and had to
talk to them about the way they shook the whole
place in the morning with their training. Being
acolytes in the circus they had to keep in condition,
they said.
“Mr. Joe Pallotti occupied one of the small flats
right upstairs by himself. He seemed a jolly little
man, and everybody liked him, but he sometimes
spoke like a man with a heart bowed down by weighty
woe, as the song says.
£ I am da lonely mana, Mrs. Parsalay,’ he says to
me. Alla I can liva for now is my gondola. Soma
day I shall finda da man who have ruin my life. And
I weel keela heem —so! I shall invite heem come and
seea me. I shall laugh, I shall smile! Then, sudden —
so! He ees dead! ’
“‘I want you to understand extinctly,’ I says
firmly, that I will have none of that in my establish-
ment. It’s not respectable ; not the right thing at all.’
“‘I weel tella you what eet ees,’ he says. ‘Eet
ees justice! lam ’appy wit’ my Nessa. We love each
other. Togezzer we feeda da baby lion, on
da bottle. She is my wife. Sometime she say “Joe,
weel you efer be able to marry me?” And I say “What
mattare? We ees ’appy!”’
Oh,’ says 1,-‘you weren’t married?’
Ow could we be? Dere ees another wife —
per aps one in Italy, too. But what mattare —though
sometime Nessa she ees sad. I lova her! And then
she go! Leave us, me and da lion cub, Cajsare ;
merely she writa to saya she weel always be fond of
me; but she ees marry to a man she lova, too. Igo
mad. I vow, solemn I take oat’, I weel finda her, I
weel finda heem! She did not saya who he ees ; but
I weel finda heem. And then, I weel be sudden—
so! He ees dead! ’
It didn t seem quite respectable to me him not
been married to Nessa ; and I told him straight it
would be best for him to forget all about her and his
vow. But he says, ‘Eet ees an oat’. When I finda
heem I weel keela heem —so! ’
“THE real trouble started one night when going
down stairs I met Mr. Wassail, shaking like an
aspic leaf. He had been to a party, which was
nothing unusual for him.
“ ‘Missersh Parshley’—which was just the way he
said it —‘have you any lionsh staying here?’
“‘Mr. Wassail,’ I says, ‘it’s time you went to
bed. Lions! ’
“ ‘But Missersh Parshley, have you?’ he says,
which, of course, made me tell him no, not to be
foolish. ‘Missersh Parshley,’ he says, speaking like
that still, I could’ve shworn I shaw a lionsh come in
and go upshtairs.’
“ ‘You’re talkin’ nonsense, Mr. Wassail. Of course
there are no lions, I says firm. He seemed satisfied,
although he was still shaking.
111 have to have another drink to tone me up,’
he says, although it didn’t seem to me that it was
that that he needed. As a favor, Missersh Parshley,
don’t mention to Missersh Wasshall that I told you I
thought I shaw a lion. She might make a song about it,’
he says.
“Which I daresay she would. I thought to myself
that I had never seen Mr. Wassail like that before,
and I was sorry for the poor fellow.
‘ I was just dozing off to sleep when there was a
banging at my door.
‘‘Mrs. Parsley! Wake up! There are lions in
the house! ’ That’s what I heard ; and I thought I
heard a lion’s roar, too ; but I told myself I must be
dreaming. There was two women outside my door,
looking white and scared, and bad-tempered like
women get when they’re upset, saying that they weren’t
going to live in a place where wild beasts were per-
mitted. Then I saw that there was a taximan there,
too, who wanted to know if I was the landlady.
“ ‘Where’s the man with the lion?’ he asks. ‘Cripes,
missus, it ain’t no good sayin’ there ain’t a man with
a lion —I want to collect a fare off him.’
“I was beginning to feel as if I was having one
of them deliriums with trimmings; and I told that
taximan that if he
was in the habit of
driving people about
with lions he ought
to collect the fare
without waking
people up at the mid-
night’s silent hour,
which it wasn’t at all
silent the way things
were.
I ain t kiddin, missus,’ he says. ‘I come back
to my taxi on a stand near Pugwuggle’s Circus and
there s a fare sitting in it ’oo tells me to drive to this
residential. I ops in an’ sets off. Looked to me as
if the bloke had a big pile of rugs; and I didn’t take
no notice of funny sounds, which I thought might be
me fare s way of snoring. But when we gets here and I
ops out, this fare lugs out a lion. I don’t mind sayin’,
missus, that it took me aback. I didn’t wait to col-
lect no fare, but got for the lick of me life. Now I’ve
come back to collect, if you’ll tell me where I can find
the bloke.’
You can come upstairs with us,’ says I, for them
women was from upstairs. There were tenants all
about the corridor up there in their wraps, and there
was Pallotti, too. He seemed glad to see me.
Missus Parsalay, eet ees a veree gooda lion.
Get ees a nica lion. Eet would not ’urt a childa,’ he
says.
‘Mr. Pallotti,’ I says firm-like, though my heart
was fluttering like a bird in a gilded cage, ‘if you’ve
had the audacity to bring a lion into my establish-
ment the sooner you get it out the better. And your-
self, too,’ I says.
“‘A nice sort of residential! You get wild
animals thrown in,’ says that Mrs. Turner. That
annoyed me, seeing the sort of trouble I was always
having with that woman and her husband.
“ I will not have lions in my house,’ I says.
‘Married couples is bad enough, some of them.’
‘But thees lion is mucha more tamer than
married couples! ’ says Mr. Pallotti. ‘Come wit’ me,
Mrs. Parsalay. Come into my flata; you can pata
da lion, you can stroka heem. Caesare ees so gentle!’
“I could see myself patting a wild beast like that!
Especially as, when that Mr. Pallotti moved to open
his door, everybody scrambled to get into their flats
and leave me alone. I wrenched myself free and
reached the top of the stairs myself.
“ ‘You keep that door closed until you take
that animal out; and get it out before the morning!’
I calls out.
“ ‘But, Missus Parsalay, you no understan’,’ he
says, like he was pleading and hurt. ‘To pleasa me,
you come, speaka to Caesare. No? Missus Parsalay,
we coulda nota leta the bailiff geta me beautiful
Caesare! ’
“ ‘l’m going to see Mr. Pugwuggle,’ I says.
“Mr. Pugwuggle only opened the door an inch
and started to talk about seeing me in the morning ;
but now that I was well away from that lion I was
really angry about it.
“ ‘Mr. Pugwuggle,’ I says, ‘you’re goin’ to speak
to me right now ; and I’m coming into your flat to
talk to you! ’
“With that I gave the door a push; and then I
was sorry, as people often are when they are like
fools that rush in where angels fear the treadmill.
What they were that came with a rush, dashing past
me, I did not know then. I gave a scream and ran;
in my flat I must have fainted, although I knew the
place was full of pander-harmoniums with all sorts of
queer noises, and people running about, and sometimes
women screaming. I wanted to telephone for the
police, but even if the residential was being pulled
down, as it sounded as if it was, I couldn’t venture
outside amongst all those wild animals, whatever they
were.
“That’s why I didn’t speak to Mr. Pugwuggle in
the way I should have when he came to my flat, which
he began by saying he was sorry. Which well he might
be. I was so relieved to see him.
“ ‘We’ve collected nearly all the monkeys which
got out when you pushed open the door,’ says Mr.
Pugwuggle, as cool as a concubine, as if having
monkeys in his room was quite the right thing. ‘The
animals were scared and made a rush to escape.’
“ ‘How dare you bring such animals into my
establishment, Mr. Pugwuggle,’ I demanded. ‘Monkeys
in your flat and a lion in Mr. Pallotti’s! And I
suppose Mr. and Mrs. Choochin’
“ ‘They’ve got the baboons,’ says Mr. Pugwuggle,
calm as you please. I began to think I really had
them delirium with the trimmings. ‘There’s a couple
of elephants in the yard.’
“ ‘Elephants! ’ I gasped.
“ ‘We had some difficulty to get them there ele-
phants in,’ he says. ‘Any damage done to the gate
I’ll make good. I’ve brought some brandy here; I
know you were upset.’
“That brandy did me good.
“ ‘Where have you put the tigers?’ I asks sarcastic-
like.
“ ‘Oh, we couldn’t bring the tigers, but there’s a
couple of horses, too, in the yard,’ he says.
“ ‘Mr. Pugwuggle, my residential isn’t a circus-
tent, and I don’t intend it shall be one. It’s a place
which I’ve always kept respectable,’ I said. And that


was only the beginning. I was telling him off properly
when he interrupted me,
“ ‘The bloomin’ aninrals are here now, Mrs. P.,
an’ it can’t be helped. They’re a nice quiet lot of
animals and they won’t cause much disturbance.’
“‘Not cause much disturbance!’ I cries.
“ ‘Listen, Mrs. P.,’ he says, ‘Pugwuggle’s Mam-
moth Circus is i.n a bit of an ’ole. There’s a court dis-
order out and the bailiffs are likely to come in. Me an’
the boys are indetermined to beat that disorder—it
don’t matter to you what it was about. The only
way we could do it was to divide up the animals
amongst the people and get ’em away where we
could. The bailiffs’ll find just the remainder —
animals the Zoo won’t want to buy and some old
equipment we can buy back cheap if there’s a sale.
We’ll be able to bring ’em to terms pretty easy.’
“ ‘You and your people,’ I says, ‘can get out of
here to-morrow —or to-day, which it is now —and
take them animals with you. If you don’t go I’ll have
you put out.’
“‘Mind if I smoke, Mrs. P.?’ he says, and
lighted a cigar. ‘I s’pose you’ll put that there lion out
y’self? Not that ’e ain’t a quiet lion, as lions go.
Pallotti only told ’im to be silent, an’ you notice ’e
ain’t done no roarin’. ’E’s like a dawg. But it’s much
better to be friendly. Look, any damage that’s done
I’ll make good. Do out your flats like new when
we’re gone, if you like.’
“ ‘How long will it be before you can get them
animals away?’ I asks.
“ ‘Oh, two or three days,’ he answers careless-
like.
“It made my head whirl to think of my residential
filled up with savage animals that might cause all
sorts of damage like one of them unstinking volcanoes.
And what the tenants would do worried me.
“ ‘Oh, I’ll fix it up with the tenants. I’ll have a
word with a few of ’em,’ he says. ‘An’, of course, I’ll
pay all fines —that is, if there’s any trouble about
’aving them elephants in the yard.’
11 T T’S a strange thing about tenants that you can
1 never tell what they’re going to do. They make
trouble when you don’t suspect it, and then,
when you do suspect, there isn’t any.
“People looked out of the windows of all the
flats round about all day long, looking at the ele-
phants and horses, and I think our tenants liked the
feeling that they owned them, in a manner of speaking,
and could go down and feed them. They even liked
passing Mr. Pallotti’s flat and feeling they was very
near to a lion which they could hear moving about
inside. They was introduced to the baboons, too.
“ ‘Fancy me sleeping through all that rumpus,
Mrs. Parsley. Not even a monkey came into my flat
to wake me up,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘You want to
rename this establishment, Mrs. Parsley. Call it
Jungle Mansions and advertise the big-game shooting
—elephants, lions and mountain antelope.’
“ ‘lt’s upset me, but I couldn’t help it,’ I says.
‘I hope you’re not inconvenienced.’
“ ‘lnconvenienced —no! ’he says. ‘I like it; and
I’m only too glad to think we’re helping out these
boys. The first thing I saw this morning looking out of
my window was a jolly old elephant. I think that old
Toby knows me now; he trumpeted for another apple
when he saw me.’
“You talk about the ram that was glad to get
out of the thicket when Abraham altered his mind!
The tenants taking it like that was a relief to my mind,
but that Mrs. Fidgetts was a disaccordion note, as they
say. Her little Pom had disappeared, and she was
sure that that lion had eaten him. But only Mrs.
Fidgetts was sorry if it had.
“ ‘Pleasa, Mrs. Parsalay, come up and pata da
lion,’ that Mr. Pallotti kept saying to me, as if he
thought I ought to enjoy patting lions ; which I don’t
think I would even if I tried to like it.
“I thought he was going to say that again when he
came to me, grinning like that Mrs. Chester’s cat
that is mentioned in the Bible paradox.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsalay, I hava da good news. Now I
hava my revenge!’ he says. ‘My Nessa, she weel
coma backa on a veesit. She say her ’usband he
coma, too. Soon I meet heem! Soon I knowa heem.’
“He made that stabbing movement he was so
fond of, so that I had to jump back. It scared me.
“ ‘Then I keela heem —like that! ’
“It matfe me worried. Mr. Pallotti was such a
nice little man, in spite of him having brought that
lion to his flat, that it wasn’t nice to think of him
being hanged, let alone a murder being done in my
residential.
“ ‘You shouldn’t talk of murdering people. It
isn’t respectable,’ I tells him.
“ ‘Eet ees just! ’ he says. ‘T’ree year I vow
da man dat taka my Nessa from me I keela heem. Eet
ees an oat’ and must be done. When I meeta heem I
shall laugh, I shall smile ; an’ then, sudden, the knife
under his ribs —so! He ees dead! Ah!’
“Even Mr. Slompack and Mr. Pugwuggle were
concerned when I went to them about what he said.
“‘I know about it. Everybody knows that Pal-
lotti has sworn to kill this man who married Nessa.
She ought to keep him away,’ says Mr. Pugwuggle.
“ ‘Don’t you know who he is?’ asks Mr. Slom-
pack.
“ ‘No. Nessa just left us, leaving word that she
was going to get married. She didn’t say who to or
where she was going. She was fond of Pallotti, and
probably she knew how he would feel about it. What
beats me is that she should bring him now. May-
be she wants a showdown. I’ve written to her warn-
ing her that Joe has been swearing for the last three
years to kill her husband.’
“"THEN one night there was a party at the Pug-
* wuggles’ flat. A lot of people came, most of
them Eyetalians, being friends of Mr. Pallotti. As
some of them came in I heard one being underdressed,
as they call it, as Nessa. She was very pretty, and
the Eyetalian whose arm she held was a fine-looking
man, too. When I thought of that knife Mr. Pal-
lotti talked about when he made those jabs at my ribs
and said ‘Just like that —so!’ it made me feel creepy.
“And, well, it seemed I might feel creepy, the
way matters went at that party. The first laughter
gave way to loud voices all speaking together like that
Confucius worse, confound it, that the proverb
mentions; a vegetable tower of Cain and Abel it be-
came soon, as if everybody was arguing at once,
shouting angrily at one another.
“I was feeling all on the horns of a tenderhook,
when Mr. Slompack came to my flat.
“ ‘lt sounds rather bad, doesn’t it?’ he says. ‘l’m
a good deal afraid about that Pallotti; that’s why I
stayed home to-night. It seems a shame. I like Pal-
lotti. He’ll throw himself under the hangman’s rope
by this foolish gondola of his.’
“ ‘l’m going along to speak to them,’ I says, at a
fresh tumult that really sounded as if someone had
"Mr. Pugwuggle,
my residential isn’t a
circus-tent, and I don’t
intend it shall be one.
It’s a place which I’ve
always kept respectable,” I
said. But there he stood as
cool as a concubine.
been murdered. ‘I can say I came to ask them to con-
sider the other tenants.’
“ ‘l’ll go with you,’ says Mr. Slompack. We were
full of misty givings, as they call them : for with
the fresh uproar and the sound of falling furniture
it seemed to me that it could be only the unscrewable
ways of improvidence that could make it less than
two or three people killed.
“ ‘Come right in if you can force your way
through the row! ’ yells Pugwuggle ; which was en-
couraging. He came to meet us, pushing through
people who looked to me as if they were fighting,
though nobody seemed hurt, which was a relief to
me.
“ ‘You thought there was murder, I suppose?’
roars Mr. Pugwuggle ; he had to roar. ‘lt’s been a
surprise. Fancy! Luigi, that’s the brother of Mario,
who married Nessa, has been after my daughter
Angel all these years. I didn’t know! They’ve be-
come engaged. That’s what the
riot is about. It sounds like
murder,’ and he laughs.
“Mr. Pallotti saw us then and
shouted. He put his arm around
the shoulder of the man Mr.
Pugwuggle called Mario, and
came pushing him over. It gave
me a turn. I thought he might
have just remembered his vow
to stab this man, and want to do
it right in front of me.
“ ‘These are my frien’s. Dis
is my besta frien’; I knowa heem
from a boy!’ he says, then he
laughs. ‘Listen, Mario, I say
to dis lady, time agen, “I keela
da man who taka my Nessa —
so!” But then I nota know it
was my besta frien’. For the
stranger who do that —da knife ;
but for my besta frien’ I giva
everyt’ing—even Nessa! I am
glad to giva!’
“‘ \A RS. PARSLEY,’ says
Mr. Slompack when
we got away—the respiration
was standing on his forehead —
‘I am going to my flat to get a
whisky. I think you had better
let me bring you one, too. I
never heard a sediment like that
before.’
“Which was how I felt, too.
And I’m not going to take any
risks of having any more circuses
in my establishment.”
Night Fragment.
Out of the great black pupa of the night
A myriad stars sweep in wild silver flight;
Reckless of fair wings singed, they circle soon
Close to the guttering candle of the moon.
Long though the sun has set, frail primrose still
Haloes the tree-crowned beauty of the hill.
Starlight has stilled the garden’s joyous shouts
Of stabbing color, and the poppy pouts
That night has drained the red wine of her lips.
The larkspur flowers are little ebon ships—
Alas! for azure sail and mast’s jade rod
That shone when noontide loitered like a god;
The hollyhocks have lost their youthful bloom
And stand with downcast faces in the gloom.
A falling star drops like a wind-blown shard —
Poor little moon-moth, maddened and moon-charred!
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
Now We Are Grown So Wise.
We say, now we are grown so wise,
That no simplicities of rhyme
Can satisfy our lips and eyes,
That practised metres run with ease
The while they have no hills to climb,
Else thought might bring them to their knees.
So we must wrap our exigent
Entangled fancies in a word
TJncomforting, impertinent;
Shun singing phrases, they are shrill
And waste the air where they are heard,
Being only sweet and therefore ill.
Better to tear the living heart
Of contradiction out, and squeeze
Red death upon our fingers, part
The body of truth between us, till
What husk remains can scarcely please
The unsatiated, curious will;
Dig for the primitive again,
And thrust the shovel in with force
To stultify the weaker men,
Or let the dead thing be, and make
Ourselves the wisdom of our course,
And drug ourselves with words, and wake . . .
Perhaps we do not wake!
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
* 3rd May, 1939-
13th „ 1939-
M7th „ 1939
25th „ 1939-
f 3l st „ 1939-
6th June, 1939
Normandie,” from New York
lie de France,”
Normandie,”
Champlain,”
Normandie,”
He de France.’
Normandie,” largest vessel in the world.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars:
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: B7SOI
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
m/rwntl
H
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
SHDMKI© €®WA!WILm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
apart from their function of administering to the
comfort of their betters, chiefly to furnish life with
a little comic relief; but beyond that it is a book
of considerable appeal.
The author knows her rural gentry from the
master of foxhounds to the most subdued poor rela-
tion and her countryside down to the smallest flower
of the hedgerows. She weaves a double strand of
these things, handling her characters with a well-
bred realism in which sympathy and a gentle sense
of humor have a part —and her natural scene in a
succession of small vignettes, each sharp, clear,
imaginatively informed, and exact to the season, the
day and the hour. The title refers to a country
dance for four couples.
What happens in the story never becomes of
pressing importance, perhaps because the author is
lacking in major power, but the manner in which
things happen is made interesting by her insight into
human motives. The characters become intimately
known.
Fenella, daughter of the vicarage, is not very
happy in a home into which her elderly father has
recently introduced a young wife. She hopes to escape
by way of marriage. For the moment she is lost
between an eminently suitable match with an excel-
lent but rather uninspiring young curate from a
neighboring parish and secret dalliance with a hand-
some young farmer. The author puts her finger on
Fenella’s state of mind when she says: “Fenella
turned into the fields. She was restless. She wanted
a really good love affair, but one with a foundation
of solid security; there is often in youth a coolly
calculating side to its emotions.”
Ruth, the young stepmother, married Edward
Corduroy for material security and rapidly comes to
realise the emptiness of her emotional life, for
Edward, after a while, bestows on her only elderly
affection. Six months after marriage she plans an
emotional scene, a quarrel with passionate reconcilia-
tion to follow, and begins dramatically, “Edward,
you don’t love me any more!” After a glance
Edward decides that she is tired. He suggests in all
kindness that she go to bed, and resumes reading his
paper. Edward, good and clever man, is distressed
by his unpopularity with the villagers; he preaches
inspired sermons that are quite over their heads, tries
to interfere in their habit of using jam pots for
flower-containers on the graves, and thoughtlessly
buys his wireless set from a distant town instead of
from the local dealer.
Caroline Aylesbury, a good-looking spinster in
her early thirties, socially energetic, kindly and ex-
ceedingly competent, secretly lives to be admired.
Her downfall comes through unwarranted meddling
in other people’s lives. She is romantically and idealis-
tically loved by Charles Mallow, retired tea planter,
literary dilettante and fastidious gentleman. His
little cross is that he falls in love with her for what
she is and then expects her to be something different.
She spares him a moment from her busy day, drop-
ping into Chequerboard Farm for a snatched' kiss
and a word of explanation before she hurries on to
some meeting or social function at which her ener-
getic presence is demanded. These are not the ele-
gant and tender meetings he had hoped for, and his
dreamed-of quiet hours with her are obtained only by
extortion, which alters their spiritual content and
leads —not to vulgar quarrels—but to strained and
painful relations.
The fourth couple in the country dance are
Fanny Paddle, housemaid, who mingles contempt
with admiration for her betters, and Jim Holtby, wire-
less dealer, with whom Fanny is helplessly and hope-
lessly in love. Except that the author cannot quite
bring herself to believe in the validity of lower-class
emotions, the mental states of these people, both in
love and in the cross-relations of friendship, are
always penetratingly realised. Similarly with the
secondary characters, as on an occasion when she
remarks of Caroline’s quasi-invalid mother, “She felt
in the querulous mood of the invalid who wishes to
forego none of her own privileges, but resents being
shut away from the active enjoyment of other people.”
Myfanwy Pryce is not quite th|e immaculate
novelist, in that she is given to exploring small side-
paths and to coming forward after a dramatic scene
with a little psychological explanation—like the
answer to a sum —but as she does both rather well
it doesn’t seem to matter. She ensnares the quality
of nature in few words; in winter, “A blue sky, cold
as jewels” ; a field scene in spring in which black-
and-white Friesian cattle “seemed to have strayed
from an etching into a water-color.”
A Penguin to Buy.
Penguin Books have offered a really fantastic
ninepenceworth in reprinting Constance Garnett’s
Tales from Chekhov —a universe for the price of a
pint. Middleton Murry in an introduction calls the
translations “epoch-making,” and, besides the known
influence of Chekhov on the history of the short
story, there is a precision, a lucidity, a feeling of
“rightness” about the prose to prove him correct.
The book at once reminds one how great a debt
such masters of the short story as D. H. Lawrence,
Katherine Mansfield and H. E. Bates owe to this
Russian doctor. The first story, a study of a pregnant
-woman, set at a pitch of emotional intensity that is
always near hysteria, rising to a peak of dramatic
agony and dying away in despair, has exactly the
ruthlessness and the tenderness, the fire and the
accuracy that Lawrence achieved in such collections
as The Prussian Officer. Anyone interested in the
effect of physical condition on art might find it sig-
nificant to relate the desperation in and beneath this
story, and in and underlying Lawrence’s work, to the
fact that Lawrence and Chekhov and Katherine
Mansfield, too —died of consumption.
For a parallel to the far less brutal but no less
accurate observation of life that characterised
Katherine Mansfield’s stories, . Tales from Chekhov
has three charming studies, “The Darling,” “The
Schoolmistress” and “The Bishop.” All three are
tragedies softened to pathetic comedies by the grace
and the reserve of the presentation. The School-
mistress is the usual schoolmistress of fiction, but
Chekhov catches her with such a delicate flash of
light that one seems to be meeting her for the first
time. She is driven by a surly old peasant to an inn ;
there is one ugly moment when one of the drinkers
laughs at her ; on the way home she suddenly recalls,
first with ecstasy and then with tears, the joys of her
childhood, the security of her parents’ home.
“The Darling,” a more complex tale, is the history
of a woman who had no existence, no personality
even, unless she was in love. When she loves the
theatre manager, she can talk about the theatre;
when he dies, she marries the timber merchant, and
can talk about timber; then it is the veterinary
surgeon, and she can talk about the ailments of
animals ; at last she is really happy with a small boy,
borrowing from him such momentous thoughts as
“An island is a piece of land entirely surrounded by
water.”
“The Bishop” is a story which either Bates or
Katherine Mansfield might have attempted. The
quiet, gentle old man, lonely in the dignity of his
position and wishing he had been a village priest, is
the type Bates likes ; so is his old mother from the
country who comes to visit him and is awed and timid,
treating him as a bishop instead of as her son. The
story ends with a “dying fall,” quiet, but of the very
greatest power. The bishop dies, and, because he had
been a solitary, is quickly forgotten. All that his life
amounts to is a place in the memory of the old
countrywoman.
When she goes out at night to bring her cow in and
meets the other women at the pasture, she begins
talking of her children and her grandchildren, and says
that she had a son a bishop, and this she says timidly,
airaid that she may not be believed....
And, indeed, there are some who do not believe her.
Bates has followed two of the stories fairly closely.
He, too, has his drama of childbirth, a story set
rather too obviously grimly against a background of
snow, and not as effective as Chekhov’s tale where
the woman s hysteria whirls the guests at a house-
party into a “Symphonic Fantastique,” and where the
stillbirth of a child makes a pompous husband a figure
of infinite tragedy. This is, of course, a universal
theme, and it is no criticism of Bates that he used it.
He is less certainly within his rights, however, in his
story of the boy Alexander, one of the pleasantest
interludes in his Thirty Tales published in the
Traveller’s Library. Substituting English for Russian
landscape, it is very much a rewriting of “The Steppe,”
which occupies about half the space of the Penguin
Chekhov.
Bates’s reason for writing such a story
and Chekhov’s —is obvious. The simple expedient
of taking a boy for a journey gives an unassail-
able excuse for descriptive writing. Where an
adult might not legitimately be asked to observe
every detail of landscape, to be awed by every
hill, delighted by every animal, startled at the
flight of a hawk, such intense interest in his surround-
ings is natural in a boy. Furthermore, such characters
as are met with by the way, seen through the boy’s
eyes, become larger than life-size, grotesque or mon-
strous. Bates made a beautiful job of the boy Alexan-
der’s journey, and Chekhov, with no more “plot” than
that Yegorushka is taken from home to school grips
the imagination for probably fifteen thousand words.
Seen as the boy sees it, anthropomorphically, the
steppe is a person in the story:
You drive, and feel you are falling asleep, but
suddenly there comes the abrupt agitated cry of a
wakeful bird, or a vague sound like a voice crying out
in wonder “A-ah, a-ah!” and slumber closes one’s
eyelids again. Or you drive by a little creek where
there are bushes and hear the bird called by the
steppe-dwellers “the sleeper” call “Asleep, asleep,
asleep!” while another laughs or breaks into trills of
hysterical weeping—that is the owl. For whom do they
call and who hears them on that plain, God orfly knows,
but there is deep sadness and lamentation in their
cry.... There is a scent of hay and dry grass and
belated flowers, but the scent is heavy, sweetly mawkish
and soft'.
It is travel writing, and it is something more.
Chekhov’s landscapes are alive. Middleton Murry
says, “We are looking at the reality itself, not at one
refashioned by the artist,” and that is as true of
Chekhov’s people as of the landscapes. They are
immediately and tremendously real. They are not
even very “Russian”; there is not too much weeping,
not too many samovars ; there are none of the pre-
liminary difficulties of Dostoievsky. The man and
woman of “The Party” might have been people
imagined by Lawrence —ordinary people, that is to
say, made colossal by the fire and the psychological
truth of the portrayal.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
The Sheltering Tree : Netta Syrett (Geoffrey Bles).
Autobiography of the novelist who wrote Portrait of
a Rebel. “It could, I reflected, do no harm to show
that some, at least, of the old ladies of to-day enjoyed
almost as much freedom as any modern girl, even
though cocktails ”
Shakspeare’s Boy Actors: W. Robertson Davies
(Dent). Female parts in Shakspeare’s plays had to
be acted by boys. Theory, painstakingly elaborated,
is that the women’s characters were limited to an
emotional, range that could be portrayed by a boy.
Early Days in Dunedin : Robert Gilkison (Whit-
combe and Tombs). Type, paper, binding and the
long reference lists after each chapter make it look
like a school book. The material—fire, murder, ship-
wreck pioneering—is interesting in itself, and interest-
ingly told.


ipur oujn
PENGUIN
JumboJ
M|C-
of mine
OU know what an appetite
elephants have —they want the
lion's share always.
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder hes greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream—it is a delicious, rich
food.
Tr,
18
at. fL
Penguin
ICECREAM
PRODUCT OF
Shu N S W. FRESH FOOD L ICE CO LTD


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
'/ttfb'd ‘Wme'c/tyafie 7mil(M f ne^SMndJmiq/uei
Cheapside, With St. Mary-le-Be Church-1839-1939.
The late Captain Sir Walter de Maidment, one of the
most popular commanders on the London-Australian
mail and passenger service in pre-war days, was wont
to express a wish that after his demise he might revisit
the earth at 100-year intervals, “just to see the changes
each century had produced.” Retrospectively this is
possible, quite another matter to be sure, still highly
interesting. Take Cheapside—one of London’s best-
known highways—loo years ago and to-day! The
illustrations were made from pretty much the same
topographical point, at the eastern end looking west-
ward to where Cheapside terminates with the statue
of Sir Robert Peel and the railings of St. Paul’s Church-
yard. The thoroughfare is barely a half-mile long,
yet from time almost “immemorial” it has been the
centre of the retail trade of the city, and its most
busy and crowded street. In the days of the Roman
occupation, it constituted the northern boundary of
London, all beyond being bog and marsh. Its wealth
of historical associations might be almost termed
fabulous. It figures prominently in national and civic
history. Some half-way along it, on the north side, is
the little street called King, the end of which is taken
up by the noble Guildhall,#to the city in a secular
sense what Westminster Abbey is in another sense to
me nmpire. In 1631, Howes described Cheapside as the “Beauty of
London.” Before the days of water companies it contained two famous
conduits. Rebels such as Wat Tyler in 1381 and Jack Cade in 1460
executed here murderous vengeance in their moments of transient
triumphs. It was to Cheapside that the “martyr to matrimony,” Henry
VIII., went privately in the livery of a yeoman of the guard, with a
halbert on his shoulder, to look after the guard, and being satisfied
with the way they kept watch and ward within the city, came to
quote the old chronicler, “right royally on St. Peter’s night next fol-
lowing with his Queen and nobles, beheld the watch of the city, and
departed in the morning.” In 1517, “Evil May Day” riots occurred
in Cheapside when London’s workmen rose against foreign artificers
who had settled there. At No. 73 the residence of the Lord Mayor
stood before the present Mansion House was built. Hogarth has for
his last plate in Industry and Idleness” a representation of a city
procession entering Cheapside. The visitor in traversing this artery is
walking on ground from which historical associations may be said to
rise from every square foot of land. Almost as famous as Cheapside
is the Church of St. Mary, on the south side of the street. The present
structure was designed by Sir Christopher Wren, architect of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, to replace that destroyed in the Great Fire, and the sound
of the bells from the tower of this first Bow Church is said to have
recalled Dick Whittington to the city as he sat disconsolate on High-
gate Stone. The steeple is some 200 feet high and surmounted by a
gilt vane in the shape of a dragon. All who are born within the sound
of Bow Bells are, or said to be, styled “Cockneys.” The crypt, a fine
specimen of Norman architecture, was until comparatively recently
filled with coffins and lumber. Cheapside and Bow Church, as St.
Mary’s is commonly referred to, comprise a combination of powerful
and varied interests. Who would go to London and fail to see the
Church so intimately allied with one of the most pleasant legends
woven around Dick Whittington and his Cat, which delighted our
childhood’s years and will delight the children of centuries to come?
One, on hearing the chimes, unconsciously finds the mind thrown back
to the day when they seemed to say to the poor apprentice:
“Turn again; Whittington, Lord Mayor of London.”


IN THE JUNGLE THAT IS EUROPE.
On thy knees and draw the bow; bid the shrilling arrow go;
In the empty, mocking thicket plunge the spear;
But thy hands are loosed and weak, and the blood has left thy check —
It is Fear, O Little Hunter, it is Fear!
Through the war-gongs of the thunder rings a voice more loud than all—
It is Fear, O Little Hunter, it is Fear!
(With acknowledgments to Kipling.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
He.AD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
T 7 25 2IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (. Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d •
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ):
12 months £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA RISKS ALL.
This issue of The Bulletin goes to press with inter-
national tension now relaxed. It was here written last
week that “Memel must be regarded as lost to
Lithuania,” and lost it has been. But this German
coup—bloodless, like the others —was accepted with
comparative calm. And accounts of it coincided with
belated admissions that there had been no German
ultimatum to Rumania —on the contrary, negotiations
for a trade agreement were proceeding to a conclusion
which has been described in a wealth of sibilants as
successful,” “sweeping” and “staggering”— and that,
while arrangements for the official British mission to
Germany had been cancelled, the Federation of
British Industries and the Reichsgruppe Industrie had
arrived at “a joint declaration of principles” which the
President of the Board of Trade pronounced “a
valuable piece of work.”
Newspapers and other dealers in scaremongering
had been up to their old capers. The position had
been bad enough, but not so bad that it could not be
improved on by those responsible for such traffic.
As it is, the future is still messy and beyond predic-
tion, though the usual tribe of guessers are busier
than ever, and there is always the chance of one of
them fluking it.
Meanwhile, there has been some cooling off of
the public temper, natural as was the spontaneous
resentment provoked by a ruthless action. And there
is time for taking stock of the situation as it affects
Australia.
The Bulletin holds that Australia’s peculiar
interests must be considered, at least by Australians.
Moral fervor is all very well, but it is certain that
policies advocated by our moralistic crusaders can—
and in the existing world situation certainly would —
place this country in a position more dangerous than
that of any other in the Empire, except Maoriland,
which is in the same boat.
In the latest uprush of heated feelings nothing
has been more pitiful to witness than the rush to dis-
parage the man who had striven above all others to
secure peace. The inevitable Australian radio babbler
was on the air insisting that “Chamberlain must go!”
Cartoonists had an easy time twisting the peacemaker
and his umbrella to their gibes. Demonstrat-
ing Carlyle’s dictum that there is no more appalling
sight than ignorance in action, leader writers of
bellicose dailies, Fearless Fighters of the soapbox
front, boardinghouse and bar-room oracles spat on the
name of Britain’s leader.
Even if the agreement by which he achieved it
has since been broken, Mr. Chamberlain averted a
war in which hundreds of thousands of men, women
and children now living would already have been
hideously mangled, killed and maimed; he gained
half a year—for the restrengthening of
Britain from the defencelessness it had been led into
by ultra-pacifists, League of Nations “idealists” and
suchlike cranks ; and at the same time he made it
clear to the world that no country was more willing
to help in finding a solution of pressing international
problems. If Australia has not gained by the respite
as it should have done, at all events it is better placed
than it was last' September, and every other day
gained can be to its advantage.
The attempt to make a scapegoat of Mr. Cham-
berlain was not surprising. It is an extraordinary
fact that at no point of crisis over the past 10 years
or even between crises, has the full weight of the
press been thrown into the balance for peace. Not
once has the full voice of the press declared for the
avoidance of war if at all possible, either out of
awareness of war’s hideousness or with a thought for
Australia’s peculiar interests.
Instead, on the one hand, the man who strove
to the utmost for peace has been a target for shafts
that could not have been more venomous if he
the foulest monster breathing, and, on. the other,
policies have been advocated that might lead to
disaster for Australia and Maoriland both.
While the loyalty of these countries to Britain
can be taken for granted—certainly it needs no reitera-
tion by jumping-jack politicians—their peculiar in-
terests need weighing in the balance as a steadier
against hasty plunging into war. As a result of press
scaremongering and political vagueness the public
mind focuses in apprehension on Europe. It needs
bringing nearer home. The real position of these
countries requires to be plainly stated.
The press is so full of the news of Europe that
there is no room for the news of Asia. It is vaguely
mentioned now and then that Japan is in on the
Anti-Comintern Pact; but interest is held fixed by
Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Ruthenia and unheard-of
fragments of the Mad Continent. In the picking of
sides it is mentioned as something to whoop about
that Russia would be on the Allied side. That Japan
would then certainly be in on the other side is not
mentioned; not even, apparently, given a second
thought.
Yet that is the prospect which faces Australia
and Maoriland and which must be faced if the
interests of these countries are to get any considera-
tion at all. It has become dangerously obscured. In
the last war Japan fought on the side of the Allies.
It therefore requires some realistic thinking to see it
clearly as a certain enemy in a war that involves an
alliance with Russia ; to see Italy also on the side of
Germany, and the Mediterranean life-line cut.
Perhaps even such grave considerations would
not be enough to sober the propaganda forces
working their hardest to condition public opinion to
a mood favorable to plunging into war. There is no
question that in this devil’s business they have had
noticeable success. For every statement in the posi-
tive interest of peace there have been a hundred on
the other side.
~ Tha j r Australia’s so-called leaders should be as
disregardful of these pressing dangers is another matter.
The peculiar position of the country they are sup-
posed to be leading calls for more than the easy
acquiescence of Mr. Lyons’s “Tune in with Britain.”
Now as never before Australia needs to be heard
speaking desperately in its own interest. So far from
dragging along in the wake of any adventure that
may be started, there needs to be some frank talking
on its behalf before it is too late. Australians will
have to realise, and will have to make Britain and
Merest of the Empire realise, that this country, along
with Maoriland, can be put in singular jeopardy.
If the threat of war has been as close as we have
been led to believe, that should have been stated
with the greatest urgency. If it has been stated, no
hint of it has got into the dailies, some of which
show no sign of giving any consideration what-
ever to Australia’s interests. Further, if it has been
urged, and the movement is still towards war, then it
is either madness or the most hopeless weakness that
the Federal Government boggles a day longer over
the reintroduction of national service.
If war comes Australia will have to take it in
Australia. It will be too late then to enforce coropul-
sory service with any good effect. This should be
done now.
What is the present Government afraid of?
With the reintroduction of national service Australia
would at once begin to be capable of defending itself
If war comes the need here will be for man-
power, and Australia is badly enough off for that at
the best. In their own interests, apart from the con-
sideration of their country’s continued existence, all
the men that can be mustered will require the maxi-
mum possible training. To send untrained and half-
trained men into war is murder. Even as an ordinary
precaution, national service should be brought in
without another day’s delay.
And it should be insisted—and kept in mind by
the local warmongers and other hotheaded people,
too—that if war does come Australia, and Maori-
land as well, will be risking more than some
territorial losses or lives. In their present state they
are open and vulnerable. Their position is entirely dif-
ferent from that of Canada or South Africa. They are
the last places on earth that can afford the luxury of
hot-headed moralising fervor. Whatever credit their
feelings for minor European peoples may do to their
hearts, ordinary commonsense dictates that it is high
time the thoughts of Australians, from the merest
ignorant gasbag to the Prime Minister, returned from
their European wanderings to focus on Australia’s
interests.
Supping with the Soviets.
Since the cry for a Russian alliance is heard again,
it is instructive to consider countries in which
Moscow parties have established themselves, by force,
or by propaganda and intrigue, and the consequences,
direct or indirect. The subjoined record is not com-
plete: it does not include countries in which Mus-
covitism has expressed itself by sporadic bombings,
burnings and killings, or by attempted mutinies like
the Invergordon affair and the efforts to pinch mili-
tary secrets from Woolwich Arsenal; but it is illu-
minating so far as it goes. Some of the quoted extracts
are from the Encyclopedia Britannica, and others
from the Statesman's and Daily Mail Year-Books.
Finland.
Red intrigues in 1917; Red civil war in 1918. “Train-
loads of revolutionary soldateskci arrived from Petrograd.
Haying massacred their officers and any bourgeois elements
which remained they entered the so-called Finnish Red Guards
and ransacked the country.” They and the native Reds were
soon defeated, but “the terrible cruelty of the Reds led to
the White Terror.”
Independence achieved, the Finns outlawed Communism.
Their republic is happy and flourishing, and is the only real
democracy created since the war.
Hungary.
Communist party “founded on November 24, 1918, by
returned prisoners of war from Russia,” the leader being
nmrnmnHa'”' 10 A^ ad <tra ' ne d at Moscow for Bolshevist
Governmi; Atter u'f and insurrections” a Soviet-
instrument * f WaS esta bhshed. “Terror was proclaimed an
were B ° ve '" nrne nt’ ; “400-odd distinguished citizens
arrested as hostages —some were “bestially murdered”—
• rror T tr “S s ’ known as “Lenin’s ruffians” were
®Budapest they “tortured and executed people
tmnn Cir authont y”; in the provinces Szamuelly’s terror
troop was empowered to inflict the death penalty without
any formality.”
Newspapers were suppressed; the right of public meeting
was refused; in the schools all mention of the nation and
, P T^^ as forbidden; and private ownership was
abolished. There followed an industrial crisis, a famine—the
peasants refused supplies for worthless Communist paper—
isolated uprisings, bloodily suppressed,” and a Rumanian
invasion.
The Red troops scattered at the first attack”; the Soviet
overnment bolted, Bela Kun leading by miles, and Szamuelly
shot himself. He couldn’t get away.
tr ias s ' nce been ruled by a regent and, as in
r inland, there are no Communists in its Parliament.
Italy.
1*1919, 1920 and 1921 there were many strikes, one being
a 24-hour-strike in Rome “because the authorities had for-
bidden a manifestation in favor of the Russian Bolshevists.”
In August, 1920, many large industrial concerns, particularly
metallurgical works,” were seized, in “imitation of the
Russian revolutionists,” and factory councils tried to sell
the goods. At Turin in September “Red Guards brutally
murdered a student and a detective who happened to be
passing near an occupied factory.” Meanwhile estates were
forcibly occupied by peasants. In October “Bolsheviks
murdered a Royal Guardsman and a police inspector”; in
November “two members of the new town council were shot
in the council hall by hired assassins”; at Modena, a Fascist
having been murdered, and two Fascists killed at the funeral,
their companions “burnt down the labor exchange.” To
every Red outrage and outbreak of disorder weak Govern-
ments yielded.
So it went on till August 1, 1922, when “the Communists
declared a general strike.” Fascists took up the challenge
an< f the strike was broken. By the end of the year Fascism
ruled and Communism had retreated into the shadows from
its own child.
Germany.
Here also Communism was the father of Fascism, called
in the German form Nazi-ism or Nazism. After the war
and the exodus of the kings and princes, Workmen’s and
Soldiers’ Councils were formed on the Moscow plan, and
at Berlin in 1919 there was an armed insurrection headed
by Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, with Radek cheering
them on from a safe place. It was put down bloodily, the
leaders being shot. There were unsuccessful risings in other
places (at Munich on April 7, 1919, a Soviet republic was pro-
claimed, and at Dresden on April 12 the Saxon War Minister
was drowned in the Elbe by a mob), and as a result of these
events no Communists were elected to the first National
Assembly.
Communist propaganda nevertheless increased and multi-
plied. Berlin became the headquarters of international Com-
munist bodies. By 1930 so many people had turned
to Communism in their misery that there were scores of
Communist members in the Reichstag and Thalmann, the
Communist candidate for President, was polling millions of
votes. Steadygoing Germans feared a Red civil war and
rallied to the leader who undertook to save them from the
horror.
Thus Hitler came. Germany passed under the rule of a
fanatic who proclaimed Communism an Oriental superstition
which must be hurled back to Asia by force. Out of his
hatred for Communism came the Anti-Comintern Pact.
China.
Communist Russians began invading the outer provinces
of China and white-anting the more populous parts im-
mediately after the Romanoffs were overthrown. By 1924
they had a People’s Revolutionary Government in Outer
Mongolia and a Tuvinan People’s Republic on the north-
west. They have since become supreme in Sin-Kiang—
Chinese Turkestan, Kulja and Kashgaria.
In China proper they financed and armed huge bands
of Chinese who set up Soviet Republics and fought the
Kuomintang Nationalists under Chiang Kai-shek and informed
sympathetic newspaper correspondents that their great object
was the overthrow of imperialism, chiefly British. Meanwhile
the Japanese had gained control of Manchuria, where in
1931 they occupied Mukden and in 1932 set up “the indepen-
dent State” of Manchukuo.
The Kuomintang and the Red armies buried the hatchet,
with Moscow’s blessing. There followed the Japanese in-
vasion and all the ghastly features of a foreign war with
modern weapons.
France.
Communist infiltration in France begins immediately after
the war. In 1936, 72 Communists and ten Dissident Com-
munists are elected to the Chamber of Deputies (618 members).
Together with the Socialists, Dissident Socialists and Radical
Socialists, they form a Popular Front. The internal condition
of France deteriorates rapidly, but not more rapidly than
French influence in foreign affairs. That declines everywhere,
in Spain, Italy, Central Europe, the Balkans and Syria par-
ticularly. The Daladier Government is still trying to stop
the rot, but immense harm has been done.
Spain.
Communists establish themselves formidably, with Mos-
cow patronage. They and other parties of the Left form
a Popular Front, which is preceded and followed by blood-
shed on both sides. In July, 1936, civil war breaks out and
foreign Communists and Fascists fight a war within a war.
In the course of two years and a half the anti-Reds, led by
Franco, make themselves masters of northern and western
Spain, and in a winter campaign they effect the rapid conquest
of Catalonia. In the latest scene Communists in Madrid
and neighboring parts rise against the nationalist elements
that want to capitulate, and their revolt is suppressed. A
million Spaniards are dead, among them 20,000 priests and
nuns, butchered, and, in many cases, mutilated after the
Russian Communist fashion in civil wars.
Czechoslovakia.
This Czech Republic, as Sir lan Hamilton pointed out in
1922, could have maintained itself only by securing the ad-
hesion of its racial minorities, Germans, Slovaks, Poles,
Hungarians and Ruthenians. Failing in this, it hastened its
doom by allying itself with France and Russia against
Germany. When its integrity was challenged in September,
1938, France, weakened by its own follies, could only plead
for it. The Russians, though Slavs, like the Czechs, could
or would do nothing. In contempt of his September engage-
ments, Hitler seized “Czechei,” sent troops into Slovakia to
support the setting up of an alleged protectorate and let
the Hungarians grab Ruthenia.
All that, as mentioned before, is only part of
the story. When Russian Communism invades a
country, calamity follows and desolation remains.
And yet thousands of voices are heard counselling this
Christian Commonwealth to accept the U.S.S.R. as
an ally. Such an alliance would divide it as nothing
else could. To French-Canadians, most of the Irish,
many of the South African Dutch and the Catholic
Church —now very critical of Hitler and exercising
restraint on Italy—it would be an alliance with
Antichrist.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Back to the Empire!
Within the limits imposed by geography and circu-
lation The Bulletin has worked for peace without
railing incessantly at foreign Governments —there has
been too much of that on both sides. All along it
has opposed crusading, whether for Abyssinians,
Chinese, Spaniards or Czechs, and it is not going to
support the crazy thing now, nor does it feel that the
world has tumbled about its ears, because an Aus-
trian, Adolph Hitler, in contempt of his verbal assur-
ance to Mr. Chamberlain, has made himself ruler of
Bohemia and Moravia, which were Austrian posses-
sions for centuries before the war. Such things as the
seizure of Prague and Memel (except for the last 20
years, Teutonic since its foundation in 1252) have
happened scores of times in Central and Eastern
Europe. And obviously these Europeans don’t
change much.
In the eighteenth century a Prussian king
grabbed Silesia and tried to grab Saxony, and in the
process he twice became master of Prague. It was the
time of the first Pitt, greatest of British Foreign
Secretaries. Did Pitt form a bloc against the despoiler?
No; he helped him on the second occasion with
money and soldiers, among whom were “the men who
fought at Minden.”
Unlike our Edens and Attlees, the makers and
preservers of the British Empire, Pitt, Clive, Wolfe,
Nelson, Wellington, Raffles, Rhodes, thought of British
interests first, last and all the time. They never wor-
ried about the woes of strange and remote peoples
in Europe. They would not have imperilled the
Empire by fighting for the imposition of their own
form of government on foreign countries or for the
liberties of synthetic republics or improvised king-
doms which could not be trusted to put up any sort
of fight for themselves. They were not crusaders.
History is a great comfort in times like these.
It is alleged that Hitler has designs not only on all
the territories which were Prussian or Austrian before
the war —a certainty for which we should have all
been prepared, especially in view of the disappear-
ance of the Prussian and Austrian empires—but on
Rumania, Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia, Lithuania,
Latvia, Estonia and, as some add, Switzerland, Hol-
land, Belgium and Scandinavia as well. Suppose, for
the sake of argument, he cherishes all these
sinister ambitions. In May, 1918, the armies of
the Hohenzollerns and the Hapsburgs were in Bel-
gium, Northern France and Northern Italy, Yugo-
slavia, Rumania, Poland, the Ukraine, Finland and
the Baltic provinces, and Russia proper was at their
mercy. By the second week in November they were
beaten fugitives. In 1812 the Napoleonic empire
included, besides France, the Low Countries, Spain,
Italy, Switzerland (virtually) and Dalmatia, and all
Germany, Poland and Lithuania were under Bona-
parte’s thumb. Within two years it had collapsed, and
he was a prisoner in Elba.
Hitler cannot be absolutely blind to the warn-
ings of history. He must know that every extension
of his dominion over a foreign race, while it may
appear to strengthen him materially, weakens him
morally —with his own people as well as the outside
world. Even bloodless conquests involve awkward
problems of government and the strong probability
of at least passive resistance or non-co-operation, per-
haps in a form as baffling as Gandhi’s. And always
there have to be considered the reactions of the
German people. Hitherto they have followed Hitler
dutifully, because he has given them all work and
hope, and because he has shattered the Versailles
“settlements” without bloodshed and satisfied a his-
torical aspiration which found favor with our own
forefathers —“the union of the German tribes.” But
their loyalty would not survive defeat in battle. In
any case, all European experience of dictators is that
their systems perish with them, as did that of our
Cromwell.
If this man is bent on further conquests in
Europe he has the means of achieving them—tem-
porarily. None of the countries supposed to be
threatened, nor France nor any of the dubious allies
which the crusaders would inflict on us, could pre-
vent him. They are all dead scared of his Germans,
Russia most of all. Assuredly the United States
would not try to stop him. Should the British
Empire? One thing is certain —it could not help
with armies, and if it allied itself with, say, Yugo-
slavia, Yugoslavia would go down within a week.
Then there would be nasty repercussions in Asia from
Jaffa to Hong Kong.
For Australia and Maoriland one immediate
effect would be the loss of the Anglo-German naval
agreement, which is at least a safeguard against the
recovery of the former German colonies by naval
action. Far graver would be the consequences if
barren championship of some Balkan or Baltic State
in co-operation with Russia led to the Anti-Comintern
Pact becoming an offensive and defensive alliance.
Then Australia and Maoriland would be cut off from
the mother country and in actual danger.
Why should the English break their hearts and
stake their future, and the future of the Dominions,
over Czechs, Slovaks, Greeks, Rumanians, Serbs, Hun-
garians, Russians, Lithuanians, Letts or Poles, who
don’t care two straws for them and their blocs and
alliances? They have a splendid Empire, and they
can defend it. They have abandoned Mad Conti-
nent politics before, and they can do it again.
The New Aircraft Plan.
The Prime Minister has announced that, in accord-
ance with the recommendations of the British Air
Mission, Australia is to enter upon the manufacture
of military aircraft.
It is not clear whether whole aircraft, including
engines, are to be built here, but the making of air
frames for two-engined Bristol Beaufort bombers will
begin as soon as plant is available.
Details of the mission’s recommendations are
secret, but two factories will be established —one at
Melbourne attached to the existing one, the other prob-
ably at Sydney. There will be a central body to
arrange finance. A large amount of British capital
will be involved.
The number of ’planes to be manufactured is
not known, but 250 machines p.a. is mentioned. If
British factories are a criterion this should mean the
employment of about 7000 to 8000 men.
The first machine to be built under the scheme
is a bomber in the most modern range. Speed
is certainly round 275-300 m.p.h., and flying range,
if not as long as that of the Wellesleys, which broke
the non-stop record to Australia, at least suitably
long for Australian conditions. The machine is still
on the secret list.
Provided there is no delay or muddle in operat-
ing it, this aircraft-building plan is a very great stride
forward.
The Last of Lang ?
“What great events from trivial causes spring!” On
May 21, 1927, there was a by-election for the Federal
division of Warringah (N.S.W.), composed largely
of Manly, Mosman, Cremorne and Neutral Bay. It
was won on the first count by Mr. Archdale Parkhill,
who was to become P.M.G. and Minister of
Defence before he became “ex.” Among his four
opponents were two Labor men: Mr. Ambrose
O’Gorman, for whom Mr. Lang, then Premier, took
the platform, and Mr. T. P. Conway, who was sup-
ported by the then Federal Labor leaders, Mr. Charl-
ton and Mr. Theodore.
In politics Mr. O’Gorman and Mr. Conway were
never heard of before, and they have never been
heard of since. Both lost their deposits. But Mr.
Lang’s nominee got 4285 votes, the Charlton-Theodore
man only 3159.
That was the signal for the first of the Lang
purges. Within five days Mr. Lang had expelled
eight of his eleven Ministers: Mr. McTiernan, Mr.
Dunn, Mr. Mutch, Mr. C. C. Lazzarini, Mr. Cann,
Mr. Flannery, Mr. Fitzgerald and Mr. Coates. A
ninth, Mr. Loughlin, would have been among them
had he retained his portfolio of Lands, but in the
previous November Mr. Loughlin resigned office
after Mr. Lang’s leadership had been put to a party
ballot. The ballot was taken in a room besieged by
union secretaries from the Trades Hall, all then (but
not now) champions of Mr. Lang. By this device
wavering members were intimidated into supporting
that gentleman ; but only the vote of the presently-
to-be-sacrificed Mr. McTiernan saved him from being
ousted by Mr. Loughlin.
Mr. McKell, a tenth member of the first Lang
Ministry, was provisionally included in the second,
improvised on May 27, along with Mr. Willis and
Mr. Baddeley and (among nine new men) Mr. Gos-
ling and Mr. Horsington. He was abroad at the time,
and from London came a newspaper statement to
the effect that he had said he would not “follow Mr.
Lang into the wilderness.” He denied it when he
returned ; but out went Mr. McKell on June 7. Into
the wilderness also went Dr. Evatt, a private mem-
ber, now a Justice of the High Court.
The events of the subsequent decade may be
briefly summarised. Lang Labor was beaten at the
election of October, 1927 ; but so was anti-Lang
Labor, except Dr. Evatt and Mr. Mutch. At that of
November, 1930, Dr. Evatt did not stand and Mr.
Mutch lost his seat, whereas Mr. Lang, promising
everybody the moon, came in again with the great-
est majority N.S.W. Labor has ever had. Within six
months Mr. Lang had gone in for repudiation of in-
terest and other wild proceedings ; within 12 months
Mr. Scullin’s Commonwealth Labor Government had
been defeated on the no-confidence motion of Mr.
Beasley, leader of the Lang group at Canberra, and
at the ensuing election Scullin Labor was reduced
to a remnant.
In May, 1932, it was Mr. Lang’s turn. Dismissed
from office by Governor Game, his party was re-
duced to a remnant, and it fared little better at the
elections of August, 1935, and March, 1938.
Meanwhile Mr. Lang had fallen out with Mr.
Willis, Mr. Gosling, Mr. Horsington, Mr. Davidson
(member of his third Ministry), Mr. C. C. Lazzarini
again—that gentleman had been readmitted to the
party after the onety-oneth “unity conference and
Mr. Heffron, a private member. With the backing
of Mr. Garden and other Trades Hall secretaries who
had saved Mr. Lang from being passed out by Mr.
Loughlin (subsequently a one-term U.A.P. member),
these gentlemen formed a party under Mr. Heffron’s
leadership, and last year saw Mr. Heffron, Mr. David-
son, Mr. Horsington and Mr. C. C. Lazzarini returned
as Assemblymen. They are now to be joined by Mr.
Evatt, a brother of Justice Evatt. Standing as Hef-
fron Labor candidate for Hurstville, Mr. Evatt beat
Lang Labor’s Alderman McGrath by 7017 to 5852,
and, with 5151 Lang Labor preferences, defeated the
U.A.P. candidate by 3542 —this in a constituency
which, 12 months ago, gave the late U.A.P. member
a majority of 2510.
So the wheel has turned full circle. The Lang
dictatorship began at a by-election and ended at a
by-election. It may possibly be restored at another
by-election, that for Waverley, if the Lang man beats
the Heffron man by a resounding majority; but the
possibility seems as remote as 3000 a.d.
Still More Pilgrims.
One more band of happy pilgrims is off to Geneva —
Acting High Commissioner Duncan, Colonel E. F.
Harrison, formerly M.H.R. for Bendigo, and Mr.
T. Lawton, of the S.A. Tramways Union.
They are to attend the International Labor Con-
ference. There have been 25 International Labor
Conferences, and if anybody can remember what
any of them has done for Australia his grateful
country should give him a medal.
Mr. Lyons says the agenda will include “techni-
cal and vocational education, apprenticeship, employ-
ment and conditions of labor of professional drivers
of vehicles engaged in road transport”—transport
which Australian Governments do almost everything
possible to prevent. Also, “generalisation of the
reduction of working hours in industry, commerce
and coalmines.”
In September there will be another gathering at
Geneva for the League’s annual doo-dah. Yes, there
still is a League, and the money Australian taxpayers
still find towards its upkeep would maintain the per-
sonnel of three or four R.A.A.F. squadrons.
Delegates have not yet been appointed, but they
will almost assuredly consist of portion of the
tralia House staff, a comfortably-off lady who finds
Geneva a new thrill and a big businessman, prefer-
ably one who subscribes to party funds.
Bell and His Trams.
Chairman Bell, of Melbourne Tramways Board,
continues to fight for his trams. The reason why
Britain is abandoning them for the trolley car is, he
thinks, that managements have failed to keep pace
with modern ideas of speed and comfort. But traffic
in Melbourne is slowing down, not speeding up, and
congestion is increasing in spite of the prohibitions
on parking and all sorts of gadgets and devices for
facilitating the evacuation of the multitude.
Swanston-street, the main artery out of the city,
has recently been closed to kerbside parking, so Mr.
Bell has a free run for his rumbling chariots. Between
five and seven in the evening this thoroughfare is an
entrancing spectacle. A continuous procession of cars
and trams stretches from Prince’s Bridge back five
blocks, sometimes six blocks, into the city. To assist
the mechanical signals there are so many policemen
occupied in controlling the situation that it is a
wonder burglars and cat-thieves don’t select these
hours for furthering their professional activities in
the suburbs. The procession moves forward in fits
and snatches, the air is filled with the fumes from
exhaust-pipes, and the quantity of petrol wasted must
be prodigious.
Although the footpaths are packed with pedes-
trians, a good walker with some skill at dodging can
outdistance the trams, which were “designed for speed
and comfort.” Speed and comfort are conspicuous
by their absence. There is no speed, and upholstered
seats (if any) are no compensation for being confined
to Mr. Bell’s monuments of immobility.
The obvious cause of all the trouble is that the
trams monopolise one-third of the roadway, and make
matters worse by occupying the middle, thus intro-
ducing a second set of passing and overtaking prob-
lems to muddle up the ones for free-ranging transport.
The tram-users form a series of dams which interrupt
the flow at every intersection.
On a recent trip abroad Mr. Bell was amazed
to see so many bridges over the Seine and the Clyde.
He attributes the Melbourne situation to the absence
of bridges over the Yarra. It will be a long time before
more bridges can be constructed ; and what is he
going to do about it in the meantime?
An Awful Example.
Cardwell (N.Q.) has received a report from its shire
council, which has a farmer, Brice Henry, for chair-
man.
In three years rates outstanding have been re-
duced from £20,000 to £13,000, £31,559 owed to the
Crown and the A.M.P. has been repaid, and amal-
gamations and other arrangements of short-term loans
have effected “savings of £3334 a year.” For 1939
rates are being reduced.
All this in a district which has been and is being
carved out of thick scrub. The population is 5000.
Southern ppliticians who have free railway passes
should note in their diaries that the northern tourist
season opens in May. They could nearly all be spared
for the tourist season —indeed, their absence would
mean savings for the taxpayers—and a trip to Cardwell
would be instructive.
Banned!
From The Bulletin’s Melbourne office:
“On February 16, we asked that a
Bulletin subscription be commenced for
“Mademoiselle
“Authari Plaz,
“Munich, Bavaria.
“Information has now been received that
the entry of The Bulletin into Germany is
banned, and the sub. is now to go to the
address below: —
“Miss
“College Franco Brittanique,
“No. 9 Boulevarde Jourdan,
“Paris, 14E, France.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Si Anu”: A country doctor in one
of the mountain hamlets in Gippsland
(Vic.) got a call to go to the local pub
to attend to a man who had been
knocked unconscious and left lying by
the roadside, presumably by a hit-and-
run motorist. He hastened to the scene
just as the stretcher-bearers brought in
the sufferer, still apparently in extremis.
“He’s saying something, doctor,” said the
rescuers as the medico entered. “It’s the
first time he’s spoken.” The g.p. leant
down and applied his ear to the patient’s
lips. “Give us a pot of beer,” he heard
in an alcoholic whisper. “What’s wrong
with him?” asked the helpers anxiously.
“He’s dead drunk, that’s all,” replied the
doctor. “Isn’t anything broken?” “Not
a mark on him,” the doctor assured them.
“Well, I’m blowed,” said the leader of
the volunteers. “We carried the swine in
five miles over the stiffest bit of country
in the district.”
* * * *
“Dingo”: “Atrax” (B. 8/3/’39) has
apparently never heard of the most
curious result of infra-red photography
on record. In the early days of tele-
vision Baird used to pose the performers
in a dark-room, and transmit entirely on
infra-red light. The 8.8. C. accordingly
presented a diva, who sang in a black
evening gown. Her “foundation gar-
ments” matched, as far as they went.
The scanning-disk ignored the lady’s
raiment, in accordance with the infra-red
habit of penetrating black, and gave forth
a vision of beauty singing in the nude,
all unconscious of the fact, much to
the disgust of the august and puritanical
sponsoring body. To make things worse,
it was in the days when Paris and Noo
Yark enjoyed a monopoly of the bare-
flesh stage.
* * * *
“Skinner”: About one citizen in a mil-
lion in Melbourne thinks of using the
rubbish bins provided by the City Coun-
cil, but a visitor from Geelong is glad
he did so. After transferring several
£lOO notes from an envelope to his pocket
he flipped the envelope into one of the
receptacles. Later, when he counted his
money he found that one note was miss-
ing, and a few minutes later passers-by
saw an apparently affluent gent, fren-
ziedly fishing up and sorting out the con-
tents of the rubbish bin. He found his
money.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Correspondents of Melbourne
“Argus” have lately been complaining of
the night noises of suburbia, which range
from the barking of dogs to the croak-
ing of frogs. Why don’t they come and
live in the city as people used to do
“Wot about that quid y ’ bet me I ouldn't get out?"
before the craze for suburbia started?
After midnight Melbourne is one of the
gentlest, softest allies of slumber it is
possible to imagine. The suburbanites
having departed to honk horns and slam
motor doors and rattle garage locks in
the ears of their next-door neighbors, a
profound calm falls upon the city. The
distant warning note of an odd taxi cross-
ing an intersection falls musically on the
ear ; otherwise there is silence until five
in the morning, when the low rumble of
the cable trams supplies an obbligato to
the soft thump of the enormous hooves
of the Chinese market-gardeners’ horses.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: While Billy Hughes and
Joe Lyons are bemoaning the low birth-
rate, let me cheer them up a bit by men-
tioning the largest family in Victoria —
or is it Australia? They can be located
at Neilborough, near Bendigo ; and ex-
cluding Mum and Dad the number is 22!
* * * *
“H. Poirot”: The scene of two recent
Sydney murders was a hotel lavatory.
First victim was a Swedish sailor, Eric
Karlsson, who was found with his skull
kicked in. In this case only a few hours
elapsed before the police had their hands
on a suspect, and he has been committed
for trial. The second case has so far
produced no arrest. A young Balmain
grocer named Anderson, a teetotaller and
non-smoker, a church officer, whose only
frivolities were amateur theatricals and
the violin, was shot through the heart.
His watch was on his wrist, and there
was money in his pockets. Not the scin-
tilla of a motive has been unearthed.
The police are searching for a dark-
suited, mysterious stranger who reported
in the bar that the lavatory door-handle
was broken off and then walked
out without having a drink. His
information was correct, but it seems
unlikely he had anything to do with a
crime which must have been committed
half an hour previously. Probably he,
like Anderson, was a non-drinker, and
his visit was occasioned by the fact that
there are few public lavatories in the
city. Hotel conveniences should be less
popular hereafter.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: There is re-
joicing in the British Navy since their
Lordships of the Admiralty decreed that
the rum ration was too weak, and that
grog in future should contain two parts
of water instead of three. There is, as
yet, no sign of a revival of the good old
eighteenth-century fashion of two grog
issues daily, totalling half a pint, but in
these days of new attractions for enlist-
ment one never can tell. As a matter
of fact, the proportion of teetotaller
ratings increases every year, and is en-
couraged by an allowance of 3d. per
day, or 21s. a quarter, in lieu of grog
ration. But the midday issue is still
carried out with befitting ceremony, in-
cluding the time-honored precaution
against cheating in the measure, of dump-
ing any surplus in the presence of the
officer of the day. The popular order
“Splice the mainbrace” is usually limited
to occasions of high ceremony such as
royal reviews, but as a matter of fact
any C.O. is empowered to hoist it at his
discretion.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Refusing to serve on a
ship which was to sail through the China
war zone, Thomas Baston, A.B. of the
Induna, was charged with continued
neglect of duty and sentenced to 14 days’
imprisonment at the City Court, Mel-
bourne. It was stated in evidence that
if the ship had gone to the Spanish war
zone the disgruntled sailor would have
got a bonus. But the possibility of being
accidentally made a target in somebody’s
else’s quarrel is just as great in China
as in Europe. Anyway, the incarcerated
seaman, who has a wife and family, was
not informed before signing that China
was his destination.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Perturbed at the falling-
off of cinema attendances, a Hollywood
corporation has taken a world census and
fixed an audience standard for all its
theatres, based on last year’s receipts.
A clarion call has gone out to its man-
agers and publicity men to make a super-
human effort to realise these quotas. The
theatre in each district which attains
nearest to the requisite figure will be
crowned with laurels and the manager
and publicity man will be presented with
tickets for a world tour. The only flaw
in this Napoleonic arrangement is that
the buck seems to have been passed from
the fillums to the propagandists. If the
pictures are duds no amount of enthusi-
astic boosting will attract the public. If
they are masterpieces nothing will keep
the public away.
* * %
“Osteo”: Unless the police have made
a frightful mistake, most of the element of
dubiety in what a Sydney newspaper has
dubbed the “Piha Bones Mystery” has
been removed by the arrest in Auckland
of a man they swear is Gordon Robert
McKay, wearing a beard and an alias.
As McKay, he has been charged with
“improperly interfering with human
remains,” and also with arson, so he
has before him the prospect of being
asked to answer quite a lot of perti-
nent questions: why he insured his
life for over £40,000; why he then
crossed the Tasman and took up
residence at Piha; why he was miss-
ing after his Piha shack was burned
down, and why portions of a corpse from
a near-by cemetery were found among
the debris.
* * *
“Ming”: A Darling Point flat is occu-
pied by a frail old lady of 80 and her
bachelor son, middle-aged and handi-
capped by an old war injury to his leg.
When he woke up the other night and
found a burglar ransacking a chest of
drawers in his room his exclamation made
the intruder turn and present a revolver
in true Hollywood fashion, ordering
silence or sudden death. “Righto,” said
the victim. “But don’t you make any
noise either. My mother’s in the next
room and she has a weak heart, and
would probably die if she got a shock.”
The burglar came close to the bed.
“That’s all right,” he whispered. “I’ve
been through the old lady’s room. Quiet
as a cat I was, and she didn’t bat an
eyelid.” Then the perfect gentleman
picked up his swag and departed.
* * * *
“Passenger”: Dominion Monarch,
now calling at Australasian ports on a
maiden voyage for the Shaw Savill and
Albion line, is, with her 27,000 tons,
not only the largest ship trading here,
but has the highest-powered Diesel
engine afloat. Her schedule cuts down
to 35 days the voyage from England to
M.L. and for it she took in 4500 tons
of oil in the Tyne. There are over 50
loudspeakers all about the ship for
making announcements, with a telephone
in every cabin. An unusual touch of
luxury is a golf-coach, specially engaged
for the return voyage.
* * * *
Tribute to a lady politician:
Two lady Ms.L.A., Miss Holman and Mrs. -
Cardell-Oliver, were re-elected in Westralia on
March 17. That never happened in Australia
before, and it may not happen again for a
long time, for the unprecedented double event
closed in tragedy. On the afternoon of the
day before the election, Miss Holman, riding
in a car driven by a sister, was thrown out of
it, suffering injuries so frightful that two days
after the election she was dead. Her sister
was hurt, but not dangerously.
To the deathbed when the news reached the
city sped a brother of Miss Holman, himself
a candidate (unsuccessful) for North Perth.
They inherited their politics; their father, J. 8.,
was an early Labor member for a Murchison
seat. An explosive little man, he had been a
barber at Cue. Some censorious person said
in his hearing, not knowing who he was, “I
see Labor has elected a barber.” “Yes,” said
Holman acidly, “and it could have elected a
barber’s pole.”
Holman was an active trade-union secretary
and a shrewd political organiser He put
daughter May in his office, and she was a
tower of strength to him, smoothing over
visitors whom Dad’s acerbities had offended,
and giving a social character to union head-
quarters. A capital pianist, with a pretty good
voice, she was in request at concerts and
“socials.” You couldn’t help liking the girl,
and she was a second mother to her younger
sisters and brothers —the Holmans had a
large family.
Holman was in a Labor Ministry for a
time, and bitterly resented his exclusion from
another combination. That and long absence
from the goldfields resulted in his losing the
nomination for the Murchison seat; but, be-
coming secretary of the Timber Workers, he
got another when Peter O’Loghlen, the
member for Forrest, died untimely. He suc-
ceeded Peter as M.L.A. for Forrest. When
he died in 1925, the chivalrous cutters and
sawyers of south-west hardwoods put May in
his place, and loyally returned her every time,
generally without a contest. She wasn’t much
of a speaker* but she was as energetic in her
way as her father, and the women of Forrest
were as devoted to her as the men. She was
“May” to all.
There was a romance in May’s life, and it
wasn’t happy. She married a young fellow
who had come down to the caucus from the
North. On first acquaintance, Perth voted Joe
a simple and manly youngster, but the clubable
side of Parliamentary life demoralised him,
as it did a young Labor contemporary who
got into a Commonwealth Ministry and was
burnt out at thirty. As a husband, Joe was a
failure. He lost his seat and went off to the
wars, and Perth saw him no more. The
marriage was dissolved, and Mrs. Joe resumed
her maiden name.
Had she lived, she might have rivalled Lady
Astor’s record —that charming prohibitionist
has been member without a break for just on
20 years. The gracious Westralienne was re-
turned with a 2-to-l majority.
JUST IN CASE.
While trusting Hitler, Mr, Chamberlain took no
risk and proceeded to increase British armaments as
quickly as possible.”— Mr. Spender, M.H.R.
He trusted Hitler—took the Fuhrer’s word—
Was read .y to believe him on the level.
And there it’s all too obvious he erred,
But this at least has to be said for Neville:
He trusted Hitler, but he set the pace
At speeding up rearmament —in case!
He trusted Hitler, loath to entertain
The thought a pledge might prove but empty
vapor,
A sacred obligation once again
Be treated as a scrap of worthless paper.
He trusted Hitler and was double-crossed,
Like one or two before him, to his cost.
He trusted Hitler, and thereby he fell
Into a trap designed for the unwary.
Still, we are none of us infallible
Or will be while humanum est errare.
Nor did he carry trust to the extent
Of taking any risks he could prevent.
He trusted Hitler, and it’s left him now
Entirely disillusioned and disgusted.
But put it to his credit anyhow
That, even while so hopefully he trusted,
He took a tip from Cromwell’s soldiery
And (as they phrased it) kept his powder dry.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“X.S.”: If the Sydney police force
has a lohn Hop with a lyric tenor worth
exhibiting at the Conservatorium, Gee-
long (Vic.) has a police superintendent
with aspirations to literary distinction.
The bayside city’s council wrote to the
police station formally requesting more
protection for its beaches against van-
dals, and remarking that plenty of police-
men seemed to be available for boxing
matches. The reply was as follows:
“Where trained physical giants in the
arena, spurred on by the plaudits of their
supporters, strive for mastery over their
opponents, the animated onlookers are
sharply divided in their affections, a per-
centage of them stimulated by available
intoxicants and a large percentage of
them affected by a distorted vision, more
police are required than on the beach,
where people in general are of the one
mind, seeking enjoyment.”
* * * *
“Selma”: King’s Cross, always cosmo-
politan, seems destined to become Syd-
ney’s suburb of all nations. In a coffee
lounge the other night a sunburnt Aus-
tralian, evidently from up-country, sat
listening to the babel of tongues round
him, his expression registering complete
bewilderment. Everyone was babbling
in a foreign language, and the only com-
prehensible words that reached him were
in the repeated statement of a dazzling
young blonde that she was Ruthene.
When she left with her party the Aus-
tralian noticed a bag lying on the chair
she had occupied. He wasted no time.
“Hi, Ruthie!” he shouted. “Come back
here. Y’ left y’r bag.” Ruthene turned
in surprise, followed his pointing finger,
was overcome with gratitude, thanked
him in broken English, and when I left
had evidently accepted his invitation to
have another cup of coffee.
“War precautions, he blowed! Skipper don't Want ’ees missus t' know
“Don't you remember engaging her last night, sir? You said you d never tasted home-cooking like it.
“Matins”: Dad wasn’t right off the
map in looking for Pa and Ma Wool-
bale’s likeness in the stained-glass win-
dow (B. 22/3f 39). In St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral (Sydney) there is a stained-glass
window erected by a citizen in memory
of his son. That window group includes
three figures —the son killed at the war
and his father and mother, who were
both alive when the window was put in.
The son is in uniform and the parents
in civvies.
* * * *
“Country Ped”: Wherever did
“Pawang” learn that Vic. State-school
children were kept cooped in their desks
during the heat-wave, and the depart-
ment wouldn’t allow .them to go home
early (B. 15/3/’39)? When “Pawang”
and I were kids State schools were verit-
able ovens in ordinary • summers, and
we were dismissed half an hour early
whenever the thermometer in the school
registered over 96 degrees —this by de-
partmental regulation. This regulation
still holds, but few schools were dismissed
during the last heat-wave, because the
modem and modernised school buildings
of to-day are so well ventilated that even
when the Melbourne shade reading
soared to 114 degrees schoolrooms
couldn’t have registered the necessary 96.
As for the kids falling asleep through
sheer boredom—they never did, but they
used to fall asleep through bad venti-
lation.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Dare I suspect M.L.’s
“Dominion” of a sense of humor? On
a page carrying a story of the “Bones”
case there was a review of a vaudeville
show. Name of the company was “Mc-
Kay’s Gaieties” and the star turn was
entitled “Let’s Go Hunting! ”
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: In pre-war days a real full-
dress will was a source of pride to many
elderly folk with a bit of money, also of
profit to their legal advisers from con-
sultations, codicils, re-drafts and the rest.
The hobby seems to have fallen out of
favor in Australia, but it is only 12 years
since an English lady of property left
one of the longest wills ever filed at
Somerset House. It contained over
95,000 words, covering nearly 2000 pages,
all in her own handwriting, and elabor-
ately bound in four large volumes. Its
preparation had been her hobby for 20
years, and the miracle was that it con-
tained no slightest ground for dispute as
to the disposal of her £20,000 estate.
Another lady who had inherited a large
estate at 60 died at 78 leaving a will of
150 pages embodying generous bequests
to relatives and friends. They honored
her memory with a costly celebration —
to find that she had blewed the whole lot
on lavish travel, and had died heavily
in debt.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The last stage of one
of those stupid, sordid tragedies that
rural parts periodically produce was
reached at Sydney’s Central Criminal
Court last week when Justice Maxwell
sentenced to death a man of 33 and a
woman of 31 for poisoning the woman’s
husband. They had been philandering
—the female accused says the man
threatened her with a gun till she gave
in. No evidence
in support of this,
but plenty of
evidence that the
husband gave his
wife a hell of a
time. So a
clumsy crime,
which occasioned
the victim excru-
ciating agony be-
fore he passed
out, and equally
clumsy attempts
at lying by the
two accused. The
woman, married
at 17, was de-
scribed by a medical witness as “below
the average in intelligence” and unable
to realise the seriousness of her position.
The man’s counsel said his client had the
mentality of a child of nine or ten.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: An Australian who had
been 27 years in China and admitted
that he knew only three words of the
language and didn’t know what they
meant landed in Melbourne recently. He
was merely aping the English, who, in
my experience, are the world’s worst
linguists. The current excuse given to
account for this phenomenon is that
wherever an Englishman goes he hears
his own language spoken, so he has no
need to learn any other. I once told some
English people in Shanghai that I in-
tended taking a trip to a provincial city
outside the International Settlement.
They were as astounded as if I had said
that I was going to fly to the moon.
Some of them had lived in the Settle-
ment for 30 years, and one had been
born there, yet none of them had ever
been outside it. There was no reason
why they should go if they didn’t want
to, but they all made a merit of it.
* * * *
“S.T.S:”: Adelaide has added to its
historic landmarks a bronze memorial-
tablet on North Terrace, outside Trinity
Church, to show where St. Peter’s
“school collegiate” was founded, in 1847.
The school had particularly generous
benefactors, and within three years it
moved out to spacious grounds alongside
the suburb which now bears its name.
* * * *
“Sally”: The way of the transgressor
may be hard, but fate can deal it out to
the’ righteous, too. A worthy young
man of our suburb was coming home the
other night after an uplifting evening at
the Young Gleaners’ League when out
of a gate rushed a young woman, who
clutched him and besought him to save
her, sobbing out a tale of cruelty as she
clung. Visioning a ferocious husband
attacking his helpless wife, the young
man stood by, assuring the girl he would
not leave her to be maltreated. On hear-
ing this she apparently fainted. The
friend-in-need had no alternative but to
carry her inside the house, where he put
her on a couch in the only lighted room.
Then he looked round for some water to
revive her. He had noticed a rumbling
sound coming from the back of the
house, but he was entirely unprepared
when he opened a door for the sudden
onslaught of a burly individual who
wanted to know what the variegated
dickens he was doing there. He bravely
informed the large man that he had come
in to protect a helpless woman from
t.l.m.’s fury. He’s not quite sure what
happened to him next, but some kind of
hurricane got loose, and after he had hit
with his head all four walls of the kitchen
he found himself sitting on the pavement
outside the gate, dazed and red with his
own gore. A voice was speaking from
the house behind him. “And get out of
there as soon as y’ like,” it boomed. “I’m
not going to have no pipsqueak interfer-
ing in my affairs. No, not if my wife
goes round telling the world I’ve tried
to murder her. And see here”—the voice
came close and hissed above the unhappy
Samaritan’s head—“there’s one thing you
may as well know right off: She’s not
going to get that fur coat —no! Not if
she has hysterics every night till dooms-
day!”
THE IRONY OF FATE.
“A former chef to the Duke of Windsor was fined
£4O by the Sydney Licensing Court for selling two
bottles of beer to a constable in a hamburger shop.”
Ah, what a fall was there! How it impresses
Upon your mind the cussedness of things
That he who once concocted savory messes,
Ranging from turtle soup to pheasants’
wings,
To meet the whims of princes and princesses
And witch the palates of potential kings
Should next be met in a hamburger shop
Selling illicit swanky to a cop!
Amid hot dogs and sausage rolls, I wonder,
Did never wistful memories intrude
Of gorgeous dishes that-he served down under,
Successive courses of palatial food,
That left appreciative . guests rotunder
And practised gourmets in a blissful mood?
And did he never muse how vast a span
Divides patrician from plebeian scran?
Spare him your sympathy! Quantum mutatus
Ab illo —in the classic Latin phrase —
How changed from him who held the dizzy
status
Of supervising royal dejeuners
With every culinary apparatus
At hand to fry or grill, to broil or braise,
Down to a joint with naught wherewith to bid
For custom but a saucepan and a grid!
And —sharpest cut of all —he well might tingle
Thereat, past-master in the banquet line,
Where corks go popping and tall glasses jingle,
Who’s never spared the oldest, choicest wine
Its fragrance with some piquant sauce to
mingle,
To have to pay an ignominious fine
For vending in a snack-purveyor’s shop
Two pints of mild and bitter to a cop!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


mm
Vis
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
El 865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENX
/
m
' ill
MADE
SPECIALLYTO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The Canadian Parliament is in session
and debating foreign affairs. So is the
South African Parliament, to which,
moreover, the Budget has been presented.
The British Parliament returned to busi-
ness on January 22, and it debates
foreign affairs almost every day, begin-
ning on Monday. The Australian Parlia-
ment, has been resting since December 8.
When it meets for the discussion of busi-
ness, if any, it will have been out of
action for four months and a half. Aus-
tralia is expected to be satisfied with a
series of agitated Lyons broadcasts to
the ,effect that they are in “a perilous
position” the March version of the
December bleat that “Peace hangs by a
slender thread.”
Obviously Britain needs a new Foreign
Minister and a thoroughly reorganised
Foreign Office. F.O. information used
to be timely and exact, but a great change
arrived with the elegant Mr. Eden, and
the department in which the Pitts,
Palmerston and Castlereagh used to hold
all the secrets of Europe egregiously
failed to let Lord Halifax know what
was brewing in Czechoslovakia and
Rumania. As for his Lordship, he veered
in a week from complacent assurance
to a panic-stricken search for allies
among scared Slav peoples who couldn’t
stand up to the Germans for a week,
and probably wouldn’t try.
Somebody has recalled that Lord Hali-
fax was one of the 370 Ms.P. who, when
the peacemakers were at work in 1919,
served a demand on Lloyd George that
he should make Germany pay the whole
cost of the War—“squeeze it until it
squeaks.” He was Mr. Wood, M.P., then.
His recent performances, and all of
Eden’s during the “sanctions” madness,
should convince Dominion Governments
that the powers and influence of Foreign
Ministers are far too great for Dominion
people’s safety.
At the beginning of last week press
ldolators of Eden were demanding the
salvation of the Rumanians, as in other
years they demanded the salvation of the
Abyssinians, Chinese, Red Spaniards and
Czechs, cost (rivers of British and
Dominion blood) not mentioned. At the
end of the week they were reporting,
with anguish, chagrin and scorn, accord-
ing to the taste and fancy of the re-
porter, that the Rumanians had
“twisted.”
Incautious admission in a tempestuous
demand for the salvation of Rumania —
which doesn t want to be saved—per
medium of alliances with the U.S.A.,
Greece, Turkey, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia
and Barataria, printed in Sydney “D.T.”:
Hitler _ was on the point of occupying
Austria in 1934, when Mussolini mobilised
a formidable army and made it clear thac
a German advance meant war. Hitler
chose peace.
And who threw Musso into Hitler’s
arms? Eden, cheered on by papers like
the “D.T.”
Sydney “Daily News,” which gets
copious information direct from Mos-
cow, reported Stalin as sneering that
“Britain and France” expected the
U.S.S.R. to “pull the chestnuts out of the
fire” for them, and that “they will be
disappointed.” This didn’t prevent Great
Dailies from crawling to Stalin for an
alliance and eating a peck of dust in the
process.
Great Dailies are now writing with
profound respect of “Signor Mussolini.”
They feared that he was going to say
Dreadful Things in Rome on Sunday,
and that March 26 would be a Day of
Doom. “Signor Mussolini stands on the
brink,” wrote “S. M. Herald” with
emotion. “The decision whether there
shall be war in the near future rests with
Signor Mussolini,” said Professor
Roberts. Actually the Signor ranted a
bit, as dictators do—it is expected of
them and called upon the world “to
know that the Italian Note to France on
December 12 set out the problems of
Tunis, Djibouti and the Suez Canal.” But
he remarked also that “we must not let
ourselves become a prey to war psychosis,
which is a mixture of hysteria and fear,”
and that “Italy considers a long peace
necessary for the development of Euro-
pean civilisation.” Granny and the pro-
fessor are immensely relieved.
Lyons has had the gall to ask Curtin
to join his moribund Administration
and make it “national” and, of course,
continuous. The answer was in the
negative.
"Mr . Curti n straightway rejected Mr. Lyons’s proposal that he should join a ‘national’
Ministry."
"It’s the prettiest little parlor, Jack, that ever you did spy.”
“I know, Joe; and it’s going to he my very own.”
North Perth has seceded from Mac-
Callum Smith, its M.L.A. for 25 years.
Mac Smith owned the “Sunday Times”
for a still longer period, and as news-
paperman and politician he constituted
himself a champion of secession, being
one of the interesting pair who carried
the secesh petition to Westminster. The
other gentleman has made repeated
attempts to get into politics. Exit
secession!
No newspaper could do nowadays
what Melbourne “Age” did when David
Syme was at the height of his power—
-32 years ago it ran a Federal Conven-
tion ticket of 10 and got them all in—
but lack of newspaper support can be
a handicap. Lang found this in Hurst-
ville; had the “Labor Daily” remained
under his control the other faction would
not be so cock-a-hoop. With his “Sunday
Times” behind him, MacCallum Smith
got in for North Perth in 1914, and while
the paper remained his property he was
never seriously challenged. From the
moment he sold it his political influence
waned, and now he is out of Parliament,
beaten on the first count.
“S.M. Herald” sees a faint light twink-
ling in the international sky:
The Croats in Yugoslavia are reported
to be negotiating with haste a settlement
of their own minor differences with the
Serbs before the Germans can come down
to “protect” them.
“Minor” differences is good. They have
been chronic for about 15 years, and
one distinctly major outcome was the
assassination of the last king and his
patron, Barthou, the French Foreign
Minister, in Marseilles.
For the defeat of his nominee in
Hurstville, Lang blames (1) the Com-
munists, (2) Sir Stafford Cripps and (3)
the general manager of the Bank of
New South Wales. If his Waverley man
is licked he will be free to place the
responsibility on (4) Hitler, (5) Niemeyer
and (6) the Grand Mufti, or, alternatively,
the Ahkoond of Swat.
In South Australia Liberals (as they
call themselves) and Cockies are com-
bined in one organisation, the Liberal
and Country League, and the arrange-
ment admits of Federal members joining
the party they prefer. Things seem to
be shaping the same way in Westralia,
where hitherto there have been separate
organisations. On March 17 the National-
ists lost an Assembly seat, reducing their
number to eight; the Country Party held
its 13 seats and polled much better than
the Nationalists in country towns like
Geraldton and Bunbury. The outlook
for the Nats, is poor except as a city
wing of the Country party, though the
Agrarians may be fairly asked to alter
their label.
From a 32in. article on The Bulletin
in Goulburn (N.S.W.) “Evening Penny
Post”:
If the “Bulletin” had never prophesied
what a wonderful place Australia would
be, with a prohibitive tariff all round it,
we would never have had the two great
overgrown cities.
To-day the “Bulletin” joins up with the
unimaginative Mr. Cameron in an endeavor
to sustain him in preaching that it is the
duty of the daily press to record only the
happenings of the day.
Not guilty on both counts. Big-city
concentration of industries was never
Bulletin policy, but if this paper’s James
Edmond and S. H. Prior had not labored
for Protection Australia might not now
be making aeroplanes and preparing to
make more. The second charge is arrant
nonsense; The Bulletin never said any-
thing of the sort.
Because he had robbed a neighbor
he had sworn to defend, black men
fought on the coast of Coromandel and
red men scalped each other by the Great
Lakes of North America.” Macaulay
wrote that of Frederick the Great; the
neighbor was another German, Maria-
Theresa. She was Queen of Hungary,
and the Hungarians fought for her. Their
descendants show no sign of taking up
arms against Frederick’s most recent
imitator. The eighteenth-century robber
was Britain’s ally, and to our fore-
fathers he was “the Protestant hero.”
Actually, he was the most cynical of
unbelievers.
From a Sonnet to the Hungarian
Nation written by Matthew Arnold 80
years ago:
Not in sunk Spain’s prolonged death agony;
Not in rich England, bent but to make pour
The flood of the world’s commerce on her
shore;
Not in that madhouse France, from whence
the cry
Afflicts grave Heaven with its long senseless
roar;
Not in American vulgarity,
Nor wordy German imbecility,
Lies any hope of heroism more.
Hungarians! Save the world!
It has startlingly modern touches, but
the idea of Hungarians as world-saviors
is these days quaint. Presently, perhaps,
Hitler will be claiming that he saved the
world by preventing the Hungarians from
pitching into the Rumanians.
“I desire to thank all hon. members
without exception for their great kind-
ness to me during the six sessions I have
been Speaker. It would be very difficult
for me to adequately repay those hon.
members for the kindness they have
shown to me during my very long and
trying illness, which is not yet at its
end, unfortunately. I remember it with
great gratitude.” George Pollock said
that in the Queensland Parliament on
November 11, 1937. Sixteen months
brought no surcease of sickness; and
now the unfortunate fellow is dead by
his own hand —the first Australian
Speaker to go out in that way.
The political speeches and articles of
a Supreme Court Justice’s wife must be
of consuming interest to other Sydney
Feminist Leaders. The lady backed the
wrong horse in Spain, but, like Mr.
Hughes and the editors of Great Dailies,
she has another Best Bet—Russia. The
hammer-and-sickle flag has never been
seen in Sydney, one of the world’s great
ports ; but no matter:
Could we in Australia possibly have
greater protection than would be afforded
were Australia a party to a defensive pact
between Russia and Great Britain? Our
only possible enemy is Japan. If a defen-
sive pact with Russia were entered into,
we in Australia would be partly relieved
of the necessity for the large expenditure
we are now committed to to maintain
adequate defences.
It would mean, for one thing, that we
should have to maintain a battleship or
battle-cruiser squadron at least.
A Sydney publicist who never wearies
of well-doing tracked down Trotsky
in Mexico, and, dazed by his encyclo-
paedic knowledge of Australia and Maori-
land, conveyed Trot.’s advice to them —
support China baldheaded. Then the
wanderer discovered the Black Box in
which Mussolini had secreted his plot
for sinking the Royal Navy, and stripped
the mask off Chamberlain. Now he has
vowed the political destruction of Cam-
eron, the P.M.G., and if three columns
of forcible-feeble stuff can do it Cameron
is a gone coon.
“Adsum,” from Perth:
Who rules Westralia? Thirteen thousand
Labor voters in seven contested goldfields elec-
torates. They are represented in the new
Parliament by seven members. In those seven
electorates the Nats, polled over 7000 votes;
they are not represented at all. On the
“cursed coast” —as goldfields stalwarts used
to call it —the Nats, got a representative for
every 8000 votes, Labor one for every 6000.
And so it will go on until these Nats, and
Agricolas realise the futility of division.


A SEASONABLE SPOUSE.
“The continued wet weather is seriously affecting poultry in New South Wale.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur Ecdy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
SECUR/ry
20 Investments in One!
That’s what you get by becoming a Certificate Holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST. Spreading your
funds over the shares of 20 first-class companies, these Certifi-
cates provide also a yield of over 5 per cent. p.a. and potential
capital appreciation. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
Ssf
/., \
/'\
You’ll be full of life and energy
. . . bubbling over with fresh ac-
tivity ... if you get the daily
Golcryst habit! Golcryst keeps
you “in the pink.” At all
Chemists. 4d. . . . Bd. . . . 1/3.
GotvtN cnvsrm ppppalth
PERSONAL ITEMS
Although born in Wagga (N.S.W.) in
1884, .Director of Recruiting Tom Blarney
was recently hailed in Queensland as a son
of Bananaland by old pastoral pioneers.
Long before 1884 his father, Richard
Henwood Blarney, who celebrated a
90th birthday recently in Sydney, was
managing a cattle property in the Cash-
ton district, and afterwards took up one
of his own on the Warrego River.
Amongst his many experiences was that
of acting as a temporary archbishop at
the crowning of King Billy and King
Charlie and the presentation of their
regalia in the form of engraved brass
plates. Another was the finding of one
of Burke and Wills’s camels in the
Blythedale country. It escaped, but was
captured later on in St. George township.
“Adelaide”: Langdon Bonython, at
90, has laid the foundation-stone of a
huge extension to Adelaide School of
Mines, of which he has been president
for a half-century. He himself gives
£16,000 towards its cost (which is to be
£40,000, without equipment), and
Speaker Nicholls, in thanking him, as-
sessed his public benefactions at con-
siderably over £200,000. The new build-
ing is down on the flat behind the old
one, and will hold, among other things,
the wool-classing now carried on, incon-
veniently, away at the Wayville Show-
ground.
The death of Capt. James Bull at
Metung (Vic.), at the age of 90, leaves
but two survivors of an expedition
numbering 17 which sailed in 1878 from
Melbourne to New Guinea (in three
weeks) in the good ship Dove (47 tons).
They were in search of gold, and while
still on the New Guinea coast malaria
carried off four of their number, which
decided the survivors to return home.
The Dove sprang a leak on the way
back, and the gold-seekers were rescued
by a British warship which took them
to Japan. From there they had to find
their own way home.
This is the new U.S.A. Vice-Consul
in Sydney, L. C. Himel. He’s 32, and
L. C. HIMEL.
was born in lowa. After four years with
the U.S.A. Consulate in Colombia, South
America, he had four years in Rangoon,
Burma. He plays tennis, is a landscape
painter on the side, and as far as he’s
gone considers the finest feature of Aus-
tralia is its surf.
From Australia to Britain in six
and a half weeks, with many busi-
ness calls on the way, is the itinerary of
Father Hannan, ,D.D., who leaves by
Empire flying-boat to-morrow. He’s
national director of the Australian
Catholic Mission Aid Societies, and last
H. M. BATEMAN.
Black-and-white Humorist.
(Modelled by Frith.)
year travelled over 15,000 miles by air
on official visitation. He will attend
the meeting of the Superior Council for
the Propagation of the Faith in Rome
on April 23, and will be the first Aus-
tralian representative to attend this con-
clave. Dr. Hannan is also founder and
director of the National Catholic Corres-
pondence of Christian Doctrine, which
teaches by letter over 25,000 outback
children, scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth. He will break his return
journey for four days to arrange with
the Archbishop of Calcutta for the ex-
tension of the course to India.
A. S. Orchard, appropriately named
for an expert in gardens, is dead in
Adelaide after long illness. He was
better known in other cities. Hugh
Denison first brought him from England
to Sydney, where he afterwards put in
some years at the Botanic Gardens. Then
Ben Nathan got him to Melbourne, to
take charge at Rippon Lea. And in
1935 he moved to Adelaide, to become
curator of parks and gardens for the
City Council, since when the banks of
the Torrens Lake have takjen on an
added beauty.
B. J. Waterhouse, who succeeds John
Lane Mullins as president of the N.S.W.
Art Gallery, is a resident of Neutral Bay,
Sydney, and his home is enriched by a
collection of Australian art. He is an
architect whose services are in demand
for the judging of architectural competi-
tions. He has taken active interest in the
replanning of Macquarie-street, has many
times toured Europe and the U.S.A., and
has been vice-president of the Gallery
for some years. W. H. Ifould, head of
the Public Library, is now the vice-presi-
dent. He has a great collection of Aus-
tralian art, and is a keen supporter of
the Arts and Crafts Society.
Tragedy has fallen on the Queensland
Labor party with a vengeance. Maurice
Patrick Hynes —to every Northerner
affectionately known as “Mossy”—
Forgan Smith’s Minister for Labor and
Industry, has died suddenly. A great,
jovial North Queensland Irishman, M.P.
was a good platform speaker and knew
everybody from Cape York to Ballan-
dean. His mother was the first white
child born in Mackay (Q.). He entered
politics via the A.W.U., winning the
Townsville seat in 1923, and had been
Minister for Labor since 1932.
“C.Q.”: Miss Eder Lindsay, who is
shortly leaving Melbourne with a research
scholarship worth £3OO for the Univer-
sity of California, is the girl whose
requests for live silverfislj and cock-
roaches have been
stimulating the hunting
propensities of the
Yarraside small boy
for a couple of years
past. An invasion of
Melbourne professors’
domestic sanctums by
the pests a few months
ago was attributed to
some inadvertence in
the laboratory where
Miss Lindsay studies
habits of the beasties
with a view to their
extinction. The scholar-
ship is for two years,
and California is the
home of scientific re-
search into the control
of crawlers and leapers.
This week Dr.
Maloney celebrates his
golden jubilee as a
politician. The Little
Doctor entered Vic-
torian politics as
M.L.A. for West Mel-
bourne in 1889, and
left them for the
Federal hurly-burly in
1903. He is still mem-
ber for Melbourne, and
is still active as few men of 85 can be
in more good causes that have nothing
to do with politics than most Parliamen-
tarians. Not long ago admirers presented
him with a farm exactly the size to carry
a cow for each year of the veteran
humanitarian’s age, and the cows went
with it. Two of the animals were
solemnly handed over as a symbol of the
gift on the outskirts of the city.
A long career in politics and law
ended with the death at Sydney on Satur-
day of retired District Court Judge J. J.
Cohen, at 79. He came near making an
academic record by entering Sydney Uni.
at 16, graduating B.A. at 19 and M.A.
at 21. Civil engineering first engaged
the clever young student’s attention. He
served articles, qualified and practised in
Queensland both as a consulting engi-
neer and an architect. He commenced
the study of law at 33, and in
two years was a barrister. Early
in his legal career he stood for
the N. S. Wales Parliament, cap-
tured the Petersham seat, and
held it tilt he was translated to
the District Court Bench in
1918. He retired in 1929. A
fortnight before his death he
and Mrs. Cohen celebrated their
golden wedding.
Passed out at 76 in Mel-
bourne, W. J. Roberts, one-time
chairman of the Stock Exchange
and a member of it for 46 years.
He had the job during the World
War of auctioning for £60,000
some 36,000 shares held by enemy sub-
jects. It was the first sale of its kind in
the history of the Empire.
Some April birthdays:
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), Primate of
Australia, 69, and knight A. C. Davidson
(Bank of N.S.W.), 57, on Ist; N.S.W. Senator
Amour, 39, Speck Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, 69,
Rabbi Freedman (Perth), 65, veteran jour-
nalist Fred Broomfield (Syd.), 79, and knight
Walter Young (Adel.), 67, on 2nd; Group-
Capt. Frank McNamara (only Aus. airman to
win VC.), 4 5, and J. S. Rosevear, M.H.R.
(Daley) 47 on 4th; knight R. W. Dalton
(Bntßh trade Commissioner in Aus.), 57, on
sth; 1. J. Collins, M.H.R. (Hume), 53, on
6th; cartoonist David Low, 48, novelist E V
Timms, 44, Justice Cleland (S.A.), 70, Brig.-
Gen. Iven Mackay (Cranbrook School, Syd.),
57, and Commonwealth Statistician Wilson, 35,
on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 72, on Bth;
former Prime Minister Chris Watson, 72, on
9th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 73, on 11th; Dr.
Wm. Maloney, M.H.R. (Melbourne), 85, on
12th; Tas. Gov. Sir Ernest Clark, 75, Justice
Robert Douglas (Q.), 56, A. W. Fadden,
M. (Darling Downs), 44, and knight
Philip Goldfinch (Syd.), 55, on 13th; Speck
Hon. Min. Dr. F. J. Gaha, 45, and H. A.
McClure-Smith (editor “S. M. Herald”), 37, on
Nth; Maj.-Gen. H. Gordon Bennett (Syd.),
52, Commonwealth High Commissioner
Stanley Bruce, 56, and Queensland Premier
Forgan Smith, 52, on 15th; Gen. Chauvel, 74,
and Col. E. F. Harrison (former M.H.R. for
Ballarat), 59, on 16th; N.S.W. Chief Sec.
Gollan, 53, and artist Roland Wakelin, 52,
on 17th; Archbishop Head (Melb.), 65, and
Wm. Dixson (founder of Dixson Gallery,
Syd.), 69, on 18th; film actress May Robson
on 19th; S. Talbot Smith (Adel.), 78, former
W.A. Premier Collier, M.L.A., 66, and Speck
Senator J. B. Hayes, 71, on 21st; medico-
knight Chas. Blackburn (Syd.), 65, Prof. Char-
teris (Syd.), 65, and Clifford Hay (acting
N. Agent-Gen.), 61, on 22nd; Capt. F. J.
Bayldon (Syd.), 67, Queensland Senator
Cooper, 48, Prof. W. J. Dakin (Syd.), 56,
Judge Macindoe (Vic.), 56, and Judge Winneke
(Vic.), 65, on 23rd; W.A. Min. for Works
Millington, 64, on 24th; Speck Senator Grant,
61, and medico-knight Maudsley, 80, on 25th;
Q. Min. for Mines T. A. Foley, 53, H. J.
Stewart, M.A. (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 63, and
former Customs Min. Col. White, M.H.R., 51,
on 26th; Prof. W. E. Agar (Melb.), 57, Dean
Barrett (Brisbane), 59, knight Henry Braddon
(Syd.), 76, knight Henry Lee (Speck), 65, and
W.A. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell, 73, on 27th; Jus-
tice Dixon (High Court), 53, on 28th; knight
Geo. Julius (C.5.1.R.), 66, and Prof. E. G.
Waterhouse (Syd.), 58, on 29th; Justice Evatt
(High Court), 45, and Justice Macfarlan (Vic.),
67, on 30th.
Neil Mac Neil, the Scotch-Australian
who goes from the headmastership of
Knox Grammar School, Sydney, to the
same job at Melbourne’s Wesley, was
born in Sandringham (Vic.), the son of
a Presbyterian clergyman, went to
Scotch College and ended as dux in
classics and with a host of prizes and
a scholarship that took him to Ormond.
From the University he went as Rhodes
scholar in 1914 to Oxford, but the war
guns barked and he joined a Highland
regiment, was passed on to the R.A.F.
and won an M.C. and two mentions in
dispatches. After some schoolmastering
in England he returned to Australia, and
NEIL MacNEIL.
as headmaster of Knox Grammar saw
that seminary’s population increase from
28 to 340. He is the founder of the
Associated Schools of N.S.W. and the
N.S.W. Fairbridge Farms Schools move-
ment, is 46, and hefty.


Capstan—The Empire 9 s Largest Selling Cigarette
&W\
■i
’
The demand for
MS
a
x
BED’ CAPSTANS
i
increases daily.
W
- 'S'.
m
A
•yyi
m
<
<ET
BETTER BUY
CAPSTAN
They’re blended
k Better
ii
IP®
n
■
SPECIAL
■ mm
—in the smart Red Pack •
10-Sd, 20-1 /-. Also Flat and Round 50’s and 100’s.


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.J.H.”: Some of those old proverbs
and cliches can be taken too seriously.
A big, rawboned, hirsute individual
hobbled painfully into my country surgery
and announced his name and the fact
that he was a boundary-rider living alone
on a station that abuts the rough moun-
tainous coastal fall. He lowered him-
self to the edge of a chair and pulled
up a trouser-leg stiff with dried sweat,
disclosing a nasty shin. Under its general
unwashedness it was inflamed and
swollen, but half-way down the shin, on
what was apparently the seat of the
injury, was a dark plaster of congealed
blood and hair and oleaginous mysteries
that looked as if an African witch-doctor
had first been called in. “What hap-
pened to it?” I asked him. “Dog bit
me,” was the response. “And what’s
all this mess?” He grinned sheepishly,
but his voice was earnest. “Well, yer
know, doctor, they say ‘the hair of the
dog that bit yer.’ I damn’ near ’ad ter
shave ’im ter get enough!”
* * * *
“C. Back”: So “Poseidon” wants to
know what knock a sheep will stand on
the skull (B. 8/3/’39)? That depends
where you hit ’em. To hit one flat on
the forehead you can burr the back of
an axe and do little more than make the
merino blink its eyes. In fact, I have
tried to kill an old-man ram in that
manner, and I tired before he did. As
that’s their battering ram (no pun in-
tended), it follows it’s cushioned to
withstand knocks. If “P.” really wants
to know how to spread ’em kicking with
a minimum of effort, all he needs to do
is get a bit of deal board so light he can
snap it with his fingers. Pick a spot on
the back of the head, an inch or two
for’ard of where the neck joins the skull,
and just flick the thing there. Properly
done, the sheep will fall as if struck by
lightning.
* * * *
“Gildo”: Reference to the possibility
of snakes also inhabiting our camping-
ground led Choom to inquire what treat-
ment would be rendered if one was
bitten on the neck. An old-timer calmly
replied, “Cut yer throat.” Choom re-
tired to bunk that night with his strides
tightly wrapped about his neck.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The Westralian
mountain devil is another lizard that
absorbs moisture through its skin (B.
22/2/’39), and in summer its method of
imbibing is ingenious. In the wheatbelt
its pub is almost invariably a patch of
“sundews,” a plant whose single 6in.
stem is topped by a small white flower.
Fine hairlike tendrils standing out all
around the edge of the flower collect
dew, the weight of which bends the stem
and points the flower to the ground when
the dew collects in blobs on the ends of
the tendrils. The mountain devil gently
rubs the base of the stem and collects
the falling dewdrops on his porous back.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Some naturalists are
saying that the dugong is practically ex-
tinct in Queensland waters, but I doubt
it, so far, at least, as the area from
Moreton Bay to Gladstone is concerned.
It is a shy creature, and certainly has
become more nocturnal in its habits than
formerly, but one often comes across
traces of its feeding, floating drifts of
bitten-off seagrass, and mud flats at low
tide where the succulent roots have been
pulled up. Not always in quiet waters
either. A couple of years ago there was
quite a big feeding flat close to the edge
of the Brisbane River cutting, where
craft of all kinds are constantly passing.
They are protected animals nowadays,
and the big dugong nets which formerly
“ You can leave her now, skipper—all the crew's off.”
took toll of them around the South Pas-
sage between Moreton and Stradbroke
islands are no longer used. Dugong
meat makes the best bacon I’ve ever
tasted.
* * * *
“Terrinjal”: The emu is the best
drought prophet the W.A. pastoralists
know of. In the sheep area from Car-
narvon northward the big bird is still to
be found in good numbers. In the lay-
ing season, if the emu nests are egg-
laden, a good season may be anticipated
with confidence. When there are no
eggs at all to be found, then the'outlook
is deemed black.
* * # *
“A.M.C.”: “When me an’ Paddy wus
clearin’ me block we took a bag of sugar
up to the ’umpy. Nex’ mornin’ it’s nearly
all gorn, an’ then we sees a line of black
ants a foot wide workin’ on the job.
I follers the line to the nest under a log,
turns the log over, an’ there’s our sugar
an’ the old queen ant about the size of
a flamin’ cherry on top of it. I takes ’er
back into the ’umpy an’ puts ’er in the
near hempty bag. So ’elp me bob, with-
out the word of a lie, be five o’clock
that night the bag wus full agin!”
* * * *
“Calypso”: “C.C.C.’s” domestic cats
gone wild (B. 22/2/’39) are an illustra-
tion of what would happen were any of
the larger carnivora let loose on this con-
tinent with a license to breed. Out from
Port Augusta and nearly as far north as
Alice Springs is the place to see the wild
pussies. And big savage ones at that!
Entered a hole in a thicket one day with
the idea of collecting a couple of kittens,
just to see if reared again in civilisation
they would revert to domesticity. Coming
out, on hands and knees, I was met by
mamma returning home. A tight spot!
Blocking the way mamma looked as big
as a tiger. And she certainly was not
much inferior in fierceness. But she was
still a cat. On my heaving the only
possible missiles at her —her kittens —she
snatched them up and did what any
ordinary cat would have done —bolted
with them while the going was good.
And so also did I.
* * * *
“Wilber”: So, according to “Bushy
Park” (B. 8/3/’39), a quarter of an hour
with a file on a Kelly axe is of more
use than an hour on a grindstone! Since
when has there been a file on the market
that will cut hardened and/or tempered
steel? An axe that can be sharpened
with a file isn’t worth the time spent on it.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I sometimes wonder if
that white man’s fetish gold currency
will ever suffer the slump that befell the
one-time currency of the South Seas.
Wandering the beaches of the Lacepede
Islands, and also of the mainland north
from Broome (W.A.), I have trodden on
cowrie shells in sufficient numbers to
have one time made me a Polynesian
millionaire. Now the cowrie is just a
shell, the modern sophisticated South-
Sea-Islander being a full wake-up to the
metal and paper currency of the white
man. But it remains beautiful: glazed
like porcelain ; spotted ; tinted. Apart
from beauty, the cowrie had a mystic
significance to those peoples who once
used it as currency—its shape, and es-
pecially the unique formation of its open-
ing, was to them symbolic of life, so
closely did they consider it resembled
the universal gateway by which all human
life enters this world.
* * * *
“Dajarra”: Bluey was a Queensland
shearer, more successful as a social light
than a jumbuck barber. His friendship
with the station-owner’s daughter ripened
into love. When he put the solid word
on the old man regarding matrimony
he was asked what his prospects were.
“Good-oh! ” Blue replied ; “I got a ticket
in the lott’ry and a pen at Wellshot!”
* * * *
“Heresone”: “T.T.” can’t claim copy-
right in his theory (B. 8/3/’39). Kipling,
in his “Miracle of Purun Bhagat,” has
it that a drop of hill blood in a man’s
veins always brings him back, sooner or
later, to where he belongs. And where
on the Darling Downs is that “green and
level world” extending as far as eye can
see? There are some sizable flats, I
admit, but there are always hills on the
horizon; in fact, the district is even
mountainous in places. The flat country
is further west. From Goondiwindi to
Thallon, and I don’t know how much
farther, there are no natural features
except endless brigalow and an occa-
sional shallow watercourse. Even from
a clearing miles in extent one sees no-
thing beyond the distant line of drab
green. It’s no wonder even the bullocks
go batty at times out west.
* * * *
“Dusty Bob”: In a poetic flight of
fancy “T. Rose” (B. 8/3/’39) says of
’roos: “I did not hear their curved tails
thump.” Neither did anyone else, for
the simple reason that, when the ’roo
hops, his tail, acting only as a balance,
never the ground. The thumps
“T.R.” sings of are made by the impact
of the ’roo’s feet on the ground. For
proof, let him follow a ’roo’s tracks on
any sort of soil, soft or hard, and he
will find only footprints. The calloused
under-surface of the tail is probably
caused through contact with the earth
when the ’roo is grazing, and accen-
tuated in the “old men” through the tail
being used as a third leg in stand-up
fights.
* * * *
“Det”: “Tired Tim’s” reference to
mean cockies (B. 8/ 3 / ”39) reminds me
of the chap who always climbed over
his gates to save wear and tear on the
hinges.
* * * *
“Tallowwood”: I had a good laugh
at that joke illustrated by Unk White
(B. 8/ 3/’39) of the fellow getting the big
log off the timber wagon; I got a bigger
laugh at the wagon itself, with the wheels
feet higher than the main bolsters. In
Queensland we build ours so that the
bolsters are higher than, or at least level
with, the wheel tops. Otherwise, think
of the awful crash when five or six tons
of log suddenly dropped aboard; and,
supposing the old crate stood it, think
of the still more awful language when
the teamster had to
jack the load off at
the mill, instead of
merely rolling it off
over the wheel.
* *
“Murr ungurry”:
Pig-conducting, is it?
Old Bill Bates, a
Clarence River
(N.S.W.) selector,
evolved an effective
method of overland-
ing his porkers on
lengthy excursions.
A cartload of pump-
kins led the way, a
ration of which was
broken up at each
camping place. Bill
broke the pumpkins
by throwing them
down hard on the
ground, at the same
time calling “Pig,
pig, pig! ” During
the day when his
charges became can-
tankerous and stub-
born he went ahead
and started bounc-
ing a football, ac-
c o m p a n ying the
thumps with the
familiar call. The
mob would brighten
up at once, and
would soon be jogging after him with
flapping ears and eager grunts.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Mat’s Mate’s”
list of hard yakka (B. 8/ 3 / ’39) includes
some tough propositions, but on the
whole he’s been lucky—-he’s obviously
done neither stone-napping nor gravel-
snatching for a road-contractor not
Government jobs —in the Westralian
wheatbelt in midsummer. If he had,
they’d have headed his list. Take the
latter. After the gravel-pit has been
ploughed you start at one end shovelling
into drays or trucks. Ploughing in that
going doesn’t make an even bottom, and
the temper frays as the point of the
shovel “brings up” against a hard lump
just as your full weight gets behind it.
A good pit may hang out for from ten
to twelve feet deep, and by that time
you’re working in an oven, the heat strik-
ing from all sides and the dust hanging
in a haze. Stone-napping’s worse. Until
you get used to it —which is to say, after
about 20 years —each jar as the hammer
strikes rock moves a little further up
your arms, until long before five o’clock
you’re hitting at the base of your skull
and just behind your eyes. Stubble- and
clearing-fires that are in full swing for
50 miles around and blood blisters on
the hands don’t add to the joys of the
job either.
* * * *
“Det”: Touching on the death-adder s
sluggishness (B. 8/ 3 / ’39). In the Tara
(Q.) district a land-ranger of ample pro-
portions sat on a log to have his lunch-
When he rose a large piece of bark slid
off the log, uncovering a death-adder.
He had been sitting almost on top of it,
but the wriggler was too darned tired to
bite him.
A BUSH MYSTERY
“You’ll find,” said “Concertina” Claude, “that
man is, in the main,
An avaricious, petty sort of creature.
To get a thing for nothing or to make a crooked
gain
Appears to me to be his salient feature.
I realised the truth of that some years ago;
I’d planned
To start selecting up at Wotsthamatter;
I looked around, and finally I bought a block
of land—
’Twas owned one time, I heard, by some old
‘hatter.’
“He’d had two cranky notions: one was
fossicking the creek
That bordered on the property; the other
Was felling every tree he saw. And, as it
dropped, he’d streak
Off shackwards, yelling out: ‘Bang goes
another! ’
He hadn’t bothered grubbing out —he thought
that that was wrong;.
The stumps—and big ones, too —were in
profusion.
The reason why I got it in the first place for
a song
Was due to this neglect and his delusion.
“Well, shortly after buying it, I toddled back
to town
On business. It was not till some months
later
I went back home, to find that block com-
pletely upside-down;
Where every stump had been’s a little crater!
I’m wild at first, but presently I realised, you
see,
That I’d been saved the work of grubbing
stumps out;
In fact, all that it needed after filling in would
be
To plough, then harrow it to get the bumps
out.
“I got the strength of it from Bung the while
he pulled the pump;
He said that months ago a rumor started
The hatter bloke had buried all his gold beneath
a stump,
Then shortly after from this world departed.
Not only that, a chart, half-burned, inside the
shack was found —
No doubt it was some cove’s misguided
humor.”
Claude slowly closed an eye. Said he: “You
know, I’d give a pound
To find who started such a silly rumor!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Martha must 'ewe It! She's always failin' inter the arms of them two , gents."
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Tarry Tom useter
do our bankin’ with the Universal,” Old
Bob said, “but we ’aster make a change
when the noo tellin’ bloke comes. The
chap before ’im wus a great sport, play-
in’ football an’ cricket an’ tennis an’ two-
up with evil ease. ’lm goin’ leaves a
bad gap in Binnaloo’s sportin’ orgins.
Bein’ on all the sportin’ committees,
me an’ Tarry goes ter the station ter
meet ’is succession an’ see wot ’e’s made
uv. We ain’t impressed. ’Ee’s a round,
tubby bloke wearin’ blinkers, but we
puts ’im through the quest-an’-’er.
Cripes, ’e’s no good at nothink, football
or cricket or ping-pong even. ‘Wotinell
can yer do?’ Tarry arsks. ‘I collecks
stamps,’ says the noo bloke. ‘Collecks
wot?’ Tarry garps, an’ I aster ’elp ’im
over ter the pub. O’ course, we trans-
fers our ercount after that. We ain’t got
no time fer a bank wot employs a bloke
so mean ’e collecks stamps.”
♦ * * *
“J.H.F.”: Brer Fox may not be as
crafty as legend would have us believe,
but still he packs an idea or two behind
that grinning countenance of his. My
mongrel greyhound set one up and gave
chase. Twisting and turning, Reynard
outmanoeuvred it, and was gradually
working his way towards the timber
when my mate, some distance off, per-
forated him with a pea-rifle pellet.
Almost immediately the fox hung out
signals of distress. But if his pins were
weakening his brain was working over-
time. Setting his course for a big black-
wood he allowed the dog to gradually
overhaul him ; then, when within a few
feet of the tree, he sidestepped beauti-
fully, leaving the greyhound to dent his
skull against the butt. While we tried
resuscitation methods with the stricken
hound Reynard parked himself 50 yards
away and watched the proceedings.
* * * *
“Pufflnus”: Have the great flocks of
white cockatoos disappeared from other
parts of Australia as they have from
South Queensland during the last
quarter-century? It is a rare experience
now to see a mob of any size in country
where, 30 years ago, they were a serious
crop-pest. They had the popular repu-
tation of deliberately posting sentries to
watch for the indignant farmer with his
gun, and give timely warning to the
gorging hundreds. Ibis are credited with
the same precautionary intelligence, but
after watching many flocks of both I’ve
never been able to detect any reasoned
arrangement of the kind. There are
always a few about the outskirts of the
mob who don’t appear to be feeding, but
they may quite easily have finished and
be taking a rest. They are naturally the:
ones who will spot any danger approach-
ing from their side, but, as often as not,
they do not sing out when flying off.
If they are sentries they deserve
execution.
* * * *
“Dougal”: “Mozzies? Ar! people
down ’ere don’t know wot they are,”
snorted old Sam scornfully. “W’en I wus
a youngster I got a job up in the Kim-
berleys on a station. First mornin’ the
boss says ter me, ‘Jes’ go down the pad-
dick, Sam. I want yer ter clean out the
troughs an’ things.’ Then, ’oldin’ up an
old police w’istle, ‘l’ll blow this w’en
dinner’s ready.’ Well, down the paddick
I goes. I bin workin’ ’bout ten min-
nits w’en I ’ears the w’istle blow.
Cripes! I thinks, dinner’s
early ter-day. Then I decides
I been mistaken and starts
back ter work. Alluva sud-
den I ’ears it again, and this
time it keeps up just as
though the boss’s annoyed
’cos I ain’t cornin’ quick. I
grabs me coat and makes ter
dash up ter the ’ouse, w’en
suddenly somethin’ smacks
me fair in the dial and over
I goes. Lyin’ there ’arf-
stunned I sees wot’s up. Yair,
I been ’it by one o’ them
Kimberley mosquitoes, ’bout
nine inches long, and its
singin’ was wot I’d mistook
fer the dinner w’istle!”
* * *
“Valencia Creek”: When-
ever I see a cocky, his wife
and numerous progeny stir-
ring up a whirlwind of dust
and profanity in an effort to
catch a chook for Sunday’s
dinner, I call to mind the old
truism that some people will
never learn. Anyone who
possesses a handful of wheat,
a stockwhip and the ability
to use it can collect a barn-
yard victim in less time than
it takes a Chinese general to
change his allegiance. Simply
scatter the grain, stand quietly
until the flock are feeding,
then swing the whip and flick
the selected fowl an inch
below the comb and it’s all
over bar plucking.
“Gumblegubbin”: Joe and Bob
wanted to go to Dingo Creek by the
short cut, and gave Tarpot a shilling to
show them the way. The distance by
road was four miles, but the windings
eliminated all the rough stuff. After
walking an hour through scrubby
country, Joe asked, “How far is it now,
Tarpot?” “’Bout two mile,” said the
abo. They walked on for another hour ;
then Joe asked again, “How much farther
have we to go?” “Only coupla mile,”
answered Tarpot. “Thank heaven,” said
Joe, looking wearily at his mate, “it’s
not getting any farther away.”
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The silliest of birds is
the scrub turkey. Endowed with the
speed of the west wind on the ground,
he elects to fly to a low branch and
drop automatically into the pot. (Stew
With an onion and a handful of rice
until the leg sinews are jelly.) One
wonders that the species survived, with
the adult an easy mark for the black-
fellow’s nulla or boomerang, and turkey-
fruit the perks of such unenterprising
foragers as the porcupine and picca-
ninny. Yet in one respect even man
himself stands second to this fool biped.
From a piece of ground 40ft, in diameter
every leaf, twig and particle of decayed
wood is scratched towards the centre,
and, while the resultant heap of debris
functions as a communal hatchery, the
cleared space represents a most effective
fire-insurance policy.
* 4= * *
“Dungeness”: Why has the buffalo,
introduced to the N.T. well over a cen-
tury ago, and still there in great numbers
notwithstanding more than 50 years of
regular hunting, never spread south, or
even established itself in N.Q.? Climate
is not the reason, for the same species
thrives in Northern India, as far outside
the tropics as are Sydney and Perth.
Natural feed is as plentiful along the east
and west coastal belts as in the Territory,
and there are no wide stretches of
desert or precipitous ranges to cross. The
probable reason is that it is essentially a
water-frequenting animal, and that no
country attracts it where there are not
plenty of muddy swamps to wallow in.
The purpose of wallowing is twofold:
to cool off the great body, and to free
it of ticks and other parasites. There is
plenty of suitable country outside the
Territory, at intervals, but the distances
between are too great for the family
herds to attempt, although solitary bulls
have been found far outside the usual
habitat.
* * * *
I met old Corriedale, the
squatter, by one of his boundary gates.
“Listen to this,” he snorted ; “you know
that bit of a fire I had out on my scrub
paddock yesterday? Well, it started up
through one of the fools I employ not
putting out a fire properly after boiling
a billy, but there wasn’t any wind and
we got it out before it could get on to
the grassland. That new constable came
out, had a look at where it started, told my
employee not to be so careless another
time, and reckoned that it wasn’t worth
carrying the matter farther. I asked him
to come up to the homestead for dinner,
and when we got there he looks at my
dogs and says, ‘Are they all registered?’
I had to tell him they weren’t, so damn
me if he doesn’t haul out his notebook
and ask for particulars. When I asked
him if he was going to send me a sum-
mons he looks surprised and says, ‘Why,
of course.’ I told him that the dinner
invitation was cancelled and he got
nasty. ‘All right,’ he says. ‘Then I’ll see
if I can find anything else to attend to
while I’m here,’ and sure enough he
lands me for having an unregistered bull
and two unregistered hives of bees as
well!”
“Stop catchin' them cows an give us a ’and to scale 'em."
DISTANT FIELDS.
I like the bush an’ ’ills, an’ frogs
Chin-waggin’ in the dam;
I like flash nags an’ cattle-dogs
An’ laughin’ jacks, an’ jam
That Mum prepares from ’ome-grown fruit
(Gawd bless ’er wrinkled face!).
But, cripes! I’d swap me Sunday suit
To-night to ’ear a taxi toot
Its ’orn in Martin-place.
There’s nothin’ like the country life
To make a man of you
(Supposin’ you can find a wife
An’ ’ave a kid or two);
It makes you ’ealthy, lean an’ brown,
The backbone of yer race.
But, ’struth! me lonesomeness I’d drown
To-night if I wus ’oldin’ down
The kerb in Martin-place.
Yairs, I wus bred to work the land,
To sow an’ reap an’ plough;
I like to break an outlaw and
Get friendly with a cow.
I like the outback’s rugged charm,
Its solitude an’ space.
But, spare me days! I’d chuck me farm
To ’ave a sheilah on me arm
To-night in Martin-place.
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carta.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E V T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMNS
Wool worths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 62,407 7500 173 p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 223 „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
£ £ £
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183 ]
of bonus scrip distributed. Dn- I g
explained addition reserves, £16,088 < j y,Bhl
added goodwill, £77,732. J
123 p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO .. .. .. 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 . . . . 72,053
17i p.c.
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 t rn ... _ oo QQ „
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j 50 ’ 344 122 ' 39 ‘
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
121 P-c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 1 , Qa o fln
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO j 42 ’ 349 198 ’ 360
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
15 p.c.
1938. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 l irK ln( .
Staff fund and charities, £5500 I 53 ’ IJO
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 . . 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears.
£7500 184,939
171 P-c- '
1939..271,693 7500 14.000 194,950 1 ■
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO J bU-Z4d 230,182
t Excluding depreciation reserve, £191.079 at
31/l/’39.
This co. has been an outstanding success.
Together with its subsidiaries, it runs a
chain of shops in which low-priced mis-
cellaneous goods are sold throughout all
the Australian States and Maoriland.
Turnover and the number of stores in
the chain are not disclosed, but the
parent co. was formed in Sydney toward
the end of 1924. The public became
interested in 1928, when paid capital
was £63,264 ; the figure is now £1,388,999
in 75,000 £1 10 p.c. and 200,000 £l7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 4,455,996 ords. of ss.
each. Of the £1,113,999 of ord. capital
no less than £944,712 (approximately 17s.
in the pound) is bonus scrip, handed out
since 1930; the last gift, one for five
(£185,667), was in March, 1938. So,
although cash issues brought with them
£199,977 of share premiums over the
same period, not much of the gilt has
been thus taken off the gingerbread. At
their last balancing dates the subsidiaries’
capital accounts aggregated £1,296,105,
making paid capital of the entire organi-
sation £2,685,104, for all but a fraction
of which highly-profitable employment
has been found within the last decade,
which includes the difficult slump years.
This type of chain trading has proved
one of the most profitable developments
of modern merchandising methods. Quick
cash sales (capital is turned over five or
six times a year), which means, among
other things, good buying if mark-downs
are to be kept at a minimum, is one of
the factors of success. Most lines are
cleared, the bill paid and profit pocketed
all within the time allowed under
ordinary trade credit, thus keeping capi-
tal investment in the chief earning asset
(stock) relatively low, and reducing the
risk of loss from price fluctuations. Also,
small personal service—salesmanship is
reduced to a minimum, there are no de-
liveries and few book debts—keeps over-
head down. The rate of profit-earning
expands with turnover, to which there
is, of course, a limit; the co. does not
yet appear to have reached that point,
though expansion seems likely to be less
rapid in the future than in the past.
During the last term the parent added
new links to its chain, the subsidiaries
sent along more, and freeholds, other
than the bulk store, were passed to a
new offshoot for cash, which in turn was
passed to other subsidiaries to help
finance their expanding activities. After
setting aside £32,000 (up £2000) for
taxation and £33,064 (down £32,053,
owing to transfer of properties just re-
ferred to) for depreciation, the net result
was £53,976 stronger at £271,693. Allow-
ing for the prefs.’ combined annual re-
quirements (£21,500), which were over
124 times covered, enough remained to
show 22.4 p.c. on ord. capital as it now
stands. The div. was lifted from 15 p.c.
to \l\ p.c., and the bonus issue of March,
1938, makes \l\ p.c. worth 21 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift.
The position as the parent’s balance-
sheet figures, show it is as follows:
1929. 1937. 1938. 1939.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 93,764 1,118,938 1,?03,332 1,388,999
Liabilities . . 127,525 306,662 234,583 105,767
Freeholds, etc. 51,667 417,585 404,735 36,175
Leaseholds . . 6,095 87,016 91,158 77,733
Plant . . 37,196 239,571 191,414 205,854
S'hares other
cos., etc. .. 9,450 847,326 1,113,764 1,126,263
Stocks . . 100,551 349,439 249,830 315,433
Debtors . . 4,159 *64,359 *109,110 *365,110
Cash.. .. 929 4,749 52,567 54,605
* Includes advances to associated cos. — £58,291,
1937 ; £100,002, 1938 ; £348,014, 1939.
The growth in capital was on account
of the bonus issue already mentioned.
The contraction of £128,816 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
of £368,560 in freeholds reflects forma-
tion of the new offshoot which took over
the properties. The cash received was
passed On to other subsidiaries in the
form of advances, included with debtors’
balances (up £256,000) in the table. Stocks
increased by £65,603, shareholdings by
£12,500, and plant by £14,440. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
(excluding shares in other cos.) exceeded
outside liabilities by £629,381, so there
is nothing' to worry about on that score.
The subsidiaries are a lusty lot, too,
as the following table shows:
Last
Profit,
Parent’s P.c. Ord.
Paid Ord. Ord. Div.,
Capital. Holding. Capital. P.c.
£ £
Woolworths (N.Z.) . .622,608* 79
50,000+ j dxl >B/2 19.3 16
Woolworths (Vic.) .. 60,007* j 60)Q07 2g _ g 2Q
Woolworths (W.A.) gjW } 47>523 24 , 20
Woolworths (Q’ld) ..175,’566* 175,564
Woolworths (5.A.).. ,25,000* 25,000
A/sian Chain stores. . I,ooo* 1,000
Woolworths Prop. .. 12,500 *\ 19 ,„„ +
296.697+ 5 I ‘L SUU +
* Ord. + Pref. 1 250,000 £1 shares paid to Is.
After reserving £149,634 (up £28,634) for
taxation, their aggregate net earnings for
the last term were £256,822 (up £35,161).
Leaving the new property co. out of
the reckoning, pref. divs. called for
£11,700, leaving enough to show 25 p.c.
on £978,095 of ord. capital. The interim
distribution to the ords. was £88,547;
final not disclosed.
Combined balance-sheet figures of the
subsidiaries compare as follows:
SUBSIDIARIES’ COMBINED FIGURES.
„ ~ ' 1938. 1939.
Paid capital £1,071,462 £1,296,105
Undivided profits . . , . 324,770 334,086
Depreciation reserves .. 134,297 177183"
Tax: provision 179.334 275,’951
Staff fund 1,000 6,000
Sundry creditors .. . . 197,077 547 372
Mortgages 158,500 155,500
Freeholds 404,326 779,316
Leaseholds 66,956 79,339
Fittings, etc 326,622 396,918
Stocks 710,887 776,385
Debtors etc 28,355 79,786
Cash, etc. 115,774 276,873
Goodwill, etc 413,520 403,580
The growth in the figures reflects the
formation of the new property offshoot
and continued expansion of the other
pups, especialy the one in Maoriland.
Subject to provision for taxation, the
improvement in net tangibles (£1,524,245)
was £386,402, of which £224,643 was in
respect of capital account.
The market prices the parent’s first
and second prefs. at 40s. and 275. 6d.,
at which figures the return is 5 p.c. and
5.1 p.c. respectively. On a 17| p.c. div.
basis the ords. at 21s. 7d. yield 4 p.c.,
with possibilities.
R. H. Gordon and Go., Ltd. (Sydney)
< Dividends
n D „ Pref - To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 p.c. = 46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~ 46,292 15,801 153 708
1930.. 39,410 1200 11+„ ~ 34,837 3,373 157’081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6 „ ~18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~ 15,793 2,424 159,976
1933.. 22,998 —8„ „ 15,638 7,360 167,336
1934.. 23,886 124 „ ~ 19,354 4,532 171,868
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. . 171 368
1935.. 28.954 15 p.c. = 23,255 },. ’ . _
Staff fund, £5OO .. j 5,199 176,567
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176.567
1936.. 32,865 15 p c =2B 986 )
Staff fund, £5OO . ’ } 5’379 S ’ 379 179,946
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 174 P-c.=33,886 *, „ Q 9nl „ 9r
Staff fund, £5OO . . ( I>®79 201,32 j
1938. . 34,306 16+ p.c.=31,523 + „ 9n „
Stall fund, £5OO . . j 2,283 203,60 a
This is another very successful con-
cern, and, subject to economic develop-
ments, it looks like continuing to be a
good dividend-payer in the future. Com-
petition and other things, however, raise
doubts whether the future will be as rich
as the past. For 18 years to the end of
1930 divs. averaged 12.7 p.c., and
£222,400 of bonus scrip was scattered,
making paid capital £329,667. Also,
more than quarter of a million had been
invested outside in readily-realisable
securities. So, when the jolt came,
£174,833 of capital (which was more than
shareholders had subscribed) was re-
turned, thus making possible payment of
a relatively high rate of dividend from
reduced earnings. The div., which
dropped from 15 p.c. in 1929 to 6 p.c.
two years later, rose to 8 p.c. in 1933,
followed by 12}, 15, 15, 17} and 16} p.c,
to the close of last accounts. Further,
the one-for-four bonus issue (£37,500
from inner reserves) at the end of 1935
makes the ’36, ’37 and ’3B divs. worth
18.7, 21.8 and 20.3 p.c. respectively on
capital as it stood before the gift.
Last year turnover showed a “gratify-
ing increase,” thanks to the lifts in
wages, the high level of employment in
Sydney, where the co. has a strong and
hand-picked cash-order connection, and
to the demand for furnishings which
accompanies new building and replace-
ment orders, stimulated by competition
in the flat business. After making what-
ever provision was considered necessary
for contingencies (the providing appears
to have been done with a heavy hand in
the past), the board figured the net result
£1459 lighter at £34,306, or 17.7 p.c. on
capital, as against 18.4, 16.9, 18.6, 15.4
and 11.7 p.c. back to 1933. The div.,
etc., was lowered from 17} p.c. to 16}
p.c., which suggests that the policy now
is to distribute profits as they are made.
The £2283 that remained lifted visible
reserves £9618 higher than paid capital;
so the two combined need turn in only
a shade under 8 p.c. to pay 16} p.c. on
capital alone.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion 'further improved:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £154,834 £193,238 £193,632 £193,990
Sundry creditors 57,491 67,707 60,705 60,544
Overdraft .. 95 973 7,173.
Property and
plant .. 116,933 119,684 118,622 116,510
Stock 1 1 19,190 24,856 23,083
Hire agree- 1 90,110 1
ments J [ 93,279 102,475 114.729
Book debts . . 40,894 67,232 67,058 73,042
Shares, deben- ]
tures, etc. | 62,369 61.277 53,825
Mortgages . . [171,401 -{ 8,468 8,285 8,120
Cover mnent |
securities .. J [ 73,600 76,817 76,817
Cash, etc. . . 656 38,208 28,784 14,977
Chief balance-sheet movements were
additions of £12,254 in hire agreements
and of £5984 to other book debts and
elimination of the overdraft (£7173 at
the previous balance); shareholdings and
cash, etc., were together reduced by
£11,259. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£304,649)
was £2975.
Last year the pound ords. fluctuated
between 495. and 51s. on the market.
Last week-end buyers offered 525. 6d., at
which figure the return is 6.3 p.c. on a
16} p.c. div. basis, or 5.7 p.c. on a 15
p.c. distribution. The net tangible cover
is visibly 40s. lid.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
i Dividends A
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
jg jg £ £ £
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill. £2750 . . . . 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. =11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£ll,OOO 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2i p.c. =4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,383 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 ~ „ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10 873
1939.. 17,039 720 5i „ ~10.231 6,088 16,961
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
Subject to seasonal, economic and
political developments, the outlook for
shareholders appears to be more encour-
aging than at any time since the present
co. took over the then 19-year-old busi-
ness of McDonnell and East in 1920.
Early in the piece there was trouble with
stocks ; then, following reconstruction of
the premises, largely on borrowed funds,
drought interfered with turnover, and
the ords. averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930.
.roi the next three years the ords. were
shown an empty basket, owing to slump,
and for the half-dozen years since then
they have averaged 4.3 p.c. from steadily-
improving earnings.
Although the revival of Finneys and
the appearance of Woolworths, Coles and
Penny s brought a lot of trade back to
the George-street end of the city, it has
also meant increased competition in this
quarter. Still, McD. and E.’s manage-
ment appears to have been alive to its
problems, including a closer study of
family budgets and the shaping of the
co. s buying policy accordingly. During
the last term turnover further expanded,
the improvement in gross earnings
(£103,871) being £6093. Including £5500
(up £3500) set aside for the taxgatherer
and £lOOO (down £1000) reserved for
doubtful debts, exes. (£86,832) took
£3657 of the increase, leaving the net
result, allowing for a minor reserve
movement in ’37, £2576 better at £17,039,
and only twice since 1920 has better than
that been shown. Allowing for the small
pref. div., enough remained to show 9.4
p.c. on the £172,039 of ord. capital as
against 7.9, 6.4, 5, 5.7 and 1.8 p.c. back
to 1934. The div. was lifted from 5 p.c.
to p.c., the final being at the rate of
6 p.c. p.a.
The outside debt has been worked
down £55,630 over the last nine years:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages . . 53,000 49,500 47,250 46,500
Overdraft . . 77,343 41,259 47,901 46,464
Sundry creditors 38,336 14,964 17,903 20,085
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 131,730 128,091 127,539 127,599
Stocks.. .. 120,079 90,398 107,682 116,667
Book debts . . 110,795 64,994 60,680 56,930
Cash, etc. . . 6,422 14,629 20,923 23,388
Last term £8985 was added to stocks
(reported sound), £2465 to cash, etc.,
while £1437 was snipped off the over-
draft and £750 off the mortgage. To do
it debtors’ balances were reduced by
£3750 and £2182 was added to the
amount coming to trade creditors. Includ-
ing stocks, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£83,936) was
£7705.
Although costs are on the up-grade,
and wool and wheat prices are low, re-
cent rains have altered the seasonal out-
look over most of the northern State,
where sugar, beef, lamb and dairy pro-
duce are yielding satisfactory returns,
and where employment continues at a
high level. Still, international develop-
ments keep the sharemarket nervy and
jumpy these days, and the co.’s pound
ords., covered by 21s. lid. in net
tangibles, are priced at 13s. 9d. as against
14s. 6d. a year ago. At 13s. 9d. the re-
turn is 7.4 p.c. on a 5f p.c. div. basis,
or 8.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution, which
was well covered by last term’s earnings.
The well-protected prefs. seldom come
on to the market.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends— Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit,
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936. 13.727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 .. •• 5,496
1937.. 14,172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
1938.. 15,923 6 „ 6 „ 13,992 1931 868
1939.. 10,773 6 ~ 5 „ 14,075 4,170
special payment of £725.
Builders’ hardware and agricultural im-
plements are the backbone of the busi-
ness; and about 40 p.c. of turnover is
in lines made in the co.’s own factories
and sold mostly through its own stores,
of which there are seven in Vic. —one at
Flinders-lane, another at Fitzroy and five


fffffff Ms
fffff 1939
fH * l
mm
m
m
KW:¥:W
mm
P-8 Coupe-Sedan
Sgg2gjpPß?!>^g : <?^^^^«^§C<>§ss^3*^<^sw^-52225fiaQoaBt—--
mmmm:
De Luxe P-8 Convertible Coupt
De Luxe V-8 Sedan
PRICES:
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant,
Plus Sales Tax.
NEW CANS > ‘ NEW BO BY STYLES
Hydraulic Brahes >Advanced Streamlining > Newly Styled
Interiors > V-type 8-cylinder Engines > Scientific Sound-
proofing > Triple-Cushioned Comfort > All-steel Bodies
For 1939 comes the news of Ford’s
greatest contribution yet: a complete
range of new models in two new cars.
Each car has been given its own distinc-
tive appearance, yet each reflects Ford
leadership in design. Both bring you
something of the fine streamlining of the
Lincoln-Zephyr—recognised style leader
throughout the world.
Both are big, roomy cars, equipped with
hydraulic brakes and powered with
improved V-8 engines that give new
smoothness and efficiency plus greater
economy.
New seat construction, flexible cantilever
transverse springs and double-acting
hydraulic shock absorbers give triple-
cushioned riding comfort.
From bumper to bumper inside and out,
the new Ford V-B’s are the most out-
standing cars in all Ford history.
Pj Tasma, the car radio of quality designed
0 * especially for Ford cars, optional at slight
extra cost. Full particulars from your local
Ford dealer.
Your Local Ford Dealer is waiting to show you these new Ford Cars!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) f 34 .4 8 v |
Vn country centres —together with a sub-
sidiary at Launceston (Tas.) and another
in N. S. Wales, where a branch was
opened at Rockdale and a Sydney im-
porting business was taken over for about
£25,000 in f.-p. ords. some 18 months or
so ago. Also, about the same time, a
new factory was put up at N. Fitzroy
(Vic.) to meet the demand for rust-proof
metal-sheeting, and another freehold was
bought in the same locality to relieve
congestion in the foundry section of the
business. Early in the last term the stock
and plant, etc., of two more N. S. Wales
businesses —one at Moree and another at
Guyra—were bought for £10,632 in f.-p.
ords.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, dry conditions, the reces-
sion in wool and wheat prices and bush-
fires interfered with turnover, while costs
continued to rise. Gross earnings
(£101,488) were up £10,684. Including
the allowance for taxation (£2500, down
£250) and depreciation (£1997, down
£253), exes, (£90,714) advanced £15,834,
of which £10,659 was in respect of wages
and salaries (£45,485). The net result
was thus £5150 lighter at £10,773, or
enough to give the prefs. their £5220 and
show a shade over 3 p.c. on the £179,754
of ord. capital. However, since the out-
look for the current term has brightened,
only one point was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 5 p.c., though the already
slender prop for capital had to be raided
for £3302 to meet the distribution, reduc-
ing reserves to £4170 short of good-
will, etc. (£8212), not treated as an asset
herein.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1935. 1937 1938 19'39
Paid capital.. £176,750 £191,250 £256,122 £266,754
Liabilities .. 64,903 95,590 90,351 125,197
Freeholds . . 43,000 65,873 73,093 71,906
Plant, etc. .. 22.123 25,757 26,592 32,838
stocks. . .. 148,554 148,787 166,613 175,795
Book debts . . 25,761 35,198 44,808 73,353
Cash, etc. . . 825 2,964 4,437 3,625
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 42,916 42,916
The purchases already referred to were
only partly responsible for the year’s
growth of £28,545 in debtors’ balances,
£9182 in stocks and £6246 in plant. Besides
the issue of £10,632 of f.-p. ords. at par,
the board went outside for an extra
£34,846. Still, including stocks, the more
or less liquid surplus (£127,576) was
£2069 stronger than at the previous
balance. The upward trend of costs and
improvement in the outlook, following
recent rains, together with the fact that
much of the fire damage will have to be
repaired, remove a lot of danger that
would otherwise be inherent in the growth
in debtors’ balances and stocks.
The market, which notes that share-
holders have never got much out of the
business, prices the fully-paid pound ords.
at 15s. 6d., as against 19s. a year ago.
At the lower figure the return is 6.4 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 225.
(235. 3d. a year ago) yield 5.4 p.c. on a
6 p.c. distribution, and it is difficult to
say when the participating rights are
likely to be worth anything. The net
tangible cover is £3 Os. 4d. prefs. and
19s. 7d. ords.
Gold
At the annual meeting of the Mines
and Metals Association last week the
chairman (knight Colin Fraser) again
suggested that the Commonwealth
authorities should build up an emergency
gold reserve. He also drew attention to
the anomalous fact that “in numerous
commodity markets restrictions on pro-
duction are being imposed in order to
maintain prices, whereas in gold restric-
lions are being rigidly enforced against
private consumption in order to keep
the price down.... In many coun-
tries the much-advertised stocks of gold
held by Governments and central banks
would disappear overnight into private
hands if the credits and currencies nowa-
days created in such prodigious amounts,
and in many cases with such little con-
sideration for facts, were made con-
vertible into gold.” There is certainly


ARE YOU GETTING
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
Filter
Cylinder
FI
CLEAR WATER?
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Limited. These tools
are fully illustrated and priced in our latest General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
your free copy.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* if: * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. ’& G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
For Sale. .
Complete Roasting Cyanide Plant, about
5000 tons, averaging 4dwts. to sdwts. per ton.
Good extractions with careful work. Apply
A. C. CHAPPEE, Peak Hill, N.S.W.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab" Melbourne.
Pi
LIMEJUICt
& otnm coßoiAts
DIFFICULT
DAYS
In Town and Country
WHETHER a man live and work in
the town or in the country, he has
a yearning for SAFETY: to be free of
financial worries. It is to help men
and women in this yearning that the
A.M.P. exists.
A certain time-hardened wheat farmer
said recently: “My A.M.P. policies
give me something to hold fast to.
They leave me free of worry, fear and
doubt; free to concentrate on the fight
with the seasons and the pests.”
It is the same with the city man.
Adequate A.M.P. assurance lifts from
him all fear he may have in regard to
family obligations, mortgages, debts and
what not, and leaves him free to live.
If YOU who read this have any
of this fear, why not leave it with the
A.M.P.? Why not ask the nearest
A.M.P. office to send an experienced
adviser to show you how you may be rid
of it for ever? „ .
The Society has £115,000,000 worth
of assets. It has paid out £146,000,000
to members and their beneficiaries. Use
it to lighten your own life and benefit
your family’s. Write to-day. Even
to-morrow may be too late!
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary,
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
much to be said in favor of a store of
gold as a war-chest. But as regulator
and governor of credit and curren-
cies gold has lost its job, because
a more efficient manager (an ex-
change equalisation account), which
has removed the volume and cost of
national credit from the harmful influ-
ences of movements of international or
“hot” money, has been found. As for
depreciation of currencies, this, like
tariffs, has become a weapon in the fight
for markets, and is also a way in which
one generation robs another ; and, since
the people robbed are mainly those who
have put their savings into fixed-interest-
bearing securities, Governments are the
chief offenders.
Tin
In 1937 tin-producers wanted metal —
stocks were too small and the price too
high. As 1938 advanced the reverse posi-
tion developed, and has continued to do
so, despite the efforts of the International
Tin Committee to check this develop-
ment. The international quota, which
had been stepped up from 45 p.c. for
the first quarter of 1935 to 110 p.c. (it
was too high) for the last nine months
of 1937, was lowered to 70, 55, 45 and
45 p.c. for the four quarters of 1938.
The figure, which remained at 45 p.c.—
35 p.c. free, plus 10 p.c. for buffer pool
—for the first quarter of 1939, has been
reduced to 40 p.c. for the second quarter
of 1939. Because the London message
announcing the 40 p.c. quota makes no
mention of any proportion for the pool,
it is assumed that the pool has been built
up to the 15,000 tons originally planned.
For the last nine months the domestic
free export quotas in the F.M.S. and
Siam have been approximately 25 p.c.
and 50 p.c. respectively. In Siam, how-
ever, it has been the custom to grant
producers a bonus allowance at the end
of each quota period.
In the London metal market the price
of tin fell from £3ll ss. per ton in March,
1937, to £153 6s. in May, 1938. In
adopting the dual device of quota and
buffer-pool control, the International
Committee aimed at lifting the price to
£2OO per ton or more, and, with a view
to ironing out undue fluctuations, it was
proposed that the pool should buy tin when
the price fell below £2OO and sell when
it rose above £230. The average monthly
figure has been above the £2OO mark since
September last, the figure on March 24
being £217 2s. 6d. The reason for the
further cut in the quota is the continued
growth of world stocks, which had
reached 32,948 tons at the end of Janu-
ary and 33,560 tons at the end of the
following month.
In spite of the recent comparatively
stable price of the metal, the restricted
rate of production has not enabled some
efficient dredging cos. in Southern Asia,
and in which Australian investors are
interested, to pay divs. It has, therefore,
been suggested in some quarters that a
reduction in the price range to £l7O-£2OO
may be a more satisfactory solution of
the problem. But the core of the trouble
appears to lie in a shrinkage of demand,
especially in the tinplate and automobile
industries in the U.S.A.; so many doubt
whether a reduction in price at the
present time would lead to any perma-
nent improvement in demand.
On the whole the Alluvial Tin group
of Malayan tin-dredgers have done well
for shareholders, the Kundang co. ex-
cepted. On a paid capital of £2,281,003
the group has sent out divs. aggregating
£1,636,800 to date, and there is many
years’ work ahead:
Company. Capital. Dividends.
Changkat Tin Dredging ..£130,000 £110,500
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging 300,000 157,500
Kramat Tin Dredging .. .. 165,000 284,625
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields .. 585,000 377,000
Kundang Tin Dredging .. 125,000 15,625
Rawang Tin Fields .. .. 876,003 461,550
Rawang Concessions .. .. 200,000 230,000
Present market for the shares in most
cases is still above par, notwithstand-
ing the incidence of restriction. Though
tin has its periodic setbacks, well-bought
tin stocks offer long-term prospects.
Management, dredging reserves and
values, assessments and costs are the main
factors to look for.
* * * *
With its new plants at work, Pato
Consolidated, Placer Development’s big
pup, is now handling nearly as much
wash each quarter as it used to in a
year. For the three months to March 1
production was worth 607,005 Canadian
dollars, compared with 519,680 and
439,845 dollars for the two preceding
quarters. Asnazu, another Placer interest,
should also be now giving a better
account of itself, having passed out of
the low-grade area it has been digging
for the last 10 months.
* * * *
With the starting-up of Redbank
Dredging’s plant, Victoria now has six
bucket dredges in operation. The property
comprises 900 acres in the Avoca district,
noted for the extent and richness of its
deep and shallow alluvial leads ; 6,000,000
c.y. of Is. 3d. dirt has been proved, and
more is indicated. Extensively worked
by hand methods in the old days, the
wash consists chiefly of fairly free, well-
worn quartz and sandstone, devoid of
heavy boulders. Thompson’s Engineering
and Pipe Co., Williamstown, which was
responsible for both the big Cocks
Eldorado and Victoria Dredging plants,
supplied the dredge. It will dig 100,000
c.y. monthly to 33ft.; provision to alter
digging depth to 80ft. when the deep
eastern sector is entered has been made.
* * * *
A Bulletin man’s log of Rothsay
(W.A.), which is officially threatened with
burial unless treatment results improve
by March 31:
1895 or thereabouts: Worked as Wood-
ley’s Reward by a London co. which was
strangled by copper difficulties.
Later: Operated in a gouge-out way by
others who mostly arrived with something and
left with nothing.
1933: Boring done by B.H. Prop., which
didn’t broadcast results.
1934: Adelaide co. formed and kicked off
with £53,125 of public money. First plant—
a cyanide output—cost £lO,OOO and involved
shareholders in endless worry, increased by the
fact that the subscribed capital proved insuffi-
cient to provide for a flotation plant and de-
velopment. Optimistic official reports about
prospects and profits; also an estimate of 120,000
tons of Bfdwt. reserves by C. E. Gibson, to-
gether with a statement by the same expert
that favorable developments at depth or along
the strike of the reef, which seemed probable,
could easily provide sufficient ore to add con-
siderably to the above estimate.
1935: Crushing started, and after the 25.-
paid shares had soared to 14s. they gradually
slumped to 2s. 7d.
1936: More treatment and financial worries,
with shareholders exhibiting further anxiety.-
1937: Mine idle during the year.
1938: New flotation extraction plant, financed
by the issue of two lots of debentures (£20,000
and £12,500), placed in commission, to the
accompanying fervent official hope that treat-
ment results would be all right.
1939: Doleful admission by the board that
they have not.
* * * *
North Kalgurli Central, a float of 1932,
has at last disposed of its Kalgoorlie
property and equipment— to the Paringa
co., which it adjoins on the north, for
£2500 in cash and 10,000 f.-p. Is. shares.
Altogether the vendor spent £30,000 to
£40,000, diamond-drilling and otherwise,
without finding anything to get its teeth
into. Paringa turned down an option
over the property as long as three years
ago, and later still Australian Mining
and Industrial Finance, Ltd., nibbled
without biting.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Permanency of Yellowdine
Gold Areas Mayfield Mine (W.A.) seems
to hang by a slender thread, not by a
steel rope, as a recent unofficial market
boost indicated. The board recently
said that the gold-carrying quartz had
cut out at shallow depth in No. 1
winze; now they report that it has fol-
lowed suit in No. 2 winze. The man-
ager, however, says that indications in
No. 2 winze lead him to expect that
values will make again in further sinking.
Others are not so hopeful.
Universal Gold, N.L., promoter, in-
vestigator and developer of goldmines, is
considering a proposal to increase its
capital and absorb the Fair Play Co.,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), which it floated in
1935, receiving 18,000 f.-p. ss. shares
as its cut. Fair Play let its holding on
tribute in 1936, and invested its funds
in South Kalgurlis. At the Universal
meeting in Melbourne the other day
managing director L. Rubinstein said the
co. had about 50s. a share in assets, and
was seeking a mine which needed equip-
ment and experienced men, and that it
was prepared to come in on a 50-50
basis. An observant shareholder reck-
oned it was ridiculous for a co. with an
income of only £llOO a year to have a
paid chairman of directors, a managing
director, another director, a legal man-
ager and an auditor. He suggested that
the directors should act gratuitously
until a property was obtained.
IS * * *
Three Adelaide directors of Lady
Gladys Gold Mine, N.L. —there are two
others, a man and his wife in Westralia
—have pulled out, and so has the secre-
tary, because they consider lack of work-
ing capital prevents operations being effec-
tively carried on. The co. started busi-
ness 18 years ago, and has successively
held the Mount of Millions, at Yalgoo,
and Lady Gladys, at Mulline (W.A.).
Recently it moved to the Norseman field.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L. (W.A.),
which paid £33,000 cash, plus 300,000
fully-paid 4s. shares, for the old White
Hope mine in 1934 and worked it and
another show without success, hopes to
get back out of the Blue Spec in the
nor’-west what it lost in the other two
ventures. A manager has been appointed,
plant has been bought, a developmental
plan has been mapped out, and share-
holders are urged to hope for the best.
$ * * *
London - controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), has asked that a
number of its outer blocks be exempted
from labor covenants ; at the same time
the management said that last year it did
over 6000 ft. of development in the main
workings at a cost of £30,137. Included
in this was 2011 ft. of driving and 1500 ft.
of diamond-drilling. The co. employs
a few hundred men, supports a grow-
ing township, and is a good source of
revenue to the State and Commonwealth,
but so far shareholders have received
nothing.
, i^n ° t^er report has reached Westralia
that London capital is being found to
work a group of Meekatharra gold-
mines which includes the Ingliston
Consols and Fenian, over which
options have been held for two years
by Mines Selection Co., of W.A.,
in which Herman Mandelstam, promoter
of Tindals and Edjudina Consolidated
and vendor of the Big Bell, is largely
interested. The latest report states that
a co. with a working capital of £750,000
is to be floated. If this is so, then the
recent attitude of London investors to-
wards Westralian mining ventures must
have suddenly changed.
* * * *
Whoops from De Bernales camps
over Murchison Gold Development’s
prospects find little echo in crushing
results. The co. has two interests, the
Emu at Lawlers and the Riverina at
Menzies (W.A.); also a 1,203,459 2s.
share-issue, in front of which is £145,000
of 10 p.c. secured convertible notes, re-
deemable 1942 at latest, on which the
annual interest bill runs to £18,125 Aust.
For the eight months of the current term
to Feb., Emu shows a surplus on work-
ing account of £A22,000; Riverina lost
£7900, giving a combined net surplus of
£14,100. That takes development outgo
into account, but not overhead, depreci-
ation, etc. Emu recoveries represented
5.3dwt., as against the s.sdwt. valuation
based on all ore at June 30 ; Riverina’s
yields were 5.5dwt., compared with
estimated ore values of When
last broadcast ore reserves were approxi-
mately two years’ mill-feed at Emu, plant
capacity 5000 tons a month, and five
years for Riverina’s 2000-tons-a-month
unit; but little of the stuff had been
actually blocked out.


SMOKE-OH!
“By means of a specially-constructed pendu-
lum it is possible to see the earth turning
OUW 1 .” —News item.
A bottle-opener will produce the same
resii/t.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I Will Not Pass This Way Again.”— “The
Crooning Hillbilly” radio programme item.
Hooray!
4 1 4 1 4> 4*
“Only those who haxe experienced snow
sports have any idea what they are like.”
—Railways ad.
Ski-ing is believing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A prick of a pin may have disastrous con-
sequences.”—Doctor’s warning.
Still, there is always a chance that the
horse might win.
„ 4* 4* 4* 4*
“In presenting the bridegroom with a radio
set his donors wished him years of listening.”
—Social blurb.
He is assured of that even without
the radio.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Novel-writing is not difficult.”
— Writers’ guide .
Just a matter of selecting 100,000
words or so from a dictionary and put-
ting them in the right order.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Make the most of your week-end joint.”
— Women’s paper.
Yes, but don’t let your guests splash
beer on the walls.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was the man who tried to
take out a third-party insurance policy
against his mother-in-law.
4* 4* 4 1 4 1
“Most women lack a sense of humor.”
— Article.
Yet some husbands are proof enough
that the fair sex can take a joke.
4 4 4 4
“Dusting of Mats Prohibited. Shire
Order.”—' “S.M.H.”
He who kicks the dust out of the mat
will also have to toe the carpet.
4* 4* 4* 4S»
“Search for Peace. Task to Go On. Appease-
ment Suffers.” — “S.M.H.”
A Czech?
“It came to me in a dream, sir.”
“Geology is not only a fascinating study, but,
put to practical use, can be lucrative.”
— Lecturer.
Yet many a geologist has finished up
on the rocks.
4* 4* 4> 4*
“There are, of course, two sides to every
question.” — “S.M.H.”
Your side and the wrong side.
4* 4* 4* *4*
“What is home without a piano?”— Advt.
A haven of rest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The natural human urge to build a home
possesses most of us at an early age.”
—“American Home.”
And paying it off keeps us going till
second childhood.
■£•
“Defendant lost a considerable sum of
money running a taxi-cab.”
—Evidence in Bankruptcy Court.
A rank failure?
“Retold for Sale —500 guineas.”
—Brisbane “D.T.”
High price for a chestnut.
• i • 4* *i* 4*
“A suitable spray of flowers worn on the
evening gown will effectively express the mood
of the wearer.” — Women’s mag.
This will probably create a demand
for snapdragons.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“The bridegroom’s workmates formed a
guard of honor with shovels.” — News item.
He, of course, had his pick on his
arm.
4* 4* 4* •i 1
“Six shirts stolen from bookmaker’s home.”
—News item.
Some punter trying to get his own
back.
Origins.
“A single bullet started the Great War and
from this tiny seed huge armament firms have
grown and prospered.”— Radio talk.
From shrivelled bulb a lovely flower
Breaks, nodding to the skies ;
While from a tiny acorn soon
A mighty oak will rise.
Some industries so germinate;
They bloom and bear their fruit,
As witness large munitions plants
Grown from some little shoot.
LEON.
New Use.
“For Sale —Perambulators, Very Useful for
Marketing.”— Melb. ad.
Although the baby’s out of date,
The p’rambulators p’rambulate
Throughout the city’s busy hub,
All bringing home the daily grub.
For now, protruding from the pram,
We see a chubby leg of lamb ;
And, nestling in its cosy bed,
A little curly cabbage head.
J. D.
Reticence.
“And the doctor said it was the most
inflamed appendix he had ever seen in
the whole course of his experience. He
said I was lucky to be alive because it
might have burst at any moment.
And when I was leaving hospital
he said it had been touch and go
with me for two days and it was
only my constitution and deter-
mination to live that pulled me
through. The doctor was such
a nice man. He said the hospital
wouldn’t seem the
same without me.
“My dear, they
simply couldn’t put
me under the anaes-
thetic. I heard it
took twice as long
as it did for any
other patient. And,
believe it or not,
but I actually woke
up half-way
through and heard
the doctor say he’d never seen such a
terrible case of appendicitis.
“Yes, I was at death’s door for 48
hours. Darling, you don’t know what I
went through and the agony I suffered.
“Well, I’m not going to say another
thing because I just want to forget it
ever happened. The very thought of it
makes me feel quite weak again, so it’s
no use your wanting nie to tell you all
about it!”
ME-OW.
Seeing the Boat Off.
“ ’Struth! she’s leavin’ at five, and
here it is after four now, and it says
visitors have to be ashore by half-past.
Get a taxi; it’s too late for a tram now.
“That’s her on the right with the three
funnels, ain’t it? Two funnels, is it?
Looks a bit of a tub to me.
“Now what cabin is he in? You don’t
know! Why the devil didn’t you find
out before we left? We’ll have to search
for a week in this mob. No, I don’t
want a streamer, thanks. Where can
we ask? Oh, don’t be stupid, the captain
wouldn’t know. They never know any-
thing about passengers except the good-
looking sheilahs. No, no streamers,
thanks.
“Ah, here’s a young bloke in a white
coat. Hey! do you know where I can
find out where my cobber is travellin’?
’Struth, ’e’s gone! What did he say?
Ask the Tourist Bureau or the warders
at Long Bay! By golly, I’d pitch him
overboard if I was a passenger on this
ship. No streamers, thanks !
“ ’Struth, we’ll have to be gettin’ ashore
in a minute. Ask this bloke. Say, where’s
“Ahoy, there! Stop pullin' so hard!”
the purser’s Blimey! it’s you,
George! Why, we bin lookin’ every-
where for you. D’you think you’ll be
seasick? Don’t go eatin’ too much at
first. ’Struth, there’s the bell for visitors
to get off. Blimey, I’ll have to get a
streamer; where can I get one, George?
All right, we are getting off, blarst yer!
Where the hell are these fellers sellin’
streamers? Oh, well, I’ll have to wave
me handkerchief. Goo’-bye, George.”
TREVDEE.
The Art of Politics.
VI.
A question has often been asked:
“Why are open-air campaign meet-
ings almost invariably held on street
corners?”
This practice dates from political
days when the advantage of a strategical
position for a quick
getaway from a hos-
tile crowd was con-
sidered to outweigh
the disadvantage of
draughtiness. It was
also handy for the
bellicose candidate
whose challenge to
an insulting interjec-
tor to “hop out” was
promptly taken up.
He would not have
been a worthy con-
tender for political
honors had he lacked
the adroitness to slip
unnoticed into the
open shop door at
the back of him
while the converg-
ing crowds closed in
to see the stoush.
And they were a poor lot of supporters
who couldn’t avail themselves of the
resultant uproar and confusion by work-
ing up a first-class free-for-all to cover
his escape.
Occasionally a candidate would slip
a few cogs by issuing a hot challenge to
a hefty critic, unaware that the shop door
had been closed in the meantime. With
his arms still half-way out of his coat
sleeves he would hear a “bang!” see a
blaze of stellar beauty, and some time
later claw his way back to the upright
wondering if the women and children
had been saved.
A polychromatic shanty hung on his
lamp, while not increasing the candidate’s
personal comfort, nevertheless often
added to his prestige, while he could
also take consolation from the excellent
press publicity sure to follow. It also
led to his gratification when at the next
meeting he wore a pair of dark glasses
to hear the women around him remark
to each other that he wasn’t quite so
ugly as they had thought.
Nowadays a dull respectability has
robbed the street-corner meeting of its
hazards. A candidate, waving his arms
about and furiously condemning some
enormity of the rival party, will not get
beyond “And I challenge” when his
audience will whistle his dog and hurry
home.
The radio has brought to the present-
day politician the opportunity of reach-
ing an audience of such proportions as
would have staggered his old-time coun-
terpart. Moreover, the great advantage
it possesses is that the speaker, as soon
as he has got off his chest the prelimi-
nary “Good evening, listeners, I—er—
propose to-night” is spared the
sound of knobs being turned.
The organisation of his campaign com-
mittee is the first task awaiting a candi-
date after he has won the pre-selection
ballot. That it will comprise mostly
women is axiomatic, but he will be wise
to see that they run to vinegar and
lemons rather than peaches and cream.
To develop a spirit of camaraderie
among them is important, and the initial
meeting will serve to mould this. It
should start off something like this:
Chairman: “Well, we are all gathered
here to do our best to ensure the final
victory of our worthy”
Committeeman: “What about cuttin’
out the maggin’ and gettin’ down to tin-
tacks? I propose”
Committeewoman : “What right has
he to have first say? That’s just a man
all over. Now I have a real good idea,
Mr. Chair”
Chairman: “Please, please! You’ll
have your say in good time, Mrs. Ding-
bottle. But, remember, I’m the ch”
Mrs. D.: “H’m! You wouldn’t think
so the way you let the men do all the
talking and never give a woman a chance
to” #
Committeeman (sotto voce): “Some o’
these old hags ought to be at home
mending their old man’s socks instead of
barging in on things they know nothing
about”
Mrs. D. (shriek fully): “Who are you
calling an old hag, you —you drunken,
wife-beating loafer, you”
Chairman: “Order! Order!”
Sometimes, in spite of all the help his
committee gives him, a candidate will
win.
S. W. K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
* James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World. . >
ALL "CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices :
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, 'Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western. Australia: Warwick House, St... George’s Terrace, Perth.
Dutridt . Offices,and Ac/encj,es-„2’liroiighout the States. .
Business,Rollery,Etc.
War and Shares
Wide interest is still being shown in
the question of what would be likely to
happen to investments in the event of the
Empire being involved in a world war.
War means huge wastage of human lives,
of labor and of materials. How such
wastage might have to be borne by
the community as workers and the
community as investors is a prob-
lem to theorise on which is easy,
but, as it is a future possibility
(and distant at that, let us hope), to be
definite is impossible. Still, it may well
be profitable to consider the question
from every angle, because in doing so
one may become forewarned and, there-
fore, forearmed.
To begin with, if war occurred
in 1939 it would happen in a year
in which no important country re-
mained on the gold standard, thus differ-
ing fundamentally from the position in
1914. Gold is now a standard of value
and a haven of investment security re-
mote from the stamping-ground of the
average person. It is still .possible to buy
gold ; but if it is bought it returns no
interest or other income, and in the
event of war, when it could be expected
to appreciate in value as it withstood the
depreciating effect of inflation on paper
currency, it might be mobilised by Gov-
ernment decree to finance the sinews of
war, and possession of the metal made
illegal. That would leave the buyer just
where he started.
Thus, while it would seem safe busi-
ness under gold-standard conditions to
sell properties, equity shares, etc., in
order to safeguard capital, where the
national currency one gets in return is
inconvertible (as it became in Britain
and Australia after the Great War broke
out) the problem of investment security
grows much wider. It involves many
aspects of public behavior and Govern-
ment policy.
The time-honored and instinctive sell-
ing-out of commodities and equities at
the sound of the bugle becomes debat-
able under present-day financial condi-
tions. This selling instinct undoubtedly
persists, as noticed in the sharemarkets
last September, and to a lesser degree last
week. In the momentary panic it seems
to be forgotten that war would increase
industrial and transport activity, it would
stimulate demand for many, raw
materials, it would cause shortage of
labor and increase the demand for
money.
The obvious result of this unhealthy,
wasteful but nonetheless definite stimulus
would be to inflate. Inflation might be
expected in prices, in wages, other costs
and charges, and in interest rates. Only
those concerns free to buy and sell as
they pleased, and to budget for an extra
profit commensurate with the depreciated
value of money and higher interest rates,
would have a chance of maintaining the
buying power of their distributions (divi-
dends) to shareholders. If the interest
rate on gilt-edged fixed-interest stocks
rose from, say, 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., the market
value of 4 p.c. issues would fall, whereas
it would be possible, with fortunate trad-
ing, for ord. shareholders in an industrial
co. to have their divs. stepped up with
increasing interest levels and high com-
modity prices, and to suffer no loss of
investment value.
Inflation of some kind would be the
one sure thing if war broke out. Large-
scale waste always brings on this finan-
cial bugbear. The waste of war would
be a national tragedy, its incidence fall-
ing on everyone in the form of increased
taxation to meet charges on debts in-
curred in financing war. The winner of
a war is financially a loser nearly always.
But this page’s belief is that indus-
tries, representing as they do the back-
bone of a nation’s welfare, will survive
as long as there is a people to support
them and be supported by them. Equities
in such industries, though fluctuating in
“Could you lend me a jemmy or something? The drawer I keep my revolver in appears to be stuck"
value in particular circumstances and
fading-out altogether in isolated cases,
represent an interest in the real wealth
of a country. The personal and social
factors behind industries and industrial
well-being were touched on in these pages
last week.’ An ordinary share does not
represent a right to a fixed sum of in-
terest, laid down by contract and pro-
tected by law, but is equivalent to a pro-
portionate interest in the profits from the
efforts, organisation and efficiency of an
enterprise, and from the property and
materials in its possession.
A bond is a .fixed-interest investment,
usually of exceptional security, but with
only the -Law Courts'or:Parliament to
protect it. The personal element, as well
as “enterprise,” is largely excluded. In
times of deflation, such as we saw during
the depression, these bond investments
are usually at a premium when the in-
terest is paid regularly and in full; they
appreciate in value when prices of com-
modities fall and trade becomes stagnant.
But they were not allowed to enjoy the
full nominal benefit of the turn of the
economic wheel during the last slump ;
in order to assist national recovery in
Australia and Maoriland most fixed-
interest rates were reduced by statute to
the extent of 4s. to ss. in the £l.
If war-time inflation, the opposite to
the instance just quoted, brought on
a financial emergency, it is possible that
the more favored equity types of invest-
ments would be asked to make some sac-
rifices to assist the national credit. In
view of the present trend towards
“nationalisation” and the greater scope
of the income-tax authorities (not forget-
ting that Commonwealth income tax is a
legacy of the Great War), it is probable
that there would, under such conditions,
be legislative efforts to “even up” the
burden of war on all sections of the
people. There would perhaps be war-
time profits tax, and possibly some con-
scription of capital, or enforced subscrip-
tion to Government loans.
But in spite of all these possible re-
sponsibilities that industry might have to
bear during a war, the nature and im-
portance of industry give it (and ordi-
nary capital invested in it) a right of
way through other . branches of our
economy that: cannot be denied 'without
unfavorable reactions, of a national char-
acter. And so the conclusion is arrived
; at that ord. shares in well-handled indus-
tries represent as good an investment as
any, and a better one than many,-taking
'all in all.
Some of last week’s “lows” compared
with “recovery” quotes :
Mon. Wed. Thur.
A. 28s. 6d. 30s. Od. 295. Od.
Adelaide Steam 30s. Od. 30s. 9d. 30s. 9d.
Associated News ;185..9d. 19.5. Od. 18s. Bd.
British. Tobacco ‘-475. Od. 4.75.-9 d. 475. 3d.
B. Prop. .. 535. fed. ' 555. 3d. 555. 6d.
Tooth 505.. 6d. 535. Od. 535. Od.
The Monday was a public holiday in
Victoria, and Melbourne ’Change was
closed. Sydney handled most of the
“panic” business. Recovery was evident
by Wednesday ; then the Memel incident
caused a setback which was not general,
some stocks being affected more than
others.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s production figures
for the current term are still ahead of
1937-38. In the 40 weeks to March 12
pig-iron output was 12,200 tons higher
at 518,386 tons; ingot steel 19,815 tons
up at 629,619 tons. Meanwhile the plant
ot A.I. and S. at Port Kembla has been
expanding in both potential and actual
output, so that it is difficult really to
judge the growth that has taken place
in the activity of the B.H.P. associated
enterprises. At last week’s quote of 555.
B.H.P. fully-paid ords. return above
£4 10s. per cent., with prospects of big
expansion in the long run, though the
immediate outlook is for earnings to
steady in their upward movement. But
the 12y p.c. div. is in no danger.
* * * *
Profits of General Industries, amalga-
mating Metters and K.F.B. Fbundry,
are shown only £2152 higher at £103,527,
but results of the operating concerns were
really £24,698 better at £165,824. Sales
were buoyant during the term, and addi-
tions were made to the factories, but
adequate depreciation seems to have
been allowed on fixed assets. The 12s.
6d. ords. at 18s. 3d. return 8.7 p.c.
* * * *
Apparently the cement band is still
worrying shareholders in Cocks Pioneer,
the other Cocks sluicing show at Eldorado
(Vic.). The 14s. shares, after rushing up
to- 265., have steadied at around 15s. 3d
following a sharp fall in the market.
Until the beginning of March operations
were mostly of an opening-out nature.
Figures for this month should be more
indicative of wash values.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Recovery from Monday’s slump on other
Australian ’Changes faded in Melbourne by
about midday on. Wednesday; Australian
Consolidated Industries ords., for instance,
lifted from ,295.- to 30s. overnight, but drifted
back to'29s. 6d. at. the close of dealings. At
the end of the week they were down to 295.
again, compared with Monday’s “low” of
28s. 6d.
London Stores showed a net profit lower at
10 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 12 p.c.
in the year preceding. The div. was main-
tained at 10 p.c. The dry conditions in Vic-
toria up to the close of accounts (Feb. 28) are
blamed for the smaller trading results.
Gouge Pty., the dry-cleaning concern,
announced the acquisition of two laundries and
its intention of converting into a public co.
later this year.
George Farmer ords. continued firm at
15s. 3d., buyer. United Provisions ords.
were weaker at 7s. 3d.
Myer ords. slipped back to 295., but that
was higher than the quotes of three weeks ago.
Australasian Paper ords., ex div. of 9.6 d.,
sold at 28s. 6d., showing no fall over the week.
They gave a yield to the buyer of 5.6 p.c.
Yarra Falls shares were steady at 375. 6d.


B.H. Prop., 555.
At last week's price, showing a
return of £4 11s. per cent., B.H.P.
ords. looked an attractive holding
proposition.
§
i
%
m «
1
awA
:
,-^r
Si
MORE "itsVcOST/ orR|ES
It’s the High Efficiency Spirit which assures the Demand
from Business Men for Greater Economy
W 391
NEPTUNE OIL
[ INCORPORATED
PTY. LTD.
I N N. S .W. J AL L ST ATE 5
Knight John Butters, mining engineer
Malcolm Newman and accountant
George Coburn are the committee of
three shareholders appointed to investi-
gate the affairs of New Occidental Gold
Mines (N.S.W.). Their remuneration is
to be decided on by the directors. The
report of the committee will be awaited
with great interest not only by share-
holders but by anyone who takes more
than a passing interest in the adminis-
tration and conduct of mines and the
relationship existing between mine man-
ager, board of directors and shareholders.
❖ * * *
It is dangerous to buy mining shares
without careful analysis where the plant
is extracting values greater than the aver-
age grade claimed for the ore reserves.
Assuming that the estimated average
grade of ore is right, then the higher
grade of ore being milled for the nonce
means that as this attractive stuff is
sloped out the remaining ore is dropping
to below-average grade. For instance, if
quantities of 9dwt. ore are taken from
what, to start with, was a 6.sdwt. mine,
then the overall grade is no longer
6.5dwt., but something lower. An
example of this reduction in ore grade
was seen in the case of Golden Plateau
(Q.), where, owing to selective mining
and disappointing development of new
ore-bodies, grade of ore reserves has been
falling for some years. In the case of
Emperor (Fiji) the low-grade stuff is
being treated first, and, provided de-
velopment doesn’t continue to reveal
more low-grade bodies to compensate for
what has been taken out of the mine,
the point should eventually be reached
where Emperor’s overall grade will start
to rise. When that happens the co. is
likely to have the problem of adjusted
treatment methods on its hands.
* * * *
Emperor shares sank to the record low
level of 7s. lid. last week in Melbourne.
The Fiji mine’s bottom level isn’t look-
ing bright.
* * * *
Progressive metallurgical improvement
at Loloma (Fiji) has cut the tailings loss
back a pennyweight a ton in the current
term—a saving of 9s. or so a ton. For
the last crushing period a record 2355
tons went through the mill. Increased
throughput should mean lower costs,
which are now also benefiting from the
Vatia wharf and use of lime from the
new Tau plant. But market support for
the stock seems somehow sympathetic
with that for Emperor, and there were
sales at 19s. Id. and 19s. 6d. last week.
* * * *
Support for chain-store shares has
lost much of its pep, and this applies
particularly to the ord. issue of G. J.
Coles. The scrip fell 2s. 9d., to 735. 3d.,
on Monday of last week, on Tues-
day it was up to 745. 3d. On Thursday
quotes were down to 735. 9d. Lowest
price in 1938 was 725., highest 87s. 6d.
In the three months since 1939 began
there has been a sale as high as 80s.
Last week’s quote was the lowest so tar
this year, and the yield on a \l\ p.c.
div. basis has lifted to p.c. Wool-
worths ords. were selling at 21s. 9a. last
week, cum 7d. div. payable April 15.
The yield here was 4.1 p.c. Woolyvorths
shares have been as high as 235. 6d. in
1939, with a low of just under 21s. It
would seem a more stable stock than
G. J. Coles until its smaller share deno-
mination (ss. as against 205.) is con-
sidered.
* * * *
A.C.I. scrip (B. 22/3/’39) fell to 28s.
6d. at one stage last week, but it was soon
back to 295. 6d. As previously indicated,
there are chances of this stock going
higher, and in any case it has a very
solidly entrenched industry behind it that
should make longer holding worth while.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S.A. Attacks on the Royal Visit.
[ln the article here condensed from London
“Daily Express,” the writer, Peter Howard, deals
with attacks in the U.S.A. on the pending royal visit
which have been given curiously little publicity.]
From America comes a sustained and, in many
respects, a savage onslaught upon the visit of our
King and Queen to the States this spring.
There is nothing personal about these attacks.
Americans who oppose the royal visit say that
we are sending our King and Queen to call on them
cap in hand, that the whole affair is a begging expedi-
tion, an attempt to pull America into Europe, to induce
the citizens of the United States to come marching
along in their millions, left, right, left, right, to save
us from the wrath of Hitler.
Walter Lippman, the famous columnist of the
New York “Herald Tribune,” lifts up his voice to say
that the coming spring will not be a good moment
for the King and Queen to visit America, for at that
time the American debates on rearmament will be taking
place. Lippman says the necessity for new American
armaments is directly due to the weakness of Britain.
He believes that if our royal visitors are in the U.S.A.
this spring they are bound to be suspected of inter-
fering with and endeavoring to influence the decisions
of America on the rearmament issue.
Senator Robert Reynolds, of North Carolina, has
made a speech in the Senate declaring that the King
and Queen are crossing the seas with the intention of
currying favor with America. He adds that our Mr.
Eden tried to do the same thing but fell down on
the job.
“Scribner’s Magazine” raises the question of the
Duke of Windsor. It says that many people in the
United States still regard him as the rightful owner
of the British throne.
Apart from newspapers and speeches, the stage,
too, is concentrating its attention on the visit.
When Mrs. Roosevelt, wife of the President, was
entertained to a show given by the Women’s National
Press Club of America she found that one scene
depicted our King losing his crown to her son, Jimmy
Roosevelt, at poker. Our Queen then asks the King:
“Bertie, where’s your crown?” The King answers:
“Jimmy’s got it.” (The phrase “Jimmy’s got it” is the
latest American catchword. It derives from an alle-
gation that the President’s son obtains much of the
insurance business of the big American industrial
concerns. When the insurance agent calls up, asking
these businesses to renew their former policies, it
is said he receives always the same answer: “Jimmy’s
got it.”)
Another scene in the sketch seen by Mrs. Roose-
velt shows the butler hiding away particulars of all
military secrets before the royal visitors arrive, but
leaving particulars of war debts on the table because
“the British won’t pay any attention to them anyway.”
One man more than any other responsible for
the invitation to visit the States extended to the King
and Queen by President Roosevelt is Mr. Kennedy,
United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James’s.
And, of course, it is quite clear that he, for his part,
thinks very little of this American outcry against the
royal visit. He considers it of no importance. For
if he did not take this view of the matter he would
have made it his business to call off the royal visit.
He would never consent to the acceptance of President
Roosevelt’s invitation unless he was convinced that the
trip was bound to be an unqualified success.
Many other Americans, equally well able to assess
the true feelings of the American public, share Mr.
Kennedy’s view of events. They point out that in
America’s population of 130,000,000 people there will
always be found a minority ready to criticise any
proposal put before them. They say that the sugges-
tion that something is behind the royal visit, some
attempt to interfere with the internal workings of
American politics, is absurd. And they argue that
the citizens of America are well aware that the King
did not invite himself to the States, but comes as
the personal guest of the President. And on that
account he will be overwhelmed with attentions. They
believe that Americans have a wrong idea of English
people which the visit will help to change.
Americans of the Kennedy school of thought con-
sider that in a very short space of time the royal
visitors will win for themselves the boundless affec-
tion of the citizens of America. Everybody in Britain
hopes that this opinion is the right one.
Germany Views Britain’s Unemployed.
(Condensed from an article by London “Spectator’s”
Berlin correspondent.)
What the Reich will do will depend largely upon
its opinion of Britain’s inner strength and policy.
The psychological aspect is nowhere more vital
than in connection with Britain’s unemployed. Such
a tremendous army of unused labor seems to the
average German a definite proof that British democ-
racy cannot solve the economic problems facing the
industrialised States of the civilised world to-day.
The fact that the Reich itself has only temporarily
solved its own problem by resort to compulsory labor
and military service, dubious finance, rearmament and
compulsion in almost all walks of life may be quite
relevant to the Britisher’s comparison of the situation
in both States, but does little to alter the average
German’s judgment of the situation. He may be one
of the 6,000,000 German unemployed of six years
ago who to-day is employed ; he knows the difference
and appreciates it.
He criticises Nazism, but of Hitler he says: “He
gave me work!” When to this is added the propa-
ganda which newspaper and radio continuously pour
forth to the effect that even a poor Germany has
done all this, while the richest empire in the world
cannot find work for its unemployed, is it not natural
that he should consider Britain’s first interest to be
world-power, not the welfare of its own workpeople?
From this point of view, the German workman does
believe that the Nazi Reich is more truly democratic
than Britain, which he sees as an admixture of aris-
tocracy and plutocracy whose strong position in the
world is maintained principally through its gold,
“sweated out of the labor of India and Africa,” as
one Nazi organ recently wrote.
This automatically leads to the conclusion that
Britain is flabby and internally rotten. The unem-
ployed, it is argued, can hardly be classed as healthy,
and must be unfit for soldiering if ever they should
be needed, as well as the breeding-ground of dis-
content which might assume serious dimensions in
case of war. In other words, our 2,000,000 unem-
ployed enable present-day Germany to harbor the
same ideas about Britain’s internal weakness as it
did in 1914.
If this problem of our unemployed is linked to
that of the colonies, it is obvious how much propa-
ganda can be made on behalf of the “Have-not”
nations, on the grounds that the British are following
a dog-in-the-manger policy, since they will neither
send their own unemployed to the vast open spaces
nor allow others to develop them for the benefit of
mankind.
The Nazi leaders of to-day want nothing better
than to be able to turn away from their own economic
and financial difficulties to dilate upon the failures
of the Western democracies. And in the unemploy-
ment situation of Britain and the United States they
have a hardy perennial which yields fruits of the
most unexpected kind — e.g., they apply it to our
rearmament programme, as a means of calming the
German population, which has been much perturbed at
our recent colossal armaments estimates. The Ger-
man press has to admit that Britain will soon have
the ships, the guns and the aeroplanes, but, it then
insinuates, Britain will not have the men for these
instruments of war. Or, again, during the closing
weeks of the Spanish Civil War, with what effect
were posters showing pictures of London’s unemployed
demonstrating with placards, on which was written,
“Feed your own starving unemployed rather than
strangers,” exhibited in post offices and other public
places in Germany!
In some quarters it is still believed that attacking
totalitarianism in speech or press does a lot of good.
More often than not, however, it serves as a fresh
opportunity to fill the German press with “evidences”
of the Jewish-Bolshevik influences working abroad.
And this is all the more effective since the German
press only publishes as much as it thinks fit. What
would carry much more weight would be practical,
statistical proof that we were solving our own prob-
lems on the basis of our democratic beliefs. It would
be the best evidence to Germany that democracy
works, and the effects would benefit our foreign
policy considerably.
In Besieged Madrid.
[This eyewitness description of Madrid as it
appeared at the beginning of this month, after 30
months’ siege, is condensed from a London “Times”
article by a correspondent lately back from Spain.]
Three years ago Madrid was a gay, happy-go-
lucky city. To-day, under the strain of violent revolu-
tionary process within and a merciless war without,
there are only cynicism and suffering.
Butter, eggs, milk, coffee, fish and fresh meat
have long been only memories. The rice, lentils,
beans, salted cod, chick-peas, the bread, oil, sugar,
salt, the occasional fruit and vegetables are all strictly
rationed in quantities barely sufficient for existence.
Two and a half years of such a regimen has told
profoundly on the physique and morale of the popu-
lation. There is a rising tide of tuberculosis, psycho-
neurosis and other physical and moral ills. The aver-
age weight of children at birth has sunk from seven
pounds to five, and most mothers are unable to suckle
their babies. An indelible mark is being left on the
coming generation.
People have come to regard the “noises off” of
cannon, machine-gun and rifle from fronts a mile
away as being as natural as the rumble of traffic. As
projectiles always come from the same direction,
people know exactly where and how to take cover, so
that a dose of 500 high-explosives seldom produces
more than 20 or 30 casualties. After the bombard-
ment is over news of the damage is exchanged, com-
mented on, and noted for future reference, broken
glass and other wreckage are cleared up, gaping holes
in house walls are filled in, and life goes on.
The ravages of war have struck Madrid by zones.
Some quarters have escaped almost unscathed, includ-
ing the “neutral zone,” which General Franco set aside
for the civilian population, but which is used never-
theless by the Government (which never accepted it)
for administrative offices and barracks. Others are
nothing short of a total wreck.
Madrid has not been bombed from the air since
February, 1937, but its proximity to the fronts renders
it liable to a sudden aeroplane attack at any moment.
Yet air-raid precautions have been surprisingly lacka-
daisical. Only a few private and public refuges have
been built, the underground railway and cellars being
relied upon for problematical defence.
Where partisans and enemies of the regime are
inextricably mixed and huge subversive organisations
are continually being unearthed, a strict watch has
to be kept over the whole population. All means to
this end are made use of, including spies, informers
(among whom must be classed concierges ), and the
collation of rationing-cards, which yield details as to
the occupants of houses and their ages, making easier
the tracing of those —their number is legion—wishing
to evade military service.
Arrests are plentiful; mere membership of a poli-
tical party not included in the Popular Front, even
though no active part has been taken against the
regime, is sufficient reason for imprisonment. So is
a vague, comprehensive charge of “disaffection to the
regime,” which can include listening to Nationalist
broadcasts and disrespectful spoken or written com-
ments on the powers that be. The stocking of more
than 301 b. of food, the possession of jewellery, silver
money or foreign currency, the bartering of food,
even the picking up of bread thrown from Nationalist
aeroplanes these offences are all certain passports
to gaol. Six months is no unusual time for men to
be left awaiting trial.
Concurrently with the regular police, though over-
riding it, the awe-inspiring SIM (Servicionde Infor-
macion Militar) spreads its widely-ramified organisa-
tion among soldiers and civilians. Based on the system
of spying, suspicion and distrust, it conducts its jury-
less trials in secret and does not hesitate to resort to
acute ill-treatment, not to say torture, when its victims
refuse to disgorge information.
General life in Madrid has numberless petty
worries and difficulties. There is no tobacco, and the
inveterate are reduced to thyme, incense and tea-leaves.
Taxis and buses do not ply ; trams, about 45 per cent,
of which are out of circulation owing to damage from
shells and bombs, are overcrowded.
Wood and coal being unobtainable, hot baths are
an unknown luxury. Old motor-car tyres are being
cut up and used instead of shoe-leather. The town
presents a general aspect of untidiness as a result of
the lowering of social standards, though people are
now better-dressed than at the beginning of the war,
when wearing a tie and polished shoes was sufficient
to arouse suspicion.
Children swarm the streets, for the schools which
have recently and gradually reopened can care for
only about 20,000.
There are no public restaurants. In the crowded
cafes, which must close by five, no solid food is served,
only a milkless, sugarless malt substitute for coffee,
bad liqueurs and worse wines. By nine o’clock theatres
and cinemas, invariably full in spite of the poor quality
of the programmes, must be closed. No light must
shine out of windotos, and streets are kept dark. By
10 o’clock, when the once so characteristic night life
was just beginning, a general curfew drives everybody
home, and thereafter the nightly password or a special
authorisation is required in the streets.
The capture of Madrid earlier in the war would
have caused the Nationalists to shoulder the burden ot
a parasite town of few factories of any military value,
but housing a million inhabitants all clamoring to be
fed. General Franco, after his first failure to take
"Cause for Relief."
“S. M. Herald” cables last week included
the priceless oddity from London:—
“If Germany were to carry out her reported
intention of denouncing the Anglo-German
Naval Agreement it would cause considerable
relief to probably a majority of those interested
in naval affairs here.”
Those mentioned as being happy to cheer
the end of the agreement were
“the Labor party and a group of leading Con-
servatives, including Mr. Winston Churchill
and Admiral of the Fleet Sir Roger Keyes.”
As a positive consequence of the Agree-
ment, the British Navy is now the strongest in
the world, and is increasing its lead, on which
important fact London “Economist” comments:
“If war were to break out immediately the
superiority of the democracies in European
waters would be very large. In reasonably
modern • and large capital ships they would
have ten to four, and they would receive rein-
forcements within comparatively few months
of six to four; and they would have a margin
of seven older ships. In cruisers and de-
stroyers the position is 318 to 112 (including
three German ‘pocket battleships’ ) completed
and 89 to 36 building. In submarines, the Axis
Powers have a superiority, especially when age
is taken into account, and, temporarily, in
motor torpedo boats.
“If Japan were to enter the war on the
Axis side, without either Russia or the United
States being involved, the numerical superiority
of the democracies would be reduced, though
it would still exist both in capital ships and in
‘light surface vessels.’ The size of the fleet that
would have to be sent to the Far East, how-
ever, would depend on whether the attempt
would be made to contest the mastery of the
seas north of Singapore and on other such
matters of high strategy. The probability is
that Great Britain and France would still
have a decisive naval superiority in Europe.
In a few years’ time, when the present British
building programme is complete, that superi-
ority will move out of the range of probability
and become an established fact.”
There certainly appears to be cause for
relief—that the Agreement exists!


it, decided to leave this millstone round the Republi-
can Government’s neck. Starvation and apathy were
left to accomplish what shells and bombs were unable
to achieve. “Que se acabe como sea, pero que se
acabe” (“End the war one way or another, but by all
means end it”) is a cry which escapes the throats of
many.
“Flaming Dolores.”
[A pen-picture of the much-publicised La Pasionaria,
the article here condensed from London “Evening
Standard” has incidental interest in further indicating
the close association between the Red Government side
in Spain and Stalin’s Soviet.]
Fugitive from Spain, “Flaming Dolores,” Spain’s
Red leader and Moscow’s pride, is now in French
territory once more. And she is not wanted there.
Eighteen months ago when Dolores Ibarruri —
they call her “La Pasionaria” —was in Paris on a
campaign of “Airplanes and guns for Spain,” huge
audiences in the Velodrome d’Hiver listened spell-
bound to this woman with the “lovely brown eyes
and straight nose,” dressed in modest black.
She seldom smiled as she poured out the woes
of her country behind a barricade of flowers. She
drew tears to the eyes of the sentimental men and
women of France, who brought their children to be
kissed by her. And although she spoke in Spanish,
and there were few who understood her words, her
musical voice, sometimes full of anguish, sometimes
pleading, transferred its emotions to the crowd.
That was “La Pasionaria” at the height of her
glory. The “Spanish people”—at all events those to
whom she referred —have not won. She herself is
a fugitive from another “people,” who have no friendly
feelings for the woman who was the inspiration of
the Communist element on the Republican side. To
what extent she was successful in raising funds and
munitions in France will never be known.
“La Pasionaria” is the daughter of a miner. First
a dressmaker in a small way, she married a miner
who had embraced the principles of Karl Marx. In
1931 she headed a demonstration in Bilbao. Often
arrested, public agitation secured her release. Then,
in 1934, came the Asturian revolution. Her miner
husband, backed by his wife, supported the demands
of the mob. The gaols were gorged with 30,000
revolutionaries. “La Pasionaria” became a widow.
He was among the slain.
Dolores threw herself even more heartily into
Red politics. A year or so later she had the blessing
of Moscow, and was chosen as one of the presidents
of the Third International Congress. Dimitroff de-
scribed her as a “beautiful agitator and fighter.” She
had proved herself a most trustworthy leader.
Came the Popular Front success in the Spanish
elections. “La Pasionaria” became vice-president of
the Cortes. “Strike first and imprison all big land-
and factory-owners as wreckers and starvers of the
Spanish working class,” she urged the Government.
In January, 1937, it was reported that “La
Pasionaria” was dead. She who had become a mascot
for the Republican victory in Spain could no longer
inspire the fighters. Madrid, with Moscow, prepared
to mourn her. But she was not dead, for a day later
she cabled Moscow a New Year’s greeting, adding:
“Only our brothers in the Soviet Union, with our dear
Stalin at their head, have heard our sad appeals.”
There is no telling to what heights “La Pasionaria”
might have risen had Republican Spain been success-
ful in the civil war. At last even she realised the
hopelessness of continuing the fight and fled.
Hitting Uncle Sam’s Pocket.
[According to “S. M. Herald” cables, Uncle
Sam’s Note to Germany over Czechoslovakia would
“excoriate the Nazis as a menace to civilisation”
(21/3/’39); next day, the Note was at least going
to deliver a pretty hot “castigation.” Published a
day later, the Note was a formal diplomatic document
denying legal basis of the seizure; but that Uncle Sam
might well have delivered a “castigation” spoken
straight from his pocket is indicated by the article
here condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post,”
and it might well have some bearing, too, on the (
promptly imposed United States duties on German
goods.]
Through our programme for armament expansion
we Americans have shown ourselves very conscious
of the danger of a world war. In fact, we have con-
centrated so intensely on the possibility of this war
that we have paid relatively little attention to another
world war —a war already on.
The war already on is an economic war. And
it is not going very well for the United States. Even
the most optimistic patriot could only conclude that
we are losing, after looking over the news from the
various fronts.
In Mexico, a totalitarian Government, very largely
supported by the U.S.A. Government’s purchase of
silver at higher than world prices, repaid this extremely
unenlightened self-interest by grabbing American-
owned oil properties in the name of Communism.
Then the Mexican Government sold the oil stolen in
the name of Communism to the Fascist countries —
Germany, Italy and Japan.
The U.S.A. also did some gold-buying. In the
five years from 1934 through 1938, inclusive, the
President swapped more than 7,500,000,000 American
dollars for 215,600,000 ounces of gold. The gold was
deposited here, underground, returning to the earth
whence it came. By the end of 1938 the President
was sitting on the greatest pile of gold ever amassed
by any single potentate. In the depositories of the
United States Treasury reposed 55 per cent, of the
world’s supply.
Compared with the President’s $14,500,000,000
hoard of gold, Great Britain possesses only a pigmy
pile, amounting to about $3,000,000,000, while the
Bank of France, which has always sought to maintain
a large gold war chest, has only about $2,500,000,000.
In consequence, as gold continues to keep coming in
to the President, his fix begins to resemble the fix of
the little boy who engineered a comer in the marbles
market. Because the more gold the President acquires
the less gold other nations have. And having less, the
stake of the other nations in gold as a monetary
medium diminishes. Thus, the other nations have
less and less incentive to try to support the price of
gold ; they have less and less reason to try to hold on
to their declining reserves. And some day those other
nations may decide that gold is not really of much
economic use anyway only for watchcases and
trinkets and filling teeth —and then they may deter-
mine to let the President have all the gold they have.
In which case the gold would have no market.
Which would be very serious, not only for the
President but for the citizens of the United States.
For gold is an expensive collector’s item. Every time
the President receives an ounce of gold he gives in
exchange 35 American dollars. In other words, in
exchange for this gold which he buries under the
ground at Fort Knox, Kentucky, the President swaps
American cash, goods and dividends.
The mention of dividends brings up a more strik-
ing example of the nature of the economic war and
the way it is going. In 1929, when Adolf Hitler was
only a joke, even to Germans, General Motors bought
the Adam Opel Company, with its $35,000,000 plant
at Russelsheim, Germany. General Motors still owns
this business, profits of which have averaged $4,000,000
a year. But General Motors stockholders haven’t
been able to touch a cent of those profits.
Germany’s method of blocking marks, prohibit-
ing any money from passing out of the country, has
kept those profits, rightfully belonging to American
investors, in Germany. Stockholders of General
Motors are not the only sufferers. General Electric,
International Business Machines, Socony-Vacuum Oil,
American Radiator, International Harvester, Texas
Corporation and a lot of others are in the same fix.
Meanwhile, not only the German Government
but German companies and individuals have been
gaily collecting with both hands from Americans. All
of the many American companies in which they own
control or an interest have paid them dividends
regularly.
Money made for Americans in Germany remained
in Germany. Money made for Germans in America
went to Germany.
It is quite true that economic aggression, when
followed by economic reprisals, leads to military
aggression and war. But by its rearmament pro-
gramme the U.S.A. has served notice on the totali-
tarian countries that it does not intend to take mili-
tary aggression lying down. Isn t it about time we
Americans took steps to make clear that we do not
intend to take economic aggression lying down either.
Or should we lose the economic war that is on, by
default.
J. Bull Prepared for the Worst.
[That J Bull does not mean to be caught unpre-
pared, as he would have been last September, is clearly
indicated not only by his colossal rearmament progress,
but also by the curious figures in this digest of a
London “Daily Mail” report of information given to
the House of Commons this month by Mr. Walter
Elliot, the Minister of Health.]
About 120,000 hospital beds would be available
within 24 hours of the receipt of warning. Arrange-
ments had been made for distributing 80,000 extra
beds with bedding. In addition, room could, if neces-
sary, be made for the accommodation of a further
100,000 beds by taking in ancillary buildings.
Altogether 300,000 beds could be available for
casualties within the existing hospital system, and of
these 200,000 would be available within 24 hours of
the development of an emergency.
There were about 100,000 trained nurses in the
country, and this trained personnel would be aug-
mented by the training of auxiliaries organised in local
units and attached to hospitals and first-aid posts.
These arrangements would cost the Exchequer £50,000
a year.
First-aid posts for intercepting the walking
wounded could most easily be provided at buildings
already in regular use for medical purposes. The
number of posts at present contemplated was 2000.
With regard to the ambulance service, two kinds
of vehicles would be required in an emergency—large
ambulances, by converting buses, for transferring
patients from one hospital to another, and smaller
ambulances, to be used for picking up casualties in
the streets. Arrangements had been made in every
civil defence region for the conversion into ambulances
of a number of buses and vans at a few hours’ notice.
Beds, mattresses, blankets and stretchers had been
purchased in large quantities, and more were being
ordered. Fifty thousand bedsteads and mattresses had
been bought and another 50,000 ordered; 350,000
blankets had been ordered and another 200,000 were
being ordered ; 125,000 stretchers had been bought
and distributed and another 100,000 were being
ordered.
Arrangements were being made with the assist-
ance of the London County Council to purchase drugs
and dressings centrally. These orders included
12,000,000 bandages, 5,000,000 dressings, 13,000,000
yards of gauze, 204 tons of lint, 425 tons of cotton-
wool, and 1,500,000 yards of adhesive plaster. The
total cost of these articles was estimated at over
£1,000,000.
To provide for the total number of school children
in the evacuable areas it would be necessary to obtain
offers of board and lodging for a number equivalent
to about 10 per cent, of the present population of the
receiving areas. The population of the first 20 receiv-
ing areas surveyed by the local authorities was about
250,000. The number required would therefore be
about 25,000. The voluntary offers made by the
people of those districts would provide for 33,000
children. From the royal family to cottagers people
had come forward. In two months the households of
the country, without compulsion, had enabled the
Government to say that the problem, so far as the
unaccompanied school children were concerned, was
solved.
Tankers of the Air.
[Though in this (condensed) article London ‘‘Times”
aeronautical correspondent praises one of J. Bull’s more
remarkable peace-time achievements, the heavy loads
lifted by the curious method described would not at a
pinch be restricted to mails; but that also cuts two ways,
and adoption by other nations would not add to
Australia’s security from long-range bombing attacks.]
The technique of refuelling in the air has been
developed to the point at which contact can be
made easily and quickly between the tanker and the
refuelling aeroplane and 1000 gallons of petrol can be
transferred in about 10 minutes.
This gives Great Britain an advantage in the
carriage of big payloads over long distances without
the dangers and difficulties of taking off very heavily
loaded aircraft. No other country has developed the
refuelling-in-the-air system. Certain experts in the
United States have declared the idea to be impracti-
cable. The United States and France rely on being
able to get aircraft of unusually high wing-loading off
the water. Germany has divided its attention between
catapult starts and ordinary high wing-loading. The
British method is to allow the aircraft to take off at a
reasonable loading, and therefore with a reasonable
run and at a reasonable speed, and to add to its load
after it has gained a safe height.
The refuelling system, developed under the direc-
tion of Sir Alan Cobham, can, if necessary, supply the
Atlantic aircraft with all the fuel needed for its jour-
ney, except such small amount as will allow it to fly
for one hour until contact has been made with the
tanker and the extra supplies taken on board.
Some hundreds of contacts between tanker and
receiving aircraft have now been made. The coupling
is designed to break away at a pull well below that
which might cause damage to the structure or might
so diminish the speed of the receiving aeroplane as to
cause it to stall. Nor is the making of contact the
dangerous business which it was in the days when a
member of the crew had to grapple a line and make it
fast. The process has been made partly automatic, and
most of the responsibility rests with the crew of the
tanker.
The receiving aircraft takes off first, and when it
has gained height the operator in the tail pays out a
line with a weight attached to it. This line passes
through the centre of the fuel-receiving cup, and,
"trailing below the airliner, has to be engaged by the
tanker. The tanker, flying below the liner, allows the
contact line to come across the leading edge of its
wing. The shape of the wing encourages the line to
slide along towards the wing-tip, where there is a hook
with which it engages. The pull causes the hook to
come away. Attached to the hook is a second line
passing to a winch in the tanker. As soon as the hook
has pulled out, an operator in the tanker hauls in the
weighted line by means of his winch.
Meanwhile, the tanker has risen above the airliner
and has stationed itself to the rear and slightly to the
side and about 60ft. above it. The weight having been
drawn in through an opening below the nose of the
tanker, the operator detaches the weight and connects
the nozzle of the hose-pipe to the line by means of a
bayonet fitting. The hose-pipe is carried on a drum
and is connected at the opposite end through the
centre of the drum to the main fuel tanks. The drum
in turn is controlled by another winch, and as soon as
the nozzle is connected to the line of the liner the hose
is paid out by means of this winch and a brake con-
trolling it. In the liner at the same time another winch
begins to haul in the line. When the nozzle arrives it
fits automatically into the socket prepared for it, and
this junction is so designed that it cannot jam and that
it will pull away at a predetermined load.
The tanker when ready to begin passing fuel has
its nose immediately above the liner’s tail. In that
position the hose is carried backwards in a loop by the
pressure of the air, but it enters the rear of the liner
in a horizontal position. The only influence it can
exert on the liner in that position is therefore that of
drag. It cannot seriously affect the control of the
liner, and it is said that, from the feel of his controls,
the liner pilot is often not aware that the hose has
been linked up. The effect on the control of the
tanker likewise cannot be serious because the drum is
set roughly at the tanker’s centre of gravity. In order
to allow a distance of 70ft. or 80ft. between the two
aircraft some 180 ft. of hose is paid out. The drag of
the hose tends naturally to reduce the speed of the
tanker, but in all the experiments made there has been
an ample margin over the stalling speed of the liners
which have to be refuelled.
In the present case the speed at which refuelling
will take place is between 120 and 130 miles an hour.


RANDWICK RACES
AUTUMN MEETINGS, 1939
APRIL 8, 10, 12 and 15.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
F* FLU S f~)
" Gives YOUR HAIR k-/
A LOVE UN ESS THAT DAIZLEs/
Under the Whip
. .Betting on the Rawson Stakes at Rose-
hill was 40 to 1 on Ajax, 33 to 1 against
Spear Chief and Allunga. Most of the
little wagering done was on a 1-2 basis:
5 to 4 on Ajax-Spear Chief, evens Ajax-
Allunga. And the good thing went
under!
Riding tactics contributed to Ajax’s
defeat. There was nothing wrong with
the track or with the appearance of the
horse. Ajax got the best of the start, and
apparently could have set up a substan-
tial early lead had Badger let him ; but
Badger didn’t. Allunga, driven along
by Munro from the start, was tackling
Ajax five furlongs from home.
Racing to the half-mile Ajax was
going freely, but Badger was sitting still.
Allunga meanwhile was being kicked
along to hold his position on the outside.
Turning for home, Ajax’s rider realised
that it was time to get a move on. He
found Allunga hard to shake off, but
shake him off he did. Then along came
McCarten on Spear Chief, with the last
run. Ajax did not give in early, but a
sharp tussle saw the Queensland-bred
descendant of Carbine beat Ajax by half
a length ; Allunga—eased up when all
hope was gone—a length and a half
away. The time, lmin. 52isec.—two
seconds outside the race record, held by
Rogilla—was a true indication of how
the race was run. Spear Chief ran his
last half-mile in 47^sec.
The cheering for Spear Chief and his
jockey was loud and long, though his
backers were few. One of those who
didn’t join in the jubilations was a Vic-
torian punter who had laid £ll5O to £35
on Ajax in two wagers. He caught the
first train back to Melbourne. As ex-
cited as anyone, though he didn’t back
Spear Chief, was Joe Harris, who bought
a half-share in Spearfelt’s son for 1500
guineas from Brisbane stockbroker J. B.
Charlton. Spear Chief was under offer
to an Indian buyer for 5000 guineas.
Harris was rather hurt when the sale fell
through ; now, of course, he counts him-
self a lucky man.
The paddock tote played a cruel joke
on Spear Chief’s backers, returning only
19s. 9d. for 10s. They were mostly ladies,
and for hours afterwards they could be
heard breathing their sorrows to total
strangers. A glance at the indicators and
a simple sum in mental arithmetic would
have revealed that Ring odds, for once,
were far better; but, then, simple sums
in mental arithmetic are beyond the
average lady punter.
McCarten rode an excellent race on
Spear Chief, timing that last run to a
nicety. He was not seen to such advan-
tage on Adios (8 to 1) in the Three-
year-old Handicap. About 50 yards
from home he got that consistent chest-
nut’s head in front of the favorite,
Creditor, but Creditor’s jockey was
Darby Munro, who in riding a finish
has nowadays no peer in Australia. His
vigorous methods prevailed, and Creditor
beat Adios by half a head. Creditor
had led nearly all the way, and as he had
9.2 it was no mean performance. Third
was Mosaic, who ran about a lot in the
straight, being more than a handful for
his apprentice rider. Mosaic was last
at one stage.
Creditor was well backed at 3 to 1.
The smart son of John Buchan-Financial
has 7.13 in the Doncaster. He is trained
by the younger Stan Lamond, who won
the big autumn mile with Jacko in 1932.
Again there was criticism of McCar-
ten’s riding after the Railway Handicap,
in which his mount was Gold Rod,
favorite at 7 to 4. Gold Rod was down
on his nose at the start, but McCarten
was not responsible for that: Hamurah,
jumping outwards, did the mischief. But
afterwards Gold Rod got into a peck of
trouble; in fact, he did not secure a
clear run until the race was practically
over. He came home strongly, third to
Bramol (14 to 1) and Hamurah —an im-
pressive performance. King’s Head,
backed at sixes, was last.
Bramol has 7.8 in the Doncaster (31b.
more than at Rosehill), and is so im-
proved a horse, and so consistent, that
he cannot be left out of Doncaster cal-
culations. Once a picnic performer, he
is owned by Wellington pastoralist Nor-
man H. Smith. He commenced a long
run from the half-mile, and, although
lucky to get a run on the rails when
Hamurah shifted away from the fence,
he scored in convincing style.
Cardinal Puff, carrying the Billy Boy
colors, is proving a useful galloper for
Richard Cobden —no connection with
the deceased Freetrader of that name.
An Excitement colt, he won his first
race at Victoria Park in January, and
in the first division of the Nursery at
Rosehill he shaped like a stayer in the
making. Bonny Loch and York raced
themselves to a standstill; then Cardinal
Puff went past and won, pulling up, by
two and a half lengths from Bonny Loch,
York being another three lengths back.
York lugged badly at the home turn, and
lost lengths. Cardinal Puff started at
eights.
Majunga must have shown his party
some slick trials at Rosehill; anyway, he
was backed from fours to twos in the
second division. Knox had him on the
move at the barrier, and he was out like
a greyhound, leading to the Leger, but
he stopped quickly when tackled by Pen-
thides, a plain gelding by Pentheus out
of the once-useful Bonnie Marjorie, and
it was all Majunga could do to head off
knight John McKelvey’s Marengo for
third. Marengo will do better; he was
badly placed early, and was forced to
make his run wide out at the home turn.
Penthides went out at 7 to 2.
The mating of Pantheon and Loqua-
cious produced a staying filly in Femi-
nist, and on the strength of her perform-
ance in the Autumn Handicap, Femi-
nist is now in request for the Sydney
Cup. She was the first to show out
after the start, but Lappin pulled her
behind Proceed, another Pantheon, who
can’t stay. Proceed done with, Feminist
shot away at the top of the straight, and,
kept going bv Latmin had no difficulty
!* bea g r g g He y donl PP and Ihc fZSUSS
ite ’ Res P irator > who went sourly in the
early stages Feminist’s nrice was 9to 2
She has 6 9 inthe Pun
. . . . y Cup '
The good-looking Limulef who" may
tackle the St. Leger, landed big money
in the Parramatta Mile. He was not
allowed to loaf when he hit the front
commencing the final furlong; in fact,
Darb y Munro rode him out. In the
re . sult he beat Fearless by three lengths,
Wlth . Duke Caledon, who did the pace-
making, half a head away third, and Will
Rogers a very close fourth. Will Rogers
came late, and looked to be hampered
when making his run.
......
Limulet is owned by Dr. C. Nigel
Smith, and is trained by Payten, who
prepares Feminist. Hitherto in races he
has not been as good as he looks. Limu-
let was backed from fours to 5 to 2.
This Page now likes Gold Rod for the
Doncaster and Feminist for the Sydney
Cup.
On Tuesday of last week Defaulter
did his first bit of fast work sinee his
arrival in Sydney, and it wasn’t so fast —
seven furlongs in 1.361, and that on the
course proper. At Victoria Park the same
morning Ajax galloped “seven” in 1.3 H,
On Thursday Defaulter, with Silver
Standard as a companion, traversed a
mile in 1.481. That was rather better ;
still, nobody was surprised when his
trainer, Roberts, announced that the colt
would not run against Ajax in the Raw-
son Stakes at Rosehill, though he would
be left in on the off-chance.
Defaulter did an exhibition gallop at
Rosehill before the Rawson Stakes.
Ridden by Ellis, the thick-necked colt
strode along from the nine furlongs, but
was not galloping at his top until he
reached the half-mile pole. He took the
turn well, and his last half-mile was
timed at 49Jsec. He wore ordinary work-
ing shoes, and was ridden in a fairly big
saddle ; and Ellis is no midget.
• • • *
Defaulter will have his first race in
the Chipping Norton Plate at Warwick
Farm. Though Ajax looked lively enough
after the Rawson Stakes, he is not to
start at the Farm, which is dreadfully
disappointing. After all, he is not a new
religion or the Crown jewels. He is only
a horse.
“Jamwood”: Reported that the Duke
of Kent will buy a string of horses and
run them in Australia. It is to be hoped
he will, for Australia Was never so badly
off for owners who race for the fun of
the thing and let their animals tackle
anything, as it were. In other days it
would have been inconceivable that the
owners of a champion would refuse an
odds-on chance of gaining a trophy like
the King’s Cup. Equally inconceivable
would have been the spectacle of the
champion having two opponents at w.f.a.
in race after race. In Sydney, rich men
who in former days would have been
owners, and proud of it, are now con-
tent to be punters; and some of them
punt on a large scale. They save them-
selves the expense of paying trainers,
jockeys and stable-hands and meeting
feed-bills and the like, but they deprive
themselves of all the pleasures that other
rich men used to get from buying year-
lings and witnessing the successive stages
of their transformation into, perhaps,
winners of Derbys and Cups. In Sydney
nowadays far too large a proportion of
prads in training are raced by book-
makers, trainer-owners and battlers, and
the proportion of leased animals (leased
from club committeemen, among others)
is greater than ever before. Melbourne
is in somewhat better case.
* * * *
“T.”: Strained relations exist —or did
when this paragraph was written—be-
tween a big betting stable and some of
the bookmakers, one in particular. That
gentleman anticipated a commission from
the right quarter on the stable’s pet, a
strong Doncaster fancy, and was pub-
licly rebuked for his presumption by the
stable’s boss punter. The good thing
came home, and so did two otjier mem-
bers of the string at the same meeting.
In each case the odds offered were so
short that the stable refused to take them
and let its two certainties go out un-
backed. In point of fact, the only horse
it backed for big money at the meeting
ran second, though a sensational press
came out with the usual story that it
had ‘‘cleaned up a fortune.”
* * * *
Darby Munro was offered a number
of rides in the Doncaster. He has chosen
that on St. Constant, and his Sydney Cup
mount will be Bourbon. McCarten will
ride Gold Rod in the Doncaster, and
Lappin will steer the stablemate, Mil-
dura. O’Sullivan will be on Bradford
again. Bartle will be Early Bird’s jockey.
Since returning from Melbourne Early
Bird has done well, but she has 8.9
and will have to be as good as Valicare
to win.
* * * *
Plectrum’s win in the Moonee Ponds
Handicap excited the ire of “Valley”
punters, who hooted boisterously when
the Irish-bred stallion returned to scale.
There was no justification for such a
demonstration.
At the previous week-end Plectrum
had failed in the V.A.T.C. Kooyong
Welter (one mile) and the M.V. Anni-
versary Handicap (If miles), supported
by the stable on each occasion. Bones
rode him at Caulfield, and Dewhurst on
Eight-hour Day; Mornement on Satur-
day,
Plectrum galloped more generously
lor Mornement than he had done for
riders of greater experience. Second to
Lautus at the half-mile, he followed that
rival into the straight and fought off
Desert Chief (now in nearly peak form)
to win by half a neck, with Dark David
(rather unlucky in running) half a head
farther off.
Time for the If miles—2min. 32fsec.
was only half a sec. slower than the
course record, which Tookarby put up
12 years ago. Plectrum (sixes) started
next in demand to the 5-to-2 favorite,
Irving. Latter, a stablemate of the Syd-
ney Cup candidate Pageant, never got
near the front.
Assuming that he can adapt himself
to right-handed galloping and is willing
to do his best, Plectrum may take beat-
ing in a minor handicap at Randwick.
P. T. Hey wood, the owner, prepared
Calma for a Caulfield Cup victory as
far back as 1883. A legion of other
noted winners passed through his hands.
“Phil” now lives on the land near Albury.
His brother, J. G. Heywood, conducts
the Flemington stables.
Remaining in Melbourne after Bour-
bon returned home, Anne picked up two
events for two-year-olds, one at Caulfield
on March 18 and the other at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Best odds against
her in the Hollymount Handicap at the
Valley were 9 to 4. Letting Chaldean
lead on sufferance, she shot away in the
straight.
Anne scored with a lot in hand from
Harina and Glenfino. Protest for in-
terference at the turn received short
shrift from the stewards. Winooka, who
won a Doncaster with 9.13 in lmim
35fsec., has transmitted speed to Anne.
The filly was looked after by Frank
Godby in Melbourne, but has rejoined
the Sydney stable of W. H. McLachlan,
jun.
Carpentier (Gay Lothario-Savate) lost
his maiden certificate by capturing the
Knoll Handicap at Moonee Valley. This'
three-year-old was knocked down as a
yearling to the late Philip Russell for
1850gns. He is being raced by a daugh-
ter of that fine sportsman.
Runner-up to Manolive in the C. F.
Orr Stakes at Williamstown and to
Anpapejo in the V.R.C. Elms Handicap,
Carpentier went out a 3-to-l favorite,
but he had to be ridden with the whip
for more than a furlong to beat Bank-
shaw (tens) by half a length; Old Days,
pacemaker, a head off.
Carpentier, like Donor’s Hill, winner
of the Woodlands Handicap for three-
year-olds, is trained by E. Fisher. Only
a neck separated Donor’s Hill (threes)
from National, who had deposed him
from favoritism. Mira Donna, dam of
Donor’s Hill, was runner-up to Madstar
in the Australian Cup of 1932.
Eric Connolly will need better luck
with his recent purchase, Tetreen, than
he is experiencing with Eligible. Backed
from eights down to 9 to 2 in the Sher-
wood Highweight, Eligible moved into
third position on the home bend, but
faded away. A slow beginner, he suf-
fered by having to be hard ridden in
the early stages.
Red Morn, winner of this race, has
proved a goldmine to J. Besanko, who
received the Brazen gelding as a gift from
Norman Robinson, original owner. A
few seasons ago Robinson despaired of
success with Burlesque. Leased to Gerald
Coffey, the Seremond stallion won the
V.A.T.C. Consolation Stakes (twice) and
other racfs.
Besanko, a former “pony” jockey,
made no secret of his confidence in the
ability of Red Morn to win. Top odds
at barrier rise were 3 to I. Red Morn
romped in from Larissa and Lynch Law,
both of whom are striking form.
Jack Fryer, trainer of Larissa, landed
the Rothwell Steeple with his own horse,
Royal Fire, whose task was rendered easy
by Deckard (even-money favorite) crash-
ing at the second-to-last* fence.
* * * *
Hall Mark yearlings will come under
the hammer at Easter in the presence
of C. B. Kellow, who won a Melbourne
Cup with the Heroic stallion. Kellow
is sending two youngsters by Hall Mark
and two by Madagascar up to auction.
He leaves for Sydney this week.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Liverpool Handicap : Cassar;
next, Creditor.
Autumn Cup: Feminist or Sal
Volatile; next Mosaic or Salazar.
Farm Novice: Sigh; next, Aus-
tral.
Chipping Norton Plate: Spear
Chief; next, Defaulter.
Cabramatta Handicap: Sedunum;
next, Bradford.
FOR EPSOM.
Waverley Handicap: Vital; next,
King Gee.
Westminster Welter: Silver
Reign; next, Great Legend.
Autumn Stakes: Kanuri; next,
Landlaw.


ULTIMATE
OWNERS
Wrote This
ADVERTISEMENT
As an engineer of the B.G.D. Co., I am called on to service
all makes of sets. The many Ultimates I have sold (besides
outperforming all American, English and Continental set's
we have here) give a minimum of service troubles. I
trust the four sets ordered herewith will be despatched by
next boat. G.L., Bulolo, T.N.G.
I am particularly pleased with the new model, which on
test keeps up the previous high performance set by the
three previous models I have had.
R. N. Shaw, Wauchope.
(Short Wave Editor, “Wireless Weekly. )
My Ultimate will bring overseas stations in, and readable,
too, where other sets of the same number of valves fail
completely. I am more than satisfied with it.
(Dr.) G.W.S., Eastwood.
There is no doubt that this is a very fine set in every way.
It gives very fine daylight reception of distant B-class
stations. The noise level is infinitely less in daylight than
any other sets. —A.E.W., Charleville.
The Ultimate duly arrived and was installed by two of the
Island wireless men. Both experts have gone back to
Noumea with a lasting impression, for they have heard no
such results from any other machine as given by my
Ultimate. —H.L.W., Bouloupari, New Caledonia.
Neither my wife nor myself ever imagined such tone or
power was available from any radio set', but Ultimate gives
both. The extension speaker system through the house is
a great boon. T.C., Vaucluse.
The Ultimate arrived in good order and outperforms the
easily, distant stations coming in much louder. I
am well satisfied with the set'.
—C.D.H., Cape Shanck Lighthouse, Victoria.
My thanks are due to “The Bulletin” and you for bringing
to my notice the Ultimate Receiver. It performs remark-
ably well on the three wavebands, using only 30 feet of
aerial. —C.S.C., Corndale.
ULTIMATE world RADIO
wm:
m
k
"
Mm.
■ .. . . .
PRECISION-BUILT FOR PERFORMANCE
“The Slight Extra Cost Is Worth It”
Models from 25 guineas available in the following types: —
A.C. operation. Battery-vibrator operation.
D.C. operation. All-battery operation.
Remember, these refinements, plus other features, are
exclusive to ULTIMATE:—
Battery economy switches. Spin dials that really work.
Inbuilt power switches on volume controls. Logging hand (or fine tuning.
True all-wave operation. Visible volume controls.
Six-gang tuning condensers. Electric tuning indicator on battery sets.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Cable, Radio and Telegrams: “Brownlock,” SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2544 (3 lines).
Please send me, without obligation, details of the Special New De
Luxe “ULTIMATE” RECEIVERS.
NAME
ADDRESS
(State whether battery or electric and voltage and type of current of
power supply.)


A
The Worlds Best '
BATTERIES
CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
A "fairly
accurate” tyre
gauge-is useless
—it cannot give you
a perfectly balanced
car. The Kismet "Cadet’
is guaranteed accurate.
Used regularly it ensures
your driving comfort, skid-
less motoring and less tyre wear
KISMET
'CADET TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
You’ve got to have
ACCURACY
in a tyre gauge
Calibrated up to
501 b. in large, clear
figures. Handsomely
finished in leather
wallet.
7/6
Under the Whip
Victoria will be strongly represented
in the Great Eastern Steeple at Oakbank
(S.A.) on Easter Monday. Turf Boy,
who won so well over the Caulfield
fences on March 18, is being taken across
by M. T. McGrath. On the same train
will be Wakerife, from Geelong, and
probably four jumpers belonging to
R. Wilson, the Melbourne financier —
Montargis, Musical David, Third Star
and Shadow Moon. The last-named pair
are hurdlers. Originally Shadow Moon
was trained by Harry Gabell for Mrs.
S. O. Wood. He has shown no form in
recent outings, but may improve with
racing.
Alick Fullarton is to ride Turf Boy
in the Great Eastern. He won that race
several years ago for Norman Turnbull,
the former Richmond footballer, on Ken-
jin, but had no luck subsequently with
Blackford and Seymour.
* * * *
The death of A. T. Creswick in Mel-
bourne raises the question of whether his
“heirs, executors and assigns” will keep
the family flag flying on the Turf. Cres-
\Vick raced on a big scale. In latter
years his horses were trained by Lou
Robertson, notable performers being
Feldspar (Victoria Derby) and Garrio
(Williamstown Cup). He founded The
Nook stud at Nagambie, where imported
Manitoba has made a great name with
his first crop of foals. Managed by S. O
Wood, a son-in-law, this stud is almost
certain to continue in existence. General
expectation is that, even if grandsons of
the fine old sportsman do not blossom
into racehorse ownership, Mrs. Wood
will do so. She has figured in that role
at intervals.
When he chose to be reminiscent, A. T.
Creswick was very entertaining on the
subject of old-time racing. He was fond
of saying that as a boy he used Toryboy,
winner of the Melbourne Cup of 1865,
as a hack. Later on the grey passed into
the possession of Dr. £ £ Smith, father
of knight Gengoult Smith, and was
driven around in a buggy by the doctor.
* * * *
Amplify, who will accompany Pageant
to Sydney, won the Welter Handicap at
Werribee on Wednesday; but the judge’s
verdict of half a head over the favorite,
Crowsaint, caused an angry demonstra-
tion. Amplify (Marconigram-Lucie Man-
ette) seems partial to the Werribee track,
having scored twice on it.
Jack Holt, the Mordialloc trainer, now
spending a holiday in Sydney, owns Quite
True (Winooka-Nina Blankney), who
captured the juvenile event at Werribee.
The filly is held on lease by H. R. Mc-
Cormick. Including a dead-heat for first,
Quite True has registered four wins out
of six starts, and is a good advertisement
for the stallion that Mick Poison took
to America when at the height of his
form as a galloper.
* * * *
El Golea, the Newmarket winner, has
been turned out for a spell of five or
six weeks. His trainer, Harry Freedman,
isn’t downcast over the Eastern
Monarch stallion’s failure in the Alister
Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley. “That
was not his true form,” Freedman main-
tains.
Judean put up a wonderful perform-
ance in the Alister Clark Stakes. He
hit the front after losing half a dozen
lengths at the start and Amiable cut him
down in the final stride. Amiable will
run in the Doncaster, a race that might
have been within the compass of Judean
if owner of latter had been ambitious
enough to set him for it.
* * * *
Plectrum made such a poor showing
in the Anniversary Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Eight-hour Day that sur-
prise was occasioned over his nomina-
tion for minor events at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting. However, P. T. Hey-
wood, owner of the Irish-bred stallion,
is seldom far astray in his judgment,
as was indicated—to the disgust of many
“I know it's unusual, but Were on our honeymoon !”
punters—by Plectrum’s success at the
Valley. Hey wood trained the Melbourne
Cup winner Artilleryman and many other
great winners.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Frank McGrath has
lost the services of Desolation. The
Queensland horse struck a flagpole while
galloping at Rosebery and was so badly
staked that he will have to be spelled for
months. McGrath’s Sydney Cup hope
will now be the Westralian champion
Maikai. Maikai was given a run in the
Rydalmere Mile at Rosehill. His owner,
W. J. Winterbottom, had a look at him
that week and was pleased with his
appearance. Maikai has 8.2 in the
Sydney Cup.
* * * *
Cooranga was an early Sydney Cup
scratching. On her spring form the mare
was rather well treated with 7.11, and
her fast-finishing third in the Metropoli-
tan indicated that the Sydney Cup dis-
tance would not trouble her; but appa-
rently she did not train on.
* * * *
Mr. Rufus Naylor, well known in
Queensland, Westralia, South Africa and
N.S.W., is in the wars again. After last
year’s measures against s.p. and tipsters
there shot up a concern labelled Rufe
Naylor Investments, Ltd., with an office
in Elizabeth-street, Sydney. A curious
copper called and saw one Percy Lynch,
described as manager. Mr. Lynch, the
copper said, explained that Rufe Naylor
Investments, Ltd., was “a big company,”
—so big that shares were £2OO each,
though subscribers were not expected to
find the £2OO in cash: £lO down and a
pound a week would do. And the com-
pany would take an lOU for the £lO ; for
the pound a week there would be price-
less racing information —“three selections
each race-day.” According to the copper,
he signed an lOU, “received certain
selections” by ’phone, and, asking for a
Challenge-Anniversary double, was told
“Rufe is backing Brazandt and Red
Sails,” If Rufe did, he lost his money.
“An impudent way of trying to get round
the Act,” said the S.M. “Fined £lOO, in
default 201 days’ hard.”
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hall Stung into Action
Joe Hall’s slack showing against the
moderate import Henry Moreno at Syd-
ney Stadium provoked the suggestion that
if he was a racing moke he’d tempt a
quiet touch with a battery. Blessed with
extra-powerful physique for his weight,
nice balance and boxing ability, real
punching power and the gumption to
keep himself in good nick, Joe has lost
fights he should have won easily and
has deserved to lose others because of
an unwillingness to mix it so long as
the going seems fairly secure.
At West Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night he had the equivalent of the
battery vigorously applied, and he re-
sponded like the determined cove he
looks. With weights level at 9st. 21b., he
nicely outboxed Johnny Hutchinson in
the early rounds, without extending him-
self. Hutchinson, despite having a recent
good win over Irving Eldridge under his
belt, was beginning to look outclassed
when, in the fifth, he steadied Joe with
a right cross that landed high. Hutchin-
son got further on top in the sixth, in
which Joe had to use all his ringcraft to
keep out of trouble.
In the next Joe was down twice to
crushing punches, and the second time
only the bell saved him. Still groggy
when the bell went for the eighth, Joe
managed to weather it, and it was a
fighting Joe who came out for the ninth.
He won the round easily, mainly by
virtue of his fine left hook, with which
he closed Hutchinson’s right optic, and,
still fighting at his top, he won the next
three rounds comfortably, to take a for-
once thoroughly deserved decision.
Filipino Fighters
Australia has known them for 20 years.
Their first missionary to the Australian
ring, poor little Dencio, was out and
away the best, but his successors have
nearly always been capable of putting on
a good show if the other fellow does his
fair share. This is eminently true of Joe
Velasco, who, in Brisbane at the week-
end, was one of the parties to a sparkling
scrap —the best since boxing was revived
in the northern capital—the other being
Jackie Wilson. The coon was a shade
too fast and clever for the Manilaman
and got the decision.
At Newcastle Velasco’s compatriot
Young Gildo figured in an affair with
Max Richards, the middleweight cham-
pion’s featherweight brother. Judgment
was given for the brown man in the
seventh round, Richards having failed to
“keep ’em up.” Gildo is not so Young
nowadays—it is his third visit to Austra-
lia, and he must be in the thirties —but
he can still go a bit.
A Choice Bit of China
Bret Hart’s Chinee wasn’t more child-
like and bland than honorable pocket-
size fellow-countryman Kui Kong
Young, getting into Sydney Arena ring
enwrapped in a beflowered dressing-


■
you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
HILL CLIMBING
Strong hot sparks take your car
up the hills with less effort
less knocking—less overheating.
A set of new Champions will
give your car new life. Best of all,
Champions quickly save enough
fuel to pay for themselves.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Cana.da
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
H'
TB
jpO“
MADE IN
EFFIELD, E
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kings ford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14, 255a George Street, Sydney.
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached 'to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V back sight;
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; tycy In
weight, about 3 Jib. /
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, £ n/ in /
about 4Jlb. XZ/107-
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 2 7in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear
weight, 4Jlb.;*^/ IU /-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 —BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel;
handles 22 short, long
or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open
front sights; length
overall 39in.:« e /n in
weight, 4 Jib. **-V * D
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever ba
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut /»■« n It n I
stock 4.1b/lb/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 —F O X STERLINGWORTH
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, left full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2 Jin. cartridges. 1 /i e- /
Weight, about 7 Jib. 4.11/15/-
Carriage Paid.
Mo. 14 FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, ... .
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. *.ll/11/
Carriage Paid.
No. 14A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, *»*«/-«*#
about 71b 4-13/13/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
gown with room in the sleeves for ten
times as many packs. As it turned out,
he didn’t have anything of note up the
right sleeve, but the motive power that
came out of the other one might have
euchred Bill Nye in a game he did not
understand.
With it Kui wrecked the local lad Ray
Haddigan in nine rounds, taking longer
over the job than seemed necessary, but
it was a perishing cold night, with a wet
wind howling through the open sector of
the roof, and Kui perhaps wanted to get
warm. At Bst. 81b. he was giving Ray
the benefit of s|lb., but he could have
doubled the gift and never noticed it.
How good he is it’s hard to say, because
this match and the others he’s had here
could be wildly misleading. Ray has all
the grit it’s possible to pack into a 9st.
frame, and can hit hard with his right,
which he several times did, but he’s slow
in action. He’s tough, however, and his
toughness and grit kept him there. He
was down momentarily in the third, down
for nine in the fifth, and had already
been down three times in the ninth when
ref. Les Pearson concluded that the game
boy had had enough.
Kui turned a disparity of inches into
his leading advantage. Standing fist-high
to Ray’s midst, he waded in thereabout
so effectively with his volcanic left that
he actually knocked a patch of hide off,
which bled a trickle, speaking a library
for Ray’s toughness. Though Kui’s a
southpaw his speed makes him pretty to
watch —not the Filipino brand of flash-
ing little-chaps’ speed, but the cool and
calculating sort that takes instant ad-
vantage of errors, of which Ray com-
mitted plehty. That it took Kui nine
rounds to account for just a good pre-
liminary boy doesn’t read so well, but
he won every round, with a portion of
mercy, and, anyway, his class warrants
the compliment of the best available —
Micky Miller at his top would do. Pend-
ing that sort of test, Kui’s left hand
hereby strongly recommended for highest
award of honorable League of Harmoni-
ous Fists.
Other Scraps
Back in his class, the Alabama Kid
had an easy win over Max Raynor at
Carlton (Sydney) Stadium. A dud
against topliners, the Kid’s a heavy
stousher lower down the scale, and he’d
given Max such a thumping by the fourth
that the ref. then stopped the massacre.
At Leichhardt former champion Wally
Hancock—it was back in 1930 he was
champion and he hadn’t been inside a
ring for about three years —was able
to come back well enough to outpoint
one Gill Allen, who hails from Queens-
land, and who’d be a better scrapper but
for his habit of pausing every now and
again to peer into the surrounding shades
as if looking for a lost soul.
“R.L.”: “Seamen can’t fight,” Mcln-
tosh used to say; “they’re all muscle-
bound.” The generalisation is not quite
exact, for the late “Starlight” belonged
to a humble, though necessary, branch
of the mercantile marine, and the R.A.N.
has had two smart boxers in Monty Mer-
ton and Wally Hancock (now back in
the ring); but it is near enough. When
the R.N. kept warships in Australia
“champions of the fleet” used periodically
to descend upon Sydney. One “cham-
pion” was Tom Ball, who called himself
“the Slogger of the Seas.” Tom, a heavy-
weight, was too slow to get out of his
own way. Another champion was
Robertson, a welterweight. In an in-
auspicious hour the R.N. matched him
with Jack Blackmore, and on the event-
ful night the entire personnel of the
squadron, from the Admiral to the
stoker, fourth class, swarmed into the
old Gaiety to see Robertson knock Black-
more into George-street. Great was their
anguish when Blackmore floored their
man with the first left-hook he unleashed
and sent him to sleep in half a round.
Old Bulletin contributor Neville Forder
wrote a humorous account of the fight, in
nautical language, for the Sydney
“Sportsman,” introducing quaint disser-
tations on the habits of seamen. In one
Forder denied that the bluejacket, as
Sydney knew him, was a free-handed
spender, maintaining that “his spree
ashore, girl in, rarely costs him more
than a crown.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: Such is the mania for publish-
ing syndicated stuff in Australian papers
well able to employ Australian writers
that one particular group has come out
with an account of the Burns-Johnson
fight, written by an Englishman. Obvi-
ously he didn’t attend the scrap, and his
account is ludicrous to those who did
or saw the film. Apparently he relied
on Old Bill’s story of the slaughter. Old
Bill did a lot of the preliminary blurbs
for Mclntosh, and backed Burns with
all he got. Loyal to his idol, even in
distressing circumstances, Bill, as a
brother-scribe said at the time, “wrote
it up as if Tommy were winning all
along.” The truth is that the French-
Canadian fretted so much beforehand
that he was in rather poor shape for
that contest, weighing under 12 stone.
Johnson could have knocked him out in
a few rounds. Indeed, Bill Lang might
have beaten him that day, and Sid Rus-
sell could have gone 20 rounds with him.
In Paris, later, Russell went the limit
with Joe Jeannette, who held his own
with Langford and McVea, and gave
Johnson a tough fight.
Ins and Outs
Though their match against Maoriland
in Wellington was washed out by rain
after a day’s cricket favoring the home
side, Sir Julien Cahn’s men had a very
interesting and very pleasant trip through
Savage’s Isles. They were not beaten,
though Canterbury pressed them hard,
leading by 464 to 410 on the first innings.
Their best batsman was Dempster, back
on his native heath. As in Australia,
Hardstaff mixed bright batting with a
lot of very ordinary stuff. His highest
score was 180 against Canterbury;
Dempster had a double century (the
bare 200) against Otago.
Of the Australian members of the
party, Mudge made 72 n.o. v. Wan-
ganui, and Jackson 133 v. S. Island col-
leges.
Lush took three wickets in his first
over against Wanganui, and finished that
game with five for 16 —“the Wanganui
batsmen had never experienced any-
thing so accurate or so fast” —but he
didn’t show out again. The other Aus-
tralian, Walsh, sent down his googlies
to such effect that midway through the
tour he had become the bowling main-
stay.
* * * *
Long ago Ernie Bean played cricket
and football for North Melbourne, and
got a place in cricket teams against N. S.
Wales and Tasmania. But his memorable
work for cricket was done in the admin-
istrative field. North Melbourne’s secre-
tary for 30 years, its delegate to the
V.C.A. for 38 years, and secretary of
that association for 10 years, he played
a great part in the formation of the
Board of Control. It required courage,
involving, as it did, a quarrel with Noble,
Hill, Trumper and other giants of the
period, but Bean was a fighter from the
ground up, and so was McElhone, his
Sydney coadjutor, and between them
they brought it off. Afterwards Bean
was a member of the Board of Control
for 20 years. A native of Ballarat, Ernie
died in Hampton last week. Throughout
his working life —cricket and cricket ad-
ministration were just recreations —he
was in the Government Printing office,
retiring as chief clerk in 1913.
* * * *
“Batsman’s Laborer”: “Bowler’s
Urger’s” reflections on the enormity of
Warren Bardsley’s cricketing offence in
dashing straight from the boat after the
1909 tour to play for his club (B.
1.5/3/’39) call to mind another eccen-
tricity of that misguided player. I invoke
for it the condemnation of every modern
who refuses to take the field should he
be suffering from writer’s cramp through
signing autographs, a pimple on his ear
or a mild hangover. The left-hander
went through the 1912 tour without miss-
ing a match.
* * # *
Harry Hay, farewelled by the Savings
Bank of S.A. after 45 years’ service,
played in his time cricket, football and
lacrosse for the State. Hay’s great moment
was when, on Warner’s first appearance
in Adelaide, his fast bowling took nine
English wickets for 66, including a hat-
trick, and the visitors were beaten.
Miscellaneous
“Gundi”: Even if there are towns in
the North which will have to wait 12
years before they are permitted to have
rifle clubs, there are others which possess
rifle clubs and manage to knock a lot
of fun out of them. Herberton R.C.
challenged the Herberton golfers: ten a
side ; golfers to have a handicap of 15 ;
ranges, 300 and 500 yards. The riflemen
came home ahead by 533 points to 532.
Golfers then played golf against the rifle-
men, some of whom went to the course
believing that a mashie was a kitchen
utensil. These were given 35 strokes
each. Golfers played off their own handi-
caps, and lost.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Multiply the speed of a
greyhound on top gear by two and you
get something in the region of 60 m.p.h.
A trainer at Euroa (Vic.) the other day
released a choice specimen of the breed
after a rabbit. At the other end of the
paddock the owner had another streak
of canine lightning tethered. It broke
its leash, and both animals arrived at the
rabbit at precisely the same instant.
The rabbit stepped aside and the hounds
collided head-on. Death for both was
instantaneous.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: War has broken out
between golfers and mushroom gatherers
at Albert Park, that remarkable sym-
posium of all sports from yachting to
bowls, tennis, cricket, and militia train-
ing to the south of Melbourne. Seekers
of the edible fungus, now bursting up in
all directions, have been driven off their
hunting ground by golfers with such
violence that the sounds of combat have
reached the ears of Secretary of Lands
Mcllroy. He has ruled that the mush-
rooms belong to all the people of Vic-
toria but that the golfers are just as
fully entitled to walk over them as the
gatherers are to pick them. So it is a
matter of who gets up the earliest.


ţ
ť
ŧ
t
‘THE LAUGH ROUND-UP,"
featuring
WILL MAHONEY.
And 10 Other Acts.
Commencing' Thursday, March 30,
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY/*
featuring
BUSTER WEST and LUCILLE PAGE.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Ascent of F 6”
The life of T. E. Lawrence appears
to be the theme of “The Ascent of F 6,”
the new play at Melbourne Comedy.
F 6 is a mountain in Sudaland, a
British protectorate also coveted by
Ostnia. Ostnia has sent an expedition
to scale the peak because there is a
native legend that a demon resides at
the top and the first white man to over-
come the demon will be the ruler of
Sudaland. Lord Stagmantle, a robbei
baron of the gutter press, and Sir James
Ransom, a British Cabinet Minister, con-
nive together to send Sir James’s brother
Michael, a mountaineering genius, to
wrest the summit from Ostnia. Society
is intrigued and makes a lion of Michael,
and he becomes a radio “hero.”
Ransom-Lawrence starts out with four
companions—a simple-hearted doctor, a
botanist in quest of a rare plant, a youth-
ful hero-worshipper and an aggressive
reactionary.
The hero-worshipper, ambitious to be
one of the two to make the final dash,
has the jitters but doesn’t know it. The
reactionary has the jitters but does know
it. He is afraid of everything the
demon, the monks who occupy a monas-
tery below the final slope and the wife
of another man who is in love with
him ; but he feels an absolute necessity
to test himself.
The botanist is dashed to pieces just
as he finds his plant, and the hero-
worshipper throws himself over a cliff
when he learns that the reactionary has
been selected for the last desperate spurt.
A blizzard is raging when the pair
set out, and the reactionary collapses
just before they reach the summit, on
which a dim figure cloaked from head
to foot in white is perched. The re-
actionary dies in his leader’s arms, and
Ransom-Lawrence staggers up the last
flight of rocks. The figure raises its veil
and discloses Ransom’s mother. In fine
oratorical form, despite the blizzard and
the howling hurricane, she recites a nur-
sery story of his childhood impeccably,
and Ransom expires as the lights go out.
Playwrights W. H. Auden and Chris-
topher lsherwood appear to have
attempted to dramatise the conflict in
the soul of Ransom, the possible genius,
between what jhie feels and what he
thinks he ought to feel. Ransom thinks
he ought to feel the i” of the
ascent, but what he re... y feels is the
importance of his own ambition, which
has allowed him to be made the puppet
of rival imperialisms. He hates his
Governmental brother’s cynical exposi-
tion of his aims and the press magnate’s
materialism, and he likes and thinks he
despises the adulation of society and the
hero-worship of suburbia. So he feels
that, whether he succeeds or fails, he
fails.
Despite the obvious difficulties, the
Gregan McMahon Players made it a
success. As Ransom-Lawrence, Ronald
Mann struck the note between poetry
and fact, especially when on the Great
Glacier. J. Clifford Dodd, as the fierce,
passionate reactionary full of unknown
dreads, was very good, as also was
Geoffrey di Fraga as the hero-worshipper.
There is a prologue which is long and
incomprehensible and quite superfluous.
Lehmann and Dorati .
The A.B.C. opened this year’s series
of orchestral concerts at Sydney Town
Hall on Thursday, and for once in a
way not only broadcast the entire con-
cert but filled in with descriptions of the
glittering scene.
Conductor was Antal Dorati, erstwhile
of the Russian Ballet, a very capable
baton-wielder with whom the players
evidently felt at home. Mozart’s “Haff-
ner” symphony, which contains some of
the prettiest canon-writing in all orches-
tral literature, was given with just the
right degree of elegance and courtliness.
Ravel’s “La Valse,” which is new to
Sydney audiences, and which commences
like a burlesque on Johann Strauss and
ends like a satire on Richard of that
ilk, was given with weird liveliness. A
“Little Symphony” by Vivaldi was done
with spirit, and there were pleasant per-
formances of Respighi’s “Roman Fes-
tival” and Richard Strauss’s “Till Eulen-
spiegel.”
Lotte Lehmann greeted Sydney on the
occasion of her second visit with two
great arias—“ Elisabeth’s Greeting” from
“Tannhauser” and Leonora’s principal
outpouring in “Fidelio.” Beethoven’s
music for the voice is seldom adequately
presented, but the singer was superb and
the orchestral background the best that
has supported a singer in Sydney for
many years. For Wagner’s “Traume,”
the encore number, the orchestra went
even a notch better, and Madame Leh-
“Mind you, not many Women could get away with it!"
mann’s beautifully sympathetic voice had
the setting it deserved.
Lehmann Sings Lieder
Madame Lehmann’s Saturday recital
was mostly made up of lieder, in which
domain this critic prefers her. Beethoven,
Hugo Wolf, Schubert, Schumann and
Brahms provided a dozen moods, mostly
sombre ; all beautifully interpreted. “The
Erl King” was given minus histrionics,
yet the drama was as well portrayed as
when Nordica used to give all the
characters different voices, with a special
weird devilishness for the spectre.
For operatic fare there were “Vissi
d’Arte” from “Tosca,” “Knowest Thou
the Land” from “Mignon” and an aria
from “Resurrection” (Alfano).
Among a group of English songs came
W. G. James’s pretty trifle “Covent
Garden.”
Paul Ulanowsky, at the piano, accom-
panied unobtrusively—too unobtrusively
in the Wolf lieder, which are duets for
voice and piano, with the parts of equal
importance.
Golubofi in Melbourne.
A packed house heard Grisha Golu-
boff play the Mendelssohn violin con-
certo, Op. 64, at Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday.
A lighter, easier or more confident
bow has been seldom heard. The diffi-
culties of the piece seemed child’s play
to this grave lad, and his bow danced
through the opening allegro, made his
instrument sing in the andante and
sparkled in the fireworks at the end.
Goluboff comes from 'Frisco’s Russian
Hill, which seems to produce finished
virtuosi of tender years as easily as Aus-
tralia produces cricketers. But, though
his curly locks only just reached above
the shoulders of the seated orchestrions
and his years are a mere 16, he has been
playing before audiences for nine years.
Fresh from being crowned on behalf
of Finnish composers at Helsingsfors
and being shaken fervently by the hand
by Sibelius himself, Bernard Heinze led
his troupe through the lovely swaying
rhythms and rich colors of the Sibelius
.Symphony No. 2. The Melbourne
orchestra has seldom been in better form.
The Rolls Revue.
Adelaide Royal starts a winter season
with the first-in-Australia production of
an Ernest Rolls show, “Folies d’Amour”
—lots of the first, though little of the
latter.
It is a big thing, really too crowded,
for many glorious costumes hold the
stage for a moment, only to be no more
seen ; and the same may be said of an
occasional fleeting costume at the irre-
ducible minimum. Seldom has there
been seen here a show in which money
was so obviously no object.
Specially gorgeous are the Undersea
and the Bird scenas, strengthened by
some fine dancing by the Natalie and
Darnelle pair, also by six Bodenweiser
girls; the latter have elsewhere, by con-
trast, a simple but jolly peasant-dance,
one of the most effective turns.
Specially featured are Fred Harper,
busily funny, especially in a burlesque
wrestling-match ; Violet Carlson, a born
low-comedienne, face, figure (small) and
voice (so large that the words are apt
to get lost in the echo); and Thelma
White, another American, charming in
whatever she does; also Tessa Small-
page sings well. Extra turns are very
strong, notably the six Danwells, with
“tumbling” as lofty as the theatre
scenery, also one of the cleverest fox-
terriers in captivity.
The weakest point is the plentiful
humor, mainly of the American and
schoolboy type, such as carefully pick-
ing out of the chocolate babies all those
of one sex, or the commercial order,
“Pants. Be sure to take down the pants.”
Adelaide has surprised itself by the
size of the attendances.
Spanking New Wirth’s.
The Greatest Show on Earth is back
in Sydney, which means that other estab-
lished public institutions like the R.A.S.
Show, the Doncaster and the Cup are
j us t round the corner. In its present
iorm it will be a strong rival to the best
of them.
The Big Top, set up on a tract of un-
inhabited country at the back of Buck-
ingham’s, is a palace of a tent, brand
spanking new, and everything about it
looks likewise.
Even the old girl elephant, whose age
is unchivalrously given as 150, looks
rejuvenated in her bandbox trappings.
The great poles, a furlong or so apart,
as huge as ship masts, gleam amber with
varnish. Lean-to poles, propping back
the outskirt slopes, shine clean with blue
and red enamel paint. The Shetland
ponies are decked out with new ribbons,
like little girls at a party. Matching the
expansive flourishing prosperity, the saw-
dust has turned itself into curly wood
shavings. The ropes, the tights, the
spangles are as fresh from the mint.
The atmosphere for an Australian
novel that has great writing in it —Katha-
rine Susannah Prichard’s Circus —was
gathered from Wirth’s. By the look of
Wirth’s now it will be available for the
same purpose another couple of genera-
tions hence. It has been parading
elephants and elegant young ladies, lions
and tigers—it has a whopper of each of
these at present—cracking whips, chalk-
faced clowns, waltzing horses, hurdling
dogs, Chinese balancers and flying-
trapeze artists about these parts since
1878, and it could never have looked
better, or been better, for that matter.
There are still not less than half a
dozen of the family name running it.
Long a local legend, like Cobb and Co.
—only the Wirth’s picked on something
with the staying powers of all the breed
of Carbine —it’s nevertheless kept right
up to the minute, not only in ap-
pearance. Its long bill is put through,
without an interval, at such speed that
only one turn has to be on at a time,
so there’s no cause to get swivel-necked
watching several at once. It’s now fully
as fast as modern American revue, and
Ajax has nothing on that.
The something that always stands out
from the familiar circus stuff is this time
a party of French clowns. They must
be right up to the high Continental
standard; certainly they are among the
best of their kind ever to appear in these
parts. Under their rigouts they are ac-
complished artists, as well as being up-
roariously funny. With slow-motion
attack that heightens the effect tremen-
dously, they put on acts that touch the
peaks of circus performance, and then
pass out through the flaps, hardly taking
a bow, and the next turn is on before the
applause has reached its top.
The Flying de Vards are a splendid
trapeze act, and a party of Orientals
do things in the way of balancing that
cancel Einstein’s new theory of gravi-
tation in advance.
“The Desert Song ”
The Mosman Musical Society brushed
this up, dressed it out in all the colored
finery they could find and turned on
some very pleasant entertainment at
Cremorne Orpheum last week.
Comedy predominated, owing to the fact
that three funny persons were so good
as to overshadow the rest of the pro-
ceedings. Zanita Cannis evoked the hearty
guffaw, Molly Brown copied Gracie
Fields and added original touches, and
Harry Nott as a furrun correspondent
was a veritable professor of ha-ha. When
any of those three got together they were
a menace to ribs.
Vocally and histrionically the leads
were good, if slightly below the society’s
customary standard. Though she has
done better, Marie Ryan was a pleasant
eyeful and turned in the most natural
performance —a little more lung-power
to her warbling would have been to her
advantage. As his nibs the Shadow, lan
Devereaux occasionally got off the track
by charging into his part too boisterously,
but a tribe of dusky stalwarts, hidden
behind profuse face mats and singing
their heads off at every opportunity, were
there to rescue him at critical moments.
Among the men Mervyn Anstey turned
in the best natural job, and an excellent
one; John Le Petit, Gordon Taylor and
William Keep did good jobs ; Lois de
Groen acted well, though she forced her
lines once or twice. Judged by what
and which of them showed through
flourishing facial adornments, Peter
Carne, Harry Hart and Stanley Winton
also managed neat portrayals.
What shortcomings there were among
individuals of the cast were pretty well
compensated for by the chorus. Always
strong in this line, the society wisely
lays it on as generously as possible in
colorful and spirited displays of tune-
fulness. After comedy the chorus was


J AV A
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA” and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regislarly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, *a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
w
m&*W<
Scene near New Norfolk.
TASMANIAN
HOLIDAY TOURS
arranged by the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment Tourist Department enable
you to fully enjoy an inexpensive
holiday in a bracing climate amid
scenes of unrivalled beauty and his-
toric interest.
ALL-INCLUSIVE COST covers
return sea voyage, also trips and
accommodation while in the lovely
Island State. Full details and book-
lets on request—post free.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST DEPT.,
4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
286 Collins Street Melbourne
12 Pirie Street Adelaide
A.M.P. Chambers, William St., Perth
196 Adelaide Street Brisbane
and Hobart and Launceston.
>V
mm
FALSE TEETH
STAINS#?
yl
Clean them
this
WAY !
o
Fill the cap of
the tin with
‘Steradent’ and
pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffi-
cient warm
water (not hot)
to cover the
dentures. Stir well. Put in your dentures and
leave them while you dress, or overnight. Take
them out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains vanish. Dingy teeth gleam white
again: your dentures feel and look like new!
‘Steradent’ is sold at all chemists, 2/-. Double
size 3/6.
You are safe with * Steradent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept. ), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
*
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
R)
x
x
V
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI.HONOLULU
CANADA.USA-
▲
▲
▲
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
the best of the show, and it would have
been better to turn it on full blast at the
finish instead of winding up with an
equatorial clinch.
Ballet.
A wildly-enthusiastic mob greeted the
Russian Ballet on its return to His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday.
Programme, all revivals, comprised
Schumann-Fokine’s “Carnaval,” in which
the dancers’ feet never seemed to touch
the ground and the extraordinary skill
of Riabouchinska, Osato and Grigorieva
made a stage appear superfluous, “Le
Mariage D’Aurore” and “Choreartium.”
Baronova danced with a precision
nearer perfection than ever in the last-
named tornado of color and form.
A Good-looking Singer.
A lyric soprano of pleasant quality if
no great volume was aired by Margaret
Black at Melbourne Assembly Hall in
songs by Schubert, Grieg, Schumann,
Mahler and others.
A girl as good-looking as Miss Black
would not need to be a singer to attract
attention anywhere, but she has a re-
markably flutelike vocal instrument which
she plays on with unusual subtlety and
skill.
In the bravura variations of Adam on
a theme by Mozart she exemplified this
talent to perfection, and in three songs
for voice and flute by Bantock it was
difficult to disentangle some of her notes
from the flute obbligato of that excellent
performer Leslie Barklam. The “Shadow
Song” of Meyerbeer from “Dinorah”
gave her another opportunity to display
her virtuosity. She is off to Europe
shortly.
“Trade Winds.”
Joan Bennett, Fredric March.
Although the body of the film hangs
on some amazingly poor sleuthing and
the final solution of the pother could,
and should, have been accomplished five
minutes after the start, this current offer-
ing at Sydney Embassy works out into a
not unbearable entertainer with Freddie
and Joan, as sleuth and victim respec-
tively, making fast time half-way round
the globe.
It appears from the film that the C. 1.8.
in Gahd’s Own can boot a cop out of
the force for trifling with a sheriff’s
daughter, and then reinstate him at any
old time when his services might be use-
ful. Anyway, that’s the sort of bloke
Freddie is—a one-time cop practising as
a private sleuth and with a few bars of
Chopin and a Romeo complex as his
stock-in-trade.
When Joan puts a bullet in the ribs
of a chap who led her sister from the
straight and narrow to a watery grave,
the law calls in Freddie to use his charms
in tracking her down. Beginning at
San Francisco, the woman-hunt pro-
ceeds through Honolulu to Japan, Hong
Kong, Singapore, Ceylon, Bombay to
the Laccadives, and then home to ’Frisco
again, where Freddie goes to work and
cleans up the whole mess —which he
could have done quite easily before he
left.
Howsomever, during the chase Freddie
catches up with Joan every now and
again, heralds his arrival with a few
bars of Chopin on any convenient piano
and keeps her (Joan) in sight long
enough to wonder, but not to decide,
whether to arrest her and take her back
to clink, or to fall for her good and
proper and light out with her for parts
unknown. Joan, for hier part, finds
Freddie quite a personable gent., dis-
covers he’s a ’tec but falls for him all
the same, and then wavers between re-
turning with him or fading without him.
It’s all dressed out to the usual length
allotted to a feature film and decorated
with everything from Honolulu belles,
geisha girls and palm-fringed beaches
to tropical jungles, flowers and cottages
in the mountain fastness of Ceylon. Side-
lights are Joan changing from bewchus
blonde to a rather stunning brunette,
Ralph Bellamy footling along as a pre-
posterous though somewhat amusing
’tec, and Anne So them, as an earlier
pastime of Freddie’s, trailing him in his
globetrotting because she didn’t like
being the girl he left behind.
“St. Louis Blues.”
Lloyd Nolan, Dorothy Lamour.
A true Scot whose sees this at Sydney
Prince Edward might chuck himself
under a tram after hearing a dusky
negress yawping “Loch Lomond” in true
Harlem style.
That’s a pretty fair indication of the
whole film. Nolan is skipper of a show-
boat on the Mississippi or somewhere,
and has for his offsider a massive female
called “Aunt Tibbie,” who stands about
six feet nought in her socks, drinks beer
to cure her lumbago and smokes large
rank cigars presumably because she
likes ’em.
Sundry other phenomena on board
the boat are the negress (who yawps in
Russian as well as in Scotch), an odd
crooner or two, hoof-tappers and a
chappie whose verbosity is even less in-
telligible than that of Donald Duck.
Miss Lamour enters as a respectable
young miss earning a fahbulous weekly
screw for wrapping herself in little more
than thought and posing on Broadway
as a Pacific island belle. Finding her job
a bit too chilly she breaks her contract
and goes into hiding aboard the show-
boat. Thereafter it’s mostly Mr. Nolan
thinking he’s discovered a future star in
Miss Lamour, and she praying to good-
ness that her manager won’t find her and
sue her for breach of contract.
Nolan, a very natural actor, gives what
weight he can to the film.
“Pacific Liner”
Wendy Barrie, Victor McLaglen, Chester Morris.
Though it could have been cut to a
much crisper narrative and directed for
a much brisker pace, this main item at
Sydney Cameo and Civic evolves into
f.a.q. excitement on the high seas.
It has for its framework an outbreak
of Asiatic cholera in the engine-room
and stokehold of a passenger liner. The
disease must be isolated and the pas-
sengers kept in blissful ignorance. While
on deck Mrs. Whosit is growling because
she can’t have a doctor to tend her
poodle’s indigestion, the ship’s doctor is
below doing his damnedest to keep
enough engineers and stokers alive to
bring the ship into port.
McLaglen is a tough chief engineer
ruling the engine-room and stokehold in
his customary two-fisted manner ; Morris
is ship’s medico, whose scientific methods
earn McLaglen’s disapproval, and who
disapproves of McLaglen. Miss Barry
is a pleasant though unnecessary heart
interest.
A little too much padding puts a
brake on the story occasionally ; other-
wise there’s not much amiss with it.
“Newsboys’ Home.”
Wendy Barrie, Jackie Cooper, Edmund Lowe.
In this Sydney Capitol offering Miss
Barrie figures as daughter of a newspaper
magnate who takes over the running of
the paper when her parent dies. In-
stead of giving a moider a six-column
headline and spreading it all over the
front page, as was her father’s custom,
she changes the paper to a more con-
servative sheet and attempts to follow
traditions of decent journalism by giving
each item its right and proper place and
space according to its importance. With
the change, however, circulation drops
steadily until she is forced to return to
the old sensational style, and thus is
“yellow journalism” justified.
That is only one slice of the film,
which is a somewhat meandering stretch
about a youngster who comes to the
big city and lands a job as newsboy on
a daily, the owner of which is pleased
to run a de luxe institution for the con-
venience of youngsters who sell his sheet.
The institution, as depicted in the film,
is a rather idealistic affair, and the
youngsters therein are more in the nature
of caricatures than true-to-life por-
trayals.
When an opposing publication sets out
to bust the home sheet the newsboys take
a conspicuous hand in the doings, and
the ensuing rumpus is at least active, if
a bit incredible. Paper-stalls are wrecked,
newsboys beaten up, delivery vans set
alight and several other similar misdeeds
perpetrated before it all culminates in
a grand stoush between gangsters, van-
drivers, newsboys, the staffs of each
paper, the police and any handy spec-
tators.
Cooper turns in a watery performance,
Lowe figures as a gun reporter and
doesn’t matter much, and a bunch of
youngsters called the “little tough guys”
are too exaggerated to carry much weight.
ARTBURSTS.
Adelaide
Louis McCubbin, busily extending the
usefulness of Adelaide National Gal-
lery, has started a “bulletin” of infor-
mation about its old treasures, its new
acquisitions, and the guide-lectures now
a winter feature. No. 1 makes a special
feature of Streeton’s “Australia Felix.”
McCubbin has also earned State-wide
applause for his travelling shows of
Medici color-prints, enabling all S.A.’s
(Continued on page 42.)


BRANDAEJERS
<tfic
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations
0. BEAHDAUJC& * 00. LUJU BIttMLNQHAM. h.NU
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Safe to say you could have found
anyone you knew by paging them at last
Thursday’s symphony concert. Not an
empty chair could be seen, and on the
floor of the hall the last row of chairs
was against the wall, just inside the
vestibule doors. The Alexander Gordon
lady murmured in passing that the quota
of subscribers had now been achieved.
Her frock of rose and silver brocade did
honor to this triumph of the Women’s
Committee. Noted, too, were Mrs. J. C.
Windeyer, whose frock wore a delicate
pink flush, Chief Justice Jordan’s lady,
one of the wearers of ermine, and Mrs,
Hope Gibson, with sapphire tones in her
frock.
There was quite a stir and a snapping
of cameras in the corridors and vesti-
bule till the last moment. The arrival
of the Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie caused a great uprising just after
the house was seated and the orchestra
had stepped to their places. There was
a regal touch about the white, patterned
in dahlia-reds and -golds, worn by Lady
Gowrie. Her velvet coat with its high
collar was of the dahlia-red tone.
A.B.C.’s chairman and Mrs. Cleary re-
ceived the Admiralty House group, which
included Captain the Hon. Patrick Hore-
Ruthven and his fair bride. She was
of the many who wore white. Her cape
of Arctic fox was one of the luxurious.
So was the one that stood between the
cold blast and Mrs. Pat Levy’s shoulders.
The new idea of coffee in the interval
was adopted by all who got to the buffet
before the summons for the second half
of the programme came. You bought
a ticket in the vestibule and exchanged
it for a cup of coffee in the corridor.
Very handy for duellists. Mrs. Antal
Dorati was a smiling figure in black
laces. With her was Mrs. Charles Moses.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, junior, had the
prettiest head and earrings glimpsed.
With her was singer Bobbie McCloskie.
As usual Mrs. Rupert Scammell was a
graceful figure. Mrs. Buchanan’s waist-
long feather cape was in deep cyclamen
tones. With her was Miss Sue Baxter.
Lotte Lehmann, the night’s singer, was
met with great applause before she sang,
and even greater afterwards. Her frock
of filmy black was as sparkling with
sequins as a clear night with stars.
H. M. Bateman was not found by this
Letter to be as hilarious as his drawings.
His manner is quiet, his figure is trim,
and taken unawares you might put him
down as a banker. There must be an
imp somewhere behind the pent eye-
brows, but he must have been chained
up when our how-d’you-dos were said.
His show at the Grosvenor Galleries has
the old sure-to-make-you-laugh Bateman
touch, and you are enthralled by the
mad chase of the butterfly, the pick-
pocket who gets caught in the burglar-
proof pocket, the board meeting, the art
critics and dozens of others. H.M. (his
middle name, by the way, is Mayo, and
he is a cousin of Queensland sculptor
Daphne Mayo) has just done a sketch
of Norman Lindsay, making him more
birdlike than ever. An early visitor to
the show was Julian Ashton. Mrs. Craw-
ford Robertson and Mrs. Darling were
circling the walls. The latter was trying
to make up her mind which picture
would go best with the hunting scenes in
her dining-room. Before Sydney Ure
Smith opened the show on Thursday
there were a good many sales.
In response to Mrs. Bruce Prior’s
coo-ee 30 or more friends of Annette
Kellermann came from Burwood, North
Shore heights and Bradley’s Head to
greet the girl who loves Australia, but
who has lived a great deal of her life in
U.S.A. There she lectures on the neces-
sity of defending the waistline and other
matters of health and beauty.
The party at No. 3 Milton-avenue was
a great success, and Annette’s figure
couldn’t be bettered by that of a girl in
her teens. For modern clothes it has the
Venus de Milo beaten. If Annette is a
diet fan, she must have been having the
afternoon ofl* When first sighted she
was plunging a spoon with abandon
through the rosy heart that topped a
dish of meringue. Her little flat pan-
cake hat of brown ribbon was fascinat-
ing. Mrs. Bruce Prior hostessed in deep
sapphire crepes, and sister Vi Harding
and daughters June, Grace and Marianne
gave support in the entertaining.
Ovens had been working overtime at
the Memorial College of Household Arts
and Science last Wednesday. The results
were a distinctly luscious afternoon tea.
This was set on the verandahs of the
Kirribilli college, overlooking the harbor,
close to where the bridge spans it.
Ferries had been carrying groups of
visitors from the city side from 2.40
o’clock, and the party, which was really
a welcome to the new principal, Mar-
garet B. Heaton, sparkled along merrily
in spite of a shower or two. Miss
Auchinleck Ross was another guest
of honor. Dr. Mary Booth received
the visitors,, and the 20 girl students
helped in the entertaining. The college
has been having some distinguished
visitors. Lady Gowrie, accompanied by
Mrs. Lance Lewis, of Adelaide, was
there early last week. English visitor
Edith Thompson was another caller very
interested in the work of training good
homemakers.
When Vice-Admiral Lane-Poole was
lord of these waters daughter Ann (Sigrid
Ann is the name in full) was well known
in New South Wales and other States.
Word came recently of Ann’s engage-
ment to Peter Dangar, only son of the
late Norman Dangar, of Armadale. The
Lane-Poole home is now in Dorset, Eng-
land. Monte Luke photograph.
Even Saturday’s squalls couldn’t keep
Lotte Lehmann fans away from her con-
cert. But though the Town Hall was
crowded there was an absence of sparkle
about the night. Frocking was sombre
for one thing, and maybe so much rain
had made smiles a little limp. This
Letter, too, found the blue of the singer’s
frock rather hard. It was almost as
sparkly above the waist as the chandelier
in the vestibule. But the singer’s smile
is still a lovely thing, and her speech was
touching and feminine. Flowers were
many and gorgeous. A tall basket of
pink gladioli was a true prima donna
tribute.
Lady Gowrie sat with her son and Mrs.
Fred Payne, of Melbourne. The W. J.
Clearys were in this group. The Robert
Dixsons had come from their Castle Hill
fastness, and Mrs. Harold Bott and the
Hope Gibsons from North Shore heights.
Singer Dick McLaughlin was there with
his sister and Lute Drummond. Mrs.
Searight and sister Miss Nellie Veitch
sat just behind Gladys Moncrieff, who
was cloaked in deep amethyst velvet.
With her was her sister and Florence
Bennett. Mrs. Coper’s fair coloring
was striking above black velvet. The
John Holmes couple came. Mr. and
Mrs. George Nassoor brought daughter
Joy, whose flowered chiffons were worn
under white furs. Mrs. David Lindsay,
and a visitor from Queensland, Miss
Mollie Anderson, were applauders. And
there were A.B.C. chieftains everywhere.
Artist-farmer Mabel Hookey and the
sister who shares her picturesque old
home, Rokeby House, Rokeby, over the
bay from Hobart, poised on the wing
in Sydney earlier in March as a jumping-
off port for a trip to Asia. “We hope, ’
said artist Mabel, an incurable optimist
who never troubles trouble beforehand,
“to go to Korea, Japan, etc., and here’s
hoping to get as far as the Great Wall
of Peiping. But we won’t know till we
get to Hong Kong if it will be advisable
to go wandering about China.”
Mrs. Linsley-Freeman gave a “frivol-
ous party” at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Hector Noon at the Macleay Regis, Potts
Point, at the week-end. The party began
at 5 p.m. and continued till midnight.
The hours were passed in dancing,
roulette and fortune-telling. Mrs. Lins-
ley-Freeman was assisted in receiving the
guests by her daughter Margaret and
Kenn Brodziak.
Dr. and Mrs. Marcus Alexander, who
are now enjoying themselves in San
Francisco, met Noel Coward during their
stay in Honolulu. Mrs. Alexander writes
that she found him charming and amus-
ing. He was very anxious to know what
Australians thought of his plays, and said
he was looking forward to his visit here,
and especially to trying our beaches and
our surf. Dr. and Mrs. Alexander will
return to Sydney in the Monterey next
month.
A young Tasmanian artist who has
made her home for some time in our old
Harbor Town and loves it, Mavis Mallin-
son (Mrs. G. H. Dawson), is holding her
first exhibition at the Lyceum Club. Poet
Mary Gilmore said the Word at the
formal opening. Oils, pastel, tempera and
charcoal studies hold the eye and give
a suggestion of sound, strong work. But
the big hit is sculpture—the artist is almost
too shy to hint that she has had a strenu-
ous training—first in Tassie in painting ;
since then in Sydney with the late Rayner
Hoff for sculpture. Organist Lilian Frost,
also from the Apple Isle, but growing
fresh roots in Sydney, whispered that
Rayner Hoff had found the girl from
Tassie a gifted pupil.
First Australian Divisional Signal
A.I.F. Association is already busy with
preparations for its reunion luncheon.
This will be held on Anzac Day after
the march through the city. “Cook-
house” will blow about 1 o’clock, and
lunch will be spread at the Austral Salon,
152 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. The cost
of the lunch is 55., plus the yearly sub-
scription of 3s. But a circular from the
secretary states that “inability to spare
the amount of five shillings as well as
the three shillings will not be accepted
by your old cobbers as an excuse for
non-attendance.” And if that isn’t the
old A.I.F. spirit, what is?
Karen Greyson went off to England
last week, and thereby Sydney’s amateur
stage will miss, for some months, one of
its cleverest actresses. Karen, who is a
graduate of Sydney Uni., has appeared
in S.U.D.S. performances and has
played in Kenn Brodziak’s three plays,
“Desire Brings Welcome,” “Completely
Incomplete” and “Positions Vacant.” She
also played the part of Phyllis, the girl
whom nobody loved, in “The Sea Chest.’”
Lister Lister celebrated his golden wed-
ding with art last week. This was the
fiftieth time his paintings have been on
exhibition, and knight Philip Goldfinch
officiated in Anthony Hordern’s gallery.
This opening was remarkable for the
number of men present. Howard Hinton,
Victor Mann, Alfred Stephen, Douglas
Terry, Sydney Scammell were there. So
was painter of flower pieces Phillips,
whose work adorns the homes of many
patrons of the Macleod Galleries. Natalie
Terry, a former pupil, came from Moss
Vale for the opening. Members of Lister
Lister’s family, Mrs. C. Cantley Atkin-
son and Mrs. John Harris, together with
Mrs. D. Thistlewayte, Mrs. D’Arcy Wil-
liams, Mrs. E. D. Irving, and Mrs. W. J.
Rodgers and daughter Joan, were some
of the women enthusiasts. A painting
of Canberra, 1912, before the civil ser-
vice invasion, is an interesting canvas.
A letter from former Sydney girl Enid
Baumberg, now Mrs. Morris Alexander,
of Cape Town, tells of a happy day spent
there, with the just-returned Walder lady
and the John Humans. Mrs. Human
was Mollie Walder, and she a.nd hus-
band and baby Jennifer travelled with
the Walder lady from England to
Australia in the Dominion Monarch.
Enid took all of them, including Jenni-
fer’s nurse, for a three hours’ motor trip.
She declares Jennifer didn’t cry or
whimper in all that time, which must
be something of a record in the baby
world. Enid’s husband, who is a well-
known K.C. and M.P., gave a lunch
party for the Australians at Parliament
House, among the guests were clever Sallie
Richardson, personal secretary to General
Smuts, and Mrs. Richard Sonnenberg,
who is looking forward to visiting
Sydney as the guest of former S. Afri-
can friends. After lunch Mr. Alexander
arranged a meeting between S. Africa’s
Prime Minister, General Hertzog, and
the Deputy-Prime Minister, General
Smuts.
Lots of upstanding men with wide
shoulders were at Ken Neate’s recital in
the Con. last week. They were brother
officers in the police force. Very gener-
ously the singer gave the takings from
his concert to the Police Boys’ Club. In
addition to the stalwarts there were
cohorts of fellow-students, very thrilled
over the beginning tenor’s achievement.
Embryo Melbas and Lehmanns sold pro-
grammes Olga Krasnik, in satins the
shade of Russian violets, played accom-
paniments, and later showed the piano
what she could do with Rachmaninoff
and other composers. Lute Drummond,
who played the operatic accompaniments,
wore white satin. Each walked off with
an armful of flowers. Minister for Trans-
port Bruxner was in the audience; so
were Mayor Nock and his wife. Mitchell
Librarian Ida Leeson’s well-shaped head
was turned attentively. Florence Birch,
Mrs. Will Ainsworth, Jeanie Rankin,
and American singer Marie Houston were
there. Ken was at his lyric best in the
opera numbers, and of these the “Luce-
van e Stella” was outstanding.
A late tea and coffee party was the
Hockey Girls’ jubilation over the arrival
of old friend Edith Thompson. Edith,
who is an 0.8. E., is a tall, slim English-
woman who was one of England’s holy
terrors in the hockey field up till only a
few years ago. She is chairman of the
Oversea Society for the Settlement of
British Women, and it is on this work that
she is now touring Australia. She has
already been in Maoriland. Talks with
officialdom will take up most of her days
here, and she will fly from here to Can-
berra, as well as to the other States. In
hockey circles she is affectionately known
as “Major.”
There were red roses for the table and
deep pink hyacinths for the guest’s hand
posy. Dr. Marie Hamilton, president of
the ’ N.S.W. hockey girls, came in com-
pany with Anne Sanderson, the bright-
faced Scots lass who is in Australia with
a Zoology Fellowship. Mrs. F. J. Davy
was very smart in an ensemble in
cyclamen tones. She was off to the
cocktail party that the A. C. Godhards,
just returned from their Hawaiian jour-
ney, were giving at Edgewater. Her new
appointment to the Federal Board of
the advisory council of physical edu-
cation was the cause of much congratu-
lation. Captain Isabel McKinney, of the
team now in training for the English tour,
was an important. The Wicks sisters,
Clarice Caldwell, Ena Mcßae, Dorothy
Friend and Grace Johnston were others
who renewed friendship with the English
visitor.
One of the first jobs to come to
Annette Kellermann’s hand is to help
raise money for the Berrima District
Hospital. Two thousand pounds is the
amount wanted, and Annette’s reply to
a request to help raise it was a prompt
“Yes.” She will go to Berrima, take
costumes with her and train the local
girls for a pageant. She herself will give
a display of physical exercises, and will
show for the first time her latest under-
water film.
Shake out the tails and the best even-
ing frock, O members of the Overseas
League, the Royal Empire Society, the
Victoria League, the Royal Society of St.
George and the British Empire Union,
for the night of your combined recep-
tion draws on apace. In fact, Friday
is the night set apart, and the reception
is in honor of Lord £nd Lady Gowrie.
The Australia Hotel is the place and 8.30
the hour.
Th% idea, put forward by the British
Drama League, of observing the month
of May as a period during which
amateur groups shall endeavor to give
public performance to plays written by
Australians has been enthusiastically
received. All societies affiliated with th e
league are asked to co-operate with this
movement by including in their pro-
gramme for May at least one play,
whether three- or one-act, by an Aus-
tralian playwright. The league, in con-
junction with the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board, will be glad to offer suggestions
to those groups who would like to put
on a play by an Australian but find selec-
tion difficult. All groups who determine
on the production of an Australian pljb
are asked to notify the league of the
title, author, date and place of per-
formance.


SHEARERS’
DRINKING MUGS
Hygienic and Durable
FOWLER WARE
MUGS of Finest Quality,
Semi-vitreous EARTHENWARE
Perfectly smooth
No curled edges
Do not stain or rust
No lodgment for food remnants to putrefy
Retains liquid temperatures longer
Made specially for industrial and rural use
Will withstand plenty of hard usage
Always clean and glistening
■
&
a
Merchants throughout Australia stock Foidler Products —
Household Crockery and Stoneware, Sanitaryware,
Wall and Flooring Tiles.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century
Marrickville, N.S.W. - Thomastown, Vic. - Brisbane, Qld.
L I .*
r
si
v. „
k\
/
>Ki\
. s
a
MODERN BATHROOMS
The past twenty years have seen a rapid evolution of the
bathroom, from just a necessary adjunct to the most import-
ant room in the house.
To-day, comfort, brightness and convenience are all carefully
planned.
There is no adequate substitute for earthenware—glazed tiles
for the wall, colorful tiles for the floor, toilet suites, pedestal
wash basins and wall fittings. Earthenware does not wear
away, the colors cannot fade, it is easy to clean and keep clean.
Whether you are building a new home or modernising your
existing one, Fowler earthenware will give you a lifetime of
service and the satisfaction of knowing you have installed the
best.
Leading Hardware and Builders’ Suppliers throughout Aus-
tralia stock Fowler Ware.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century.
Marrickville, N.S.W. Thomastown, Vic. Brisbane, Qld.
af.
1!
. m
m
rie
PDETRV IN CHINA 1
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to
Match
Shelley is Poetry in Chinatvare
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully-colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH Pty. Ltd.
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
D
Registered Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
h'm. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. or
fin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J^SfIONOSIOd-NON
iil« ll
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT
181-
per gal.
Twenty-six Beautiful
Shades.
“WHITE MILL” MILL WHITE
WATER PAINT
41b. 71b. 141 b. 281 b. 561 b.
2 3 3/9 6/6 12/- 21/-
Harbutt Paint Pty. Ltd.
ALEXANDRIA - - N.S.W.
Brisbane Agents: Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty. Ltd.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to bo
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
tyA <?
A U S T RAUfAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “ Bulletin” production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Melbourne
Chatter
Among many reminders of Australia’s
warmth of heart and of climate which
Lady Huntingfield will carry with her
when she embarks in the Mooltan for
England on April 4 will be thoughts for
each of the six States, brought to mind
in the stirring of hot tea, perhaps beside
a warm fire while the hard frost lies on
the grass out of doors. The spoons, each
one bearing the coat of arms of a State
of the Commonwealth, were presented
to Lady Huntingfield at a dinner at Men-
zies, given in her honor by the St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital Red Cross auxiliaries.
Committeewomen to the number of 150
were present, their applications having
been accepted in the order in which they
arrived, but owing to limited space avail-
able there were as many refusals with
regrets.
Lady Huntingfield’s speech was gener-
ously spiced with humor, though she was
just recovering from a heavy cold
(according to herself, past the catching
stage, but still a soft pedal on her micro-
phone power). As guest of honor and
patroness of the auxiliaries, she sat at
the president’s table on the dais at the
top. of the stairs in the banquet hall. At
her right was Mrs. Len Buxton, wearing
a black chiffon and taffeta gown with
bouffant skirt and narrow shoulder straps
and a silver fox cape, soon discarded on
account of the warmth of the evening.
On Lady Huntingfield’s left was Mrs.
J J. Daly, whose choice of color plan
in ice-blue and silver included her gloves
of blue net, a-glitter with silver thread.
Among other speechmakers were Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Dr.
Deborah Buffer Murphy and Mrs. M. J.
Canny.
Our Lady Mayoress, Mrs. A. W. Coles,
once (or perhaps more than once) re-
ceived a prize during her schooldays for
good conduct. The auspicious occasion
had a sequel last week, when in her
suite at the Town Hall the prize, a much-
thumbed copy of Norah of Billabong, was
placed before its author, Mary Grant
Bruce, who inserted her autograph just
below the insignia of meritorious child-
hood. Present at the small morning tea-
party given by Councillor and Mrs. Coles
in honor of Mrs. Grant Bruce, who was
accompanied by her husband, Major
Bruce, and their son Jon, were Councillor
Nettlefold and his daughter Barbara,
whose enthusiasm for cricket, added to a
coincidence of seats at Lord’s, was per-
haps one factor among the many which
brought the Grant Bruce family to Aus-
tralia.
Throughout the four days of one
of the 1938 Tests in England two pairs
of Australians sat side by side sharing
one another’s picnic hampers and bar-
racking for their country in the midst of
a nest of English enthusiasts. During
the last hour or so before the match
ended they inquired one another’s names,
and Councillor Nettlefold and Barbara
found their neighbors were writers Mary
Grant Bruce and Alice Grant Rosman. A
friendship ripened, and the Nettlefolds
stayed with the Grant Bruces at their
country home at Brixton-on-Sea sowing
enticing propaganda in a direction where
family ties and interests had always been
very strong.
Several years ago Wing-Commander
Hepburn promised Mrs. Ted Dyson that
if she became a grandmother he would
give a party in celebration of the great
occasion. Last week he kept his promise
with a dinner-dance at the Oriental,
where Mrs. Dyson, an unbelievable
grandmother with her golden curls and
her square-necked, puffed-sleeved rasp-
berry moire frock, replied to her toast
with a few words about the all-important
small infant Ann Clark. At the party
she said a number of farewells, for she
is uprooting herself from the old home
and leaves on April 5 to live in Sydney
within earshot of the baby. Good-byes
and good-lucks also came the way of
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. “Snowy ’
Lachal, who with their children and other
possessions will travel westwards in a
fortnight’s time. Their destination is the
R.A.A.F. station at Pearce, still known
in the vernacular as Bullsbrook.
So great was the interest shown in the
Women’s National Register, over which
the Lady Mayoress convened a meeting
of women’s organisations at the Lower
Town Hall, that seats were occupied
bright and early, the overflow chancing
its rheumatics on the marble steps.
Through the gathering into the scheme
at its initiation of all women’s move-
ments, mayoresses, wives of shire
officials, etc., it is hoped that the scheme
will become State-wide. General Blarney
gave an outline of plans and of the
simple procedure for women to join up.
Some prefer merely to state their
addresses, occupations and qualifications,
if any. Others are interested and want
to start off immediately on practical work
which will never be amiss even if it is
never needed in a time of national emer-
gency.
Many of these women will do a
course of first aid and then branch off
on to one or more phases of A.R.P.
work, which, even if it is done very
thoroughly, will not encroach overmuch
on free time. Some women seem to be
slightly suspicious that if they register
they will one day find themselves in
khaki uniforms and woollen stockings,
as in overseas pictures of Amazon bri-
gades. There was no mention of such
a thing at the meeting, and there seems
little likelihood of an Australian woman
becoming a female soldier unless she has
a particular hankering for it.
In the Spencer Shier portrait is
Madame Chefik Bey, who is visiting Mel-
bourne after an absence of 25 years.
Before her marriage she was Florence
Winter-Irving. Madame Bey’s home is
in Ashburne-place, London. Her hus-
band was unable to accompany her to
Australia, but her son Reshid, who re-
cently became engaged to Judy Chirnside,
made a perfect travelling companion.
After vacillating in three directions,
Melbourne’s chronic first-nighters finally
made up their minds whether last Satur-
day would see them at Gregan Mc-
Mahon’s “Ascent of F 6,” at the opening
of the Ballet or listening to a little lad
called Grisha Goluboff with longish
hair and a marvellous “Strad.” under his
chin, playing as solo artist with the Sym-
phony Orchestra. Seats everywhere were
much sought after, and the Town Hall,
His Majesty’s and the Comedy were
profitably crowded. It’s a feast after a
famine —the long summer off-season is
over and the winter doings are upon us
this year, worn with feathers and more
and more flowers in the hair.
At the Ballet the feathers were the
proudest accomplishment, those of ostrich
with veldland family-trees in the same
social circle as the long-established silver
foxes and their smaller brethren. Mrs.
Ken Niall wore a hip-length wrap of
palest-blue ostrich feathers. Peggy
Finkelstein’s curled white plumes nest-
ling around her shoulders went with a
scarlet velvet frock swathed at front,
shirred at back. Mrs. Jim Paxton’s Nile-
green velvet gown met its climax of
plumage in a scarlet cape, and a few
feathers were left over to be worn in the
hair. Sue George was also befeathered,
in a sky-blue contrast to her white satin
frock. Mrs. John Reid and Mrs. Val
Ebbott (complete with their husbands)
were exceptions, unfeathered and with
hair unadorned. Mrs. B. M. Stokoe,
accompanied by her dutiful husband (he
prefers a good magician and a turn or
two of acrobatics), was in ice-blue chiffon,
frangipanni and a sable cape.
Mrs. Bill Christie’s white satin frock
went with a little brocade jacket of
cream and gold. Musical-comedy star
Bernice Clair scattered Cecil Brunner
roses in her hair, and Maryon Dale, also,
for a change, on this side of the foot-
lights, covered her corsage with the iri-
descence of black sequins. Two young
people at yet another farewell party, with
gift flowers on their coats and chocolate
boxes in their hands, were Jean Wallace
Mitchell and Sonia Parish (chaperoned
by Sonia’s parents they left for England
on Tuesday).
Receiving good wishes upon their
recently-announced engagement are
Dorothy Raws (Athol Shmith photo-
graph) and Norman Wilson, whose wed-
ding will take place towards the end of
April, after which they will leave for a
honeymoon in England. Mr. Wilson,
who is a son of Mr. and Mrs. P. Wilson,
of Glen Iris, expected to go abroad this
year on business, but his fiancee, who is
the youngest daughter of the Lennon
Raws couple, is finding 1939 full of sur-
prises and big events. When in London
some months ago she said good-bye to
her sister, Mrs. Cecil Millbourn, then a
bride of only a few days, she had no idea
that she’d be seeing her again so soon.
The general verdict of those who
were present at Phillida Cooper’s dance
recital last week is that interesting things
may be expected from this young
ballerina. She has had a sound technical
training, and was doing the work set
down in the Royal Academy of Dancing
syllabus for the Solo Seal standard
examination when she left Eunice Wes-
ton’s studio. She has natural talent,
grace and good elevation, imagination
and an excellent musical ear, and there’s
nothing amiss with her build or her
features. Dancing teachers, among them
Madame Baronova and Clair Aytoun,
who were present at the recital, expressed
a hope to see Phillida dance in three
years’ time when she is more mature
after study in Egorova’s school in Paris.
Phillida’s ambitious and arduous pro-
gramme embraced solos from “Aurora’s
Wedding,” “Swan Lake,” “Les Syl-
phides,” “Carnaval’ and “Les Presages,”
and the blue bird pas de deux from
“Aurora’s Wedding” (Phillida in the male
role in which she did remarkably well
with young Ann Donald, who looks like
being an embryo prodigy, as her partner).
She also interpreted a Bach fugue and
one of Prokofieff’s modern dances and
took part with other students in her own
choreography, “The Three Bears,” “Post-
man’s Knock” and “The Enchanted
Forest,” the last-named danced to part
of Schumann’s Fourth Symphony.
Referring to the symphony, cynics may
have murmured about angels fearing to
tread, but the music synchronised easily
for the fairies, bush birds and banksia
men and a story inspired by Ida Ren-
toul Outhwaite’s drawings. Mrs. A. G.
Outhwaite was present in one of the
boxes with her daughter Anne. One
point emphasised by this dance recital is
that Australian ballet is going to suffer
for its lack of male dancers. No matter
how versatile the girls are their work
must suffer through lack of contrasts.
The committee which organised the
recital was gratified at the full house in
the Comedy and the news of many gener-
ous donations. President Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith wore a gorgeous frock of
painted lame, glistening as with sequins.
Her husband made his debut as i
speechmaker upon a stage between last
curtain and arrival of flowers. Among
programme sellers, all of whom met little
resistance even in the disposal of what
wares they had left during the interval
(the incentive being a lucky number for
a Louden St. Hill picture), were Sue
Dennett, in wisps of a pale blue net
cape falling to her ankles, Marie Stahle,
whose frock was a mingling of mist-grey
lace and silver thread, Joan Falkiner, in
white and a little fur cape, and Mrs.
Keith Halley, in shot taffeta, very bouf-
fant in the matter of sleeves and skirt.
Mrs. Purves Smith, Mrs. Harry Mc-
Roberts and Mrs. G. L. Lillies were
among wearers of blue ostrich-feather
wraps. Marie Rendle, who did so well
as Dora, the Jordans’ parlormaid, in
Gregan McMahon’s recent production of
“Dinner at Eight,” showed an inclina-
tion to be Juliet, with a little cap of
diamente upon hair that touched her
shoulders. Violinist Grisha Goluboff,
accompanied by I. M. Noble, John
Crown and Archie Longden, occupied a
box for the last half of the programme.
The exhibition of pictures by E. R.
Jones being held at the Athenaeum would
deceive a stranger who might wander
thereabouts without a catalogue, for he
would never take the show to be a one-
man effort. The artist has painted over
a number of years, indulging in several
dissimilar experiments, among them a
period of water-colors, an interlude in
Tasmania with boats and green water
in his mind’s eye and another era of
interiors and figure grouping against rich
chocolate-colored backgrounds. Among
the 40-odd exhibits were pictures lent
by Mrs. Arthur Hordern, Mrs. E. G.
Stephens and Dr. Ivan Maxwell.
Present on the opening afternoon was
Arthur Robinson’s bride, wearing a
trousseau coat of grey squirrel. A spec-
tator of another generation was Alec
Isaacson, who had two reports to make.
One was that his collection of replicas
of royal jewels which he presented to the
National Gallery look well in their
domain. The other concerned thieves
who dared to steal his 25-year-old
Renault and go mushrooming in it. They
left some toadstools as clues to their
meanderings in the ancient chariot when
it was found two days later beside the
Albert Park lake. But where it was
during its two days’ absence and whether
the thieves found enough mushrooms
to make their job worth while and why
they picked it of all cars on the road
is a provocative and unsolved mystery.


to' ; x f!b
A
0 s "
4*V
«
™ E Pelromax
SAFE-RAPID-HURRICANE LANTERN
BURNS
KEROSENE
ONLY
HURRICANE LAMP
200c.p. £3/5/-
300c.p. £3/15/-
1
LIGHTS ON
KEROSENE IN
30 SECONDS
TABLE LAMP
200c.p. £3/19/6
300c.p. £4/9/6
DON'T BE WITHOUT ONE
ORDER EARLY FOR EASTER
Phone M 6505 (18 Lines). Late Shopping, Friday, 8.30 p.m.
JCHN DANIKS sSCN
PROPRIETARY LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
324-330 PITT STREET ------- SYDNEY. M 6505.
391-403 ROURKE STREET -- - MELBOURNE. M 2381.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Chances and Changes
“El V.”: The self-caused death of
poor George Pollock, Speaker of Queens-
land’s one-House Parliament, in the
rooms which Edward of Windsor occu-
pied during his visit to Brisbane, brings
back memories of 20-odd years ago.
One day towards the end of 1915 I
was passing along a passage in that huge
Brisbane Parliament building when a six-
footer, wearing an open shirt front and
a drover’s plaited belt, addressed me:
“Where does a bloke get a wash in this
camp?” he asked with a grin. I lent
George his first bit of Parliamentary
soap. He was only 25 then.
Pollock came in on a by-election four
“Y’r right, mate; it's only milk."
months after Ryan swept the country
in May, 1915. He replaced “Big Bill”
Hamilton, who had been “elevated” to
the Leg. Council as President. But
George was counted as an original of the
“new” party, which used to flutter the
hearts of ladies in the gallery reserved
for the sex.
Labor had leaned rather to the heart-
of-gold than to the Greek-god ideal,
Dave Bowman—the most beloved leader
Queensland has had—Hamilton (he had
gone to gaol in the shearers’ strike),
Harry Coyne and H. F. Hardacre, who
became Minister for Public Instruction,
were, as someone put it, “rough-cut
sleepers” all. The Ryan era introduced
a very young and very good-looking lot
of Ministers and officers of the House —-
Ryan himself, Theodore, Fihelly, Lar-
combe, Alf Jones (now Brisbane’s Lord
Mayor), Bertram, McCormack, Stop-
ford, Gillies—all round the six-footer
mark except Larcombe and Stopford.
When they first trooped into the House,
a Liberal greeted them with: “The
Grenadier Guards have landed now! ”
Of all of them and their compeers, the
only ones who survive on the Labor
benches are Frank Cooper, Tom Dun-
stan, Dave Gledson, Larcombe and a
little man who used to sit on a back
bench playing with his collar and occa-
sionally interjecting in a strange lan-
guage. He appears on the roll as “The
Honorable William Forgan Smith,
LL.D.” On the Nat.-C.P. benches the
only remaining specimens of Ryan Age
politicians are A. E. Moore and the
perennial Harry Walker, the House’s
lively papa.
. .. „ ,
, A j er on : The w ?t season has begun,
and the Norths cursing its aerodromes-
so called. Townsville is getting a fine one
as such things go in Australia, but on
'ff 6 °£ tbe ot^ers they count the ground
aff after every shower to make sure
, ne , su £k in the bog. Mt. Isa,
t IC k ff tS a k 1 ® P^ ne traffic, basn 1 bad
b ° b fi SpCnt °" lf n du T st ' bath , at on f
time for five years. But Isa can’t growl.
Cairns, a main airport, with 10 arri-
vals and departures daily (including long-
distance machines from New Guinea and
mail planes from the south), has no
navi f ad °n plant. Its landing and take-
0 . T, acibdes cons i s t °f three mosquito-
width runways scraped off the surface
or a mangrove flat. After rain one is
usable—by heroes. Recently when the
New Guinea Royal Mail —a D.H., small
by modern standards—landed, the pilot
tried to turn off the end of a runway
to taxi back to the hangar. Twenty
strong navvies with shovels disinterred
him and his machine within half an
hour. '
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Guinea Airways has added
another strange item to its unconven-
tional cargoes—a 3001 b. tombstone. Ken
Garden took it out to the Strickland
River, where a Dutch geologist died of
blackwater. Garden, by profession, is a
sort of peace-time bomber. He runs the
G.A. service for prospecting parties. They
order their manna, and Ken drops it
out of the sky with an accuracy which
would do credit to the Madrid Govern-
ment’s Popeye Squadrons. His remotest
clientele are in parts of the Fly coun-
try where Brown Brothers are so wild
and tough that they will not only eat a
visitor when they are hungry, but will
make a soup course out of his boot heels.
“Guava Bill”: As if there wasn’t mois-
ture enough round that way, Ingham
(N.Q.) has put in a water-supply scheme
which has cost £36,000 and taken three
years to complete. Herbert River water
is pumped two miles to the town, and
to prevent accidental ingurgitation of
crocs., giant toads and water-snakes it
percolates through 200 yards of sand
before the pumps get it. In the end it
goes to a 100,000-gallon tank on 120 ft.
stilts. At first glance that sounds risky
in a spot in which the wind has been
known to blow an Italian immigrant’s
native language clean out of him. But
the tankstand is constructed to stand up
to a 120-m.p.h. breeze,
**. * *
“Dr.”: Hotel Darwin, Ltd., is to take
over the “license and goodwill” of the
Club Hotel, Darwin, plus four allotments,
from Darwin Investments, Ltd., for
£23,924 and 4124 fully-paid £1 shares. An
issue of 55,000 £1 shares, offered for
public subscription, has been under-
written by H. W. Hodgetts, of Adelaide.
Minimum sum required for the venture
is estimated at £55,000, net annual profits
at £8565. Carlton and United Breweries
are to advance £25,000, to be secured by
mortgage, and will have a 20-year trade
tie. Directors are A. J. Lee, H. M. Smith
and W. P. A. Lapthorne. Lee is presi-
dent of the L.V.A. of S.A.; Smith and
Lapthorne are directors of Guinea Air-
ways ; Qantas, K.N.I.L.M. and the Mac-
Robertson-Miller concern also promise
custom. While the builders are on the
job the Club, at present having its face
lifted, will carry on.
* * * *
“Eungella”: Mackay’s harbor, which
consists of £750,000 worth of seawall
bu j b out j n two arms f rom a beach, is
now receiving its final touch-a £250,000
jetty built inside the shelter to reach deep
water . p reS umably somebody will wake
up presently and realise the new haven
j s w fi bou t defences; and then some more
mone y w fii have to be spent. Any ship
trying to lie there with an enemy cruiser
within a day’s range would be taking a
big risk 6
* * * *
“J. Want”: These giant toads they have
imported from Hawaii to destroy cane
pests certainly sound good to me.
Farmers had doubts when the croakers
first arrived. They breed busily when
not eating ; but they eat busily when not
breeding. They eat blowfly grubs, cane
beetles, fruit attacked by fruit-fly; in
fact, anything that will slide down a
gullet and attract them by movement. A
few on grasshopper breeding-grounds
should have a royal time, if they can
stand the climate. One was found at
Innisfail the other day earnestly wrestling
with a half-interned meat-skewer while
a mate was sleeping outside the remains
of a chicken several weeks old. Even as
rabbiters something might be said for
them.
* * * *
“E.V.”: S. Africa has learned that the
rifleman is the backbone of the defence
of large countries with lots of bush in
them, so every citizen not drafted into
the national army has to become a rifle-
man. Consider the difference in Aus-
tralia. At Cooktown (N.Q.) it was de-
cided to form a rifle club. An appli-
cation was sent to Brisbane. The reply
was that only five clubs were being
formed every year, and that Cooktown
was sixty-second on the list —so that it
is due to get its club in 12 years!
* * * *
“Tabauda”: Moresby is gazing with
great interest at the preparations of the
Commonwealth’s emissaries for firing a
gun on Paga Hill, where the head gaoler,
in his guise as a captain, a gang of
prisoners and the Government store-
keeper have been making loud and regu-
lar explosions. Nobody shows any sign
of packing up to escape the dangers of
invasion. Two shipping companies are
putting up larger stores. Houses of offi-
cers on leave command any rent the
owners care to ask. And every time resi-
dents see the dust rise from Paga Hill
they reflect with satisfaction that they
are at last to have the water supply for
which they have thirsted for a generation.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: From a northern con-
temporary : —-
It will come as a surprise to many people
to learn that grapefruit grown in Palestine
are being exported to North Queensland
and sold in many shops there.
No. The surprise would be if North
Queensland, which has abundance of
land equal to the best citrus land in Pales-
tine, and no rebellion on its hands, were
exporting grapefruit to Palestine.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Our Defence Department
may have its faults, but lack of tenacity
is not one of them. Forty years ago, so
that it might have a convenient spot to
slide a whaleboat into the ocean, it pro-
claimed a naval reserve at Cairns. There
hasn’t been a whaleboat near Cairns since
Jacky Fisher was a boy. But the other
day Cairns Harbor Board had to hold
up a £20,000 reclamation scheme while
it petitioned Canberra to take its teeth
out of its bit of foreshore.
* * * *
“Constable Bejabbers”: If “Scat” (B.
22/3/’39) were appointed to deter
Milady Binghi by “threatening her with
severe punishment if caught consorting
with Europeans,” he would make a poor
living, paid on results. What would the
punishment be? The lady—usually a
child by our standards—has no money.
Put her in a compound under a moral
guardian and make her work for a
while? Mary’s reaction to that would
be: “Cripes! I don’t like this kind of
man. Other pfeller more better.” Stick
her in quod? “By cripes, boss, this good
pfeller tucker, along this place.” The
minxes haven’t got a moral sense like
“Scat” and myself. I have a bundle of
depositions in front of me. The open-
ing one is from a lassie 12 years old.
She was dressed in exactly nothing when
she went to pay a call on a lugger. She
came home (she says) with one toma-
hawk, one suitcase, one piece of calico
and some flour.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
821
ALAND
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.JONES & CO.
CHEMIST. .314 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
YOUR
SELLING MARKETS
IN W.A.
LIE THROUGH
6AM • Northam .. • 2000 watts
6PM • Perth 500 watts
6KG • Kalgoorlie. . 500 watts
88% of the total licenses in
W.A. are within 50 miles of
6AM • 6PM • 6KG
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
COUNTRYMANS ECONOMIC THREE.
Specially designed for use with the new 1.4-volt valves, this simple
receiver design includes a tuned R.F. amplifier, regenerative detector,
and resistance-coupled audio amplifier. It is intended for use on short-
wave bands, but with extra coils would be suitable in many outback
locations for ordinary broadcast reception.
There are many arguments in favor of
the simple-tuned R.F. type receiver for
use in locations far distant from broad-
casting centres, and despite the advan-
tages of the modern commercially-
produced superhet many such receivers
are in use, employing two-volt battery
valves. Where it is not easily possible
to recharge two-volt accumulators dry-
cell operation of the entire receiver be-
comes imperative, and the two-volt
valves have disadvantages in this respect.
Circuit diagram of the three-valve re generative-tuned R.F. short-wave and
broadcast receiver using 1.4-volt valves.
The 1.4-volt type of valve opened a
new era of economic operation for the
isolated country listener, and new re-
ceivers so equipped are gradually re-
placing the two-volt receivers.
Using the new valves in a simple
regenerative receiver with T.R.F. ampli-
fier filament and B-battery troubles are
greatly reduced. This description of
such a receiver is taken from “Radio
and Television,” U.S.A., and duplica-
tion in Australia is readily possible.
Much information has been given pre-
viously on these new valves, and it is suffi-
cient to state here that this receiver
operates with only a single 1.5-volt dry
cell for the filaments and two 45-volt B
batteries (90 volts) for plate supply. At
present only five types of 1.4-volt valves
are available. They are a pentagrid con-
verter, a diode-triode, two output pen-
todes and one R.F. pentode. Other
types will no doubt make an appear-
ance in the future.
Filament Drain Only 0.15 Ampere.
As the circuit diagram shows, a INSG
is used as the tuned R.F. amplifier, an-
other valve of this type as the regenera-
tive detector, and a IASG as resistance-
coupled audio amplifier. The receiver
is essentially a job for headphone re-
ception only, and if speaker operation
is desired it would be necessary to
modify the arrangement and to use one
of the diode-triodes as triode first audio
amplifier, followed by the audio pentode
to the speaker. Plate and filament cur-
rent drain would be heavier, but still
economical. With headphones the total
drain on the A battery is only 0.15
ampere, and this is well within the
capacity of the new Ever Ready dry cell
specially produced for such work. Com-
bined plate and screen current is only
about eight or nine milliamperes total,
so that good B batteries will last a long
time.
The coils are of the plug-in type,
wound on six-pin diameter formers,
with five pairs to cover the full range
from 10 to 200 metres. As these will
overlap on ranges, the set of coils takes
in everything that matters on short
waves, including all overseas short-wave
broadcast frequencies, amateurs and
other services. Regeneration is con-
trolled by varying the INSG detector
screen voltage with the usual 50,000-ohm
potentiometer connected across the B
voltage supply. Because of the high
amplification factor of the IASG output
pentode, almost as much volume can be
obtained from this single stage as would
be produced by two valves such as 30’s.
Strong stations would be well audible on
loudspeakers of the sensitive high im-
pedance type.
The receiver is built on a chassis
measuring 7in. by 9in. by 2in., with a
front panel 7in. by lOin. Construction
is not at all difficult. Main thing is to
keep the leads, especially the “hot”
R.F. wiring from plates and grids of
the INSG valves, as short and direct as
possible.
Each joint must be soldered carefully
with a clean, hot and well-tinned iron,
preferably using resin-cored solder with
just enough application to make a good
electrical joint. These valves are deli-
cate, and any accident in the way of in-
correct connections, or putting the plate
voltage on the filaments, means instant
disaster to the set of valves. After wir-
ing is completed, each circuit should be
checked over carefully, referring to the
circuit and schematic diagrams shown,
in order to make sure that all connec-
tions are correct. It is always a good
idea to test first from each B plus lead
to the chassis to determine whether any
short circuits are in existence before
applying the plate and screen voltages.
Coil Details.
Wind-
Metres. Grid. Tickler. Primary, ing. Wire.
135-270 82 16 55 lfin. No. 28
66-150 38 11 23 lfin. No. 26
33-75 18 6 13 liin. No. 24
17-41 9 5 6 lfin. No. 16
9-20 3i 3 2\ lfin. No. 14
All coils wound on ljin. diameter forms.
Space between cold end of grid coil and tickler
is fin. Winding is length of winding. Primary
is wound between turns of the grid coil. All
ticklers are wound with No. 30 D.S.C. wire.
Aerial coupling coil, four to five turns No. 26
or 28 enam. wire, close wound, and spaced iin.
from “cold” end of R.F. grid coil.
If everything appears to be correct,
connect the A and B batteries as shown
in the diagrams. It is not necessary to
use a rheostat in series with the filament
circuit, as the valves may be operated
directly from the 1.5-volt battery. A
rheostat is a precaution against a fresh
cell giving slightly more than 1.5 volts
initially, and if considered desirable can
be inserted at the point marked X in the
U-volt positive lead to the filaments.
Attach an aerial and earth and then
turn up the regeneration control slowly
until a hissing sound is heard in the
headphones. Rotate the dial until a
signal is heard, using the coils for 33 to
75 metres for the first test. When a
signal is located, adjust the R.F. trimmer
condenser for maximum sensitivity. The
regeneration control is set just below
the point where oscillation begins for
broadcast and telephony reception, and
just above this for C.W. telegraphy.
It is better for those not accustomed
to handling a regenerative detector to
tune the receiver while it is just oscil-
lating in order to locate signals more
easily. They will be heard as whistles
primarily, and if they are modulated
carriers the control is backed off gradu-
ally until the modulation is heard clearly.
The circuit diagram shows that the
designer of the original receiver used
crystal - type headphones, connected
through the O.lmfd. condenser in con-
junction with an audio choke. Although
such high-impedance ’phones will give
greatly increased sensitivity, good results
will be obtained with ordinary magnetic
’phones of good quality and total resist-
ance of 4000 ohms. The following parts
are needed to make up this receiver:
One dual-section tuning condenser, 140mmfd.
per section.
One single-section tuning condenser, 20mmfd.
Two sets (10 coils) plug-in coils, six-prong
type.
One midget R.F. choke, 2.5mh.
Three octal sockets.
Two sockets, six-prong type.
One mica trimmer condenser, 35mmfd.
Two valve screens.
One tubular paper condenser, lmfd., 400 volts.
Two tubular paper condensers, O.lmfd., 600
volts.
One tubular paper condenser, O.Olmfd., 600
volts.
One mica condenser, O.OOOlmfd.
One mica condenser, O.OOlmfd.
One mica condenser, o.oo6mfd.
One fixed resistor, 5 megohms, 1 watt.
One fixed resistor, | megohm, 1 watt.
One fixed resistor, I megohm, 1 watt.
One volume control potentiometer, 50,000
ohms, with D.P.S.T. switch.
One IASG valve.
Two INSG valves.
One 7in. x 9in. x 2in. chassis (aluminium).
One 7in x lOin. steel panel (aluminium).
Headphones.
One vernier dial.
One filter choke, 30 henries, lOma.
One 1.5-volt dry-cell A battery.
Two 45-volt B batteries.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: “Wireless World” (Eng.),
giving details of a National Wireless
Register, remarks that a large percentage
of radio readers possess technical quali-
fications which have in many cases been
acquired from years of training and prac-
tical experience. In the event of a state
of emergency arising, the defence services
of the country will have a great need of
wireless operators, teleprinter operators
and technical personnel capable of caring
for and repairing wireless and light elec-
trical apparatus. During the Great War
the needs of the services for operators
were largely met, especially during the
early stages, by the voluntary enlistment
of P.O. operators, but as Morse is no
longer used in the Post Office this pos-
sible source of supply is rapidly dwind-
ling. It is therefore imperative that all
readers with at least a good working
knowledge of Morse, or with other quali-
fications, such as the ability to service and
repair radio and electrical apparatus,
should help to fill vacancies which now
exist in the R.N.V.(W.)R., the Royal
Corps of Signals, T.A. and the
R.A.F.C.W.R. Such applications will
enable much valuable time to be saved,
and will facilitate volunteers being in
their right position at the right moment
if the necessity arises. Something of the
sort might well be done in Australia
through the Institution of Radio Engi-
neers (Aust.).
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: Beam-power valves of the
6L6 and 6V6G types operating in class
AB-1 and AB-2 call for low plate-to-
plate load resistances specified by the
makers. Trouble can be caused by de-
parting from these figures, and high load
values are dangerous for the high-peak
audio voltages built up across them.
Power output figures are computed for
specified loads, and attempts to secure
rated maximum outputs into incorrect
loads may result in burnt-out speaker
transformers and damaged valves.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: The doublet is essentially
a one-band aerial and, although efficient,
not as popular as single-wire feed types.
For temporary work a half-wave 14mc.
doublet can be operated on 7mc. quite
well by lowering it within reach, clipping
on 16ft. vertical “hangers” at each end
and hauling up to normal height again.
It then becomes a folded 7mc. doublet,
and since the maximum radiation comes
of an antenna at current antinodes the
useful portion is well up in the clear,
and, provided that the hanging ends are
insulated from ground, no serious losses
result. In practice it is quicker to con-
vert an antenna like this than to take it
down and replace with full-length doub-
let wherie only two poles are available.
[This type of 7mc. doublet, fed with
Belling Lee 80-ohm cable is giving excel-
lents results at VK2NO. —Ed.].
* * » 4
“Norwood”: Listeners find a frequent
cause of complaint in the habit dial pea-
lamps display of blowing out after ex-
tremely short service. The reason appears'
to be that, while local supply authorities
use their best endeavors to maintain an
even voltage throughout their mains, fluc-
tuations persist in occurring, with the
result that the current pressure rises over
240 volts for short periods. This causes
a corresponding lift in both the primary
and secondary windings of the power
transformer. The six-volt tapping is the
most critical, and valves are saved only
because their cathodes are usually in-
directly heated ; thus the extra voltage
passes only through the heater. The pea-
lamp is fed from the heater supply, and
suffers accordingly. A good plan is to
put in a higher-voltage lamp. Eight- or
nine-volt filaments will stand a fair surge
of surprise current without much damage.
Amateur Chatter.
VK2VU, Singleton, and VK2NS,
Bathurst, will shortly help swell the ranks
of N.S.W. experimenters on the 56mc.
band. Superhet converters have been
constructed for them by the writer. The
1851 and 6JBG valve combinations were
used, which means that the weakest of
C.W. signals will be understandable.
Big things are expected, particularly of
Trev Evans (VK2NS), who has turned
wholly to 56mc., completely scrapping
his gear for other bands, and remodel-
ling the main transmitter for crystal-
controlled output through a pair ot
100 TH’s in push-pull. His frequency is
56,008 kc.
Latest issue of “Radio,” U.S.A., con-
tains a full description by leading an-
tenna expert John Kraus of a very
high-gain uni-directional beam aerial for
56mc. Full details of this will be given
in the near future. Present two-section
WBJK beam in use at VK2NO has been
found to be too long in the half-wave
elements, and during alteration a close-
spaced pitchfork array is to be tested.
Westralia is a lively division of the
W.I.A. At its meeting on 14/3/*39 it
was announced that the 40-metre home


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
poesible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST, ’ it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
Vou can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/0 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. HL Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
QSO day” for the VK6AB trophy had
resulted in a win for VK6WZ with 18
points; VK6RB, with 12 points, was
second, and VK6CP, with six points, third.
A second contest is to be conducted in
connection with a 56mc. field day to be
held at Rocky Pool on 2/4/’39. An
innovation designed to encourage the use
of modern gear is a scoring table allot-
ting higher points to stations using
stabilised transmitters, non-radiating re-
ceivers, etc. The president said that
vacancies existed in the R.A.A.F.W.R.
and asked those of good operating
ability to make early application for
membership.
An old VK6 hand to visit VK2NO
recently was Norm Turnbull, VK6NO,
formerly of the Westralian R.l.’s Depart-
ment and now engaged on u.s.w. beacon
work with the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment.
In the latest list of licenses for Aus-
tralia, experimenters are placed at 1995.
(The previous return showed more than
2000 experimenters, but there have been
a few cancellations.) The total of radio
licenses for the whole of Australia is
1,116,042.
G 4 signals may shortly be heard here.
The British P.O. has exhausted the
references under the G 3 prefix and has
now started on G 4. The prefixes G 2,
3,4, 5, 6 and 8 have no significance in
the way of districts as in Australia. It
is possible to find English amateurs with
the complete list of different prefixes
living within a mile or so of each other.
The addition of a letter to the G is a
distinguishing mark, however. Scottish
amateurs, for instance, are GMs and the
Welshmen are GWs.
Read the other day that “up to the
present no reports have been received
from overseas of five-metre signals hav-
ing been heard from this country.”
Wrong. VKSZU, of Prospect (S.A.), was
logged on March 13, 1938, in ML. by
ZL4DQ, and VK2NO has been heard on
no fewer than four occasions by an ultra-
s.-w. listener in Wellington (M.L.).
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
On 12/3/’39 W3XAL was heard at
3.30 p.m., on a wave-length of 31.02
metres, with a description of the early
stages of the Pope’s coronation. After
this broadcast, reports on reception were
asked for, to be addressed to the English
Hour, N.8.C., Radio City, New York.
W2XE continued the description from
5.15 p.m. up to 10.15 p.m. This station had
an excellent signal strength here, being a
few points stronger than W3XAL. It also
asked for reports—to W2XE, Columbia
System, New York. The Vatican City
station itself on 19.84 metres was good,
but not up to the strength of the best
stations on this channel.
The 25-metre band has been giving
excellent results. TPA4 on 25.6 metres
has been audible in the mornings and at
noon, and signal strength has been
improving rapidly. Paris, not quite so
good on 25.24 metres. At 2.15 p.m.
Daventry can be followed on GSB, with
GSC and GSD just audible. Lunchtime
shows DJB at 1.30 p.m. with news in
English. Other sources of English news
are XGOX and the Delhi station at
1.20 p.m. Berlin can be heard from
3 p.m. on the 19-metre band through
DJL, DJB and DJQ, but Daventry is of
little use in this channel for about 20
minutes after opening at 4.30 p.m.
Berlin now quotes DJX as 30.99 metres,
whereas previously it was given as 31.01
metres. The Berlin station through DJH
or. 16.81 metres can be well heard,
especially at night-time, being right up
to the 19-metre standard.
K. B. G., Thargomindah.
Home Power, Lighting and
Radio Units.
“I Warned Trethevick ’bout usin' soft-pedal on tha noo oorgan .”
In choosing a radio receiver for the
homestead, the capabilities of the home-
lighting plant must be taken into con-
sideration. With a reliable charging and
lighting outfit, there is little or no worry
about keeping a couple of accumulators
continually in service, with one in use
and the other on charge. With receivers
designed to run entirely from the accu-
mulator by vibrator-power unit, there is
no worry about high-tension supply, as
the low-voltage accumulator takes care
of the two requirements. A lighting
plant now available in Sydney from Am-
plion (Australasia) Pty., Ltd., 66 Clar-
ence-street, is the 300-watt Briggs and
Stratton Amp-Lite illustrated. Selling at
£35 155., it is a small petrol-electric gen-
erator operating at full capacity for 12
hours on one gallon of petrol. This
Page recently made a test of the unit,
and found a striking absence of vibra-
tion.
The plant is light in construction, and
will provide light for 12 rooms, will
Model 300 Amp-Lite 12-volt home
power unit with press-button starting.
charge radio, car and truck batteries, and
operate low-wattage high-efficiency fans
for cooling. It has oil-bath type air-
cleaner, petrol-filter, float-type adjust-
able carburettor, ball-bearings with gen-
erator side oil-sealed, and hardened steel
alloy inserted exhaust-valve seating. The
units are intended for farm homes,
summer cottages, tourist camps, motor
cruisers, yachts, caravans, emergency-
radio supply, military work, etc. Full
particulars can be had from the agents.
"Radio" for March.
Technical articles for the experimenter
cover a variety of subjects in the current
issue of “Radio,” U.S.A. Practical con-
structional details on a method of sup-
porting a rotary beam aerial array are
given by W9HLF, and for the ultra-high-
frequency receiver enthusiast there is an
entirely new type of improved resistance-
coupled superhet for five and two and
a half metres by Frank Jones, W6AJF.
John Kraus, WBJK, probably the world’s
leading experimenter with aerial arrays
for amateur working, describes a new
form of 56mc. beam aerial, the “Square-
Corner” reflector. Other articles include
“Electrical Multi-measurements,” “Equip-
ment for Portable-Mobile,” “An Efficient
‘Semi-skeleton’ Amplifier,” “Gain in
R.F. Stages,” “Tuning Indicator for
Plate Detectors,” “Compact ’Phone
Transmitter” and “Exterminating Para-
sitics.”
Much conjecture has arisen recently
regarding signals from a Tibetan amateur
station, AC4YN, and signals originating
from some illegal source purporting to
be from AC4YN have apparently misled
amateurs of many countries into think-
ing that they have tied up with the
Tibetan. The full story of AC4YN is
told in this issue by W6QD, and this
makes interesting reading. “Radio” may
be subscribed to through The Bulletin
office, 252 George-street, Sydney ; 18s. 6d.
per annum, copies mailed direct from
the publisher.
The U.S.S.R. claims to have the world’s
longest h.-f. cable —5600 miles of it
recently put into service for telephone
connection between Moscow and Khaba-
rovsk, Siberia. It permits simultaneous
transmission of three telephone calls, 38
telegraphic messages, a broadcast pro-
gramme and picture transmission im-
pulses. The installation was done by
Standard Telephones and Cables, of
London.
The Question Box.
My five-valve receiver brings in 2GZ only
faintly. Can anything be done about it?
—761.
No mention is made of the aerial used for
reception. This should be as high as possible,
well insulated, and with a total length of
about 100 ft. More length can be used if
necessary. A good earth connection is also
essential. Assuming that the receiver is work-
ing satisfactorily on other stations the aerial-
earth arrangement seems to be the first thing
for attention.


FROM FACTORY**
Fresh ♦ Fragran
TOBACCO
at new low prices/
Smokers!
DO YOU WANT GOOD
VALUE AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per!b.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . . . 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . , 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . ... 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium ... . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only .. . 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . . . 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid,. Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only. . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild . . . . 7/6
“Skipper,” medium ~ .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . . . 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . .. 6/6
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
Postage paid in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other S'tates.
COMBINED GROW ERS’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
The only way
to a
Clean Shave
H
Si?
Wm
1 f
gig!
a good lather and this hollow-ground safety
Shaving is something that must be done thoroughly. You'll feel
half-dressed if you're only half-shaved. So get behind those, bristles
with a Rolls Razor. There's a sense of satisfaction as the keen
hollow-ground blade glides through the snowy lather. Your cheeks
are smooth and clean. You've had a man's shave with the
one-blade razor that never varies year in year out . . . and what
an economy!
ROLLS
SELF STROPPING
RAZOR
Rolls Razor Company of Australia (Pty.) Ltd.
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
Melbourne: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane.
Brisbane: Butler Bros. Aust. (Pty.) Ltd., Creek St.
Adelaide: Cornells, Coltons and Hofinungs.
Perth: Harris Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay St.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2272 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOUGLAS WILLIAM CLARK
Petitioner
And DAPHNE BELLE CLARK Respon-
dent
And ALAN GEORGE HAINES Co-re-
spondent.
TO ALAN GEORGE HAINES formerly of
Hamilton.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOUGLAS
WILLIAM CLARK has commenced a suit
against DAPHNE BELLE CLARK in this
Honorable Court and is applying'for a dissolu-
tion of marriage. on the grounds of adultery
and' has named you as co-respondent AND
TAKE NOTICE thaL you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Sixth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney. - ■ ’ : 1
IN THE SUPREME COURT , OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial ' Causes - Jurisdiction.
■ N0.'213 of 1939.
BETWEEN EILEEN FLORENCE SMITH
Petitioner
And RADOLPHUS ROOME SMITH
Respondent. ’
TO RADOLPHUS ROOME SMITH
formerly of Port Stephens.. .
TAKE NOTICE' that the said EILEEN
FLORENCE SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honourable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit; at the proper office of this
Court on or before the. Sixth day of/June one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the eVent of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence, notwithstanding. - A
copy of the * petition"filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. v BODY,
Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by
his Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS &
CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2137 of 1938.
BETWEEN IRENE BLANCHE STEWART
Petitioner
And GEOFFREY WILLIAM HENRY
STEWART Respondent.
TO GEOFFREY’ WILLIAM HENRY
STEWART late of Cowper Street
Gouiburn.- - . • -
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE
BLANCHE : STEWART has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a decree for restitution of conjugal rights
AND . TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twentieth day of June next and in the event
of your-not'doing so within the time limited,
or obtaining further time the. Petitioner will
proceed and suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had om application
to the undersigned- free of charge.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
REGINALD LANCE MANNING, Solicitor
for the Petitioner,. Maitland Street, Narrabri;
by his Agents, PRIDDLE, GOSLING, DAL-
RYMPLE & SILLAR, Solicitors, Wingello
House, - Angel Place, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
ELIZABETH KNAPE.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court
made in the action 1938 No. 705 in which
The Equity Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited is plaintiff and Frederick
Dawson Trewarne defendant the persons claim-
ing to be next-of-kin to ELIZABETH KNAPE
nee Dellar or Deller late of Kew formerly of
Bendigo in the State of Victoria Widow who
died on the 17th day of February 1936 are by
their solicitors on or before the 15th day of
May 1939 to come in and prove their claims
at the office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order The 29th day of May 1939 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon at the said office
is appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED the 14th day of March, 1939.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 25 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY TONGE Petitioner
And WILLIAM- NORMAN TONGE
Respondent. -
TO WILLIAM . NORMAN TONGE late of
Taree in the State' of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
TONGE has commenced a suit against you in
this Court, and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of' desertion for
three . years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
.are required to. enter an appearance to the
said suit at the' proper office of this Court
on or before the ninth day of June One
thousand nine hundred 'and thirty mine and
in the event of your not doing, so within, the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner, will proceed and the. suit, be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the.' petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Tenth day of - March One
thousand nine hundred, and thirty-nine;
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, .
“ . Registrar,
W. A. DOWE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney. -
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 119 of- 1939. -
BETWEEN ALBERT JOLLEY Petitioner
And EMILY MARGARET ALICE
JOLLEY Respondent.
TO EMILY MARGARET ALICE JOLLEY
' . formerly, of Stockton..
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERT
JOLLEY has commenced a suit against you
in'this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution, of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years .without just cause or
•excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to ■ enter an appearance to the said
suit ■ at 1 the proper office of this Court on or
before the. Sixth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed.herein may be had on application
’to the undersigned free, of charge.
• DATED this 14th day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & MCDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents,' N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME- COURT OF NEW
. SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Ca-uses Jurisdiction.
No. 458 of 1939.
BETWEEN THELMA MARGARET MASON
‘Petitioner
And CLIVE MASON Respondent.
TO CLIVE MASON late .of '23 Albion
Street Waverley.
TAKE. NOTICE that THELMA MAR-
GARET MASON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the "ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards : AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are "required to’ enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twentieth day. of June
T 939 and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy -of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the unier-
signed free of charge.
DATED the 22nd day of, March, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C, JOLLIE SMITH,' Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 734 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOROTHY ANN GORTON
Petitioner '
AND ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
•Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
late of Woolgoolga in the State of New South
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitu-
tion of conjugal rights dated the Eighth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine has been made against you in a
suit wherein Dorothy Ann Gorton was the
Petitioner and you the said Alexander George
Gorton were Respondent requiring you within
twenty-one days from service of the said decree
to take back or return home to the Petitioner
and render to her conjugal rights and further
requiring you within four days after the expira-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
Registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE' that by an order
made on the Seventeenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine it was
ordered that substituted service of the said
decree be made by twice publishing this notice
in a Sydney weekly newspaper circulating
throughout New South Wales the first inser-
tion to be within fourteen days and the se d°n d
insertion to be seven days thereafter and by
posting a copy of the said notice by ordinary
prepaid post to you in care of your father
Mr. J. Gorton at his last known address
Macquarie Street Tamworth within seven da>s
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
consequence of your non-compliance with tn
decree is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you to
judicial separation or for the dissolution o
your marriage AND FURTHER TAK
NOTICE that service is to be taken as complete
on the Third day of May next from which date
the twenty-one days within which you are w
take back or return to the Petitioner will com
mence to run. xt» rr h
DATED this Twenty-third day of Marcn,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar,
N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors
for Petitioner, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
larger country towns to see something
of the world’s masterpieces.
Melbourne
Very few people would find anything
to cavil at in the water-colors- of C. C.
McNamara, art teacher at the Caulfield
Technical School, whose first show is
at the Stair Gallery, Melbourne. He has
an eye for a pleasant subject and a
straightforward method of narration, and
his pictures fit in with most people’s con-
ception except the modernists. Harold
Herbert was his master. He hasn’t that
artist’s virtuosity, which is possibly not
altogether a disadvantage
Sydney
Lister Lister’s show —there is a rumor
about that it is his fiftieth —is at Anthony
Horderns’ gallery.
The big canvas this year is a coastal
scene, “White Crested Waves Roll On-
ward to the Shore,” and the artist has
never done a finer piece of work, it
has sweep and depth, atmosphere and
color, and hangs together admirably.
The N. S. Wales coast has claimed a
lot of the painter’s attention in recent
months, and his latest sea-and-beach
pieces are amongst the happiest in the
harvest. Some fine landscapes-with-river
are the fruit of meditations near Audley,
in the National Park; a beautiful district,
and there’s one old picture—a glimpse of
Canberra in 1912 before Burley Griffin
got to work on it.
¥ * * *
English black-and-white man H. M.
Bateman has a merry show at the
Grosvenor Galleries. He has the art of
presenting either a moving picture in a
long succession of episodes, or one draw-
ing that crystallises a social cataclysm.
“The Rush Hour,” a pencil sketch of a
couple dashing to the Manly ferry turn-
stiles, is a Sydney impression.
* * * *
Mavis Mallinson (Mrs. G. H. Dawson),
whose.show is at the Lyceum Club, prac-
tises sculpture, paints in oil and tempera,
and draws in pastel and in ink-and-water
color. Her child studies in oils are charm-
ing, her nudes in pastel are excellent,
and her “Girl’s Head” and “Portrait” in
tempera have topnotch professional
snap. A quarter-size statue, “The In-
evitable,” a female nude figure, is origi-
nally posed and beautifully modelled.
* * * *
Alison Rehfisch, who has been abroad
for five years, presents travel impres-
sions at the Macquarie Galleries. She
has acquired a suave touch with color,
and a. sense of pattern. Flowers painted
in a window against the light with a
background of drab rooftops and chim-
neys appeal to her, and save where she
becomes deliberately primitive, as in
“Breton Fishing Boats” and some kindred
scenes, she produces quiet, congenial
pictures.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
iS^ U
ps
a
■ Lb
j& / i~ /
be
c£>Jb
f<9'*- /
The Richardson Chain Hotel
Siiii
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station),
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4141 (10 lines).
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TP
GRAZCOS."
The World’s Wool.
“Ghanam”: Whatever effect artificial
fibres may be having on "the world wool
trade, they have not affected the German
wool output. Sheep in the Reich have
increased from 3,405,000 in 1932 to
4,810,000 in 1938 and production from
31,500,0001 b. to 44,500,0001 b. Average
output is about per sheep.
Australia to the end of January had
sold 181,000 fewer bales (57,000,0001 b.)
than to the same time the previous
season. S. Africa sold 40,000,0001 b. more.
Its carryover was 18,500,0001 b. less
than for the same period of 1937-38.
Maoriland’s September-January sales
were 4,000,0001 b. above last year’s
figures.
The Argentine, the Imperial Economic
Committee tells us, has “continued to
meet the market freely.” U.K., France,
U.S.A. all bought strongly towards the
end of the year—a good many million
more pounds were sold and shipped be-
tween October and January than in the
previous year. But in Uruguay wool-
producers have holding on for
better prices. Theirs is
the only country in
which the season’s wool
has piled up to any
extent.
Germany’s import
for 1938 was
306,0 00,0001 b.
—80,000,0001 b. more
than in ’36 or ’37, and
32,000,0001 b. more
than in ’35. Of the in-
crease, 27,800,0001 b.
came from S. Africa,
39,600,0001 b. from the
Argentine and
20,900,0001 b. from
Uruguay. S. Africa sold
an average of
54,800,0001 b. of wool
p.a. to Germany in the
years 1931-34; in 1938
sales were 78,100,0001 b.
The Argentine averaged
40,100,0001 b. to Germany in the earlier
years; last year’s quota was 59,800,0001 b.
Australia’s average German sale for
19 31-34 was 120,500,0001 b.; last year
52,100,0001 b. I am not commenting.
Big Sheep Rises Unjustified.
“Lion”: At a recent N.S.W. sale fol-
lowing rains, the prices expected for
sheep were much too high. There is
everything to justify a rise, as many
owners will soon be assured of grass and
herbage, but not overbig prices in face
of present low wool values.
Here are some of the prices noted:
Border-Leicester crossbred ewe lambs,
shorn early November, showing marked
signs of drought, exceptionally short wool
and very small frames. Passed at 16s. 9d.,
owner wanting 18s. 6d.
Two-tooth merino wethers, plain necks,
late shorn, wormy and drought-affected.
Passed at 145.; owner wanted 17s. 6d.
Mixed sexes, catalogued as crossbred,
late shorn, wormy, droughty lambs.
Passed at 13s. Bd. How could such lambs
be worth 17s. on present levels, as was
asked? A good drenching and green
feed would probably make something of
them in the end.
False values can only injure the in-
dustry.
Too Many Star Lots.
“K.Mc.”: Closer settlement, an in-
creasing number of wheatgrowers run-
ning a few sheep and the wider use of
crossbreds for fat-lamb production have
led to a congestion of star lots at Syd-
ney wool sales. Buyers have time only
for a hasty examination of each line, and
sellers probably lose if the margins
allowed for error are widened.
Although daily offerings have been
cut down from 14,000 to 11,000 bales,
brokers are often obliged to continue
selling until late at night or carry over
“ I think it's about time We told little Mary a thing or two."
the unsold portion of their offerings to
the following day. Recently members
of the N.S.W. Woolbuyers’ Association
arbitrarily limited the number of lots
for which they were prepared to bid.
Further curtailment of offerings would
be unfair to growers who want quicker
returns. If Sydney sales were continued
throughout the season, without breaks
for Brisbane sales, sufficient time would
be available for the small lots. Or,
better still, growers should be encour-
aged to pool their oddments. I would like
to see pools established at country centres
where packs need only be raddle-marked
at the shed and could be re-used to save
growers a second charge for covers. Pro-
vision should be made for classed odd-
ments to be included in pooled lines at
specially-reduced rates.
Planning Needed.
“J.W.”: The N. S. Wales Graziers’
Conference decided to ask for the repeal
of the Noxious Insects Act. Only one-
third of the delegates had any confidence
in the system. One said that his experi-
ence showed ’hopper-baiting to be in-
effective. Another said that the poison
killed ants and swallows; yet another
that he had spread bait all over ant-
heaps and there were no casualties, and
he had never seen a poisoned bird. E.
Cadell said that at Tamworth the £5OOO
spent by the P.P. Board had resulted in
the saving of tens of thousands of pounds
in crops and grass, and consequently
stock. The conference voted 47 to 27
against the Act under which poison bait
is distributed.
The problem seems simple enough.
Will arsenic kill ’hoppers? ’Hoppers
breed in large beds. Can arsenic be
mixed with something else which will
tempt ’hoppers to eat it? Will they eat
it while in beds? And can the dose
be administered economically? What’s
wrong with the Graziers’ Association
spending a thousand or two and finding
out for certain?
Having finished with the ’hoppers a
Walcha (N.S.W.) delegate said that kan-
garoos were a “distinct curse.” He had
seen 150 yards of new wire kicked to
pieces. And though the “wallaroo might
be 100 p.c. Australian and nice to look
at, it must go.” Another member said
the motion to exterminate them was
absurd, so the meeting compromised—-
protection to be removed in certain dis-
tricts except in State forests and reserves.
Foxes were next. Decided that de-
struction be enforced in all P.P. Board
districts. Why isn’t it enforced now?
The law is pretty clear.
That left noxious weeds.
The Minister for Lands to be asked to
review the position of landholders whose
holdings have become uncontrollable so
far as noxious weeds art concerned, with
a view to preventing prosecution by the
shires, which at present have no alternative.
Noxious weeds are just as inimical to
production us kangaroos and twice as
dangerous to neighbors. While I sym-
pathise with a lot of people who have
uncontrollable noxious weeds, I don’t
sympathise with the pastoral industry
about it. Noxious weeds can be dealt
with only by showing a united front.
They must be wiped out on all holdings,
otherwise none are safe.
To try to clean up weeds universally
all at once by general prohibition and
action is too large a job. What about
a ten-year plan, everybody contributing
throughout the State? An area could
be plotted each year for cleaning up,
with a follow-on insurance programme
against recurrence. The following year
the front-line operators could be moved
to another district. Rabbits, ’hoppers’
breeding-grounds and dangerous and
widespread noxious weeds could then be
dealt with in each area systematically.
The present method of following the
opinion of all hands in one district and
that of the cook in the next will have
to go.
Subdivision and Rotational Grazing.
“H.A.L.”: Six months ago the M.O.L.
page described how the Waite Institute
had carried six sheep to the acre all the
year round under straightout farming
conditions, the pasture being improved
and the sheep moved from one paddock
to the next on a rigid schedule. An
equally striking testimony to the virtues
of subdivision and rotational grazing
comes from Robe (S.A.), where the C.S.
and I.R. is investigating the use of cobalt
and copper to counteract “coast sick-
ness.”
The flock is grazed on coastal dunes
which carry a sheep to every three or
four acres when one large paddock is
used. The area has been closely sub-
divided and the sheep are moved each
week. Carrying capacity has been raised
to a sheep to the acre. There has been
no topdressing or sowing of fodder
grasses. Sheep eat the ordinary coarse
sandhill grasses and bush.
By being only a week in each paddock
the stock do not have time to eat out
any particular species of grass and bush.
The paddocks are spelled long enough
to allow all fodder to grow again, and
the quick and heavy grazing does not
allow any plant, edible or otherwise, to
become dominant.
The scheme must be followed faith-
fully to be successful. The same nymber


1
• - • -•
; %
■ i
f
I
K
(/
GIVE YOUR BOY ABBEY ORTHOPAEDICS.
Let his feet grow naturally and remain free from foot troubles which
cause so much pain and discomfort.
Growing feet need Orthopaedics to help them develop into happy,
healthy feet,
Made in Black or Brown Calf with strong welted soles and heels,
medium and wide fittings and in full and half sizes.
PRICES: 13 to IJ, 21/-; 2 to 5, 23/6; 6, 25/-.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 53 Castlereagh St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
When ordering your
SUPERPHOSPHATE
specify
PACKED IN PAPER
BAGS
This will ensure your super, being
delivered at no extra cost
in
Bates Multi-wall Paper Bags—
-24 to the ton.
These bags are ideal packages for
Superphosphate.
Strong Dependable
Convenient Economical
Made for the Trade by
BATES (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Hoes Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold*—Shell Co., 00 Repeat Orders; Hank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
The Ilygeia Dhsolvenator Fully Guaranteed
PRICE £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
Jhe SZLS£?Z/7L
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
of sheep must be carried all the time,
and they must be changed into the next
paddock on the due day. When the
fodder is getting ahead of the sheep don’t
put more in to eat it; cut the surplus and.
store it as hay before the sheep go into
that paddock. The only expense is for
water supplies in each paddock and for
fencing.
Size of Potatoes.
“Murphy”: Two Indian experi-
menters have been at work on the effect
of fertilisers on the size of potatoes.
Their seed was Scottish Epicure, and
they laid on 2001 b. amm. sulph., 1141 b.
pot. sulph. and 571 b. double super, per
acre. This gave an acreage dose of 401 b.
nitrogen, 571 b. potash and 221 b. phos-
phoric acid. Whole tubers were put in
in rows 2ft. apart and 9in. between each
seed.
The yield of controls was 6.07 tons
per acre, average weight of tubers
33.1grms. With potassium yield
was slightly less, size 0.1 grm. more.
Potassium in conjunction with phos-
phorus increased the yield to 7.34 tons.
Phosphoric treatment gave a 6.94-ton
yield and tubers weighing 36.9grms. But
nitrogen topped the score in all its com-
binations —nitrogen-phosphorus 9.63 tons,
tubers 44.6grms. ; simplest nitrogen fer-
tiliser, 8.79 tons, 37.4grms.
Frost and Dundee.
“Tryit”: Experience with Dundee last
season is worth noting before sowing
this year’s crop.
In November there were three late
frosts over my crops. They were light,
and made no difference to Baringa
and Waratah, but took four bags to the
acre from the Dundee in the same flat
paddock. Wheats sown on hilly country
were all unaffected. Although Dundee
looked the lightest crop it yielded more
heavily than any where not frosted. A
neighbor had exactly similar results on
350 acres. His Dundee sown on the
slopes went nine bags. All land was
fallowed.
Dundee is susceptible to the lightest
frost. It pays to sow it on slopes that
don’t face the rising sun. If frost can
thaw off any susceptible vegetation
before the sun strikes it, scalding and
loss does not take place to anything like
the same extent.
Winter Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: Winter wheats are new to
Australia. The N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department’s plant-breeder, S. J. Mac-
Indoe, of Glen Innes experiment farm,
has been trying out varieties introduced
and making numerous crosses, He is
confident that there is a useful place for
them in areas of summer rainfall to facili-
tate early sowing. It is expected that the
winter types will be suitable only for
the N.S.W. northern tableland and north-
west, but trials will embrace all experi-
ment farms in the wheatbelt.
The plots were sown in mid-March
at Glen Innes, Bathurst, Trangie, Condo-
bolin, Wagga and Temora. Qrdinary
Australian varieties sown as early as
March would run to head too quickly
and be caught in flower by winter frost.
The winter types will take advantage of
the plentiful moisture now in the soil,
and should make creeping growth and
stool freely. Then with the first signs
of spring they should run into head
quickly. They are capable of withstand-
ing severe winter temperatures, and are
resistant to unseasonable frosts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Karaway”: To pit potatoes, spread
a quantity of straw on the ground a
couple of feet wide, stack the potatoes
on it triangle-wise, cover with straw and
then with earth. Start using from one
end, and always keep the remainder
covered.
“Mullengah”: Best implement for
renovation of paspalum pastures is the
mouldboard plough, which breaks up the
sod. Plough furrows 3in. to 4in. deep,
and break down the sods with a disk cul-
tivator or rotary hoe. A better-balanced
ration is provided if 41b. of red clover
and 61b. of Italian rye grass are sown
after breaking down. White clover will
grow vigorously if the sward is top-
dressed with Hcwt. to 2cwt. of super-
phosphate per acre.
“Yeno Ham”: Until a calf is a month
old, add a tablespoonful of linseed meal
to its ration of separated milk, thus re-
placing the fat taken out by the sepa-
rator. Mix the linseed meal with hot
water before adding it to the milk. At
first sign of scouring in calves, mix two
tablespoonfuls of plain flour to a smooth
paste with water, add water to make up
a pint, and pour the mixture down the
calf’s throat from a bottle. If no im-
provement is shown, cut down the milk
ration, and feed a gruel made by boiling
the flour and water. A little milk
may be added, but give plenty of
water. As the calf improves in-
crease the milk ration gradually. Don’t
overfeed young calves with separated
milk. If a calf “blows up” because it
gets too much separated milk, green
clover or lucerne, bind a thin, strong
stick at the end with clean rag, tie
securely, dip in kerosene and pass it down
the calf’s throat to release the wind. A
mixture of bicarbonate of soda and water
is also effective.
“Canbelego”: Weeds growing in the
orchard during damp weather help to
relieve the soil of surplus moisture.
When the weather clears turn the weeds
under as a green manure crop. Sow
field peas for green manure in autumn.
Plough them under during August or
September.
“C.V.S.”: Even if only in small quan-
tities, wigs and crutchings should never
be mixed. The practice makes treatment
by scourers difficult, and separation by
sorting is economically impossible. Free
white lines are often sorted from good
crutchings, but, even though they scour
white, wigs containing enough seed
or burr to call for carbonising may ruin
such lines. They often contain a fine
shiv difficult to carbonise. Even if wigs
are free they should be separated to gain
advantage of their higher yield.
“K.Mc.”: There should be no need
to lift the export embargo to create a
demand for merino rams next year.
Most studs had poor lambings in 1938,
some none at all. The exceptionally dry
period October-March does not
promise any better results for this year’s
autumn drop. Two studs at Nyngan and
Warren (N.S.W.) recorded 1818 lambs in
1937, but none at all in 1938. Southern
Riverina and Victorian studs reported
half, or less, the usual number dropped.
Whether wool goes up or down, the
demand for rams is not greatly influ-
enced —woolgrowers must keep on grow-
ing wool or get out, but the price of the
clip has a big bearing on the amount
growers are prepared to pay for sires.
“Booraby”: Large numbers of sheep
were lost for want of feed during the
recent drought. Surplus grass if cut and
stored in good seasons would tide flocks
over a long dry period in most parts of
the country. Mr. H. R. Marston, chief
nutrition officer of the C.S. and 1.R.,
reported recently that an enormous ex-
cess of Mitchell grass is produced each
year on the Darling Downs. “Under
natural conditions from lOcwt. to 30cwt.
per acre of hay may be collected at a
cost of about 40s. per ton.”
“Bull-ant Bill”: Some useful figures
for pig-growers have been worked out
by the Queensland Department of Agri-
culture from recorded sales of 1000 or
so bacon-pigs. For liveweights of 1501 b.
to 2001 b. on the farm, average loss in
transit to factory is 10 p.c. Dressing and
cooling off lose about another 20 p.c.
From 1001 b. to 1401 b. liveweights average
loss is around 33 p.c. Individual figures
vary considerably. Total average differ-
ence between liveweight on farm and
cold dressed weight at factory was 30.5
p.c., distributed between extremes of 25
p.c. and 34 p.c., with heavier loss on
lighter-weight stuff left slightly unfinished
for purposes of comparison. Weights
were taken successively on farm, at fac-
tory after 12 hours’ fast, again before
slaughter not more than 24 hours later
and after slaughter.
“Corn Cob”: The world’s worst maize
disease—American corn smut —has ap-
peared on a holding in the Bathurst
(N.S.W.) district, on which it had not
previously been detected. Last season
an isolated outbreak occurred on an-
other Bathurst farm, and prompt action
was taken to destroy and burn the crop
and to prevent further maize growing on
the property. The N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture appealed then to the federal
Government to prohibit the importation
of maize (except for manufacturing :n
bond) from any country in which the
disease exists. Nothing has yet been
done. The disease is seed-borne, and
seed maize is still imported.
“B’gurra”: Soilless growth (B. l/3/’39)
has its advantages. Water culture is an
old idea, but the research work of Pro-
fessor Gericke (U.S.A.) has resulted in
improved methods which make it pos-
sible for growers to harvest an average
of 83 tons of tomatoes to an acre. Pan-
American Airways, faced with the
problem of providing fresh vegetables
for air-travellers on Wake Island (where
the sands are too new and water too
scarce to allow ordinary gardening), com-
missioned one Laumeister to start a soil-
less garden. He encountered several
difficulties at the start, the chief of which
was the effect of the brilliant sunshine
on the plants’ diet. He found that the}
consumed more nitrates because of it.
He delivered his first radish in two
months from commencing work, and at
the end of six months had 120 square
feet of “garden,” from which in one
week he picked 331 b. of tomatoes, -9
head of lettuce, 201 b. of beans, 151 b. ol
squash and 331 b. of corn.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Approximate cost per pound of wool when
it arrives in Sydney, Melbourne or Aaei-
aide from a station, say, 100 miles inlan
How computed? —26B3.
“Cost” of wool varies so greatly on type (in-
cluding breed, quality, yield, etc.) that a com-
mon basic figure could not be arrived at. i
is little wool grown within 100 miles of i>yan >s
and it could not compare with wools from t
Western District of Victoria grown within tw
miles radius of Melbourne. Freights are acco
ing to weight consigned. Insurance, c
mission and other charges are regula >
wool price. Rail freight on wool in • • •
and Victoria at per ton rates wou d wort
at ,20d. per pound and in South Aust
,25d. per pound.
* * * *
What would be the return from 12 breeding
sows and one boar ? (2) Cost per head of
(3) Return per acre from (a) potato, W V
kin, (c) onion crops? —2623. . . *
(I) Depends on type and quality of P lg ! boul
feeding. An average sow should return „„
£lO net per year. (2) Coat depends upon a. ;
and quality, and ranges from £3 to to
for boar and sows. (3) Can’t estimate Depen
on type of soil, district, and market condit o
On the N.S.W. tablelands a good
of potatoes would yield about six tons-
average pumpkin crop would P. wou lc
Depending on variety, an onion crop
average 10-14 tons per acre.


THEY TOOK HIGHBROW OUT
OF PHILOSOPHY!!!
AN AMAZING
BARGAIN
“Library of World’s Great
T hinkers”
Considering the everlasting worth of
real literature, and the value of it
to the individual groping for light in
a world of political and economic
turmoil, it is truly amazing how this
twenty-volume “Library of the
World’s Great Thinkers’’ can be
sold at such a low, well-nigh
ridiculous price.
PUBLIC DEMAND FOR
INFORMATION
The welfare of the modern man, and
woman, too, is so intimately con-
cerned with the ever-changing scene
of political, social and international
life that to-day brings an ever-
increasing desire for information and
knowledge; to interpret the problems
of the times problems which, if not
clearly understood, may be vital to
tke very life of an individual as well
as a nation.
Hence the demand for serious read-
ing—and the reason for this master-
piece . . . the “Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers”—at a price to
please all.
Angus and Robertson will deliver to your home
for a deposit of 10 f- and small monthly pay-
ments.
W. M. HUGHES
says
“TAKE MORE INTEREST ”
The Rt. Hon. W. M. Hughes,
M.H.R., in recent public utterances,
stressed the need for more general
appreciation and understanding of
the trend of world events —events
which might at any moment shake us
rudely from our insular apathy!
And the pathway Jo shrewder, surer
understanding, keener appreciation of
world events is through the “Library of
the World’s Great Thinkers” !
Your copy will be delivered to your
door by Angus and Robertson for
10/- deposit and small monthly pay-
ments.
Act quickly—the edition is limited
and selling rapidly!
NOTE THESE
AUTHORS
FREUD
PLATO
FRANKLIN
ARISTOTLE
FRANCIS BACON
ROUSSEAU
JOHN DEWEY
EMERSON
MONTAIGNE
THOMAS PAINE
DARWIN
CONFUCIUS
GOETHE
SPINOZA
SCHOPEN-
HAUER
TOLSTOI
VOLTAIRE
NIETZSCHE
KARL MARX
HAVELOCK
ELLIS
HOW KNOWLEDGE OF
PHILOSOPHY BUILDS
MENTAL STRENGTH
The great philosophers were the seekers
after solutions to the greatest problems
that have troubled mankind! Their
thoughts, as written down in the “Library
of the World’s Great Thinkers,” awaken
the reader to a new world, to a greater
strength of mind.
Reading through the works of the many
great thinkers and philosophers, we begin
to see our complicated world in a newer
light. Things once a mystery take shape
and form. Events that puzzled us become
clarified. And the tremendous drift of
modern peoples under autocratic leaders
becomes a reasoned, logical sequence of
many historic events!
Surely it would be hard to find a more
useful set of 20 volumes than this library
for the small sum asked for it! Ten
shillings deposit brings this wonderful
library to your home!
THE GREATEST MINDS OF ALL TIME
LIVE AS OUR COMPANIONS TO-DAY!
The “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers” is, in every sense,
“popular” reading. It is a veritable delight to follow the workings of
such great minds as those of Bacon (who is said by some to have written
Shakespeare) and Voltaire, whose vitriolic pen did so much to provoke
the French Revolution.
One could scarcely suggest any greater or more profitable pleasure than
to spend one’s leisure hours in the companionship of the greatest
thinkers of all time! To read their works as they are presented in this
magnificently produced and printed set of twenty volumes is the next
best thing, if that were possible, to actually talking to the writers.
What, however, is so fascinating about the reading of these books is
the fact that they impart to one’s thinking a new strength, a stronger
personal outlook, a keener understanding, not only of those about us,
but a shrewder interpretation of the thundering march of world
events to-day.
None who love books, who
venerate genius, and who
treasure knowledge will miss
this opportunity to secure
these twenty volumes of
mighty “thinkers” literature
from the greatest minds the
world has known.
DARWIN DID NOT SAY
“MAN CAME FROM
MONKEYS!”
There’s a revolutionary statement,
an absolute reversal of all our pre-
conceived ideas of Darwin and his
theory of evolution! Read the
“Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers’’ and find out what Darwin
really did say about man and his
proximity to the monkey in the pro-
cess of evolution.
Ten shillings deposit pufs this grand
library of 20 mighty volumes in
your home.
MORALITY
SPLIT IN TWO
CIGMUND FREUD, world-famed
psychologist—renowned for his
research on sex and its problems—
here in these mighty volumes gives
you his views and findings on that
contentious subject. He delved so
deeply into the innermost recesses
of the human mind
that even the so-
called “sub-con-
scious” was robbed
of its secrets!
Few men created such
a storm of controversy
as this mild-mannered
scholar. As a result
of his work, the
science of psychology
is split in two —the
Freudians (who attributed most mental
aberrations to a sex basis) and the non-
Freudians, who would have none of bis
theories I
The entrancing story of Freud and his startling
theories is told in the “Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes of the greatest
thoughts and interpretations ever committed
to print.
\
5
TWENTY VOLUMES OF THE
WORLD’S GREATEST PHILOSOPHIES
Delivered to your Home for only 10/- Deposit
The “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers,” from Angus and Robert-
son, comprises 20 volumes, by
richly bound in “lifetime”
binding of two-toned Royal Blue Silk
Weave cloth—inlaid panels, gold
titles and decorations with coloured
end-sheets. Stained and polished
tops and mercerised head bands.
Young and old alike will enjoy read-
ing the works of these great minds,
about the men whose works have so
influenced the world of to-day. Each
volume will bring comfort and con-
solation to the aged; strength and
courage to those who grapple with
life’s problems, and inspiration and
knowledge to the young student.
BUILDS YOUR PRESTIGE
A sound knowledge of the great philo-
sophies will enhance your prestige. To-day
we are expected to know about the vari-
ous influences that shaped our interesting
world and this age of transition.
A few minutes each evening with this
wonderful Library, or an occasional hour
or two when time permits, and soon you
will acquire a working knowledge of the
great philosophers—to the enhancement
of your prestige, to your personal enrich-
ment, and to the broadening of your
mental vision.
FORTIFY YOUR MIND
The stress of modern living leaves us at
times in dire need of mental refreshment,
of inspiration, and a different outlook.
The "Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers" is virtually a set of companions
to inspire, to refresh and to stimulate when
we need mental relaxation or change!
mmm
mm
mmm
■
.» ■
..
jkMWNVwV’ -* J 1 |' -
l : I
11l
.■
: ;■■;• ■: ■: :■ .
ONLY
K>-
DEPOSIT
ENJOY THESE VOLUMES
Simply fill in the required particulars in the accom-
panying Order Form, attach Postal Note, Money Ordei
or Cheque for the full price of £7/19/6, or, if you
prefer, just 10/- deposit. Send this at once to us,
and your set will be sent, complete, by return mail.
To be obtained only from
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street - - - SYDNEY
DREAMS REVEAL
YOUR MIND
Havelock Ellis—contemporary of
Sigmund Freud—along with Jung
and Adler, has delved into dreams,
their cause and effect; their miseries,
terrors and delights.
His findings are an absorbing volume
in the “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers’’—a feast of gripping
interest and knowledge.
Ten shillings deposit to Angus and
Robertson secures this comprehen-
sive library, immediately.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
FILL IN AND POST THIS
ORDER FORM TO-DAY
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes, for which
I enclose a deposit of 10/-, and agree to make 13 further monthly instalments of
12/6 —£8/12/6 in all; or I will pay £7/19/6 cash within 30 days of delivery.
NAME
B. 29/3/’39.
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
bd. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . . _
as jgsaafjaa^.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchant*
Liverpool Street*
Dunedin* N.Z.
16 Page Buylne oo d
Selling L» s t lree '
Established 49 2g»
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (25), Sydney, wants any kind of
work, anywhere.—2B37.
Young man (23), well educated, four years’
exp. accountancy and secretarial work, seeks
position as bookkeeper or private secretary.
—2815.
Ex-army schoolmaster, N.S.W., wants posi-
tion in country as tutor to boys (inter, standard)
or companion to old gentleman.—2Bs9.
Young married man, Sydney, wants work
as a cleaner, or anything else that offers a living
for two. Refs. —2831.
Gentleman wants seat in car Melbourne to
Mildura. —2863.
To buy Working Bullocks, by Katharine
Susannah Prichard.—2796.
To buy The Best Poems of 1922, 1923, 1926,
1928, 1929, 1930. 1932 and onwards, edited by
Thomas Moult. —2866.
To sell Mitchell’s Eastern Australia, vols. 1
and 2 (T. and W. Rose, 1839), and Godfrey
Charles Mundy’s Our Antipodes (Bentley,
1840).—2843.
Words of verse entitled “The Drug Addict,”
published about two years ag0. —2842.
Words of poem by Langdon Smith including
the lines
“When you were a tadpole and I was a frog
In the palaeozoic time.’’
—2840.
Words of verse “The Bugle,” by H. M.
Bethune. —2867.
Photograph of parrot or cockatoo, reputed
to be over 100 years old, which belonged to a
resident of Tom Ugly’s Point, Sydney. —2813.
Information Sought.
What trade treaties exist between Australia
and other countries? —2sBs.
Australia has made trade agreements with
U.K. and non-self-goveming countries of the
British Colonial Empire (1932); Canada
(1931); M.L. (1933); S. Africa, including
S.W. Africa (1935); Belgium and Luxemburg
(1936); Czechoslovakia (1936); France, in-
cluding Algeria, Corsica and Monaco (1936).
A temporary arrangement of an informal
character exists with Japan (1938).
* * * *
(1) What is the horse-buyers’ superstition
about white-hooved horses ? (2) Probable
origin ? (3) Is there any superstition attached,
to chestnut horses? —2769.
Questions were referred to Henry G. Lamond,
author of Amathea and Horns and Hooves, who
probably knows as much about horses as any
man in Australia. He replied in his charac-
teristic breezy way:
(1) Probably reference is being made to the
old rhyme; One white foot, buy him; two
white feet, try him; three white feet, look
about him; four white feet, go away without
him. Note: A white hoof and a white foot
are two different things—the latter is a hair-
marking on the fetlock only. Horsebuyers
say many things which are not printable about
white-hooved horses. They buy horses to sell,
and there is a prejudice against white-hooved
horses. (2) Have no idea, and the advice
given is on a par with its value as poetry.
(3) Quite possibly, though do not know of
any. Old women’s superstitions cover every-
thing from needles to anchors.
* * * *
(1) Imports of wheat, quantity and value,
into Australia for years 1902 to 1909? (2)
Countries of origin of wheat imported in
1902? (3) Average import price for 1903?
—2680.
(1)
Year. Bushels. £.
1902 .. .. 176,133 35,499
1903 .. .. 9,114,490 1,909,483
1904 .... 371 176
1905 .... 155 36
1906 .... 447 153
1907 .. .. 1,206 597
1908 .... 85 35
1909 .... 77 '52
(2) Countries of origin are not available in
respect to 1902, but details for 1903 are as
follows:
Country of Origin. Bushels. £.
U.K 2 1
Canada 57,110 11,541
India 134,218 28,428
M.L 84,490 18,275
Argentina 3,420,293 687,397
Brazil 122,342 22,687
Chile 3,672 726
China 1,767 378
Italy 360 57
Japan 296 61
Turkey 10 2
U.S.A 5,289,930 1,139,930
Total 9,114,490 1,909,483
(3) 4s. 2d. per bushel.
* * * *
Winners of The Bulletin’s Bush Balladry
Competition conducted a few years ago, and
in what issue did the winning pieces appear ?
2887.
First prize (£l5), “Brumby Green,” by C. H.
Winter; second prize (£7), “Old Dan,” by
Oscar Walters; third prize (£3), “In the Wind
and Rain,” by Lilia Gormhuille McKay. All
three were published in The Bulletin of June
3, 1936, on page 34.
* * * *
Does Australia or the U.S.A. have ‘he
highest average thermometer reading? —246B.
Australia has a higher average temperature
than the United States of America. U.S.A.,
roughly speaking, is situated between the
parallels of 30deg. and 49deg, north latitude,
although the peninsula of Florida extends
almost to the Tropic of Cancer. Australia is
situated between the parallels of lldeg. and
44deg. south latitude, if Tasmania be included.
Therefore U.S.A. is wholly within the temperate
zone, while a considerable area of Australia is
in the tropical zone. Again, U.S.A. is subject
to extreme winter temperatures, much lower
than is the case in Australia. New York, for
instance, has an average summer temperature
of 71.4 deg. and an average winter temperature
of 31.8 deg. Fahr. The highest temperature ever
recorded at New York was 102 deg., while the
lowest was minus 13deg. Fahr., i.e., 45deg. of
frost. Hobart is the coldest capital city in
Australia. The average summer temperature
at Hobart is 61.4 deg., and the average winter
temperature is 46.9 deg. Fahr. The highest tem-
perature ever recorded at Hobart was 105.2 deg.,
and the lowest was 27deg. Fahr., i.e., sdeg. of
frost. These figures, in a measure, serve to
show that the climate of Australia is more
equable than that of the U.S.A., and, generally
speaking, the geographical situation of Australia
gives it a warmer climate than that of the
U.S.A.
In a case where a landlord receives fort-
nightly payments of £2 for rent and sends two
receipts for £1 with no duty stamp, what is
the position under the N.S.W. Stamp Duties
Act?— 276B.
Any person who on payment to the amount
of £2 or upwards gives a receipt for a sum
not amounting to £2 or separates or divides
the amount paid with intent to avoid the duty
is liable to a penalty of £lO, and any person
concerned in any fraudulent act, contrivance or
device with intent to evade any duty under the
Act is also subject to a penalty. No special
provision is made with regard to informers.
A private person, the police or the depart-
ment may prosecute.
* * * *
(1 )\What formalities are necessary to secure
a passport ? (2) Where to apply in Westralia ?
(3) Are there any regulations likely to prevent
persons landing in South Africa, India and
Canada ? —2484.
(1) and (2) If you are a British subject you
should apply to the Collector of Customs, Fre-
mantle, for a passport. (3) An intending immi-
grant is required to satisfy the authorities on
arrival at his proposed destination that leave
to*land may properly be given. If you wish
to be reassuied before taking any steps in the
matter it is suggested that you write direct to
the immigration authorities in the country to
which you desire to proceed. You should give
full particulars regarding occupation and the
amount of capital you would have on arrival.
* * * *
In what number of shires in N. S. Wales
have Alsatian dogs been declared noxious
animals ? Does such a declaration apply to
half-breeds or crossbreds ? —2439.
Alsatian dogs have been declared noxious
animals in about 44 shires and 11 municipalities
in N. S. Wales. The power to take this action
is, under the authority of the Local Govern-
ment Act, in the hands of the individual
councils. For the purposes of the declarations
many councils have adopted a description based
on that used in the Pastures Protection Act,
which defines an Alsatian dog as “a dog,
whether male or female, which is wholly or
partly of the species or kind commonly known
as ‘Alsatian dog’ or ‘Alsatian wolf hound,’ or
belongs wholly or partly to any variety of the
said species by whatever name such variety
may be known, but does not include any such
dog the property of the State used for police
purposes.”
* * * *
How to feed two young quarrions and teach
them to talk ? —2711.
These birds thrive on a mixture of wheat
and millet seed. It is also desirable to give
them a little chopped-up green food, such as
lettuce, spinach or milk thistle, and a little
fruit, such as apple or pear, occasionally. All
birds of this type require grit, and a little char-
coal should be placed in the cage. You do not
mention the approximate age of the birds. If
they have only recently been taken from the
nest give them also each day a tablespoonful
of parboiled maizemeal. Place the meal in a
cheesecloth, submerge in a vessel of boiling
water for five minutes, and when cooled offer
to the birds. This must be prepared daily.
On no account give meal prepared the previous
day, as the food will be sour and will be unfit
for use. To get the birds to whistle place them
where they will continually hear human voices.
The person looking after them must have plenty
of patience to get the birds to imitate sound.
* * * *
(1) Where is Grimwade crystalware made in
Sydney ? (2) Was there a strike in the factory
during 1938 ? (3) Why were so many glass-
cutters employed by the Grimwade makers out
of work for some time ? —2648.
The Crown Crystal Glass Pty., Ltd., Dowling-
street, Waterloo, is the manufacturer of Grim-
wade crystal. There was no strike in its
plant during 1938. The removal of the duties
on cut glass brought about the closing of the
cut-glass section for nearly two years. Follow-
ing a further Tariff Board inquiry the duties
were restored last December. The restoration
of the duties enabled the firm to build a new
furnace, which is now in production. The
cutters, who have been out of work for nearly
two years, are gradually being absorbed, and
the firm hopes to have all of them soon back
at work in the cut-glass section.
* * * *
(1) How could a youth desiring to become
an architect get a start ? (2) What standard of
education is necessary and what subjects should
he take ? —2747.
(1) By attending a course in architecture at
a university or technical college (generally a
five- or six-year period). (2) Either the matricu-
lation or leaving certificate standard. Details of
subjects required can be obtained upon applica-
tion to the architectural school concerned.
* * * *
(1) Is an old-age pensioner permitted to
accept small money gifts as presents at Christ-
mas, etc., and is he under compulsion to report
it in the yearly statement. (2) Is an old-age
pensioner receiving £1 a week board from a
member of her family entitled to a full pension,
or would that be called income ? —2702.
(1) The acceptance of small money gifts in
the nature of Christmas presents, etc., by pen-
sioners will not affect the pension rate, but
pensioners should notify the department if
they receive any substantial sums. (2) Money
payments or other benefits given by children to
their parents are not regarded as income within
the meaning of the Act. The position, how-
ever, is different when such money payments
or other benefits are earned by the recipients
by means of services rendered.
* * * *
An outline of the history of Bronte House,
Bronte, Sydney, and who is the owner of the
property ? —2656.
The foundations of Bronte House were laid
in 1842 by the Government Architect, M. W.
Lewis, who sold the building to Robert Lowe
before it was completed. The price paid for
the partially-erected building and 42 acres of
land was £420. In 1850, when Lowe returned
to England, the property passed to J. B. Holds-
worth. It remained in the possession of the
Holdsworth family until 1882, when the land
was subdivided and sold. The house was pur-
chased by H. Ebsworth, and is, we understand,
still in the possession of Mrs. H. Ebsworth.
* * * «
(1) How to destroy bugs? (2) How to re-
move clinic emulsion stains from babies’
clothes ? —2738.
(1) Take bedstead to pieces and allow
kerosene to penetrate all cracks and inter-
stices ; treat a wirewoven mattress similarly
on the wooden parts. Inject more kerosene
into skirting boards, window frames and all
likely spots for harboring pests. If these
measures are ineffective over three weeks of
treatment, treat wardrobes, tables, travelling
trunks, etc. Iron bedsteads are usually free of
them, and they do not often shelter in bedding;
but all types of mattresses should be treated
if there is the least doubt. (2) Soak the
clothing in water containing a little
ammonia; then wash briskly in rather hot
water containing plenty of good soap flakes
and a generous dash of ammonia. Rinse in
warm water and then in cold if cotton or
linen; woollen things must be rinsed in warm
water only.
* * * *
What ten cricketers headed the English bowl-
ing averages last year? l —2s7o.
Overs. Runs. Wkts. Av.
Bowes .. 932.3 1844 121 15.23
Verity .. 1191.4 2476 158 15.67
Clay .. 648 1639 94 17.43
Watts .. 771.1 2383 129 18.47
Fames .. 701.2 2016 107 18.84
Mayer .. 687.4 1868 96 19.45
Mitchell .. 717 2500 131 19.61
Leyland .. 385.4 1237 63 19.63
Copson .. 702.4 1995 101 19.75
Nicholls .. 1228.1 3408 171 19.92
* * * *
During a cricket match the ball was hit and
lost. The batsman had run seven when the
fieldsman called “lost ball.” How many runs
should be allowed? —1929.
Seven runs must be credited to the batsman.
Law 34 states: “If a ball in play cannot be
found or recovered any fieldsman may call
‘Lost ball,’ when the ball shall be ‘dead’; six
runs shall be added to the score, but if more
than six runs have been run before ‘lost
ball’ has been called, as many runs as have
been run shall be scored.” It is not the duty
of the umpire to call “lost ball”; that can only
be done by a fieldsman.
* * * m
When C. B. Fry scored six consecutive cen-
turies what were the analyses and names of
the bowlers in the matches? —2329.
106 v. Hampshire (Llewylyn 6-119, Soar
0-15, Barton 0-18, Hill 0-19, Greig 3-33); 209
v. Yorkshire (Hirst 0-76, Rhodes 0-97, Wain-
wright 1-104, Smith 3-152, Brown 1-54, White-
head 0-28, Denton 0-22); 149 v. Middlesex
(Trott 4-153, Bosanquet 2-80, Hearne 0-60,
Wells 1-90, More 3-68, Douglas 0-37); 105 v.
Surrey (Smith 4-96, Lees 2-60, Hayward 2-38,
Dowson 2-51, Jephson 0-9); 105 for Rest of
England v. Yorkshire (Hirst 5-92, Rhodes
3-179, Wainwright 0-49, Brown 0-53, Smith
1-75, Whitehead 1-68); 140 v. Kent (Blythe
0-68, Dillon 1-85, Mason 2-62, Bradley 0-65,
Humphreys 2-96, Hearne 1-83, Burnup 0-44).
* * * *
(1) Whom did Battling Nelson defeat for the
world’s lightweight championship ? (2) Where
and when did the contest take place? (3) Who
took the title from Nelson, and where and
when did that contest take place? (4) Who
is the present world’s lightweight champion ?
—2632. • T , „
(1) Joe Gans. (2) At San Francisco on July 4,
1908. (3) Ad Wolgast scored a technical knock-
out win over him in 40 rounds at Point Rich-
mond, Cal., on February 22, 1910. (4) Henry
Armstrong.
Brief Answers.
8.J.5.: Bourke, “Western Herald”; Brewar-
rina, “Times and Barwon River Gazette”;
Cobar, “Western Age”; Nyngan, “Nyngan
Observer”; Orange, “Orange Advocate” and
“Orange Leader”; Wilcannia, “Western
Grazier”; Narromine, “Narromine News and
Trangie Advocate”.. . .J.K.T.: Height of the
Empire State building, New York, is 1248 ft.,
and of the Chrysler Building, New York,
1030 ft F.L.: The Parliament of Ireland
(not to be confused with the present Northern
Ireland and Free State Parliaments), it is said,
began with the conference of the English
settlers on the hill of Tara in 1173. The Irish
Parliament last met on August 2, 1800, the bill
for the Union having passed... .X.Y.Z.: At
Balbriggan, county Dublin, September 21,
1921, District-Inspector Burke and a constable
were shot in the bar of a public-house. The
murderers used expanding bullets. That night
houses and shops in the town went up in
flames.... Diana: Would need to see the novel
before answering the question C.E.O’N.:
N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Union Act prohibits
newspapers published in N.S.W. from furnish-
ing information concerning sweeps conducted
outside the State... .T. 8.: See page 426,
Whitaker’s Almanack, 1939 W.M.K.: Cor-
vices lapidentur ! (“May the crows be stoned!”)
might do; or Pugnate corvices lapidibus!
(“Attack ye the crows with stones!”) M.F.:
Sir Chas. Petrie was born in 1895, educated at
Oxford; was corresponding member of the
Royal Spanish Academy of History, foreign
editor of the “English Review,” 1931-37;
attached to the War Cabinet office, 1918-19; and
later a member of Advisory Committee of the
British Film Institute. He has written 18 books,
mainly history, biography and political science.
Address, 14 Tregunter-road, London, 5.W.10.
P.A.: Prokop the Great was the most
prominent leader of the advanced Hussite or
Taborite forces during the latter part of the
Hussite wars. There is a biography of him
in the Encyclopaedia Britannica R.F.: The
executor must pay all debts owing by the de-
ceased out of her estate. The husband would
also be liable to pay for necessities supplied
to his wife during her lifetime. Hospital fees
would be a necessity... .S.T.G.: A Golden
Shanty, published by The Bulletin, contained
verse by John Farrell, Victor J. Daley, Henry
Kendall, “Banjo” Paterson, Jas. Edmond, E.
Lowe, Francis Myers, Henry Lawson, Arthur
Desmond and J. M. Marsh and prose by
Henry Lawson, Jas. Edmond, E. Dyson and
“J.K.” F.8.M.W.: The Timbers and Forest
Products of Queensland, available from the
Queensland Forest Service, Brisbane; 11s. 6d.
E.D.: “Jitters” is American slang for ex-
treme nervousness or nerves E.D.W.: Can-
not undertake to furnish arguments for a debate.
Ask some clergyman in your district to help
you D.H.G.: (1) “The Watchman” is E. A.
Mann, former M.H.R. for Perth. (2) Kurt
Offenburg came from Germany; in a recent
article he said he was about to be
naturalised. (3) C. J. A. Moses was born
in England... .E.D.: Wisden credits the throw-
ing-the-cricket-ball world’s record to R. Per-
cival with 140yds. 2ft. on Durham Sands (Eng-
land) in 1884. The same authority states that
King Billy (an aboriginal) threw the ball 140yds.
at Clermont (Q.) in 1872-3. No record of the
142yds. 2ft. 6in. mentioned by you. Wisden
is regarded as the reference-book on cricket
matters....T.R.: Bradman’s 0 v. West Indies
(bowled Griffith) happened in the second usings
of the fifth Test at Sydney in March, 1931.
His Test innings in that series were 4 (first
Test), 25 (second), 223 (third), 152 (fourth) and
43 and 0 (fifth)... .A.C.K.M.: Elisabeth Berg-
ner is at present working in a film to be called
“Stolen Life” for Paramount in England. Her
husband, Paul Czinner, is the director. In the
cast are Wilfred Lawson, Mabel Terry-Lewis
and Richard Ainley H.C.M.: A large order.
You’ll find the names of various chemistry
firms and organisations in any Post Office
Directory... .W.S.: Details were given in the
Service Page (B. 22 /2 / ’39)... .G.O’S.: A new
edition will be published about the end ot
May. Write Richard Geraint, publisher, 79
Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.G.M.P.: Write Under-
secretary, Defence Department, Melbourne....
M.M.: Write C. J. V. Weaver, 11 Carhsle-
street, Leichhardt, N.S.W H.K.W.: Literary
agents in London prefer not to handle short
stories from Australia by unknown writers, ft
would be better to forward them direct to
newspapers. Where circumstances permit, a
wise plan is to send them to publishing firms
printing a large number of magazines. Often
a MS. rejected by the editor of one is sent on
to another editor connected with the same firm.
J.M.G.: Over the past year the import
prices of raw silk for hosiery manufacture have
steadily risen, and now stand at about 9s. 6d.
to 11s. 6d. c.i.f. British currency. The prices,
of course, vary to some extent, but are consider-
ably higher now than those ruling at this time
last year... .R.H.: The bark of certain species
of wattle has a very definite value and finds a
ready sale. Whether your wattle is of any value
depends entirely on the nature of the species
concerned. Send a small branchlet or twig
showing the leaves in position, and if possible
flowers or pods to the Curator, Botanic Gardens,
Sydney... .M.S.: It will be necessary to remove
as much as possible of the existing water paint
by washing with clean water before applying
oil paint. After this operation has been properly
carried out the walls should be allowed to dry
thoroughly and then two or three coats ot an
oil paint should be applied, according to tlw
directions for use shown on the container....
C.H.: Prospects are fair for a first-class man
with good equipment, artistic and business
ability, provided he sets up m a good locaiit..
The scope is wider overseas, but then com-
petition is keener, and a newcomer would be
handicapped until he became thoroughly
acquainted with local conditions.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
KNEES WENT STIFF
IN HIS SLEEP
Agony to Move Them
When He Awoke
“For three years,” writes this City
man, “I suffered with pains across the
lower part of my back. In the morning,
I awoke with knees so stiff that it was
agony to move them. Special treatment
would make the pain a little easier—
but that was all. Then a friend recom-
mended Kruschen, which my doctor said
I might take. I began with about an
eggspoonful first thing in the morning.
To my surprise I found my rheumatic
aches and pains disappearing. I kept on
with Kruschen, and although I am more
than middle-aged, I have been free from
pain for two years, and able to attend my
city office every day.”—A.W.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of
an excess of uric acid in the body. Two
of the ingredients of Kruschen Salts
have the power of dissolving uric acid
crystals. Other ingredients assist Nature
to expel the dissolved crystals through
the natural channels. In addition,
there are still other salts in Kruschen
which prevent food fermentation in the
intestines, and thereby check the further
accumulation of uric acid.
M a D
>N
e Nc LA
Nd
Here is everything you need for luxury shaving on
your holiday. A really complete shaving outfit down
to the last detail. A Valet self-stropping safety razor;
strop; tube of Valet shaving cream; tube of Valet
strop dressing and three Valet blades. All this for the
amazingly low cost of 4/-. British made. Of all Dealers.
Valet
HOLIDAY PACK
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
J. 5.8.: Still doesn’t quite qualify
W. 8.: Yes, you’ll get rid of it, but not
here M.A.: A golf magazine might stand it.
A.E.L.: You can’t rhyme “omen” and
“foaming”here... .S.G.E.: Blighted... .C.R.8.:
Sentimental E.M.: Don’t want “Centenary
Marches”... .R.F.C.: “Evangeline” is creeping
back... .H.8.R.: “Old Friend Jim” gives us
the jimjams... .M.L.8.: No improvement....
D.E.: Pale RJ.P.: Where’s the rhyme in
“Reason”? F. 5.8.: You don’t give Nature
a very good character... .M.S.: “Pooh” it is.
B.C.: Heavy going, and “fierce” is an
adjective that applies better to tigers than to
grubs... .J.H.: Those quatrains are very unen-
terprising J.H.8.: Feeble G. 8.: Arch
verse about cocky swearing is delighting Reli-
gious Editor’s daughters J. 0.: They’re
flimsy S.W.: He talks too much... .H.W.:
Album verse G.C.: No, but it has its
moments D.O’C.: Cheer up C.C.M.: It
reminded you of a misquotation, then.... 8.:
Might amuse children... .C.R.S.: Stale news.
C.M.S.: Merely waggish J.M.: Try
writing pars L. 8.: Ragged, indeed... .F.N.:
A touch of it... .G.R.W.: Elsewhere, perhaps.
—J.B.C.: What about the exhaust?
J.R.H.: Is that how you pronounce Freud?
E. de G.: It might conceivably make a song.
—J.A.P.: Roaming home... .C.A.H.: Very
slight.... H.J.W.: Alas!... .T.N.R.: What on
earth will you be doing next? ... .K.T.F.: Too
dull L.R.C.: If violets gave rise to that
we hate to think what a sunflower might do.
8.T.R.: Take away that “Autobio-
graphical Fantasy”... .L.8.F.: Not so good.
—G.B.T.: Nobody could say less in 6000
words... .H. N. T. : Basketed... .H. J. Y. :
“Fires of Fate” burned out before they
reached us K.M.D.: You’ve been seeing too
many films H.T.8.: And America seems
to be the place for your gangster... .H.T.D.:
Nothing in any of them... .C.8.M.: Nary a
chuckle P. 8.5.: Call for the body
H.T.A.: Resignedly awaiting further contri-
butions F.N.R.: Try a monthly magazine.
—L.T.B.: First of the autumn murders
8.F.L.: Read a lot, write a bit and try again
in a couple of years F.L.S.: Dreadful
8.T.L.: You might stand a better chance on
the English market 8.R.P.: Did that make
you laugh?... .T.S.E.: Animal yarns must be
extra good J.T.D.: Earned a second read-
ing... .P.T.W.: “Treasure Seekers” made an
unprofitable trip P.P.L.: Carefully, now,
carefully L.V.N.R.: Why must you write
about such things? T.D.L.: And why must
you write at all? J.N.S.: As a literary lion
you don’t roar half loudly enough... .K.O’N.:
Where, in Australia, are people who live and
speak like that?. .F.E.1.: As it’s a first effort
we’ll let you off with a light reprimand
C.E.N.: “Bells in the Meadow” are ringing
in the w.p.b G.8.T.: Somewhat familiar.
....“Bellerive”: Welcome home, old friend:
. ...8.C.5.: Your typewriter needs a new
ribbon S.A.P.: Begin with more purpose and
try again... .8.L.E.: Humor doesn’t seem to
be your line 8.F.C.: Seen ’em before....
8.D.1.: Poor yarn badly written... .C.R.A.:
A daily might consider it... .T.R.Y.: You’ll
need better bait than that to hook a cheque.
... .L.T.W., T.S., R.8.0’8., T.C.D. and
F.S.W.: Trv them elsew here ERJ.: Maga-
ziny W. 8.: Confused.
—I
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 5.8.: Sorry, but they will not do the
Lambeth Walk in our pages... .G.S.: The
matron appears to have been put through the
mangle.... W.T.: Crayon sketches are on a
par with the average pavement-artist’s work.
... .H.W.: Not bad, but you need lessons...
F.M.: Time that chestnut was placed on the
pension list A.C.: Plenty of confidence
about your drawings; humor is on the lean
side... .K.8.M.: Du11....AJ.J.: Idea has
possibilities, sketch none.... V.C.: Stale jokes
are your handicap... .W.H.8.: Your friends
are pulling your 1eg....F.J.: Shows plenty of
promise; keep to linework until technique im-
proves E.T.: Can’t see art bringing you in
any spending money for Easter W.M.:
What’s the idea of bombarding us again with
last year’s rejects?... .R.C.: Send your illus-
trated Biblical texts to a church paper N.D.:
Caricatures are remarkable for their lack of
resemblance to subjects J.SJ.: That gag
was doing duty long before we were born...*
8.H.: We had to borrow a magnifying-glass
to discover what it was all about... .A.P.: No
reward for the park dosser nor the small boy
in pursuit of overgrown cat....5.E.: Convicts
are as lifeless as the stone they are hewing....
F.L.: Take them away, polish them up and
resubmit W.W.: We like'a little more meat
on the bones... .8.W.: Honestly, did you
laugh at it yourself? N.F.: The office
poundkeeper is holding the broken-down moke
until you claim it....M.M.: You’re improving
as an hrtist, but you’re getting no better as a
humorist S.H.: Take another look at those
hands W. 8.8.: “The Wild Colonial Bhoy”
is sleeping off his jag in the w.p.b.
MEMORIES.
Private Friendly Tribute.
Poems by E. J. Brady by
Readers yet are seen.
One of the survivors
Of the early Bulletin,
Veteran of the poets
Of Henry Lawson’s time.
Whose verses were a credit
To our Australian clime.
Popular were the poets of
The dear old long ago;
Stirring contributions from
Their pens did flow.
Sadly faded Victor Daley,
A master of the art.
Human spans- are varied
To existeth and depart.
Many reap and prosper in
Trades and higu careers.
Many fail and straggle till
The twilight of their years.
Read throughout Australia,
And cities o’er the sea.
Were the interesting columns
Of The Bulletin jubilee.
’Tis on the hour of midnight,
Time to seek repose,
I feel I’m growing sleepy,
My humble lines I close.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“F.S.”: Knight David Rivett, a Vic.
National Gallery trustee, said, apropos
of the loan of the Melbourne Van Eyck
to the New York Fair, that this was an
opportunity for Australia to do some-
thing for the U.S.A., which had done
much to develop Australian culture. I
would give a lot to know exactly what
he means. The Van Eyck, though ad-
mittedly it cost £31,000, and is now
valued by European dealers at £70,000
to £120,000, does not represent Aus-
tralian culture. It represents Australia’s
capacity to spend money and readiness
to follow art fashions, but America
spends a million times more money on
old pictures and is being just as fashion-
able—the New York collection of Old
Masters is said to be worth £7,500,000.
The only kind of culture the United
States has made any effort to give Aus-
tralia is that purveyed through the
fillums, and that can’t be regarded as
pure philanthropy.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: “Bufo’s” story (B.
8/3/’39) of the German D.O. who lived
a quarter of a mile north of the Equator
reminds me of the Dutch contrdleur of
Pontianak, Dutch Borneo, whose chief
pleasure in life was to invite visitors up
to his bungalow, fill them with gin pahits
and then start an argument as to who
had crossed the earth’s beltline the largest
number of times. One would say 10,
a purse-proud tourist would claim 20
and think he had got away with it, and
a seafaring man would confidently count
his tale up to 100. Then the ccmtroleur
would fill up his glass, drain it and say,
“I vill bet you fife gulden that I can
beat the lot of you.” Then he would
explain that he crossed it as a regular
routine 40 times before breakfast every
morning. The “line” bisected his front
verandah.
* * * *
Roy Lancaster Curthoys, who edited
the “Argus”—“old,” not “new”---is back
in Melbourne as chief correspondent of
the London “Times” and the New York
ditto. He would hardly recognise his
“Argus.” It now runs more pitchers to
the square yard than any of its contem-
poraries except the “Sun Pictorial,” and
publishes a fluffy Saturday supplement
which would have horrified “Argus”
originals.
* * * *
Communist stocks must have flopped
in France. Marty, the Red deputy who
organised the French section of the
International Brigade, “the greatest fight-
ing force the world has ever seen,” was
greeted on his return to the Chamber,
after bolting from Spain, with cries of
“Assassin, traitor, mass-murderer; you
are swimming in a pool of blood! ” Sub-
sequently it was disclosed that the Paris
police had discovered “a secret execution
room, pockmarked with bullet holes,”
beneath a garage at the Spanish Em-
bassy. Strange that these things never
came out while the Stunt Press was
rocking it into Franco the Butcher.
* * * *
“K.”: From Montserrat comes Father
Joseph Muset to be director of sacred
music at St. Patrick’s College, Manly.
Under the guidance of this compatriot
of Dorn Moreno —now back at New
Norcia (W.A.), where the distinguished
little composer has lived longer than he
lived in Spain—it may be possible to form
a Schola Cantorum, modelled on the famed
one of Barcelona, which he directed for
some years. Father Muset was Professor
of Sacred Music at Montserrat; he has
also held a similar professorship at the
Seminary of Barcelona. Quite recently
the Papal Pavilion at the Paris Exhibition
echoed to his organ music. He has pub-
lished 150 religious and many other
works.
4* ?
Mocatta and Goldsmid, the London
bullion merchants, expected a featureless
1939 for silver, with the average price
very near that of 1938, when the U.S.A.
was a consistent buyer. The quantity
of white metal shipped to New
York from London during 1938 is
estimated at over 300,000,0000 z., a
large part of which had been held on
Chinese account. During the summer
there were sales of Japanese silver (about
11,000,000 oz.) and of Spanish Govern-
ment silver, but that metal didn’t come
direct from Spain.


BALANCE ..QUICK
(fac you
IN THE
MANEUVERING
i
... -£± * tui fl.tr*
3<Z>.
0S
£
■*2^
*»<•»
fcr®r
*^fr>
T • »
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the. hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
<S£A-
N*Q* Branch
ST LOTS!
TOWNSVtUI
C.Q.Branch
N°l East S’ Rockhampton..
TO
INCINKRINC Supply cvof AUSTRALIA P
vLr
T
$
O <*“
* > iS»
I
S£v-.<;
p
2S®
K
*5
$
®
$
$
®
ifi
little
more but
its WELL
worth it/
i§H
Gin
Milledin lontlvtt,
THE HEART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUE RAY. GORDON * CO,
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
3he latyeSt gin dtitillM in th£ wotld
THE SOBRAON
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON the nor’-east side of Ball’s Head
in Port Jackson, in the little bay
named after that pioneer of
Maoriland and Illawarra Alexan-
der Berry, an old ship lies at what may
be her last moorings. Weather-stained and
dishevelled to an almost unrecognisable
degree, she is still imbued with that
aspect of dignity appertaining either to
ship or man who has lived usefully and
come into fullness of years with no stain
on reputation and a record of good work.
Now and again she sights a contemporary
of sea-going days being towed up and
down the fairway in the old Macquarie,
which, disguised as a hulk supporting
monstrous coal-hoists, still works for a
living in Sydney Harbor.
The Sobraon —to go back to the name
by which she is best known —is just over
73 years old, and I believe she is as sound
as the day she was launched at Aber-
deen more than two generations ago. She
is built of solid teak, copper-fastened on
iron beams and frames —“composite
ships” such vessels were called, and she
was the largest of her class ever set
afloat.
Her original owners were Lowther,
Maxton and Co., but four years after
her launching she was bought by Devitt
and Moore, and carried the house-flag of
that firm for the rest of her sea-going
career of a quarter of a century. In 1891
the N.S.W. Government purchased her
for use as an industrial training ship, and
when the Royal Australian Navy began
to function in 1911 she was taken over
by the Commonwealth as a training depot
for lower-deck ratings and renamed
Tingira.
This phase of her career ended
about 15 years ago, when she was bought
by a private owner. She has lain at her
present moorings ever since. Various
schemes of employment for the veteran
have been contemplated, but nothing ever
came of them, and her ultimate dissolu-
tion at the hands of shipbreakers cannot
be far distant.
In her day the Sobraon was an Aus-
tralian institution, when she made one
round trip a year between England and
this country. Her first five voyages were
to Sydney, but afterwards her terminal
port was Melbourne. Her crew con-
sisted of the captain, four officers, boat-
swain, carpenter and sailmaker, 30 lower
ratings, 16 stewards, two boys and two
stewardesses. There was accommodation
for 90 first- and 40 second-class passen-
gers, and she was generally full up.
The ship nearly always made good
passages, though never driven as the
wool-clippers used to be on homeward
voyages, and it is doubtful if the con-
sideration shown for the comfort of her
passengers ever permitted the Sobraon
to do herself full justice as a fast sailer.
On her maiden voyage she came out in
75 days, and her record to Sydney was
73, but she once made Cape Otway in
60 days from London. She often put up
runs of 300 knots when running down
the easting, and the best ever made was
340 in the 24 hours. Her record as a
“safe” ship was outstanding, only one
person having been lost overboard dur-
ing her whole career at sea.
During almost the whole of her
active life she was commanded by Cap-
tain Elmslie, whose son sailed with him
from the rank of apprentice to chief
officer for 11 years. Some of the crew
were very old inhabitants. Thomas Wil-
loughby came into her with Captain
Elmslie and was on her books until she
was taken over by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment in 1891. James Farrance had 16
years’ service, and Thomas Rutledge was
her sailmaker for 10. But James Cameron
made a record of sea service in the one
ship. He was a foreman shipwright dur-
ing her construction, and carpenter in
her for all the time she went to sea.
As she lies now in Berry’s Bay, look-
ing merely a weathered hulk, she is never-
theless a beautiful model of a ship, and
when she comes to be pulled to pieces
the sea will lose something of man’s
making that was a glorious ornament to
it.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Heretaunga”: A Maoriland old-age
pensioner of my acquaintance collects
beer-bottle labels, and has accumulated
hundreds from all over the world. The
Australian and Maoriland sections are,
he claims, complete. The old chap can
no longer enjoy beer, but finds the
labels keep alive pleasant memories of
beer drunk in all corners of the globe.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I listened in Melbourne to
an address on a dead artist uttered
by a living one, and reflected that times
have changed remarkably for painters in
the last hundred years. Girtin was a very
great artist, but when he objected to
something his master wanted him to do
he got three months in prison. The gov-
ernor of the gaol happened to be the
father of Bonington, another great artist,
and gave Girtin so much freedom that
he was frequently brought back drunk
to his cell by the constables. He
was allowed to decorate his dungeon, and
he did it so well that the work was
brought to the notice of the Earl of
Essex, who, when Girtin came out of
quod, became his patron, and remained
so during the rest of the painter’s short
lifetime—-he died at 27. Morland drank
himself to death before he was 30.
When he was asked what he would like
to have said about him after his funeral
he replied: “Nothing! But you can put
‘Here Lies a Drunken Dog’ on my tomb-
stone.’ Morland would have regarded
the laudatory remarks I heard in Mel-
bourne as positively insulting.
* * * *
“Tcha”: London has just celebrated
the centenary of the arrival of the first’
Indian-grown tea. But for 50 years after
1839 Australia depended mostly on
China tea. Many country people not yet
qualified for.the old-age pension remem-
ber the chests of China tea wrapped in
matting with dragons on the cover as
an important part of the supplies. Aus-
tralia’s first recorded tea-party took place
early in 1791, when Mrs. Macarthur and
others sent their “tea equipage” to Cap-
tain Nepean’s farm and took tea on the
turf. In 1798 the settlers at the Field
of Mars described tea as an essential
article and complained bitterly that even
common bohea was 40s. a pound. They
described as an egregious error the con-
tention of opulent men in the colony
that tea and sugar were luxuries to which
a settler ought not to aspire.
*.* * *
“Polonius”: I see by the latest A.B.C.
Annual that in the twelvemonth re-
viewed 578 evening programme periods
were devoted to plays. Commercial
stations aren’t backward with histrionics
either, so there is quite a lot of acting
going on, despite the parlous con-
dition of the professional stage. A writer
on Sundry Shows page (B. 15 /3 / ’39) ad-
vances the theory that “most of the
former inhabitants of Poverty Point” are
now pursuing radio careers, but after
listening to radio plays for a very long
while I question it. Voices heard
in these dramatic essays are contorted
by all those weird exaggerations of accent
and emphasis beloved by the just-begin-
ning amateur. No human beings in any
circumstances (other than amateur
theatricals) ever spoke as these characters
speak.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: With the same hesi-
tancy that any decent person will ex-
perience in admitting that his sainted
grandmother is giving way to drink, I
feel myself compelled by conscience to
point out that our Great Dailies are be-
coming very careless in their English.
“Watershed,” for example, occurs fre-
quently in the sense of a collecting area
of a water supply—really, of course, it
is the ridgeline between two such areas.
We are often informed that “there are
three or more alternatives,” whereas
even colloquially decent diction limits
the maximum to two, pedantically to
one (“alter”: the other). And Great
Dailies see persons “peddling” bicycles
instead of pedalling them.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Above all things, ideas are needed. A striking one occurred to the Victorian
who gets this week’s prize for the essay printed first.
Juvenile Delinquency
The depression was not the only cause
of the present epidemic of juvenile de-
linquency (B. 28 /12/’3B). Another is
the dearth of mild adventure which all
healthy young minds yearn for. Fifty
years ago the Australian 12-year-old who
hadn’t knocked over innumerable small
game with his .22 was the exception,
now he’s the rule.
We’re becoming too civilised. It’s
quite natural for all youngsters to want
guns, and it’s a natural consequence of
their getting them that one will smash a
window or nearly kill Mr. Jones. But
that doesn’t justify their wholesale con-
fiscation any more than one car accident
justifies the banning of all cars. An in-
telligent kid with a rifle is not nearly
as dangerous as a drunken fool with a
cat.
If the youngster wants a shanghai let
him have one, together with a common-
sense lecture on what not to do with it.
Then if he knocks Mr. Jones’s hat off
belt him by all means —it’ll do him good
and add spice to the adventure —but
don’t take away his shanghai.
I’m not advocating the presentation of
a service rifle to every youngster on his
twelfth birthday, but I do advocate less
parental and legal restriction on all
normal exuberance. It would do much
to retard the unhealthy trend towards
introspection that seems to be gripping
the youth of to-day.—T. L. W. (Vic.).
“T.L.W.” is T. L. Walkerden, of
Merton-street, Albert Park, Victoria, and
be gets the prize, £3 35., plus space rates.
The Art of Listening
A growing menace to education is
that the incessant voice of the radio has
dulled the listening faculty in thousands
of young people.
The basis of the evil is psychological.
People have developed the habit of hav-
ing the radio tuned in, day and night,
and not consciously hearing it. The ear
thus becomes attuned to the even flow of
words which forms a vague background
of sound, seldom obtruding into the
consciousness.
The habit of hearing with the ears
only and without the brain reflects itself
in the classroom, where the voice of the
lecturer conforms precisely to the fre-
quentative droning noise which the
radio habit has developed in their listen-
ing faculty.
Result is that students, having had a
surfeit of the human voice, are busily
engaged thinking of everything except
the subjects of lectures in the classroom.
My pupils range from 15 to 20 years,
and are supposed to be “finishing” their
education. My experiments show that
they memorise only that portion of the
lecture which they have been instructed
to write down verbatim.
The art of correct listening is almost
as important as that of correct speaking,
and, until young people learn to listen
consciously, the. greater part of what
they are told will continue to pass in
one ear and out the other. —W. L.
(N.S.W.).
The Third Link
Darwin may have been right in his
theory that man descended from the
ape, but why insult the latter by sug-
gesting a missing link between the two
families? Are we really superior by a
second remove?
The ape lives a natural life and
appears to be reasonably happy, except
when a human “tames” him and teaches
him to skate, smoke, ride a bicycle and
wear clothes which rob him of dignity.
He does not lose sleep in pursuit of
scientific advancement.
On the other hand, man specialises in
science. By its aid he has already made
spectacular progress—Oxford bags and
bleat, perms, cocktail-shakers, Great
Dailies, Hollywood manners and talkies
are a few achievements which readily
come to mind. Perhaps the bleat and
manners are not true scientific feats, but
they speak a higher-than-ape intelligence
and can be taken as encouraging symp-
toms of man’s upward climb. Yet in his
moments of exaltation man turns to
negro dances, swing music and croon-
ing, suggesting a more recent jungle
ancestry than two removes.
Assuming that Darwin was correct in
his theory of evolution, is it not reason-
able to suppose he erred in looking back-
wards, instead of forwards, for the third
link? Perhaps the third link is as yet
unforged. It may appear in due course,
quite likely in a natural crash helmet
and with extra large shoulder blades to
support scientifically-constructed wings.
—Angus McEarwig (M.L.).
“All Handy”
A group of men, obviously all job-
less, stood lounging around a Trades
Hall in the middle of the day. I ques-
tioned them, and not one in that group
of 12 or so had what could be termed
a trade. “We are all handy,” the most
garrulous member told me. “Most of
“What a cow of a place t’ put a bowser !”
us could turn our hands to half a dozen
jobs, but there ain’t none offering.”
If those men had learnt a trade when
they left school they would not be sit-
ting jobless now. The wanted man to-day
is the man who knows his trade. Whether
it be putting down a sewer, making kan-
garoo mats or lemon buns, raising cocker
spaniels or mixing paints, if a man
excels at his trade he is sought after
in the working world.
The world is full of Jacks-of-all-trades,
and many of them must get left behind
in the rush for jobs. But he who has
learnt one thing and learnt it well will
always find a niche among the em-
ployed.— S. C. W. (Q.).
The Suicide Club
I wonder how much time, money, valu-
able energy and ingenuity is squandered
as a result of the thoughtless activities of
(a) foolhardy folk who fish from rocks
in stormy weather; ( b ) idiotic folk who
mishandle electric power and gas ; (c)
lunatic creatures who smoke near naked
petrol; (d) swanky surfers who disport
themselves among the sharks in the neigh-
borhood of the three-mile limit; (e)
hikers and hikerines who, without com-
pass, map or any sense of direction,
wander about the suburban bush look-
ing apparently for some bushel under
which to hide their light, blight or plight!
—R. I. P. (N.S.W.).
Under Their Skins
Isn’t it about time we elderly blokes
got together and corrected the false
notion which bemuses most of the male
youth into the belief that a woman is a
beautiful creature far above us uncouth
savages, and therefore to be wooed and
won and taken into the home as a pearl
of great price?
There’s a lot of rubbish spoken these
days about the beauty of the female
form unadorned. Divest that form of
paint, powder, lipstick, mascara, arti-
ficial coiffure, absurd hat, silk stockings,
high-heeled shoes, etc., and what have
you? Something pretty close to a night-
mare! A man in a tattered shirt, dirty
pants, three-day-growth of beard and
bootless and hatless is still a man, or
even more so, but you only have to take
her high heels away and put a woman
in slippers to reduce her from dignity
to slovenliness.
Mind you, I admire ’em. Much of
this latter-day foolishness about them has
come out of that great land where
“Bally-hoo” is king and “Dahlars” the
prophet, and any Yankee man or journal
that called a woman ugly or plain would
be mulcted heavily in libel and outcast
from the nation. But it’s all for busi-
ness, a fact which impressionable youth
fails to grasp. Hence his bitterness
when, marrying what he believes to be
a goddess, he takes it to his gunyah, only
to find that it’s an animal like himself,
only sometimes with sharper claws.
There’d be fewer divorces if young men
approached this marriage business realis-
ing that they want the girl because they
think she can cook, sew, bear children
and be a mate better than any other
girl they know. —U. Kad (N.S.W.).
More Unfulfilled Promises
“We have the money; we have the
arms, the equipment, the ammunition, the
ships, the ’planes, the rifles, the organisa-
tion. All we want is the men. We are
asking you to step forward. We will do
the rest. We have done all that is pos-
sible on our side ; we ask you to do
your share.”
That, in effect, was poured over the
air a dozen times, spouted from public
platforms, from recruiting meetings, and
it all carried a weight of sincerity behind
it which was inspiring.
Result —men have to wait for uni-
forms, practice is held up for lack of
ammunition, and at the rifle range good
shots unaccountably miss the target.
Then it is found that rifles served out to
them are sighted on the hit-or-miss prin-
ciple. General equipment is so meagre
that it might be entirely lacking, and
half of that in use is borrowed from
some other corps. The muddle and lack
of organisation must have a depressing
effect on young recruits.
But politicians still prate, still draw
their full pay, still travel the country at
our expense, and still spout their reckless
utterances. — Peter (Q.).
Flooding Lake Eyre
Late in the recent drought season the
old suggestion of flooding the bed of
Lake Eyre was revived. It is claimed
that evaporation would provide the raw
material of clouds and that the ensuing
rainfall would moisten the inland climate.
Clearly a lake of less size than that
which once occupied the bed —80 by 150
miles —would have no climatic effect. In
1932 Adelaide geologist C. T. Madigan
proved an evaporation rate of l|in. daily
at Lake Eyre. On an area of 12,000
miles this means 260,000,000,000 gallons.
It would require a canal of water
200 ft. wide and 80ft. deep and flowing
ceaselessly at 2 m.p.h. to compensate
for such evaporation. Lake Eyre is
about 246 miles from Spencer Gulf and
there is rising country between. For 200
miles of its course such a canal would
have to be excavated 180 ft. deep, and
at one place it would have to be carried
down 280 ft. About 1914 it was estimated
that the cost would be £700,000,000.
Finally, there is no such thing as fresh
(saltless) water. The so-called fresh-
water rivers that supplied Lake Eyre in
the days of its greatness leached from
the country and transported 3,000,000,000
tons of salt (Madigan’s estimate) to the
lake. Imagine the rate at which ocean
water would salt the show! • Long before
Australia received £700,000,000 worth of
rain there would be no room for water.
—Murkah (N.S.W.).
Dissertation on Mugs
Recurring at frequent intervals is the
old yarn about the country visitor to the
city who falls prey to the attentions of
some shrewd con. man. That such inci-
dents —in fact or fiction —should be ac-
cepted as evidence that the countryman
is lacking in intelligence is the most un-
fortunate and stupid part of it all.
Intelligence, or lack of it, is not the
factor that singles out the countryman
as the most frequent victim of the trick-
ster. The fact is that no self-respecting
con. man would waste valuable time on
city chaps, whose flash exteriors might
hide empty purses, when he can get
visitors who are almost certain to have
something to make his efforts worth
while.
If city people regard their partial im-
munity from the attentions of con. men
as indication of superior intelligence
they are deluding themselves. Salesmen
have long proved that the sales resistance
of suburbia is, if anything, lower than
that of rural districts, where brushes
with bank managers, pools and boards
have done much to sharpen the wits of
sons of the soil. —K. E. K. (Q.).
Foster the Eternal Doubt
My thanks to “D.J.G.” for saying that
my comment on the need for constructive
thinking was well put (B. 15/3/’39), but
he is wrong in claiming that my remedies
—“more reasoning and less cramming in
schools, and some enlightened control
of the agencies influencing the popular
mind”- —are vague.
If the first remedy were applied over
a period, the second—a temporary ex-
pedient—would become unnecessary. A
reasoning public would itself, by selec-
tion, ensure that the standard of the
press, radio and cinema improved. But
a start must be made in the schools, not
to teach citizenship, which probably
cannot be taught to children, but to
develop the critical faculty. School
education seems to have become largely
an inglorious memory-training stunt. It
is just as important for a boy to leave
school with a question-mark in his mind
and a thirst for more knowledge as it
is for him to pass examinations.
Unfortunately, everything is presented"
in school as right or wrong, good or bad.
Imagine a teacher saying to his class:
“Boys, this year we are to read Shak-
speare’s ‘Hamlet.’ I don’t ask you to
agree with me, but personally I think it
a lousy play.” Heresy! Yet such an
attitude would awaken the critical faculty
of his pupils, and Shakspeare, his godlike
perfection in question, might be more
often read.
The eternal doubt is the father of con-
structive thought. A prey to doubt, the
youth will examine the world around him
and its institutions. He will avail him-
self of the public libraries, university ex-
tension lectures and the W.E.A. He will
form his own opinions and thus graduate
to citizenship.
I hardly think further State education
facilities for those between the ages of


-15 and 21 feasible unless there is first
the desire for it. To create that desire
you must start in the school. T. E. P.
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Voting *
“Ballot” says: “If men were deprived
of a vote until they could satisfy a com-
petent examiner that they understood
what it meant, we would have an im-
provement in our politicians and legis-
lation” (B. 15/3/’39). The trouble is
that every Australian male and female
21 years of age and over has an obli-
gation placed upon him or her to vote
for someone for whom he or she doesn’t
give a hoot.
Ninety-nine p.c. of the twenty-ones
would sooner cast a vote in a beauty or
movie artist ballot, or drop a 6d. coupon
into a competition box. It’s sheer hum-
bug to expect a lot of immature (nation-
ally) males and females to care a damn
whether Fuddle or Muddle is the better
man to cast a vote for. You can drive
the twenty-ones to the ballot-box but
you cannot make them think.
Wipe out compulsory voting and leave
the matter of selecting statesmen, not
politicians, to those whose grey matter
can pick out the strawberries from the
raspberries. Go further, perhaps, and keep
the female sex busy gossiping over the
backyard fence instead of attending the
polling-booth.— Scrutineer (N.S.W.)
Decaying Assets
Australia has invested most of its bor-
rowed millions in rail tracks, and these
“assets” have decayed until every State
has reached the deficit stage.
As long ago as 1934 America started
streamlined trains, and replaced steam
engines with Diesels. Built lightly and
for speed and with due regard to appear-
ance, these trains multiplied because they
turned losses into profits.
The Burlington “Zephyr” replaced two
of the decadent steam trains, and cut
expenses by two-thirds. At the end of
a year this one train had a profit of
£25,000 to its credit, and its operations
had not affected the other earnings of
the line.
Surely a reversal of the order of things
as we know them, but it has taken Aus-
tralia four years to hear of these things
and another, say, five years to start to
do them. — Zylonite (W.A.).
School Entertainments
I have a grouch against the way State-
school children —in Maoriland, anyway—
are frequently asked to pay 3d. or 6d.
for this or that entertainment. If they
can’t pay they don’t go.
For instance, if a film of high edu-
cational or entertainment value comes
to town special matinees at reduced rates
are provided for children who are under
the care of their teachers. Many parents,
especially when there are several young-
sters in the family, simply cannot afford
the necessary cash. Consequently we
find, time after time, the same batch of
children —usually about 50 p.c. —left be-
hind at school while their more fortunate
playmates enjoy themselves.
Worse, it often happens that the
kiddies have to pay to go to school con-
certs or balls or for bus fares to school
picnics. Again the same poor little
beggars are left out because their parents
cannot, or will not, give them the money.
There is something cruel about it. The
children feel it and wonder why it must
be. Teachers are not ogres, but most
of them become hardened to the posi-
tion and accept it without protest. Surely
there is some way to ensure that every
child goes at least to his own school
concert, ball and picnic. W. J. H.
(M.L.). _____
Culture
In an age marked by devotion to
diverse cults and isms it is common to
see partisans clamoring for further load-
ing of curricula by adding a smattering
of their particular subject. Stress is laid
on the importance of “cultural subjects,”
the claim usually advanced being that
without a knowledge of this or that
“science” or faith one’s education cannot
be complete.
But are not the fundamentals of cul-
ture the same as they always have been?
Correct speech, an upright carriage, a
worthy handshake, pleasant dexterity
with cutlery and, through all, common
courtesy —these are the foundations with-
out which there is no culture. Nowadays
there is too great a tendency to ignore or
neglect these vital beginnings— to plan
spires and turrets without first attending
to foundations.
The world is full of people stuffed with
information and erudition who never
take the trouble to finish their words dis-
tinctly or to look a man in the eyes when
they shake his hand ; of women who can
perform complicated exercises and play
difficult games skilfully yet who cannot
sit or rise gracefully; of others who,
quite earnestly, denounce the injustice
they see, but who omit the wonderful
lubricant of good manners from their
own actions.
First impressions are the main ones
noted by all except those who live with
us. Cleanly clipped words mean more
than all the academic attainments, and a
handshake will reveal enough to the swift
observer to enable him to guess the rest.
If the fundamentals are right, then any
subject followed becomes a cultural sub-
ject. Man is the only animal with a per-
manently vertical spine, and he should be
careful to justify the possession of it. —
Basil Boggabri (N.S.W.).
Fishing and' Defence
The Australian fishing industry isn’t
flourishing, largely because of out-of-
date methods and lack of proper equip-
ment. On the other hand, Australia
needs a huge coastguard system which
is beyond the public purse or the bounds
of practicability.
Why not equip established and com-
petent fishermen of British stock with
fast, well-found vessels, to be rented or
bought on easy terms, which could
easily be converted to naval use in any
emergency? In the meantime the fisher-
men would be materially assisted in put-
ting their industry on a profitable foot-
ing ; thousands of our lads would find
congenial employment and form the
basis of an Australian mercantile marine,
and with a little practical organisation
they would constitute that coastguard
force we so badly need.
With a well-equipped fishing fleet
operating along practically the entire
coastline, the necessity for the Larrakia,
etc., with the consequent confusion,
would disappear.— Salmon Gums (W.A.).
Truth and Trust
Dr. Johnson once said: “Without truth
there must be a dissolution of society.”
If this were true in his day it must apply
with a good deal more force in our
highly-organised times, when wrong ideas
can be distributed instantaneously over
the whole world by means of wireless and
the daily press.
It’s pretty hard to find the truth in
any case, and when it is cleverly distorted
on a large scale by self-interested groups
it must inevitably lead to a cynical atti-
tude towards every statement made by
our leaders.
This in itself is a danger to the nation,
for, once the people cease to trust the
word of authority, when a real crisis
arrives it will be regarded as just another
trumped-up scare—with disastrous results.
But a more sinister aspect of vanish-
ing truth is that people soon profoundly
distrust each other, and that can be seen
on every side ; in fact, an honest person
who trusts his fellow-man is now politely
known as a “sucker.”
If a man’s word is no longer his bond
there is no foundation left, and the struc-
ture will crack and finally collapse.—
J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
“Hang the Kaiser!” and All That
There isn’t a creature on the earth that
doesn’t train itself in arts of self-
preservation and make them its chief
sport. Yet in a nation where sport is
so popular as to be almost a religion
it is difficult to get one per cent, to
practise the game of war.
Remember propaganda used towards
the close of 1914? “Germans pitching
babies about with their bayonets.” “Only
men of good physique (sft. 6in.) wanted
—a good chance to advertise Australia.”
A little later: “Germans boiling one
another down to get the glycerine with
which to make shells.” “The boundaries
of Australia are where the vanguard of
her armies is fighting.” I haven’t got
a phrase-book, so may have this quo-
tation a little wrong. But I’m sure of
this one: “Never mind the cost; we will
force Germany to pay.” The people
were actually given to understand that
a shipload of gold would leave Germany
for Australia. Another: “We will hang
the Kaiser.” “The only good German
is a dead one.” “This is the war to
end war,” etc.
Well, the war ended, but unfortunately
some dailies had found it had such news
value that they took over the returned
soldier and beat a drum for him. In
practice newspapers actually became the
Government, with the politicians asking
for a little space alongside the returned
soldier.
All this does not alter the fact that
we should have a trained army, and to
clear a little the atmosphere of sus-
picion in which we live I make the fol-
lowing suggestions:
First, let it be made quite clear that
newspapers are not the Government, and
prove it by making a few laws preventing
said papers from declaring war on their
own account or describing friendly Powers
as “The Enemy.”
Secondly, the militia to be for the de-
fence of Australia, not as a club for the
people, and no newspaper knight to be
allowed to suggest that the army be used as
a club —not even on paper.
Thirdly, tell us honestly where Aus-
tralian boundaries end nowadays; do they
still reach somewhere the other side of
Tibet?
Is Australia in danger? Well, is there
any country in the world that isn’t? A
year ago Russia annexed the North
Pole, and a while ago an American
sought to do something similar with a
big junk of the South Pole. I think Aus-
tralia is even more desirable than either ;
if it wasn’t so hot just now I’d be sure
of it.
An army we must have, but I doubt
if this “thundering at the gates” stuff
will get us the sort of army we want.
Much more likely to make the man we
want shy clear.— Rimington (S.A.).
Car Insurance
The proposed compulsory annual in-
spection of all cars to make sure they
are in good order, the stricter examina-
tion of drivers before granting licenses,
extra safety patrols on the roads, auto-
matic traffic lights, control of pedes-
trians and dozens of other safety-
methods should reduce the claims on
insurance companies for damage to cars
and third-party risks. The Government
should see, therefore, that these com-
panies reduce their rates in accordance
with the new order of things, or, if they
refuse, compel them to contribute to-
wards the cost of safety measures.
And why is it that, when a car is in-
sured for a certain amount, although
that amount is gradually reduced by the
insurance company over a few years, the
annual premiums remain constant. —
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Drought Safeguards
Now that N.S.W.’s State-wide drought
has broken it is a good time to think of
making the next one less severe.
In the Western Division, at least, the
summer is frequently the worst period
of the year, and in summer sheep will
live on very short rations if unlimited
supplies of water are available. Where
rivers are unreliable and artesian water
is not present, plentiful supplies may be
assured by sinking tanks of 5000 cubic
yards, or larger, and by keeping the tanks
de-silted and the drains in good order.
An inspection of most waterless
country during a drought reveals either
no tanks at all or else tanks so
silted up as to be useless for their express
purpose—the storage of water for dry
seasons. Carting water for stock by
motor-truck is about the biggest mug’s
game there is being both expensive and
inefficient.—H. C. C. (N.S.W.).
Prizes for Losers
I have just been to a vegetable, fruit
and flower show. The winning exhibits
were very fine, but the men who pro-
duced them had everything in their favor
—rich soil, abundant supplies of good
water, plantations of trees to break the
wind and, in most causes, employees to
do all the hard work in the shape of
digging and weeding.
The exhibit at which I looked longest,
however, was a little collection of water-
melons, onions, potatoes, tomatoes,
pumpkins and spinach, flanked by modest
bunches of Easter lilies, marigolds and
geraniums. Everything in it was without
a blemish, but seemed pitifully small by
contrast with the other entries ; it had
been grown on poor soil whose fertility
had been patiently built up with manure,
no water had been available save that
from washing-day or the family bathtub,
and the brushwood breaks which shel-
tered it had taken a lot of hard work to
erect. Most important of all, the family
which entered it knew that # they stood
very little chance of obtaining as much
as an honorable mention when they
brought it along.
At a sports meeting once we found
that we had a prize to spare. The secre-
tary suggested “Give it to young Bob
McTryard. He entered for every race
but ran nowhere in them. He must have
known that he stood a poor chance when
he paid up his entry fees.” We agreed,
and Bob was awarded a special prize as
“the best trier.”
There should be more of that sort of
thing. The Americans gave the world
a splendid precedent when, after old
Thomas Lipton had spent half a lifetime
and a fortune in vain attempts to win
back the America’s Cup, they gave him
a special cup inscribed “To the world’s
best loser.” To enable a few to win
many must lose. In sport, in business,
in the whole gamut of life, we owe the
greatest debt to those who plod along
and who keep on trying in spite of lack
of prizes, limelight or applause.—H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
“Spend Millions”—For What?
In B. 19/5/’37 I wrote, apropos the
diminution of Queensland’s artesian
water supply, “someone has periodically
made the suggestion that the Burdekin
and other eastern-flowing rivers be
dammed near their source and the waters
diverted to the west.”
Now Dr. Bradfield has propounded a
scheme the cost of which, in the pre-
vailing grandiose manner, is to be thirty
million pounds. Granted that the esti-
mate is correct, an appraisal of past per-
formances in Forgan Smith’s State justi-
fies the conclusion that the completed
cost will be at least forty millions. That
means an interest bill of £1,400,000 annu-
ally. I doubt whether even Queensland
can extort more than 2s. 6d. per head of
sheep in direct taxation, so to square the
interest bill an increase of over eleven
million sheep will be wanted, and that
increase will have to be carried princi-
pally on the frontages of the Thompson
River.
In 1937 the sheep in the whole of
Queensland amounted to slightly over
twenty millions. Enthusiastic urgers for
the Bradfield scheme say that an increase
of twenty million sheep will be achieved,
thus doubling the sheep numbers for the
State. Some well-informed people are
doubtful whether the increase would ever
reach one million. Anyhow, it is not
along the river frontages where the
grazier wants more water. He wants it
in the dry corners of his run, and, apart
from the artesian supply, the only prac-
ticable method of getting it is by con-
serving the local surface waters in large
earth tanks.
The millions-mad Bradfieldites fail to
mention that there is a population of
over 10,000 people on the irrigation areas
of the Lower Burdekin, and that many
of them have, for some years past, been
concerned about the dwindling supply of
water. Is it likely that they are going
to submit to the enormous depletion now
suggested in order that a soil-eroding
and otherwise preposterous stream may
be sent meandering to Lake Eyre or
thereabouts?
If an increased rainfall and a conse-
quent increase of feed over the inland
areas could be guaranteed, an expendi-
ture of fifty millions on Dr. Bradfield’s
scheme might be warranted. Perhaps
Mr. Inigo Jones should be consulted. —
Birre Gurra (N.S.W.).
A Consolidated Fencing Act
If the Parliament which meets in Syd-
ney wants to do something that will
be appreciated, it can consolidate the
sections of the various Acts that deal with
fencing.
At present four Acts affect fencing—
the Crown Lands Act, the Pastures Pro-
tection Act, the Dividing Fences Act
and the Western Lands Act. To a cer-
tain extent the Local Government Act
has a bearing on the same subject. To
make matters worse, in certain circum-
stances the Acts conflict, adding to the
general confusion.
It should not put Parliament to any
great trouble to pass a short Act defining
the general position in regard to fences.
Such legislation would be welcomed by
landowners who now have to seek legal
assistance to straighten out the tangle.—
Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Beer- and Milk-bars
A few adjustments to our hotels would
go a long way towards appeasing the
minds of parents and the clergy on the
question of modern youth, cocktails, etc.
Hotels, given the same privilege as
milk-bars to keep open after six o’clock,
would be an advantage, provided it were
compulsory to have screens taken from
the bar entrance and drinks served in
the same open-air manner as is cus-
tomary with the soft drinks. This, to
my mind, would minimise the “shouting
and lingering habit.
Drifting behind screens and getting the
forbidden goods after hours has a certain
element of adventure which appeals to
a majority of our lads and lasses, not
forgetting the more staid folk.
Therefore, throw open widely the
doors, let in the sunlight, and, given the
freedom to please ourselves where we
drink after 6 p.m., sly grog and the
surrounding environment would lose
their attractions.
Our Australians appreciate freedom,
and I’m sure the majority would no
abuse it. —F. R. C. (N.S.W.).


Story Writing
as taught by
Bernard Cronin
The inexperienced writer is wise to
regard what gift of writing he believes
to be latent in him as something that can
find its full expression only by compre-
hensive and accurate training.
Such training is available at a fee within
the reach of anyone, and may be under-
taken with assurance. Under skilled direc-
tion the knack of writing can be mastered
and a natural ability developed to pleasant
and profitable outcome.
The Bernard Cronin Story Writing
Course insists upon individual treatment.
It is this personal contact between Bernard
Cronin and his pupils that makes it pos-
sible for anyone with “the urge to write”
to succeed quickly and inexpensively.
I am often asked if it is possible to earn
while learning. It is possible. Acting on
my advice a number of pupils have sub-
mitted early MSS. with success. But it
is not always advisable to do so and I
have just as often asked pupils to refrain
from submitting MSS. that, although likely
to get publication, were not up to the
standard they might properly expect to
reach very soon. A reputation with
editors for mediocrity is hard to live down,
and so tuition to be honest must check as
well as urge.
I am asked, too, how long pupils wait
for revision and criticism of their work.
MSS. rarely stay with me for more than
two days. The work of pupils living in
New Zealand or the Islands gets prefer-
ence, but in every case expedition in the
return of work is my rule. Delay checks
effort and reduces enthusiasm, and without
continued effort and enthusiasm creative
work is not possible.
In addition to teaching story writing and
writing for radio, Bernard Cronin criticises
and advises upon the MSS. of writers who
ay e had only a limited success. This
critical service has helped to establish the
reputations of many now flourishing
writers.
Bernard Cronin’s Course is fully
described in ‘Story Writing”— post free
on application.
Bernard Cronin,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
“Bernard. Cronin: A Reality.” This tells
who Mr. Cronin is as man and author and
what he has done as author and teacher of
story writing. A copy will be posted free on
application.
Mr. Cronin has been successfully teaching
story writing in Melbourne for nine years and
includes amongst his pupils some of Australia’s
leading younger writers.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
I
Mr. Compton Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism definitely culti-
vates the imagination, and I
do not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who would
not benefit by a Course.”
Pelmanism is real training. It
teaches many things, but its
purpose is to train qualities
and attributes.
pELMANISM is the Science of Living, of making every day a full
day, a day of enterprise and satisfaction. It deals with fundamental
personal attributes and qualities which, when developed, establish mental
and physical health, making life pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman. The
most important are: —
Self-Confidence, Self-Control, Will Power, Initiative,
Concentration, Judgment, Tact, Social Ease,
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
pELMANISM is so universally successful largely because it sets out
to train rather than to teach. It knows that, according to the nature and
the strength of the individual’s habits of mind and will, so are his personal
efficiency and his standing with his fellows.
pELMANISM makes work easier and life pleasanter. It makes the
individual more capable—it makes him extremely capable. It trains
him to distinguish immediately the essential things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only gives him time for more work, or leisure for
more enjoyment, but it also induces a freedom of mind that makes all his
work good and productive, and all his pleasure real and unhampered.
INTERNATIONAL awards to the Pelman Institute are: Liege, 1930;
Nancy, 1932; Geneva, 1933; Paris, 1933.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describing the Pelman Course,
are posted free'on application to The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane (corner Market Street ), Melbourne. All
inquiries are treated as confidential. Write, call or telephone MU2355.
.
The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
More than half a million men and women have enrolled for
the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory and Personality training.
Of these over 40,000 have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of 40
years’ standing. Its headquarters are in .London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(corner Market Street), Melbourne, C.l, where it has been
established for 30 years.
mm.
Dr. I’’. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound psy-
chology and an admirable
system of mind-training. It
teaches that man has the key
to his own career.”
The esteem in which Pelmanism
is held and the work it is doing
all over Australia are indicated
in the following letters: —
Bth July, 1938.
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. 1 owe a debt of grati-
tude to the Pelman Institute and to you
personally.”—Electrician (N. S. Wales).
4th July, 1938.
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.” —Engineer (Yic.).
20th December, 1937.
“I see and perceive things I never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity
is greater than it was before my serious
illness. My whole life and work is a
pleasure.”—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
3rd July, 1938.
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and
an ‘I can’ state of mind have enabled un-
to produce tennis form that has surprised
myself. The credit is due entirely to
Pelmanism.”—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
2nd December, 1937.
“This was the first public occasion on
which I had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I
succeeded beyond expectation.”—Police
Officer (Victoria).
20th November, 1937.
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”—Accountant (Queens-
land).
18th November, 1937.
“I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that I am in a strong position
to face the ever-existing struggle of life
with an eagerness and spirit for fight
which I have never felt before.” —Dentist
(N. S. Wales).
Definitions and
Information
COURAGE, firmness of spirit and
swell of soul in the face of danger
and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration of
effort, developing character and
increasing courage by enlarge-
ment of confidence.
Pelmanism gives Courage and
establishes Purpose.
MEMORY a good memory
strengthens self-confidence. Pel-
manism is the exact and scientific
training of memory for what has
happened, what has been heard
and read, and for what has to he
done.
To the Peiman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” post free,
NAME
ADDRESS
92
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ţ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
VAp
AUSTR A L * A M
WOMAN'S MIRROR 3
KNITTING BOOK FOR 1939
D
best in Australia.
READY
APRIL 11
Over 20 exclusive and useful gar-
ments in this 36-page Knitting
Book—the cheapest and
stP'j S®V
•0 4, /
o°,
tA' 5 '
o*
# ss
• s6 V^ v 0
v° S^V'
.1 $


n
m
■
' '■ $| illip |i; r- . jig
ill
llili
rJK
mmm
7
Uuifo/f&6a
JUe^Uoo
RADIO
TELETHON
NORTH AMERICA
from the telephone in your office or
home.
The recently opened direct Wireless
telephone service across the Pacific
has resulted in a reduction in rates
between Australia and North America.
The wireless equipment for the
Australian station of this service was
designed and manufactured b
(§)
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
