

ilii
. .
■in
-
p, , tV 4
!■■■■■' *V*
IN THE MAKING
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the master metal
which gives life to the nation’s industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
industry.
■'S!
i*.-
MUM MBj
t: i 5 N
mm
ail
llilll
■lll
M
. * J
; ■
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS .... NEWCASTLE, NSW.
The Bulletin
Wet~Blank.d Leadership
Vol. 60.— N0. 3112.
Wednesday, October 4, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
“BATTLER’S” TALES OF EARLY
ROCKHAMPTON.
39 Chapters, 19 Photograi>hs. Price 7/6.
May be had direct from the Author,
“The Sanctuary,” Rockhampton. .Or
from K. M. Grant & Co., Commission
Agents, Rockhampton.
!\
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainin'!
your Muscular Movement System, of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 139
The Red Page
ARMCHAIR WARFARE.
One explanation of what many have
found puzzling—the slowness of “action”
on the Western Front —could be that
the main theory expounded in Captain
Liddell Hart’s The Defence of Britain
(Faber) has passed into military practice.
At considerable length, with frequent
repetition and a parade of historical and
technical support, Captain Hart presents
the case for defensive, and against
offensive, warfare. His theory is that
it isn’t necessary—or, indeed, practicable
—to defeat, or “crush,” the opposing
side. It is enough to convince the
opponent that he can’t win. “Our chief
risk of losing a war lies in trying to
‘win the war’ —by pursuing the mirage
of decisive victory on the battlefield.”
The defensive has so gained in resist-
ing power that the offensive against it is
suicidal, he argues. Instead of aiming to
defeat the enemy in the field, the object
should be to hold fast on the defensive
and allow him to defeat himself, while
using economic and suchlike forces to
convince him that he hasn’t a hope.
Captain Hart admits that existing cir-
cumstances might make it imperative for
Britain to send men to France, but he
holds that that help should be limited.
It is his belief —expressed in other books
besides this —that Britain’s land effort in
France, 1914-18, was a mistake.
Rarely have we entered a war in a
more favorable situation [than in 1914].
None left us so exhausted —as a direct
result of our unprecedented effort on land.
That France would certainly have been
defeated and overrun without that “un-
precedented effort” (and what of
Britain’s other efforts then?) is one of
many hurdles that Captain Hart, riding
his hobbyhorse flat out, prefers to go
round. Also, his book would be better
if he hadn’t taken for granted that
Russia wouldn’t be with Germany; that
makes a lot of his discussion a waste of
time.
Captain Hart implies that Britain
should have taken action over Man-
churia, Abyssinia, Spain and Czecho-
slovakia. Yet this is the same authority
who gained journalistic kudos for his
exposure of Britain’s hopeless defence-
lessness in September, 1938! Again, he
argues the necessity for a moral justi-
fication strong enough to unite the nation
behind foreign action. As if that was
present or possible on the occasions
mentioned!
Sir Arthur Salter’s Security—-Can We
Retrieve it ? (Macmillan) is a notable
companion volume to Captain Hart’s.
Sir Arthur wrote by way of con-
tributing to the avoiding of war. It is
a far-reaching and penetrating study of
British foreign policy, and a strong
advocacy of the value of making con-
crete proposals to Germany in regard to
colonies, disarmament and other bones
of contention. Though it is too late for
his proposed basis of a general settle-
ment to have the preventive result he had
in mind, the proposals, along with the
very thoughtful writing leading up to
them, are nonetheless of lasting interest.
His “Draft Manifesto of British Policy,”
to be delivered to Germany in advance
of war, is one that could be revived at
any time.
Captain Hart’s book has a technical
section that gives it special interest for
military students and experts, but the
bulk of it is of a general-reader nature,
of value to those who take more than a
daily-newspaper interest in the war.
Sir Arthur Salter is invigorating reading
all the way. He is a fearless and clear
writer and knows what he’s writing
about. He is one of the small batch of
thinkers on world affairs praised in
Wells’s latest book.
"Pastoral Symphony "
There have been so many Australian
dynastic novels that any more might
seem superfluous; but J. J. Hardie’s
Pastoral Symphony (Angus and Robert-
son) justifies itself by being in a school
of its own.
Pastoral history, a tricky business to
handle, is often written by people who
don’t know a Shorthorn from a Here-
ford. Hardie gives his fiction authentic
backgrounds of both history and grazing
knowledge, and has suffi-
cient imagination to adapt
events without undue dis-
tortion.
His tale is of a pair of
convicts who escape from
Sydney during the first year of Phil-
lip’s reign the woman a misused
serving girl, the man a gipsy poacher.
The author thoughtfully arranges for
them to steal the Government cattle pas-
tured at Farm Cove. The fact, of course,
is supposed to be that the cattle strayed
during the first King’s Birthday celebra-
tion. Their descendants were found on
the Cow Pastures nearly a decade later;
but Hardie may be more right than his-
tory. His version is more probable in
some ways than that the animals walked
40 miles into the face of the southerlies
in a cold winter.
The fugitives (with cattle) settle in the
Cow Pastures, the first white inhabitants
there. They make friends with the blacks
and raise two sons —Mark, whose male
parent is unspecified, and John, the
gipsy’s son. Hardie resists temptation to
discover later that Mark is a son of King
George 111., John Macarthur or George
Washington. His birth remains an
enigma.
The family’s civilised wants are pro-
vided for by judicious peculation and
sheep-stealing. They are moved to several
exoduses by the advances of civilisation.
The gipsy and his wife are slain by
marauding bushrangers. The younger son
acquires a half-caste abo. wife with some
bloodshed. Mark, the elder boy, finds
himself with 20,000 sheep, a Scotch wife
and wealth, which does not cure his aver-
sion to wearing boots. The tale ends
when the Hungry Forties have been
weathered and the cry of “gold” is in
the air.
Hardie is not given lo histrionics or
breathless wheezes of excitement. Events
in Pastoral Symphony take their courses
with complete amoral simplicity. Sheep-
stealing may be a hanging matter, but it
does not shock Hardie. The sheep comes
home across the saddle-bow. Everybody
is happy. They needed a sheep, didn't
they?
The effect of the matter-of-fact ease
of the writing is to produce an air of
continuous suspense in a far greater
degree than would have been achieved by
the usual turgid treatment of such themes.
Mary Gilmore's Poems .
The poems in Mary Gilmore’s Battle-
fields (Angus and Robertson) fall into
four categories: short serious poems,
lyrics, ballads and occasional pieces, of
which the lyrics and ballads are the most
attractive.
Among the serious poems there is a
group of six sonnets, beginning with
“The Pilgrim,” which deal effectively with
a love theme on a note of sombre cour-
age. Others, such as “The Sea”-—which
ephoes Byron -lack subtlety, and some,
such as “Vae Victis,” fade out into prosi-
ness because Mary Gilmore can express
her philosophy much more naturally in
a song than in analysis.
Lyrics which show her talent at its
best include “She Praises Him,” the eight
taut lines of “The Prodigal,” “The Lov-
ing Heart” and “Unresting”:
Once, to this venturer,
All beds were soft, and sleep
Was a thing without stir
When the pulse was at leap!
Now sleep as a small white
Doe of the forest flies,
To be hunted all night
In a hounding of sighs.
The ballads, like Hugh McCrae’s, have
the true touch of magic—“ Horn Mad i’
the Moon” for a weird and delicate
fancy, “They Hanged a Man from
Gallows Hill” for the grim, and “Rittle-
Rattle-Rittle” for macabre comedy. A
verse from the gallows poem:
High on the crest of Gallows Hill,
In the dusk three men were strung,
As the hymns rose up from the churches all,
And the holy psalms were sung;
And black as the Pit, when the moon came up,
The dread things swung and swayed,
Where only the hearth-smoke, high on the air,
And the stars rose unafraid.
Who's Douglas Sladen?
Publications: Twenty Years of My
Life, Who’s Who and 60 other books.
Recreation: Adam Lindsay Gordon.
He is the man who had the bust of
Adam Lindsay Gordon placed in West-
minster Abbey, and in My Long Life
(Hutchinson; F. W. Preece, Ltd., Syd-
ney) he tells how, having been asked as
a Gordon admirer what he was going
to do about the poet’s centenary in 1933,
he decided to try for a memorial in the
Abbey and fixed it up with the Dean
over a cup of tea. Kipling, Barrie, Gibbs,
Quiller-Couch and others in England and
Australia supported him, and over an-
other cup of tea he persuaded the Dean
to agree to a bust next to Tennyson
instead of the memorial tablet that was
first proposed.
He says “the centenary of Gordon
changed my life,” but he’d had an in-
tense admiration for Adam ever since his
uncle, Sir Charles Sladen, an ex-Premier
of Victoria, gave him a copy of Gor-
don’s poems on his first night in Aus-
tralia.
My Long Life is a curious book, more
like notes for an autobiography than a
considered work. Unimportant personal
details mingle with reminiscences of
famous people all over the world, humor-
less reflections keep company with in-
teresting anecdotes. There is much about
Australia and England, with chapters on
Canada, the U.S.A. and Japan. He says
that his book The Japs at Home was
the first regular travel book written on
that country, and when he visited it
“it had only a toy army and its biggest
warship was under 4000 tons.” “Chinese”
Morrison was his close friend.
One of his best stories is of a meet-
ing with Billy Hughes in London during
the war. Billy invited him to spend the
day “at a great house in Kent, which
had been lent to him by an admirer,
a famous peeress.” After lunch “he
gave me various valuable printed matter,
speeches, essays; and then he started
one of his great outbursts, not looking
at me, but facing an imaginary crowd.”
Sladen went to sleep. “When 1 woke,
refreshed, he was still addressing that
audience. He had not noticed me.”
A Yankee in a Periwig .
It is astonishing that so rich a book
as Gouverneur Morris’s Diary of the
French Revolution (Harrap; Angus and
Robertson) has had to wait 145 years
for print.
Besides being a complete eyewitness
account of the French Revolution from
the fall of the Bastille to the execution
of Louis XVI., it is a portrait gallery
packed with such notabilities as Washing-
ton, Talleyrand, Madame de Stael, Pitt,
Fox and Mrs. Siddons, while Morris’s own
career of diplomacy and gallantry is told
fully and divertingly.
During the Revolution Morris was
American Minister to France. He was
a personal friend of Washington and had
drafted the United States Constitution for
him. The two fat volumes in which
Beatrix Davenport has presented the
diary open with an exchange of letters
between Morris and the President when
Morris was about to leave for France.
There is an unexpectedly rural note from
Morris:
I promised you some Chinese Piggs, a
Promise which I can perform only by
Halves, for my Boar being much addicted
to Gallantry hung himself in Pursuit of
mere common Sows, and his Consort to
assuage her Melancholy took up with a
Paramour of vulgar race. To piece and
patch the Matter as well as I may, in com-
pany with the Piggs shall be sent a Pair
of Chinese Geese, which are really the
foolishest Geese I ever beheld, for they
choose all Times for sitting but the Spring
and one of them is now actually engaged
in that Business. It would be too de-
grading to the noble Race of Man should
I introduce Politics after Hogs and Geese.
Morris went to France on private busi-
ness, but before long Washington com-
missioned him to sound out the British
Government on an Anglo-American trade
agreement and other matters. England
and Spain were on the verge of war over
a Spanish claim to the Pacific seaboard
of America, and Morris, while he dis-
cussed trade with Pitt the Younger, was
plotting as hard as he could to bring
America in against England.
He disliked Pitt, whom later he de-
scribes as “timid and a rascal,” and they
quarrelled politely when Morris brought
up the matter of the impressing of
American seamen for the British navy.
They were discussing trade, and Pitt said
that America should give British shipping
privileges similar to those accorded
American vessels in England. “I assured
him,” says Morris, “that I knew of no
such Privileges, except that of being
imprest, a Privilege which of all others
we least wished to partake of.
In England Morris found fair Creatures
to whom, as in Paris, he could address
his execrable verses and of whom he
could write privately his invariable “Nous
verrons” ; he looked in on the trial of
Warren Hastings and decided, “In my
opinion this Charge of Bribery is fully
supported ; it will however depend I sup-
pose upon the Situation of the Ministry
at the time of the Decision whether he
is acquitted or condemned” ; he goes to
plays ; meets highwaymen ; eats eel; and
almost every morning he reports sadly,
“My stomach is deranged from drinking
half a pint of port yesterday.”
His life in Paris was full and exciting.
Comtesse de Flahaut, while retaining
her husband, kept Morris and Talleyrand
competing for her favors, and the story
of the affair is the central theme of the
diary. Morris stayed in Paris throughout
the Terror, helping the aristocrats in their
troubles, plotting unsuccessfully for the
King to escape, clinging to his private
opinion that liberty was all very well
for such a civilised people as the Ameri-
cans, but that the French were not fit
for their revolution. The diary ends
abruptly when execution put an end to
the vacillations of the King: “The Situa-
tion of Things is such that to continue
this Journal would compromise many
People.”
A Diary of the French Revolution is
not without its patches of tedium, for
life from day to day for Morris was very
much the same round of calls and inter-
views. But as a whole the two volumes
are both a valuable piece of history and
a highly entertaining autobiography.
This Time a Better Earth : Ted Allan
(Heinemann). Spain and the International
Brigade. Shells, whisky and a love
story, straight out of A Farewell to Arms.
Some realistic air-raids.
In the Margin of History (Macmillan),
by L. B. Namier, Professor of Modern
History at Manchester University, offers
this comment on the League of Nations:
If unanimity and true collective action is
required at every step, the League will
remain what it is—a sham, a miserable
farce. If majority rule is adopted, it will
become a deadly danger.
Professor Namier’s book is mostly a
collection of papers on oddments of
history, such as the madness of George
111., Lord Hervcy’s malicious memoirs,
Lord Chesterfield considered as a stunted
giant. Good chapters on Lawrence of
Arabia and “The Jews in the Modern
World.”
The House of Templemore ; Pat Law-
lor (A. H. and A. W. Reed, Dunedin and
Wellington). Story of a family of Maori-
land Irish. Setting, Wellington in the
early 1900’s, with some backblock ad-
ventures in Taranaki and Wairoa vicini-
ties. A first novel by a writer whose
five earlier works deal mainly with Maori
legends and journalistic experiences.
Germany’s War Chances: Dr. Ivan
Lajos (Gollancz). A flop.' By a Hun-
garian prof.; best-seller in Hungary
(where the appetite for statistics must be
hearty), and then published in England
on August 8. If delayed till after the
Nazi-Soviet Pact it would never have
been published, since its argument that
“Germany Can’t Win” hangs mostly on
the author’s high opinion of Russia, his
book therefore becoming an argument
against its own conclusions.
Sister in Charge: H. L. Montgomerie
(Chapman and Hall). The author of
Through a Ward Window reconstructs
the life of a big London hospital through
the story of a young nurse who comes
after many trials to the triumph of love.
Readable for its atmosphere.
June Remembers: Eric Hatch (Arthur
Barker). New York criminal lawyer ends
by marrying beautiful—and innocent
young criminal suspect whom he first
whisks from under the law’s clutching
hand. Told with some humor.
Other recent publications: — General :
The Australian and New Zealand Ski
Year Book, 1939; The Odinist Religion
Overcoming Jewish Christianity, Alexan-
der Rud Mills (published by the author,
Melbourne); The Way of Belief, S. C.
Carpenter, Dean of Exeter (Bodley
Head) ; The Crisis in Physics, Chris-
topher Caudwell (Bodley Head) ; Annual
Catalogue of Australian Publications,
Kenneth Binns (Govt. Printer, Canberra).
Children : Happy Hearts, Annie H.
Mark (Paterson’s Press, Ltd., Perth).
Verse: Pen Pictures, Grace L. Rodda
(Lothian, Ltd., Melbourne); Insurgence,
Elizabeth Lambert (Viking Press, Ltd.,
Sydney).


s v^ ct
c-to^ efc
&08* >c««*
* of C^ K . \
a,,,A \ 5
1
tvt
V
KI
»
II
«Hi
I*
H
m
■
\i
p*
3*sr
&
P*
JP
•••-••
1 :
ftV\f
~»- *£&•
“ U 6 “
■
•ties
o* ' ce
V>o* e<
A \®’
v _ O ot;
votv
****£.<*
V ,e ° X "v” S oo ' ' »
vo"’
QP&
iM
cV
"^° U * o o*
ao
v/Vv' v rt qe^>
W'* 4 -dvo^
o<\ c
o^
e’ff''
te
At\qr
Q W
SIS® 5
iVe
vV©
i^o°
e<o
iVe
V\o°*
*\os
CO*
. oO e " Ae<<*
0 * to**' 1 " 9 ' X! *o c °%v^°<
I °L ' o
Vo ® oP° n
, 1 0^ e< pO' - 1,
9 Ae Ae^ s •«Aot' c ® rto o<* s
V'°' A >e< *f_ be *et
te*
V:\xe
£o< eV °
j v>^;
*V' e< '
M 1
. os **T „ o bV' c " evo^nQ
4 ex°
t
o^o'" 6 '
*o<
,os^ e
cop
cos
vaTO?-
acM'
ft
3^»
*.
W *»" °
e o( s>^ o ,w^>-
3 r<\S c.V.e e ' u<->os e^
*• O- ''" -o° VAa
auoto® Ve
V" 510
■O' 5 - V,
. •., Vee'-
4
wj ftvs-
- <^ s
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd., Sydney.
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


WANTED :
New Story Writers
“The Bulletin” offers a prize of £5 for the
best story by a new writer submitted before
October 7. Only those who have not previ-
ously had stories published in “The Bulletin”
are eligible.
Stories must be short —1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each I 100 words.
This will be the last of these competitions.
Women —Any Fight’s Fair If Their Bloke Wins
LOOKING AFTER
MIKE
BY FREEMAN SANDOM
DRAWINGS BY SUCH
IF women know the difference between right and
wrong they keep the knowledge under their hat.
Gretchen kept hers at the bottom of her glory-box
wrapped up in lavender sprigs underneath the
bridal gown, veil and confetti keepsake.
She’d bossed Mike O’Shea about a year when
he crossed the road one Sunday morning, borrowed
his father-in-law’s ancient Henry and drove off
towards Gordonvale.
“It ain’t natchral for a young woman to breakfast
on cups of tea,” he said to me before leaving, “and
this morning she was sick at the bare sight of a slice
of bread and butter I tempted ’er with. I’m off to get
’er a decent tonic.”
Gretchen can’t bear Mike out of her sight for
long, and presently she mooched over.
“Was that Mike driving?” she asked, puzzled.
“He didn’t tell me he was going away. Where’s he
off to, Bill?”
I explained he was fetching her a tonic.
“The dear idiot!” said Gretchen, laughing.
“Sure!” said I, knowing that only idiots marry.
But I backed Mike up by pointing out to her that her
knowledge of medicine was up to putty, she having
been an office girl up to the wedding. “Mike’s doc-
tored horses and cows all his life,” I said, “so just
leave it to him.”
“And you’re another!” said Gretchen.
“Oh, sure!” I granted. “But I’ve known you
since you were so high, and I tell you you’re looking
a bit peekish on it, and a tonic’ll do you good. Got
any pains at all, girl? Mebbe in the left flank, or
mebbe the right? In me Book of Knowledge”
“Twice fool! ” interrupted Gretchen. “Go and ask
mum! ”
Mrs. Kaufman sat in her rocking-chair on the
verandah, knitting some flimsy white folderol. I’ve got
a lot of respect for Mrs. Kaufman. She knows what’s
what and can’t be bustled. I reckon if the fathefr of
all earthquakes sent Bellenden Ker and the rest of
the world tumbling down, she’d still sit there, solid as
the rock of ages, smilingly waiting for the hullabaloo
to blow over. If she and Bill O’Rooke’d been young
together mebbe her name wouldn’t be Kaufman.
“Gretchen vos yoost right, Bill,” she said. “Mike
oont you vos two vools togetter. Haf you in your
vace no eyes?”
“Well, she ain’t looking well,” I insisted, “though
you can’t go be looks. I ain’t the worrying kind, but
appendicitis”
She regarded me over the specs as if I’d said
something funny. Then she repeated one word twice.
“Go oont loog dot ub in your Boog of Knowledge,
mine vriendt.”
The Book of Knowledge cost me a week’s wages,
but it was cheap at the price. I thought I knew some-
think until I dipped into that.
I waded through the Bre’s, then through all the
B’s from beginning to end without finding Mrs. Kauf-
man’s word. Then it struck me how the Deutschers
jumble their b’s and p’s, and after that it wasn’t long
before I struck oil.
“Holy smoke!” I said to meself. “Talk about a
coupla goats!”
Mike came back shortly after, driving Henry at
an easy trot. He looked as happy as if he’d tucked
away a spot or two —which me nose presently told me
he had. I opened the gate for him.
“Twice fool and treble idiot,” I said politely.
“Haven’t you got eyes in your face?”
“I know!” said Mike, grinning broadly. “When
I’d told Thorby, the chemist, the symptoms, we went
out and downed a coupla whiskies to celebrate. It
feels great to be a father, Bill!”
“It feels great to have a coupla whiskies under
your belt,” I amended. “You’re not a father yet!”
“But I soon will be, you old growler.” He hopped
from under the steering wheel, skittish as a two-year-
old. “Bill, I feel 1 want to share the good noos with
somebody, with a crowd of somebodies. Stick a feed
of juice into Henry, there’s a good feller. We’ll drive
back to Gordonvale after dinner.”
N A IKE’S as steady as Bellenden Ker. He never leaps
till he’s thought twice where to land. For 364
days in the year he’s more English than Irish of tem-
perament. But he’s got one drop of dinkum Irish
blood in his veins, and the 365th day that drop fizzes
up and swamps the Englishman. This happened the
time he suddenly and unexpectedly learned that
Gretchen had grabbed him for keeps. O’Keefe, the
Gordonvale publican, still smiles happily and pats his
cash register when reminded of that profitable night.
Henry had been fed and groomed and I was
dolled up in me best togs when Mike returned after
dinner. Gretchen came with him. She was talking.
She writes shorthand, but speaks the long brand.
“Don’t worry!” said Mike, getting in a word
edgeways, “we’ll just take a drink or two with a few
mates. Back in time for tea.”
“The last time dad bailed you out the day after,”
said Gretchen in a peppery voice.
“A year ago,” I backed Mike up. “A man’s got
to loosen up”
“Will you close your face, please?” said Gretchen
politely.
“It’s closed,” said I.
“You got into a fight and ended up by hitting a
policeman”
“O’Leary deserved it,” I chipped in. “A cop
what pokes his nose between flying fists must”
“You’re not used to whisky, Mike,” pleaded
Gretchen. “Stay home for my sake!”
“It’s for your sake I go, girl! I’m proud of you!
I’ll bust if I don’t loosen up a bit. Now don’t
worry”
“What’s the good of saying that?” exploded
Gertchen. She saw Mrs. Kaufman on the verandah.
“Mum! ” she called, and when the reinforcements had
waddled up: “Speak to Mike, Mum. He wants to
‘loosen up,’ and you know what that means!”
Mrs. Kaufman considered the problem, and
we waited. When she spoke after a coupla minutes
it was as if a High Court Judge was summing up, and
I almost took off me hat for the death sentence which
was to come.
“Der last dime you loosen ub you haf vor von
veek ein headache”
“And nearly got killed in a fight,” added
Gretchen.
“The other feller got killed worse,” I said. “Any-
way, it wasn’t Mike’s fault. Bully Coulter picked the
fight. Mike’s straight left”
Gretchen turned on me furiously. “You old
reprobate! ” she cried, stamping her foot. “I believe
you put this idea into Mike’s head.”
I began to take olf me coat. “I don’t want to
celebrate,” 1 told her. “I’m not a father, praise the
Lord.”
Gretchen blushed. “You make a joke of this, Bill
O’Rooke, and I’ll —I’ll marry you off to old widow
Smith. And—and make dad give you the sack.”
Sack me! When Bill O’Rooke’s out of a job the
last stick of cane’s gone through the rollers and the
last plough rusts in the last furrow. But I let it pass.
“Oont,” said Mrs. Kaufman, continuing her sum-
ming-up as if there’d been no interruption, “if Mike
likes anotter headache to haf id iss nod goot to schtop
him. Gome mit me, Gretchen! ”
“Wait till I come back, Mike,” commanded
Gretchen over her shoulder.
“What devilment are they hatching out now?” I
remarked after we’d cooled our heels for a quarter of
an hour. “You’d think we were going bushranging or
committing suicide the way women carry on.”
Mike, his legs decorating the steering wheel, smiled
quietly. When he’s made up his mind there’s no more
to it, as far as he’s concerned.
Presently Gretchen came out on the verandah and
called me over. She handed me a letter, and now her
voice was dripping honey. “Please give this to Mr.
Thorby. I want him to make up a tick medicine, so
don’t forget. And look after Mike, Bill! That Bully
Coulter might be there”
“He will,” I nodded. “Bully never misses a wet
week-end. He’s got it in for Mike, all right. Was a
bit sweet on you, wasn’t he?”
“Bully’s capable of doing anything,” said
Gretchen. “That’s what’s worrying me most.” She’d
been nursing something wrapped up in brown paper.
Now she handed it to me. “Take this, Bill,” she said,
“and use it if necessary.” She went inside in a hurry.
On the way to the car I unrolled the parcel, took
one peep and rolled it up hastily ; it wouldn’t do to let
Mike see that. It was a small blackjack. It came from
the wall of me room and was part of me mooseum. A
feller’d once tried to brain me with it, but I got in
first. But that’s women for you! Gretchen’s idea of
a fair fight was to use anythink from a blackjack to a
machine-gun on the other bloke, anythink so long as
her bloke didn’t get scratched. And I was picked for
the thug. I put the thing in me pocket, intending to
stow it away in the car when Mike’s back was turned.
O’KEEFE’S bar, the doors closed, the shutters down,
the swirling tobacco smoke thick enough to
cut with a caneknife, looked like a corner of hell with
twenty or so devils drinking beer after a spell of
stoking. Bully Coulter was there, red-eyed and scowl-
ing at everything and everybody. The world and
Bully were always at loggerheads.
Mike breasted the counter.
“Long time since I saw you,” smiled O’Keefe,
glancing towards the cash register. “What shall it be?”
Mike named his poison, then turned to a by-
stander: “You and your mates have a drink with me?”
While O’Keefe filled the glasses and pots the
string of mates anxious to oblige Mike stretched con-
siderably. Afterwards I set ’em up for the crowd.
You’ve got to do a thing properly or not at all. There
was a bust of talk about a cutting record made by a
big-gun gang, then Mike shouted again.
There’s no fancy stuff about Mike’s letting off
steam. He goes to it quietly and systematically as he
would plant a paddock with cane. But with the third
drink he got a neat little speech off his chest.
“Listen, mates,” he said lifting his glass, “I’ve had
a bit of good news, and I want everybody to have a
good time with me.” He hesitated. “It’s a private
matter —sort of delicate like —so I can’t go into par-
ticulars. But you can take it from me it’s a corker!
Here’s happy days! ”
A man had squeezed through the door while Mike
was talking. He elbowed his way to the front. It was
Thorby, looking a bit under the weather. He likes his
glass, Thorby, but never lets it interfere with business.
“Your delicashy does you great honor, me boy,”
said Thorby thickly. He grabbed Mike’s hand and
pumped it heartily. “Proud to shake hansh with a
shentleman!”


Somebody let loose a mocking laugh. It came
from Bully Coulter’s direction, but Mike took no
notice.
I remembered the letter in me pocket. “A billy-do
from a lady,” I said, handing it over to Thorby. He
read the note under one of the shaded lights, and I
noticed puzzlement; then a lopsided grin spread over
his face as he looked at us.
“D’ye always laugh when you get a job?” I asked.
“Always,” said Thorby. “I love me work. ’Scuse
me. We’ll have a drink together when I return.” He
scuttled out like a bandicoot into cane trash with a
dog on his heels, but was back in less than ten
minutes.
“Set ’em up, O’Keefe,” he ordered. “Whisky.
Just the three of us.”
He took the bottle from O’Keefe, poured liberal
doses into three glasses, squirted in soda and passed
us the mixtures.
“Here’s to the ladies! ” cried Thorby. “They break
our hearts and our bank accounts and twist us round
their rosy fingers, but we love ’em just the shame.
God bless ’em!”
We drank.
“Did ya make up the tick medicine?” I asked.
“Tick medishine?” He seemed puzzled. Then a
slow smile came on his pale face. “Tchk, tchk, tchk.
Whisky the great deceiver! Bill, I thought your head
was impervious to its deadly fumes. Alas for a grand
reputation! ”
Three men stood close by, their heads together.
One of ’em —it was Bully—suddenly raised his voice.
“I s’pose his woman’s had a kid,” he said. “They
breed like rabbits, these Dutchies.”
Mike’d been leaning against the counter, seeming
sleepy, though it was only his fourth drink. He jerked
up, brushed past me and faced Bully squarely.
“You referring to me, Bully?” he asked coldly.
The other sneered. “If the cap fits you, you can
wear it.”
Smack!
Bully went down like a roped calf, but was up
again in a moment, his nose spouting blood. He tore
off his coat.
“No fighting here!” sang out O’Keefe. “D’ya
want to bring the cops on top of me? Out in the
backyard! Stop ’em, boys!”
A number of men surged between the two, and a
movement began towards the doors. Thorby had hold
of Mike and seemed excited.
“This man can’t fight now!” he shouted. “He’s
drunk—look at him! ”
Mike was swaying on his feet, but trying to pull
his coat off. “I’m all right,” he muttered. “All right!
Come on.”
They’re a tough crowd, the fellers coming in from
the canefields for a week-end’s fun, and a good fight’s
the best draw of the lot. In short time the backyard,
fenced off and private as you please, was crowded. A
ring was formed, Mike and Bully glaring at each other
in its centre. At least, Bully was doing the glaring
part. Mike was swaying on his legs, and
before a blow had fallen his knees sagged
and he went down and stayed down.
“He’s fainted with fright,” sneered Bully.
“The yeller so-and-so! ” He stepped forward
and lifted his heavily-booted foot.
I’m an oldish man and no match for
Bully, but I can still act quickly. I hadn’t
given a thought to the blackjack in me pocket
until this moment, but almost before I re-
membered its existence it was in me hand,
and Bully, one foot still in the air, went
down for the, second time, and this time he didn’t
rise.
There was a bit of an argument as to the fairness
or otherwise of me action, but everybody’d seen the
uplifted foot, and most of ’em were strong for Mike,
so it was passed over. Anyway, they never missed
their fun, for the excitement had made several of ’em
remember old scores, and there were three fights in
rapid succession before Thorby and I had carried
Mike to the car parked outside the pub.
K A IKE mooched over that night and flopped down
IV* on the end of me bunk. He was looking pretty
sick on it, and I asked after his head. He groaned.
“Did I mix ’em?” he asked. “I don’t remember
a thing. Never again, Bill! If there’s a dozen kids
coming I swear I’ll never go off the deep end for a
single one of ’em, no matter how happy I feel.”
“Familiarity breeds contempt,” I said. “Make it
how sorry you feel.”
“It’s no joking matter!” said Mike earnestly.
“Cripes, Bill, when I think how Gretchen nursed me
and cried over me, and never a hard word on her lips,
I feel like mud. A woman’s an angel, Bill, and no
man’s good enough to tie her shoelaces!”
Angel! I filled me pipe, lit up, and as 1 smoked
me eyes went to the blackjack now back on the wall.
If a man had put that in your hand and told you to
use it, and, in addition, made somebody put knock-
out drops in a feller’s drink —and all to spoil an inner-
cent once-a-year blow-out —he would be a thug and
liable to get five years’ hard.
Angel! If Gretchen grew cloven hoofs Mike
would only see the silk stockings and French heels.
Smack! Bully went down
like a roped calf.
SNAKES and SHADOWS
WHEN Buxton, the grocer, decides to carry out
a ridikerlus idea wot he ’ad got from a bloke
at a warehouse, I regards it as a reflection on
me work and I tells ’im so.
“I’m ’ere to keep down rats, Mr. Buxton,” I
explains, “and I don’t need no poisonous animals to
’elp me.”
“Carpet snakes ain’t poisonous, Raggles,” ses
Buxton. “They’re as ’armless to ’umans as wot you
are to rats.”
“I mightn’t know much about snakes, Mr. Bux-
ton,” I ses dignified, “except that they’re all poisonous ;
but I do know somethin’ about rats, and it’ll take
more than a slow, creepy, crawlin’ snake to catch ’em.
Matter of fact, Mr. Buxton, rats, bein’ intelligent
fighters and always ’ungry, is just as likely to ’ave a
’earty meal off your snake.”
“Wot rot!” he laughs. “Rats is scared stiff of
snakes. Why, they’re hypnotised and stand dead still
at the sight of one. Everyone knows that.”
It was somethin’ I didn’t know, and, ’avin’ me
doubts about it, I decides to make a little experiment
at ’ome with me pet rats to see if it was true.
Not ’avin’ no real snakes, 1 borrers a few of Mrs.
Raggles’s old stockin’s and a couple of glass buttons;
and after I ’ad fixed up a snake wot looked so natural
that even a cunnin’ rat wouldn’t know the difference,
I wriggles it across me large cage with a bit of string.
It was a ’ighly successful experiment. If I ’adn’t
been quick as a flash me snake would ’ave been tore
to bits ; and I pops it into me bag to show Buxton
next mornin’ and point out ’ow he ’ad been misled
about snakes and rats. But by the time I gets to
Buxton’s I ’ad changed me mind about sayin’ anything
about me experiment on account of wot ’appened
while I’m on me rounds.
Not thinkin’, I ’ad pulled me snake out of me bag
and left it layin’ around while I was up at old Gribble’s
place settin’ traps. Old Gribble ’as been wot he calls
a silent martyr to rheumatics for years, but there
wasn’t nothin’ silent about ’im nor no sign of rheu-
matics when he comes gallopin’ around the corner of
’is ’ouse like a grey’ound. He behaved so excitable
that I didn’t tell ’im the truth ; but all the same I
decides to be a bit more careful with me snake.
And I was. I don’t suppose I ’ad it ’angin’ in the
kitchen winder of Carter’s Hygienic Cafe more than
a minute while I got some traps out, but unfortunately
I picked the minute wot old Carter picked to come
staggerin’ into the kitchen loaded with dirty plates—
and the result was alarmin’. He spent ’arf the mornin’
’untin’ for the snake with a big lump of wood, and
the other ’arf tellin’ the Buxtons wot he thought of ’em.
Wot with ’im and old Gribble complainin’ so
bitter I felt sure that me little bit of carelessness would
be a blessin’ in disguise, as the sayin’ is ; but when I
goes to the Buxtons a few mornin’s later I finds that
the complaints ’adn’t made no difference, and that
they was still stubborn about keepin’ their snake wot-
ever ’appened.
Matter of fact, Mrs. Buxton ’ad took quite a
likin’ to it, callin’ it Claude, and tellin’ the customers
wot a nice pet it was and advisin’ ’em all to get one to
keep the rats down.
“He’s ’armless as a baby kitten, Raggles,” she ses.
“He knows me now, and he comes up regular every
evenin’ at closin’ time for ’is saucer of milk wot I
pokes under the ’ouse for ’im. He’s quite a affectionate
creature.”
“That ain’t the point, Mrs. Buxton,” I ses. “The
’ole question is whether he keeps down rats.”
“Of course he does,” she ses. “We ain’t seen one
since we’ve ’ad ’im, and before, when we was relyin’
on you, we was overrun with ’em. That’s proof,
ain’t it?”
She was so definite that for a minute I believes
’er, but when I thinks of me experiment I decides that
she ’as been mistook, and that evenin’ I sneaks in the
back way and crawls under the shop to set a few traps
and see if I got no results.
I don’t mind admittin’ that I wasn’t too keen on
the job, crawlin’ about in the dark on me stummick.
’Armless that snake might be, but they ain’t pleasant
things to meet on a equal footin’, as the sayin’ is ; and
if I ’adn’t thought of bringin’ a bit of packin’ case
with two long nails in it to pin ’im down if he tried
any funny business I don’t suppose I’d ’ave took the
risk. As it was, I was in a ’ighly nervous state, and
every time I ’ears a sound I went ’oiler inside.
Still, I manages to set me traps without disturbin’
’im, but just as I’m startin’ to wriggle out again I
'ears a sound near the edge of the verandah, and there,
sure enough, was a long shadder movin’ about. I
gives a ’orrified gasp and lashes out with me bit of
board, wild, ’opin’ to pin the snake down with them
two long nails, and the next second there’s a terrible
scream wot I rekernised as Mrs. Buxton’s.
I could ’ave kicked meself, thinkin’ that the
shadder I ’ad seen was only Mrs. Buxton’s arm movin’
about, and that I ’ad give ’er the swipe in mistake, so
I slips away quiet and quick to save any arguin’; but
the next mornin’, when everyone’s talkin’ about ’ow
Mrs. Buxton ’ad been attacked very savage by ’er pet
snake, it dawns on me that me swipe must ’ave startled
it and made it bite the ’and wot was feedin’ it.
Fortunately, it wasn’t a severe bite and she got
over it quite quick. Matter of fact, Dr. Biles seemed
a bit doubtful that she ’ad been bit at all, and asks
’er if she’s sure them two little ’oles in ’er arm wasn’t
made by nothin’ else. But, of course, that was ridi-
kerlus, and she told ’im so quick.
She didn’t get rid of the pet snake after all, but
it ain’t worryin’ me now on account of ’avin’ been
turned into a nice pair of snakeskin shoes.


9
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
J} {fyd of'ia'ie mellcume^smidjfcaqfuei
THE TOWER BRIDGE
Forty-six years have elapsed since the late Sir John Wolfe Barry’s great bridge was opened, in many respects the most important “road-
way over the river” that has been provided for several centuries. As an engineering feat, it is noteworthy. The bascules between the
towers, which form the roadway when down, on being raised permit the passage of vessels into the Pool, as this reach of the river, extending
to London Bridge, is generally, though not with strict topographical accuracy, referred to. This bridge crosses the Thames just below
the Tower, the foundation-stone being laid by King Edward, when Prince of Wales, in June, 1886. The architecture employed in
the towers was to conform, so far as the peculiar conditions permitted, with that of the Tower. Whether success was secured is a matter
the spectator will form his or her own individual opinion on. Whatever this may be, favorable or the reverse, it has to be borne
in mind that the designer was faced with a problem literally bristling with difficulties. To combine the ancient with what may be described
as the ultra-modern is, under any circumstances, no easy task. The Tower Bridge presents an effort, not altogether unsuccessful, to
meet the remarkable conditions imposed on the architect. As a traffic outlet serving the industrial districts on the south side of the river
the bridge has proved of inestimable value, though the traffic demands imposed upon it have been somewhat relieved by tunnels built
under the Thames lower down. To Australian visitors the structure has an interest from the fact that, when in Western Australia a move-
ment was started to supersede Fremantle for Perth as “the port,” its supporters advocated a bridge employing the bascules such as exem-
plified in the Tower Bridge,


ENTER THE GOOD FAIRY.
[Denouement Scene from the latest and silliest production of the Stunt Press.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WET-BLANKET LEADERSHIP.
Delivering a “vehement attack on critics of the Gov-
ernment’s war policy” at the opening of the Australian
Women’s National League conference in Melbourne,
Mr. Menzies became so vehement that he forgot to
declare the conference open, and had to do it “retro-
spectively.” That was not the only remarkable thing
about the speech ; much of it was extraordinary. Com-
ing from Mr. Menzies, as Prime Minister leading and
directing Australia’s war effort, some of it was pathetic.
Some of it was of the very gravest importance.
Mr. Menzies said it was “possible that Great
Britain, the Dominions and France might soon be
defending their existence against almost the whole
world.” He was as specific as could reasonably be
expected:
We do not yet know what our responsibility will be
in our own territory. In the last war there was never
any question of attack on Australia, but we are not
in that happy position to-day. In the last war Russia,
Italy and Japan were our allies. They are not our
allies to-day, and we do not yet know who our
enemies may be.
The importance of that statement cannot Ibe
minimised. It could not be put more plainly ; Aus-
tralia will not later have any reason to complain that
Mr. Menzies left it in the dark. There should be more
such plain speaking, instead of the commoner practice
of treating Australia as a nation of adolescents, or as
if the courage of Australians was to be doubted.
Given the right sort of lead now, Australia’s response
will be spontaneous and heroic.
Mr. Menzies has shown that he has notable
qualities as a national leader in time of peace. Since
he has been P.M. the drive to rescue Australia from
its sickening defencelessness has gained increasing
impetus. Industry has been organised to co-operate
in defence effort, munition and armament production
has been improved. A war leader taking over from
Mr. Menzies would have an easier task because of
that solid, unspectacular work already done in the
background.
There may have to be a war leader taking over,
or Mr. Menzies will need to change. Mr. Menzies
is apparently satisfied with the effort now being made
under his direction: “It is not a bad record for three
weeks’ work.” He compares it more than favorably
with the 1914 effort:
Whatever Australia did in the opening period of the
last war, it has done, and is doing, far more in this
war.
He could not have made a more unfortunate
comparison. Mr. Menzies said that the “army had
what it did not possess in 1914, a militia army of
80,000, which would be brought to an effective pitch
of efficiency in the shortest possible time.” That is,
it is yet to be trained. There will be “a special force
of 20,000 for service at home and abroad. The total
army provision will thus be 100,000 trained men. In
1914 at this period we did not have in sight 100,000
men or anything like that number.”
Considering the threatening prospect set forth the
reason for the P.M.’s pride is hard to see. If there is
even the most remote possibility of that prospect be-
coming reality, the suggestion that Australia, instead of
dawdling along in the old hopeless rut, is making a
full and wonderful effort to face the threat will con-
vince nobody. If the prospect is as stated by Mr.
Menzies, there can be no excuse for not imposing
compulsory training immediately. Instead, there is
for Australia—threatened as Mr. Menzies says it is—
the sickening spectacle of the national Parliament
spending hours to ensure that objectors to national
service may contract out of this democratic obliga-
tion on other than religious grounds! Australians,
“not yet” knowing “who our enemies may be,” are
asked to be content with the thought that the effort
is better now than in 1914 ; trust the Government; be
satisfied that the “total army provision,” at an unspeci-
fied date, will be “100,000 trained men” —will be;
there is not that number now, nor, in the P.M.’s phrase,
anything like that number of trained men.
As for the 1914 effort, is it either good leadership
or historically right to be slighting about that ? Aus-
tralia’s population then was 4,972,059 ; it is now just
on 7,000,000. The Commonwealth Year-Book puts the
total number in training under the compulsory sys-
tem in 1914 at “more than 51,000 citizen soldiers and
87,000 senior cadets” —138,000 men and youths who
had already undergone a certain amount of training.
Before war was then declared the Australian Gov-
ernment had offered the Royal Australian Navy—
stronger then, by a battle cruiser and in other ways
—and a force of 20,000. Now, with upwards of
2,000,000 more population, the force offered is the
same 20,000, plus a few hundred airmen.
In regard to that additional offer Mr. Menzies
said: “We have a fine air force, whereas to all in-
tents and purposes we had none in 1914.” But who
had? This is no time for a national leader to be
talking political claptrap, or for anybody to be thereby
put under romantic delusions. The strength of a
military force is its comparative strength.
War-effort expenditure is declared to be four times
greater than in 1914. That sounds well; but there is
that population increase ; there are the much costlier
nature and requirements of arming, especially in
machines ; also, the Commonwealth Statistician records
that in June this year £1 bought only 58 p.c. of what
it bought in 1914.
The 1914 offer of 20,000 men was made on
August 3 ; the scheme for the A.I.F. was complete by
August 8. Recruiting opened two days later, and
C. E. W. Bean records in the Official History that “the
great driving force of General Bridges created all this
new army within a month.” Half the 20,000 came
from the militia ; the rest rigidly selected from the
swarms of men from all parts of the country who
rushed to enlist. But the institution of compulsory
training played an even more important part. Of 631
officers in the 1914 A.I.F. only 24 had never served
before ; 402 of them were drawn from the militia.
All that, and more, was achievable and was
achieved in 1914, despite the very different circum-
stances of the outbreak of war, which then came sud-
denly, out of the blue. If there has been prepara-
tion now, there has also been ample time for it. The
sorry truth is that all that has been done is to rescue
Australia to some extent from the utter defenceless-
ness it had been reduced to by pacifist cranks and
timeserving politicians. It does not call for pride but
for humility. What has been done is no more than
the measure of past neglect. Not only for the grim
prospect painted by Mr. Menzies, but, whether that
is avoided or not, for the lasting security of Australia,
compulsory national service is imperative at once.
For the present prospect something else is im-
perative, too. The 1914 effort is not something to be
belittled, which was no doubt far from the P.M.’s
intention. It is something to be remembered as an
inspiration. It was of heroic proportions, and heroic
in spirit. Mr. Menzies is reported to have said:
We have come into this war, I believe, sick at
heart at the tragedy of it all.
It sounds like a dirge after defeat. If this is war, with
possible invasion—which is what Mr. Menzies meant
—it is not going to be won on that note. In remem-
bering the effort last time the political leaders are
worth recalling—W. M. Hughes, the fiery particle ;
Lloyd George, vigorous and spectacular ; Clemenceau,
“the Tiger.” Leadership now will need to be spec-
tacular and inspiring, or make way for those who
possess such qualities. It is too late and too soon for
dirges. It will have to be a dynamic, or a different,
leader.
Mr. Menzies mentioned that there has this time
been “no hysteria, no flag-wagging.” What else are
these but derogatory terms for national enthusiasm? Is
that undesirable now? A nation fights as a nation
thinks.
As it happens—luckily for Australia —it is an
untrue picture. Among the men who are offering
their services voluntarily there is as strong enthusiasm
as in 1914. But that enthusiasm isn’t going to be en-
couraged or carried ahead by defeatist dirges. Even
if it were true —which it is not —that there is a sub-
stitute for trained men in the sort of war that would
have to be fought to defend Australia, national
enthusiasm would still need to be awakened.
With even rudimentary training the full strength
of men available in Australia, backed up by the heroic
resolution of the rest of the nation, could put up a
fight in this country’s defence that would be a lasting
highlight of history. What is needed is dynamic and
fearless leadership. The prospect Mr. Menzies
describes calls for the spectacular and heroic touch
now.
Do You Believe in Fairies ?
After the succession of shocks administered to them
by the Nazi-Bolshie agreement, the German lightning-
war in Poland and the Russian invasion of that
stricken country, wishful thinkers scrambled up from
the floor and started all over again.
The war (they said) is proceeding according to
plan, and better. The Germans are short of food and
oil; their General von Fritsch is dead —not slain in
battle, as the Nazis alleged, but murdered because he
was anti-Nazi; Thyssen, who financed the Nazis in
the beginning, has fled to a neutral country ; Goebbels
has been arrested and the Czechs and Slovaks are in
revolt. Two secret radios are thundering against the
regime and profoundly impressing public opinion.
Above all, Stalin and Molotov have so outwitted Hitler
and Ribbentrop that, from the German point of view,
the position in Poland, in the Baltic and the Balkans
has taken a menacing turn for the worse.
The Russians (they said) rushed a mighty army
into Poland —4,500,000 soldiers and commissars and
3000 actors. Moving with a rapidity equalled only
by the Chinese Communist army with which a
American lady reporter marched 80 miles a aay
on stilt heels, this immense force struck sucn
terror into the hearts of the Germans that tJ .X
had to fall back. In no time the Russkis had occupie
three-fifths of Poland, including the Galician oilwcH s >
and had spread all along the Rumanian and Hun-
garian frontiers. In baffled impotence, Fritz saw tne
Red peril advance 250 miles towards Germany,
“liquidating” landowners, seizing their property and
setting up Soviets everywhere.
In a night, as it were, the situation had been
transformed. The Baltic States were alarmed, the
Balkan States delighted. All turned from the setting-
sun of Nazism to gaze at the risen Red star. Bulgaria
hurriedly made a trade treaty with the U.S.S.R. at
Germany’s expense. The Estonian Foreign Minister
speeded to Moscow, beating the Turkish Foreign
Minister by a length and the German Foreign
Minister by a length and a half. “The disaster to Nazi
policy” was “further seen in the fact that Hungary
and Yugoslavia, the two most anti-Communist nations
in Europe, hastened to resume diplomatic relations with
Russia.” It was “reported” that even “Rumania” was
“refusing further deliveries of oil and grain to Ger-
many.” In short,
Germany has lost more in prestige, and probably
materially, as a result of its blind race to win Russia
from Britain and France than it would have lost if it
had allowed Russia to sign a pact with Britain and
France.
The story was rounded off with a comforting paragraph
about Poland. The Poles, it seems, knew exactly what
would happen to them when they refused to submit
to Hitler. They knew that their soldiers and airmen
would be defeated, their towns and cities bombed
and bombarded, their factories, workshops, railways,
bridges, wrecked, their people scourged with an accu-
mulation of horrors. They knew all, but were resolved
to endure all in their love for and trust in Britain.
Such was the narrative, and it was vouched for by
Important People. In other words, by the kind of
people who assured us in other days that the Abys-
sinians would beat the Italians ; that the “democrats”
would win in Spain ; that Czechoslovakia was a united
republic possessed of enormous military strength;
that the U.S.A. would have pitched into Japan in 1931
if John Bull (the coward!) hadn’t backed down ; that
the Americans were for “positive action against Japan”
again in 1935 and would heave Uncle Sam’s old hat
into the ring the moment Hitler went looking for
lash ; and, finally, that Stalin had placed the Mighty
Soviet War Machine at the service of the Democracies
and could whip the Germans and Japanese single-
handed.
It was reserved for the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
to tell the most flattering tale. Always an admirer of
Stalin, and depressed only momentarily when that
double-dyed traitor betrayed its Democratic Front,
it exultantly proclaimed in its issue of September 26
that “Hitler’s German-Soviet pact recoils on him like
a boomerang,” as witness “Russia’s swift advance into
Poland and her lion’s share of the Polish booty.”
When Hitler signed his pact with Stalin he thought
he had achieved a master-stroke of diplomacy.
The Soviet Pact was announced on August 21.
Within a month it has recoiled on Germany, strategi-
cally as well as diplomatically. Russia has seized three-
fifths of Poland, including the timber, wheat and oil
that Hitler urgently needs.
Had she been our ally she could scarcely have frus-
trated Hitler’s plans of eastern expansion more effec-
tively.
Russia’s increasing demands on her own resources
make it apparent that she will have little material left
for sale to Germany—even if she were prepared to
give Hitler credit.
There is now general acceptance of Bernard Shaw’s
view that Russian intervention in Poland has strengthened
the Allies and weakened Germany. It has even been
suggested that Britain might send an important Cabinet
Minister to' Moscow and negotiate to buy with gold
any goods that Russia is able to export.
Four days after this roaring nonsense appeared the
“Daily Telegraph” had to publish the terms of an
agreement arrived at in Moscow by Ribbentrop and
Molotov, and was too staggered to comment.
“The German and Soviet Governments” had
“signed a definite settlement of the questions arising
out of the dissolution of the Polish State,” and had
thus “created a sure basis for a durable peace in
eastern Europe.” They had drawn up a map erasing
the Polish State and giving Germany “the bigger slice
of Poland” and Russia a bad military position—worse
than in 1914 —and they were “taking immediate steps
to build up trade in accordance with a supplementary
agreement outlined in letters.” This, in substance, was
Molotov’s:
The Soviet will do everything... .to develop the
exchange of goods between the two countries. The
Soviet agrees to furnish Germany with all necessary
raw materials, for which the Soviet will be compensated
by Germany with goods delivered over an extensive
period. The Soviet will do everything to bring the
trade of both countries to the highest possible level.
Sandwiched between these passages was a threat to
Britain and France:
The German and Soviet Governments.... declare it
their unanimous opinion that it would be in the real
interests of all nations to end the state of war existing
between Germany, on the one hand, and Britain and
France, on the other.
The two Governments will, therefore, jointly make an
effort, in co-operation with other friendly Powers, in
order to attain this end as soon as possible.
If their efforts do not succeed the fact will then be
proved that Britain and France are responsible for the
continuation of the war. If the war should be con-
tinued, joint consultations will occur between the
German and Soviet Governments on the subject of
necessary measures.
This rigmarole may mean that Britain will have to
go to war with Russia. It does not mean that
Stalin will send troops and airmen to the Western
Front and try to sneak submarines out of the Baltic
to prey on British commerce. He knows a trick worth
two of that.
The cunning Oriental is fully aware that the
medley of races he rules don’t want to fight Germany
again. Their memories of 1917, when Germany


knocked them out with one hand and then carved up
their Empire, are too vivid for that.
Stalin has forced a mutual-assistance agreement
on little Estonia, giving him the right ‘ to maintain
naval and air bases in the islands of Oesel and Dago
and in the town of Baltiski,” and “to call upon Estonian
forces in the event of direct aggression by any great
European Power.” What Power? Germany. Neither
Russia nor Estonia has the slightest ground for fear-
ing “direct aggression” on the part of Britain or
France.
In effect, everything that has happened or is hap-
pening in Poland has been willed by Germany, and in
everything that is going on in the Balkans Germany
has a finger in the pie. The peace terms that Hitler
is about to offer will be rejected ; but if by any chance
he could get them accepted he would soon discover —
or rediscover —that he had been divinely ordained to
deliver Europe from the Red peril brought back to it
by the misguided, though now forgiven, policy of the
Western Democracies. After a hard European winter,
during which the “liquidation” of peasants and bour-
geois would go on, and Red cells would form again
in Germany, he would give the signal to his soldiers
and airmen, and they would go through the Russians
as swiftly as they went through the Poles —and go
into the Ukraine as well.
War has been forced on us. We should take the
war, realising that the Germans started it convinced
that they could smash Poland in two or three weeks
(as they did) and could not be beaten by Britain and
France. Already, as in 1914, Germany has proved
itself a strong, able, unscrupulous and ruthless enemy,
feared by neutrals, capable of stirring up trouble for
Britain in countries within the British orbit, and cap-
able also of getting by force or the threat of force
commodities of which it may be deprived by the
blockade. Russia, with only propaganda to fight with,
cannot harm us. Germany can.
Let us not underrate our adversary. The only way
to beat him is to hit him with everything we have. No
war was ever won by wishful thinking, and indul-
gence in it at this juncture is folly. Let us clear our
minds of cant, and be ready for any and every
sacrifice.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Poland.
In a book, The Friends of England, written 17 years
ago, Sir lan Hamilton, as has been mentioned here
with admiration, predicted the fate of Czechoslovakia
in two lines: “When Masaryk goes, Benes won’t last
long, nor Czechoslovakia either.” In the same volume
the veteran devoted a short paragraph to Poland.
To me, Poland assumes the aspect of a number of
exceptionally gifted and charming personalities who
coalesce into something impossible, ill-starred and fatal—•
fatal to themselves and to their neighbors This way-
ward, restless, martial nation, placed exactly like a
carefully-adjusted filbert between the enormous Russia-
Prussia nutcracker.
When the jaws of the nutcracker closed, Hamil-
ton’s words, coming back to memory, seemed like
those of a Highland seer. For divining Europe there
is nobody like a clear-headed, travelled, understand-
ing Scot with a gift of tongues and of friendship.
It is a thousand pities that those who had the
shaping of British policy did not pay more attention
to lan Hamilton and Bruce Lockhart, instead of rely-
ing so much on Foreign Office information which has
failed them almost everywhere. During the last 12
months in particular, the Foreign Office has let the
Empire down badly. The public, for its part, has been
deceived by a swarm of reporters, radio blah-mer-
chants and film makers, mostly American, many of
whom have gone in for plain and fancy lying.
It is very easy to be wise after the event. With a
full issue of such wisdom, Mr. Lloyd George wrote to
the Polish Ambassador in London expressing con-
tempt for “a Government which fled to a foreign
country while brave soldiers were still fighting,” and
declaring that “Britain would not fight to restore a
particular regime which failed in the hour of its coun-
try’s distress or to force another race back under
Polish rule.” His contempt is shared by a great many
people who read or listened to the bold pre-war words
of Colonel Beck and gazed at the carefully-posed
portraits of Marshal Smigly-Rydz, set in the midst of
flowery flapper-press panegyrics, but they do not
share the ungenerous old man’s blind faith in Russia.
The Russians were hailed as liberators. They
marched into territories which were not Polish but
which were forcibly annexed after the last war despite
the armed resistance of the inhabitants. It would be
criminal folly-to place the Russian advance in the same
category as the German.
The only difference is that it was cowardly. The Rus-
sian “liberators” knew that their commissars and
actors and prisoner-shooters would have a military
promenade.
Mr. Lloyd George claims to have “repeatedly
protested against the guarantee to Poland without first
securing Russian support.” Others, The Bulletin
among them, protested against the guarantees to
Poland, Greece and Rumania as a hazardous departure
from traditional British policy, and also against the
ill-starred Russian-alliance manoeuvres. In the course
of those manoeuvres Mr. Lloyd George distinguished
himself, in his peculiar way, by denouncing the Brit-
ish Government for its reluctance to yield to Stalin
at every point, and that in the Soviet press. How the
Reds must have laughed at the meddlesome old gentle-
man! No doubt they are laughing still.
End of the Section.
On September 27, 1938, Mr. B. S. B. Stevens
announced in “the seventh annual financial statement
which I have presented to Parliament” — i.e., the Syd-
ney libel on that name —that there had been a surplus
of £53,800 for 1937-38, and that there would be a
surplus of £7785 for 1938-39, after providing £130,000
for national insurance—which wasn’t spent. On Sep-
tember 27 the Sydney newspapers reported Mr.
Richardson, Mr. Stevens’s (second) successor, to the
effect that 1938-39 had closed with a “net deficit” of
£2,448,600 and that, with additional taxation designed
to bring in another £3,900,000 —in nine months •
1939-40 would close with a “net deficit” of £1,512,300.
Mr. Richardson’s calculation of the “net deficit”
is about the tenth that has been made. There has been
so much juggling wth loan money that it would be
fairly safe to wager that the real deficit was twice
£2,448,600. Some people used to find that sort of
thing amusing. There is nothing amusing in the
present position, and, outside the alleged Parliament,
nothing but savage indignation is felt at the measures
taken to make rotten finance look less rotten. For
when all the new taxes have been dragged in rotten it
will remain.
The Commonwealth has added 15 per cent, to its
tax on private income (the maximum was 7s. 9.15 d.
on “unearned” income in excess of £3700); has in-
creased its tax on companies from 13.8 d. to 2s. in
the £ ; has made its sales tax 6 per cent, instead of
5 per cent.; is taxing 50 per cent, of the value of
gold in excess of £9 a fine ounce, and has put up the
duties on beer, spirits, petrol and other commodities.
All these imposts are for the war, and there are more
to come.
The Mair Government is bumping up its “ordi-
nary” income tax 8 per cent, (the maximum was 4s. 3d.
in the £ on income in excess of £5500); is imposing a
super tax of Is. in the £ on incomes exceeding £2OOO ;
is making companies pay 2s. 6d. in the £ instead of
2s. 3d. ; is lowering the exemption from its second
income tax, alleged to be for unemployed-relief, from
£3 a week to £2, and increasing the rates so heavily
that the man on the basic wage will pay 2s. lid. a
week instead of Is. 7d.; and is taking a lot more
from motorists, dead men’s property, bookmakers and
payers of stamp duties. And not one penny is for
the war.
All the additional revenue is earmarked for the
upkeep of a bloated establishment. Part of it will
go into the pockets of members and Ministers, the
90 Assemblymen having, at Mr. Stevens’s instance,
hastened to award themselves another £205 p.a., mak-
ing their already excessive salaries £875 p.a., when
informed by that exploded politician that there was to
be a surplus of £7785. Not one item of extravagant
expenditure—and the estimates are full of them —is
to be cut down. The political prodigals who have made
such a welter of it that public bankruptcy is no dis-
tant prospect are to go on being prodigals. It is the
people, especially those to whom every shilling is a
consideration, who are to do the cutting down.
In the sorry history of the audacity of elected
persons no more daring thing has ever been done.
Good will come out of evil. The Government that
introduced this Budget and the Parliament that is
about to pass it have pronounced their own condemna-
tion. They will be voted out of existence ; first the
Government and then the Parliament.
State politicians who have left things undone
have been appealing to the one Government that
matters to do them by national-emergency regulation.
In ordinary times people are opposed to government
by regulation ; but if all the State Parliaments were at
once suspended by national-emergency regulation, and
prohibited from resuming their alleged duties until the
majority of electors decided by referendum whether
they might, or mustn’t, the whole nation would applaud.
Reserved Trades and Recruiting.
The Minister of Defence has issued a list of “reserved
occupations” which stretches almost to the crack of
doom. It was “worked out scientifically” and, like the
new A.M.F. pants, is “similar to that issued in Britain,”
Tune-in to Britain having become the cry again.
Mr. Street insists that inclusion of occupations in
the list doesn’t necessarily mean that men employed in
them may not enlist. The object of the restrictions
is “to ensure that, while requirements for the com-
batant forces are met, those men whose services in
other occupations are essential to national require-
ments shall not be permitted to enlist.” There are
specified industries in which there is “full restriction.”
“Full restriction” means that “volunteers in the list
groups to which the description refers will not be
accepted whatever their age.” In other groups only
men over a specified age will not be accepted.
Many of the occupations named are essential to
defence and call for increase of hands rather than
depletion ; but why dozens of others should be included
is a mystery. For instance, “last-year students in
economics, commerce, mathematics” and “linguists
and teachers in educational establishments over 35”
are barred. “Teachers in educational establishments”
made excellent officers in the last war. One, who
became a general (McNicoll), was 37 in 1914.
Members of the legal profession over 40 have
been marked down as too precious to part with. In
commerce and finance, “accountants, auditors, book-
keepers (section heads), cost and time clerks, com-
mercial artists, managers (office and branch), secre-
taries, working principals (over 25), caretakers and
executives in charge of three or more persons (over
30)” are listed.
Union secretaries are safe:
Employers’ and Employees’ Associations: Full-time
officers and executives over 25.
And Australia is to have its fun:
Entertainment and Recreation: Machine operators
(cinema), maintenance tradesmen, managers, professional
entertainers, sports and recreation ground curators
(over 35).
Radio uncles over 25 are specifically preserved for the
instruction and entertainment of the nation, but all
the commoner types of journalist have a free hand to
fight—only editors are exempt.
The food and drink section provides nice cover—
bottlers, doughmixers, jam-makers, tasters (over 40)
and fish auctioneers over 30 are under restriction. So
are bookbinders, compositors and proofreaders over
30; commercial photographers, commercial engravers
over 25, ink-mixers, packers and head storemen over
40 —all in the printing business.
There is a fine fat section for Government em-
ployees :
Public services or essential services controlled by
Government departments, boards, commissions or
other bodies operating under Government or local-
government authority.
Non-industrial: Other than minor or manipulative
grades over 25; minor and manipulative grades over
35.
Mark the neat social distinction.
Charitable institutions are mentioned as under
full restriction, so Golden Jest —and presumably
Golden Brisket —staffs are safe. As for the country,
wool-classers over 30, farm hands “singly employed”
over 35, fencing contractors, horsebreakers, packers
or pressers, shed hands and well- and dam-sinkers over
40 are reserved.
In the fireworks industry, “all workers in the
productive processes, other than laborers,” are under
full restriction.
This appears to set the keynote of the restrictive
policy. It is to be a common man’s war and a young
man’s war.
A Poached Egg Board.
Many a retired city clerk has put his savings into a
poultry run and retired hurt. Many a city business-
man has had cause to acknowledge that of all busi-
nesses that look easy poultry-farming is the trickiest
and most unprofitable. In these quarters there
would be nothing but admiration for the Carter
brothers of Victoria, whose poultry farm at Werribee
is claimed to be one of the biggest enterprises of its
kind in the world, and for egg-production is certainly
the biggest in Australia. And the brothers’ vast export
of eggs is very useful to a country where the balance
of trade has had to be carefully watched since the
boom burst, when excess of imports proved to be one
of its greatest embarrassments.
But the Carter brothers have had to combine
poultry-farming with litigation. For years they have
been plagued by one of those boards which provincial
Administrations have imposed on industries full of
troubles and acquainted with grief. Armed with the
legislative and administrative powers delegated to
these curious excrescences on government, the Egg
Board, in the jargon of the lawyers, “sought to restrain
Carter Brothers from disposing of eggs other than
through the board or its agents.”
After much legal skirmishing, the board issued
a writ. The brothers replied with another challenging
the validity of the board on the score of its control
of egg pulp and claiming £lOO,OOO damages. This
claim was waived, but the question of validity was
argued before Justice Lowe. His Honor held that egg
pulp was “not a product of poultry-farming,” but “an
article of commerce other than eggs,” and that the
board had been appointed “in relation to eggs and
eggs alone.” It was, in fact, legally non-existent, and
because it was legally non-existent he couldn’t award
costs.
When the judgment was announced, poultry-
farmers and the Housewives’ Association gave three
cheers, for producers and consumers alike loathe the
board. Poultry-farmers had asked that its tyranny
over their industry should be put to the vote, and the
date of the poll had been arranged and ballot papers
printed. But Victoria has a Government which hates
to be separated from boards. It cancelled the arrange-
ment for the poll, announced its intention of introduc-
ing “validating legislation,” and commissioned the
board to carry on as if nothing had happened. The
legality of these proceedings is as questionable as the
morality—on the Government’s part —of depriving the
successful party of its costs ; but if Carter Brothers
sued again and were awarded damages and costs,
judgment, damages and costs would no doubt be
“validated” out of existence.
This episode in the bureaucratisation of industry
will find a place in the history of the decline and fall
of State Governments and their precious boards and
commissions.
In South Africa.
“F.D.R.P.” in reply:
A. W. Palfreyman was evidently in a jam when he told
that Perth reporter the utter bosh credited to him in B.
30/8/’39.
I have lived in South Africa for 40 years. Primary
taxable income is £4OO p.a., deductions being allowed for
insurance premiums, benefit or friendly society fees, children
and dependants. These abatements deducted, 12.0235 d. per
£1 is leviable on £4OO p.a. and upwards. A rebate of 20 p.c.
is then allowed and the result is the tax, normal of course.
Super tax commences at £2OOO p.a., and in the Transvaal the
citizen is charged a further personal tax or poll tax —30s. p.a.
on married men ; on single men 50s. plus 15 p.c. of what
was paid to the Union Government in income tax.
I quite agree that direct taxation is low, but indirectly,
living in the inland provinces, we pay highly. True, also, that
the railways, harbors and airways, under control of the
Union Government, pay handsomely. But when Mr. Palfrey-
man gives the opinion that freight-rates are the cheapest
in the world he has another opinion coming to him. On
products of the country the rates are low, but ask any
merchant what he thinks of the rates on goods that have
to be imported because they cannot be made in South Africa.
Ask any mining man what he thinks of the charges on mining
machinery, stamps and dies, mine props, etc. On anything
not South African produce they are scandalous.
Apropos, as a South African of Australian birth —55
years ago—it amused me when ordering stout in the members’
bar at an A.J.C. meeting to be asked by the perfectly good
Australian barman “Imported or kerlonial?” I thought
“colonial” had died a natural death. The South African
fiercely objects to anyone calling him a colonial.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne suburban news-
agent was proffered an advertisement by
a woman seeking a husband. “You’ve
marked it for the wrong department of
the paper,” said the agent. “No, I
haven’t,” said the woman. “I’m afraid
you have, madam. I’ve been receiving
matrimonial ads. for five years and”
“And I’ve been putting them in for 20,”
retorted the woman, “and I’ve always
marked them for the Lost and Found
column.” “Well, I’m not surprised to
learn of your failure.” “On the con-
trary,” retorted the lady, “you’d be sur-
prised if you knew of my successes.”
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: After a seven days’ trial
at Dubbo (N.S.W.), Albert Moss, 61, was
found guilty of the murder in December,
1938, of a prospector, Timothy O’Shea.
The case has set all old bushmen talking
and recalling previous bush mysteries. It
was stated by the prosecution that Moss
was suspected of having murdered two
other men, wanderers like O’Shea, and
some evidence relative to these sus-
picions was admitted. All the testimony
was circumstantial. It was established
that the three men are missing; that
burnt remains found on a reserve were
human and might be O’Shea’s, and that
the accused, after the disappearance of
the three men, had portions of their prop-
perty—horses, a sheep-dog, a bicycle and
a sulky had been identified —in his pos-
session. An admission by Moss that he
had killed O’Shea was alleged by the
police. The defence was a simple denial
of the charge on which he was being tried
and the two others on which he wasn’t.
It! * * *
“Lao-dah”: A Melbourne interlude. A
woman journalist got into a crowded St.
Kilda tram and was offered a seat by a
courteous male passenger. She accepted
it with equal politeness. At the next stop
a young man with a marcelle wave, a
tie a different color from his coat, his
coat a different color from his pants and
wearing socks of a pale cerulean hue
got in. The woman journalist promptly
offered him her seat —and he took it.
* $ * *
“Jaldi Jao”: Still another Australian
girl has become an Indian princess—
Joan Falkiner, of Melbourne. Her bride-
groom is the 56-year-old Nawab of
Palanpur, G.C.1.E., K.C.V.0., a fine-
looking man with a Kaiser William
moustache, 29th ruler of his house and
“Get a move on, Mrs. Biddle. They on'y got arf a jiffy to reply to our hullimatum!”
a Yusufzai Lohani Pathan. His State is
only a little one —1768 square miles with
a population of a quarter of a million in
the extreme west of India and fringed
on the north by Rajputana. But he col-
lects a comfortable revenue of about
£200,000, and a heavy flow of trade from
the cotton centre of Ahmedabad passes
over his roads. He is one of the most
Europeanised of Indian princes and was
a League delegate in 1928.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Echoes of the bushfires
in Victoria last summer are beginning
to reverberate in the Melbourne courts ;
but there are grievances that are never
likely to be ventilated there. A
woman living 20 miles from Melbourne
found herself and her family surrounded
by a raging inferno. After trying to
escape in several directions it suddenly
occurred to her to telephone to her hus-
band at his business in the city. Hubby,
startled out of his soulcase, rushed down-
stairs and in 30 seconds was speeding at
60 m.p.h. to the rescue. He duly reached
the house, found his family alive and, re-
lieved beyond measure, got them to the
roadway. “Where’s the car?” shrieked
his wife. “Good heavens! ” cried the hus-
band. “I didn’t bring it. In my hurry I
jumped on to the first motor-bike I.saw
standing against the kerb.” A bushfire
brigade lorry rolled up at that moment.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Melbourne Jewry has been
celebrating the Feast of the Tabernacle,
the ancient rite which commemorates the
time when the Children of Israel were
wandering in the wilderness and eating
the bread of exile in open tents. Some
orthodox Jews have a special room —the
roof is open to the sky —in which they
eat their meals during this period. A
refugee from Vienna who put up
at a St. Kilda boarding-house was
delighted when he was invited by the
Jewish proprietor to eat his meals under
strict orthodox conditions. It was a
memory of his own childhood which
he had forgotten, and he was amazed to
find in an Australian family more rever-
ence for tradition than is found in Vienna.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: According to certain Eng-
lish friends, “girlie,” which used to rhyme
with “curly,” now rhymes only with
“fairly” ; and thus there is now no true
rhyme for “girl” in the language. One
superior person declares that anybody
who would still pronounce it as “gurl” is
the sort that would say “gent.” But from
the same source comes a warning against
speaking of “afternoon tea” for fear of
being confused with the barbarians who
could speak of any other meal as tea.
(Interval for shudders.) So I still have
some doubts about “gairl” being an abso-
lute necessity for the rank and file of
us ; especially as I knew a leading actor
in London who made the word snappy—
something between “gel” and “gal.”
* * * *
“Erua”: The opening of railway ser-
vices produced two odd happenings in
M.L. In one case a family insisted that
Grandpa, 85 and never introduced to a
locomotive, should join the group to wit-
ness the first effort. The old gentleman
regarded the standing train with interest,
but when the monster began to move
with slow dignity past him he took one
horrified look at the belching engine and
fell dead. Case 2 concerns the open-
ing of the line to Rotorua, with Dick
Seddon in the foreground. Rotorua’s
star attraction at that time was Waikite
geyser, at Whakarewarewa. With the
arrival of the first train Waikite stopped
dead, and did not play again for over
20 years. And nothing would persuade
Henare and co. that Seddon’s outpouring
of verbosity (he seldom spoke for less
than an hour, and preferred four hours)
hadn’t discouraged the phenomenon.
* * * *
“A.H.”: There are many ways of mak-
ing money on a racecourse, but for a
stone-cold moral give me the method
adopted by the cigarette gent. You may
meet him any time after the first race
at Randwick. He has just done his money
on the horse that ran second in the pre-
vious race. It is always the horse that ran
second. He shows you the last cigarette
in his packet, and offers to sell it to you
for a penny —all he needs to make up
his fare home. It is a hundred to one
that he gets the penny. More often it is
threepence or sixpence. If you meet a
tall bloke with a mo. trying to sell you
a last cigarette at the spring meeting
it will be me.
“E.D.”: The things that are hap-
pening to Hitler! They pinched his
coffee (which he says he doesn’t
drink), and “the strain on his larynx
for 15 years” is beginning to tell.
I heard him speak in the Reichstag on
the declaration of war, and as one who
has cocked an ear beside every promi-
nent larynx in Australia it seemed to
me that Adolf’s was in pretty good order.
He has a vocal range which suggests that
he is out of a Melba by a Chaliapin, and
that night he used the whole of it in
every sentence. His beginnings sound
like the blast of a 16in. naval gun, and
anybody who merely heard the end of
one of his periods would be prone to
take the noise for a Berlin air-raid warn-
ing. Anyway, what has he done to
injure his larynx? I remember Billy
Hughes during the war making 18
speeches in one day—most of them with
such fervor that he scarcely touched the
ground from start to finish. I also re-
member his remark when somebody sug-
gested that his old friend Bill Holman
might go into Federal politics: “Hahl-
man?” said Billy pensively. “Isn’t that
the fellow that uses an olive-oil gargle?”
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A London murder
case has set the junior Bar chuckling
in spite of war anxieties. The
lady accused was convicted, but the
evidence showed that she was a more
suitable subject for Broadmoor than
for the verandah with the trapdoor
in its floor. Being somewhat deaf she
did not quite get the judicial pronounce-
ment and hoarsely inquired from the
attendant policewoman as to her fate.
“You’ll go to Broadmoor,” was the reply.
“What for?” she asked. Thinking that
she wanted to know for how long, “His
Majesty’s pleasure,” answered the police-
lady. “Well, well,” mused the prisoner,
“I’d thought I was a bit too old for that
sort of thing. But you live and learn.”
sfc * * *
“Mulyan”: Another old N.S.W. station
of note that has been proclaimed for
resumption is Collaroy, between Merriwa
and Cassilis —the blacksoil plains of
George Lambert. Many notables have
been interested in Collaroy. Two sons
of Lord Clive started as jackeroos there,
and bought shares in the property; one
married the daughter of M. E. Maher,
manager and part-owner ; the other mar-
ried a sister of Spofforth, the Demon
Bowler. A coastal vessel long ago
was named after the old station, and
Collaroy Beach, near Narrabeen, was
named after the ship, which became
stranded there.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Radio traders report an un-
precedented demand for dual-wave re-
ceivers, chiefly because of the way A.B.C.
news is served up. The evening “session,”
starting with British martial music and
a relay from Daventry, has been cut at
7.10. Listeners using short-wave re-
ceivers get Empire news direct, and
8.8. C. news broadcasts run to 25
minutes. Even so, after two weeks’ lis-
tening I find the newspapers preferable
to the heavily-censored 8.8. C, outpour-
ings.
* * * *
Written by a distant acquaintance:
Rufus Theodore (Rufe) Naylor died of
heart disease at the ’phone in his Centennial
Park (Sydney) home while talking to a book-
maker—the same who sent his horse Winooka
to the U.S.A. with Naylor as advance-agent.
Knowing he was a doomed man, Naylor had
willed his heart to Sydney University. The
papers gave him column-long obituaries, one
describing him as a Spectacular Sportsman.
Spectacular is right.
The memoir-writers said he was 57. I am
sure he was a few years older, while acknow-
ledging that he didn’t look it. He was a restless,
excitable, argumentative fellow with a quick
brain and no mean gift of words. He made
pots of money, and when he had it thought
nothing of putting £lOOO on a horse. Because
of that propensity and a bent for litigation
he went broke more than once.
He picked a multitude of winners, but he
also picked the wrong people to quarrel with.
In South Africa, where he owned racecourses,
and ran sweeps at Delagoa Bay, he fell out
with a dour Boer Government, and found
himself in the dock on a criminal charge con-
nected with the sweeps. At the first trial the
jury disagreed, and he didn’t wait for the
second.
Casting up in Westralia, he had to answer
some pertinent questions about three sweep
tickets which he had caused to be sent to
friends or supposed friends in Kalgoorlie. All
three drew substantial prizes, one of £2OOO.
Intended for a particular pressman who was
broke to the wide, it was collected—legiti-
mately enough—by another who carried the
money to Sydney and lost the lot. Naylor
“explained” that the conditions permitted him
to distribute a specified number of “promoter’s
tickets,” and the three lucky ones were among
them. ,
Falling foul of the A.J.C., he was summoned
to attend an inquiry. At this, as he admitted
afterwards, he made statements which, to put
it mildly, were not correct. It was his notion
of being clever, but in the result, after dread-
fully expensive proceedings which reached the
Privy Council, he was banished from the race-
course, and driven to various expedients to
keep up his style of living. Argumentative to
the end, he was defendant in an action brought
by a track cyclist, whom he had accused of
running stiff, when death came to him.
HOMO SAPIENS.
Since first his feet on earth he found,
Lord of all other things that live,
’Twould seem he’s furnished little ground
To justify his adjective.
And Wells, as he the scene surveys,
A gloomy jeremiad pens,
Seeing (unless he mends his ways)
Scant hope for Homo sapiens.
To live at peace with all his kind
Is full as hard for modern man
As when in woods by paths that wind
His savage predecessor ran.
He stays the same, beneath the skin,
As when in prehistoric fens
He did his naked neighbor in,
Our good old Homo sapiens.
Now must he scrap and hold for naught
All concepts, since the dawn of Time,
He slowly grasped, and vainly thought
Would help him in his upward climb.
His outworn creeds and codes must yield
To more enlightened views and kens,
Or else (thinks Wells) the doom is sealed
Of self-styled Homo sapiens.
It may be so indeed —who knows?
But still, when all of us are gone,
It’s warrantable to suppose
The globe will still go spinning on.
And when at last he’s run his race
In these terrestrial glades and glens,
I wonder who will take the place
Of poor old Homo sapiens?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“El V.”: All professors are not
prophets in their own spheres. One of
Australia’s best-known ones breezed
into a group of colleagues the other
day grinning broadly. “How are things
going, Bloggs?” asked the doyen of the
faculty. “Fine, fine,” said the oracle. “I
have just had a cable saying that my
book is being translated into Swedish.”
“Good,” said the old gentleman drily, “I
congratulate you. Er —when is it going
to be translated into English?”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: “I am an artist, not a
politician. Once the Polish question
is settled I will end my life as an
artist, and not as a warmonger”—•
Hitler to Sir Nevile Henderson. Mel-
bourne “Argus” headed this item “House
Painter Again?” but the Nazi leader was
obviously referring to his early yearnings
and aspirations to be a water-color
painter. As he relates in Mein Kampf he
had little success in this direction, and it
was his being turned down at the offices of
rich Jews in Vienna when he tried to sell
them his pictures which convinced him
that the Jews were a menace to culture.
I don’t doubt Sir Nevile’s report of his
interview ; but if I know anything about
human nature, the last thing Hitler would
do would be to go back to painting. As
a water-colorist he would rank very low
even in his own country, which doesn’t
shine in this field of art.
■ * * * *
“Tovarisch”: Before the Common-
wealth Parliament rose, a Queensland
member remarked that he hoped the
senseless changing of the names of Ger-
man settlements which took place during
the last war would not be repeated during
this one. In Queensland (as in S.A.),
Australian-born sons and grandsons
of Germans enlisted for service as
eagerly as any other natives. The
authorities repaid them by tacking
the names of British generals to their
villages —Marburg became Townshend ;
Kirchheim, Haigslea; and Minden,
Frenchton. The last
was a particularly
humorous effort, see-
ing that the old name
was derived from a
battleground of the
eighteenth century on
which the combined
British and German
armies licked the socks
off the French. But it
amused the locals. One
of them put up an “lei
on p art e frangais”
notice in the pub bar.
* *
“Nakh”: Melbourne’s
first war-time muni-
tions-factory explosion
occurred in the ammu-
nition-packing section
of the Nobel Works at
Deer Park. The build-
ing was blown to pieces,
and two girls, the only
persons in it, were
killed, together with a
truckman who was
standing outside it, and
whose truck exploded.
“If tram doeshn't come shoon, take tackshi .”
The thing made houses 20 miles away
shudder; but of the 300 other employees
not one was injured. Though a lorry
two and a half miles away was turned
completely round, a man having a pot in
the Deer Park Hotel told a reporter that
there was not much of a noise, and he
thought it was a distant clap of thunder.
Nobel’s is scientifically arranged to mini-
mise the effects of explosions. Each cart-
ridge house is of wood, to dampen the
effect on neighboring buildings, and is
protected outside by massive walls of
concrete. Mounds are designed to pro-
ject the force of an explosion upwards.
ait * * *
“Pawang”: I see that Father Divine and
308 of his angels have been indulging in
a 24-hour banquet in New York which
included 200 items on its menu, with 56
meats, 24 desserts, 15 salads, 45 vegetables,
cheese, jam, bread and sauces ; the drinks
were not counted. This recalls the reli-
gious orgies of pagan times. Father
Divine’s religion is an easy one to follow,
mainly consisting of cataclysmic conver-
sion, with the accompanying conscious-
ness of sins, without the necessity for
naming the sins. When confessed they
usually turn out to be very mild. Vic-
torian Railways Commission recently
received a dollar from a former Mel-
bournienne who had come under Father
Divine’s influence, changed her name to
Sister Peaceful Love and remembered
that she had once travelled without a
ticket.
* * * *
“L.D.”: I notice a lot of mystification
among my pals about the niceties of naval
uniform. You can pick officers by the
color of the bands between their rows of
sleeve braid. Deck officers carry the plain
blue serge, surgeons scarlet, engineers
purple and paymasters white. When I
travelled round with a British squadron
I chose as companion a six-footer
who looked like a Russian grand duke
and had been at Cambridge with S. M.
Bruce. His dignity, his gold bands in-
terspersed with a beautiful light blue,
never failed to attract the attention of
dignitaries and earned us endless railway
passes, invitations, race tickets and dance
partners. But when called on to explain
himself, I regret that he sometimes let
us down badly. “Are you the rear-
admiral?” a sweet young thing once
asked him. “Mademoiselle,” he replied
with dignity, “Ai am employed by his
Majesty’s Government to wipe the noses
of the little midshipmen. Ai —in fact—
am the village schoolmaster.”
* * * *
“Nubloc”: The suggestion that had
some buxom German lass grabbed
Hitler for a husband 20 years ago (B.
27/9/’39) he might have modified his
ambitions finds no support in precedent.
Napoleon married twice, but neither wife
pacified him. Wilhelm 11. had a good
wife and a large family, but that did not
keep him from rampaging. Alexander
and Hannibal and Julius Csesar all left
wives for other conquests. Think of
Henry VIII. (and he was a bit of a
dictator, too) —did buxom wives do him
any good? No!
* * * *
“F.S.”: Whatever else suffers, arts and
crafts almost invariably benefit by war. A
result of the present war will probably be
the putting of bronze and other metal cast-
ing for sculpture on its feet in Australia.
There are all the necessary ingredients,
“That's the new rating from the Salvation Army , sir."
and analysts skilled enough to produce
the necessary compositions. Small works
have been executed for a long time in Mel-
bourne, and big groups were satisfactorily
cast there 70 years ago. But for many
years it has been the custom to send im-
portant sculpture by local artists to Italy
or England, a costly business. Three
works of the Melbourne sculptor Leslie
Bowles which are not likely to be cast
before this war ends unless they are done
in Australia are the Monash and George
V. memorials and the statue of Diana
for the Treasury Gardens.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: R. L. Megroz, a scientific
writer on dreams, has suggested that a
Government that really wanted to find
out the needs and anxieties of its people
should record and analyse their dreams.
I suppose most people, even if they’re
only using it to dramatise more intimate
problems, are dreaming about the war
these days, so, in case Mr. Menzies wants
to be the first P.M. to found a policy on
psychoanalysis, I offer him these. Friend
A, very simply, dreamed that his land-
lady, after a terrific hand-to-hand fight
with Hitler in the next room, laid the
Fuhrer out flat just as A burst in to the
rescue. B, a little more elaborately,
dreamed that a million Polish refugees
had landed at Sydney and were march-
ing up George-street four abreast; aston-
ished to observe that they were all a very
small type of Jew, identical in form and
features, he rushed to a policeman to
complain, and was overcome with em-
barrassment when the cop asked him to
explain how there could possibly be a
million refugees on one ship. C’s dream
was obscure but beautiful; he was walk-
ing along a city street with President
Roosevelt on a sunny morning when they
met a handsome woman, apparently
known to the President. Mr. Roosevelt
swept off his hat, bowed and shouted
with the greatest of enthusiasm, “Lovely
bloody day, Madam! Lovely bloody
day! ”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: The best thing about
the Rumanian Parliamentary system is
its orovision of uniforms for Ms.P. Most
of them run to a dazzling white clobber
with large party and rank armbands.
Peasant Ms.P. wear embroidered tunics,
white aprons and a sort of jodhpur, set
off with a colored vest in which a fetch-
ing symbolic picture obscures the whole
abdominal region. The one lady member,
and a buxom wench she is, affects a neat
fusilier cap, a Sam Browne and a collec-
tion of medals which would do credit to
Marshal Goring. A select committee
might be set up to foster the introduction
of a similar scheme in Australia. Per-
haps they could find out what the daugh-
ters of the horse-leech wore and adapt it
to Parliamentary needs by the addition
of a few pockets and some red-tape.
* >l= * *
“X.S.”: The subject under discussion
at the cafe table in Collins-street was the
impossibility of disentangling European
politics owing to the bitter intolerance of
the innumerable religious denominations.
A young Melbourne-born Jewess piped
up: “I can’t see any difficulty in it,” she
said. “To-morrow I am singing the Bach-
Gounod ‘Ave Maria’ in a Presbyterian
church for a Catholic girl who is marry-
ing a Protestant.”
ALPHABETICAL AIDS.
“The Federal Electoral Act is to be amended so
that candidates’ names will no longer appear on
ballot papers in alphabetical order. Instead, posi-
tions will be decided by lot.”
’Twill come as a bit of a shock, I should say,
To fellows whose surnames begin with an A,
And who’ve found what an asset the letter
denotes
In a bitter and strenuous struggle for votes.
You may fairly assume it will give them the
spike, i
The Aaronses, Adamses, Ades and the like,
To be robbed of their place on the balloting
roll
They counted on putting them top of the poll.
Yes, brother, it’s hard, I admit that it’s hard
When you’d featured your name at the top
of the card,
The first that would catch the inquisitive eye
Of the chap with a vote, and impress him
thereby
With the certain conviction that you were the
one
Most fit for his suffrage, the man for his
mon.
’Twill be tough to reflect, when you’re next
in the lists,
Alphabetical order no longer exists.
With a trio of triers, by A-ship allied,
Lined up as a staunch Senatorial side,
You felt that you stood upon velvet, I guess,
Already as good as assured of success.
With a “possie” like that it was foolish to
doubt
You’d wooden all other competitors out,
The bulk of the crowd on electoral rolls
Being safely dismissed as illogical souls.
At last —none too soon—it is down for a stop,
The pull of a name at the alphabet’s top.
No more will it rank as a reason and cause
To qualify persons for making the laws.
A monicker starting with A or with B
Will never again, let us hope, guarantee
Its owner a place at the voting brief’s head —
’Twill cut no more ice than a Y or a Z.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
r 1 - m | [
- m ,
* j
. v
&8G
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
M
m
10 for 9d...20 for 1 7 6
E 1865
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
POLITICALPOINTS
Only yesterday the Americans were
shouting “Democracy must be Defended ;
the Axis must be Ended”! Instead of
doing any defending or ending they are
so darned nootral that they may stop
sending liners to Sydney on the ground
that poor old Sydney is “a belligerent
port.” It is suggested that a “cash-and-
carry” or “come-and-get-it” clause will
be tacked on to the nootrality law. Why
not “dollars-and-blood”? Uncle will
get the dollars; the British seaman will
give his blood.
Whatever history may say of British
foreign policy, it will pronounce the
British war measures as heroic as
the American attitude is unheroic.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has
introduced a war Budget designed
to bring in another £107,000,000 in
six months. The standard rate of
income tax rises to 7s. 6d. in the £, and
surtax makes it 9s. 6d. Everyone and
everything are taxed, except the battle-
fiction of American reporters.
Perhaps because space had to be found
for the war furphies of American re-
porters, the late proceedings of the Com-
monwealth Parliament were very skim-
pily reported. However, two or three
papers spared a few lines for the indig-
nation of Senator Leckie at the Defence
Act “amendment” which will permit any
quitter to call himself a conscientious
objector.
I can’t understand how the Ministry
could permit a clause of this kind to be
inserted. I protest against this betrayal
of the Government’s supporters. I am
ashamed of the Government.
And Leckie is the Prime Minister’s
father-in-law.
Some Foreign Office bus-misser must
be doing those 8.8. C. broadcasts to the
Germans. The mode of address is:
“Dear listeners in Germany,” and the
subject-matter is sometimes more fatuous
still: “Don’t you know, dear listenahs
in Germany, that your gangstah rulahs
have millions and millions hidden in
foreign banks? It’s quate true —Mr.
Knickahbockah, the famous American
reportah, says so.” That’s how it would
go in 8.8. C. English.
A gentleman in the American film
trade has great noos for this un-nootral
country. It is about to become the best
foreign market for the prodooce of
Hahllywood (yes, sir /), since Limey and
Frog competition will be snuffed out. The
question is whether Australians will
accept the proud distinction. They may
have other views.
Mournful admission of editor Boote,
of the “Worker”: —■
If the Soviet has facilitated the brutal
campaign of the Nazi war lords and is
now acting in collusion with them, I am
undergoing to-day the greatest and most
painful disillusionment of a long life.
And the worst of it is that the twisters
in Moscow are prolonging the veteran’s
agony.
“Tune-in to Britain” is in full blast
again. King’s Regs, rule, the British
Army pants have been adopted and Lieut.-
General Squires, who is 57, has been
named Inspector-General and “acting”
Chief of the General Staff. Lavarack,
just back from England, commands
in Victoria, S.A. and Tasmania;
Sturdee in N. S. Wales; Wynter in
Queensland, and Durrant in the West.
Phillips, who was placed on the retired
list, being considered too old at 57, comes
back as Inspector of Coastal Defences.
And Jess may be re-emplpyed. An Aus-
tralian with a splendid A.I.F. record, he
was considered too old at 55.
Relief tax, income tax, motor taxes,
bookmakers’ tax, death duties and stamp
duties are up in N.S.W. because of
financial mismanagement of which a bell-
man would be ashamed. With three
months of the financial year gone, Mair
and Richardson expect to grab £3,900,000
from pockets into which the Govern-
ment prosecuting the war has already
dipped, and will dip again; and then
their alleged Administration will be
£1,500,000 to the bad. The fatuous Mair
promises “all possible steps to prevent
any undue increase in expenditure.” So
there is to be no reduction even of the
Parliamentary salaries which the un-
utterable Parliament raised by £205 p.a.
—to £875 p.a.—during the year in which
the Government went about £5,000,000
to the bad.
“Government expenditure is now one
of the main determinants of business con-
ditions,” says Mair, the Sydney Premier,
in a feeble attempt to justify his putrid
Budget. He means his Government ex-
penditure. Another Government, the
only one needed, is going in for war ex-
IF BOMBERS COME TO SYDNEY.
“Alderman McElhone, while acknowledging that Cyril Docker, the mountainous Digger
who is Chief City Warden, has done excellent A.R.P. work in Sydney gratis, says he is ‘now
up against a dead-end,’ because of the dearth of gas-proof shelters and equipment.”
penditure at the rate of half a million
a week; but Mair doesn’t seem to know
that there is a war on.
In the flurry of events, Eden’s pet
adjective “unilateral” has been trotted
out again—by a “Special Correspondent”
this time:
Greece has a unilateral guarantee from
Britain.
Rumania has also a British unilateral
guarantee.
“Unilateral” means one-sided; and
that’s what those guarantees are.
Dashed one-sided.
With the familiar brag about the con-
version, “in the five years before 1937,”
of “a deficit of £4,564,600 into a surplus
of approximately £30,000,” Hartigan, the
N.S.W. Commissioner of Railways, re-
ports “a deficit of £1,171,500” for 1938-
39. This, rendered into plain English,
means that a loss of £1,171,500 has been
added to a deficit of £23,000,000. And
the actual loss greatly exceeded
£1,171,500, for £BOO,OOO of tax-money
from the Treasury is annually reckoned
in as earnings; and, besides failing to
meet charges which private concerns
(Westralia’s Midland Co., for instance)
have to meet, the bankrupt department
has had the use of millions of loan money
free of interest. Like Richardson, the
Treasurer, Hartigan doesn’t mention
economy.
Allied with Poland, guaranteed and
subsidised by Britain, Rumania has be-
haved with typical Balkans perfidy.
Last week it grabbed £25,000,000 sterling
in gold, half the Polish gold reserve,
which had been carried over the frontier
for safe keeping. Perhaps it paid for
German aircraft with part of the loot;
although the Germans say it paid in petrol.
Anyway, Berlin announced that “Ru-
manian air-force pilots” had “taken
delivery of eleven Heinkel chasers, of
which Rumania now possesses twenty.”
lan Hamilton called the Rumanians
“rather washed-out descendants of Tra-
jan’s Sixth Legion.” Expressive ; but any
Digger could think of a pithier term
with two syllables.
Stevens used to talk of forming a
public company to control street trans-
port. His Government could have got
anything from £250,000 a year up for
Sydney bus franchises, with limitation of
fares, but it preferred to put a great fleet
of Government buses on the roads, with
a commission to run them and run pri-
vate operators off the roads and house
itself in a grand new building. Now “the
tramway and motor-omnibus services”
are officially expected to show “a deficit
of £47,900 for the year 1939-40.” They
are increasingly “omnibus services” ; the
Manly trams have been wiped out by the
Commissioner without reference to the
“Parliament” that voted the money for
them.
The French seem to have the right
idea about profiteers. In respect of those
“engaged in national defence,” the Gov-
ernment is taking 100 p.c. of profits in
excess of “the normal return.” There
is, of course, only one Government, not
seven; and instead of being “Premier
without portfolio,” like Sydney’s Mr. Mair
and Mr. Dwyer-Gray, of Tasmania
.(population, 235,000), Daladier is his
own Foreign Minister, Minister of War
and Minister of Defence.
The Tariff Board’s reasons for prefer-
ring Whyalla (S.A.) to Newcastle or Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) as a site for B.H.P.’s
tinplate works are interesting. Though
fuel will necessarily be dearer, there will
be (1) “savings in freight” that will
“greatly reduce the cost disadvantage”;
(2) “increase of population in a sparsely-
settled part of Australia” ; (3) “greatly
improved conditions in rural areas now
marginal or sub-marginal because of lack
of water” ; (4) Whyalla has been recom-
mended by the Defence authorities.
“Australia’s capacity for defence,” the
Board points out, “must be increased by
the successful establishment of tinplate
manufacture.” The points it raises
apply to other necessary industries, such
as shipbuilding ; and the neglected ports
should now press their claims.
“Circumstances over which the depart-
ment had no control” are blamed by
Hartigan, who runs the bankrupt N.S.W.
Railway Department, for the latest huge
addition to its chronic deficit. Too thin.
Hartigan must have been well acquainted
with the circumstances —“drought, coal
strike and falling off in traffic” —when
he handed his estimate to Steverts. On
Hartigan’s figures Stevens, at the end of
the third month, estimated “an improve-
ment in the working surplus” of £27,400 ;
and that without providing for increased
fares and freight rates, which were raised
substantially on March 1. As a financial
prophet, nobody could be worse than
Stevens, but Hartigan is nearly as bad.
Sydney “Daily News” was quoted with
approval in a “Morning Herald” leader
when its foreign politics were bright Red.
Communists have returned the compli-
ment by quoting a “Morning Herald”
leader in a tuppenny brochure, “Soviet-
German Non-Aggression Pact Ex-
plained”:—
Russia has shown time and again that
she believes her ultimate interests lie in
the preservation of peace through collec-
tive action against aggression. When Ger-
many invaded Austria M. Litvinov pro-
posed a conference to prevent further
aggression. This proposal was vetoed in
London as premature.
And so on. The date? August 23.
Professor Copland, who has been
named Commonwealth Price Controller
at £1750 p.a., is Dean of the Faculty of
Commerce at Melbourne University, ad-
viser to at least two State Governments,
a contributor to newspapers and a very
dreary A.B.C. monologue artist. Asked
by Don Cameron whether the £1750
p.a. is to be paid in addition to
income from all these other sources,
McLeay, the leader of the Senate,
lost his temper and trotted out the
old yarn about Cameron having been
chased into the Weld Club from an anti-
conscription meeting on the Perth
esplanade—and then he got it wrong,
his version being that Cameron had
to seek shelter “from Chinese.” Why
shouldn’t members ask, and Ministers
answer, questions about professors with
several jobs? Some of them are making
money hand over fist, and if the advice
they give in their non-professorial acti-
vities is judged by results the country
would be better without it.
Had The Bulletin published as its
own the war-aims stuff printed in “S. M.
Herald” on Friday, there would have
been a roar of “Fascist!” from the fire-
side fusiliers who wanted to fight Ger-
many, Japan, Italy and Spain at the same
time. It was written by “Our Own Lon-
don Correspondent,” and a defeatist note
was struck in the first paragraph:
Despite the oft-repeated determination of
the British and French Governments to
stamp out Hitlerism and not to conclude
any peace with the Nazi regime, sugges-
tions are being made that it is futile for
Britain and France not to face the facts
squarely that war is useless to meet what is
taking place nothing less than the re-
mapping of Europe.
There are “others” who “insist” that:
For Britain and France to wage a long
war will merely mean that they have
killed the devil’s disciple in the form of
Hitlerism to find that they are obliged to
shake hands with the devil himself in the
form of Communism There are some-
what influential sections in Britain, and
inferentially in France, who are willing to
urge the Cabinets carefully to consider
joint Russo-German peace terms Rejec-
tion might reveal a certain lack of unity
within Britain and France when unity is
vital to the successful prosecution of the
war.
Quitting already, Granny?


TURNED DOWN.
'/
"They sa»y Ive got
isRCHES


913—8 AKER’S
80, U N D A R Y
RIDER’S KNIFE
AND STEED, in
Leather Sheath, 15/(i
per set. Postage,
1/- extra.
Sheffield -made
Cutting - out
Scissors, nickel-
piated. 7in., 7/6.
BAKER’S Quality
Cutlery
35
I 1 B—Baker’s Pickaback Sheath with one
4Jin. blade and one 2|in. blade Knife.
11/6 complete.
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
435—Lamb Clam,
improved model,
11/6 each.
V 8 Tattoo Plier with
set of 10 figures and
stick Indian ink, 55/-
complete.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Command of the new special service
A.I.F. goes to Thomas Blarney. Blarney
was a young Wagga- (N.S.W.) born school-
master when he was offered a commis-
sion on the permanent staff 33 years ago.
He was soon sent to Quetta Staff College,
where he made a brilliant pass, and
thence to England, where he was doing
a special course when the last war broke
out. He was chosen by General Bridges
for his staff, commanded the 2nd Bat-
talion on Gallipoli for a matter of weeks
and then went back to staff work with
Monash, who considered him to be one
of the best drafters of orders in all the
armies. Some of his battle orders are
used as models in the world’s staff col-
leges to-day. He rose to be chief of staff
of the A.I.F. in 1919, and was Australian
representative at the War Office for a
couple of years. He retired from active
service as major-general in command of
the 3rd Division C.M.F. in 1936, a year
after he had left the Victorian Commis-
sionership of Police, which he held for
11 years.
Judge White, who retired from the
N.S.W. District Court Bench last week- —
he was 70 on September 29 —had an
archdeacon for father, and is a native
of Muswellbrook (N.S.W.). His Honor
attended The King’s School, Parramatta,
and New College, Oxford, and was
made Crown Prosecutor in the N.S.W.
Western Circuit in 1909. When he was
elevated to the Bench in 1920 he was
principal assistant law officer and Crown
Prosecutor for N. S. Wales. A kindly,
courteous jurist, he helped many a lame
dog over a stile.
William Francis McCann, Deputy
Price Controller of S.A., has had varied
occupations. Adelaide-born, he started
as a teacher under the S.A. Education
Department. In 1914 he joined the 10th
Battalion A.I.F. as a private. At the
W. F. McCANN.
Armistice he was a major, and had won
the M.C. with bar. Returned to S.A.
he took up farming, didn’t like it,
studied law, and was called to the Bar in
1925. In 1929 he led the Australian dele-
gation to the Soldiers’ League Conference
in London. He was president of the S.A.
R.S.L. from 1925 to 1929 and again in
1931, and is now vice-president. He is
Deputy City Coroner of Adelaide, and
holds military rank as a lieutenant-
colonel.
Charles Hawker, the Federal legis-
lator killed in the Kyeema crash a year
ago, left handsome legacies to the Uni-
versity of Adelaide and to St. Mark’s
College affiliated with it, but condi-
tionally upon their being exempt from
estate duties (to which he was known to
object on principle).
As in S.A. such be-
quests are not so
exempt, the Supreme
Court has told the in-
tended legatees that a
personal wish cannot
override an Act of
Parliament, and that
the gifts simply lapse ;
while a bequest to
Geelong Grammar
School stands good.
Ruined Warsaw was
the birthplace of L. A.
de Noskowski, Con-
sul-General for Poland
in Australia, who is
impatiently protesting
against the difficulties
confronting the
launching of a Polish
Relief Fund in Syd-
ney. Before he be-
came Consul-General
in 1933, he ran the
“Australian Phono-
graph News” in Syd-
ney for six years and
wrote largely on musi-
cal matters for the
“S. M. Herald” and
the “Sydney Mail.”
During the war of
1914-18 he was asso-
ciated with Paderew-
ski’s political work in
the U.S.A., and was
secretary of the Associated Polish Press
there. •
When Rear-Admiral J. G. Crace hoists
his flag in Sydney he will make the fourth
Australian-born to hold one of the two
senior jobs in the R.A.N.—rear-admiral
commanding or First Naval Member. The
others were Hyde, Dumaresq and Dal-
glish. Crace hails from Gungahleen,
only a few miles from Goulburn
(N.S.W.), the home town of his pre-
decessor, Dalglish, who left here in 1934.
Crace had a year at The King’s School,
Parramatta, before he went to England
to join the Britannia in 1902. He is an
expert in mines, served in the old
H.M.A.S. Australia and on H.M.S.
Hood, commanded H.M.S. Danse on the
tour of the Special Service Squadron in
1924, and is one of several captains and
commanders on that pilgrimage who
have since reached flag rank. He re-
ceived his promotion to rear-admiral
last July side by side with one of them
—the long Cornish man Vyvyan, of
H.M.S. Hood. If Crace is as popular
in the R.A.N. as he was in Danse, no-
body will have any reason to growl
about his being chosen.
Back on his native heath, Selwyn Find-
lay, of Tasmania, was in Hong Kong when
that fortress of a million inhabitants was
preparing to slaughter its dogs and horses
to feed refugees in the event of a
Japanese blockade, but a few days later
he saw cafe proprietors in Tokio crossing
out the first word of “British Not
Wanted” notices and superimposing
“Germans.” Findlay is head of a Tas.
broadcasting concern, and is one of the
few devotees of royal tennis in the Speck.
Major L. H. Lemaire, Services Liaison
Officer in Melbourne, is better known to
Melbourne as Frank Desbrowe, This is
the nom de plume under which he has
appeared as an amateur actor in most
of Gregan McMahon’s productions, par-
ticularly his series of Shaw plays. Le-
maire was assistant to General Blarney
on the board which has been organising
Australia’s man-power until the latter’s
appointment to the command of the
A.I.F. of 1939.
Acting Wing-Commander Ivan Mc-
Leod Cameron, missing after an air raid
last week, is the first reported Australian
fighting casualty. Born at Bealiba, where
his parents, now dead, had a station, he
was educated at Maryborough High
PREMIER MAIR, OF N. S. WALES.
(Modelled by Frith.)
School and Geelong College. In 1927
he went from Point Cook to England
to complete his flying training, after a
two-years’ engineering course was sent to
Irak, returned to Australia and did three
months’ service with a bomber transport
squadron, and after further experience in
Irak got his squadron leadership. In the
September crisis last year he became an
Acting Wing-Commander. He was a
nephew of the Rev. A. D. Cameron,
former Moderator of the Vic. Presby-
terian Assembly.
A. W. Hicks, appointed to the N. S.
Wales Public Service Board, is Under-
secretary of Education, Assistant Direc-
tor of Education and Superintendent of
Technical Education. A teacher since
1900, he interrupted a steady climb to go
to the 1914-18 war, emerging with com-
mission and M.C. A Carnegie grant took
him to the U.S.A. and Europe to study
educational methods.
Lord MacMillan, who gets the job of
British Director of Information, is a Lord
of Appeal who writes extensively and
whose interests have made him chairman
of a dozen royal commissions ranging
from the wool industry to Treasury
finance, shipbuilding and Canadian
banking. His choice was probably largely
dictated by his great standing in Canada,
U.S.A., S. America and the northern
neutral countries of Europe—he is presi-
dent of the permanent commission of
conciliation between the Netherlands and
Norway. His “assistant,” Lord Camrose,
editor-in-chief of the “Daily Telegraph,”
knows the newspaper game. He and his
brother, Lord Kemsley (Gomer Berry),
editor-in-chief of the “Sunday Times,”
rose from the ranks to own more news-
papers than any other two men in the
world now that the flamboyant Mr.
Hearst is moribund.
H. M. Green, poet, critic and Fisher
Librarian at Sydney Uni., who has just
had published a book on Chris Brennan,
is now working on an extensive revision
of his An Outline of Australian Litera-
ture, issued in 1930, and the standard
reference book on the subject. Edu-
cated at All Saints’ College, Bathurst
(N.S.W.), and Sydney Uni., he was ad-
mitted to the Bar, but never practised.
He was with the “S. M. Herald” for two
years and with the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” for another 11. He has produced
two books of verse — The Happy Valley
and The Book of Beauty —and, besides
the Brennan volume and the Outline,
books on the poetry of W. B. Yeats and
the oratory of Wentworth. As a writer,
lecturer to tutorial classes and literary
societies, and radio talker, he helps to
keep the Australian author before the
public eye. With Frank Dalby Davison
and Louis Esson, he judged this year’s
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
Three British generals:
One of the most curious features of the
present war is its lack of heroes. Last time
our leaders were well known. The name of
Kitchener was as popular as that of Robert
Taylor or Tyrone Power in the present age,
and S’Africa had made French, Smith-Dorrien
and Plumer familiar figures. And, of course,
England knew old William Robertson. In
this scrap Gort, though he has seen more real
active fighting than most of the 1914 generals
put together, has not achieved the distinction
of having his portrait in shop windows. That
is the penalty of having been a front-line
soldier instead of a staff man. Gort reached
the rank of colonel only in 1926, for all his
V.C., and it was nine years before anybody
thought of making him a major-general. After
that he had a jump unprecedented outside
war-time —in less than two years he was a full
general and head of the army. What others
the war will throw up remains to be seen, but
I’m tipping a couple —John Dill, who was
given the Aldershot Command, after a season
in Palestine when Gort became C.1.G., and
Wavell, who recently left the British Southern
Command to take over as C.-in-C. in the
Middle East. He has been in every war since
Africa. Like his two seniors, he was only a
colonel a few years ago. He has a particular
knowledge of the Caucasus, among other ter-
rains.
J. Gordon Jones, president of the
N. S. Wales Chamber of Manufactures,
is head of Jones Bros., hat manufacturers,
and inventor of important new processes
GORDON JONES.
in the hat-making field. Like most citi-
zens of Welsh extraction he’s strongly
musical, and he is a patron of the Sydney
Welsh Society. Golf is his recreation;
for a while he was captain of the N.S.W.
club.


PS
&
■y>
ft
m
A
m
7
/
.1 *
,K
&
rV. /
\S'! r y.
- V-
Is “Good Health” carrying
your Good Money ?
See them thunder into the straight—a score of magnificent
animals each striving for the advantage that spells victory.
The race is on, and the judge’s verdict will go to the soundest
in wind and limb.
So in Life’s Race, Success to him who stakes his all on
"Good Health”; nothing but rigid adherence to sane habits
of living will serve to win the day for you. Placed high up
amongst the essential rules conducing to mental and
physical fitness is this, "Drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps for your health’s sake.’’ Wolfe’s
Schnapps stimulates and invigorates, and
it aids the entire system to function as
nature intended.
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
OLFE
HOLLAND
DUCT OF
- THIS
HHBttC ALCOMOUC
jSßfert—* %*elu*l*ely »
ttcd not only pure fra
lerty and ingredient, |u
possible quality******
attention of Aseatfea
i to the Sk.-n;ifyp , »i
Kami to (lie Title of*
Cm dial, cntlxij.c^ha
lie n^liiTiwillal—liidtlwkl
=^KT:IWiriFL
Wolfe’s Schnapps is
obtainable at all race-
course booths , or in large,
half and quarter size
bottles at all hotels.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: A large and amiable
bloke mostly, Big Mat had been trying
for hours to yard some ewes and lambs.
After a lot of effort, he had all but the
last dozen lambs in when suddenly they
broke and careered away down the pad-
dock. All control lost, Mat threw his hat
on the ground and burst into a Hit-
leresque denunciation of his enemies, all
things from sheep to Governments being
cursed hysterically. “Here, here,” said
the boss, arriving, “I wouldn’t go on like
that! ” Mat eyed him malevolently, then
roared, “You go on as you well
please ; this way will do me! ”
* * * *
“Ex-screw”: Marcus Clark’s Term of
His Natural Life absconders could never
find anything to eat in the bush of the
Tight Little Isle. Hence cannibalism.
Their W.A. counterparts were luckier.
Given an axe, a knife, or even a lump of
diorite the W.A. illegally-at-large could
keep to the bush indefinitely. The black-
boy tree was the secret. At the core of
the crown of every living blackboy lies
food a lump of nutritious “bread.” True,
it takes getting at, for it is protected
below by the tough trunk, and above by
the brittle but nevertheless resistant
“grass” fronds. But, once got, it eats
well, sweetish, not unlike coconut. The
aboriginals had been sampling it for cen-
turies. With the crown gone the blackboy
dies —and becomes full of life —the fat-
test, sweetest bardies. A kick sends the
decaying blackboy to pieces. Toasted
bardies and blackboy bread, with, if the
absconder was clever, an occasional
snared kangaroo or wallaby. But there
was a snag in this idyllic existence ; the
soulless Government paid £3 per head
for all returned runaways —and not a
few of the bush niggers were mercenary
enough to collect it.
* * * *
“Koura”: Have never struck a fish
hospital (B. 20/9/’39), but at the Arati-
atia Rapids in the Waikato River (M.L.)
I found what was undoubtedly the Old
Men’s Home. In a sunny backwater,
protected by a line of rocks from the
swift, fierce current, there were half a
dozen big rainbow trout, obviously rest-
ing ; each one in turn allowed itself to be
hooked, led gently downstream and
landed with hardly a protest. They were
very old and very skinny, and had prob-
ably decided to settle in the backwater
for the remainder of their days, rather
than tackle the rapids.
* * *
“Puffinus”: The authorities of Mel-
bourne’s Botanical Gardens have been
puzzled by serious losses among the
broods of young black duck hatched out
at the carefully-protected lake. Families
of a dozen and more diminished to half
in a few days, and several disappeared
altogether. Rats, cats, hawks and small
boys were successively suspected, but
proved innocent after careful watching.
Then a watcher spotted the real criminals
in the very act —several pairs of Nankeen
night herons who also kept house round
the lake. They would sneak in at night,
out the ducklings with a clout from the
powerful beak, and gobble them down
whole, just as they do frogs and yabbies.
Most big birds of the waterside seem to
be cannibals when they get a chance. I
knew a pet brolga which was caught swal-
lowing live chickens. For months its
misdeeds in that line had been ascribed to
goannas.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Tell “Cam Cove” (B.
13/9/’39) that, although the outback mail
to-day comes by car instead of coach or
packhorse, the man at the wheel differs
little from his predecessor who held the
ribbons —he is the same helpful per-
sonality, ready to do a good turn for
friend or stranger. Travelling by mail bus
and reaching town about midday, I in-
vited the driver to lunch. “Haven’t time,”
he told me ; “always carry a few sand-
wiches with me and generally eat ’em on
the run. Look here.” He showed me
about a dozen lengthy shopping lists.
“Only two hours before I go out again
—I have to order and pick up all this
stuff, call at. the quack’s for some medi-
cine, find out how the local market is for
fowls, see if there’s any seed spuds about,
try and dig up a part for a chaffcutter,
change some library books and do a few
odd jobs before I leave.” So don’t worry,
“C.C.” He may not know a collar from
a hamestrap, but the old coaching tradi-
tions are safe in his keeping and, like the
mailman of yesterday, neither flood nor
fire will stop him from getting through.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Say wotcher like,
Bill,” grumbled Old Joe, “Queensland
rum ain’t got the bite it useter ’ave. I
mind the time there was four of us sit-
tin’ on the verandah uv Pat Donovan’s
pub tryin’ ter recklect wot’d ’appened
the night before. A big brown snake
crawls acrost the path an’ goes under the
pub, but, recklectin’ that I couldn’t reck-
lect nuthin’ after Ginger Mac’d ’opped
inter Stringy Bill for settin’ ’is whiskers
on fire, I nacherally didn’t crack a lay.
None uv the other blokes didn’t pretend
ter notice it neither, an’ I wus just won-
derin’ wot Pat really used ter break the
rum down with when the Pommy yard-
bloke starts singin’ out fer someone ter
fetch a gun ter kill the big serpent, as ’e
called it. Cripes, y’orter seen ’ow re-
lieved we all wus w’en ’e comes round
with the same identicle snake. But yer
couldn’t work up ter snakes in a week
on wot they call rum these flamin’ days.”
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Has anyone ever seen
a really good brumby? I’ve heard hun-
dreds of yarns of wonderful brumby
nags whose performances in saddle and
harness made the home-grown moke look
like a three-legged donk., but the ones
I’ve struck were mighty poor specimens.
As saddle-horses they were rough-gaited
and unreliable, and in harness —well, jib-
bing at all-too-frequent intervals was the
least of their failings. It takes half a
day to catch most of ’em, even after years
of work, and the quietest will boot the
daylights out of his owner at every oppor-
tunity.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Like the musk and biue-
billed ducks, the dabchick, or grebe (B.
13/9/’39), flies from one waterhole to
another at night; being poor fliers, these
birds would otherwise be easy prey for
hawks. They are wonderfully quick
divers, and usually escape from enemies
in daytime by submerging; when forced
to use their wings they do little more than
flutter along the water. Thus they give
the impression that
they can’t fly, but in
drought-time they
travel great dis-
tances. Dabchicks
are unique in their
domestic affairs.
When humans ap-
proach, the sitting
bird hastily covers
the eggs and dives
quietly from the
nest, and may “sub-
marine” a hundred
yards before appear-
ing again on the sur-
face. Another of its
peculiarities is it?
method of shepherd-
ing the chicks These
leave the nest when
a day old, but return
to the nursery each
night to roost. When disturbed during
the day they rush at the alarm call to
the mother, who tucks them under her
wings and dives with them until well out
of danger.
* * * *
“Six-sixty”: Among the flock of close
on a dozen kookaburras which assemble
round my kitchen door waiting for the
daily handout of meat scraps is a black
magpie, who is apparently accepted as
one of the gang. Though not so tame
as the kookas, who line up on the back
verandah rail in readiness for the call of
“Come and get it,” and indulge in a
free-for-all when the tucker appears, the
karuwire is always in the offing and dives
in for his cut, departing with the flock
when the feed is over. Another oddity
among these visitors is a black kooka-
burra about three-quarters the size of his
mates, with plumage as sooty as if he
roosted in a chimney, though it has not
the sheen of the karuwire. One wonders
whether, when the annual migration of the
Karuwires takes place, this renegade will
depart with his kin or remain with his
present mates. And what will Sooty do?
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Coons don’t fear sharks
(B. 13/9/’39); it is the sea lawyer who
gets the wind up. That black body in
the water is an alarm signal for all fish.
At a hurried glance perhaps it passes
for a porpoise, and fish that stop to in-
vestigate and think don’t get a second
chance when a porpoise is rummaging
for food: But the whity-pink flesh of
the European is an invitation to come
and dine. Let me quote Boyd Lee, a
man who has lived his life among fish
and on small boats in N.Q. Said Boyd:
“If ever you’re forced to swim in the
open sea, never take your clothes off.
If they’re dark clothes, they’ll save
your life.” Proof of that can be offered
in several instances.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Nothing unusual about
“Coo-ee’s” horse (B. 13/9/’39) not kick-
ing the kid. Chivalry is not dead. A
horse that won’t allow a man within
half an acre of it will welcome any child
crawling between its legs or swinging
from its hocks. And did “C.” ever
know a horse to fall with a child? A
stumbler with hairless and battered knees
given to habitual devotion whenever an
adult gets on its back will never go down
with a child. The praying horse regards
the kid as an angel, and to have him
astride the saddle is Paradise enough.
* * * *
“Cosmos”: Wonderfully romantic to
the digger is the hide of the strange being
we call Mother Earth. Everyone knows
of the oil and iron and coal and gold that
she has so kindly secreted for us, but
like turning the leaves of a wonderful
story book is it to sink even a shallow
shaft on an alluvial field. The first 10ft.
we passed through rich red soil. Then
10ft. of ironstone. Then 20ft. of red
clay. Then another 10ft. of ironstone.
Followed 20ft. of yellow “pug,” tough
almost as rubber ; 3ft. of limestone. Then
kaolin, 30ft. —beautifully white this, the
finest china clay. Came 4ft. of broken
quartz mixed with kaolin. Then 50ft-
rnore of kaolin. Pure white limestone,
2ft. Then kaolin again, 10ft. Passed
into 16ft. of bright yellow clay, almost
a paint pigment. Then soft greyish rock,
sft. Then 6ft. of mixed clay and gravel.
Then 10ft. of white clay. Then Ift. of
fine red gravel containing gold. After
that 17ft. of gritty sand all showing
‘"colors.” Then clay which gradually
through a depth of 13ft. worked into
gravel. At that the underground river
came in and we lost the shaft. But we
had read 18 leaves, representing —how
many centuries? How long had it taken
water to deposit those beds of clay and
ironstone, and that exquisitely white
kaolin? For it had all been laid down
by water —in a land where now men
perished for sheer lack of a drop.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Of all the indentations
around the Australian coastline, King
Sound is the most striking. In extent
it rivals Port Phillip. Bitten almost a
perfect oblong out of north-west W.A.,
it stretches 80 miles to its heads (it has
two), where, wide apart, the big rivers,
Fitzroy and Lennard, enter. In width
it averages over 40 miles nearly all the
way. From the entrance to Derby, its
one port, is 70 miles. And twice in every
24 hours its 30ft. tide ebbs and flows —
30ft. of water spread over an area 70
miles by 40. Across the wide mouth lie
a chain of islands, almost a bar. Mostly
these are of granite and gneiss. They
need to be, else they would have been
washed away ages ago. Terrifically, the
tide boils through the channels that divide
them, Edgar Allen Poe’s maelstrom in
actuality. But more picturesque still are
the tide-rips. Across the beds of these
channels lie great reefs of granite. Meet-
ing these, the rushing tide hurdles, rising
in watery ridges 15, 20 feet high. Going
in on the tide with a 30ft. lugger is a
real ocean steeplechase, with a severe
penalty for the slightest misstep. But
one just has to go in on the tide and
come out on the ebb. Even the big ocean
steamers have to do it. Their entrance
is through Escape Passage. There could
be no other name for that channel —•
when one has got through it.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: It looks as though
“Straddler” (B. 13/9/’39) hasn’t tumbled
to the correct method of placing his
saddle to make it into a reasonably com-
fortable pillow. Turned upside down
with the saddle-cloth folded so as to fill
up the air channel between the padding,
a saddle has never given me a stiff neck.
Many’s the night when chasing up Jacko
Turk across the desert, and a rifle or a
water-bottle had to serve as a pillow, I’ve
yearned for the saddle on the old Waler
standing near by. And, devoid of pad-
ding, a military saddle can’t be com-
pared with a stock saddle for comfort
as a pillow. “Straddler” will want for-
get-me-nots worked on his pillow-slip
next.
“Be careful o’ that floatin' mine , commodore?"
THE SYLVAN MAN.
There’s that within my blood to-day
Which thrills me through and through,
And will not let me be at rest
No matter what I do.
It clutched my heart when I awoke,
And dragged me from my bed
To show me morning lights that broke
In lakes of green and red.
“Up, up,” it said, “and quit the black
Confinements of your cage;
Thrust off the hands that hold you back
From your bright heritage.
“For you it dons the rainbow’s tints,
For you its heart outpours—
Like some fair kingdom for its prince
Long alien from its shores.
“Are you not sick of toil and fret,
And care and grief and fear,
With this to give and that to get—
Your part from year to year?
“Are you not tired of lying lip
And lying heart and eye;
And ailing for the fellowship
Of that which cannot lie?
“Flave you not felt, too oft, that all
Man’s fashioned world was cold;
And heard at times the whispered call
Of what you were of old?
“New fires and vital splendors flood
The bush with scent and hue;
The sap is calling to your blood,
Your pores would drink the dew.
“When neither soothing hands nor words
Nor wine shall bring you ease,
These will —you brother of the birds,
You cousin of the trees!”
Thus, when the early birds began
To sing, by spring aroused,
He spoke to me—the Sylvan Man
Within my body housed.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“One— two — three — HEAVE! ”
“Bobadil”: “Cam Cove’s” brick-toting
Alsatian (B. 6/9/’39) has nothing on a
poodle owned by a small foundry-owner
for whom I once toiled as furnaceman.
Came the eve of my first casting day—
and there wasn’t a scrap of meltable iron
on the job. “Don’t worry,” assured my
boss. Next morning there lay a ton —
of the highest-quality pig-iron in hun-
dredweight bars. And the same every
casting day after; hardly a scrap the eve
before, plenty of the best quality next
morning. Then one day the boss put it
to me, “Can you melt steel?” I could.
That steel went into the queerest-shaped
castings I had ever seen. But I was frankly
puzzled when, after a brushing-up and a
filing, I found Smith stroking them with
a powerful magnet. “Why, you big mug,
don’t you ever tumble? These are
Carlo’s new false teeth.” “What!” I
gasped, “you don’t mean to say!” “But
I do —where did you think that pig-iron
was coming from?” (Just two blocks
away was Castings Unlimited, our mam-
moth rivals, with a pig-iron stack 20ft.
high.) No wonder faithful Carlo’s
original teeth had gone and his steel
false ones after them. “And you have
his teeth magnetised so that he’s just got
to pick up iron?” “Too right!” “But,”
I ventured, “how do you make it so that
it’s always got to be pig-iron?” “Muggins
again. Haven’t you noticed I always feed
Carlo on pork? Well, the day before
cast-day I keep him hungry—and he’s
just simply got to go after pig- iron.”
* * * *
“Bungham”: All through winter the
spinebill had claimed the lucerne-tree as
his own special preserve. While his fel-
lows had departed for more congenial
parts he lingered on, content with the
meagre supply of nectar the scanty
blossoms offered. Would-be invaders
were scared away by his shrill screech-
ing and ruffled mien. Then the wattle-
bird came. All the spinebill’s frenzied
flutterings were of no avail against this
sweet-tongued pirate. He appropriated
the other’s sanctuary and put the gallant
little warrior to flight. From a near-by
pine-tree the spinebill set up a prolonged
lamentation for the loss of his beloved
tree. But help was on the wing. Whether
by coincidence or by some avian tele-
pathic agency a sizable flock of his
absent kin materialised from out of the
blue and flung themselves upon the
marauder ; so fierce was their attack that
he speedily made himself scarce. And
now the spinebill is back in his ac-
customed place, shrilling defiance at all
that dispute his ownership.
* * * *
“Rus”: Axe-handles of genuine Aus-
tralian wood (B. 6/9/’39) are in every-
day use in the pearl and trochus fleets of
Torres Strait. They are supplied by an
enterprising bushman from Cape York
Peninsula, and users claim that they out-
last the imported hickory. The wood,
which Binghi knows as tulu, was em-
ployed by the natives for the stocks of
their stone-headed war clubs, and as the
“waps,” or harpoons, with which the
islanders harpoon their dugong. Paddles
are also turned out in this same medium,
and these, which equal the imported ash
article in durability, are in general use
in the Jap fleets.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: One of the most for-
midable abo. weapons which is not much
heard of is the wooden sword. Once
common in many parts of the country,
it is found now only in the war equip-
ment of the far-north and north-western
regions. It is like a huge boomerang but
with less curve and a sharp front edge,
and is wielded with two hands. In a
conflict the swordsman rushes up to an
enemy and deals him a mighty swipe
across the back sinews of the legs, par-
ticularly behind the knees. This he can
do from the front of his adversary. The
victim drops instantly and has to be car-
ried off, perhaps permanently lamed. In
a hot encounter the neck or arms may
get the powerful swipe. It is a disabling
blow wherever it falls; on the back of
the neck it frequently means death. The
sword is made of heavy hardwood, a
shock weapon that is not easily broken.
“Gumsucker”: Will the black snake,
during pairing season, deliberately wait
to avenge a slain mate? Back in my Vic-
torian schooldays a party of us young-
sters used to travel across a wide grassy
flat. One summer day the leaders of
our gang surprised and killed a big black
snake, leaving the carcass lie. Next day
two girls, members of the killing party,
were at the same place attacked by an-
other black snake, one being fatally
bitten. Our bushmen fathers averred that
the second snake was the male mate of
the slain one, and had deliberately waited
for our party to return. Driven out by
fire and slain it was proved by experts
really to be a male. But did it actually
wait, or was the second encounter merely
coincidence?
* * * *
“B’gurra”: Portion of the northern
boundary of Corinda and Oakvale sta-
tions in the Aramac (Q.) district is a dog-
proof fence which runs in practically a
straight line for a distance of miles.
There, are only two deviations from the
line, both made to avoid gorges. Along
its whole length the fence does not cross
one watercourse.
*.* * *
“Believeitornot”: Amputation of legs
was performed by the aboriginal of
south-west W.A. long before the white
man arrived. And, incredible though it
may read, the instrument used was fire.
Given a broken limb of the common
fracture type, the medicine man did his
best for the patient with bark splints and
hair-string bandages. As readily as with
any animal of the wild, the abo. bone
healed. But given complications, such
as the fractured ends breaking through
the skin or slipping up past each other,
and the job was beyond the tribal
medico. For a time the patient would
be carried by the tribe on its wanderings,
but sooner or later the decision would
be arrived at that the limb must come
off. A bifurcated trench would be dug
and the patient laid therein, his abdomen
and the sound leg being buried as pro-
tection against burning. To the point
of amputation the injured leg would like-
wise be earth-covered. A fire of twigs
was then lit and kept going. With in-
credible fortitude the patient endured it;
seldom he lived. But without the opera-
tion he was doomed in any case, with
gangrene likely to set in. And though
the medicine men might have cut and
sawn with their stone knives they lacked
the knowledge and the means of tying
the severed arteries. The fire sealed them
neatly as it passed through. Records
of such operations are found in W.A.
history. More, in the Kurnalpi tribe at
the beginning of the century was a one-
legged buck who had undergone this
operation. With great gusto he would
illustrate just how it had been performed.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: From Gould onward orni-
thologists have regarded the playhouses
of Australian bowerbirds as the world’s
most extraordinary feats in bird-archi-
tecture. Quite recently Australian ob-
servers have discovered a completely
unique further feature—that the satin
bowerbird actually paints the inside sticks,
possibly with charcoal, but certainly also
with the berries of certain bush plants
crushed up in the bill. The juice is
rubbed on with the point of the beak.
Amongst species used are the blueberry,
geebung, native plum, inkweed and a
species of Dianella, whose blue flowers
are also a favorite decoration. All are
either infested with the black-smut fungus
or yield a black stain. Only the satin
species of bowerbird does it, and not all
of them.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: Talking of dogs
finding jobs for themselves (B. 30/8/’39),
we have a hound whose main interest
in life is tree-falling. Stock-work, rab-
biting and other bush-dog occupations
have no zest for him, but the sound of
an axe in the timber will bring him at
the double. “Spot” always walks round
the tree a time or two, examines the
scarf and then seats himself exactly oppo-
site to where the tree will fall (many
mug axemen down our way rely on Spot’s
judgment in this respect). When the tree
is down, he examines any hollows for
possible possums, and then stays on the
job until the sawing and splitting are fin-
ished. Took him to the log-chopping
competitions at a show, but he wasn’t
impressed—apparently he prefers the
bush background.
* * * *
“Coobar”: In an endeavor to save
them from lungworm, we were drenching
some sheep by letting about two cubic
centimetres of tetrachloride into the side
of their necks with a needle-pointed
syringe. Operations were closely watched
by the newchum, who eventually inquired
as to the results of so —seemingly—
drastic a method. Informed that this
was a sure way to make the wool grow,
he began to take a still keener in-
terest. We heard loud groans from
Choom’s room that night, and we hurried
in, to find him nursing an inflamed and
swollen neck. Asked what was the
trouble, he looked a little bewildered,
pointed to a syringe on the floor and then
back to a bald patch on his head.
“It says ‘Co to Europe for your holidays ”
FOWLS AND PHYSIOGNOMY.
“Giving: evidence in a Victorian poultry-stealing
case, an expert declared that fowls could be identi-
fied by the expression on their faces.”
The gentle hen assiduously scratching,
The strutting rooster, proud of lengthy spurs,
The “broody” that contentedly is hatching
The cackleberries that she thinks are hers—
These models of productiveness and tameness
May look alike to our inexpert eye,
But that their sprightly features have a same-
ness
, All poultrymen deny.
When Chanticleer is meaty and, anon, you,
With tomahawk in hand, the block approach,
Think not a vacant look he turns upon you;
It’s actually one of strong reproach.
And blinkless stares which, in your estimation,
Reflect a goog-producer’s meagre brain
May really be, on keen investigation,
Looks of intense disdain.
From photos, of a thousand Chinks, surmising
Which is Ah Pong by some peculiar look
Is child’s play to the task of recognising
Emotion on the phizog of a chook.
However, to the practised eye it’s simple
To spot a Leghorn’s glare of injured pride,
To tell a Langshan’s coyness by its dimple
Or some such easy guide.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
0M
\Z : %
is
v.V-.r.v^.ra--.^
Hi
m:
Head Oflice
Sydney, N.S.W.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL. . .. 4,739,012 10 0
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
General Manager: C. Darvall.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET\)
A
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net f Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1929.. 549.931 10 p.c. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. .. 148,373
1930.. 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 10 „ 24 „ „ 187,141 138,312
1932.. 10 „ 3 „ „ 205,970 1,370 139,682
1933.. 919 10 „ 4 „ „ 243,626 137,975
1934.-287,929 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 .. 107,229
1935.. 016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.-307,183 10 „ 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 414.702 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 650 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 61,054 333,119
lncludes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares. ! Goodwill ( £354,377) not treated as an
asset herein.
This big front-rank Australian indus-
trial undertaking has £4,695,655 of capi-
tal to feed in 930,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 3,765,655 ords., of which the large
English Dunlop Co. took half a million
in 1927 at 255. each, and also agreed to
make available to the Australian co. in-
formation concerning certain technical
developments, together with the result of
research activities. A couple of years
later the Perdriau business was welded
into the organisation, the name was
changed to the present title, and Dunlops
bought all but a handful of the 550,000
£1 ords. in Barnet Glass, and with them
control, at 325. apiece.
In its first year the combined organi-
sation paid 10 p.c. Then the big change
in conditions completely altered the out-
look. However, the co. never failed to
pay a div., though the rate dropped to
2\ p.c. in 1931. Four years later the
organisation was strengthened by adop-
tion of a rationalisation plan following
overhaul of the buying, manufacturing
and selling sections of the business ; also,
a substantial portion of the year’s earn-
ings (1935), together with a windfall of
£147,576, and more besides, was used to
write down the book value of plant and
recondition equipment.
Although the figures since show en-
couraging progress, operations in accord-
ance with the demands of modern pro-
duction have just about reached the point
where complete reconstruction of the
Montague factory (Melbourne) would be
necessary. So the board recently de-
cided to transfer the works from
Montague to Beaumaris, some 20 miles or
so down the bay, where land has been
bought and a Dunlop industrial centre,
including a housing scheme, etc., for em-
ployees, is to be established. Owing to
the outbreak of war, the board has de-
cided to temporarily postpone the
scheme.
Tyres account for about half the co.’s
turnover, rubber footwear comes next,
and a variety of rubber goods makes up
the balance. The number of motor
vehicles registered in Australia at June 30
for each of the last five years compares
as follows:—•
Motor- Commercial Motor-
. Tune 30, cars. Vehicles. cycles.
1935 . . 457,684 155,721 75,045
1936 . . 484,832 180,567 77,467
1937 . . 499,289 214,296 77,912
1938 . . 534,963 241,751 80,114
1939 .. 559,960 260,091 79,225
Over the last 12 months, the increase in
motor-cars was 24,997 and in commercial
vehicles 18,340. But there was a smaller
demand for initial shoeing, owing to the
drop in registration of new motor
vehicles. The London price of crude
rubber rose from 6.2 d. to 8.2 d. per
pound, and wages and other costs climbed,
too. However, the management’s rationali-
sation scheme brought more savings, and
the board was able to write net earnings
£2948 better at £417,650, or enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 8.6 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 8.5, 8.4 and 5.6 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The div.
was kept at 7 p.c.
The savings were largely the result of
further centralisation of Barnet Glass
and Dunlop selling and manufacturing
activities. Also, Dunlop’s 10-year guar-
antee of the Barnet Glass Co.’s minimum
pref. div. (£16,000 p.a.), which ran out
at the end of 1938, was renewed till June
30, 1941. Last term the Barnet Glass Co.
netted £87,207.
Finances are comfortable, as the fol-
lowing comparison of consolidated
balance-sheet figures for the parent and
its subsidiaries shows:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Paid capital—• 1935. 1938. 1939.
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 198,314 222,491 222,379
Reserves! .. .. 490,661 630,389 692,281
Liabilities .. .. 239,467 183,431 290,564
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,297,271 1,217,452 1,216,009
Plant, etc. .. 1,147,825 1,070,164 1,054.565
Stocks .. .. 2,032.486 2,145,679 2,116.460
Debtors .. . . 616,696 781,252 916,925
Investments, etc... 22,946 9.930 6,265
Cash, etc. . . 26,178 101,447 217,977
Rationalisation ace. 56.507 46,137’
Goodwill . . . . 601,477 632,237 630,830
* Includes undistributed profits. ! Subject to goodwill.
Last term £116,530 was added to cash,
etc., and £135,673 to debtors’ balances.
To do this £107,133 was added to the
amount coming to outsiders, while stocks
were reduced by £29,219 and plant by
£15,599 net. The year’s growth in the
more or less liquid surplus (£2,967,063)
was £112,186.
It is doubtful whether the war will
push demand for the co.’s products
much, if any, further. Competition in
the trade is very keen, and the London
price of raw rubber is now around 91d.
per pound. There have been stinging in-
creases in taxation, and costs generally
are on the up-grade. Still, the co. has an
able management and a wide goodwill.
On the market, where the scrip is one
of the most actively traded of the inter-
state industrials, the prefs. are priced at
325. and the ords. at 17s. 6d. At these
figures the return is 6.2 p.c. and 8 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year’s
distributions.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends* ,
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40.000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28.000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
1932.. 11 106 12,000 28.000 Nil 217.390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
5 p.c.
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6i p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7£ p.c.
1936.. 90,187* 12,000 28,001) 30,000 ] „,„ oqi
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ’
8| p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ] 970 fiot
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . \ ’
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 9q ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . f
1939.. 106,659 12,000 28,000 35,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..) ■ ’
For Sydney retailers the tide of pros-
perity was on the flood from the third
quarter of 1933 till the end of the first
quarter of 1939. The following table,
compiled by the N. S. Wales Retail
Traders’ Association Research Bureau,
shows the percentage change in the value
of retail sales compared with the pre-
vious year and the corresponding por-
tions thereof: —
Average of three months ended
Period. Sept. Dec. March. June.
1933- .. —l.B +3.3 +3.3 +7.7 ■+*».£
1934- .. +9.8 +0.3 +3.2 +7.1 +o-J>
1935- .. +5.0 +8.3 +7.6 +6.5 +?•*
1936- .. +6.5 +4.6 +4.5 +5.7 + b '%
1937- .. +B.l +11.7 +6.3 +6.7 + »■•*
1938- .. +4.7 +2.3 +4.6 —3.1 +l-9
Owing to the rapid growth of chain-
store business, the figures are not an
exact reflex of department-store sales,
but they are a fairly reliable guide as
to the trend in the retail trade as a
whole. Sales reached their peak during
the last quarter of 1937. Since then they
have continued to lose momentum, and,
for the first time in 5i years, failed to
beat the figure for the corresponding
period of the previous year during the
June quarter of 1939.
Last term Farmer’s reports “appreci-
able” expansion of turnover. After
meeting higher wage and other bills, and
providing an unspecified amount for de-
preciation, taxation and contingencies,
the net result was £1448 better at
£106,659. That was enough to pay the
pref. divs. and show 16.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 16.3, 15.3, 12.5, 9.3 and
7.5 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was kept
at 8i p.c.
As for the outlook, our own war
expenditure and Britain’s decision to buy
most of our exports augur well for
spending generally. Department stores
are likely to further replace some of their
imports by local manufactures, owing to
the rise in the cost of importing.
Sales tax has been lifted from 5 p.c. to
6 p.c. But the biggest slug will be the
increase in operating and distributing
costs, including a rise of 100 p.c. in
Federal and 12y p.c. in State rates of
company tax. However, the wide margin
between last term’s earnings and distri-
butions suggests that the current year’s
profit should more than cover 8| p.c. on
capital, despite the difficulties.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:
1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500.000 500,000 +500,000
Creditors*.. 181,952 215,017 290,367 206,902
P plant ldS& . 1.436,822 1,403,636 1,416,148 1,467,511
Stock 313,077 326,959 396.843 373,644
Book debts 77,606 151,741 189,738 184,048
C vetmente n ; 82,240 91,725 123,542 29,263
* Including unspecified provision for contingencies,
t Mortgage.'
The debenture debt (6 p.c., reduced to
5 p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest


jm
'fks/ mete 9 $m of ilwl "dtlfa/x swt.
m& mote/ 0 Ju*e- fto fewwo....
The fascination of a Felfex floor grows stronger as you
live with it and discover more and more its good
points. Feltex, in plain colours or marbled effects, lends
luxury to floors, is silent and soft to the tread, and
makes "Home Sweet Home." Feltex is economical, too.
It is easily cleaned with FELTEX DUAL CLEANER and
is reversible.
See the range at any good furniture store, or write for free
pattern card to Department SG, Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
Insist on Genuine FELTEX—Look for the Name !
FG24&
8 H'
31
:
■
HI
■
s
m
lil
m
m
■
■I
mss
m
ami
sm
&1
sW?
Wm
BHI
;
m*
mgiggi!
wm
sbSMSk^
I*
mr*
m
-4'S > *J(
m
m
u
■
m
m
n
■
Mm
*
W m M
mm
i mmm
m -
m
mm
4MP
* *
MB
11
mk
MHi.. r «Blrrv .***%»
TrT s sf ww y ' -x>
yfcJxl * - ■•• -
&>
Mi
■
Mi
4
~*' * -•. j
H
m
mm
y - &
i
mmi
11
StCJ'/Ws
m
wms &
■
- : V/
lljM
H
h£
ythv* *y
W% 7 ; 1 JmmJi
Si,*J±*&kL* v*<fei
B
Reduction Act), which matured at the
end of July, was replaced by a mortgage
for like amount with the A.M.P.—terms
not mentioned. Additions and improve-
ments to premises further enhanced the
.. iTrUiofi
attractiveness of the store, whicn
occupies the entire end of one of the
busiest blocks in the city, and added
£51,363 to the book value of the
property. To meet the outlay, and knock
n . i aUt „,ere
£83,465 off the trade debt, stocks weie
reduced by £23,199 (a healthy sign) and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £94,279.
wh ’ the bnnV« rimed more nr less
When the books closed, more or le
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£380,053 (down £39,703).
The market which annears to make
ine marKet, wnicn appears to matte
liberal allowance for increased costs
and other contingencies, prices the firsts
a t ?4s 3d seconds 23s 3d and ords
at Z4s. pa., seconas zds. ja. ana oras.
265., as against 245., 275. and 30s. 6d.
respectively a year ago. At the lower
figures the return is 4.9, 6 and 6.7 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year’s
rates of distribution. The net tangible
cover is £6 12s. 3d. firsts, £2 16s. Id.
seconds and 365. Id. ords.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
June Dividends. S?eT serf’s,
£ £ £ &
JgJ® ;; f{s \\ 25 P ,', C ‘~ ll’S 7,378 76,175
1937 .. 30,’eio 25 „ „ 25.507 5,103 8i,27s
Special tax assessment, £2099 .. 79,180
_ _ 28,209 20 p.c. = 25.500 2,709 81,889
Unexplained addition, £1560 .. 83,449
~.. „ , .
Whatjias happened here? The board
says i L " . , ...
The last few months have seen the de-
velopment of a price war. Raw silk has
risen more than 50 p.c. in cost to about
the highest price ruling since the co
started business. Other materials have cost
more and wages have increased, yet prices
Q f gjik hosiery have continued to fall.
The co. shortened sail, disposed of its
printing and box-making plant, and decided
to concentrate on hosiery manufacture and
spinning. No loss was made on the work-
ing or disposal of the printing and box-
making plant The directors feel confi-
dent £ at the co js obtaining its propor-
tion c f th e business that is offering, and
new lines recently produced are most
attractive and are proving very successful.
Aggregate plant capacity for production
of hosiery and lingerie in Australia is
capable of taking care of a much larger
demand than has thus far been experi-
enced. Sooner or later, this usually means
a trade war, which continues until those
engaged in it agree to bury the hatchet,
unless casualties in the trade settle the
issue first; and neither the public nor
the manufacturer gets much benefit from
this class of strife in the long run.
The co. set up at Moreland (Vic.) as
Progress Products Pty. in 1929. The name
was changed to the present title in the fol-
lowing year; the public became inter-
ested in 1935, when the scrip was listed,
and some juicy returns were won. Last
term the slip in gross earnings (£44,725,
after deducting £10,032 for depreciation)
was £15,786. Exes. (£31,915) were down
£387, making the net result £15,399
lighter at £12,810, or a wink over 10 p.c.
on capital as against 27, 30, 32.7 and 31.3
p.c. back to 1935. That leaves out of
the reckoning £1560 (accretion in value
of life assurance, etc.) added direct to
reserves. The div. was cut in half, re-
ducing it to 10 p.c.
As for the current term, there have
been heavy increases in taxation, and pro-
duction and distribution costs can be ex-
pected to climb. Results will largely de-
pend upon what happens in connection
with the war within the trade itself. All
that can be said definitely is that the co.
has an efficient and up-to-date plant,
which ought to mean much.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances:
IQQA TQQ'7 *lOOO 1090'
Paid capital.. £64,286 £102,292 £127,764 £127,764
Overdraft .. 20,020
Creditors . . 12,868 19,917 25,208 11,502
Freeholds .. 49,322 55,547 59,908 59,414
Plant, etc. . . 135,863 74,027 84,323 57,652
Stocks .. 59,810 68,035 112,286 83,478
Debtors .. 14,059 17,229 23,766 22,402
Cash, etc. . . 4,468 21,573 3,772 14,238
The contraction of £26,671 in the plant
item reflects sale of the printing and box-
making equipment, which was installed
less than two years ago. The drop of
£27,808 in stocks is due partly to sale of
box-making material, etc. The overdraft
(£20,020 at the previous balance) was
wiped out, £13,706 was clipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
cash, etc., was strengthened by £10,466.
{‘‘The Wild Cat Column” continued on
page 20.)


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent* Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for Dredgemaster
Manager for a new large electric dredge operat-
ing in New Zealand, applicant with experience
in spud-dredging preferred. Salary according to
qualifications. Applications treated confiden-
tially. Apply Secretary, Alluvial Prospectors,
Limited, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ConLlin
ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura un-
conditional and perpetual
service guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
. . . a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/-
and 40/-, with Pencils to
match 25/-. Complete
Sets in Presentation Case
55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
i
u
> lZ
[* *
I I
:>
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jot full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . - .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£108,616) was £14,020.
At 7s. 2d. (9s. a year ago) the f.-p. ss.
shares return 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is Bs. 3d. in net tan-
gibles.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
The sharp advance of this Malayan
concern’s shares from 6s. 6d. to 9s. over
the last month reflects the sudden change
in the outlook for tin-producers. The co.
formed in 1929 to amalgamate the old
Rawang, Serendah and Serendah South,
all in Selangor (F.M.S.). Though the
heavy capitalisation and a conservative
div. policy have combined to keep returns
to shareholders moderate, a fat pile of
liquids has been built up, out of which
£148,229 was spent last term on new
equipment, etc., including a new bucket-
dredge.
Embodying the latest features of
dredge design and practice, the new plant
has been completed at an opportune
time. Erected on the main area, it is to
dig 300,000 c.y. monthly to a depth of
50ft. The co. now owns three dredges,
combined rated capacity 650,000 c.y.
monthly, in addition to an 80,000 c.y.-
monthly sluicing plant. All are highly-
efficient units.
Last published estimate (June, ’37) put
dredging reserves at 75,000,000 c.y., aver-
aging !lb. t.o. Since then, 9,784,000 c.y.
have been treated and 486 acres added to
the property, making total area now held
2840 acres, while boring permits have
been obtained over adjoining State land.
Some limestone, clay and granite are
found in parts, but the wash is mainly
good dredging. Also, a one-third interest
is held in 55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b.
ground, at present the subject of surface
rights disputes, next-door »to Pungah’s
property in West Siam ; Larut and Anglo-
Oriental are the two other interested
parties.
Last term reduction in the free domes-
tic quota from 73.7 p.c. to 29.6 p.c. of
assessment (1513 tons t.o. p.a.) and a fall
of £32 10s. stg. in the Singapore price for
tin cut revenue more than in half. The
net result slipped £65,439 to £21,157, or
£743 less than the 3d. dividend called
for:
Year
Ended , —Surplus— sj— Dividends—,,
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£Stg. £St.g\ £Stg\ £ Stg.
1 182,830 86,616 96,220 1/1 -/9 65,700
To reserve river deviation, £15,000.
To reserve bucket-band, £4OOO.
170,921 90,413 80,508 -/10i -/9 65,700
To reserve river deviation, £4OOO.
I To reserve bucket-band, £7OOO.
-ioor j 181,189 94,593 86,596 -/1U -/9 65,700
ITo reserve bucket band, £5OOO.
1939 75,029 53,872 21,157 -/3 -/3 21,900
* Includes depreciation: £23,628. 1936 ; £25,806,
1937 ; £19,891, 1935.
That excludes whatever profit there may
be in the co.’s contribution to the buffer
pool—BB| tons of tin metal, taken in at
cost of production—but takes in £10,734
received in divs., etc., and a profit of
£8386 from power sales. The co. is now
supplying the Berjuntai, Kundang and
Taiping Consolidated cos. with their
power requirements ; nearly £63,000 was
spent on new power plant, etc., last year.
During the year £BlO4 was also ex-
pended from specific reserves on a new
bucket-line for No. 1 plant and new
buckets for No. 2. Dredging and sluicing
performances compare this way:
r~ —Dredging v Sluicing ■.
1 QQQ 1 Q9Q -IQ.9Q IQQQ
Cub. yards. . 4,414,000 4,196.000 1,000,000 174,000
T. 0., tons . . 802.1 593.4 269.0 111.9
Av. yield . . 0.401 b. 0.311 b. 0.61 b. 1.441 b.
Costs, c.y. . . 2.45 d. 2.43 d :. 3.99 d. 5.12 d.
Net ore realisation, ton—
-1937. £137/5/3 ; 1938, £143/2/10; 1939, £124/10/9.
Singapore average metallic tin, ton—
-1937, £212/15/2 ; 1938, £223/10/4 ; 1939, £l9O/19/8.
The sluicing plant has been shifted on to
the main area ; it was closed down most
of last term owing to the low quotas. In
the five months since the close of ac-
counts all plants have treated 1,794,000
c.y. for 275! tons t. 0., an average re-
covery of 0.34 per c.y., compared with
0.361 b. last term.
Paid capital is £876,003 in 10s. shares,
which, at the present level of quotas,
appear to have interest at current prices.
The co. holds 63,800 f.-p. £1 shares in
Rawang Concessions, which appear at
par. . Including these, more or less liquids
at March 31 amounted to £195,417 ; there
was then £28,351 coming to outsiders.
War has further stimulated interest in
the tungsten ores, wolfram and schee-
lite. About 95 p.c. of the tungsten metal
produced in the world enters the alloy
steel field. In 1936 the German steel
industry took over 8500 tons of tungsten
concentrates as against 7865 tons con-
sumed by British steel cos. Lately Russia
and Japan have been buying these con-
centrates in larger quantities than usual,
too. The world’s chief sources of supply
are Burma, China and the F.M.S. A
couple of years ago Australian produc-
tion of wolfram was 6373 tons —Tas.
4143 tons, N. Territory 1721 tons,
Queensland 404 tons and N. S. Wales
105 tons. Possibilities for the discovery
of further wolfram deposits are said to
exist in the Hatches Creek, Wauchope
Creek and Murchison and Davenport
ranges areas in Northern Australia. The
price was recently 555., or thereabouts,
per unit, A cessation of the Sino-Jap
conflict, however, might be followed by
a substantial drop in the price, notwith-
standing that a certain amount of Chinese
concentrates continues to find its way
on to the market.
* * * *
Mica continues to be mined at Hart’s
Range, about 150 miles from Alice
Springs, Centralia, where 31.7 tons,
valued at £12,133, was produced during
the 12 months to June 30 last, as against
50.7 tons, valued at £6960, for the pre-
ceding year. The stuff has been mined in
this locality for years, but never on a
large scale. Although the mica is of the
white (muscovite) type, and is of good
quality, it occurs in irregular “books,”
occasionally up to 4ft. square, but mostly
much smaller. Mica calls for careful
mining methods and technical skill in
cutting and marketing. No satisfactory
material has yet been found to take its
place in the electrical industry, and its
growing use in radio sets and automobiles
has strengthened demand. India pro-
duces nearly three-quarters of the world’s
sheet mica, and there are important de-
posits in Canada, Africa and S. America.
si? * * *
Central Queensland is suffering from
prolonged drought, and sinister predic-
tions have been made as to how long
Mt. Morgan could carry on with the
dams almost empty. However, it can
now be said that the co.’s search for
water underground has been successful.
A series of wells are being sunk, and use-
ful supplies have been obtained which,
with economy in use, are likely to see
the mine through a ticklish surface
drought.
* * * *
Alluvial gold has been found at the
Mt. Victoria prospecting area, just out-
side Mt. Morgan (C.Q.). Water-worn
gold is found in a pebbly conglomerate,
and a two-ton trial crushing averaged loz.
gold. A report by the District Geologist
(J. H. Reid) shows that the gold in en-
closed in a sedimentary formation, and,
while likely to be erratic in values, may
offer scope for extension of develop-
ments.
* * * #
A start has been made at Kelsey Creek,
Proserpine (N.Q.), to sink the main shaft
a further 150 ft., making a total of 350 ft.
No. 3 level has been driven over 400 ft.,
and is helping to keep the monthly
average of production around 110 tons
of 4oz. ore. The ore is so heavily
mineralised that it is all shipped to
Chillagoe Smelters, despite costs, which
are a fleabite when ore averages around
£35 a ton.
* * * *
Herberton, chief tin centre in N.Q.,
crushed 1146 tons ore for 42 tons of
black tin during August. Chief contri-
butors were the old Cornishman with
13! tons, and the Gordon with 14 tons.
* * * *
The war should boost operations at
Mt. Wonbah (S.Q.) molybdenite pipe,
where six men are employed. The last
return showed a recovery of 4| tons of
concentrates valued at £927, but if there
is an increased war demand this big pipe
should be capable of responding.
* * * *
Good progress has been reported in
the cleaning out and dewatering of
Wallis’s Day Dawn, Charters Towers,
the latest effort sponsored by W. H.
Clark on one of the main lodes of the
field. Water level was at 90ft., and
operations have reached old workings.
* * * *
In its annual report, the Westralian
Mines Department again proudly draws
attention to the achievements of its State
batteries, of which there are now 24.
From the inception of these mills to the
end of 1938 2,278,254 tons of auriferous
ore was treated for gold valued at
£9,879,549, of which £1,825,887 was ex-
change premium. Capital expenditure was
£525,000; working costs exceeded
revenue by £81,415. The batteries have,
however, more than paid their way of
recent years. During the last 10 years
ore treated from ail mines in West-
ralia has increased from 628,400 tons
to 3,759,720 tons per annum and the
gold yield from 372,0620 z. to 1,172,9500 z.
while the grade of ore fell from 11.84dwt.
to 6.24dwt. To the end of 1938, Kal-
goorlie and Boulder together produced
24,039,4530 z.; Mt. Margaret, which takes
in the Sons of Gwalia and Lancefield,
comes next with 4,014,4260 z., and Mur-
chison, which includes Cue, Meeka-
tharra, Mt. Magnet and Big Bell, follows
with 3,721,1890 z. The figure for East
Murchison was 2,838,6710 z., and for
North Coolgardie 2,095,5870 z.
* * * *
After earmarking £23,000 for taxation,
Lancefield netted £95,170 for the year to
June 30. The co. treated 139,903 tons,
head value 6.22dwt., for 36,281 fine
ounces gold, which realised £332,606.
Slag, etc., brought in another £3426.
Dividends of 6d. and Is. absorbed
£75,000, and since the close of accounts
a further Is. has been paid. Mine
expenditure was 28s. 7d. a ton. The
previous year’s profit, after deducting
£15,491 for taxation, was £67,861. Man-
aging director George Ridgway, now
abroad and trying to get home, estimates
ore reserves on Nos. 12, 13, 14 and 15
levels at 118,500 tons of about sdwt.
value. The bottom of the mine, which
has been looking very sick, is now re-
ported to be improving.
* * *
North Kalgurli’s revenue from gold
production for the first half of the cur-
rent financial year totalled £166,598.
Expenditure, inclusive of development,
aggregated £85,774, and £9766 was spent
on equipment and capital account. Ap-
proximately 35,000 tons of 7.29dwt. ore
was treated, which was substantially less
than was developed during the period.
The board decided to pay divs. half-
yearly—an interim before the end of the
year, and a final at the annual meeting,
usually in June. Expenditure on the
new treatment plant on the Croesus Prop,
block will be mainly provided from cash
in hand; any further requirements will
be met by a temporary loan, current
revenue remaining available for the pay-
ment of dividends.
* * * *
The Stock Exchange ban has halted
open market transactions in De Bernales’s
Westralian gold group, but production
continues. The figure for August was
over £A43,000. Contributors were Yel-
lowdine # £21,253, Comet £5417, Emu
£11,200 and Gladiator £5850. After de-
ducting working, development and capital
costs, Yellowdine showed a profit of
£12,051 and Emu £2521. Comet and
Gladiator each spent more than they
received.
* # * *
On Oct. 2 shareholders in North Kal-
goorlie Central (W.A.) will receive 7d.
per share and 14 Paringas for each 100
North Kalgurli Centrals held.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.D.: If safety of capital is important look
the other way... .F.A.L.: See “‘Wild Cat
Monthly” for December, 1938... .E.A.G.: In
any period during which the value of money
depreciates and the value of goods appreciates,
equities, such as ord. shares in sound indus-
trials, are better holding than fixed-money
claims, such as pref. shares... .C.S.: (1) “Wild
Cat” has repeatedly applied to co. for balance
sheet, but has not received one. (2) A few years
ago actuarial liabilities to policy-holders ex-
ceeded book value of net tangible assets.
Doubtful whether much, if any, real progress
made since... .J.McG.: There are several
patented processes for rendering wool un-
shrinkable. Bradford Cotton operates one ot
them... .Forest: (1) Cannot say; there is no
open market for these certificates. (2) Guesses
as to what certificate holders are ultimately
likely to receive aren’t worth much.
at moment anything but favorable. . . .E.H.:
If you stop payment now your loss will prob-
ably be greater than if payments are continued
until 1943....M.M.M.: It would be difficult
to find anything better for the small investor,
for whom safety of capital is of prime im-
portance... .WJ.: No open market for shares
at the moment. Private offers vary according
to date of planting involved. Prospects ot
early and satisfactory returns on capital not
bright.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
<i iiiiii
■Hiiii
■
• ill Jtfilfl
ft: IM»%
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Radio transmission is rapidly nearing per-
fection.” — Wireless journal.
In fact, soon the only thing listeners
will have to grumble about is the pro-
grammes.
4» 4* 4* 4*
“It is quite possible that scientific means
of inducing downpours of rain will yet be
evolved.” — Sydney weekly.
In the meantime, the old method of
polishing the car will still serve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She admitted having assaulted her husband,
when provoked. . He put down a bucket and
ordered her to scrub the house.”
—Divorce report.
Instead of which she wiped the floor
with him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man has seen 1600 talkies.”
— “World’s News.”
He doesn’t miss mush.
•I*
“What were the barber’s parting words?”
asked the detective. — Extract from thriller.
“A little oil, sir?”
4« 4* 4* 4*
The pen may be mightier than the
sword, but you can’t open a tin of bully-
beef with it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Let the stars be your guide.”
—Astrological blurb.
But not everybody wants to marry
half a dozen times.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Is there any fury greater than that of a
woman who can’t find what she wants at the
bargain counter?” — “S.M.H.”
Yes; that of the husband who has to
wait outside for her.
“Piano-accordion stars may vanish from the
radio before the war ends, a shopkeeper fore-
casts.”—“Daily News.”
Then it is true that out of war comes
peace.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What makes a girl a good dancer?”
—“Sunday Sun.”
The ability to resist being swept off her
feet by her partner.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Maps change their faces overnight.”
— “S.M.H.”
And the fellow who’s changing them
is two-faced, too.
“In New Guinea the pidgin-English word for
piano is ‘big fellow box you hit him he cries.’ ”
— “World’s News.”
In flat-life, the general idea is: “Big
fellow box you hit him your neighbor
cries.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
You can’t go social climbing with a
ladder in your stocking.
4* 4« 4* 4*
“Hitler has a hidden weapon.”
—News item.
At least, it isn’t his tongue.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A big demand has set in for make-up
material since women have been engaged on
war work in England.”— Sydney paper.
A rush to the colors.
Oswald %aycrfy t
“See the time , ’ Lizheth—this War's gettin' nearly's bad as cricket."
Our politicians are always weaving
yarns to cloak their mistakes.
“Let your words flow.” — Literary course.
Editors will damn them later.
4* 4* 4* 4»
“Scotsmen, with an average height of sft.
B|in., are the second-tallest race in Europe.”
— “World’s News.”
That, of course, is the mean average.
“A wise man will hesitate before making a
decision.” — “S.M.H.”
Like a pin, his head prevents him from
going too far.
+ 4* 4 1
“Make money at home,” the adverts, say.
We tried it, but coppers took us away!
■4*
“Newly-weds often quarrel needlessly about
trifles.” — Women’s mag.
After all, there’s always stewed
rhubarb to fall back on.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Australian Timber Held Up.”— “Sun.”
Just the old story of a drunk leaning
on a telegraph post.
“Contrary to popular belief, sailors do make
good husbands.” — Women’s paper.
And so they should. They always
know when to run for shelter, and they
have no misgivings about who is the
trimmer when they feel an impatient tug
on their arm and are taken in tow for a
shopping cruise. Sailors don’t harbor
grudges when there is a lot of moaning
about the bar, and they can always pour
oil on troubled waters. But I still think
that sailors make good husbands be-
cause they are rarely at home!
D. McM.
4* 4* 4 4 1
“Knitting is soothing to the nerves.”
— Doctor’s diary.
Still it doesn’t prevent women from
losing their wool.
Libility.
She’s my ink rest — vested,
And compt und, and simple.
Her smile, l’\e attested,
Produces a dimple.
She’s sweet, a, id I know her
Regard for me’s dinkum;
But my interest, blow her,
Absorbs all my income!
P. O. M. C.
The Edgeways Method.
“His Honor: Why did you not tell them?
Respondent: I couldn’t get a word in edge-
ways.”—Divorce report.
Strangely, that is one of Maria’s com-
plaints.
It happens like this:
“I think you ought to be thoroughly
well ashamed of yourself, Aitchem!”
says Maria. “Oh, you needn’t look so
innocent! You know that everybody in
the place is talking about it, and wonder-
ing what sort of a woman I am to stand
that sort of behavior in my husband.”
“But”
“Naturally, I know you will deny it,
and I suppose you will say you never did
the same thing before. Why, before we
were married you were notorious!
People warned me about you. And, of
course, I know that they were right. You
may have been sly, but you can’t deceive
me, Aitchem—not altogether!”
“I don’t even know”
“There is something very animal in
your make-up, Aitchem. You should
master yourself. But you make no effort.
And you don’t think for a moment about
the shame you might bring on your
family by a scandal.”
“Scandal?” I exclaimed. “What”
“If you’ll allow me to get a word in
edgeways,” says Maria, “I will tell you
the story about yourself that is going
about.”
And then it comes. I call it the edge-
ways method.
H. M.
No Quarter.
“Humor and sadness are found in the old war
songs sung by those who had to stay at home.”
— Women’s paper.
My cobbers have joined up to serve.
They don’t know the meaning of strife ;
It’s fellows like me who’ve got nerve —
I’ve got to stay home with the wife.
ELM.
Ornithological Item.
“My husband told me human beings should
mate as freely as birds.” — Petitioner in divorce.
My Uncle Willie, a gay old bird, ex-
pressed similar views to my Aunt Mavis,
and his continual flutters greatly dis-
turbed their love-nest.
One day she found him billing and
cooing with a flighty bit of fluff who was
fond of hops. Uncle said it was only a
lark, but Auntie wouldn’t swallow that
because she was “dickie” to what was
going on.
When he started buying fine feathers
for the other one Auntie picked him well
and truly. He immediately flew into a
temper, told her that she was pigeon-
toed and just an old hen, and warned her
to keep her beak out of his business.
Whereupon Auntie surprised everyone
by spreading her wings and finding some-
one else to call her lovebird!
T. W. N.
After twenty years of marriage,
There is only one regret:
Think of the joys we might have known
If we had never met I
PATON.
Some Little-known Facts About
Holland.
III.
ITS MODERN HISTORY.
On William Vl.’s death his daughter
Jacoba was accepted as sovereign by the
nobles after the usual certificate had been
attested that her blood was sufficiently
cerulean in tint. The common people,
however, plumped for John of Liege,
who promised them a 96-hour week if
the royal commission he would set up
found that industry could stand it, and
a pension on reaching the age of 90.
Neither side would yield, and, to save
the country’s being plunged into civil war,
the burgomaster of Amsterdam suggested
that they toss for it. By accident he
tossed two pfennigs instead of one, and
thus was evolved the game of Zwi Oop,
which Van Diemen was to introduce to
the Antipodes.
Jacoba won the toss, but by the time
she had gone through four husbands, thus
setting a marital example to England’s
bluff King Harry, her grandfather, Philip
of Burgundy, decided to end the suspense
of wondering who his next grandson-in-
law would be by assuming control of the
country. For this he was designated
Philip the Good.
This embittered Philip, whose great
ambition was to go down to history as
Philip the Bad. In his youth he had
hoped to gain a reputation for vicious-
ness by poking his tongue out at his
Sunday-school teacher when her back
was turned. As a young man he had
sought execration by wearing his hat at
a rakish angle, sucking at his father’s
empty pipe and holding the Court cat
up by the tail. In his declining years
Philip made a last attempt to rid himself
of the horrible pseudonym that had been
forced on him. One day, inflamed with
limejuice cordial, he winked at one of
the ladies-in-waiting, but she was short-
sighted. Heartbroken, Philip had a spicy
translation of Eric, or Little by Little,
read to him, and expired.
When Charles the Bold of Burgundy
perished at Nantes the Dutch, for long
oppressed, rose and
demanded of his
daughter Mary the
granting of the Great
Privilege of 1477. By
this the ruling
sovereign became
powerless to increase
taxes unless he or she
was convinced it was
desirable. Mary was
contrary, but a dirk-
point between her
shoulder-blades con-
vinced her that con-
sent would be a
gracious gesture.
In 1567 the Spanish
Duke of Alva found
that his “Blood Tribu-
nal” was running
short of local heretics, and that the
racks and pulleys on the purchase of
which he was getting an overriding com-
mission from the manufacturers weren’t
wearing out quickly enough. To remedy
this he invaded Holland, which was
chock-full of heretics. But at the end of
seven years he still hadn’t finished off
his “lightning” war.
It was at this period that De la Marck,
with his little navy—his “water beggars”
—started seriously to hamper Spanish
shipping. The stadtholder named him
captain-general, but De la Marck stuck
out for the title of midshipman-field-
marshal, which he contended would give
him far wider scope for his talents.
This was granted, but trouble arose
when he insisted on wearing a Sam
Browne, spurs, epaulets and admiral’s
cocked hat, and carrying a telescope and
a whip when he rode his charger on to
the quarter-deck, for his staff could never
tell whether it was a sea or land action
they were engaged in.
The confusion thus created ceased
when the Prince of Orange, William the
Silent, was proclaimed regent and
supreme commander. It was no laryngeal
defect that made William the prototype
of those strong, mute heroes who have
bored countless fiction readers in the in-
tervening centuries; the tremendous
verbal output of his spouse caused the
royal vocal cords to atrophy through
disuse. Thereafter William, who was first
and foremost a politician, spoke through
his neckke, or publicist. Politicians have
talked through their neckkes ever since.
Commercial jealousies in the seven-
teenth century caused the long series of
wars between the Dutch and the Eng :
lish, and in the first of the great sea
battles the English Fleet, despite its being
led by the Duke of York, achieved a
notable victory over Admiral Opdam.
Later Marlborough announced that he
would lead “our traditional friends the
Dutch” against Louis XIV.
S. W. K.


FROM 1817
TO
1939
!
3
£
r^i
i
In 1817 when the Bank of New South Wales was founded a
"strong, secure chest" was procured to hold its cash and
valuables. This chest has long since been replaced by the
modern strong room, which to-day is symbolic of the strength
of the institution.
For over a hundred years the Bank has played an important
part in developing and stabilising the Australian national
economy by giving its clients the greatest possible security.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK
IN AUSTRALIA
5Q0A.1939
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Kitching’s Travel Goods
ALL TYPES OF LUGGAGE STOCKED
AIRLITE CASES
IN ALL COLOURS. FITTED WITH POCKETS.
SIZES, INS.: 22 24 26 28
PRICES 37/6 42/- 45/- 47/6
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 George Street, Sydney. 8W7133
(Near Wynyard Station.)
mm
'mm
Business,Rollery,Ete.
Fixed Trusts
This form of collective investment
made its appearance in Australia some
three years ago. So far the idea has not
proved so popular in the Commonwealth
as in, say, Britain, where over
£100,000,000 has been invested since
1931, but the numerous inquiries re-
ceived by The Bulletin indicate a
steadily growing local interest.
The fixed trust is an American pro-
duct, and properly carried on —and there
has been nothing to suggest otherwise
in the operation of Australian unit trusts
to date —the principle enables the small
or “garden” type of investor desiring
better than bank rate of interest to put
his few eggs into many baskets, thereby
obtaining a spread of risks, which means
greater capital security, usually available
only to the possessor of considerable
means.
The fixed trust grew out of the old
“management” trusts, the idea being to
safeguard investors from any possible un-
scrupulousness or incompetence (through
ignorance or otherwise) of trust
promoters. Chief features of the older
form of trust are (o) the profitable ex-
change of securities, and ( b ) the build-
ing up of reserves from capital profits
resulting from exchange of securities and
reinvestment of the proceeds, thus swell-
ing investment income.
No such flexibility is given to managers
of the fixed trust. Its funds are invested
in a chosen list of public securities, which
the managers have power to alter only
under conditions specified in the trust
deed-, such as absence of dividends or a
heavy fall in the market value of a 1
security held. The fixed trust also
appoints .a trustee, who becomes cus-
todian of the shares representing each
unit of the trust, and with whom is
usually deposited a sum sufficient to cover
all management expenses for the dura-
tion of the trust, to be drawn on by the
managers annually. The trustee, who
should be independent of the managing
organisation, is not likely to sign sub-
unit-holders’ certificates until the trust
property is properly deposited. Thus in-
vestors know precisely in what securities
their money has been invested, while
a check is imposed on the activities of the
managers with the funds entrusted to
their care.
As stated before, the fixed trust buys
shares in specified companies. These
shares comprise a unit, which is divided
into sub-units for sale by the trust man- *
agers. The selling price of sub-units is
determined by dividing the aggregate
market value of shares in the unit by
the number of sub-units. contained in
the unit, plus cost of making the
share purchases, plus a specified load-
ing charge (to cover trustee’s and
managers’ remuneration, management
exes., etc.), plus an amount to bring the
price of the sub-unit up to the nearest
threepence. When buying sub-units,
therefore, anyone with the requisite time
can easily calculate whether the price
he is charged is right and proper in
accordance with the trust deed.
Each trust unit is credited with the
whole of any divs. received from shares
in the unit, and these are then dis-
tributed proportionately, without deduc-
tion, among holders of the sub-units.
Sub-unit-holders also reap any benefits
from capital,accretions owing to the issue
of bonus scrip by companies whose shares
comprise the unit, or through new share-
issues at prices below market value, or by
a rise in the market value of the shared
themselves.
Sub-units are usually a liquid invest-
ment. Though the term of a trust is
fixed, the managers usually undertake to
buy back sub-units upon request or
short notice —in an Australian instance,
at Is. below the “selling” price, the dif-
ference being very similar to the cost
of buying and selling a share of similar
value on the Stock Exchange, taking
brokerage, stamp duty, etc., into ac-
count.
It should be remembered that unit
trusts are created under trustee law, and
are trusts in the strict sense of the word.
There are three parties to the unit trust,
as to any other trust. First is the settler,
who “settles” the trust property. Second
is the trustee, who, appointed by the
managers, undertakes the custody of the
trust property and due performance of
the trust covenants for the benefit of the
third party, who are the sub-unit
holders, or beneficiaries.
Fluctuations in the prices and returns
from sub-units can be expected, but no
more so than in the case of the underly-
ing securities. One of the points for
would-be investors to satisfy themselves
on, apart from the integrity of the
trustee, is the quality of the securities
held. Much also depends upon the
management’s skill in watching over the
portfolio— i.e., in so far as the managers
are permitted to make changes in the list
of securities held. Provision is usually
made for the appointment of new
managers should a requisite proportion
of sub-unit-holders so desire.
Because of inept and wasteful man-
agement of the public purse, the N. S.
Wales Government finds itself in urgent
need of cash to pay its way and keep
the dole going. Its incapacity to deal with
anything that looks like a problem with-
out resorting to the borrow-tax “plonk”
bottle has shown up again in the further
pressure being put on taxpayers. Even
people struggling along on £2 a week will
now be taxed “to help the unemployed”
engaged in shifting sand and making
“scenic roads,” and others are to be
bled to keep fat salaries in politicians’
pockets, and continue the old game of
inflating the civil service. Tax-increases
run through the whole income scale, and
there is a “new super-tax.” Australians
are mostly generous to an extreme degree
in contributing to the national needs
when an unavoidable problem is thrown
on the country. But the Sydney Govern-
ment is simply bogged in a muck of its
own making. Its brainless extravagances
have only been politically possible be-
cause of the Lang bogey. In the ulti-
mate there has been little to choose be-
tween the. financial administration that
was Stevens’s and that of Lang. Both
have landed the State in trouble.
* if , ' * it
Statistics compiled by the N. S. Wales
authority around the activity of 42 large
factories in his State tell an interesting
but not particularly pleasing story. They
show that, though factory sales are fall-
ing and the staffs have been shortened,
wages costs are still increasing. This is
a tabulation of the data for the first five
months of the present year and the past
four:
Jan.- Av. Monthly No. of Weekly
May, Sales. Employees. Wages.
1936 .. £2,690,000 206,000 £756,000
1937 .. 2,932,000 220,000 832,000
1938 .. 3,142,000 232,000 940,000
1939 .. 3,049,000 / 230,000 954,000
For the Jan.-June period of 1939 average
factory sales showed a fall of 3 p.c. com-
pared with the same average for 1938 ;
number of employees dropped 0.9 p.c. ;
wages paid to the reduced number of
employees rose 1.5 p.c. Since October,
1938, factory sales have failed to hold
their own with the corresponding month
of the previous year.
sf * * "
At £330,187 North B.H.’s profit is shown
£144,966 lighter for the term to June 30,
and div. is cut back from 3s. to 2s.
(£280,000) per share. The £330,187 in-
cludes unstated investment income,
£173,958 in 1938. Effects of lower metal
prices were partly cushioned by an expan-
sion in the quantity of crudes crushed. The
fall in North’s result is 30 p.c., as against
13 p.c. in the case of South for the same
period. The difference is partly explicable
by the differing dates at which each co.
disposed of its output to the smelters.
* * * =H
Latest net earnings of Australian Paper
Manufacturers have been disclosed at
£238,025, after provision of £20,233 less
for depreciation (£98,990) and £3OOO more
for taxation (£50,000). Net in 1938 was
£240,455. Had £42,851 written off im-
ported raw materials from contingency
reserve been charged against the year’s
earnings the latest result would have been
actually £45,281 down on the ’3B showing.
Stock values should have improved since
the close of accounts, however, and
current earnings will have the benefit
of the new kraft pulp mill at Maryvale
(Vic.). It comes into commercial produc-
tion at an opportune moment in view
of European developments. The pro-
posal to give shareholders in the two
holding cos. a direct holding in the
operating concern has been deferred for
a month or two owing to “certain aspects
of taxation.”
& * O' : * s
With new car registrations on the
down-grade—new tax slugs aren’t going
to help the position, either —and the out-
look generally unsettled, motor-traders’
scrip has been drifting. Since the begin-
ning of September J. McGrath’s scrip has
slipped from 30s. to 255. 6d. ; 12 months
ago the shares were fetching 41s. 3d. The
co. distributes Hillman and Humber cars
in Sydney and Brisbane, and has some
£70,000-odd invested in subsidiary ven-
tures. Twelve p.c. has gone out for three
years now, though last term’s distribution
called for all the year’s earnings.
First term of Standard Cars, of Sydney
and Melbourne, as a public co. has pro-
duced a net profit of £18,213 ; £5390 was
earned prior to incorporation, and is
therefore not available for distribution.
Of the balance, 7 p.c. to the prefs. and
preferred ords. and 33 1-3 p.c. to the
ords. (privately held) leave £2773 to be
carried forward, or less than one year’s
pref. requirements. The trade outlook,
makes the ord. div. appear a generous
gesture —in some pref.-holders’ eyes, at
any rate. They put up £50,000 when the
co. was publicly incorporated in Dec. last,
and would greatly prefer a more conser-
vative distribution of profits, with a view
to the accumulation of a div. equalisation
reserve in the event of a trade jolt.
* * * *
From an average of 95.13 for August,
Sydney Stock Exchange’s retail share-
price index had fallen to 87.86 on
Friday, despite the release meantime of
balance sheets of retailers in three States
showing earnings well up to or in ad-
vance of the previous year’s level. Com-
pared with 1938, latest showing of David
Jones, Sydney, at £172,563 is £4124 down,
but £15,000 more was provided for taxa-
tion, £13,322 more for depreciation and
an extra £7139 was sent to the staff
fund. A reduction in stocks, notwith-
standing that trading in the new Market-
street store is in full swing, is an en-
couraging feature.
Visibly the Great War did little harm
to the earnings of most leading Aus-
tralian retailers. And Australian manu-
facturers are now in a much better posi-
tion to make up for any stoppages in
imports that these cos.’ own work-
rooms can’t provide.
* * * *
Shares in Fairfax and Roberts, the old
Hunter-street jewellery concern, have had
sellers in Sydney’s unofficial market at
19s. prefs. and 11s. ords. Net earnings
for the year to June 30 ran to £3229, or
£543 less than 5 p.c. to the prefs. and
4 p.c (down 1 p.c.) to the ords. called
for. At balance, day paid capital of
£89,320—£20'000 of it preference carry-
ing a nominal 6 p.c.—had the support of
£12‘892 of reserves, allowing, for final
divs'.' The lot; plus £3889 coming to out-
siders, was . represented by freehold
£25,091 (cost), fittings, etc., £1076, invest-
ments £9418, stocks £60,630, debtors
£5980 and-cash, etc., £9179. Stock, the
most vulnerable item there, is reported
“carefully checked and valued.”


TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who hove
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
> ; (Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
• , except Life.
Goldsb'rough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia,
" QUALCAST ”
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
33 Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
sdf
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “II”: 10in.13in.14in.16in.
Bronze Bearing: .. 33/- 41/- 44/-
Bail Bearing: .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Bali B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BV
AEE LEADING HARDWARE STORES
xnm
wa
/
m
W:
I
■
■:
m
a scenic color film
Stupendous scenes produced by Nature,
richly accented by man . . . unreeled for
you by fleet trans-continental trains. An
epic drama played with infinite variat ions
... to the tingling tempo that is America
today. Whether it be the swift-changing
prisms of the Grand Canyon, the romantic
West of Buffalo Bill and Kit Carson, the
great plains of fertile Nebraska and lowa,
or the daring sky-lines of New York,
America will bring response from heart
and mind in keeping with her magnitude.
America .. . your challenge and your in-
vitation to a visual adventure of a lifetime!
And when you do come, wherever fancy
leads you, long-armed railroads point the
way . . . cradling you in 20th Century
comfort . . . speeding you as smoothly as
thought itself. Trains? These super flyers
re-define the word! Weather is air-con-
ditioned ... Pullmans make sleep a glori-
ous certainty. Tempting cuisine, smartly
finished interiors, club and observation
cars, radio, barber shop, valet and maid
service, low fares and generous stopover
privileges . . . here is travel in its finest
expression. Whether you ride a Stream-
liner from Pacific to Atlantic in 60 hours,
or leisurely dawdle at the sights along the
way, America’s trains are yours to com-
mand. Liberal stopovers are available.
This genius for catering to your com-
fort makes your Pacific-America-Atlantic
highroad to England without counter-
part. And for glamour . . . what could
rival this travel-way that takes its keynote
from the South Seas? Luxury, introduced
by the famous Matson liners, Mariposa
or Monterey , continues with you across
America, across the Atlantic. And always,
delightful variations to the theme ... in
changing scene and choice of routes!
To round out this picture in full detail, we suggest you see our illustrated booklet, “England
Across America.” Fares, routes, things to do and see ... all set doivn for you. Free on request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION RIJREAIJ
Matson Line
k>J +
The Oceanic Steamship Company
(Incorporated in U.S. A. • Limited Liability)
PRUDENTIAL BUILDING
4th Floor, 39 Martin Place, Sydney
United Storekeepers, Ltd.
The new board of this Sydney whole-
saler and importer appears to have done
a satisfactory job with the limited funds
at its disposal.
The eo. was formed three years back
by P. A. C. Haberecht to acquire the
goodwill and agencies of Habers and
Co. Pty. for a swag of 18,750 fully-paid
£1 ords. The idea was to establish a
semi-co-operative buying organisation to
assist country storekeepers to combat
competition from the chains, and the
initial public issue was extensively
hawked throughout N.S.W. and Queens-
land by Netherlands Pty. at a premium
of 7s. 6d. a share, the premium going to
the share-selling co.
All the co. succeeded in doing in its
early stages was lose money hand over
fist. When the present board took over
some 18 months ago, the co.’s affairs
were reported in a “chaotic” condition,
there was a “bad odor” attaching to its
name, and its credit standing was prac-
tically nil. In the reorganisation that
followed a loss of £6345 (£8460 p.a.)
showed up for the nine months to
31/3/’3B. Net tangibles were then equal
to only 2s. 9d. per pound of paid capital
For the 15 months to June 30 the loss
was got back to £2860 (£2288 p.a.). That
was after temporarily capitalising part
(£785) cost of obtaining contracts for
£lO,OOO for delivery in the current term.
Increased turnover is reported, with a
doubling almost of the profit rate, and
the trend is expected to continue. Trad-
ing is now on a cash or short-term-credit
basis, and a growing city turnover is
reported.
At June 30 issued capital was in 7475
A prefs., 6100 B prefs. and 38,206 ords. ;
all but £1513 was paid up. The financial
position was then as follows:
Paid capital.. £50,063 I Plant, etc. .. £1,039
Forfeited | Stock .. .. 7.766
shares .. 1,394 | Debtors .. 5,903
Overdraft .. 856 I Habers shares 6,392
Creditors .. 5,374 Cash, etc. .. 112
Intangibles .. 36,4/4
£57,687 £57,687
Stocks appear at the lower of cost or
market value. Intangibles are made up
of goodwill £18,750, p. and 1. debit
£14,640, preliminary exes. £2298, other
£785.
Actually the position is better than it
looks on paper. Last term the co. issued
a further 6392 of its own shares to
acquire the whole of the issued capital
of Habers and Co., whose sole asset (it
has no liabilities) is the 18,750 U.S.
shares issued to it for goodwill. Were a
capital cut decided upon —and the ac-
counts should be cleaned up as soon as
the board sees its way clear to do so —the
shares held by Habers and Co. could be
surrendered back to United Storekeepers,
thus effecting a reduction of £18,750 in
its capital account and £12,358 net in
its intangibles.
Obviously the co. is not yet out of the
wood, but the management appears to
be going the right way about things.
Shareholders’ ultimate prospects depend
on how much further the work of con-
solidation can be carried.
Profit of £3312 by Beale and Co., Syd-
ney, in ’3B turned into a loss of £35,702
for the latest term, raising the accumu-
lated p. and 1. debit to £59,999. Because of
the “insoluble problem” confronting the
co., voluntary liquidation is now recom-
mended. Founded by Octavius Beale in
1879, the business was one of the Com-
monwealth’s earliest secondary industries
of moment, and one of the most success-
ful, too, till 1929, when it was the larg-
est piano manufacturer in the British
Empire. Public taste has since swung
to other types of entertainment. Radio,
veneer, panel and plywood manufacture
were turned to in an unsuccessful effort
to stem the drift in finances. In 1934
£105,000 of ord. capital went overboard,
and now £60,000 of the remaining
£105,000 is unrepresented by tangibles in
the books; on paper pref. capital of
£lOO,OOO is intact Most of the shares
are held by the Beale family. The co. has
always turned out an excellent product,
made of some of the finest Australian
timbers.
United Provisions is again paying
3 p.c. on its ords., which have spurted
from 7s. 9d. to 9s. 4d. since the begin-
ning of the month. The rise appears a
reflex, not so much of increased war
demand —the co. deals in semi-luxury 7
foodstuffs —as of a long-overdue move in
the trade towards price stabilisation.
Competition on both the buying and sell-
ing sides has played havoc with recent
earnings.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S WAR AIMS.
[As voiced by speakers in the House of Lords,
House of Commons and elsewhere, and by newspapers
and writers in newspaper columns, on the eve of the
outbreak of war and since. Some of these statements
were given, in whole or in part, in cables; these are
here included because the purpose of this symposium of
representative views—to put on record the expressed
aims with which Britain entered on this war —makes
them essential.]
On the Eve
{From “Times” Parliamentary reports.)
“We must all have learned that so long as en-
gagements are to be freely broken without notice, and
so long as force is to be the arbiter of international
disputes, we were bound to look forward to a new
crisis every six months and to see one country after
another made the object of this menace of force. That,
I think, is the answer to those who might ask why this
country should interest itself in a dispute which did
not apparently or immediately concern it. The Prime
Minister answered this in other words when he said
that, if war came, we should not be fighting merely
on the issue raised by the position of some far-off
city in a foreign land, but for principles on which all
international life finally depends, and apart from
which, I think, no international life is tolerable.” —
Lord Halifax.
“It now only remains for us to set our teeth and
to enter upon this struggle, which we ourselves
earnestly endeavored to avoid, with determination to
see it through to the end. We shall enter it with a
clear conscience, with the support of the Dominions
and the British Empire and the moral approval of the
greater part of the world. We have no quarrel with
the German people except that they allow themselves
to be governed by a Nazi Government. So long as
that Government exists and pursues the methods it has
so persistently followed during the last two years there
will be no peace in Europe. We shall merely pass
from one crisis to another and see one country after
another attacked by methods which have now become
familiar to us in their sickening technique. We are
resolved that these methods must come to an end. If
out of the struggle we can re-establish in the world
the rules of good faith and the renunciation of force,
why then even the sacrifices that will be entailed upon
us will find their fullest justification.” Mr.
Chamberlain.
“With no illusions, but also with no misgiving,
our country will try to uphold the right of free men
to remain free. The common task now is to try to see
that organised, deliberately planned and systematic
aggression does not pay. It might be necessary to call
on the established qualities of our race —constancy,
resolution and endurance. We can face this issue in
the quiet confidence that wrong cannot in the long
run triumph on the earth.” —Lord Snell {Lab.).
“Our quarrel is not with all the specific aims and
claims of Germany. Some of these, we have con-
stantly stated, we regard as capable of reasonable dis-
cussion. Our quarrel is with the methods by which
the ruler of Germany had sought to attain them. Such
methods, and the purpose behind them, are incon-
sistent with the first principles on which any civilised
order among nations can be built up. If these methods
were to have free course, there would be the end of
any security, or justice, or the liberty of other nations.
“We have no thoughts of enmity towards the
German people. We believe that many, perhaps most,
of them are as opposed to war as we are. We are not
contending for any particular form of government,
deeply attached as we are to our own form of democ-
racy. We are not contending for any direct interests
of our own. What we are contending for is a clear
and simple moral principle, accepting a challenge
which, if it was not met, would be fatal to the future
of civilisation itself.” —The Archbishop of Canterbury.
“We have no quarrel with the German people,
but while we have no passion against people we enter
this struggle with a grim determination to overthrow
and destroy that system of government which has
trampled on freedom and crucified men and women
—many of them friends of my own —and which has
brought the world back to the jackboot of the old
Prussianism.
“Out of the smoking ruins of the struggle will
arise a new order of society. Once the gunfire ceases
and the roll of the war drums dies away, after the
greatest price mankind in all its history has ever paid
to learn its lesson, dictatorship will have been destroyed
for ever and organised Labor here and elsewhere in
other lands will play its part in building a new world
from which war will be banished and in which a new
order will be established.” — Mr. Greenwood {Lab.).
“Let us set the goal of our endeavor clearly before
us —not the aggrandisement of our country and
Empire, not merely the defeat of Nazi tyranny.
Tyranny has been defeated before, aggression has been
defeated before, dictatorship has been defeated before,
and it has sprung up again. Let us keep before us the
necessity for constructive effort for the reconstruction
of that new order in Europe which before the emer-
gence of National-Socialism in Germany we were be-
ginning slowly and faithfully, with many setbacks, but
on the whole not unsuccessfully, to build, an order
based not on the sanction of power politics, but on
the sanctity of moral law in which freedom, justice
and equality of economic opportunity will be guaran-
teed to nations, great and small alike.” —Sir Archibald
Sinclair {Lib.).
On the Outbreak
[The foregoing statements were made on the eve of
the outbreak of war; the following, when war was
declared.]
{From “Times” Parliamentary reports.)
“We are ready. This is a sad day for all of us,
and to none is it sadder than to me. Everything that I
have worked for, everything that I have hoped for,
everything that I have believed in during my public
life has crashed into ruins. There is only one thing
left for me to do, and that is to devote what strength
and powers I have to forwarding the victory of the
cause for which we have to sacrifice so much. I can-
not tell what part I may be allowed to play myself.
I trust I may live to see the day when Hitlerism has
been destroyed and a liberated Europe has been re-
established.” — Mr. Chamberlain.
“In this titanic struggle, unparalleled I believe in
the history of the world, Nazism must be finally over-
thrown. The Prime Minister has given us his word
that it shall be, and so long as that relentless purpose
is pursued with vigor, with foresight and with deter-
“De Groene Amsterdammer.”
“SOCIETY OF FRIENDS OF THE SOVIET
UNION, BERLIN SECTION.”
mination by the Government so long will there be a
united nation. May the war be swift and short, and
may the peace which follows stand proudly for ever
on the shattered ruins of an evil name.” — Mr. Green-
wood.
“If you go to France and meet 10 people in the
streets you may be sure that eight of them have their
places and their parts to play. Our people will do the
same as time goes on, but let us have no doubt as to
the determination with which the French people are
facing this crisis. Let the world know that the British
people are inexorably determined to end this Nazi
domination for ever and to build an order based on
justice and freedom.” —Sir A. Sinclair.
“We must not underrate the gravity of the task
which lies before us, or the severity of the ordeal —
to which we shall not be found unequal. We must ex-
pect many disappointments and many unpleasant sur-
prises, but we may be sure that the task which we
have freely accepted is one not beyond the compass
and the strength of the British Empire and the French
Republic. The Prime Minister said it was a sad day,
and that is true, but there is another note which may
be present, and that is a feeling of thankfulness that,
if these great trials were to come upon our island,
there is a generation of Britons here now ready to
prove itself not unworthy of the days of yore and not
unworthy of those great men, the fathers of our land,
who laid the foundations of our laws and shaped the
greatness of our country.
“This is not a question of fighting for Danzig
or fighting for Poland. We are fighting to save the
whole world from the pestilence of Nazi tyranny and
in defence of all that is most sacred to man. This is
no war for domination or imperial aggrandisement or
material gain ; no war to shut any country out of its
sunlight and means of progress. It is a war, viewed in
its inherent policy, to establish on impregnable rocks
the rights of the individual, and it is a war to estab-
lish and revive the stature of man.” — Mr. Churchill.
“I would not exchange places with the Prime
Minister for all the wealth that this country possesses.
I have the most tremendous sympathy with him in the
position in which he found himself after having striven,
by every means in his power, to avert this horrible
catastrophe to mankind. The I.L.P. members travelled
the road of peace with him, maligned and attacked
from many quarters. After all the false propaganda
that had gone on throughout the country when 1
stated that if we were to stand up to Hitler it mean
peace, standing up to Hitler has ensured war.
“The other thing which has driven mankind along
the path of war has been the defection of Russia,
there had been any doubt in the mind of Hitler m
going to war the Soviet Government has the crimma
responsibility of dissipating those views. Mr.
McGovern {I.L.P. ).
Press Views of the Aims
This time we have no need to define our war
aims. They are all summed up in the supreme one
of creating an international order in which men an
women may pursue the life of peace without fear. He
us hold to that, and firmly resolve that it shall not be
perverted by any of the trials and afflictions that await
us. — J. A. Spender, in the “Sunday Times.
We fight to break the “bondage of fear daily
encroaching upon the world. — “Times.”
The “spiritual rejuvenation” of the Third Reich
culminates in the hoariest and most illusory aspirations
of pagan nationalism. No one who casts up the bal-
ance of to-day can believe for a second that the future
belongs to this truculent, degraded and bankrupt faith,
and it is civilisation itself which is mobilising to crush
it. Hitlerism is the enemy to-day. For so long as it
was possible to distinguish between the domestic and
foreign policies of Nazism it was rightly contended
that the future of Nazism was in the hands of the
German people alone. Even the peculiar and repel-
lent vices of German authoritarianism could not
shake the determination to leave German evolution in
German hands. With other States practising other
forms of authoritarianism easy, and with some of
them intimate, relations have been possible. No
foreign claim to dictate upon the internal affairs of
Germany brings this war about —nothing but the claim
of the Nazi regime to dictate to other peoples as it
dictates to its own subjects, willing or unwilling.—
“Times.”
So far from fighting for the “obliteration” of the
German people the British nation may say without
hypocrisy that it hopes a consequence of the war will
be their liberation from one of the vilest tyrannies
that has disgraced modern Europe. It certainly hopes
that another result will be the re-establishment of the
confidence between the two countries which the per-
fidies of Herr Hitler alone have made impossible. —
“Times.”
The things against which we fight are, as the
Prime Minister has summed them up, “brute force,
bad faith, injustice, oppression and persecution.” Never
was a nation more calm, more resolved, at the begin-
ning of war —with the unshakable conviction that
right must ultimately prevail. —London “Daily
Telegraph.”
We know what war is. We hate what war is.
The mood is grim. We fight because we must. We
fight to preserve the liberty of our people and the
nations of the earth. There is no saying how soon
the whole tempo of events may change. —“Daily
Express.”
“It would be optimistic to anticipate an effective
revolt against Hitlerism from within Germany at this
early stage of the war. No defeat of Nazidom, no
hope of ending the threat of that tyranny to the
common people of all Europe can come save by an
attack with all our forces. We are in this war utterly,
and there can be no ending to it until Hitlerism is
completely destroyed. —“ Daily Herald.”
Never before in history, certainly not in 1914, has
this country been so united in its determination to do
battle. For we know that if liberty is to survive on
the earth, and if we ourselves are to survive as a free
people, Hitler must be dragged down.
We have many advantages compared with our
1914 position. We do not expect easy triumphs. We
know the Germans to be a strong and ruthless enemy.
We realise quite well that we may have to suffer and
endure disappointments and setbacks. We are ready
to face them without dismay.
Above all, our cause is recognised as just by the
whole earth, except our enemies. At the outbreak of
the last war, in many countries, and especially in the
United States, there was a substantial body of opinion
sympathetic to German aims. To-day Britain and her
friends carry into battle the hopes and prayers of
every liberty-loving man and woman over the whole
surface of the globe. —“ Sunday Express.”
A Father’s Comment
I am sure that the whole nation, and particularly
the parents, feel a deep gratitude to Mr. Chamberlain
and Lord Halifax for the heroic efforts they have made
to avoid war. Whatever man could do was done by
Mr. Chamberlain, and for this he will have a warm
place in the hearts of all parents as long as we live.
I speak as the father of five sons, ranging from
26 to 17 years of age, two of whom are already serving
in the Territorial Army. I speak for them, and I
speak for all the youth of the nation, on the threshold
of life.
In the last war we heard too much of “the knock-
out blow” and “the war to end war” and other shib-
boleths which time has proved to be foolish. The
nation has unanimously agreed to go to war to put an
end to Hitlerism. Its aim is to overthrow Hitler and
his gang. We have no quarrel with the German


people, and if they themselves overthrow Hitler and
his gang our war aims, I submit, are achieved.
We are not in this war to reform mankind, or to
make any nation adopt or reject any particular form
of government. The German people must work out
their own destiny and their own form of government,
so long as they cease to try to dominate Europe. We
must bear in mind that the Germans as a whole are
an honorable people. Many of them are at present
misled, and do not know what is happening. Those
who are not misled probably view Hitler’s broken
faith, his lies, his persecutions and his bullyings with
as much disgust as we do.
We are not engaged in any feat of knight-
errantry. We consider Hitler and his gang a menace.
It is true that we shall be helping to free mankind
from the constant fear of force and war. But I would
protest with all my might against my sons, or other
people’s sons, being forced to battle to attain ends
which are unattainable by war —which can finally
only be attained by a change of heart in man-
kind —or under war cries or slogans which in times
past have been freely used to induce mankind to kill
each other, and which in the end prove to be purely
illusory.— R. J. Sutcliffe, in a letter to the “Times.”
How France Faces the War.
(From a letter by Owen Rutter in London “Times.”)
When I reached Paris there was scarcely an able-
bodied man to be seen in the streets. The trains were
full of soldiers in uniform and of men in civilian
clothes, with bundles and suitcases, going off to join
the colors. Their women stood on the platform say-
ing good-bye. Their faces were drawn, but they were
dry-eyed. We are accustomed to regard the French
as an excitable people: but here was no excitement,
no outward show of emotion, only an almost terrible
determination which was as impressive as it was
inspiring.
The great national effort which France is mak-
ing is not confined to the youth of her people. The
French believe that men between 35 and 50 make as
good soldiers as those of 20, and they value the ex-
perience of those who went through the last war.
(From a London “Spectator” article by D. R. Gillies.)
At the present moment the French Government
sinks into insignificance against the background of
the nation. This is a tribute to the nation, not a criti-
cism of the Government. In the week that followed
the announcement of the Russian betrayal the Gov-
ernment only once addressed itself to the nation
through the mouth of the Prime Minister in a short
broadcast speech. During that week France mobilised
more men than Britain is likely to be able to put in
the field by this time next year with the maximum of
effort. .
It is this disciplined quiet response by a nation of
unruly freedom-lovers in peace-time which has at last
made it possible to set bounds to Hitler’s ambition and
offer effective resistance. It was the French in the
last war who suffered much the heaviest casualties of
any of the victorious allies. It is the French who, for
the last three years, have been guarding the Franco-
British frontier on the Rhine and in the Alps, at a
sacrifice of two, and recently three, years out of every
male citizen’s life (paid for at the meagre rate of
three farthings a day).
It will be well for the British to reflect upon the
enormous burden which the French nation has
shouldered unflinchingly, for it is unlikely that ever
again in the future an ally of Britain’s will accept such
an unequal distribution of the real cost of war on the
old British plea of a severer income tax. The appal-
ling fact about heavy war losses falling on a civilised
nation with a relatively low birthrate is that, the
greater the contribution to victory, the greater is the
difficulty of taking real advantage of the victory.
(Condensed from an article by the “Times” Paris
correspondent.)
France to-day knows what war means —and she is
ready for it in a spirit of quiet determination based
upon knowledge, not ignorance, of the ordeal ahead.
But if the prevailing note is grimness it would be a
mistake to infer that it is carried to the point of spirit-
less gloom. The contrast between the bearing of
Frenchmen to-day and their attitude last September
is in some ways as great as that between August, 1914,
and August, 1939.
Last autumn, though the conduct of the reservists
was excellent and the entire nation would have
answered the call to arms if necessary, there was
apparent in some quarters a definite feeling of doubt
about the merits of the dispute. Added to this was
the knowledge that French aviation was far from ade-
quately equipped. This time neither the justice of
the ideals nor French military preparedness in every
sphere has been called into question.
The French Army is undoubtedly the finest fight-
ing machine in modern Europe, superbly led, thor-
oughly trained and manned by soldiers who have
already shown that to an effective discipline they bring
a gift for individual thinking in an emergency which
makes them redoubtable opponents both in the mass
and as individuals. The Navy has splendid ships with
no less splendid crews, while the Air Force, whose
personnel has always been of the highest order, is
now equipped with fighters and bombers which com-
pare favorable with any in the world.
The general conviction that France to-day has a
just cause and a strong arm has kept alive a sense of
humor which adds to the very strength of which it is
born. Nothing could illustrate this better than the
reaction to the Russo-German pact of non-aggression.
There was at the outset a natural concern and a no
less natural indignation, but from the very first Gallic
wit jumped at the opportunity to make fun of the
staggering event. Jokes about the Russian steam-
roller, with a play on the word “rolling,” which is a
slang word for duping, were plentiful.
The censorship, too, has drawn the fire of light-
hearted humor. “Anastasia,” as she is called, after
the tradition which christened “Dora” in Great Britain,
is being requested not to repeat the follies laid to the
charge of her mother in the last war, and one jour-
nalist of note solemnly submitted to the authorities
as his first contribution an article describing how he
beat the censors during 1914-18. It duly appeared.
The same spirit of cheerful humor is being dis-
played as a counter to the inevitable unhappiness of
separation as fathers, husbands and sons go off to their
war stations. In a cafe near a railway station the
other day a woman said to her son in breezy slang,
“Well, here are your paid holidays, my lad. The food
won’t be much good, the beds will be rotten, but you’ll
see some lovely country.” Each knew what was in the
other’s heart, but the laugh did something to lift the
heavy burden of farewell.
Another sign of the iron grip the public is keep-
ing on its nerves is to be found in the complete
absence of rumor. In normal times rumor and gossip
form an essential part of French everyday life, and
the introduction of a censorship, intelligent and com-
petent though it has so far been, offered every temp-
tation for reports of the wildest kind. Instead the
public has kept its head, imagination and tongue under
excellent control, and food for excessive optimism or
pessimism has in consequence been absent.
Most striking of all is the attitude of Frenchmen
towards the race which has led the world to the edge
of the abyss. Taken as a whole the French people
have no hatred for the German nation in their hearts.
It is realised that if the individual German had his
way the world to-day would be seeking to enjoy life,
not to destroy it; and the result is a kind of exas-
perated anguish that a race of men who have shown
themselves such lions in the field should have proved
themselves such sheep as citizens. It is a frame of
mind which may not stand the test of actual conflict,
though the last war showed how hate diminished in
direct ratio to the nearness of the enemy. But at least
it exists to-day, to the supreme credit of the French
people.
The U-boat—Last Time.
[Giving out that already something like a third of
Germany’s active submarines have gone to the bottom,
Mr. Churchill declared that nothing like the British
shipping losses in the last war would occur this time.
He also gave out that there has been a substantial
progressive lessening in the losses from week to week.
What happened last time is outlined in the article by
Emrys Jones here condensed from London “Daily
Mail.” The huge losses listed also serve to show up
the catchpenny sensationalism in cable-column reporting
of the sinking of the Courageous.]
By the first days of September, 1914, the U-boat
21 had torpedoed the British light cruiser Pathfinder
off St. Abb’s Head. Then came the torpedoing of
the Aboukir, Cressy and Hogue by U 9 with the loss of
more than 1200 men.
In the Channel a Belgian relief ship crowded with
refugees was sent to the bottom, and in the first days
of January, 1915, the sinking of half a dozen British
merchant ships told us which way the German mind
was working. Then, on May 7, the Germans made the
blunder that lost them all chance of winning the war.
Off Queenstown they torpedoed the Lusitania with a
loss of 1198 men, women and children. They fol-
lowed that by sinking two American steamers, the
Gullflight and the Nebraska, and so great was the
anger roused in America that the German Government
had to give way, and issued orders that large passenger
ships were to be respected.
Within two months they sank the White Star
liner Arabic, and then, to appease America, fresh
orders were given to spare passenger-carrying liners.
By September, the first phase of the submarine cam-
paign in home waters was over, with a loss of 166
British steamers and 168 fishing vessels, which, ac-
cording to The Hague peace rules, should have been
spared.
In February, 1916, they resumed the submarine
campaign. To Germany, President Wilson then sent
what was tantamount to an ultimatum, demanding
the immediate cessation of attacks on passenger- and
freight-carrying ships. The Germans climbed down,
stopped the campaign by the end of April, 1916. In
the three months of the spring they had sunk 58 British
ships.
For the time the tension between Germany and
America eased, and since the British blockade was
bearing so heavily on the American commercial
classes the Americans sent us a protest.
The Germans once again proved how clumsy they
are. They regarded the protest as an opportunity for
renewing the submarine campaign, and this is the
record of ships destroyed between September, 1916,
and January, 1917: 170 Norwegian, 29 Swedish, 50
Danish and 86 British.
The final phase came with the beginning of
February, 1917, when the Germans started the un-
restricted campaign in nearly every sea, regarding them
all as war zones. They sank 260 ships in February,
338 in March and 430 in April. It began to look as if
the submarines would win the war for Germany. In
April one out of every four ships that left the British
Isles never returned.
Something had to be done, so the convoy system,
now reintroduced, came into existence. By November
the losses had dropped to 116 ships, and as the losses
decreased the destruction of the U-boats themselves
increased mightily.
The U-boat menace had been defeated, though
altogether submarines had destroyed 5408 ships.
Now read this as a footnote: In 1936 Germany
agreed with us and other countries that a submarine
may no longer sink or incapacitate a merchant vessel
without first having put the crew, passengers and ship’s
papers in a place of safety.
Canada a Powerful Factor.
[The arresting account of Canada’s 1914-18 war
effort, given in the article here condensed from London
Economist,” serves to indicate the important part Canada
can again be expected to play.]
The achievements of the half-million soldiers
Canada raised during the Great War and the 400,000-
odd she sent overseas, as well as-the thousands who
served with the Royal Air Force, tend to overshadow
the accomplishments of those who served no less in
other fields.
Campaigns for increased food-production resulted
in the extension of the officially estimated area of
farm crops from 33 million acres in 1914 to 51 million
acres in 1918, an increase of 54 per cent.
Canada’s first shipments of shells were made in
December, 1914. By May 31, 1915, about 400 estab-
lishments were engaged in the manufacture of shells.
Canadian accomplishment received recognition in a
report of the Imperial War Cabinet for 1917:
“Canada’s contribution during the last year has
been very striking. Fifteen per cent, of the total
expenditure of the Ministry of Munitions in the last
six months was incurred in that country. She has
manufactured nearly every type of shell from the
18-pounder to the 9.2-inch. In the case of the 18-
pounder no less than 55 per cent, of the output of
shrapnel shells in the last six months came from
Canada, and most of these were complete rounds of
ammunition which went direct to France. Canada
also contributed 42 per cent, of the total 4.5-inch
shells, 27 per cent, of the 6-inch shells, 20 per cent,
of the 60-pounder h.e. shells, 15 per cent, of the
8-inch shells and 16 per cent, of the 9.2-inch.”
A further idea of what Canada was able to do
for the British Army in the field by supplying muni-
tions is furnished by the following figures of the value
of production: 1914, $28,164 ; 1915, $57,213,688;
1916, $296,505,257; 1917, $388,213,553; 1918,
$260,711,751. In addition, as a result of industries
new to Canada established under the direction of the
Imperial Munitions Board, shipbuilding contracts were
awarded to the extent of S7O millions, and some 2900
airplanes were built. All this was accomplished by
a country totally unprepared, with a substantial part
of its man-power actually in the field of hostilities,
and having to learn a great deal about many lines ot
production. To-day, the possibility of hostilities has
been anticipated, and plans have been laid (only some
of which it is reasonable to conclude have been dis-
closed) which could put Canada on a war footing as
the arsenal of the British people. In every physical
way she will be found better prepared and equipped
to play the role than she was in 1914-18.
Primarily Canada will appear again in the part
of emergency food-provider. With her population but
slightly augmented, the Dominion has added nearly
10 million acres to the area of possible food-produc-
tion on top of the artificially swollen figure of 1918.
She is still able to export more than 80 per cent, of
the wheat she raises, which in the record year 1928
amounted to over 500 million bushels. In 1938 the
crop was 350 million bushels, and this year it promises
to get near the 400-million mark.
Canada is still producing 87 per cent, of the
world’s nickel, 11 per cent, of the world’s copper, 11
per cent, of lead and 9 per cent, of zinc. The iron
and steel industry, which under war-time stimulus
reached an output figure of over a million tons of pig-
iron a year, is presently equipped under peace-time
demand to produce 1,500,000 tons annually.
Canada is the only Dominion accessible by air
to Great Britain without involving passage over any
foreign country, while, though remote from any likely
theatre of war, ’planes manufactured in Canada can
be flown to Britain without extra fuel tanks. Federal
and Provincial Government and commercial aviation
requirements in the post-war period have developed
a substantial manufacturing industry, to which Britain
and the United States have contributed and which is
capable of considerable expansion. The Commercial
Air Transport and Manufacturers’ Association, estab-
lished in 1934, comprises 16 operating companies, 15
manufacturing companies and eight associate-member
firms providing equipment or service to the industry.
Plans recently concluded involve not only the
placing of large-scale and long-term contracts with
private Canadian plants for the manufacture of
bombers but for the training of fliers from Britain
in Canadian schools. The preliminary order for long-
range bombers involves an expenditure of nearly SIOO
millions, which may be compared with the sl4 mil-
lions spent by the Imperial Munitions Board for the
construction of ’planes in Canada in 1918.


&
vv
vt
ve3
s**'*
sjavi
eH G
m
*
%
vio
SSSS
X
**
<**>
•»*
S?s*
C*
vkM
**+
ss^r
ie^
a
tu e
ds
uce
a*
£e£ u
\d
\V^ 6
d
h
titvs
ea
s^°
yet
YCV
m e
&
u& e
d
it to
ea
tv e6
o.es
vflt
o^
ves
d^ eS
&
US e
d^
V>ec^
tV 6
vo°
o* e
tt>
e^ s
£co^°
dto^ s
d^ eS
cp
\t^ 5t
p
, UP 10
yj&


SPORTING
N OTIO N S
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZES.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
If figures, as applied to racing, always
worked out correctly, the days of book-
making would have been over long ago.
Fortunately for members of the betting
ring, they do not, a fact that was further
emphasised by the success of Geebung
in the Epsom Handicap.
Adios met Geebung 21b. better and
Delmestor on the same terms as when he
comfortably beat them at the seven fur-
longs at Rosehill a week earlier, and yet
he had no chance against them over the
final furlong of the Epsom. Fourth at
the straight-entrance, he entirely failed
to run on, thereby unpleasantly surpris-
ing his rider, A. Reed, who flattered him-
self his chance was a winning one until
he asked the chestnut for a little extra.
Adios did not respond.
Delmestor and Speardale, who did
practically all the pacemaking, were still
in the lead a furlong from home, and,
when Speardale weakened slightly, Gee-
bung, who had failed in an attempt to
get a run on the rails, came fast on the
outside. Disposing of Delmestor, he then
stalled off Tuhitarata, who ran a rattling
race, considering he was not near the
leaders at the turn.
•*••••
Speardale was fourth, and then came
Red Thespian, Gilltown and Adios.
Excuse for the last-named was impossible
on the score of the track being against
him. Although a trifle on the dead side,
there was very little amiss with it. The
time was 1.37}, against King’s Head’s
record for the race of 1.36 last year.
My selection, Mildura, never ran much
worse. He jumped away fairly, but began
to drop back before he had gone a fur-
long, and after passing the six-furlongs
post was one of the tail-enders. He
made a dash at the half-mile, but never
got close enough to the leading division
to raise the hopes of his backers. As
he looked thoroughly fit, it was difficult
to account for such a poor effort, and,
except in a small field, it would seem as
if he now requires a longer trip than a
mile to enable him to show to advantage.
Astounding was another disappointment,
while Micawber, after being fairly placed
at the half-mile post, then started to lose
ground. Perhaps he has gone off since he
won in Brisbane recently.
• ••••*
Neither Sedunum nor St. Constant
began well enough to ever be dangerous,
and comparatively few of the well-
backed horses gave their backers a really
good run. As Tuhitarata was at 20 to 1
and Delmestor 25 to 1, the success of
either would have been appreciated by
the books. Geebung was in the market
from the time the weights appeared. His
price on the course was 12 to i.
He is the second Epsom winner owned
by D. U. Seaton, the previous one being
Wolaroi in 1919 ; and the third trained
by F. McGrath, who scored twice with
Amounis. Geebung, who was bred by
his owner, is by Bold and Bad from
Western Lass, by Westcourt (Melbourne
Cup winner) from Wolaroi Lass. Gee-
bung has been rehandicapped for the
Caulfield Cup, but even with the addi-
tional 101 b. he will carry only 7.6 against
his 7.10 of Saturday last.
Rosehill form also went astray in the
A.J.C. Derby. In the Clarendon Stakes
Beau Vite received 81b. from Reading
and High Caste, but after the way he
settled them at the finish of that race
there did not seem much hope for either
at level weights at a longer distance. It
did not work out that way, Beau Vite
failing to come up to expectations as a
stayer.
Beau Vite was at odds on, and there
was little between Wilson and Gold
Salute for second favoritism. Earlier in
the day the last-named was bought by
A. E. Cooper. I have no definite know-
ledge of the price he paid for the chest-
nut, but it was reported to be £lO,OOO.
Of recent years no buyer has given the
Turf more sensations. His pluck gave
him many well-wishers on Saturday, but
success was beyond Gold Salute.
With Reading in the lead, the first
furlong took 14sec., but then Gold Salute
went out and set a solid pace, with Read-
ing, Beau Vite, High Caste and Wilson
all handy. Gold Salute and Reading were
together at the turn, and the latter took
charge as soon as the field was fairly
in the straight. When High Caste came
at Reading inside the last furlong, I
thought he would win, but Munro got
every ounce out of Reading, and landed
him a half-neck winner. It was nearly
a repetition of Rosehill Guineas form, as
in that race High Caste beat Reading
a half-head and Wilson was third. This
was the fourth race in which Reading
and High Caste finished almost level. The
former, costing 400 guineas as a yearling,
has now put together £7BOl in five wins,
three seconds and two thirds. For the
Derby he was 12 to 1 in a field of seven.
Trained by J. T. Cush for Gordon S.
Luscombe and F. P. J. Manasu, Read-
ing is by Marconigram from Gravure, by
High Art from Encre, who, though a
half-sister to that great stayer David,
was of little account beyond six furlongs.
Gravure, who is a half-sister to Journal,
won up to nine furlongs.
Beau Vite did not appear to me to
be going comfortably turning for home.
In the straight he was slightly hampered,
but when he got a clear run he was unable
to raise anything approaching a strong
finishing effort. His showing was a
shock for those who have ended two
Cups doubles with him. It is inadvisable
to condemn any horse because of one
disappointing race, but Beau Vite’s Derby
run did not put him in the light of a
stayer. However, the lower scale may
help him.
A little while ago I heard High Caste’s
trainer express the opinion that he was
likely to stay as well as any of the other
three-year-olds, but, though that colt won
the Rosehill Guineas, his form in the
Clarendon Stakes did not uphold that
idea. The result of the Derby proved
that Jamieson was not wide of the mark,
and High Caste must still enter into cal-
culations for the Victoria Derby, though
he may be better suited by the Caulfield
Guineas. He should run a merry mile
at Caulfield, a track on which he has
already won.
Before the Derby I heard doubt ex-
pressed whether Gold Salute had done
the preparation necessary for such a race.
Still, his easy win at a mile in handicap
company at Rosehill said a lot for his
chance, but the Derby distance was be-
yond him. Reading had him in hand
three furlongs from home, and in the
run down the straight he lost ground.
He is in the Caulfield Guineas, Victoria
Derby and Melbourne Cup, and I sup-
pose his new owner will start him for a
couple of those races. Gold Salute will
have to win something good in order to
return his purchase money.
Wilson ran up to his Rosehill Guineas
form, but, if as good a stayer as previ-
ously supposed, should have gone closer
to winning the Derbv. He was nearer
Reading and High Caste half a furlong
from home than he was at the winning
post. The Derby scale may not have
quite suited him. He impresses me as a
colt that could be more at home in han-
dicaps under lighter weights than in
classic races. The same applies to Bonny
Loch, notwithstanding he won the Can-
terbury Guineas.
Katanga won the Trial Stakes at “a
certainty’s” price, but as, in receipt of
131 b., he beat Buckshee only a head it
was not a performance over which it was
possible to enthuse. It did not nearly put
him up with the best of his age, and
though he is game, and evidently stays
fairly, he scarcely reads like being
dangerous in the Victoria Derby, if his
owner should decide upon starting him
for that race. Katanga, who cost Mrs.
C. H. Hicks 450 guineas as a yearling,
adds to the many winners by The Buz-
zard.
Cronus, third in the Trial Stakes, was
a 400-guineas yearling, and is a brother
to Hyperion, who did so well in W.A.
at two and three years, and was second
in a Caulfield Guineas and third in
Theo’s Victoria Derby. He is a possible
stayer, but Kestrel disappointed me in
that respect. When he was fourth into
the straight he looked like coming on,
but the last furlong saw him stop. Cape
Moreton, who passed him at the finish,
is a Night Raid colt trained by F. Mc-
Grath, and may be worth following.
• • • • • •
Royal Chief’s trainer was not alto-
gether satisfied with the way he shaped
in a gallop with Beau Vite on Thursday
last, “but there’s nothing wrong with
him,” he commented when discussing his
chances of paying expenses at the A.J.C.
meeting. Royal Chief did not quite repeat
his win of last year in the Colin Stephen
Stakes, but he dead-heated Mosaic. Last
for the first half-mile, run in the slow
time of 59f, Royal Chief was alongside
Mosaic from the six furlongs, where
L’Aiglon led from Seven Fifty.
• ••••«,
In the straight Seven Fifty ran past
L’Aiglon, but a furlong from home was
tackled by Mosaic and Royal Chief.
The Queenslander dropped out a little
further on, and though I thought Royal
Chief was going to prove a little too
good for Mosaic the latter hung on in
the gamest possible fashion. Presum-
ably they will meet again in the Rand-
wick Plate on Saturday, and, in the
belief Mosaic will make the greater im-
provement during the week, I shall look
to him to win. In any case, he must
now be given a great chance in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Carrying weight-for-age
he won the Sydney Cup in time only a
quarter-second outside the Australian
record, and he is similarly handicapped
at Flemington.
• ••••*
In connection with the betting on the
race the strong support for Seven Fifty
was the sensation. After easing to 12
to 1, he wound up 9 to 2. He had
every chance, but though he has won at
a mile and a half in handicap com-
pany in Queensland that distance was a
trifle far for him on Saturday. How-
ever, he is a good type of horse, and
despite his failure at his first run in his
colors C. H. Hicks may eventually
have no cause to regret giving a high
price for him. If started he should run
well in the Craven Plate this afternoon.
0 0 0 0 • •
In the First Hurdle Race Keewong
recorded his third win over the jumps
at Randwick. Legionilla was going like
a winner when he fell half a mile from
home, and it was further bad luck
for his owner, W. F. Moses, that he
should have seriously injured himself.
Legionilla’s fall was not altogether a sur-
prise, as he did not take some of the
hurdles cleanly. For a novice Exning
shaped well. Spearbine found his weight
a little too much. Although always pro-
minent he was not doing well enough at
any part of the last half-mile to look a
probable winner.
In the Kensington Handicap Bramol
evidenced he was back to his best, finish-
ing strongly to beat Denis, who looked
as if he would pull through when he
ran past Belvoir at the top of the
straight. Rex, though third, never quite
appeared like winning, but in running
fourth Kooba made up a lot of leeway
over the last half-mile. He has been
disappointing this season, but there may
still be hope for him.
• •••••
Of the remainder Sigh, High Dividend
and Moorsotis did best. Moorsotis drew
the inside position at the barrier, but it
did not advantage him, as he was
squeezed back immediately the field
jumped off. As showing outside posi-
tions are not a bar to success in seven-
furlong races at Randwick, I may men-
tion that Bramol drew 20 and Denis 25,
though a few scratchings sent them
closer in.
‘ '■
L>°ubt concerning the weather was
P rin cip a lly responsible for Derby day
f, te .^ anCe • at Ra ndwick being only
-'L4OO, against 63,900 last year. The
programme was attractive, and though
e ,. , was *bat for the
Colin Stephen Stakes it provided an ex-
citing race. The tote turnover fell from
£61,082 to £45,099, but there was one
race less on Saturday, when starters for
the afternoon totalled 70, against 87 a
y ear earlier. The Epsom was, of course,
fhe principal betting race, investments on
h aggregating £13,205. The smallest
amount put through on any race was
£2138 ss. on the Colin Stephen Stakes,
which was not bad, considering there
were only four runners, and L’Aiglon
could not well be credited with a chance.
Although Royal Chief dead-heated for
first, his backers had the unpleasant ex-
perience of losing 3d. on each ss. ticket.
There was a substantial increase in the
attendance on Monday.
Thurles Lad won the Shorts on the
1938 Metrop. Day, and was in the race
of that name again on Monday. He
was one of the early leaders, with Merry
Smile, but when tackled by The Alba-
tross —running third most of the way—
he was soon beaten, and the filly tired
to nothing. The Albatross had the lead
a furlong from home, and, though Caesar
and Gold Rod came fast, neither could
reach him. The crowd was rather aston-
ished when a protest was entered. It was
soon dismissed.
Gold Rod, second-last at the half-mile,
did well to run third, and is probably
nearly as good now as at any previous
time in his career. Beech wood weakened
at the finish, but should be all the better
for the race. Bradford, slow in finding
his legs, failed to get a decent run from
the straight-entrance, but ran sixth or
seventh, and is still worth keeping in
mind. Olympus never got in it, and
evidently his first run at Randwick caused
him to be overrated.
Track work said a great deal for Fly-
ing Knight in the Breeders’ Plate, and he
acted up to expectations. The winner,
who is in the same stable as Head Check
and Cherry Bar, is a nippy-looking colt
by Medieval Knight from Air Queen
(Brazen Queen-Lero), a Challenge Stakes
winner, and was bred at the St. Aubins
stud. Air Queen is a sister to Bronze
Hawk, Flying Queen and Ripley.
Among the unplaced lot All Agog
(Excitement-Whakatara), Valve (Veii-
mond-Valdivia) and Indian Emperor
(Harinero-La Bergeronette) ran well, but
from the straight entrance there were
really only two in it —Flying Knight and
Broadcaster. A day before the race it
was necessary to lance a boil in Flying
Knight’s mouth, but neither that nor the
shin-soreness that affected him earlier in
his preparation troubled him on Mon-
day.
After Feminist won at Rosehill there
was no doubt as to what would be
favorite for the Metropolitan. She was
at 5 to 2 at the close of Saturday’s
racing, with Cooranga next at sixes, and
Feminist retained her position at the
head of quotations on the day of the
race. Five to two could be got, but not
everywhere.
She was never further back than
third, and before reaching the straight-
entrance was doing so well that there
was really no doubt as to the result.
Fearless hung on well, but Feminist was
too good for him. Pantler, in third
place, ran the same as at Rosehill.
Though Buzalong was fourth, nothing
behind the place-getters came home
better than Red Sails.
Fearless has 6.12 in the Caulfield Cup.
against the 7.11 he carried in the Metro-
politan, and must now enter into cal-
culations for the Caulfield race. Buzalong
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
WEDNESDAY.
Craven Plate: High Caste (if
started), 1 ; Gold Rod, 2; Beau
Vite, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Trueness, 1 ;
Dark Elegance, 2 ; Contestor, 3.
FOURTFI DAY.
Randwick Plate: Mosaic, 1 ;
Royal Chief, 2 ; L’Aiglon, 3.
Clibborn Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Marengo, 2 ; Pearl of Asia, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By “SENTRY.”
October Hurdle: Cape Race,
1 ; Glowing, 2 ; Glenlonan, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (fil-
lies): Much To Say, 1 ; Heart’s
Desire, 2 ; Wairoa, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (colts
and geldings): Preamble, 1 ;
Damocles, 2; Star Boarder, 3.
Edward Manifold Stakes:
Zonda, 1 ; Girella, 2; Silent
Night, 3.
Melbourne Stakes: Ajax, 1 ;
Ena or El Golea, 2.
Stand Handicap: El Golea or
Bourbon, 1 ; Gay Prince, 2.


SAVE MONEY
K/
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIOIB
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
An Empire product
-made in Windsor, Can.
“ E Was easy fer me, Mum. I'm glad I Won.”
ran honestly, but had sufficient weight
to stop him. Cooranga was last leaving
the straight, and never after got in it,
but Own Folk, another who was a long
way from the leaders in the early stages,
did well to finish sixth. Malagigi was a
failure, and, if started, his stable-com-
panion Respirator would probably have
done much better.
Among the rough division Gold Pan
did well to the home turn, but then
dropped right out. The pace was very
easy in the early part, and the time,
2.48 J-, was a long way behind Royal
Chief’s 2.42 - of last year. The latter
never got closer than eleventh at any
part of Monday’s race.
Feminist was The Bulletin’s Metrop.
choice from the time the weights came
out.
* - * * *
Till Saturday favorite for the Caulfield
Cup, Pure Gold failed badly in the Tulla-
marine Handicap at Moonee Valley.
However, it would be hazardous to esti-
mate the form at its face value.
Badger being in Sydney and Gilmore
under suspension, Jack Holt found it
hard to choose a rider for Pure Gold,
who, while neither roguish nor vicious,
has peculiarities of temperament. For
one thing he will not submit to the use
of Ihe whip. Holt engaged Preston, who
served his apprenticeship with H. R. Tel-
ford. Beginning from the outside berth
in a field of 10, Pure Gold, favorite at
5 to 2, was rushed to the front as they
passed the stand for the first time. Dia-
phane joined him at the mile, and set up
a two lengths’ lead, which Pure Gold
vainly tried to bridge. Accepting defeat
as they neared the turn, Preston allowed
Pure Gold to fade out, and he finished
last.
C.-B. Kellow’s colt carried 151 b. more
than his Caulfield Cup impost. He is in
perfect fettle, and with Gilmore back in
the saddle may give a better account of
himself next start.
Maikai (Pantheon-Ornum) scored by
nearly a length from Maluno, Rivette
being a neck farther off. Frank Godby,
who trains Maikai, had won with Bour-
bon at Mentone on the previous Satur-
day. In parts of the ring tens were laid
against Maikai; he started at sixes. Two
seasons ago, as a four-year-old, Maikai
won the Perth Cup and two weight-for-
age events in the course of a few weeks.
The effort of Rivette in running such
a close third, with 191 b. more than her
Caulfield Cup allotment, was very im-
pressive. Evidently winter racing has
not harmed her a bit. Millie’s Hope and
Elanage had their chances ruined in the
jump-off. Always well placed, Carpentier
compounded after leading into the
straight. There seems to be a soft spot
in this handsome stallion.
It was a rather disastrous day for the
Holt stable. Preceding the downfall of
Pure Gold came Manrico’s failure in
the more valuable Quality Handicap
(stake was £BOO and the winner’s share
£560). Doubting his ability to stay a
mile, bookmakers offered 5 to 2. Lead-
ing by four lengths at the half-mile and
by two lengths into the straight, the Man-
fred gelding struck his colors to both
Crojick and Hilton.
Crojick put in a magnificent run to
beat Hilton by a long head, with Man-
rico half a head away and El Golea a
close fourth. Trainer Lou Robertson
and his friends made Crojick equal
second-favorite with Hilton. In the
autumn a tempting offer was refused
for Crojick. He was offered at auction
on the death of F. J. Nathan ; the reserve
of 1500 guineas was not reached. Crojick
is being raced by Nathan’s widow.
Robertson commenced the afternoon
by annexing the Paseoe Welter with
Landlaw, a French-bred stallion which he
trains for C. Robbie. Closing quote of
Landlaw was 6 to 4, after 7 to 2 had been
laid. He won, running away, from El
Nene and Sir Harold. When foaled
Landlaw was a chestnut and registered as
such in France, Now his color is
distinctly grey. Robertson has applied
for permission to amend his official
description.
Destiny Bay (Heroic-Roscrea’s Bal-
loon) has struck sprinting form as a four-
year-old gelding. Backed from fours to
5 to 2 for the Ailsa Handicap, of 5£ fur-
longs, he dead-heated with Birdplay, but
got an outright win when a protest for
boring was entered. Destiny Bay is
trained by P. B. Quinlan, who was
associated with the Metrop. victory of
Cragford.
Niello won the Lindsay Gordon Steeple
for “S. A. Rawdon” —his third successive
victory over big timber. Considering that
he hadn’t much of a weight (9.12) nor
much to beat, 3 to 1 was a nice price.
* * * *
I am unaware what effect Reading’s
rim had upon him, but on Sunday High
Caste was none the worse for his severe
race. It did not upset him in the least,
as after going home on Saturday he ate
up as usual. His trainer reckons that he
cannot give him too much to do, and
if High Caste does not fulfil expecta-
tions in Melbourne it will not be attri-
butable to lack of racing.
* * * *
Rules of racing do not now permit
of horses running at meetings in Sydney
without names. It was not always so,
and few know that the A.J.C. Derby of
1876 was won by an unnamed colt.
Subsequently named Robinson Crusoe,
he ran in the Derby and Mares’ Pro-
duce Stakes as the Angler-Chrysolite
colt. He was not the only unnamed
three-year-old winner at the same meet-
ing. The “Australasian” Turf Register
describes the winner of the Randwick
Plate, three miles, as the unnamed
Maribyrnong-Luna colt. After that win
he figured in results as Calamia, win-
ning the Canterbury Plate, 2\ miles, at
Flemington, the same season. At five
years he won the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Anyone supporting Te Hero for the
Epsom Handicap was backing a double
—the first leg being whether he would
get away. He was true to the form
shown in all but one of his races in
Sydney. He stopped at the post, but,
though the stewards at first had an idea
of refusing his nomination ior any future
race, he was given another chance on
his trainer, D. Lewis, undertaking to
not again run him at the current meet-
ing, and to improve his barrier be-
havior if possible. Lewis has set him-
self a stiff task.
* * * *
One thing regrettable in connection
with the AJ.C. Derby was that G. S.
Luscombe, part owner of Reading, lost his
sight temporarily,
it is to be hoped—
on Friday last. Eye
trouble has affected
him a long time, but
that it should take
such a serious turn
was unexpected.
* *
This afternoon
Gold Rod will make
his third attempt to
win a Craven Plate.
Last year he was
second favorite at
9 to 4, and was
beaten by Young
Idea and Stretto.
The previous year he
won the Epsom with
9.4, and then in the
Craven Plate ran
one of the most dis-
appointing races of
his career. Favorite at 5 to 4,
he finished last in a field of four,
Talking winning. Although he failed
on other occasions when he was expected
to shine, Gold Rod has been a great
bargain at the price E. J. Watt gave for
him as a yearling. Without enumerating
all his wins, they include AJ.C. Breeders’
Plate, V.R.C. and AJ.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, Hobartville Stakes, Chelmsford
Stakes, Caulfield Futurity, A.J.C. St.
Leger, Epsom Handicap and Doncaster
Handicap.
* * * *
A special feature of America’s prin-
cipal yearling sales at Saratoga in August
was the prices paid for the first lot of
youngsters sired in that country by Blen-
heim 11. (Blandford-Malva). Five colts
and seven fillies were submitted, and
made a total of £A39,150. The highest
price realised by any of the colts was
£ASOOO, followed by another at £4500,
while one filly was sold for £3lOO and
another for £2750.
In the first 11 sessions of the sales —
ten held at night—s 76 yearlings were
sold for approximately £A325,000, a
slightly lower average than last year. The
largest buyers over the period mentioned
were women, Mrs. E. G. Lewis paying
£14,665 for eight and Mrs. Ethel V. Mars
£14,250 for 11. Mrs. Payson gave £5OOO
for a Sir Galahad 111. colt, and £4500
for a Blenheim 11. colt, Mrs. Mars being
runner-up for the former. Australian
breeders wish we had some rich women
similarly interested in racing.
Twenty yearlings were bought for Eng-
land for a total of £19,700, which was
the outcome of the success in England
of Lord Carnarvon’s purchases at Sara-
toga last season. Lord Carnarvon was
again a buyer, and suggested that it
would be a good idea if breeders at-
tempted to bring a number*of English
trainers over in one of the transatlantic
’planes for a stay of a week at the sales.
He reckoned they were certain to be
good buyers.
Buyers of high-priced lots at the
Saratoga (New York State) sales deserve
a good return, but in America, as in
England and Australia, luck plays a big
part in the purchase of yearlings. Touch-
ing on this a writer in the “Thorough-
bred Record” points out that at the 1938
Saratoga sales the twelve highest-priced
colts realised a total of £A42,000, and
13 fillies £A25,750. Most of those were
raced this season, and up to August 17
the colts had won three races and
approximately £720, and the fillies four
races and £7OO.
In Australia in 1938 the highest-priced
yearlings were Melfort Star (Melfort-
Lalaguli), 2800gns.; General Wolfe
(Heroic-Trasina), 2300gns. and Atlas
(Heroic-White Swan), 1700gns. Mel-
fort Star died without racing, General
Wolfe has yet to race, and Atlas has not
distinguished himself. Of those sold at
auction in Sydney or Melbourne for over
lOOOgns. in 1938 Esperanto (1400gns.)
did best at two years, his three wins
carrying £2OOO.
* * * *
The re-legalisation of racing has been
of substantial benefit to the State of Cali-
fornia in the way of revenue. In 1933-34
the first year of the resumption of racing,
the State received about £A65,000 in
taxation, but since then there has boen
a tremendous advance, the return for
the fiscal year ending June 30 being ap-
proximately £757,000. Of that amount
£665,000 came from the pari-mutuel, the
State’s share being 4 per cent, of the
turnover. In prize-money Bay Meadows,
Santa Anita, Del Mar, Hollywood and
Tanforan distributed a little over £558,870
among them. The actual amount in
dollars was 2,419,055, and my calcula-
tions are based on four dollars to the £1
Australian. In the coming year Santa
Anita is again giving £25,000 for its big
handicap and £12,500 for the Derby.
It is a wonder some of Australia’s lead-
ing breeders do not experiment in the
way of breeding a few horses to Ameri-
can time.
* * * *
The decision to resume racing in Eng-
land will be a relief to the great number
who are dependent upon it for a living.
Newmarket is to have meetings on
October 18 and 19 and November 1 and
2. During the last war Newmarket was
freely used, the Derby and St. Leger—
the latter with the name changed to
September Stakes —each being run there
four times. Newmarket has two courses.
The Cambridgeshire is to be decided over
the Bunbury mile this year —the usual
distance is nine furlongs —and the
Cesarewitch will be run on the summer
course, with the distance reduced from
two and a quarter miles to two miles
twenty-four yards. Nominations closed
before the war, and those from France
were unusually numerous, those for the
Cambridgeshire totalling 17, and for the
Cesarewitch 32. As France won the
double last year English turf writers were
greatly exercised after the closing of
entries as to what the handicapper should
do to prevent a repetition this year. The
war, however, may keep most of the
French horses at home.


STAINS ON
FALSE TEETH
GONE!
black; a t ier ” ‘ijr eS are natural
or live tones, plates « ,
It is easy to use
‘Steradent.’ Fill
the cap of the tin
with ‘Steradent’
and pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffici-
ent warm water
(not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir
BEFORE
AFTER
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress, or overnight. Take them
out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Then your teeth and plates are clean—
clean where the brush can’t reach. Dull
teeth gleam white again. Plates regain
their natural colour. ‘Steradent’ is guar-
anteed harmless to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double size 3/6.
You are safe with ‘ Steradent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
WHO 9
PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE ANO
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
lVingello Mouse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R_V. PERKINS. General Manager.
mm
SC \ V V M „«►
•-
\■ V JspllPfr » - ~ ’I
__ j i
8S
e
m
m
m
i
■ H
m
£2
m
I
i
IV -
8
m
Wi
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
• Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool
© throughout the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
• fine worsted yarn than other cloths,
will not crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The A.J.C. would have shown weak-
ness if it had in any way submitted to
dictation from trainers or jockeys as to
where the jumps should be placed in
hurdle races on a soft track. It was only
right the club should try to save its
track as much as possible for the better
horses competing in flat races the same
day. First money for the First Hurdle
Race was £295, which was much more
than almost any of the acceptors would
realise if submitted to auction. In the
circumstances it seems to me that all
owners and trainers should have been
satisfied to start their horses even if
conditions were not entirely to their
liking.
The objection that jockeys were de-
prived of a guiding rail reflected on their
ability as a whole. If the field had been
maidens or novices that complaint would
have been reasonable, but practically all
the horses that accepted for Saturday’s
race were seasoned jumpers, and though
the fact of the hurdles being on the out-
side of the course did make things a
little more difficult than usual that
scarcely constituted a real grievance.
* * * *
Pure Gold finished last in the Tulla-
marine Handicap at Moonee Valley, and,
while that could not be accepted as his
true form, it tended to dispose of any
idea that he was a three-year-old right
out of the ordinary. No matter what
excuses may be made he should have
done better. Naturally, he has receded
considerably in the Caulfield Cup
quotations. It is somewhat remark-
able that two such highly-rated three-
year-olds as Beau Vite and Pure
Gold should have completely failed on
the same day, but they still have time to
reinstate themselves in public favor.
* * * *
Nine of the last 20 Victoria Derbies
have been won by horses trained in
N.S.W., and there is a likelihood of that
total being added to this year. After his
second to Beau Vite at Rosehill, J. T.
Cush claimed that Reading was improv-
ing with each race, but it will be difficult
for him to have the Derby winner in
better condition than on Saturday last.
* * * *
Sydney horses have an excellent
record in the Cantata Stakes. It has been
won by Amounis (twice), Vaals, Dermid,
Denis Boy, Care Free, Mohican and St.
Constant, representing this State. In
addition Baldwin, Karuma, Denis Boy,
Whittingham (twice), Australia Fair and
Judean ran second ; and Fuji San, Pen-
theus, Dermid, Closing Time and Mohi-
can third. The probabilities are that
even if Sydney does not furnish this
year’s winner it will have at least a
minor place-getter.
As Adios has shown himself at home
on Flemington, the Cantala Stakes will
give him an opportunity of atoning for
his Epsom failure. He has 31b. more
than he carried in that race, but that
difference should not affect him to any
extent. Mildura will have the same as
in the Epsom, while Geebung has 7.13,
but a rehandicap will add to that
weight.
Of the Melbourne horses Manrico and
Hilton now read best. As compared with
the Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley,
Manrico drops 141 b. and Hilton 121 b.,
while Crojick goes up 111 b. There were
only heads between those three on
Saturday, and, while Crojick finished
better than Hilton and Manrico, he will
meet them so much worse that both
should beat him. El Golea was one of
the unplaced lot in the Quality Handi-
cap, and, as in the Cantala Stakes he
will be 211 b. worse off as compared with
Manrico and 191 b. with Hilton, it seems
as if he can be wiped off as a possibility.
Manrico tired in the Moonee Valley race
after making all the running, but 141 b.
less weight should give him an excellent
chance of seeing the mile right out.
* * * *
Fourteen of the fillies engaged in to-
days Gimcrack Stakes at Randwick
were sold at auction, one of these being
Kenthelda, a half-sister to Defaulter.
Her sire is Foxlight. Phoebe, who is
raced by her breeder, is a sister to
Peter Pan, and Trueness is fully related
to Marengo. Applause, who tops the
list, is by Constant Son. As yearlings
those appended realised:
■ Gns. Gns.
Applause 700 Haridelle 275
Trueness 550 Lily Brayton ... 200
Addition 525 Jean Melfort ... 150
Kenthelda 500 Regina Mea .... 140
Contestor 400 Foxora 120
Salmanna 300 Victorine 110
Happy Bay .... 300 Moltain 100
* * * *
Of last year’s 18 Epsom Handicap
competitors only St. Constant and Gee-
bung ran again this year. Final accep-
tors for the Metropolitan included five
that were runners a year ago. They were
Royal Chief, Buzalong, Cooranga, Bris-
tol and Own Folk. Last year Melbourne
was represented in the Epsom by Night-
guard and Young Idea, who headed the
betting quotations. Neither gained a
place, but this year Victoria did not
have even one starter. Synagogue was
the last winner from the south, though
Gay Lover, after finishing first the fol-
lowing year, was disqualified, the race
going to Capris.
*** * *
In wins Gloaming, Phar Lap and
Chatham are equal in the Craven Plate
with three each. Gloaming scored his
first success in 1919, and his third in
1924. Phar Lap’s wins were in successive
years, as were those of Chatham. Cetigne
was the first to get inside 2.5 in the race,
recording 2.4} when he beat Wolaroi
and Estland in a tremendous finish.
Gloaming’s best time was 2.4, and Phar
Lap did 2.2} and 2.3. Last year Young
Idea won in 2.4}, those behind him being
Stretto, Gold Rod, Allunga, Royal Chief
and L'Aiglon.
* * * *
In Sydney apprentices are occasionally
blamed for causing trouble in races when
they are really not in fault. Recently I
heard a trainer remark: “At least a
couple of our older jockeys have a nasty
knack of easing their mounts rather sud-
denly after getting a good position early
in a race. The result is that unless any
rider following them quickly grasps the
situation he has difficulty in avoiding run-
ning into trouble. In attempting to do
so, by also steadying his mount, there is
always the possibility of his bunching
the horses behind him, and, if he happens
to be an apprentice of comparatively
little experience, he is sure to be blamed,
though the fault really rested with the
jockey on the horse ahead of him.”
* * * *
Nightmarch was the last Metropolitan
minor place-getter to win the Melbourne
Cup. He was second in the Sydney race
with 9.12, and notwithstanding he won
the Epsom he escaped a penalty for the
Melbourne Cup, and carried only 9.2.
The race was run to suit him, the first
mile being covered in unusually slow
time. The final mile was cut out in 1.38£,
and he was too good for his fellow-
Maorilander Paquito. Conditions were
changed the following year, and now, no
matter at what distance, the winner of
any handicap flat race or races of the
value to the winner of £lOOO or over
can be rehandicapped up to an additional
101 b. The words “or races” implies that
if a total of £lOOO or over is reached by
success in two or three races the handi-
capper can exercise his powers.
A 101 b. penalty cost Mooltan and
Kennaquhair a Melbourne Cup, the
former being defeated by Apologue and
the latter by the lightly-weighted Night
Watch. Mooltan, with 6.13, won the
Metropolitan by a narrow margin from
Apologue, 8.7. The latter met him 231 b.
better in the Melbourne Cup, and beat
him.
* * * *
Rivette is a Caulfield Cup candidate
that Clem Hill would probably like to
have the opportunity of rehandicapping.
In the Toorak Handicap he gave her 8.3
against the 6.13 she has in the Cup, and
her good third in the Tullamarine Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley did nothing
towards lowering her in his estimation.
She was not more than a length away
from the winner, Maikai, whom she will
meet 211 b. better in the Cup. She met un-
placed runners in Millie’s Hope 121 b.,
Elanage 191 b., Pure Gold 31b., Carpen-
tier 141 b. and Diaphane 61b. worse than
Cup terms, so she would appear to have
a pull over that lot. Prior to last week
the double-betting lists did not suggest
Rivette was being taken as seriously in
a Cup connection as her performances
warranted, but her latest run has altered
that. Crojick, winner of the Quality
Handicap at Moonee Valley, is also in the
Caulfield Cup, but with 61b. more than he
carried on Saturday. Crojick had 7.5
when he won the Farewell Handicap, one
mile, at Flemington last autumn. He is
by Siegfried.
* * # *
Beaulivre has won each of three races
in which he has started in Maoriland
this season, and his record now stands at
nine wins, four seconds and one third in
14 starts, prize-money credited him total-
ling £3095. He races in the ownership
of E. C. Harnett, who gave 2900gns. for
him in July at the dispersal of horses
owned by the late W. Higgins. When
Beaulivre won the Avondale Guineas last
month he was favorite on the straight-out
machine, and only second in demand on
the place tote, the popular choice being
the Vaals filly Our Jean. She ran third,
and backers who supported Beaulivre on
the place tote got a dividend of 7s. 6d.
more than those who supported him
straight out. Fils de Vaals, who was
second to Beaulivre in the Wanganui
Guineas and Avondale Guineas, is a
colt by Vaals, who won an Epsom and
a Cantala Stakes for the late Ned Moss.
* * * *
Victoria did little to add to the
attractions of this year’s AJ.C. spring
meeting, but the Caulfield and Fleming-
ton meetings will lack nothing in support
from New South Wales and Maoriland.
Of the 29 entrants for the Caulfield
Stakes, 15 are from outside that State.
Three-year-olds engaged are Wilson, Pure
Gold, Reading, Marengo, High Caste,
Gold Salute and Beau Vite. It is reason-
able to expect some of that lot to give
Ajax a fair testing. Last year Ajax won
from Avenger, and ran the nine furlongs
in 1.50i —a record for Caulfield.
* * * *
Grace Darling narrowly missed the
double when penalised 71b. for her Caul-
field win, Sheet Anchor beating her a head;
and, of more recent years, Shepherd King
won the Caulfield Cup with 7.7, and was
second in the Melbourne Cup with 8.3.
Gaine Carrington took the Caulfield Cup
with 8.13, but, with a pound more in the
Melbourne Cup, could only dead-heat
Topical for third. Hall Mark (Pure
Gold’s brother) won that year with 7.8.
Since Poseidon won the double, horses
which started in the Melbourne Cup the
year they won the Caulfield Cup have
fared as under:
Position in
Caulfield Cup Winner. Melb. Cup.
1907—Poseidon, 9.3 10.3 Eighth
1909 Blue Book, 8.1 8.10 Twelfth
1910— Flavinius, 8.1 8.9 Nowhere
1912 Uricle Sam, 7.6 7.6 Third
1913 Aurifer, 8.1 9.2 Nowhere
1914 Uncle Sam, 8.7 9.2 Sixth
1915 Lavendo, 7.2 7.13 Nowhere
1916 Shepherd King, 7.7 .. 8.3 Second
1917 Bronzetti, 6.13 7.10 Tenth
1918— King Offa, 7.11 8.10 Fifth
1919 Lucknow, 8.6 9.0 Fourth
1920 Eurythmic, 8.9 9.4 Fourth
1921 Violoncello, 8.13 9.3 Nowhere
1922 Whittier, 6.13 7.10 Nowhere
1927 Textile, 8.3 8.5 Fourth
1928 — Maple, 8.7 8.13 Nowhere
1929 High Syce, 9.4 9.11 Fourth
1932 Rogilla, 7.12 8.5 Nowhere
1933 — G. Carrington, 8.13 .. 9.0 Dead heat
for third
1934 -Journal, 7.13 8.3 Nowhere
1937—The Trump, 7.12 8.5 First
Several jockeys have ridden two Caul-
field Cup winners, but F. Dempsey holds
the record for that race with three —
Lavendo, Bronzetti and Eurythmic. The
last-named was a 6-to-4 chance. Lavendo
won in 1916, and though Dempsey did
not have a mount last year he was on
Spinifex in 1937. Within the past 25
years F. Bullock, E. Simmons, R. Lewis,
A. Knox, J. E. Pike and W. Duncan
were each on two winners, Duncan’s
record during that period including two
seconds and three thirds.
* * * *
On most Australian courses there are
a couple of bends in a six-furlong track,
and the difference between an inside and


SHAV! nG
fRtOQlt
WITH A
Zojrtorl
OH
last
AT
VALt'
V ",
***ss#•
*
mm
/*
Stropped in a few seconds
Happy -go - lucky youngsters like
Valet for its simplicity. Valet is
simple to use; simple to keep sharp,
simple to clean; simple and econom-
ical to maintain.
Valet users praise this combined
Razor and Stropping Machine. It
has nothing to take to pieces,
nothing to unscrew; it’s always
ready for instant action and it
gives a perfect shave every day.
&
No. 99 Utility Set. Contains razor, strop
and three blades price 4/6
Other sets from 9/- to 45/-
Cleaned in a few seconds
A few strokes on the strop
bring the Valet blade to the
pitch of perfection . . . The
Valet razor does its work
quickly, thoroughly cuts
whiskers in tricky places . ..
After shaving Valet cleans
easily. Just a rinse and a
wipe, without removing the
blade, is all that’s needed.
•
OF ALL DEALERS
BRITISH MADE
e
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia ;
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
an outside position in a large field natu-
rally has considerable bearing on a
horse’s chance. Even down the straight
six at Flemington it is the same.
• • • • •
At one period horses drawn on the out-
side (or stands side) were supposed to
have a decided advantage, but now those
on the inner rail are credited with having
a big pull over those on the outside.
* ’ . * ‘ ,
Most of the sprint races in England
are run on straight tracks, but even there
one side is generally reckoned better
than the other. . .
When the unnamed Rose 'of England
colt interfered with Stardust in the
recent National Breeders’ Produce Stakes
—worth £5600 for first—at Sandown
Park it was said to be due to either
the jockey or the horse himself cutting
across to firmer ground a furlong from
home. The result was that Stardust,
who was just commencing his run, got
on to the heels of the Rose of England
colt, and blundered. He lost two
lengths, and his rider, Smirke, said he
was nearlv down.
. . . . . .
Then Stardust came home so strongly
that he got within three-quarters of a
length of the Rose of England colt,
As the general opinion was that, with a
clear run, Stardust would have beaten
him, the stewards’ decision to disqualify
the Rose of England colt did not come
in for adverse comment, notwithstanding
that he started at 5 to. 2 on. Stardust
may give the Aga Khan another winter
favorite for the Derby.
M
*”*'r • liwTTerTy
For the A.J.C. Belt
In these days when they cater for the
up-and-coming generation with loud-
speaker running descriptions, five-bob
totes and suc hlike devices, it was good
to see A.J.C. members showing some
regard for the robuster tastes of old
hands out at Randwtck on Epsom Da>
The Nt of bareknuckle staged at the en
of the members stand, just as Darby was
ready to go out and win
Derby, was none the less appreciated for
being impromptu. , .
The scrap, unfortunately, didn t last
l° n S enough for everybody to witness it.
has been pointed out in these columns
often enough, the boys nowadays seem
to think they can get along without sen-
ous training. Riding up and down in a
lift, which is reported to be the entire
training that the Telegraph Pet indulged
in, would have been considered effete by
the Buxton Basher or any other member
of the old school. So would crossing the
Kippax-street footpath from a limousine
a couple of times a day, which appears
to have been the Strewth Tiger’s idea of
road work.
In the circumstances, the most palpable
thing about the contestants was more
their tickers than their stamina. An
acquaintance who managed to get a place
in the front of the ring tells us that after
only a couple of swings both of ’em were
blowing like grampuses, and, if nothing
else had occurred to stop it, they’d have
been down on their briskets inside half a
round, exhausted.
Moreover, though the A.J.C. may
know how to run Epsoms and Metrops.,
it’s still got a lot to learn about the con-
duct of the Noble Art, and so have mem-
bers individually. The job of a third
man in a ring is to referee the engage-
ment, not soak a contestant in the dial.
Apart from whatever effect that sort of
intervention may have had on the termi-
nation of hostilities which lack of train-
ing, lamentable balance and cronk aim
would have ended soon enough, there’s
always the chance of it spreading.
Speaking personally, the present scribe
enjoyed this addition to the A.J.C. meet-
ing, and if the Strewth Tiger and the
Telegraph Pet are to meet again may he
be there to see, though he hopes they’ll
be in better nick.
* * * *
“T.”: Ossie Stewart, now on his way
home, had a better press in Sydney than
many a better pug. One writer assured
all and sundry that “Australians will have
the warmest recollections of Stewart, a
polished ebony sportsman, as grand in
defeat as in victory—and that, as all the
world knows, is a MAN.” After fur-
ther remarks to the same effect “a high
official in Stadium control” was quoted
as having “fervently thanked Stewart
for his splendid effort” against Richards
and “his greatness in defeat.” All this
about a scrapper who covered up most
of the time and in his three contests with
Richards tried to win by the ignoble
bung-eye method. Taking colored pugs
alone, Payne was immeasurably more
interesting and so, of course, were Lang-
ford and McVea. Langford would have
knocked Stewart kicking in a couple
of rounds.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
Although much has been written about
the most notorious of golfing faults —
“looking up”—and many remedies have
been suggested, most players still raise
their heads at the wrong moment. Like
most golfers who have suffered the
mental agony of topping a simple shot,
I was once in the same position. When
I began to play as a boy at Manly I
was prone to move the head in an en-
deavor to follow the flight of the ball
too early. My father, who was my coach,
tried everything, biit it was many years
before I overcame the error.
Hundreds of golfers believe a topped
shot is the result of not watching the ball
long enough, and to a certain extent they
are right. The main trouble is that not
only does the eye miss the ball, but, what
is more important, the head moves. The
head can be likened to the hub of a
wheel. If held still the swing rotates
smoothly round it, but if it is moved as
the club-head nears the ball the stroke
is ruined. The swing is helped by the
steadiness of the head, which must not
move till after the ball has gone. Many
of the troubles of the average player can
be traced to the moving of the head, for
when this occurs a body sway can easily
follow.
• •••••
By constant practice I discovered that,
by looking at the ball with the left eye
and turning the head slightly back, I
could provide against my tendency to
look up, as by the time my head had
returned to its normal position and begun
to move on the ball was some yards on
its way. In addition to making it almost
impossible to top the ball, it helped me
to eliminate a sway I had in my swing.
Every great golfer has been a victim
to a “look up.” Even Walter Hagen
and Bobby Jones have had costly experi-
ences in big golf when they have moved
the ball only a few feet.
Some courses have a tendency to make
players try to follow their shots more
than others. Such clubs as the Lakes
in Sydney and the tree-lined Melbourne
fairways, where the possibility of a lost
ball is present, tempt golfers in this way.
• • • • • •
Many limit-handicap players spoil their
chance of keeping their heads stationary
by allowing a slight sway to creep into
their backswing. This makes it impos-
sible to return the head always to the
same position at the moment the ball is
hit. Players with long backswings are
particularly liable to this fault, which can
be removed by a firmly-anchored.head.
If a sway could be controlled it would
have a good effect upon the length of a
hit, for it would synchronise the body,
hands and wrists into a perfect stroke. 1
have seen golfers with a decided body
sway (which probably commenced from
the head moving slightly) who could oc-
casionally obtain great length when every-
thing worked together, but who were
generally most erratic.
Although the leading golfers use
varied styles of play to obtain their results
they all do the same thing at the same
time when it comes to the position of
the head. They keep their heads well
“anchored” during the playing of the
shot until after the ball has been struck.
Handicap golfers should try to school
themselves into being more head-con-
scious. The keeping of a stationary head
during the swing will at least make a
certainty of hitting the ball irrespective
of where it may finish.
One of the simplest ways to overcome
the fault is to have a couple of practice
swings before hitting, making sure the
head is kept still. It is not an easy task
to eliminate any error, but concentration
on keeping the head under control dur-
ing the swing will pay big dividends in the
way of greatly improved golf.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. “grand” final, Melbourne
v. Collingwood, provided an exhibition
of the national code that thrilled the
80,000 or so people at the Melbourne
C.G. It developed into a battle of tac-
tics. Melbourne realised that one of its
greatest tasks would be to keep Todd
quiet, and when Kimberley was moved
from the ruck to centre-fullback position
this was done admirably, though not
before Todd had given his side a lead.
Melbourne was 12 points behind at the
end of the first quarter. It had an ad-
vantage of four points at half-time, and
then went further ahead.
The Red Legs began the final term 17
points to the good, with the breeze behind
them and with the sun shining in the eyes
of ’Wood’s defenders. During the quar-
ter period everything went Melbourne’s
way, and it ran out an easy winner, 21.22
(148 points) to 14.11 (95 points).
Collingwood’s “system” was shattered
by Melbourne’s dash and vigor. Though
Todd kicked six goals, the Magpies’ best
work was done in defence, Regan being
conspicuous. Melbourne had no weak
points or players. Rodda, a Melbourne
Grammar old boy, kicked four goals and
was never far away from the ball. Ball,
from Mildura, and only 19, played like
a champion. Wartman, Baggott, the
Jones pair, Mueller and Beames were all
at the top of their form.
So Melbourne flies the premiership
pennant for the first time since 1926. But
its record is far from equalling Colling-
wood’s. In 42 years of League football
old ’Wood has figured in “the four” on
38 occasions; it has been 11 times first
and 12 times second.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The West Torrens XVIII
caused a mild sensation by taking the
field for the district semi-final in Adel-
aide with their eye-sockets blackened,
to minimise glare, and their chests smell-
ing of whisky—sprayed as a supposed
tonic. They caused a surprise by beat-
ing the much-better-fancied South
Adelaide.
But the charm or spell or whatever
it was didn’t work in the “grand” final,
in which Port Adelaide was the other
side. In the presence of 43,800 enthusi-
asts, Port inflicted a dreadful doing on
West Torrens, 16.28 to 11.11.
* * * » *
“S.T.S.”: About the steepest football
story on record comes from Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.). In a semi-final, the
oval was covered with grass so tall
and thick that, when a player was
temporarily knocked out, trainers who
ran on the field to render first aid
couldn’t find where he lay. Anyway,
that’s what they say in Yorke Peninsula.
“Sturt”: J. N. Scaife, the cricketer,
has returned to Fitzroy, Melbourne.
When he moved to Adelaide two or three
years ago, he seemed to be pretty well in
the running for Test matches; but, like
Robinson of Sydney, he failed to live up
to his batting form while in S.A.
* * * *
“Mat”: Hedley Verity, now 34, again
heads the list of English bowlers, having
taken 119 wickets at 13.13. His record
for 10 years is 1909 wickets at 14.75.
Goddard, who is 39, got most wickets
during the late season (200 at 14.86).


O-tO'VW
Twice. Daily -2 IS~B
[WVOfcB
SYDNEY
Twice Da Hi/ 230-Q
Commencing: Monday, October 2.
THE WORLD-FAJIOCS MILLS BROS-,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
Last Days
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth
And His All Star Company.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Who Killed the Count?
The full and complete answer to this
desperate question is to be had on appli-
cation (with fee) to the box-office,
Minerva Theatre, King’s Cross.
Following on the discovery of the
Count’s body in one of a block of flats
approximately fifteen and a half seconds
after curtain-rise, Inspector Harvey
Adams’s trouble, before he’s all through,
is a surfeit of confessions. They drive
him and his offsider to distraction, and,
as for their effect on the audience, it was
all present scribe could do to remain
seated in the Minerva’s cosy upholstery:
he wanted to up on his hind legs and
shout, too: “I Killed the Count,
the ! ”
(The war censor didn’t rule that out;
it’s the way this paper prefers to print
the great Australian term of endearment
—used twice, by the way, in this produc-
tion, but with the lighter vowel sound in
the first syllable, which makes it a com-
paratively ladylike expression.)
Perhaps it’s a good thing the author
put his natural talents to the harmless
use of concocting this opus. A man with
a mind like his would usually figure as
a dispenser of gold bricks, white elephants
and suchlike bric-a-brac. He could sell
tracts in King’s Cross. Employing a
baker’s dozen of confederates —all as
talented in their way as he is—he sells
the audience one false scent after an-
other, till there are enough furrows on
its collective thinking apparatus to put
a corrugated roof over the Tasman.
To offset that and counteract head-
aches he provides a generous supply of
humor. It’s both one of the most con-
foundingly ingenious of murder-mystery
plays and one of the funniest. In the
performance the jokes are heavily under-
lined, as if in writing a humorist put in
capital letters all the things he expected
you to laugh at. This was more notice-
able in the early part of the play than
later. Another thing that gives the gags
a special sort of emphasis is that they’re
very largely used for exits; pretty well
every exit in the play—and there are
scores of them—is made on a wisecrack
from the departing player.
One most unusual thing about the pro-
duction deserves noting, with cheers. It
gives the “star system,” which has been
the ruination of stage shows, a kick in
a vital part. The star of the company—
which proposes to put on a season of
rapid-change productions—is American
actor lan Keith. He plays a minor role!
It’s unheard of! Imagine some of the
recent hamfats doing it! The play is
carried on the capable shoulders of
Harvey Adams, excellently cast. So are
the rest of a very capable lot sensibly
cast for the parts they are physically and
otherwise most competent to fill.
* * * *
“Of Mice and Men”
The function associations play in
people’s lives is the theme of the unusual
“Of Mice and Men,” by John Steinbeck,
which Gregan McMahon put on at Mel-
bourne Comedy on Saturday.
Lennie, a gigantic Californian hobo,
likes the sensation of stroking things that
are soft and furry, as also did Wagner.
But whereas the sensation Wagner got
from stroking velvet cushions was a
memory of music, Lennie’s is a memory
of something utterly asocial. It stimulates
him to outbursts of homicidal fury and,
by a series of intensely dramatic crises,
he kills, first, mice, then rabbits, then a
puppy and, finally—but this is anticipat-
ing.
George, a fellow-hobo, who has be-
friended Lennie and completely domi-
nates him, has been anxiously watching
his obsessed companion, hoping he’ll be
able to sublimate his horrible obsession
by keeping rabbits on a farm they are
saving up to buy. But the young wife of
the boss’s son comes into the picture, in-
vites Lennie to stroke her hair, and the
inevitable happens. George then shoots
his friend to save him from being lynched
by the infuriated ranchmen.
Unlike the fashionable proletarian
dramatists, Steinbeck has no political axe
to grind and tells this grim story with
rare sympathy and insight, and
McMahon gave it an outstanding pro-
duction. He took the part of an old
scrubber, Lance Carlson gave a poignant
portrayal of the giant, Lance Nicholls
made a touching figure of his devoted
cobber and Clifford Dodd was perfectly
in place as the husband whose jealousy
of his wife (Dorothea Dickson) makes
him as insanely homicidal as the per-
verted Lennie.
* * * *
Dr. Malcolm Sargent signalised his
return to Sydney by a well-balanced and
graceful performance of Brahms’s Third
Symphony at the Town Hall. The logic,
the philosophy and the quiet beauties of
the great work were apparent, and in the
sunset glow of the finale the orchestra
seemed to become genuinely inspired.
Concert, which included a couple of
operatic arias by Strella Wilson (in the
best of voice), ended with Borodin’s
deservedly popular Second Symphony.
John D’Arcy and Harvey Adams ( sleuths ) hear the chorus of “I dunnit!” from
Alec Pratt, lan Keith, and Leslie Victor in the play, “I Killed the Count," at the
Minerva, Sydney.
Terrifically strong in rhythm and every-
where understandable in idiom, this work
contains some of the cleverest effects in
all orchestral literature. Dr. Sargent’s
baton brought them all out.
* * * *
Big item of the second concert on
Saturday night was a masculine perform-
ance of Tschaikowsky’s “Pathetique”
Symphony. Sargent concentrated on the
richness of its orchestral color and the
cumulative grandeur with which each
theme is developed. Bach’s First Orches-
tral Suite, played in sprightly manner,
and Delius’s “Song Before Sunrise” were
good contrast.
Poulenc’s Two-Pianoforte Concerto, a
very recent work, in which Frank Hut-
chens and Lindley Evans were the pian-
ists, proved a lively and bustling com-
position, with plenty of work for both
pianos. Some of the effects sounded in-
coherent and others hysterical, but that’s
the hallmark of modernity.
* * * *
Though on the first production the
dialogue wanted some cutting to tighten
it, “A Second Moses” —an Australian
melodrama based on the life of Mrs.
Caroline Chisholm —was well done by
Brisbane Reps, at the Princess. Success
depended mainly on the performance of
Daphne Roemermann as Mrs. Chisholm,
which she carried off admirably.
* * * *
A note from J. L. Walters:
The Bulletin critic (B. 27/9/’39) says that
Marie Ryan, who sang at Brownlee’s last con-
cert, “has a good natural voice, but won’t enjoy
it long unless she learns to manage her top
notes more easily.” He apparently does not
recognise the difference between “freedom”
and “forcing”; and the volume of her high
notes, which come quite naturally without
strain, may have misled him. Miss Ryan, like
myself, happens to be a pupil of a teacher
(Roland Foster) who has produced more suc-
cessful singers than any other teacher in Aus-
tralia, and their voices have invariably lasted
and continued to improve year by year, so
there is not much danger of Miss Ryan’s voice
coming to any harm.
At the Talkies.
“We of the A.1.F.”
Having its first Australian showing in
Adelaide is a film recalling the Diggers’
part in the last dust-up, “We of the
A.1.F.” (“Under and approved by the
Commonwealth Government.”)
It shows Diggers in Egypt, Palestine,
France, Flanders, Gallipoli. Hurley and
Wilkins are credited with most of the
photography. How movie cameras got
where they did is sometimes hard to
realise, but the whole appears genuine.
There’s a section from the Turks,
showing how they prepared to receive
the Anzac landing. There’s also a leaven
of humor.
Capt. Mitchell, of the 10th and 48th,
does the explanatory talking.
* * * *
Screened Dumas
Sydney Mayfair is regaling its patrons
indoors with “The Man in the Iron
Mask” and all and sundry outside with
the gent, himself in person, or maybe it’s
only one of those versatile dismounted
postillion chaps in disguise. He bears a
striking family resemblance to one of
those gods the heathen South Sea
islander hacks out of breadfruit or ban-
yan and sets up as an excuse for bump-
ing off young females when the sex
starts getting more disturbingly alluring
than usual. Or something like that.
The film is also good entertainment of
its kind. The story is splendidly
presented—and what a yarn!
These old boys knew how to tell one;
and so Dumas remains topnotch enter-
tainment despite some effort in this pro-
duction to Hollywoodenise him, which
is a minor matter where the original
is a romantic historical novelist. The
scenes of Parisian court life, Paris
crowds and clinks ; of D’Artagnan and
his men; of one or two more of the
numerous Louis the Umpteenths, are by
now familiar enough, but still they’re
well done. There’s lusty swordplay,
flight and pursuit, illicit and romantic
love, abundant villainy, ruffled tempers
and rigouts, a bit of torture and lashin’s
of sudden death.
Acting’s tiptop—Louis Hayward as
both Louis and Philippe, Joseph
Schildkraut as Fouquet, Warren William
as D’Artagnan. Joan Bennett is a rather
nebulous Maria Theresa, but it’s not
much of a part.
* * * *
“Man About Town”
Sydney Prince Edward offers this
comedy injected with tunefulness, song-
andance, smart stage spectacle and. a
score or so of lissome and remarkably
agile lasses done out in just enough to
display broad acres of bladebone and a
hundredweight or so of streamlined
flanks.
A wisp of a plot has to do with the
efforts of astoundingly respectable
manager of troupe of American revue
artists to corner the affections of leading
lady while the co. is in London. His
method is to establish himself in the
lady’s eyes as a kind of Rhubarb Valen-
tino. Lady Soandso and Duchess Whosit
enter as a brace of neglected spouses
trying to bring their husbands to heel
by indulging in innocuous flirtation.
What the leading lady, manager, lady
and duchess and husbands do to each
other works out to a goodly ration of
comedy and story sufficient to provide
what semblance of order the piece re-
quires.
Jack Benny as the central figure im-
proves considerably on earlier showings.
Rather than any particular comedic
talent of his own, he has a useful apti-
tude for extracting the most from any
line or situation, and that, coupled with
a certain suaveness, carries him easily on
his way. Dorothy Lamour as the object of
his affections sports a clinking wardrobe,
and coils and uncoils her shapely felinity
with agreeable effect. Binnie Barnes
as the lady remains her charming and
unruffled self, and Edward Arnold as her
financier husband has a role that fits him
like an old boot.
* * * *
“Daughters Courageous”
A light fantastic tale of four person-
able wenches managing a heart-affair
for their also-personable mother, and the
complications engendered by the return
of their father, who lit out from home
and family twenty years earlier, is the
staple of this main Sydney Plaza offer-
ing.
The father returns about a fortnight
before the mother’s second marriage, and
is promptly subjected to heavy treatment
from all and sundry. It transpires, how-
ever, that he’s not such a bad cove, after
all, having more human virtues than
most, and a pair of itchy feet as his main
trouble. Before the opus is done he is
firmly ensconced in the affections of wife
and children again, and then has to de-
cide whether he or the other bloke can
do more for the family.
Claude Rains and Fay Bainter add a
touch of character to the main roles,
and one or two of the four daughters—
played by Rosemary, Lola and Priscilla
Lane and Gale Page—occasionally flicker
to life, though it’s due to the playwright
rather than the players.
Arthur sts.
Jean Bellette, whose pictures, mostly
in oils, deck the walls of Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, had a show of water-colors
some years ago, and gave promise of
achieving individualism as well as grace
and charm in that medium. But the
making of pretty pictures was not for
her. She went to London, became a
disciple of Menisky at the Westminster
School, and now paints extraordinarily
fleshy nudes; still-lifes and landscapes
in a heavy style.
There are a few water-colors in the
old manner, and just a suggestion here
and there (notably in “The Valley of St.
Pierre” and “Yugoslavian Landscape”) of
the elements of strength that must have
been felt by the painter to be inherent
in the methods she has now adopted.
* * * *
S.A. Society of Arts’ spring show is
its best for a long time without being
greatly helped by visiting artists, though
Dora Wilson has some French-looking
Melbourne streets, and Coffey shows his
already familiar grim close-up of the Gap
and South Head.
The yearly Melrose Prize for figure
goes to Ivor Hele, landscape to Trenerry,
seascape to Max Ragless.
George Whinnen shines in all three
departments, especially with a Flinders
Range scene.
Adelaide National Gallery bought from
the show a pink statuette by Orlando
Dutton and an unusual study of wind-
blown palms on the Barrier Reef by
Noel Wood. Also a country-town view
from a one-man show at Bayly’s by Rag-
less. And, from the visiting European
art, a village by a modern Welshman and
an almost pre-Raphaelite garden scene by
Spencer, contrasting oddly with his wil-
fully crude figure paintings.
* * * *
Harry Dangar’s show at Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney, is in aid of the Lud
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund. The water-
colors have the delicacy and good taste
always associated with this artist’s work.
The drawing is excellent, the composi-
tion exact, and if Nature would only
express herself thus demurely in pale
mauves and greens, with occasional
splashes of yellow to represent autumn,
this world would be a politer place to
live in.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
safe*
81k
B
fTSjfllJr
■<&**«*
, - i i. a®
41*1:.*'.4
ISISs
Specially founded lor convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S*pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 84771.
Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
IF you suffer from Eczema or other
1 itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
A rain-threatening sky and the spring
meeting gave Randwick the look of a
house divided against itself last Saturday.
This Letter is not going to stress the
obvious and say that women did not wear
their new summer finery. When light-
weight frocks were worn they were cov-
ered with fur coat and cape. There
must have been thousands of pounds’
worth of skins taking their last sniff of
free light and fresh air before cold-
storage claims them. Women were top-
dressed with hats slightly more unbeliev-
able than ever. First vote went against
the fish-net snoods that make the head
look rather like what Gracie Fields
would call “tha little pudden basin that
belonged to Auntie Flo.” Second in
disfavor came the wimple.
The large white hat that is going to be
so popular in about a month’s time made
premature appearance and killed its effect
by keeping company with fur cape or
jacket. Up the stairs to the stand tripped
heelless sandals showing mesh-heeled
stockings. Grey and blue seemed the
most favored colors. Chartreuse had its
backers. One girl even wore it in her
satin shoes. A saucy little hat that called
for a beauty patch on the cheekbone was
a tricorne black baku. This was attached
to the head by a wide black ribbon ban-
deau that finished in a large rosette trail-
ing two ribands.
There was a freshness in the air, and
as the day warmed up the fragrance
steamed from the grass and the pansies
in the A.J.C. monogram on the lawns.
In spite of war clouds there was an uplift
about the day. Lady Wakehurst and
daughter the Hon Henrietta Loder, back
from recent travels, were there as well as
Lord Wakehurst and Peter Lubbock.
The almost vice-regals from Brisbane, Pat
and Ella O’Shea, romped in and out.
Dod Falkiner brought an ink-blue
turban, a pleated black sheer frock and
a hip-length fox cape to the day’s ups
and downs. Mrs. Ralph Huntley’s curls
were massed under a sort of glorified
Welsh hat in miniature. Its little pointed
crown was of soft turquoise feather, its
brim was a row or two of cigar-brown
grosgrain. Mrs. Jim Normoyle fastened
the coat of her blue-and-white-striped
ensemble with heads of chess horses.
Mrs. Doll Clayton, whose good horse
Astounding carried this Letter’s ten bob,
wore a smart chartreuse-green hat with
her sandalwood-brown frock. Mrs. W.
Parsons’s brown velvet hat was edged
with fur. Silver fox caped the Reading
lady’s navy. Mrs. Barney Utz’s powder-
blue outfit had its smart hat edged with
fur. Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre’s black suit
and Constance Gibbons’s daffodil and
French blue outfit kept company. Lat-
ticed in white was the top of Mrs. Alan
McGregor’s black marocains. Mrs.
Roland Conway, Mrs. Whaland and Mrs.
Forrest Hughes, in mulberry crepes, were
keen punters.
One of many well-dressed Queens-
landers was Mrs. G. A. Holcombe. Grey
was her choice, as it was that of pretty
Ginette Scamps. Philippa Stephen and
Noreen Dangar had a busy day. Harry
Budge’s lady was there with Rosemary
and Sadie. Marcelle Bishop’s white felt
hat was just right with her pencil-striped
grey suit. Another smart wearer of grey
was Ainslie Baker. Mrs. Lionel Dare
was as pretty as ever. Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven’s pale-gold furs were noted. Two
smart girls were June Chamberlain and
Joan Ayrton. Mrs. Kirkland pinned
orchids on her black suit. The Dalkeith
McMasters were there.
All Saints’, Woollahra, linked Helen
Mary Loftus and Donald Alan Page last
Saturday. Donald is the eldest son of
medico-politician Earle Page. Bride’s
frock and veil were of lace, the Limerick
lace veil having been worn by her
mother, Mrs. W. Loftus, of Waverley, at
her wedding. Reception was at the Went-
worth. ’Groom’s brother Ivan best-
manned.
At one of the many Music Week enter-
tainments, the Conservatorium’s Dr.
Bainton remarked that Sydney has many
weeks: “Music Week, Health Week,
Book Week” “Nonsense,” mur-
mured the Girl in the Flat Opposite, “he’s
mixed up with the spring meeting. He
means Bookies’ Week.”
Including the hospital’s old friend Mrs.
White, sitting within the door taking
absentee votes, Anthony Horderns’ Fine
Art Gallery was the Mecca of Prince
Alfred’s friends all last week. The table-
setting competition waged amiable
rivalry. You went along and dropped
a treybit or two into your friend’s hat,
each threepence registering a vote in her
favor. There was a pre-wedding party
table, a wedding table, a christening table
and a bon voyage one —“the whole
cycle,” said the cynic, “from engagement
to divorce.” Mrs. Doll Clayton got off
to a flying start, just within the doors,
with her Derby Night scheme. The
centrepiece was a bronze horse with
jockey mount. Blue and gold streamers,
blue candles in brass holders and blue
and gold flowers carried out the idea.
All the appointments, including the
luscious rugs on which the tables stood,
were drawn from Anthony Horderns’
store. Mrs. Ben Edye, president of the
committee, chose satin-smooth damask
for her cloth and napkins. Here stood
an ivory-frosted wedding-cake, deep
ivory candles stood in silver-branched
candlesticks, pink and white japonica
brought from Bowral burned in a low
centre bowl. The service was Royal Staf-
fordshire.
The Harrie Vales, of Kirribilli, have an
extra sparkle in the home. It is supplied
by daughter Joyce’s engagement-ring.
George H. Fillingham, of Wollstone-
craft, is the affianced.
Mrs. C. Bouvet was one of the workers
who helped build up the success
of the White Ball last night. This was
at the Trocadero, and will help the cause
of Sydney’s Industrial Blind. Mrs.
Bouvet was one of the notably well-
dressed on the opening day of the spring
meeting. Falk photograph.
Two old-established firms, the Sydney
Hospital and the Australia Hotel, joined
forces when the former decided to swing
into a ball. This was the first Sydney
Hospital ball, and, in spite of rain, wind,
war, three other big dances, and a first
night at the Minerva, over 600 faced the
music. The dance had spacious ideas,
same as the original hospital, and
flowed from ballroom to banquet-room
with a small room in between where the
bridge-players made merry in the usual
rubber-tyred way. Sydney’s organiser,
Richard Chapman (he was Von
Luckner’s lecture tour manager in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and before that a
soldier in the 1914-18 war), was an early
arrival, and told how it takes a penny
a second to keep the Duchess of
Macquarie-street going. “A penny for
every tick of the clock,” is the way he
put it.
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland and Anne
Morell, busy and proud secretaries, were
on deck long before nine o’clock. Mrs.
Kirkland’s orchid-pink satins looked as
though they had been bought in one of
those smart shops on the Rue St. Honore,
which indeed they had. Anne Morell was
all blue and silver. Good-lookers were
the Howard Bullock couple. The material
in her frock was fascinating. Over its
soft black satin surface were scattered
loosely-tied knots of white carnations.
Flower compositions proved that Mrs.
Keith Cudmore is an artist in this work.
She had volunteered to do them all her-
self, and, with the help of sister-in-law,
had garnered in the blooms and set them
in radiant groupings of lily and poppy
and spring charmers. Posies were
donated by Mrs. George Parkes, who
was heard talking jam for Britain
to Mrs. Crawford Robertson. Ivory
lace and ermine made the latter look
like a Doulton figurine. The Nor-
man Paul lady was in pastel-blue satin.
Ball president was Mrs. B. S. B. Stevens.
One of the handsome was Matron
Kellett. The A. E. Colvins came from
Orange for the flutter. Minister for
Health FitzSimons was noted. All in all,
it was a good party.
Crowds rustled into the Minerva for
the first night of “I Killed the Count.”
This leaves an inspector of police em-
barrassed with four confessed murderers
on his hands and only one little bullet
wound in the corpse. Katrin Roselle and
Nancy Bird, black velvet and orchids
her adornments, were noted. So was
Helen Weihen’s blue feather muff. The
E. J. Taits were there, and so were the
David Martins. The Jack Gregorys
brought a party. Philip Lewis and Ken
Brodziak, both drama addicts, were
among those who laughed at this new
angle to the old triangle—corpse, motive,
murderer.
Brenda Dunrich, a cousin of England s
Sybil Thorndike, is carrying on the act-
ing tradition of the family. She is heard
in the Cecil group, whose plays are often
done over the A.B.C. network. Last
week Brenda, with Stephanie Edye, en-
tered a "morning after” —no, that should
be breakfast—table in the Prince Alfred
competition. You see, it couldn’t have
been a morning-after table, because all
the china was a cheerful yellow. Any-
way, the two girls levied quite a neat toll
on their friends and admirers. Falk
photograph.
With Glamor Boy No. 1 Malcolm Sar-
gent waving his wings over the orchestra,
last week’s celebrity orchestral concert
was headed straight for success. Mal-
colm’s impeccable tails, the white car-
nation in the buttonhole, the glossy hair,
had their reactions on the audience,
which sat up like elegant penguins and
Lenci dolls. New perms, were on many
a woman’s head; ermine brushed
shoulders with mink and sable. The
Lord High Tax Imposer would have
rubbed his hands with glee at the sight.
Pearls and diamonds gleamed. Some of
the frocks were suspect of being pur-
chases for preening before a royal duke
and duchess.
The red purple of Russian violets was
in Lady Wakehurst’s chiffons. With the
Governor and the Hon. Henrietta Loder,
she gazed down from the gallery. Her
flowers —daffodils and blue iris—had
been given to her by the wife of A.B.C.
chairman Cleary. The Hon. Henrietta’s
taffetas were white and spreading. Black
velvet and silver fox clothed Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar. Mink borders added
richness to Mrs. Crawford Robertson’s
gentian-blue chiffons. Mrs. C. L. Jones
wedded pearls and ermine. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly was erect and handsome in a black
frock, over which her velvet coat gleamed
deep turquoise. Mrs. Walter Burfitt
brought a party. Mrs. J. C. Windeyer
and Mrs. George Duncan were
applauders. Mrs. Pao, Noreen Dangar,
Valerie Purves and the Baintons were
others. Programmes were sold to help
the funds of Music Week. Mrs. Searight
and Miss N. Veitch were seen buying
theirs from Gladys Verona, who wore a
period frock in palest lilac. Singer Strella
Wilson looked pretty and sang like a
bird. Her frock of black net had bright
flowers appliqued on it.
The Derby Ball in aid of the Food
for Babies’ Fund was a joymaker last
Saturday. The Frederick McMasters, of
Dalkeith, were importants, the lady being
the ball president. Daughter Thelma was
attractive in one of the new shades of
blue. Jockey caps for all and a high
floral horse reminded of the day we cele-
brate. The Lapstone Hotel also put on
a good show of caps, whips and other
racing accoutrements. _ About 200
motored from town, including three
newly-engaged couples. Katrin Roselle
was another who made the long trek.
White Arctic fox over a white crinoline
sown was the right setting for her fair-
ness. A late supper featured hot spaghetti
on toast. Malcolm Sargent’s baton wove
magic into the night at the Town Hall-
Lady Gowrie with a group from Admir-
alty House was there. Newly-engaged
Guenda Bainton, too, with young man
Harold Abbott.
There’s a droughty stretch ahead of a
girl friend of this writer. She thinks that
the only cocktails worth drinking are
those she gets during race weeks, when
the various men’s clubs of the city are
thrown open to members’ girl friends.
The usual cards failing to appear, an
inquiry at the secretary’s office of both
the Union Club and the New South
Wales Club received the reply that their
Race Week mixtures of gin and the sexes
had been cancelled.
If you like model ’planes (you should
see the procession of youths poring over
them or waiting their turn to sit at the
control that wakes the gaudy little air-
craft in the glass case) you’ll be enthralled
by the Nancy Bird exhibition in David
Jones’s Market-street store. On every
side you are greeted by pictures of giant
airliners where whole families sit at meals
or individuals sleep smpothly while they
are carried through sunny terraces of
air, or along windy corridors under the
starry skies. Every inducement to travel
is there, even the maddening permeating
smell of leather travel goods. That’s
from a near-by department. Funnily
enough, gazing with eyes that refuse to
be surprised, a line of dolls stand oppo-
site an exhibit of model ’planes. “Up-
starts,” they seem to sneer. “Pharaoh’s
daughters played with our predecessors.”
William Morris Hughes, who was to have
opened the show, was ill and could not
come, so Mayor Norman Nock made
a neat job of it. The Gowrie lady looked
in, and was met with a guard of honor of
the Australian Women’s Air League.
The Peter Pan Ball filled Prince’s with
bubble and squeak last Thursday night.
Fun of the evening was Fishing. The
catch was a bottle, and for two bob you
could have a try. Rod and hook were
provided. Mrs. Alan McGregor made
the first kill. Black-and-white marquis-
ette was her raiment. Mrs. Ernest Watt,
who was the ball president, swirled black
nets. Mrs. Dick Allen, Mrs. Lennox
Bode and Bea Meeks wore sleek and
glowing garments. Mrs. Phillip Lloyd
Jones’s off-white laces were among the
looked-at-a-second-time. Mrs. C. Bouvet
and Mrs. Byron Wrigley were others
who frivolled for the cause. Sam Hor-
dern and Wal Anderson were among the
successful anglers.
That progressive principal of Hope-
wood House, Nancy Jobson, has
equipped a wing of the building as a
self-contained flat. Here the home-craft
students do independent housekeeping.
The flat has two bedrooms, a lounge-
dining-room and a model kitchen. The
lounge furnishings are in accordance with
the scheme worked out by the students in
their interior-decoration lessons. The
different groups of young housekeepers
are very proud of their flat, and the hall-
mark of popularity is to receive one of
their invitations to tea.
Mrs. Alan Nicholas, of New South
Head-road, Rose Bay, is full of plans for
the yearly fete in aid of the Anti-Tuber-
culosis Association of N.S.W. This will
be called “the Springtime Fair,” and will
be a gay blooming in the gardens of the
Fairfax lady’s home, Fairwater, Double
Bay. Saturday, October 28, is the date
which will be engraven on the hearts of
children enterprising enough to bring
their parents. Part of the grounds will
be turned over for their delight, thor-
oughly equipped with the joymakers that
youngsters from four upwards demand.
Special object of the fair is to help the
association to carry out the pathological
tests so essential in the early diagnosis
of t.b.


Personal and Missing Friends.
GERMANY—NELLIE BLENKHORN GER-
MANY, born 13/9/’BO, daughter of Henry
Blenkhorn Germany and Eleanor Lloyd, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., re the
estate of her mother Eleanor Germany (or Ger-
maine) deceased. It is stated that the said
daughter married, but her married name is
unknown.
ESTATE OF ALBERT JOHN SHARP.—WiII
ALBERT LIONEL SHARP, father of Albert
John Sharp, late of Alexandria, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney?.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1566 of 1939.
BETWEEN HELENA HERBERT Petitioner
And WILLIAM HERBERT Respondent.
TO WILLIAM HERBERT last heard of in
1913 at Windsor Road Paddington.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HELENA
HERBERT has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twentieth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 28th day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRANCIS J. KEANE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1755 of 1939.
BETWEEN FLORENCE CECILIA WILSON
(formerly Florence Cecilia Mulqueeny) of
Hornsby in the State of New South Wales
Petitioner
And WILLIAM FREDERICK WILSON
late of Turramurra in the State aforesaid
Respondent.
To WILLIAN FREDERICK WILSON late of
Turramurra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
CECILIA WILSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three (3) years and
upwards without just cause or excuse and take
notice that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-first day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Sep-
tember, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Buildings, 107-9 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1017 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH HOLMES EATOCK
Petitioner
And NOEL CHARLTON EATOCK Re-
spondent.
TO NOEL CHARLTON EATOCK late of
21 Stephen Street Balmain in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
HOLMES EATOCK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Eighteenth day
of December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of you not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
Dated this 25th day of September, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N- C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original,
Melbourne
chatter
Another Royal Show has come and
gone. In spite of the trouble just over
the horizon the season ran its full length,
and the Agricultural Society was pleased
about its carry-on decision. Night
sessions were popular, and the people
who always do what’s done came along
to see polo played under electric light,
with lapses now and then to check up
on the fattest woman in the world, the
daredevil motor-cyclists or the unfrozen
girl in a block of ice. Bob Ritchie,
Harold Austin and Jack Edgar, polo
players for Mansfield, deviated from the
darts boards to satisfy their credulity
about the tailed boy from Borneo. The
Alec Creswicks and Neville Palmers had
entry to the members’ stands. Colin
Anderson and Simon Fraser turned up
to see what was doing; so did Peter
Fraser, who gave his friends another
guess with his apache get-up —burglar
cap pulled over the eyes and strangula-
tion muffler. Sue Fraser was an excep-
tion among the tweedy young things of
her generation in all burgundy with
backless and toeless sandals and a
peasant hankie that went on and off her
hair, depending on the vigor of the
breeze.
Now that Melbourne’s Mayor and
Mayoress are in the war, they’re in it
up to their eyebrows. Theirs is to be
a term of office that will be tedious work,
with no pickings in the social way. Cr.
Coles will not be needing his knee-
breeches and silk hose for some time,
but his life is such a busy one that the
betting is he won’t put on any weight,
and there will be no ominous sounds of
splitting seams when the time comes for
shaking out mothballs, Mrs. Coles is
busy with her job of calling meetings, etc.
She makes speeches when she has to, and
is always tactful and amiable in the
process.
Last week she summoned a meeting
to the Town Hall for the purpose of an
Australian Comforts Fund. The com-
mittee was cut and dried by prearrange-
ment, so that things progressed with
speed, the only dissentients being the
squeaking chairs. The Lord Mayor, who
says that he’s no longer a person but
an institution, handed the mike along
the line of dais-dwellers. Included among
them was Mrs. Clarence Weber, ready
to face the world in boater hat and
feather and a highball of sky-blue and
cyclamen. There also were Mrs. I. H.
Moss (a white bird of peace in hat), Mrs.
R. G. Menzies, the Mann lady and Mrs.
A. A. Dunstan, whose penchant was for
dregs-of-wine.
A green hat bobbed up from the
sea of heads when Mrs. J. P.
Mulcahy (president of the central
women’s auxiliary of the R.S.L.) seconded
Mrs. Moss’s motion that Lady Dugan be
appointed patroness of the fund, and a
large area of battleship-grey millinery
moved into action when Dorothy Har-
land, who is secretary of the C.W.A.,
deputised for the association’s president,
Mrs. O. A. Hicken, in supporting an-
other motion. Mrs. Hume Turnbull had
a word to say in favor of comforts for
the troops at Darwin, with the result
that a few hours later she received a bil-
liard table for the lads in the north. Mrs.
H. B. Crane brought to the meeting a
paragon of virtue of cocker spaniels,
which kept so silent that everybody
thought she was wearing her fur under
her arm.
General Blarney not only offered his
services to the Comforts Fund, but came
to the meeting. Seeing him there was
as surprising as the news would be that
Von Ribbentrop was in camp with the
Boy Scouts. Two days later came news
of his appointment as head of the new
special-service force, and much was ex-
plained.
The Town and Gown Guild already
has its nose to the ground on the track
of war work —which doesn’t mean it is
shelving its assistance for the University
Union, for which it raised over £4OO dur-
ing the last year. Dippings out of this
sum have given the University film pro-
jectors, so that picture nights in the Union
Theatre have become very popular
among the students. Sun blinds are an-
other acquisition much appreciated by
those intent on absorbing knowledge.
At last week’s Guild meeting the new
warden, J. S. Rogers, delivered a speech
of thanks (his predecessor, Dr. Bryden,
has left with Mrs. Bryden to undertake
new responsibilities at Knox Grammar
School, Wahroonga). Others present in-
eluded Mrs. George Stevenson, in the
chair ; Mrs. Leif Due, full of ideas about
her bridge party on October 25 for the
Guild and Comforts Fund ; Mrs. J. D.
G. Medley, who announced an anony-
mous donation of £lOO to start off the
University war chest; Mrs. J. B. Tait
and Mrs. L. J. McConnan. Frank
Brooks, borrowed from the local bank,
was kept busy at the door receiving dona-
tions in cash.
The Town and Gown Guild made re-
solutions to go straight home and cast
stitches on its knitting needles for the
Lady Mayoress’s Comforts Fund. Other
University groups, including the Staff
and Distaff, Women Grads., the Univer-
sity Office Group and the M.U.W., are
concerned with clothes for evacuated
children. Those who can’t sew will knit,
and vice versa. Those who can’t do either
will leam, or they’ll cut out materials
according to higher mathematics, pro-
ducing no doubt great numbers of gar-
ments out of small pieces of material.
A room at the University is in use as a
sewing-supplies and sorting depot.
In the Spencer Shier photograph is
Joan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Leigh
Falkiner, who left Melbourne in August
for India and was married there three
weeks ago to the Nawab of Palanpur.
The Nawab is entitled to the handle of
“his Highness,” is a lieut.-colonel and
an honorary aide to the King. He’s a
Moslem, is 56 and has a son and a
daughter. He and Joan, who is a slim
brunette with brown eyes and ivory com-
plexion, met at Freiburg in Germany.
Small girls in brown uniforms holding
brown-paper bags which moved and
squeaked were seen last week. Some-
times tragedies happened—the tightly-
clutched bags became silent and inani-
mate (and possibly a number of mothers
were saved the bother of knowing what
to do with their contents). The little
Brownies were returning from visits to
the Guides’ Walkabout, where they
had spent their pennies on day-old
chicks sold as fast as they were hatched
by the Guides attached to the Outer
Southern Suburbs stall. Their display
was the life history of the fowl. Fresh
eggs were sold ; also cakes cooked on the
spot, and, in the afternoons and even-
ings, pancakes. These were serious rivals
to the chicks, and presented problems
for the Guides nearly at the end of their
financial resources. They could hear the
chicks, but the smell of the pancakes
was equally provocative.
The Walkabout lasted six days of
from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. in the Town
Hall. All districts were represented, and
all of the 9000 Guides scattered over the
State were interested in its success. The
Wimmera gave a display of agriculture,
and ground and bagged wheat on the
spot, selling it in the form of wholemeal
flour. North-eastern Country Districts
presented a station with models of Here-
ford cattle and merino sheep, whose
history, as told upon the back cloth, com-
menced when merinos were brought
to this country by the adventurous Mrs.
Forlonge.
Ballarat chose mining and weaving;
Clunes, goldmining, poultry and farm-
ing ; Daylesford, its spa. Hamilton
and Coleraine collaborated with a spin-
ning-wheel, Berwick and Crowden sent
flowers and rock gardens (with mallee
roots and effective rocks), Gippsland dis-
played the pride of its heart in dairy
cows, and Barwon sent along a story
told in salt. The Eastern Suburbs built
a miniature Mrs. Latrobe’s cottage, with
produce sold through the windows of
her pantry.
The Western Suburbs erected a hos-
pital several storeys high and sold its
doll inmates, doctor by doctor and
nurse by nurse; also all the patients and
the furniture. The South-west Suburbs
offered their goods from the decks of an
oil-tanker at Port Melbourne. Canter-
bury, Surrey Hills and other Outer
Eastern Suburbs produced “White Horse
Inn,” with a tap-room full of barrels to
seat its patrons assuaging thirsts with
fruity drinks. The Northern Country
Districts ran a lucky dip goldmine with
the shaft down into the cellar where the
Town Hall stores its chairs. Upper
Goulburn had a brown-paper mill, Mil-
dura was, of course, an orange orchard,
Dandenong a Covent Garden market,
and Glen Iris and its hinterland a milk
bar. The Extension Guides displayed in-
teresting craft work. The Lone (or
correspondence) Guides also contributed
a stall, and a committee of Guides’
mothers organised teas and lunches in
the Coll ins-street foyer. Sir Winston
Dugan declared the Walkabout open and
wished it luck.
The Aero Club Ball was Camille
North’s lucky night out, for round her
neck was a paper lei with a number
attached which opens the cabin door for
her of a commercial ’plane bound for
either Adelaide or Sydney. As this will
be her first experience of travelling off
the ground she’s very excited about her
piece of good fortune. The dance at the
Palais was a merry one, and crowded
enough to be good fun without a squash.
Proceeds went to the new ’plane fund,
which will accumulate interest until such
a time as a ’plane can be purchased for
cash.
Among those who presented official
or semi-official fronts to the party were
C. D. Elder and Captain R. G. Francis,
complete with respective wives; Cyril
Power, jovial as always ; T. H. Mitchell;
Mrs. H. Hughes (wife of the club in-
structor), in chiffon of fruit-juice mix-
tures ; Loris Lerew, in bouffant black
net; and Dulcie Anwin, dancing in pastel-
blue satin. Claire Thompson looked
fairer than ever in white, and brunette
Nan Jacobs, also in white, glamorised her
hair into Edwardian ringlets. Wing-Com-
mander Scherger was present with his
better half, who had plucked the shades
of her chiffon frock layer by layer from
beds of cinerarias and petunias. Flight-
Lieut. Dixie Chapman and Flight-Lieut.
John Lerew were noticed missing none of
the fun.
In this Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Ethel Lanser, who is chief of the Mel-
bourne centre of the Women’s League of
Health. She believes that prevention is
better than cure, and when she took up
her present line of work was an experi-
enced nurse with a triple certificate. She
had always realised the importance of
posture and deportment for good health,
particularly in relation to mothers and
babies —which was why the little “leap-
ing-lady” badge of the League of Health
caught her eye for its very joie de vivre,
directing her steps to the League’s head-
quarters in Sydney, where her inquiries
resulted in her taking an instructor’s
course.
Miss Lanser is an excellent advertise-
ment for physical fitness. To look at her
no one would guess that she finished her
training at the Royal North Shore Hos-
pital in 1917, that she served with the
Australian Army Nurses in Egypt and
Salonika, had two years’ experience in
Canada and the U.S.A., did courses in
obstetrics and mothercraft and went
through several hard and adventurous
years of bush nursing. She travelled
abroad ? recently, making use of her 12
months’ leave of absence from Canberra
(where for seven years she was chief of
the Baby Health Centres) to study
mothercraft at St. Thomas’s and other
well-known English hospitals.
Miss Lanser became acquainted with
heat, dust and flies when she was sent to
open a Bush Nursing centre at Hunger-
ford, back of Bourke and more so on the
border of N.S.W. and Queensland.
There’s a fence on the boundary which
regularly has to be dug out of drifting
sands, and there’s a gate in the township
which is locked at night, so Miss Lanser
and others who lived in Queensland had
to use unorthodox methods of getting into
N. S. Wales after dark. When she quali-
fied in League of Health work “Lans,” as
she is known to fellow-instructors and
students, was given charge of the New-
castle centre, from which she opened the
Hunter River branches. She managed
both Goulburn and Canberra before
being appointed to Melbourne. She
loves her work, and has never regretted
her decision in taking it up.


/
PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR LICENSES
tmmm
wmtmi
x '4
SK
The new premises erected by The College of Civil Aviation at Kingsford Smith
Aerodrome, Mascot. Thoroughly equipped with aero engines, aircraft, machines,
tools, etc., for the complete training of ground engineers. The first building
of its kind erected on any aerodrome in the Commonwealth for the specific
purpose of housing a ground engineering instructional school.
THE COUNTRY NEEDS GROUND
ENGINEERS A S WELL AS PILOTS
The College of Civil Aviation provides a complete course of
lectures, demonstrations, etc., by experienced aviation engineers.
The College of Civil Aviation is in constant touch with the technical officers
of the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation, with whom the syllabus
has been lodged. This will ensure that the training shall at all times be satis-
factory to the Department.
IV. Kingsford Smith, Managing Director.
CALI OB WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
The College of Civil Aviation, Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney
The College of Civil Aviation, Dept. 14,14-16 Moray St., Sth. Melb., 5.C.5.
COLLEGE OF
n
Si
m
-
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
sdf
fOR WifiK M€N AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glanas.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
1319 George St., Sydney
821
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
THE FLYING COLUMN
The 'Planes of Yesteryear.
“Aileron”: Strange to look back at the
beginnings of the last war and the flying
machines of the time, and surprising how
little change there has been in principle.
Early in 1913, the wonder of the air
was a Fokker, “said to be automatically
stable in the air.” It was a low-wing
monoplane mounted on four small bi-
cycle-type landing wheels carried on
skids, to which the Venetian-blind wings
were anchored by a maze of wires. The
whole thing looked like a strange bird
caught in a spider’s web, but it won the
Russian military trials that year, and
was used to make “the altitude record
for female pilots.”
Then there was the helicoplane—a
hybrid monoplane and heliocopter, again
strangely modern in principle, but in ap-
pearance suggesting a combined cow-
shed, stump-jump plough and child’s
gymnastic outfit.
British machine progress was marked
in 1913 by the appearance of the
Coventry Ordnance biplane, powered
with a 100-h.p. Gnome. It was adver-
tised as having a great range of speed—
from 30 to 60 m.p.h. Its basic lines
were familiar in most light ’planes up to
the pre-depression Moths. They were
already talking streamlining seriously, and
somebody had invented a machine with
a “boat” for the pilot to sit in. The
great names were Short, Sopwith,
Grahame White, Farman, Caproni and
Fokker, and there was great talk about
the new Flanders—“an all-British bi-
plane.”
When war broke out, the R.N.A.S.
had three balloons and a whole 93
heavier-than-air machines —three squad-
rons. The R.F.C. had four squadrons
and 179 machines, and total personnel of
both forces was 197 officers and 1647
other ranks. The R.N.A.S. was hurriedly
augmented and sent to Belgium with the
Naval Division to help Mr. Churchill to
save Antwerp ; many of their buses, flown
from carriers, did good work in the pro-
tection of shipping, and even made
attacks on the Frisian coast of Germany.
Later, they formed the basis of the Dun-
kirk force used to attack Ostend and
Zeebrugge.
The first four R.F.C. squadrons went
to France on August 13, 1914. Their
first landing was at Amiens, and thence
they flew to Maubeuge. They took part
in the retreat from Mons, where they
lost heavily in men and machines. But
by October, 1918, there were 22,171
machines on charge and 37,702 engines,
and the strength of the R.A.F. (a com-
bination of the naval and military
wings) wasi 27,906 machines and
291,748 men.
From such figures it is possible to
vision the kind of development which
may be expected if the present war lasts
“Cleaning your nails on sentry-go. Come , come!
three years. In the first 10 months of
1918 Britain built 26,685 machines and
nearly 30,000 engines. During the war,
Britons accounted for 7908 enemy
machines, lost only 2810, dropped 8000
tons of bombs and fired 12,000,000
rounds at ground targets.
“Imbros”: The Admiralty report that
an aircraft attack on a squadron of British
ships off Norway failed, and that not
a single ship was hit, doesn’t surprise me.
Neither does the German assertion
that the R.A.F. lost five ’planes in
a counter-attack on warships in “the
Bight of Heligoland.” Ships steam-
ing at speed and manoeuvring rapidly
will take some hitting, especially if
the attacking aircraft are high-speed
machines. It is hard to score on a sitting
target, for from anything above 4000 ft.
they present only a small objective in
bomb sights. Early in 1918 R.N.A.S.
squadrons operating from Imbros and
Mudros had a perfect target, if ever
there was one, when the Goeben ran
aground at Nagara Point. After two
days and nights’ intensive bombing, she
was refloated under the nose of bombing
aircraft, and got back to the Bosphorus
without casualties. One effort comprised
the slinging under the nacelle of a
Maurice Farman Shorthorn of a depth
charge with contact detonators. That
thudded into the sand alongside the
Goeben and proved a dud, after the
’plane had staggered there from Imbros
under the heavy load.
* * * *
The Douglas airliner Pengana had a
narrow escape when taking off from
Kingsford Smith aerodrome in Sydney.
The machine had nine passengers and a
stewardess aboard. It was raining heavily,
and there was a strong wind. The Pen-
gana was barely in the air and had not
full flying way on when the port engine
cut out. Douglas Way banked and swung
eastward along Cook’s River, into which
he pancaked as if he were bringing down
a flying-boat. The Pengana came to rest
with her nose on a jutting piece of mud
beside the bank. The passengers scarcely
felt the jolt. The port wing was damaged,
as was the landing gear through the drag
of the mud bottom, but that was all.
Way’s was a nice piece of quick thinking.
* * * *
Squadron-Leader H. D. McGregor has
snared a D.S.O. in the Palestine
campaign. Hailing from Napier, M.L.,
McGregor joined the R.A.F. at 18,
and became the youngest flying officer
in the force. He was a squadron-
leader at 27. He went to Palestine last
November, was sent to headquarters at
Ismailia and won his medal in a scrap
with Arab machine-gunners, from which
he returned with 27 bullet holes in fuse-
lage and wings.
•!*'!*
“Dunkerque”: Friedrichshafen has
been raided by French warplanes. Just
previous to the outbreak of war, Ger-
many’s latest airship, the Graf Zeppelin,
was housed there. The attack may
have been inspired by a report that
Germany and Russia are to main-
tain an airship service between Ber-
lin and Moscow, but whether on
the ground or in the air the airship
with its vast bulk will be an easy mark
foi high-speed fighters and bombers.
Friedrichshafen was one of the earliest
targets for the R.N.A.S. in the last war,
two Zepps being destroyed in its sheds.
* * * *
“D.”: The geodetic principle, one of the
most important recent developments in
aircraft construction, uses crisscrossed
strips of material to form a basketlike
framework for wing or fuselage. Thus
stresses which previously were shared by
the “skin” and sparlike internal members
are distributed over the entire surface.
Each strip is stiffened against permanent
bending or twisting by its fellow-strips,
and damaged parts are easily replaced.
The first aircraft so designed to be seen
in Australia were the Vickers Wellesley
bombers which established a non-stop
record from Ismailia (Egypt) to Darwin.
The R.A.F. is now using an even more
formidable twin-engined type Wellington.
It can carry heavier loads than any other
high-speed bomber known—fuel suffi-
cient for a 3250-mile
journey in addition to
a heavy load of bombs.
* *
The new German air-
craft-c arriers are
equipped to fight sea-
going cruisers apart
from being floating
hangars for 40 bombers.
Our own new 22,000-
ton aircraft-carriers of
the Ark Royal class
carry 16 4.5 m. guns;
the German type carries
16 5.9’s —plus 10 4in.
AA and 22 37mm. jobs.
It has a speed of 32.5
knots —the same as our
Australia and Can-
berra.
-I*
“Icarus”: Since de-
tails of the new national
flying training scheme
were announced there
has been a rush to take
advantage of it —many thousands of
applicants have put their names down.
’Planes are available for early-stage train-
ing, but a supply of instructor-pilots is
needed. Many a pilot too old for active
R.A.A.F. flying could lend a hand.
Volunteers will be welcome.
* * * $
“D.8.K.”: Latest in aeroplane pro-
pellers is an Italian development of an
idea the U.S.A. claims was tried there
years ago. Built by the Alfa-Romeo Co.,
the Italian version is electrically operated.
It can be feathered completely, controlled
for normal flight, or entirely reversed.
Rapid pitch variation is made possible
by the use of a small electric motor
drawing only 1.5 amperes. To avoid the
effect of inertia while regulating the
pitch the electric motor is equipped with
an electro-magnetic brake which stops
motion as soon as the current is cut off.
Addition of a regulator makes the system
automatic. Unlike other types of propel-
lers, the electric motor and accessories
do not rotate with the propeller ; hence
they are not subjected to centrifugal force,
vibration or friction. The entire driving
mechanism is contained in a box at the
rear of the propeller boss. In flight tests
with a Cant seaplane the Italians found
that normal flight with full load was
possible by using one of the three engines.
* * * *
“Wingwarp”: Dead in England at 56,
R. L. Howard-Flanders, one of Britain’s
aviation pioneers. In 1908 his imagi-
nation was fired by the exploits of the
Wrights, and from 1909 he devoted him-
self to the making of aeroplanes.
Flanders favored monoplane design, and
in 1914 had several monoplanes on order
for the War Office. Then the authorities
decided in favor of biplane designs and
banned all single-wing structures. A
serious motoring accident resulted in
Flanders having to close .his firm down,
but later he joined Vickers and was en-
gaged there on aircraft design until 1917.
A year ago he joined the engine design-
ing staff of the Bristol co.


I
No. 163
TUMBA
"PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD"
£lO/17/6
(MOUNTED)
A High-grade
Saddle with
narrowest pos-
sible grip and com-
fortable non-chafing
seat. First-class materials used
throughout. N.S.W. Rail on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
Write for New Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER * STEVENSON ETE
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
in
m
sss
r *
otitect (rvct
UrMu, fwWWUj.
. . . Rest will recover a child's
energy; but only new valves
can bring back the original
brilliance to your radio . . .
Revalve
with
71
Sealed for your protection
THE SERVICE MAN
Lord High Admiral Churchill.
Mr. Winston Spencer Churchill has
never been a modest politician, and if he
chooses he is entitled to boast that he in-
duced a long-reluctant Government to
accept “in principle” his proposal for a
Grand Alliance like the other Churchill’s.
In this he had the support of the Glamor
Boys and the Stunt Press, but most of
such credit as there may be is rightfully
his.
The Churchill idea of a Grand Alli-
ance was that 10 countries should come
in with Britain and France ; above all,
the U.S.S.R., which Mr. Churchill wanted
to fight in 1919-20. In the end only one
did, though ten or a dozen were no doubt
sounded. Guarantees were offered to and
credits bestowed on four countries. Some
of those who were for the guarantees and
credits (The Bulletin was not among
them) are now perhaps musing with
regret and contrition on the melancholy
fate of that one member of the Grand
Alliance or grand mistake.
Mr. Churchill has no time for any
such feelings. Before the thunderbolt
fell on Poland, he was summoned back
to the Admiralty as First Lord. When
he was there before, he “planned Gal-
lipoli.” What the plans were like has
been recorded by a British Commission,
Sir lan Hamilton and a hundred other
first-hand witnesses, some of whom wrote
with exceeding bitterness; anyway, they
were dashed off while Mr. Churchill was
imitating Marlborough to the best of his
ability. He showed Fisher how to run
the Navy, Kitchener how to organise vic-
tory on land and the Belgians how to
save Antwerp—by making a speech there
—and he gave French the benefit of his
advice on how to command armies in the
field.
Lord Esher, the confidant of Kings,
Prime Ministers, leaders of the Opposi-
tion, admirals, generals and editors, knew
Mr. Churchill, and in his Journals and
Letters has written the inside history of
some of Mr. Churchill’s war perform-
ances. The story begins with “the Ant-
werp expedition.”
December 22, 1914: On Friday Winston
went off for his week-end at the Front.
When he got to Ashford he received a
telegram telling him of the probable fall
of Antwerp. He returned to London and
found Kitchener, in his dressing-gown, in
conference with Grey.
Winston pleaded to be allowed to go to
Antwerp. After a long discussion, with-
out anything having been definitely settled,
he left the room and never reappeared.
He went straight off to Antwerp, where he
delivered his famous harangue. It then
dawned upon him that he had pledged the
Government without authority. He sent a
telegram resigning his office and asking to
be appointed a brigadier-general in com-
mand of the Naval Brigade; this was, of
course, not approved. The rest of the facts
are well known.
Too well known. A month later this
extraordinary First Lord of the Admir-
alty was quarrelling with the greatest sea-
man of the age.
Jan. 29: I saw Fisher this morning; he
was in low spirits... .At the bottom of
this depression lies uncertainty on very
material points affecting the functions of
the Navy. He finds Winston very brilliant,
but too changeable; he has a different
scheme every day.
Yesterday the Aulic Council [War Cabi-
net] sat till eight o’clock. Fisher grew so
irritated that he rose and walked to the
window. Kitchener got up and asked him
what was wrong, and he said he would
have to resign. Later on, the Prime
Minister had an interview with Fisher and
Winston, and acted as arbitrator upon their
differences, which are occasmned by the
proposed operations in Gallipoli. Win-
ston has gone abroad to see Sir John
[French], and possibly to see Joffre.
Mr. Churchill continued to go abroad
“to see Sir John,” who was quarrelling
with Kitchener, “the least vindictive of
men,” and with Joffre. Lord Esher pro-
ceeds :
May 14, 1915: On getting home to-night,
I found a note from Lord Kitchener con-
taining these words: “I am deadly sick of
this system of intrigue with headquarters,
and if I get an excuse I shall take it and
get out of it all.”
Churchill’s visits to headquarters are a
deep-seated cause of trouble; he goes over
very frequently from here [i.e. f from
London to France] and discusses matters
with Sir John which should be, and are,
exclusively within the sphere of Lord K.
Fisher had already decided to “get out
of it all.”
May 15: The King told me that Fisher
has resigned. The endless quarrels with
Churchill have come to a head. Both
Fisher and Churchill offered their resigna-
tions and the Prime Minister refused to
accept Churchill’s. The King sees that
Fisher’s resignation at such a moment is
bound to have a deplorable, if not a disas-
trous, effect upon the public, not only at
home but abroad.
May 17: This morning a telephone mes-
sage came from Bonar Law asking to see
me He began at once about Fisher and
said that he felt bound not to accept
Fisher’s resignation. He....spoke of a
coalition Government.
I saw Fisher later in the day, and he
told me it was impossible for him to stay
any longer at the Admiralty with Churchill.
He had disapproved of the Dardanelles
operations from the beginning; but was
overruled. He says that the Grand Fleet
has been dangerously weakened and that,
in fact, the whole margin of preponder-
ance over the Germans has been sent to the
!N"c<ir Ecist#
Beside all this very grave difference of
views in matters of high strategy, he
complains of Churchill’s methods of cor-
responding with the admirals in the
Mediterranean and his whole plan of con-
cealment He showed me a very strong
minute written by the Lords of the
Admiralty endorsing his views.
So the Empire lost Fisher’s services and
presently the Navy lost those of Mr.
Churchill. A coalition Government was
formed and the Conservatives refused
to work with him.
After 24 years Mr. Churchill is back
in the position in which Fisher found
him intolerable. At 65 he is more elo-
quent than ever, and this time he has an
enthusiastic press. Possibly he has learned
something from his former follies and
has ceased to be the restless meddling
amateur ; of this there is no evidence.
Breaking the silence of the Government
he announced that the anti-submarine
measures had been very successful. The
Prime Minister had mentioned the de-
struction of six or seven U-boats: “this
represents only a fraction of the sub-
marines destroyed in the first two weeks
of the war” ; and, whereas 100,000 tons
of merchant shipping had been lost in
the first week, in the six days prior to
September 26 the losses were only 9000
tons. He said other things, all in the old
Churchillian vein.
The anti-submarine measures were
planned during Mr. Churchill’s long
absence from the Admiralty, and are
being carried out in every detail by the
Royal Navy ; but there is an obvious dis-
position to give the whole credit to Mr.
Churchill. The Royal Navy can be
trusted to continue and improve on the
good work, and it would be a calamity
if Mr. Churchill meddled with it in his
1914-15 manner.
It would be a worse calamity if he
became Prime Minister. A newspaper
campaign with that object is very pal-
pably beginning. Such an appointment
would be particularly distasteful to a
country which, while ill-acquainted with
the inside story of Mr. Churchill’s naval
administration, remembers only too well
how he “planned Gallipoli.”
The R.A.N. at Work.
According to Defence Minister Street,
the R.A.N. has had a busy time since
the outbreak of war. Regular patrols
were established even before the third
of September, and (including 2000 in
naval depots and on merchant craft)
about 7500 officers and men are em-
ployed.
On the declaration of war R.A.N. and
R.A.A.F. men were sent to Darwin by
air for special service, and every route
of entry and every exit of importance
were put under sea watch. Systems of
warning for ships at sea and search for
contraband on incoming vessels were
established.
Many merchant vessels have been
taken over, armed for the use of the
Admiralty for general service or placed
under control of the Naval Board for
local service. There is a thorough link-
up with the China station, Singapore and
M.L. Converted merchant vessels are
manned by both R.A.N. and R.A.N.V.
men, and there are still vacancies for
telegraphists and A.Bs.
Lastly, a volunteer coastal patrol, com-
posed mainly of private citizens, is
operating.
State quotas for the new A.I.F. have
been fixed provisionally at:
Queensland: 109 officers, 2397 other
ranks. Total, 2506.
New South Wales: 293 officers, 6201
other ranks. Total, 6494.
Victoria: 282 officers, 5816 other ranks.
Total, 6098.
South Australia: 63 officers, 1364 other
ranks. Total, 1427.
Western Australia: 53 officers, 1226 other
ranks. Total, 1279.
Tasmania: 36 officers, 831 other ranks.
Total, 867.
Northern Territory: Five officers, 111
other ranks. Total, 116.
Grand total: 841 officers, 17,946 other
ranks.
The allotment is in accordance with the
proportion of existing militia forces.
Reinforcement numbers and allocations
have yet to be decided on. Meanwhile,
showgrounds are being considered as pos-
sible camps, and Sydney R.A.S. Ground
is already occupied by a base head-
quarters.
An old A.I.F. man, Blarney, is to
command the new A.I.F. He is 55.
* * * *
Of 3237 volunteers submitted to medi-
cal examination in Wellington (M.L.)
military district only 481 were rated per-
manently unfit, but 1003 were classed
temporarily unfit —the majority pending
dental attention. Wanganui and Napier
put up the best showing. The former
turned out 142 fit men, 42 temporarily
unfit and only 27 rejects. Napier had
325 who passed the doctor, 111 deferred
and 98 refused.
* * * *
Command training schools will be
operating shortly in all States. They will
first embrace subalterns and non-coms,
from infantry, light horse and artillery,
but later technical units will be dealt
with. Southern Command school at
Seymour, Victoria, will begin work
under Major R. King on October 9. The
Northern Command school will function
at Enoggera, Q., under Major H. D.
Morgan. Major Bundy will be in charge
of the Eastern Command effort at Liver-
pool, N.S.W., and Major J. E. Barrett at
Guildford, W.A.
* * * *
“R.N.A.S.”: Moscow radio proudly
reports that Polish “landowners” who re-
sisted Stalin’s braves were taken prisoner
and shot. As a youngster in Russia in
1919 I had first-hand evidence of what
happens to “landowners” who defend
themselves against the invincible Red
Army. Our detachment arrived at a
pathetic farmhouse, about the size of a
small Australian homestead, near a Cas-
pian village. Around it lay the mutilated
bodies of the occupants and of neighbor-
ing peasants. Sheep had been driven into
the stone-walled house until it was so
packed that they couldn’t move; doors
had been blocked with boulders and
crude oil flung inside and fired. Other
horrors come back to memory; but that
is enough.
* * * *
First M.H.R. to volunteer for service
in the new A.I.F. was W. J. Hutchinson.
Hutchinson is 35, a grazier, educated at
Scotch College, Melbourne, who gradu-
ated into politics via the Young
Nationalist Asssociation. He was one of
the Parliamentary delegates to the Jubilee
celebrations of King George V. in Lon-
don. He won the Indi seat in 1931 and
1934, and after the Victorian redistribu-
tion transferred to Deakin.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: That story of Russian troops
passing through England in sealed trains
early in the 1914-18 war (B. 27 / 9 / ’39)
was a bit of British propaganda engi-
neered by the War Office for the delusion
of Fritz. No Russian troops ever set foot
in England, but several “landings” took
place and trains were whisked from
northern ports southwards with British
troops dressed to look the part.
* * * *
“Ex-R.A.F.”: U-boats have been
reported on both sides of the North
American continent, on the Cape route
and'—from India, oddly enough—in the
Mediterranean. Which reminds me.
I was at Stavros harbor, Macedonia,
in August, 1918. After mess a few
of us had a swim through deep
water out to a sandbank. Suddenly
there was a terrific explosion, and I saw
steel plates careering skywards from the
port side of H.M.S. Endymion, moored
in the harbor, and a cloud of smoke.
Boiler explosion, I thought, but Endy-
mion heeled slowly over as her blistered
hull filled. Next thing, H.M.S. Aber-
crombie, a shallow-draught monitor
moored ahead of Endymion, opened
fire with heavy calibre shell at a point
not far from our sandbank, and we
caught sight of the periscope wake of a
sub. as it dived off and out to sea. The
U-boat had sneaked under the boom
defence, pipped Endymion and fired a
second torpedo at Abercrombie. That
missed and passed under the stern, where
it finished up on the shingled beach with-
out exploding. The sub. got clear
away.
* * * *
The Rhodes Trust has agreed to the
suspension of all scholarships . for the
period of the war, during the term of
a holder’s service. Scholars who serve
will be able to take up their scholarships
on demobilisation at the same stage,
losing none of the benefits.
* * * *
“D.”: North Auckland Maori leaders
brought a hornets’ nest about their
ears by a resolution against the send-
ing of a Maori battalion overseas.
A second conference representative
of all North Island Maoris, which
had met to discuss participation in
the Waitangi centennial celebrations,
decided that Maoris should fight side by
side with the pakeha in whatever sphere
might be assigned to M.L. troops. They
will have nothing to do with the Gov-
ernment’s suggestion that the Pioneer
Battalion organised in the last war should
be revived. They are all for the front-
line infantry. It was suggested that the
battalion might be called the Waitangi
Treaty Battalion, but the majority favored
reviving the Hoko Whitu a Tu (Fighting
Force), which designated the first Maori
troops raised in the last war. It was
remarked that, with the Maoris, con-
scription would be unnecessary. Every
man of fighting age would be available.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIM WADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.-; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wra, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, S'ydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South At ales, so th^ e e®X tat X’
ihroutrh the leading Banking Institutions covering’ Australasia and the YVoila, tins
Bank the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, typist, seeks typing work; used
to handling authors’ manuscripts. —4859.
Student, Sydney, studying Diesel engineering,
seeks position offering advancement. —4846.
Journalist-author, married, original Anzac,
M. 25 years’ staff work city, country, cadet
to managing editor, now assistant sub-editor
and leader-writer of leading provincial daily,
wants to improve position. Refs. —4823.
Tutor desires position teaching children on
station or elsewhere in Q’land or N.S.W.
Refs.—4B27.
Architectural draftsman and' active building
supervisor (46), abstainer, exp. country con-
ditions throughout C’wealth, brick, concrete,
timber structures, wants employment anywhere.
Salary and commission on results. —4829.
Young man, Sydney, would like to invest
capital in small manufacturing business likely
to expand.—4B66.
Man (40), married, seeks position caretaker,
gardener, houseman, drive car; five years last
position. —4868.
Gentleman, Sydney, seeks position as lift-
driver.—4BBo.
Active middle-aged kitchenman, Sydney,
useful, clean, sober, institute experience, wants
situation country or city. Refs. —4836.
To buy “Hair Culture,” a McFadden publi-
cation.—-4837.
To buy copies of books of Australian verse
published 1820 to 1840. —4810.
To buy copy of Malcolm’s Graphic States. —
4862.
Words of recitation “Lasca.”—4B2s.
Words Of old Australian bush song beginning
“There’s his hoof upOT the chimney, there’s
his hide upon the chair.” —4893.
Information Sought.
What was the cause of the Eureka Stockade
incident, and where could l read a full account
of the affair ?— 4925.
The Eureka Stockade incident was the out-
come of a license-fee of 30s. per month (later
reduced to 20s. per month) imposed on all
miners by the Vic. Government in 1852. It
was further due to the fact that the police en-
trusted with the collection of the fee were
largely recruited from Tasmania, and some of
them were suspected of accepting bribes. The
ill-feeling between the diggers and the author-
ities was brought to a head by the murder of
James Scobie, a miner, and the acquittal of a
hotelkeeper accused of the crime. There followed
a riot at a meeting of protest held by the
diggers. The miners then made a bonfire of
their licenses, erected a stockade and defied
the military, but were routed in a surprise
attack in the course of which 21 men were
killed. The story is told in Ross’s Eureka,
Wither’s History of Ballarat, Turner’s Our Own
Little Rebellion and Spielvogel’s The Affair at
Eureka.
* * * *
Has the advance of settlement materially
affected the climate of Australia ? —4849.
Australian history does not cover a sufficient
period nor is the country sufficiently occupied
to ascertain whether it has materially affected
the climate as a whole. Local changes have,
however, taken place. For example, the mean
temperature of Sydney shows a rise of two-
tenths of a degree during the last 20 years,
probably due to the great increase of residences
and buildings within the city and suburbs.
Again, low-lying lands on the north coast of
N. which originally were seldom subject
to frosts, have, with the denudation of the
surrounding hills of forests, experienced annual
visitations, probably because, through the
absence of trees, the cold air of the high lands
now flows unchecked and untempered down the
sides of the hills to the valleys and lower lands.
* * * *
(1) Percentages of foreign nationals to the
numbers born in the corresponding foreign
birthplaces resident in Australia at the 1933
census? (2) Humber of foreign nationals,
according to countries of allegiance, resident in
Australia at the 1933 census? —4828.
(1) Japanese nationals 92 p.c. of the
Japanese-born, Chinese 91 p.c., Yugoslavian
71 p.c., Greek 68 p.c., Italian 66 p.c., Russian
42 p.c., U.S.A. 42 p.c., German 22 p.c. (2)
Chinese 7792, Danish 1279, Dutch 915, Estonian
838, Finnish 1062, French 1647, German 3672,
Greek 5652, Italian 17,658, Japanese 2084, Nor-
wegian 1238, Polish 1757, Russian 2055, Spanish
596, Swedish 1370, Swiss 952, American 2557,
Yugoslavian 2826, others (including not stated)
4371.
* * * *
Particulars regarding bridge built in England
without bolts or rivets and advantages claimed
for this type of bridge? —4B43.
The London Passenger Transport Board
built a new bridge to carry the Hammersmith
and City Railway over Labroke Grove, just
outside Labroke Grove station, which is of all-
welded construction, and the first of its type
and size in Great Britain. The advantages of
an all-welded bridge are that the weight is
reduced by one-fifth, the cost is substantially
less, and there is much less noise during con-
struction. The new bridge is 60ft. long, it is
built on three girders instead of two, and
it supports a ballasted track instead of a
timber track —improvements which give much
quieter running and also greater steadiness and
strength
* >'f * »
In stu'iip-collecutig circle o what stamps are
known as “re-entries” or “fresh entries” ?—•
4863.
It sometimes happens that an impression is
made on a printing plate that is incorrect; it
may be that a cliche of the wrong value has
been laid down, the impression may be out of
alignment or have some other fault. Rather
than scrap the whole plate, an expensive busi-
ness, the offending impression is erased from
the plate and a “fresh entry” is made. But
it sometimes happens that the work of erasing
the first impression has been carelessly under-
taken, and when the plate is brought into use
portions, faint or otherwise, of the partially-
erased impression are visible in the printed
stamps. Such examples are known to collectors
as “re-entries” or “fresh entries.”
* * * *
To what extent are direct comparisons of
the external trade of any two countries pos-
sible ? —4856.
Only when the general conditions prevailing
therein and the system of record are more
or less identical. For example, in one country
the value of imports may be the value at the
port of shipment, while in another the cost
of freight, insurance and charges may be added.
Again, the value of imports and exports in
the one may be declared by merchants, whereas
in the other they may be the official prices
fixed by a special commission. Differences in
the value of imports arise from the different
methods of converting the moneys of foreign
countries, i.e., from the application of cur-
rent rates of exchange or of the Mint par.
Lastly, the figures are also affected in varying
degree to the extent to which they include
transit or re-export trade. Switzerland and
Belgium do a large amount of re-exporting,
as do also France and the United Kingdom,
whereas in Canada, Australia and New Zealand
re-exports represent a comparatively small pro-
portion of the trade.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning Charles Summers,
the sculptor who designed the Burke and Wills
group in Melbourne? —4795.
Son of a stonemason, he was born in Somer-
set in 1825, and worked with his father while
a boy, but, when he had saved enough, moved
to London, obtained work as a journeyman
sculptor and studied in his spare time under
Henry Weekes and Lewthwaite Watson. In
1853 he migrated to Victoria and went to the
diggings, but soon tired of them and opened
a studio in Melbourne. He carved the figures on
the ceiling of the Legislative Council Chamber,
and also designed and cast the heroic Burke
and Wills group—the first work cast in Aus-
tralia. In the Melbourne gallery he is rep-
resented by 17 examples. He modelled busts
of Charles Sturt, G. V. Brooke, Bishop Perry
and other notable persons. Returning to Eng-
land in 1856, he settled in Rome and exhibited
regularly in London. He died in Paris in 1870,
while starting out on another voyage to Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
What, mainly, does the N.S.W. Truck Act
provide ? —4781.
That the entire amount of wages earned by
any workman must be paid to him in money
at intervals of not more than 14 days, if
demanded, notwithstanding any contract to the
contrary. Part-payment in goods is declared
illegal except in the case of medical attendance,
or fuel, tools, implements or materials used
by the workman, or provender for horses em-
ployed. In any action brought by a work-
man against his employer for the recovery of
wages, no set-off is allowed for goods supplied
from any shop or store kept by the employer.
There must be no contract stipulating how or
with whom any portion of wages is to be ex-
pended, and no employer may dismiss a work-
man on account of the manner in which or
with whom he spends any portion of his
wages. The Act, which dates from 1900, does
not apply to seamen, domestic servants or per-
sons employed in agricultural or pastoral pur-
suits.
* * * *
When and by whom have stamps been issued
in Palestine ? —4838.
Prior to 1918 Palestine was a part of the
Ottoman Empire, and used Turkish stamps.
During that period many European Powers
established post offices in Palestine and used
either their own stamps or special issues for
use in the Levant. Among these Powers were
Great Britain, France, Russia, Germany, Italy
and Austria. The first definitive stamps of
Palestine were issued by the British military
administration of occupied enemy territories on
February 10, 1918, and these were inscribed
“E.E.F.” (Egyptian Expeditionary Force). The
civil administration of Palestine as a mandated
territory took over and made its first stamp
issue on September 1, 1920.
* * ♦ #
Numbers of farming implements in use on
rural holdings in Vic. ? —4792.
Chaffcutters 26,185, cream separators 47,719,
cultivators 37,979, engines 28,693, graders
5519, grain drills 27,216, harrows 55,612, har-
vesters 10,522, headers 6888, milking plants
5702, ploughs 77,961, reapers and binders
22,517, shearing plants 4430, strippers 1671,
threshing machines 498, tractors 6270. Figures
are for 1937; no compilation of machinery
was made for the year 1938, except in respect
of tractors, which numbered 7598.
* * * *
A few details concerning Thos. E. Spencer ■,
author of “How McDougall Topped the Score,”
apart from his literary activities ? —4809.
Born in London on December 30, 1845, he
came to Australia at 18 and tried goldmining
in Vic. and N. S. Wales without much luck.
Returning to London, he worked as a stone-
mason, and became president of the Stone-
masons’ Union at the age of 28. Refusing an
invitation to stand for Parliament, he left for
Australia again at 30. He began business as a
builder and contractor, and built the Goulburn
Gaol, the physics laboratory at Sydney Uni-
versity, and many other buildings. He served
as an employers’ representative on a number
of conciliation committees, and was much
sought after by both employers and employees
in the settlement of industrial disputes. He
stood for the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly seat of
Ashburnham, and although he was defeated
he polled very well. He was also a Masonic
past grand master. He died at Glebe (Sydney)
on May 6, 1911.
* * * *
7 have made a household and toilet soap.
Must 1 register it under the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act before I can sell it to the public ?
—4804.
It is not compulsory to register soap under
the N.S.W. Pure Food Act 1908, but it is
required that all soap comply with the stand-
ard prescribed by Regulation 74 under the
Act named, which reads as follows: “Soap is
a product derived from the action of a solu-
tion of alkali on fats, oils or resins. It shall
contain not less than 59 parts per centum of
fatty acids, of which not more than one-third
may be resin acids. It shall contain not more
than one-tenth of one part per centum of free
caustic alkali, and not more than three parts
per centum of carbonate of soda. It shall not
contain any other substance except water, per-
fume and harmless coloring matter.”
JH * * *
What education and qualification are re-
quired of a stewardess on an Australian coastal
ship ? Chances of an engagement, age required
and how to apply for such a position ?
4776.
Although nursing experience is helpful, no
particular standard of education or qualifica-
tion is required beyond being reasonably well
spoken, of clean appearance and habits and a
willingness to work and give cheerful service
to passengers. Under existing conditions an
inexperienced woman has little chance of
obtaining such a position, as owing to re-
quisitioning of steamers and slackness of the
passenger trade there are more experienced
applicants offering than vacancies occurring.
Stewardesses over 25 years of age are preferred.
Application should be made to the providores
of various coastal companies, who would re-
quire a personal interview before making an
appointment.
He Sfc *
(1) What is the salary of the President of the
Senate? (2) What are his duties and obliga-
tions? (3) Period of appointment ? (4) Who
is the present occupant ? —4698.
(1) £l3OO p.a., plus Parliamentary allowance
of £lOOO. (2) Presides over the proceedings
of the Senate. He also administers the Senate
Department, and, in conjunction with the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, con-
trols the Parliamentary departments common
to both Houses. (3) The President is chosen
by the Senate. Normally he holds office
for the life of the Parliament (three years),
but he ceases to hold office if he ceases to be
a Senator, or he may be removed from office
by a vote of the Senate. (4) Senator J. B.
Hayes, a former Premier of Tas. He was
chosen President by the Senate on July 1, 1938.
* * * *•
(1) What is wrong with the sentence “I can’t
go unless John comes home”? (2) Why do
we not say “Amn’t I?” for the interrogative
of “I am” ? —4705.
(1) Better would be “I shan’t be able to go
unless John comes home.” “I can’t go” is so
positive that the qualification sounds clumsy.
(2) Because it isn’t a form in accepted use, even
colloquially.
JH * * *
Some details concerning the origin and
characteristics of the Newfoundland dog? —•
4767.
It is a very large dog of a breed native to
North America, but believed to have developed
in the middle seventeenth century by crossing
dogs found in Newfoundland with other large
dogs from England. It is intelligent, self-
sacrificing and very devoted to its owners. It
is a strong, active dog, with great swimming
powers, stands 26in. to 28in. high, and weighs
1101 b. to 1501 b. Its head is broad and massive,
with well-developed occipital bone, decided
depression between forehead and nose, and
short squarish muzzle. It has a coarse, flat,
dense coat, usually black, though bronze and
black-and-white dogs are sometimes found.
* Jf: * =H
Is it necessary to subject the seed of Eucalyp-
tus marginata to heat before germination can
be obtained? Best method of germinating?—
4673.
Eucalyptus marginata, like all other
eucalpyts, germinates quite readily from seed,
and does not require heating before sowing.
Sow in seed boxes or pans in a mixture of
sandy loam and leaf-mould, with a good
sprinkling of sharp sand mixed through it.
Cover the seed to about -Jin. with the same
soil mixture; keep the soil moist but not satu-
rated. Also, it will be found an advantage
to cover the seed box with paper until germina-
tion takes place. Now or next month is a
good time to sow. Seed will probably germinate
better if kept for a month or two after taking
it from the tree.
JH * *
Particulars regarding the municipal railway
which runs between Kerang and Koondrook
(Vic.) ? —4860.
The railway between Kerang and Koondrook
is owned and worked by the Kerang Shire
Council, and is open for general traffic. It
has a sft. 3in. gauge, is 13 miles 75 chains
in length, and up to September 30, 1938, cost
£41,923 for construction and equipment. During
the year ended September 30, 1938, the gross
receipts were £5803 and the working expenses,
including interest, £4952. The train mileage
for the same year was 13,850, the number or
passenger journeys 4002, and the tonnage ot
goods "and livestock carried 17,047.
Did Colin Bell ever fight Sam Langford?
If so, please give particulars of contest.
4845. , „ „
They fought twice. A 15-round contest at
Rockhampton (Q.), late in 1912, was declared a
draw. In Boston (U.S.A.), on October 6,
1914, Langford knocked Bell out in the second
round.
Information Supplied.
4712.—The quotation “An unforgiving eye
and a damned disinheriting contenance” is from
Sheridan’s “School for Scandal,” Act IV,
Scene 1.
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details concerning Arthur Ma-
quarie Mullens, who writes under the name
of “Arthur Maquarie.”—4B42.
Brief Answers.
A.8.J.: Under the Commonwealth invalid
pension system provision is made for the pay-
ment of pensions to permanently blind persons
above the age of 16... .J.K.J.: A puppy aged
10 weeks should be fed at regular times, say
8 a.m., 12 noon, 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The first
and third meals should be wholemeal biscuit,
broken small, over which is poured a raw egg
beaten in a little milk. The midday meal may
be table-scraps. The night meal should prin-
cipally consist of raw beef. Your pup is much
too young to be trained, except to come when
called. Other advice may be obtained from
David Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney, free to
all Bulletin readers... .J.S.: Registrations of
motor-cars, commercial vehicles and motor-
cycles in Australia as at June 30, 1939, were
as follows: NfS.W., 319,017; Vic., 261,786;
Q’land, 128,163; S.A., 90,756; W.A., 69,679;
Tas., 23,360; N.T., 1233; A.C.T., 2282; total,
899,276 E.H.: Write Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Assoc., Shell House, 2 Carring-
ton-street, Sydney W. 8.: Lavender is picked
from plants before buds mature but when
flower trusses are showing blue color, and hung
in dry, airy sheds. When dry the curling leaves
are stripped on to sheets and used in sachets
or sold loose by the pound M.A.: H. R.
Proctor’s Principles of Leather Manufacture and
Leather Industries Laboratory Book, M. C.
Lamb’s Leather Dressing and Chrome Tanning,
J. T. Wood’s Puering, Bating and Drenching of
Skins, A. S. Jones’s The Sheep and Its Skin,
A. Wilson’s The Chemistry of Tanning, and
W. E. Austin’s Fur Dressing and Fur Dyeing.
W.H.; H.M.A.S. Melbourne left Sydney
for England on February 9, 1928. Her last Aus-
tralian port was Darwin, which she left on
February 22, arriving at Portsmouth on April
12... .F.S.: Write District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff (N.S.W.)
D.J.W.: A claim must be made. Address to
the accountant, stating date, page and column
of appearance, also nom de plume used....
W.H.S.: Write Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission, Sydney... .E.P.: (1) Rule No.
11 says: “The server shall not serve until receiver
is ready. If the latter attempt to return the
service he shall be deemed ready.” (2) Any part
of the line is right; if the service or return
touches only the outside portion it is just as
good as though it struck the centre of the line.
There would be endless arguments otherwise as
to what part of the line was struck W.W.:
Copyright in a literary, dramatic, musical or
artistic work or the performing right in a musi-
cal or dramatic work extends for the life of the
author and 50 years after his death R..H.:
The “Australian Museum Magazine,” published
quarterly (Is. per copy) by the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney.. . .E.C.C.:
Write Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney
C.W.: Try Independent Theatre, 175 Pitt-street,
or New Theatre League, 36 Pitt-street —both
Sydney J.W.D.: Get in touch with a patent
attorney... .F.S.: (1) The tuning condenser gang
appears to be faulty. (2) Probably due to rotor
section not being securely locked on spindle
G.C.: Empty cells completely, wash out and
use fresh solution. Should not be necessary
to add acid to cells if in good order—only dis-
tilled water A.D.: The Carbo-Gen Gas
Producer Co. has only recently been formed
and no shares have yet been allotted. Directors
are A. B. Samuelson, K. King and P. I. Saun-
ders. The co. was formed to manufacture and
distribute the Panther Carbo-Gen gas producer
for use on tractors and commercial trucks and
as a stationary motor A. 8.: Write N.S.W.
Lawn Tennis Assoc., Rushcutter Bay, Sydney,
for a copy of its official handbook (Is.)
1.D.M.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of De-
fence, Melbourne H.R.1.: Depends upon the
constitution and by-laws of the club; generally
speaking, officers elected at an annual meeting
remain in office for 12 months unless removed
under extraordinary circumstances. If you care
to send a copy of your rules more detailed
advice could be given... .R.L.C.: No records
of such accidents A.J.D.: See Poland, by
W. J. Rose, in the Penguin series, 9d., obtain-
able from most booksellers... .C.M.: The
false statement would not annul the mar-
riage but would leave the party making it open
to prosecution R.G.: When you changed
your name by deed poll the change was, or
should have been, registered at the office of
the Registrar of Births. You could obtain a
copy of the registration by applying at the office
of the Births, Deaths and Marriages branch of
the Registrar-General’s Department, Chancery
Square, Sydney W.S.H.: A moratorium is
“a period during which a mortgagor has a
legal right to delay meeting his obligation.” A
moratorium was first introduced in N. S. Wales
under the War Precautions Act of the Common-
wealth Parliament and lasted during the period
of the Great War. In 1930 the Lang Labor
Government passed moratorium legislation
which has been renewed and amended from
time to time and will probably be extended
during the present year. Subject to exceptions
set out in these Acts a mortgagee cannot exer-
cise his powers to sell the property mortgaged,
to foreclose, to enter into possession or any
other power given him by his mortgage without
first obtaining the leave of the Court. The Act
is of great practical assistance to a mortgagor
temporarily unable to meet interest on its due
date of payment, by giving him ample time to
do so. A copy of the Act can be obtained from
the Government Printer, 72 Phillip-street, Syd-
ney A.T.S.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept.
of Agriculture, Bridge-street, Sydney.


York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAID WAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
BURNS, PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney. ami Tranches.
Agents throughout Australia.
THE
lIMITCn iNSURANCE
U ll I I ELU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
i
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply L.ocal Agents any capital city.
L to'SUA
w
t:
V
v
msf
, 'JS
f
ii=^
m
%
ise
IN ANY EMERGENCY
NATIONAL OR LOCAL
You’re Independent
If Your Cooker Is an AG A
TON* TON
M MONTHS''
FUEV.
Completely indepen-
dent of outside
power supplies, the
AGA heat storage
cooker ensures the
means of continuous
cooking—invaluable
in times of emer-
gency. Two tons of
coke will enable the
AGA Cooker to
provide all the cook-
ing for an average
family for 12
months.
■ *’3£St
■
./•s'
a
f
'T' HE AGA Cooker makes for in-
* dependence in other ways, too.
It burns continuously and is always
instantly ready—no waiting for a
hot oven. You can leave a whole
dinner to cook by itself, without
fear of spoiling. To country folk
it is a boon —to city folk a
Jiie&ncmd^eatSirK^
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
blessing. Not only will it save you
money, but also time, temper and
digestion. For the AGA Cooker is
the most efficient, economical and
carefree cooker ever invented. In
these unsettled times it is the best
investment anyone could make.
Permit us to send you full parti-
culars. Ask for booklet RIO. No
obligation on your part.
LEYIN & CO. LTD. Estab. 1852
(Inc. in N.Z.). 45 King Street, Sydney; 432
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons
Ltd., Hobart.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.W.: Try a women’s paper D.R.:
“Ramblings” is right N.H.: Couldn’t say.
H.W.: It may be accurate, but it’s also
faintly ridiculous to address a statue as
“Madam” M. 0.: No response to the
“Prayer of an Inarticulate Poet” A.M.A.:
A featherweight F.A.T.: You can hardly
expect to deal adequately with “Beauty” in
10 lines 8.5.: Might suit the children’s
page of a daily A.W., E.E., J.McD., M. 8.,
E. 1., F.J.S., J.L., J.W., E.M. and M.H.:
Casualties A.E.M.: Came near; try again.
... .L.W.. Can never be bothered with that
type of murderer, or with their victims’ ghosts.
....D.M.F.: Might suit a women’s paper....
r n !f Sy ”
' „ n imen a ise .... •• • • ..
are funny, what you do with them is n0t....
8.H.R.: That orphan cheild has been seeking
o i a. -.a u r-t .
a home for these last 20 years 8.G.L.:
u-r c ah . . ~ ,
Slapdash R.T.E.; All yarns must be original
. . ... :, „ Tr Tt ,
and hitherto unpublished H.T.G.; Its
i . «« i, f . .„ , , .
about as well-constructed as an abo. s gunyah.
V R • Nothing there to excite interest
nr D Tu g u interest....
D.C.R.; The w.p.b. is groaning under the
. . . o , . TAnc ... ,
weight of lottery winners D.8.E.: We bolt
for cover from “true romances”... .G.W.C.;
A daily might consider it .. .R.F.8.: You’ve
been seeing too many films... .L.T.N.: Our
most distressing experience since the outbreak
of war... .G.1.P.; A course of solid reading
might help you... .0.R.T.: “I couldn’t think
of anything to call it.” We could—plenty....
J.R.L.: It’s easy to read, but that’s a 11....
G.R.D.: Send your cowboys back to the
United States 8.F.8.; Sorry to see that we
haven’t smothered that cheild detective yet....
D.A.: “ ‘Beware, my baby!’ he cried, and
flung himself in the path of the oncoming
monster.” And without reading any further
we’ll bet she grew to a beautiful wench and
was threatened by land sharks and bailiffs
until an aeroplane crashed in the kitchen
garden and deposited Prince Charming in her
arms K.R.T.: Neat, but off our beat
N.W.G.J.: For wordiness you outdistance
any politician we’ve encountered H.K.C.:
Ranches! Bronchos! Mavericks! Begone!
C.M.F.: It’s not only original; it’s unique.
P.8.R.: That doesn’t break any new
ground S.F.: No, but come again
S.F.E.: Characters are fair enough, but there’s
nothing to hold them together 8.L.D.:
There might be a par for Smoke-oh! in it
C.D.E.: Nearly acceptable.
nro a /ama >m a dticti^
TO AR JoJr es ( P on DENTS
S.M.: It helped to fill the w.p.b H.R.D.:
A straight line is about as much as you can
Y ” u , ve °, bv,ous > f^ed
U"k White closely, but you re miles behind
him.... J.E.L. : Something in the idea, but
.. , . 6 ... ... ,
nothing in the drawing W.A.M.: Needs
, * 6
bolder treatment J.G.: Tossed your wrestlers
D
out of the ring N.R.: Received the two
... , . . . . . , . ,
butchers, but nothing to explain what they re
doing , Bs . Than k s for t h e compliment,
. .
but it didn t sufficiently soften our heart
... _ _. ~. . J ~ , ~ ,
W ; S ’ : Slammed he door on those deadbeats
a few months back.. . .A.S.H.: Mary will have
to perform her antics elsewhere... .C.C.J.:
A dreary jest and a drearier drawing... .R.C. :
Ended among the also-rans... .8.G.: This
week’s scratchiest... .R.A.: Harsh and jagged
linework... .H.P.W.: The sooner you remove
them the better we’ll be pleased... .E.W.:
Birds are well drawn, but we can t find any
nesting-place for them A.P.; Miles off our
beat... .J.M.: You ve done better 0.J.W..
The fact that it might be a lawnmower doesn t
make the jest any brighter... .J.D.: Didn t
feel disposed to legrope the cow that gives rum
and milk... .F.W.C.: Give us pictures with
plenty of action in them....A.N.W.: That
gag was old twenty years ag0....T.H..
Scrapped your scraper-board sketches.
V.D.L. IN ARMS
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
LIEUTENANT-GOV ERNOR
ARTHUR, of Van Diemen’s Land,
was an exceptionally able adminis-
trator and a convict disciplinarian
of great tonnage, but as a conquering
hero, when he declared the only war
that has ever been declared in Australia,
he was a lamentable and grotesque
failure. The story of the campaign he
conducted against the island’s blacks in
1830 is the only amusing feature of the
pitiful tragedy of the native Tasmanians’
swift destruction at the hands of those
who had invaded their country in 1803-4.
There is a quaint story of their leader
in revolt, a Sydney black named Mos-
quito, that is not without its moral,
On being sentenced to death for murder
he protested:
“Hanging no plurry good for black-
pfeller!”
“Why not, good for blackfellow as for
whitefellow?”
“Oh, very good for whitepfeller. He
used to it.”
Colonel Arthur made up his mind to
do something drastic by way of solving
the black and white problem, and in
September, 1830, issued a proclamation
explaining that a cordon would be
drawn round the country occupied by
the Oyster Bay and Big River tribes
which was to be gradually contracted
until the natives were captured in detail
or driven across the isthmus into Tas-
man’s Peninsula. Over 2000 men were
to be employed in the scheme, of which
number 550 were regular soldiers of the
63rd, the 57th and 17th Regiments.
On October 7 a line of outposts was
established from St. Patrick’s Head along
the rivers St. Paul, South Esk, Mac-
quarie and Meander under Major Doug-
las, of the 63rd. Another ran from the
Derwent along the River Dee to the
Lakes under Captain Wentworth, of the
same corps. Captain Donaldson, of the
57th, commanded a force in the rear to
capture any blacks who might possibly
leak through. For three weeks the posts
were slowly pushed forward,
On the 26th Lieutenant Ovens saw a
na ti V e trying to sneak through the lines,
an( i several others were turned back
f rom various points. By the following
day the net had been drawn so close
that any evasion was considered the
height of impossibility. Finally, on the
3j st} the order was given to close in,
an d no t a blackfellow escaped—for the
s i mp i e reason that there were none
there! In the whole month only a man
and a boy had been captured. “I re-
gret to report,” wrote Arthur to Down-
ing-street, “that the measures which I
had the honor to lay before you ter-
minated without the capture of either of
the native tribes.” Not another official
pronouncement was made,
It was a pity in some respects that
Arthur s plan failed, for segregation
might have averted the Tasmanians
complete extinction, but whether the
race have survived if it had been
removed in a body fiom the island is
°P en to argument. Later on about 130
were settled on Flinders Island, where
they were supervised by missionaries,
But th e Y slowly died off, until the very
l ast . °£ th e m a woman named Tmga.-
n,n * h n T t^ eir story in 1876. Think
h! In 70 years a whole people dis-
appeared from the face of the earth
pnder the influence of white culture. It
* s not a pleasant thought.
How bad the state of affairs between
the races had become when Arthur tried
his futile measure of segregation is
shown by a list of “atrocities” compiled
by his orders in 1831. Over 60 separate
instances of outrages are recorded, from
stand-up fights between the natives and
the garrison, and isolated instances of
murder and robbery. White women and
children were not spared—but neither
had those of the blacks been spared by
runaway convicts. It was “an eye for
an eye, and a tooth for a tooth,” and
settlers who had been kind to them suf-
fered equally with those who had sub-
jected them to the most callous and
barbarous treatment. It is a pitiful
chapter in Australian history.
M.L. Labor has rebuffed Commu-
nist proposals for a “Popular Front.”
There’s no sympathy for the Soviet
or its friends in Maoriland since
Hitler and Stalin got together. When
the pact was first announced the
Communists had the nerve to ask for a
conference with Labor because “the
people must rally in unbroken ranks
around the Soviet Union.” Labor’s
official “Standard” angrily retorted:
“Only a person with the logic of a lunatic
and the mentality of an industrial and
political traitor would try to explain away
the relations of Germany and Russia.”
# * # afe
“X.T.”: Latest craze of the flapper
press is losing Nazis, notably Goebbels.
Goebbels has denied it. One loss sounds
plausible, however —Ernst Bahls, Hitler’s
adjutant, about whom the cablemen are
“mystified” because the only explanation
they can get of his sudden demise is that
he “died suddenly at the front.”


MELBOURNE’S
GREATEST
HOTEL
1! P
w
Stay at this great liotel in
, the heart of Melbourne,
near shops ami theatres,
convenient to trams and
trains. Boom-only tariffs:
Singles, 5/- to 7/d;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
UICTORIH
PALACE
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Mclb.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
BE GOOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
Suit, your i footwear .to the
weather.; Do 1 away with tirecl
feet .in the ' Summertime by
wearing SANDALS.
They’re serviceable and com-
fortable, just the things for
coolness and ease. And as they
are ABBEY SANDALS they
will give long-time wear.
fs
IB'ii
BLACK
OR BROWN.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’
NORTH OF
TWENTY-ELGHT
Alms for the Love of Alf!
“Clayfield”: The Greater Brisbane
Council celebrated the outbreak of war
by confessing that it was in financial
difficulties.
Mr. Alf Jones, the Labor Lud Mayor,
was a Cabinet Minister in the Ryan-
Theodore time, and has Ryan-Theodore
ideas of finance. Of late years the coun-
cil has treated its domain as if it were
a State. It goes in for party politics' and
for grandiose notions about loans, grants,
relief work and general expenditure. The
Forgan Smith Government has supple-
mented its extravagances with free gifts
—including a £3,000,000 bridge which
will save inhabitants from travelling an
extra mile or two by tram.
Of £2,265,000 of rates collected by the
whole of the Queensland local authori-
ties in 1937-38, Greater Brisbane collared
£740,000. In addition, it had Govern-
ment- grants of £207,000, a little over half
for unemployed relief. Its' revenue
amounted to £1,319,000; expenditure,
outside business undertakings,' totalled
£1,456,000, £lOO,OOO being for adminis-
tration.
The council runs the metropolitan
water and sewerage, on which it made a
loss of £36,000. Electricity supply pro-
duced a “surplus” of £104,000, and the
tramways one of £140,000. These three
enterprises have to meet debt charges of
just under £1,000,000 p.a.
On June 30, 1938, £30,000,000-odd- was
owed by Queensland cities, towns and
shires. Brisbane’s share was £21,848,600 —
over £6B per head of population. Of this
£21,848,600, £5,500,000 was held in Lon-
don, and £3,587,000 in New York, and
the State Government had lent the coun-
cil £4,800,000, besides backing it at the
bank for £550,000. There was about
£2,700,000 in a sinking fund.
The council’s loan-money _ require-
ments run to £1,000,000 a year, though
all other Queensland cities* got along in
1937-38 with £446,000 anfl towns with
£65,000. This year, though the Loan
1 Council approved of the borrowing of
£1,0(X),000, and the Lord Mayor made
one of his periodical visits to the south,
lenders are shy. The American exchange
, position has added to the council’s em-
barrassments by sending up debt charges
on. the N’York loans at the’ rate of
£50,000 a year already. '
The Lud Mayor says he is continuing
his efforts to coax money out of reluc-
tant pockets. So far he has succeeded
in getting only £200,000 of the author-
ised million. He has invited the Com-
monwealth Bank to finance a “restricted
loan-works programme” —half to be
found by the State Government —and
suggested £250,000, but the bank has
given him only frosty looks.
It is admitted that the position is likely
to become worse. The Commonwealth
Bank loan, the Mayor says, presents the
only hope—it will be considered by the
Bank Board on October 10. Meantime,
970 men on relief work have been dis-
missed, and heavy dismissals, it was re-
ported at a council meeting on September
26, were certain among the remaining
1500 relief men employed.
There is a good deal of party recrimi-
nation. Alderman Tait, an Opposition
alderman, remarked that the “State Gov-
ernment should face the position squarely
and assist”; but the State Government
has its own problems.
Of course, in The end, the inevitable
final resource of bureaucrats will be
called on—the ratepayers and taxpayers
of Queensland. - F •
“Tippit”: Darwin has weathered an-
other dry without its promised water
scheme, but the soldiers quartered in
Vestey’s old meatworks should not go
thirsty. The pipeline from the.Manton
Gap, where the new weir is to be, has
been tapped 16 miles out from Darwin
"'Aul in the bait or they'll get US.”
by a line from Howard Springs, and
tapped 'again *2} miles from the town by
an old line from the meatworks. The
water from the Howard is pumped
through to rainwater tanks at the meat-
works. Reticulation pipes' have not yet
been laid in Darwin, so the town goes
on depending on its tanks and wells.
*** . *
“D.”: Work on the new R.A.A.F.
aerodrome at Darwin suffered a check
when 54 men downed tools. To hurry _
things along, the Public Works Depart-
ment handed the jdb over to a private
contractor. The men struck because the
contractor jibbed at P.W.D. conditions!—
18 days’ paid holidays and 10- public
holidays per annum, refund of their faijes
to Darwin after six months’ work)there,
and their fares south again when their
contracts run out. ,It seems a lot, even
for Darwin. !
* * * , . * ; '
“Ret”: The million-odd being spent on
defence and civil works in Darwin has
put some good business in the way of
shipping cos. Burns, Philp boats took
9598 tons of cargo and 575 passengers to
Darwin in 1937, 14,622 tons and 800*in
1938 and 19,735 tons and 955 in the first
eight months of this year. B.P. intends
to establish a branch in Darwin and in-
crease its shipping service where possible.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Darwin is being altered so
quickly that soon there will not be a
Vestige of the old place left. Once you
could see the Administrator driving
round in a ramshackle buggy, pausing
in front of the pub to talk to friends.
In the days of Urquhart the spectacle
of the head of the Government in his
shirtsleeves strolling into the post office
for his mail was one of the sights. Now
the old administrative buildings are
doomed. Crowning change of all, the
Government “Gazette” calls tenders for
“constructing a concrete pile and con-
crete deck jetty.” What will the old
town be without its “elbow”? The ex-
pensive alterations have prompted a
young Darwinian to burst into song
in the “Standard.” He sees his town
falling into line with “Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and all” and,
Instead of four pubs, now too small,
There’ll be forty pubs, five storeys tall.
When. that happens, Darwin, should be
worth revisiting. It has always been a
thirsty, place.
. .. * • * * *
'“Quia’.’: “Mataranka” (B. 13/9/’39)
.can’t'imagine what they grow at Borro-
lobla; ’What" can’t they? . Right on the
bank of- the Macarthur, in a spider-web
of creeks and lagoons, it is the inkiest
.green and most fertile pa.tch of ; North
Australia that I know—and that is. saying
a good deal. Let me tell him what 1
saw growing in one solitary patch of
garden—tomatoes, bananas, peanuts,
pawpaws, limes, . lemons, eschalots,
custard apples, sweet potatoes,- oranges,
mandarins;, capsicums, - lettuce, cabbage,
spinach, - mangoes-, tobacco
and c watermelons— they 1 run /wildT all"
along the - river • for fifty, .miles,, the
summertime - fruit-salad delight -of the
Yanyuella 5 ’blacks: Borroloola •at 1 the
end of - the wet /is{the nearest thing left
on earth to the Garden of Eden, : a jungle
glory of tropic flowers;and native fruits.
You can’t stop' things from growing
there,/but there’s no one to eat them;
Geese and " quail' and wild duck- and
jungle-fowls’ eggs and geese eggs would
feed* a multitude—and- the population- is
usually four. Borroloola in~ the dry; is
not quite- so good. . Then the old hands
get ; sunburnt on; the. soles of their- feet
diving-for ■ lily-tucker.
■. - a w. .3 jjj u * *
“X.T.”:The N.T. Administration .lias
declared a new list of -. noxious weeds
which none of the 6000 whites and near-
whites and none of ,the ; unspecified thou-
sands of . abos. must have about The
kitchen garden. Khaki weed,* acacia
thorn, cassias, rattle pods, wild hor -
hound, indigophera, lantana, coffee busn,
devil’s claw, sensitive plant, prickly-pear,
passion flowers, Indian hemp, opium
poppy and uncultivated tobacco ana
cotton (“not grown for crop”> are in-
cluded in the list. No word of mulga,
bull Mitchell, gum-trees, ironbark or
violets. Darwin must be slipping.
: '.. *• - * ' *. * .
“J. 8.”: It: is appropriate that in the
grounds of Brisbane’s oldest railway
station (B. 27/9/’39) there should be the
State’s oldest train. In a shed in the yards
at Roma-street, ' adjacent to Countess-
street, stands old Puffing Billy, the first
train, to run in Queensland on the line
' towards Ipswich. The gauge was fixed
'for. it on the argument that the gauge
on the Darlington line in; England was
only‘3ft.- 6in. and adequate.-
f if .
“Eulp’’: Queensland Public Works
Committee recommends the, construction
of a -Charleville-Blackall railway linking
the central and south-western systems
by way of the western plains behind the
Dividing Range. Length, 170 miles ; esti-
mated, cost, £1,170,000; annual revenue,
£20,000; annual loss,- £73,000. Public
Works Committees are like that. The
Government has plenty of losing propo-
sitions on its hands and is not keen on
adding another. , .
“Zedo”: *' A stir has been - created in
Darwin by reports—the Director of
Native Affairs ; says they come, from “a
reliable source”—that bush employers
of native labor have reverted to a prac-
tice of the' old Sydney; Rum Corps and
pay in. metho. Administration is in a
quandaryyfor there is no way of track-
ing conveyance of the poison to the in-
terior. But officialdom should know how
much 'metho. is coming into the Terri-
tory. And-gaol without the option for
anybody found in possession of the stuff
'would.be a healthy check.
* * * *
- Exit at- 84, • Tom Andrew, one of
Samoa’s oldest inhabitants. He left his
native- Maoriland in 1891 just in time to
becbme a friend of Robert Louis
. Stevenson, In his early days he was a
'photographer,/but failing eyesight drove
him' into trading. He will be remem-
bered. Tor two things—he introduced
-breadfruit into the Solomons, and his
work during the 1919-20 influenza epi-
demic in Samoa saved a good many lives.


fits
LYS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
£<!a'V>
«$& ;•••'
\. -.• ;•
*
mmwe
■
%s&. -«V» '■; ’".
®i
r..
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DONT WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Polled Merinos.
“Ghanam”: The craze for polls has
spread to the sheepmen. Otway Falkiner,
of Boonoke, is the latest experimenter.
Falkiner began in 1934 with eight rams
which had been born hornless. He mated
them with 450 ewes chosen for their
apparent lack of horns. The drop pro-
duced 72 per cent, of poley rams and 92
per cent, of poley ewes. The total per-
centages in the poley flock have since in-
creased each year.
So far, there has apparently been no
difference between poley and other
fleeces. The rams produce a larger get,
they appear to be more virile than horned
rams and freer from flystrike. Falkiner
says they are better doers and mature
earlier. The special flock has now
reached such a stage of development that
it is proposed to record it separately in
the register.
In ordinary well-managed pastoral sur-
roundings, reason is all on the side of
the poley. The one consideration is
whether there is a sufficiently wide range
of virile hornless sheep to breed from
on a large scale. Lack of polled range
in breeding stock is the reason for lack
of progress in breeding out horns in
popular breeds of cattle. In sheep, as
Boonoke experiments show, the job is
easier.
The C.S. and I.R. should borrow a
hundred sheep from the Boonoke flocks
and study head conformation for a
generation or two to get the technique
on to a scientific basis. There must be
some predisposing factors in skull con-
formation and strain which should be
worth discovering.
Pink-eye.
“Bungaree”: Pink-eye is already
appearing in many flocks. It spreads
quickly. The trouble may originate from
“carriers,” and these, should be drafted
out and kept apart in the early spring.
The southern States are carrying heavy
feed in most districts, and the long grass
will spread pink-eye quicker than any-
thing else. Other means of infection are
flies and affected sheep rubbing against
the fleeces of their mates.
Dropping a solution of zinc sulphate
into the affected eyes is the best treat-
ment. For odd sheep, a glass eye-
dropper is handy, but where the trouble
is severe and the job has to be done on a
big scale an inoculating syringe without
a needle saves frequent refilling. Where
individual attacks are too severe to yield
to zinc sulphate, a bluestone solution may
be used. Make up the former as a 5 p.c.
solution by dissolving loz. zinc sulphate
in one pint of water. For the stronger
solution, dissolve loz. powdered blue-
stone in 2\ pints of water.
Long grass and a heavy seeding are
responsible for grass-seed trouble in the
eyes of sheep, and a casual examination
will often put this down as pink-eye. The
sheep should be firmly held and the eye-
lids turned back until the grass seed is
located. Remove it with a pair of
tweezers and squeeze out any pus. Put in
a few drops of zinc sulphate.
Marginal-area Lambs.
“Observer”: Border Leicester x merino
lambs have contributed more than any
other type to both export and local sup-
plies at Homebush (N.S.W.).
Though lacking in conformation for
first quality export standard, there is a
lot to be said in favor of the type. In good
seasons the suckers command relatively
good prices because they can be sold
much earlier than Down crosses from
the “recognised” lamb-producing belt of
better rainfall.
The J. M. Coleman report affirmed
that the B.L. will always be the popular
sheep for the marginal areas of N.S.W.
and S.A. because of its ability to “work”
more readily under the hotter conditions.
It is a good “carryover” sheep, and does
particularly well between the age of six
and nine months.
“Nothing like preparedness , Ma."
Shorthoms at Melbourne Show.
“Mookau”: Dairy cattle were not
nearly so strong as last year. The drought
has had its effects. But the beef sections
were fully representative.
It is remarkable how persistently the
old-time breeders stick to their trade. The
Williamsons of Lochinver, Tippett of
Newlyn, A. Currie, Dugdale of Merrimu,
A. R. Withers, D. R. McCaughey, F. H.
Carter were all exhibitors. The big prizes
went to J. and R. Leishman for Snizort
lan 2nd, a magnificently-fleshed aged
bull, and the female championship to
A. J. Simpson’s Clifton Comely 2nd.
Simpson inherited the breeding tradi-
tion of Neil Black, partner to W. E.
Gladstone, on whose Mt. Noorat prop-
erty he learnt the game. Black’s breed-
ing began in 1842, and when Mt. Noorat
was broken up in 1899 it was from
among its cattle that Simpson largely laid
the foundation of his Clifton stud. It is
impossible to calculate the number of
prizes won by Clifton cattle. Certainly
there is scarcely a leading stud in the
Commonwealth which has not a respect-
able basis of the blood.
Now well on in his seventies, A. J.
Simpson ‘is still an active breeder and
judge of Shorthorns, with a special flair
lor producing outstanding females. He
ranks with J. H. Angas, Robert Mac-
Dougall, A. J. Webb and Robert Clarke
as the greatest improvers of Australian
Shorthorns.
Distemper in Dogs.
“Oura”: Dogs can be protected
against distemper by a new method of
vaccination, and the cost is so small as to
allow its general use on working dogs.
The living virus which is the cause of
distemper is first injected into the dog,
followed about two hours later by an in-
jection of anti-distemper serum. The first
gives the dog a dose of distemper, but
the prompt action of the second injection
immunises the animal against distemper
for life.
The job must be done by a vet. Manu-
facturers of the serum will supply only
to a vet. It must be used perfectly fresh.
To keep costs down, dog-owners might
organise in groups to bring their dogs to
the vet. on prearranged days. It takes
over two hours to treat one dog, but one
man could comfortably handle 30 dogs in
three hours. Best results are obtained by
inoculating dogs fairly young —some-
where around three to five months.
Some time before treatment, dogs
should be dosed to free them from
worms. Arecoline hydrobromide is most
satisfactory, the dose varying according
to the size or'weight of the dog.
Champion Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: J. W. Eade, Euchareena
(N.S.W.), gained champion award for
wheat at Melbourne Royal with the
variety Puora, which so far has been
grown commercially only in Queensland.
A premier wheat of the strong-flour
class, Puora is a Pusa 4-Flora cross pro-
duced by R. E. Soutter, plant-breeder of
the Queensland Agricultural Department.
The grain is of more attractive appear-
ance than Pusa, which it closely resembles
in hardness and baking quality.
Very early maturing, Puora suits condi-
tions in the wheatbelt of the Northern
State, where last season it was sown on
2199 acres, filling ninth place in the
census of varieties cultivated.
The champion-prize class has lost its
virtue, if it ever had any. Even when
awards are based on quality of grain in
milling and baking tests, the result may
be misleading to farmers. The grower
must have yield combined with quality.
Sydney Royal cut out the award some
years ago when Farrer’s Comeback was
invincible on quality, although discarded
as a commercial variety because of in-
adequate yielding capacity.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ghanam”: Sheep lice are beginning
to cause trouble, and dipping should
begin as early as possible. It is prefer-
able for an owner to dip on his own
property; to travel sheep in lice dis-
tricts is inviting trouble. Sheep must be
left long enough in the dip so that their
skins will be well saturated, and their
heads should be pushed quietly under a
couple of times. Afterwards, they
should be well drained in a shady place.
Where lice are bad, a second dipping is
necessary after ten days to deal with de-
layed hatchings.
“Valerin”: Where a large number of
grown sheep have to be vaccinated try
this plan. In a convenient spot dig a
trench 6ft. long by 3ft. wide with a slope
from the back sufficient to allow a couple
of feet in width at the bottom. The
operator can work comfortably standing
in this when the sheep are put on their
rumps at the edge. Catchers don’t need
to lift heavy sheep on to the rail, and
there is no risk of bruising or injuring
the jumbucks.
“0.W.W.”: Liquid dip (one table-
spoonful, to a quart of water) is better
than the dip powder mixture (B. 2/8/’39)
for painting sheepskins. The skins look
better and there is no unpleasant powder
to be washed off.
“Canbelego”: When a cow is infested
with lice give her a good grooming and
currycombing. Collect and burn all
the hair combed out. Thoroughly wash
the cow with soft soap and warm water.
Apply twice weekly a dressing made by
mixing lOoz. of unslaked lime and 12oz.
of sulphur into a paste with water. Add
a gallon of water and boil for two or
three hours until the mixture becomes a


fflZT&xilleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCREASE YOUR PROPERTIES’
EARNING CAPACITY
.. 1
'• V
Us
USE CONCRETE
"ELIMINATE RECURRING MAINTENANCE COSTS"
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE LEAKING TANKS CONQUERED
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS CONCRETE FOR FARMS
WRITE TO US OR ANY CEMENT CO. FOR THE ABOVE BOOKLETS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY.
82471.
INVESTMENT a*l
OPPORTUNITY
OPPORTUNITY knocks but once, according to the old
saying. To-day, however, with modern investment facili-
ties, opportunity continues to knock at the door of those wish-
ing to obtain security, independence or advancement.
A first step towards the achievement of these ambitions is to
seek a safe, sound investment for part of your earnings—no
matter how small. In this connection your attention is drawn
to the following advantages of a Fixed Deposit with the
Rural Bank:—
1. The security, backed by the Government, is unquestioned.
2. Your investment returns you in teres' at current banking
rates.
3. You may make a Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank from
£5 upwards.
4. Making such an investment is simple, and can be com-
pleted in a few minutes.
5. You will be banking with an institution which lends portion
of its funds for carrying out important, special functions
that contribute to the welfare and prosperity of the whole
community.
&
W A *, E
«J T H
W *3 W
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you—Serving
the State.
greenish yellow. Allow the sediment to
settle, and withdraw the surface water.
To this add water to make up to four
gallons for use. Make a general clean-
up of rugs and stalls.
“Bundalinga”: Make increased soil
fertility the first aim when improving
pastures on second-class country. Sub-
divide into small paddocks, which can
be used in turn as stock camps, result-
ing in a concentration of manure.
Spread the manure with pasture harrows.
Sow sub., ball and red clovers, with
perennial and Wimmera rye grasses.
Apply 2cwt. of super, per acre when
sowing, and topdress at the same rate
every autumn. Continue the concen-
tration and spreading of manure. The
sward will provide grazing when once
established, and will flourish after a
couple of years.
“Ghanam”: It will be interesting to see
how Germany manages for wool if she
faces a long war. Her own production
is only 44,500,0001 b. South Africa was
her mainstay in raw - wool supply—
-78,000,0001b. last year. Argentina came
next (60,000,0001 b.), with Australia third
(52,000,0001 b.); Uruguay contributed an-
other 30,000,0001 b. Russia’s production
in 1938 was only 303,400,0001 b. greasy, a
trifle among even 170,000,000 poorly-
clothed people.
“Marsh”: Most woolgrowers find
themselves with a butt or a bag or two
of oddments after the last bale has been
pressed. It would be a nice gesture if
all growers could be induced to donate
these oddments to patriotic funds. How
about Graziers’ Associations getting
busy?
“Gwydir”: The value of silage as sheep
feed has been demonstrated recently by
J. H. McDonald at Tuncooey, Moree
(N.S.W.). The district missed the autumn
rains, and with 1400 tons of wheaten and
oaten silage reserves he opened the pits
in May to feed breeding ewes. The
lambing averaged 150 p.c. In five months
of supplementary feeding of 2000 sheep
and lambs, only four were lost, and he
had early lambs for Homebush market.
“Tricho”: The C.S. and I.R. has added
tobacco licks to the discredited list of
sheepworm remedies —licks of copper sul-
phate and copper sulphate-sodium arsenite
have previously been proved useless.
Three groups of 10 hoggets were used
in the test, each receiving a daily dose of
Trichostrongylus (small hair worm) larva;.
Group A, the controls, on salt only, lost
one sheep from Tricho. and two from
other causes. Group B on salt mixed
with a 10 p.c. nicotine lick lost two to
Tricho. and three from other causes.
Group C on salt and dosed daily with
a tobacco preparation, lost three to
Tricho. and none to other causes. The
groups showed no material difference in
either the number of worm eggs during
the tests or' body weights at completion.
One sheep in Group B registered 72,800
worm eggs per gramme of faeces before
giving up the ghost.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A common idea is that
the modern heavily-woolled sheep cannot
last out more than a couple of years un-
shorn without deteriorating or dying.
While mustering weaners on Uanda
station, in the Inglewood (S.Q.) district,
R. Burgess came across 10 ewes and
wethers which had strayed after being
marked as lambs in 1914. They re-
sembled waddling heaps of charcoal
from the dust and dirt on the fleece-tips,
which reached nearly to their hooves.
The dogs refused to work such outland-
ish creatures. But they were all in excel-
lent condition, and the fleeces averaged
KHin. long, unbroken and almost free
from seeds and burr.
“Kiwi”: Overseas stock trade has been
booming in M.L. Within the past few
weeks a big consignment of sheep have
been acquired for S’Africa, and Tas-
mania has been investing heavily in
Southdowns, Romney Marsh and Border
Leicesters as well as in Berkshire and
Tamworth pigs. One of the best polled
Herefords in M.L. was bought for the
Speck from F. E. Humphreys’s Wilencote
Stud, Gisborne, the other day.
“Ovis”: Post-war years saw a huge
drive against rabbits in N.S.W., the
effort being largely dictated by the
increasing prices and scarcity of land.
Before the depression, the annual turn-
over of skins in Sydney market used to
be round 4000 tons. Last year it was 895
tons. But some landholders are easing
up on the job before it is finished, and
some of the work will have to be done
over again. It is a pity that noxious
weeds are not tackled as vigorously as the
cottontails.
Westralian wheat area is about
2,955,000 acres, 455,000 acres less than
last year, but the State Statistician esti-
mates that the yield will be about
38,909,000 bushels, or 2,200,000 bushels
greater.
“Seed”: With 48 elevators, including
Geelong terminal, ready, bulk-handling
of wheat in Victoria will begin in 1940-
41 season. Suggested that the work on
elevators should be speeded up because
of the war, but Premier Dunstan does
not think this will be done.
“J. Want”: A. C. Anderson, Kurra-
jong (N.S.W.), who farms on the borders
of the rich Hawkesbury country, has
revived an ancient method of stacking
maize. Cutting it in the milky stage, he
places his 30 to 40 tons per acre crop
surplus upright in a shed, leaves upper-
most. To allow the passage of air, poles
run horizontally down the shed 2ft. apart.
There is no heating or ferment. The
plants dry off and remain sweet. Any
type of roof will keep the fodder dry.
The method was first tried out in Aus-
tralia in the very early days of the
“Oxberry,” but has since been forgotten.
“J.W.”: N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department is experimenting with
African star grass to control erosion.
The danger of all these coarser importa-
tions is that in the end they are very
often worse than the disease. New
erosion can be completely stopped by
judicious agriculture with plants already
available, by the retention of timber in
certain localities and by contour
ploughing on hillsides. And where there
is bad erosion in agricultural districts, it
will need more than an imported grass,
which may take years to acclimatise and
spread, to stop it.
“Murphy”: Certified seed potatoes
are scarcer in most N.S.W. districts this
year. In the Crookwell-Taralga area,
where the output usually runs to about
12,000 bags, only 8795 bags were avail-
able. The price went up from £8 and
£9 a ton to £l5 a ton.
“Salmon Gums”: Investigators did toy
with the idea that thrip spread wilt in
tomatoes (B. 6/ 9 / ’39), but the notion has
been abandoned. The most widely-
accepted theory in W.A. is that the
disease is due to a deficiency in the soil.
The first crop on virgin soil is almost
invariably wilt-free, each succeeding crop
being more subject to it. The application
of copper carbonate around the plants
during growth has been found beneficial.
Some years ago Italian growers around
Perth got seed from Italy, and produced
a tomato which is claimed to be. practi-
cally wilt-free ; it is wilt-resistant.
“Q.C.R.”: The Tariff Board has
recommended the payment of an annual
bounty of not more than £130,000 p.a.
for five years on cotton lint locally pro-
duced. The rates suggested are 3id. per
pound to the grower on lint grades higher
than “strict good ordinary” when Liver-
pool middling spot price is 6d. per pound.
With every fall of O.ld. on Liv. m.s., the
suggestion is that the bounty rate be in-
creased by a like amount till it reaches
per pound ; with every rise in the
Liverpool price over 6d. bounty would
decline by O.ld. per pound. Considera-
tion of the necessary bill has been post-
poned.
“Yarrunga”: Two years ago the Zinc
Corporation fenced and netted 1020
acres of its Broken Hill mining leases
entirely for the preservation of native
flora. The reservation is kept rabbit-free
and shut up from stock. On this country,
which was reputedly eaten out and de-
nuded of all useful vegetation, a promis-
ing germination of mulga, bluebush, salt-
bush and other seedlings appeared in the
first season of protection. The N.S.W.
Agricultural Department is arranging to
introduce seed of native plants of pasture
or fodder value from other sections of the
Far West, and also to try out grasses
brought from the arid areas of U.S.A.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Hitherto there has been a weekly prize of £3 35., plus space rates, 2|d. per line.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per lme;
all others at 2Jd. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
For a sensible letter on air raids, Miss Anne Bullen, who writes from a Murray
River (S.A.) town, is awarded the last of the £3 3s. prizes.
Air Raids
I’ve joined one of the many women s
voluntary service detachments that have
sprung up in Australia since the crisis in
September, 1938. We’re having lectures
on air-raid precautions, mainly against
!gas, our lecturer being a young man of
about 25 years who has taken the course
at headquarters. With the exception of
myself, not one of the hundred or so
members has ever been in an air raid,
nor apparently read details of one.
For a beginning we were told it was pos-
sible for 500 bombers to fly over a town,
dropping gas bombs weighing from 2501 b.
to 30001 b. There was a gasp of horror
from the class, I knew they were visual-
ising our small community being com-
pletely wiped out —there is not an
anti-aircraft gun, a gas mask or any
type of shelter near.
This kind of lecture is going on all over
the country, and will inevitably develop
a fear-complex. Haven’t we since the last
war been deluged by articles in the press
and talks over the air to the effect that
the next war will put an end to civilisa-
tion? So the ground was prepared for
our fears.
Now the war has come we badly need
a saner outlook on air raids. I am no
hand at statistics, but believe that casual-
ties from this type of warfare, as seen in
Spain, China and Abyssinia, are less than
those on our roads from motor accidents,
yet no one stays home from fear of
death.
I have been in air raids in England
as a civilian and in France as a member
of the W.A.A.C., and after the initial
excitement the feeling I had was of sheer
boredom or else of irritation at losing
my sleep. It is true there has been a
great advance in aerial attack since the
last war, but there has been a correspond-
ing advance in defence against such type
of warfare. — Bunny (S.A.).
“Bunny,” the winner, is Miss Anne
Bullen.
Australia in the War
Events abroad might well be termed
the “War of Broken Pledges.” Most of
our preconceived notions (especially
those drilled into us by the daily press)
have gone by the board, and one hesi-
tates now to prophesy which nations will
continue in their boasted neutrality, and
which will unexpectedly take sides in the
conflict. Nations now neutral are sure to
be drawn in, and pledges, pacts and de-
clarations will not count when the time
comes for them to choose sides.
Australians are loyal to the Empire,
but our paramount duty is to Australia.
The Empire will best be served by our
devoting all our energies to safeguard-
ing Australia. Should that need be re-
moved, then Australia will certainly play
her part abroad. But until we know
what the final grouping of Powers will be
no man should be permitted to leave
these shores.
Compulsory training should never have
been abolished, and should now be rein-
troduced without a moment’s unnecessary
delay. Individual sacrifices would be en-
tailed, but far greater sacrifices would be
demanded were an enemy to attack us
unprepared. Mr. Cameron and General
Brand have the right idea ; they realise
that it would be fairer to all, more demo-
cratic in principle and the only method of
obtaining real results.
The Australian people, irrespective of
party, would back a measure genuinely
designed to defend the country. Our
men are game to fight should the need
arise, and we owe it to them to teach
them how to fight and not send them out
to be merely butchered. — Idiotes
(N.S.W.).
The people who have been deplor-
ing the lack of British immigration are
now falling over themselves to inveigle
the Federal Government into upholding
the “Digger tradition” by once more
sending the flower of our young man-
hood overseas.
However just the cause for which
they would fight, it must be apparent
that Australia, underpopulated, cursed
with a falling birthrate and with barely
sufficient man-power to withstand an
attack on her own shores, should be the
last country to make such a sacrifice. If
this war reaches the proportions of that
of 1914-18 the policy of sending an ex-
peditionary force overseas will mean
that the youngest and most thinly-popu-
lated country in the world will have
participated in the two most terrible
wars in the world’s history.
The boys of 1914 may have made the
name of Anzac ring round the world,
but if it rings again it may well sound
the death-knell to Australian progress. —
G. G. (Vic.).
There is talk of the public service
making up the difference in pay to its
employees who join the new A.I.F. This
is only to be expected in the militia call-
ups, but it’s unfair discrimination in the
case of those who will serve for the dura-
tion. Public revenue finds the military
pay, and it is the same public revenue
that will be paying the difference between
the military and civil rates to a favored
few.
Once again we will have Diggers of
the same rank sharing the rough stuff
and fighting together while some get 6s.
per day and others £6 per week, all the
cash coming from the same public purse.
If so much public money is available
wouldn’t it be fairer to pay a higher rate
to all Diggers or a higher separation
allowance to all their dependants? —
Shep (N.S.W.).
Australia’s prosecution of the war
should be financed not by loans but by
taxation. Loans lighten our burden at
first, but eventually we’ll be weighed
down by interest for years after the war
has ended. (We are still paying
£7,000,000 annually for the loan of the
money we spent on the last war.)
Because of loan-drunk politicians Aus-
tralia’s interest bill is already too heavy,
and it would be imprudent to add to it
even through war. I suggest that, for
the duration of the war, all existing Com-
monwealth and State taxes should be sus-
pended and every man, woman and child
in Australia put on an allowance to be
adjusted according to work performed.
Their ordinary incomes would be taken
over by the Commonwealth Government,
which would pay the States what they
needed.
It would entail some sacrifice, and only
a daring Government could bring it
about, but it would be far better to live
on bread and water and wear sOojee bag
for three or four years than to reduce
our standard of living for many years by
mortgaging our future incomes to pay
overwhelming interest bills. — Ailsa (Q.).
“Petermac’s” suggestion (B. 20/9/’39)
that regular lectures on the A.I.F. and
its traditions should be given to militia-
men has been improved upon by the mili-
tary authorities. Due for release in Adel-
aide is a film of actual war scenes, taken
when the A.I.F. was in action. No part
is “acted,” and the only addition to the
original film is a sound tract to provide
a running commentary. The film is to be
shown throughout Australia.
I once saw such a film when a trainee
in Liverpol Camp (N.S.W.). It dealt with
the Battle of Mons, and after seeing it
I always had to swallow when people
said “Our boys were the best scrappers
in the war!”
Perhaps the effect that those “Old Con-
temptibles” in action had on the troops
could best be gauged by the words of my
cobber: “Gawd, strike me! And I called
a Choom a Pommy squib only last
week.”—B. A. K. (N.S.W.).
Education for Self-government
Are we in Australia fitted for self-
government one of our proudest
boasts?
The charge of casualness is one that
has been levelled at Australians so often
that we now accept it with a tolerant
smile, intimate that it doesn’t matter any-
way, and plead the hectic pace of modern
life as an excuse. The fact is, we were
not taught in adolescence to interest our-
selves in Australia’s problems, nor our
part in the solving of them. We learned
all about English history—dull and
meaningless to us —and gained a sketchy
outline of the early days in this conti-
nent, but of the mechanics of govern-
ment and our responsibilities as voters
we were taught scarcely anything.
What an anomaly! Is it any wonder
that we are failing to see our country’s
problems as real; and that, incapable of
judging our country’s real needs, we have
grown up at the mercy of political mags-
men of all kinds.
The remedy is to revive interest in
national affairs, and to see to it that youth
is taught, by a graphic representation of
modern facts, to be interested in how
this country stands with regard to the
rest of the world —its form of govern-
ment, its history, how its people are
living, and, most important of all, its
natural resources and industrial and eco-
nomic structure. — John Cahill (Vic.).
“Burnt-out Diggers”
I give my whole-hearted approval to
the definite and firm refusal of the de-
fence authorities to accept any of the
“old brigade” for the 20,000 men required
for “home or overseas” service.
Look at it jn the light of common
reason and take my own case, for
example. Away with the First Division
and back with what was left of it
after the Armistice, I had a strain put
on my physical and nervous constitution
which in a few months would make the
average person a physical wreck for life
if he had to endure it in ordinary times.
When I went I had all the constitutional
resources of youth and ambition ; now I
have little but good general health, a grow-
ing love of ease and comfort and a desire
to stay home and read or play with the
kids.
Put me in a wet dugout or trench in
winter in France or Flanders and I’d be
a cot case after 24 hours with pneumonia
or bronchitis or pleurisy ; set me stack-
ing shells or digging gunpits and I’d crack
up in a couple of days; give me hard
army biscuits to chew and army stew to
live on and the quack would have a bad
case of indigestion ; send over a couple
of days’ h.e. barrage, missing the dugout
or the trench by feet, and I’d have an
attack of neurasthenia ; and so on, ad
infinitum. And I’m in better health,
physically and mentally, than most Dig-
gers I know.
Get this foolery of the Diggers being
as good as the best out of our heads.
There’s no truth in it. Even as lately as
last Anzac Day the people who know
what they are talking about urged a
reduction of the march in Sydney because
the old-timers could not stay the distance.
Good as the old cobbers were, nobody
but a fool would believe they are fit for
the same service conditions now as they
had to endure in 1914-18. —2315
(N.S.W.).
Wilderness of Words
I don’t like circumlocution either,
Arthur Falk (B. 20/9/’39), unless, of
course, I can get paid for extra words,
but I am reminded of the curious and
rather sobering fact that Section 92 of
the Commonwealth Constitution Act —
the bugbear of State lawmakers and a
ready bread-ticket for constitutional law-
yers—is an unhappy attempt to use “plain
language that everybody can understand”
in legislation.
The section is one of the briefest in
the Commonwealth Constitution. It says
simply “trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States shall be absolutely
free.” When the Act was brought down
the drafters declared, with puffed-out
chests, that the section was in plain, ordi-
nary language, quite clear and unam-
biguous.
It was the only section which was not
drawn by the usually circumlocutive law-
yers. Yet, in the opinion of the leading
writers on the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion, it has been the source of more
troublesome litigation than any other
section in the whole Act. Almost every
word has been litigiously examined and
re-examined. And, thanks to its “un-
lawyerlike” language, a long list of State
Acts have proved abortive.
Here are just some of the Acts that
stumbled on the “plain language” section
of the Constitution: Wheat Acquisition
Act of N.S.W. (1914), Queensland Pro-
fiteering Act of 1920, South Aus-
tralian Dried Fruits Acts, Queensland
Primary Producers’ Organisation and
Marketing Acts of 1920-30, Influx of
Criminals Act, 1903 (N.S.W.), Farm Pro-
duce Agents’ Act, 1926 (N.S.W.), Stock
Act (N.S.W.), innumerable State Trans-
port Acts in all the Eastern States, and
several other Acts relating to commodity
boards and like State activities.
The frequent appearance of Mr. James,
of S.A., in the civil courts and even before
the Privy Council, with the Common-
wealth as defendant or respondent, should
be ample proof to Mr. Falk that
lawyers, like women, are “strange crit-
ters” and best left to their own mysteri-
ous way of using six words where three
would do for us. — Benn (Q.).
In ordinary conversation one can be
as casual as one likes in the use of
words, filling up blanks with “if you
know what I mean,” etc. But when you
have to be precise, as you must be in a
contract or an Act of Parliament (which
is to be binding under penalties), the am-
biguity of ordinary language makes it
very difficult to say exactly what you
mean without all sorts of qualifications
and explanations.
A large part of the time of the Courts
is occupied in trying to get at the mean-
ing of wills, contracts and statutes just
because of the imperfection of language.
Hence lawyers have to resort to all sorts
of elaborate phrases to express exactly
what is meant. Let Arthur Falk try to
describe “cocktail” or even “income” —
with legal precision.
Resort to plain English would make
matters, not better, but about five hun-
dred times worse. — King’s Inns (N.S.W.).
Broadcast Concerts and Applause
Almost every day some of our best
radio presentations are rendered almost
intolerable by long periods of ear-split-
ting hand-clapping. Surely broadcasting
authorities don’t realise how discordant
this blast of applause sounds when broad-
cast.
I’ve known many instances of popular
artists being enthusiastically applauded
for ten minutes, the radio sounding all
the time like a mixture of dogfight and
machine-gunning.
It’s all very well to broa ' ast a con-
cert just as it comes from the hall to the
microphone, but clapping through the
radio is entirely different from the sound
in the hall. Why can’t broadcast opera-
tors bridge these distressing periods with
some musical intervention? —E. M. B.
(N.S.W.).
Butter Prices
Every now and then someone growls
about food prices and, in the general
outcry, it goes unheard, but it’s time I
had my grizzle.
In Brisbane and Adelaide consumers
pay Is. 7d. per pound for butter, and
no doubt Sydney and Melbourne prices
are the same. In my home town there
is a butter factory, and the district is a
thriving dairying one; but the people
here are compelled to pay grocers Is. Bd.
per pound for butter produced locally.
Explanation is that country people
must expect to pay more for everything
because freight costs must be added to
city prices. Freight on local butter! I
don’t know why; perhaps some other
fellow does? —P. G. K. (Q.).
The Kelpie
There is a danger that the kelpie and
the blue cattle-dog will deteriorate unless
immediate steps to preserve breed-purity
are taken. Signs of deterioration
are already in evidence —the result of
careless breeding and indiscriminate
crossing. A few breeders are preserving
both types of dog in accordance with the
standards that won fame for them, but
they are fighting a losing battle.
A studbook is needed for both breeds,
and there should be careful research into
pedigrees.
Most of the sheep-dog trials conducted
nowadays attract a bigger entry of
Border collies than they da of kelpies.
The Border collie, which may be a good
dog for close working of small flocks,
cannot compete with the kelpie in prac-
tical work on big stations. It is, how-
ever, regarded by many Australians as
ihe ideal sheep-dog because of the pub-
licity it has been given by the trials, and
it is even thought by many to be the
kelpie.
There are many so-called kelpies that
are not true to type. They have been
produced by indiscriminate crossbreed-
ing, and are being allowed to transmit
their undesirable characteristics to pro-
geny which carry only an infusion of
kelnie blood. Cattle-dogs are becoming
big, coarse and clumsy. Australia still has


use for both breeds, but will not have the
dogs if something is not done soon to
preserve a high standard of type and
working ability.— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
“Experts’ 5
Australia needs an open season for
“experts.” We were told that Italy
couldn’t conquer Abyssinia because the
blacks were too tough and the rains
would wash out the invaders —H.
Silassie’s postal address is Bath these
days. Stalin’s admirers declared that the
“Loyalists” would lick the “Rebels” —
Negrin, La Pasionaria and their pals are
now living outside Spain. Star-gazers
kidded us that Stalin would save the
Czechs and Democracy—Bcnes moved
to the U.S.A. just the same. Polish mud
was to ruin Hitler’s eastern offensive.
However, these foreign tipsters keep
on dishing it out. We laugh at the mugs
who swallow Goebbels’s tripe, but we
digest plenty ourselves. This war
won’t be won with typewriters and micro-
phones.—Blurtinaxe (N.S.W.).
German Schools in S.A.
South Australia is wondering whether
or not the Lutheran schools should be
closed. Because of the large German
population in our State these schools have
become more numerous during the last
few years. During the last war they were
closed. Hitler is not a religious man,
and these schools most certainly
specialise in the teachings of the Bible.
As far as can be seen, the schools are
patriotic—the flag is saluted daily and
the National Anthem sung, while the
children are taught to be God-fearing
citizens. It is obvious, therefore, that
the German schools are providing what
our own State schools in South Australia
lack —religious training.
I see no reason for hostility towards
German settlers in this country. Most
of them have been here since the
early days, worked on the land for the
most part and are wonderful farmers
whose homesteads are often a lesson to
all. A drive through any of our main
German towns, such as Tanunda or
Nuriootpa, illustrates what excellent
settlers and citizens the Germans are,
and shows that they have a love of beauty
and order. The majority of them are
intermarried with people of English
descent, and are as patriotic as any other
Australian.
Persecution of these Germans would
be as bad as Hitler’s persecution of the
Jews. — Audrey Francis (S.A.).
No Confidence
A no-confidence motion recently
passed in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
aroused a nine-day interest and then died
down and moved from the public eye as
such matters do. But for many years
hasn’t there been a subtle form of no
confidence which is frequently expressed,
not by floor members, but by the Gov-
ernment itself?
Recently, we had the G.P.O. inquiry
to investigate the signing of a contract
in the name of the Government by a
man employed by that Government. The
department concerned was the P.M.G.’s,
and a common taxpayer might be excused
for asking why the Minister could not
have made the inquiry with, perhaps, the
assistance of the Attorney-General?
Now we hear that a committee is to be
formed in Sydney to supervise trans-
actions relating to requisitioned goods
at the Government stores. The logical
deduction is that the Government
considers some responsible official in-
capable of appreciating the difference be-
tween necessary and rash spending;
i.e., he has lost the Government’s confi-
dence. Yet, instead of being replaced, he
is assisted by a special committee set up
on taxpayer cash.
I can understand a man losing confi-
dence in his neighbor, or floor members
losing confidence in the Government, but
when that Government loses confidence
in itself !— Lac Uvit (N.S.W.).
Monuments
It is to be hoped that we will change
our policy when erecting war memorials.
Is it right and is it any better for those
whose memory we revere that we should
build some meaningless edifice rather
than something which could add to the
comforts of the unfortunate or alleviate
suffering?—F. M. C. (Tas.).
Our Opportunity
To any thinking person it is evident
that Australia has the opportunity of
taking one of those great steps forward
characteristic of young nations geographi-
cally independent of, yet nurtured in the
culture and traditions of, Europe. That
the advance would be mainly of a
material nature is to be expected, for it
is only on the broad base of accumulated
wealth that we can hope to develop a
truly national culture.
Is not Europe’s distress Australia’s op-
portunity? By careful selection we can
secure from that unhappy continent a
nucleus of brains and talent sufficient for
the building-up of new industries neces-
sary for the strengthening of our econo-
mic structure. In this way we would
best encourage those truly big Austra-
lians who to-day, for want of opportuni-
ties at home, are to be found serving in
high posts abroad.
What we need is a “bread-and-butter”
patriotism that will make every man-jack
of us Australia-conscious ; that will make
our womenfolk once again realise the
importance and privilege of their essen-
tial function of producing the great Aus-
tralian race of the future. We need an
Australian outlook—to cease from look-
ing through the eyes of John Bull. Under
the influence of this new consciousness
industrial conflict would be modified;
politicians would at last begin to ap-
praise instead of sneer at posterity ; and
our national life would begin to assume
that continuity and steady growth so
necessary for Australia’s existence as a
nation.
In the past we have had our Alfred
Deakins and Edmund Bartons, men of
vision who could look beyond the im-
mediate problems of the day. Have we
•built as well as we should on the foun-
dations laid by them? Is not there a
crying need for crusaders of their calibre
to-day to quicken the national spirit and
lead the way to that greater national life
which is surely ahead of us? A. C.
Julian (Q.).
The Team Spirit
One of Australia’s most urgent needs,
I think, is an infusion of the team spirit
into our political, economic and social
life. It is all very well to talk about the
need for leadership, but of what use is
the best leader in the world if those he
would lead are at sixes and sevens and
know not whither they wish to go nor
how they mean to get there?
There is too much selfishness in our
present attitude to every problem ; per-
sonal gain and prestige rather than
national welfare is the lodestar of the
majority. Ballot-box value is too often
the dominant factor in shaping political
policies, and electors vote unblushingly
for those who promise the richest pick-
ings in return for the favor. When, from
banker to bootblack, from politician to
plumber, we have adopted the team spirit,
we shall have taken a decisive step
towards a virile and progressive nation-
hood. — Bluegum (W.A.).
Evading State Laws
Another example of the foolishness of
having State Parliaments with varying
legislation.
An American company director
shipped his car with him to Sydney, where
he was told that an automobile with a
left-hand drive could not be registered
in N.S.W. Undismayed, he went to Mel-
bourne, registered his car, secured a
visitor’s pass, and now uses the car in
N.S.W. for the whole year. — Petermac
(N.S.W.).
The Get-rich-quick Complex
. There is more in this matter of gam-
bling than meets the eye. I consider it
hopeless to tell a man he shouldn’t
gamble, or even to remove the ways and
means from his reach.
The craving for easy wealth is old as
the hills. It has persisted through the
ages in its myriad forms. He who hope-
fully puts ten bob on a horse, buys a lot-
tery ticket or sends in a dozen “test-of-
skill” coupons is no different from the
blade of a century or two ago who
throws the dice defiantly on the gaming
table. Both are indulging an innate thirst
for easy money.
I don’t wish to justify gambling. In
its more vicious forms it destroys char-
acter, lessens the ability of the mind to
grasp and appreciate better things, and
weakens the intellect. What I would
point out is that the get-rich-quick urge
is deeply implanted in the human make-
up.
A tightening of gambling laws is
needed in Australia, but to remove law-
ful facilities would merely increase secret
practice of the vice. Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
Common Courtesy!
It is surprising how many breaches of
etiquette are considered pardonable when
committed by people who would teach
Australia and Australians what to do.
Without wishing to appear boorish, one
must admit to a feeling of “don’t they
know better?” at some arguments put
forward. Take “daylight saving.” Both
sides spasmodically have their say, and
the ones who would wish it on to us
become mighty indignant because they
haven’t so far succeeded.
Australians who go overseas to live
or for a holiday learn to accustom them-
selves to the conditions they find in their
new home. Doesn’t it seem rather a
reflection on the intelligence of the would-
be teachers that they who have come
from a much older country cannot stand
equal in that respect to their colonial
relatives? Australia wants a personality
of its own—it can learn from other coun-
tries, but there is no need to slavishly
follow their conditions, etc. Even the
casual Aussie going to, say, London to
live wouldn’t complain and order the
fog to be dismissed from London just
because he was not used to so much
of it when he lived in Australia. It
simply isn’t done! Australians may ap-
pear to be casual, but there is one com-
plaint that cannot be laid against them—
they don’t ignore the rules of hospitality
in that a guest is not expected to take
complete charge and show the host or
hostess how to run things.— Terry (Vic.).
Industrial Design
We do not seem to have yet realised
the importance of industrial design in
Australia. Though displaying originality
in our art we have been content to
slavishly imitate imported ideas of de-
signing.
This does not mean that we should not
profit by the experience of other
countries in this sphere. American manu-
facturers, for instance, expend thousands
of dollars annually in order that they
shall not lag behind the rest of the world
in the modernity of their designs. But
because they pay particular attention to
achieving unusual beauty and neatness
when designing their products, manu-
facturers of small countries like Sweden
and Switzerland are able to hold their
own in world markets.
Until we are prepared to assist our
own manufacturers by improving our
system of technical education and en-
couraging good design they will continue
to compete at a serious disadvantage
with overseas marketers. Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
German Music
Since war began there have been many
protests against the broadcasting of Ger-
man music and the featuring of German
lieder at concerts.
Protest against anything by living Ger-
man composers is reasonable —royalties
have to be paid to these men for every
performance of their works, and the
sums they thus receive from other coun-
tries helps to provide the German Gov-
ernment with much-needed foreign ex-
change—but the position is altogether
different with regard to masters of the
past —Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Brahms,
Schubert and Wagner.
The works of those men —among the
greatest in the history of music—are the
heritage of the whole world, as are the
writings of giants of literature like
Shakspeare, Goethe, Racine, Cervantes
and Dante. —Den (N.S.W.).
Policing the Pacific
The chances of America becoming a
totalitarian State (B. 6/9/’39) are as likely
as her reversion to a colonial appanage
of England. No doubt the fear of giving
the President too much power was one
reason for the rejection of the bill alter-
ing the Neutrality Act, but the majority
of Congress have no more friendship for
England than they have for Germany.
These hard-boiled American politicians
have other reasons than that, and, no
doubt, one of them is the fear of losing
the German vote in their various consti-
tuencies.
As for America’s policing the Pacific
in Australia’s interests, it was not many
weeks ago that a prominent American
citizen visiting here broadcast a speech
in which he warned Australians against
the fallacy of entertaining such a belief.
The American fleet will police the Pacific
in America’s interests, not in those of any
other country under the sun. —E Daw-
son (S.A.).
This Casualness
“W.8.D.” (B. 6/9/’39) repeats the
pleasant assertion that we are a casual
people. Too sweeping, and too loose.
The Diggers earned that reputation for
Australians, but they were the cream
of the race. Below lie other strata of
declining standards, with right at the
bottom of the dish a layer of scare-
mongers and unfortunate weaklings
prone to panic and disloyalty. Yet one
trait common to all these types is a glib
willingness to accept the description which
is the right only of citizens of Anzac
quality.
This casualness at its best is merely
the refusal to become disturbed when
there is no need to be, and, for all
his changing of the guard and
pageantry, old John Bull has more
it than we have. Witness the hysteria
of certain of our radio “experts com-
pared with the superb calm of the B.tsu-
instructions following the declaration o
war; or the wild manner of some or
our alleged leaders beside Chamberlain,
who, when agitators clamor for action
on minor matters, goes fishing. D. L.
(N.S.W.). _
The Need for Humor
Outdoor, sport-loving Australia seems
to be taking life too seriously if the
literature of a nation reflects the tem-
perament of its people. Both these sug-
gestions may be doubted when the popu-
larity of radio comic serials is remem-
bered. Nevertheless, reference on the
Red Page (B. 30/8/’39) concerning the
absence of humor from the MSS. en-
tered for the S. H. Prior Memorial com-
petition seems to prove conclusively that
Australia is not producing enough humor-
ous writers. The insatiable hunger for
humor and the scarcity of Mark Twains
are another of those seemingly inexplic-
able paradoxes of present-day civilisa-
tion.
We need more humor, even though
at times it may be escapist—the Adelaide
press, in referring to the calm manner in
which the people took the news of the
declaration of war, mentioned that the fol-
lowing day the theatres were well patron-
ised, particularly those presenting a light
programme. But humor can also have
a tonic effect. Bergson declares that if
we would laugh we must achieve a
“momentary anaesthesia of the heart.”
When the emotions are the prey of ugly
facts, whether of domestic tragedy or of
war, a momentary anaesthesia, providing
a respite, a bracer, could only be of ad-
vantage to any physical-fitness campaign.
Besides, we must have something to offset
the already funereal tones of radio com-
mentators.
A London newsletter says that the
history of the cinema may be summed
up in four names, two of these being
Chaplin and Disney. It would be im-
possible for a genuine patron of either
while at the theatre to be morbid, mali-
cious or vindictive. If it is considered
that such a recreation may degenerate
into puerile indifference with fatal results,
then is it not better to perish a genial
fool than a grim, quasi-shrewd knave?—
Crackajoker (S.A.).
Employment of Youths
The most vital period of a young man’s
life in regard to employment is from
school-leaving age until he turns 21. This
period, in a sense, could be entirely elimi-
nated by making the compulsory school
age from seven to. 18, and by reducing the
adult age from 21 to 18. There would
then be no youth so far as employment
was concerned, and therefore no employ-
ment of junior labor. Immediately a
youth left school he would be an adult
and entitled to full adult wage.
If this was brought about there would
be no cases of youths being dismissed at
21 in order to employ cheaper junior
labor. It might be said that it would not
then be possible for a lad to learn a
trade, but he could still learn a trade
while being paid full adult wages, and
if apprentices were made to do a fair
day’s work instead of idling away a lot
of their time (as some do at present) a
trade could be learnt in two or three
years instead of five.
This reducing of the adult age from
21 to 18 would enable men to marry at
a much earlier age, and it would tend to
increase the birthrate —which, we are
told, is very desirable. Another point
in favor of paying the adult wage at 18
and early marriage is that there would
be far less crime.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Sweden and Australia
Besides having a national debt only
one-eighth that of Australia (B. 23/8/’39),
though populations are approximately
equal, Sweden, on about the same expen-
diture, maintains a navy of 76 vessels
(eight coast-defence ships, two cruisers, 14
destroyers, 31 torpedo and vedette boats,
14 submarines, six minesweepers and one
minelayer) and a very useful army. Uni-
versal training is in vogue in Sweden, and
every fit male of military age can be
mobilised in time of war.
Sweden can teach Australia lessons in
matters other than defence. It has only
three cities with populations that exceed
300,000 (Stockholm, Gothenburg and
Malmo), most of its numerous secondary
industries being situated in rural districts.
It maintains a State opera house and
theatre, and no country devotes more
attention to the preservation of buildings
notable for architectural merit or his-
toric interest. Australian Governments
have allowed many such buildings to be
destroyed —sometimes have destroyed
them themselves. — D. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
df
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Mamckville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
; X ; :
THE
HAND!
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35 1
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
J. W. SANDS, 357 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
deaf:
New Invention-The NATURTON
—for natural hearing,
Excellent results—’head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NO EDI,,, L.5.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
The Ideal SOLDIER’S WATCH
*
CS 0 ?.
DUSTFROOF
WATERPROOF
» •
SHOCKPROOF
•
Ideal for Outdoors,
Sport, etc. Essen-
tially a man’s
watch. Not affected
by tropical climes. Guaranteed 10 Years,
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Headers, Post Free,
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAMOND ty . 112 MARKETS!
67/6
TeitfoilWndk
m
J
mg:
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing: aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direot from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Buildings cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts,, Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
•WvV
smm
M
mm
ii«;
CONFOUND THE WEATHER
WHY GF.T WET
WHEN YOU CAN KEEP DRY
STURMPKUFB will make your
. coats, suits, costumes, dresses, hats,
stockings, etc waterproof. No
matter how hard It rams your clothes
idRE°WAtER OFF®A DUCK’S
BACK, STURMPRUFED clothing sheds
all moisture Cotton, silk or wool waterprool equally well and,
tou can do It yourself at HOME as easily at washing clothes,
it is colorless and will not stain Try It on your bathing
suit You will swim more easily and
faster without the weight gf water
in your costume, and dress as dry
as you went la A 2oi jar
contains sufficient concentrated
STRUMPRUFB COMPOUND
to waterproof a large overcoat,
lor a suit, costume, several light
[dresses, or many pairs of stockings
etc. Price two shillings per jar, oosf
free to any address.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C,|L
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sdf
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/.
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
(Mounts 10J- extra.)
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in' N.S.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
sdf
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 wixsojst si., mewxowm,
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
Senior Model
Ideal for picnics, motor
tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes.
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 35/-.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 35/-.
All Stores or direct from
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150-152 Brighton Street, Richmond, El, Via
CHEMICAL GARDENS!
EVERYBODY will soon be growing
SUPERIOR DISEASE-FREE Flowers,
Vegetables, Tomatoes, Potatoes, etc,
WITHOUT SOIL. Fully detailed Ameri-
can FORMULAS and PROCESSES for
the SOIL-LESS GROWTH OF PLANTS.
5/- posted.
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO!
Climbs to 20 feet. BEARS FOR 12
MONTHS. Yields FIVE CASES. Also
the FAMOUS PURE WHITE NON-ACID
HEALTH TOMATO “White Beauty.”
DISEASE FREE 1 DROUGHT PROOF I
2/6 packet each, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.,
17A Pitt Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
I Good'■$
Stmt
C.O.D.
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/6.
“Bulletin” Headers 3/9
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth TO/- lb.—for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 3/4 do*.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6 Honest Value, 30/-
Q_l f Tobacconist. Est. SO Years.
00l J-evy, 713 George Street. Sydney.
r t?
desired.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar*
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEX
PRGE'
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
' Gheringhap Street,. Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism cures mind-wandering and
develops a power of
CONCENTRATION
that enables you to see more and see
farther than the other man. It goes to
the root of sound thinking.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The PeJman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Cr.
Market St., Melbourne. Telephone MU2355.
sd
r INCH£STIR
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell,
Range
1500 ft.
35/
3-cell, 350ft.nr#
Range ....
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
STOP™* Rupture
m
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
AYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LAMB
De-Tailer
(DAROTJX PAT.)
A Surgical Instrument for Docking
Lambs. Saves lot of blood by closing
blood vessels and glands. Lessens
Infection from Flies or Germs, Heals
Quickly, Reduces Mortality, and
Freezers say improves carcases.
Price, £3/5/-
Send for Pamphlets. Country Agents Wanted.
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barr ere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
ACTS Write To-day for
LIKE THE HARD FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 278), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE W!
J
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTRALIAN 3 .
Biii mm
and
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
£
o°.
i>'
<*>x
/
*\<* ft \’
>*
# s
o<
••■’ .•••■**
.** A o 1
*•* </s<, >1
otf vO


ONLY
2/6
Deposit
SPECIAL EXTRA
PRICE
SMASHED!
J-JERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big
muscles and obtain great strength by taking
advantage of this astounding bargain! Now only
20/-, or 2/6 deposit, for this famous £3 value Com-
plete Home Gymnasium. Watch your muscles grow!
Surprise your friends! Everything GUARANTEED.
The big chest expander alone is worth more than you
pay for the entire outfit. This offer is limited, so
we sincerely advise you to get the coupon away to-day.
HERE’S WHAT YOU GET WITH
THIS HOME GYMNASIUM
1. —Complete Set of Wall Apparatus Attach-
ment.
2. —Two High-tensioned 1 Grip Apparatus;
builds strong wrists and forearms.
3. -Book on Ju-Jitsu (Japanese Secrets
exposed).
4. —Foot Stirrup; for legs, thighs, stomach.
5. —Complete Muscle Building Course.
6. —Complete Boxing Course.
7. —Rowing Machine Attachment.
8. —Three-strand Progressive Chest Expander.
RUSH COUPON ALONG!
Get Healthq ‘Strong»%
Complete HOME GYM ot HUF PRICE/
"'"'Or '"'""hr
O
m
hi
U
>h
Ur
©
wm
Ur
m
fe*V
-> .SSSffiS
Ur,
s*
«<(
1
(££s7
;
©
J
*: :>:
boxing
COURSE
c
0
■\\^? as \ 1
fc C
%
«**
vQ\jH°
tMtW
'v.
s\\o^
GYM. SUPPLIES, Sales Dept. 24,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I enclose 20/-, or 2/6 as first payment, for your
complete Muscle Building Outfit and Courses, and in
accordance with your GUARANTEE, if I’m not satisfied
you will REFUND MY MONEY IN FULL.
NAME
4/1 0/’39.
ADDRESS
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE!
Let us send you this whole wonderful Muscle Building Outfit, Courses,
etc., to try at our risk, for only 20/-. If you’re not satisfied within
10 days of using, just return the apparatus and the money will be
refunded in full. We will send it C.O.D. if you like. Just pay the
postman a few pence extra for postage, or pay by instalments of
2/6 per week until 25/- is paid in full. (No C.O.D. to N.Z.).
GYM. SUPPLIES, SALES DEPT. 24,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f GUARANTEE 5 :
MONEY BACK
IF NOT
;
THIS
OFFER
IS
LIMITED
and EXPIRES 24th
DECEMBER, 1939.
Do You Make These
Mistakes in English?
You can now read this remarkable New
Book, the book that has enabled 23,000
people to correct their mistakes in English
—SENT FREE to all readers of “The
Bulletin” interested.
ANY persons say, “Did you hear from him to-day?”
IVI They should say, “Have you heard from him to-day?”
Some get the “ci” and “ie” mixed up in such words as
receive and believe. Still others say, “between you and I”
instead of “between you and me.” It is absolutely astonish-
ing how frequently the simplest of words are mispro-
nounced and spelt incorrectly. Most persons use only
common words —colourless, flat and ordinary. Tlieir speech
is lifeless, monotonous, and grating. No man can hope to
achieve success, to speak with confident fluency when there
looms constantly before his mind the prospect of possible
criticism of the words and constructions lie employs; yet
many are slovenly in their expression, who, with a. fen-
minutes a day study, would be able to entirely eliminate
the glaring errors they now so wantonly commit.
f
HOW TO DEVELOP YOUR POWERS
OF CONVERSATION
r F O-DAY you need conversational ability. It
* takes two to make a conversation, and a con-
versation will always ensue if only one of those
two understand the art of conversing, for his
listener, no matter how silent he is inclined to be,
will be skilfully drawn into the conversation by
the suggestions, questions
and mind-openers of his
conversational companion.
Develop these powers and
become a fluent conver-
sationalist.
FREE!
The Book that will show you How
to Speak and Write Masterly English
IP you will fill in the coupon below at once you will receive a
remarkable new book, entitled “How to Become a Powerful,
Convincing- Speaker.” This book will .show you how to over
CLIP COUPON POST NOW !
DO YOU KNOW
HOW?
• To Persuade
• To Delight
• To Influence Reason
• To Stimulate
Emotion
• To Crystallise an
Appeal
You cannot reach the
heights of your ambi-
tion until you do.
The Alexander School of Public Speaking,
Desk L, Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Please send me FREE, without obli-
gation. a copy of your Famous Book. “How to Be
a Powerful Speaker” (incorporating “Mistakes Made
in English”). I enclose stamp to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
4/10 / ’39
the mistakes in English that
hold you back in life. It
will show you how to make
a test to determine whether
you are one of the eight men
out of ten who possess the
“unknown knack’’ of powerful
speech. Send for this astonish-
ing book now, it will be a
revelation to you—use coupon.
The Alexander School
of Public Speaking,
Desk L, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
EIGHT!
Jl
N
4)
Stupendous Success of Marvellous
New System.
Zyi INCHES GAIN
IN DOUBLE-QUICK TIME!
“Since starting your course I have gained
3£ inches in height, and I am very pleased
with your system. I feel much fitter now
than I did before starting your course.”
—L. BUSTARD, W., N.Z.
New System—Adds Inches Quickly
Y° u can now add several
inches to your height!
With this remarkable
method it is now possible
to increase your height, at
the same time improve
your health and appear-
ance. Without the use of
drugs or unnatural
methods, this system will
add inches to you. You
CAN be taller.
500 TREATISES
to be Distributed
FREE!
to “BULLETIN”
READERS
(Use Coupon
Below)
HOW IS YOUR APPEARANCE?
All the social and business advantages of a commanding figure can be yours.
You can stand above your fellows and command the attention and respect
which only tall people receive. Nothing aids you more to social and business
success than a tall, commanding appearance, nothing will add more to your
personality—and yet all this is within your grasp. You can NOW get this
extra height.
FREE!
To all ‘•Bulletin"
re«uler*> "siartllns
Seerot* of
It.v spcoiiU ;»rraj»S«'-
ment we are distributing: FREE to al!
readers of “The Bulletin” that enquire, some
literature that will amaze. It will show you
the short cut to a tall, commanding person-
ality. Through reading this wonderful
treatise hundreds have already increased
their height, hundreds are doing so at tins
moment. For a short while you can get one
of these treatises absolutely FREE —if you
send at once. Get the Coupon in the post
NOW!
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE
Dept. 94, Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
SEND WO MONEY
SYDNEY PHYSICAL* INSTITUTE,
Dept. 94, Box 3573 RR,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me your
remarkable Free Treatise, “How to
Increase My Height.”
NAME
ADDRESS
4/10/’oS)
