

TWO SHILLINGS
lift
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
. mm
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
and you make
ONE PINT
of the world’s best
family remedy for
COUGHS,
COLDS, CATARRH
-X T I
W X . ;M§& *§
mmrnm
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief .
CROUP, BRONCHITIS, SORE THROATS & ’FLU
You save lots of money by simply adding, in your own home, a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water, thus making ONE PINT of the best possible
family remedy known for quickly curing chest, nose, and throat ailments. An equal
quantity of the usual ready-made-up remedies would cost up to £l.
HEENZO IS A GENUINE 3-IN-ONE MONEY-SAVING FAMILY REMEDY
You quickly soothe and banish coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, and influenza by taking HEENZO internally.
For catarrh and colds in head', experiments have proved that the most effective treatment is a few drops of
HEENZO up each nostril, night and morning, instant relief from sore throats can be gained by gargling
with HEENZO. You can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard against catching the ills of winter chills by
taking a dose before venturing out into crowds, or wet and windy weather.
'HEENZOI
saves you money.
The Bulletin
John Bull Fighting-fit
Vol. 60.—N0. 3084.
Wednesday, March 22, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sloril Writing
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
SUNDAY WITH MR. HUXLEY.
It is a long time since Aldous Huxley in Point
Counter Point gently laughed at D. H. Lawrence for
his reform-the-world complex. In those days Huxley
was the expounder of the philosophy of Meaningless-
ness , there were points, and there were points counter
the points ; one noted the checkmate with tired amuse-
ment, and then floated painlessly away in the clouds
ot a Bach fugue. But with Brave New World, the
most profoundly moral book that has ever been
banned in Australia, there arose the suspicion that
Huxley himself might want to reform the world.
] n Ends a ”d Means (Readers’ Union ; Chatto and
Windus) he has left the laboratory for the pulpit.
The change of lodgings gives his career an odd
resemblance to that of H. G. Wells. One a liberal
from the upper middle class intelligentsia, and the
other a doctrinaire socialist from the petit bourgeoisie,
they share a passion for science and philosophy that
has driven them from pure art to didacticism, they
have both admitted an advance from agnosticism to
the perception of spiritual values, however unortho-
dox. Wells once advocated for the regeneration of
humanity the forming of groups of “men of good-
will (curious to recall these days, he dubbed his
prophets “Samurai”); the idea, which is as old as
the organisation of the Christian church, is resub-
mitted as the panacea in Ends and Means.
The two thinkers, of course, part company. Wells,
in his haste to bring about the millennium, has
always distorted the facts t<? fit his theories, and in his
old age has sunk to shrieking against the dictators as
it authoritarian government were a new thing in the
world, as if the persecution of minorities had been
the exception instead of the rule in history, and as if
the interests of the masses whom he professes to
serve could best be served by general war. Huxley,
while disapproving of all interference with liberty,
never shirks contemporary or historical facts, and
believes that England cannot secure domestic peace
by domestic violence, nor international peace by inter-
national violence.
It is the means, not the ends, over which Wells
and Huxley would disagree. That explains Huxley’s
title, Ends and Means. Admitting that morals may be
an accident of climate, that ideas and ideals are con-
ditioned by history and colored by fashion, he main-
tains that it is still possible among civilised people
to find agreement as to the fundamental ideal for
civilised life. The purpose of the book is to examine
the means by which people have attempted to
attain that end, to point out the follies, fallacies and
good points of each, and to suggest the correct method.
The thesis is simply stated:
It is difficult to find a single word that will adequately
describe the ideal man of the free philosophers, the
mystics, the founders of religions. “Non-attached” is
perhaps the best. The ideal man is the non-attached
man. Non-attached to his bodily sensations and lusts.
Non-attached to his craving for power and possessions.
Non-attached to the objects of these various desires.
Non-attached to his anger and hatred; non-attached to
his _ exclusive loves. Non-attached to wealth, fame,
social position. Non-attached even to science, art
speculation, philanthropy. Yes, non-attached even to
these.
To discover how best a man may become non-
attached it is necessary for Huxley to examine religion
all the great religions—the pseudo-religions of
nationalism, totalitarianism, Communism, politics in
general, education, science and technological advance,
the entire structure of contemporary society, and par-
ticularly of society under the threat of world war. If at
the end of it all one gets the impression that the ideal
non-attached man is rather like Mr. Huxley, and that
the best way of preserving peace and_ regenerating
humanity would be for little groups of people rather
like Mr. Huxley to get together and think beautiful
thoughts, he is really, perhaps, not so very far wrong.
After all, others —including some who work under
the banner of Peace —do get together and plan the
making of international wars.
One of Huxley’s greatest difficulties, how-
ever, and one that he does not refer to, is
that he is talking to an audience of Huxleys.
Far more people are willing to accept the
large, vague, woolly ideas of Wells than would
be prepared to swallow the melancholy accuracy of
Ends and Means. For instance, though Wells talked
a bit of Freud about war in Australia, he also talked
a lot of provocative rubbish that must have meant—
in terms of Freud—that he wanted war. Huxley
says simply, and sticks to it, “War exists because
people wish it to exist.” He shows quite clearly that
the desire for war exists among the democracies as it
does among the authoritarian States. He disapproves
of the League in its present form, because he believes
that sanctions mean war, and that to extend a small
local war into general conflict is criminal madness. He
laughs at the idea of an “international police force,”
because, apart from the impossibility of organising it,
the process, which all self-righteous militarists from
plain jingo to sanctionist and international policemen
describe as ‘punishing a guilty nation,’ consists in
mangling and murdering innumerable innocent indi-
viduals.”
Similarly controversial, and similarly valuable as
a piece of clear thinking, is his analysis of the “National
Person” —that is, not merely what is understood by
“Hitler” or by “Mussolini,” but by “England” or
“America” or “Australia.” He notes the phenomenon
that the National Person can be, and usually is, utterly
unscrupulous, utterly vain, utterly cruel; that the
National Person is never the sum of the nation’s con-
science, but of its ambition. He examines the in-
teresting fact that, whereas the ordinary citizen cheer-
fully swallows insults and injuries in his private and
public life every day for the sake of peace, the
National Person must rage at every insult. Why, he
asks, does the individual act as a civilised man, the
Nation as a child, a savage or a lunatic?
Ends ands Means is not merely concerned with
psychology. Huxley comes down from the heights to
discuss the most practical details of education and
government. His Utopia is incompletely planned, as
he admits himself, but the book is practical enough for
a benevolent Government actually to formulate a
policy from it. In his recognition of the fact of con-
servatism, that most people would prefer to be “left
alone” rather than to embark on the wild seas of
revolution, he is as wise as he is in his insistence on
the folly of violence. No reform, he says, should be
introduced if it is going to provoke violence : Rome, in
effect, wasn’t built in a day, and neither will Utopia be.
Regarded purely as reading matter, this is a fas-
cinating book. One minute Huxley is talking about
Buddha, the next about the London County Council;
one minute he is refuting Hegel, the next demonstrat-
ing the importance of the “dirtless farming” experi-
ments. There are passages as challenging as “The
Have-nots demand a place in the sun, or, in more
vulgar language, a share in the loot”; and “The de-
cline of democracy has coincided exactly with the
rise to manhood and political power of the second
generation of the compulsorily educated proletariat.”
Regarded as one of the fashionable army of political
books, it makes the works of journalists such as Reed,
or the battalion commanded by Gollancz, seem
childish.,
“Man lives by what he believes” is the truth from
which Huxley works. As an absolute pacifist, he
doesn’t give himself much chance of living by what
he believes. Without so wholeheartedly accepting the
ideal of “non-attachment,” it is possible very greatly
to admire Huxley’s attitude, and it is impossible not
to admire a book so profound, so free from sensa-
tionalism, and so completely honest.
Life on Devil's Island.
In Dry Guillotine (Cape), Rene Belbenoit gives a
first-hand account of what must be one of the harshest
penal settlements in existence. Granted that the
evidence of an ex-convict is open to question on such
a topic, and that he begins with a bid for sympathy
in respect of his criminal career, the book convinces
of its truth in the greater part.
Belbenoit was the only child of the chief con-
ductor of the Paris-Orleans express. His mother
ran away from her husband when he was three months
old, and he was brought up by landladies and rela-
tives. When he was about ten he went to live with
an uncle who owned “The Dead Rat,” the famous
Parisian night club of pre-war days.
The young Rene had the run of the club after
school. An attractive boy, he was noticed by many
famous people, and he responded eagerly to the
excitement of perpetual gaiety, late hours and lavish
tips. His head was completely turned. One of his
duties was to place bets for the patrons. One day
when he was fifteen years old he was given a very
large sum of money to place on an outsider. Another
boy suggested that as the horse could not win he keep
the money instead of giving it to the bookmakers.
He thought this a good idea. The horse won. He
walked the streets in despair all night, and then re-
turned to his uncle with the money. Neither his uncle
nor his father would have anything more to do with
him. ,
That was in August, 1914. He enlisted. Four
years later he was discharged from the army, sick,
poor and in love. When at last he got a job as dish-
washer in a small restaurant his heart was full of
bitterness, and at the first opportunity he stole a sum
of money from the till and fled. He escaped detec-
tion, and, being able to buy a good suit of clothes, got
a job in the house of a wealthy woman. Here, sur-
rounded by riches, temptation assailed him again, and
he stole a pearl necklace. Within a few hours he was
in gaol. He was sentenced to eight years’ hard labor
in the penal settlement of French Guiana. He was not
yet twenty.
Months in a French prison were followed by a
long voyage penned with 89 other convicts in an iron
cage in the hold of a ship. Semi-starvation, filth and
exposure to vice was his daily lot. The slightest mis-
demeanor was punished by confinement in cells beside
the boiler, where the heat was intense. In the event
of rioting the cells could be flooded with high-pressure
steam. This was a fitting prelude to the penal colony
where every form of oppression, cruelty, graft and
vice had full play.
Belbenoit made four attempts to escape, and for
each his sentence was lengthened. He was punished
in every conceivable way, kept for months in soli-
tary confinement in a dark cell, starving, without
tobacco or any means of passing the time; put to
hard labor in the jungle; flogged and exposed to the
vengeance of the guards and the brutality of his fellow-
convicts.
After fifteen years he escaped by sea with five
others. They were blown on to the shore of Trinidad
in a hurricane. The British authorities looked the
other way, and Belbenoit eventually reached the United
States with a single possession, the manuscript of his
book, which he had written at odd moments on any
paper available in prison, describing his experiences.
It is almost beyond belief that what he describes is
happening to-day in a settlement conducted by one
of the world’s most civilised nations. He writes:
The convicts of Guiana say that one cargo of
convicts replaces another. This is true, for every year
, e^ f n, e pn arnve , x/ u nc tlle total number of prisoners
i - t a conv °y comes the total rises
5,S’. the j h - os PJ tal ° verfl °w s , some disappear in
he jungle, and in the 12 months before the next ship-
airives the count has dropped again to 2800. The
policy of the Administration is to kill, not to better
or reclaim. To the Administration the men who arrive
on the convict ship are things to be disposed of.
He claims that the Administration tempts men
to escape as escape is almost always ended by death
in the jungle or amongst the sharks; that it classifies
some men as mad in order to destroy them; that it
even arranges for the death of troublesome prisoners
in hospital. Punishments are grossly out of propor-
tion to the crime, small misdemeanors being punished
excessively and major crimes like murder being
ignored. Good conduct does not help a man. There
are no regenerative influences, and every man, what-
ever his original character or offence, becomes brutal-
ised.
The futility of the whole settlement is, apparently,
one of the root causes of its hideous conditions. It
is a penal settlement, nothing more. There is no
free population beyond the Administration and a few
merchants. There is in consequence no public opinion.
The convicts labor, but they work to no end. It is
merely labor as punishment. The colony exports
nothing but butterfly wings and a little raw gold. The
character of the place is epitomised in the Route de
la Morte, a road built by convicts from nowhere to
nowhere. There is no object in anything that is done.
This vacuum is a forcing-ground for all the worst in
human nature. There are no white women beyond
a few wives of officials, and these—says Belbenoit—
are mostly scum, for no sensitive woman could endure
the life.
So great is the degradation of the convicts that
even the native women will have nothing to do with
them when they are liberated. In an effort to make
the colony productive and to people it, a law was
passed prohibiting released convicts from returning
to France for as long again as their sentence. The
expectation was that they would marry, till the land
and establish a population. They cannot marry, and
so ill is the repute of the colony that no capital flows
to it to establish industry or set men on the land.
The narrative is swift-moving. It is written with
clarity and restraint, in adequate but never purple
prose. To-day at 38 Belbenoit is an old man, almost
blind, toothless, emaciated. In all probability he has
only a short time to live, but he attained the impos-
sible in escaping from Devil’s Island, and through all
his suffering appears to have retained his will to live
and fight.
Society and the Dictators.
The framers of the American Declaration of Inde-
pendence held as “self-evident truth” the assertion
that “Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness” are
among the “unalienable rights” of man. Now, 160
years later, a group of 35 economists, sociologists and
statesmen, co-opted by an American publishing firm to
consider the whole social field, finds a world in which
millions of people live under dispensations that deny,
either bluntly or by their actions, the basis on which
a great republic was erected.
Planned Society (Prentice-Hall) is a tome of close
on a thousand pages. The writers (26 of them are pro-
fessors or lecturers in American universities) are for
the most part leisurely and wordy in style, chary of
definite statement and conclusion, but they cover the
tremendously wide field of their subject in some sort
of fashion, with a wealth of historical illustration and
philosophical argument. Naturally the wide-ranging
plans of the American New Deal receive a great deal
of attention —the attempts to check unprofitable farm-
ing, to combat erosion, to reclaim drought-stricken
areas, to develop power sources —but these, together
with the large subjects of Government control of in-
dustrial relations and attempts to regulate prices, have
been more readably expounded in American journals.
It is interesting, however, to note that the Roose-
veltian policy towards organised Labor has done much
to wean the American Federation of Labor from its
traditional opposition to compulsory arbitration. The
dictum of Sam Gompers, “The kernel of all arbitra-
tion laws is a desire to prevent strikes by punishing
strikers,” no longer commands whole-hearted Federa-
tion allegiance.
yarious phases of the problems of credit control
are discussed. Dear old Major Douglas is treated very
kindly—almost contemptuously—by one economist,
who remarks that what is sound in his theory has been
known for quite a while —that central banks should
lend freely at a time of crisis, keeping interest rates
low and making credit easy to maintain.
Another prof, hits a nail on the head when he
declares that the automobile found the world ill-pre-
pared for it. We’re still trying to run engined traffic
over roads made for horses, and the maladjustment is
costing the U.S.A. alone 35,000 lives a year. The
prof, capitalises the damage on that score at
1,750,000,000 dollars.
Several writers discuss totalitarian methods of
government. One writer says these, whether they run
(|Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
1823 —"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW —1939
' THE SENIOR STORE ”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Jumbuk Quality Underwear
We guarantee and recommend "JUMBUK" Underwear. It is made of a selected long staple pure woollen
yarn, and its excellent quality ensures long and satisfactory wear. Its soft, downlike surface
irritate the tenderest skin. It is guaranteed preshrunk, and is stocked in a wide range of sizes, ena g
every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
f
w
miimm
. %
:
mi
igspws
■
Reg. Trade Mark.
• Men’s Mercery —Ground Floor —George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0..
SYDNEY. 'Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)
220 X NATURAL ALL WOOL LIGHT WEIGHT
Sizes 34in. 35:::. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 40m. 48m 50 m.
Shirts, short sleeves 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/- 11/ / / /
Underpants 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/- 2/- 3/3 4/6 15/9
Trunk Drawers 8/ 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/6 11/6 1 / /
330 X NATURAL ALL WOOL MEDIUM WINTER WEIGHT
46
48 50
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44
Shirts, short sleeves 11/9 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/9 17/ / / J_
Shirts, long sleeves 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/ / /
Underpants 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/ -
Underpants, \ leg... 12/6 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/6 17/9 1 /
Trunk Drawers 12/3 12/9 13/9 14/9 16/3 17/6
440 NATURAL ALL WOOL HEAVY WINTER WEIGHT
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 14/3 15/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/6 21/9
Shirts, long sleeves 15/9 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 /-
Underpants 15/3 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 21/6 22/9 24/3
All JUMBUK ATHLETIC SINGLETS
In cream all wool, sleeveless style, self bound neck and armholes. Size 34 to
44 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns', each °/ A
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON LIGHT WEIGHT
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 7/- 7/9
Underpants 7/9 8/6
Trunk Drawers 7/3 8/-
38
8/3
w/w 9/- 10/- 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/-
9/- 9/9 10/9 12/- 13/3 14/6
8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON WINTER WEIGHT
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 4o 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/6 9/- 9/3 9/9 10/9 1 / /
Shirts, long sleeves 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 1 / /
Underpants 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/9
MEN'S NATURAL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Soft finish Undershirts with Short Sleeves, or Underpants to ankle, size
34 to 44 inch chest or waist.
At Anthony Horderns', in light weight all wool --
At Anthony Horderns', in winter weight all wool •-
At Anthony Horderns', in super quality heavy all wool
5/6
7/6
8/11
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON UNDERWEAR
Soft finish, sizes 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. Undershirts with short
sleeves, or Underpants to ankle. At Anthony Horderns , m medium
weight wool and cotton, 5/6; heavy winter weight wool and cotton, //6
FLEECY LINED UNDERWEAR
Warm
ankle.
natural
winter weight Undershirts with short sleeves, Underpants to
Size 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. At Anthony Horderns , m
shade, medium weight, 3/6; in fawn shade, heavy winter
weight, 4/9.


A Likeable Unfortunate
OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M.ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
L’ Agent Provocateur
MLE MARQUIS DE SAINT-CLEUX, com-
monly known in Sydney during the regime
i of Governor King as Mister Clew, was not
a happy man. He had little reason to be
such. Never in his life had Fortune favored him save
in a negative degree. She had preserved him miracu-
lously from the almost inevitable result of the merci-
less prosecution of Fouquier-Tinville when he had
sat upon the gradins in the Grand’ Chambre of the
Palais de Justice, with twenty-two arrested com-
panions, facing the infamous Tribunal of the Terror,
which, on the day of his trial, provided Monsieur
Sanson and his men with two-and-twenty heads for
the insatiable appetite of Dr. Guillotin’s bloody
“widow.” His own would have been the twenty-
third had it not happened that the usually impeccable
Public Prosecutor, laboriously exact and painstaking
in the discharge of his sanguinary office, had dropped
the dossier of the Marquis upon the floor, and by
permitting himself the distraction of signifying verbai
approval of the jeers at the condemned of M. le
President Dumas had inexplicably forgotten to pick
it up again.
So M. le Marquis’s name had not been called in
the list of those required to mount into the tumbrils,
He had been left unnoticed and unguarded in the
courtyard of the Conciergerie, and had walked out
amidst the train of executioners’ assistants and officials
that followed the carts through the gateway, and had
forthwith disappeared into Paris, from Paris, and out
of the black and fearful shadow of the Terror. So
much as this he owed to Fortune—but it can hardly
be regarded as a positive apportionment of good luck.
It was merely escape from an evil fate —not the receipt
of any tangible favor.
Golden Square in Soho knew him for a year and
a half of semi-starvation and vicissitude. He had
sought a means of existence by teaching French and
music—the violin and the spinet— to the daughters
of opulent and ignorant respectabilities in Blooms-
bury, but had suffered greatly from several disabilities
and handicaps.
London, in the days between the last of Robes-
pierre and the first of Bonaparte, was overrun with
aristocratic refugees from the flaming inferno of
France. City merchants did not greatly desire that
their daughters should learn the language of a nation
which they regarded with distrust and distaste. Their
natural veneration of a lord did not extend itself to
a bankrupt marquis who was out at elbows, shrunken
in the waistline and chronically unshaven. A hungry
nobleman to them had no nobility. And all things
Gallic were untrustworthy. Wherefore, Jean Louis
Marie de Saint-Cleux came to taste the exceeding
bitterness of poverty in London., So M. le Marquis
took a loaf of bread one evening from a Covent
Garden bakery—and then he took a voyage lasting
six months to the other side of the world, and landed
in Sydney Cove at the beginning of 1796. with a sen-
tence of seven years of exile from the bewildering
state of society in the Old World.
KA DE SAINT-CLEUX, free in 1804, was 32
years of age —slim, graceful and not unhand-
some. He was of a fair complexion, shaved himself
clean, and had grey eyes that many sorrows had
rendered a little'mournful. In Sergeant-Major’s Row
he kept a little school, strictly limited to the “sons
of gentlemen.” A Sydney gentleman in those days
was anyone who did not happen to be a prisoner
of the Crown—at least, he was so classified by the
unfortunate French nobleman when the admissibility
of pupils to the Academie Saint-Cleux was the ques-
tion. But of the few persons who were his intimates
in the quaint society in which he found himself, a
higher standard than that was required. Lieutenant
Matthew Flinders, of the Navy, Ensign Barrallin, of
the Corps, Dr. George Bass, Captain Johnston—three
or four like these he called his friends, but for the
most part he refrained from any acknowledgment of
equality and fraternity amongst such as enjoyed the
blessings of liberty in this land of bondage.
“Ah, mo.n cher Georges,” he once remarked to
the young surgeon-explorer, “too much have I seen of
liberte, egalite, f rate mite. No such things exist in
the world—least of all in my own unhappy country
or in this one.”
In the week following the disastrous and abortive
rebellion of convicts at Castle Hill, near Parramatta,
M. de Saint-Cleux, happening to look through the
open window of his schoolroom, which occupied half
the tiny two-room thatched cottage, was startled to
observe three red-coated soldiers enter his little garden.
Two privates remained leaning upon their muskets
at the gate in the wicket fence, whilst a red-headed
corporal strode up the narrow, cinder-strewn pathway
and hammered with his fist upon the door. The fifteen
. pupils buzzed with excitement as he walked through
them to the entrance.
“Taisez-vous, mes enfants!” he adjured them,
“ Tis not an occasion for idleness. A moment. Ah,
M. le Caporal, to What do I owe this honor?”
Corporal Brady saluted him, and there was in the
expression of his freckled face something of pity for
this presumably half-witted “furriner” who seemed to
have fallen foul of Authority. Whatever the reason
might be, the corporal was well aware that Authority
was particularly dangerous just then.
“Sure, thin, Mister Clew, ’tis Cap’n King himself
do be wantin’ for to see ye. Oi’ve or-rders for to
mar-rch ye over th’ Tank Strame this instant. ’Tis
not a good timper his Ex’lency’s in this fine marnin'.
Get y’r hat, if ye plase, sorr, an’ step along wid us
now.”
“M. le Gouverneur! He requires my presence!
For what reason, M. le Caporal ?”
“I dunno —I dunno ’tall, Mister Clew. ’Tis not
Jack Brady Cap’n King do be a-tellin’ his throubles
to. But ye’re not the on’y wan, Mossoo. These free
days past he’s bin a-sendin’ for wan and another for
to come and explain thimsilves about what they didn’t
have to do wi,d thim mad fellies up th’ Parrymatty
River. Joe Holt, Mister Margarot—annywan what
was iver rebillious in his bor-rn days. Mebbe ’tis a
revvylooshun he finks it is. I dunno.”
M. le Marquis shuddered at the baleful word.
“Revolution ! Moi! Ah, M. le Caporal, Ido not
traffic with revolutions. But — helas ! —never do I escape
them.” He sighed as he turned back into the cottage
“A holiday, mes enfants. Pardonnez-moi. But a
moment, M. le Caporal.”
“Blast my deadlights, sir,"
barked his Excellency,
“ ‘tis like your imper-
tinence.”
D RESENTLY, his three-cornered hat upon his head,
his gold-topped cane in his hand, and his best coat
on his back, M. le Marquis locked the door of his
dwelling, his pupils having clattered joyously and
noisily into the sunny morning, and set off with his
escort for the big white cottage across the valley of
the Tank Stream that was the seat of Australian autoc-
racy. There he found an angry, perturbed and much-
harassed ruler of New South Wales awaiting him.
His polite bow was acknowledged with a grunt, his
courteous request for enlightenment as to his arrest
with a quarter-deck oath.
“Blast my deadlights, sir,” barked his Excellency,
“ tis like your impertinence to inquire. Read that,
sir— read that! The testimony of a fellow-country-
man. Now, then, what have you to say, sir?”
Mystified, Saint-Cleux took the single sheet of
paper which the Governor proffered him, and studied
the copperplate handwriting carefully.
“I have to inform your Excellency,” it went,
“that the result of my investigations leads me to
entertain an opinion that the French prisoner,
Saint-Cleux, if not actively engaged in the late
rebellion, was at least cognisant of its imminent
outbreak at the beginning of the present month.
He has been heard by sundry persons to indulge
in scurrilous remarks concerning the Govern-
ment of his native land, of a peculiarly bitter
and detestable description, from which it is not
unreasonable to suppose that he is opposed to
all constituted authority whatever. He is known
to be on terms of intimacy with such disaffected
persons as Joseph Holt and Sir Henry Brown
Hayes, and. in my opinion may be regarded as
a malcontent of a dangerous sort, whose acti-
vities might very well be restrained. I have
the honor to be your Excellency’s very humble
and obedient servant,
Joseph Marlot.
As he read the color left his face, and when he
came to the end he gave a little gasp and stared
bewilderedly at the angry potentate seated behind the
writing-table.
“Now, then, sir, what do you say to that?” the
Governor growled. “ ’Tis the accusation of one who
is a fellow-countryman of your own. Come, then,
what have you to say? Damme, sir—l’ll show you
what’s o’clock!”
Captain King, very red in the face, obviously
extremely angry, glared at the pale Marquis suspi-
ciously. His Excellency had been not a little shaken
by the dangerous events that had marked the preced-
ing week. He was in a mood that was distinctly
favorable to any suggestion of proscription.
“Monsieur,” said Saint-Cleux with quiet dignity,
“such an accusation as this is entirely worthless. It
is from a source that is—how do you say it? —
infameux —odious, tainted, quite unworthy. C’est
incroyable—vraiment incroyable. I know the man.
He is one whom your Excellency would be well advised
to place no dependence upon. He”
The Governor interrupted furiously. He thumped
the table with his clenched fist. “Damme, sir, lam
quite capable of forming my own conclusions, Marlot
has been of great assistance to me in checking this
infernal and diabolical mutiny. He is a creditable
Frenchman. He was formerly in the Paris police, and
is well qualified to report on such as you, sir. At
any rate, I am quite prepared to accept his opinion
as to your mischievous activities, Master Frenchman.
You will go to Norfolk Island—out of harm’s way.”
“Monsieur! On the bare word of this —this
agent provocateur ? Mon Dieu, M. le Gouverneur,
you cannot be aware of this man’s perfidious char-
acter!”
“That will do, sir. Corporal, conduct this man
to the gaol. You will be kept in close confinement,
sir. Not a word!” He scrawled a few lines on a sheet
of paper, which he folded up and addressed. “Here is
your authority, Corporal Brady. You will hand it
to Mr. Gore, the' Provost-Marshal. That will do, sir.
I decline to hear another word.”
The Marquis shrugged his shoulders as he turned
away. “Ma foil” he muttered. “La justice britan-
nique !”
MAJOR JOSEPH FOVEAUX, Lieutenant-Gover-
nor of Norfolk Island, was not an easy person to
get on with, as many had found to their distress; but
M. le Saint-Cleux, without overmuch contrivance, had
managed to retain his favor, or, at any rate, to avoid
the incurrence of his disfavor. His banishment from


New South Wales not
having affected his status
as “free by servitude,” he
had been at liberty within
the narrow limits of the
parent colony’s depen-
dency, and by 1807 was
well and comfortably
established in a small way
as a farmer. He had a little
weatherboard house on
a productive strip of soil.
His gentle manner, unfail-
ing courtesy and the quiet
air of distinction that was
natural to him had won
the regard of the fellow-
freemen on the island, of
its rulers and of the prison
population. Mr. Clew had
become a popular insti-
tution in a place where
few institutions were
popedar or even tolerable.
For his own part, he
was content to end his
life there. The peaceful
beauty of that tiny oasis
in a desert of ocean
charmed and appealed to
him. It was out of a world
where everything that had
happened to him had been
hostile. And in its earliest
days Norfolk Island was a
paradise of peace and plenty. The prisoners sent
down were picked men. Only after its second settle-
ment in Governor Brisbane’s time did it develop into
the terrible hell that makes it notorious and con-
spicuous in the history of British colonisation.
On a summer evening M. le Marquis strolled alone
through the bush on one of those excursions which
he delighted in making in leisure hours. His wander-
ings led him to the head of Ball’s Bay, a narrow inden-
tation, hardly a quarter of a mile in depth, that lies
half-way along the eastern coast. Coming out of the
forest, and standing in the shadow of the great pines,
he was witness to a singular and somewhat disconcert-
ing episode which at first was altogether beyond his
comprehension.
Out in the middle of the tiny bay’s upper end a
small fishing-boat with its kellick on the bottom
rocked and bucked at its moorings in a fashion that
every moment threatened to capsize it. Standing up
in it, two men grappled and struggled, apparently in
mutual endeavor to throw each other into the water.
Grunts and curses and an occasional scream —always
from the same man —disturbed the stillness of the
secluded haven, and, to his vast astonishment, occa-
sionally M. le Saint-Cleux recognised oaths and
idioms of unmistakably Gallic origin. They were
mixed with hoarse and angry ejaculations in the
broadest Irish brogue.
“Scelerat ! Cochin !” screamed the Frenchman.
“Ye bloody infor-rmer!” howled his antagonist.
“Oi’ll shcrew y’r dom’ neck, so Oi will!”
The little boat gave a lurch, and the two straining
figures fell down together, savagely clutching one
another across the thwart in her bottom. Then sud-
denly there came a shriller scream, one that could
denote nothing but fierce and intolerable agony. “Oh,
Mere de Dieu !”
The Irishman struggled to his knees and lurched
forward to the mooring line, whilst the other rolled
and screamed in the bottom of the boat, bloody hands
pressed over his eyes. The boat wallowed and rolled,
but the man in the bows tugged up the stone that
moored it and dumped it aboard.
“Now, ye blaggard,” he roared, “Oi’ll take ye
ashore an’ ye may go tell the Major what Oi’ve done
to ye.”
He picked up an oar and paddled the boat to the
boulders w'here M. le Marquis stood, speechless and
astounded. As soon as the boat touched the rocks
the Irishman, a giant whom the Marquis recognised,
picked up the moaning man from the bottom boards
and dragged him ashore. He lugged him by the collar
of his jacket across the boulders and dumped him
on the grass beneath a tree. It was only then that
he seemed to see the Marquis. He waved his hand
and cried to him as he got aboard the boat and put
the oars out. “Lave him be, Misther Clew. Th’
dir-rty dog’s but got what’s been a-comin’ to him.
Lave him be to suffer. He’s made manny another
wan to stew in his own juice.”
With that he moved away down the middle of
the inlet, whilst the horrified Marquis stood and stared
at the squirming, moaning man lying at his feet.
“Mon Dieu!” he muttered, stooping down and
peering at the man. “Come, mon ami,” he said, “let
me see what I can do for you. Who are you? What
has happened?”
Suddenly, seeming to recognise that a friendly
voice accosted him —and the voice of a compatriot—
the man burst into a torrent of rapid and almost in-
coherent French. But the Marquis was able to follow
him.
The Irish prisoner Denis O’Toole, who was fisher-
man for the Lieutenant-Governor, had invited him to
go out with him, and had rowed the boat round from
Emily Bay to Ball’s Bay, where, as soon as the anchor
was down, he had savagely attacked him —he did not
Out in the middle of the tiny
bay’s upper end a small fish-
ing-boat rocked and. bucked.
Standing up in it, two men
grappled and struggled,
apparently in mutual en-
deavor to throw each other
into the water.
know why. And at the last he had gouged out his
eyes! Horrified, M. le Marquis could but repeat
mechanically: “But for what reason, mon ami ? Who
are vou?”
“I am Joseph Marlot.”
“Ah del
U LE MARQUIS stepped back and stood with
IVI . extended arms, his fingers opening and closing
convulsively, his features transfigured with hate and
loathing. For a moment or two he did not speak,
When he did his voice was thin and quavering. He
spoke slowly in French. “You may know me then,
I am le Marquis de, Saint-Cleux, or, at least, I was.
Mere de Dieu I muttered t e man, an grove; e .
on to his face, while Saint-Cleux turned and walked
“P anl ! down beneath the trees. The sad years raced
through his head, while for ten, fifteen, twenty minutes
he walked and spoke no word. At last he stopped.
‘Ts this the end, Monsieur?” whispered the man.
"No, Joseph Marlot-thisis not the end. I wfi
carry you to my house. I will tend you I will not
abandon you here. I will be your preserver. The
end will rest with Go .
PUBLIC TELEPHONES
BY LES ROBINSON
"THERE are two public telephone boxes in our
semi-rural suburb, both of them on wind-swept
I street corners and about half a mile apart. They
are used to excess by:
(1) The garrulous, incompetent, leisurely and
pachydermatous, who, if they at last succeed, after
lengthy and blundering endeavor, in getting the
numbers they want, stay in the boxes, no matter how
many other people may be waiting, for half or three-
quarters of an hour, a night or a day.
(2) People (homeless presumably) sheltering from
wind or rain.
(3) People (homeless presumably) who want to
draw up contracts, add up columns of figures* write
letters or do crossword puzzles.
The desk which holds the telephone book can
always be used for any such purpose when the tele-
phone book has been thrown on ihe floor.
(4) Spooning couples, especially when, for some
reason or other, the light is not, as it often isn’t, in
kina order
t „ ,
(5) People who want to wrap or unwrap parcels,
rearrange their belongings tidy themselves up or
change their clothes. As often as not they eave un
wanted garments or discarded paper an s ring o
keep the telephone book company on he oor.
(6) Prawn-, lobster-, peanut-, pie-, fish-, chip-,
fruit- and sweet-eaters (homeless presumably), especi-
ally on wet nights.
(7) The inebriated, who, while making ineffectual
attempts to find or dial numbers, have fallen asleep.
The telephone books (their period of usefulness
as such is brief indeed) are, as though they had long
lain in somebody’s dustbin before ever telephone-
users thumbed, walked upon and tore their pages,
usually much begrimed and tattered. If the page the
number you want happens to be on isn’t missing it
is just as often so soiled that the number is illegible,
Another reason why the telephone books are with such
frequency on the floor is that the neat and handy
little desks provided by the telephone department to
hold them are wrenched off and taken home in the dead
of night, every now and then, by box-occupants whose
acquisitive faculty has attained a higher degree of
development than any even rudimentary altruistic
inclination they, if ever, possessed.
I often have occasion to use those public tele-
phones for business purposes. My call takes about
two minutes. It is a question, three words in length,
the answer, promptly given always, being either “yes”
or “no.” I ascertain from persons clustered round
and waiting to use it, when, after a brisk walk, I
reach box number one, that someone has already been
inside for about half an hour, and seems likely to
remain in occupancy for the rest of the morning,
afternoon or evening. I wait hopefully for a while,
but at last, despondency setting in, decide to try box
number two. I reach it, after more brisk walking,
only to be informed by gloomy-looking people
clustered round and waiting to use it ( that someone
has already been inside for about half an hour
seems likely to remain in occupancy for the rest of t e
morning, afternoon or evening. I hasten back to box
number one.
No sooner do I get close enough to it to make
discoveries than with pestilential inevitability I find
that either the long-winded individualist who got
there first continues to monopolise it, or that another
leisurely chatterbox has taken his or her place. That
is how innumerable evenings of mine mornings and
afternoons, too, are misspent, or, in other words, use-
lessly frittered away. , _
“Public telephone” as a descriptive term could
scarcely be more apt or felicitous, because people who
speak quietly or softly when using it are outnumbered
always by those who talk at the top o t eir o en
so very loud and penetrating voices. There is in
consequence, rarely, if ever, any privacy aou eir
conversations at all. e cons an use , o >
that matter > the infrequent user constrained to wait
until the all-too-constant user has quite finished, is
he be standing on the
stre£t ’ orne]% to assert without f ea r of con-
tradjction an d minus the risk also of being accused
eavesdropping that by far the larger number of
those conversations m ight well begin with the words,
in particular to do I thought I’d
whUe a * ay dm£ by ringing you up »
Using the public telephone instead of writing a
s i x t e en- or a twenty-eight-page letter about nothing
j n particular is, in fact, perhaps because it saves buying
pens, ink, notepaper, writing blocks and stamps, a
p o p U j a r diversion out our way. Ludo, draughts, dom-
j noeS) ping-pong, snakes-and-ladders or any such
inoffensive pastimes are, worse luck, doomed to ob-
soi escence;( i f ear , as compared with it.
Impatience in the vicinity of those two public
telephones keeps on seething until it becomes, especially
j n bad wea ther, what might well be termed a raging
j n f ern o sometimes. Bad-tempered old gentlemen have
even been known, after fidgeting and fuming with
intolerance and rancor, to hammer angrily on the doors
0 £ ose telephone boxes with their walking-sticks or
tbe handles of their umbrellas, to make grimaces at
tbe i nm ates whilst doing so, and to shout at them as
well, no t ? 0 f course, that it made the slightest differ-
ence really,
One night, when a slow and muzzy habitue, whose
telephone conversations always took longer than any-
body else’s, seemed likely to be about an hour, a mis-
chievous youngster opened the door and, to the amuse-
ment of all who were being kept waiting, lit and
threw a hunger into the box. Though in my opinion
any such drastic method does not merit praise, and
a s a staunch upholder of orthodox procedure I am
unable to regard it with approval, I must at the same
time nevertheless admit that it was very effective in-
deed. Never, before or since, have 1 seen a
monopolist vacate a telephone-box with such celerity.


WEDDING NIGHT
by T. E. PALMER
DRAWING BY RICE.
THE afternoon sun beat down on the Assembly
Hall humped like a weary beast in the clearing
at the crossroads. It turned the iron roof into
a white glare, glinted on a broken window, and
threw a sagging guttering into relief against the
shadow under the eaves, its brilliance only emphasis-
ing the paint-hunger of the timbers and the all-per-
vading air of neglect.
People stood in groups in front of the hall and
waited for the bride. The children that could not be
left at home played hide-and-seek, or raced shouting
across the clearing to where the horses and vehicles
had been left in the shade of the trees.
Apart from the women setting out the wedding
breakfast, only the bridegroom and best man with
the parson and a few intimates waited in the hall.
The others preferred the fierce heat outside to the op-
pressive heat inside. While they waited they talked.
The men of orchards—of navels, Valencias and grape-
fruit, of scale, wax and brown spot, of markets, agents
and co-operative selling, of poor returns and high
freights, always of orchards ; the women talked about
their children, their husbands and each other, about
ailments, clothing and cooking, and about the bride
and the bridegroom and the best man.
A hired car, raising a cloud of dust which hung
suspended in the still air, came up the main road and
stopped in front of the hall. The bride’s father got
out, the bridesmaid and then the bride. Those who
had been waiting crowded round, and several of the
women called to her excitedly. She caught the eye
of one or two and smiled ; then her face became
serious again.
They looked at her with a new interest. There
was little remarkable about her, but her eyes were
alive and she walked well. Her father led her and
the bridesmaid into the hall, the guests following.
They went past the trestle tables on which the wedding
breakfast was set out, and on to where the parson
waited with the bridegroom and best man. Someone
was playing the piano. All the benches having been
needed at the trestle tables, the guests gathered round
in a circle.
As she approached the little group she looked up
swiftly, appealingly. But it was not at the bridegroom
she looked ; it was at his brother, the best man.
C?HE sat beside the bridegroom and ate the cold
v chicken and salad mechanically. Mr. Briggs, the
parson, was making a speech, but instead of listening
she looked down the row of faces on each side of
the long table, flushed faces all turned towards the
speaker and herself, and found them unreal. It was
all unreal; it could not happen.
She allowed herself a fleeting glance at Dick, the
best man, but he kept his eyes averted. Why had he
not done something to stop it all? At the slightest
sign from him she would have refused to go through
with the ceremony—yes, even when Mr. Briggs was
reading the words out of the book. She twisted the
ring on her finger ; it had a heavy, cold feeling. Ron
had put it there instead of Dick. She was Ron’s wife.
Everyone was standing and singing boisterously
“For They Are Jolly Good Fellows,” and there was a
great scramble to charge the glasses. The men as they
sang opened the bottles of beer ranged along the centre
of the tables. They had been well shaken up during
the trip out in the mail car earlier in the day, and when
they were opened the beer frothed down on to the
pink-and-white crepe paper that served as a table cover.
A laden vase of Christmas-bush overbalanced to add
to the merriment.
She felt Ron’s hot breath on her cheek and his
hand on her thigh, and she fought the impulse to
shrink.
“We don’t drink this one ; we just sit pat,” he
warned her needlessly for the second time.
She nodded.
But some of the women had guessed. It was all
too unexpected for them not to have done so. Since
their schooldays Dick and she had been inseparable,
and everyone believed they would make a match of it
when the time came. But, although it was the under-
stood thing, it had somehow always remained in the
future. At first Dick had not the money to marry; he
could not support a wife on the pound a week he
earned working on his father’s orchard. But since he
had held the maintenance job with the Main Roads
Board, there had been money enough. Yet he had
still not come to the point.
His delay had puzzled and mortified her, but she
was too proud to ask for an explanation. He knew she
would have been satisfied with anything he could have
given her.
Vividly she remembered the Sunday when Dick
had come over for dinner as usual, but accompanied
by Ron. After the meal they had talked.
“When are you two getting married?” Ron had
asked with tactless good humor.
“Ask Dick,” she had answered, letting the words
slip out before realising their implication.
Ron had turned to his brother. “What about it?
She’s putting it on to you.”
At first Dick had made no reply ; then he had
said: “We aren’t thinking about it yet.”
Not thinking about it! She had felt the dull flush
rising to her cheeks.
“Don’t believe you mean to marry her, Dick!”
Ron had said with noisy banter. “Marry me, Myra!
I m looking for a wife ; my trees will be bearing soon.”
She had turned swiftly to him, flashed a scornful
glance at Dick, and said: “All right, I’ll marry you.”
She had done it to hurt Dick and she had suc-
ceeded. Later, when Ron had asked her if she was
serious, she had answered that she was ; and as he
wished to be married almost at once, she had agreed.
But she had never thought that Dick would let it
happen.
Ron, on his feet beside her, brought her back
to the present. He was doing his best to respond to
the toast, but the further he went the more involved
he became and the louder his voice grew. Everyone was
now in a state of high excitement, and showed it by
heckling the speaker. He took it all in the best of
good humor and shouted still louder. With his stocky
strength, capacity for hard work and blatant cheer-
fulness, he was a great favorite with the men.
'"THE tail-light of the hired car glowed brightly as it
1 made its way back along the track that led to
Ron s orchard. Soon it lost itself in the timber, and
Languidly she slapped the mosquitoes and let Ron talk. She felt she should be more in revolt against the situation.
there were left only the gathering
dusk and, but for the low undertone
of the bush, silence. She watched
the tail-light out of sight; then went
through the gate after her husband.
Carrying a suitcase in each hand,
he led the way down towards the
shack dimly discernible against the
heavier shadows. She followed close behind. “Won’t
they all get a surprise when they find we came here
for our honeymoon?” he laughed. “They thought
we were going to Sydney.”
“Yes,” she said.
At the sound of his voice a horse whinneyed from
the darkness ahead. “That’s old George wanting his
tucker,” he said.
As they reached the shack something grey-white
flashed past them and dived beneath the shallow
verandah. He put the cases down and turned to her
with a gesture of amazement. “Did you see that?”
he said. “A rabbit! That’s what comes of not liv-
ing, on your place. Going under the verandah, too.”
He had the door open, and a smell of stale clothes
and dead fire assailed her. Then, as he struck a match
and fumbled with the lamp, there came the odor of
kerosene.
“Welcome home!” he said, and laughed loudly as
though he had made a good joke.
He went down to feed the horse, and she made a
survey of her surroundings. She had been here a few
years ago with Dick when Ron had taken over the
property from another settler. Since then he had
finished clearing and planting it, but had made no
improvements to the shack.
There were two rooms, a bedroom and a kitchen,
the former opening on to a little verandah in front.
The kitchen’s chief virtue was its generous size ; it
had no stove, only an open fireplace with three parallel
iron bars for standing the pots on. The walls were
plastered with pictures of girls and horses cut from
old newspapers. ,
. If only it were Dick!
As she moved her shadow cast by the lamp
danced and writhed behind her. She made a fire and,
filling the kettle at the tank outside, put it on to boil.
He came back and helped her make tea, talking loudly
all the time.
After that they put out the lamp, and sat on the
verandah, she on one of the fruit-cases stacked there,
and he on the boards. Dimly the young orange-trees
faded row upon row into the darkness.
“They’ll have a market crop in another eighteen
months,” he told her. “The lemons have a good crop
on now.”
It was still hot and oppressive. He crouched a
few yards from her, his white shirt faintly luminous.
Each time he spoke he moved his body slightly, as
though to emphasise his words.
“Just as well,” he said, “we didn’t go off to Syd-
ney for a honeymoon with that rabbit in. Eat the
bark off the young trees, that’s what he’ll do. I’ll
get him in the morning. I’ll get the dogs over.”
She was sorry for the rabbit in a half-hearted
way. And as for the honeymoon in Sydney, it might
have been fun with Dick. Languidly she slapped the
mosquitoes and let Ron talk. She felt she should be
more in revolt against herself and the occasion, but
instead found she was strangely at peace. It was as
though the slow silence of the night had cast a spell
upon her.
He kept on about the rabbit, and explained how
he would have to find where it had got through the
netting. Then he spoke of his trees and of the passion-
fruit crop that would tide them over the season ; and
after that about the lean-to verandah he would build
at the back door with the money
saved by not going for the
honeymoon.
“What about coming to bed?”
he suggested suddenly.
“It’s early yet,” she answered.
“Come on, Myra!” he
laughed. “Don’t be shy.”
But she knew, for all his
bluster, he was shy himself, and
liked him for it a little.
\X/HEN she awoke the moon
” “ had risen and was shining
through the uncurtained window
on to the bed. It was still hot.
He lay on his back beside her
with one arm doubled under his
head, and his chest rising and
falling softly as he breathed.
She lifted herself on her elbow
and watched him, brushing away
a mosquito that hovered close to
his forehead. There was the sug-
gestion of a smile at the corners
of his mouth. Then she became
conscious of herself. If she had
thought to feel violated or out-
raged, she did not. She tried to
feel ashamed, but found she was
unable to.
She slipped quietly out of bed
with the intention of finding
something to cover the window
(Continued on page 7.)


against the moon. Without noise she went into the
kitchen, where she had noticed an empty chaff-bag
that would serve the purpose ; but when she returned
she did not immediately use it.
From the edge of the bed she watched him once
more and thought of what lay ahead. There would be
hardship and drudgery, childbearing and sickness,
and she could see no indication that he would be
sympathetic and understanding. And then, as she con-
tinued to look at him, she became aware of his im-
mense childishness —his simplicity, his trustfulness, his
enthusiasm, his complete faith in the future and in her.
He had not grown up.
She leant forward as she would over a sleeping
child. She knew then that she did not want him to
grow up ; he must not lose his faith. He must never
know that she had not wanted to be his wife. She
must stand always at his side and protect him from
disillusionment; she must help him make the future
come true. Nothing mattered but this —not even hard-
ship or childbearing or getting old. They were no
more than passing things.
Silently she draped the chaff-bag over the window
so that the moon would not disturb him ; then she
got cautiously back to bed. She would make him a
good wife, she promised herself.
A Brief Papuan Sketch
MARAVA
by ERLE WILSON
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
THERE is good reason why the women of Beni,
far up the Ramu River in the Delta Division
of Papua, are no longer rude to Marava, the
light-skinned Mopu girl whom young Mabu
brought back from the land by the great saltwater.
Time was when, in her husband’s absence, Marava
was the butt of feminine wit and malice, when the
women and older girls looked on her as an interloper
and ridiculed her soft tongue, milder ways and ignor-
ance of tribal custom. But to-day even Kali, wife of
Tivi the iduhu, finds reason to stand often in gossip
by Marava’s cooking-fire, and the coast girl no longer
walks alone when the women go to the fishing or to
dig yams in the communal gardens.
K yf ABU, squatting in the shade of his house patiently
carving the barb of a fish-spear with the new
trade-knife which he had brought back from the police-
post far down-river, did not need to look up to know
who had come silently to his side. There was no mis-
taking that long, thin shadow crowned with the outline
of a bugau beak! No mistaking the shadow of Jorega,
the puri-puri man! Mabu scowled at the barb in his
hand, emptied his mouth of scarlet saliva—being care-
ful to spit to the side opposite the looming shadow —
and chewed his betel-nut in silence.
“Eke! The knives of the white men are good
knives, Mabu!” quavered an aged treble approvingly,
and the shadow of a skinny arm moved in the dust,
pointing to the clean steel blade which was Mabu’s
pride.
“They are costly knives, Jorega,” agreed Mabu
unenthusiastically. “For this knife I worked many
suns! ”
“Ahi! I have never had a knife like that knife!”
sighed Jorega. “Mabu is young. The white man has
many more knives . . . But Jorega is too old—'too old
to work.”
Mabu spat again, sullenly. “For this knife I
worked many suns” he began, then stopped short
as a dry insinuating whisper, like wind in dead palm-
fronds, interrupted, “Such a knife could cut anything
—even the windpipe of dauba the crocodile, Mabu!
But this pao of mine is fit only for scratching
bamboo! ”
Quickly Mabu rose, fear in his eyes as, towering
above the bent old sorcerer, he looked into the in-
scrutable, clay-bedaubed face. “For this knife I
worked many suns,” he repeated. “Yet I give it to
you, Jorega . . . But it is not fit that such a knife
should cut the windpipe of dauba."
Eagerly Jorega snatched the bright blade, drop-
ping his own blunt pao in the dust beside the unfin-
ished spear. Cautiously, with many chucklings of
senile delight, he tested the sharp steel on a skinny
thumb. “It may be that now there is no need for the
windpipe of dauba,” he said significantly as with a
sly chuckle he thrust the trade-knife beneath the string
of his liku and shuffled away.
Young Mabu’s eyes, filled with impotent hate,
followed Jorega’s retreating form. That steel blade
had been the outward sign of wealth, bringing prestige
to its owner. Next to Marava, his light-skinned wife,
that knife had been Mabu’s dearest possession. But
better to part with even such a knife than to find some
day the death sign of puri-puri —a section of bamboo
with a crocodile’s windpipe inside —among the ashes of
his fire. Yet the impulse to snatch up the despised
pao lying in the dust and bury it between Jorega’s
skinny shoulder-blades was almost irresistible. That
impulse died swiftly and completely and beads of
tickling sweat broke out on Mabu’s brow as the sor-
cerer whirled suddenly in his tracks and gave him a
long, threatening stare. Young Mabu squatted again
in the dust and took up the pao and spear as Jorega
shuffled away.
Jorega had claimed that trade-knife even as, for
many moons gone, under veiled threat of puri-puri,
he had claimed the biggest house in the village, the
fattest pig, the finest fish or yam or melon or taro or
pigeon or anything that belonged to the Beni people!
He, Mabu, was but one of his victims. Three suns
gone, Poi-i —the best hunter in the village—made poor
by Jorega’s blackmail, had gone kava-kava and tried
to strangle his own son in the river! There was no
satisfying Jorega. By magic he knew the words that
walked about in a man’s head. He was a puri-puri
man, master of swift and deadly spells. The polici-
mani of the Big-fella Gavamani were a long way
off . . . Maskee ! . . . There nothing to be done!
l_J ALF an hour later, his
* * new fish-spear in his
hand, followed in silence
by Marava, his wife,
young Mabu stalked
woodenly through the vil-
lage towards the river,
conscious that, behind his
back, whispering tongues
were busy over his “gift”
to the old sorcerer. Mabu
was well aware that he had
the sympathy of the Beni
people ; for, from Tivi the
iduhu down almost to the
youngest stripling able to
hunt or fish, they had all
suffered. There was no
security for any from the
boundless greed of Jorega!
Stolidly the young man strode
on towards the ravi, beyond which lay
the river. The smell of hot dust and wood-
smoke from cook-fires was in his nostrils and
in his ears the buzzing of a myriad fat flies.
Opposite the ravi platform Mabu sprang suddenly
backwards with a shout of warning, knocking Marava
asprawl in the dust as something hummed viciously
past them through the Quick as a cat he sprang
for shelter behind the bole of a betel-palm, his eyes
anxiously watching a big warrior who had staggered
into view on the ravi platform armed with a bow and
shooting arrows rapidly and blindly to the four winds.
From all sides came a chorus of yells of mingled
protest and laughter. The village clearing emptied
as if by magic, and from the ravi a struggling knot of
men catapulted into the daylight and scuttled to safety.
Presently, his last arrow flown, the bowman col-
lapsed and began to drag himself weakly back into
the ravi. At once, amid a buzz of good-natured com-
ment, village life resumed its normal tenor. Young
Mabu stepped out from behind the betel-palm, while
the light-skinned Marava picked herself up from the
dust, ruefully feeling her breast where her husband’s
back-flung arm had struck her.
“Ia ! —it is a small thing,” Mabu explained toler-
antly. “Only Kuma, shooting to drive away the shak-
ing fever-devils . . . Come.”
Obediently Marava took up her string bag and
followed. A coast woman from the Gulf country, she
was still strange to many ways of Mabu’s tribe, and
not always did she find them easy to understand. Why
should they only laugh and run when a man shot many
arrows in the town where his own people might be
hit? “Mabu,” she called, “what will be done to
Kuma for shooting arrows in the town?”
“li-hai!” Mabu was amused. “What should be
done? Can a sick man crawl far into the bush before
he drives away the shaking fever-devils that are fight-
ing in him?”
To that the girl had no answer. And, when
presently they reached the river, she was kept fully
occupied driving fish through the sun-dappled shadows
to Mabu’s swift spear to think of other things.
T T was not until evening, when the smoke from the
* Beni cooking-fires rose slowly through the windless
air in a score of thin, blue columns, that Mabu and
Marava found time to squat in full-bellied idleness
at the door of their own hut. A few yards away, a
group of naked children squabbled shrilly as they skir-
mished among the huts with miniature bows and
arrows, followed by a scampering pack of yapping
kanaka curs, while, across the clearing—a sight which
drove young Mabu into sullen, brooding silence —old
Jorega the sorcerer squatted between two smudge
fires absorbed in carving some indistinguishable ob-
ject with a steel knife-blade that flashed red in the
changing light of the sunset. Mabu’s newly-awakened
anger slowly mounted as he watched that flashing
blade. Presently he could endure no more. With a
grunt to Marava he rose and made for the ravi: there,
at least, would be the talk of men to let him forget his
loss!
In silence Marava watched Mabu go. Her brood-
ing eyes followed his shuffling, despondent figure, then
returned to the busy Jorega, where they stayed with
the look of one wrestling with great and difficult
thoughts.
Mabu had warned her that the puri-puri man
knew by magic the words that walked about in the
heads of others. Far away by the big saltwater, the
god-book men and the policimani taubada had told
the Mopu people that puri-puri was all gammon! The
white men were wise, but Fearfully she wondered
if the old sorcerer, apparently so absorbed in carving
with Mabu’s lenife, knew the words that were walking
in her head! For a long time she sat staring through
the fading light at Jorega, greatly daring, allowing her
racing thoughts to grow more and more reckless as
indignation mounted and the old sorcerer made no
sign.
At last, trembling like one in the grip of the shak-
ing fever-devils, Marava rose and staggered into the
mosquito-haunted gloom of Mabu’s house. A moment
later, something hummed out through the doorway
in the gathering dusk like a late-flying hornet and the
girl from the coast reeled out again into the clearing
with her husband’s war-bow in her hands, recklessly
shooting whistling, bone-tipped arrows at the newly-
awakened stars.
When Mabu, summoned from the ravi by the
screams of the women and children, picked his wife
up from the still-warm ashes of their dead fire, her
limbs still shook like swamp-mud where dauba has
sunk.
But the fever was swift in passing ; for, when, at
the hour of dawn, young Mabu looked anxiously at
Marava, her eyes were clear and untroubled, and her
gold-brown breasts rose and fell a £ calmly as the young
wind in the swaying palms.
I N the town of Beni, far up the Ramu River, the
' people still tell with bated breath how, on the night
when Marava, the wife of young Mabu, shot away
the fever-devils that had seized her, old Jorega, the
puri-puri man whose greed had been the curse of the
tribe, was found dead in front of his house with a
bright new trade-knife gripped tightly in his hand and
a war-arrow through his heart!


under Stalin’s, Hitler’s or Mussolini’s colors, all chal-
lenge Adam Smith’s dictum that the sole end of pro-
duction is consumption. They make production an
end in itself. Marxian Communism was the well-
spring of the Soviet, but it has lost all its principles in
the process of “defending the revolution,” and, as
Prof. Sidney Hook puts it, “Russia has adopted so
many of the techniques of oppression of Fascist Gov-
ernments that it is becoming increasingly difficult for
those who are unhistorical minded to distinguish be-
tween them, except on the basis of the differently-
colored ideological throat gargles which preface
declarations of policy.”
The origin and the strength of Fascism and
Nazism are attributed to “the resentment of the middle
classes against the workers, whose position in society
is increasingly improved by the equal franchise of
democracy, but as against that a Fascist commen-
tator, Dr. De Rites, says “the principal aim of the new
’ system is to protect the collective interest of the people
against the excessive pressure of special interest.”
Mussolini himself (a translation of his article in
the Enciclopedia Italiana, 1932, is given) gives as one
synonym for the Fascist movement “national trade-
unionism. But whatever he is planning for, it
wouldn’t be applauded by the framers of the Declara-
tion of Independence. He has no time for the pursuit
of happiness. Happiness is a “myth” ; peace is a
“myth.” “Peoples who are rising are always im-
perialistic, and renunciation is a sign of decav and of
death.”
Gustav Cassel, the Swedish economist, is represented
by an address in England to the Cobden Memorial
Association. He’s no enthusiast for thoroughgoing
planning of national economy. That way, he says,
lies dictatorship, and in his view dictatorship
threatens the whole basis of civilisation as England
and Sweden understand it.
A Trade-unionist on Attlee.
John Scanlon is an English trade-unionist who
believes that the job of the Labor party is the relief
and eventual abolition of poverty. In Cast Off All
Fooling (Hutchinson) he bitterly condemns Attlee and
the Parliamentary fraternity for having clouded that
ideal with petty political manoeuvring, and then lost
sight of it altogether in the desire to lead the workers
on foreign crusades.
The history of Parliamentary Labor since 1918,
which is the substance of the book, makes illuminating
if hardly inspiring reading. So does this summary of
its foreign policies:
1933. -A general strike of British workers the moment
war was declared.
, J934.—Britain to go to war each time the League
decided it should go.
1935. The Labor party leaders voted against rearma-
ment with which to go to war.
1936. One section of the intelligentsia for rearma-
ment, but still voting against it.
1937. Now neutral on rearmament, but will rearm
when Labor comes to power.
1938 (February).—Still against rearmament to pre-
vent an enemy coming to Britain, but demanding that
after the enemy arrives nothing but the best air-raid
shelters will do.
1938 (March). —Attacks on Government because it
had not built sufficient of ’planes which Labor party
proposed to abolish in 1933.
Scanlon berates the party for truckling to the
crusaders Eden, Lloyd George and Churchill, and ex-
plains patiently to the intellectuals that the British
working class would sooner keep on working by day,
going to the talkies at night and to football on Satur-
day afternoons than rush off to foreign parts and die
f°r .Communism. While believing that strikes are
suicidal (“nearly all are fostered by men who never
suffer the loss of a penny, and in fact get paid for
them”) he says that the future of Labor in England
lies with the trade-union movement.
Meditations of an Egyptian Spirit.
A disembodied soul named Laelia is credited with
the authorship of a little volume, Life, Past, Present and
Future, which comes from a Sydney publishing firm,
W. J. Cryer and Co. Laelia, who used as her mouth-
piece a medium, Mrs. Merrick, of Sydney, dictated
her observations to a shorthand writer. John Ness,
ex-M.L.A., who was present, says in a testifying
letter:
During my long Parliamentary career, or at any
other time, I have not heard such uninterrupted flow
of speech, lasting for several hours without a pause
and at such high speed. In my opinion a feat of this
nature is almost beyond any human being.
Among other testimonials from people who believe
they have been healed of various disorders by
Laelia (through Mrs. Merrick) is one from a gentle-
man who says “survival after death and spirit return
are proved beyond any doubt by the high moral teach-
ings given in the lectures of Laelia.”
After such a prelude one proceeds to the actual
utterances of Laelia in a mood of high anticipation.
She writes, she says, “more for the simple-hearted folk
who are seeking knowledge on the highway of life
than for the scientists and great philosophers.” That’s
rather a pity, because the scientists and philosophers
are also, presumably, truth-seekers.
Laelia’s moral discourses, full of references to
vibrations (with color chart), astral planes, reincar-
nation, contain little that can’t be found in any ele-
mentary treatise on theosophy. For the rest she
mingles astrology with evangelism. But her auto-
biographical details are absorbing.
She has “lived in a conscious life for 3000 years,”
and at her last bodily incarnation was a priestess of
Isis. In the temple of Isis she had a pretty rough spin,
poor girl. First they made her lie on a slab with
nothing under her head to meditate upon the forget-
fulness of the physical body. It was a very hard
task, she says, but she stuck it, and at last “was
quite sure that I had controlled my body and that it
was nothing to me.” Next she lay on the same slab
in the dark with voices coming in all directions telling
her of everything she had ever done. After about
a year of this “I had learned to be indifferent to any-
thing I heard.”
The riverside loafer who sometimes sat and
thought and at other times just sat had nothing on
Laelia, for her next test was to “sit and not meditate,
but to forget everything.” In a further stage she
learned not to be glad or sorry, but “indifferent to all
things that were happening.” After such a thorough-
going training in stoicism it is a little surprising to be
told on the same page that the priestesses prized their
personal beauty, and “to improve this we took every
precaution and performed all sorts of exercises.”
The scientists and philosophers won’t get much
change out of Laelia’s account of the beginning of
human life. After giving one of those versions of
planetary evolution that are vague enough to endorse
both Genesis and the latest speculations of Eddington
and Jeans, she comes to human origins. Adam, we
are told, wasn’t a man. “The Adam consciousness
related to most living people who dwelt on earth at
that time.” “The full man was not developed till
Eve gave birth to her first son.” And Adam “was
surprised and pleased when he brought forth the
female —something he could see and touch as well as
think about.” But even after man had “progressed
through the ages” and began to develop speech, he
"did not walk upright as he does to-day, but used
both hands and feet to get along, and was quite un-
shapely in form.” Yet “man never was an animal
or a creeping thing—he was always that which would
bring forth a human being.”
Sheila Kaye-Smith's Sussex.
Sheila Kaye-Smith’s latest novel, The Valiant
Woman (Cassell), set in Sussex, is a characteristic piece.
It draws a section through a small rural community,
Cowplain, with its two leading families, the Challens
and the Sadgroves, its villages and its farmhands, all
rooted in the soil for centuries and forming a close-
knit society with its own unwritten but rigid rules.
Driven into this world like a painful wedge is
an offshoot from the modern world. Oliver Sadgrove,
unable to pay death duties, sold one of his farms,
The Trulilows. The Challens can’t afford to buy it’
and it passes into the hands of a speculative builder.
The old farmhouse itself is bought by a rich woman,
Kay Reddinger, and her husband. The rest of the
land is cut up into allotments and sold to a motley
crew of urban settlers, including an eccentric spinster.
Miss Plume, who is busy “blowing” £5OO, an ex-butler,
Parslow, who passes himself off as a colonel —“In the
Australian Army,” he hastens to add when anyone
becomes curious—and his half-mad son. The drama
arises out of the clash of the two conceptions of life,
and the city inflicts a mortal wound on the country.
Edward wSadgrove is in love with, and practically
engaged to, Marigold Challen, which is just as it
should be, when she is swept off her feet by Paul Red-
dinger. They run away together, and Paul, imagining
that at last, after many false starts, he has found
the one woman he can love for ever, asks Kay to
divorce him. She, being a Catholic, refuses, and sticks
to her refusal even after she and Oliver Sadgrove have
fallen in love. The scandal reverberates through the
village, drawing many people into its net.
Deprived of his wife’s income, Paul gradually
comes to see the error of his ways. Marigold, dis-
illusioned, tries to run her car over Beachey Head.
She escapes serious injury, and becomes comically
involved with “Colonel” Parslow, finally reducing her
romance to bathos. Edward hastens to her bedside,
and the reader is led to believe that all will be well.
Kay takes back her wandering husband, and they leave
The Trulilows, which passes back into safe Challen
hands. Depression descends on the outcrop of new
bungalows, and they begin to fall, one by one, into
the hands of the local farmhands. The end is a sad
and rather disillusioned peace.
The really interesting and delightful thing about
this novel is its background. The rural scene and the
rural inhabitants are lovingly drawn, and have a life
and vitality that the main characters lack. All the
people are credible, some mildly likeable, but none
very sharply defined.
Perhaps in all her books Sheila Kaye-Smith has
produced only three characters that were wholly alive,
loanna Godden, Morgan in Tamarisk Town, and
Reuben in Sussex Gorse. Thepassion that produced them
seems to have died out. She no longer seems to care
enough for the individual to give him the best of
her ability. It is the land and the Church that now
hold her love and inspire her work. The characters
are subdued to the ideas. Kay, “the valiant woman,”
is a principle rather than a human being.
Novelettes by Edna Ferber.
Edna Ferber’s Nobody’s in Town (Heinemann)
comprises two short novels—the title piece and “Trees
Die at the Top.” They are both loosely-strung pictures
of American life. The author has no use for plot or
even episode ; she relies on human nature and those
touches of naturalness she knows so well how to
impart.
“Nobody’s in Town” is a miniature survey of New
York in summer when all the well-to-do have fled
from the sweltering city to Europe, the country or the
seaside, so that “you saw the contours of the city... .in
its real outline, stripped and lean.” Picture follows
picture, each in itself an unfinished short story, the
links between them slight and formal. They are like
parts of a jigsaw puzzle, and in the aggregate make a
whole.
All the people have at least the burning summer
heat in common. They include Alan Career, a young
grass-widower whose wife has just sailed for Europe,
tied to the city by business ; Dahlia, his colored cook
and her unofficial life in Harlem with a negro pianist
who takes all and gives nothing, satisfying Dahlia’s
generous heart nevertheless ; Dan Brophy, the gate-
house engineer at the Central Park Reservoir, who had
come to the last day of his 35 years’ service, and sees
nothing beiore him but the cramped life of a slum ;
Mannie Swiebacks, a vegetable dealer bringing finesse
to his buying; the janitor’s daughter, seeking brief
anonymous adventure at the free public dances in the
park , Tony Marucci, the garbage collector, facing
his wedding day with a magnum of champagne given
himby Alan Career. It is all very humorous and
kindly.
The second story, “Trees Die at the Top,” has
more intention and an underlying streak of bitterness,
ft is the interleaved story of two journeys across
America, one by covered wagon in 1849 and the other
by de luxe train to-day. In 1849 Jared Content, his
wife Tamsin, and two young children left their little
farm for California, three months’ journey away. They
suffered every hardship, privation and danger, but
their spirit carried them through, and when illness
struck Jared down Tamsin took his place.
Nearly 90 years later the little boy—now a cen-
tenarian who had gone west in the covered wagon
died worth 50 million dollars. His grandson, another
Jared Content, hastened west with his wife and two
children to claim the inheritance. Attended by their
servants and obsequious railway officials, surrounded
by every luxury, in air-conditioned private compart-
ments, they look on the journey as an intolerable hard-
ship. The contrast is driven home. It is clearly Miss
Ferber s opinion that the American of to-day has
fallen sadly away from the standard set by his pioneer
ancestors.
‘‘Trees Die at the Top,” as in “Nobody’s in
Town,” it is the detail that makes pleasant reading.
"Brave Young Singers."
First thought on seeing a book of verses by
children is that the title should have been “Brave
Young Publishers” instead of Brave Young Singers,
but the Melbourne University Press has done no harm
with this one.
It opens with a six-year-old’s entrancing portrait
of the Queen “without a crown”:
She had a cough,
The crown was off;
and there is fancy or prettiness all the way to the
final address to “Doctor John Masefield, Poet
Laureate”:
A welcome from our scattered homes,
From sunlit orchards in the hills,
Where rich brown earth slopes gently down
To shady creeks and winding rills.
These are the efforts of the Westralian Corres-
pondence Classes for outback children. “The first aim
is to develop a love of poetry, and this is achieved by
the presentation of a large number of suitable poems
through ‘Our Rural Magazine.’. .. .Elementary in-
struction is given in voice-production... .The next aim
is to give the pupils some insight into the technique
of verse-making.” The result—apart from such book-
lets as Brave Young Singers —will be that Westral/a
will maintain its fine record in Australian writing.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Dalgarney Goes North : John Ferguson (Collins).
Engaging, admirably told romantic tale of Scotland
at the time of the Bonnie Prince.
General . . .
Zoo : Louis Macneice (Michael Joseph). Another
of the many books inspired by London Zoo. The
author writes as an amateur, but displays considerable
knowledge of the Zoo inhabitants. Finely illustrated
with carbon pencil-drawings by Nancy Sharp and
beautifully produced.
Pelicans: Latest additions to the paperbacks in-
clude My Apprenticeship, by Beatrice Webb (two
vols.) ; Literary Taste, by Arnold Bennett (edited, with
additions, by Frank Swinnerton) ; Blue Angels and
Whales, by Robert Gibbings.
Horses in Action : Colin Davy (Michael Joseph).
Splendid collection of 114 photographs of horses in
action—flat racing, steeplechasing, show jumping, hunt-
ing, with pleasant little chapters to help them along.
A book right out of the ordinary for any lover of
horseflesh. The flat-racing and jumping pictures are
among the very best present writer had ever set eyes
on in a fair amount of experience of such things.
Art in England; Modern German Art: Pelicans.
R. S. Lambert surveys England pretty thoroughly.
Peter Thorne is mainly concerned with modernistic
and “degenerate” schools. Both well illustrated,
especially the German one.
Verse . . .
Poems : A. L. Hingston (printed by J. H. Down,
Kingsford, N.S.W.). Some nature pieces; one on
King’s Cross ; several in praise of film stars.
Silhouette: Ethel John (Paterson’s Press, Ltd.,
Perth). Pleasant verses for the very young ; adventures
with possums, rabbits and other oddments. Illus-
trated by Geoff. W. Ridley.
The Song of Roland: Dr. O. Wunderlich (Angus
and Robertson). Translation of the epic into iambic
verse.
Healing Hands: Pearl Dobell. “Home,”
“Mother,” “Baby” and other such themes.
Newer Poems: James Kennedy (Lothian Pub-
lishing Co., Ltd.): —•
It is impossible to describe the revolution
And it is impossible to describe the sea.
It is always surging and sighing.
When it rages it is as if immense crowds were demonstrating
With banners and music and songs and din
And as' if all that roar came to mean these:
Sahtroodinchaichess! Nahdeeyaitsai! Zhertvovaichess!
A life with a purpose!
The noise is “the motto of the Young Communist
organisation,” and the poem is “in some sense” a
renlv to Eliot’s “Waste Land.”


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, £7, £7lOl-
- WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
m
m
. .
1
m
m
mm
r
m
1 m
E
■
■
H
H
■
.
I
m
TRAIN AT HOME
F or An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months—qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
j obs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Diesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how VOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-day
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1700 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the cour&e are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
Join the band of 1700 Successful D.E.C. Students
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple ac£ of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TRACTION DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA'S
LARGEST DIESEL SCHOOL
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
*«MI „
Sk
K
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 22/3/’39.
II
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE.
PERTH.
NEWCASTLE.


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
tfili c Mne<?fWie mellcum&fSMidJmiq/uet/
NO. 10 DOWNING STREET—OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF BRITAIN’S
PRIME MINISTER.
Paradoxical as it may appear, two of
the most severe-looking, ordinary, old-
fashioned and non-prepossessing houses
in London —No. 10 Downing-street and
its neighbor— constitute one of the most
distinguished residential blocks in the
world. The two adjoining residences are
the official and, for the time being,
private houses of the Prime Minister and
the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Quite
in keeping with the structural or archi-
tectural plainness— most would apply a
more severe term —is the dingy, poky
little street, practically a cul-de-sac with
the railings through which is seen St.
James Park, which, like “No. 10,” is
known all over the world as Downing-
street. No head of a Government even
in some little twopence-ha’penny Central
American republic has for his official
residence anything to compare, in the
inverse sense, of course, with the abode
of the “Chief” of the senior branch of
the British Commonwealth of Nations,
at once world-embracing and world-
powerful. But there it is, just another
example, many foreigners hold, of the
“amazing peculiarities which are part
and parcel of the British make-up.” The
race does not set too great importance
on what might be called “externals.”
Mean, if you like, in appearance, No. 10
symbolises much that is at the very core
of the race’s life and the Empire it has
created. The visitor to London pro-
ceeding dQwn Whitehall towards the
Houses of Parliament would at once
note, after passing the Horse Guards, a
magnificent range of buildings which
house several departments of Govern-
ment, the north-western corner being the
Foreign Office, and here this “miserable
little Downing-street” runs out of White-
hall, faced by a part of Sir Gilbert Scott’s
splendid creation. This historic little by-
way obtained its name from a Secretary
to the Treasury, Sir George Downing, in
the reign of Charles 11., who built if
between 1660 and 1670. Sixty years after
George 11. offered No. 10, which had
been in the meantime “improved,” to
Sir Robert Walpole as a personal gift.
Walpole declined and instead induced the
King to grant it in perpetuity to the First
Lord of the Treasury, who has almost
always been Prime Minister. Thus No.
10 in due course came to be looked upon
as the official residence of the Prime
drlui?Hrl hi^nL d t ay Th haS in aCtUa ‘ i,y - be ? me ' In the illuslra,ion lhe firs * house on the right is No. 10. with the gas bracket in the centre of the
leges,' opened in 1821 n" f D “ wn !, n B- stre « a " d .Cambridge, as Downing College, the most modern of the full University Col-
Downing fnllpop -i r 1 lc WI Ir George Downing, who died in 1749, and was the grandson of “the father of Downing-street.”
No 10 chroniclerTremhffio^ ,age m ent to the study of law of natural science, and of medicine. There is nothing Ministerial nor official about
Ne“son w“ run ifharner u :.i fj ' *7 all the wars against Republican France and thence that Wellington and
have no minutes where the p „ ’lt 1 f !f r “ llnded > as s hould be the house of the head of the Government in a country where the Cabinet meetings
Nn ij h t t ™ here the Ptesident of the Council receives no salary, and where the Constitutional law is not committed to writing In short
No. 10, despite its drawbacks and its fame, is, “once inside,” just like any other comfortable English interior. g *


OUR ANCIENT MARINER.
Ah, well-a-day, what evil looks
Had I from old and young!
Instead of a cross, the albatross
Around my neck was hung.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.O.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HITLER PLAYS FALSE.
“Czechoslovakia is enormously wealthy and strong.
Imaginative strategists talk about a German invasion
breaking down Czech resistance before France and
Russia could come to their aid. Such fancies are
absurd in the Europe of to-day; Czechoslovakia is
far more likely to hold the ridges from Eger to the Oder.
Land attacks on the Moravian gateway would involve
losses that would make Verdun seem insignificant.
It is indeed doubtful if the great mass of Sudeten
Germans would favor a secessionist movement against
the Prague Government. If Germany persists in
wanting to absorb the Sudeten Deutsche, it means
war.
“To-day Germany stands encircled. Russia,
France and Czechoslovakia are closer friends than
ever ; Italy shows no sign of surrendering her freedom
of action, and Britain is feverishly rearming. If ever
there was a country without friends, that country is
Germany to-day.
“Czechoslovakia is strong enough financially to
subsidise less fortunate allies, like Rumania, and her
armaments have been rapidly developing. The three
States of the Little Entente have sixty peace-time divi-
sions between them, and the Czech frontier fortifi-
cations are among the most complete in Europe. Her
Slavonic populations are bitterly anti-Nazi, and believe
that their very existence depends on checking Ger-
many’s Imperialistic policy.”
That roaring nonsense was written in 1937 by
Professor Roberts, and published in a book, The
House That Hitler Built. The author is still paraded
by Australian newspapers which employ him as an
authority on Central Europe and foreign affairs in
general. He studied Central Europe at first hand,
and he had no axe to grind. The fact remains that
his conclusions about the strength and determination
of Czechoslovakia were utterly wrong ; and it should
be a warning to us not to accept everything we read
about the strength and determination of other coun-
tries now in the news, particularly Rumania, Yugo-
slavia and Russia.
Last week “the enormously wealthy and strong”
republic fell to pieces, in exact fulfilment of the
prophecy set down by Sir lan Hamilton 17 years
ago (“When Masaryk goes, Benes won’t last long,
nor Czechoslovakia either”), and, in the main, for
the reason Sir lan gave—the Czech could not get on
with his neighbors, even his brother-Slavs. The col-
lapse was immediately preceded by appeals for Nazi
intervention from “the bitterly anti-Nazi Slavonic
populations.” As in September, Hungary grabbed
one of the pieces. In the last phase German forces
occupied the Czechs’ own territories by “arrange-
ment” with their own Government, which had tried
to put down the Slovak and Ruthenian separatists by
dismissals of Ministers and movements of police and
troops.
What happened last week is what would have
happened in September but for the Prime Minister
of Britain, then dangerously unready. The only dif-
ference is that the blood shed in confused scrim-
mages between Central Europeans would have been
multiplied a millionfold, and much of it would have
been British blood. And, since the immediate object
of the war must have been to save Czechoslovakia,
and since Czechoslovakia was past saving, that blood
would have been spilt in vain.
But the unresisted seizure of Bohemia and
Moravia —they have been added to “Greater Ger-
many” as “an autonomous protectorate,” whatever
that may be —was a monstrous violation of the
Munich settlement, in the spirit if not in the letter.
The Chamberlain Government immediately can-
celled the arrangement for sending two Ministers to
Germany to discuss future trade relations with that
country, and summoned its ambassador from Berlin
“to report on the situation.” Less it could not do.
More is, of course, expected by sanctionists, crusaders
and Communists.
Sanctionists, crusaders and Communists have no
right to be heard. It was they who threw Mussolini
into Hitler’s arms. That crazy blunder, committed
in wild contempt of British interests and traditional
British foreign policy, precipitated what has happened
in Austria and Czechoslovakia. Had Italy been kept in
the British orbit Hitler would not have dared to do
what he has done.
Why did he do the thing which has in truth
staggered humanity? Did he suddenly realise that
he was losing the armaments race? Was the condi-
tion of Germany so desperate that it could be
ameliorated only by brigandage? Did he want to
forestall the Hungarians and provide against the
inconvenience and possible danger of a common
Polish-Hungarian frontier? Is the drive towards the
U.S.S.R. in motion at last? Only the Nazi leaders
know, and Nazi leaders don’t tell.
Hitherto Hitler has had a case. The Germans
have accepted him as a patriotic German, bent on
unifying them in spite of peace treaties which forbade
unification for all time. Thinking men of the democ-
racies have acknowledged the injustice and danger of
the dividing and encircling policy which began with
the disarmament of beaten Germany while France,
committed to at least reduction of armaments, made
itself stronger than ever. But Hitler told Germany
and the world that he wanted only Germans in the
Reich. Now he has forcibly incorporated in it an
unwilling, though unresisting, Slav people. He
said to Mr. Chamberlain in September that the
Sudetenland was “the last territorial demand” he
would make in Europe. In these matters, who can
now have faith in his word? The British cannot;
can his own allies, his own people?
The Hungarians were not parties to the Munich
agreement. According to historical practice in Central
Europe, they were justified in grabbing the Rutheman
province of Czechoslovakia —“Carpatho-Ukraine,” as
it has been called in these last few months—when it
was theirs for the taking. But they had ambitions
in Slovakia also, since most of Slovakia was their
property before the war. Though they have formally
recognised “the new Slovakian State,” it must have
been very unpalatable to them to see German troops
overrunning Slovakia and the President of that
autonomous creation placing it under Hitler’s pro-
tection, which was ostentatiously granted. At their
instance, no doubt, “Goring stated that the German
troops would be withdrawn from Slovakia within 48
hours.” It all suggests a rift in the loot.
With the Germans in Bohemia and the Hun-
garians in Slovakia, the position of the Rumanians
became precarious. They moved troops to the
Carpatho-Ukrainian border, and were reported to
have occupied villages beyond it, but this has been
denied. A German demand for trade concessions
was inevitable, and so is a Hungarian demand for
the return of Transylvania; but in Rumania also
there are materials for a conflict between German
interests and Hungarian ambitions.
It was reported on Monday that King Carol had
appealed to King George VI., as the Belgian King
appealed to King George V. in 1914, and was hope-
ful of arranging an alliance for mutual protection
with Yugoslavia, Turkey and Greece. What would
such an alliance be worth? Rumania has a running
sore, Transylvania; Yugoslavia another, Croatia.
The Serbs are good fighters, but in the Great War,
when the Germans had forces to spare for sideshows,
they and the Bulgarians—still pro-German—overran
Serbia and Rumania in a few weeks. Turkey, Ger-
many’s ally then, has now only half a foot in Europe.
And in the light of what happened in 1915, 1916 and
1917, would anyone be so crazy as to rely on the
Greeks?
A Russian alliance is suggested Once more. We
had one in 1914, when the Russians were much
stronger in man-power than they are to-day, and
had not dissipated their strength by the summary
execution of half their leaders and myriads of sub-
ordinates ; and in 1916 we saw the Russians crack
up: in 1918 we were fighting them at Archangel and
Murmansk. Japan was on our side then and convoy-
ing Australian troopships. If we entered into another
Russian alliance, Japan would be on the other side.
Meanwhile Memel must be regarded as lost to
Lithuania, and the Poles must be trembling for their
corridor. Nor can the Italians be easy in their minds
about the Brenner frontier and their Tyrol Ger-
mans. Even if their confidence in Hitler has not been
shattered, the man is mortal ; and it may be a case
of after Hitler the deluge.
According to Mr. Hughes, “there can be no peace,
no security, no progress until aggressor nations are
confronted with resolute nations standing before
them with drawn swords, and saying ‘Thus far and
no farther!’ ” But is there no other way? We saw in
Ireland that a few thousand resolute men, resorting
to methods utterly ruthless and constantly recruited,
could make government by another race impossible.
We see the outraged United States imposing prohibi-
tive duties on German imports. Why not try that,
if it becomes necessary, before we accept a frightful
war for the salvation of peoples who may not fight
for their own salvation, a war which may drift into
a war for the defence of the U.S.S.R.?
The British Empire has lost nothing, though it
has been shamefully let down. It is well out of the
bog of Central European politics, and the affairs of
the rest of Balkanised Europe are of no greater conse-
quence to it than they are to the United States. If
attacked, it can take care of itself, precious time
having been gained ; and so can France. An attack
on either would be no counterpart of the military
promenades to Vienna and Prague ; it would be an
attack on a united people with vast resources fighting
in the most inspiring of causes and invincible.
J. Bull Fighting-fit.
At his best one of the toughest of them all, J. Bull
is now in excellent fighting trim. Six months ago,
when his fighting shape was within a couple of hours
of being put to the test, his toughness and powers
of endurance may have enabled him to win the prover-
bial last battle. Now he is in fighting condition to
win the first.
J. Bull is now spending, at the rate of £lOOO a
minute, one-eighth of the total national income on
improving his fighting strength. His defence expendi-
ture this year will reach the astronomical figure of
£580,000,000. Results show an enormous improve-
ment on J.B.’s parlous state over the past few years.
At the end of 1933 Sir John Simon admitted that
Britain had sunk to fifth in the list of world’s air
Powers. The Air Estimates for the present year
exceed £220,000,000, compared with £18,000,000 in
1934. Work is well on the way on 37 new flying
stations, representing a huge increase in defence strength
over the state of things last September. Many new fac-
tories, erected at Government expense but managed by
business firms with experience in mass production, are
now in full work ; so are the new factories and exten-
sions of existing factories erected by aircraft firms on
their own initiative—no fewer than 3500 outside firms
are assisting in this, including Lord Nuffield’s, with
its order for 1000 Spitfires. Orders placed in Canada
are being rushed along, the expansion of aircraft
building there alone representing a tremendous entirely
new increase in Empire defence strength. Also, ’planes
ordered from the United States are now arriving.
On his Air Force alone J. Bull is this year spend-
ing roughly double his 1932 expenditure on Navy,
Army and Air combined. The appeal for 31,600
pilots, observers and other Air Force recruits, to be
enlisted before the end of this month, saw the number
reached and passed three weeks ago.
As a counterpart to the increase in the Air Force,
defence against air attack has been so improved in
a matter of months that the nightmare fear of an
early knockout blow can now be written off. The
September crisis showed up Britain’s air-defence
measures as hopelessly inadequate. In 1937 expendi-
ture on Air Raid Precautions amounted to £3,500,000;
this year it will be over £9,000,000. Defects in anti-
aircraft guns and searchlights revealed last September
have been largely set right, and batteries of new
anti-aircraft, guns and many more searchlights added
to the original programme. The balloon barrages
protecting London and the great armament centres
have also been extended and improved, helping further
to make an early crushing blow out of the question.
Two other most important improvements have
been made since September. Air-raid shelters, giving
protection against almost anything but a direct hit—
against which the most powerful concrete “pillbox”
would not be of much use —are being supplied free
to all homes on a small income; and now gas-masks
for babies under two years of age and special respira-
tors for those between two and four years have been
devised. Delivery of these—they were not available
last September, when the advice to mothers was to
“wrap them in a blanket” —can now be made;
1,400,000 of the “baby helmets” and 1,300,000 of the
special child respirators. Taken in retrospect, this
alone makes a sickening indictment against last year’s
warmongers.
Navy Estimates for this year—£lso,ooo,oo0 —are
the largest ever put forward by J. Bull in time of
peace, and those for next year will be higher. The
present building rate for naval tonnage is nearly
double the pre-war rate. This month the tonnage
building will reach 659,500, compared with 139,300
in 1935, which date does not exactly represent ancient
history. With two more capital ships added to this
year’s programme, there will now be nine of these
greatest of war vessels under construction, and, as
well as these additions to a Fleet already enormously
powerful, the 1939 building programme further
includes two additional destroyer flotillas and 20 fast
escort vessels of a new type for protecting shipping
against submarine and air attacks. To this end also
anti-aircraft armament of the Navy has been improved
out of reckoning and the Navy air arm powerfully
strengthened.
A recently-published estimate of J. Bull’s launch-
ings for this present year put the figure at 45 new
warships. It seemed a staggering total; but in a long
statement on defence to the House of Commons Mr.
Chamberlain has since given out that 60 warships will
join the Fleet this year—a figure, at the tonnage, never
before approached in time of peace by any country.
In Navy personnel the increase is from 89,214 in the
barmy days of 1932 to 121,000.
The strength of J.B.’s Territorial Army is to-day
nearer establishment than at any time in its history;
five out of 18 divisions are over establishment, and
the average for all divisions is over 90 p.c. of estab-
lishment. Regular Army returns show record recruit-
ments for any time since the war, and the number
of candidates for Regular Army commissions now
greatly exceeds the demand —a complete reversal of
the situation two years ago, when it was impossible
to fill the number of vacancies offered.
Backing up this strength of trained man-power,
whose fighting quality needs no demonstrating, is a
strength of 2,600,000 potential infantrymen between
the ages of 18 and 25, and another 3,750,000 between
the ages of 25 and 35, less than half of whom are in
reserved occupations, the rest being liable to the com-
pulsory service that would be immediately enforced
if war broke out.
It can be said now —which could not be said
with any truth six months ago —that J. Bull is no
longer an easy mark, inviting attack, but is so formid-
able that attacking him would be a most desperate
hazard.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Wrong Man Resigns.
Mr. Menzies has resigned from the Lyons Ministry,
which is so singularly deficient in lions, and the inex-
haustible Mr. Hughes is Attorney-General once
more. The example of the one orator on the so-
frequently-changed Front Bench was followed by
Mr. Lawson, who had been named Parliamentary
Secretary for the Treasury and Industry, presumably
in pursuance of the “Tune-in-to-Britain” policy. Both
gentlemen are dissatisfied with what the Government
was pleased to call National Insurance. So is every-
body else, except Mr. Lyons and Mr. Casey.
It was a poor thing at best; but, in common
with the rest of his colleagues, Mr. Menzies was
committed to it. So when what is described as “a
drastically modified scheme” was decided upon (as
if it was in the P.M.’s nature to be drastic about any-
thing!) Mr. Menzies found the position more than
he could bear.
Gathering the pressmen at Canberra about him,
he recalled sadly that “the Treasurer, on behalf of
the Government,” had “announced to Parliament”
on December 8, “first, that the scheme of national
insurance will definitely fc*e proceeded with ; second,
that Division 1 or Part 7, which makes provision for
the constitution of approved societies, will be pro-
claimed to commence forthwith; and third, that, the
remainder of the Act and Acts imposing contributions
will be proclaimed to begin on September 4.” Still, in
accents remotely resembling those of Cranmer at the
stake, Mr. Menzies added that he had “circularised
some thousands of my electors” to the effect that “I
stand by national insurance and that a defeat in de-
fending it would be an honorable one,” closing with
the words “I cannot without loss of self-respect deny
to-day what I wrote only a few weeks ago.”
It is “reliably reported,” on authority as “un-
impeachable” as that of Madame Tabouis, that Mr.
Lyons relieved his feelings by quoting the poet:
You, Bob, are rather insolent, you know,
At being disappointed in your wish
To supersede all statesmen here below
And be the only blackbird in the dish.
And then you overstrain yourself, or so,
And tumble downward like the flying fish;
Gasping on deck, because you soar too high, Bob,
And fall, for lack of moisture, quite a-dry, Bob.
Rather has Bob left a waterlogged barque that is
certain to founder.
It was Mr. Lyons who should have resigned and
recommended the Governor-General to send for
Mr. Menzies.
Labor in Two States.
Possessing only 26 of the 50 Assembly seats, Labor
could not afford to lose any at the Westralian elec-
tion ; and it has not done so. On the contrary, it
gained a north-west division, Pilbara.
Three years ago Mr. F. R. Welsh got in for
Pilbara with a majority of 113. This was considered
wonderful for Pilbara, where for quarter of a cen-
tury it was an Event if 650 electors went to the poll.
But since 1936 two or three hundred wages men have
gone into long-neglected mines ; and, as a result, the
Labor total increased from 245 to 431, Mr. Welsh
being 43 behind. So 40-odd votes have made the
Willcock majority secure.
Labor also won the Hurstville (N.S.W.) by-
election. But not Lang Labor: for the first time
since the first split, in 1927, Mr. Lang’s predomin-
ance has been successfully challenged. When 19,990
effective votes had been counted, Dr. Thomas (U.A.P.)
had 7552, Mr. Evatt (Heffron Labor) 6863 and Mr.
McGrath (Lang Labor) 5575. The U.A.P. vote had
fallen from 11,493 ; the late Dr. Webb’s majority was
2510, and that so recently as March 26, 1938. Now,
perhaps, the Stevens Government will give more
attention to the cost of living and less to affairs in
Czechoslovakia and Canberra.
A vacancy in Waverley will enable Mr. Lang
to stage in that electorate an affecting imitation of
Custer’s Last Stand. But this by-election occurs very
unfortunately for the Stevens Government. The
late Mr. Waddell’s majority over a Lang man, Mr.
Clementson, was only 571.
On the Instalment Plan.
In the process of seeking substitutes for universal
training and service, it has been decided to employ
1571 officers and men —two rifle battalions of 580
men each; one field artillery brigade of 389 men
and a signal section. This is a contribution “towards
the army of 7500 suggested by Major-General
Squires.” By European standards, of course, even
the Squires force would not be an “army” ; it would
be a mere quarter of a service division. It would
not even be a Chinese Route Army—Booo men.
The force is to cost £1,250,000 the first year —a
modest estimate. An “army” of 7500 in being would
cost £6,000,000 the first year —barracks, etc., about
£2,400,000 —and afterwards at least £4,000,000 p.a.
In the Squires reorganisation plan for the militia
the first line is to consist of the existing two divisions,
and three cavalry brigades, plus four new units —one
each in Queensland, N. S. Wales, Victoria and West-
ralia. Peace-time strength with cadres for unorgan-
ised units, is to be brought to a minimum of 60,000.
Actual approved strength will be 70,000.
And —also on the principle of defence by instal-
ments —there is to be a reserve of 90,000 men doing
periodic training “as the result of a recommendation
of a special committee appointed to consider the closer
association of the A.I.F. members of the Australian
Military Forces.”
There was no instalment plan about the A.1.F.!
And its oldest member would reach for his crutches
in the event of danger to the country.
An "Independent" Committee.
The latest step in New Guinea organisation is
not more impressive than previous ones. Up till
a couple of years ago Ministers at Canberra trembled
at the thought that New Guinea, “a sacred trust,”
deeded to us under a permanent mandate to be gov-
erned as if it were “an integral part” of the Common-
wealth, should, in fact, become part of the Common-
wealth, and be joined with Papua under one Adminis-
tration. They trembled no more than the civil services,
to which amalgamation meant economy and reduction
of jobs.
An earthquake at Rabaul forced the Common-
wealth Government to determine that the capital of
the Mandate must be removed. A committee recom-
mended Lae. W. M. Hughes recommended Salamaua.
Nature sent a tidal wave which turned the vote against
the Little Digger.
As a way out of the confusion, Mr. Lyons began
to see something in The Bulletin’s proposal for join-
ing the two Administrations.
Of course, this could not be done without a royal
commission, or something of the sort, and a com-
mittee of inquiry has been appointed to determine
whether amalgamation is possible ; whether it will
be beneficial and how ; what form it should take,
having regard to the existence of the Mandate, and
where the new joint capital (if any) should be. Sounds
like a school intermediate examination paper.
The committee consists of Leonard Murray,
Official Secretary of Papua, and H. O. Townshend,
Treasurer of New Guinea, with F. W. Eggleston, of
the Grants Commission, as chairman. . Mr. Murray
and Mr. Townshend are civil-servant members of their
respective Legislative Councils. And, as experience
with the Shipping Bill passed in both Councils demon-
strated, they and other officials vote as ordered by
Canberra.
They are excellent civil servants, but it is not fair
to expect a man so placed to form a conclusion on
a policy which may not be palatable either to his own
Administrator or to his Minister.
The question of the future of New Guinea and
Papua is not one to be settled by civil servants. It
is a national affair with great issues involved. The
Commonwealth Cabinet and Parliament and nobody
else should bear the burden of saying whether amal-
gamation will be beneficial or not.
There are only two steps needed in New Guinea:
first, a decision by the Cabinet whether union is
advisable ; second, the appointment of a couple of
experienced men — The Bulletin suggested Hubert
Murray and Robert Garran —to draw up clear prin-
ciples on which the union shall be achieved, and to
do the job when their scheme is approved by Parlia-
ment.
A Surprise, Was It?
The appointment of Mr. A. B. Corbett as Director of
Civil Aviation was described by one Sydney newspaper
as a “surprise,” but it might have been taken for
granted that the Government would choose somebody
who knew nothing about civil aviation and that he
would be a civil servant.
Mr. Corbett is a post-office official, aged 62. At
50 he had risen to be superintendent of mails at the
Sydney G.P.O. At 56 he was elevated to the posi-
tion of D.P.M.G. at Brisbane. He has never flown
an aeroplane, never managed an aerodrome, never had
anything to do with commercial freight- and passenger-
carrying, nor has he had professional experience of
aeroplane manufacture.
Civil aviation is at the make-or-break period.
There cannot be a pilot in Australia who is not
thoroughly dissatisfied with aerodrome organisation
and general conditions. There are still ’dromes from
which they drive off the livestock in advance of land-
ings. Towns have landing grounds which are a danger
and a disgrace. Even Canberra’s has no radio
beacon and is studded with tufts of Parramatta grass
on which lighter machines bounce.
The main Sydney land ’drome is dumped down in
an undrained spot at Mascot which becomes a quag-
mire in the rains and on which seagulls congregate in
hundreds in stormy weather. It has no complete
modern approach equipment, and no buildings which
elsewhere would be considered workable for a centre
of its size exist there. At Rose Bay, after months of
operating the flying-boat base, there is not even a
hangar, and when there is—it is partly up —it will be
inadequate for even present requirements.
The department has for years been “considering”
the radio beam and direction-finding apparatus. The
Kyeema disaster should have brought radio steering
plants into operation in no time, but the department
is still messing about, and it may be June with
the winter well advanced —before anything comprehen-
sive will be done.
Dutch competition with landplanes against
Imperial Airways seaplanes is one of the questions
that await consideration. The problem of whether
mail and passenger systems are to be developed along
unified or competitive lines, the establishment of
manufacture of machines and engines, the vexed ques-
tion of subsidised services competing with unsubsi-
dised, the laying out of routes in conformity with
defence needs, the training and more efficient licens-
ing of pilots, all need urgent attention. There is no
real policy on any vital matter.
If any man can put the tangle in order and set
the department working in five years, he is something
close to a genius. And Mr. Corbett is three years off
the official retiring age.
It would have been easy to find a trained commer-
cial flying man for the vacancy. P. G. Taylor, for
example. Or it would have been worth while to make
an offer to one of the many Australians who hold
down big flying jobs in Imperial Airways. Most of
them have flown the world and know everything there
is to know about modern aerial developments.
Financing Stevens Villas.
In Sydney any citizen who joins a co-operative
bdilding society can aspire to own a Stevens villa.
Cost ranges up to £llOO, of which a maximum
of £lOOO can be borrowed, though the Housing Im-
provement Board last year recommended that the
lending margin should be increased to 95 p.c. The
money is borrowed from the co-op., which is guarani-
teed by the Treasury against loss until the liability
of the borrower is down to 66 2-3 p.c. of the value
of the security. The public response to the idea struck
the Registrar of Co-op. Societies last year as “most
gratifying.” The work of the Registry increased eight-
fold in 12 months.
On Stevens estates, all are optimists. There are
now 160 co-ops. Eleven were formed during January
and February and two Parramatta ones increased their
allocations from £50,000 to £lOO,OOO. The societies
have already raised £11,500,000, and Government
guarantees have reached the £10,000,000 mark. Yet
the scheme is less than two years old. In the first two
months of this year, £903,000 was promised to mem-
bers, mainly in February.
About 45 p.c. goes to buy or improve existing
homes or to discharge mortgages or alter homes
already owned.
It is evident that the scheme is no ephemeral one
and also that at the moment it is not a very assured
one. Somebody connected with the Co-op. Building
Societies Association told the “S. M. Herald” that the
millions so far made available to the societies “have
done little to relieve the present position: the work
of many of these bodies is virtually at a standstill
as a result of their available finance having been
allotted.” This, in the face of the steady formation
of new societies and the expansion of old ones, is
highly enlightening if not encouraging.
The official told the interviewer that the- “effect
of the money advanced must be small. Nothing less
than £5,000,000 a year, assured and flowing regularly,
would cover normal society requirements.” And it
appears that the association is “almost sure” that it
can get £3,000,000 p.a. overseas (of course, under State
guarantee). This, with local money, would make up
the amount. If that can be achieved, the “scheme will
be assured continuity and prevent the fluctuations to
which the building industry is now subject.”
It sounds easy. What’s £5,000,000 a year? Only
about 25 p.c. of the State’s average return from wool.
Our Already-born Millions.
“Colbun” —a doctor —in reply:
“Ysbrantsz” (B. 8/ 3 / ’39) is unduly hopeful if he expects
that politicians—or anyone else for that matter —can do
anything of present importance towards replacing Australia’s
unborn millions. The insuperable obstacle is not a matter of
what is likely to happen or can be made to happen during
the next 30 years, but what has not happened during the past
30. The inevitable result is not a question of opinion, pessi-
mism, blame, argument or regret, but purely one of interpre-
tation of existing facts.
To-day there are not enough children under 10 in
Australia to replace those of from 10 to 20 as they grow
older. The rate of natural increase of population (excess of
births over deaths) in 1937 (7.99 per 1000) was less than half
of that in 1911 (16.54). Including immigration, the total
annual rate of increase fell by more than two-thirds over the
same period, from 3.3 to 0.88. To improve this latter figure,
even by 1 p.c., in 10 years is obviously impossible when
present European conditions are considered.
Official figures do not bear out “Y.’s” optimistic state-
ments concerning birthrate increase in Germany as a result of
marriage loans, bachelor taxes, family-aid and the rest. The
increase in total births in Berlin arose mainly from an
increased number of first births amongst young couples, and
to some extent from a new maternity-hospital system which
attracted large numbers of expectant mothers from outside
areas and unduly inflated Berlin’s registrations.
Italy has done a lot to increase natural population on
lines similar to the German, but the only result has been to
increase first-marital births slightly.
Even if some profound psychological and sociological
change were to convert all Australian married couples of
child-producing ages into fervent aspirants towards a three-
or four-child minimum family standard, no tangible effect on
the efficient-age population would be possible for at least
20 years. By then the number of over-60’s will have increased
by half. Twenty years later they will be double the present
numbers. As no such miracle is at all likely, we must accept
the official mathematical forecast of a decline after 1967.
No one is to blame because our millions have remained
unborn. We are all to blame if, by neglect, inertia or the
optimistic imaginings of politicians, we fail to take all possible
care that the millions we now have at the efficient ages shall
win through to a peaceful and contented future. Resolute
effort towards that goal will do more to gain more millions
of best immigrants than any possible combination of bribes
and blatherskite.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Koura”: Who’s the journalistic genius
who first sticks the label on a cause
celebre ? I looked at the four Sydney
dailies just now, and all of them had
something about “Bones Mystery” in the
headings to the hut, fire, bones and coffin
business that’s intriguing M.L. and Aus-
tralia. I rather like “Bones Mystery.”
“Shark Arm” was clumsy ; “Pyjama Girl”
too penny-press ; “Trunk,” “Truck” and
“Bath” are so common that they don’t
serve to distinguish a case. “Bones Mys-
tery” is terse, accurate, and really beauti-
fully macabre.
* * $ *
“Vespers”: Showing Dad over a coun-
try church, the verger pointed out a large
stained-glass window. “That was pre-
sented by Colonel Woolbale, of Merino-
vale station, as a memorial to his late
father and mother,” he said. Dad gazed
belligerently at the window. “Them
figures is as much like Woolbale’s ole
man an’ his missus as I am,” he snorted.
And he was right; they represented
Moses and Aaron.
* # * *
“Teedee”: One of Australia’s most
puzzling mysteries is vaguely told by
Lady Broome, whose husband was Gover-
nor of Westralia from 1882 to 1890. She
says that an officer who was warden,
magistrate and medico of a district in the
nor’-west and the only white resident of
the little port was out one evening in a
canoe, with a native to paddle, looking
for something to shoot. The boy pointed
to a white thing on a rock 50 yards from
shore which he described as “Big pfeller
gull.” It looked too big for a gull, but
the warden had a shot at it, on which it
shrieked, leaped in the air and fell flat.
Paddling up, the warden found that it
was a white man who must have reached
this point by jumping from rock to rock,
if he came from the shore. There was
nothing about him by which he could be
identified, and no one answering to his
description was reported as missing. As
coroner, the warden held an inquest,
committed himself for trial, went to
Perth and was acquitted.
* * *
“Albina”: The figures for Australia’s
topmost point will have to be revised by
February 15, 1940, if all goes well with
the plans of the International Centennial
Jubilee Committee of Mount Kosciusko,
whose address is 11 West 30th-street,
New York. This committee desires to
celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the
ascent of Kosciusko by raising on the
summit a tumulus in honor of its dis-
coverer, Count de Strzelecki. If the com-
mittee stickles for strict historical accu-
racy it will have to put the mound on
the bump now called Mt. Townshend. It
was on this that Strzelecki, believing it to
be the highest peak of the range, hoisted
the white eagle flag of Poland at 11 a.m.
on February 15, 1840. The name was
transferred when it was found that what
is now called Mt. Kosciusko was a couple
of hundred feet higher. As a pipe-opener
for its celebratory proceedings, the com-
mittee has given the U.S. public, through
the Polish-American News Exchange, a
story on Strzelecki which pictures him
as Flinders, Macarthur, Hargreaves and
Chaffey rolled into one. He sails right
round Australia, makes the first map of
it, introduces sheep-raising on a large
scale, finds gold and works the fields,
introducing thousands of Poles, Irish
and Scots as well as Cornish miners, and
spends millions on irrigation, all back in
the ’forties and ’fifties.
* * * *
“Pons”: Undoubtedly Bill and Joe
were slightly sozzled. Said Bill, as his
foot searched waveringly for the brass
rail in front of the bar counter: “Kids
ain’t what they was in my time; the
birthrate’s failin’, and the ones that’s
born ain’t got no staminer. Now you
take me, Joe. When I wus born I on’y
weighed four-’narf pound ; an’ then I ’ad
gastiritis and bronchitis.” “Didjer get over
it or didjer die?” asked Joe anxiously.
Bill laughed scornfully. “Did I get over
“Like a shampoo after the singe, sir?”
it? Y’oughter see me now. I weigh four-
teen-’narf stone. I’d like yer to meet me
one of these times.”
« * * *
“Werribee”: Ballarat Museum’s
acquisition of a storied tombstone (B.
1/ 3 / ’39) recalls that it was through a
fit of pique that the city received its
statuary. From what turned out to be
his deathbed George Russel Thompson
sent for his friend Duncan Gillies, at
the time Premier of Victoria. Gillies was
busy, and thinking that the illness was
not serious he failed to keep the appoint-
ment. Thompson died ; and inspection
of his will showed that a bequest of
£5OOO to Gillies and one of £5OO to the
Gardens had changed ends, so to speak.
Ere his term of Premiership expired
Gillies had the sadness of presenting
statues which, he must have reflected,
were bought at his own expense.
* * * *
“F.S.”: In lending the Melbourne Van
Eyck to the New York Fair the Vic.
Gallery trustees seem completely con-
fident that no harm will come to it, and
probably none will. All the same, the
famous “Mona Lisa” of Da Vinci at the
Louvre was stolen. As would happen
with the Van Eyck, the thief’s difficulty
was not getting away with but selling a
picture that the whole world would
recognise on the instant. Just after it
was recovered and put back in position
I happened to visit the Louvre, and there
were so many plainclothes detectives and
gallery custodians clustered around the
picture that I could hardly see it. So
much attention was being lavished on it
that if I’d had a lorry waiting and a
crane to lift it with I could have got
away with the Venus de Milo, which I
found in a completely deserted gallery.
The Melbourne masterpiece cost £31,000,
and many people deplored the waste of
money. But its estimated worth to-day is
between £70,000 and £130,000.
:|c * * *
“Terrinjal”: The Digger was ever
resourceful. A few of us who set up in
business in post-war Syria found the
French regime a tangle of rep-tape, pass-
ports and visas. Permission had to be
obtained for any journey, even to week-
end visits to the mountains. A brain-
wave solved the trouble. A pair of
horn-rimmed spectacles was wished on
to the most American-looking member
of the crowd, who sat well back in the
car. When we were stopped at a barrier
the man in the front seat would whisper
to the gendarme in hushed tones, “Consui
Americani.” The guard would step back
with a respectful salute while the poten-
tate and his entourage swept forward in
style.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A lot of people are likely
to make a profit out of the idiotic cur-
rency war now being waged between the
foreign and Japanese interests in China.
Chinese currency has been in a state of
chaos ever since the Stone Age, and
Government, rebel generals, bandits and
private individuals have been in the
racket from time immemorial. When I
used to draw my monthly wage in Shang-
hai in peace days the first thing I did
was to change a few dollars into Chinese
cents at one of the innumerable change
shops. I got anything up to 120 cents
for a single dollar. This provided me
with ammunition for minor skirmishes
in the battle for existence. Another
portion of my gains I had paid into an
account in Paris, where I intended to
spend a holiday, and where the exchange
was so much in my favor that my money
almost doubled in value. Another sec-
tion was remitted to Australia, and there
also the exchange was to my advantage.
According to local custom, my wife gave
the “boy” silver dollars to do the mar-
keting and he got his squeeze by putting
the profit in exchange into his own
pocket and crediting her with the
statutory 100 cents to the dollar. Any
attempt to interfere with this ancient
arrangement would have resulted in his
immediate departure to a more accom-
modating mistress. When I tried the same
dodge, however, by proffering 100 cents
for a dollar seat in a Chinese theatre,
I was asked for 114, and a wooden-faced
Celestial refused to listen to my argu-
ments against racial discrimination.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Literary circles in M.L.
are agitated over the decision of an
Auckland magistrate that a translation
of Boccaccio’s Decameron is an “indecent
document” and that the owner of a
circulating library should be fined £5
for having it on his shelves. The case,
of course, is not the first of the sort in
M.L. Periodically booksellers are
prosecuted and fined for stocking
Rabelais, the Droll Stories of Balzac, or
not-sufficiently Bowdlerised translations
of De Maupassant and other French
authors. On behalf of Decameron
counsel for the defence quoted the
laudatory remarks of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica : “An absolute work of art,
as detached as a play by Shakspeare
or a portrait by Velasquez its effect
upon us who read it is the effect of life,
which includes, for its own good, things
moral and immoral,” and Auckland
University’s Professor of English, J. A.
Sewell, gave it as his opinion that a
perusal of the lively Italian author was
essential to a good education, but all to
no avail. A police-constable had found
the book smutty (though it is unlikely
he could have comprehended the juiciest
yarn of the lot, which in all English
editions I have seen is left in its Latin),
and policemen’s morals must be pro-
tected.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The suicide of a Vic-
torian farmer much addicted to the perusal
of crime stories adds a link to a chain of
circumstantial evidence that caused him
to be suspected of two murders. The
story the police have been investigating
is as intriguing as any the deceased
gentleman may have amused himself
with. Thirteen years ago two young
women, sisters, who jointly owned a
snug farm at Walwa, employed a deserter
from the Navy named Raymond, who
called himself Dick White. Within a
few weeks he had married the elder
sister. Three or four years later the un-
married sister, who had continued to
live at the farm, was shot dead while out
duck-shooting with her brother-in-law.
Only witness, Dick White; verdict,
“accidental death.” The farm now vests
entirely in Mrs. White. Ten years later
Dick White is heal'd yelling for help
on a country road. Farm folk rush
to the scene, to find White’s car over-
turned, with Mrs. White underneath,
The car is just commencing to blaze.
Attempts to rescue Mrs. White are
hampered by the strange behavior of
her husband, who becomes hysterical,
attempts to dash into the flames, and
has to be held back. In the meantime
the blaze develops so fiercely that it
is hopeless to attempt a rescue. As
solatium for the loss of his wife Mr.
White now has not only a farm worth
about £7OOO, but the prospect of another
£lOOO, due under the car insurance policy
in respect of his wife’s death. The police
became suspicious. White had escaped
with only a cut on his head, and his
clothes, so witnesses said, bore no evi-
dence to support his story that he was
thrown through the windscreen. Next day,
before the police could have a peep at
them, White burnt these clothes. The
inquest was opened, but this time there
wasn’t a prompt “accidental death” ver-
diet. There was an adjournment pending
further inquiries—curtailed by the finding
of White’s dead body. He had shot him-
self through the heart because, as a
pathetic note stated, he could not live
without his wife. And now the police
have added him to the other 20,000 sus-
pects in the Pyjama Girl case.
OUR IMPORTED GLADIATORS.
“Fifteen thousand filled the Rushcutter Bay stadium
at the contest between Ossie Stewart, the American
negro, and Atilio Sabatino, the Puerto Rican.”
They scoured the world, Rome’s old-time
Imperators,
For men with mighty thews and massive
frames
To qualify as husky gladiators
And do their best at various deadly games
To give their money’s worth to rapt spectators,
From lowly plebs to noble knights and
dames.
Their race and color mattered not a rap
As long as those barbarians could scrap.
They came from Scythia or Thrace or Britain,
From African or Asiatic stock,
To don the cestus (Latin for the mitten),
To spar with weapons or with fists to sock,
To give and take, to smite and to be smitten,
To win the verdict or to take the knock,
Which last too often meant, you may depend,
A singularly swift and sticky end.
Still, not for us to pose as their accusers,
Such attitude might move disdainful shrugs.
We’re not as beggars are, who can’t be
choosers.
I wonder do they never burn the lugs
Of those who pay to witness coal-black bruisers
Exchanging jabs with coffee-colored pugs.
Instructive possibly—but does it quite
Accord with keeping our Australia white?
While statesmen tell, with generous emotion,
That faith to which we cling with such intense
Allegiance and unchangeable devotion,
Wherein all parties know no difference,
It seems a strikingly incongruous notion
That —in the noble art of self-defence —
We pay good brass, and count it for a boon,
To watch a dingy mix it with a coon!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Qwert Yuiop”: The latest example of
idiotic drivel concerning Australia, served
up by blurb writers to English readers,
is provided by “Cavalcade,” a weekly.
Early in the year E. M. Hanlon, Queens-
land’s Minister for Health, announced a
leprosy survey of abos., and mentioned
that it would probably remove any pos-
sible future risk of spread to whites.
The blurb-artist expanded it thus: “The
disease (imported into Australia by
Chinese coolies) has a strong hold among
our aborigines and white people. In-
creasing numbers of children show signs
of contamination. Unless we tackle the
job quickly extermination of Queensland
whites is inevitable.” As a matter of
fact, there are many more lepers in Eng-
land, where no form of isolation or re-
straint exists, than there are in all Aus-
tralia, aborigines included. Most of
them are in London.
* / * :$c #
“D.E.”: Modern science and modern
craftsmanship are certainly doing won-
ders for afflicted people. A governess
on a western N.S.W. station lost her
sight in harrowing circumstances. The
corrosive poison that did the damage
not only burnt the eyeballs but ate away
the sockets and neighboring skin, and
consciousness of the appalling spectacle
she presented added to the poor thing’s
pain and distress. That part of her
agony is at an end. A series of delicate
operations, involving skin-grafting and
the fashioning of special artificials —
eyeballs, lids, lashes and glasses was
undertaken. Touched with pity, the men
who did the mechanical work labored as
lovingly as did the experts themselves.
Great was the delight of all hands when,
the job completed, the patient, looking
just like a pleasant-faced young woman
in spectacles, was taken up Castlereagh-
street and brought back with the report
that no one had stared at her. She lives
in a flat with an acquaintance, herself
almost sightless, but a cheerful and
useful companion. There are none so
game as the blind and the lame.
# * #
“Shorus”: Auntie, up from Boonga-
walla, went shopping in Sydney the other
morning and came home in a state of
pleasant excitement. She had always
heard, said she, of these city shoplifters,
and had that morning actually seen one
detained in a big store. “She stood
close by me,” Aunt went on with unction.
“It was near an underclothing stall and
two girls said they had seen her pick up
singlets. But I heard later they found
nothing in her case and had to let her
go.” Aunt then dived into her capacious
shopping-bag to exhibit her bargains,
among which appeared two unwrapped
blue singlets. “But I didn’t buy these,”
she said, bewildered. “No, Auntie,”
chorused her delighted audience. “They’re
the evidence the shoplifting lady got
rid of.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The drama of the “City
Temple” in Adelaide is to have the final
act at last, the Christian Scientists hav-
ing bought the North-terrace site that
has stood empty, with walls a few feet
up, for over 20 years. Paul Joseph (from
Tasmania) was a young pre-war Congre-
gational minister, with some money of
his own, and he planned a mixture of
club and church on popular lines. But
the cost in war-time was too high;
“I’m appointing YOU to the battle-cruiser after this, Prendergast. I’LL
take over your destroyer !"
finances went wrong, and his old church
was left with only a lawsuit against the
bank at which he had deposited its deeds.
Joseph, whose sole fault was too large
an imagination, at once enlisted for the
war, not even as a chaplain but as a
private soldier, and he was never heard
of again after Bullecourt. The partly-
built walls have discouraged all buyers
for the site till now; but the Christian
Scientists hope to use them.
% * * *
“R. Volt”: The type of air beacons
now being tested at Essendon may
eventually develop into a system which
will make such disasters as the Kyeema
crashing into the Dandenongs next-
door to impossible. A horizontal beam
is the basis, and marker beams which
shoot straight up into the air can be
placed anywhere along its course, thus
enabling a pilot to know where he is
at any given moment. A final perpen-
dicular shaft of electrical energy will hit
his nose when he is over the top of the
aerodrome. This will prevent him over-
shooting his destination as did the
Kyeema. In the Essendon arrangement
experiments are being made to bellbuoy,
so to speak, dangerous points on the
route from Adelaide, and one of these,
the A.B.C.’s tall broadcasting mast, will
have a special beam to beacon it.
* * * *
“Rekab”: Big Bill, on half time at
the works, came to the pay win-
dow, received his Commonwealth Bank
envelope containing £2 13s. 9d., then
passed it back to the pay clerk. “Hey,”
he said, “this ain’t mine.” The pay
clerk hastily checked the name and
number. “You’re Smith, and your
number’s 234. Three days’ pay, less
tax. Am I right?” “No,” roared Bill.
“You’ve given me the director’s en-
velope. Look here on the back!” The
pay clerk turned the envelope over
and found a recipe for “Mushrooms with
Eggs.” Another half-timer with four
kids had “Chicken Liver with Savories,”
and the smallest pay of the bunch was
embellished with a recipe for “Grilled
Seasoned Veal.” About time the Com-
monwealth Bank considered the possi-
bilities of corned beef, and Irish stew.
% * * *
“Bumpkin”: Adventurous suburban-
ites used to get. a kick out of ocean
travel in sailing ships. When oppor-
tunity to do this became difficult they
took to booking aboard tramp steamers.
The other day a Melbourne man of this
romantic turn of mind decided to take
a trip per tramp to Europe, and made
inquiries of a shipping agent. Yes, there
was a tramp leaving on the relevant date
—the Kaituna. The prospective voyager
made an inspection and found that the
Kaituna was a brand-new motorship of
5000 tons, with a cutaway bow and
lines of yachtlike elegance. She had
wide sweeping decks and a streamlined
superstructure, and the officers luxuriated
in flats with textured walls, tapestry-
covered furniture, hidden lighting and
windows for portholes. The crew’s
quarters were as comfortable as second-
class accommodation on a liner. She
was built last year at Gothenburg in
Sweden.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: The “Courtesy Squad”
notion for educating motorists was
always a bit too much like a Big Brother
movement for my boorish tastes, and I
still wouldn’t like to have to attend a
jolly little lecture on
the rules of the road
and be told to be a
good little man from
now on. But an in-
credibly, almost out-
rageously courteous
cop in Wellington
(M.L.) has won me
over for the squad.
I’d parked in the
wrong place, and
when he came over
to tell me about it,
instead of throwing
back his head and
bawling like a bull
as they did in the
rude old days, he
began, “Do you
know, sir, you’ve
been there for nearly
half an hour, and
really you shouldn’t
be there at all. But
I can see you’re a
stranger in the city
and, of course, you
wouldn’t kn0w....”
I floated away -on
this winsome tide
resolving not only
never again to do
anything that might
hurt so gentle a soul,
but also to be a Big
Brother to every-
body. Whoever
picked him picked a
champion.
* *
“Strict Veg.”: “X.S.’s” story (B.
8/ 3 / ’39) of the 13-year-old boy who
rescued a child from drowning at Chelsea
(Victoria) recalls an incident in the life
of a well-known Melbourne singer who
is an excellent swimmer. As a girl she
also rescued a child from drowning, and
didn’t think she was doing anything re-
markable, but there was a great stir on
the beach about it. When she was at
last able to drag herself away from the
congratulations and the photographing it
was well past her dinnertime, and when
she got home and gave as an excuse
for breaking the domestic routine of the
family that she had rescued a child from
drowning all she incurred was a whip-
ping for lying. To the astonishment of
her parents a few minutes afterwards
the newspapers started ringing up for the
life history of the little heroine. Next
morning her photograph was in all the
papers.
* * * *
“Rumberg”: Admitting that the City
of Pretoria struck an outsize ripple (B.
15/2/’39) on her recent trip, who ran the
tapes over that “70-foot wave”? The
highest waves recorded in the Atlantic
are in the vicinity of 55ft. The bows of
both the Normandie and Queen Mary,
with a height above the water of 80ft.-
odd, are shaped to go over, and by no
possibility through, the highest wave that
the Atlantic can bring along.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: In one respect Hamilton
Harty resembles Toscanini. At one
of his Melbourne concerts he was con-
ducting his own composition, “Wild
Geese.” Completely lost in the music,
he had his back turned to the right
wing of the orchestra and was extract-
ing some tender phrases from the violins
on the left when there was a terrific
thud and then a series of staccato taps
which gradually diminished until they
subsided into silence. The drummer had
fainted and fallen off the platform, and
the staccato taps came from his drum-
stick rolling down the steps into the back
premises. Terribly shamefaced, the drum-
mer later crawled back to his place and
finished his part of the performance with
his fingers. When the opus was finished
Harty took the applause, gave the un-
fortunate drummer one withering look
and walked off the platform.
“Wake up—train coming!”
“Tha'sh a right; I ain't goin' nowhere!”
UNDER THE MISTLETOE BOUGH.
g\y graziers see no romance in the mistletoe.
At their conference in Sydney it was stigmatised as
merely ‘a noxious weed’ and ‘a damn nuisance.
Plant, under which in prehistoric ages
On English forest glades and Cambrian
heights , , . ,
The ancient Druids met, those whiskered
sages,
And celebrated their mysterious rites,
Whatever pleasant aura hangs about ypu,
Mistalta, in the Northern Hemisphere,
It’s obvious that we could do without you
And be the gainers here.
“The sacred bush”—so Tennyson expresses
The value set upon your magic spells—
Beneath whose aegis beaux could snatch
caresses
From unsuspecting (or expectant) belles.
For us you decorate no Christmas fiction;
Instead of tributes in melodious verse,
You earn the pastoralist’s malediction,
The squatter’s healthy curse!
You smother trees and even sheep won’t eat
you,
Save as a last resource, your critics say.
How then can you expect that we should greet
you
As an old friend from half the world away?
A precious heritage in Britain, mistle-
Toe bough, ’tis sorry luck that here you
share
The evil reputation of the thistle,
And eke the prickly-pear.
You come to us no hint of kisses bringing;
You wake no Yuletide spirit, set no bards
Your immemorial attractions singing;
No artists limn you on our Christmas cards.
In short, for this unsentimental nation
There’s nothing you envisage or suggest
But an arboreous abomination,
A parasitic pest!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


o
CRAVENA
IfeiiU appreciate tkefo
00
/
10 for 9d...20 for 1 7 6
E 1869
: : >
inMunrm
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Thanks to Curtin’s campaigning and
Lyons’s vacillation, Willcock Labor is
back in Westralia with a seat (Pilbara)
added to its majority of two. Former
Senate President Lynch who opposed
WtHcock tn Geraldton lost his deposit.
No, they dont come back.
Evatt, K.C., the Heffron Labor man
in Hurstville, gave it out that he was
fighting both Stevens and Lang, the same
being parties to an unholy combination.
It was risky, considering that he was cer-
tain to need Lang Labor preferences •
f p, , V
but people are so sick of the Stevens-and-
Lang issue and of paying through the
nose for necessaries and services that it
came off. Evatt goes in, and Lang and
Stevens are wondering what smote them.
“Is this the hend?” asked Miss Fanny
Scmeers on a memnrahle nrrasirm FTurst
on a memorable occasion. Hurst-
Vllle looks the hend for Lang, whose
"We walk along the Pilsen street in a riotous row, we three:
The Fiihrer I was, the Fiihrer I am and the Fiihrer I shall be (when my head bursts).”
nominee, McGrath, got about 1400 fewer
votes than Heffron Labor’s Evatt. But
Waverley will see a repetition of the
struggle.
Former Attorney-General Norbert
Keenan, who was re-elected for Ned-
lands (W.A.), will represent 11,670 elec-
tors, and Cross (Lab.), who was returned
for Canning, will represent 11,395. In
three suburban divisions, Nedlands, Can-
ning and Leederville, there are more elec-
tors than there are on the goldfields (eight
members).
Westralians are familiar with compul-
sory voting at Commonwealth elections,
but Saturday’s affair was the first State
election at which it obtained. In 1936
there was a 70 p.c. poll. This time the
poll is expected to reach 90 p.c. at
least—which means that voters will
number about 205,000 or more, com-
pared with 136,000 three years ago.
Australia had a trade treaty with
Czechoslovakia. It dates from October,
1936, when Gullett was in his glory. The
Bulletin suggested at the time that the
treaty might survive the republic, but
Gullett was positive that it would provide
an expanding market for rabbitskins and
pearlshell. Pearlers, now being subsidised
by the Commonwealth conditionally on
their being subsidised by two States, can
testify that Gullett was a poor prophet.
In the book, Friends of England, in
which he prophesied the disappearance
of Czechoslovakia, Sir lan Hamilton
pointed out that “the Austrian dominion
has lasted a long time and has created
certain habits of mind”:
At the battle of the Marchfield, fought
on August 26, 1278, Kaiser Rudolph
knocked King Ottokar and his Bohemians
endways, and the German-Hungarian com-
bine has carried on since then without a
break.
Hitler made a similar point, amplified,
in proclaiming the annexation:
For a thousand years the Bohemian and
Moravian lagds have belonged to an area
necessary for the existence of the German
people. By force, with lack of under-
standing, they were wilfully torn from
their historical setting by their inclusion
in the artificial structure ot Czecho-
slovakia and became a source of con-
tinual unrest.
He didn’t refer to Chamberlain’s after-
Munich report to the Commons (“Herr
Hitler repeated to me with great earnest-
ness that he had no wish to have in the
Reich people of other races than the
German”), or his own statement to Sir
Horace Wilson (“I am ready to give a
formal guarantee for the remainder of
Czechoslovakia”). The verdict of history
on his faithlessness will be as severe as
that of his own age.
After many years Hughes is Attorney-
General again, Menzies having given up
the Lyons Ministry as a bad job. Before
going back to the old office, Billy was
Minister of External Affairs and Terri-
tories, Minister for Health and Repatria-
tion, and Vice-President of the Executive
Council twice. The old boy can take on
anything in the administrative line, but
he must be wondering what he will be
next.
The resignation of Menzies leaves
Lyons with 10 Ministers of State and
three assistants. His Ministers are now
far outnumbered by his ex-Ministers:
Latham, Bruce, Pearce, Fenton, Parkhill,
Gullett, McLachlan, Paterson, White,
Stewart, Marr, Massy-Greene, Francis,
Guy, Lawson, Brennan, Hunter, Menzies
and Hawker —the only one who is dead.
The Lawson in the list was the Senator
and former Premier of Victoria. The
other Lawson, named Parliamentary
Under-Secretary or something, has also
resigned.
Though the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment claimed last year a profit of £BOOO
on its refreshment rooms, which pay
neither rates nor taxes, it has put up the
price of meals. As usual, the alleged
Government concurred. It was fatuous
enough to publish a defence of the slug
at the eleventh hour of the Hurstville
by-election, though H.C.L. was the main
issue in Hurstville, and thousands of
Hurstville electors buy food at Govern-
ment railway joints.
There are to be no Fochs or “Fighting
Joe” Wheelers in the Australian army.
The Lyons Government has endorsed
the opinion of its Inspector-General
that lieut.-generals are too old at 62,
major-generals at 60, colonels at 57,
lieut.-colonels at 53 and majors “and
below” at 50. During the same week
the Lyons Government appointed
Beeby, J., who is just on 70, Chief
Judge of Arbitration, and named a
62-year-old post-office man Director of
Civil Aviation. How characteristic of the
Lyons Government!
With winter five weeks off, the tent-
dwelling residents of burnt-out Noojee
are wondering when the Dunstan Gov-
ernment is going to come to a decision
about rebuilding. One is down with
pneumonia. In other districts grants for
material have been made but no labor
has been allocated. Under private enter-
prise Warrandyte is being rebuilt, men
from city firms assisting at week-ends ;
and 30 carpenters, plasterers and brick-
layers are at work rebuilding Wood’s
Point at the instance of private saw-
millers. Meanwhile Judge Stretton con-
tinues to gather contradictory informa-
tion about what causes bushfires.
On the day which saw Czechoslovakia
written off the map of Europe, Voroshil-
off announced at the Communist Congress
that the Soviet air force was “two and a
half times the size it was in 1934,” and
that the Red Army was, as always, “the
biggest, best-equipped and most efficient
in the world.” The Czechs are Slavs,
and had an alliance with the owners of
these stupendous forces.
Sydney “Daily News,” which has issued
prophecies by the score, such as that the
Communists would win the Spanish war
and the Port Kembla strike, quoted a
Mr. Ebby Edwards as predicting in Lon-
don on March 6 that Hitler would “in-
vade Czechoslovakia on March 15.” It
was a blind stab with a fountain-pen, for
dictators don’t make confidants of hostile
Ebbys ; but the 1000-to-l chance came
off. The British Ambassador, the
Foreign Office and Chamberlain knew
nothing, but Ebby knew all!
The two Lascars from the Dalfram,
for whom the Sydney Labor Council,
dutifully supported by the “Daily News,”
sent round the hat, are to be deported
as prohibited immigrants. One confided
to the “D.N.” that he was pining for the
girl he had arranged to marry in England.
This must be the first time on record that
Australian unionists committed to the
White Australia policy have been asked
for alms to promote miscegenation.
Gone is the day when Governments
could gaily tax sheepmen, and railway
departments as gaily charge them freight
rates “as high as the traffic will bear.”
N.S.W. graziers are asking for a Com-
monwealth subsidy of a penny a pound
when wool averages less than a shilling
“in any year.” No one can say the Lyons
crowd didn’t ask for it by monkeying
with their business in trade parleys and
tariff schedules, designed not to benefit
the woollen industry, but Manchester.
Stalin took another census recently,
the previous one having been wrecked
by Trotskyists or lost in the last purge
or something. Sydney “D.T.,” which
is once more suggesting a Russian
alliance, gives the result at the fag-end of
its report of Stalin’s speech to the Com-
munist Congress:
He stated that the total population of
the Soviet Union is 170,000,000, instead of
the previously estimated 200,000,000.
What happened to the missing millions?
Statesman’s Year-Book figures of
U.S.S.R. population:
1928 150,426,800
1931 160,430,300
1933 (Jan. 1) .. 165,847,100
The present population, according to
Stalin, as reported by the “Argus ’ as
well as the “D.T.,” is 170,000,000. So
there was a gain of just on 10,000,000
during the three years 1928-31, and there
was a gain of a little over 4,000,000
during the six years 1933-39. Shows
you what Communist controllers of agri-
culture and purges can do when they try.
Sydney papers have unwittingly drawn
attention to the fact that railway com-
missioners don’t live in railway suburbs.
Assistant Commissioner it
seems, is “proud” of his suburb “and
is not ashamed to say so.”
It is a daily joy for me to view the
local street gardens and rockeries. Rate-
payers should feel privileged to reside m
such a district as Vaucluse.
One of the privileges is exemption from
the thumping fare-increases extorted
from residents of railway suburbs and
towns. Mr. Garside, for his part, gets
away from the sight of railways which,
according to the Auditor-General s ad-
mitted underestimate, have piled up
losses exceeding £23,000,000 in 14
years.


VJERE AAA. RISHT FOK DRAwY-S
SINGLETON HOE.
" A bowler caused consternation on the Singleton green by shorts the wearing of which is prohibited by the N.S.W. Bowling ssociation.
bowler caused consternation on the Singleton green by appearing in shorts,the ewaring of which is probibited by the N.S.W. Bowling Association."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
GOLD AND STERLING
FEDERAL LOAN FAILURE
GOLD AND EASTERN TIN NOTES
FINANCIAL REVIEWS AND SHAREMARKET
PROSPECTS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL .. .
But even with approx. £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet h yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.PO., SVDNEy
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEMS
John James Virgo, president of the
Y.M.C.A., who is revisiting Australia,
has been associated with the organisation
for 53 years. He was born at Glenelg
(S.A.) 73 years ago, and at 20 was secre-
tary of the Y.M.C.A. in Adelaide. The
dawn of the century found him national
secretary for Australasia, and he had a
term in Sydney as general secretary from
1903 to 1911. He has since served
as general secretary in London and
J. J. VIRGO.
national field secretary for the British
Empire, and from 1925 till elected to his
present office was world’s representative.
In earlier days Virgo was a fine singer,
and was often heard in oratorio. He
has been twice married, has four off-
spring by his first marriage, and when at
home, which is seldom, lives at Burnham,
Buckinghamshire.
Arthur Brownlow Corbett, who is to
be Australia’s first Director of Civil Avia-
tion, has been chosen, evidently, on his
record as an administrator in the Postal
Department. Born in Brighton (Eng.)
62 years ago, he came to Australia as
a boy of 14. He commenced his civil-
service career at 23 as a clerk in the
money-order branch of Brisbane G.P.O.
After sampling the S’African War he
studied mechanical and electrical en-
gineering and climbed to be district
engineer at Brisbane in 1915. Other pro-
motions followed, and posts in Sydney
and Melbourne, and for the last five years
he has been Deputy Director of Posts
and Telegraphs in Brisbane.
Speculation as to Dethridge’s successor
as Chief Judge of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court has been ended by the
appointment of his colleague George
Stephenson Beeby, who earns the job
by right of seniority, having had 12
years’ experience in this jurisdiction, and
six years as an Arbitration Judge in
N. S. Wales before that. Beeby was
close on 30 before he commenced to
study law (he’ll be 70 next May), and
had been in turn an ironmonger’s assist-
ant, a school teacher, a shorthand writer,
an accountant and a journalist. His
climb to the Bench occupied 20 years.
The Bulletin has known him for years
as \ wr ** er exce Uent short stories, and
he has also had some success as a play-
wright and a versifier. He’s married,
with four offspring, and as recreation
finds a long walk good exercise as well
aS a framing a judgment or
rounding off a lighter literary exercise.
The Office Antiquary once more:
This time 20 years ago there were on The
Buixetin s literary staff S. H. Prior, “Kodak”
° ■ P avid McKee Wright, John Dailey
\i7-ii- Burston. In the boardroom were
William Macleod and Livingstone Hopkins—
getting too old for work, but daily visitors to
tne old office. The principal contributors were
James Edmond and Edward Dyson; and Henry
Lawson was writing his “Previous Convictions”
stones. Bert Toy joined the staff a few months
later.
Now they are all gone. Burston, the youngest
ot them, died in Montreal, Canada, last week.
He was Prior’s understudy in the “Wild Cat”
section and became “Wild Cat” editor when
Pi ior moved into the chair. Prior had trained
Harold from boyhood, finding him an apt and
willing pupil, in 1924, having risen as high
as he could go on The Bulletin, Burston went
]Vf .^ l^purne as financial writer for the
Herald. He became, in addition, financial
adviser to and director of newspapers in which
S® l i era , ld was interested, his beat extending
from Broken Hill to Perth.
Burston never lost touch with his old Bul-
let rN friends. Two or three times a year he
came in to have a chat with them and to
express his pleasure that the old paper was
keepmg its end up. His last visit was made
when he was about to set out for Canada.
He had had a long gruelling in hospital and
looked a very sick man.
A stout and jolly fellow, he was excellent
company m clubs—which generally tried to
thrust office on him—and he did Australia good
service with his pen. He died too soon—he
was only 49.
Victoria has acquired two new K.Cs.
' n E R - Reynolds and E. H. Hudson!
The former began practice after admis-
sion in 1915 by appearing actively for
the prosecution in John
Monash v. Hindenburg.
He was a favored junior
with Bryant, K.C., after
the war, and appeared
with him and J. G.
Latham, now Common-
wealth C.J., for Hobart
“Mercury” in the T. J.
Ryan libel action. E. H.
Hudson won the Supreme
Court Judges’ prize when
he graduated from Mel-
bourne Uni. law school in
1918. At 40 >he is a leader
of the Equity Bar.
Passed out in Melbourne
at a great age, Mrs. Ward
Lyons, who was Marion
Willis to two former
generations of playgoers.
Born in England, she
came to Maoriland in the
train of Ignatius Geogh,
an almost mid-Victorian
barnstormer, whom she
married. She appeared in
Shakspearean plays in
Australia with the famous
W. E. Sheridan, and was
still going strong 15 years
ago, when she appeared
with Seymour Hicks at the
Palace, Melbourne. She
was the widow of Ward
Lyons, the Cappy Ricks of a one-time
world hit.
Frank Clarke, who gave up his seat
(Hastings-Macleay) in 1894 in favor of
Edmund Barton, will be 82 on the 25th.
Barton was defeated by David Storey
and, as the mantle of Federation,
hitherto worn by Parkes, had fallen on
him, “Toby” had to get back to
Parliament forthwith. Clarke came to
the rescue. Barton, Deakin, Kingston,
Turner and Forrest have all gone west;
so, in N. S. Wales politics, have W. P.
Crick, John Norton, A. G. (“Mudgee”)
Taylor, “Jack” Haynes and Willis.
Living with his memories near Manly
beach, Frank Clarke has seen them all
out.
“Uramao”: References re-
cently to the Gaekwar of Baroda
remind me that a Maorilander
established himself in the Gaek-
war’s family about 16 years ago.
He was Major H. G. Grace, son
of a Blenheim clergyman. After
a term as advisory companion to
the heir of the Gaekwar of
Baroda, he became political ad-
viser to the Rajah of Poona,
Kashmir. A brother, Alfred
Augustus Grace, was a prolific
writer for The Bulletin under
Archibald’s editorship. A good
war record among the dessicating
stinks of Mespot preceded the
major’s elevation to the Corps of
Gentlemen-at-Arms to the late
King George. He now lives in re-
tirement at Brockenhurst, Hants.
The lineaments of Unk White are as
distinctive in style as his drawings, with
which Bulletin readers are thoroughly
familiar, and Frith found the modelling
of this head an intriguing task. Unk
is a nickname, preferred by its owner
to Cecil, which was his parents’ choice.
The artist was born in Auckland, M.L.,
and at first intended to make music his
profession, but after some experience as
an orchestral violinist he found a pencil
more congenial to his fingers than a bow.
He came to Australia 17 years ago and
has contributed nearly 2000 drawings to
The Bulletin alone. During two trips
abroad, in 1929 and 1936, he kept
UNK WHITE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
his pencil busy, and a show of travel
sketches of his is now at Sedon’s Gallery,
Melbourne. Unk’s hobby is fencing—
the sort that is done with foils —and H. A.
Hanke has painted a fine portrait of him
in the regalia of the pastime.
The Commonwealth Arbitration Court
vacancy has been filled by the appoint-
°f Sydney barrister Thomas O’Mara.
O Mara is 41, born at Jugiong (Vic.),
and commenced to earn his living as a
civil servant. Served in the Great War,
was invalided home in 1919, returned to
his job in the Crown Law Office, Sydney,
and studied law. He graduated LL.B.
with honors in 1924, was admitted to the
JUDGE O’MARA.
Bar the same year, and for six years
thereafter was legal officer of the Labor
Department. Commenced private prac-
tice in 1930, and became a specialist in
industrial law, on which subject he has
been lecturer at Sydney Uni. for the last
three years.
“El V.’s” farewell to an ancestral
home:
So the ninth Duke of Northumberland is
giving up Alnwick Castle and going to live
in a 20-roomed cottage. A final search of the
old shack for Australiana should be worth
while, if the place is not already well ransacked,
since the second Duke was a patron and
American-War comrade of Johnston, deposer of
Bligh, and both Governor King and Johnston,
plus the Macarthurs, were in close touch with
him. Young Edward Macarthur, a raw
colonial-bred youngster, found the old Duke an
enthusiastic listener when he called on him to
tell the news of the Bligh rebellion. The present
Duke’s only interest in the Antipodes is
the fishing which brought him to Sydney and
Maoriland a few years ago. There have been
Percys at Alnwick for nearly 700 years, but the
modern generation are descendants of the
female line of Hotspurs only. In this genera-
tion, Smithson is the name and U.S.A.’s Smith-
sonian Institute the chief family monument. A
few of the modern order of dukes have risen
to such heights as junior lordship of the
Admiralty and Treasury. But, generally-
speaking, they have been content to be just
dukes, draw coal royalties and live at Alnwick.
Whenever a disaster occurs a lot of
attention is turned on the air business,
but the achievements of men like Captain
P. L. Taylor, of the Aust. Nat. Airways,
are apt to escape notice. Taylor has just
done his thousandth flight between
Melbourne and Sydney, half a million
miles being the distance he has covered.
He also has to his credit the shortest
time between the two capitals—llOmin.
Knight-of-the-brush John Longstaff,
who has been in Adelaide painting a
portrait of Langdon Bonython for the
“Advertiser” directors’ boardroom, has
been commissioned to remain and do
another for the new Parliament House,
which should be opened in June, and
towards the completion of which
Bonython gave £lOO,OOO.


In the manufacture of Galvanized
Iron at the Newcastle and Port
Kembla works of Lysaght s,
165,000 tons of Australian steel,
16,000 tons of Australian zinc
and 502,000 tons of coal are
directly and indirectly used an-
nually in the production of their
yearly output of 12,000,000 sheets
. . . every sheet carrying Lysaght’s
guarantee.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Sydney Brisbane Melbourne
Adelaide Fremantle
m
$M
m
m
m
••/? y<
gw#
*JW»V.
I#
lysaght -
OR
AUSTRALIA
COUNTRYMEN! Don’t forget to visit
Baker’s at Easter and see Special Window
Display of Station Goods
Bloodless Etnasculator for
Calves and Rains, 65/-
eacli. Postage 1/6.
Bb,
Baker’s Lamb Clam,
improved design,
13/6 each.
Utm
m
Baker’s Three-blade Stock Knife.
made, 7/6 each.
Sheffield
«Co
r **c
test
Baker's Sheffield made Bed Tang Shear
sin. 6/9 each. Postage s>d. extra.
o
Baker’s Fork Sheep Earmarker, 20/3 each. Large range
of designs always in stock.
»
i
N.S.W. freight 5/6 extra.
“V” Blade Cattle Dehorner, 50/-.
3000
Stuillock (Regd.) Sheep Ear
Labels, 15/- per 100, 62/6 per 500
lots.
a
ip
Best
Quality Sheffield Butchers’
Gin. blade, 3/3. Postage Gd.
Knives,
Fully Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'Baker’s Cutlery is well made and will last for years.
The Australian Sugar Producers Association Ltd.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1939.
OPENING ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT (Senator T. W. Crawford).
Gentlemen,
I am very pleased indeed to have the
opportunity of extending a cordial wel-
come to all attending this meeting of the
Council of the Australian Sugar Pro-
ducers Association. Sugar was the first
Queensland primary industry to form
a comprehensive organisation, and this
representative gathering furnishes con-
vincing proof of the soundness of our
Constitution and the satisfactory service
given to the industry since the Associa-
tion was established in 1907. In the 32
years which have passed there naturally
have been many changes in personnel,
but at all times an outstanding feature
of Council Meetings has been the desire
of delegates to fully debate in a helpful
manner all the questions submitted for
discussion. It is, I feel, worthy of
record that, though many definite dif-
ferences of opinion have been expressed
in the course of argument, the desire to
arrive at satisfactory conclusions has
eventually enabled us to reach generally
acceptable decisions.
There has been, as you know, one
notable exception to this rule: That of
restriction of output. This matter is now
the subject of investigation by a Royal
Commission. Everybody concerned in
the welfare of our industry will carefully
follow the proceedings of the Commis-
sion, assist by informative evidence as
opportunity may arise, and anxiously
await the Commission’s report and the
Government’s implementation of its
recommendations.
Those engaged in the industry have
not failed to recognise the serious conse-
quences of overproduction, and confer-
ences have repeatedly emphasised the
imperative need for restricting output to
the requirements of our home and export
markets. But, in spite of much careful
consideration and prolonged debate, we
have failed to find a satisfactory solu-
tion of the problem. Naturally, there
are different points of view, and conse-
quent divergent opinions, amongst those
engaged in an industry conducted in
numerous districts, in many instances
separated by long distances, with all the
varying conditions operating between the
Northern Rivers area in New South
Wales and Mossman in the Far North
of Queensland.
In negotiating an international agree-
ment for world restriction producers
were beset by somewhat similar difficul-
ties, which appeared to be insuperable
until, in 1935, the Government of Great
Britain, which provides most of the
so-called free-market, made a definite
pronouncement of its attitude on the
question. This had a salutary effect, and
delegates to subsequent conferences met
in a more give-and-take spirit, and weeks
of debate produced the 1937 International
Sugar Agreement, to which Australia is
a party.
I should like to place on record as
my personal opinion—and my presiden-
tial opening addresses are not intended
to be regarded as anything else —that I
believe that, in appointing a tribunal to
settle the vexed question of mill peaks,
the Government has adopted the only
way of effectively dealing with this out-
standing issue. Moreover, internal har-
mony has been a most important factor
in solving the many problems which have
confronted the members of this organi-
sation from time to time, and this neces-
sary concord should be preserved by the
appointment of umpires, as it were, to
reconcile our differences on this vital
matter.
There has been a brief cessation of
hostilities by the opponents of the sugar
agreement, such as the members of the
Housewives’ Association, the Town and
Country Union, the Tariff Reform
League and many others whose slogan
appears to be “Protection for what we
sell and free trade for what we buy.” We
would be extremely foolish to allow
apparent friendliness to induce a feeling
of false security. It may be the calm
that precedes the storm that will over-
take us when the sugar agreement is due
for renewal. Advantage may again be
taken of the industry’s geographical iso-
lation to attack it from many angles,
with a view to depriving it of that public
goodwill enjoyed by industries more or
less common to all the States. It is there-
fore imperative that we should be con-
tinuously on the defensive lest people
should be led to believe, as our de-
tractors allege, that the Australian pro-
duct is, an intolerable burden on the
community, and that it would be a dis-
tinct gain to the Commonwealth if the
industry could be thrown on the scrap-
heap and supplies obtained from Java
or Cuba. We would be guilty of a most
reprehensible dereliction of duty if our
inactivity permitted such calamitous
ideas to prevail concerning the only
industry which has proved itself capable
of supporting European settlers within
the tropics in sufficient numbers to con-
stitute effective occupation.
Australia has a population approach-
ing seven millions, while the people of
Asia number approximately a thousand
millions. The rising tide of Asia is a
real and imminent danger and it is not
inconceivable that, in time not far dis-
tant, it may rise high enough to sub-
merge us if the policy of “White Aus-
tralia” is allowed to become “as sound-
ing brass or a tinkling cymbal.”
The maintenance of our sugar industry
in undiminished proportions is more than
an endeavor to make Australia self-
supporting and self-contained. Not-
withstanding our very creditable indus-
trial achievements, we are but on the
threshold of the development necessary
to enable us to retain undisputed pos-
session of our rich heritage. No doubt
there is room for many new industries,
but our first care should be to maintain
those we possess.
Of our vast tropical territory only the
sugar belt and some adjacent and depen-
dent areas can be regarded as effectively
occupied. Queensland has other indus-
tries, but all are more or less buttressed
and reinforced by the sugar industry.
Parallel latitudes in Northern and West-
ern Australia are comparatively empty
and unproductive.
Surely it is obvious that the destruc-
tion or serious impairment of a great
industry like sugar must imperil the
future of this country. Would not a re-
duction of the population of Queensland
be an admission that we are incapable
of settling and developing the tropical
portion of our great inheritance, and at
the same time be an invitation to other
races to come over and possess it?
Australia holds the racial key of the
future. Dare we be recreant to this
great trust?
Sugar is not the only commodity being
sold overseas to-day at prices below the
cost of production. There has been over-
production of many primary com-
modities, with consequent fall in prices
to unprecedented levels. This has been
due largely to the mechanisation of agri-
culture, the use of chemical fertilisers,
and imnroved varieties. One effect of
mechanisation, usually overlooked, has
been the displacement by motors and
tractors of millions of working animals
for which fodder had to be grown. Aus-
tralia depends very largely upon primary
production for export, and cannot. at
present afford to curtail any of her land
industries, which fill such an important
place in her industrial, economic and
political life.
As sugar producers we are naturally
anxious regarding the future. If the
industry were spread over three or four
States there would not be the slightest
occasion for concern. Most of the forces
which have been arrayed against us
would be solidly with us, insisting that
sugar, the same as other commodities,
should be sold at remunerative prices
based on the cost of production, and
not, as many advocate, based on the
price at which the surplus produce of
cheap colored labor can be dumped into
this country.
An organisation with such a wide field
of activities as the Australian Sugar Pro-
ducers Association cannot be conducted
without adequate financial resources. We
have never had an overflowing treasury,
but no necessary work has ever been left
undone because funds were not available.
The audited accounts which you will
consider to-day reveal a creditable posi-
tion, especially for an organisation
financed upon a voluntary basis. I am
sure that everyone present will agree
with me when I say that members’ con-
tributions have given a satisfactory
return, the Association having proved
itself worthy of the great industry it has
faithfully served for many years.


ABORIGINALITIES
PILOT (to co-pilot): “ S'pose We should have Warned those people We were leaving a few minutes early."
“Nicobar”: There’s many a true word
spoken in jest. How many recall “The
Oozlum Bird,” the opus of a long-past
Bulletin bard? It was a rhymed yarn
put into the mouth of a W.Q. stockman ;
something about how the boss’s kid fell
sick and they called down the giant ooz-
lum bird and placed the sick kid, bed
and all, upon its back. Up the bird flew,
allowing the earth to revolve beneath it
far below —to come down at some place
where doctors and nurses were waiting
to bring the sick one back to health. In
many a bush and goldfields assemblage
I've seen a broad grin go round at the
wit of the poet and the manifest absur-
dity of the yarn. But isn’t the flying am-
bulance of to-day the “oozlum bird”
come to actuality?
* * * *
“Billy See”: Lots of Australian natural
products have the power of absorbing
moisture either from a damp atmosphere
or from the dewfall (B. 22/2/’39). Take
the saltbush ; salt in nature as well as in
name. Its leaves secrete sodium chloride,
which substance, as everyone who has
studied the salt-cellar knows, becomes
moist with even the slightest suspicion
of humidity. Thus the leaves of the salt-
bush absorb water when there literally
isn’t enough moisture in the atmosphere
to dampen a butterfly’s wing.
* * * *
“Calypso”: So ‘"The 0.D.” doubts my
yarn of running down bunny on a bike
(B. 22/2/’39). Well, to paraphrase Kip-
ling, it merely illustrates “What do they
know of Australia who only Noo South
know?” Were “The 0.D.” familiar with
the immense rolling plains of Westralia,
as firm almost as asphalt, he wouldn’t
doubt it even if told that it was possible
to run down a ’roo with a bicycle. One
comes to places where for miles nothing
breaks the dead level other than scanty
stems of saltbush. On such ground the
bicycle isn’t second even to the horse.
The cyclist goes straight across. That’s
why, back in the old Coolgardie days, the
Cycle Express, its riders carrying letters
and telegrams to the farthest outback,
made such a do of it —ready-made tracks
of the best were everywhere. Inciden-
tally, there s romance waiting ready for
the pen of the future Australian novelist;
Buffalo Bill, Express Pony Rider of
America’s Wild West, has had his day.
How about the Cycle Express Riders of
Australia’s “Golden West”?
* * * *
Lespy r “I’m in charge of a gang
one time, said Old Ben the handyman,
“and we’re cuttin’ a deep trench wot ’as
to be shored up. I sees the tools is get-
tin pretty blunt; one o’ the adzes is
full o gaps, so I tells a bloke to grind
’em ‘Grind the gaps outa the tools,’
I ses; ‘ ’owjer expect to cut wood with
blunt tools?’ ’E’s away erbout ’alf an
hour when one of the other coves rushes
up. ‘Ben,’ ’e gasps out, ‘that dopey cow’s
ground all the teeth orf the saw!’”
* * * »•
“Pisces”: This is what the
most expert fisherman in N.Q.
told me about kingfish. When
you strike a school of them
always have two lines in the
water. As you pull one in pay
out the other line. By doing it
that way the school will follow
the boat, and a man might land
as many as 73 in 60 minutes,
which is the record attributed to
Boyd Lea in Reliance. If ever
the chain is broken and there
are no fish following the boat
and no spinning bait or other lure to
keep the school following, then they sheer
off.
* * * *
“Valerin”: For general station sheep-
work give me the “handy” dog; he’s
mostly mong, but is hard and tough and
a reliable watch. I’ve owned hounds
with pedigrees as long as a royal duke’s
and they weren’t worth feeding, and
couldn’t stand up to their job in hard,
dry country. Among the best workers
I have had were cattle-dogs, inclined to
bite if not checked ; pointers, quiet and
intelligent; poms, too excitable, and grey-
hounds. Of course, these dogs were with
sheep from puppy days. Terriers, especi-
ally “foxies,” are barred—they never can
be trusted.
* * * *
“Leon”: When Long Louie told his
tale to the Bungidoola butcher he knew
by reason of previous encounters that
the chances of a substantial handout were
far from bright, for the carcass-carver
was a hard and unsympathetic man.
Whatever hope of success Louie possessed
was irreparably shattered when the lean
mongrel that shared his varied fortunes
snatched a large juicy steak off the chop--
ping-block and rapidly vanished from
human ken. “Do you keep that blasted
cur?” roared the outraged man of meat.
“I used to,” grinned Louie happily, pre-
paring to go to the rescue of sufficient
for the evening meal, “but he’s keepin’
me now.”
* * * *
“Don Beer”: Bill could always see the
silver lining to the darkest cloud, and
it was just as well, as his misfortunes
were many. One day when mustering on
a young horse —nobody had been anxious
to ride him, so Bill was the mug—he ran
into a wasps’ nest. One sting and the
horse started; one buck and Bill was
gone. After picking himself up he said:
“Anyhow, ,t was lucky he threw me that
far couldn t find me!”
“Kooragai": A calculating, methodical
gourmand is the blue barracouta. If one
be caught and opened after a meal of
f,‘^ ha t rd t\ victims will be found
stowed like sardines in a tin, the heads
al one way, the tads missing or muti-
lated. The long streak doesn t rush open-
mouthed at a shoal of pilchards as other
and' bites > off S it^tatk°Thus’ren:
dered helpless, the pilchard is leisurely
assimilated. A ’couta will unhurriedly
follow a shoal for miles like a sober
marine drover, and its method is always
the same.
_ * T - * *
Dickie Beech : I often suspected that
somebody once ran an illicit still on
Moreton Island (S.Q.), and after read-
ing about “James W.’s” (B. 8/3/’39)
bullet-proof wild pigs Im certain. Dur-
ing 30 years acquaintance with the place
I’ve walked around, along and across it,
shot dozens of the animals and seen
hundreds more. Never a one of them
WaS i_i^ uße *‘P ro or any way re-
sembhng the tall, savage Cookers of the
far-N.Q. scrubs. They were plain
ordinary pigs, descended from some
which escaped from the old Bulwer pilot
settlement in the 1890’s, and others left
there when it was given up, just as were
the wild horses and the numerous bush
cats. They are not particularly car-
nivorous, an obvious enough fact from
the large areas rooted over after yams
and fern roots. Even if they were, wal-
labies formed no part of their diet, for
the very good reason that there is not,
and in all recorded tradition, abo. and
otherwise, never has been, a wallaby
on Moreton Island.
* * * *
“Knit Tog”: One of my country
cobbers sent me a bag of assorted veges.,
including a few ripe watermelons. In
a burst of generosity I presented one
to a family of foreign refugees living
next door. A few hours later the smiling
father of the tribe managed to indicate
by signs and splutterings that he wished
me to enter and share in the eating of
the gift. I’m all for friendship between
nations, so I ate a little of the melon
just for the sake of an ideal, but it was
the hardest fodder to keep down that
I’ve ever experienced. They’d boiled it
—with plenty of garlic added!
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: If we had more
naturalists like “Bogaduck,” who re-
moves ticks, etc., from lizards, bats, and
the like (B. 8/3/’39), the lot of our bush
creatures would be far, far happier. I,
too, in my small way, have rendered
some slight assistance to the suffering
denizens of the wild. Once, when I
was camped in the Gulf country, a 30ft.
crocodile contracted the habit of wander-
ing into my tent at odd intervals, and
although for a while I disregarded the
scaly visitor, as one will, it gradually
dawned on me that he must have some
reason for Xer
than mere curiosity A close examina-
tion persuaded me that he was in great
pain. It was but the work of a moment
and* shin/one
which I found studc crosswise in the
saurian’s gullet. I shall never forget the
look of intense gratitude on the dumb
creature’s face as he waddled off (pre-
sumably after more jackeroos) into the
vastness of the outback
* * * „.
« “Komediak” thinks
me modern bagman jibs at carrying a
comb (B. 1/3/’39), it strikes me that
K.” does most of his bush wanderings
round about the fishmarket. Far from
being the unshaven, long-haired wastrel
so often pictured by some “comic”
artists, nowadays Matilda’s better-half
takes a pride in his appearance, and any
bagman who omits to comb his thatch
or dust his bluchers before asking for
a handout at a back-country station runs
the risk of being regarded as a cad and
a rank outsider by his fellows. The
fiercest fight I have seen in recent years
was between two swag-carrying gents
who had disagreed over the ownership
of a bottle of hair-oil. Mind you, there
are limits. One pariah who wanders on
his lonesome has been hounded out of
every camp on Vic.’s western plains
simply because he insists on keeping a
Bond-street crease in his dungarees.
* * * *
“Macropus”: A quaint marsupial freak
is the nailed-tail wallaby of the Monte-
bellos, a group of islands out from Cos-
sack, W.A.’s north-west coast. This nail,
which grows right on the tip of the mar-
supial tail, is as horny and strong as
one from a tiger’s pad. Use? Not defi-
nitely known, but is considered to be
handy for mountaineering: the Monte-
bellos being very rocky, the dragging tail
with a hook on the end of it would natu-
rally be very useful for an emergency
anchor hold when its owner was de-
scending steep places. Which shows that
Nature had invented the alpenstock long
before the human animal attempted the
Alps.
* * * »
“Tired Tim”: The ironbark was tough
and the one-inch bit wouldn’t bite. The
fencer conceived a bright idea, and next
morning applied for his cheque. The
boss rode along the line, passed the work
and paid. It was a mistake not to have
taken the same route back. Those posts
showed four evenly-spaced holes on the
one side only.
*** * ,
“Maeera”: From the splitter’s point
of view the effect of a big bushfire in a
forest is disastrous. Once a tree has been
badly burned it will never “run” as well
again. Paling splitters especially avoid
wherever they can trees that have been
toughened by fire. It does not make
much difference to the sawmiller. Even
in the comparatively rare cases where
the fire has been fierce enough to kill
the big timber trees can still be sawn.
“POST-AN’-RAIL.”
They called him “Post-an’-rail” because
He had no time for fencing-wire,
Maintaining that there should be laws
Framed to suppress it. At the fire
Nightly he thrashed the subject through—
No counter-logic could avail
To soothe the hate for wire he knew,
This man who swore by post and rail.
In days when coves was men,” he said,
From stockyard out to boundary-line,
The grand old solid fences led ;
Aye, stringybark an’ box an’ pine,
Sturdy an’ true, like them as cut
An’ split the timber—nothing frail
An spidery as wire is, but
Good to the eyesight, post an’ rail!
“Then some poor, clever, loony cow
Invented wire; an’ soon each r”">
its old posts an’ rails . . . till now
The fences that we knew are done.
Instead, a trap for nags an’ ’roos,
The wires stretch like a woman’s veil.
Yer faith in life it makes yer lose,
The faith that grew in post an’ rail.”
He took his swag and tramped one day
Into the haze on Lachlan side.
Alas, a flood from west away
Swamped plain and gully far and wide.
I hey rescued him, a sodden wreck,
a TV, 1 ? nd sw agless, pinched and pale—
A tall wire fence had served to check
The wet, sad drift of “Post-an’-rail.”
They twitted him, that wire had saved
His life, but, unconverted still,
As strength returned to him he raved
And bl ? sted them in language shrill.
Think o me swag! Youse cows are daft'
I would ’ave saved it without fail
By knockin' up a flamin’ raft
If that fence 'ad been post an’ rail!”
M.L.
C. H. WINTER.


“Billy Fowlhouse”: Larsh week
mishnry boy he come along island blong
me, talkum talkum long time that pfeller
debbil plenty saucy, talkum that one sing
out big pfeller, wantum kaikai all boy, all
Mary, all piccaninny, my word that pfeller
debbil altogether too much saucy. I talk
mishnry killum that debbil, mishnry he
talk no can killum, keep him along chain
all same saucypfeller dog. I talk mishnry
who put chain ’long that pfeller? He
talk mishnry church put chain ’long
him long time. I talk mishnry where
that pfeller debbil now? Mishnry he
talk that pfeller all place, all island,
catchum all people all time, mishnry he
want plenty tshillin’ buy plenty more
chain put along that debbil. I talk
mishnry that pfeller church plenty silly
pfeller, gibbit that pfeller debbil too
much chain, he altogether too much walk-
about, tinkit more better take up slack
in chain blong that debbil so he no walk-
about no more kaikai all people, no
gibbit tshillin’ more chain that one.
* * * *
“B.B.”: “Wang’s” reference to the
Hereafter (B. 22/ 2/ ’39) reminds. The
old settlers in the karri country (W.A.)
have profited in latter years by selling
standing timber and rights of way for
mill log lines. One old chap would not
sign a contract until he had “talked it
over with Mother.” Next day the paper
was returned, unsigned. “Mother says
that the Hereafter is in God’s hands and
it is not for us to sign contracts about
it.” As the track was then laid well
towards his land, the irate mill manager
had to send post-haste to Perth for a
new contract with different wording.
* * * *
“Tas.”: What is thought to be a world
record for the breed was put up in
Hobart by a Scotch terrier bitch, which
whelped 10 puppies in one litter, all 11
doing well. Her five litters have been
eight, nine, nine, nine and ten ; in all 45
puppies, all well bred and commanding
a ready sale.
* * * *
“Den”: Not only was the tilted wagon
“not peculiar to the U.S.A.” (B. 8/2/’39);
it did not even originate
there. It was used in Europe
in the early Middle Ages,
and remained practically un-
changed in form down the
centuries. John Ziska, the
Czech general, adapted the
vehicle to warfare. He
covered his wagons with steel
or iron, and linked them to-
gether with strong iron
chains. These hradba vozoba
(wagon forts) were used for
offensive movements as well
as for defence. The English
were prompt to adopt the
practice, which was well
suited to their archers. Sir
John Falstolf beat the
French at the “Battle of the
Herrings” (1429) by this
means. The laager of wagons
used by the Boers and by
the American pioneers was
the same thing in principle,
but was purely defensive. Prior to
the development of the canal and
railway systems of Europe, the tilted
wagon was the sole means for inland
transport of heavy goods. Many were
still in use in England in early-Victorian
times.
* * * *
“Runa”: Floods may be beneficial as
well as disastrous. Years ago a run-
holder beyond Poverty Bay (M.L.) was
looking dolefully at the flooded river
that, still rising, ran across his property.
Already a private bridge had been swept
away, and as he assessed the damage
and wondered where he would get the
cash to build another over the arm of
the great loop that cut his run in half
he noticed the waters beginning to recede
“Watch that loose end, Bertie !”
with uncanny speed. The explanation
was that the river high up had broken
its banks, cutting out the loop and now
running straight past the boundary of
the run. It gave the sheepman acres of
new, amazingly rich land, it cut out the
necessity for a bridge and put along the
run a boundary with no upkeep attached
to it. The old river bed remained a
vivid emerald strip, even in dry seasons,
for years.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Shouldn’t care to stand
about while “Mick, aged 14” (B. 1 /3 / ’39),
whirled Blake by the tail and banged his
head against a tree. Experimenting with
innocuous species—and never touching
even their tails prior to securing a safe
“Stop teasing that bull!”
neck grip—I have found that without a
supplementary twist round two fingers,
the reptile invariably slipped out of hand
and shot into space. With a little practice
and standing on a log to get room for
the final downward jerk, it was no feat
at all to snap off the heads of 6ft. carpet
snakes. And I’m the Council’s worst
whip-cracker—“Billo’s” Mick alone ex-
cepted.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Jacky was going to town for
the mail and asked the jackeroo to lend
him “a coupla bob.” “Why don’t you
draw on your wages?” the jackeroo
asked. “I draw him last time,” said
Jacky, “an’ I bin two days fetchum
mail. When boss not bin gib it money,
I bin come back in three hours. So boss
no more gib it.” “Well, if I give you
anything the boss will rouse on me,” the
jackeroo objected. “No fear,” Jacky
assured him, “I fetchum grog home in
bottle. Drink him here. By cripe, I
break the record cornin’ home then.”
“Hanko”: It was a hot Saturday after-
noon and Chiller suggested a stroll into
the township “to put in time.” A-drip
with sweat, we set out in the broiling sun.
Half-way in a row of apple-trees caught
our vision. We sampled the fruit, found
it good, and gorged a trifle. At the first
boozer Chiller off-
handedly mentioned,
“W hat about a
drink?” It didn’t taste
so good to me. Any-
how, a sort of air-lock
had developed in my
throat. Chiller
strangled over his pot.
“Ain’t too clever,” he
gasped, “d’yer
reckon?” So we tried
the other pub. No
better. We hung
round for an hour and
then had another lash
at the suds. Ugh!
Cashed-up and miser-
able, we made back
to camp. Passing the
apple-trees Chiller be-
came voluble. “If ever
I spoil a good thirst
with apples again,” he
swore, “may I turn
into a foot-long
codderlin’ flamin’
mawth.”
# *
“Caledonicus” (Noumea): “Laetitia’s”
par. on the Torres Strait abo. legend of
the mosquitoes (B. 4/1/’39) brings to
mind one that the Tanna Is. natives have.
At the driest time of the year they cut
and burn the scrub and brush where the
garden is to be made for that year. They
then break up the ground and commence
making the soil-heaps for the yams. When
the rainy season begins the vines sprout
rapidly, necessitating construction of a
cane trellis for them to grow on, the canes
merely being pushed into the loose earth.
“Man Tanna” claims that when he digs
up the soil first, at the dry time, he digs
up the fleas. Later when he pushes the
canes into the ground during the wet
season he pushes the fleas back till the
following year. The real reason, of course,
is that fleas object to moisture, but like
the dry and dusty soil for breeding.
* * * *
“Ben Gun”: In the days when bush-
men wore beards my Uncle Ebenezer
sported a beauty. On his way to the
Hall’s Creek rush (1886) one bitterly cold
night, he made his bed down under the
lee of a high perpendicular cliff. There
was a fine full moon, and all around him
the dingoes howled to it. Right above
him stood one great dog, strongly sil-
houetted against the moon. The shot
was too great a temptation to be resisted,
and the big .44 from uncle’s Winchester
struck the dog fair in the chest. Up in
the air he sprang, and then he came
whirling down. His snapping teeth
closed in a death grip on uncle’s beard.
All uncle had was a knife he’d absent-
mindedly taken from a city restaurant,
and by the time he’d hacked his ziff off
all the claims had been pegged.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: I was talking to my
neighbor when one of his kids yelled
“Hey, Dad, the bull’s in the garden!”
Dad snatched up the shotgun, then
dropped it in favor of a bike-pump,
which he filled with turps. Running up
behind the bull, he let fly at close range.
Bull twisted himself into a knot in an
attempt to reach the irritating spot with
his tongue, and then rushed straight
through mother’s cherished brush-house,
sending ferns and pot-plants flying. A
trellis of sweet-peas went west a moment
later ; then a post and two panels of net-
ting. Then the animal tore off across the
paddock, knocking down and injuring
a foal as he went. For the next two
days it wasn’t safe to go within half
a mile of him.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: The possum’s greatest
natural enemy is the goanna. The noc-
turnal habits of the one and the daylight
food-hunting activities of the other serve
as an admirable combination —
for the go. But sometimes
calculations go astray. Riding
up a spur of the Barrington
Ranges (N.S.W.), I heard a
possum’s cry. Looking up I
saw one clinging to the ex-
treme tip of a gum-tree bough
fully 60ft. above ground. With
slow and lordly step a big
goanna was hiking along the
bough to the same destination. When
about a foot from its goal the possum
made up its mind that a change in tactics
was an urgent necessity, and without
further ado made a flying leap to earth.
The goanna without hesitation followed
suit. The possum made a perfect three-
point landing, and forthwith scampered
up another tree, but its pursuer’s experi-
ment in aeronautics proved fatal.
A POOR SPIRIT.
“Them old-time settler coves,” said Syd, “ ’oo
tamed the blacks an’ blazed the trails,
They worked all right, my oath they did; but
they were hard —as hard as nails.
They’d drive a bloke from dawn till dark;
they never thought a spell he’d need.
I know; I worked for one old nark —’e almost
grudged a man a feed.
“That whiskered jacky seemed to think I’m
just a drone because I goes
To town on week-days for a drink. I should’ve
bin at work, I s’pose.
He’d go dead lemons if I took two days
recov’rin’ from the booze
Or if ’e caught me with a book or ’avin’ just
a quiet snooze.
“All that, o’ course, is altered now; on
sweated toil they’ve put the brake.
But still I often think, some’ow, that too much
coddlin’ ’s a mistake.
The trouble is, it seems to me, they’ve reached
the other darn extreme;
Y’r modern ’and, from what I see, is nothin’
but a walkin’ dream.
“Why, on’y yesterdee some blob ’oo by ’is
looks is far from smart
Comes up ’ere arskin’ for a job. But when
I tell ’im ’e can start,
Does ’e pull off ’is coat? Not much! ’E arsks
me wot’s the flamin’ screw
An’ all about the hours an’ suchlike things,
an’ wot ’e’ll ’ave to do.
“I tell ’im fifteen bob an’ keep, an’ that the
work is just a skate:
No need to rise till sparrer-cheep, then muster,
milk and separate.
’E’ll spend the mornin’ easy: grub some stumps
an’ adze some ironbark rails,
Then plough an’ burn a bit o’ scrub an’ cart
in feed an’ mend the bails-- —
“But when I git that far, this weed ’e grins an’
shows a yeller fang
An’ says, ‘Not me! Now wot you need’s
a Clydesdale an’ a breakdown gang!’
The lazy cow! These weak-kneed coots that’s
kickin’ round about to-day
Don’t give,” concluded Syd, “two hoots for
decent work with decent pay.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR C.A1.1. FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 182.090.26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. .215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil ' 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14.866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937. . 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
•Declared but not paid.
Tremendous capital outlay has been
made at Port Kembla since B.H.P.
acquired control in 1935 by exchanging
750,000 of its own ords. for the 2,700,000
ords. then issued (held by the Hoskins
family, Dorman, Long and Co. and
Howard Smith, Ltd.) in A.I. and S. The
book value of fixed assets at Kembla
now exceeds the figure put on the New-
castle steelworks in B.H.P.’s accounts,
though the northern plant has been sub-
ject to heavier depreciation allowance
than the southern works, which are only
as yet earning a comparative fleabite.
The capacity of the Kembla works is
about 500,000 tons of steel p.a., as
against over 800,000 tons at Newcastle.
And capacity, of course, hasn’t yet been
reached at Kembla.
One of the first things that happened
under B.H.P. control was the buying of
1660 acres of land at Kembla from
the Government for £55,000, and two
handy coalmines (the Bulli and Mt.
Keira) were acquired to augment the
supply from the co.’s Wongawilli colliery.
Then, after the installation of additional
steel furnaces, a battery of Wilputte coke
ovens (a huge success at Newcastle
several years earlier) started production
in January, 1938, and No. 2 blast-
furnace, with a capacity of 1000 tons pig-
iron a day, began in May. Additions
and extensions have been made to vari-
ous steel-processing mills in order to
keep them in step with the primary units
of production, and a hive of associated
industries is now clustered round the
A.I. and S. plant, the principal ones
being under control of Lysaghts and
Commonwealth Rolling Mills.
Commonwealth Rolling Mills was
formed by Armco (Aust.) Pty., Armco
(U.S.A.) and John Lysaght and Sons last
year to make.steel sheets, two-thirds of
which will be used in motor-car bodies.
The mill will produce 30,000 tons a year.
A lot of galvanised-iron has been turned
out by Lysaghts’ Kembla works for
some time.
As A.I. and S. is just waking up from
a long period of development, its finan-
cial position is still more interesting than
its p. and 1. account:
1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £3,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors 649,937* 3,669,650* 2,993,510*
Fixed assets . . 3,794,371 6,364,502 7,755,597
Shares in other cos. 391,809 388,048 386,498
Stocks . . . . 269,009 538,394 642,305
Book debts . . 317,722 399,661 384,165
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 10,052 16,943
* Includes ord. div. ( £ 91,675) declared but not paid.
Last term B.H.P. took 2,000,000 extra
£1 ords. in A.I. and S. for that much
debt owing. Such was the expansion
again during the months following that
at Nov. 30, 1938, the total debt of
A.I. and S. was only £676,140 lighter
than a year earlier. A net £1,391,095
more was spent on the main undertaking
(£7,755,597), making nearly £4,000,000
added to the book value since 1935.
Last term trading operations were
hindered by a coal strike, but net earn-
ings, after visibly setting aside £272,090
for depreciation (up £71,089), were dis-
closed at £213,884, or £68,505 higher.
That represented 3.3 p.c. on the increased
ord. capital, allowing for one year’s pref.
requirements at 5.8 p.c. p.a. Again only
one year’s pref. div. (£58,125) was de-
clared, cleaning arrears up to May, 1935.
There is thus about 4s. Bd. a share
accrued on the prefs. at the moment.
The prefs. at 275. 9d. on the market
(there are 1,000,000 of them) will
stand ip the buyer’s books at around
235. when arrears are cleared off.
The time of such a clearance is plainly
drawing nearer. On a 5.8 p.c. div. basis
the yield at 235. would be 5 p.c., or
6.5 p.c. if the p.c. contract rate is
regained, as it promises to be when the
ords. get on to the div. list. Net tangible
backing is £6 3s. sd. per pref. share ;
and the prefs. are the only class of scrip
held by the public.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
/ — ; Dividends Towards
T , „ Pref. Re- De-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, licit.
£ £ £ £ . £
1929.. 33,179 8,179 20 p.c. = 18,216 6,784 28,928
1930.. 31,951 9,378 20 „ „ 20,850 1,753 27,175
Loss.
1931.. 12,025 Nil Nil 39,200
/ Dividends v
A Pref. B Pref.
Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
1932.. 511 Nil 38,689
1933.. 12,214 11,723 Nil Nil 38^198
Loss Launceston freehold, £2020 .. 40,218
1934.. 23,951 11,723 8,611 Nil 36,601
1935. . 29,646 11,723 17,222 Nil 36,000
7 p.c.
1936.. 60,835 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 12,245 7,744
1937. . 63,563 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 12,2 23* 2 40
Reserves capitalised, £8164 .. .. 15,076
1938.. 65,597 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 16,276 44^063
Energetic management has produced
striking figures since the reconstruction
in 1931. Over the five years to the
close of accounts in 1936 the favorable
movement in net results was £72,860.
For the two years since sales have con-
tinued to swell, but costs and new
store establishment charges have checked
much growth in profits. Expansion, by
absorption and otherwise (some 25
stores have been opened since 1931),
strict control of outgoings, reorganisa-
tion of buying facilities locally and in
London, and standardisation helped the
co. during recovery from slump.
With extension of operations to N. S.
Wales late in the last term, the co. now
trades in drapery, clothing and furniture
in all States except Queensland, most of
the business being done in Vic. and
W.A. Major branches in the four
southern capitals and at Launceston and
Newcastle service smaller stores in
country centres. At head office, Bourke-
street, Melbourne, much-needed exten-
sions were made last term, and since the
close of accounts new premises have been
occupied in Rundle-street, Adelaide, and
in Hobart. All told, there are now some
42 links in the chain, as against 39 when
the books were ruled off.
Business is largely on credit, though
turnover for cash is said to be improving,
mail-order business being extensively cul-
tivated. Slump found the co. with 70 p.c.
of its assets represented by customers’
accounts. Notwithstanding this, only in
1931 was an unfavorable trading result
shown, though until 1936 there was no-
thing in it for the ords. after meeting
pref. charges. Since ’36 ord.-holders have
had a run of 15 p.c. divs., sweetened with
£8163 of gift scrip (one for ten) in the
last term, while one-for-two par issues
of £44,900 in 1938 and £67,350 since the
close of accounts have conferred further
benefits. In 1931 the old £1 ords. could
have been picked up for Is. 6d. Before
subdivision into ss. counters in 1937 they
went as high as 81s.
For the last term a further “good in-
crease” in sales is reported, gross earn-
ings responding with a lift of £5949 to
£96,136. Sundry outgoings (£30,539) took
all but £2034 of the increase, leaving the
net result that much better at 41.8 p.c.
on average ord. capital, allowing for the
prefs.’ whack, as against 53, 49.6 and
11.3 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
The unchanged 15 p.c. ord. handout left
£28,987 in the business, making the
amount so retained over the last three
years £88,227, or nearly half disclosed net
earnings.
Between 1934-38 £139,027 was added
to premises, etc., and £13,694 to plant,
while stocks rose £51,622 and debtors
£119,909. In the process £53,063 was
added to capital and £165,563 to the debt,
chiefly by way of overdraft and mort-
gage :
1930. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £208,500' £372,126 £372,126 £425,189
Overdraft . . 34,657 28,827 36,023 93,592
Mortgages, etc. 26,423 8,101 94,027 93,524
Deposits .. 163,956
Creditors . . 50,756 6,705 11,482 22,080
Premises, etc. 59,387 32,847 123,161 171,874
Plant, etc. . . 23,805 26,515 32.016 40,209
Stocks . . 70,761 44,643 71,916 96,265
Debtors .. . 331,875 285,663 345,995 405,572
Cash, etc. . . 255 10,212 2,641 1,738
Principal movements last term were the
lift of £48,713 in the property item
(mainly in connection with Adelaide and
Hobart building), £24,349 in stocks (still
a very moderate item) and £59,577 in
debtors. Finance was provided out of
surplus earnings, by going to the bank
for an additional £57,569, tacking
£10,598 on to the amount coming to
trade creditors and getting £44,900 from
shareholders. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£294,379)
was £15,359.
Debtors’ balances, the board reports,
have “never been healthier.” Obviously
the security ®f capital depends upon this.
What may look like profit often turns out
otherwise if book debts prove uncol-
lectable.
The existing £492,539 of share capital
is in 167,475 £1 A and 123,015 B 7 p.c.
cum. prefs., ranking in the order stated
for capital and divs., and 808,195 ss.
ords. At 275. the As return 5.2 p.c.; the
Bs, 5.8 p.c. at 245. ; the ords., 6.5 p.c. at
11s. 6d. Net tangible backing is respec-
tively £3 4s. Id. As, £3 Bs and 6s. Id.
ords. Maintenance of 15 p.c. to the ords.
for the current term will call for £14,956
less than netted in 1938. Seasonal condi-
tions haven’t been as good as they might
have been, but the business has expanded.
Interim announcement of 7\ p.c. to the
ords. suggests that the management is
satisfied with the outlook.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
t Dividends
~ T.. «4. Pref - To Re- Re-
c., lioflt. 8 p.c. Old. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
24 > 000 Nil 106,880 37,919
i oqa ' * 2 f9, 367 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
83.595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334.937
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
1937.. 157,543 24,000120,000 13,543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Whether trading was really any better
during the year it is hard to say ; the
lift of £85,708 in net earnings, bringing
them close to the record of 1929, was
influenced by the fact that rubber stocks,
which in volume appeared to have been
the highest ever, were written down to
market value (about 7d. a pound Lon-
don) at the end of 1937. At the close
of last term the price was nearly B|d.,
and manufacturing benefited by the previ-
ous heavy buying and writing-down.
During the last six months of 1938 the
plantation product was comparatively
firm, and the year’s profit hadn’t to bear
any further depreciation in market values.
At Dec. 31 last there were 882,699
registered vehicles on the roads in the
Commonwealth, up 52,321 during the
year. Goodyear reports satisfactory turn-
over in all departments, but a bad season
and low wheat prices affected the sale
of tractor tyres. There used to be two
Goodyear cos. in Australia. The manu-
facturing co., in which the public holds
300,000 prefs., controlled a Victorian-
registered marketing subsidiary, which
was wound up last year, the parent co.
now trading all over Australia. The
trading figures used to be amalgamated
in the published accounts, so comparisons
of figures have not been disturbed.
Last year’s net showing of £243,251
represented 29.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for pref. requirements, com-
pared with 17.8 and 20.2 p.c. in the two
preceding terms. A 26 p.c. div. was
handed on to the American Goodyear
Co., which owns all the ords., and there
was still something left for reserves,
which now visibly stand at £411,742.
Finances of the Australian co. are here
compared with other years:
19 3 0. 193 7. 1938.
Pref. capital .. .. £300,000 £300.000 £300,000
Ord. capital .. .. 500,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear. U.S.A. . . 5 4 9,42 0 1 54,850 54,800
Other liabilities .. 111,9 4 2 1 68,2 45 146,583
Freeholds, plant, etc... 811,43 7 414,451 407,063
Stocks 443.464 769,565 683,857
Book debts .. .. 226,756 295,793 298,008
Cash, etc ; . . . . 3 1 4,57 5 8 3,208 80,501
Java subsidiary . . 197,300 197,300
There is a rubber subsidiary in Java,
valued at £197,300, which started pro-
duction in 1935. In value the Aus-
tralian co.’s raw rubber and manufac-
tured stocks on Dec. 31 were £85,708
lower at £683,857. Since the close of
accounts the raw material has firmed
slightly.
During the last term £100,050 was paid
off amounts owing to the American
parent and £21,662 off other debts. Free-
holds and plant dropped £7388 net (depre-
ciation allowance continues to be ade-
quate), debtors rose £2215, while cash,
etc., was down only £2707. The higher
profit coinciding with a reduction in stock
values made the financial position more
liquid, and the surplus (£860,983) of float-
ing assets over liabilities improved
£35,512.
The 300,000 8 p.c. prefs. are a very
steady market stock, having fluctuated
very little during the past 12 months from
the present price of 325. The yield to
current buyers is 5 p.c., and the div.
isn’t subject to the N. S. Wales Interest


9a
1888—1938
THIS COMPANY
OFFERS
FIFTY YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
PLUS
SPECIALISED
ORGANISATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Rt. Hon. R. G. Menzies, P.C., K.C.
M.P.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
F. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY. Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited
BALANCE SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised.. £12,000,000
Capital issued .. 12,000,000
Less : Reserve lia-
bility thereon . . 8,000,000
Paid up . . £4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 3,200,000 0 0
Currency reserve 1,600,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 292,596 19 0
£9,142,596 19 0
Circulation .. £7,559 0 0
Deposits .. 36,986,969 7 2
Bills payable and
other lia-
bilities . . 1,521,062 12 4
£38,515,590 19 6
NOTE: The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of
exchange and the net difference
which would have arisen had
they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£47,658,187 18 6
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances £4,980,691 14 7
Bullion and advances on bullion .. 114,452 17 8
Money at call and short notice
in London . . . . . ■ 340,000 0 0
Commonwealth and New Zealand
Government Treasury Bills .. 1,780,000 0 0
Investments: —
British, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand
Government Securities, .. 3,534,297 0 1
Balance of Remittances and Drafts
in transit, and Bills Receivable
at London Office .. •• •• 2,175,861 15 3
£12,925,303 7 7
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and in
London (after making- provision
for bad and doubtful debts and
contingencies) .. .. .. 34,275,684 6 3
Bank Premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. .. 381,400 0 0
London leasehold
premises at cost £142,304 19 4
Less : Reserves
against same
a n d accrued
interest .. 66,504 14 8
75,800 4 8
£47,658,187 18 6
Aug. 31,
1937.
£525,328
132,327
9,000
3,000
47,698
199,201
£916,554
Balance of
F. H.
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on August 31, 1937 .. .. .. .. •• £281.247 7 7
Less: Dividend, January, 1938 .. .. .. .. .. •• .■ 135,333 6 8
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. •• ..£145,914 0 11
Profits of the past year, after appropriations to the credit
of Contingency Accounts, out of which accounts provision
has been made for Bad and Doubtful Debts and other
Contingencies .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£1,232,242 18 2
Less :
Salaries and allowances to the Australian
and New Zealand staff .. .. ..£553,787 5 4
General expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including rent, rates, stationery,
etc 147,404 18 6
Directors’ fees . . .. .. £9750 0 0
Income tax paid thereon .. 3216 8 3
_ 12,966 8 3
Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general
expenses .. .. .. .. .. 48,333 7 11
United Kingdom, Australian and New
Zealand taxes .. .. .. .. 225,068 0 1
987,560 0 1
244,682 18 1
£390,596 19 0
Less: Interim Dividend, July, 1938 .. .. .. • • • ■ • • 98,000 0 0
Undivided Profits at this date .. .. .. . . .. •. .. . - £292,596 19 0
JOHN 11. DAVIDSON, M. N. HOGG, ItOBT. C. NESBITT, Directors.
McINTYRE, Manager. S. F. GARDINER, Accountant.
London, January 10, 1939.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 1929, we report to the Members
as follows:
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and have had access to
the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified
the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and Short Notice, Investmenta, and the Bills of Exchange
held in London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of
opinion that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us
and as shown by the books of the Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, January 10, 1939. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia A. W. McNICOL
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
Manager at Melbourne T. F. McMULLEN
Reduction Act. Net tangibles amount to
£4 17s. sd. per pref. share on written-
down book values.
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929'.. 278,182 8 p.c. = 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 8 „ „ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6J„ „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284.448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6 „ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 258.371 7,454 45,373
1938.. 281,553 6 ~ ~ 269,846 11,707 57,080
* Balance date changed; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
The price of gas shares is closely
allied with the general level of interest
rates, returns being of the “safe” kind,
but with prospects built out by a wall
of div.-restrictive legislation. This big
Sydney gas co. has been spreading its
wings to the increasing demand for gas
of late years, and periodically it has
come on the market for parcels of new
capital, the scrip being auctioned in
terms of the N.S.W. Gas Act. What-
ever premium is secured on the new
scrip at auction is all to the benefit of
the co.’s financial position and makes
profit-earning on the share-capital easier,
thus assisting the consumer of gas, since,
if the 6 p.c. div. is ever in danger, the
co. can turn to the particular “com-
mission” encumbering its destiny and
ask for permission to increase the price
of gas.
The last parcel of Gas A shares
(35,000) was put under the hammer on
Sept. 19, 1938 ; unfortunately, the date
coincided with the jitters that preceded
the Munich Pact, and, instead of the
£7 6s. that the shares had been bringing
on Sept. 16, the average realised at
auction was £6 15s. lOd. Just recently
the scrip was up to £7 6s. 6d., with a
“high” of £7 12s. 6d. so far for 1939 ;
on announcement of a new issue of
20,000 A shares, to be offered on March
27 (the directors this time reserve the
right to discontinue the sale without
offering the full number), there was
a drop in the price to £7. Later
there was recovery to £7 25., which
shows a return of just under 5.1 p.c.,
which compares with 4.7 p.c. from
Metropolitan Gas in Melbourne, about
3.9 p.c. from Government loans, 4.1 p.c.
from British Tobacco ords. and a shade
under 4.8 p.c. from A.P.M. prefs.
Australian Gas is allowed to charge a
price for its products that will allow divs.
of 6 p.c., after meeting all exes., includ-
ing interest on borrowed money, and
after setting aside not more than 3 p.c.
of the net book value of buildings and
plant for depreciation and not more than
one-half of 1 p.c. of the share and loan
capital combined for special purposes.
Last year higher costs of manufacture
prompted the co. to seek protection for
its profits by charging a higher price for
gas. How this rise, averaging approxi-
mately per 1000 c.f. over sales of
the full term, assisted in offsetting outgo
in total and per thousand sold is seen
in this analysis:
t— 1937 v — 1 1938 1
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales: — s. d. s. d.
Gas.. ..£1,905,883 5 4+£2.070,550 5 9
Residuals .. 224,779 74 191,123 64
Meter rents, etc. 34,436 1 j 33,965 14
Total ..£2,165,098 6 14 £2,295,638 6 4J
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. £1,284,707 3 7f 1,343,468 3 B*}
Other charges 258,828 8| 300,625 9|
Interest . . 113,455 3J 115,754 4
Depreciation, etc. 247,283 84 254,239 84
Total outgo. £1,899,273 5 44 £2,014,086 5 7
Gas sales totalled 7,195,712 thousand
cubic feet, and that was 123,841 thousand
higher than in the preceding term. There
was a drop in the sale of residual pro-
ducts —tar, coke, etc. —due to the coal
strike at Newcastle compelling the co. to
use up more of its by-products. Revenue
from by-products dropped the equivalent
of ljd. per 1000 c.f. of gas sold. Wages
continued to rise with the cost of living,
and another Id. per thousand attached
itself to the cost of making gas and piping
it to householders and factories. Man-
agement exes, rose by l£d. a thousand,
and depreciation allowance by id. —a lift
of 2fd. altogether. Income lifted 3£d.,
and the id. per thousand extra margin,
together with the increase in sales, was
responsible for the rise of £15,728 in the
total net profit (£281,553), and there was
a margin of £11,707 over the 6 p.c. div.
requirements.
Outlay of an extra £185,632 (net)
brought the book value of the co.’s under-
taking up to £7,365,291 at Dec. 31. Float-
ing assets, including stocks, rose £152,944,
to £924,161. Capital account increased
£210,000, bringing in £24,208 of share
premiums, an extra £45,871 of temporary
loans was raised and other liabilities ex-
panded £32,776. Loan capital was again
unchanged at £2,250,000.
Cash Orders and General Finance, Ltd.
The 50,000 ord.-share offer now before
the public is being made by Churchills,
a Sydney share-selling concern, which
has acquired the rights thereto. The offer
is at 30s. a share. To which the 10s.
premium will belong—broking or cash-
order co. —is not stated ; on the face of
things one would presume that the bulk
if not the whole of it belongs to the
former, no brokerage being mentioned
in the prospectus (which is “for
private circulation”). Subscribers to
the offer acquire the right to take up a
further ord. at par within six months for
each share now taken, which would
bring the average price of their purchase
down to 255. a share. Previously, old
holders (pref. and ord.) in the finance co.
were offered direct one new ord. for
every three of their holding at 225., the
premium to go to reserve.
Formed on Feb. 14, 1936, Cash Orders
and General Finance is in the business
its name implies. Of the original public
offer of £100,444, £66,023 had been taken
up at June 30, and of that £15,571 was
unrepresented by assets of a tangible
nature in the books, taking final divs. and
the subsidiaries’ accounts into the reckon-
ing. Until recently there were two pups,
Mutual Cash Order Co. Pty. and Man-
chester Cash Order and Finance Pty.,
both trading in Melbourne and now
amalgamated. With the formation of
Mutual Cash Orders and Finance Co.,
operations have been extended to the
Bridge City since the close of accounts.
Expanding turnover is reported ; hence
the introduction of fresh funds.
The co. has been trading almost
entirely on its own funds —an unusual
position. For the year to June 30 a com-
bined profit of £5121 is shown, as against
£1879 for the period to that date in ’37.
The prefs. have had p.c. p.a. from the
beginning and the ords. 10 p.c. from
l/7/’36, though visibly there has been
little to spare. Book debts are con-
sidered good. They were overhauled
at the last balance, those regarded as bad
being written off against reserves.
The capital structure takes the eye.
At June 30 the £67,030 of issued capital
was in 15,500 p.c. cum. par. prefs.,
50,523 ords. and 1007 deferreds. Prefs.
are entitled to an extra i p.c. (until
8 p.c. is reached) for every 1 p.c. increase
in the ord. rate above 10 p.c. After
paying an all-round 6j p.c., any balance
of profit, allowing for the prefs.’ par-
ticipating rights, is divisible two-thirds
among the ords. and one-third among
the deferreds. As yet deferred-holders
have taken nothing from the busi-
ness. Had they exercised their rights last
year, no more than 9\ p.c. to the ords.
would have been possible.
If 10 p.c. continues to go out, sub-
scribers to the present ord. offer will re-
ceive 6.6 p.c. on their investment; if
they exercise their share option rights,
the yield will go up to 8 p.c. In the
sharemarket a well-covered return of 11.5
p.c. is obtainable on the scrip of one
of the most strongly-entrenched cos. in
this class of business, which can also
show net tangibles of 245. in the £ of
ord.-holders’ capital.
Conditions at the moment aren’t quite
as good as they were, which may be re-
flected in a less favorable bad-debts
experience, while intense competition
may eventually lead to some reduction
in the high rate of interest charged for
this type of credit and to loss of some
of the toothsome pickings gathered from
traders in the way of discounts. Possible
legislative control in N. S. Wales, scope
not yet indicated, has also to be con-
sidered.
One of Queensland’s chief gold
producers since 1932, Mt. Coolon ceased
milling on Feb. 28. It was a good mine
while it lasted, but a disappointment to
early optimists. All told, shareholders
will have received £375,000 on a paid
capital of £300,000 when a shilling a share
goes out on April 5. Further explora-
tion is favored in some quarters, but
extensive exploration and diamond
drilling below 450 ft. have so far failed to
locate any downward continuation of
the ore formation. At Dec. 31 the sur-
plus of more or less liquids over liabili-
ties was around 2s. Id. a share, taking
the holding in Morning Star (Vic.) in
at market value.
* * * *
Privateer Gold Mines, which operates
in the Zeballos district, British Columbia,
claims a record. It has declared an
initial div. of five cents, a share within
two years of its formation, and four
months after crushing began. Privateer
is reckoned to be one of the richest per
ton in Canada. Average recovery from
7234 tons treated has been nearly 45
dollars per ton.
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


lfcgfasjjsariPß"
MONEY TRANSFERS 1
4 BEAM WIRELESS
TELEGRAPH or AIR MAIL
X 1
When you require funds transmitted to any
part of Australia or to any country in the
world, the Bank of New South Wales will
arrange the transfer promptly and at lowest
current rates. Experienced officers of the
Bank will advise you about the quickest and
most suitable methods of remitting money,
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Over 900 branches and agencies at you,
service throughout Australia, New Zealand
and the Pacific Islands.
433 A. 1939
SHELL
Sitting in your car, you call a dozen times a day for the UTTERMOST
POWER your engine can give. Make sure of getting J ust that •• •
UTTEF.MOST power ... by driving on SUPER
TWE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Incorporated in Great Britain)
539/11F
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building. 14 Martin Place, Sydney— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIO is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs tanks,
Sc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l. .
’Phone; M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address;
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
GoldsbrougH, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
Hill 50 (W.A.) has hopes of paying
a 6d. dividend not later than August
and distributing Is. 6d. annually there-
after. Profit in February was about
£2OOO, and for some months previously
the average surplus was roughly £l5OO.
Developmental and exploratory costs,
plus expenditure on plant, and the in-
vestment of about £4OOO in reserve
stores and requisites got away with
earnings, but from now on net profits,
it is claimed, should go mostly into
shareholders’ pockets. An early increase
in milling capacity from 2000 tons to
3000 tons a month is talked of.
A Kalgoorlie report, relayed from
London, that Kalgoorlie Enterprise, Ltd.,
was buying the interest of North Kal-
gurli in the Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.
has been denied by all parties concerned.
Kalgurli Ore Treatment has 1000 £1
shares, of which Boulder Perseverance
holds 640 and North Kalgurli 360.
* * * *
Perth Stock Exchange has taken the
unusual step of sending a letter of
criticism and censure to a listed co.
Yellowdine Areas —regarding its policy,
financial and otherwise. The Exchange
made bold to say (1) that the anticipated
capital expenditure of the co. as indi-
cated by its secretary was excessive, and
(2) that considering the reputed richness
of the ore at grass the returns from it
should be sufficient to pay the cost of
future development and remove the
necessity for making further calls.
An addendum to the letter men-
tioned that a recent official pessimistic
report on the appearance of the ore-body
at the 130 ft. (deepest) level conflicted
with information (“hitherto very re-
liable”) which the Exchange had received
from “another source.”
Replying straight from the shoulder,
the board, after disputing the Exchange’s
right to demand information respecting
the co.’s policy, and giving it a dig for
getting information from “another
source,” stated:
(1) That the liquid balance in hand,
£17,296, was insufficient to complete
development to such a stage as would
warrant the exercising of the option and
the installation of a treatment plant.
(2) That as approximately £3 a ton would
be lost to shareholders if crushings were
sent by road to the nearest mill (42 miles
away) the best interests of shareholders
would be served by erecting a mill on the
mine. Such installation, however, would
have to be deferred until an adequate supply
of water was assured.
(3) That if the mine stood up to develop-
ment there should be no difficulty in col-
lecting calls if and when required.
The board added that it was unable to
confirm the Exchange’s estimate of
£BO,OOO worth of gold above the 100 ft.
level apparently obtained from the
“hitherto very reliable source,” and said
that £50,000 to £60,000 would be nearer
the mark.
Last quarterly report of Gold Fields
Australian Development, which operates
the Moonlight group at Wiluna (W.A.),
reads well. Working profit on the treat-
ment of 26,700 tons was £16,000. In
addition, gold worth £26,500 was re-
covered from accumulated concentrates
and residues treated during the period.
No account is taken of any profit
from the treatment of this material,
as the major portion of expenditure
was incurred prior to the commence-
ment of the quarter. Main feature
of development done was in the
drive north-west of the No. 2 winze at
the 1000 ft. level, the last 30ft. of which
disclosed ore averaging Bdwt. a ton over
approximately ln Horseshoe Wiluna
leases adjoining, a diamond-drill boring
in the direction of the Wiluna Gold
Mines boundary cut a lode averaging
s.6dwt. per ton over a true width of
6ift. The Kintore mine at Kunanalling,
on the Coolgardie field, is also operated.
Working profit from ore treatment there
for the quarter was £7370. Co. has sold
its ninth interest in the Comet, at Marble
Bar, but still retains a 20 p.c. interest in
Yellowdine.
* * * *
Big Bell Mines has added King
Solomon’s Mines, at Gullewa, on the
Yalgoo field, to its expanding list of
Westralian goldmining options. The
show has been opened up to a depth
of 300 ft. and has produced a little gold.
¥ * * *
After an inspection of the at-present-
fashionable Norseman goldfield, a
Westralian inspector of mines (J. H.
Verran) reports that the Norseman mine
is good and well supervised, and that it
has large quantities of ore reserves.
Central Norseman is also stated to be
well handled and to be doing the right
thing in sinking a new shaft to 2500 ft.
to intersect the Norseman lode and pos-
sibly any other gold-carriers. Verran
adds that several small Adelaide cos. and
parties of prospectors are at work on the
field, which he says is booming.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department has sold
to Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., the
abandoned leases and plants of Celebra-
tion and Golden Hope cos., Hampton
Plains, which it recently repossessed as
mortgagee and for which no bids were
received at auction. Consolidated has a
mine at Hampton Plains (the White
Hope) which has put it to a lot of
expense and caused it much worry, to
date. It also has the Blue Spec at
Nullagine, which is said to have pros-
pects.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
m
Hilt
■
m
ill
*lllll ?S a
111
m
■1
(111 *
II
111
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available.- Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Wedding anniversaries usually bring back
memories of the past to most women.”
— Women’s paper.
Others just think of the present.
4* 4* 4* 4*
- "Betting on horseracing adds the leaven to
the lives of men.” — Sporting paper.
Yes, but it takes all the dough out as
well.
❖ 4* 4*
“What will the new season’s evening gowns
reveal?” — Fashion note.
Plenty.
4* 4 s
“I don't think solicitors have a
right to go to sleep on a case.”
— Mr. Justice Owen.
Not even a pillow-case?
4 1 4* 4* 4'
“Four people were playing bridge
in a Mortlake home when a runaway
truck crashed into the front room."
—“Daily Telegraph.”
A grand slam.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There’s a new etiquette of the
dental surgery.”— Women’s paper.
When the dentist puts his
foot on your neck it’s con-
sidered etiquette for you to hold
his ankle steady.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Which of the 54 musical comedies
seen in Sydney in the last 20 years
remains the most popular?”
— Women’s paper.
The one we saw on a free pass.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How Film News Is Faked.”
— “World’s News.”
And how!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Duke of Kent wants to meet workers at
work.” — “D.T.”
Then he will not be staying at Can-
berra.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A recent invention is a tin can with a
glass window that permits purchasers to see the
contents before buying.”— “World’s News.”
That’s not new. Second-hand cars have
always had windows.
•J*
“More accidents occur in the kitchen than
in any other room of a home.”
— “World’s News.
But by the time they reach the dining-
room they’re mere trifles.
4< 4* 4* 4*
“It is hard to imagine a woman as a dic-
tator.” — Women’s paper.
Not so hard to imagine her as a con-
tradictator.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“East London (S. Africa) Museum has put
together the remains of a fossil animal esti-
mated to be 175,000,000 years old.”
It’s things like this that nark some of
our “oldest families.”
A woman won’t play long upon a
man’s affections unless he gives out a
few notes.
“Pass, cobbe r!”
“Meet trouble with a smile.” — Women’s mag.
But will the wife enjoy the joke?
4* 4* 4® 4*
“Play the saxophone for profit.”— Advt.
Most of them seem to play merely for
revenge.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What mysterious power enables us to glide
along at high speed in luxurious motor-cars.”
—Motoring journal.
Time-payment.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is not wise to indulge in alcohol before
an aeroplane flight.” —Aviation magazine.
No flying blind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It’s a mellow feeling that makes us
wondrous kind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Children at times ask parents awkward
questions.”— Lecturer.
Invention is the necessity of mother.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Ore-ful Truth.
“Somehow he seemed to give her a metallic
impression.” —Story in women’s magazine.
He was one of those iron-willed men
with steel-grey eyes. In spite of his silver
hairs, she declared that her love was like
a furnace, that she would zinc without
him, and that all she wanted was to
mould herself to his wishes.
Others averred that she was only a
gold-digger, as bold as brass, and at-
tracted by his tin.
Anyhow, they got welded, and he soon
found that she had a mercurial disposi-
tion. She le(a)d him an awful spin, and
one day he happened to copper with
someone else. He has sworn never again
to trust a platinum blonde.
T. W. N.
“To-day a man cannot leave his money to
anybody he likes.” —“Sun ”
That’s tough luck for his wife if he
happens to like her.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“A watch in the form of a shirt stud has
been- made by an English artisan.” — “D.T.”
The trouble is, you have to wind it
up while under the wardrobe.
4* v *l* *l*
“Nudist colony refuses film company’s offer.”
—Film mag.
Won’t appear in shorts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
If silence is golden, most radio
announcers are headed for bankruptcy.
Waterloo.
There was a time when 1 was proud
Of my debating:
My arguments were long and loud
And devastating.
I thought the game 1 understood,
While foes I harried.
Ah, yes! I thought that I was good—
Until I married !
T. W. NATHAN.
They Haven’t Changed.
“It is not generally known that a form of
shorthand was used by the Ancients of Rome.”
—Sydney paper.
In his office adjoining the Forum Mr.
Brutus McCassius, jovial manager of
Amphitheatres, Inc., had summoned Miss
Calphurnia Circo for a little dictation.
“Ah, good morning, Cally, my”
“Miss Calphurnia Circo is the name.”
“Oh—ah —yes. Sorry. Take this.
Manager, Africanus Lion Supplies. Sir,
—We are filing claim for full rebate on
last consignment of spavined, cross-eyed,
toothless and near-dead lions received
per s.s. Julius, and —would it be correct
to describe your eyes as cornflower-blue,
Miss Cal?”
“You were saying something about
lions, Mr. McCassius.”
“Er, yes. Just add that the Christians
grabbed those boneshaker lions by their
tails and, swinging them in the air, socked
the Emperor Justinian and some of the
audience in the eye with them, and —that
Greek girdle certainly shows your figure
off to per”
“We left off where the Emperor and
audience were socked in the eye.”
“Now listen, sister, don’t be so diffi-
cult. How about me ringing up for a
chariot? We’ll go for a spin along the
Appian Way, drop in at the Cafe Bacchus
—wonderful swing band there—then we’ll
do the gladiatorial fights and”
“Whoopee!” howled Calphurnia, hurl-
ing her notebook at a passing slave and
rushing for her make-up.
D. McM.
Disgrace.
“Tarzan film seized by Customs officials.”
—News item.
He flies through the air with the greatest
of ease
And silently woos his fair mate in the
trees.
But fans there will not be to rave of his
beauty
Until they decide to cough up with his
duty.
MELTON.
The Art of Politics.
V.
Election meetings nowadays are about
as wildly exciting as walking up Collins-
street on a Sunday morning. But it was
not always so.
An overripe goog has, beyond the
precincts of his breakfast table, no
greater significance for a politician of
the modern school than has the binomial
theorem or the bill he is to vote on next
day. Yet in the not-so-long-ago any
candidate who miraculously got into
Parliament without having received a
liberal baptism of rotten eggs or who had
not been knocked conscious by a well-
flung bag of flour was considered to have
got in almost by false pretences.
Considering this, it becomes immedi-
ately apparent why the old-time politi-
cians either were baldheaded or ran to
bay windows, or both.
The candidate with a thick thatch
would have been at a disadvantage. Im-
agine the coagulated mess when, after
having been flour-bestrewn, a salvo of
mature eggs had landed on his bean!
It would have been a hopeless task try-
ing to claw bits of yolk and shell out of
a mat of hair and answer questions at
the same time. All he could do to save
himself from asphyxiation would be to
clamp his hat on, a mark of disrespect
which women voters present would not
have forgotten.
The baldheaded fellow, on the other
hand, stood a fair chance of having
the eggs ricochet off. Even if one did
land flush on his dome it was an easy
matter —provided it didn’t lob low down
on his forehead and run down into his
eye—to wipe the embryo chicken off
with a circular sweep of his hand with
the same nonchalance as he would brush
off a fly. Certainly he wouldn’t get it
all off, but it was an easy matter for
his pals to sandpaper off the dried por-
tion as they were going to the next
meeting.
The old-time candidate’s embonpoint,
while offering a larger target than if he’d
been herring-gutted, nevertheless by its
very conformation caused most eggs to
fly off at a tangent to shatter harmlessly
on the frontispiece of one of his sup-
porters behind him on the platform. Even
a bull’s-eye in the region of his navel
caused little inconvenience. In the words
of the song, “They were tough, mighty
tough, in the vest.”
It eventually became evident to the
shrewd politician of that day that his
popularity with electors was in direct
ratio to the quantity of henfruit and flour
he absorbed. The roar of laughter which
greeted the bursting of a 141 b. bag of
flour on his chest could be assessed in
terms of votes, and the uncontrollable
shrieks as he tried to wipe eggs out of
both eyes while groping his way around
the platform was indeed music to his
ears. It might cost him a bit for dry-
cleaning exes., but he knew that it would
automatically put him at the top of the
poll.
He knew from his scouts that after a
particularly hectic night, and as his
hearers staggered off holding their sides,
sentiments were commonly expressed
such as “Old Bonedome may be a meat-
pie speaker, but he’s not such a bad old
beggar. A man may as well vote for the
old goat as anyone else. Did you see
the look on his dial when that egg landed
on his conk?” One of the most pathetic
sights was that of a candidate who fin-
ished up a meeting with only one egg
dribbling down his collar, miserably
aware of his unpopularity.
In hundreds of homes the plea, “Hey,
Mum, save us yer crook eggs an’ toma-
toes, will y’? Old Robbo’s maggin’ down
at the corner to-night,” indicated the in-
tense interest taken in politics by
juveniles in those days. The passing of
what may be termed the egg-and-flour
era of Australian politics has led to an
unfortunate decline in this interest. It
is partially to blame for the justifiable
charge laid against present-day boys that
their virility is deteriorating. After all,
can it be denied when, from the healthy
outdoor sport of pelting politicians, they
have descended futilely to sucking ice-
blocks while listening to Bing
Crosby yawp?
It might be assumed that it
would be a simple matter for a
man to stand on a platform and
stop everything that was tossed
at him. But poor marksmanship
was a problem he had to over-
come. To ensure that he didn’t
get missed too often and thus
antagonise his audience, the can-
didate had to spend hours at
home with his wife practising on
him. It was, of course, useless
for him to stand still he’d
never get hit that way. Like an in-
telligent fieldsman at cricket, he would
anticipate thp shot and move towards it,
so that when he got on the hustings he
would be in such good form that, when
his eye caught the flash of a flying
egg, a smart sidestep and he could catch
it where it would cause the greatest roar.
It was pretty hard on the heavily-
bearded politician, who sometimes had
to sit up till the early hours soaking his
ziff. in boiling water to get all the stuff
out of it. But it was not the henfruit
and vegetables that he minded. It was
the chewing-gum fired into his face-mat
by boys with blowpipes sitting in the
front row that eventually killed beards
and led to the evolution of politicians
with nude dials.
S. W. K.


mm
m
W::
■
m
I
m
m
J, m£&n&
PAY TO THE ACCOUNT OF
It may be to some person or corporation in England,
America, Egypt almost any country, and, within
a strictly limited time. Because of its world-wide
organization and facilities, its reliability and experience
in these matters, the National Bank is in a position to
render real and definite assistance to anyone wishing
to expedite the transfer of money by cable or mail.
In addition, the Bank will arrange for drafts—payable
in sterling or in foreign currencies, payable at any
town of commercial importance in the world. A
cordial invitation to discuss these matters with the
Bank’s Officers is extended to everyone.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria)
63-16-39
SP
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance ami the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train —Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 393
miles. In six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
A gents throughout Australia.
THE
II MITCn INSURANCE
(Jill I EU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected a*
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution-
x P DAWSON T. O* REYNOLDS,
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Behind It All
The taking of the rest of Czecho-
slovakia under the German eagle’s wing
(or is there a German eagle left to the
Nazis?) caused no panic on Australian
Stock Exchanges last week. Industrial
shares on the whole were no firmer, but
Thursday’s quotations all round were on
a par with the preceding Saturday’s, and
were higher than the average for
February. On Friday tone was a trifle
less buoyant. By the week-end develop-
ments had taken a more serious turn,
and Chamberlain’s speech and the
U.S.A.’s “penalty” tariff against Ger-
many gave greater weight in investors’
minds to the possible consequences of
Hitler’s third coup in just over 12
months. On Monday there was a sharp
drop in leading stock prices on ’Change ;
compared with a week earlier B.H.P. £1
shares dropped 3s. 6d., British Tobacco
Is. 9d., Tooth Is. 3d. and A.C.I. 2s. But
there was more philosophy in the general
view than in September last.
Perhaps it is that to be philosophical
is becoming the fashion again. We
have had nearly two years of erratic
markets for all raw materials and most
investments; and though present
optimism gives due weight to the
troubles and changes that have occurred
since the bursting of the rearmaments
boom in April, 1937, the trend of feel-
ing now has more backbone to it —
courage born of desperation, perhaps,
but nevertheless of a more determined
nature. Quite possibly investors and
others who have seen share and other
values slump and then recover have
come to the conclusion that they have
only been wearing out their nervous
systems by chopping and changing in
the past, and that it is difficult to find
any investment more likely to meet vary-
ing economic conditions with better
equipment than equity shares in indus-
trial companies. After all, in industry
are centred many of our foremost em-
ployment-givers and organisers, and some
of the most capable brains in the land.
Though there is a continual fight be-
tween industrial enterprise and Govern-
ment hindrance, it is private industry,
in which much of the capital is provided
by small investors, that is the most fruit-
ful source of employment; it therefore
has to be given serious, if reluctant,
consideration by Govern-
ments. Taking lean years
with the good, share-
holders in Australian busi-
nesses in the past have
done well enough, and,
though scope in some
cases is restricted by
reason of the tardy growth
in population, other
enterprises are developing
of necessity owing to the
irregular nature of our
export income and, as its
natural corollary, our in-
ability sometimes to buy
what we want overseas.
The self-preservation in-
stinct of private industry
is a forceful instinct. It
is not like something
purely in the hands of a
Government swayed by
political expediency.
Though public opinion
will generally take care of
any excesses practised by
manufacturers or others,
obvious injustices suffered
by industries as a class will
meet with a solidified form of resistance
in which employee and employer are
likely to unite. More subtle forms of
Government interference in the eco-
nomic sphere, such as direct or indirect
inflation, are general in their incidence,
and are more difficult for the investor —
who represents the person with an Indus-
trial life-policy or a savings-bank deposit
as well as the person with 1000 shares in
the Bank of N. S. Wales —to contend
with. Inflation would attack bonds and
money itself more directly than it would
affect ord. shares. The most dangerous
weapon bureaucracy can wield against
private enterprise is taxation, and there
are limits to that. Make investment un-
attractive to people with savings and you
have stagnant industries and falling em-
ployment, as well as dubious values for all
mortgage and bond types of investment.
The foregoing argument is largely
theory, as all attempts to judge the
future must be. But theory is likely to
be closer to fact than emotional fancies
or superstitious beliefs, and in the cir-
cumstances is the best that can be offered.
Likewise, the opinion that industries m'!iit
be safeguarded as an economic necessity
“ Don't ’ee bother 'bout shaft 'n' winzes , doctor. Trouble's deown 'ere
in the slopes."
under most circumstances isn’t to say
that such protection should be carried
out at the expense of the people as a
whole. That public and industrial wel-
fare go hand-in-hand is the fundamental
id.ea, and excessive profits (when there
are such things, giving due consideration
to capital at work) aren’t likely to do
industry or investors much good in the
long run. They usually result in undue
competition on the one hand and over-
high share prices (for a time) on the
other.
Australian Consolidated Industries,
still called Australian Glass by some, had
its bonus issue of eleven for four ap-
proved by shareholders at the meeting
held last week in Melbourne. The bonus
issue, according to the co.’s advisers,
should not be subject to Federal income
tax, and in most States should escape
ordinary State tax, but it will apparently
be subject to unemployment-relief tax.
“Sectionalising” the undertaking and
selling it to subsidiaries (detailed in B.
8 / 3 / ’39) at more than the old book value
have resulted in profits from the sale of
assets “not bought with a view to resale
at a profit”—hence the belief that the
bonus issue made out of such profits
will be free of most ordinary income
taxes. By increasing the proportion of
A.C.l.’s “property income”—revenue will
now mainly be divs. from subsidiaries —
the co.’s own profits will now be subject
to heavier taxation, but the board thinks
the result of “sectionalisation” will be
worth it.
Ex rights to the bonus issue, A.C.I.
ords. opened on Thursday at 30s. 6d.
That was only fractionally higher than
the price paid cum rights on Wednesday,
£5 11s. 6d. for what was virtually
shares of the new variety. If a 6 p.c.
div. is paid on the new capital a yield of
just under 4 p.c. will be obtained ; if
1\ p.c., then 5 p.c. A p.c. distribution
would call for slightly less than the whole
of the profits disclosed by Australian
Glass in its last term after providing for
pref. requirements. In that term, how-
ever, little more than half the ords.’ share
of the profits was distributed, and the
present bonus issue is expected by a
number to afford a means of handing out
a greater proportion of the undertaking’s
earnings without allowing the div. rate
to look high.
* * * *
Trade-union unemployment at the end
of 1938 was 8.9 p.c., compared with
8.2 p.c. a year earlier. Trades most
affected were furniture, clothing and
“other manufacturing.” Mining and
transport were the only industries giving
greater employment than 12 months ago,
though building was still holding up well.
The consolidated and amended com-
pany law of Victoria will come into
operation on May 1.
* * * *
In B. 15/2/ ’39 it was mentioned that
listed Government loans carried ss. per
cent, commission payable by buyers. The
reference was based on Melbourne Stock
Exchange practice. Other States have
other rates. In Sydney, for instance,
buyers pay no commission, but 10s. per
cent, is payable by sellers:
Buyer. Seller.
Sydney . .. Nil 10s. per cent.
Melbourne .. ss. per cent. ss. per cent.
Adelaide —
Taxable .. ss. per cent. ss. per cent.
Non - taxable 10s. per cent. 10s. per cent.
Brisbane .. 10s. per cent. 10s. per cent.
Maoriland .. 10s. per cent. 10s. per cent.
The brokerage rates payable in M.L.
refer particularly to M.L. loans.
* * * *
The new issue (£200,000) of 6 p.c.
second pref. shares put out by Felt and
Textiles opened at 225. in Melbourne,
showing a yield of about £5 9s. per cent.
The co.’s 6 p.c. first prefs. are not dealt
in regularly, there being only 40,000 of
them in any case. Last week, however,
there was a sale at 245. 7d., after 245. 9d.,
the return in this case being 4.9 p.c.
* % *
In Melbourne last week:
Herald and Weekly Times maintained its
interim ord. div. at 12 p.c. p.a., and the
market indicated its approval by paying
60s. 6d. for the ords. Some time before
the announcement there were doubts ; then
for a month or so hopes held sway, and were
justified.
D. and W. Chandler, a hardware concern,
announced a smaller profit and lower div.
(5 p.c.). The co. largely manufactures
its own stock, which includes builders’
requisites and agricultural machinery. The
ord. shares have weakened considerably over
two or three years. A pity.
Lancefield shares strengthened further, to
ss. 3d., following disclosure of a profit of
£70,921 for the half-year to December 31,
as against £67,862 for the preceding full year,
during which there was a stoppage at the
mine. A shilling div. goes out on March 24.


A.C.I. Ords. at 30s.
With practically no market
appreciation following the distri-
bution of bonus rights last week, the
ex rights price of 30s. being almost
equivalent to the cum rights quote
of 110 s. or so, A.C.I. ords. became
worth attention. A 6 p.c. div., rep-
resenting 22j p.c. on the old Aus-
tralian Glass capital, shouldn’t be
beyond the co.’s means in the near
future, and that would show a re-
turn of 4 p.c. at 30s.
llfis UnOA XdVd
in less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
13?
m
CLOBITE
AEROPLANE
CASE
7.tM.AND
0
CEtf^
f I
HI
mm
mm
n
/ ....
5 h ;>
Pi
nt
Hi
•?v-v>:---• :v./;
».
/ > M
THE \ GREATEST EXHIBITION
EVER HELD IN THE
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Make this the holiday of a lifetime! An exhilarating 2£
days’ ocean trip to Wellington or Auckland ... the sights
and thrills of the greatest Exhibition ever held in the
Southern Hemisphere ... 14 acres of absorbing exhibits
.... 10 acres of amusements .... breathtaking
lighting effects, colourful decorative cascades and pools
.. . gardens .. . pageantry that will hold you enthralled
.. . days and nights filled with music (including the
band of His Majesty’s Welsh Guards) . . . magnificent
scenery that truly makes New Zealand “the Paradise
of the Pacific ”... championship sports meetings
... in short, the birthday festivities of a nation
celebrating 100 years of colourful history. Send for
the free coloured folder to: N.Z. Government Tourist
Bureau, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, or anv
travel agency.
I
»
t
A.T WELLINGTON
NOV. to APRIL
1939-40
“AWATEfI”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information irom
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
mm
ţ
The Commonwealth basic wage for
males at present is 78s. a week on the
average, ranging from 81s. in Sydney to
755. in Brisbane. State rates, as a rule,
are slightly higher. On the whole,
money wages are still about 7 p.c. below
the average for 1928, while their buying
power is about p.c. higher. Money
wages paid throughout 1937 were
roughly 13 p.c. under 1928 rates, but
their buying power was about the same.
Rising living costs have largely defeated
the idea of the Reddaway award, which
added 6s. a week to money wages late
in 1-937. The same costs have made
the position of woolgrowers, wheat-
farmers, etc., infinitely more difficult now
that prices of their produce are so much
lower. If this rising tendency in costs
could be checked at the present level its
results might not be very disturbing. Wool
and wheat prices will eventually recover.
But inflation in costs is an evil that
attacks from the inside, and it usually
brings a feverish crisis on before it is
done with. Inflation is one of the
enemies of business stability; deflation
is the other. The two “flations” invari-
ably work hand-in-hand, deflation (with
unemployment and its etceteras) follow-
ing inflation (with its booming costs and
prices). Rising costs affect principally
the export trades, upon which Australia
is still largely dependent, but not so
palpably dependent as in the 1920’5. Since
the slump our factories have blossomed
into first-class importance, and we now
turn out a far larger proportion of the
manufactured goods we use. In other
words, essential imports are growing
fewer in number, and a fair proportion
of the stuff we now buy overseas could
be dispensed with if the countries we
buy from upset our trade balance by
not taking the usual value of wool, etc.,
from us. One outstanding manufactur-
ing development of recent years has been
the making of cotton textiles in the Com-
monwealth. And there have been others
of greater and lesser importance.
* * * *
Base metals rose almost steadily from
the middle of 1938 until the last month
of the year; then there was a three
months’ decline, which showed signs of
steadying about the beginning of March.
Behavior of prices of base metals in
comparison with gold is seen in this
table:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June .. £39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 1475. 7d.
Dec. .. 49.4 15.1 13.7 214.6 148 s. lOd.
Jan. .. 48.9 14.5 13.7 215.6 148 s. lid.
Feb. .. 47.8 14.3 13.5 214.0 148 s. 4d.
Mar. 17 48.5 14.6 13.6 213.5 148 s. 6d.
Tin kept on appreciating until January
of this year, helped by restriction of
output and the buffer pool scheme, and
for nearly five months now the price
has been relatively steady around £215
sterling. Copper, also! subject to re-
striction, hasn’t fluctuated so widely
lately. Spelter and lead have been up
and down most noticeably. Like the
others, they showed firmness early last
week, but slackened following Germany’s
annexation of Czechoslovakia.
* * * *
Barrier mines picked up smartly in the
sharemarkets the first two weeks of this
month. Lowest price for Zinc Corp.
ords. this year so far was 84s. 6d., high-
est 101 s. On February 28 the quote was
90s. 6d.; early last week it was 975. North,
with a highest of 495. 6d., lowest 41s. 6d.,
and a Feb. 28 price of 455. 3d., sold at
475. seven days ago. South —high 28s. 6d.,
low 24s. —fetched 265. 3d. at the end of
February and 28s. 3d. last week, show-
ing greatest recovery of all. There was
a deathbed feeling about South when it
was announced during the annual meet-
ing that there was only about 11 years’
life ahead ; but, following the first shock,
the sharemarket has wiped its eyes and
become a little more hopeful. A couple
of years ago South shares were strikingly
overvalued in relation to North shares
until this page persistently pointed out
the anomaly over several weeks.
The briskness in Barrier shares evident
earlier in the week faded on Thursday
and Friday following nervousness in
London quotations.
* * * *
Emperor shares are very weak in Mel-
bourne at Bs. sd. They have never been
much lower. The pildt plant testing the
flotation treatment of sulphide ores at
the Fiji mine is reported to be “steadily
increasing in efficiency” ; but one market
query is, How much more plant will
Emperor have to buy in <Toing the job
it set out to do? There is a varied
assortment of ore down below, but the
big plant is now operating on the low-
grade oxidised stuff. Emperor’s best
values are in the sulpho-tellurides, but
it will be interesting to see whether, after
charging extraction costs and amortisa-
tion of fixed assets, they are any more
profitable than the oxides —which aren’t
as free and easy as they might be.
* * * *
David Jones, the big Sydney retail con-
cern, has maintained its interim ord. div.
at 10 p.c. p.a. The shares have firmed to
345. 6d., buyers. At 355. the yield would
be 5.7 p.c. About the beginning of the
term now current the co. spread its winfes
by opening a third store diagonally
across the street-corner from its main
premises. Investors have queried the pos-
sible effect of this new outlay as regards
earnings, especially as the opening took
place during a period of changing eco-
nomic conditions. However, much of the
capital involved had been lying idle for
two years prior to the store’s opening, so
that 1938-39 earnings should get some
benefit from the expansion, whereas the
preceding term got none, though 18.7 p.c.
was still shown on ord. capital.
* * * *
Following the lift in price of Sydney
“Truth” from 3d. to 4d. a copy, there was
a safe of Truth and Sportsman ords. at
the unchanged rate of 265. Highest sale
this year was at 265. 6d., lowest 255. 6d.
Associated Newspapers ords. are weak at
19s. 6d., following rumors of a weekly
(Thursday) afternoon drapery-ad. paper
to be issued by Consolidated Press.
Associated owns 160,000 ords. in Con-
solidated, but they bring in no revenue,
the “Telegraph” apparently still being a
disappointment from an ord. share-
holder’s viewpoint. Someone has been
selling Consolidated prefs. in large lumps
at par or thereabouts, but what is per-
haps more in the nature of news is that
they are being bought at that figure. With
the sale of the “Telegraph” to Consoli-
dated, Associated ceased to have direct
control of a morning paper.
* * * *
Myer ords., pointed out here several
times and on the latest occasion in last
week’s issue, ran up from 28s. 6d. to 30s.
following announcement of the co.’s div.
prospects for the year. The yield at 30s.
is 6 p.c. if the 9 p.c. p.a. continues to go
out as expected. Rains have improved
the Victorian economic outlook.
* * * *
T. G. Murray, M.L.C., formerly of
New Cobar, who was thinking of resign-
ing from the New Occidental board, was
last week persuaded to accept the chair-
manship of Occidental.
* * * *
Lustre Hosiery, Sydney, has exhibited
a profit for 1938 £2411 lower at £31,046,
but has declared a div. 2s. 6d. per cent,
higher at 8 p.c. An extra £3773 was set
aside for depreciation in the latest term.
Trade during the year wasn’t as good as
expected.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Germany’s Fleet.
(Condensed from an article by Frank Clements in the
“Fortnightly.”)
The main provisions of the Anglo-German Naval
Agreement of 1935 were that Germany could build
warships of all types up to a tonnage 35 per cent, of
the total of the fleets of the British Commonwealth,
and that Germany’s submarine strength should be 45
per cent, of Britain’s, with the right to parity in special
circumstances.
Obviously, Great Britain will never be defeated
without a decision at sea. Germany, with her present
fleet, is in no position to apply effective pressure at
sea, even with the aid of her doubtful ally Italy (largely
neutralised by France) and even more uncertain con-
federate Japan (occupied with China and checked by
the American and Russian Pacific forces). Should she
build up to the maximum treaty limits, she would
never be able to send to sea a force comparable with
the old High Seas Fleet —particularly while she must
divert a moderately strong force to the Baltic—and
can therefore never hope to offer direct challenge for
the command of the sea. Her main weapon must once
again be the submarine, now reinforced by shore-
based aircraft.
Her present force of built or projected U-boats
is on paper a formidable one, being made up of 72
vessels, three more than the British total. But it is
easy for the casual observer to be so impressed by
mere numbers that the real war potentiality of the
present U-boat fleet is greatly overestimated. No fewer
than 33 boats are of very small size (250 tons), and
their role in war must be a defensive one. They are
probably intended only for Baltic use—to defend Ger-
many s trade route with Sweden and to shield her
coast from Russian invaders.
A further 24 boats are of approximately 500 tons.
While their effectiveness is greater than that of the
Baltic submarines, it is still very circumscribed. Ger-
man writers, at least, assign to them also purely defen-
sive functions. There undoubtedly exists a fear
among German naval authorities that Germany may
be attacked on the Schleswig-Holstein frontier by a
striking force landed in Denmark, probably with the
connivance—at least without the effective resistance —
of that country. Therefore they regard it as essential
to divert a strong underwater force to baulk such
an operation.
Of a total of 72 U-boats then, only 15 are over
700 tons displacement and classifiable as offensive
submarines, and even they are not particularly suited
lor commerce warfare. Anti-submarine destructive
weapons and detective devices have much improved
since the last war, and the submarine must face the
newly-developed risk of being sighted, reported on or
attacked from the air. U-boats are not likely to be
given the dangerous task of attacking convoys on a
large scale, for, as commerce raiders, they can best
be employed on the high seas, outside the range of
intensive air-reconnaissance and protected convoys.
Large submarines are necessary for such a purpose.
Consequently, Germany will probably devote
most of the 40-odd thousand tons which she is now
free to build to large submarines, although she will
still be compelled to divert some proportion of this
tonnage to North Sea and Baltic defensive aims. Less
than a third of her total fleet will have great offensive
value against Great Britain, a negligible number com-
pared with the forces she had at her disposal in the
later years of the Great War.
It is quite possible that Germany will not for
some time avail herself of all this total tonnage, even
though she has very recently declared this to be her
intention. Her threat to do so is more valuable than
the deed itself would be. However, increased German
submarine-building will be countered by a large
Admiralty programme of escort vessels and small
destroyers, thus making the relative positions much
as they were. But as a bargaining weapon in nego-
tiation, this dormant submarine fleet is obviously of
considerable value.
German naval officers, in print and conversation,
frankly admit the weakness of their position. Within
the limits of the Naval Treaty, no German fleet can
be developed which could menace our command of
the Atlantic and North Sea. Even with reliable foreign
bases, Germany’s U-boat raiders on the western sea-
board could at the most harass rather than destroy
our trade.
Seeing that she can scarcely hope to wage a suc-
cessful naval war with a treaty navy, Germany might
decide either to denounce the Treaty or to build
beyond the agreed limits secretly. The latter possi-
bility is swiftly disposed of. Ships are not built in
the middle of forest areas or in mountain strongholds,
and Germany’s geographical situation is such that
information of secret building would reach the British
Admiralty almost as soon as keel-plates were laid.
It would require more than the executioner’s axe —
at least a magician’s wand —to keep such a secret.
By denouncing the Treaty Germany would com-
mit herself to an armaments race at sea, and it is
obvious that she is in no position to compete with us.
Whereas Great Britain has not begun even to approach
her maximum shipbuilding effort, Germany is already
very near the high limit of hers. Shortage of skilled
labor is acute in the dockyards, and the vast armies
of unskilled men which are drafted to the naval ports
can no more hasten the building of ships than the
presence of a hundred ward attendants can speed an
operation.
Moreover, long hours, forced shifts and not over-
generous salaries must in the end unfavorably affect
the morale of dockyard workers. (It should be remem-
bered that Kiel was a Communist stronghold, and
that concealed agitators must still be in existence,
ready to make the most of any genuine grievances.)
Any increase in the present pressure, such as a larger
building programme would involve, must inevitably
lead to resistance —if only passive—from dockyard
workers. It is doubtful whether it is humanly possible
for them to do more than they are doing at the
moment.
If Germany cannot compete in an arms race, still
less will she be able to replace the losses of war.
Furthermore, increased shipbuilding will add to Ger-
many’s raw-material difficulties, and the metals
absorbed in the dockyards would in all probability
have to be supplied at the cost of other armament
schemes.
Peace Far Off in China.
(Condensed from an article by Frank H. Hedges,
London “Daily Telegraph” Tokio correspondent .)
Talk of peace in China at the moment seems idle.
As long as neither Japan nor China has been effec-
tively defeated in the field, as long as the morale of
both sides continues at its present level and the deter-
mination to fight the matter out at all costs remains
adamant, as long as both sides can command the
finances, war materials and men to go on fighting, so
long there is no prospect of peace.
Despite her heavy losses, China is far from being
a defeated nation. Japan is nowhere near the end
of her rope.
Undoubtedly the desire for peace exists in both
camps, but the will to fight is still burning strongly.
To think that Japan would capitulate to peace
demands is ridiculous. It is almost equally ridiculous
to believe that Chiang Kai-shek might do so. Wang
Ching-wei’s recent abortive peace offer and his subse-
quent repudiation by every Chinese of consequence
and by the Chinese masses are proof of this statement.
Tokio can, of course, conclude peace at any
moment with the puppet regimes set up in Peking,
Nanking and elsewhere, but this would not be con-
cluding peace with China, for these areas, despite
their extent, are not China. Japan is not ready, and
may never be, to accept the loss of prestige abroad,
and even more so at home, that dealing with Chiang.
would now involve.
Talk of the possibilities of a revolution in Japan
is preposterous and scarcely worth denying. There is
not a single indication that any Japanese harbors such
a thought. The concept of revolution simply does
not exist in Japan at present, and no one gives it a
moment’s consideration.
Similarly, talk about an impending economic col-
lapse in Japan is a false scent. The war has dug
deeply into Japan’s gold reserves and will dig still
deeper, but Japanese currency is in an eminently sound
position and can stand a far greater strain than has
yet been put upon it or is likely to be put.
The grip of the army on the nation is firm and
unshakable The army favors the continuation of
hostilities until China is crushed, and the army will
have its way.’ It is folly to think that any group in
Japan can successfully combat the army and alter
national policy, even if any group should desire to
do so. The Japanese people, even those Liberals who
privately criticise much in Japanese policy, are firmly
and unquestionably behind the Japanese Army. No
alternative is even considered.
Recently a new factor, which may prove a power-
ful motive, has entered the situation. This is the
vision of what Tokio calls a New Order in Eastern
Asia, a new order in which Japan would be supreme
from Saghalien to perhaps Singapore or beyond. The
Briton. American and other foreigner would have a
place, of course, but it would be a place assigned to
him by Tokio.
The Open Door would not be entirely closed,
but Japan’s idea of the New Open Door is something
like this: A free flow of British pounds, American
dollars, Dutch guilders and other foreign currencies or
credits into Japan and into China through Japan, but
controlled and directed entirely by Japanese. Foreign
moneys are almost desperately welcome,, but not
foreign control of the expenditure, investment and
administration of those moneys.
Is it to be wondered at that this vision of a New
Order in Eastern Asia, in which Japan would be an
absolute monarch, with other Asiatic nations, plus
foreign interests in the Far East, in the position of
vassals, dazzles the eyes of all Japanese?
Japan would like greatly to conclude peace with
China now, but it would have to be a peace dictated
by Tokio. She can see no way of reaching this goal
except by continued warfare, except by carving her
way farther and farther into the interior of China, at
whatever cost, until both Chiang Kai-shek and all
China have in truth been “brought to their knees. ’
The Tokio Government has said there would
be no treaty of peace, but rather a declaration of
peace by Tokio. That would necessitate reducing
China to a state so impotent that it would not be
necessary to negotiate with her. The Japanese Army
certainly ardently desires this. The strength of the
Chinese resistance and their fine morale were unex-
pected, but they are facts to-day, and perforce must
be dealt with in the factual field.
The Japanese Army will never be content except
with a China so powerless as to be able only to day-
dream of revenge and regeneration. At least one very
influential section of the Army hopes to strike an
armed blow at Soviet Russia in the near future, but
the China war must be settled first. If trouble with
Russia came too soon it might alter the whole Sino-
Japanese scene.
On the other hand, a European war would be
greatly to Japan’s benefit, for she would then be left
with completely free hands in the Far East. But a
Russo-Japanese war and a world war are mere specu-
lations ; what actually exists is an undeclared Sino-
Japanese war. And from the standpoint of Japan
the prospects of peace are scant indeed for months
or years to come.
Spain No Cause for Pessimism.
(Condensed -from a London “Spectator ’ article b)
Wing-Commander A. W. H. James, M.P.)
Spain affords a striking illustration of how even
the educated public in the democracies can succumb
to the very propaganda that they condemn in dictator
States, if garnished for their palate as free criticism
and news.
Four main factors have predominated in the case
of Spain to ensure the British public misreading the
course of the war. Firstly, they have regarded it too
exclusively against the European background, thus
giving rein to justifiable but grossly exaggerated fears.
Secondly, all news and reports came through at least
48 hours sooner from the Republicans than from the
Nationalists, because the telephone and cable centres
were behind the Republican lines. Thirdly, the Repub-
licans, in possession of nearly all the gold reserves of
the Bank of Spain, spent lavishly upon propaganda.
They received powerful and practised help in this
effort. Not all newspapers are as unvenal as the greater
British dailies. Fourthly, beyond their mechanical and
financial disadvantages, the Nationalists were incred-
ibly unwise in their treatment of news and of news-
men alike. Their censorship was as absurd as it was
damaging to their own cause.
In regard to the fighting a few points that are often
obscured may be stressed. The number of serving
officers and soldiers of the standing army who at the
outset supported General Franco’s pronunciamento
was small, for the army itself was small. The reserv-
ists of military age among the civil population out-
numbered the revolting soldiery by about 10 to 1. The
“People’s army” is a propagandist myth. Two People’s
armies gradually emerged.
Both the extent and the effect of foreign interven-
tion have been misunderstood because, propaganda
apart, allowance has not been made for the relative
efficiency with which the two sides profited from it.
Political difficulties, even faction-fighting, having to
combine a social revolution with the conduct of a war,
and gross overconfidence have been prime factors in
the Republican defeat. These led also to a waste of
resources, imported and indigenous alike.
By contrast, their financial poverty and unified
direction forced upon the Nationalists economy and
efficiency. General Franco had been the leading train-
ing expert in the Spanish Army, as well as the most
successful and popular general of the Riff wars. Artil-
lery, aviation and officers’ schools and courses,
promptly started, later enabled full use to be made of
the assistance in material obtained from abroad and
of the great quantities captured from time to time.
This, and not foreign personnel or material itself, was
the secret of the superiority that the Nationalists pro-
gressively achieved.
Both sides received from abroad all the material
that their organisation and training rendered it pos-
sible for them to utilise. In foreign man-power, too,
numbers must be related to fighting value. It is safe
to assert that if ever the true figures are published the
British public will learn with surprise that in “front-
line fighters,” to use the useful German definition, the
International Brigades of the Republicans were at least
Shaw on Czechoetc.
After running a series of articles under the
general heading “Where Do We Go from
Here?”, in which Labor and Socialist writers
discussed British foreign policy, most of them
slangwhanging it, London “Daily Herald” let
Bernard Shaw in on March 3 to add a postscript.
This was his opening blast:—
We on the Labor side praise peace and collective
security, and in the same breath revile the Conserva-
tives because they did not make war on Japan over
Manchuria, on Italy over Abyssinia, and on Germany-
over Austria and Czechoslovakia.
This is patent nonsense. Suppose the Labor party
had been in power with a 99 per cent, majority, could
they have led the nation to war for the sake of the
Chinese, the Danakils or the entirely imaginary race
called the Czechoslovaks ?
Could they, when the Italians were bombing the
Abyssinian tribes into submission and smithereens, have
stopped our troops from doing exactly the same thing
on the North-West Indian frontier?
That the answers to these questions are in the nega-
tive is obvious to everybody who is out for facts and
realities and not for virtuous indignation on party
lines.
The Manchukuo affair was one of imperial con-
quest in which it was the business of the Chinese to
defend themselves. The Abyssinian affair was part of
the march of civilisation, in which at present a savage
country through which no one can travel safely belongs
to the nation that supplies it with roads, police and a
water supply.
Czechoslovakia was an artificial contrivance of the
victorious Allies to disable their defeated antagonist;
and no country in the position to which Herr Hitler
had raised Germany could be reasonably expected to
accept its frontiers.
All these cases could have been interfered with by
an effective League of Nations; but neither we nor
any other separate nation could have gone' to war
about them, no matter what was the color of its
Government.


as numerous as the Italians —probably more numer-
ous. Their individual value was certainly far higher,
their effect in battle much greater. It is fair to add that
the Italian rank and file were very far from their best
regulars.
Rather strangely, the ruthlessness and horrors of
war seem to affect Spaniards less than one would have
expected, a factor to be borne in mind in considering
the war’s aftermath. The Duchess of Atholl has suf-
fered more emotional disturbance than many Spanish
women who have had horrible experiences. The ordi-
nary citizen values order, security, daily bread the
more in their absence, and this has been a strong factor
in facilitating Nationalist consolidation of captured
territory. The intense and widespread nationalistic,
revivalist and progressive spirit, coupled with an un-
precedented urge for social service that is apparent to
any traveller or visitor to the fronts, is going to place
a heavy burden of obligation upon the new rulers of
Spain. Great as will be the difficulties of reconstruc-
tion and deep as are the divisions upon the winning
side, no one who has become an observer of the recent
Spanish scene with an open mind, and sought informa-
tion and impressions without predilections, can feel
pessimistic about the future of Spain or her position in
Europe.
Soviet Russia Sick of Purges.
[After the record of the “Workers’ Paradise” for
some five years past it might be rash to accept as final
the suggestion now being freely put out that Soviet
Russia has seen the last of Stalin’s purges. How-
ever, that is the conclusion reached by one of the most
experienced of observers of the Russian scene, Walter
Duranty, who is now writing from Moscow a series of
articles for London “Spectator,” the first of them here
condensed. As it is, the reformed Russia depicted by
Mr. Duranty still seems to fall a fair way short of
Paradise, and his article also indicates that it would
have been a very poor ally last September.]
The attitude and policies of the U.S.S.R. have
been much influenced, if not actually determined, by
the “purge”—the monstrous “house-cleaning” which
began after the murder of Kirov in Leningrad on
December 1, 1934, gathered momentum in 1935, pro-
duced the trial of Kamenev, Zinoviev and others in
August, 1936, of Radek, Piatakov and others in
February, 1937, of Tukhachevsky and his fellow-
generals in June, 1937, and of Bukharin, Rykov and
Yagoda in March, 1938, when the purge reached its
culminating point and continued to sweep the country
like an avalanche until last autumn.
This remarkable manifestation of violence in-
volved- the execution or removal of more than half
of the most prominent figures in the Soviet picture—
with a corresponding elimination of their subordi-
nates—and either directly or by its effects caused seri-
ous disturbance in every field of Soviet endeavor. It
contributed not a little to Munich, by creating in the
minds of Hitler and his adversaries alike the gravest
doubts as to the strength and stability not merely of
the Red Army, but of the Soviet regime itself.
To-day, it can be said with certainty that the
purge is at an end. In my opinion, that end was
decided in September, 1938 ; occurred on December 8.
when it was announced that Beria had replaced Yezhov
as head of the N.K.V.D. (Commissariat of the
Interior).
Yezhov’s task was to turn a hose-pipe on the
Augean stable of Yagoda’s G.P.U. and all the other
unclean places of treason, incompetence, favoritism
and graft in the U.S.S.R. The hose-pipe became a
river and the river a flood, which threatened to drown
all Russia. Few men in history have done more
damage by their exces de zele. As far as the public
knows, Beria had no formal instructions to stop the
purge, but one of the first events after his appoint-
ment was the trial and execution of a group of
N.K.V.D. men in Kiev on a charge of maliciously
arresting and punishing scores of people without suffi-
cient evidence. Furthermore, the volume of new
arrests dwindled to a trickle, and the Moscow air
was full of reports that exiles were being allowed to
return. Finally, the Theatre of the Revolution pro-
duced, just after the New Year, a remarkable play,
“Pavel Grekof,” written by a group of Young Com-
munists who themselves had suffered unjust expulsion
from the party, which indeed is the theme of the play.
“Pavel Grekof,” at present the most successful show
in Moscow, represents exactly what happened in recent
years to thousands of honest and blameless Com-
munists. The enthusiasm with which the audience
greets lines that six months ago would have sent the
authors to Siberia leaves no doubt regarding the trend
of popular opinion or the reality of the change.
Little imagination is needed to guess what were
the effects of the purge upon industrial operation
and discipline. It was not merely the confusion caused
by sudden and often wholesale changes of higher
personnel, but the universal spirit of apprehension
and consequent' fear of responsibility. And when no
one, from director to foreman, knew where he stood
or what net might entrap him to-morrow, how could
the rank and file preserve its working integrity and
order? Because in the latter days of the purge not
only doctrinal heresy— i.e., adherence to one or an-
other form of ideological opposition—but every sort
of misconduct, incompetence or even error and failure
of any kind, was commonly included in the more than
seven deadly sins which won for their perpetrator the
fatal epithet of “People’s Enemy,” Each day’s
statistics showed that production suffered accordingly.
To remedy this alarming state of affairs a decree
was issued early in January providing the severest
penalties for lateness or unjustified absence for all
workers and employees, from the manager to office-
boy, or from the director of a factory to the newest
apprentice. It is somewhat Draconian in character
and may be modified by the Party Congress. In
other respects it is a further sign that this country
is setting its house in order after the excesses of the
purge. Almost, one might say, as if Noah’s dove
instead of an olive branch had brought him back an
oak bough and hit him on the head with it. Even
that, in Russia, denotes that “the waters have receded.”
“Axis” Advance in South America.
[Since publication of this (condensed) article by
N. P. Macdonald in the “Fortnightly” a huge barter
agreement has been concluded by which Germany,
according to cable, is to take 55,125,000 bushels of
wheat from Argentina in return for cars and machinery.]
Not long ago the United States was ousting
Britain in the South American market, but to-day
Uncle Sam has joined John Bull in retreat before the
political and economic onslaughts of the Anti-Comin-
tern triangle.
Germany is the most persistent in her efforts to
attach the South American countries to the Axis
chariot. Those parts of the continent where there are
large German settlements come in for close attention.
Prominent among them are Argentina, with an esti-
mated German population of 100,000, and Brazil, with
ten times that number.
Germans mix more easily with Latin Americans
than do the British and Americans, and this fact,
coupled with a widespread dislike of Communism in
Argentina, has led to something of a pro-German feel-
ing in that country. The army, in particular, is
attracted by German military traditions, and several
officers are now undergoing a course of training at
Potsdam.
German exports of cars to Argentina exceeded
those from Britain for the first time in 1936, and to a
greater extent the following year. German coal
exports to Argentina rose from 86,000 tons in 1936 to
200,000 tons in 1937, British coal exports from South
Wales rising only 15 per cent, in the same period.
British importing houses, many of them of long stand-
ing, are disappearing, while English shops grow steadily
fewer. A recent contract for rainwater drainage works
in Buenos Ayres, which was worth £3,500,000, was
awarded to Germany.
There have been Germans in Brazil since 1843,
and to-day they number more than 1,000,000. Ger-
many has become an important customer for Brazilian
coffee at a time when that product badly needs buyers.
German imports from Brazil rose from 69,000,000
marks in 1933 to 186,000,000 marks in 1937, while
exports to Brazil, which were 77,000,000 marks in
1933, had risen to 177,000,000 marks by the end of
1937. Germany has displaced the United States as the
principal exporting country to Brazil, and she is to-day
the largest customer for Brazilian cotton. Nickel in
Goyaz, oil in Riacho Doce, mines in Parahyba, and
523,000 hectares of oil-bearing land in Matto Grosso
have been secured by German concessionaires.
In pre-war days Britain was supreme in Chile’s
foreign trade, and in the immediate post-war era the
United States occupied first place. To-day Germany
has displaced North American trade, and the United
States and Great Britain are second and third respec-
tively in the amount of trade they do with Chile,
whose population includes 25,000 Germans. Chilean
purchases from Germany rose from 52,900,000 pesos
in 1935 to 91,600,000 pesos in the following years.
In the same period United States trade rose by only
6,000,000 pesos, while British trade declined by
11,000,000.
German trade with Paraguay has shown surpris-
ing increases of late years. Paraguayan imports from
Germany in 1936, amounting to 1,900,000 marks, were
double the figures for 1935 ; in the first quarter of
1937 German imports totalled 760,000 marks com-
pared with 440,000 marks for the corresponding period
of 1936. During 1936 Germany bought Paraguayan
goods to the value of 2,700,000 marks, an amount
which in the first quarter of 1537 showed an increase
of 50 per cent.
Italian penetration in South America depends
greatly for its success on that part of the continent’s
population of 110,000,000 which is of Italian extrac-
tion ; it is estimated that there is Italian blood in at
least 15,000,000 of the populations of the ten republics.
Italian trade in these countries is growing fast. Rome
took full advantage of the severe economic strain
which the application of sanctions imposed on many
of the South American republics. Generous terms
were promised to all States repudiating sanctions, and
Italian exporters quoted prices so low that they were
able to capture markets in which hitherto they had
been unable to compete with British manufacturers.
Italian woolcloths were able to challenge the British
product for the first time in 1937, when tinplate from
Italy, never previously exported to the River Plate,
was introduced at a price five per cent, below that of
the British equivalent. Formerly British goods were
alone in their exemption from the 20 per cent, import
surcharge imposed in Argentina, but Italian imports
now share this privilege. In Argentina the population
is almost 35 per cent. Italian in origin, there being
500,000 Italians in Buenos Ayres alone.
Brazil has ordered from an Italian shipyard two
20,000-ton passenger liners and four smaller motor-
vessels, to be paid for with Brazilian raw materials. A
trade agreement between Rio and Rome in 1937 pro-
vided that Brazilian exports to Italy were to be covered
entirely by Italian exports to Brazil.
Chile, where Italian machinery finds an excellent
market, is regarded with particular favor by Rome,
since the Chilean Government was foremost in pro-
posing the abolition of sanctions in 1936. Italy recently
offered to exchange two of her modern 10,000-ton
cruisers for nitrate and other concessions, and Italian
aircraft works secured the best part of a recent Chilean
order worth £2,500,000.
Peru, however, is the most obviously under Italian
tutelage of any of the South American States, a fact
of which delegates to the recent Pan-American Con-
ference at Lima were made unpleasantly aware. Italian
investments in Peru are estimated at more than
£20,000,000. The Capjjpni aircraft firm has lately
established an assembling factory for Italian bombing
’planes, among other buildings erected for this purpose
being the largest hangar in South America.
America and Palestine.
[A letter by J. S. Elkabir in the “Iraq Times,”
Bagdad, here condensed from the March issue of
“World Review,” which comments: “The author of this
letter is a prominent Jewish lawyer of Bagdad, who
writes in comment on the pronouncement in favor of
Palestine for the Jews made by a group of American
Senators, Representatives and State Governors.”]
The Jewish problem is the product of more than
two thousand years of European history, and is there-
fore of European creation. It is destined to remain
on Europe’s hands or on its conscience.
Twenty years ago, by a very risky piece of poli-
tical acrobatics, an attempt was made to shift the
problem to Palestine. The attempt was bound to
prove a tragic failure, because, apart from the for-
bidding bare facts of the situation, the scheme was
founded on a manifestly unworkable partnership. The
pact of partnership was obscure, and a rift could
be detected from the beginning in the declared inten-
tions of the two parties. What is more important,
however, is that the motives and ultimate aims of the
two parties lay in different directions. For the Man-
datory Power policy in Palestine had necessarily to
fit into the wide network of political relations of a
world empire, relations which are changing in defini-
tion and are not always conditioned by Whitehall.
And in this part of the world those relations happen
to be rather delicate and connected with certain vital
Imperial interests.
On this foundation of quicksand, and with a blind
and deliberate disregard of surroundings, the Zionist
partner came to build with a different end in view.
His object was, at the outset, expressed with as much
caution as %ould be expected, but the developments
with which it was pregnant were sufficiently hinted
at through certain indiscretions from Zionist quarters.
At any rate, to a student of political history it was
already quite plain that the basic idea of Zionism
was bound to have a catastrophic destiny and a disas-
trous end. There was an easily discernible ratio
between the rate of its progress and that of the growth
of all the elements, local and general, which would
in the end destroy it. And so, with Dr. Weizmann
mistaking stagecraft for statecraft and Lord Balfour
quite understandably incapable of foreseeing that a
brilliant piece of political work in the best nineteenth-
century tradition would be so fast out of fashion in
the post-war world, an adventure was lightly em-
barked upon which will probably rank as one of the
greatest downright gambles in contemporary history.
The irony of the situation is that the Jewish prob-
lem in Europe remains the same essentially, and much
worse contingently, and was so at the time when
Zionism was still going with all sails out. The prob-
lem is, and remains, a European problem both by
origin and present incidence.
This being the case, the meaning of the interven-
tion of gentlemen from America is not easily under-
standable. Is the intervention actuated by humani-
tarian motives?
Europe, with all its turmoil, has so far been more
helpful to refugees than America. Certain European
countries have opened their doors to a fairly large
influx of refugees when America did not abate its
immigration restrictions by a jot.
The United States has an area of 7,839,000
square kilometres and a population of 125,000,000.
Its density of population is 17 per square kilometre.
It has practically all the resources necessary
for an economy which is not only autonomous
but which can impose itself on foreign markets.
Palestine has an area of 26,000 square kilometres
and a population of 1,250,000. Its density of popu-
lation is 48. I do not know what it has that can
be called an economy capable of sustaining an inde-
pendent State of any consequence or future. It
has uninhabitable land in greater proportion than the
United States. These figures are, of course, too crude
for a real comparison between the two countries, but
are nevertheless enough to show that, if nothing can
be done for Jews or other refugees in America or
elsewhere, and Palestine is regarded as the only place
of paltry hope for them, the only conclusion that
one can come to is that man in isolationist America
is the same as elsewhere, and when he has some
trouble with his conscience he seeks to whitewash
his moral self at the expense of others.
More Mme Tabouis .
Source of one of the breath-taking journal-
istic scoops of Mme Tabouis (“prophet of our
political future"), as recorded in London “Daily
Express":—
France is laughing. A certain Marquis
of Canada-Hermosa, representing a Spanish
Monarchist Society, announced from an
address in the rue Marignan, Paris, certain
peace propositions, which were eagerly seized
on by Mme Tabouis. The letters of the
marquis made no attempt to disguise a strong
sympathy with Negrin, and were commented
on with great satisfaction both in the “CEuvre”
and the “Populaire.”
A day or two later it was discovered that
the marquis and his society were non-existent,
and that the address from which the letters
came was the headquarters of the French
equivalent of the R.S.P.C.A.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
When raced by the late Colin Stephen,
chairman of the A.J.C. committee, Caesar
was a good two-year-old ; but he struck
misfortunes. First, he had an accident
which necessitated an operation, and
while he was spelling a wind infirmity
developed. The son of Silvius was tubed,
and thus adorned on Saturday he won
the Westmead Handicap at Rosehill in
capital style.
A number of Doncaster
sported silk in this race, the topweights
being Gold Rod and King’s Head. Gold
Rod was favorite at 5 to 2. He jumped
out well, but lost his position near the
half-mile. He came home strongly and
finished fourth. The race was nearly
over when McCarten got him clear.
Fakenham and Petruchio had turns in
the lead, the three-year-old showing im-
pressive pace. But he was not in good
shape, and his run had ended when
Caesar threw out a challenge at the
Leger. It was not easy for Caesar;
he had to be ridden out to beat
St. Constant by a neck, King’s Head,
very tired, being third a head away.
St. Constant put in a whirlwind finish.
He was last half a mile from home, and
at the top of the straight he lost lengths
by running wide. He promptly became
favorite for the Doncaster, in which he
has 8.11. Caesar has a stone less, but
St. Constant should beat him at a mile.
Caesar was backed from eights to sixes.
Colin Stephen’s children should have
won a double. Their little mare Sal
Volatile was a good thing beaten in the
Club Handicap. Her conqueror was the
Moree-owned and -trained#Val William,*
who is proving himself a fair middle-dis-
tance horse, though his sire Valiard,
winner of the 1925 Newmarket, could
not run more than six furlongs. It was
twos Sal Volatile, sixes Val William and
Cathartes.
Val William’s rider, Reynolds, of New-
castle, kept him behind the pacemaker,
Proceed. When Proceed was beaten at
the home turn Reynolds shot his mount
away with a useful lead. It was just as
well, as Sal Volatile —last at the half-
mile and eighth into the straight—
travelled so fast that she was beaten by
only half a length, Jan Baz being a similar
distance away third. Golden Treasure,
running his best race for months, wound
up fourth. Silver Standard, looking burly,
was fifth. He got very close to the lead
at the Leger, but wilted.
Val William is not in the Sydney
Cup. Sal Volatile has 7.5. Salmagundi’s
daughter has not won a race since she
scored in the Adrian Knox Stakes in
1937, but her turn is not far off. Her
backers were displeased with young
Darke’s riding, and some of them said so
very forcibly.
But the anti-Darke demonstration was
nothing to that which assailed the ears of
A.J.C. committeeman Hunter White and
trainer Jack King when Let Slip returned
to the weighing-yard after winning the
Rydalmere Mile. On the Wednesday Let
Slip had finished fifth in a field of seven
in the Clarendon Mile at Hawkesbury.
He was favorite there; at Rose-
bery he was 14 to 1, after being laid
for small amounts at 20 to 1. Hughes,
who rode him —Darby Munro had had
the mount at Hawkesbury—got a lucky
run in the last furlong when Jocular
moved out, and the chestnut prevailed
by a neck, Salazar being a close third.
Better going and a weight advantage
accounted for the change ; but the crowd
doesn’t like King. The owner is a non-
bettor.
Gilltown was favorite for the Rydal-
mere Mile, being backed from 5 to 2 to
6 to 4. The owner, O. Triggs, took £lOOO
to £4OO about his gelding. Gilltown was
scrubbed along to get to the lead, but he
could not quite see out the severe mile
at Rosehill, and was beaten a furlong
from home. His fourth is worth remem-
bering, however.
Insomnia, they say, induced F. W.
Hughes to take up racing, and he is cer-
tainly getting a lot of fun out of it, nor
does he need the money. One of his
string, Brazen Career, gave the book-
makers a clean sheet in the first division
of the Juvenile, though she was quoted
at 25 to 1. The Brazen filly beat Pruning
by half a head, with Bona Fide third.
Blue Baron and Esperanto were heavily
backed. Blue Baron finished seventh,
Esperanto down the course. Like Rebel
Chief and Reading, Brazen Career is
trained at Moorefield.
Reading, who has grown into a fine
colt, made short work of 13 opponents
in the second division. Favorite at 7 to 2
—five horses were backed —Reading soon
caught the early leader, Merry Smile, and
ran home an easy winner from Tobasco
and the pony Dagmar. Reading carries
the colors of Gordon Luscombe and a
country sportsman, F. Manusu.
Rebel Chief is a sound galloper when
he hits the front. This he did in the
Novice Handicap, and in the result he
completed a double for Jack Cush, the
Moorefield trainer, who had led in Read-
ing. Rebel Chief had plenty of backers
at 7 to 1. Sigh kept him company until
near the finish; then he veered, Sigh
being almost knocked over the running
rail. It robbed her of a possible win,
though Rebel Chief was doing slightly
the better, for Red Eagle and Feminist
passed her, obviating a protest. Duncan,
the rider of Rebel Chief, was suspended
for two months for carelessness.
Eiver Walker, who trains at Hawkes-
bury, had a surprise in store for ring-
men, who laid 20 to 1 about Austral in
the first division of the Maiden Welter.
A strong-looking colt by Veilmond-
Sunny Sky, Austral showed Walker an
outstanding trial, and he was backed
down to 5 to 2. In a fine finish Austral
beat Adonis by half a neck. Politesse,
who is badly treated by handicappers,
was a poor third.
The shortest-priced winner was Baveon
(2 to 1) for the second division. Those
who laid the odds looked like losing their
money when Trumpeter ran to Baveon in
the last furlong. But the favorite showed
superior gameness, and scored by half
a length, Khancoban being three lengths
back. Baveon’s condition was a credit
to trainer Jamieson.
* •* * *
In the spring of 1936 Sydney sporting
scribes were proclaiming Gold Rod “the
best three-year-old since Phar Lap.”
When the Doncaster weights came out
they treated him with pronounced dis-
respect, one referring to him as a back
number. Yet he is the same age as
Aurie’s Star, Buzalong and Hamurah, a
year younger than The Trump and
Pamelus, and two years younger than
King’s Head ; and he hasn’t really done
much racing. The big chestnut’s record
might be a good deal better if he had
had more racing at distances that suit
him. It is noteworthy that he went off
after each of three attempts to make
a stayer of him. He had a sort of
breakdown in Talking’s Derby, in which
he ran third; and though he beat a
poor field in the St. Leger the effort
knocked him out. The same thing hap-
pened after his close fourth in the last
Metropolitan—by no means a bad per-
formance. On the two previous occasions
he recovered after a spell, winning the
Futurity Stakes as a three-year-old with
9.3, and the Epsom as a four-year-old
with the same weight, and the easy time
he has been given since the Metropolitan
may bring good results again.
* * * *
George Edwards, “of broadcasting
renown,” won a race at Hawkesbury with
a colt called The Stork, by Posterity-
Midinette, bought by George in Maori-
land for 550 guineas. The words quoted
are from “S. M. Herald,” and Granny
gave some further information about the
owner.
Although Mr. Edwards has had his
colors carried only during the past couple
of seasons, his love of the thoroughbred
extends over many years. In his early
days he was employed at the famous
Bonny Vale stud of Mr. James Wilson in
Victoria, and for that successful owner-
trainer-breeder he managed a property
where later Carbine was prepared for his
races in Melbourne.
Carbine arrived in Melbourne in 1888.
That would make George about 79. He
doesn’t look it.
* * * *
Ajax is out of the Doncaster and the
Sydney Cup, and evidently he is to run
in no more handicap races. As a three-
year-old he had only one, the New-
market, and, since his owners won’t accept
these engagements for him as a four-
year-old, they are unlikely to do so when
he turns five or six, with the higher
weights he will get. In a sense, it is
a pity, for, although Ajax is probably
one of the half-dozen best horses that
Australia has seen up to a mile and a
half, it will be difficult to convince
doubters in time to come. They will
argue that, before Carbine’s day and
since, all the great Australian horses —
with this one exception—proved their
worth in handicaps, especially Cups.
* * * *
On appeal the A.J.C. committee en-
dorsed the 12 months’ disqualification
imposed on Hambly, Russell, Mulligan
and Mohican over the running of the
last-named animal at Canterbury Park
on February 11 ; and Mohican is out
of the Doncaster. Also Sydney sporting
reporters will have to absent themselves
from the felicities of Russell’s mono-
logues until he is back in harness. For
copious statements to the press, they
haven’t had his equal for years.
* * * *
Two Sydney Cup candidates, The
Trump and Ortelle’s Star, were tested
over l\ miles in the St. Kilda Handicap
at Caulfield on Saturday. With only
9st. 21b. and other horses weighted up
to him, The Trump was regarded as a
“paper” certainty. From threes he
firmed to half those odds.
Confidence in The Trump was in-
spired by his fast-finishing third in the
V.R.C. Farewell Handicap, which
Crojick won by a narrow margin from
Baryta. Journey on that occasion was
a mile and The Trump had 9st. 41b.
The V.A.T.C. weight-adjuster dropped
“Darcy” Eccles’s gelding 21b. As com-
pared with his last Caulfield Cup
imposts, Clem Hill made Ortelle’s Star
meet The Trump on 211 b. worse terms,
while Desert Chief suffered to the extent
of 161 b.
Absence of early pace ruined the St.
Kilda Handicap from a form viewpoint.
Ortelle’s Star led past the stand, despite
the restraining efforts of Harold Badger.
At the half-way stage Con Devon
(ordinarily among the tail-enders) was in
clear command, and remained there for
another two furlongs.
A flash of genius on the part of
Norman Creighton brought success to
Desert Chief. This M.L. stallion rarely
looms up until whips are cracking.
Creighton “took occasion by the hand”
and dashed past loitering and entangled
rivals with half a mile to go.
Turning for home Ortelle’s Star was
near enough to Desert Chief, if good
enough, to cut him down. It soon be-
came evident that she couldn’t do the
trick. The Trump stretched out in some-
thing like his old style at the distance ;
but the effort, though praiseworthy, was
not adequate. He failed by half a length ;
Ortelle’s Star two lengths away.
Desert Chief started at eights. One
of the most handsome horses in Vic-
toria, he landed the V.A.T.C. Herbert
Power Handicap as a four-year-old, beat-
ing Frill Prince, subsequent Moonee
Valley Cup winner. Last season he
annexed the V.R.C. Birthday Cup and
V.A-T.C. Richmond Handicap.
Now rising seven years, Desert Chief
should be nearing the end of his normal
racing span. Owner is G. J. Barton, who
was pre-eminent in patronage of M.L.
trotting sport.
Kanuri (5 to 2) never got near the
front in the South Yarra Handicap,
which, on Newmarket Handicap form,
he ought to have won. Comic March
(fives) scored by a length from Adherent
(tens), with the Oaks winner, French
Gem, a stablemate of Aurie’s Star, in
third position.
Something may have happened to
Kanuri in running ; his display was too
bad to be true. But there is no excuse
for Brazandt whipping-in the field.
Brazandt simply cannot adapt himself
to the left-handed direction of galloping.
As in the Oakleigh Plate, he led until
the home curve was reached.
W. H. McLachlan, the lightweight
jockey of years gone by, derived un-
feigned pleasure from Anne (Winooka-
Anne Veronica) appropriating the first
division of the Orrong Two-year-old. His
son, when taking Bourbon back to Syd-
ney, left Anne behind with Frank Godby.
At 11 to 2, Anne was in nearly as
good demand as the favorite, Lord
Walla, whom she vanquished by 2}
lengths in the very smart time of lmin.
llisec. for six furlongs. This was bet-
tered only a fourth of a second by Comic
March in the South Yarra Handicap.
Second division of the juvenile event
fell to the 9-to-4 favorite, Mitosis, by
Gay Lothario from Fission, the dam
of Budapest (now distinguishing himself,
in India) and Great Divide. Gamely
responding to Harold Badger’s vigorous
riding, Mitosis got home by half a
length from El Reo (20 to 1). Historian
finished a poor third. He has cost
“Darcy” Eccles much money since the
spring.
Jack Fryer, of Wotan fame, had a
field day. He trained three winners—
Heroic’s Pride (Narong Hurdle), Desert
Chief (St. Kilda Handicap) and Pantoon
(Kooyong Welter). Last-named belongs
to Fryer. Almost friendless at 33 to 1,
he paid £lO 14s. and £2 11s. 6d. for ss.
on the tote. This Page’s choice, Sir Grey
(second), paid £1 19s. 6d. Last season
Pantoon won the Australia Day Cup at
Williamstown and was second to Hua
in the V.R.C. St. Leger, but his inter-
vening form until Saturday had been
wretched.
v * * *
High Caste, the star member of J. T.
Jamieson’s string, commanded the ad-
miration of everyone who inspected him
in Melbourne, with the exception of a
veteran trainer. “His sole blemish,” said
this critic, “is a ‘rat’ tail.” On hearing
which, a companion suggested that High
Caste’s tail might have been thinned-out
on the sea voyage from M.L. Horses do
munch at one another’s tails.
High Caste is now among the regular
workers at Randwick. His first race in
Sydney will be the Sires’ Produce Stakes
at Randwick on April 8, and, all going
well, he is sure to be favorite, though
Reading looms up as a danger. High
Caste looks big and powerful enough to
carry any weight—he stands just over
16 hands, and has strong shoulders and
quarters.
* * * *
At Moonee Valley on Monday all
seven acceptors in the rich Alister Clark
Stakes, run over a mile, faced the barrier,
and made a thrilling race of it. It went
to Amiable, picked by The Bulletin
for the South .Yarra Handicap at Caul-
field, but reserved for this. Larissa was
first to take up the running, leading
Aurie’s Star and El Golea, with Judean,
who was worst away, moving up nicely
to be fourth. Aurie’s Star joined the
leader at the half-mile and was two
lengths clear from Judean approaching
the turn, with Larissa dropping out oi
it, El Golea holding a good position
after the two leaders and Amiable start-
ing a run on the rails. Into the straight
Judean had joined Aurie’s Star, and with
a little over a furlong to go had headed
the crack sprinter, but Amiable continued
her fine run to win very nicely, with
El Golea third. The pacemaker, Larissa,
faded right out and finished last.
Another of The Bulletin’s Caulfield
tips came home at the Valley when Sir
Grey, who ran a capital race in the event
he was tipped for, collected the Anniver-
sary Handicap in a close finish from
Barametric and Con Devon.
* St * 9
J. P. McLennan, who once raced Gesto
and other horses, passed away last week
after a short illness. He was a member
of the A.J.C. and Tatt.’s Club, and was
well known in the Sydney wool trade.
Gesto was a good winner for him, but
the big horse lost his form suddenly and
never regained it.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Threa-year-old Handicap: Adios;
next, Mosaic.
Rawson Stakes: Ajax; next,
Gold Rod or St. Constant.
Railway Handicap: Gold Rod or
St. Constant; next, Micawber.
Autumn Handicap: Sal Volatile ;
next, Gold Spark.
Parramatta Mile: Sidcup ; next,
Will Rogers.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Moo n e e Ponds Handicap:
Ortelle’s Star ; next, Dark David.
Woodlands Handicap: French
Gem ; next Carpentier.
Sherwood Highweight: Kanuri;
next, Comic March.
Knoll Handicap: Sir Grey;
next, Manetis.


BOOKS AS GIFTS!
Three Delightful Novels
Jl
PAGEANT
By
G. B. Lancaster
Price, 6/6.
Postage 4d.
LANDTAKERS
By Brian Penton
Price, 5/-.
Postage 6d.
ť
And the Finest Novel of Australia
Ever Written !
Miles Franklin’s Brilliant Prize-winning Novel
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
Winner of the 1936 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
for Australian Literature, “All That Swagger”
has been acclaimed the real Australian story. A
brilliant work in sheer writing, planned and carried
out on a grand scale and covering one hundred
years. “All That Swagger” adds memorable
characters to Australian literature, has a stirring
dramatic quality in its story and a splendid theme.
Price 6/- (postage 5d.).
PUBLISHED BY
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.) and London.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1127 of 1938.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS CLARE WOODS Peti-
tioner
And HARRY WOODS Respondent.
TO HARRY WOODS late of Cross Street
Forest Lodge in the State of New South
Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
CLARE WOODS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Second day
of June next and in the event of your not
dojng so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of March, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
T. G. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 216 of 1939.
BETWEEN ANGELO ARVANITAKI
Petitioner
And ANDRONIKI ARVANITAKI Re-
spondent
And GEORGE DIMITRIOU Co-
respondent.
TO GEORGE DIMITRIOU, late of Carlton
in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANGELO
ARVANITAKI has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of adultery
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
twentieth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
DAVID S. DIND, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 90 of 1939.
BETWEEN MIRIAM WHITE Petitioner
And FRANK CHARTERS WHITE
Respondent.
TO FRANK CHARTERS WHITE formerly
of Tamworth.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MIRIAM
WHITE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the first day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 25 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY TONGE Petitioner
And WILLIAM NORMAN TONGE
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM NORMAN TONGE late of
Taree in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
TONGE has commenced a suit against you in
this Court, and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the ninth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Tenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar,
W. A. DOWE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL MR. SEVERIN PETER HANSEN,
Watchmaker, believed to be somewhere in
Queensland, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, kindly communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zea-
land?
Personal and Missing Friends.
EDWARD HARE: Will Edward Hare (hus-
band of Sarah Hare, late of Alvie, Vic.),
formerly of Colac, Vic., and afterwards in
N.S.W., a carpenter by trade, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate with
Sewell & Sewell, Solicitors, Colac, Victoria?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2272 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOUGLAS WILLIAM CLARK
Petitioner
And DAPHNE BELLE CLARK Respon-
dent
And ALAN GEORGE HAINES Co-re-
spondent.
TO ALAN GEORGE HAINES formerly of
Hamilton.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOUGLAS
WILLIAM CLARK has commenced a suit
against DAPHNE BELLE CLARK in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of adultery
and has named you as co-respondent AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Sixth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 119 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALBERT JOLLEY Petitioner
And EMILY MARGARET ALICE
JOLLEY Respondent.
TO EMILY MARGARET ALICE JOLLEY
formerly of Stockton.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERT
JOLLEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 14th day pf March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 772 of 1927.
BETWEEN JOHN McLEAN Petitioner
And CELINA ROSE McLEAN Respon-
dent.
TO JOHN McLEAN late of Cooma.
TAKE NOTICE that this Honorable Court
will be moved on the Fourth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
at the Supreme Court House King Street
Sydney on behalf of the abovenamed respon-
dent for an order that the Decree Nisi granted
herein on the Third day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one be made absolute.
' (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. R. TRACEY & CO, Solicitors for the
Respondent, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM HURST for-
merly of “Carrawilla” Bootoota in the
State of Queensland and also of Wagga
Wagga in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
VERONICA HURST intends to make applica-
tion to a Special Magistrate of the Children’s
Court to be held at Wagga Wagga at 10 o’clock
in the forenoon on the Eighth day of May in
the year One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine for an order under Section 8A of
the Deserted Wives and Childrens Act 1901
authorising and directing some person to de-
mand and receive from Albert Hurst and
Robert John Hurst the trustees of the will of
JOHN HURST late of Wagga Wagga Retired
Farmer deceased and Albert Hurst and Robert
John Hurst the trustees of the will of KETURA
HURST late of Wagga Wagga Widow deceased
certain moneys held by them in trust for you
and to appropriate, moneys so paid on account
of moneys due by you to your wife under and
by virtue of an order of the Children’s Court
at Wagga Wagga made against you on the
Twenty-sixth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-five. Should you fail
to attend the Court then an order as mentioned
in this notice may be made in your absence.
DATED this 13th day of March, 1939.
HEATH & MITCHELMORE,
Solicitors for Annie Veronica Hurst,
Gurwood Chambers, Wagga Wagga, N.S.W.
ELIZABETH KNAPE.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court
made in the action 1938 No. 705 in which
The Equity Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited is plaintiff and Frederick
Dawson Trewarne defendant the persons claim-
ing to be next-of-kin to ELIZABETH KNAPE
nee Dellar or Deller late of Kew formerly of
Bendigo in the State of Victoria Widow who
died on the 17th day of February 1936 are by
their solicitors on or before the 15th day of
May 1939 to come in and prove their claims
at the office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order The 29th day of May 1939 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon at the said office
is appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED the Nth day of March, 1939.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
ii
WOMAN
ii
3 VOLUMES
■
I
- .
51
H
m
■Hi
Authoritative
information on
Feminine Structure
and Sex Problems
AMIDST the mass of literature in all lan-
guages concerning woman and her place in
civilised and savage societies, this famous
work by Drs. Ploss and Bartels, leading
German authorities, stands out pre-
eminently in the mind of every anthro-
pological student. This is the authorised
English version of the original work.
These volumes comprise the most com-
plete guide of anthropological literature
relating to woman ever brought together in
one work. For over a period of half a
century this work has been known and
valued as a standard and authoritative
compilation of almost all that was known
of feminine structure, its function and
occupation, both normal and abnormal.
The English edition being described here
has been improved and enlarged with more
recent information on the subject of woman,
together with additional illustrations of sur-
passing interest and curiosity.
As the only authoritative monograph in its
field, “Woman” is indispensable to the
anthropologist who wishes to become
acquainted with much material usually to
be found only in obscure publications buried
in foreign libraries. Write for prospectus
containing full information of this work.
3 VOLUMES, COMPRISING OVER
2000 PAGES, WITH MORE THAN
1000 ILLUSTRATIONS.
OPINIONS
“Nature” (London): “A unique compilation
on womankind ... a really remarkable com-
pendium . . . But it is to anthropologists
especially that the work will be of value,
as it places at their disposal a wealth of
material which otherwise it would be
impossible for them to acquire.”
“The British Medical Journal” says: “In
this improved, enlarged and abundantly
illustrated form it is a remarkable work
at last available for English readers.”
“The Lancet”: “An anthropologist or
ethnologist w r ho wants to know something
about woman’s ways in any place will find
in this book whatever may be known on
the matter.”
Aldous Huxley in “The New Statesman and
Nation” (London) : “I am full of an
appalled admiration for so much industry,
such accumulations of knowledge.”
“The Times Literary Supplement”: “A
standard work for half a century.”
Send for Free Prospectus.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me a prospectus containing full
information of “Woman/’ by Drs. Heinrich Ploss.
Max Bartels and Paul Bartels, three volumes.
This places me under no obligation.
NAME
t
I
.. B. 239 |
ADDRESS


‘KING t °h f e ROAD”
BATTERIES
Under the Whip
The brothers Othello and Cassio, by
Heroic-Desdemona, were among a lot
of racehorses in training put up by Mac-
kinnon and Cox in their Newmarket,
Melbourne, yards. Both are chestnuts.
Othello, who was foaled in 1934, was sold
to Henwood, the Caulfield man, for 600
guineas ; but the best bid for the three-
year-old was 375 guineas, and that was
refused. Apropos, those who named the
brothers had odd ideas of nomenclature.
In the play written by that fellow Shak-
speare, neither Othello nor Cassio was
Desdemona’s son.
The brothers were trained at Caul-
field by Cecil Godby, and were sent into
the ring because the owner, R. R.
Thomas, was about to take a trip over-
seas. Othello was the highest-priced
yearling at the 1936 sales in Sydney ; he
cost 1700 guineas; a season later Cassio
fetched 1300 guineas. Desdemona is by
All Black from Dame Lybia, a sister to
Ihe 1908 Melbourne Cup winner, Lord
Nolan, and belongs to the famous Black
Swan family.
* * * *
Brood mares of quality brought excel-
lent prices at the Melbourne sales.
Elwood Fisher, acting on behalf of T. C.
Manifold, a member of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, gave 775gns. for Pythia (Psy-
chology-Flora Macdonald), with a colt
foal at foot by Manitoba and served
again by Manitoba. Pythia belonged
to Mrs. F. Nathan, who has retired from
racing since the death of her husband.
Mrs. Nathan also sent into the ring that
very promising colt Crojick, winner of
the V.R.C. Farewell Handicap. He was
withdrawn at llOOgns., the reserve being
1250gns. Auctioneer W. S. Cox remarked
that several' months ago he offered
2500gns. for Crojick.
* * * *
In Melbourne after a long absence,
A. E. (“Tim”) Smart has bought Clear
Reception (Marconigram-Virginal) for
racing in Queensland. This gelding is a
half-brother to First Arrow, who won a
division of the Oakleigh Plate in 1931.
Smart was a jockey in Melbourne, as
also was his better-known brother. W. A.
Smart, now a trainer at Williamstown,
did a lot of riding for “S. A. Rawdon.”
* * * *
H. Alan Currie and Ross Grey Smith,
members of the V.R.C. committee, were
among the crowd at the Kyneton Cup
meeting—the largest on record, as also
were the fields. Nine events had to be
disposed of. There were insufficient
stalls for runners, many being saddled in
the open.
Kyneton sport was marred by a smash
in the Maiden Plate. Six horses fell and
two of them had to be destroyed. A. R.
Cooper, who had been riding in great
form for several weeks, had a leg broken,
and another well-known lightweight, W.
Cox, suffered severe concussion.
The Sydney performer King Gee
seemed partieularly well weighted at
8.7 in the Kyneton Cup, and was backed
down to 5 to 2 in a field of 16. With
every chance in running King Gee failed
by half a length to overtake the country
performer, Bonnington (Bonnement-
Lady Lonsdale), who led throughout.
Bonnington started at sevens.
In divisions of the Two-year-old
Handicap easy victories were achieved by
Bandrol, owned by E. A. Syme, of the
V.A.T.C. committee, and Captain Kettle,
who belongs to the V.R.C. chairman.
Each was a hot favorite, Bandrol figur-
ing at 5 to 2 on and Captain Kettle at
6 to 4 against.
Big tote dividends are becoming the
fashion on Victorian courses. Con
Devon paid £2B 14s. 6d. for ss. in the
V.R.C. River Handicap on March 9.
This was far overshadowed at Kyneton,
where Galleon (Drake-Cidli) returned his
backers £43 9S. 6d. in the Novice Handi-
cap.
* * * *
The s.p. brotherhood lost a champion
when J. W. Waddell, member for Waver-
ley in the N. S. Wales Parliament,
died in a Sydney hospital on his forty-
eighth birthday. Waddell —a nephew of
Tom Waddell, Premier for a few months
in 1904 —put the case for them in a series
of radio talks, and, having a sonorous
voice and a fine flow of language, did
it impressively. But the impression was
confined to listeners not in the Cabinet,
which collection of alleged statesmen has
an invincible wowser streak. It won’t
“Saw us a piece of, Swordie!”
even allow good Australian light wines
to be served with restaurant meals,
though N.S.W. wineries have a huge un-
sold surplus, and half-pints of hock and
chablis wouldn’t hurt a fly.
* * * *
“0.D.”: Knight George Julius is
usually referred to as the inventor
of the tote, but a machine which re-
cords visible individual and progressive
bets, together with total of same,
was designed by William Goodwin,
a billposter of Christchurch (M.L.).
Goodwin’s totalisator, with few improve-
ments, was operating in M.L. for 32 years
prior to the sale of the first Julius totali-
sator to the Auckland Racing Club in
1912. The Julius machine is electrically
operated; Goodwin’s works manually.
It is still to be seen on many M.L.
courses. The first occasion on which the
tote operated anywhere in the world was
at Marton (M.L.) on January 1, 1880,
although a form of pari-mutuel was to
be seen on certain courses in France in
the middle seventies of last century.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Washouts on the Fistic Front
At Sydney Stadium a bung eye stopped
proceedings just as they were starting to
get interesting in the return engagement
between Ossie Stewart (list. silb.) and
Atilio Sabatino (list.). Atilio is evidently
extra susceptible to bung eye; it has
cramped his admirable style in most of
his fights. This time it was started by a
not-very-heavy right jab in the third
round; it kept steadily swelling, and by
the end of the sixth the optic was com-
pletely shut in. Half-way through the
next round Mr. Wallis called the affair
off.
At that stage Sab. was leading on
points, without looking like winning.
From the start he went about it with un-
wonted recklessness, dancing in to paste
Stewart’s middle with left rips, and once,
in the fifth, catching the ebony statue
flat-footed and planting a heavy right
swing to the jaw. In close, too, Sab. did
some nice work with his right, but that
he’d be able to last the twelve rounds
in his reckless mood and escape a k.o.
seemed highly improbable.
That affray drew a packed house,
which was more than turned up at Leich-
hardt Stadium to see Jack McNamee
(list. 4|lb.) make mincemeat of Joe
Smallwood (list. This the Aus-
tralian accomplished with what was prob-
ably intended to be a straight left, but
was more in the nature of a bent left
shove. Though it looked slow enough
to lose a Snails’ Derby, Joe was even
slower. Jack just kept shoving it out,
and there was the American’s nose on
the end of it. The wonder is that it
didn’t go down the American’s throat;
he had his mouth open wide enough, and
there would have been plenty of time for
him to digest it.
The coming Australian middleweight,
it must be admitted, is about as graceful
to look at as a Queensland crab assault-
ing an oyster-bed. Sometimes his left
shove missed by as much as a foot, but
whether it connected or missed made no
difference: Jack went along with it just
the same, and either grabbed the Ameri-
can or was grabbed by him, and there
they struggled together until ref. Lacey
dragged them apart.
Oddly enough, it was an exceptionally
gory affair —not as a result of punching,
of which there could never have been less
spread over 11 rounds, but because the
American is afflicted with a beak in such
a grievous state of disrepair that his best
friends should tell him to stay out of
the ring till it mends, if not altogether.
If the wild swinging he has shown in
his two Leichhardt displays is the best
he can now do, he will just go on being
cut to pieces. As in his Henneberry affray,
one of those wild swings looked momen-
tarily like collecting the laurels for him.
It happened in the third round, when
Joe came out of his corner and let loose
a right that started from behind his knee,
nearly knocked the fez off a lama on
the second-highest peak in Tibet, brushed
a few tourists off the Pyramid
of Cheops and eventually made
a pancake landing after its
travels on McNamee’s jaw.
Absolutely astonished, Jack sat
down.
That was the solitary point
of interest in a scrap about
which the crowd was expressibly
fed up long before Mr. Lacey,
in the eleventh, stepped in to
lift Jack’s fist aloft.
It wasn’t any such reluctance
to fight that made a washout of
the Sydney Arena encounter of
Kiu Kong Young (Bst. 51b.) and
Colin Fitzjohn (Bst. 61b.), but
simply that the son of the
former Australian amateur
champ, was hopelessly
outclassed. At all times
weak in defence, Colin
was his usual open self to
the very speedy American
Chinese. The local lad
took such a torrid body-
battering from the word
go that ref. Pearson
stopped the awful affair
in the third round. Not
knowing when he’d had
more than enough, Colin
resented this, but was
taken back to his corner.
Then he collapsed, and
they had to take him to
hospital later.
It’s a poor business matching mod-
erates with imported bruisers. The
Alabama Kid was handed two or three
like that to bowl over when he came
here. Stacked up then against good men
he proved a dud.
Yet another washout was added to the
dismal list when Australian bantam and
feather champion Micky Miller gave up in
the fourth round of his Brisbane engage-
ment with Henry Moreno, who, on his
earlier Sydney display, is far from being
a world-beater. Miller’s trouble was a
strained right hand, but he had given a
lamentable display before the damaged
mitt made him desert the ring, leaving
the decision to the diminutive Mexican
on the commonest of all fight-concluders
in Australia these days, a t.k.o.
“D.E.”: Darcy was a front-rank
middleweight for little more than two
years. During that period he beat
Clabby twice, McGoorty twice, Holland,
Brown, Crouse, Jeff Smith, Dave Smith,
Loughrey, Mick King, Billy Murray,
Christie and George Chip, all competent
middleweights. McGoorty, Clabby, the
Smiths, Holland and King were as busy
as Darcy. During those two years and
a bit Big Cities saw upwards of a hun-
dred fights between representative
middleweights ; and most of them went
20 rounds. In no case —not one —was
a fight stopped because one middleweight
or the other had a damaged eye. Yet in
two or three months Sydney has seen
Matthews v. Henneberry, McNamee v.
Matthews, Henneberry v. Farmer, Saba-
tino v. Richards and Sabatino v. Stewart
stopped for that reason, and when the
closure was applied to Farmer v. the
Alabama Kid one of the coon’s peepers
was shut. As for Palmer, his ring career
closed when he was quite a young man
because of repeated eye injuries. What
does all this signify? To me, that the
present crop of middleweights and light-
heavyweights is decidedly inferior to
Darcy and his contemporaries. When
they can’t get away from eye-punches
or -butts they are deficient in knowledge
which the middleweights of 20 years ago
and those of an earlier period—Fitz-
simmons, Hall, Creedon, “Starlight,"
Mick Dunn and Jim Ryan—learned as
one of the rudiments. After ail, boxing


ifiji
*4/
m
Si
SqU
r*q«nH
JOUBERT *. JOUBERT
PTY
LTD
The W&UdA Bert Seilrtt
BECAUSE IT'S THE WORLD’S BEST VALUE
5
m
wm
CHEVROLET -
THE SOUNDEST INVESTMENT OF THEM ALL
Throughout the world in 7 of the last 8 years, more people have
bought Chevrolets than any other car. In Australia last year
Chevrolet sold 1,581 more cars than its next competitor! When a
motor car wins such overwhelming public endorsement there’s only
one reason: It is the best value-for-money obtainable. And now for
1939 Chevrolet steps still farther ahead as the value-leader. Look
at its 8 brilliant features (listed at right) and you’ll realise that
Chevrolet for 1939 has beauty, utility, comfort and safety features
which no other car in the world at anything like its price can
offer. Chevrolet is your best buy because it gives you every modern
feature now and because it protects your investment by maintain-
ing the highest resale value. We cordially invite you to have a
Free 5-Mile Drive in this magnificent new 1939 Chevrolet.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LIMITED.
STANDARD MODELS FROM £312
Business Roadster .
Sports Roadster. . .
Business Coupe .. .
. £312
. £325
. £332
Sports Coupe .... £345
Sedan . £357
(All Prices plus Sales Tax;
MASTER DE LUXE SPORTS COUPE AND SEDAN also available.
Easy Terms Available under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
WORLD'S SALES LEADER IN 7 OF LAST 8 YEARS
8 BRILLIANT FEATURES
FOR 19 39 ■ ■ .
THE NEW "PULLMAN RIDE"
(Standard Models)
O
"PILOT-SEAT" DRIVING VISION
•
VACUUM-ASSISTED SAFETY
GEAR-SHIFT (Master de Luxe)
•
PERFECTED
INDEPENDENT SPRINGING
(Master de Luxe)
•
BEAUTIFUL NEW BODIES BY
HOLDEN
•
PERFECTED "FULL CONTACT"
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
•
OVERHEAD VALVE
6-CYLINDER ENGINE
•
EASY ACTION
"TIPTOE-MATIC" CLUTCH
"AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO. The modern
motorist has an "Air Chief" installed in
his car, to derive maximum enjoyment
from motoring, A new model specially
designed for Chevrolet is included in the
range, at prices from 18 guineas. Ask
for a demonstration. You will be pleased
at the excellent radio reception given by
"Air Chief".
mm
CHEVROLET r«r!939
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
CG6I-33
is the art of self-defence, and the pug
who, while still strong on his feet, is
incapable of avoiding or blocking an
eye-punch is a crude scrapper at best.
I exclude Ron Richards. That Queens-
lander has never, in the jargon of the
day, been technically knocked out because
of a closed or bleeding eye. Chiefly for
that reason, I say he is the only 1939
middleweight who deserves to be named
in the same breath as the great ones of
the past.
* * * $
“T.”: Memoir-writers have omitted
one interesting fact about the late
“Starlight.” Thirty-odd years ago he
went to England and did so well that,
running out of middleweight competition,
he had to take on heavyweights. He
actually fought for the heavyweight
championship of England against one
Crisp, and went 12 rounds. British heavy-
weight form then and for many years
afterwards was not much good, for
Charlie Mitchell left no successors ; but
for a man in the mid-forties who gave
away quite a stone and a half “Star’s”
performance was remarkable. In the
previous decade Creedon had stopped
Jem Smith, who claimed the heavyweight
championship, and Hall had whipped
Pritchard, the middleweight champion,
while the Corinthians of the period,
headed by Lord Lonsdale, were still
talking of Jackson’s fight with Slavin as
the greatest since Sayers v. Heenan ; so
the reputation of Australian pugs in
England stood very high.
Ins and Oufs
The farce of the last timeless Test
ended on the tenth day at Durban, when
Hammond’s men had lost five wickets
for 654. They needed another 42 runs
for a win, but rain prevented any more
play, and next day their boat left for
England. Edrich broke a deadly succes-
sion of small scores in representative
matches by making 219. Gibb got 120,
eight by boundaries, in seven hours,
about the time that it took Van der Byl
to make 125. So ended the dreariest
chapter in the history of a game that
couldn’t survive if ten-day Tests became
habitual.
* * * w
“Keima”: I suggest that Test matches
be limited to four days and decided on
points, as in the Sheffield Shield com-
petition, the side with most points at the
end of the series to be declared the
winner. Such matches would be heaps
brighter than either played-out games, as
in Australia, or, as in England, the four-
day Tests that often have no definite
result and a long-drawn-out decider that
becomes a pain in the neck.
* * * *
In the course of one afternoon Mos-
man, McCabe’s club, gained a first-
innings lead over Western Suburbs by
scoring 20 runs, put Western Suburbs out
for 124 in 93 minutes and got 123 re-
quired for an outright victory— and first
place on the premiership list —in 68
minutes, losing five wickets. McCabe
made 58 in 41 minutes. Now that is
cricket.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Looking through a file
of papers for 1897, I came across the
following note from Ernie Jones, S.
Australia’s express:
I am not going to become a professional
either here or in England. If I cannot
get anything to do in the city, I would
rather go into the country and work and
give up cricket altogether. As I am, I
play the game for the honor of the
coloiiy. ...The Indian prince? I don’t
call him a batsman at all —he’s a juggler
with a bat. I used to bump them down to
him at my top pace, and Ranji would just
cut and hook me —balls, too, that rose as
high as his forehead.
That seems to be about as complete an
epitome as has ever been written of the
ingredients which used to comprise the
Test-match spirit.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has had its annual
country cricket “carnival,” with over 30
teams, for all of which grounds were
found in and about Adelaide. Mostly
they were strictly district sides, but the
principle is oddly allowed to be broken
in a few instances, and thus the top
places were filled by “Nomads,” “Coun-
try Districts” and “Stockbreeders.” In
the last game for Nomads, J. T. Murray,
the A.I.F. player, made 90 and took six
for 28.
Footbrawl
In the trade between Victoria and
Westralia, footballers are regular exports
and imports. Technically they should be
classed as “invisible” exports and imports,
but on leather-chasing days footballers
are always seen and very often heard.
During the last couple of years West-
ralia had the better of the exchanges,
and Fitzroy still sorrows for Bunton,
who seems to have settled down in
Perth ; but the propensity of Westraliau
youth for joining the R.A.A.F. is mak-
ing a difference. Last week Jones and
Norman Doig, who have been trans-
ferred from the West to Laverton, cast
up in Melbourne, and before they left
Spencer-street station, they had been
signed up by the Same Old Essendon.
Doig played for East Fremantle, and is
a member of Westralia’s most noted
native-born football family.
* * # *
“Bumpk”: The country used to be the
last stronghold of sport for sport’s sake,
but now the Wimmera has come into
the metropolitan market where profes-
sional footballers are put up, metaphori-
cally speaking, for auction to the highest
bidder. Dan Murray, Fitzroy’s premier
half-back, has received an offer of a
tenner a match, plus a permanent job at
what he is getting now, to coach Hor-
sham. Jack Beveridge, the one-time
darling of Collingwood’s football in-
fatuates, nursed the Horsham lads into
the premiership last year. A couple of
good harvests may see the Mallee in the
position to outbid Melbourne suburbs,
and the best football in the State will
have to be sought for within the 15-inch
rainbelt.
* * * *
Footballers bought and sold on the
hoof are valuable property —sometimes —
and the directors of the Wigan Rugby
League club are taking no chances with
their masses of beef. They won’t let
them come to Australia unless they play
club teams only ; and there would be no
money in club matches if they were
licked a couple of times. Queensland’s
Harry Sunderland, who has been trying
to arrange the tour in the teeth of
opposition from both ends, dropped into
prose poetry or something of the sort
when news of the directors’ stipulation
was broken to him.
Thursday night at seven o’clock is
the zero hour when the tour collapses or
lives to prosper or it is revealed that the
Rugby League lacks evidence of public
support. Somebody has developed cold
feet. It is not me. Brontosaurus-minded
League men who had plodded into action
over France raise obstacles which must
not depress those who desire enterprise
and progress. The Rugby League must
revive the standard of those post-war
periods or perish.
Beautiful, exceedingly; but it seems all
too probable that the brontosaurus-
minded persons will prevail. The age of
missionary effort in the League Rugby
world has passed.
Miscellaneous
“Sturt”: At Adelaide (Kooyonga)
A. V. Goldfinch on March 4 did the
156-yard fourteenth in one. On March
11 he did it again with the same ball.
* * * *
Only a few hours off the Melbourne
express, dog-tired and with a bad foot —
he has surfer’s itch—Nakama tackled
Biddulph again in the North Sydney
Olympic Pool. The distance was 440
yards, the time 4min. 52 l-ssec., and the
Japanese from Hawaii won by a touch.
A daily calls him the most popular
swimmer that ever visited these parts.
He is certainly as obliging a youth as
ever carried out a programme that would
be hard on two men. He has toured
all the mainland travelled about
7000 miles, appeared 41 times and has
not finished yet —he has gone to Queens-
land again.


-yC OUUXhCUj/Q, ~ti
MELBOURNE I
Twice. Daily -230-8 I
.Sgg*
WiWllUli
“THE LAUGH ROUND-UP,'
featuring
WIUU MAHONEY.
And 10 Other Acts.
I,ust Days—
“THE BIG FUN SHOW OF 1930.”
Ada Brown, Radcliffe and Rodtters.
13 Star Variety Acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Bats in the Belfry ”
Of roughly 450 new offerings let loose
in Sydney’s posh picture-shows last
year, about 400 ranged from poor and
bad to rotten. This year they have been
worse, and at the moment most Sydney
film-houses are running, for two or three
weeks, films that are a libel on the men-
tality of any theatregoer.
By way of contrast, for three nights
only and in an unostentatious theatre
Karloff Frankenstein puts the breeze up Basil Rathbone to the great entertain-
ment of Bela Lugosi (if nobody else), at Sydney State.
of limited capacity, an amateur club
has been turning on rattling fine enter-
tainment.
The Sydney Players’ production at St.
James Hall is comedy as wholly broad
and blunt as its title. It has to do with
a mild and respectable pillar of the
church and his not-so-mild and not-so-
respectable offspring. Eldest son, a
somewhat likeable scapegrace, has just
been booted out of college and is con-
templating further misbehavior by light-
ing out with Lady Somebody-or-other ;
eldest daughter is almost spliced to the
“result of too much Saxon interbreed-
ing,” and the two youngsters are in the
chronic stages of adolescence.
What time that interesting assortment
has been effectively introduced as almost
ready to tear each other’s ears off, the
news of a pending visit of a militant
aunt brings consternation upon the
household. That lady, it transpires, has
an unhappy knack of jamming her finger
into every family pie, causing minor
domestic earthquakes and readjusting the
tenor of everybody’s life as she sees fit.
Her attempts to frustrate nephew’s
elopement and niece’s marriage and the
consequent plotting and counterplotting
make up the body of a very amusing
play.
Though the comedy is broad, there is
little of slapstick or fallabout in it.
Humor is furnished mainly by keen
delineation of character and light verbal
sparring. Excellent directing kept the
play on a very even keel, and the players
—excellently cast —fitted comfortably
into their parts.
As the invading aunt Gwen Sherwood
turned in a tiptop performance ; John
Howard and Naomi Waters furnished
some very natural acting, and Thomas
Parramore, as the too-much-Saxon etc.,
offered a highly amusing caricature. Bert
Wrightwood ran a bit loose with make-
up, but was appropriately unobtrusive
as father of the bunch ; Megan Edwards
made an attractive decoration, and re-
sponded well when called upon to show
some histrionic ability; Frank Hales,
Pamela Linton, Clarence Street and
James Flanagan were among others who
did much in providing a couple of hours’
excellent entertainment.
Concert for Refugees.
Tall Jews and short Jews, rich Jews
and poor Jews, speaking every variety
of Yiddish and most European languages,
crowded into the Town Hall, Melbourne,
on Saturday to hear their compatriots,
Tossy and Jascha Spivakovsky, play in
the refugee cause under the auspices of
the Jewish Democratic Cultural Society
and under the patronage of Isaac Isaacs.
The programme included the “Kreut-
zer” sonata, the Bach “Chaconne,”
Tschaikowsky’s “Doumka,” Liszt’s No. 3
“Liebestraume” and “Rakoczy March,”
and the lovely Cesar Franck Sonata in
A major ; and the encores were of the
same high order.
In the “Kreutzer” Tossy’s violin gave
him trouble owing to perspiration, neces-
sitating a temporary exit, but the slow
movement was tender, and Jascha’s piano-
forte part was impressive. The pair were
in their best form in the Cesar Franck,
Jascha presenting one of the most beau-
tiful themes in musical literature and
Tossy picking it up, commenting on it
and passing it back for reconsideration
on the piano, the main thread of the
dialogue never being lost for a moment.
The “Chaconne” had Tossy alone on the
platform, and his playing brought the
house down.
Jascha’s private panel was of a more
popular variety, and his display of vir-
tuosity in the “Rakoczy” raised a fresh
demand for encores.
“Son of Frankenstein .”
Basil Rathbone, Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi,
Lionel Atwill.
Went along to see this at Sydney State
and regret to report didn’t turn a
bloomin’ hair.
As a marrow-freezer it’s a washout;
more authentic horror has been put over
in a score or two gangster and moider-
mystery flicks. ...
Perhaps the trouble with it is mainly
false expectation worked up by ads. The
blood gets all ready to curdle, and the
worst that happens to it is that it gets
a little bit soupy here and there; and
that not till the film is more than half
over.
It might have been a better horror opus
if Hollywood hadn’t such a sensitive
artistic soul. Last time Frankenstein’s
Monster was a film star he was short-
sightedly permitted to kick the bucket.
The idea having got about that he might
now give a needed kick to the box office,
the job was to get him back. Aware of
its artistic soul, Hollywood had to give
an air of verisimilitude to this resurrec-
tion.
So young Dr. Frankenstein, son of the
late Dr. Frankenstein, arrives at Franken-
stein from U.S.A., together with wife and
little boy. He is met in pouring rain
at the station by the villagers, whose
burgomaster lets him know that what the
Monster did in the original film hasn't
been forgotten. Burgo. also gives him
a couple of boxes containing papers and
effects bequeathed to him.
Time meanders on while the Franken-
steins dig in at the old family address,
and it does a good deal more meandering
before young Dr. Frankenstein discovers
that his father’s creation didn’t die of
hot-squat after all, but has lived on
all these years in a state of coma in the
dungeonous laboratory, with a coarse
villager as his valet. By the time the
Monster has been brought to by appli-
cations of electric voltage, a glance at the
clock indicates that if he’s going to do
his duty by the box office he’ll have to
get moving.
He duly gets abroad and bumps off
one or two people who don’t seem to
matter one way or another. Then he
comes and lures away the Doc.’s small
son, and is followed and made to take
a header into a pool of boiling sulphur,
where, it seems not unlikely, Hollywood
will be happy to leave him.
To go along expecting a true blood-
curdler is to spoil what might otherwise
be passable entertainment. Taken for
what it is, it isn’t at all bad melodrama
in a macabre setting. It is well presented
in half-lights, and there is fine acting in
it by Rathbone and Lugosi as the young
Dr. Frankenstein and the Monster’# valet
respectively, and even finer by Lionel
Atwill as head of the village police.
There is one really high-class passage in
the film, when Rathbone, while engaged
in the childish business of heaving darts
at a board, represents bordering on a
violent nervous breakdown. But Atwill,
with his minor role, completely steals the
show.
“Out West with the Hardys!’
Lewis Stone, Mickey Rooney.
Judged by this magnum opus and what
accompanies it at Sydney St. James, film
audiences find entertainment in curious
stuff —that is, if they do find entertain-
ment.
The idea at the back of these Hardy
family concoctions possibly is that there
are enough people to whom family life
is flat and humdrum to ensure a good
hearing for romantically exaggerated
escape versions of it. Enough familiar
ingredients are worked in to provide a
surface semblance of reality ; there are
homely touches approximately true to
life; the characters seem in most re-
spects plain and everyday.
Looked into more closely, the lot of
it is a sham.
Judge Hardy is a.n artificial idealisation
of the concept of the firm but indulgent
paterfamilias. Grey-haired, stiff in the
joints, but mentally alert, a paragon of
present domestic headship and unsullied
marital rectitude, never losing his tem-
per, full of understanding and mag-
nanimity, he stands for a pattern that
might well be the despair of husbands
and fathers, the beau-ideal of motherly
wives who think they would like a placid
existence and wish the old man was a
patch on him, the joy of adolescents who
pine for the length of rope, coupled with
the unfailing kindness towards mistaken
use of it, that he extends to his own.
There never was a father and husband
like him, so patient and forbearing, so
self-effacing and yet so indisputably the
head of the house.
And in this house nobody presumes
on his goodness. Mrs. Hardy will wait
on him hand and foot, just out of sheet
gratitude, but she won’t attempt to
usurp his lordship. She is happy w lth
her place, the dear little woman; bring-
ing up her brood of two—boy and girl,
that perfection of connubial reward. She
may become overstrained with her
domestic chores, poor dear, but she wih
show it only in a pathetic shortness oi
speech to the children and a resort to
tears at the dinner-table. She will no
rage into a temper—there is nothing
vicelike in this perfect household. Aopw
all, she will not display any mstinc
A Prize-winning Play
Betty Roland’s “Are You Ready,
Comrade?” put on by Sydney New
Theatre League, opens with a soliloquy
and closes with some weak and psycho-
logically false propaganda. But between
that devil and that deep Red sea there
is so much really powerful drama that
its taking of the £50 first prize in the
Westralian festival seems fully justified.
The gent, who does the soliloquising
is a renovated Hamlet, a nerve-racked
ex-soldier, partner in a big steel-manu-
facturing business. As the playwright
wanted to show his hysterical condition,
it would have been fair enough to show
him tossing and turning in bed and per-
haps muttering an occasional “To be or
not to be,” but it was certainly not legi-
timate to show that he was in love with
his partner’s wife by making him say
something iike “I must think of some-
thing pleasant. Helga! Ah, why did I
think of her! My partner’s wife!”
The ending makes Helga, who has
been carefully portrayed as a bad, bad
girl with perhaps a heart of gold and
whose Hamlet has decided it was not to
be, leave her husband and run for .com-
fort to Hamlet’s Communist brother.
Communist brother, instead of starting
an affair with her himself, hands the
poor girl a torch and marches her off to
a demonstration.
It’s an incredible solution. Until
that debacle, however, the people are
splendidly credible. Hamlet (called
Martin Boyd) has war memories, severe
financial worries and impending domes-
tic tragedy to account for his hysteria.
His wife is shown as injured and suffer-
ing ; but also, very soundly, as posses-
sive and boring. Helga, jealous of the
wife and yet sorry for her, in love with
Martin but irritated at his weakness,
loathing her husband but not loathing
his money, is perfectly in character.
The play is remarkable for the accu-
racy of its dialogue. Helga’s husband, a
hard-headed businessman, never once
speaks a sentence that rings false. The
mixture of slang and good English in
the lines of a rather priggish but very
pleasant young Com. could not be
faulted.
In minor scenes, as well as in the big
ones, there is the same exactness of
action as there is of speech. Henderson,
a clerk who has been dismissed by the
partner against Martin’s wishes, chooses
Martin, the weakling, on whom to vent
his anger. The more Martin says he
is sorry and he understands “exactly
how you feel,” the angrier Henderson
grows, the more he enjoys “ticking off
the boss.” When Martin, too, becomes
angry, Helga comes in, and Henderson,
though he would like to rage at the rich
woman, is unable to do more than gibe
at her once as he retreats.
The big scene, a quarrel between
Martin and his partner, is first-class.
The partner wants to make armaments
to save the firm from bankruptcy.
Martin, because of his war experiences
and his humanitarianism, refuses. In the
framework of this quarrel, Miss Roland
is able to state the arguments for and
against the private manufacture of arms
with very great force. Then the quarrel
becomes personal; the partner reveals
that he knows of Martin’s affair with his
wife, and by threatening a divorce action
is able to blackmail Martin into agreeing
to manufacture armaments. Martin’s
reconciliation with his own wife and
their escape for a cruise together are
further good analysis, and the scene in
which Helga and her husband reach a
showdown completes the triangle.
The play was excellently acted. Miss
Roland herself did well in the part of
Helga ; John Sherman made a good fist
of the difficult Martin ; Tom Godfrey,
as the partner, was outstanding. In
minor roles, there was satisfying work by
Edgar Yardley as a bit-too-Dickensian
little-businessman, Guido Baracchi as
Henderson, and Bruce Beeby as the
young man with the pleasant smile and
the red tie.


FROM A NEEDLE
TO AN ANCHOR
—Page s].
»
-
1
ms
m
o
gs
2
mi
m
m
mi
/
Picture
Your
Easter
Fun!
The pleasure you will have this
Easter is the pleasure you will
never forget—as your new
Kodak snapshots so happily !
Some Easter Suggestions
Baby Brownie, . . . 6/->*
Six-20 Popular y# q
Brownie, M• W
Kodak Bullet from 12/6
E 3
0
Kodak Juniors ’)Q/Q
from, •
Miniature Kodaks
from, £B/10/-
Cine-Kodaks
from, £ll/19/6
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK (A/asia) Pty. Ltd.
379 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at Newcastle
FREE! _
SUMMER SNAPSHOT GUIDE
Name
Address I.
of possession over her good man, nor
will the instinct to power ma,ke her
want to rule the roost.
Motherly wives, though some may
think she could be a bit more assertive
of her rights, may possibly see in her
a replica of themselves —or, at any rate,
of what they would be if only they were
married to Judge Hardy. Married males
may believe in her because she may
correspond to the idealised versions most
of them retain of their mothers and will
satisfy the wish-fulfilment of others —as
far as domestic partnership goes, any-
way. The idealised-mother complex
might make most other males of all
ages believe in her too, and she might
also satisfy wish-fulfilment for those
whose experience doesn’t include her
always-tender-and-loving kind.
As for the youngsters, they too just
approximate to reality. Made up of
exaggerations of familiar adolescent
traits, they manage to be acceptable both
to those who find the human being at
their age adorable and those who fiijd it
insufferable. They will pass as “real
human youngsters” to anyone whose ex-
perience or power of observation is suf-
ficiently limited. With also a homely
auntie, devoted to her brother and his
wife, there is completed about as dull
a menage as it is possible to imagine.
The doings of this remarkable family
are just as commonplace. In this in-
stance Judge Hardy receives a call for
help from a pre-marital flame a
scrupulously innocent affair, even though
an Indian blanket did figure in it. With
her husband, the lady is out West, where
a bad egg of a neighbor, who is able to
cut off the water-supply on which their
ranch depends, threatens their ruin. This
the Judge is able in the long run to
put right, owing to a purely accidental
and utterly incredible discovery of the
original course of the stream depicted
on an Indian blanket!
But this, anyway, is a small part of
the purpose of the film, the wonderful
business of which is ( a ) to show how
daughter, having fallen in love with the
young but widowed roughneck who
manages the ranch, is given a full rein
by the wisely-indulgent Judge and
thereby is brought to fall out of love
again ; and ( b ) to show how son, also
given full rein by wisely-indulgent
Judge, comes in time to appreciate the
wisdom of that beautiful axiom about
pride and the fall.
Touches of comedy forced and
farcical —Rooney’s exaggerated boister-
ousness, and good, if stereotyped and
sentimentalised, acting by Lewis Stone
as the Judge help to redeem it, but it
remains a curiously moronic sort of
entertainment.
“The Shining Hour.”
Robert Young, Melvyn Douglas, Margaret
Sullavan, Joan Crawford.
Supporting the Sydney St. James main
offering, and somewhat worse.
It is another of the long list of Holly-
wooden perpetrations on the theme of
bridging the vasty gap between the
U.S.A.’s gutter class and its snobocracy
of riches. A girl named Maggie Riley—
Joan Crawford has this uncongenial role ;
she has made a hash of its kind before
and she does so again—has climbed from
slumdom to fame as a night-club dancer,
on which plane she attracts and marries
a member of one of Uncle Sam’s oldest
and wealthiest families. This despite the
efforts of a brother of the snobocrat,
which busybody brother, it is made evi-
dent from the start, will fall for her him-
self before it’s all over.
Taken to the family mansion, Maggie
encounters the cattish hostility of old-
maid sister in the family, but enjoys the
adoration of the brother’s wife. Im-
mediately, brother is in love with Maggie,
which he —Robert Young—signifies by
leaving the neck of his shirt open, wear-
ing a permanent scowl, browbeating
Maggie whenever they’re alone together,
and playing the piano. Maggie, however,
is determined to prove that even one of
her class and experience can be virtuous,
and she is overjoyed because her hus-
band is having erected in a lovely setting
a house that will enable her to get away
from sister’s claws and brother’s
affections.
But sister’s obsession aboiit holding the
family together is apparently developing
into mania. There is not the skerrick of
an indication that this is so, but it must
be, because presently the alarm is raised
that the unfinished house is well alight.
and all hands arrive on the scene about
the time sister emerges from behind a
clump of bush with a maniacal I-did-it
writ plain on her happy countenance,
It has been somewhat better conveyed
that brother’s wife has noted how things
are between her husband and Maggie,
Distracted by her love for him, that
beautiful young wife—Margaret Sullavan
now rushes into the blazing structure
and collapses. In after her dashes Miss
Crawford, to effect a grand rescue, which
leads presently, after proper swathing in
bandages, to a reconciliation between
fickle brother and adoring wife, with
Maggie, convinced that she has caused
enough trouble, hopping into her car to
go back to the night club,
Then, to cap the whole preposterous
doings, out rushes sister bawling to
Maggie’s husband, “Bring her back
alive!” or words to that purpose,
This utterly incredible change of nature
occurs so surprisingly that the most
tolerant film audience must bellow with
laughter at its melodramatic absurdity
Such slight merit as the film may have
had up to then crashes to ruin,
The males act fairly well, being pos-
sibly more complacent of wasting their
talents than the women, the three of
whom—Fay Bainter is the other one
turn in pallid performances.
f( t
Tailspin.
Alice Faye, Constance Bennett.
Though there’s a fair bevy of well-
upholstered and streamlined blondes
wandering through it this current offer-
ing at Sydney Mayfair has little else to
commend it. About a bunch of women
fliers and their vario us escapades in air-
racing, the whole opus rings as falsely as
a dud two bob.
From the film it appears that air
trophies for Women in Gahd’s Own are
competed for mainly by a bunch of
woiking goils who save and scrape and
vamp their bosses to raise sufficient brass
to buy their ’planes or keep them in
working order. It also appears that if
some lass with enough oof to possess a
fast modern ’plane enters in the race she
immediately becomes a lousy sport for
trying to bring home the bacon,
Such is the threadbare canvas on
which the film is built. Alice and sundry
others are the hahnest toilers and Connie
the daughter of wealth. Among ’em
they gradually evolve a long-winded and
meandering yarn padded out with imi-
tation derring-do and mock-tragedy
which is so false as to be funny.
Supporting feature “Nancy Drew,
Reporter”—is all about what happens
when half a dozen youngsters are
appointed as reporters on a newspaper.
Film appears to be what might have
happened if half a dozen youngsters had
been appointed to the making of it.
Modern Music at the Con.
First orchestral concert of the 1939
season at Sydney Con. Hall, under Dr.
Bainton’s baton, was a curious mixture.
Homage was paid to the old and tried
classics by fair performances of the
Brahms C. Minor Symphony and an ex-
cerpt from the “Mastersingers.” The
other items were Australian composer
Arthur Benjamin’s “Overture to an
Italian Comedy,” lively, prettily scored,
but not very strong melodically, and
John Ireland’s E Flat Pianoforte
Concerto.
For the last-named work the soloist
was Beatrice Tange. Miss Tange has
many merits as a pianist, foremost among
them clarity and a firm rein on rhythm
and phrasing. She plays Beethoven and
Liszt admirably, and in her least strenu-
ous mood can interpret very gracefully
the exquisitenesses of Mozart. But a work
such as this of Ireland’s, all formless
emotion, full of brushed chromatic
chords and weird harmonic inversions,
is not her meat. It sounded as matter-
of-fact as a stockmarket report, and
had not enough musical guts in it to
stand up to so plain a reading.
ARTBURSTS.
Adelaide
Adelaide’s only art show at the
moment is at the new (and enormous)
Australian Gallery.
T. H. Bone, immensely improved, has
been on a Victorian visit, and shows
bush and river from Apollo Bay to Yea.
Max Ragless, too, has been travelling ;
his scenes from the Eastern States sus-
tain his reputation without increasing it.
Alongside is the dispersal of an art-
loving pastoralist’s collection. He was
specially fond of the landscapes of Fol-
len Bishop and Florence Fitzgerald, a
married pair who painted Australia
charmingly yet with a touch mainly
acquired in England. Strutt, on the
other hand, was genuinely Australian in
his manner; and there is an Italian
conjuror’s audience by Gotch, a power-
ful old-fashioned “gallery picture.”
* * * *
Melbourne
The Bernard Hall memorial exhibition
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne, is com-
posed of still-life, interiors, nudes and
subject pictures. Everything is drawn
with an austere faithfulness to detail in
accordance with Hall’s dictum that hard
work makes the artist. But there is an
absence of observation which makes flesh
and grass look of precisely the same
texture.
A future historian will probably say
that what distinguished the Victorian
artists of Hall’s period, including many
of his own pupils, was their preoccupation
with tonal relationships. Hall remained
aloof from this movement. He never
argued, except about whether Bacon
wrote Shakspeare. He was so completely
sure of the academic principles he fol-
lowed that he would no more have
thought it necessary to argue about them
than a general would argue with a
private about tactics.
His most valuable contribution to Vic-
torian art was not his pictures but his
purchases of old masters. There his
belief in tradition stood him in good
stead, since what tradition says is good
usually is good in the case of artists who
have been dead for several centuries.
* H- * *
Sydney
The Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, ex-
hibit 25 paintings, five drawings and
seven lino-cuts, the work of Kathleen
Jones.
The paintings, in oils, are landscapes
and still-life studies, in the broadly im-
pressionistic manner. There is a sense
of color in the landscapes and of design
in some of the flower pictures, but,
speaking generally, the style is turgid.
The drawings are f.a.q. student exer-
cises. In the lino-cuts blacks and whites
are nicely balanced.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
nr
* 'WSk.
'' j
Baas
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids. Qualified matron and staff.
Every possible comfort and convenience". All single rooms. Ideal surroundings and
delightful atmosphere. Terms on application. Telephone, 123 Springwood; or
particulars from Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Gowrie’s week-end good deed was
opening the garden fete at the War
Memorial Hospital. That she made it
a pleasure was evident by her smile and
the keen interest she took in all the stalls.
The afternoon was crisp and gay with
music played by the Sydney Ladies’ Brass
Band. In their green-and-gold compact-
ness they stepped smartly along the drive.
Brownies, Girl Guides and Junior Red-
Crossers were there in numbers, demon-
strating the up-and-doing youth of the
country. Small Beverley Stewart pre-
sented the Governor-General’s lady with
a basket of roses.
The Keith Morris couple with son
Barrie go off on the first stage of
their trip to England to-day in the Nieuw
Zeeland. Son is going to absorb all the
points about the Carreras tobacco busi-
ness, same as father. Mrs. Morris will
make her home in England with him
probably for two years, but Captain
Morris will convoy his family and then
return. The last month or so has been
strewn with parties of farewell given and
received by the popular couple. Last
Thursday their cocktail do brought over
a hundred out to St. Anne’s in Manning-
road. There was a pleasant friendliness
about this five-to-seven, starting at the
awninged verandah and deepening in
the reception rooms, where the archway
was outlined in ferny greens.
The dahlias were magnificent and
deepened from palest pink to wine-reds.
Mrs. Morris wore black in hat and frock,
and on the latter there was a leaf design
in white beads embroidered on neckline
and waist. Her long, biscuit-colored
gloves had bows of the suede from wrist
to elbow. Military men and their wives
came in battalions, among them the
Major-General Hardies. Colonel and
Mrs. Lorenzo came to say farewell; so
did Major McColl and his wife. Mrs.
O’Shaugnassey brought herself under a
large rose-pink straw hat from Manly ;
Mrs. Rex Bennett was smart in black.
The George Parkes couple were guests
from the north side of the Bridge. Her
frock was of soft grey sheer, and her
brimmed hat was of the same shade.
Rumored that Court-curtsying is the
favorite family parlor game. Creaky
knees are now not only a nuisance but
a horror to their owners. How ihe head
would bow in shame if, rising from the
lowly salaam, one should sound like a mild
outbreak of castanets. The arrival of the
Duke and Duchess of Kent is fraught
with tremendous significance to the
socially-minded. “Lovely to have a
Court circle! ” burble maidens in suburbs
a long, long way from Canberra. Any-
way, it’s good to know that officialdom
is consulting the royal couple about the
interior renovations and decorations
which are to make Government House
in Canberra a fit habitation for them.
Estimated that £23,500 will do the job.
It is pleaded that, besides being a Com-
monwealth residence, the house will now
be a home with young children in it,
and that a new reception hall, a State
dining-room and new furnishings are
in the total.
Macquarie-street was brave with pipe
music and Highland tunes one night last
week. The stalwart Drum-major Mackay
put all his art into piping the newly-wed
Alec Binnies out of St. Stephen’s. Before
her marriage the bride was Frances
Angus, one of the bright occurrences of
the city’s social life. Her white wedding
frock mingled the softness of lace and
marquisette, and she wore three white
ostrich plumes, instead of coronet or
orange-blossom, to fasten her tulle veil
to her fair head. Swaying hooped frocks
of white tulle were worn by the four
attendants, whose trifles of flat hats, all
ostrich feather, plus their pink-and-blue
posies, brought a Victoria-and-Albert
touch into the procession. Reception at
Elizabeth Bay House was hostessed by
bride’s mother, Mrs. J. H. S. Angus, of
Bellevue Hill. Mr. and Mrs. Alec Binnie
are honeymooning in Honolulu. Future
address, Merrilong, Singleton.
Estelle Oxnard-Smith, secretary for
some years of the Royal Art Society,
has decided on matrimony. She has not
chosen an artist for her partner. Her
husband-to-be is Geoffrey Andrews, and
he is altogether concerned with wool.
St. Paul’s Church, Chatswood, Estelle’s
home suburb, will seal the contract on
the thirtieth of this month. Estelle is
one of the most popular girls among the
art groups of Sydney. She has, too,
bronze hair and a bright smile. Her
days just now are one round of parties.
Old friends almost threw up their
hands in pleased surprise when they saw
the alterations and extensions to the King
Edward Dogs’ Home. There’s a lawn now
where the former office buildings used
to be, and it was here that Mayor Nock
made his speech opening the reconstructed
and refurbished dog colony. Some
interior decorator has been busy, and the
kennels are larger. Lots of trees have
been planted to give shade to the exer-
cise yards. Tried and trusty friend of
all animals in distress Miss Compton
Legge had presented many of them. She
was at last week’s opening, to the
pleasure of R.S.P.C.A. stalwarts.
Others breasting the buffet during the
afternoon were the presidential M. A.
Traills, secretary S. A. Lord and his
wife, Judith Jenkins, who helps the
Tail-waggers’ Club to keep its end up,
Mrs. C. Mackay and Loreen McDougall.
Others glimpsed were Richard Camp-
bell, Margaret Cook, of Chatswood,
social secretary Mrs. Maitland, Jean
Welles and Mrs. Harold Harnett. There
were lots of bunting and flags. Nobody
was asked to contribute, but a box was
placed in a prominent position, and
workers were surprised at the takings.
Neutral Bay enthusiasts Wendy and Pat
Burge were among the afternoon’s
helpers. Pat had already, in the city,
snared a crock of silver with the aid of
a languishing-eyed retriever from the
home. This year the R.S.P.C.A. Ball will
be held in Prince’s.
Vice-Consul for the U.S.A. A. M.
Doyle opened the exhibition of Mrs.
Paul Degen’s (Mabel Hussey Degen’s)
pictures last Monday. This show is filling
the Industrial Arts Society rooms with
exhilarating waves of color. The flower
paintings are alluring, in particular, or
so it seems to this Letter, the strelitza
and magnolias. There are blue reaches
of the harbor painted on what you feel
were hot, brilliant days. There are a
portrait study of a girl with red hair and
green eyes and a strikingly alert one
of Sylvia Carrick, of “The Women” co.
On Friday afternoon Mrs. Degen was
found drinking a cup of tea in the midst
of strewn canvases. With the help of
some friends she was about to hang the
pictures, and only the absence of some
nails was delaying matters. Mrs. Degen
was wearing a black satin afternoon frock
and a wisp of a hat, and was due about
six o’clock at a cocktail party at the
Doyles. She, however, took time to tell
of her studies in Paris with Lhote, and
of enchanted months in Spain when she
turned her attention to portrait work.
When Archbishop Gilroy laid the
foundation stone for an extension of
Our Lady’s Home, Coogee, last Sunday,
there was probably a happy little ghost
in the groups around him. “The Little
Mother” who founded the order of
nursing sisters who live in the hillside
cottage at Coogee was, when she
gathered her company of women devoted
to charity, only a young girl, and a
delicate one at that. She started this
group without money, and it has con-
tinued for over a quarter of a century.
“The Little Mother” has been dead for
many of those years, but her “Brown
Nurses” are known throughout Sydney—
wherever the poor need them. Not only
do they give their services free to the
needy, but they help with clothes and
food, and even do the housework in
homes where such labor is necessary.
They make no public appeals,' but
their friends and admirers never fail to
keep them in mind. One of the cour-
teous rules of the house is that no
caller, back door or front, leaves with-
out being offered refreshment.
The Bulletin feels it has lost a bit
of itself by the death of Harold Burston,
who died, all too young, in Montreal
last week. Harold had absorbed the
easy kindliness of The Bulletin
tradition as a youngster. He was a rosy-
cheeked South Coast boy fresh from
Fort Street school, G. Skelton, now head
of the composing room, tells, when he got
his first job as comps.’ reader. From
there he went on to the staff of t the
“Lone Hand,” then he bees me secretary
to The Bulletin’s editor, the late S. H.
Prior, and finally he was editor of the
“Wild Cat.” The Bulletin feels as
bereft as though Harold Burs ton had
still been a member of its own staff.
Private talkies revealed the Malay
jungle beyond Bengal to Popular Science
Club members at the Australia Hall the
other evening. Wild elephants, tigers,
panthers, leopards and pythons rushing
towards the audience and shoals of at-
tacking crocodiles provided thrills. Inti-
mate shots of wild animal life, native
customs and villages and tropical scenic
beauty furnished the educational aspect.
The extraordinary film was declared to
be quite unfaked. Appealing contrast
was supplied by a Fitzpatrick film depict-
ing the life of Tschaikowsky. Membership
of this club is free, and director J. Cooper
Vines, at Australian Gas Light Co. offices,
will be glad to have requests for mem-
bership. The co. has been sponsoring
this club since its inception ten years ago.
Two art shows to be opened on Thurs-
day are worth marking in your engage-
ment book. They are a show of original
drawings by H. M. Bateman at the
Grosvenor Galleries. This will be
opened at three o’clock by Sydney Ure
Smith. Lister Lister, president of the
Royal Art Society, has decided on the
same date for his exhibition of oils and
water-colors. Knight Philip Goldfinch
will make the opening speech at three
o’clock in Anthony Horderns’ gallery.
One of the pleasantest bits of news the
week’s mail brought was that the
Frank Hambridges, with daughter Mar-
jorie, are on their way back to Australia
in the Strathnaver and will be here about
the end of the month. Marjorie has
been working hard, taking lessons with
some celebrated masters, Szigeti among
them. Mrs. Hambridge has not neglected
her painting. Her 1938 Christmas card
was one of her own flower, pieces.
On arrival they will move into their old
home, The Chalet, at Wahroonga.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
has decided on August 4 for the date of
its dance. Benjamin Fuller is 'patron of
the committee, and his wife is president.
Maoriland warship H.M.S. Leith ran
out the pinnaces for a party given by
its commander, G. R. Waymouth, and
wardroom officers last week. The time
set was cocktail hour, and there was the
usual company of women in black. Why
are Sydney women, or, for that matter,
the women of all sunny climates, so
addicted to it? Flowers in the frock
or a splash of color on the head bright-
ened the prospect. Sheelah Lyle, cele-
brating her birthday, got a thrill from
her new string of pearls—mother’s gift.
Brilliant little swallows lit up the black
frock worn by Mrs. John Faviell. The
Larry Adlers were there, her hair a
bunch of curls under a small hat. Mrs.
Peter Moore, Audrey Connell, Marcelle
Bishop, Marie Coen and Nuttie Mac-
kellar helped the party spirit.
Pretty Peggy Dawes has become
engaged. James C. Bendrodt, of Sydney,
is the lucky man. Peggy is well known
as a graceful exhibition dancer, and was
often seen at the Palais at Moore Parx
before it became a skating rink. Her
parents are Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Dawes,
of Chatswood. One of her ancestors
was that Lieutenant William Dawes who
came to Sydney with Governor Phillip.
Dawes Point bears his name. J. C. Ben-
drodt ran the Moore Park Palais for
some years. He is now manager of
Prince’s, Sydney’s new restaurant.
Passed away in her home, Walden,
Manly, on March 13, Mrs. Joan Monck-
ton, author of The Shuttle of Life, and
writer of many articles for papers and
magazines. She was the daughter of a
British army officer, orphaned young and
trained for the teaching profession at
Whiteland’s College, Chelsea, London.
She was appointed to the Hurlstone
Training College as assistant to Miss
Mallett (afterwards Edgeworth David’s
lady), and so came to Sydney. Later she
founded Meriden School, Strathfield. She
was married in Sydney to architect W. H.
Monckton.
After her husband’s death, mother of
two grown-up sons, Mrs. Monckton
wrote her first novel, The Shuttle of
Life, completing it on the voyage to
England during an overseas trip. It is a
story of Sydney with a strong Chinese
element threading the sturdy Australian
theme, and Hutchinson’s, the publishers,
liked it so much that they asked Mrs.
Monckton to sign a contract giving them
the two next novels she should write.
But they were never completed.
Rapier-slim and shiningly alert,
Annette Keilerman stepped off the
Mooltan last Thursday. With husband
James Sullivan Annette has returned for
a long visit to her native land. A great
deal of this time she will spend on the
Barrier Reef. Annette, who lectures
throughout America on physical fitness,
is anxious to help in Australia’s cam-
paign to this end.
Mrs. Toby Browne, of Binalong, has
had a job after her own heart. She was
delegate to the just-ended Graziers’
Conference (the first woman to have
the distinction), and represented Bina-
long. Mrs. Browne, whose activi-
ties in the cause of wool have
extended over some years, is full of ideas
for publicising its uses. She is an advo-
cate of home spinning and weaving and
has taken great interest in and fostered
displays of weaving whenever opportunity
offered. She was quite a force in last
year’s wool display at the R.A.S. She
has even worn evening frocks and wraps
of woollen —soft, pliable and sometimes
interwoven with metal thread.
St. Martha’s Home at Leichhardt has
blossomed into a new wing, and this
was opened on Synday by The Bulle-
tin’s old friend Monsignor King. St.
Martha’s is one of the old Australian
foundations. Seventy-five years ago
Penola, in S.A., saw the first St. Martha’s.
Leichhardt St. Martha’s was founded 50
years ago, and one of the nuns of the
original community is still at this con-
vent, and was present to hear congratu-
lations on the Order’s half a century of
work.
Dudley-street, Coogee, glittered with
cars of high and low degree last Sunday
afternoon when the foundation-stone of
the extensions to the Brown Nurses’ home
was being blessed by Archbishop Gil-
roy. Nearly 1700 friends were seated on
little green chairs in the shade of trees
to listen to the speeches. Their hands
did more than applaud. They found
their way to pockets and handbags, and
a good deal over £llOO was dropped into
the collection bags. Not only money was
given. There were nearly 300 sprays of
lily-of-the-valley in the tiny chapel. This,
in addition to all the other flowers and
the growing lily-of-the-valley on the tea-
table, had been brought by admirers.


1
O
dUjhijjHi
vf
k
\
COLO
i
Poultry
fJ
II
£
i
X
.
7v'^r
W®£
«ss
W
rf;«»>VW
I
IB
SAUCE
v/ci.
r<


Earn
r.i im n
JLIkiWU!
A Melbourne holiday for the family in
Australia's largest non-iicensed hotel
is yours at the new Victoria Palace.
Kiddies are welcomed, too, and all
arrangements will be made for their
care whilst parents visit or shop.
Accommodation and cuisine are first-
class. "Room-only" tariffs: 4/- to
7/6 for single rooms; 8/- to 16/- for
double rooms.
VICTORIA PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.(next Town Hall)
MELBOURNE
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin ” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
, The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly.
Price 3d.
Don't Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Eve,n stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
Melbourne
Chatter
Feathers, new or out of grandmother’s
box —if she can be coaxed to open it —
are going to carry their wearers on
both wings through the autumn and the
spicy cold of winter. Last week at No.
9 there was a Furs and Feathers parade
organised for the Lady Forster Free
Kindergarten. The rooms, although more
extensive than Menzies lounge, used in
past years, were packed to the capacity
mark, chairs and tables seeming like
octopods with their wooden legs always
in the way of human knees and ankles.
Mrs. Geoffrey Walker, president of the
Lady Forster Kindergarten Committee,
wore orchids and a genus of hat that
would have no difficulty in getting its
applause if it had been swept into the
parade by mistake. Daughter Betty
Walker was among the mannequins, and
her sister Jenny sold cigarettes (with pro-
grammes the only subjects for retail ;
flowers and sweets were not on the
menu). Jenny did well, for by a coin-
cidence it was the day of the tobacco-
nists’ picnic.
During the show there were intro-
ductions for the snood and the wimple,
the latter illustrating how glamor through
the ages has always had its big moments,
for the lure of a veil is undying
as the quality of human vanity. The
wimple, 1939 version, echoes its ancestor,
born about the twelfth century, in an
arrangement of scarves drawn under
the chin, around the back of the head,
and dropping waist-length between the
shoulders. Lynette Dickenson, with her
head held high and her wimple of
petunia chiffon attached to a black hat,
was something to remember, and
Beverley Slaney, all curls and graceful
arabesques and sky-blue drapes as a
frame for her face, also made a pic-
torial impression. This wimple looks
like being a knockout for the woman
who can get away with it. but a death-
trap for those who can’t, but are tempted
and fall.
An unrehearsed incident of the fashion
parade was a sudden high wind of French
volubility offstage. The tirade, a loud and
angry one caused by some mistake about
the hats, was a bad moment for Mrs.
Harold Clapp, then at the microphone,
who apologised to the audience and to
Mrs. Russell Gourlay at another mike
and hurriedly rang the changes by giving
the cue for the afternoon surprise. It
appeared on the programme as a ques-
tion-mark, and came to life as a hat from
Suzy in Paris delivered in its beribboned
bandbox by midinette Vera Busse
(parted from the hatbox Vera is a
dancer in Eunice Weston’s ballet school).
When first uncovered from its tissue
paper the hat looked nothing very
special, but in the adjusting hands of
its mannequin, Lina Basquette, it came
to life in an amazing way.
Once again Sid, an aged chestnut of
unknown lineage, has won the Polo Cup
at the Peninsula Polo Club’s picnic
meeting at Mornington. Sid’s startling
performance two years ago with his 17-
stone owner, Tom Guest, on his back
won him honor and the right to a pen-
sion of lush grass, but he’s no quitter,
and this year made his bettors’ money
safe with A. Spiers in the saddle. The
Guest-Spiers combination was good
again in the Ladies’ Bracelet, won by
Mrs. Tom Guest’s Good Fun. Mrs.
Alan Scott, riding her husband’s Par-
mentier, won for him a set of black
china coffee cups, a trophy which will
no doubt prove a useful companion for
her percolator. Lorna Embling and
Mary Saenger were presented with a
silver tea service for being owners of
Star Watch, winner of the Chukka
Hurdle. Nan Alderton’s success on War
Cry gave his owner, Dr. K. A. McLean,
a handsome decanter and crystal glasses.
Among the spectators tweed suits were
almost a uniform. Mrs. Evan Pearse’s
was grey, and its accompaniment a hat
of tawny rust. Mrs. “By” Gowan was
also county-tweedy. No Peninsula meet-
ing would be complete without the
Ginner Greys with shooting sticks, the
Gengoult Smiths and the Jack Edgars.
Betty Kelly from M.L. wore a navy
coat over a light silk frock. Mrs.
Ronald Forbes and Mrs. Brian Breheny
both had hats off and tweed ensembles
of town-blue and white.
The Dickinson-Monteath' studio made
this portrait of Greta Harrison, only
daughter of Group-Captain and Mrs.
Eric Harrison, who has recently become
engaged to Dr. Keith Cowan. Greta is
one of the fortunate brides-to-be for
whom running a house is easy and scien-
tifically planned. She completed a full
course of domestic economy, including
cookery, millinery and dressmaking, at
the Emily McPherson College. Keith
is an old boy of Scotch College, and was
at Ormond while studying medicine. He
received his degree last year, and is now
a resident at Royal Melbourne Hospital.
The Fred Raes gave a cocktail party
last week to “christen their doors,” new
ones between hall and lounge, and to
celebrate the departure of painters and
carpenters, who have been in and out
of their home for months. The modern-
ising changes to the interior of this old
stone house swallowed up among the tall
trees of the Botanic Gardens have not
spoiled its architecture. If Ferdinand von
Muller, who had so much to do with the
planning of Melbourne’s world-famous
Botanic Gardens, could see the curator’s
house to-day (where he also lived in his
time of office) he would have no fault
to find with its aesthetic charm. Noticed
at the party was a pervading perfume as
of honeysuckle, carried right through the
house from its source, an Aladdin’s jar of
flowering mock ginger, or ginger lily, or,
for the more meticulous, hedychium. Its
roots look and taste like ginger.
The Victorian Society of Crippled Chil-
dren has no very tender feelings for the
Customs. Sylvia Docker, who recently
took over the position of organiser for
occupational therapy for the society, com-
plains of the difficulty she experiences
when shopping for such things as skiving
knives (used in leather work), gadgets for
attachment to looms (all easily procurable
in England for a few pence), velocipedes
for working the looms, etc. Prohibitive
duties keep many of these articles out of
the country altogether, and local industry
manufactures them at a loss and only
does the job through beneficence.
Miss Docker is warmly enthusiastic
about her work. She is an Australian
and a trained masseuse of many years’
experience. For health reasons she gave
up massage and undertook occupational
therapy in England, where there are three
training schools and a public exam. She
believes that she is still the only occu-
pational therapist trained in England who
is also a masseuse. The British Isles
are gradually catching up in this kind
of work, but until very recently graduates
were being imported from the U.S.A.
and Canada. There were six trainees
from Toronto in the occupational therapy
department of the well-endowed Astley
Ainsley Infirmary in Scotland.
Miss Docker says that the principal
idea underlying occupational therapy is
that it shall become remedial. By scien-
tifically-planned craft work (weaving,
carpentry, painting, wood-carving, etc.)
the patients’ muscles are re-educated as
well as occupied in tasks that are stimu-
lating mentally and resthetically. Most
of the patients treated are afflicted with
rheumatoidal disabilities, t.b. or infantile
paralysis. The V.S.C.C., which is inter-
ested in adult patients as well as children,
is to be complimented on procuring such
a highly-qualified specialist for its bene-
ficial work.
Wedding cakes and speeches, handfuls
of confetti and rooms full of guests did
not figure in the marriage plans of Betty
Journeaux and Jim Moffat. This couple
had had a long engagement and decided
that they would slip into matrimony with
no fuss and without even a bridesmaid,
though the ’groom had Gordon Challings-
worth to give him moral support. Jim
claims to have been the most nervous
’groom who ever faced the altar of All
Saints’ and says that he would rather
meet a lion in a jungle any day. Betty
also admitted to a tingling in her ears,
but showed no sign of it, and, with her
dove-grey frock and hat and dregs-of-
wine accessories, presented a cool and
collected demeanor to the few intimate
friends present afterwards at Menzies.
After the honeymoon in Sydney the
couple will live in a flat in St. Kilda.
In the Broothorn portrait is Rhoda
Law Smith, daughter of the Percy Law
Smiths, of Chocolyn, Camperdown, who
has recently become engaged to well-
known violinist Harry Hutchins, eldest
son of the Harry Hutchins couple, of
Walkerville, S.A. Rhoda and her twin
sister Veronica have full-time jobs at
Stonnington, where they attend the little
“polios” as assistants to the masseuses.
The twins embarked upon this particular
work when the menace of the infantile
paralysis epidemic first made itself felt.
Among many interests in common be-
tween Rhoda and her fiance is shooting.
They both own guns, and enjoy nothing
better than a day in the open air out
after ducks, hares or rabbits.
Those people who look longingly at a
horizon when they sniff a salt sea breeze
would be interested to meet Betty Kopsen,
whose exhibition of water-colors and
pencil drawings is at present being held
at Riddell’s Galleries. Miss Kopsen
must be well known across the counter
of most shipping companies, and in her
turn she is well up in the possibilities
of any immediate passages to Europe
upon freighters and sailing ships. About
14 ships come to Australia under sail,
but the chances of travelling upon them
are narrowed down to three which will
take women supercargoes. The fare is
10s. per day, so that a fair wind makes
a cheap trip and the possibility of delays
an expensive one. A ship that was dis-
masted when travelling homewards to
Europe round the Horn took 220 days,
which was heavy on the savings of its
passengers. There were two girls among
them.
Miss Kopsen returned from Europe
14 months ago in the Finnish four-
masted barque Viking. She loved the
five months’ voyage, and, although while
aboard she learnt all she could about the
ship and how to sail her, she failed to
qualify as an old salt, for when she pre-
sented one of her paintings of the Viking
to the mate as a farewell present he
followed up his thanks with yet another
lesson on the rigging. Miss Kopsen hopes
to persuade her mother, Mrs. D. B. Kop-
sen, of Woollahra, Sydney, to accompany
her on her next voyage, which will be
as soon as passages can be procured on
a freighter. The young artist hopes to
return to Sweden, where she spent nearly
two years holidaying, painting and living
au pair with Swedish families, and accom-
panying her friends out sailing on the
Baltic, for the love of boats occupies a
very special place in the hearts of Scan-
dinavians.
Children in one hundred Victorian
schools had a co-operative lesson last
week with children in Queensland and
Tasmania (the inter-State hook-up being in
the nature of an experiment). The series
of’lectures in this new feature of the
Victorian curriculum is being given by
Professor Browne, who speaks from the
studio at 3LO. For his subject he has
chosen a survey of man’s progress in
the modern world. The new audio-
visual projectors attached to the schools’
radio sets have made it possible to illus-
trate the lectures as if with synchronised
movie pictures. But for the enthusiasm
with which the Mothers’ Clubs received
the scheme it would not have been in-
augurated so successfully, for throughout
this State the clubs have done excellent
work raising money for the projectors.
Of the hundred already in use half are
in country schools.
Elizabeth Pounder, who won an Espi-
nosa scholarship for dancing last year,
writes regularly to her friends and sup-
porters in Australia enthusiastic accounts
of her progress. She says that she and
her fellow-students are always strictly
chaperoned, but they enjoy their work
and play together. Elizabeth won’t be
having very much time for play between
now and October, for recently Eddie
Kelland Espinosa (son of Edward and
Madame) has arranged for her a twenty-
eight weeks’ dancing engagement at Scar-
borough.
A couple of medicoes took one an-
other and their accumulated knowledge
for better or worse recently when Dr.
Peggy Mackay and Dr. John Ray were
married at Scots Church and were the
leading pair in following celebrations of
tea and late-afternoon refreshers at the
Lyceum Club. Their first home is to be
a flat in Williams-road, but both have
been so busy since their arrival from Adel-
aide some weeks ago (where they both
were residents in hospitals) that neither
has been nearer their future domicile
than the bricks-and-mortar aspect seen
from the garden gate. Their honeymoon
destination was a secret, but they took
tennis rackets and clothes for town and
country in their suitcases. The ’groom’s
present to the bride was a diamond and
sapphire watch to match her engage-
ment ring ; the bride’s to the ’groom an
article he urgently needed, something
superior in rainproof overcoats. Next
year the couple are off to England for
post-graduate study.


A
k
b
'S
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( [England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 400 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Rheumatism
and
Neuritis
MANY NEVER SUSPECT REAL CAUSE
Rheumatism and Neuritis are now being
successfully combated by a new, scien-
tific method. Specialists have at last
traced the cause of these torturing ail-
ments to self-poisoning, i.e., a clogged
colon. As a result of inactivity of the
colon (large intestine) unevacuated frag-
ments of food waste encrust on the
colon walls —much as rust incrusts on a
water pipe—and there decay. Virulent
poisons and acids develop, seep into
the bloodstream and overthrow its nor-
mal "alkaline reserve." Once the blood
becomes excessively acid due to circu-
lating poisons in the form of urates,
rheumatic afflictions are bound to result.
The razor-edged uric acid crystals de-
posit in different parts of the body and
lacerate the nerves at every movement,
causing the torturing pains of rheuma-
tism, neuritis and sciatica.
To overcome Rheumatism and Neuritis you
must first clear away the encrustations of
poisonous waste on the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements do not do this—the walls
of the colon have become weak and inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This cleanses the
colon of all food waste and tones up the
walls giving them back their power of nor-
mal movement. ‘Coloseptic’ overcomes all im-
pure conditions in the blood. Uric acid de-
posits are dissolved away as the blood re-
gains its normal alkaline reserve under the
influence of ‘Coloseptic.’ It also stimulates
the action of the kidneys, pores of the skin
and the lungs other vital organs which
eliminate acids and poisons from the sys-
tem. ‘Coloseptic’ checks self-poisoning, com-
bats acidity, aids nutrition and establishes
better internal cleanness. By its concerted
action it overcomes the real cause of rheu-
matism and builds new, better health. At
all chemists. Individual size 2/9, Economy
size 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE. A liberal Free Trial
Sample and interesting, intimate book will
be sent you. Send 3d. stamps for postage.
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
requires to come back in about five
months and forestall my trip. I won’t
mind, and he will gain experiences such
as he has never even dreamed of.
Mr. Grey’s Needless Disappointment
“Dungeness”: Mr. Zane Grey has ex-
pressed disappointment with his fishing
visit to Queensland’s Barrier Reef. It is
not surprising. In the first place he did
not go to the Barrier Reef at all, but
operated from Bundaberg, which is many
miles south of the real reef mass. Also,
he went there at least three months too
late for fish, comfort, or even safety.
The place to find the really big sport-
ing fish in Barrier waters is not in any
of the localities which Mr. Grey has tried
during his last or present visit, but in and
near the channels and passes of the out-
side ocean edge of the main reef mass.
These are accessible, with reasonable
safety, only from Townsville northward.
An essential factor of reasonable safety
is a skipper with intimate local knowledge
of those tricky waters. The time of year
is from August to early December, when
the migrating food-fish are schooling, and
the swift, hungry giants come in from
the outer ocean waters to the limitless
feast. Later, cyclone risks are too great
for offshore venturing.
The sort of trip I’d like to give to my
best fishing cobbers would be based on
Cooktown for supplies, with camps on
Lizard Island and in the Flinders Group,
beginning about mid-August. The fleet
would include a substantial 50ft. auxiliary
from local charter-offers, of which there
would be several at reasonable terms, and
two or three beamy 10-knot game-fishing
launches of seaworthy quality, capable
of camping three or four for a week if
necessary, and with good engineer-cox-
swains. I’d try to pick up a few good
boatboys from Stuart River, if possible
of Captain Dan Moynahan’s training,
complete with nets, spears and harpoons.
I’d take a couple of pedal wireless
transceivers along, and arrange for calls
to Cooktown ’planes for emergencies, also
for dropping of supplies if need be at the
depot camps. A first-rate camp cook with
a good offsider would be an honored
member of the staff. Then I’d start fish-
ing about Endeavour Opening, and work
northward, searching every pass, pas-
sage and channel up to Providential
Channel for the really big ones, follow-
ing the feed-shoals.
It would be the finest fishing trip ever,
even if the rum should happen to run out.
Mr. Grey has no need to remain dis-
appointed with the Barrier Reef. He only
“Zedo”: The Brisbane press, having
heard that Mr. Cameron will not con-
sent to build a new Brisbane Post Office,
has discovered that the ancient ark which
now houses the mailboxes leaks. It did
that long ago. I well remember a mid-
night seance in a room in that building
when W. M. Hughes was running the
“Ma, y're for ever changin' the furniture around."
world, the war, the censorship and some
conscription campaigns. He was in the
throes of trying to have Tom Ryan, Ted
Theodore and the Kaiser arrested, and
was firing demands for explanations at a
weary-eyed group of myrmidons while the
heavens thundered without. Presently a
casual leak in the ceiling poured a cool-
ing drop on Billy’s brow. “Blank, blow
and blither it! Who’s spitting on me?”
yelled Billy. “Must be yourself, sir,”
murmured one whose youth excused his
daring. And then a long, deep, thought-
ful silence fell upon the room.
* * *
“Dick Tafone”: The increasing com-
plexity of the Brisbane traffic problem
is demonstrated by the fact that it is
becoming dangerous to attend one’s own
funeral. Within two days two hearses
were involved in collisions whilst per-
forming their mournful duties, although
even the most enthusiastic traffic cop
could scarcely hope for a conviction on
a charge of speeding. Hobart, a city
not usually associated with speed of any
kind, once had a sporting undertaker
who, in the early days of motoring,
owned the first motor-hearse, and figured
as defendant in several such cases—
always, it is only fair to say, on the
return journey. Knowing his own weak-
ness for a race, he always put an off-
sider at the wheel on the way out. But
coming back, with- the job done, his
sporting instinct could never resist a
chance to give the hearse a fly against
anything on the road.
*i»
“Quert Yuiop”: A couple of times
weekly South Brisbane provides an
unusual and diverting street sight—a big
wether lolloping along at an easy canter
behind a man on a bike, dodging
amongst the traffic with complete
aplomb. The rider is no relation to
Mary, the sheep is far past lambhood,
and further still from being as white as
snow. Nor is the rider a busted squatter
sentimentally taking the last survivor of
his once-numerous flocks out for a
breather. He is employed at the abattoir
and the wether is a “leader,” one of
those useful, if cynical, animals which
guide the column of the doomed into
the killing lane. At week-ends it goes
home with him to become a family pet,
providing rides for the youngsters and
saving the labor and expense of a lawn-
mower.
* * * *
“Scat”: Authority up Darwin way
should be patting itself on the back now
that the Larrakia has managed a success-
ful arrest. The Japanese masters of three
Darwin-owned luggers were arrested in
Apsley Strait between Melville and
Bathurst islands and charged under Sec-
tion 32 of the Aborigines Ordinance
which forbids trafficking with abos. First
case was dismissed, on the ground that
evidence failed to show that natives were
on board with the permission of the cap-
tain ; but the second and third cases were
proved to the satisfaction of Nicholls,
P.M., who fined the offenders £2O each.
It is the first time that the N.T. patrol
service has arrested Australian-owned
luggers, and, though the penalties for
this kind of offence are rightly heavy, it
would help towards stamping out the
trouble were natives threatened with
severe punishment if caught consorting
with Europeans.
“X.T.”: Social item
from the Barkly Table-
land: “Mr. and Mrs.
Binghi and family have
returned to their homes
after a walkabout to
Lome Creek. The
tribes came from all
over the tableland right
down to the Kilgour,
many of them leaving
the white man to wash
his own moleskins.”
Forty years ago Lome
Creek used to muster a
thousand visitors —tall
Kalkadoons from the
Selwyns, Mitakudi and
other wiry persons
from the dry country,
and even fat Limmen
River men with a touch
of Malay in them. It
was a fine sight even a
few years before the
war when the night
corroborees were on.
But the gathering has
dwindled to a sad
huddle of dirty wood-
heap blacks, some of
whom don’t even know
how to fend for them-
selves out of reach of
a station store.
“Zedo”: The boom in building is not
confined to southern cities. Last month
Brisbane City Council approved of
£250,000-worth of fresh work. Main
items were £65,000 at the hospital and
additions to a motor business, a Labor
newspaper and a brewery.
On an Old File
“El V.”: So the old “Queenslander”
has gone out. It is the first paper I
remember —I used to collect it from a
Central Queensland train with the corned
meat once a week. That was in 1897.
Occasionally a square-built man with a
deerstalker hat would drop off the train
and look for fresh orders among the
local timbergetters. He wrote them down
with a carpenter’s pencil.
I didn’t see him for 11 years after that
—in the interval he had got into Parlia-
ment and become Premier of Queens-
land. Name, Wullie Kidston. Look-
ing back to the issues of ’97 confirmed
the fact that it was a fine old paper,
chock-full of news. • It opened the year
with one of its standard pages of verse
by “Fidelio,” illustrated by “The
Demon”:
Will Federation boom or bust in Ninety-
seven?
Will' social rights be still discussed in
Ninety-seven?
Will Georgie Reid come back again,
And go away as he came by train
Unfilled by hope—but not champagne-
in Ninety-seven?
White Australia was not only a live, but
a lively issue.
There is a picture of the officers of
the Queensland Teachers’ Volunteer
Corps—large, fearsome men with Car-
ringtons and beards. W. H. Halstead,
trainer of many a Great War colonel,
was in command. The most inconspicu-
ous person in the group is “Regt.-Sergt.
T. H. Dodds.” Seem to remember the
name among war generals!
Scattered through the pages, meaty
columns of “Facts and Fancies,” “Flot-
sam and Jetsam,” “News in a Nutshell”
and “Stenograms” brought the world to
the reader’s door.
There was a knowledgable literary
page—a sound review of the works of
William Gay, of Bendigo. Not bad
verse either; but who remembers
William?
Local news there was and to spare, “by
telegram,” and capable travel articles on
the Cape York Peninsula and other little-
known bits of Australia ; also the usual
weekly “ethnological report” by Archie
Meston, very good material full of abo.
lore and vocabularies which somebody
should collate.
An amicable - looking photograph
showed George Reid beaming through
his eyeglass at Hugh Nelson’s beard, an
appendage which often led rude interjec-
tors to shout: “Why don’t yer buy a
mattress?”
And foreign affairs were not forgotten
—a learned article by “an engineer on
the chances of his profession when the
long-talked-of war with France occurs.”
There was “every probability that Too-
woomba would obtain the 15 subscribers
necessary to form a telephone exchange.”
Racing was by “Rattler” Brown —
Queensland followed “Rattler’s” tips for
30 years and there were some remi-
niscences of Queensland’s first Governor,
who was being joked by the Archbishop
of Canterbury about his Latinity, and
who “thought nothing of quoting a page
of Macaulay in an official dispatch.”
I tried to read one of the dying (1938)
issues of the grand old rag for purposes
of comparison, but didn’t get further than
the cover—full-page picture of Miss
Merle Oberon sheltering an interior
which seemed to be all syndicate and
Hahlywood.


so
ttO
•1^
itf 14ft
**LC*
o
a
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
ttWSE
{xm
81l
T.JONEStCO
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
YOUR 4*
SELLING MARKETS
IN W.A.
LIE THROUGH
6AM • Northam .. . 2000 watts
6PM • Perth SOO watts
6KG • Kalgoorlie. . 500 watts
88% of the total licenses in
W.A. are within 50 miles of
6AM • 6PM • 6KG
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
D.B.K. 9- TO 1000-METRE COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVER.
This experimental all-wave receiver is designed around an ingenious
rotating coil turret assembly, giving continuous coverage of all wave-lengths
between nine and 1000 metres with high efficiency at all frequencies.
The basic design is simply that of a tuned R.F. type receiver. Valve types
used are not essential, and appropriate types can be substituted with equally
good results.
During 26 years of experiment with
radio apparatus, the writer has had ex-
perience of all types of receivers, from
~ , ,
the ancient coherer to the modern ultra-
high-frequency superhet. It has taught
him that efficiency on short waves is
easiest obtained by the use of the humble
plug-in coils. Even in these days of
switched receivers of commercial origin,
the plug-in coil type receiver is still the
handiest for the average radio-hobbyist,
Commercially designed communica-
tions-type receivers (not normally avail-
able in Australia) are long past the
plug-in coil stage, and cover wide fre-
quency ranges by switching. Although
most productions in this class are excel-
lent performers, there are differences in
efficiency owing to differing methods of
wave-change switching. Where coils are
Fis. I.—Circuit of the D.B.K. 9-to 1000-metre Communications Five, with all constants.
grouped around a gangedswitch assembly,
selection of coils may be made merely by
switching to the grid ends of the coils,
with a common earth return for all the
coils in that particular section. Unless
the switching is of the “dead-end” type,
whereby the coils not in circuit at any
time are completely shorted to earth,
Fig. 2. —The receiver seen from the controls. Left to
right: R.F. dial, detector dial, vernier or bandspread dial,
and midget speaker. Knobs below : R.F. gain, regenera-
tion, audio gain. Condenser toggle switch is below detector
end vernier dials and “B-” switch is below the speaker.
there is actually considerable loss in
efficiency by absorption. This loss is
usually made up by extra R.F. amplifica-
tion in the I.F. channel, the receivers in-
varjably being superhe J s .
Other receivers, however, notably
those of Hammarlund and National
types, employ an arrangement of
mechanical plug-in coils. In these, a
tray underneath the chassis carries the
coils, each individually screened. Oper-
ation of the wave-change knob shifts a
gear mechanism moving the tray later-
ally, and projecting prongs from the coils
lock into silver-leaf contact springs con-
necting with the various tuned circuits,
A receiver was needed by the writer
which would take in everything from
ultra-shorts to long waves, and it had to
be free from double-spotting and other
forms of spurious signals, being needed,
when calibrated, as a frequency-checking
arrangement in conjunction with a signal
generator. The superhet was therefore
ruled out in favor of a T.R.F. design as
the simplest method of obtaining the de-
sired results without undue trouble. As
a general purpose receiver, the T.R.F.
has much to commend it for ordinary
purposes, though it is
not the best for ama-
teur-band work.
In deciding the tun-
ing range, nine metres
was chosen to begin
with, since stations
may often be heard
in this region. There
are ultra-short-wave
broad casters and
police stations over-
seas that provide more
than passing interest
on occasions. By tak-
ing the range right up
to 1000 metres, the
900-metre aircraft and
600-metre marine
channel would be in-
cluded. This seems to
be ambitious coverage
for a home-made re-
ceiver without losing
ease of tuning or effi-
ciency somewhere, but it was overcome,
as the circuit details show.
The Receiver Circuit.
The writer had on hand several unused
four-volt A.C. valves, so a mixture of
valves was used. The Philips AF3 R.F.
pentode happens also to be a first-rate
high-gain R.F. amplifier at very high
frequencies. Valves on hand were types
AF3, ABCI and AL2, so these were put
to use as shown. As the power transformer
is one with four- and 6.3-volt heater
windings in addition to the usual 385
volts per side H.T. with five-volt rectifier
winding, a 6K7 metal valve was used as
the detector. The triode portion of the
ABCI is used as the first audio stage,
and the AL2 output pentode drives a
permag. midget speaker which is built
into the finished job. The valve com-
bination turned out
excellently, and no
doubt equally good
results would be ob-
tained by using an-
other AF3 as detector
in the same circuit. The
possible valve combi-
nations that could be
used in a T.R.F. re-
ceiver of this kind are
legion— 2j-, four- or
six-volt types would
serve equally well —
and nowadays power
transformers with
windings to one’s own
specifications are
readily made by
manufacturers at very
reasonable prices.
First thing to note
is that the R.F. ampli-
fier is seoarately tuned
and not ganged with the detector. Tuning
on this stage, with primary coupling to the
detector, is fairly sharp, but not too sharp
to miss strong signals completely when
this circuit is off-tune with the detector.
Two variable condensers in the original
came from the “junk-box.” The
.00035mfd. variable tuning the R.F. stage
is a Gecophone, as is the revamped band-
spread condenser in the detector circuit.
These condensers were well-known for
their excellent built-in vernier motion.
Detector oscillation and regeneration are
controlled by a 50,000-ohm potentiometer
in the usual S.G. control.
Separate Cathode Coil for Detector.
Instead of tapping the detector grid
coil, a separate cathode coil coupled to
the grid coil is employed. This puts the
6K7 cathode a few turns above earth in
the same way as with a tapped grid coil,
and has advantages. Spacing between the
coils can be adjusted when making initial
tests for correct detector action. This
method of feed-back in an electron-
coupled detector was first described in
the Wide-World Two, designed by the
writer in January, 1934. The R.F. stage
also has a 50,000-ohm potentiometer
control in the screen-grid circuit, but as
this stage is non-regenerative this control
is used for R.F. gain limitation on broad-
cast frequencies. It shows useful points
where the receiver is used close to a
local broadcaster. With the receiver com-
pletely screened in a brass box, as shown
in the illustrations, selectivity on the
broadcast range is good enough to sepa-
rate all Sydney stations and many more
besides, with an aerial 137 ft. long. That
is good enough for average purposes.
The audio circuits are conventional,
and in order to get the best possible
detector gain, coupling here is by a high-
impedance choke. The original happens
to be the secondary of the once popular
type of Philips three-to-one audio trans-
former.
Fig. 3.—How the R.F. and detector-coil drums are con-
structed. The coils are carried on WT/22 bars with
contact studs. The spring contacts are on the other side of
the drums.
All component values other than coil
details are shown in the diagram, but the
detector tuning condenser C 2 calls for
detailed comment. The 40mmfd. vari-
able in parallel is for vernier tuning and
bandspread when the receiver is used
on amateur bands. C 2 is a split stator
condenser with one section of .00014mfd.
and the other of .0002mfd. A toggle
switch across the two stators connects
them, by panel control, in shunt to make
up .00034mfd. capacity for tuning on
broadcast and longer waves, and when
open leaves in the .00014mfd. section
for short-wave tuning. The smaller coils,
those from 80 to nine metres, are wound
to suit the smaller capacity. The switch is
close to the detector tuning dial on the
panel and is marked “L.W.” and “S.W.”
for the two positions. Headphone recep-
tion is provided in the plate circuit of
the ABCI as shown.
Coil Mechanism.
Making up this coil-changing geat re-
quires a lathe and other tools. The basic
idea was illustrated in B. 1/ 3 / ’39, show-
ing the foundation before coils were
fitted. Briefly, it consists of two drums,
made from bakelite disks, with crossbars
of WT/22 insulation material carrying
the coils. The disks are fitted with
centres turned from Catalin, and these are
locked to a |in. brass shaft running in
four bearings. The bars carrying the
coils also have round-headed contact
studs for the coil connections —six for
detector and four for R.F. stages. As
the ganged drums are rotated, the studs
come up against nickel-silver springs
Fig. 4. —An old drum dial is adapted
as a handwheel for control of the
coil-changing mechanism.
carried on a WT/22 strip bolted across
in the correct position to register align-
ment. The bakelite disks are £in. thick
and 4in. in diameter. Screw bolts, -Jin.,
are tapped into the edges at the correct
positions to lock the coil bars securely
in place across the disks.
The construction is such that it is a
matter of seconds to remove any coil
unit for examination or alteration by un-
screwing the two bolts. An extension to
the brass shafting is carried through the
side of the R.F. stage at the left, and on
this a handwheel made from an old
bakelite drum dial is fitted for control
of the mechanism. At the correct posi-
tions notches are cut into the edge of the
wheel, and a spring carrying a roller
snicks into place as each set of coils
makes contact with the springs. It is a
simple idea, but calls for care in making
and fitting. The layout of the receiver
is such that the leads in the detector and
R.F. grid circuits are as short as would


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/ per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are IS/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “Tlie Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio'' is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income ox
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages
Rations . . . .
Sheep bought
Wire netting
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 1 2
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/ plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
rage 39
„ 15
„ 20
„ 61
be the case with plug-in coils. The con-
tact springs on the framework of the
drums are very close to the tuning con-
densers and wiring is made in 16 bare
copper.
Coil Details.
In the case of R.F. and detector the
grid coils are exactly similar, as shown in
the chart. The smallest coils (nine metres)
are air-wound with 14-gauge copper,
having celluloid strips cemented across
the turns for rigidity. Coils are referred
to in the chart as 10, 20, 40 metres, etc.,
for purposes of identification, and with
the tuning capacities specified there is
complete overlap from nine to 1000
metres.
The results obtained with the original
receiver are highly satisfactory, and hours
of excellent reception have been enjoyed
since the receiver was completed. From
8 a.m. to midday it is often possible to
hear American nine-metre police stations,
and on several occasions patrol cars in
American cities have been heard reply-
ing to control stations. As about 25
watts of power is usually employed for
such mobile installations, this reception is
all the more remarkable. American and
other 10-metre amateurs can be heard
Fig. 5. —A more recent design for a
rotating coil-changer using larger
disks and radially-mounted coils.
in large numbers, and as the receiver in-
cludes all the 8.8. C. Empire frequencies
there is wide entertainment scope.
Figure 5 shows another design for a
rotating coil mechanism as made by the
writer. In this case the coils are fitted
radially on large diameter disks. The
scheme is equally effective, but more un-
wieldy than that used in this receiver.
COIL DATA: 9- TO 1000-METRE RECEIVER.
Band.
10 metres ..
20 metres ..
40 metres
80 metres ..
160 metres
Broadcast
1000 metres
Aerial Coil.
3 turns
14 enam.
4 turns
22 enam.
5 turns
26 D.S.C.
8 turns
28 D.S.C.
15 turns
30 turns
45 turns
Primary.
2 turns interwound
from each end.
4 turns 28 D.S.C.
interwound
7 turns 28 D.S.C.
interwound
20 turns 30 D.S.C.
interwound
15 turns 30 D.S.C.
22 turns 30 D.S.C.
25 turns 30 D.S.C.
Cathode
Coil.
3 turns
4 turns
4 turns
5 turns
5 turns
7 turns
8 turns
Grid Coil.
6 turns 14 enam.
Jin. diameter.
9 turns 22 enam.
ljin. long on Hin.
former.
22 turns 26 D.S.C.
2in. long lin. diam.
former.
42 turns 28 D.S.C.
2in. long Him
diam. former.
40 turns 9/41 Litz
78 turns 9/41 Litz
160 turns 30 D.S.C.
The 160-metre broadcast and 1000-metre coils are wound on Sirufer iron cores.
Constructional Points.
The original receiver is built into a
large brass box assembly which was
rescued from a radio dealer’s “trade-ins”
some time ago. It had originally housed
a T.R.F. receiver modelled on one
described by the writer in 1928, and
known as the All Empire. The original
of that design was the first receiver to
use a metal chassis in Australia, and
opened up the way to high efficiency in
short-wave receivers for the amateur.
Fitted with sliding lids top and bottom
for R.F., detector and audio sections,
the receiver illustrated here is very com-
pletely screened. So much so that, with-
out an aerial connected, no signal gets in.
The detector tuning dial is a free-
running cast aluminium type with rubber
wheel drive. This makes for speedy
station location and is ideal for the pur-
pose. Power supply is conventional, but
well filtered for short-wave purposes.
The detector heater is decoupled by .01
mica condensers to earth, a precaution
against “tunable hum” often encountered
in a regenerative detector in A.C.-
powered receivers.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
During the week ending 11/3/’39, the
56mc. transmitter at the writer’s station
was changed over from the electron-
coupled oscillator exciter to crystal con-
trol with excellent results. Though four
stages were in use previously, various
factors, such as line-voltage variation,
would result in gradual signal drift for a
minute or so until the oscillator settled
down. Stability of a high order is now
obtained with the crystal drive. The
arrangement consists of 42 c.o. with cry-
stal at 7005 kc., with 6L6G quadrupling
to 28,020 kc. in the Reinartz “harmonic
reinforcement” method. This 10-metre
output is followed by an 807 as a series-
tuned doubler to 56,040 kc., and the out-
put from this exciter unit is more than
ample to drive the linked p.-p. 801’s,
which in turn deliver 40ma. of grid cur-
rent to the p.-p. 35 Ts in the final. For
those interested in getting to 56mc. easily
from a 7mc. crystal with R.F. to spare,
the exciter unit will be described in a
future issue.
On the evening of 12/3/’39 Sydney
56mc. men enjoyed a regular “round-
table conference.” Stations taking part
were VKs 2LZ, Blue Mountains, 60 miles
distant ; 2ABC, Maroubra; 2IQ, Bur-
wood ; 2NO, Waverley; and 2AZ,
Kogarah. Other stations heard on the
band were VKs 2YE, 2AEE and 2ACF.
Trev Evans, VK2NS, of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), will shortly be active on the
band. The writer is making him a
special 1851-6JBG superhet converter
for use with the amateur band RX,
and the existing QRO DX trans-
mitting gear is to be put on to
56mc. with 100 TH’s available. A two-
section WBJK beam is being erected, and
VK2NS should prove one of the most
interesting stations on the band. VK2VU,
of Singleton, will not be long behind
Evans, and with more stations taking an
interest with the right kind of equipment
it looks as if the N.S.W. 56mc. “stickers”
are to be rewarded for years of patience.
VK2LZ is soon to attempt a mobile test
as far afield as Orange (N.S.W.).
Schedules will be kept with VK2NS in
Bathurst and also with Sydney stations.
VK2NO.
Comparison of Wire Gauges.
“F.T.M” (W.A.) writes: Radio construe
tors and experimenters who build up gear
to the designs published in American
radio magazines should note that thick-
ness of materials used in chassis and
panels, also wire sizes, is given in the
American B and S gauge, which differs
greatly from the Imperial wire gauge
used in British countries. American
amateur radio handbooks and magazines
favor the use of 14 B and S aluminium
for chassis and panels in transmitter
construction. This gauge is almost the
same thickness as 16 gauge in I.W.G.
Variation in the two standards of
measurement is most apparent in rewind-
ing American generators. It is almost
impossible to obtain a wire in I.W.G.
to give anything like the same circular
mil. area as a given size in the B and S
gauge. For antenna construction B and
S gauge wire should be procured, as the
surge impedance on an I.W.G. size can
be so far out from data given in tables
as to make difficult the matching of
impedances at the antenna end of a
transmission line.
Trouble will likewise be encountered
with the frequency range of coils, especi-
ally in the L/C ratio of transmitter
“tank” circuits. It is most marked in the
tuning circuits of ultra-high-frequency
receivers. To bei certain when working
from an American design, use material
in the B and S sizes, and for English
design use the Imperial wire gauge sizes.
New Channels for U.S.A.
S.-W. Broadcasters.
WBXAL, Cincinnati (Ohio), has been
authorised to increase power to 50 kilo-
watts and to use the frequencies 21.65mc.
(13.85 m.) and 11.76mc. (25.51 m.) in
addition to those already adopted,
namely, 6.06mc. (49.5 m.), 9.59mc.
(31.28 m.), 11.87mc. (25.25 m.) and
15.27mc. (19.65 m.).
W2XE, Wayne Township (N.J.), main
short-wave outlet of the C. 8.5., has also
been granted a permit to use 6.17mc.
(48.62 m.), 9.65mc. (31.09 m.), 17.83mc.
(16.83 m.), and 21.57mc. (13.91 m), in
addition to those already in use, viz.,
6.12mc. (49.02 m.), 11.83mc. (25.36 m.),
and 15.27mc. (19.65 m.). The frequencies
of 9.59mc. (31.28 m.), 17.7mc. (16.95 m.),
and 21.52mc. (13.94 m.) have been with-
drawn from this transmitter.
WIXAL, Boston (Mass.), has increased
power to 20 kilowatts, and now broad-
casts on 6.04mc. (49.67 m.), 11.79mc.
(25.45 m.), 11.73mc. (25.58 m.), 15.25mc.
(19.67 m.), 15.13mc. (19.83 m.), and
21.4mc. (14.02 m.).
Trade Notes.
The Rola Loudspeaker Co. has intro-
duced a compact Bin. reproducer of
extraordinary efficiency, known as the
improved FB. The new patented dust-
proof and acoustic filter assembly,
moulded corrugated spider and more
responsive diaphragm are features of this
new unit usually associated with repro-
ducers in a higher-priced field. Rola
speakers are distributed throughout Aus-
tralia by A. E. Harrold, Queensland;
George Brown and Co. and John Martin,
Ltd., Sydney; Homecrafts, Ltd., Mel-
bourne ; A. G. Healing, Ltd., Melbourne
and Adelaide; D. Harris and Co.,
Adelaide ; Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Perth ; and
W. and G. Genders, Ltd., Launceston,
Hobart and Burnie. Head office of the
Rola Co. in Sydney is 116 Clarence-
street.
“Jachris”: Likely to help television
along quite a deal is the rivalry between
Britain and the U.S.A. as to which will
be the leader in this new field of enter-
tainment. British manufacturers say
they sell 500 televisors a week, and esti-
mate unloading 40,000 sets, priced at
between 21 and 120 guineas, this year.
A television display at Selfridge’s in
London brings along 5000 visitors every
day. The American rivals are to begin
their campaign at the New York World
Fair and boast they’ll soon outdistance
the English figures. Here in Australia
knight Ernest Fisk says one of the
reasons television can’t hope for expan-
sion for quite a long time is ‘"the enor-
mous expense of providing entertainment
on a Hollywood scale.” That shouldn’t
greatly worry the Yanks.
* * * *
“Sixwz”: Most modern receivers with
pickup terminals work equally well with
crystal or magnetic types, but some early
sets were designed for the magnetic type
alone. Terminals are then in grid-
return or cathode portions of a detector
circuit where a direct path through the
pickup is essential. It is best to regard
with suspicion any set in which the pick-
up terminals are bridged for radio
operation. Until the exact circuit is
known only magnetic types should be
used. A makeshift for piezo models is
to employ a good quality audio trans-
former with the pickup connected to
secondary and the primary wired to the
set terminals.
* $ * *
Short-wave broadcasters W3XAL and
W3XL, of N.B.C. of U.S.A., have now
installed directional aerials for reliable
long-distance working. By means of
push-button controls the aerial arrays
may be swung through 20 degrees, giving
an increase in signal strength in desired
directions.
The Question Box.
Address of “Australasian Radio World”
offices in Sydney? —76o.
214 George-street.
* * *
(1) American communications receivers are
obtainable through the local agent here in New
Guinea. Would such a receiver be admitted
duty free on returning to Australia in two years’
time? (2) Which of the following is best value
for £4O as a receiver for dual-M’ave reception:
Hallicrafters, Scott, R.C.A., Fairbanks Morse.
Lafayette, H.M.V. {British) or Philips {Dutch)?
—759.
(1) Most unlikely. (2) Most of the makes
named are not normally obtainable in Aus-
tralia. Only one in the list to have been tried
here is the Hallicrafters, and this make, in the
SXI7 and SXI6 types, works as nicely as it
looks. If any of these models are already
in the hands of the agents, best way is to
make a trial of each in your location before
deciding.


LYS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ssj& ■
yag
3*=3
a*
kSSf
«S
5^
wsfiw
«■*<
50#
K-
-4g«
asara
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIR E NETTING.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Mules Operation.
“Ghanam”: In the Mules operation to
combat fly-strike, the sheep or lamb is
sat down as for tailing, and the hind
wrinkles removed from above the vulva
as far as they extend down between the
legs ; afterwards brown ends to the cut-
tings are watched for and if necessary
more skin removed; tails are shortened
sufficiently to prevent urine soiling,
scabby ulcer watched for and treated at
lamb-marking. It has been under obser-
vation for eight years. The C.S. and I.R.
has recently completed extensive trials at
Dungalear (N.S.W.) on 542 six-months-
old merino ewe weaners and 108 18-
months-old hoggets.
They were divided into three groups—
-62 per cent, highly susceptible to crutch
strike, 32 per cent, moderately suscep-
tible and 6 per cent, little susceptible.
Each group was divided again into two,
one half being untreated controls. All
care was taken to balance conditions.
The operation was carried out with
secateurs, with the patients across a rail
in lamb-marking position, medial and
lateral folds both being removed and the
wounds dressed with glycerine-diboric
dressing. The trials lasted 14 months;
the seasons were dry, but in spring, 1937,
a third of the controls were struck.
There were three machine crutchings—
October, February, June —and a few of
the animals were treated a second time.
Out of 20 least susceptible sheep
treated only one was struck ; losses were
nil. Among the
controls in the
group there was
no record of
strikes, but one
was lost. In the
moderately sus-
ceptible group
nine Mules-
treated animals
were affected,
against 41 of the
controls. Among
the highly sus-
ceptibles 48, or
25.4 per cent.,
treated sheep were
struck; 138, or
74.2 per cent.,
non-treated sheep.
Taking the three groups together, the
treated sheep affected averaged only 18
per cent., with a total of 97 strikes, while
the untreated controls averaged 58.5 per
cent., a total of 668 separate strikes. In
crutch strikes, the advantage of treated
sheep over untreated was in the ratio of
about 1 to 22.
The operation was found simple and
rapid. The pain passed quickly; the
wounds healed at once. Where treated
sheep were crutch-struck it was usually
found that they needed a little further
operating on. Results generally were
“excellent.”
Mules himself helped. The scientific
workers used shears, which they found
less tiring and easier to keep sharpened,
instead of the secateurs he favored. The
shears were dipped between operations.
For tidiness and hygiene, a box was kept
by each worker into which to throw skin
pieces.
It was found that in rail operating,
which is the easiest method, wrinkles tend
to pull out, so that it was better to over-
cut than undercut. The rate of working
was 100 per hour.
It appears that the younger the animal
the less its weight and the easier it is to
handle; that the seasons in which to
operate are those when there are no
blowfly waves and no bush flies to irri-
tate wounds. Marking time seems best,
though wrinkles are harder to pick up in
lambs old enough to be heavily woolled.
There doesn’t seem to be much doubt
in the face of this test where the main
fly loss lies, and the Mules method, on
the experiment, looks as effective as any.
It would be better to breed a type of
sheep which will have plain crutches and
which will not need operation, but to
effect that needs time.
N.S.W. Sheep Numbers.
“Merino”: The 51,630,000 sheep in
N.S.W. at March 31 last represent a
“Cripes, Boss, don't it make a man's mouth Water?"
decrease of .97 per cent, compared with
53,166,000 in 1927. Merinos, at 43,647,440,
were 523,000 fewer, but the percentage
of 84.6 was a fraction higher on the
year. It is evident that the British breeds
used in crossing for fat lambs are not
making any advance at the expense of
the merino ; in fact, the reverse.
Comebacks 2,594,140 and crossbreds
4,701,939, totalling 7,296,079, equalled
14.1 p.c. of the aggregate numbers. Here
there was a decline of 274,000, the 1927
returns being 2,698,165 and 4,871,745
respectively, with a total of 7,570,110.
All these comparisons can be regarded
as satisfactory, seeing that drought losses
were severest in the wool-sheep areas.
The Corriedale, on its dual-purpose
merits, more than held its own, advanc-
ing from 424,500 to 427,293, a fact which
partly reflects the better grazing condi-
tions in the cooler districts.
The Victorian Polwarth, which ranks
as a fixed comeback, evolved more than
50 years ago, lost further ground, a total
of 25,452 comparing with 30,349 in the
previous year.
In the British section the three princi-
pal Downs types used in siring export
lambs —Dorset Horn, Southdown and
Ryeland—alone continued on the in-
crease. The figures for Downs and long-
wools are: Border Leicester, 107,552
(previous year, 110,814); Romney Marsh,
39,649 (42,950); Dorset Horn, 20,815
(19,718); Southdown, 16,297 (13,227);
Ryeland, 3210 (2063); Lincoln, 2198
(2586); English Leicester, 2087 (3958);
Shropshire, 1557 (3651); Suffolk, 529
(1421). The British breeds as a whole
represent only .00023 per cent, of the
State’s sheep population.
Two Views on Skin Pieces.
“C.V.S.”: Bradford manufacturers
have again complained of skin pieces in
Australian wool: “There is more skin in
Queensland scoured fleece merinos to-day
than in Victorian skin scoureds.”
The Bradford men place all the blame
on the shearer: “It is not suggested that
the fault is that of the growers.” But
shearing is piecework, and while there
are wrinkly sheep the trouble will persist.
Hard-working shearers doing only 100 a
day exhaust their patience on them.
The fad of “shearing them pink” may
also aggravate the trouble.
“Nagheer”: A recent and growing
trouble affecting Queensland scoured
merino wools of first quality is skin. Dur-
ing the last couple of years particularly
it has set some growers back from |d.
to Id. per pound for hand-picking at the
mill or from the finished cloth. In the
latter case it may cost from 3d. to Is.
a yard or more to prevent irregularity of
color and weave.
The fault does not lie with the grower.
Nor does it lie with the scourer. He
works on standard rates and pays high
wages. If he is to pick out skin bits
from the last washbowl he must charge
more. Anyhow, he could not guarantee
complete freedom. Careless, hasty shear-
ing is the cause —the intention to get as
close a clip and as big a tally as possible.
Riverina’s Better Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: An outstanding feature of
the season’s harvest has been the im-
proved milling and baking quality of
the eastern Riverina wheat, including
that from districts west of the main
southern railway The Rock to Oak-
lands, Henty to the Rand, Culcairn to
Corowa, and Uranquinty to Kywong.
Yields were on the light side, but the
grain was well filled and of remarkably
high bushel weight. Tests in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture showed high gluten
content and good baking quality, the
flour on the average being of good
medium-strong grade. Climatic con-
ditions during the ripening and harvest-
ing stages no doubt contributed to better
quality, but the varieties grown have
had the greater influence.
Riverina has until the last two or
three years figured as a weak-flour wheat
zone, as a result of concentrating on such
varieties as Yandilla King, Nabawa,
Waratah, Free Gallipoli, Ranee, Ghurka
and Turvey. The marked swing over to
Dundee and Ford during the last two
seasons has lifted the quality standard
and widened the milling demand for the
wheat.
S.A. Barley.
“Dee Bee”: Tell “S.T.S.” (B. 8/3/’39)
that last season 87,500 tons of barley was
shipped overseas from South Australia,
over 65,000 tons being sent to the port
of Leith.
Last season’s barley harvest was a
record —nearly 8,500,000 bushels. This
season the crop is at least 1,000,000 to
1,500,000 bushels less, and export to date
does not exceed 20,000 tons, of which
about 15,000 tons has been exported
to Leith. Leith has for the past
three seasons more than supplanted the
old Belgian market, but demand from
Scotland is dependent upon whether that
country can secure a continuity of orders
for whisky from U.S.A.
The barley industry in S. Aus. is assum-
ing large proportions, and it is satisfac-
tory that Scotland has come to the aid
of exporters. Other U.K. ports to which
barley is sent are Glasgow, Hull and
London.
Trees and Seasons.
“Gidya George”: To judge strange
country, the trees offer as good a guide
as a rainfall chart. Without exception
every dry period is marked by a twist
or a turn in the boughs of the trees. A
bit of a dry pinch, not worthy to be
called a drought, will put a knot in the
limb. A dry summer will cause a twist;
a real old-man drought will make the
things turn about and start back the
way they came in their thirst to find
water.
Apart from telling of the seasons, the
trees also tell of the annual rainfall
averages. Barring the course of old-
time gullies which have been filled in
during the ages, coolabahs and other
gums won’t grow out on downs country
and away from watercourses in a rainfall
under 20in. a year. At about 20in. odd
gums chance the downs. At about 26in.,
if the rainfall is fairly regular, the gums
grow anywhere at all.
In the lower-rainfall country only
coolabahs grow on the rivers, blood-
woods in rough places, gidyas on the
downs. An odd whitewood might
struggle for a living, and the poor
growth shows the low rainfall.
In country of about 10m., with periodi-
cal droughts, fencing posts are as rare
as purple emu eggs. Recurring dry times
have twisted the limbs and trees so that
they aren’t straight enough to use.
Hints for the Farm.
“Antiant”: From about 15 years’ ex-
perience in poisoning ants in the home
and around the homestead (B. 22 /2 / ’39),
my formula is: Boil one pint of water
o Continued on page 45.)


SUNSHINE
COMBINES
GIVE THE BEST CROPS
apt
Year after year, farmers using
Sunshine Combines scoop the vast
majority of crop competition
awards. The season just ended
has again emphasised this.
M
4*
6,0
&
GRAIN
FEEDS
EVENLY
AND
SURELY
©
©
©
©
©
l
I
;>•
fiii
JIL.
SUPER.
FEEDS
EVENLY
AND
SURELY
.. BOTH ARE PLANTED
UNIFORMLY ON A
FIRM, LEVEL SEED BED
o
Despite super-
ficial resem-
blances, the
Sunshine
grain run ex-
cels all others |
because of its
perfect design
and FIND
FINISH.
Through years
of test it has
been proved to
give the best
possible con-
trol of the seed. Feeds continuously and
uniformly at all speeds. No “patchy” sow-
ing. No cracked kernels.
Shape and size of outlet and star
teeth ensure even flow.
m
w
Each tooth starts BEFORE the preceding
to feed one has finished.
Amount of super, discharged does not vary
at any stage of the star’s revolution.
I'O?
Note that grain and
super, are planted well
under share before Soil
can close
the fur-
row.
Keenly
priced
for cash or terms.
m
mmmm.
W
**%
1
m
'f*
«
li
31
»
SSSSssffiSS&K
■
i
#
wm.
m
m
■
II
m
*>*
§**S
M
m
V
#^3&W«sw£
fis*
">• SUNTYNE
—famous SPRING
TYNE COMBINE.
Now better than ever
7 sizes, 8 to 24 rows.
Tearn or tractor haul -
12, 16 and
20 row sizes.
The NEW Patented
SUNLEA
STUMP-JUMP RIGID
TYNE CULTIVATOR
DRILL.
Unites the Suntyne feed-
run with bridle draught,
similar to the SUNDUKE
scarifier.
See them at
the Sydney Royal Show;
or ask your local agent for full details.
MANUFACTURED AND WARRANTED BY
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD:
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE. Agents in all Country Centres,
(INCORPORATED
IN VICTORIA)
AT THE
SYDNEY
ROYAL
SHOW...
Be sure to see the great
display of
SUNSHINE and
MASSEY HARRIS
MACHINERY
for the farmer, grazier,
dairyfarmer, fruitgrower
sind planter.
Great advances have been
made in agricultural
machinery in the past year,
and the many notable improve-
ments will be clearly demon-
strated on our stand at the
corner of Park Road and
Machinery Avenue, Sydney
Showground.
Australia’s leading line
Of
Agricultural Machinery
Sunshine Headers and Stripper Harvesters,
including new Power-take-off Models.
Sunshine Massey Harris Oil-hath Binder.
Massey Harris Power-take-off Binder.
Massey Harris Mowers (oil-bath and open gear).
Massey Harris No. 8 Reaper.
Massey Harris No. 2 Hay Loader.
Massey Harris No. 7 Side Rake and Tedder.
Massey Harris Knife Grinder.
Massey Harris Hay Rake.
Sunshine Massey Harris Tractors (with important
new features); models to meet all needs.
One-man Tractor Unit Control.
Tractor Hoist and Attachments.
Sun Grain and Fertilizer Drills.
Suntyne Spring Tyne Combine, including new
models with enlarged hopper capacity and
other new features.
Sunlea Stump Jump Rigid Tyne Cultivator Drill,
including models with enlarged capacity.
Other Seed Planters and Fertilizer Distributors,
including Sunfiow Fertilizer Dropper.
Cultivators of many types.
Sunduke and other Scarifiers.
Sunprong and other Pasture Renovators.
Harrows for all purposes; from a Single Section
to large sets covering up to 57ft. 2in.
Satellite Horse Hoes or Scuflflers.
Sundercut Disc Cultivating Plough.
Sungeneral Heavy Duty Disc Plough.
One-, Two- and Three-furrow Disc Ploughs.
Sunvertical Improved Stump Jump Disc Plough.
One,- Two and Three-furrow Mouldboard Ploughs
of many types, for all needs.
Sunrise Stump-jump Mouldboard Ploughs, Three,
Four, Five, Six and Seven Furrows.
Sunprince Eight-furrow Stump-jump Mouldboard
Plough.
Sundial Petrol Engines, Two and Four H.P.
S.M.H. Diesel Engines, Three and Five H.P.
Sunshine Spraying Outfits.
Massey Harris Ball-hearing Separators.
Warren-Farmer Milking Machine.
Sunshine Chaffcutters.
Sunshine Saw Bench.
Sunfeed Grinding Mill.
Massey Harris Maize Shelters; Pulper and Slicer;
Husker and Sheller.
Sunshine Field Roller. Sunpacker. Harrow
Carts. Draught Springs. Pump Jacks.
Swingletrees. Yokes. Sack Trucks. Bag
Loaders. Oils, Greases, Etc.
Sunshine Metal Gates, many styles.
If you are not visiting the
Sydney Royal Show,
ask your local agent for free catalogues, or
write direct to the nearest branch;—
CONCORD WEST (near Sydney).
654-664 BOURKE STREET . . MELBOURNE
95-97 NORTH TERRACE ADELAIDE
CNR. MURRAY AND KING STS. . . PERTH
Queensland Distributors:
H. V, McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd.,
South Brisbane.


WHOOPEE!
THE INDIANS ARE COMING
TO THE ROYAL
EASTER SHOE
The chuck wasoh race
A.T THE ROYAU- SHOW.
The Indian Village o*j the Show Ground.
&i,RE R/s»ce.s act the. ShoW.
THE ROYAL EASTER SHOW
Saturday, April Ist, to Wednesday, April 12th, 1939


\^>7
11 i '
t\jv'JV'*'-''
DOB
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6
‘ If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
AT UNDER U PER ACRE—LANZ
ENSURES PROFITABLE FARMING!
The LANZ "Bulldog" cuts down production costs
to bedrock—provides cheaper cultivation than
ever before. It reduces cost of working 100
acres to from £lO to £l2 a year (8 operations),
each operation averaging less than 4d. per acre!
Compare this with your present fuel bill if you
use an ordinary tractor!!
Fuel is not the only LANZ economy. The Lanz
has no intricate mechanism, no multitude of
cylinders, pistons, valves or other parts. Its
amazingly simple, single-cylinder engine with
only 8 moving parts working at low speed, en-
sures the very lowest maintenance costs, much
longer working life and notably higher re-sale
value than ordinary tractors.
.• 'V
%
x
%
Hr
i® 36
a*
H
LANZ “BULLDOGS"—A MODEL
FOR EVERY TYPE OF FARM:—
Model "J" 10-20 H.P.
Model "L" 12-25 H.P.
Model "N" 18-35 H.P.
Model “P" 22-45 H.P.
Model "T" 35-55 H.P.
(Crawler)
From £375
ON STEEL
WHEELS
Buy your Imple-
ments from eoun-
tries who recipro-
cate by buying
your products!
Australian wool
sent to Germany
pays for every
tractor that comes
to Australia!
A
BULLDOG'
C*AAltt> Oil
CIS T R I B U T O R-S Y
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria:
K.L. Engines & Tractors
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly 4 Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William & Forbes Streets,
Perth
and one-tenth ounce chemically-pure
arsenite of soda, and add lib. sugar
and 3oz. honey. Bottle and cork
well and keep in dark, cool place.
Put the mixture out in crown caps
of bottles or jars in the tracks of
the pest. Very little of the poison is
needed to clear up nests. I have never
known it to fail except with the soldier
ant.
“Yeno Ham”: Best way of burning out
dead stumps is to dig a hole beside the
stump so that dry chips and small wood
can be placed under the spreading roots.
Light the chips, and when they are burn-
ing well cover the hole with leaves and
sprinkle earth over the top. If there are
enough chips to light the trunk and roots
properly, burning will be finished in five
to ten days.
“Nandewar”: Graziers in the N.S.W.
north-west who have conserved Mitch ell-
grass hay in the last couple of seasons
have a high opinion of its feed value, and
Herbert Marston, chief nutrition officer
of the C.S. and 1.R., who investigated its
value as a drought ration, found them
right. Tests showed that if the grass
was cut at the flowering stage 2-Hb. of
hay provided practically a complete
maintenanse ration for sheep, the fodder
having rather better than half the nutri-
tive value of maize, weight for weight.
The grass under natural conditions cuts
lOcwt. to 30cwt. hay per acre.
“B-gar”: Because of drought backs
of N.S.W. western-grown wool are harsh
and mushy, carrying a deal of dust and
sand. It pays to remove them from
fleeces. Poverty and an insufficiency of
yolk make much back wool shelly-look-
ing. If left on fleeces, pressing will cause
sand and dust to seep through otherwise
fairly clean wool. Back wool should be
kept apart from the other skirtings. In
normal clips with length of staple and
spinning capacity fairly even, one line
of back wool will suffice.
“Bundalinga”: A south-western N. S.
Wales grazier used 1000 bags of wheat
for sheep feed this season, and found it
entirely satisfactory. He started the
ration at per sheep per day, and
increased the allowance by an ounce each
successive two days until was
reached. Some of the wheat was distri-
buted on the ground, and the rest was
fed in troughs. There was little between
the two methods, but the greediest sheep
got more than their share from the
troughs. Half a pound of hay per sheep
per day provided the roughage:
“C.V.S.”: Burr may lower the carbon-
ised yield of wool by from 4 p.c. to 12 p.c.
The least harmful of burrs are Noogoora,
Bathurst and carrot seed, all of which
may be. mechanically removed. Trefoil,
bindi-eyes, three-cornered jack and buzzy-
wuzzy call for carbonising. Shirry wool,
too, is often carbonised. If well car-
bonised, wool is left bright, lofty and
soft; but young green burr is difficult to
remove, and should be carefully avoided
before shearing. Sap in green burr pre-
vents penetration by the acid, and ham-
pers subsequent drying, resulting in in-
complete carbonisation.
“Yeno Ham”: Yass (N.S.W.) graziers
have disproved the belief that improved
pastures do not suit merinos. Merryville
Pty., Ltd., controlled by W. T. Merri-
man, received the Australian record price
(28d. per pound) for this season with
wool from merinos that were run on top-
dressed pastures containing a preponder-
ance of sub. clover, and last year sup-
plied the grand champion ewe at Sydney
and Cootamundra sheep shows. (The same
ewe was grand champion at Yass Show
recently, with Merryville’s The Master
Builder, eight years old, grand champion
ram.) Starr and Sons, of Eshcol Dalton,
are also rapidly extending their areas of
improved grasslands. Peter Milson, of
Laverstock, near Yass, is another. At
Yass Show a pen of three Laverstock
wethers cut 151 b. 140 z., 171 b. lOoz. and
201 b. 15oz. of wool respectively for 12
months, the aggregate return being esti-
mated at £3 12s. The wethers were
grazed for ten months with 60 others on
20 acres of subterranean clover, cocks-
foot, Wimmera rye and sheep’s burnett,
which get lcwt. of super, per acre annu-
ally.
“Mullengah”: Cowpeas sown in Octo-
ber or November for a green manure
crop can be ploughed in during March
and pasture mixtures sown as soon as
possible afterwards. Plough the peas in
before the leaves and stems begin
to dry. If p eas rot j n t h e
soil before pastures are sown much
of the benefit is lost by leaching,
Grown for green manure, cowpeas can
be grazed, leaving only a small residue
of stalks and leaves for turning under,
Tests have shown that at least 75 p.c.
of the beneficial effects of a crop of cow-
u.. > i i .
peas are produced by the underground
parts ot the plants. Green manure crops,
such as Poona cowpeas, enable good
pastures to be established on soils ot
low fertility, and they stimulate pastures
sown on <»ood soils Green manuring
• then nnt/ fnVtT A • u t
is better than any fertihsei dressing, but
pastures need other manures when once
established.
“J. Want”: North Coast (N.S.W.) pig-
breeders have recently conducted a pig
fair. Lectures by experts on bacon
standards were a feature of the show,
and the Agricultural Department sent
some of its men to advise on feeding.
One of them made a strong appeal in
favor of the use of surplus wheat for
bacon production. The M.O.L. page has
advocated it for years. The fair is to
be made an annual event.
“Bomen”: To meet an increasing de-
mand for breeding stock in wheat dis-
experiment farm have been remodelled
and extended, and provision made for
more brood sows. Also, the old, com-
paratively short and thick type of Berk-
shire is being replaced by the lighter,
leaner and longer, or Canadian, type,
now favored in the baconer market.
Disdain : The drought in Victoria
(B. 22/2/’39) made a market for M.L.
onions in Sydney. They come chiefly
from the Pukekohe (Auckland) and
Marshlands (Canterbury) districts, with
some good crops on newly-drained swamp
land in the Manawatu. Crops generally
are above the average, both in weight and
quality, while in some cases yields of
over 20 tons per acre have beep har-
vested. They’re fetching £l4 10s. per ton
on the farm!
“Mookau”: An English Shorthorn,
without pedigree, has broken all milk
records with 38,6781 b. milk in 336 days—
nearly lcwt. of milk a day. As she is on
a cherry farm she apparently had no
specialised treatment. The next best
record was held by a matron owned by
the well-known English breeder, Fielding
Johnson —35,7151 b. milk in 357 days.
Australia’s Melba XV., for long world’s
record-holder, and a large, highly-trained
cow, nursed on her job night and day,
could turn out only 32,5221 b. milk in
365 days. The English record makes no
mention of butterfat.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED,
(Transferred from Service Department .)
1 am 30 y ears °f age, with farming expert-
ence a , nd , about . & { o , o capital. Would this buy
enough land suitable for Dwalganup clover to
show chances of a decent living ? If so,
w here? 2633.
insuffidem Depar,men, •
C “ P " msufflcK ” for
When does the rice harvest commence at
Leeton? Have 1 a fair chance of a job there?
lam accustomed to wheat-farming. Where to
get information?—263l.
Not possible to forecast. Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Department.


SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . ..multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write jor details to Kings ford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
mis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, lor
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet wi
do this for you without pain or mconvemen •
Corns are killed while you s^cp— a .matte
a few hours. Chemists sell A CORN SILK.
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Gnmwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts. Neat and accurate. —-2770.
Queensland girl wants position as travelling
secretary or as secretary to resident in East or
West Indies.—2743.
Experienced stenographer, Sydney, desires
position as companion secretary. Refs. —2746.
Quote from person prepared to conscien-
tiously search files of Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
from 1902 to 1904.—2750.
To hear from persons who can furnish par-
ticulars regarding the Winn estate, the bene-
ficiaries of which were advertised for recently.
—2784.
To buy copy of The Bulletin for May 28,
1914, or copy of print of David Low’s cartoon
“Faiths and Faces” published in that issue.—
2729.
To buy Jarrahland Jingles, by “Dryblower”
Murphy.—2767.
Words of verse “Texas Jack.” —2771.
Information Sought.
Biographical details concerning Louisa
Lawson, mother of Henry Lawson ? —2804.
Born at Guntawang, near Mudgee, in 1848,
she was the second child of Henry Albury, a
Kentishman, who was a shearer, carter and
timber-getter in the Mudgee district. At the
age of 18 she married Peter Larsen, and they
moved to Grenfell in the hope of winning gold
on the diggings there, after a year returning
to Eurunderee in the Mudgee district and
settling there on a selection. The poverty
of the land and the droughts of the early
’eighties drove the family to Sydney, while
Peter Lawson (as he was by then called) found
work near Rylstone and afterwards near Hart-
ley. Louisa Lawson, after a short venture in
boardinghouse-keeping, determined to devote
herself to journalism. In 1887 she bought a
journal named the “Republican” and trained
her son Henry to edit it, but in the following
year embarked on a new venture —the “Dawn”
—a journal edited, printed and published by
women, in which for 17 years (May, 1888, to
July, 1905) she upheld the feminist cause. In
1905 she published at the “Dawn” office
The Lonely Crossing and Other Poems. In
1898 she founded the journal “Young Aus-
tralia.” She died at Sydney on August 12,
1920.
* * * *
Reason for the transportation to Australia
of the Young Ireland exiles? Who were the
principal exiles, and for what terms were they
sentenced ? —2BOO.
After the Irish insurrection of 1848 several
of the men associated with it were sentenced
to penal servitude, and, with one exception,
were sent to Tasmania. The exception was
John Mitchel, who was deported to Bermuda,
but afterwards rejoined his companions in mis-
fortune. Among those transported were Wil-
liam Smith O’Brien, Thomas Francis Meagher,
Terence Bellew McManus, Patrick O’Dono-
ghue, and John Martin: the first four for
life, the others for 14 years. Six years after
their transportation an amnesty was extended
to the three (O’Brien, Martin and O’Donoghue)
who still remained in Tasmania; the other three
had escaped, MacManus in 1851, Meagher in
1852 and Mitchel in 1858.
* * * *
Number of persons in Australia belonging
to the principal Christian and non-Christian
religions at the 1933 census? Number of
persons professing no religion or whose replies
were too indefinite for classification ? —2789.
Christian: Australian Church 388, Baptist
105,874, Brethren 10,043, Catholic Apostolic
976, Greek Catholic 11,911, Roman Catholic
1,161,455, Catholic (undefined) 127,542, Church
of Christ 62,754, Church of England 2,565,118,
Christadelphian 4744, Christian Scientist 8878,
Congregational 65,202, Latter Day Saints 2501,
Lutheran 60,803, Methodist 684,022, Presbyterian
713,229, Protestant (undefined) 72,764, Quaker
829, Salvation Army 31,210, Seventh Day
Adventist 13,965, Unitarian 1308, other
Christian (including undefined Christians)
22,222; total Christians, 5,727,738. Non-
Christian : Buddhist 735, Chinese 305, Con-
fucian 787, Hebrew 23,553, Hindu 212, Moham-
medan 1877, Pagan (so returned) 161, Shinto
121, Sikh 65, Theosophist 540, other non-
Christian 114; total non-Christians, 28,470.
Indefinite: Agnostic 1673, Deist 51, Freethinker
1342, no denomination 3207, Rationalist 702,
Socialist 46, Spiritualist 1807, other Indefinite
4201; total Indefinite, 13,029. No Religion:
Atheist 1289, other No Religion 10,365 ; total
No Religion, 11,654. At the 1933 census the
public was informed that there was no legal
obligation to answer the question concerning
religion, and 848,948 made no reply.
* * * *
Details concerning Lord Cranworth, at one
time British Lord Chancellor? —2742.
The son of a clergyman, he was born at
Cranworth, Norfolk, in 1790, was educated at
Cambridge and called to the Bar in 1816. He
sat in the House of Commons from 1832 to
his promotion to the Bench as Baron of the
Exchequer in 1839. In 1850 he was appointed
a vice-chancellor and created Baron Cran-
worth, and in 1852 he became Lord Chancellor
in Aberdeen’s Ministry. He also held the
office for one term under Palmerston and under
Russell, and died in London in 1868. Not a
very zealous law reformer, Cranworth’s name
is associated in the statute book with only
one small measure on conveyancing. But as a
Judge he holds high rank. He left no issue,
and the title became extinct on his death.
* * * *
(1) Usually, how long has a patient operated
on for single hernia to remain in hospital ?
(2) Is the operation a simple and reasonably
safe one? (3) How long after leaving hospital
must the patient remain at home before return-
ing to work? (4) Any chance of the trouble
developing again after the operation? —23B7.
(1) About three weeks. (2) Yes. (3)
Patients following sedentary occupations
should rest for a period of about three or
four weeks ; people who perform arduous phy-
sical work should do nothing for five weeks or
even two months. (4) In elderly persons or
those of poor muscular development, the hernia
sometimes recurs, no matter how expert the
surgeons, but such happenings are not common.
* * * *
How to clean (1) reflectors on car headlights,
(2) glass windscreens? (3) Suitable prepara-
tion for keeping rain off windscreens? —2717.
(1) Clean only when necessary as they are
often silverplated and easily spoiled. Use a
very soft, clean cloth, or powdered dry rouge
and a chamois cloth, without applying pressure;
rub in a circular motion. If tarnished or
scratched, take to a silverplater and have them
buffed. If slightly tarnished they can be im-
proved by moistening the rouge with alcohol
and applying with a soft chamois. (2) Make
a mixture of half alcohol and half water; apply
with a soft cloth. (3) Try a mixture made up
of glycerine 20z., water loz, salt 1 dram; apply
with a cheesecloth.
* * He *
I propose coating the interior of a Aft. x 10 ft.
brick tank with cement for use as an aquarium.
(1) Suitable mixture for the concrete? (2)
How seasoned? (3) Average depth of pond?
(4) Type of fish most suitable? (5) Books on
the subject? —27o3.
(1) Take a shovelful of cement and two to
four of sand. Mix them thoroughly dry and
add enough water to make a pasty mixture.
Do not allow concrete to dry rapidly. (2)
To season, drain out the first water after two
or three days and refill and drain completely
every three days for three weeks or longer.
Do not allow concrete to become dry at any
stage. At the end of three weeks put in some
common fish. If these stay well after a day
or so go on with the planting. (3) About 2ft.
(4) The beginner is advised to commence with
the hardier, less fancy varieties. (5) Goldfish
in Australia, by W. J. Baker (Graham Publish-
ing Co., Sydney); Goldfish, Care and Culture,
for Australian Conditions, by T. E. H. Kuwa-
hata, Is.
# * * *
(1) How and when to prepare the soil for
small tubs for water-lilies and goldfish to stand
outside ? (2) How often should the water be
changed ? —2539.
(1) Strengthen the tubs with strong iron bands
on the outside —painted if desired in bright
colors for effectiveness —and fill them with
water for a couple of weeks to swell the wood.
Place at least 6in. of stiff soil in the tubs and
firmly embed the roots of the water-lilies in it.
When adding water to fill the tubs be careful
not to disturb the soil. It is not advisable to
put fish in the tubs until the water-lilies are
established. September is planting-time. (2) To
get the best results the water should be changed
twice a week. If running water can be used
place a couple of |in. pipes about an inch
from the surface-rim of the tub to permit the
water to drain off.
* * * *
The electrical equipment of my B.S.A. motor-
cycle consists of a dynamo and magneto in a
single unit. (1) Any provision for varying the
output of the dynamo ? (2) By what means are
the magneto fields produced for exciting the
magneto and dynamo ? (3) Should the dynamo
brushes be filed flat or should they be allowed
to retain the concave shape due to the com-
mutator ? —2731.
(1) The voltage control is set to the correct
value and it cannot be varied except by short-
circuiting the resistance unit located inside the
combined charging and lighting switch. It
should not be necessary to do this. (2) The
magneto field is produced by a permanent
magnet, the dynamo field by an electro-magnet.
(3) The brushes should not be filed flat.
* * * *
What candle-powers are the various makes
of acetylene bicycle lamps? —2s22.
Very little information is available as, for
several reasons, the acetylene lamp has been
replaced by the electric lamp, whose power is
obtained either from dry cells or from a small
dynamo driven by the wheel of the bicycle.
The candle-power of an acetylene lamp de-
pends upon the size of the burner, which, in
turn, depends upon the capacity of the acety-
lene generator. The normal range is from
14 c.p. to 30-40 c.p. in the case of bicycle
lamps.
How to cure mealy-bug and rust on car-
nations ? —2650.
For mealy-bug spray with benzol emulsion
or a weak solution made from dissolving a
lump of washing soda (about as big as the
top of your thumb) in half-gallon of water.
Three sprayings at weekly intervals will be
sufficient. Carnation rust should first be tackled
by picking off affected leaves and burning
them. Badly-affected plants should be pulled
up and burnt to stop the spread of the rust.
Dust the plants with lime while the dew is on
them or spray with a weak solution of Condy’s
fluid. In very bad cases try dusting with
sulphur.
* * * *
A few particulars regarding a genus of
shrubs known botanically as Dodoncea and
popularly as hop-bushes ? —2787.
A genus of the family Sapindacece, it consists
of shrubs (often tall) and, rarely, trees; 50
species are endemic in Australia. The flowers
are unisexual, the sexes often on distinct plants;
fruit usually a membranous capsule; leaves
simple or divided into leaflets. These plants
are generally known as “hop-bushes,” since the
inflated fruits, both in taste and in appearance,
resemble the common hop. Many species are
ornamental shrubs, worthy of cultivation, and
are easily propagated from seeds. The leaves
of several species growing in arid districts are
eaten by stock in times of drought. D. viscosa
extends to India, where its timber is used for
turnery, inlaying, etc. The wood is dense and
of a flinty nature, and will often turn or notch
the edges of a well-tempered axe.
* * * *
(1) Scientific name of the yellow-under-wing
locust ? (2) In what regions does it occur,
what plants does it attack, does it fly long
distances and what does it look like? —2798.
(1) Gastrimargus musicus, more commonly
known as Locusta danica. (2) It occurs in all
the Australian States as well as in Europe and
Asia. It attacks the sugarcane in Northern
Queensland, and few cultivated plants escape
its attentions. In the mating season flights
may be continuous in the same direction for
days, though each individual may fly only a
few hundred yards before settling. It is a
handsome green and brown insect, with a con-
spicuous patch of yellow, bordered with black,
on each hind-wing; these are concealed except
during flight.
* * * *
Formula for cleaning compound (paste form )
for cleansing grease from hands? —2575.
Assemble 2J)lb. white soap (Castile or white
toilet soap), lib. fine white sand, 4oz. fine
borax and 5i pints water. Place the water in a
boiler over a fire, stir in the soap (which has
been cut into fine shreds), add the borax and
stir until the soap has become dissolved.
Remove from the fire and, as it cools, stir in
the sand and keep stirring until it sets into
the required paste. If not stirred, the sand
precipitates. Sand may be omitted if water is
reduced sufficiently to set a paste without it,
but it is a good cleaner.
* * * *
I wish to texture the plain plaster walls
of my house. (1) Should they be scarified or
moistened? (2) If not, how are they prepared?
(3) Suitable plaster, cost, and where obtainable?
—2646.
(1) No. (2) Plastered surfaces should be
thoroughly clean, dry and hard. They are
sized, preferably with a size based on china-
wood oil thinned to a good penetrating con-
sistency. Large cracks in the plaster should be
scored, filled in the usual way and sized. Deli-
cate cracks are usually filled by sizing. Sizing
walls that are green, damp or soft will not yield
good results. (3) “Craftex,” Is. 2d. per pound,
from James Sandy, Ltd., 268 George-street,
Sydney. Ask for pamphlet of directions when
ordering.
* * * *
(1) Does John Henry Lewis still hold the
world’s light-heavyweight championship ? Recent
cables from America made out that Lewis
could no longer get down to list, lib., the light-
heavyweight limit, and that he relinquished his
world title before fighting Joe Louis (for Louis’s
heavyweight championship) in New York on
January 25 last. (2) What were the weights
of Lewis and Louis when they fought? —2s29.
(1) Lewis is still recognised by all American
boxing commissions as light-heavyweight cham-
pion of the world, and, weighing 12st. 61b.,
he successfully defended that title against A 1
Gainer in New Haven (U.S.A.) on October 28
last. Many American boxing critics claimed
Lewis would relinquish the world’s light-
heavyweight title when he fought Louis, but he
has not yet done so officially. (2) Lewis
weighed 12st. 12-Jlb. and Louis 14st. 4^lb.
* * * *
(1) In what years was Bill Squires heavy-
weight champion of Australia? (2) Did he
hold that title when he went to America ? (3)
What contests did Squires have overseas?
Where and when did they take place, and how
did they result? —264s.
(1) He won the Australian heavyweight
championship from Tim Murphy in 1906, and
retained it until Bill Lang beat him in 1909.
(2) Y'es. (3) Tommy Bums knocked him out
inside one round at Colma, Cal., on July 4,
1907; Jack (“Twin”) Sullivan knocked him out
in 19 rounds at San Francisco on September
28, and Jim Flynn knocked him out in six
rounds at Bakersfield, Cal., on December 20.
In 1908 Squires scored a four-round knock-
out over Jem Roche at Dublin on April 10,
and his last contest overseas, with Tommy
Burns at Neuilly, France, on June 13, 1908,
saw him knocked out in eight rounds.
* * * *
Who were the managers and captains of the
Australian Rugby League teams that visited
England in 1929-30 and 1933-34; also results
of the tours? —2678.
1929-30—H. Sunderland (Q.) and J. Dargan
(N.S.W.) managers; T. Gorman (Q.), captain.
Matches played 35, won 24, lost 9, drawn 2;
points for 717 (167 tries, 108 goals), against
340 (66 tries, 71 goals)., 1933-34 —H. Sunder-
land (Q.) and H. Webb (N.S.W.) managers;
F. F. McMillan (N.S.W.) captain. Matches
played 37, won 27, lost 10; points for 756
(162 tries, 134 goals), against 295. (47 tries,
77 goals).
Brief Answers.
A.F.: English coins (present currency) have
s lghtly increased on face value in Australia,
but hardly enough to make it worth while
Lading them. The best way to realise'' on
them is to take them to a bank, which will, if
the currency is in sufficient quantity, pay the
slight premium. City currency exchanges will
also take them on these lines. If freight
charges have to be considered probably no
profit will remain D.W.: Write Head-
quarters, 2nd District Base, Victoria Barracks,
Paddington (N.S.W.) K.T.: N 0... .A.P.C.:
The company states that the information is
not available at present... .K.T.R.: Can’t
enter in this cplumn into any discussion as to
the relative value of proprietary medicines.
Both you mention are useful for the pur-
poses. .. .R.F.: You are receiving the best
treatment for your condition, which, however, is
not curable in patients of advanced years....
J.A.: A good deal of work has been done at
Sydney Medical School on the metabolism of
cyclists by the use of the bicycle ergometer,
but the results have not yet been published or
even properly considered. As regards other
sports, there are no data available. Prof. A. V.
Hill did some work on footrunners some years
ago, but his findings cannot now be traced
W. 8.: Can’t understand from your letter what
your course of training has been or what ail-
ments you wish to treat. Send further details
about the “diploma” you don’t possess and
about the “register” upon which you want
your name inscribed... .F.R.: Barnes’s innings
for N.S.W. second eleven against West Aus-
tralia at Sydney, November 25-27, 1937, were
99 not out and 127 not out. The efforts were
not included in first-class averages Alex.
M. Cricket rule 48d states: “On appeal from
the captain of the fielding side to either umpire,
such umpire, if satisfied that the batsman is
wilfully damaging the wicket, shall direct the
batsman to refrain therefrom. Should the bats-
man fail to obey such direction, such umpire,
on a further appeal by such captain, may de-
clare the offending batsman out” G.J.C.:
In the case of husband and wife living together
the income of each is deemed to be half the
total income of both. The amount of income in
each case must not exceed £52 p.a. or be at
such a rate as would make the pensioner’s
total income exceed £B4 10s. p.a. Before
you could estimate the absent wife’s income
it would be necessary to have information as
to board, lodging and any other allowances
in addition to actual payment in money.
G.M.M.: The New Hebrides group is
administered by a British-French Condominium
Government in accordance with the provisions
of the Anglo-French Convention of 1906, later
modified by the Anglo-French Protocol of 1914.
N.T.: Information is not full enough to
express an opinion. It would be necessary for
the article to be inspected, so that type of move-
ment, weight of case and age could be taken
into consideration... .G.E.S.: No accurate
information available. A discussion of some
of the probabilities can be found in the mono-
graph “The Fossil Human Skull Found at
Talgai. Queensland,” by S. A. Smith, pub-
lished in the Philosophical Translations of the
Royal Society of London on April 6, 1918
J.S.R.C.: W r it e Government Printer, Perth,
for copy of Pocket Year-Book of Western Aus-
tralia (6d.)... .H. 5.8.: There is nothing better
than soft soap of good quality, applied with
a flannel. Polish with a clean dry cloth.
If the leather is much neglected and in bad
condition, neatsfoot oil is useful for bringing
it into condition again, but is too sticky for
constant use. It will not rot the stitching if
used judiciously... .A. V.: Warren Bardsley
topped the Australian XI averages in England
in 1909 (2180 runs, average 46.28) and in
1912 (2441 runs, average 51.98); Bradman’s
figures in the 1930 team were 3170 runs (average
99.06) and in the 1934 team 2106 (average
81) Kotere: The 1924-25 All-Black R.U.
team played 30 matches in Great Britain and
France and was undefeated. Points scored
were 721 for and 112 against H.R.F.: No
sulphuric acid should be present after the
preparation of the citric acid. Citric acid is
harmless in ordinary doses and is present in
lemon-jhice to the extent of 6 p.c. or 7 p.c......
N. : Stott’s Correspondence College, 70 Pitt-
street; 1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth-street—both Syd-
ney... .H.C.H.: (1) Shedule. (2) Skeptik....
GJ.H.: (1) Jas. Hardie and Co., Sydney,
should be interested for the Australian market.
Frank Hambridge, ore buyer, Sydney, might be
tried. (2), (3) and (4) The sample submitted
appears to be of exceptional quality —probably
too good for the Australian market. Communi-
cate with Alloys and Minerals, Ltd., 15 Lime-
street, London, with sample and particulars of
quantity available, as the English market will
perhaps be your best outlet. The value of
commercial parcels equal to your sample may
be as high as £l5O p.t. It all depends upon
the state of the market when you are ready
to 5e11.... A.C.: Write Agricultural Depart-
ment, Perth, W.A H. 0.5.: Could not say
without inspection. Write C. F. Laseron, 4
Bond-street, Sydney... .K.A.: Populations at
September 30, 1938, were as follows: N.S.W.
2,724,657, Vic. 1,870,661, Q’land 1,005,040,
S.A. 593,259, W.A. 461,505, Tas. 234,307, N.T.
5985 and A.C.T. 11,664; total 6,907,078 ...
E.M.: The “Country Show Bulletin,” issued by
the N.S.W. Council of Agricultural Associa-
tions (hon. sec., Allan Pickering, 80 Middle
Harbor-road, Lindfield, N.S.W.) C.EJ.: For
the purpose of N.S.W. income tax, conces-
sional deductions are allowed of £5O in respect
of one relative wholly maintained by the tax-
payer, as well as £5O in respect of each child
under the age of 16 years at the beginning ol
the year of income. From the net income,
after allowing all deductions, a statutory ex-
emption is allowed of £250 less £1 for every
£8 by which the income exceeds £250.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
HEADACHES NEARLY
DROVE HIM MAD
Now Completely Changed
by Kruschen
The writer " of the following letter
suffered from liver trouble, constant
headaches, and an unhealthy load of
excess fat. Read how he cured his
headaches—toned up his liver—and lost
36 lbs. of fat—all with the same remedy:—
“I was so stout that my general health
was completely undermined. I had
constant headaches that almost drove me
crazy, and I suffered from a continual
feeling of liverishness. I weighed 16
stone 5 lbs. I began to take Kruschen
Salts, and, after 10 or 12 days, my whole
being was completely changed. My liver
does not bother me any more, I feel
younger and more active, my headaches
are gone. Yesterday, to my great delight,
I found that I now weigh only 13 stone
II lb.”—M.A.L.
Headaches can nearly always be traced
to a disordered stomach, and to the
unsuspected retention in the system of
stagnating waste material which poisons
the blood. Kruschen Salts removes these
poisons— prevents them forming again—
and so brings lasting relief from headaches.
WALTHER i STEVEHSOM
535 CEORCE ST~ SYDNEY 1
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
*
KJ3
m
mm
£l 6/10/-
(COMPLETE).
Built for roping and
fitted with leather
breast collar. Is
double-rigged with one cord cincha
and one leather cincha. Brown basket
stamped leather. The bastos are
woolly sheepskin lined.
Is same pattern as saddle used by
Johnny Schneider, famous American
roughrider.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Remarkable Value!
allfo
ALL for
A
m
m
0
0
O Valet self-stropping safety razor
G Tube of Valet strop dressing
G Tube of Valet shaving cream
O Valet strop
G Three Valet blades
ALL FOR
4/-
VALET HOLIDAY PACK
OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
• »
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.J.R.C.: Two conceptions of time is best
thing in lunatic’s vision of mankind’s future,
but rest, though well-intentioned, is vague
J-O’B.: It’s not the best of poems, but the
country paper misprint on which it’s based
deserves immortality: “If Fat had decreed other-
wise Mr. Stevens might have become town clerk
instead of State Premier”... .R.L.G.8.: Familiar
props... .H.R.McW.: Refrain’s very flat.
•. . .S.C.: Afraid “Home Thoughts of a Hobo”
can’t doss here... .M.S.: Nearly... .P.M.F.:
“Every Punter” is walking sadly home....
J.A.M.: They’re accurate, anyhow... .E.R.:
Don’t like his eyes... .M.McM.: A gentleman
named Keats has a corner in “easeful death.”
. ...H.R.V.: Too long, and the rhymes are
forced P.S.: Chopped-up prose won’t do.
-...1.M.G.: No mint sauce with those lambs.
. ...W.J.: Grim... .H.M.: No, not market-
able. .. .A.C.D.: Some of the shorter pieces
might stand a chance elsewhere... .T.R.;
Both spoilt by moments of bathos....
E.M.E.: Not quite.. , .EJ.G.: Still heavy
going.. . .G.A.L.: Sentimental... .8.C.: Has
fts points, but it’s prosy K.W.: You nearly
oassed on the affliction... .E.R.M.: They seem
hurried J.D.: Twins are 0ff....M.F.: Call
again... .J.L.: Try a woman’s paper... .J. 8.:
it would daze rather than “dazzle” all who
<ead it....8J.R.: Submarine sank.... J.P.T.:
A-rived during a deluge.. . .N.R.C.: “Up in
the Blue” sent us down in the dumps....
• J.C.N.: Well written, but it doesn’t make a
yarn... .K.F.S.: “After posting my yarns I
often wish I hadn’t.” So do we 8.R.W.:
Eh! What are you coming at? J.S.P.:
“Time Between Drinks” too dry 5.R.8.:
That sort of thing won’t get you anywhere....
K.V.W.: Not bad, but unnecessary... .F.P.R.:
Possibly within the next five years... .N.R.C.:
You have caught “the spirit of the wilderness”
all right... .8.5. E.: Just a rigmarole....
T.C.E.: Essay on “The Charm of Split In-
finitives” not for us T.R.H.: Lose it in
some unfrequented spot H.N.J.: Only six
murders... .G.E.V.: No handout for that dead-
beat. .. .L.T.N.: Try us with something lighter.
... .C.8.R.: No, we haven’t seen anything like
that, thank goodness... .L.P.W.: Needs much
better handling... .F.T.8.: We’ve often won-
dered if anyone would unearth that skeleton
again... .H.T.M.: “I can write a good yarn
when I have the time.” Well, then, keep
waiting... .L.P.S.: The five-page covering letter
made better reading than the yarn K.T.8.:
Don’t... .J.K.C.: Sorry to be responsible for
your first rejection 8.G.T.: Have read
worse... .F.N.C.: Gelignite is set off by per-
cussion and not by lighting it N.F.C.: Try
again when you’ve had more practice
H.N.E.: A daily is nearer its mark K.8.E.:
Too long for what’s in it G.C.C.: Dread-
ful... .N.F.P: Sylphs, fairies, etc., not wanted,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L. 8.: Your large and weird masterpieces
didn’t impress... .E.J.; The lad will not go
far without lessons H. 8.: Good student’s
work, but they lack punch T.R.S.: B. E.
Minns put that gag into circulation many years
ag0....W.8.: Figure looks like a half-melted
snow-man, and the jest belongs to the nursery.
. ...A.K.: Deep-sea diver not so bad, but we
wouldn’t give twopence for the mermaid....
S.R.: No use turning in drawings done in
colored chalk on brown paper P.T.: Fisher-
men who mistook a whale for an island are
very old friends R. 8.: Even your offer to
shout us a couple of schooners if the drawings
were accepted did not tempt us A.J.: Work
needs to improve considerably, and gags will
have to be brighter M.C.D.: We ordered
the office executioner to put them out of their
misery... .S.M.A.: The editorial eye did not
take kindly to the old girls in tattered slacks.
P.W.P.: The pimpled lady and the old
cove with the walrus moustache were denied
admittance E.D.: Better than the last batch.
Strive for a freer line G.M.F.: We prefer
our drawings without corpses J.T.: Poorly
done, and it merely rehashes an old idea
F.W.: Neat and promising drawings; jokes
too wordy and confused F.D.D.: Idea
passable; drawing dreadful N.C.: They did
not fill the office with laughter BJ.: Your
friends were wrong; they are not “good enough
for The Bulletin” J.M.P.: Placed your
animal drawings in quarantine until you can
call for them... .P.P.: There are about 937
variations of that gag, and all, including the
one you sent, have been used.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Morimoto”: Untravelled Australians
are apt to believe that the coolie is the
lowest type of laboring man and a hope-
less ignoramus. I believed it myself till
my first visit to Japan; then a rick-
shaw coolie not only offered to
convey my body any distance I liked
for a pittance, but to act as guide
to temples and antiquities in the English,
French, German or American language.
He also claimed to be art critic, his-
torian, authority on economics, politics,
cookery and the classic drama. It turned
out not to be mere sales talk. Moreover,
after this phenomenon had dragged me
to the top of a hill to view one of the
nine famous aspects of Mount Fuji, he
would pull out from his vehicle a neat
sketching apparatus and make a note of
the landscape which would not have
looked amiss in any exhibition. I still
have some of them as mementoes.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: “Bitter speeches and
cries of ‘No surrender’ and ‘Dr. Weiz-
mann must go’ characterised the meet-
ing” of Jews in Palestine to protest
against the settlement of that country’s
difficulties proposed at the London con-
ference. Chaim Weizmann, German-born
but an English Jew by education and
long association, did great war-munitions
work for the allies on the chemical side.
Ever since he has been the Zionist leader
in London, but at Zionist Congresses the
Leftist shout has always been “Weizmann
must go!” He remains leader in Eng-
land, and by the sheer weight of his
personality and influence is still the
world’s leading Zionist.
* * * *
“Iglesia”; The new Pope will undoubt-
edly have a larger flock than any of his
predecessors. Catholics now form nearly
a fifth of the world’s population. It is
estimated that they number 375,000 000
of whom 210,000,000 are in Europe. Next
to Europe come the Americas with
ii 6 sn 0 n^ 00 (2 1’ 000 ’ 000 in the U.S.A.Tnd
4,450,000 in Canada). Outside Europe
and America the largest Catholic com-
munity is in the Philippines, where there
are over 12,000,000., India, in which
the number has more than doubled
in the last 50 years, has 4,000,000, and
China 3,000.000. Africa is the least
Catholic of the continents as far as num-
bers go; but last year the first Kaffir
priest was ordained at Kimberley
Ceylon has 800 sisters and three religious
brotherhoods, all Cingalese
*** ' *
“Ente Marid”: Well, nobody can say
the Spanish Reds didn’t have a wonder-
ful “press.” An English illustrated
weekly gives pages to the prowess of a
fearsome aerial institution known as the
“Popeye Squadron,” presumably because
it sends all beholders popeyed. It con-
sists—or consisted—entirely of “aces”
and “heroes” who appear to be equipped
with a four-year-old U.S.A. type of short-
range fighter. They have “up-to-date” in-
ventions which “enable a bomber to take
off in three minutes”—any modern
bomber which could not take off in less
than three minutes under all emergency
conditions would be allowed only to race
in the Old Draught Mares’ Handicap
“Tempered by the flames of war” this
unit “is now one of the most dangerous
in the world.” Dangerous to whom?
B. S. B. Stevens is the 25th Premier of
N. S. Wales and the ninth Australian to
hold the office. The eight other native-
born Premiers have been Farnell, Dibbs,
Lyne, Carruthers, Wade, Storey, Fuller
and Lang. Of the remaining 16 two
(Stuart and Reid) were Scotch; four
(Martin, Jennings, Waddell and Dooley)
Irish ; eight (Donaldson, Cowper, Parker,
Robertson, See, McGowen and Holman)
English, though McGowen was born at
sea and landed in Melbourne three weeks
later; Forster hailed from Madras
(India), and Bavin was born in Maori-
land. Sixteen received knighthoods and
one (Storey) died in harness. Five
former Premiers (Waddell, Dooley,
Fuller, Lang and Bavin) are still alive.
Forster was the youngest to attain the
office —he was 41 when the job -cams
his way in 1859 —and Stuart the oldest —
he was 58 when made Premier in 1883.


WSsi
' Ay - *
TO
W 2
raarrr.;
v >-v \.v? i e> \ i
• t|p n/y
*%* A •. j t j /
•;t
«■ >.
i */
•IV iLH 11
VP
s«liSl
-if
t
1
« i
P
*
f •••••••••• i
-._/- ■
1111
nii
£: : : : : ; *:*s
The
RIDER
This Tan Emperor has won its place as the first choice of many men who
spend long hours in the saddle. Very comfortable fitting soft, durable
uppers stoutly constructed double standard screwed soles. The back
strap and loop is in one piece. Ideal for the man with a high instep.
PARTICULARLY GOOD fh \ I
VALUE AT <&m JL
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
ALSO AT TOOWOOMBA, TOWNSVILLE AND ROMA.
Y
T A
/
DOLOMITES
J^ 7
niarajm
m
waaE&z
m
|W
A
<%
FLORENCE
£Slits*.v"j
<f,
HS
sax
133
r
The LAND of ART,
SCENIC BEAUTY
and RADIANT
SUNSHINE.
As you pass from City
to City the history of
Europe’s most interest-
ing country is revealed. The world s
finest art treasures await your inspection,
and traditional events are re-enacted for
your entertainment.
Special Tourist
Rate of Exchange.
Hotel Coupons at
5 to 18 shillings’
(sterling) per day
absolutely inclu-
sive. Big rebates
in the price of
petrol. 50% to
REDUCTIONS IN
FARES.
70%
RAIL
For information and
descriptive booklets
apply to Any Travel
Agency or to:
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret
Street, SYDNEY
(Australia).
FAWKNER’S NEWSPAPER
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
JOHN BATMAN and John Pascoe
Fawkner went to the Yarra in 1835
and lived there in mutual dislike and
open rivalry nntil Batman died four
years afterwards. Both had claims to
be the Father of Melbourne, but Fate
backed Fawkner, and when the whole of
the pioneering job was left in his hands
he did it well and truly.
Fawkner had chosen the site for the
future city. He early came to the con-
clusion that there were two things neces-
sary for the village’s development into
such—a pub and a newspaper. The pub
came first, and was always well boosted
in the newspaper when he got it going
in 1838. ,
The copy of an early issue of the
“Advertiser, Port Phillip, Australia,”
which the writer has before him is a
journalistic curiosity. When George Howe
started the “Sydney Gazette” in 1803 he
had at least some cases of second-hand
type and a primitive printing-press, but
Fawkner possessed neither, so the little
journal’s original issue and a few later
had to be written by hand and extra num-
bers copied.
This particular one is dated Monday,
January 8, 1838, and its price was 6d.
It had sufficient faith in its future to label
itself “No. 2, Vol. 1,” and the man who
wrote it was a penman of a class that
no longer exists.
Such superfine caligraphy was easily
available in Australia a century ago,
when many accomplished forgers were
given free passages from the Old Bailey
and sustenance in this country for terms
of years. This sheet of foolscap (four
pages) is indited in the very best of visit-
ing-card copperplate from its title to its
last word, and no doubt the other copies
of the issue were as excellent.
Fawkner’s advertisement of his public
house has naturally a conspicuous posi-
tion. Here it is:
First Established Hotel
in Melbourne, Fawkner’s Hotel supplies to
the Traveller and Sojourner all the usual
requisites of a Boarding House and
Hotel of the very best quality, being mostly
laid in from the first Mercantile House
in Cornwall, V. D. Land, in addition to
which there will be found mental recrea-
tion of a high order. There are provided
seven English and five Colonial Weekly
Newspapers, seven British Monthly Maga-
zines, three Quarterly British Reviews up to
July and August, 1837.
A very choice selection of Books, in-
cluding Novels, Poetry, Theology, History,
Philosophy, Chemistry etc.
N.B. —A late Encyclopaedia. The use of
any of these books will be free to the
lodgers at the above Hotel.
Not a word about the drinks.
No great British city ever had a more
rapid growth than Melbourne, and the
advertising columns of this little sheet —
three-fourths of the issue show how
much the settlement on Port Phillip had
gone ahead since its foundation little
more than two years previously. They
cover a wide range—shipping, building,
baking, farriery, stock sales, land matters,
groceries, wine and spirit vending, cloth-
ing and accommodation are all eloquently
advertised. “Wanted,” “Lost and Found”
and “For Sale” are conspicuous, and
“Shipping” has pride of place on the
front page. The first five columns of
the paper are filled with such advertise-
ments. Only at the end of the sixth does
news find a place, just below the “Poets’
Corner.”
On the next page the sensation of the
day takes up over a column, under the
heading “The Particulars of the Murder
of Constable Tomkins,” and tells of the
killing of a policeman by a young ex-
convict who had turned bushranger. The
number concludes with the shipping news
of the Port of Melbourne a century ago.
On Thursday, the 4th instant, the
Jemima returned to port, having lost an
anchor. She reports the Blossom and
Tasmania Lass as lying windbound at
the Heads. Also the Mary Robson at
Williamstown, owing to strong southerly
gales. The Jemima, having borrowed an
anchor, sailed again to Launceston. This
morning the cutter Industry, from Hobart
Town. On Sunday, the 7th, arrived the
Tamar, Bowden, from Launceston; cargo,
600 sheep, Jackson; she reports the Henry
as about to sail for this port, when she
left, having commenced taking in her
sheep. By this arrival came a Hobart
Town paper, date January 2, 1838. The
mail per Enterprise, schooner, will close
at noon on Tuesday, Ist.
A MIXED GRILL.
“S.T.S.”: The Methodist Conference
in Adelaide voted for establishing a resi-
dential college at the University. Attor-
ney-General Jeffries spoke for the
motion, and Lavington Bonython is to
be a treasurer. A Catholic college
for undergrads, is promised, too. The
only existing denominational one is
St. Mark’s (Anglican), the Presbyterian,
St. Andrew’s, having closed down through
being inconveniently situated in a distant
suburb.
* * * *
“H.A.E.”: A section of the “Aus-
traliana” collection of books made by
Dr. (“Chinese”) Morrison came to a
Melbourne bookshop recently. The
volumes have Morrison’s “rising sun”
bookplate. Morrison’s main library con-
tained many rare and valuable works
on China and the Far East. The Chinese
Government had first offer, but allowed
the Japanese to obtain possession at a
cost of £35,000, surely a record for any
private library. Nippon prizes the col-
lection highly, housing it in a building
to which admission can be gained only
by signed permit.
* * *
“R. Volt”: All the safety-first pre-
cautions could not avert this kind of
accident: A workman was engaged with
an electric drill on the roof of a dance
palais at St. Kilda, Vic., when an electric-
light bulb on a bit of extension fell into
a cistern. He plunged his hand into
the water to recover it, and was electro-
cuted on the instant. The presumption
is that the bulb broke, the water entered,
and a perfect route to earth was pro-
vided through the exposed filament, the
workman’s body and the steelwork of the
building.
j|s Jjc * ❖
As chairman of the trustees of Mel-
bourne Exhibition Harold Gengoult
Smith is up against a court ruling that
the Exhibition oval is vested not in the
Exhibition authority, but in the people.
Gengoult Smith’s father had a long con-
nection with the vast wooden erection
in the Carlton Gardens, and when he
died his collection of pictures was con-
signed to it. Smith senior was not so good
a judge of paintings as he was of wine.
He made the first champagne in Vic-
toria and labelled it “Perle d’Australie,”
which was promptly nicknamed “purge”;
but it was good champagne all
Smith senior was an M.L.C. His son is
a surgeon, and became Gaud Mayor and
a knight. The old man was famous as
a wit, and his son was no gloomy Mayor.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Some men collect honor-
ary jobs with as much zeal as other men
collect postage stamps, first editions or
old china. An acquaintance of mine
is secretary of a parents and citizens’ asso-
ciation, a progress association and junior
football and cricket clubs, treasurer of a
lodge and a soldiers’ club, trustee of a
Scouts’ hall, auditor to a hospital auxili-
ary and a surf club, honorary park
ranger and churchwarden. He is also
president of a political organisation, and
is on the executive of a temperance
league and a trade association. He holds
all these jobs on top of a responsible nine-
to-five position. Two daughters, typists,
work at home most evenings, churning
out letters and keeping books for their
parent.
# * * *
“Fitz”: A black-and-white artist tells
a sad story of his youth. He wrote to
his mother for money “to buy furniture.”
Mamma sent a cheque, which her son
spent entertaining friends. Then Ma
wrote saying she was coming to Mel-
bourne for a week-end. All the artist
had in his studio was an old table and
a rickety chair. He had to show his
mother some decent furniture, and,
desperate, he appealed to Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R. “The Little Doctor” lent a
suite of red-plush furniture from his sur-
gery waiting-room conditionally on its
being sent back on Monday morning. The
artist’s mother arrived on the Saturday,
took one horrified look at the suite and
asked where it came from. Her son
stammered the name of a neighboring
dealer, Whereupon the lady ordered its
return. The artist spent a feverish Sun-
day getting his mother safely off the
scene, raising the wind for removal exes,
and rescuing the furniture from a mysti-
fied and angry dealer; but he had the
red-plush suite back at “The Little
Doctor’s” before the first patient arrived
on Monday morning.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A New Plymouth (M.L.) lady is awarded the three guineas for a very human
statement of the case for the Savage Government.
“Feed My People”
I am not a politician, but it seems
-to me that what Mr. Savage has done
for Maoriland could quite well be fol-
lowed in other parts of the world.
We were in desperate straits in M.L.
during the slump. Things seemed to
be going from bad to worse. I remember
the pitiful women who used to hang
round the post office on sustenance day
waiting for the men and the pound or
two that would keep starvation off for
most of the month —the dowdy down-
at-heel appearance of them, the half-
starved, furtive, worried looks and the
shame that was almost defiance.
And then election time came. We
were afraid of Labor as exemplified in
other countries—perhaps of less temper-
ate disposition than our own. Then,
with the eyes of the whole world upon
it, Mr. Savage’s party was in.
Came Christmas, and the sustenance
people, half-starved before, were to re-
ceive a special bonus as well as the
added pay. I saw some of those women
then. A new dress, a hat maybe, and
decent shoes again, and, in place of
that hungry look, smiling cheery faces.
I’ll never forget that change, although
it’s well into the past now and M.L.
workers are on the job and pretty com-
fortably off.
“Feed my people!” Simple words,
but wise, and it seems to me that no
Government could go far wrong in
tackling, first and foremost, the well-
being of its working people. There are
so very few, when we come down to
hard facts, who prefer idling on the dole
to earning a living wage. —A.E. B.
(M.L.).
Three guineas, plus space rates, for
“A.E.R.”—Mrs. A. EL Brightwell, New
Plymouth, Taranaki.
Salesmanship
Has the effect of clever salesmanship
on the human race ever been adequately
gauged? Man is lavish but indiscriminat-
ing in his purchases. He does not buy
things ; they are sold to him. Ten years
ago did 99 p.c. of us suffer from halio-
tosis, 8.0., pyorrhoea and the like? It
seems that in the interim someone has
managed to market treatments for those
complaints very successfully.
And there are those nebulous articles
which are not paid for in cash but are
had at the expense of tranquillity of
mind. The price of perturbation of
mind in this enlightened age is three,
ha’pence on week-days and 3d. on the
Sabbath. For this modest outlay one
becomes a victim of salesmen —control-
lers of a sensational press.
Here can be found, in concocted and
distorted accounts of international crises,
and in wars and rumors of wars,
material alarming enough to disturb the
rest of any but the most critical reader.
The antidote to these business dealings
is to adopt a frame of mind sufficiently
inquisitive to ensure a critical examina-
tion of the merchandise concerned. Thus
fortified, it is surprising how the quality
of one’s possessions improves, and how
difficult it is for the salesman, whether
he be merchant, editor, author, politician
or soap-box orator, to unload his par-
ticular “pup.”— Camlet (N.S.W.).
Astrology v. Astronomy
The best remedy for astrology is a
knowledge of astronomy, but the press
which makes money out of horoscopes
has no room in its columns for the stellar
spaces.
Thirty years ago one parson cured
his congregation of their star-gazing folly
by hiring a magic-lantern lecture on the
solar system from a library and deliver-
ing it in the church hall. No arguments
were necessary. The facts spoke for
themselves.— Rabbitsfoot (S.A.).
Stars
Language is always in the melting
pot, yet few words have had so swift
a transition in application as “star.”
It was once reserved for an Irving or a
Boucicault, but nowadays any moron
who moans a maudlin tune or any flap-
per who flings her legs about can be a
“star.” The only condition necessary
is that the performance must be per-
petrated in front of a movie-camera
lens. Apart from that the performer may
be good or bad, old or young, masculine
or feline. — Wippegong (N.S.W.).
The Last of the Australians
Occasionally sympathisers arise and
paint pitiful pictures of conditions under
which Binghi labors, and tell us how
such treatment is gradually wiping out
“A hundred to-day or not, he can't get away with this!”
the abo. Charity begins at home, how-
ever, and a League for the Preservation
of White Australians might well be
founded.
Recent statistics show that there is a
decrease of 10,000 pupils per year in
State schools, and as an unemployed
teacher I can vouch to some extent for
the truth of that.
We need more than immigrants to
solve the problem ; we need more Aus-
tralian babies. And the only way to get
them is to revise the present system of
birth control. —J. T. M. (W.A.).
\
The Price of Democracy
Despite a good deal of talk about
liberty and democratic theory, more and
more of us seem to be jittery over the
possibility of a breakdown of practical
democracy.
Eternal vigilance on the part of a few
devotees will not pay the price of liberty.
There must be more willingness to accept
the responsibility for disinterested public
service that democratic institutions
demand. If people are to govern them-
selves they must be willing to work the
machinery of government themselves, and
to work it with the regard for common
good that democracy presupposes.
With increasing frequency acute ob-
servers are telling us that we have not
sufficient of the right type of men will-
ing to take on such service. With Par-
liamentarians whose chief concern is to
keep their jobs, and with property-
owning aldermen or councillors in local
bodies with both eyes on their own
interests, true public spirit is hard to find.
Perhaps the conditions of local gov-
ernment, which should form a training-
ground for Parliamentary service, may
have something to do with this develop-
ment of self-interest. Why should
builders, contractors or estate agents, with
strong local interests, be members of a
local-governing body? It is in absolute
contradiction to an established principle
in Parliamentary life.
The modern mania for debunking great
figures of the past and stripping from
them any nobility of ideal and of public
spirit will not contribute to the growth
of those very necessary qualities among
the rising generation.— Upagum (N.S.W.).
Government by the People
If all the criticism levelled against
State Parliaments were written in a book,
the volume would be outsize, but we
never hear the critics blaming themselves
for bad government, although they elected
the politicians. Shouldn’t the people take
some of the blame? Good government
is dependent upon good citizenship, and
how can we expect either when the
people who wield that all-powerful
weapon the polling-booth pencil do not
know what they want?
It is a problem for our schools, where
at present we hear too much of cities and
not enough of citizenship. Social sciences
and political history should be made
essential subjects. Children should be
taught to subordinate individual interests
to national ones and to become thinking
people where the affairs of the nation
are concerned, so that when a referendum
comes along they may fully understand
the issues at stake and record a sane ver-
diet. If we were more alive to our re-
sponsibilities as citizens we would be
more careful in our selection of repre-
sentatives. —S. C. W. (Q.).
Our Inferiority Complex
Why do we send overseas for experts
when we have in Australia competent
men who, given the chance, would prove
just as capable?
It seems that we have little or no faith
in our own trained men, although they
have won high positions in all trades and
professions in most countries except Aus-
tralia. We have imported experts who
have revealed no more than our own
men could have told us, and we have
imported men for positions that could
have been capably filled by Australians.
Surely it is time we dropped this com-
plex and showed a little more faith in
ourselves.
This is no longer a baby country, hang-
ing on to the apron-strings of the older
nations. If our Governments consider it
necessary to import overseas experts then
it’s time we imported a few politicians.—
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
More Than Drill-halls Needed
Billy Hughes might get his full quota
of recruits, but the training mapped out
is unlikely to give an efficiently-trained
force. Only the extra-keen will take any
interest in such monotonous drill as learn-
ing the parts of a rifle. And in the new
army sergeant-majors are apt to overdo
the elementary part of the business and
cause trainees to concoct excuses for their
absence from parades.
An infusion of interesting and novel
variety must enter into training routine if
recruits are to be moulded into something
akin to the men of 1914-18. The latter
trained hard and took interest in all ex-
cept rifle drill because they knew adven-
turous times were ahead. With no war
in the offing, however, our new peace-
time army is apt to become quickly fed-
up.
More interest would be taken and the
objective probably achieved sooner if
recruits went into camp for certain
periods twice a year, and in districts
where the landscape not only permitted
training-routine, but served as an interest
to urban recruits. Once staleness be-
comes a feature of training the new army
will quickly become a back number.—
Ex-A.I.F. (N.S.W.).
Co-operation and Consumers
What co-operation can achieve with
regard to retail prices of commodities is
exemplified in the unique system em-
ployed in Sweden. Independent of Gov-
ernment regulation, about 10 p.c. of all
trade in that country is co-operatively
owned, and fully 40 p.c. of the retail
trade in groceries, clothing and shoes is
controlled by the Consumers’ Co-op.
Union.
The initial capital of the union was
provided by membership, which is open
to everyone. Fee amounts to about £5,
entitling the subscriber to membership
for life. A member may pay the full
amount on joining, or allow the balance
owing, after a small initial payment, to
accumulate by way of rebates at the rate
of 3 p.c. on his purchases. When the
balance stands to his credit his debt to
the union is liquidated, and he still draws
the 3 p.c. rebate.
A comparison of prices with those of
non-co-op. stores shows a saving of 5.2
p.c., which, added to the 3 p.c. rebate,
totals 8.2 p.c. for goods of equal quality,
which is a prime consideration with the
union.
Activities of the union, formed 35
years ago, embrace almost every branch
of industry—baking, margarine, rubber
boots (universally worn in a country of
heavy snowfalls), motor tyres, electric
light bulbs, etc. Twenty-five watt bulbs
were selling at 37 cents when the union
came into the field. Competition lowered
the price to 20 cents and nobody went
broke. Reaching out in 1931, the union
pioneered foreign trade and became part
owners of the Persian Company. They
now export bridge-building materials,
rails, cement, tools, etc., and receive in
exchange groceries, rugs, leather and
other goods. Already the turnover runs
into millions annually.
The movement is successful mainly be-
cause of excellent management and the
loyalty of members. The managing-
director receives £l2OO p.a. America pays
£lO,OOO for a man of his ability. And
strangely enough, despite the popularity
and success of the scheme, private firms
have not been put out of business. The
union caters for its members and does
not accumulate large surpluses or under-
sell its competitors while they behave
themselves. But should a monopoly try
to get a footing then the union steps in
to guarantee that the consumer is pro-
tected and able to buy his requirements
at reasonable prices. A society on the
same lines would be very welcome in
Australia at the present moment. —T. G.
Britton (N.S.W.).
Cycle Units for the Militia
As a spectator of weekly cycle races
held in an industrial district I have been
struck by the good physique of youths
taking part. The sport is a favorite one in
industrial towns throughout Australia,


and its followers run into many thou-
sands. Surely from amongst them cycle
units could be raised for the militia.
In Australia, should war come, such
units, by reason of their mobility, should
be invaluable in areas likely to be in-
vaded. Near the coast roads are usually
frequent and good, and cycle units
should have unlimited opportunities for
rapid movement. They would not de-
pend on imported petrol —certain to be
an acute difficulty in war-time —or on
fodder for horses. Their motive power
would depend on well-developed limbs,
and there should be no shortage of those.
Many youths interested in cycling may
not be attracted by the present militia
units, but if they could bring their bikes
and use them in their work it would be
a different matter. They would have to
be taught to use a rifle and the Bren or
Lewis gun, but young men fond of
athletics are apt pupils in the use of
arms. —E. M. Barker (W.A.).
Drain Swamps or Irrigate
If, as he says, Dr. Earle Page can en-
tice some hundreds of Dutch families to
Australia, he need not bother about
getting them to drain swamps for their
farms. An irrigation scheme on the
Shoalhaven River, which runs to the sea
on N.S.W. South Coast, would allow de-
velopment of an area to support thou-
sands of farmers, as well as providing
hydro-electric power for dozens of
secondary industries.
Productivity of land within reach of a
Shoalhaven irrigation scheme would be
considerably increased, and much land,
now unsuitable for farming because of
lack of water, would be rendered fit for
settlement.
At present the Shoalhaven is running
to waste, and, although irrigation and a
hydro-electric scheme would be costly,
the benefits would more than compensate
for the outlay.
Perhaps Dr. Page has overlooked the
Shoalhaven River in his survey of the
State’s resources. The Shoalhaven is not
on the North Coast. — Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
Municipal Lodging Houses
Sydney Municipal Council might well
note an example set by the Leeds Cor-
poration, which has added to its extensive
new housing estates a huge block to be
known as Shaftesbury House. This
will accommodate 500 residents who do
not require separate homes, but desire
their own private quarters.
Intention is to provide for old people
in the lonely stage of life, and for young
folk in business houses and factories.
Shaftesbury House is a six-storey build-
ing with independent bedrooms, dining-
rooms, lounges, reading-rooms, etc.
There is a real need for some such
facility in Sydney. — One-Room Dweller
(N.S.W.).
Professional Politicians
I am wondering if we are correct in
referring to certain members of Par-
liament as “professional politicians.” In
its usual sense the term “professional”
indicates a person who has devoted a
great deal of time and energy to fit him-
self for his chosen occupation, and that
in matters appertaining to that occupa-
tion he has reached at least a fixed
minimum standard of proficiency. That
gives the public confidence in him so far
as those professional matters are con-
cerned.
There is no such feeling of confidence,
however, in the so-called “professional
politician.” The phrase simply means
that the person concerned has chosen
politics as a means of earning a living.
As might be expected then, the “pro-
fessional politician” is usually none too
eager to take on jobs requiring diligence,
training and judgment, or in which his
own deficiencies might show up all too
plainly. Hence the delegation of power
to boards and commissions, the members
of which have at least some measure of
professional or technical training to
their credit.
If we are ever to be rid of boards and
royal commissions we must insist on
“professional politicians” (and other
politicians too) having sufficient training
in their chosen profession to enable them
to practise it with no more risk of mis-
management than when a lawyer, a
physician or an engineer undertakes a
professional task. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Voluntary Registration
Voluntary recruiting, after an expen-
sive and humiliating campaign of bally-
hoo, may be successful in reaching its
(utterly inadequate) objective of 70,000
militiamen. Voluntary registration for
service in emergency certainly will not
succeed. There are several reasons, but
one psychological factor is enough—the
average Australian has a horror of “fall-
ing for” something that others can
escape ; and this questionnaire business
so very obviously is a roping-in of the
willing horse while the shirker is invited
to dodge the task.
Looking for courage from the Lyons
Ministiy is about as hopeful as expecting
reliability from Madame Two-Blues ; but
a change must come at Federal head-
quarters. When it does, if those in charge
really believe that Australia is in danger,
they should grasp the nettle and require
every adult to register for general service
in emergency. To cover any malingerers
in high or low places, let the electoral
roll (as far as able-bodied people are con-
cerned) include only those registered for
service. No fit person should be allowed
a voice in the affairs of the country who
is not available to do something to defend
it. — Woodki (N.S.W.).
Highbrow or Lowbrow?
Queer how our love for system and
classification leads us into the error of
labelling persons and ideas with terms
like “highbrow” and “lowbrow.”
We should try to realise the truth that
is expressed in the old saw “De gustibus
non est disputandum” We should be
much less ready with our assessments
“high” and “low” when referring to in-
dividuals and their occupations, both of
which are usually far too complex to
admit of such cut-and-dried classification.
The fact is, of course, that “high” and
“low” are purely relative terms. To say
that John Milton is “higher” than Harpo
Marx is to talk nonsense. We may per-
haps say that Milton could write better
poetry than can Harpo, but then Harpo
can do much more with a zip-fastening
banana than Milton could have done.
Which is higher, writing a poem or
diverting oneself and others with a
banana, is a matter of opinion.
Educationists, as a rule, are especially
inclined to this fault. They feel that they
know what is “higher,” and are con-
vinced that it is their solemn duty to
enforce acceptance of their values upon
their pupils. They frequently believe that
one must be all for the “higher” things
and entertain only the most complete
scorn for the “lower.” The cultured man
is all “highbrow,” they think, and they
cannot conceive the possibility of being
both. And yet why should we not enjoy
both Bach and Jack O’Hagan? Both
oratorio and “swing”? Why should we
not delight in both Titian and Bancks, in
Shakspeare and Jeffery Farnol? I fancy
that he who can enjoy all these to
the full extent is approaching the truly
educated man, whilst he who claims that
he can enjoy only the “higher” things is
probably a hypocritical snob. G. F. S.
(N.S.W.).
Marital Misfits
Every sob-sister and -brother, together
with numerous organisations and legions
of busybodies, are poking their inquisi-
tive fingers in the marital pie. The theory
seems to be that all that is necessary to
bring an estranged couple together is to
talk “nicely” to them, kiss the sore place
and make it better, and, presto! the snake
will sneak out of the garden.
Actually, those well-meaning folk who
take upon themselves the onus of recon-
ciling the unhappy do more harm than
good. A marriage row is nobody’s busi-
ness. Only the two people immediately
concerned can settle the dispute. Unfor-
tunately, there are numerous irreconcil-
able neurotics who get heart balm by
being “talked to” about their marriage
difficulties. If these were not allowed to
exploit their troubles they would have to
face up to reality and make a personal
solution.
Even in courts, where sentimentalising
is becoming a feature of maintenance
cases, much futile magisterial “advice” is
handed out to separated couples. Instead
of wasting time over “wife-starvers” and
vindictive spouses, why not throw them
on their own resource and force them to
make a decision on their future relations?
—C. H. (Vic.).
Night Air Mail Services
The statement attributed to Mr.
Cameron in the daily press that “There
will be no night flying of air mails in
Australia while I am Postmaster-General”
comes as a rude shock to aviation and
business people.
As the object of the expenditure of a
great deal of money on the improvement
of air routes, provision of emergency
aerodromes, wireless direction-finding
stations, Lorenz equipment and night-
landing facilities was the establishment
of night air-mail services between capitals,
it appears either that the taxpayer has
again been sold a pup or that much of
this expense was unnecessary.
Mr. Cameron stated that a letter could
be sent from Sydney to Melbourne and
a reply returned in the same day. It can
— just. He should be informed that Syd-
ney and Melbourne are not Australia.
Some day a firm in Perth may wish to
send a letter to Brisbane —a distance
which can be flown comfortably in 18
hours by commercial aircraft operating
at present.
In spite of Mr. Cameron, big business
demands speed of communication. Avia-
tion companies are or soon will be ready,
and the taxpayer has a lingering desire
to see costly equipment put to good use.
—Mercury (S.A.).
A Leader
From time to time despairing cries
go up, “We want a leader!” But what
is a leader, and how does he happen?
Isn’t he merely a strong man who crys-
tallises in himself the aims and feelings
of the mass of the people? Surely, if he
is not, he will not succeed, so what are
the chances of a “leader” for Australia
ai the moment?
Take for granted that the rough out-
line of what we are looking for is
adequate defence, abolition of unemploy-
ment, a proper health scheme, whole-
hearted development of the country’s
resources, and immediate handling of
the population problem. In order to
beat a nation that works 60 hours a
week, curtails profits to a minimum and
compels industrial activity to follow
strict lines of necessity, we shall have
to go one better ourselves. In other
words, it boils down to the awful fact
that we shall have to work a lot harder.
It means good-bye to 40-hour weeks,
strikes, junketings for politicians, super-
fluous Parliaments, and also to the men-
tal outlook which induces them.
Most of our cherished ways of wast-
ing time elegantly or otherwise will have
to go—in fact, a damned unpleasant time
will be had by all.
But inasmuch as there is no mass feel-
ing in this country for such drastic
remedies, it follows that we are, thank
Heaven, crying in vain for a leader.
There is, on the contrary, a growing
discontent with the cynical, self-satisfied
type of politician who is elected to guide
the nation’s affairs, and who falls down
on the job at every turn ; but his pay-
envelope already contains a notice to
quit. It’s convenient to keep on being
the boss, isn’t it? J. N. Rookledge
(N.S.W.).
City-dwellers
f It seems to be the fashion nowadays
for certain people to disparage our city-
dwellers, and even Governors follow suit
by touring the country to make the ac-
quaintance of ‘‘real Australians.”
True, we have in the cities a propor-
tion of post-supporting, cigarette-dang-
ling lads, as well as movie and betting-
shop addicts. Something of the nature
is typical of every country. But what
percentage is entailed?
Consider Adelaide, population up-
wards of 300,000. Who tend all the gar-
dens in the miles and miles of suburban
homes for which this city is famed? The
occupants, of course, and they don’t work
short hours, as the countryman may pro-
test. Their day begins when they rise ;
they must dress, eat and go to and from
their places of employment. Their daily
routine as cogs in the wheels of industry
thus occupies at least 10 or 11 hours.
In addition, there devolve upon them
the care and maintenance of the family
domicile, and I have often heard expres-
sions of wonder at our prevailing adapt-
ability expressed by people from over-
seas. Thousands of self-reliant Austra-
lians never dream of calling in a trades-
man for household jobs. They are jacks-
of-all-trades. Carpentering, joining,
painting, plumbing, electric-wiring (under
the lap) and a hundred and one pieces
of handiwork, not forgetting family hair-
cuts and boot repairs, fall to their lot.
You see them mowing lawns, digging,
trimming hedges. You hear them ham-
mering, sawing, tinkering at all hours.
The A.I.F. knew such men in thousands.
They came from offices, workshops, ware-
houses and factories. If the A.I.F. was
distinctive as a whole, they did as much
as anybody to make it so. Self-interested
persons should cease trying to curry
favor with dinkum Aussies wider
spaces by “giving ’em muck.” Jae
(S.A.).
Federation
One would not wonder, as “Queens-
lander” does (B. 25/1/’39), “what earth y
use Federation has been” if he really
considered the matter. The Australian
nation was born with the consummation
of Federation on Jan. 1, 1901. The gesta-
tion period extended from 1846 ( wl ] e n
N.S.W. Governor Fitzroy recommended
to Earl Grey, Secretary of State for the
Colonies, the appointment of some
superior functionary” because of tari
trouble between N.S.W. and Van Die-
men’s Land) until midnight, Dec. 31,
1900. Kicking lustily to the strains of
“Soldiers of the Queen” and “Pay, Pay,
Pay,” and to the clop-clop of cavalry
headed Krugerwards, the newly-born
infant smiled upon the world.
For “Q.’s” information let us examine
some of that infant’s “earthly uses.”
Prior to Federation there was no Austra-
lian army, and no authoritative organisa
tion to control it had there been one.
Colonial forces were independent of each
other. In N.S.W. Assembly, 1890, Dr.
Garran stated, “Every year we are be-
coming more antagonistic, and more
determined to make our Governments
and our laws more hostile to each
other,” and similar opinions were com-
mon amongst public men.
With Federation the “colonies” were
elevated to “States” with a common
tariff. The annoyance provoked by pub-
lic examination of luggage at Albury,
Wallangarra and other border towns was
ended, and the growing evil of inter-
colonial smuggling was destroyed. With-
out cutting us off from the Privy Coun-
cil, Federation gave us the less costly
and more accessible High Court. Many
conflicting colonial laws found their way
into the melting pot, and with uniformity
as one of its objects the Commonwealth
was endowed with control of the laws
relating to post and telegraphic activities,
invalid and old-age pensions, quarantine,
weights and measures, bankruptcy and
insolvency, naturalisation and aliens, ex-
ports and imports, divorce and matri-
monial causes, immigration and emigra-
tion, influx of criminals, naval and mili-
tary defences, beacons and buoys, cur-
rency and coinage, patents and pass-
ports, etc.
Inter-State harmony replaced the
antagonism of colonies “becoming more
hostile.” To alter slightly Henry Parkes’s
words, Federation “gave to the name of
Australia a power, a grandeur and an
authority in the world which it could
not have attained in any other way.”
If “Queenslander,” when he voted in
1900, thought he was voting for Unifica-
tion, he had not sufficiently studied the
ballot-box menu. Federation and Unifica-
tion are essentially different things.
Nevertheless, there was a reduction in
the number of Ms.L.A. and a practical
unification of many laws. On the whole,
circumstances, plus Federation, have made
Australians one of the freest, happiest,
safest and most comfortable people in
history. Those who take off their hats
to the memory of Parkes, Gavan Duffy,
Wentworth, Barton, Griffith and others
of the same breed pay a deserved tribute
to great statesmen and, incidentally, to
their own commonsense. —A. D. Don-
nelly (N.S.W.).
Youth
Undoubtedly the youth of to-day is
lacking in many respects, but who is to
blame? If your pullets don’t lay eggs
the best thing to do is to find out what
you did wrong.
The present generation has been born
into a difficult world ; its potential leaders
killed or maimed, mentally and physi-
cally, in war ; into an atmosphere of flux,
of unemployment, with fierce arguments
going on as to what is the correct out-
look on life in general. There is no clear-
cut goal for its members to aim at. They
can’t even marry early owing to in-
security and lack of means, and children
have to be regarded as hostages to for-
tune instead of a blessing. It’s a wonder,
Youth, you are making as job
of things as you are, so don’t let “N.F.
get your goat. He, in common with lots
more of us, pretends to criticise you, but
we’re actually hating ourselves for not
having made a better job of our respon-
sibilities and passing on better prospects
to you. Still, take care you don’t have
to write similar pars, in The Bulletin
in 1959!— Forty Last Week (N.S.W.).
N.Q. Forests
For many years past N.Q. forests have
yielded such valuable timbers as silky-
oak, walnut, cedar, beech, maple, crows-
foot elm and bean. The industry is still
profitable, but, although the forests are
being denuded of these timbers, little or
no effort is being made at reafforestation.
It is a case of “who cares?” The land-
owner sells the timber, the timbergetter
cuts, hauls and delivers, and that’s the
end of it. If a young tree, or even two
or three, were planted in place of the
fallen, it would be a continuing industry.
In the tropics, where rainfall is good,
young trees would grow without atten-
tion. There are large areas of jungle
land which could not be used for pastoral
or for agricultural purposes, but good
timbers flourish there.
Unless something is done soon a proni
able industry will be lost. —C. C. Boultek
(Q-).


Mainly Mail-Order
MUSHROOMS
ar t Now and Use “Perfection”
100 per cent. Pure
. Culture Spawn.
-0 sq. ft. costs 4,6
(posted anywhere).
Sufficient to grow
40lbs. of mushrooms.
-t is made in Aus-
tralia and is developed
under skilled super-
vision.
Extracts from letters.
H. A. POPE. Dee Why: “Gathered over 501 b.
20 g 9‘ ft- Please repeat order.”
1 ■ HUGHES, Collinswood, S.A.: “Amazed at
-siiccess of Perfection spawn.”
2d. fur Instruction Booklet and Price List to
J - TAiNTOX, spawn specialist,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
,
RACKET
RESTRINGS
We employ expert stringers
with years of experience.
All Work Guaranteed.
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-,
25/-.
SAME WAY SERVICE.
Write for free booklet with
article on Serving by Jack
Crawford.
N.S.W. SPORTS STORE,
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
Alan Kip-pax \
Jack Crawford j
Directors .
Jggg
TeSt fat 1 fttofttk
S3
anti PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing: aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—:No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite 60 ik, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney ;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1 L %
680
7 ins.
6fc
t
6 ins.
4 '9
ţ
707
6 ins
3' S
Postage 9d Extra.
ASTOUNDING VALUE CUHS.
A!. Quality Pure Silver Plated. 200 Designs.
Trophies 3/9 to 25/.
CLUBS SAVE MONEY.
Wholesale Jewellers. Est. 70 Years.
P. KLEEMO PTY. LTD.,
217 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Diamond Rings.
ť
A Real
Comfort to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavalier”
silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5 6. Honest Value, 8/6.
send 6d. in Stamps for
-ample of “Levysown”
l Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth
| ' Cigarette or Pipe.
f - >g Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
I genuine Meerschaum Pil>e in its own case
" 17 6; Honest Value, 30/-.
liberal
Quality
10/- lb.
sOL LEVY • Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
* 713 Georgre St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
THE
“GENUINE
KEMP”
The old favourite. With
narrow grip and 3in
hand-sewn kneepads.
mounted, £6/157-
SUPER QUALITY, with
hogskin seat and brass
mounts, £ 7/7/--
(Freight free in N.S.W.)
Write for free illustrated
catalogue.
Narrow Grip.
1
Ride in Comfort.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
, 18 -20 WILSON ST NEWTOWN
W. B WILLIAMS FOB SAFER SADDLES
Livestock
Specialists
and Consultants
G. TEESDALE SMITH
SCIENTIFIC UTILITIES PTY., LTD.,
77 York Street, SYDNEY.
ŧ
CREAM DOUBLE BED BLANKETS in a very
soft quality, British made. Send a deposit to
secure yours for the cold winter months ahead.
SPECIAL PRICE 12/11 pr.
POST
FREE.
Single Bed Size, 7/11 pair.
Mail Your Order at Once to Desk W,
SALVAGE STORES
36 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
BaNJO MANDOLINS. —This instrument is a new
eparture in the musical world, and is very
lancinating and easy to play.
Model No. 2. —Loud tone, suitable for playing at
lances. _ An excellent model, complete in case,
s-i 10 cash. Terms as below.
iel No. 3—Figured Walnut or Ebony finished,
nrcmium—plating and very loud and mellow tone,
-i 10,— cash. Terms as below.
;' I TARS. —Another easy instrument to learn.
Excellent for camps and week-end parties.
Learners' Model, £l/15/-. Complete with acces-
scrjes. Superior model and louder in tone than
shove. No. 90, £2/10/-.
>mplete course given. Seven days’ Money Back
guarantee.
CONDITIONS.—AII goods are sent to your
nearest P.O. ; freight paid by us. Terms: ONE-
:vIRD DEPOSIT, balance over six monthly pay-
nts. Five per cent, extra is charged for this.
THE TALKERIES, Q.Y. BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
'ft
a i
€>
© © ©
"Wr-n-rrtr
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
t
ţ
The “THERMWELL”
KEROSENE BATH
HEATER
and SHOWER
Provides sufficient hot water
for a plunge hath for a little
more than 3d. Provides won-
derful comfort in any home.
Easy to instal. Copper, chrome -
plated, with shower attached.
Price, £B/15/6
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS:
Write for illustrated Leaflets.
OIL APPLIANCES Pty., Ltd.,
134 CASTLEREAOH ST.,
SYDNEY.
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
XL*
w
!
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
unds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794
That Bald Patch
is slowly but surely spreading.
When visiting Sydney call for
Free Consultation.
MISS DICKISON,
Sydney’s Only Baldness
Specialist,
903 Com. Savings Bank Buildings,
14 Castlereagh Street.
Established 1912.
FOR HARD FINGER and
TOE NAILS 6/6
ť
POSTED FREE FOR CASH.
W. JNO. BAKER S
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Cutlery Specialists.
TAR PAU LI N S
GUARANTEED
WATERPROOF.
Made fro m
First-grade
Materials.
Every Seam
sewn with
strong Waxed
Thread and all EYELETS firmly secured and
reinforced.
HEAVY QUALITY 15oz. WATERPROOF DUCK.
10 x 8, 21/6, 14 x 12 44/-, 16 x 12 47/6,
18 x 14 64/-. 20 x 16 82/-, 20 x 18 91/6.
PREPARE FOR WINTER—SEND YOUR
ORDER NOW TO
GOLDMANS,
429 George St., cnr. Market St., Sydney.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
6010-0 «.
OUnmTUB WA
0
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
i 3 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
Hudson’s
“Perfection” Floor Polish
.....
BY PROOF THE
BEST.
Is Hygienic, unsur-
passed for cleaning
and polishing all
kinds of Flooring—
Parquetry Floors,
Linoleums, Wood-
work, Furniture,
etc., etc.
6oz tins, 1/6 each
lib tins, 3/- each
7lb tins, 18/- each
GEORGE HUDSON PTY. LTD.,
Timber, Joinery, and Flooring Specialists,
Bridge Road, Glebe. City Office: 7 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W1451.
RUNNING SHOES
Fit for a Champion.
mm
■
?k
IHrnT^T
As supplied to
Empire Games
T earns .
The “Flyer” Special 17/11
The Flyer 12/11
A Uo
The “Rugger” Special Football Boot, 13/11
Write for General Winter Catalogue.
BERT OLDFIELD’S SPORTS DEPOT,
54 Hunter Street, Sydney, ’Phone: 8W4257-8.
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
•-
NEW EVER-BEARING CLIMBING TOMATO!
Sensational importation! Grows 20ft., trellis,
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR, yielding TWO BUSHELS large, red fruit
PER PLANT. Sow all seasons. 2/6 packet.
PURE
WHITE
HEALTH
TOMATO!
WHITE
BEAUTY
100 PER
CENT.
NON-
ACID.
VASTLY IMPROVED FLAVOUR. Large, PURE
WHITE snlooth fruit, DISEASE AND
DROUGHT PROOF. 2/6 packet. SOW NOW
Exclusive Distributors: N.S.W. SEED CO.
17A PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŧ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
THEWOSU3,
yours
W
m
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours”
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
l'S
Post Free
£
<sP
<€y rid#
ty o°
<^y .~z s>)
.1 d&
cp-y~*f* j*
,i 6® (> e
r>^
1
#'
Vi' v
0<


airmail
ie-wjjmp "i*™
qBQW 5 v HAIR ~ Quickly :
v Distribution of 1000 TRIAL
RfATfAENTS This Month!
USE COUPON BELOW
, y ,,.
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“Hair Growing Like Wildfire”
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. I could have told you after one application that your
treatment would certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, but yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It has completely changed the color of my hair. _lt
has turned it from dry, dead, straw-looking color back to its
original shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I
have a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It’s growing
like wildfire. I might mention that I never gave your treatment
a Very fair go, either.” E. J. K.EYNOEBS, M., N.S.W.
Test It Yourself —NOW !
NOW, you can test it yourself—try tins famous treatment in
your own home—under any condition you like, and if it doesn t
grow new hair, rid you of dandruff or any other hair trouble
you suffer from within 30 days it COSTS YOT) NOTHING!—-not
a penny. But you must hurry : this offer may never he repeated;
it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
Great Distribution of Hair Treatments!
Read This Convincing PROOF from
I MEN and WOMEN!
What I Discovered About Hair
IT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you are fast
going bald—or what you have tried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out in handfuls
until I fast began to go bald. I tried everything; but now I
have a thick, lustrous growth of hair—thanks to the important
discovery tha-t
Hair “Seeds” Still Live in Bald Heads
I HAVE proved as in actual cases quoted opposite that the
hair “seeds” frequently remain alive in bald heads for a
number of years. In the greater majority of such cases new
hair can be grown, provided that the real causes of the trouble
are known, and the correct scientific treatment applied.
Hundreds of men and women from all over Australasia have
grown new hair this wonderful new way. Just read the
letters opposite received from these grateful people——surely
this is proof enough.
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
THEY never have—because it is impossible! There is one
underlying principle that stimulates New Hair Growth—
that principle is involved in the new Kelso Murchison Treat-
ment! It's a new way—entirely different, and successful. It
approaches baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle.
With it you can stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on worthless “tonics”
and “hair restorers”; but accept my great offer and watch
your hair grow! Get this special offer coupon in the post
to-day!
It Does Not Matter
IT does not matter how long-standing your hair or scalp
trouble may be; it does not matter what you have tried—
J. Kelso Murchison is prepared to PROVE to you beyond all
doubt, and without you risking one penny, that YOU CAN
DEFINITELY GROW NEW HAlR—if you send the coupon
below NOW!
No matter what your hair trouble may be, you can test
this method yourself for 30 days. Send Coupon Now!
This OFFer Expires Shortly!!
SEND this COUPON72W
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept. 94, Lombardi Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
22 / 3 /’ 39.
m
WAS PRACTICALITY BALI)
—H EA D NO W COM-
PLETELY C O V E R E I>
WITH YOUNG HAIR.—
“I have been applying your
hair culture course, for thirty
days with splendid results.
1 was absolutely bald on the
crown of the head, and no
hair on the temples—just a
very thin streak across the
head between the; temples
and the crown. Since I have
been using your course my
head is completely covered
with young hair. I had
tried every known method of hair growing
without the slightest result until T tried
yours. I can recommend your course to
nil yon o, for my bail* wjis in a very bod
state,”—George Morrow, 0., N.Z.
MRS. ANITA BURGESS, BEAUMARIS,
VIC., SAYS:—“COURSE A BLESSING!”
“I am writing to thank you for the won-
derful results received from your hair
treatment. 1 was in despair—my liair
had been falling out and had got very
all, and was full
of dandruff. I
decided to try
y o u r course.
Well. I can really
say it has been a
blessing to me.
as my hair now
looks really
better than I
have ever known
it to he. You
will agree that
the photograph
speaks for it-
self.”
MRS. A. BUKCrUiSo
t
1,. PHILLIPS, OF DUNOON, SAYS:
HAIR HAS GROWN TWICE AS
THICK!” “After the first night’s
treatment the dandruff began to dis-
appear; at the end of three days
was completely gone- New hair was
growing at the temples and on
crown of the head at the end of 30
days, and in a very short period
all my hair and scalp troubles were
over for good. My hair lias also
grown twice as thick. Anybody suffering from any of the
hair disorders I have had and desiring to get rid of them
for all time, and obtain a good head of hair, just write
to J. Kelso Murchison.” —L. PHILLIPS, D„ N.S.W.
L. I’HILLiPS.
av.
* m 4
BALD PATCHES GROWING HAIR.
“Before I started to use your hair treatment my
hair was falling out that much that. I thought
I would be bald in a short time. Thanks to your
wonderful treatment, the bald patches on my
scalp are growing hair very rapidly, and I would
recommend your hair treatment as the best in
the world. It has cured my dandruff, and my
hair is 100 per cent, better.” —W. A. PEARSON,
It., N.S.W.
WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS—HAIR NOW GROWING.
“Hair has started to grow over the bald parts, which have been
bald for 16 years.”—G. L. HORTON, 0./S.A.
HAIR GETTING THICKER AND STRONGER EACH HAY.
“I have been using your treatment tor the past five weehs, wit
wonderful results. I am pleased to say that the dandruff ha? entirely
gone, and my hair has taken on new life again, getting tlnekei
stronger each day.”— G-. LORD, G., S.A.
The ageing effect oi baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly
depicted than in this picture.
£lOOO GUARANTEE
I guarantee that all testimonials published in this announce-
ment are all genuine letters or extracts from reports received
by grateful men and women who have used the Murchison
Method successfully. These letters, together with hundreds
more, are open for inspection at our offices at any time.
J. KELSO MURCHISON
Dept. 94, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m-j ,
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer]
