

fB
“frST MEAT.STEA
ft/HRIES. q'RAVU?
STERStfr,
The"UN°T£P* IN
l * a MJtoar i*na#o(AS*i6l’WA i, *)“** nS> **
OZt
VP
vhser/
Ha BROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
f»42.
The Bulletin
Why Stalin Shot His Generals page 28
Vol 60.—N0. 3091.
Wednesday, May 10, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Famons Old English Inns
HOST HOLBROOK says:
'’The Roebuck Inn at Broadwater, Hertford-
shire, has for centuries been a picturesque land-
mark.
The procession of years has seen little change
in the old inn. Past its doors marched soldiers
to the battles of St. Albans, the six-horse coaches
of the Queen Anne period lumbered by, and the
comparatively speedy coaches of the nineteenth
century dashed along to provide a vanguard for
the never-ending stream of modern motor traffic
on the Great North Road.
My Worcestershire Sauce has also stood the
test of time. It is manufactured in the good old-
fashioned way, and is matured in vats of English
oak until fragrant and appetising.”


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. ft PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRISE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
.£3OO
The Prize is open this year to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography,
history, etc.
Authors will assist if they will forward
entries as soon as they are ready and not wait
until the last few days. The earlier MSS. are
forwarded the earlier the judges will be able
to announce their decision.
Each MS. must be entered with author’s
pen-name attached ; full name and address to
accompany it in a sealed envelope, which will
not be opened until after the judges have
reached their decision.
Intending competitors have now only four
weeks to complete and enter MSS.
tiul
iliu
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL ’ "
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp.
pENMANStiiP Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement ay
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B, 139 .
The Red Pang
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA.
The writing of history is an interpretative effort
that comes close to being a creative art, and it is not
without significance that the present literary resur-
gence in Australia extends beyond the writing of novels
and poems and the rediscovery of landscape to reinves-
tigation of the past. This has been the aim of several
notable books that have appeared during the last
couple of years. The latest is Brian Fitzpatrick’s
British Imperialism and Australia, 1783-1832 : An
Economic History of Australasia (Allen and Unwin).
Australia has generally been considered, in its
early days at least, as an isolated phenomenon, work-
ing out its destiny from within in the seclusion of the
Antipodes. Fitzpatrick, by interlacing his economic
history of Australia with chapters on economic and
social development in England, is able to prove a
close connection. Expansion and contraction in Eng-
land, periods of surplus population or surpluses of
capital, of unrest or financial adventurousness, all
had their effect upon the colony and British policy—
which latter he depicts as far less absentminded than
has been supposed. It was dictated by the varying
needs of England rather than by Australia’s necessities.
Australia’s beginnings were strongly influenced by
three revolutions, two political and one economic.
The American War of Independence at one blow
deprived Britain of her dumping-ground for convicts
and her faith in a policy of colonisation. Australia
was founded as a penal settlement. No other future
was postulated by the Home Government. No profit
was expected. The country was to remain a peasant
community of ex-convicts and their children. Phillip
had no authority to grant large areas of land or to
issue grants to his' officers. Settlers with money were
not wanted or catered for. This vision of Australia
as a peasant community to absorb the unwanted per-
sisted only until about 1820.
The French Revolution, which broke out almost
simultaneously with the foundation of Australia, not
only disseminated into the air the germs of modern
democracy, but was the prime cause of a war between
France and Britain which lasted until the overthrow
of Napoleon in 1815. This war diverted Imperial atten-
tion from Australia. “A spasmodic irritability was
about all the Imperial Government vouchsafed in
respect of the insignificant colony.” It had not ships
to spare for transporting convicts. It was during this
period of neglect that the course of Australian history
changed.
While Britain’s back was turned the officers of
the New South Wales Corps were able to arrogate
to themselves many privileges, to obtain large land
grants and the monopoly of trade. The peasant farmer
went to the wall. Incidentally, the wool industry came
into being. Three Governors were broken in an
attempt to restore the Imperial Government’s policy.
By the time a man was found who could restore it,
in part at least, Government policy changed, and Mac-
quarie was recalled for succeeding where success was
no longer desired.
By 1821 John Macarthur had carried his sheep-
breeding experiments far enough to convince some
important people in England that Australia might
prove profitable. The policy of peasant proprietor-
ship was dropped like a hot coal. Inducements were
offered to men of capital to emigrate, large land grants
replaced small ones, Government farms and public
works were abandoned, and the convicts were assigned
as labor to landowners. The “reduced poor” were
also earnestly persuaded to emigrate to provide labor.
“The orchard was too rich now to be left to the boy
who once stole a windfall from its ground.”
In 1824 the Australian Agricultural Company was
formed in London with a capital of a million pounds.
It received a vast grant of land, a coal monopoly
and other privileges. This was only one of many
stakes that British capital now had in Australia, and
henceforth Imperial policy was to foster and protect
them.
The great economic development that influenced
Australian history was the Industrial Revolution. It
created a vast British working class, and with it the
“redundant poor,” who were shipped off to Australia.
It occasioned unrest, and unrest was punished by trans-
portation. Political revolutions attended the birth of
Australia, the Industrial Revolution sent her the first
considerable wave of population. It also, by the rise
of the manufacturer, created a market for Australian
wool. The value of wool, to a nation newly alive to
commercial possibilities, completely changed British
policy in the Australian colonies —a policy that was
to be largely offset by the growth of a national sense
of purpose among Australians.
This thesis is worked out in detail by Fitzpatrick
and substantiated by a great body of evidence. He
gives the feeling of having uncovered the true skeleton
of Australia’s early history. It is a solid piece of read-
ing—heavily footnoted and documented —but stimu-
lating nevertheless.
Everything for Sale.
Richard S. Lambert’s story of William Whiteley’s
rise from a draper’s assistant in the English provinces
to the proprietorship of the largest department store
in the world is entertainingly told, and readily trans-
poses to any large city.
The Universal Provider (Harrap) begins with a
picture of young Whiteley awakening to ambition as
he wandered among the vast crowd of dazzled
admirers who flocked to the Crystal Palace Exhibition
in 1851. He thought, “If only all these things were
for sale, what a trade they would do.”
The seed germinated. As soon as his indentures
with the draper had run out he moved to London
and studied shopkeeping there by working for one
famous establishment after another. In twelve years
he saved £7O0 —-a fair feat of thrift in days when a
shophand was paid at most £4O a year and keep, with,
sometimes, small commissions.
He decided to open his shop in a thriving suburb
called Westbourne Grove. Other shopkeepers had
found the neighborhood unlucky, but he was con-
firmed in his choice by a good omen. Near the site
of his new shop was a stone marked with an arrow.
Legend ran that on that spot centuries before a knight
called Whiteley had been accidentally killed while
hunting.
He took down his shutters in 1863 on the day
after the marriage of the Prince of Wales to the Prin-
cess Alexandra. A lady entered his shop and, on learn-
ing that she was his first customer, asked his leave to
offer a prayer. They knelt together in the shop and
invoked a blessing on the undertaking.
For ten years the business grew steadily. The
staff was increased from two to fifteen, and Whiteley
married Harriet Hill, one of his first two assistants
of their sex. They lived over the shop, and were on
the job from dawn till midnight.
• In 1872 Whiteley began to extend his business in
all directions. A restaurant, a cleaning and dyeing
service, a house and land agency, a funeral parlor, a
butchery and vegetable market, a hire department that
could supply anything from a dinner guest to a pine-
apple, were added in quick succession. His premises
increased from a single shop to ten shops, to a street
of shops, to a great block of shops. To raise money
for his large undertakings he opened a bank and virtu-
ally borrowed from his customers. It was his boast
that he never advertised. He simply stood, metaphori-
cally speaking, on his own doorstep and bellowed.
His was a showplace, and customers came from
all over England, the Continent and even America.
He was willing to do them any service they cared to
demand, even to mediating in family quarrels. On
one occasion a highly-placed clergyman asked for
an elephant, to be delivered to his stable. Four hours
later, to his consternation, it arrived. Whiteley let him
off with a bill for fodder and porterage. Another wag
who asked for a second-hand coffin had to take deli-
very in the middle of a dinner party.
When the defeated Zulu chief Cetewayo was
brought to England Whiteley undertook to house,
feed and “mind” him. Queen Victoria was one of
his customers, and he visited the palace weekly with
goods on approval. The Duke of Edinburgh bought
his Christmas presents there, and the royal children
thought the great shop terrific fun. All society fol-
lowed. Whiteley’s half-year sales, however, were for
a different class of customer. The bargains were
strewn over the floor and the people scrambled for
them. . . 1
He met with a good deal of hostility from rivals,
and more from the newspapers because he didn’t
advertise. There was loud opposition when he applied
for a wine license. It was refused on the ground that
as his shop was patronised by both ladies and near-
ladies it might become a place of assignation if liquor
were served there. To trade jealousy he attributed five
great fires which broke out in his shops during the
’eighties. Against the first two he was insured, but
after that no company would take the risk. The last
fire resulted in three deaths and nearly ruined him.
The indirect result was that it restored his popularity.
A veritable Golden Age followed.
Although full of such moral maxims as “Add
your conscience to your capital” an equivocal remark
when you look at it closely—Whiteley’s private life
was irregular, and his wife applied for a judicial
separation. Extremely affable to customers, he was
vindictive and litigious behind the scenes. He had
no mercy on competitors. There were those who felt
that justice of a sort had been done when he was shot
one afternoon in the office of his store by a young
man who believed himself to be his son. He had a
very large funeral.
Whiteley’s story covers the rise of the big shop.
In 1800 shops had not evolved so very far from the
booths of the Middle Ages. They were small, gener-
ally open-fronted and strictly specialised. As trans-
port was slow and difficult, each shop served only its
immediate neighborhood, and each had its special
connection, usually the co-religiqnists of the shop-
keeper. The first show windows were composed of
small square panes set in a wooden framework. There
was no window-dressing and no advertising beyond
simple announcements in the newspapers. Shop-
hands slept in an attic or under the counter.
The invention of plate-glass and the coming into
general use of gas made a vast difference to shops
at the same time that growing national wealth, increas-
ing population and improved transport brought more
customers. Plate-glass led to display, and that to
a whole chain of ideas, beginning with sandwichmen
and street processions. Fires led to the idea of bargain
sales—the employees often being kept back dipping
the goods in tubs or realistically singeing them. Gas,
which made the shops brighter, turned shopping into
a recognised form of feminine entertainment.
The lot of the hands during the intermediate stage
of shopkeeping was very hard. They worked from
thirteen to nineteen hours a day, slept in crowded
dormitories, and had even less privacy than leisure.
Whiteley was in some ways a good master, his people
were housed better than most, he never opened on
Sunday, and he pioneered some branches of welfare
work, sponsoring athletic and cultural clubs. On the
other hand he framed 176 rules for his employees, and
the breach of any of them meant a fine of from six-
pence to two and six. One of the final offences was
to sit down during working hours.
Whiteley was the first full-blown universal pro-
vider in the world, though Stewart in New York ran
him a close second.
Air Raids on Paris.
Edwin Ramseyer’s Airmen Over the Suburb (Gol-
lancz), translated by Nora Bickley, is a humanitarian
study of war. The scene is Argenteuil, a riverside
suburb of Paris, and the form of the book a diary.
The diary, like the letter, is one of those set literary
forms beloved of the French. Its artificiality sets them,
free, makes at once the necessary concession to litera-
ture, and thereafter, by paying the debt all in one
lump, the author is entirely at liberty.
It is the result of being brought up on Racine.
He has a finger in Airmen Over the Suburb, being
responsible for the little Gallic bow at the beginning,
the touch of formality in the informality, the preser-
vation of form, through everything, to the very end.
The diary begins with random entries, fragments
from the neighbors’ lives: Robert, who “earns prac-
tically nothing and takes great care of his clothes,
and who is having an affair with Madame Josephine,
wife of the patron at the Cafe du Commerce ; Lud-
wig, the homesick policeman from Lorraine;
Madame Mathilde, the district nurse ; Tronchet, the
veteran of the Argonne, without legs, dying of a lung
complaint; the Anfrancs, who, having 14 children
and being still young, are in the running for the
championship of France ; Madame Pfefferkorn, the
butcher; Monsieur Collioud, the ticket collector;
Moret, the old taxi-driver whose hope in life is an
accident, with damages, to his decrepit taxi.
Over these people, and many more drawn into
the casual net of the story, the fear of war begins to
gather. Bomb-proof shelters are built in the sector
and opened with a wealth of municipal humor. No
one thinks much of that, the Government was always
a little mad. Then the newspapers begin to talk
peace. That is more sinister. The old-time “Madelon’
is heard again in the streets, presage of war as black
rats among the brown presage a plague. Veterans
are talking of the Somme and the Argonne, and the
people, the patient people, are waiting. “They want
no more war, but if it should break out again they
would fight. Not out of bravery, but out of mad
despair.”
When war breaks out Madame Mathilde dreams
that the women stop the troop trains by piling them-
selves and their children on the lines. But that
doesn’t happen. The men go with the old jokes
Only the women, the old men and the children are
left. The air raids come night after night. The
bridge over the Seine and the factories on its bank>
act as magnets. The power station is destroyed, and
there is no more light. Everyone knows what to do—
the gas-masks, the shelters—but there are always
casualties. Every afternoon the Mayor puts on his
tricolor scarf and goes to the burying.
The fabric of life is torn, but the people adapt
themselves and life goes on somehow. Even the
comic survives. Madame Mathilde wins an epic vic-
tory over her old enemy, Monsieur Collioud. The
(Continued on page 8 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ’ '—always.
IU
N
FAMOUS
"THE SENIOR STORE’
LOW PRICES
c
NO BLADES
NO LATHER
SKIN
LOTION
NO LOTIONS
30
NO CUTS/
SLL
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
THE "ROLES” SAFETY RAZOR
The "Rolls" Razor is made of hand forged Sheffield Steel,
hollow ground until the edge reaches surgical keenness. The
semi-automatic strop and hone keep the one blade sharp, shave
after shave. At Anthony Horderns'. In Nickel Case. Price, 50/-
In Silver Plated Case. Price
TESTED
Q/od
APPROVED
OiMA
2000000 MEN
THE "SCHICK” Electric shaving is sim-
plicity itself. No water, no soap, no brush, no blades are
required. All you have to do is to plug into your power
point or electric light socket.
In the special shearing head of the Schick Shaver lies the
whole art of mechanical shaving. The thinness of the
outer plate, with teeth extending from side to side, is
responsible for quick, close shaves.
Unlike blades, which grow worse with each succeeding
shave unless sharpened or renewed, the Schick Shaver
actually improves every day of its long life. The two cutters
"work themselves in" to each other, giving many years of
service. It is guaranteed for
against faulty material and
ship. PRICE
12 months
workman-
01 Si
u.
Mfe=S©P®fl5>
K, Ran« |<
So-rel
MO
ugt
5C terf*.
Auxc -
THE "VAEET” AUTO STROP
The "Valet" sharpens its own blades. Auto Strop Safety Razor
strops the blades to a sharpness which will remove the toughest
beard and leave your face smooth and clean. Complete in
leatherette or nickel plated case, with twelve blades and strop.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, set _ 7/
Others. PRICES, 4/6, 9/-, 12/-. Valet Razor Blades. Pkt. of 5, 2/-
Also
The 'Shavemaster’
For quick, close, comfort shaves. An
electric shaver with a powerful,
brush-type, self-starting Universal
motor.
At Anthony
Horderns'. Price,
s~\ ng , .
4- 1 *y/4
l— MM W
And
The"PACKARD”
The smooth, round head of the
Packard electric shaver is a patented
feature. Others are adaptability,
absolute safety and low price.
A t Anthony
. Horderns'.
PRICE
£4196
ķ
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR
The Wilkinson Safety Razor
also gives a smooth, safe
shave. Complete in wooden
case, with strop and two
hollow ground blades.
At Anthony Horderns', 15/6
With four Blades. Price 19/6
Combination set with 7
blades. Price 37/6
• Razors, Pocket Knives Ground
Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
(2 Ci&cui Swartz (ZhfAt.
/
'Bengali’ Blade Razors
Harrison Pocket Knives
Harrison Bros, and Howson Sheffield Steel
Pocket Knife. Two blades, skinning and
pen. Buff horn handle, capped at ends.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 6/-
v„.:v
\w
while I LIVE I'u CROW
C/3
—i
O
o
PS
ss
TJ
TO
Vtfr
/■■■»».:
Harrison STOCK KNIVES
Harrison Bros, and Howson Sheffield Steel Stock
Knife. Four blades —Skinning, Castrating, Lamb-
foot, and Spearpoint. Buff horn handle, capped
at ends. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 10/-
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY - - 'Phone M 2401, Day or Night


By the Winner of the Last "Bulletin” Short Story Competition
THEIR
COUNTRY
by
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
FROM the camp—tent and flies pitched back to
the road, facing the mountains —they could
see the summit of Toolbrunup and the long
lines of the Sleeping Beauty.
Toolbrunup rolled from their tongues as easily
as for generations it had rolled from the tongues of
their people ; the Sleeping Beauty, there was no native
name for her, a white man’s beauty, lying face to
the sky, hair sweeping back in a Garboesque torrent
of rocks immovably there for centuries before the
earth knew Garbo.
But the camp knew Garbo. One night they
had gone to the pictures in the hall back in a town
on the railway line. They’d been parked right in
front —there’d been a bit of fuss about letting them
in at all, but Charlie had just cut out on a small
shearing job, and his money was damn’ well as good
as anybody else’s, he told the ticket man. That’s
how it happened young Ada saw Garbo and pointed
out in a high, excited, giggly voice the way her hair
grew off her forehead like the Sleeping Beauty’s hair
back at the mountains.
That was the only bit of interest in the silly
film. The second half of the programme turned out
better, fellows on horses and girls who could live in
tents and cook a damper. When Mickey Mouse
turned up they all got pains laughing. They still got
pains laughing whenever Ada took off Mickey Mouse.
She was a bright one, Ada, and no mistake. Old
man Paddy, who still mumbled blackfellow talk into
his grey beard, got properly wild when Les Mick
started hanging round Ada, round about the time she
turned eleven. Les wasn’t the proper man for Ada,
said old man Paddy ; Les was windong for Ada.
Ada’s mum laughed. Hadn’t they got over that
blackfellow stuff a long time back? Hadn’t she and
all the girls married anybody they happened to fancy,
same as other Australian girls? Ada’s fat old mum
could talk. She’d had a job, she had, with some of
the settlers when she was a kid. Properly brought
up, she was. And she’d got Ada before she got a
husband, too. Wasn’t Ada’s white dad all sorts of
a big man in his town now? Ada could do what she
liked . . .
T” HERE was quite a crowd in the camp. Charlie
had splashed all his cash buying the horse and
cart to fetch them out there to the ranges, where Les
Mick had picked up this job of mustering stragglers
in the thick mountain scrub. Charlie had his woman
Winifred and their tribe of kids. Then there were Les
himself, who was Winifred’s brother, and old man
Paddy, who was Charlie’s uncle.
Les Mick had fetched along his friend Harry
Clark. Besides Ada and Ada’s mum, there were Jo,
Ada’s mum’s husband, who was lame, and all their
kids, and four dogs: two kangaroo bitches and a
couple of any-sorts. Actually, the two kangaroo
bitches and old man Paddy were the only fullbreds
in the camp. But Ada was the only one of the bunch,
except for a couple of the toddlers, who showed
white much in the skin.
Ada’s mum soon had their bit of a tent shipshape,
blankets and chaffbags made into bunks, the gramo-
phone set up on a box, a foxtrot going. Jo lit a fire
and put the billies on to boil. Charlie’s Winifred
slung their fly from the back of the cart, for the old
man to sit under with his pipe. Charlie took the
dogs to start up a Too. Les and Harry Clark went
out to scout round and see what hunting for stragglers
in the heavy scrub was going to be like. Les tried
to get Ada to go out with them too, but she wouldn’t.
The old man might have saved his worry ; Ada didn’t
like Les any more now she was fifteen than she had
before!
Everyone reckoned Ada was dippy and should
have had a boy a long time ago. But Ada thought of
Garbo and kept her dippy thoughts to herself. She
was a happy kid. She loved her fat mum and the
toddlers, and above everything she loved being out
there close to the mountains. She would never leave
the mountains!
She could have got a job back in town as a ser-
vant any day. But she didn’t want just to wash
dishes and clothes and buy lollies and face-powder
and have boys, any more than she wanted to hitch
up with Les Mick and cart round a tribe of kids like
her mum, and live in a tent. Ada didn’t quite know
what she did want. But she always felt happy out
near the mountains. She could act Mickey Mouse
there, and make the camp die laughing ; she could
sing songs learnt off the gramophone and make up
dances to her sohgs.
She poured water out of their big petrol-tin tank
into a tin basin and had a wash. She did her hair in
front of her mum’s cracked mirror and tied a pink
ribbon round her head. Then she went and stood
over by the road and looked out for Charlie. If he’d
got a Too, or even a brush, it’d be real good ; they’d
grill the steaks over the coals after the sun went down.
At last she spotted Charlie. He wasn’t coming
round by the road at all, but through the scrub, bent
almost double under the weight of a big boomer.
Watching Charlie, Ada missed seeing Ron McGovern
ride down the road and draw rein abruptly, caught
by what he saw.
What Ron saw was a slender, smiling, excited
youngster, with a pink ribbon tied in her hair, clean-
cut against the dark scrub, haloed by the rosy sky. He
saw her first, and the picture she made stamped itself
so deeply over other pictures of girls he’d got in his
mind that he felt she might have been the first girl
he had ever seen.
Then he saw Charlie come staggering up, saw
the cart and the fire and the tents. One bit of him
saw those, noted their meaning, while the rest of
him watched Ada. She moved, laughed out loud and
ran to help Charlie, and the fact of what he saw ran
away before the grace of her, almost before Ron
McGovern knew he had felt it.
He reached the campside just as Charlie chucked
his burden on the ground. “Good night,” he said.
Charlie looked up, blown, his chest heaving
under his blue shirt, the sweat standing out on his
fine black skin. “G’day,” he got back pleasantly, and
kicked aside the dogs from the carcass. Ada went
to chase them. But first she glanced up at the fellow
on the horse.
She saw instantly that he was young and white.
His red hair and two bright blue eyes made his fore-
head, where he’d pushed his hat back, show up like
a white bandage across the tan of his face. He
looked straight at her, though he was talking to
Charlie. Something in his look made her stop dead.
Before she could get her eyes away, she knew why
she’d never got keen on boys. Or married Les.
“That’s hard work, dammit,” Charlie grunted,
kicking the carcass. “Three mile I’ve lugged that
damn’ thing, butf we gotter have meat.”
“You live out here?” asked the white man.
“Um. For now. We come out mustering
stragglers. Town’s no good t’ us. Won’t let the kids
t’ school like they used when I was a boy, moan if
we go t’ the pictures, give y’ a job now and then
if y’ lucky and expect a feller t’ live on rations.
Flour and sugar and a pinch er tea! Gorblimey, and
I c’n do a job er work with any man! Like t’ saye
the cash and get a block out here and run sheep,
I would. This country round here, it’s our country,
old man Paddy there says. I reckon it could run
sheep, a few enough f’r us. What you reckon?”
“I hope so. I just taken up a block further out
meself.”
Charlie grinned. “Want any fencing, boss, or
scrubbing done?”
McGovern got a packet of cigarettes out from
his pocket. “No boss about me yet. I got t’ do
me own hard labor. Have one?”
Charlie’s arm came up for a fag. “Thanks.”
“D’you mind if I feed here to-night?” Ron said.
“I got me tucker with me.”
Charlie said easily, “Good oh. If you lend us
a hand with that Too, we’ll be no time.”
CAFTEN in the next few weeks McGovern left his
humpy to share a meal at Charlie’s camp. Charlie,
Les and the rest of them set up a sort of base camp
for the women and kids in one of the gullies. More
than one day McGovern lent a hand to Charlie,
and once or twice Charlie, Les and Harry Clark went
over to McGovern’s to work on the place. Les didn’t
cotton to McGovern, though.
Same old reason, same old story. Only that to
Ron McGovern and Ada it was quite different.
Ron had a bit of a fight with himself at first.
Ada never said anything, but her eyes and her smil-
ing lips and the songs she sang out on the gully-slopes
soon told Ron the rightness of it.
The day came when Ron thought it damned
silly she wasn’t with him all day and all night, across
with him in his humpy, helping him build up his
place. So he asked Charlie about it.
Charlie said: “She’s- a quarter-caste, Ada is.
Ward uv the Government. The department says
who’ll she marry. And if y’ don’t marry her, they’ll
quod you f’r anything else. That is, if they find out.”
“Are you married t’ Winifred?” Ron demanded.
“We ain’t so white as Ada, so they ain’t so fussy.
She’s my woman, I stick to her. That’s all.”
“Well, I reckon Ada’s my woman. I’d stick to
her.”
For a long moment Charlie said nothing. Then
his eyes turned on Ron’s and held them straight.
“Would you?”
Ron said yes, he would.
Charlie fell silent again. “Well then, Ron,” he
said slowly. “I reckon you’d better not ask anything.
They want her t’ marry Les Mick, they do. Les’s been
asking f’r years. Only Ada won’t. She’s not easy,
Ada.”
So Ron didn’t ask anybody except Ada. And
she just took her pink ribbon and her two dresses
and her toffee-tinful of little treasures, and went
over to Ron’s humpy. Her mum didn’t mind. Ada
was that happy now she’d got a house of her own
and a bed! Ron was going to build a bathroom even
when he got on enough to buy tanks and a bath. She
didn’t even worry when one day Les Mick cleared
out into town along with Harry Clark. Charlie did,
a bit. He kept it under his hat, though ; he reckoned
Les was one of them and wouldn’t hurt Ada.
RON was out fencing and Ada on her own when
the police turned up.
He wasn’t a bad sort, the constable, and he could
see by how well Ada kept the humpy how happy


Ada ran to Ron and clung to him. “She’s my woman,”
said Ron, stoutly. “I’m ready to marry her.”
she must be ; though as soon as ever she set eyes on
him she stiffened up like a chilled carcass. The
constable couldn’t get anything out of Ada; her
frightened eyes kept twisting to the door.
Ron came home singing at the top of his lungs,
hat shoved back on his red head so the white stood
out on his forehead. 'When he saw the police car he
stopped dead, frozen up like Ada. The constable
wasn’t so easy with him. “Don’t you know it’s a
criminal offence to cohabit with one of these here
half-castes? She’s a ward uv the State, Ada is. We’re
going to take her back into town with us right now.
You can explain after.” (
Ada ran to Ron, she clung to him, she didn’t call
out. The sound of her soft begging voice was worse
than any singing out! “No, no —don’t let them, Ron ;
don’t let them take me away!”
“She’s my woman,” said Ron stoutly. “I’m ready
to marry her.”
“Oh, are you? Well, then, why ain’t you done it?
You come along and tell that to the boss.” -
OF course on paper, on the file in the office marked
“ADA SMITH, Quarter-caste,” etc., it sounded
ill right. It was reasonable to suppose that a Ronald
McGovern who had left a white wife in the lurch
wouldn’t, divorced, make a good husband for Ada
Smith, quarter-caste. It was only reasonable to sup-
pose he’d leave her in the lurch too, sooner or later.
Obviously McGovern was no sort of a husband for
who was' one of their best girls. Moreover, he
dad broken the law for a start by taking her off to
live with him like that without a by-your-leave.
Whereas this Les Mick who wanted her was one of
tier own people, a good worker and very much in
love with her. Had been for years. Surprisingly
faithful, in fact.
While all this inquiry into the case of Ada Smith
went on, Ada stayed at a Government settlement.
She got thin and yellow. She wouldn’t open her
mouth to speak to anybody.
Ron did his damnedest. Only when he realised
resistance was hopeless did he decide to clear out.
They told him Ada hadn’t even asked for him, didn t
appear interested at all. So after another bit of a
fight with himself he decided he’d better not even
see her again to say good-bye- —it might upset her.
He wrote a stiff little letter ; he told her he was clear-
ing out, she’d best marry Les and forget all about him.
Ada was obstinate. She refused to marry Les.
She couldn’t read her letter properly, but she blotted
it with tears ; she kept it in a little bag made out of
a handkerchief and hung round her neck by her pink
hair-ribbon.
As she wouldn’t marry Les the department put
her in a job as a servant in the city. After a month
she ran away. The police found her again, out at
the Stirlings, back in camp with her mum and Jo,
Charlie and the rest. There was no hiding then, so
they let her be. Ada could go into the district hos-
pital when her time came. The police explained the
matter clearly to her mum ; Ada seemed so sullen, and
as if she didn’t care or understand what they said.
Her mum understood, though. So that was all right.
Late one night. Charlie drove Ada into hospital
in the cart. The matron laughed, and said Ada was
lucky to get there in time —the baby nearly raced
her!
The baby was such a pet, creamy instead of
tomato-red. All the nurses ran in to see him. They
wanted to make his little mother smile and feel happy.
They couldn’t discover why she wasn’t happy, why
she got so restless if they' took the baby away to let
her sleep. She didn’t sleep at all if they took him
away! So they had to break rules and let him be
in bed with her, and then she’d sleep sound enough
with him tucked in close to her side, his hand cling-
ing on to a pink ribbon round her neck that she
wouldn’t be parted from either.
On the fourth morning, the night-sister, starting
on washing rounds before she went off duty, found
Ada’s bed empty. It had happened before! These
half-caste women often cleared out. Once one got
up inside twenty-four hours so as not to miss seeing
a buckjumping show twenty miles away in another
town. She saw it, too, and none the worse!
All in, Ada was, when she got back to the camp
near the mountains. But she got there. By the time
the police looked her up again she was over her
gruelling. The baby was doing well enough. No
need for worry. They told her she could get a tin
of milk added on to the camp ration-allowance now
she had a baby. Then they went back into town.
[ ITTLE Mac, that’s what Ada called her baby,
* —' grew up in the camp, sturdy, red like his father,
and soon playing happily with the other kids and his
mother, who got back her smiles at his antics. Mac
turned out a strong kid ; he didn’t get sore eyes or
running ears like most of them on their flour and
sugar and one tin of milk. But he was too white to
be left alone for long. He’d got to be given his
chance ; he’d got to be educated. When he turned
six the police came out, took him away from the
camp and put him in a Home.
Ada was older and had a bit of sense. She had
kno\yn for a long time they’d take Mac away from
her some day, so she didn’t fight when the police
came, or cry or kick up a fuss at all. She just said
good-bye to her mum and 10, to Charlie and the rest,
and went along up to the city with little Mac.
She asked for the department to get her a job as
a servant again. If they let her have a job near the
city, Ada said, she could go and see little Mac
on her days off.
It was hard to leave him in the Home. He
clung to her ; he cried his dad’s blue eyes all red and
sore-looking. But there were other kids in the Home,
white kids without parents, and the women in charge
were kind. Mac would soon be one of them, the
women said ; they’d look after him well, Ada needn’t
fret. The Government said she couldn’t look prop-
erly after little Mac ; they said she couldn’t give him
all he should get. But these women could. He’d
grow up here into a white fellow like his dad. And
she’d have her job and buy him presents.
Ada did well in the new job the department got
her. “Good-natured, clean and efficient,” her mis-
tress reported. “And reliable.” She told her friends
Ada was miles better with children than any of the
white girls she’d employed.
Sometimes Ada did think it funny she should
be left behind to mind white kids so much when
Government said she wasn’t capable of minding little
Mac! But she tried to feel happy and think about
the education Mac was getting. The only catch was
the women at the Home hadn’t seemed keen on let-
ting her go to visit him as much as she’d planned.
They said if she went too often she’d only upset Mac.
SHE saved up for a whole month. She got so
excited when the day came she could hardly
walk up the dusty path to the Home.
Mac must have been told she would come. He
was standing clutching the gate, peering through the
bars, waiting. She had presents, lollies and a train
and a toy dog, things like she’d seen in store windows
in the south and wanted when she was a kiddy her-
self.
At first Mac wouldn’t even look at the toys
though. He flung himself at her. When she stooped
he nearly dragged her down, clambering into her lap.
“Mum, mum, mum!” —he couldn’t find anything else
to say, and his arms hugging fit to choke round her
neck were the best thing she’d ever felt.
Afterwards he looked at the toys and laughed
and laughed with pleasure till his dad’s eyes almost
vanished with laughing. He looked fat and happy
enough, Ada decided, though he wouldn t let go her
hand, not even to play with his new toys. She was
glad he liked them ; she’d had to argue to be allowed
so much of her wages to spend on toys. The Gov-
ernment said what she was to spend.
At teatime, little Mac dragged her off to show
to his cobbers. Most of the kids hadn’t got any
mums at all. But he had.
Ada felt very happy when she went back to her
place. Mac sniffed a bit, she’d sniffed a bit herself,
but she was coming soon again, she’d promised, and
she would fetch more nice toys. Ada even sang
under her breath like she used to down by the moun-
tains, before they took Ron from her. She undressed
quietly and got into bed. She was sorry that out the
window she could see only a brick wall and drain
pipes ; she’d have liked to see trees and the night sky.
But little Mac was growing up along with nice white
kids into a white fellow like his dad before him,
and she’d got to not mind the bricks till Mac was
big enough to make a place like his dad had, where
she could work and help him.
ADA missed a week, then went out to the Home
again all laden up. This time Mac wasn’t wait-
ing. She supposed they’d thought she
wouldn’t come ; hadn’t told him so he wouldn t get
disappointed. She went out through the Home into
the play-yard at the back. Mac stood in the far
corner with a crowd of youngsters. He didn’t seem
to see her, so she called out. He looked across. But
he didn’t move.
“Mac,” Ada called. “Mac, it’s mum.”
He seemed to wriggle behind the other kids. She
thought he must be shy and went across. “Mac,
dear, it’s mum —see what I’ve fetched this time, she
coaxed, hesitating a bit.
His blue eyes looked fiercely up. She couldn t
make it out. She knelt down ; the children stood watch-
ing, stone-still. Ada put out her arms to him. He
screamed. He hit her in the face.
Stone-still the children stood for a second, then
they burst into screams and shrieks of laughter and
ran off, screaming with excitement.
“Go away,” screamed little Mac, hitting Ada s
face, beating her. “Go away. You re not my mum.
I won’t have you for my mum. Go away, iou re
black.”


“As Silly as the Law of Entrails”
a Fatad Vaccination
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRA WINGS BY
ARIA.
i( | VEN them laws of the Medium Persians that
[ Mr. Rattray used to talk about,” said Mrs.
L_ Parsley, “didn’t have anything so silly as the
Law of Entrails. That is the most nonsen-
si ble thing I have known in my widest dreams of
avarice, as the saying is. Because his aunt’s sisters
have been famous in the Ananias of the Empire
is no reason why a man should be a fit and improper
person to inhabit an estate which somebody else
doesn’t want to leave to him. He might even be a
probable son.”
The newspaper open on my table had a heading
referring to a British legal decision upon an inheri-
tance matter. It was obviously the sight of that which
had inspired my garrulous landlady. Having amazed
me into attention, she wasted no more time on the
pretence of “doing” my flat.
“Most certainly that Mr. Cedric Sisselhemp was
not a fit and improper person, even if he was a
‘Hon.’ He didn’t impress me at all, and when, right
at the start, he wanted to owe half the rent for
Number 111 told him straight that it was money in
advance or no flat, Hon. or no Hon. —which it was
on his card, although I thought that might be only
a bit of affection on his part.
“A regular reprobrake he was if ever there was
one ; always getting his face slapped. If ever there
was a man like one of them villains of them melon-
dramas, it was the Hon. Cedric Sisselhemp. And it
was a shame to think he was going 'to marry an un-
suffocated girl like Doris Holderwizzle, who was a
very nice, pretty little girl, in spite of her father.
“A very curious man was Mr. Holderwizzle, who
had been an actor, he said, and had made a fortune
out of it, which he was the first actor I had ever
known to do it. He had a queer way of speaking
which made me annoyed with him the first time he
came here, and I told him that the rent I was asking
for Number 4 was very cheap.
“ ‘Lay not that fluttering uncle to your soul,’ he
says. I told him straight that I was a respectable
woman who couldn’t dream of behaving like that with
uncles, fluttering or otherwise.
“ ‘Oh, understand my drift (Shakspeare),’ he says.
“‘Which the name is Parsley,’ I says stiffly.
“ ‘I was only trying to say, Mrs. Parsley, that I
don’t think the rent so cheap,’ he says. ‘lt is an old
actor’s habit to quote Shakspeare.’
“There was no doubt about it, it was. Only a
minute later when he had paid the rent he told me
to ’ave aunts and quit his sight; and he was always
saying things like the quality of mercy is distrained,
and how he’d sooner like a dog obey the moon than
sock a Roman. When you got used to him he was
all right; but he was very impressed at Mr. Cedric
Sisselhemp being a Hon.
“What with Miss Doris, who had her head turned
a bit at the thought of being a lady some day, being a
good bit impressed, too, the chances didn’t look very
bright for the fine young man who used to come
down from the country to see her sometimes, though
she liked him best, no doubt.
“Of course, they didn’t know as much about Mr.
Cedric Sisselhemp as I did. There was an argument
outside his door only the night after he had first
arrived. There were two women
there; and from the row I had
heard he had put them out of the
flat and slammed the door.
“But I’ve noticed that women,
when they are angry, would sooner
say things through a locked door
than any other way, because they
have an excuse for speaking louder.
And one of the women, which a
very handsome woman she was,
and well-dressed, was doing that.
“ ‘Oh, let him alone, Helen,’
says the other woman —she was
only a girl. ‘Let us go away.’
“ ‘You mongrel,’ says Helen.
‘I wouldn’t have minded if it had
been a suffocated woman like me,
but with Daphne here, who be-
lieved everything! You behaved
like a sneak’
“ ‘Come, come,’ I says ; ‘my
residential has always been re-
spectable and I can’t have a dis-
turbance like this. He’s not your husband, is he?’
“ ‘Thank heavens, no! ’ she says. Then she spoke
close to the panel of the door: ‘I just want to say
this to you, Cedric. You’re going to pay for the way
you treated Daphne. Don’t you forget that! I don’t
care what it costs me ; I don’t care what I do ; you’re
going to be sorry. You see!’
“It was the way he laughed, the other side of
the door, that first made me think he was like the
villain in them melondramas. But the women went
away quite quietly, the younger one crying a little.
“ ‘We’re sorry for making any upset, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says the one who had done the talking ; ‘but
you may understand some day when you get to know
what sort of a man Cedric Sisselhemp is. We won’t
cause you any worry ; but that man’s going to pay
for what he’s done to my little friend as sure as my
name’s Helen Golightly.’
< i L_J ER word proved her bondage as far as what
1 ' she said about not coming again to make dis-
turbances was concerned. Very soon I got to know
that what she said about Mr. Sisselhemp was true ;
for, although some of the women were very impressed
at him being a lord-to-be, it didn’t stop them from
slapping his face. And some of the men were angry
with him, too.
“ ‘Women seem to have a fatal vaccination for
our young lordling,’ said Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘He must be a false pretender,’ I says. ‘lf he’s
a lord, Lord help us.’
“ ‘Oh, he’s the heir to a title all right, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘He’ll get it when his
uncle dies ; and his uncle is over seventy. He hates
our young friend, and won’t give him a penny ; but
he is rich, and when he dies the money comes to
Cedric. That’s according to the law of entrails.’
“That’s how I got to know about it; but that
Mr. Sisselhemp didn’t seem to mind who knew about
how his uncle hated him ; and he wasn’t at all ashamed
of the troubles he had been in. Whether he could
pay his rent or not —which he soon began to owe it
in spite of my efforts —he went out every night all
dressed up as if he was going to see the Lord Mayor.
The only work he seemed to do was playing cards
or going to the races. Once he came home with black
eyes and all bruised about the face, which he said was
a motor accident.
“ ‘His friends probably found some spare aces
up his sleeve,’ said Mr. Slompack, who had played
cards with him one night. ‘That young man lives by
his wits.’
“There was other money he got, too ; although
they said that Lord Bunglehasset (that was his uncle)
wouldn’t give him a penny if he was starving, and
if he could help it wouldn’t leave him a farthing in
his last willing testament. A Mr. Levinstein used to
come to see him ; and Mr. Slompack said that Mr.
Sisselhemp had apothecaried his prospects to raise
money from him, which was why he always seemed
to be telling Mr. Levinstein that the old devil was
over seventy and was bound to die soon.
“I often thought of telling Mr. Sisselhemp to
go, especially when that Mr. Hardman began again
to talk of breaking necks when he came to see Miss
Tulip. Which he had hardly any need to do since
Miss Tulip had smacked Mr. Sisselhemp’s face all
that was necessary. And then there was the trouble
with Mr. Wassail; which I had noticed myself that
Mrs. Wassail liked to be talking to a man who might
be a lord some day. But I didn’t know there was
anything really wrong until accidental I heard Mr.
Wassail talking in Mr. Sisselhemp’s flat.
“‘I want you to understand this, Sisselhemp,’
says Mr. Wassail. ‘l’m not a dog on a mangle. If
my wife cares for you more than she does for me,
and you want her, I am willing to stand aside. A
divorce could easily be arranged.’
“Mr. Wassail’s voice sounded full of hope to
me; he had found marriage interfered with his drink-
ing ; and when I told him his grumbling about his wife
wasn’t inconstant with the loving words he sometimes
said to her, he told me that, if he didn’t tell Mrs.
Wassail that life wouldn’t be worth living without her,
life wouldn’t be worth living with her.
“ ‘Don’t be a fool. I don’t wanf to marry Mrs.
Wassail,’ says Sisselhemp.
“That was when Mr. Wassail punched Mr. Sissel-
hemp. Perhaps he felt disappointed.
< ‘ N/| R - SISSELHEMP became a regular bony
** * distension ; but somehow he stayed on. And
then one day Mr. Levinstein came up, all agitated,
waving a paper he had in his hand at Mr. Sisselhemp
when he met him half-way up the stairs.
“‘Look at it! Look at it! Lord Bunglehasset
has been and got married! Vot do Ido for my
money now?’ he wailed.
“Mr. Sisselhemp seemed took aback; but he
gave that melondrama laugh of his.
“ ‘Poof! ’ he says. ‘An old man of seventy-two.
No doubt he’d like an heir to beat me out of it; but
there’s no chance. Your money’s all right.’
“ ‘Dere’s a chance,’ said Mr. Levinstein.
“ ‘Well, you’re charging me for that, aren’t you?’
says Mr. Sisselhemp. ‘I see the old fool is coming
to Australia for his honeymoon. I think I’ll look him
up—he may pay me to keep away from him.’
“Which is concisely what Lord Bunglehasset did
do. I had been asking Mr. Sisselhemp for his rent;
one day he came down waving a cheque and saying
he would pay me directly he had banked it. ‘You
might like to have a look at how my uncle loves me,
Mrs. Parsley,’ he laughed, tossing a letter to me.
“He had no shame, that Mr. Sisselhemp! What
that letter said was that Lord Bunglehasset had been
a bit of a blaguard himself, but he had tried to be
a gentlemanly blaguard. He said that the cheque was
being sent on the misunderstanding that his nephew
kept away from him ; and he might send another
when he left if Mr. Sisselhemp did keep away.
“ ‘As if I want to see the old rotter!’ he says.
“Blunders will never cease in this wide world
of sorrow ; I felt that was Bible truth when that
Miss Helen Golightly came along and wanted a flat.
I must say you can never tell about our sect what
they will do next; for when Mr. Sisselhemp came up
the stairs and saw her at my door she was charming
to him. So I changed my mind about telling her I
was full, which I had been intending, thinking she was
merely coming to make unpleasantness.
“But, really, you’d have thought that that Miss
Golightly had heard about that cheque and had come
along to help him spend it, the way she went about
with him, as if she had forgotten all she had said
about making him pay. I didn’t see much of her ; a
regular will of the whisper she seemed ; but whenever
I did see her she was with him.
“That Mr. Sisselhemp was like a man processed,
as they say, when she went away, which she did after
a week, having only taken the flat for that, without,
it seems, having told him she was going.
“ ‘Where has she gone, Mrs. Parsley?’ he says.
“ ‘Not being my brother’s keepsake, I don’t know
where she’s gone. All I know is she’s given up the
flat,’ I tells him stiffly.
“ ‘But, Mrs. Parsley, it seems indelible that she
should go off like like that. Just when —we were be-
coming real friends,’ he said.
“Although I didn’t say that, it struck me that
Miss Golightly hadn’t forgiven him as much as she
seemed, and had returned to give him some of his
own back. She had just vaccinated him, and spent
his money, and then left him to worry; a fine-look-
ing woman, most striking, she was, that any man
might worry about. And worried he was. He even
advertised in the papers for her ; and for a couple of
months he seemed like a deformed character not
worrying about other women and just hoping that
Miss Golightly would return.
“It seemed to have been real love at first sigh
with him, although he had seen her before. But that
about the leper changing his spots came in.


i i /"S FTEN I was going to get rid of him ; somehow
he kept staying on in spite of there being more
rows when, in the effluvium of time, he began to
recover from the way Miss Golightly had upset him,
and Mr. Slompack and Mr. Wassail not liking him.
He owed his rent pretty often; and sometimes I
heard him having arguments with that Mr. Leven-
stein, trying to get more money from him.
“It was about then that them Holderwizzles
came; and directly that Mr. Sisselhemp clapped his
eyes on Miss Doris, who was very good to look at,
you could see the wickedness in them. He didn’t
have much chance with her for several days because
that Mr. Peter Martin from the country was with
them; and very fond of one another they seemed.
Mr. Sisselhemp, however, made great friends with
Mr. Holderwizzle, who was very taken by the
Hon. ‘As my friend Burns says, “The rank is but
the Guinness stamp ; the man’s the gold for all that,” ’
he says when they was introduced, ‘but I’m sure you’re
gold, and I’m pleased to meet yer.’
“They became thick as thieves, as the saying is.
You couldn’t talk to Mr. Holderwizzle without his
speaking about ‘my friend the Honorable Cedric
Sisselhemp’ just as if he was Shakspeare himself ; and
that Miss Doris, who was as fresh as one of them
flowers that grow in the Lyceum fields, as the saying
goes, was thrown into the company of that repro-
brake.
“ ‘lt’s a damned shame, Mrs. Parsley,’ Mr. Slom-
pack says to me. ‘She hasn’t the sense not to be
dazzled by a man who might be Lord Bunglehasset
some day. I tried to talk to that fool Holderwizzle,
but he only said that marriages between the stage
and the mobility had taken place before.’
“That Peter Martin, when next he came down,
seemed to think that it would be nice, too, to punch
the head of the future Lord Bunglehasset; but all he
did was to have a row with Miss Doris and go away
saying he wouldn’t come back until she had learnt
sense. 1
1 ‘ A ND then the blow fell for that Mr. Sisselhemp.
It was in the paper about a son being born to
the seventy-three-year-old Lord Bunglehasset, who
had been married in a registry office to a Mrs. Long-
worth, a widow, a year ago. It was Mr. Slompack
who showed it to me. ‘That will be one in the eye
for our young friend,’ he said. And he told me about
that law of entrails again, which he said Mr. Sissel-
hemp would even cease to be honorable, if ever he
was that, now that he was no longer an heir con-
sumptive.
“Before most of the people in the flats had fin-
ished their breakfasts that Mr. Levinstein had arrived
like one of them early worms that fear no evil. And
directly Mr. Sisselhemp opened his door (which I am
no Peeping Tom who hear no good of themselves,
but as I was doing the corridor I couldn’t help hear-
ing) he started to talk.
“ ‘Vot about my money now?’ he says. First
Mr. Sisselhemp said blast his money and that babies
died sometimes ; and then I heard him saying how
he was going to marry a woman with a wealthy father
and Mr. Levinstein’s money would be all right. That,
of course, was Miss Doris Holderwizzle.
“He must have convicted Mr.
Levinstein somehow ; he could be
very applausible when he liked;
for a little later he paid up some
of the rent I had been speaking to
him about. But the best-laid
schemes of micey men gang aft
ugly ; and it’s the same with the
men who are rats. Mr. Holder-
wizzle didn’t jseem to like him any
more when the news went through
the flats like wildflowers that he
was no longer honorable. He
seemed to think he had been a
false pretender. He told me to tell
Mr. Sisselhemp if he inquired for
Miss Doris that she was not at
home.
“Everybody was pleased to
hear about it; but Mr. Sisselhemp
didn’t let matters rest there. There
was an argument in Number 4 ; I
heard Mr. Holderwizzle talking
about whoever steals his purse
comes crash, and saying that about
ave aunts and quit me sight.’
Then it was Mr. Sisselhemp’s voice
I heard. ‘Well, you wouldn’t like
people to know,’ he says.
“I thought I ought to insult
Mr. Slompack about what I had
heard, which he said it sounded to
him as if there were black males
about.
If they try to bring any of
them here,’ I said firmly, ‘I will
give everybody notice.’
‘“I mean,’ says, Mr. Slom-
pack, that this Sisselhemp knows
something about Mr. Holder-
wizzle which he wouldn’t like the
world to know. There’s nothing we can do, though
it’s a damned shame.’
“Which he meant the talk about that Mr. Sissel-
hemp marrying Miss Doris ; it was going to happen
quite soon, for Mr. Holderwizzle appeared to have
dropped his dejections. Although Miss Doris tried
to look happy she didn’t seem as happy as she tried
to be.
(‘DUT there’s always the silver lining before the
dawn. And the silver lining, if you please,
was that Miss Helen Golightly. It gave me the shock
of my life to see her. Very beautifully dressed she
was, and very beautiful she looked, like that Venice
de Mile End Road they talk about, only for the
lovely clothes she had on. There was that girl she
called Daphne with her carrying a baby ; and Miss
Doris was with them, too. It took me all of a heap
when I saw them coming down the stairs.
“ ‘We’ve been looking for Mr. Sisselhemp, Mrs.
Parsley,’ she says. ‘He doesn’t seem to be in his flat.’
“ ‘Here he is, coming up the stairs,’ says Miss
Doris.
“And there he was. His eyes were starting out
of his head like a crab’s which walks sideways —and
he looked as if he would have liked to have walked
sideways. His face was very pale. Miss Doris made
no attempt to go near him. He just stared at them
wondering what they were all together for.
“ ‘Well, Cedric Sisselhemp,’ Miss Golightly says
pleasantly, but looking queer about the eyes, ‘I told
you I would do anything to make you sorry for the
way you behaved to Daphne. I meant anything!
Doris isn’t going to marry you. She knows all about
you now ; and she’s coming away with my husband
and myself to stay at the station of Mr. Peter Martin
while we are his guests.’
“‘Your husband! You are —married?’ he cries,
still dumpfoundered.
“ ‘Of course I’m married ; why there’s my baby,’
she says. ‘You’d hardly know Daphne, would you?
She’s my companion ; and soon she’s going to be
married —to a better man than you ever knew how to
be. When I heard, through a letter from Peter
Martin, that you were counting upon marrying Doris,
I came out determined to stop it. A man like you!
What a blaguard you are, Cedric Sisselhemp, using
black males on poor old Mr. Holderwizzle because
he liked people to think he had been an actor. As if
there was any real shame about having made money
out of merry-go-rounds! You used his weakness to
intimate him.’
“That was a surprise packet of crackers! To
think that old Mr. Holderwizzle, with his potations
of Shakspeare, had been a false pretence? It wasn’t
until I heard him say ‘Sisselhemp, do what you will,
dishonor shall be honorable,’ that I knew he was
there. I hadn’t noticed him.
“And then Mr. Sisselhemp, who had been stand-
ing as if he was dazed, was suddenly electrocuted into
life.
“‘Helen!’ he cried as if waking up. ‘I looked
for you, Helen,’ he cries, moving towards her. But
she looked at him cold, like one of them Icebergs
that go swimming at Bondi in the winter.
“ ‘Lady Bunglehasset to you, Cedric Sisselhemp,’
she says.
“ ‘Lady Bunglehasset! ’ He was gasping like a
catfish out of water.
“ ‘I married your uncle when I went to England
to do what harm I could for you,’ she says. ‘I think
he liked me because I hated you.’
“ ‘lt’s a lie! ’ he howls. ‘lt was a Mrs. Longworth
he married.’
“ ‘Mrs. Helen Longworth—that was my married
name. I didn’t use it after my divorce,’ she says
smiling, as if she enjoyed every momentum of his
upset. ‘We travelled out incorrigible this time, so
that you wouldn’t know we were coming. That was
after we had received Mr. Martin’s letter. The poor
lad only wanted to know if you were Lord Bungle-
hasset’s nephew, to make sure Doris wasn’t going to
marry a pretender. You’
“But that Mr. Cedric Sisselhemp, who had seemed
almost pathetic for a time, was foaming with fury
now.
“‘You married my uncle!’ he shouts. ‘You
came to live in these flats pretending you’
“ ‘While my husband was making a tower of
the coalmines,’ she smiles, cool as a concubine. ‘You
haven’t taken any notice of the Bunglehasset heir
yet, Cedric Sisselhemp. The baby that takes your
place as the excessor to the title ought to interest
you.’
“He looked like one of those furies that a woman
scones as he looked at the baby. They say that out
of the mouths of babes and sucking-pigs comes wis-
dom at the midnight’s silent hour ; and it looked as if
that baby smiled, though it might only have been
wind. Mr. Sisselhemp looked as if he would kill it.
“‘You wicked woman!’ he yells. Only it wasn’t
only that he said. ‘My uncle will know. I’ll let him
know the dirty trick you played,’ he yells, standing
beside himself, as they say, if ever a man did that,
which I must say must be difficult.
“ ‘My husband will neither open a letter of yours
nor see you. If you try to see him you will be thrown
out. Anything you care to say about me, in any case,
would only be distributed to the spite of a dis-
appointed man —the vellum of a snake,’ says Lady
Bunglehasset. ‘You can prove nothing. I’m sure
Mrs. Parsley would not allow anything improper to
happen in her flats.’
“ ‘Which indeed I would not! ’ I says hotly, wak-
ing up when it seemed, from what she said, that he
had been casting dispersions on my establishment —
up till then I had been standing dump-foundered,
listening to them. ‘And let me tell you, Mr. Sissel-
hemp, I’ve had enough of you. I’ll trouble yer to
get out! ’
“The language that man used —really gutteral
language it was, as the saying is. But Mr. Slompack,
who wouldn’t allow anyone to use language like that
before women, arrived, and so did Mr. Wassail and
the Major ; and that was the end of him. Mr. Slom-
pack had never liked him from that night he played
cards with him.
“ ‘I suppose, though,’ says Mr. Slompack later,
‘that a man who was irresponsible for cutting him-
self out under the law of entrails would feel inclined
to use bad language.’
“All I can say is that, however that may be, it
was his own fault for letting women have such a vac-
cination for him, and being so immortal in his
conduct.”
“Mr. Sisselhemp became a regular
bony distension.”


one well-to-do man of the neighborhood, panic-
stricken and in hope of escaping, crams his suitcase
with oozing cakes at the confectioner’s. It is like a
Chaplin film, till he suddenly realises that he has
nowhere to go and no means of getting there. The
confectioner calmly makes up the bill.
Bad becomes worse, everyone is involved. One
day the ’planes come over in daylight. The people
rush out to look. They are so used to the routine of
disaster that they don’t think it can be broken ; they
don’t believe that this can be a raid in daylight; but
it is. Philippe—the diarist —works with the doctor
and Madame Mathilde. They are caught in an im-
mense aloofness, beyond exhaustion, pity or fear. He
knows at once when a man will die or when one can
be saved. He knows it is all futile, but that it must
be done. He can watch with detachment the curious
death of horses under gas and the breaking out on
his own skin of the blister that will result in death
before an hour has passed.
This is a most tragic book, at once wide in appli-
cation and particular in treatment. It is without melo-
drama or sentimentality.
Two Travellers.
Sir Hugh Walpole says in his introduction to
Philip Steegman’s Indian Ink (Cobden-Sanderson) that
Steegman is a writer who “jolly well knows his busi-
ness.” So does jolly old Sir Hugh, by Jove! In the
very first paragraph he notes that all the best writers
on India “agree in their ultimate picture.” If it
wasn’t so certain that the whacking old Walpole
wallah knows his trade, it could be pointed out to
him that it would be more noteworthy if a writer
on India gave a picture of Patagonia or Puddleby-in-
the-Marsh.
The blurb, more to the point, says that “the chief
interest of the book lies in his descriptions of Kath-
mandu, the most beautiful of all the closed cities of
the world.” That is true, but Steegman doesn’t sight
Kathmandu till page 223, and the book ends on page
246.
Despite that unfortunate honesty, Indian Ink lives
up to its avuncular introduction. It is always enter-
taining and sometimes interesting long before page
223. Most of the earlier chapters snipe at the Anglo-
Indian snobocracy ; there is sufficient humor to dis-
count the fact that most of the birds have been
bagged long before. He’s amusing, too, on the clerkly
native:
Indians have a way of inquiring directly into your
personal history the first moment they meet you. The
thing to do is to play the same game. Your trump
card is a whacking lie. I told Mr. Bose our names and
added that we were both in our late twenties and going
to Salimprasadha on business. It was Ted’s turn to
put a question.
“Have you any false teeth, Mr. Bose?” he asked.
“I have a complete set,” he replied, opening his
mouth to the wind and water. “Are you married?” he
asked, turning to me....
There are snakes, elephants, fakirs, girls, gin,
polo ponies, Maharajahs, Simla widows —all the cor-
rect ingredients of a curry. Steegman, one of the
few Europeans who have ever visited Nepal, was
allowed in to paint the Maharajah. This was his first
view of Kathmandu:
Far down below and spreading out like the pattern .
of a huge carpet in a heavenly dream lay the Sacred
Valley. Rich green pastures with grass like wet emeralds,
dotted with groves of trees and lovingly cultivated
gardens, covered the edges and the lower slopes. Three
gleaming rivers rippled their ways like sacred silver
snakes on a royal quilt and in the middle lay Kath-
mandu, a miraculous expanse of golden spires and pin-
nacles and tier upon tier of purple and brick-red ‘
pagodas and roofs.
Unheralded by the trumpeting of any sacred bull
and obscured by Geoffrey Bles in a dull green dust-
jacket, Commander Frank Worsley’s First Voyage is
more exciting narrative and has the local interest for
these parts that Steegman’s book would have for
Anglo-Indians. Worsley, who was in the Endurance
with Shackleton, was born in Maoriland, and First
Voyage tells of his childhood in the South Island and
of his first trip to England as a cadet in a square-
rigged ship.
He can’t spell pukeko, and he perpetrates the
libel that the tui is only as big as a blackbird, but his
early-day Maoriland is described exceptionally well.
There are fine stories of capturing a mob of wild
cattle, of the Maoris at a shark hunt, of schoolboy
escapades. And a gem of his father tearing after a
rebellious bullock:
We chortled mirthfully as we watched Lively cross
the valley, go up the far side and disappear over the
skyline, with our enraged parent in hot pursuit. All day,
from various points of vantage, we scanned the irregular
horizon in vain for the chase to reappear. Just after
sunset a staggering beast appeared, with a dog-tired but
triumphant man in close attendance with his stick.
That chase became an epic in Akaroa. Over forty-odd
miles of rugged hills and bush had Dad chased that
damned bullock! Several people had seen them once or
twice, and one youth followed them for a mile or
two until left behind. Finally my father ran Lively
to a standstill in the middle of the gorse-clumps on St.
John’s Peninsula.
That is a fair sample of the vividness and humor
with which in the ensuing chapters he describes the
voyage round Cape Horn. He was only 15 years old,
the butt of ship’s jokes and the pet of older men who
come to life in his pages. The trip was stormy, and
his account of wind and weather, peril and escape, if
sometimes too long-drawn-out, is packed with thrills.
Excellent sea yarns help the narrative. There is
one of a 60-mile-long iceberg, shaped like a hook, in
the bend of which three sailing ships that had sailed
in unawares were trapped. Two, by desperate beat-
ing and tacking, managed to escape from the wide
jaws of ice to the open sea ; their crews watched the
other, which had travelled too far in to manoeuvre
successfully, struggle to escape and then crash on
the ice-cliffs with the loss of all hands. There is
another strange story, too, of a ship’s crew seeing a
sailor, alone, lying dead upon the peak of a berg,
with nothing to explain how he had got there. First
Voyage is a cruise well worth taking.
Viennese Tragedy.
In his novel, Evil Was Abroad (Cresset Press),
John Lehmann tells the story of a young Englishman,
Peter Rains, in Vienna at the time that the German
Reichstag was burned —“A moment that already seems
to belong to a remote age of the past.” Rains is
fresh from Oxford, and is on an academic errand, to
make research into the life of a dead romantic poet.
He had expected Vienna to be a world of faded rose
petals ; he finds it an active spring of tragedy.
One day at the automat he meets a hungry boy,
Rudi Slavaker, an unemployed shoemaker. Out of
pity he commissions a pair of shoes, and gradually
learns the boy’s history of unemployment and want,
the breaking up of his family, the wearing down of
hope. The two young men become friends. Rains
comes to know the underside of Vienna, and it affects
his work powerfully. A few wisps of old Vienna
survive in the Prater and the cafes ; and in the crowds
Rains is still struck by the “dreamy good humor”
and “the mixture of shabbiness and neatness in the
shabbiness.”
He tries to save Rudi from his manifest destiny,
but when he goes to Prague to visit friends and stays
longer than he intended he loses touch with the boy.
The Reichstag is burnt, and a long tremor runs
through Europe. Rajns’s friend, a journalist, sees it
as a magnificent scoop, but others, more sensitive, see
in it an omen of trouble.
Rains goes back to Vienna and looks for Rudi.
He goes deeper and deeper into the morass of the
dying city, now seething with unrest, but Rudi has
gone from his old haunts. Night after night Rains
searches for him on the banks of the Danube where
the homeless sleep. Once in a crowd he thought he
saw his fair head, and followed for hours, but sud-
denly the boy he was following vanished, and he never
knew if he were indeed Rudi or if, as he feared, he
had drowned himself. There the book ends.
It is less a story than a design of our times, and
its author’s attitude to it is aesthetic rather than poli-
tical or even humanitarian. He makes deft use of
contrast —the young Englishman who can’t even
imagine what hunger is and the boy who knows little
else, the too-patient populace who think of England
as paradise and find the American gunman cosy beside
the bleak realities of their own lives. Nothing could
be pleasanter than the prose of Evil Was A broad; it
flows smoothly, and in its very richness seems to mock
its subject. The author is also a poet.
The Lady Reflects.
“Its appeal,” says the blurb of Alyse Gregory’s
Wheels on Gravel (Bodley Head), “is to that small
band of the sensitive elite who, overtalked, overrun
and overlooked, yet manage to retain an enviable in-
violability through the unvanquishable power of a
mutinous and dauntless mind.” And if that thunder-
ing onslaught of impregnable polysyllables means
that the lady has written a quiet book for quiet and
reflective minds, the blurb speaks truly.
Alyse Gregory is the wife of Llewelyn Powys,
and her essays, like his, have a flavor of books and
of the countryside and are preoccupied with funda-
mentals rather than with the pleasant trivialities that
interest writers such as Robert Lynd. Unless a writer
has some powerful and original philosophy, there’s
nothing new to be said about manners and morals,
youth and age, marriage and death, and the gentle
stoicism of Wheels on Gravel is far from original.
But the subject-matter, if familiar, is perennially
important, and the prose, if sometimes too elaborate,
is carefully built:
When they gaze on a field of golden wheat swaying
in the wind —a sight that of all others so transported
John Keats—they do not discern with any clearness
the actual grain planted by man, the movements of
the shadows, the outline of the hills, the watching sheep
with starlings poised on their backs, the rabbits scat-
tering before them. They are aware only of some in-
articulate harmony with a force half apprehended, some
sudden • exoneration from their troubles.
There are 11 essays, beginning with “Social Rela-
tions” and ending with “Death.” John Cowper Powys,
whose influence on the thought and even on some of
the tricks of style is obvious, contributes an introduc-
tion. It has one good claim to originality in that it’s
an unusual book to have been written by a woman.
Cheese and Verse.
Melbourne has a Bread and Cheese Club spon-
soring “sparkling conversation and wise conviviality,”
and out of the noble and enduring atmosphere of
bread, cheese and beer floats a booklet of verses by
writers as well-known as Rod Quinn, E. J. Brady,
Shaw Neilson, Jim Grahame, Edward Harrington,
J. A. Allan and T. V. Tierney.
Rod’s down a “haunted street” with Lawson and
Daley, Brady has memories of Camden, Shaw Neil-
son has a touch of magic in “The Prince Has Been
into the Lane.” Grahame on a bushfire:
The east slowly pales and the stars lose their lustre
While a breeze stirs the leaves as it heralds the day,
And red coals grow dim as they cruiflble to ashes
And the smoking tall timber is mantled with grey.
But leaves of two cedars are curling and blackened,
A woodheap close by is a smouldering dome,
A tank that is broken and crumpled sheet iron
Are all that is left of a pioneer’s home.
One hundred copies have been printed by
Specialty Press, and with good paper and John
Gartner’s typography it’s a very pleasing job.
Bad Girls.
The title of Bertha Damon’s study of her grand-
mother indicates that it’s one of those Thorne Smith
sort of books conveying the impression that Uncle
Sam has only just been informed of the facts of life.
It comes blushing in from Michael Joseph under the
label Grandma Called It Carnal. But it’s not in the
least like that. Grandma used the adjective when
Bertha tried to hatch a hen’s egg.
It’s a sweetly sentimental history of a dear old
lady, an aunt, a cow and various American villagers,
with just enough wit to raise it above the level of the
average serial in a woman’s magazine, and with some
delightful drawings by Julian Brazelton to keep up
the pretence that it’s a wicked satire. The publishers
say 50,000 copies sold in the States.
Mary Dunn’s Beware of the Dog (Collins) is
much more sinful. It is written on the principle
that the funniest thing about a dog is a lamp-post. The
author, who admits her debt to Sellar and Yeatman,
is witty, but only as witty as those gentlemen were
when they descended from 1066 and All That to
Horse Nonsense. So there are puns as bright as
“Autres temps, autres curs,” and observations such
as “In three months you will be eating your words;
they will probably be the only things the puppy has
left you to eat, anyway.”
It’s the complete dog book ; lightly and brightly
she satirises everything that can possibly be satirised
about a dog, except that in hitting at tail-waggers
she’s omitted to tackle the people who write tail-
waggish books about them.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
The Good Pagan’s Failure: Rosalind Murray
(Longman’s). A restatement of the evangelical Chris-
tian’s protest against what Leslie Stephen dubbed
“The Religion of All Sensible Men.” All the evils
of civilisation, in Miss Murray’s view (she’s a daughter
of Australian Gilbert Murray), are due to the exclusion
of Christian doctrine from the affairs of State. The
assumption, of course, is that Christian doctrine is the
only repository of the ethical sense.
A View of All Evidence: Elystan Thomas
(Watts). A new, cheap and enlarged edition of the
very latest attempt to co-ordinate and correlate the
whole body of scientific knowledge and philosophical
theory. The style is terse, the logic apparently hole-
proof. Thomas excels in the art of presenting difficult
and complex concepts in plain, blunt, uncompromising
terms. His array of absolutes is bound to produce
doubts and challenges, and thus the book may serve
the cause of ultimate truth.
Various Veres
While Listening to Organ Music.
Little birds with yellow voices
Spark like jewels from the wood;
Swans with black and white voices—
O flute, oboe, clarinet!
Sing among the wooden reeds.
Listen, in a woodcut silence
Dark blue and darker white',
To their cool tones of silence—
O clarinet, oboe, wood flute!
Sung among the white dark.
Hosts and single speaking voices
Sound, like wisdomjn the wood,
Of pedals creaking, and of voices—
O flute, oboe, clarinet!
Sounding clear among the reeds.
Do I drink in this in silence?
Do I cross the black with white
Swans’ voices spouting silence —
O clarinet, oboe, hollow flute!—
Like fountains in the pale dark?
Little birds with crimson voices
Bleed like jewels from the wood
Holding upright its hundred voices:
Swans are in the wooden reeds . . .
O flute, oboe, clarinet—
I am immortal in your singing!
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE
Furnished Room.
The skin of the wry snake
Withering in the sun
Is less snake than dock
Or the dry thistle the finches
Like red dew light upon.
People are far more cunning,
Can leave a skull behind;
And the long midnight running
About this white old room
Is lost in a dead mind.
Last in the hollow gloom
A dark flashy fellow
Has left these signs of doom.
Though he had loud friends here
And filled his brain with a bellow,
He, too, has watched the light
Sea-deep, a creamy wave,
Curl out towards the night,
Thinning among the trees;
He watched the ripples weave
Silence upon his books,
And saw in corner eddies
The pale, lapping looks
Of people here, of other
Drowned faces and drowned bodies.
What use to stare in the mirror,
Beat on the bony walls,
When even the face of terror
Is stale, is stolen from you,
When every ill that falls
Between the dark and the day
Has whitened other knuckles?
Let the next tenant say
When the party’s broken up
And the white water chuckles,
My midnight sun of knowing
Dried up all waves and words,
And all I left on going
Was seaweed, snakeskin, thistle
And the thought of the red birds.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


PHILIPS
mm.
//
m
■■ •
0
*
WT\
m.
m
/
9"*-M
: : : : ; :
v> -
'
s5fc*«S£
•Mi
m
' '- -»i
!**&•
gX
••> 5: v;;>
; A '^
Xv-.'S
•ttwKw
«2S
•>X | •■■-■.'
: iv£££'$
-••■ > , .>
'C;^
ess
as
, COMPLETE
AN G E OF
\ODELS FROM
Model 1941, "The Wonder Set
of To-Day," for Australian broadcast
reception, comes to you in the attractive
gleaming ‘'Philite" cabinet illustrated above. This
brilliant performer, which incorporates many new and
exclusive Philips features, is priced at only 13 guineas cash
easy terms. In cabinets of identical design are Model 1949
operated), priced at 19 gns., and Model 1952 for A.C. world
price 17 gns.
or
(battery
wide reception,
IT'S AMAZING! BRILLIANT BEYOND BELIEF!
Everybody's talking about it! Only Philips, the
World's Largest Radio Manufacturers, could have
made "New Listening" possible.
Why not buy a new Philips Radioplayer and give
yourself and your family the thrill of Philips "NEW
LISTENING"? It makes the most of every minute in
every radio programme . . . both from Australian
and Overseas stations.
What technicolor is to motion pictures, Philips "New Listening
is to radio. "New Listening" is the result of a combination of
outstanding new features . . . new circuits ... a new reproduc-
tion system . . . new Highs in
selectivity and sensitivity . . .
new tuning efficiency and
operating ease ... all these,
and more, go io make radio's
greatest achievement.
Remember—Radioplayers are
backed by the biggest name
in radio — PHILIPS. *
3
EASY
TERMS
(Prices slightly higher in W. Aust.)
OBTAINABLE FROM PHILIPS ACCREDITED RETAILERS IN CITIES, SUBURBS & COUNTRY TOWNS
ĸ
FOR BETTER
LIGHTING
Always use
PHILIPS
LAMPS
*
Over 100,000,000
Philips Lamps
have been sold
in Australia.
k
FOR
BETTER
RADIO
Always
use
PHILIPS
VALVES
ķ
The Symbol
of Qualify!
A SELECTION FROM THE
LARGE RANGE OF PHILIPS
"NEW LISTENING" RADIO-
PLAYERS
MODEL 1852: For
World Wide Re-
ception. FIVE
VALVES A.C.
OPERATED.
Price 25 GNS.
Also available in
a cabinet of
similar design
Model 1840, for
battery operation.
Price 28 GNS.
And Model 1868,
for A.C. / D.C.
operation.
28 GNS.
ĸ
MODEL 1754: For
World Wide Re-
ception. FIVE
VALVES BAT-
TERy OPERATED.
Price 35 GNS.
Or Vibrator Op-
erated—4o GNS.
••■vsssr
CHAIRSIDE
MODEL 1362
For World Wide
Reception.
6 VALVES A.C.
OPERATED
Price
33 GNS.
k
MODEL 1052, for World Wide Reception
5 VALVES A.C. OPERATED
ķ
Price
18 GNS.
Also available in
cabinet of simi-
lar design—Model
1044 for Battery
operation.
23 GNS.
or Vibrator oper-
ation 28 GNS.
ĸ
MODEL 2240: For
World Wide Re-
ception. BAT-
TERY OPERATED.
24 GNS.
Or Vibrator oper-
ated 29 GNS.
Also available in
a cabinet of
similar design
Model 2268, for
A.C./D.C. opera-
tion 21 GNS.
If you are in doubt as to the name of your
nearest Philips Accredited Retailer, write
care G.P.0., SYDNEY (Box 2703 C) -
BRISBANE (Box 44SF) MELBOURNE
(Box 4326) ADELAIDE (Box H 1377)
PERTH (Box J 748) HOBART (Box 617 E).
Name :
Address
MAKERS OF LAMPS, VALVES, RADIOPLAYERS, X-RAY AND TRANSMITTING EQUIPMENT, DISCHARGE LAMPS, AMPLIFIERS, CYCLE SETS, ETC., ETC.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
&
am
TRAFALGAR SQUARE.
Of all London’s squares, that named in honour of what is perhaps the greatest and, viewing its results, the most important naval victory
in the Empire’s history is the most notable. It has been described by some enthusiasts as “the finest square in the world.” All do not
subscribe to this opinion. Certainly it is one of the most impressive, and the inclination is to agree with Sir Robert Peel that the
view of the Square presented from the top of the steps of the National Gallery, which occupies the whole of the northern side a
somewhat disappointing structure with its diminutive centre dome —coupled with the vista down Whitehall to Westminster, was “the
finest sight in Europe.” The most conspicuous object in the Square is the Nelson Column, some 177 feet high, erected in 1843. The
granite statue of the great Admiral surmounting it was by Bailey, and the bronze bas-reliefs on the four sides of the base, representing
the “Death of Nelson,” “The Battle of the Nile.” “The Battle of St. Vincent” and “The Battle of Copenhagen,” are by eminent artists.
The statue and these works cost more than £42,000, a considerable sum at that time. The famous four lions at the base were by Sir
Edward Landseer, but not completed until as comparatively recently as 1868. Built on the site of a falconry and royal stables, with
their none-too-savoury surroundings, the Square preserves nothing of its past save that depicted in the upper right of the illustration,
St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields, a somewhat curious topographical designation, present-day surroundings considered, but at the same time
one of the most conspicuous churches in London. In 1222 a church stood on the site, and Henry VIII., owing to the poverty of the
parish, as it then existed, built a small church at his own expense, which, with various alterations, lasted until 1721, when the present
edifice, from plans by James Gibb, rose in its place. Few churches have been more severely criticised from an architectural standpoint.
In the present year it is largely attended and the centre of much social work. The services are highly ornate. The large building to the
right of Nelson’s Column is South Africa House. Here stood Morley’s Hotel, famed in the coaching days, and even to the opening
years of the present century. The west side of the Square, not shown in the picture, is taken up by Canada House and the “home” of the
Royal College of Physicians, the whole forming a continuous and dignified block. Facing the south side of the Square is Cockspur-street
leading to Pall Mall, where are gathered many of the West End oifices of the great passenger steamship companies. Trafalgar Square
has always provided a venue for the citizens to demonstrate on the occasions created by important happenings in the local and
international worlds. In other words, it performs the functions of a sort of safety valve for demonstrators to “let off superfluous steam.”


“KING LANG”—Act III.
“The little dogs and all,
Tray, Blanch and Sweetheart, see, they bark at me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange miist be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.-
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE TROUBLES OF MAORILAND.
Total prohibition of some classes of imports and
partial prohibition of others were among the measures
adopted in the Commonwealth when the Australian
position was bad. Therefore Australians cannot
ieasonably object to Maoriland Labor’s resorting to
them or to its going in for more Protection to increase
production in factories and workshops. Those whose
pockets are affected naturally feel aggrieved, but the
people as a whole will follow with sympathy and
good wishes struggles which so vividly recall their own.
But Maoriland Labor was very slow to realise
that it was drifting into a dreadfully awkward situa-
tion, and the realisation has been marked by the ad-
ministering of shock after shock. The party was
without experience of office when it won the 1935 elec-
tion, and it plunged straightway into a dream world,
a world in which “costless credit,” the forty-hour
week, guaranteed prices, multiplication of jobs in the
Public Works Department and taxes designed to in-
crease general happiness and prosperity dazzled its
eyes.
What if there was a boom in imports? It was
a natural effect of the new era ushered in by Labor;
Tory rule had had such an effect on purchasing power
that bond stores and warehouses were nearly empty.
This tale was told even during the 1938 election cam-
paign, though London funds had fallen from
£40,000,000 to £9,000,000 in three years. The elec-
tion over, the position had to be faced, and now we
find even Mr. Savage saying, in excuse for the change
of tune and policy, that “our overseas accumulation
of credits was disappearing, and it looked as if we
were going to be left in the position of not being
able to pay our way overseas.”
Before he said that, Mr. Savage pointed to in-
creased attendances at racecourses as proofs of
Labor’s diffusion of prosperity. It recalls that when
the Australian depression was at its worst there was
no lack of money for Mr. Lang’s lotteries. The fact
that for 11 months to the end of February withdrawals
from Maoriland’s Post Office Savings Bank exceeded
deposits by £3,644,133 suggests that people were pay-
ing too much attention to the Prime Minister’s much-
advertised dehortation against thrift or expecting too
much of social security. On that subject, Mr. Savage,
like Mr. Casey in Australia, has an unsettled dispute
with the doctors.
Those who are getting more in the pay envelope
for less work are not worrying. Farmers are. The
Farmers’ Union has asked the Government to find
“between £5,000,000 and £7,000,000” to place sheep-
men “on a financial basis.” And Mr. Nash has been
trying to explain to the dairy-farmers why the guaran-
teed price which was to have made them “independent
of the overseas market” is so much less than that
recommended by a Government-appointed committee.
In the course of an eventful week, Mr. Nash
announced a new lot of import prohibitions and re-
strictions —the list runs to over a page of a 23in. by
18in. newspaper—explaining that the necessity had
arisen -because “overimportation of commodities has
depleted sterling funds.” Then he reported that for the
twelvemonth to the end of March the excess of exports
over imports, valued in Maoriland currency, was only
£3,458,000, whereas “a surplus of between £12,000,000
and £15,000,000 is required to meet debt and other
services.” Then he produced a financial surplus of
£BOO,OOO, “arising mainly from additional revenue,
which indicates the prosperous condition of New
Zealand.” Finally he said he was going to London
immediately to see about the renewal of loans amount-
ing to £17,000,000, and to explain all about the pro-
hibitions, restrictions and licenses and “the Govern-
ment’s policy of developing suitable industries within
the Dominion.” Mr. Savage had already intimated
that the Government was going on the local market
for money—presumably a result of Reserve Bank
representations and publication of the Post Office
Savings Bank figures.
Mr. Nash will no doubt be told when he reaches
Britain that his Government has made a mess of his
country’s affairs ; and so it has. All the same he may
fairly ask to be treated with at least as much con-
sideration as Poles, Rumanians and Greeks are now
getting from Britain, and it will have a very bad
effect on Maorijand and Australian opinion if he
doesn’t receive it. In dark days for the Old Man,
while Rumanians and Russians were cracking up and
Greeks were shooting British seamen at the Piraeus
and Turks and Poles were fighting for the Central
Powers, the Maorilanders were staunch —staunch to
the end. Small as the population is even yet, the
war cost them 17,000 soldiers in killed alone —100,000
men went abroad, 40 p.c. of the male population of
military age being provided for foreign service—and
nearly doubled the national debt. If “credits” and
subsidies and what not can be found for dubious
allies, they can be found for Maoriland. And people
in these parts will not listen to the argument that it
is none of the British Government’s business if, while
strangers are coddled, Bull’s valiant and loyal son is
turned away.
All Quiet on the War-scare Front.
Last week British scaremongers and prophets of evil
had to take a back seat. The King and Queen were
going to North America, and it could not be seriously
pretended that their responsible advisers would let
their Majesties go if they thought there would be the
slightest danger of the Empress of Australia or the
Empress of Britain being mined, torpedoed or bombed.
So, on pages previously reserved for alarmists and
propagandists of hate, space had to be found for news
of an event which would have been interesting at any
time, and which circumstances have made highly signi-
ficant and reassuring.
But the happy pilgrimage of King George and
his Queen did not cramp the style of the French
brethren and sistern of the fountain-pen. “Pertinax,”
described as “the well-known diplomatic commen-
tator,” was heard from, as usual. Lecturing and dictat-
ing to the British Empire is part of the duties that
“Pertinax” has imposed upon himself ; and on May 1,
the report says, he drew attention to the Anglo-French
guarantee to Poland, saying “Warsaw will decide the
time at which it applies.” In other words, the issue
of peace or war for the Empire has been left in the
hands of Marshal Smigly-Rydz and his associates. If
the British Government has really got the Empire in
this position, the Governments of the Dominions
should straightway combine to get the Empire out
of it, by making remonstrances which no British Gov-
ernment could ignore. They have given no pledge
to Poland, nor will they send troops to that country
in any circumstances.
Madame Tabouis was also in the picture again.
She wrote something that riled Hitler so much
that, in a May Day speech to the German workers, he
named the lady in an attack on “the international
gutter press, which every day is agitating for war.”
What she said about him was not precisely mentioned
in our Glorious Press, and what he said about her
was not given in full. Reading between the lines, he
blamed her for “the latest lie, that 20,000 Germans
have landed in Morocco,” and for the following:
Herr Hitler is reported to have given Poland a fort-
night in which to accept his proposals relative to Danzig.
It is said that if Poland refuses to negotiate he will take
a stronger line. In the meantime it is reported that he
has demanded a lane, 15 miles in width, across the
Polish Corridor to Danzig.
It bears all the marks and brands of the Tabouis style.
Madame’s scoops and sensations have become the
joke of the Paris cafes, and even the London “Daily
Telegraph,” though its reports of Great Chinese Vic-
tories have themselves the Tabouis touch, has pub-
lished a solemn protest against her being accepted as
an authority on foreign affairs. But Tabouis stuff
is still cabled to Australia, though sometimes, appar-
ently, the name is thoughtfully struck out.
In her book Blackmail or War, La Tabouis
complacently sets down what she learned “when I was
at Prague”—that all the Czechoslovaks, “all of them,
Czech, Slovak, German or Hungarian,” would “take
up arms for the republic.” Italy she “found ready to
take action in the extreme east jointly with Japan.”
But “the defence of British interests in the Far East
could and should be ensured in Spain”—by making
war on Franco. It was unfortunate that there had
been a change in the Foreign Office; “but now that
Mr. Eden is released from office, he, together with
Labor and the Trade Unions, may well gain a speedy
victory for Labor at the new elections in England.”
As for newspaper prophecy, Madame had
it straight from her pet astrologer two years
ago that Italy and Germany would invade Spain
“in Coronation Week” ; and, this year, that Mussolini
would send an ultimatum to France on February 4,
and Hitler would swoop down on Poland and Holland
on April 15. The charming creature may bring it off
some day if she predicts war as certain to happen in
May, June, July, August, September, October, Novem-
ber, December, January, February, March and April,
omitting days of the month. On the other hand,
the dictators might stay their hands just to spite her.
"No!" to the N.G. Claim.
Through all the furious hullaballoo, Germany’s
colonial claims secure insistent publicity. Herr Hitler
was on the subject once more in his Reichstag speech.
Dr. Asmis, the Consul-General for Germany, had got
on to it before departing on a visit to his homeland:
I think that Germany is now satisfied with the
position except in regard to colonies. How that
question is to be settled I do not know, but unless
it is settled there will be no full satisfaction for
Germany.
He repeated what his Fiihrer has several times stated,
that “there will be no war by Germany for colonies.”
A less propitious time for urging claims for the
return of these scattered territories could hardly have
been picked. The answer now would be an emphatic
“No!” And, pending some extraordinary and incred-
ible change, it is hard to see that answer being altered.
When there still appeared to be some chance of
co-operation in the interests of peace among the
countries most concerned, an English publisher in-
vited General Ritter von Epp, as accepted German
spokesman on the matter, to state his country’s case
for the return of the colonies, and printed his reply
along with other documents purporting to explain
Germany to the world.
The German viewpoint on colonies as thus ex-
pressed by the Reich Leader of the Colonial League
is that Germany has a proper legal claim to their
return, apart from moral claims. General von Epp
relies on an explanation of the mandatory system
attributed to Mr. Lansing:
If Germany’s colonial possessions had been divided
among the victors in accordance with the usual method,
and if they had been transferred to them with all the
rights of sovereignty, Germany would have been entitled
to demand that the value of such ceded territories should
be credited to her reparations account. The League,
however, was supposed to distribute the mandates in the
interests of the inhabitants; and the mandates were to
be regarded as obligations, but not as a means for the
acquisition of additional territory. In this way, the
mandatory system deprived Germany of her colonies,
the value of which would have considerably reduced
her indebtedness towards the Allies, whilst the latter
acquired the colonies without losing any claim to com-
pensation.
From that, General von Epp goes on to explain
that, “in order to justify the seizure of the colonies,” it
was asserted that Germany was incapable of admin-
istering colonial possessions: “The Allied and Asso-
ciated Powers are satisfied that the native inhabitants
of the German colonies are strongly opposed to being
again brought under Germany’s sway.” A South
African report on which that finding was partly based
was commented on in 1927 by the South African
Prime Minister, General Hertzog: “The unreliability
and worthlessness of the document in question are
sufficient to condemn it to the same disgraceful
oblivion as all similar documents dating from the time
of the war.” Mr. Amery is quoted to much the same
effect.
On the strength of such backing, General von
Epp avers that the reasons for placing the German
colonies under mandates are untenable. In the
German view, as he explains it, the fact that Ger-
many had to surrender the colonies does not imply
a transfer of sovereignty.
Germany only desires to recover those overseas
territories to which she has a legal title. It is evident
that her claim is directed in the first instance against
Great Britain, whose Government was chiefly instru-
mental in depriving her of their possession. In addition,
most of the colonies are now administered by countries
that are constituent parts of the British Empire.
Once Germany has regained her proper share in the
opening-up of overseas territories, her economic system
will function normally again and—above all—a valuable
contribution will have been rendered to the recovery of
international trade. Such a solution will provide the
basis for the peaceful co-operation of the white nations
and will initiate a lasting epoch of quiet development.
Whatever may be thought elsewhere of these
claims —and these assurances —in Germany, according
to General von Epp, a forecast by President Wilson
is accepted as established history:
The world will say that the Powers first of all divided
among themselves the defenceless parts of the globe
and then proceeded to create a League of Nations.
The naked truth is that every one of these parts has
been allotted to a big Power. I wish to say quite
openly that the world will never tolerate such a pro-
ceeding. It will make the League impossible, and we
shall have to resort to competitive armaments, huge
accumulations of debt and large armies.
The small trade Germany formerly did with the
colonies it held has been advanced as a counter to
Germany’s claim to their return on economic grounds.
General von Epp argues that pre-war circum-
stances have no bearing on those now prevailing, in
which the raw materials and foodstuffs that could be
drawn from the former colonies are essential to Ger-
many’s existence. .
In the pre-war days, when no obstacles were placed in
the way of any country’s foreign trade, Germany was
not actually dependent upon the produce of her own
colonies. Besides, she was a large creditor country;
she had invested huge sums in all parts of the globe,
and she could buy all the necessary raw materials with-
out endangering her currency.
Before he is through, General von Epp is insist-
ing that there can never be a settled Germany —
which would mean there could never be a clear
security of world peace —until this colonies problem
is finally solved.
So much for the German side. But the fact
that “pre-war circumstances have no bearing
on those now prevailing” provides also the most
decisive argument for not returning to the pre-war
distribution of colonies, however else Germany may
be given “full satisfaction.”
The Marshall Islands became German in 1885,
the Carolines and the Mariannes in 1899. Japan has
them now. With Germany apparently waiving all
claim to the mandates over these groups, there can
be no discussion about New Guinea. The allotment
of Pacific mandates altered “pre-war circumstances”
very considerably, bringing Japan the best part of
2000 miles south in one leap. From Palau come the
fishing boats and mother-ships that operate off the
Australian coast, there is a ’plane service from Japan
to the islands, and they are natural bases for aircraft.
The Germans, as a military people, can be under no
illusions on a point of this kind. Possession of New
Guinea is now strategically vital to Australia.
The air-threat has become a factor as important
as, if not more important than, naval dominance for-
merly was. It is the most potent force driving Britain
along the present hazardous line of foreign policy.
There is every sign that this is a policy enforced- by
popular opinion. Nothing has contributed to forming
that opinion more strongly than the conviction that
Britain, because of the air-threat, is now vulnerable
as it had not been for hundreds of years. That this is
as true as public opinion unquestionably accepts can
only be proved in war, but in the meantime the opinion
stands, set hard as concrete. Any suggestion or
increasing that threat by agreeing to the spreading ot
it to most vital strategical points throughout the
Empire must sound like an invitation to national
suicide.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Shocks for Reds and Leaguers.
Reds and Pinks and their queer newspaper allies,
“Tories” for many years, suffered two fearful shocks
last week. One was the very sudden retirement of
Maxim Litvinov from the Moscow counterpart of the
Foreign Office. There is no suggestion as yet that
the exit had the familiar sequel, a bullet in the back
of the neck, but it set the newspaper gentlemen mourn-
ing for their Russian alliance. Reds and Pinks will
be obliged to exclude Mr. Litvinov from their pane-
gyrics on the Mighty Soviet Republic, as in other
days they had to exclude Trotsky, Zinoviev, Radek,
Tukhachevsky and numerous others, abruptly trans-
formed from Heroes of the Revolution into Fascist
spies, traitors and wreckers, and it may necessitate a
first-class sacrifice of printed puffs. In these matters,
Stalin has no consideration for remote propagandists.
The other shock came when the Federal Labor
Conference ditched collective security, the “policy” of
the A.C.T.U., the Sydney Labor Council, its Adel-
aide congener and the Heffron Labor “party.” A
thinly disguised plan for tying this Commonwealth
to the U.S.S.R. in foreign affairs, it was condemned
by Mr. Curtin, Mr. Forgan Smith and the repre-
sentatives of Victoria, one of whom, Mr. Calwell,
M.L.A., said it was “advocated by Tories and Com-
munists.” This is true, though it is also advocated
by League cranks and honest mugs.
“The Labor party,” Mr. Curtin said, “does not
desire to be embroiled in wars in other parts of the
world. I see no reason why the people of Australia
should involve themselves in an arrangement to alter
the system of government in Russia, Czechoslovakia
or Poland.” “If we agree to collective security,” Mr.
Forgan Smith said, “we might be drawn into pacts
the full implications of which we do not understand.”
“We are not isolationists,” the Queensland Pre-
mier said, and the Federal Labor leader also rejected
isolation for Australia.
Then the conference “unanimously” adopted a
declaration which is to be added to the defence policy
of the party and to be binding on all its members.
Preamble and criticism of opponents omitted, it reads:
We stand for the maintenance of Australia as an
integral part of the British Commonwealth of Nations. .
We stand for a policy of complete national and
economic security.
We will defend all our people in all the States
against aggression from any source.
To accomplish this it will be necessary to organise the
resources of Australia on the basis of equality of sacrifice.
We reject conscription of human life....We main-
tain that Australia will adequately play its part in
Imperial defence by the maintenance of the inviolability
of Australia.
We desire peace among the nations, and our
foreign policy will be conducted with this end in view.
It is satisfactory on some points. The second-last
paragraph, Mr. Curtin explained, does not mean that
“Australians would not go to the aid of New Zealand
or New Guinea.” But for purposes of defence New
Guinea is Australia, and the implied promise of
assistance to Maoriland is valueless unless the youth
of the nation is thoroughly trained and equipped for
service.
Universal training and universal liability to ser-
vice are accepted by the people of truly democratic
States like Sweden, Finland, Norway and Switzerland.
They were accepted by the Labor party for 20 years.
The Tasmanian delegates to the A.L.P. conference
had compulsory training for home defence on the
business paper. They were rebuffed, and two of
their speakers were laughed at. Their opponents
would deserve to be laughed at, if it were a laughing
mattert
A.i.C. Hate Propaganda.
Mr. Menzies aims at cultivating friendly relations
with the peoples of the Pacific. The speech in which
his intentions and proposals were announced had an
excellent reception in Australia, and cordial responses
came from the representatives of China and Japan.
The Labor delegates at Canberra followed with the
assurance that “we desire peace among the nations,
and our foreign policy will be conducted with this
end in view.” From Asia and Europe came reports
that Japan was moving away from the Axis, and the
farther away it moves the better for Australia.
It might have been thought that A.B.C. would
second the efforts of the Prime Minister. Not a bit
of it; one of its national or irrational stations chose
on Thursday night to launch a virulent attack on
Japan in the form of a letter from Asia written by one
Stein or some such name and read at a microphone.
The attack was based on the Japanese occupation of
the Spratley islands or coral specks, of which, until
they were mentioned in the papers a few weeks ago,
99.9 p.c. of Australians had never heard.
A.B.C.’s protege alleged that Japanese occupation
constituted a deadly threat to North Borneo, Singa-
pore, Hong Kong, Indo-China, Siam, the Philippines
and the Dutch East Indies. He suggested that it
would be followed by the seizure of Dutch islands,
and that it was part of a southward push, one of the
consequences of which would be the extorting of con-
cessions from Australia —though Australia wasn’t
specifically mentioned.
It is all stuff and nonsense. If the Spratley
islands were of any military value they would have
been British long ago. There is no abler or better-
informed organisation in the world than the organisa-
tion controlled by the Admiralty, and Kipling’s lines,
written 50 years ago, express what has been Admir-
alty policy in the Pacific for at least 150 years:
Never was isle so little, never was isle so lone,
But over the scud and the palm-trees the English flag
has flown.
If scraps of sand and coral reef have been left for
other countries by the Royal Navy it is because they
were not worth taking or holding.
Mr. Menzies will have to do something about
these “national” stations. Naturally he would rather
not interfere with them, but he can’t let them inter-
fere impudently and ignorantly with national policy.
Nor in justice to the country can he tolerate the hate
propaganda and scaremongering for which these sta-
tions have become notorious. Their finances also
call for attention. They have grandiose plans for
buildings and publications which are certainly not
needed. They and the post office are still permitted
to charge the listener £1 Is. for an annual license. It
is far too much for the service rendered.
R.A.A.F. Accidents and Press Hysteria.
Rapid increase in machine strength and personnel
has meant many more accidents in the R.A.F., and
the R.A.A.F. has had its tragedies too. Within 12
months 15 R.A.A.F. men, all young Australians of
the finest type, have been killed in Avro-Ansons.
The Avro-Anson is a two-engined amphibian recon-
naissance bomber; according to Defence Minister
Street, 40 have been borrowed from the R.A.F.
On April 28, one of these machines was return-
ing to Richmond (N.S.W.) aerodrome from a navi-
gation course. When over the Riverstone district it
nose-dived, tore off the tops of trees, came to earth
and exploded. In it were Officers Harness and Hick-
son and Aircraftsmen Knight and Clarke. All were
killed outright. Knight, the oldest of the crew (he
was 31), had a wife and four children ; Clarke, a wife
and two children.
On May 2, two Avro-Ansons left Laverton (Vic.)
for formation and wireless exercises. In a dense fog
one crashed into Hobson’s Bay. It, was manned by
Pilot-Officer Davis, Corporal Peake and Aircrafts-
man Quinn, and all three lost their lives.
There are to be public inquiries, with a Judge
or a magistrate presiding, and the establishment of
an Air Court, on the lines of Courts of Marine
Inquiry, is proposed by the Prime Minister. This is
good, and it is to be hoped that the inquiries will
remove doubts which have naturally been engendered
in the public mind.
After the crash near Riverstone, a “Daily Tele-
graph” photographer tried to take pictures of the
wrecked ’plane. R.A.A.F. men who were guarding it
objected, and he was sent off the ground. Returning,
and taking a snap, he struck instant trouble ; man
and camera were grabbed, and exit photographer
again.
“Cowardly Assault,” shrieked the “D.T.” over
three columns next morning. “Four Air Force men
yesterday bashed a ‘Daily Telegraph’ reporter ; the
photographer was viciously assaulted by five Air
Force men.” And a “Herald” photographer, quoted,
saw “his nose bleeding freely.” Technically the vic-
tim was within his rights and the R.A.A.F. men were
wrong. But the Minister has suggested that “the
incident could have been avoided by the photographer
exercising more tact in dealing with men who were
naturally under an unusual strain while guarding the
wreckage of an aircraft in which four of their com-
rades had just lost their lives.” In any case, the
woes of a photographer who has had his nose pulled
are trivial compared with the death of seven splendid
young Australians and the loss of two of our all-
too-few defence ’planes, though newspapers and poli-
ticians raved about the lesser affair.
Exit Litvinov; Enter Molotov.
“E.V.”: Litvinov’s “resignation” may have come as
a surprise to the European press, but the signs were
there for everybody to read. At the March Con-
gress of the Communist party, Stalin himself under-
took the exposition of foreign affairs, supported by
a few remarks from Molotov and Voroshilov ; and
when a commission was appointed to consider the
reframing of the Communist party programme its
27 members embraced every member of the party’s
executive organs and every senior commissar in the
U.S.S.R. Ministry—except Litvinov.
As for policy, about which the world’s press is
speculating, that was stated in detail both by Stalin
and Molotov. Molotov’s idea is to “begin all along
the line an economic contest with capital, with the
most economically-developed capitalist countries of
Europe and the U.S.A.” He does not “intend to re-
nounce” the right “to co-operate with bourgeois coun-
tries” when the U.S.S.R. thinks it expedient, and “will
strive to extend the co-operation with our neighbors
and with all other States as much as possible. But,”
he adds, “we go our way and capitalism its way.”
The Big Four in Russia are Stalin, Molotov,
Voroshilov and Zhdanov. The transfer of the
Foreign Office job to Molotov means, firstly, that the
Foreign Secretaryship has ceased to be a junior posi-
tion and, secondly, that an anti-German Jew has
been replaced by a man who has had continuous
relations with Germany in the exchange of goods and
raw materials. It means also that Hitler has Stalin
and Molotov scared stiff.
Campaigning with Joe.
“Yamourtah Beg” again:
Prophets have been a little scarce lately in the Russian
Communist world; and a good job, too. It has given my
pocket time to recuperate. Each wave of prophecy has been
guaranteed by the Kremlin as pure gold. Hence I have
bought over 500 pamphlets by Zins, Bukhs and Kams who, as
a Leningrad poet elegantly says, have become “ordure beneath
the workers’ bootsoles”; and I daren’t even show them to
fellow-workers, much less try to sell them. I’ve parked them
in the fowlhouse, and dusted the shelves which await, empty,
the next crop of revelations. . ,
New oracles have been quiet since the last lot were
stonkered, although the approach of one has been heralded
lately by sounds emanating from Communist platforms as
if every spruiker in the place had tonsilitis. These noises
represent gallant attempts to pronounce the name of Comrade
Dmitrov. Somehow, though he is head of the Comintern
and knows what Hitler will be doing in 1942, I don t think
Comrade D. will be permanent enough to justify my paying
from 3d to 12s. 6d. for his works, though one poor basic-
wage plug l know is paying the latter figure on hire purchase.
The Comrade has a jumpy literary style as if he were
housed next to the firing squad in the Lubianka Prison block
and had an Ogpu corporal for a batman. A knowledgeable
fellow, but somebody might find out that he is selling the
plans of the latest Russian cruisers, those cruisers which
Orlando, Ansaldo and Adriatico are designing for the Workers’
Fatherland, to the Italians. Then bang goes another of my
libraries.
No, Honest Joe Stalin is my man. Comrade Stalin—
Joe —there’s a democrat! I’m not prepared to say definitely
that he is enduring stuff. The back of his neck is too wide —
a temptation to any patriotic copper; but a clear, logical
thinker and kindhearted; so gentle that his works should be
in every Australian kindergarten.
Read Joe Stalin’s epoch-making speech at the 18th Con-
gress of the Russian Communist Party, of which he is general
secretary, running 11 republics by virtue of his office. Joe
records that at the 17th Congress it was discovered that the
Communist party strength had reached 1,874,000, through an
influx of 600,000 members culled from the 168,000,000
Russians who were not party members, but—one would have
thought—sound in heart and all democrats.
As Joe remarked, “the party could not but feel that in
the conditions such a mass influx was unhealthy and undesir-
able.” So Joe had a purge. He is modest about it. He
admits in his speech that his technique is not perfect:
“It cannot be said,” Joe said, “that the purge was un-
accompanied by grave mistakes. There were, unfortunately,
more mistakes than might have been expected. Undoubtedly,
we shall have no further need for resorting to the method
of mass purges. Nevertheless, the purge of 1933-36 was
unavoidable and its results, on the whole, were beneficial.”
Unfortunately for Joe’s grave mistakes, they were con-
signed to graves.
“The number of party members represented at this
Eighteenth Congress,” Joe proceeded, “is about 1,600,000,
which is 270,000 fewer than....at the Seventeenth Congress.
But there is nothing bad in that. It is all to the good, for the
party strengthens itself by clearing its ranks of dross. Our
party is now somewhat smaller in membership, but on the
other hand it is better in quality. That is a big achievement.”
There’s tender-hearted democracy for you. But Joe is not
merely tender-hearted and democratic —he’s an Old Cam-
paigner.
“Certain foreign pressmen,” Joe went on, “have been
talking drivel to the effect that purging the Soviet organisa-
tions of spies, assassins and wreckers like Trotsky, Zinoviev,
Kamenev, Yakir, Tukhachevsky, Rosengoltz, Bukharin and
other fiends has shaken the Soviet system. One can only
laugh at such cheap drivel... .Who needs this venal band of
slaves? Of what value can they be to the people, and whom
can they ‘demoralise’? In 1937, Tukhachevsky, Yakir, Übore-
vich and other fiends were sentenced to be shot. After that
the elections to the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. were held.
In these elections 98.6 per cent, of the total vote was cast for
Soviet power. At the beginning of 1938, Rosengoltz, Rykov,
Bukharin and other fiends were sentenced to be shot. After
that the elections to the Supreme Soviet of the Union
Republic were held. In these elections 99.4 per cent, of the
total vote was cast for Soviet power. Where are the symptoms
of ‘demoralisation’ we would like to know, and why was this
‘demoralisation’ not reflected in the results of the elections?”
Well, you can search me, but I’ll offer a prize of 500
works of Zinoviev and friends as a prize to anybody who can
explain.
Crimes of Mental Children.
In three recent murder trials in N. S. Wales the
locality of the crime was a sparsely-populated country
district, the sex element entered more or less into
motive, and the accused person or persons were
described as feeble-minded or subnormal in intelli-
gence.
At Taree Harold Smith and Matilda Edwards,
according to the jury’s verdict, poisoned the woman’s
husband, William Edwards. The male accused, ac-
cording to medical testimony, had the mentality of
a child of nine or ten.
At Woolbrook, in the Armidale district, a few
weeks later, Fabian Fogarty, a station hand, shot
dead a girl of 15 and her married sister, aged 24.
Fogarty also, according to a medico who examined
him, had the mentality of a child of ten ; there was
other evidence that he was feeble-minded and that
people had “picked on him.” At Hillcrest, near Ten-
terfield, another station hand, John Kelly, slew 35-year-
old Constance Sommerlad with an axe, and with the
same weapon nearly killed her brother. Defence was
a plea of insanity. The accused, it was admitted, had
a record, and his mother was in a mental hospital.
That persons “not all there” occur in almost
every community is unfortunately only too true. They
crop up in schools, on farms and even in factories,
and are the favorite victims of practical jokers.
Usually they are harmless and remain harmless, but
as recent experiences show a deficient mental balance
may be overturned if a sufficiently strong influence
is applied.
One such influence is drink. There was evidence
of it in the case of the degenerate Green, hanged for
the murder of two defenceless women, an aunt and
her niece, in Victoria, and in the case of Miss Som-
merlad’s slayer. Another is the commercialisation of
sex, particularly in cinema theatres, magazines and
newspapers. Journalism used to leave photographic
pornography to undesirables, but nowadays news-
paper pictures of nearly-naked brats, the bolder the
better, hit the subnormal person in the eye whenever
he buys a paper.
Labor Dailies for Maoriland.
Though it controls broadcasting, the Labor party in
Maoriland is campaigning vigorously for funds to
start first one city daily and then a chain of them.
The reason is that present dailies are nearly all hos-
tile, but the need for party newspapers to counter
them would be more obvious if Labor hadn’t won
the last two elections without any dailies of its own.
It can scarcely complain of the space it gets from
opposition newspapers. Certainly, there has been
a lot of unfair criticism. Before the first Labor vic-
tory dailies pretended to take literally a Labor can-
didate’s metaphor that Labor “had its guns ready.”
Mr. Semple was taken literally when he said he’d like
to see the “bankers” in dungarees. And a daily
warned the electors that their vote last November
might be “the last free vote they would ever get.”
But Labor has had ample proof that people don’t
take any notice of that sort of nonsense. It is mak-
ing the two false assumptions that electors don’t recog-
nise unfair reporting and that they habitually read
leading articles.
Lack of a Labor daily has not prevented West-
ralian Labor winning election after election. Adelaide,
Hobart, Sydney and Brisbane had Labor dailies that
are dead. The public buys newspapers for infor-
mation and entertainment, not for their politics.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Cauboy”: Probably the dapperest
conductor ever seen in Melbourne is
Malcolm Sargent, shortly returning under
A.B.C. auspices to direct a series of con-
certs. His antithesis was the late Alberto
Zelman, affectionately remembered in
Melbourne for his unusual habits but no
whit inferior as a musician. On one occa-
sion Zelman was conducting a rehearsal,
and a temerarious trombone-player re-
marked: “I can tell you what you have
had for breakfast, Mr. Zelman.” “Vot?”
innocently inquired Alberto. “Eggs,” said
the orchestrion. Zelman looked as
amazed as if he had met a magician.
“How do you know that, mine vriend?”
“You’ve got some on your beard.”
“You’re wrong,” retorted the conductor
triumphantly ; “that was from breakfast
two —free days ago.”
* * * *
“Mako”: The commotion over the dis-
plays of German flags in Sydney and
Brisbane must have surprised people in the
Taranaki port of New Plymouth (M.L.),
which recently received a visit from the
largest sailing ship afloat, the German
barque Kommodore Johnsen. On a Sun-
day evening the cadets from the barque
went ashore and gave a concert to the
townspeople, whose chief attitude seems
to have been one of friendly interest. At
the end the British National Anthem was
sung, and after that the German boys,
with arms raised in the Nazi salute, sang
“Deutschland Über Alles” and the “Horst
Wessel” song. The British audience stood
during the two last items and didn’t
seem to Ihink its loyalty strained by
the rules of courtesy between nations.
* * * *
“Marija”: I must be the mug ; the
cobber knows all about things of
this sort and I don’t. But I’m darned
if I can see where I slipped. A motor
mechanic, he told me he could get me a
car for eight quid, “and,” he said, “it’ll
go.” I told him to go ahead. He did;
then a couple of days later he showed
me a pushbike he’d bought himself for
13 pounds! I’ve just taken the self-
propelling vehicle 1500 miles through
north-western N.S.W. over the disguised
quarries which pass for roads in those
parts. In repairs I’ve paid out three
pounds, including the cost of a new tyre.
My cobber’s learning, after much painful
practice, how to push his bike uphill
without getting off.
“Jachris”: The restaurant business in
N.S.W. country towns is mostly Greek.
North or west or south there’s scarcely
a township, no matter how small, with-
out at least one Greek joint. And it must
be allowed that Demetrius and Achilles
do the job well. Their places are always
clean-looking; usually the most up-to-
date in the town. They’re all built to
the same pattern the city milk-bar.
They’re all furnished alike —refrigerator,
glass showcase, wireless, small tables and
little cubicles that look like loose-boxes.
The food never varies, the price rarely ;
steak and tomatoes (always with shredded
lettuce) or eggs or baked beans on toast,
two bob. The Greek’s is the first place to
open in the morning, the last to close at
night. You can get a meal there before
the pub puts on breakfast —at eight
o’clock —and after the pub’s closed. Pos-
sibly that’s how they squeeze out the
native-born.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Fishermen’s Bend,
Melbourne, is likely to have the first
community bombproof shelters in Aus-
“An' I couldn't’ve treated ’im better if 'e'd been a prize pig!”
tralia. With an eye to possible happen-
ings, architects submitting plans for the
new suburb to be built there by the Slum
Abolition Commission have included
shelters in the designs and in their esti-
mates. Since Fishermen’s Bend lies at
the mouth of the Yarra, and in the last
decade has been converted almost
miraculously from a swampy sandfi-t in-
habited by herons, seagulls and deadbeats
into an industrial district, plus model
suburb, with the works of General
Motors, the Commonwealth Aircraft fac-
tory and a host of other big concerns
scattered about it, there is some wisdom
in their action.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A South Australian M.L.A.
is experiencing the hazards of the Law.
His creditors accepted a composition in
January, and thereafter his Parliamentary
£4OO a year was withheld, on the sug-
gestion that he was an insolvent debtor,
and thus had legally forfeited his seat.
He denied both ideas, and sued the Clerk
of Parliament in the Supreme Court.
Three Judges had to decide whether the
Court has any power to settle the point
of a Parliamentary seat being vacant;
also whether the plaintiff is an insolvent
debtor or not. One Judge says it has ;
and he isn’t. Another Judge says it
hasn’t; but probably he is. The third
agreed that it hasn’t —Which settles that;
and so the other point doesn’t at the
moment arise. Parliament itself will have
to decide the whole matter, and obviously
has room for a diversity of opinion.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The pyjama girl not
having had any for at least a
couple of weeks, the N. S. Wales police
have thought up a new stunt. Some
weeks ago they searched the N.S.W. dis-
trict where the body was found ’way back
in 1934, and fished up some feminine
wearing apparel out of a drain or some-
where. They have now had the gar-
ments reproduced and draped on a wax
dummy, a “moving picture” of which
will be prepared for exhibition in cinema
theatres “throughout the world.” By
these means it is hoped to discover the
identity of the lady. The effort is not
likely to be any more successful than the
other well-publicised stunts with which
the lengthy record of the case has been
studded, but even if it does—what then?
Establishment of identity isn’t any guar-
antee of an arrest. Almost all the vic-
tims of the tall pile of unsolved murder
mysteries that have occurred in the State
since the p.g. was done in have been
promptly identified, but the murderers
are still at large. The boatbuilder
Holmes, to mention another old case,
was not only as well known as the town
clock, but had been the subject of at
least one previous and very determined
attempt to assassinate him before his
enemy succeeded. Yet the police could
discover no clue.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: How many firefighters during
last summer’s conflagrations in Victoria
knew that they were probably better in-
sured than they are when they are going
about their usual avocations? The acci-
dent fund of the Vic. Bush Fire Brigades
Association covers all injuries sustained,
not only by brigade members, but any-
body who helps them. As the brigades
are registered, no registration is neces-
sary in the case of voluntary fighters.
The fund is also empowered to make
grants in deserving cases. Few volun-
teers submitted claims, possibly because
they didn’t know of the fund or, more
probably, because they wouldn’t bother.
But the fund is there, and it is probably
unique.
* * * *
“Atrax”: During a Sunday-morning
stroll, a M.L. visitor who is some-
thing of an authority on the Maori lan-
guage stopped to read with amused
interest the name above a neighbor’s
door. “On the wrong building,” he an-
nounced, giving a brief translation of its
primitive sanitary import. No, I won’t
say what the Maori word was, but it was
much sweeter than its translation. The
Maori lingo, as the missionaries who first
studied it found to their horror, simply
reeks with obscenities. But just as bad
breaks are made at times with abo. house-
names. Myonga sounds quaite naice, but
it really means a wife who has been
carrying on with a boy friend. Yweagie
is attractive, but merely announces that it
is a rotten sort of place. Moonbooie—
I know two about Brisbane —is even
more frankly sanitary than the Maori
name. And as for—well, I’d better shut
up before the police seize this issue as
another Redheap effort to debauch public
morality.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The endeavors to make
Anzac Day a day of solemn remem-
brance in Victoria have resulted in
chaotic conditions. You could not buy
petrol or a drink in Melbourne on the
last anniversary, but you could play golf
—most of the courses were in full opera-
tion. You could not look at a picture
at the National Gallery, but you could
look at a talkie from Hollywood, though
only in three out of the dozen city
theatres. At the Athenreum it was illegal
to take a book out of the lending library
but legal to buy a ticket for the cinema
which is situated in the same building.
After the procession the city was full of
wandering Diggers and people who had
come to see the march, and they did not
look solemn ; they looked bored.
He * * *
“Oran”: When the clerk-of-all-work
at a country-town store became engaged
to a local damsel he decided to pay a
deposit on a cottage and camp there while
he furnished the place on the instalment
plan. But before he had things quite
ready the lady went off to Sydney for
a holiday, met someone she liked better,
and after a hasty wedding departed to
live in Melbourne. After a few months her
conscience evidently began to trouble her,
and she wrote a letter to her jilted suitor,
saying she hoped he would not blame her
too much and would think kindly of her
sometimes. The letter she received in
reply was quite amiable, and on the first
page informed her that she was regularly
in the thoughts of her one-time swain.
Then she turned over and read: “On
the first of every month I think of you
without fail, as then the time-payment
man calls for the instalment on the fur-
niture. On the sixth you are before me
again, as then the piano agent comes
along. The houseowner’s day is the
seventeenth and the plumber’s the twenty-
first. After that my memories are at rest
until the first comes round once more.”
The lady didn’t write again.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Harry Price, secretary
of the London University Council for
Psychical Research, produces his leading
case: —•
Out of a bundle of letters I selected at
random one that had been sent to me that
morning by Dr. R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S., the
distinguished entomologist to the Austra-
lian Government. I handed it to Mile.
Laplace, who did not open it No writing
• was visible... .Mile. Laplace reeled off in
quick succession 53 “impressions” produced
by contact with the paper... .They were
taken down in shorthand verbatim
Altogether 40 of them proved correct or
reasonably correct. One was that the
owner of the letter “has not a long life to
live.” Dr. Tillyard was then 47| years
old. Another twice repeated was that “he
would die through a railroad or automo-
bile accident; wheels or rails are bad for
him.” The verbatim report was published
in the American S.P.R. Journal for Sep-
tember, 1928 Tillyard laughed over the
dire fate in store for him.
On January 13, 1937, Tillyard was killed
in a skidding car. He had been in two
motor accidents previously, one in M.L-
and one in U.S.A., and was once seri-
ously hurt in a railway smash. Mr. Price
asks how the lady sensed the danger ot
wheels. You can search me. Perhaps
she didn’t. A rough guess sometimes hits
the mark.
GLANDING.
“Five thousand, English doctors are administering
gland treatment to cricketers, tennis-players and
other athletes.”— Cable.
Do you yearn to excel at your favorite game,
10 shatter antagonists’ wickets,
Or earn for your prowess resounding acclaim
By wallops that rattle the pickets?
Would you sprint through opponents where
Rugger is played,
Eluding each possible blocker,
Or fittingly finish a hot barricade
By shooting a beauty at Soccer?
Strength, fleetness and skill will all count, we’ll
agree,
But now something more is demanded:
To gain (and to stay at) the top of the tree
It’s a sine qua non to be glanded.
Ts your golf, something tells you, less markedly
good
And seldom as sure as it’s been
When you whizzed down the fairway long drives
with the wood
Or sank cunning putts on the green?
Are you losing’'at tennis a bit of the dash,
The ginger, the pep and the pace
Wherewith you achieved the tempestuous smash
Or served the invincible ace?
Just keep up your pecker! New heights you
may climb,
Fresh trophies you yet may be handed,
If only you tackle your symptoms in time
And go to your quack to be glanded.
Jim Jeffries, white hope among bruisers, for
lack
Of his vanishing vim and his vigor,
Regretfully owned that he “couldn’t come back”
When matched with Jack Johnson, the nigger.
But science advances, it can’t be gainsaid;
No need to feel feeble and funky
Now you know of the super-restorative aid
A human can get from a monkey.
Are you booked for a match or engaged for a
race,
Or a contest where buffets are bandied?
For a dead-sure specific to hearten and brace,
Buzz off to your doc. and be glanded!
You lads who are bent on a strenuous hike
By tracks that are muddy or flinty,
You players of—well, any game that you like
From hockey and croquet to shinty,
And even you ageing and amiable souls
Who work up a zest for your victuals
By bending your bodies in battles at bowls
Or showing your mettle at skittles,
Do you crave for more freedom in bellows
and limb,
For muscles and sinews expanded?
Then off to the surgery—not to the gym.—
It’s an easier job to be glanded.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colbun”: A magician interested in
defence offers to reveal a method of mak-
ing sentries,outposts and machine-gunners
invisible, and munition plants almost in-
visible. It is an attractive proposition so
far as it goes, but a really high-grade
wizard must have something better than
that up his sleeve. The Treasurer is the
right person to approach. Any reason-
ably good amateur can grab tanners, bobs
or even half-dollars from the air when-
ever he likes. An expert should be able
to run it up to £lOO notes at least, which
at one a minute would yield a gross
return of £48,000 for an eight-hour day,
or £264,000 in a 44-hour week. After
deducting overhead, ullage, refreshers,
tret, tare and plain pinching, the monthly
return per necromancer should touch
at least a million quid. It may
seem mere chicken-feed to a Treasurer,
but even a small team of them would
cheer up the taxpayer quite a lot.
* * *
“Hacksaw”: Melbourne’s refugee
colony is growing, and, as is the usual
case with dispersed and distressed minori-
ties, they tend to cluster together. There
is a cafe in Collins-street which, as far
as its patrons went a few months ago,
was like any other in the metropolis.
Now it is full of waving hands and shrug-
ging shoulders, and confusion of tongues
has descended on it. Architects without
commissions, doctors without practices,
young men waiting for something, to turn
up and damsels who might have come out
of the Old Testament occupy the tables.
The accounts they give of their misfortunes
are so alike that they recall the atrocity
yarns of the Great War, but here is an
exception. Family had lived in Mann-
heim for untold generations and had
never thought of itself as anything but
German. Wife’s ancestors had settled in
the town in the thirteenth century ; hus-
band’s had come from Spain in the
seventeenth. They were declared un-
German, escaped a concentration camp
by a whisker, and came to Australia. But
this isn’t the end of the story. Their
youngest child was sent to a Victorian
school, and, heaving a happy sigh, the
parents sat back to enjoy their freedom
“I think I've found that annoying rattle, sir.”
in this land of easy tolerance. Then came
the Sudeten crisis, and one day the boy
arrived home crying. He had been nick-
named “Hitler” because of his German
accent, and he believed a fresh era of
persecution had started.
“D.E.”: Stonebroke refugees, is it?
A group from Central Europe has bought
a block of flats in King’s Cross, Sydney,
for £66,000 cash.
“Spokeshave”: Anti-Semitism isn’t
very deeply rooted in the Australian char-
acter. I was, watching ttie Anzac pro-
cession in Melbourne, when an officer
on a charger passed. “That’s General
X,” a voice shouted. “He was called
the Iron Duke because he was so damned
hard!” Startled faces turned in the
speaker’s direction. He was a little Jew
who with beaming face was standing on
tiptoe trying to get a view of the pro-
cession. If it had been Unter den Linden
instead of Swanston-street I suppose the
Hebrew would not have been able to get
out his next remark: “I served under
him in France ; a good soldier.”
s[c # H 5
“Oxmead”: “Ologist” may be right
about “Menzies’s” being the academically
correct possessive of our new Prime Min-
ister’s name (B. 3/5/’39); still, I never
heard any Melburnian make three
syllables out of the city hotel which was
presumably founded by some gent, with
the same Scottish patronymic. Another
of the clan has furnished a W.A. gold-
fields touch with a name, but it is the
bare Menzies. However, in that case, the
abbreviation may be justified, for some
accounts give the old prospector’s name
as Menzie. Westralian nomenclature was
always a bit arbitrary in these matters.
For instance, Hannan’s Find became
Hannans, with the apostrophe dropped,
until the allegedly native name of Kal-
goorlie was reckoned better worth preser-
vation ; Lawler’s Find (or Rush) is still
Lawlers, and so on. On the same analogy
Cue's Find (or Rush or Patch) should
have settled down into Cues, but it didn’t,
possibly because the pioneers had a sense
of euphony. The economy in letters
caused a London paper to announce
years later that the field had been found
by a billiard-marker.
* * * *
“Mudhook”: Here’s a fable. A young
man who couldn’t read or write, never
having been to school, was on the track.
Reaching a country town, he was met
by an old mate who thought he could
get him a job with the Town Council.
Everything went well, and a job as a
dustman looked a certainty until the
Clerk said, “Sign this application form.”
The young fellow couldn’t, so he didn’t
get the job. So he went prospecting. A
month later he was sitting in a bank
manager’s office paying in £2OlB 10s. 6d.
After a little desultory conversation the
manager pushed the signature book over
to him. “Just sign your full name
there.” “Sorry, but I can’t write.”
“What a pity,” said the manager. “Worth
£2OOO at your age and can’t write! What
would you have been if you had had a
good education?” And the young man
replied, with deep sincerity, “A dust-
man.”
¥ ❖ #
“Blurt”: The Empress of Australia,
which carried the King and Queen to
“I wouldn't walk round in me bare feet, missus, in case there's a few nails kickin' about"
Canada, has had a cosmopolitan career.
Laid down in 1914 at the Vulkan Works,
Stettin, under the name Tirpitz, the ship
was intended to serve as an imperial
saluting base for Kaiser Bill’s Victory
Review. Instead came Scapa Flow. The
Tirpitz passed into British ownership,
and under the C.P.R. houseflag, first as
Empress of China, this 21,000-tonner has
been used on holiday cruises for the last
six or eight years. I drank beer with a
couple of her engineers at Stockholm one
warm July afternoon. Latest title is as
ridiculous as the second one. There
hasn’t been an Empress of China for
donkey’s years, and Queen Elizabeth is
Empress of India, not of Australia.
* * * *
“El V.”: I haven’t the remotest idea
who will be the next U.S. President,
but I won’t be a candidate. I
want to live a little longer, and if
the invariable sequence over a century
old is followed the next term will not
be healthy for the occupant. Every
fourth election since that of President
Taylor (1849-50) has inducted an incum-
bent who has died in office ; ditto every
election held since 1840, at 20-year inter-
vals —W. H. Harrison, elected 1840, died
1841 ; Lincoln, elected 1860, died 1865 ;
James Garfield, elected 1880, died 1881 ;
McKinley, elected 1900, died 1901 ; Hard-
ing, elected 1920, died 1923. Seems a
better bet than their usual for the astrolo-
gers, whose London conference cheered
the Sydney “Sun’s” cableman a few weeks
ago by promising that Hitler would be
stricken with a serious illness on April 26.
* * * :
“Ek Dum”: In the Lower Domain,
Sydney, on April 30, I found a badly-
injured dog, evidently knocked down by
a car and in agony. Rang the R.S.P.C.A.
No answer. Rang the police. Answer:
We’ll put you through to the local station.
Pause for five minutes; local station
promises immediate attention. Waited
15 minutes answering questions of
passers-by. Rang again. Pause of five
minutes. Informed that officer in charge
didn’t know if car had been sent —it was
not his business, but that of another
station. Rang another station. Where
was the dog? Right, they’d come at
once. Directions given them where to
look for dog. Waited another 20 minutes.
Large black car arrives. Sergeant stalks
up to dog, peers at it, remarks: “Well,
there’s only one way to fix him.” Goes
into acrobatic contortions and produces
a large and loaded revolver from jeans.
Without waiting for women and children
to disperse, puts revolver to animal’s
head. Onlookers, some in process of
flight, put hands over ears and prepare to
scream. Slight click heard as sergeant
pulls trigger. Sergeant stares at weapon,
tries again. Another slight click. Sergeant
says “bother” under his breath, has an-
other try. Status quo ante. At the fourth
attempt a sound like the explosion of a
9 ? L heard. Sergeant straightens up and
remarks: "You can talk about your lethal
chambers and poison, but that s the best
of the lot —quicker than any of them.”
THE EUPHEMIST.
“Queensland Premier t organ Smith said the
speeches made by the spokesmen of the two N.S.W.
Tabor factions indicated considerable domestic
infelicity ’™A.L.P. conference at Canberra,
Say not their feud is like the strife
Of old-time Guelphs and Ghibellines,
When either had no aim in life
Except to give the other beans.
All that the noisy discord means
Is what you very often see
Behind the matrimonial scenes —
Domestic infelicity.
Hard words, admittedly, are rife;
Still, temper often intervenes
To part pro tern, a man and wife;
And, for that matter, kings and queens
Don't find their conjugal routines
From disagreement always free.
It has a spell in most demesnes,
Domestic infelicity.
Say not their war is to the knife,
Their wigs for ever on the greens,
Or that they march with drum and fife
Behind their separate machines,
Intolerant of go-betweens,
Slayers or slain intent to be.
From all their row one only gleans
Domestic infelicity.
And think how oft the slate it cleans
And proves the end_ of peevish spleens
And reconciliation’s key,
When once it flickers off the screens,
Domestic infelicity.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


im
CRAVENA imM,
nmi vctiiej- iket/te,,
always smdkffttdt!
10 for 9d 20 for l x 6
e>
A*
m
m
m
E 1867
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
MADE
T 0
POLITICAL POINTS
For his first appearance as P.M.,
Menzies had a full House and no trouble.
Expectation of a no-confidence motion
thrilled onlookers in the crowded gal-
leries, but Curtin and Page were other-
wise engaged: Curtin with the Federal
A.L.P. conference, and the doctor with
objectors to his leadership. In any case,
no Agrarian wants an early election, and
such Laborites as wouldn’t mind one,
having safe seats, are restrained by
thoughts of the Wilmot and Griffith by-
elections —defeat in Griffith is a disturb-
ing possibility—and, above all, the faction
fight in N.S.W.
Badman (S.A.) was among the
Agrarians who attended the party meet-
ing at Canberra, but Rankin (Bendigo)
was absent. He had been told to absent
himself by “the central council of the
United Country party of Victoria” —
which has also a Liberal Country party.
It must gall Rankin, an A.M.F. major-
general who has commanded a Light
Horse regiment in the field, to have to
take orders from Skeats and Hockings,
but he obeyed.
Beck, replying to Hitler, declares that
Poland will not agree to “one-sided con-
cessions over Danzig and communication
across our province of Pomerania” —he
rejects the word “corridor” as an arti-
ficial invention—hut is willing to enter
into “conversations” if Germany takes
the initiative. His speech is applauded
in Britain and denounced in Germany ;
Italian newspaper opinion is that it ren-
ders a settlement possible. An interesting
Rome report is that the Pope is trying
to bring the disputants together. At the
there were 20,670,100 Catho-
lics in Poland (64.8 p.c.), and at that of
1933 there were 21,171,900 in what was
then Germany, besides 10,800,000 in
Czechoslovakia and 6,100,000 in Austria.
The “Times” has been slated in Britain
(or saying that Danzig isn’t worth a war.
It is the universal opinion of Australians,
Communists and League cranks excepted;
but with British Liberals, Laborites and
Ginger Group Conservatives Dominion
opinion doesn’t count.
Litvinov has “resigned.” He is a Jew
married to an Englishwoman, and per-
haps Stalin was scared that he might
land “the Workers’ Republic” in a British
alliance. Stalin brags a lot about being
prepared for war, but it is doubtful
whether he is sufficiently prepared to fight
the Salvation Army.
So far Litvinov —his latest name —has
been spared the fate that befell those
jother clever Jews Zinoviev and Kamenev,
and the exile that is Trotsky’s lot (Trot.’s
life wouldn’t be worth a moment’s pur-
chase if “comrades” could get at him);
but his fall increases the suspicion that
anti-Semitism is flaring up again in
Russia. It is significant that there has
been no flight of oppressed European
Jews to the autonomous republic which
Stalin set up for their race, and the popu-
lation of which persistently declines.
Naturally Litvinov was a hero to the
Jews of Europe and U.S.A., and they
cherished high hopes of his recent
manoeuvres in foreign affairs. His resig-
nation, or whatever it was, must have
staggered them. No doubt they consoled
themselves for Britain’s pledges to the
anti-Jewish Governments of Poland and
Rumania by the reflection that they were
necessary preliminaries to the alliance for
which Litvinov was working, and which
was directed against their arch-enemy—•
Germany. Now the powerful and wealthy
U.S. Jews are in a horrible dilemma, for
they can’t turn against Britain or Russia
without strengthening Germany’s posi-
tion.
The British Government has dropped
the idea of extending conscription to
Ulster. Objecting to its enforcement,
De Valera said or is reported to
have said that “opposition to con-
scription twenty years .ago united the
Irish race throughout the world.” It
united the Nationalists in Ireland, and
Irish-Australian opposition, though not
universal, was a factor in the defeat of
Hughes’s referendums, but the Irish in
U.S.A., Canada and Maoriland accepted
conscription. The Governments of those
countries did not put it to the vote, taking
the view that they were trustees for
the future of their nations, not merely
servants of electors.
De Valera, in a generous mood:
We don’t want territory in Northern
Ireland, but we do want the people’s
hearts. If the final difficulties of partition
were removed, it would be the desire of
the whole Irish nation to have the friend-
liest relations with Britain.
In an island Commonwealth which has
no use for partition, and whose natural
destiny is national union, that strikes a
chord of sympathy. Partition must be
“Oi, aren't you going to get up and do the Lambeth Walk?”
accounted an artificial and impermanent
arrangement, whatever the island.
There are almost enough Premiers’ and
Ministers’ secretaries to form an A.M.F.
platoon, but none of them was suspected
of aspiring to politics until last month.
Then W. A. D. Keyes, who was “Mossy”
Hynes’s secretary, went after the Labor
nomination for Townsville, his late chief’s
electorate. He finished fifth in a field
of nine.
Premier Dunstan is not going to stand
for Federal Bendigo. He has discovered
that “there is enough work in the State
field to keep me occupied for some time.”
Also there are not enough outright C.P.
votes in Bendigo to keep him occupied
for any time.
Asking for more than you expect to
get is traditional industrial-arbitration
practice. In special grants the S.A. and
Tasmanian Governments are getting
£2,020,000 this year, and they have coolly
applied for an addition to £3,700,000 for
1939-40.
Before leaving for London to reason
with doubting financiers and indignant
exporters, Nash, the Maonland Finance
JoKwEX a “ noul }<; ed . a surplus of
£BOO,OOO, and said it was a sign of
prosperity. It is certainly a sign of
swingeing taxation. On earned income
the basic rate is Is. Bd. in the £, and
lt rises to Bs. 2d. at £8950. Property
rates are 33 1-3 p.c. extra, and companies
, . • f u a r
pay up to 7s. 6d. in the £. Social secuilty
takes another Is. in the £. Land tax is
Id. in the £ up to £5OOO, rising to 6d.
at £45,000 ; and estate duties go up to
. T v ,» ,
Delegates to the Labor conference at
Canberra devoted three days to the inter-
minable wrangle in N. S. Wales, and
decided on another all-in conference ;
Communists barred. July 29 was fixed
as the date, and the rules are to be those
introduced at Lang’s Easter show by Billy
Sheahan, who made such an impression
on the delegates from other States that
he was named one of the two vice-presi-
dents. Present indications are that if the
all-in conference is held it will be all-
out for the Heffronites.
May Day was a holiday in Germany
as well as in Queensland, and the Nazi
flag was flown over the Consulate build-
ing in Brisbane. Sight of it so infuriated
Labor Day processionists bearing ban-
ners denouncing Fascist aggression and
national service in Australia and glorify-
ing conscript Russia that a policeman or
somebody had it hauled down. This was
proclaimed a “victory,” but it was one
of those victories that are more dishonor-
able than defeats. If Fascist aggression
necessitated real fighting, processions,
flag-hooting and flaunting of anti-
Menzies, anti-Chamberlain and anti-
national-service posters would count for
less than an abo. turnout with boomer-
angs and spears.
Of the conscript German, it is as true
to-day as when Owen Seaman wrote
nearly 40 years ago:
He sings his “Watch on Rhine,” and if the
thing
Wants watching with a rifle, he’ll be
there.
When you’ve invited God to save the King
You think you’ve done your share.
Labor Day boys think they have done
their share when they spout about Fas-
cist aggression, flaunt hideous posters,
hoot foreign flags and sing “The Red
Flag.”
So far the change in British foreign
policy has shown no results other than
the seizure of Albania, the denunciation
of the Anglo-German Naval Agreement
and the German non-aggression pact with
Poland, and the conversion of the Italo-
German pact into an alliance ; but Syd-
ney “D.T.” is full of hope:
The alignment of Britain, France, Poland,
Greece and Rumania in the cause of peace
is already completed. We wait confidently
for the announcement that Russia has
joined them. Turkey, too, is turning more
and more towards us.
With palms up, and cupped, no doubt.
Our “allies” are like that.
It was interesting for Australian wheat-
growers to read that Britain’s economic
mission to Rumania arranged for “heavy
purchases of grain” and for “the grant-
ing of credits up to £5,000,000,” for
“commercial” as well as military pur-
poses, and/or “a twenty years’ loan
above the £5,000,000 originally in-
tended.” Interesting but not heartening.
To oblige Uncle Sam Australian wheat-
growers were deprived of their prefer-
ence in the British market, and wheat
is still round 2s. a bushel at siding.
Back in Britain from France (“Hats
off to France!”), the explosive Duff
Cooper, M.P., reported “an intense anti-
British campaign” in
that country. Perhaps
it is now being called
off, though of this
there is no cabled
evidence. J. Bull’s
new friends —France
was The Enemy for
centuries are very
exacting. France de-
manded conscription ;
Poland talked of its
“colonial claims” and
asked J.B. to find
room for 50,000 Jews
p.a., preferably in the
Dominions, and
Rumania stipulated
for “credits” and more
British purchases of
wheat. Perhaps the
Greeks will want an
Empire fish - shop
monopoly.
When Harrison, of
Wentworth (N.S.W.),
wak a private member
he was an enthusiast
for penny postage. He
is now P.M.G., and
the first report he
tabled as P.M.G.
showed a departmen-
ta 1 surplus of
£3,533,400 for the
year to June 30, after
charging interest.
Harrison, the Min-
ister, has promised to “consider” the
penny-postage speeches of Harrison, the
private member.
“Mrs. Waddell offers to the consti-
tuency a thorough understanding of its
needs, a first-hand knowledge of the
housewife’s problems and support for
the progressive policy of the Stevens
Government.” That’s how it was in
Granny “Herald” before the Waverley
by-election. Afterwards the U.A.P. was
chided for “reliance upon sentimental
considerations” and “tardiness” in “the
choice of a candidate,” and acidly in-
formed that “the Ministerial cause, as
in Hurstville,* suffered from popular re-
sentment against the rising cost of liv-
ing and popular belief that the Govern-
ment should do something about it.”
Perhaps the old girl is going to support
Heffron Labor.


WAGES OF VIRTUE.
“Scout week is being celebrated in New South Wales.”


YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx, £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . * .
Custodian Trustees t: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet h yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., syDN£y
TELEPHONE: B 5294
lu/Jy&ftLc-
LEIPZI
Since the 12th Century Leipzig has held its own as
the world’s most famous market. For the past 700
years manufacturers and business men have met twice
yearly in this pleasant city to buy and sell for mutual
benefit.
Leipzig offers the newest and best in all types of
merchandise and mechanical equipment. It will pay
YOU to consider Leipzig in your buying plans.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
PAIS
Commences August 27th, 1939.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Photo-
graphic, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
will be exhibited.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair, Ohallis House, Martin Place,,
GP 0. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
jIIBiBKMK
11 "'"w—
Fitness for defence against winter ail-
ments is only possible when your system
is free from health-destroying waste.
The morning drink of Golcryst in warm
water keeps you in perfect trim for work
or sport . . . gives you a keener zest
for living! Your chemist or store sells
Golcryst at 4d., Bd., 1/3.
TAKE
DAILY
PERSGNAL ITEMS
When elected in 1931, J. N. Lawson,
the new Minister for Customs, was the
youngest member of the Federal Parlia-
ment. Assistant Minister Holt, who is 30,
now has the distinction. Lawson, who is
41, is a B.Sc. of Sydney Uni., and after
graduating spent some years as a vet.
supervisor at meat-export centres in M.L.,
where the Government gave him special
praise. He was sheep-farming at Nyngan
(N.S.W.) when he defeated J. B. Chifley,
Scullin’s Minister for Defence, for Mac-
quarie. If Lawson needs any tips in
political campaigning he can turn to his
dad-in-law, R. B. Orchard, who was a
member of the Reps, for years and a
Minister for a time
. .
A man of many interests is Andrew
Douglass Young, of Adelaide. Most im-
portantly, in his own scale of values, per-
haps, he has just succeeded Justice Napier
as Grand Master of the S.A. Grand
Lodge of Freemasons, but he’s also presi-
dent of the S.A. Stock Exchange, director
of various cos., chairman of the mining
committee of the S.A. Chamber of Com-
merce, and a past chief of the S.A. Cale-
donian Society. Used to be a keen rifle-
shot now prefers bowls, and is a mem-
A. D. YOUNG.
ber of the executive of the S.A. Bowling
Association. He was born at Eaglehawk,
Vic., in 1881.
Passed over at 70, one of the best-
liked of Maoriland’s Labor politicians,
Ted Howard, for the last 20 years M.P.
for Christchurch South. He was Chair-
man of Committees in the present Parlia-
ment. Born in Bristol (England), he first
had a few years in the navy, then carried
a swag in Australia, worked in a circus,
and after that became a foreman smelter.
He studied for a time in the Adelaide
School of Mines. Migrating to Maoriland,
he came into contact with Prof. Bickerton,
who filled him up with radical notions
and made him chief-of-staff at the Prof.’s
residence and showplace, Wainoni. Ted
founded the Canterbury W.E.A. and was
a member of Christchurch City Council
and other local bodies. He was offered
the Administratorship of Samoa, but that
sort of job was agin his principles and
he turned it down with a bang. As
Deputy-Speaker of the House he com-
manded respect. He was a voluminous
writer under the pen-name of “Vag.” He
was never idle, never deviated a hand-
breadth from his political principles, and
held one of the safest seats in the
Dominion.
J. G. Duncan-Hughes, a personal
friend of Charles Hawker, who was killed
in the Kyeema crash, is to try to recover
for the U.A.P. the latter’s Wakefield
(S.A.) seat. It was lost to McHugh and
Labor after Hawker’s death, although
Butler resigned fiis Premiership to con-
test it. Duncan-Hughes, who was Major,
M.C. and Croix de Guerre, in the war,
is an old political hand, having been in
the Reps, for two Parliaments after 1922,
and in the Senate for one term after 1931.
Hilary Lofting, who died last Wednes-
day at Manly (Sydney), was for nearly
25 years one of the best-known of
Bulletin short-story writers and Red
Page contributors. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1915, having been rejected as
medically unfit for war service. Born
in London 58 years ago, he was educated
at St. Edmund’s College, Ware (Herts),
and was trained as a civil engineer. As
such he travelled extensively, especially
in South America, and his experiences
in and knowledge of the Latin republics
south of the line were drawn upon largely
in his earliest stories. All that he wrote
was marked by flawless English, sound
construction and a keen eye for style.
Most of his earliest work was written
under the nom de plume of “Francis
Brien” ; in later years he wrote largely
in collaboration with Margaret Fane. A
light novel called The Happy Vagabond
written by them enjoyed a vogue 10 years
ago. Lofting was one of the few Aus-
tralian writers to gain a place in O’Brien’s
annual collection of the best short stories
in English. A brother is Hugh Lofting,
of the “Dr. Dolittle” series of children’s
books.
The Laird of Dinnet, Aberdeenshire,
Sir Malcolm Barclay-Harvey, who’s
coming to S.A. as Governor, has crowded
quite a lot into his 47 years. He was
with the 7th Gordon Highlanders during
the first part of the Great War, and then
went on to the Ministry of Munitions.
His services in the field were recognised
by his recent gazettal as hon. col. of his
old battalion. He represented West Aber-
deenshire in Parliament from 1923-29,
and again from 1931 till his recent ap-
pointment. Two terms as an Under-
secretary of State were rewarded three
years ago with a knighthood. Lady
Barclay-Harvey is a daughter of the
twelfth Earl of Lindsay.
New president of Queensland’s United
Graziers’ Association is J. F. Meynink,
who is also president of the Graziers’
Association of S.-E. Queensland. Born
at Moree, N. S. Wales, his first job was
with the Bank of N. S. Wales, from
which he resigned after three years to
enter the stock and station field. He
acquired an interest in Tandawanna,
Goondiwindi, in 1911 and took over
managership in 1914. He served in the
Great War with the 4th Battery A.I.F.
His hobby is horseracing.
Central Australia continues to be the
Mecca of Melbourne artists. The latest
expedition to pack a caravan for Her-
mannsberg and further west is headed by
Will Rowell and John Gardner, who
already know Centralia well, but are in-
tent on going back to their old subject-
matter. Albert Namatjira, the abo. pupil
of Rex Battarbee, is up there, and was
last reported to be industriously painting
somewhere in the Never Never. A few
more artists only need to make a few
more pupils and there will be a Cen-
tralian school of painting.
Frith’s model of Capt. P. G. Taylor,
being very true to its subject, should
correct impressions which those who
have never seen the flier
may have gathered from
newspaper pictures. The
Taylor visage, instead of
the smoothness generally
attributed to it, has the
keenness here depicted, the
eyes fairly deepset and
quick, like a seaman’s, and
from the brows down
there’s a good cutting edge
to it. By present arrange-
ments Capt. Taylor’s latest
big flight across the
Indian Ocean to Africa —
will take place about mid-
June. Among other ad-
vantages it will bring
Africa within two days of
Australia, and so should
put these two parts of the
Empire into more intimate
touch than they have ever
been hitherto. Also, of
course, it will pioneer an
alternative route between
Britain and Australia in
the event of any trouble
on the Australian side of
Egypt. Captain Taylor
describes the flying-boat
Guba, in which the flight
is to be made, as a splen-
did machine.
The new president of
the Pacific Islands Club
(Sydney), in succession to Dr. H. lan
Hogbin, is A. J. Marshall, Australian
author and zoologist. Though only
28 he has already achieved a world-
wide reputation as an authority on the
South Seas, over which he has travelled
widely with many scientific expeditions.
Captain C. G. Thorne, of the Orontes,
which recently left for England, has while
on the voyage been appointed A.D.C. to
King George. His active life has been
spent in the Orient service, even during
war-time, when the Orama became an
auxiliary cruiser and also when the cap-
tured Konigin Luise had become the
Omar.
Percy Valentine Storkey, erstwhile
Crown Prosecutor, s.-w. circuit, N. S.
Wales, who has been appointed acting
District Court Judge and chairman of
ACTING-JUDGE STORKEY, V.C.
the Quarter Sessions for the current
month, is better known to the general
public as Captain Storkey, V.C. The
little bronze cross came his way when
he was leading a platoon of the 19th
Battalion A.I.F. in an attack on a strong
enemy point near Villers Bret, in April,
1918. Three years later he was called
to the N. S. Wales Bar, having graduated
at Sydney Uni. But he was born in
Napier (M.L.) 48 years ago, and had
studied at Victoria College, Wellington,
before migrating to Australia. Married,
and addicted to surfing in summer and
fishing whenever the Law will allow him.
CAPTAIN P. G. TAYLOR.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Lord Lothian’s appointment as British
Ambassador at Washington leaves vacant
a delightful part-time job as secretary
of the Rhodes Trust, with an office on
the right side of Pall Mall. A good deal
of high diplomacy is required in the
administration, but there’s no trouble
with the R.S. undergraduates the
Warden of Rhodes House at Oxford
(Carlton K. Allen, once of Sydney) looks
after them. Lord Lothian played the
leading part in the preliminaries of the
Chamberlain policy of appeasement and
of seeking good relations with the totali-
tarian Powers. Fifteen months before
Munich he was urging that it was not
the business of Britain, and still less of
the Empire, to get dragged into Central
European squabbles.
A young Australian who has made
good in England is Hubert Clifford, who
learnt to write music in Melbourne,
taught at University High and other
places, and, while still in his twenties,
tackled London. In 1935 his “Kentish
Suite,” a piece ingeniously constructed
for use in schools, with instrumental limi-
tations, moved the judges to give him the
Cobbetf Prize. He has specialised in
school orchestras, and conducts a re-
markable one of his own outside London.
Cleland, Homburg and Ligertwood,
some of Adelaide’s best-known legal
names, were represented in the new batch
of lawyers admitted to the Bar by
S.A. Supreme Court. All of them are
’Varsity “blues” in one or more sports.
Another new wig is J. H. Portus, from
Sydney and Oxford, whose father, the
old Rugby international, is now a prof,
at Adelaide.
Melbourne has had plenty of Viennese
musicomedy. Now it is to have Viennese
drama produced by a pupil of Reinhardt
—E. Jubal, who founded the Theatre for
49. Jubal’s first job in Melbourne was
to learn English. After producing his
first play with the Polish Rachel Holcher
as leading lady he intends to make a film
round the life of John Monash.


k
1
PJa A &*>
m
m
m
7a
m
m
0
&
Vi
&
r A
%
m
mm
9. .:
;iil|!|:
:
' ;
M
™ m
; : :
mm
m
m
■
I
m
m
mm
35S
m
Ya
Y
Z
25
Now in TINS of 20 for 1/6. Also Laube boxes 10 —9d., flat and round fifties and 100’s.
82-5.9


ABORIGINALITIES
“Twang”: Natives pay debts in queer
fashion in the islands. It was in the
front of the B.N.G. store in Daru (West
Don't throw 'im back, Pongo— ’ell do for bait."
Papua) that I neard two labor boys argu-
ing as to what day of the week it was.
“Plenty you savvy no eatum meat to-
day ; him Friday,” argued the puff-
headed Yule Islander. “Iss Wensday,”
asserted the confident Elema Mission
boy. “I bet you one pair of trousiss,”
challenged the islander. “0.K., my
frien’,” came from the Elema coon.
They shoqk hands and sauntered into
the trade store for “taubada” to adjudi-
cate. When he pronounced it Thursday
they looked at one another in amaze-
ment ; then each bought a pair of trade
shorts, and as they passed out of the
door they exchanged purchases.
sp * * #
“H. Rann”: Let “Wilber” (B. 29/3/’39)
come up here to N.Q. He will not only
see real axemen in action, but be im-
pressed by the fact that 90 p.c. of us
(including the Winkles and other cham-
pions) use Plumb axes, not Kellys. In
20 years’ experience of scrub-felling and
timber-cutting, I have never seen a grind-
stone used for sharpening. Nicholson’s
lOin. file does the job.
“Golden Mile”: I don’t know much
about filing an axe, though I’ve tried it
often enough, but I do know a lot about
turning a grindstone. Firewood-getting
for the Boulder mines we worked mainiy
only two timbers, salmon gum and gimlet
—and a dry salmon gum is hard, but a
dry gimlet! The trouble was you needed
an axe with a temper like a Bengal razor.
And when you had such an implement
the chances were that the very first smack
would take out a gap as big as half a
two-shilling piece. Then the weary, weary
grinding to get that gap out. Why didn’t
we use a softer axe? The trouble was
that most of the axes we did get turned
their edges like hoop-iron. We tested
the blades with a thumbnail; those that
gave forth a musical note were just about
capable of standing up to gimlet. But,
oddly, when a blade had been gapped
and reground it usually stood up to
unlimited work without further trouble.
But I shouldn’t have liked to start on
any of those gans with a file.
* * * *
“Poseidon”: Until “Towser” (B.
12/4/’39) enlightened me, I was unaware
that a pointer or a greyhound must neces-
sarily be a mong. As for his “sheep-
dog,” that is a general term covering vari-
ous types of collies, barbs, and that
standardised mongrel breed the kelpie.
Remember, “T.,” the next time you watch
a kelpie at work, be he black, blue, red
or black-and-tan, you are watching a
member of the most brainy mong tribe
in the whole canine world.
s|: H* sfc sjt
“Strix”: One of the grimmest spec-
tacles Nature provides is that of a croco-
dile attacking a horse. Its favorite
method is to grasp its victim by the
muzzle and strike it a crashing blow on
its back with the tail. The back of the
horse being arched —front and hind
hooves almost meeting in the effort to
resist the pull—makes the blow all the
more effective. Recently two horses and
a two-year-old steer were killed near
Ingham (N.Q.), the crocodile having
hidden in a deep hole near the home-
stead to await the horses and bullocks
coming to drink. But the saurian will not
spurn even the smallest fry. I saw one
in an N.Q. lagoon playfully mopping
up the best part of a flock of white
cockatoos.
* * * *
“Mei”: Dropping in to my neighbor’s
I found her at the woodheap, axe in
hand ; and so that she would not be dis-
tressed by any appealing looks from the
hen she was beheading for dinner, she
had tied a paper bag over its head!
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Meat - stealers have
many tricks, but sometimes a little slip
spoils the job. A Queensland squatter,
who usually takes little notice of dead
beasts on his run, while riding close to
a recently-dead cow in a lonely corner
noticed that the tongue was missing. An
examination revealed that the whole of
the meat on the underside had been
stripped off the bones, over which the
hide had been carefully replaced. The
carcass had been turned over after the
butchering, for the top part was intact
and the beast had been laid out to look
as if it had died a natural death. But
for the missing tongue the trick would
not have been discovered.
“Waranbini”: Bill the Battler had
come to the end of his resources. He
was sitting on a log by the track, writing
a letter to a cobber to send him a couple
of pounds. Alongside him was a big
spreading inkweed plant, laden with pink
berries, which had been the inspiration
of his literary effort; he was using the
juice of the berries for ink and a pointed
stick for pen. When he had finished and
addressed the missive he dropped it into
a candle-box that was nailed to a tree
a little farther on —a selector’s mailbox —
with his last two coppers wrapped and
tied to it for postage. “The mailman
will understand when he empties the
box,” said Bill. “He gets lots of queerer
things than that in these bush post
offices.”
“Bushy Park”: Until recently the em-
ployees of a Victoria cocky regarded
Wireless as the greatest blessing of mod-
ern times, for their boss, greatly interested
in a radio serial which came on the air
at 7 p.m., knocked off in time to reach
home and listen in. Now the farm has
gone back to the 72-hour week of pre-
radio days. The boss is still interested
in his serial, but he takes a portable set
on to the job.
s** . $
“D. 0.” (Noumea): Any Aboliar ever
been in real bamboo country in hot,
dry weather? To a war-jittery person it
would be nerve-shattering, as the dry
exploding bamboos sound like an artil-
lery barrage which round about midday
becomes continuous. On the island of
Santo, far up on the plateau, where the
rivers run in deep gorges several thou-
sand feet in depth, the natives drink and
cook with the water which each section
of young bamboo contains. Many of
these bamboos are a foot in diameter
and contain a quart or more of crystal-
clear though rather tasteless water; in
fact, apart from rain, this is the only
water obtainable up there.
* * * *
“Foresight”: As a fellow who made
a living at the game, let me into this
argument about ’roos thumping the
rudder. They don’t. They sound a warn-
ing by snapping one hind foot over the
ankle of the other and sending it thud-
ding to the ground, much as a man snaps
his finger and thumb. The only time
they hit the tail when hopping is as a
balance when about to stop on the last
two or three jumps. When a ’roo crawls
along the ground on all fours, the tail is
dragged behind.
* * * *
“Wang”: When young Bill rushed in
with the news that one of Lynch's hay-
stacks was on fire and flew excitedly
out again, he was followed by Dad, Dave
and the new hand. They tore across to
Lynch’s place, but could do little except
to help keep the sparks off other in-
flammable places and assist in the lamen-
tations. When the stack had burnt itself
out the question of the fire’s origin arose.
Dad suggested the careless use of
matches; but Jim Lynch wouldn’t have
that —neither he nor any of his kids
smoked. Dave opined the stack had been
struck by lightning, which drew from
Dad the comment: “Yer lightnin’ must
be like y’self, then, pretty slow-movin’;
we ain’t had a thunderstorm for six
munce.” Then the hand advanced the
theory that the fire had been caused by
spontaneous combustion. Jimmy let out
a whoop at that. “Be cripes! I think
yer’ve hit it,” he cried. “I never gave
them a thought. The other day I kicked
orf me place one of them crowd that’s
got Minogue’s ole place up the creek
when he come sneakin’ around on the
cadge, and he said he’d get even with me.
I ’adn’t ’eard their name before —on’y
that they were Dagoes o’ some sort; but
I’ll get the cow that’s done this. First
thing in the mornin’ I’ll get the sergeant
to get out a warrant fer his arrest. You’d
better write this bloke Spontanyus Com-
bushion’s name down, so’s I’ll remember
it.”
* * *
“Bungham”: Father Time rings the
changes, and for variety sometimes gives
them an ironic twist. Years ago a
woman told me that her three brothers
could be catalogued in order as beer-
mad, racehorse-mad and woman-mad.
Last week the erstwhile toper, now a
reputable citizen, breasted the altar with
his second bride. The former turf
operator has switched over to the cups
that cheer, while the one-time Lothario,
still a bachelor, is a horse-owner. He
drives the nag round collecting bottles.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: When some weeks
ago I casually mentioned curly jarrah
in these pages, I thought to start a dis-
cussion amongst the Council that might
yield me the information I have been
seeking. Does the resultant silence indi-
cate an unprecedented lack of know-
ledge, or do the initiate regard the sub-
ject as beneath serious notice? Unbend,
ye founts of wisdom! In all humility
I ask, how is curly jarrah formed? Of
all timbers I’ve seen polished —and I’ve
seen most, including jamwood —it is the
prettiest. In spite of, or perhaps because
of, its curl, it is one of the easiest timbers
to split, a factor which makes for its
popularity and increasing rarity. The
face of each slab is a series of alternate
ridges and indentations, varying from
l-32in. to l-16in. deep, and ranging from
six to nine to the inch. It is eagerly
sought by cabinetmakers, and is ideal for
walking-sticks. But why, out of a thou-
sand trees growing under identical con-
ditions, should one have these peculiar
features? I have no theory to offer, nor
have I ever heard one advanced. I’m
waiting.
# * * *
“Fall”: I’ve seen the stockwhip used
as an earmark, but I’ve struck few
wielders of it artistic enough to dock a
lamb’s tail. Yet it can be done, though
that buffer of wool growing on 'the tail
can easily nullify the stroke of the cut
(I’m allowing only usual falls, not copper
or other wire). The secret is to sling the
whip forward, work it so that the fall
curls inside the tail between the rudder
and the hocks, and from there bring it
back with a snap. It’s as clean as any
knife.
Ns * * *
“Koolpinyah”: “Passage Pilot’s” tiger
shark (B. 19/4/’39) could have swallowed
the big sea-toad and come to no harm,
for the sea-lawyer possesses the faculty
of ejecting from its stomach any food
that does not agree with its digestive
organs. Off Bowen Straits (N.T.), we
caught a “tiger” and pulled it aboard
my lugger. While the brute was lying on
the deck its jaws shot forward and food
came up from its innards ; that done, its
jaws resumed their natural position, and
once more the teeth pointed in the proper
direction.
v V *{• H*
“Bogaduck”: Little use in asking a
timberman when any variety of tree will
flower (B. 19/4/’39); he is interested only
in the milling possibilities of a log and
its super.-feet content. The chap who
knows is the beekeeper, as the tips of the
branches are his sole concern. The sugar-
gum yearly starts flowering in late
January, and the blossoms hang until
March or later. The redgum and the
S.A. bluegum flower regularly every
second year, and always break into blos-
som at the same time ; the former starts
around Christmas and keeps in bloom
till the end of February, the latter starts
in early spring and goes to Christmas or
later. The grey-box is slightly more
erratic as to intervals between flowering,
which is confined to the autumn. Other
trees come into blossom at longer inter-
vals, only after a good season or when
they feel like doing it —swamp-box and
some varieties of stringybark, for in-
stance. Trees like the pinkgum flower
according to the district; around my
home near Naracoorte (S.A.) they flower
every second autumn, but a few miles
farther south they don’t break into bloom
until the following spring.
A FATAL FAULT.
“An extended study has convinced me that nowhere
in the world are farming methods more up-to-date
than here, yet this is too often accompanied by an
unhurried casualness and a putting off until some
unspecified time of necessary jobs.”— Visiting English
agriculturist.
Among our rural dwellers there are plenty,
It seems, who, though they don’t exactly rust
Or vegetate in dolce far niente,
Yet hustle not in rustling up a crust.
They’re partial to prolonged procrastination;
The attitude to life which they display
You’ll hear in that concise interrogation
“Well, what/s the bloomin’ hurry, anyway?”
The fence may sway at quite a drunken angle
(The cyclone did it fifteen months before);
Mum’s waiting still for him to fix the mangle;
One hinge has long held up the dairy door.
The dry-rot’s in the boards, the gutter’s falling;
He reckons he “must‘paint the joint some
day.”
But when? To which the cocky will be drawling
“Aw! what’s the flamin’ hurry, anyway?”
Our sun, according to some scientific
Observers, wields an influence immense
In rend’ring those beneath it soporific
And casual to the point of indolence.
Howe’er it be, the bloke in outback places
Will lean against the nearest post to say
(In summing up the creed that he embraces):
“Well, what’s the bloomin’ hurry, anyway?”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Lespy”: “I’m the billy ’and on a job
one time,” said old Ben the handyman,
“and one o’ me dooties is ter git orders
from the men fer rabbit-pies wot a bloke
brings round on a cart. Everythin’s jake
fer a coupla munce, then the men starts
ter growl; reckon the quality’s gorn orf.
So I chats the bloke erbout it. ‘Well,’ ’e
ses, ‘rabbits is darned ’ard ter get, so I’m
puttin’ a bit o’ ’orse in.’ ‘Cripes,’ I ses,
‘y’ must be puttin’ a lot o’ ’orse in then.
‘Oh, no,’ ’e ses. ‘Fifty-fifty—one "orse
ter one rabbit.’ ”
* * * *
“Bungham”: The speed at which man
eats (B. 19/4/’39) is governed by the
keenness of his perceptions or otherwise.
The molars of the razor-edged customer
click in unison with his racing mind.
For example, watch a salesman tearing
through a couple of “savs” and a pint.
On the other hand, who ever heard of
a politician or alderman rising from the
festive board under the hour?
* * * *
“First Blue”: It’s about time some-
one or other exploded the myth about
the marvellous qualities of damper as an
outback delicacy. Recently a Melbourne
daily printed a harrowing description of
the agonies of a master chef on an over-
seas liner who, debarred from sampling
a “toothsome hunk of earth-cooked
damper,” was compelled to offend his
gastronomic sensibilities with lobster
Newburg, chicken a la Maryland and
other such galley makeshifts. Though
not an expert in damper-producing my-
self, I have sampled the efforts of many
alleged virtuosi on the track, and have
never yet struck one which was really
palatable. Apart from the unpleasant-
ness of crunching one’s teeth into a
hideous outer shell of ashes, hot coals
and iron-hard crust, the interior of the
“We won't be ready for at least ’alf an hour.”
monstrosity nine times out of ten is as
indigestible as the latest Hahllywood
gossip. Even such a hardened bushman
as Tom Collins quailed before the ordeal
of rooting the damper out of its matrix
and flogging the ashes off the darned
thing with a saddlecloth.
“Gid-dup”: I’ve seen magnifying
glasses used for starting a jibbing horse
or camel as long as 40 years ago, and
noted that the glass was no more effec-
tive than the whip—the jib, when his hair
began to singe, merely moved on a yard
or so, just sufficient to get relief. Knew
one inventor who evolved the bright idea
of making the glass a fixture so that the
jib couldn’t get away from under it.
But it wasn’t too long before the S.P.C.A.
fixed him. Another variant of the burn-
ing idea struck the horse pug who lit a
fire under his jib, determined that he
would make the brute move. The jib
“Sorry ter keep yer waitin' fer the grill, Bert, but I couldn't find me snips."
moved all right—the usual two yards,
which brought the dray nicely over the
fire; and it happened to be loaded with
native pine, a species of turpentine wood.
When that load began to burn like a
furnace—well, it certainly cured that jib,
if only temporarily. But the real joke
was on the horse conductor —he no
longer had a dray for the jib to object
to pulling.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The Badu Islanders of
N.Q. incorporate in song and war-dance
a curious parallel to the Roman legend
of Horatius. When a raiding flotilla of
war-canoes from the neighboring island
of Coconut approached their habitation
two warriors, Sobia and Waiaia, took up
a strategic position on a sandspit which
dominated the enemy’s approach. With
their disk-headed stone clubs the stal-
warts cracked skulls to such effect that
the enemy was put to flight. From
their sacred burial cave the mummified
remains of the heroes still survey the spit
on which was enacted their claim to tribal
immortality. Superstitious Binghi rigidly
taboos the burial cave, and any trifling
village mishap is assigned to trespassing
in the sacred vicinity.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The aptest of all names
for man’s equine friend was bestowed
on a more or less blood prad by a little
Russian Jew in the reign of Nicholas 11.
Nobody believed that he invented the
cognomen “Comrade,” nor yet that the
foreigner had read Byron’s “Mazeppa”:
“That same old steed was his comrade
still.” We all innocently imagined it to
be a hot favorite on the steppes. Now, I
wonder! Conceivably, the word was kept
warm for the Bolshies by the Cossacks.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A trial consignment of
three dozen Sydney rock oysters, sent by
air to Singapore last July, has developed
as a flourishing export business of 400
dozen weekly, with an increasing demand.
The Port Stephens products, fattened in
George’s River for a few weeks after
removal from their native place, are
found to travel best. The first consign-
ments were bottled, but were found
to lose flavor in transit. They were
then sent unopened in sugar-bags
and dipped overboard at each stop ; but
the changes of water did not agree with
their constitutions. Packing in heavy
damp sacking was tried, but they sweated
with any sudden change of temperature.
Now they are packed in open crates with
access to light and air, and arrive prac-
tically unchanged in flavor or appearance
after the four-day 4600-mile journey.
* * * #
“Calypso”: May I tell “Doubting T.”
(B. 12/4/’39) that my wild cat picked
up her kittens one at a time, just as
any cat, including a tiger, will do? I was
content to wait while she came back for
the second one. Pressure of space pre-
vented the giving of such details in the
original par.—l like to leave a little room
for other Aboliars to have their say. As
for thickets, they were there in those days
—a bit thinned out now with drought,
campfires and other causes and cats
are still plentiful. There are no cats in
the bush big enough to frighten a man
—that is, from a carnivorous standpoint.
But there are eyes, face and hands to
be considered. Has “D.T.” ever cornered
just an ordinary strange cat with nothing
but his bare hands? If not, I advise him
to try it —to walk into his camp in the
pitch dark and surprise one of those
wild bush tabbies. If he has never struck
a living tornado of fur and claws he will
then.
* * * *
“Ophir”: Admittedly the death adder
is a sleepy cuss, but he can move all
right when the occasion demands, and
I’ll bet that no man can flick one with
a stick and get it away before the adder
has sprung to it and met it with head
and tail. Further, the adder’s the only
reptile that consistently springs from the
ground. He doesn’t hop like an old man
’roo —he bucks straight up like a
bouncing ball.
* * * *
“Aussie”: Jokes aside, more than one
old-timer did build a flood-time raft out
of posts and rails. Back in the ’eighties
young George Rea, a newchum English-
man, was left in charge of a W.Q. station.
One day a half-caste, riding hard, brought
word that the Diamantina was coming
down. To get away in time was im-
possible, for there were also the squatter’s
wife and four children. But Rea had
been a sailor, and the four stout corner-
posts of the new branding yard had just
been put in. Rails were there in plenty.
With the woman and kids helping, Rea
frantically spiked the rails together, lap-
ping and crossing them until he had a
raft about 20ft. by 10ft. Lengths of
fencing-wire made anchor lines to the
four big posts. Food, clothing, bedding,
a tent, even stones and earth to make
a fireplace. They were wading waist
deep, with the raft afloat, before they
got everything on board. And they re-
mained afloat for a fortnight, the raft
straining at its moorings night and day.
When meat ran short there was a near-
dead cow caught in the not-distant tree-
tops. A bullet gave the beast its quietus.
Rea swam out with a life-line tied to a
light log to get the meat, the woman
helping by hauling back. Then the flood
went down. The boss came home —and
the rails, prised apart, were built into the
new yard.
my northern home.
I see them in my dreams for evermore,
The dim-lit jungle trails so thickly roofed
With boughs (on which the creeping parrot
moves) ... .
Dripping with ferns, with orchids pale astar
Where misty sunbeams pierce, and set on fire
The flambeaux of the palm.
Where the soft flutings of the drowsy doves
Are muted, and the oriel’s note afar
Is drifted music from a half-closed door.
The fig-tree drenched in white, with petals
shorn . ~ ,
From each o’erburdened twig softly adrift
Above the moss. The forest cherry, gay
In rose and white and green. The shining
stream
Close by; and on its broidered bank the snake,
Deadly, immobile, lies.
The narrow footprints on the trodden way
Where the shy natives go, adrift, adream,
In forest aisles forgotten and forlorn.
I long for night beneath a northern sky
While flying foxes drift beneath the moon;
White cockatoos upon the topmost tower
Of tall, grey talking trees. The secret scent
Of flowers beyond belief that bloom unseen
In leagues of dark.
The roller, tapping in his bright-edged bower
On his eternal coffin. Starry tents
Low down, low down, where glinting glow-
worms lie.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


g
-7/©
consu
It your suiiwitwi •
So that the wise precautions you have taken to
protect the interests of your family during your
lifetime, may be continued thereafter,. it is advis-
able to engage the services of a Solicitor m the
preparation of your Will, as a Will expressed in
terms which have precise legal meaning avoids
misinterpretation, costly litigation and defeat ot
the Testator's intentions.
Equally important is the cmpointmenl_ol
your Executor. By nominating THE TRUbibhb
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY LTD. in this
capacity you obtain, at a fixed and moderate
cost, the services of a Company with more
than 60 years' practical experience in Estate
administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS. 401 & 403 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS :
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Mai.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.
K.C.V.0., D.S.O. T _ .
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) Hnder
W. D. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'SI HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rodins, 7/- and 9/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ) ‘
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 j 850,947
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
U. 5.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,9.97 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’30., 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 ...
Provision for taxation, £237,635 J 0,134,016
’31.. 9,470,449 5,610,260 1,222,207 685,149 ) . „„„
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ji,»<<,4oB
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,661 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 1 , n „ s , 8n
From conting. res., £lOO.OOO .. ( ’ U ' O,OOU
’37.11.197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 1 „ „
From conting. reserve, £50,000 .. }
’38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1930. . 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 ]
Written off, £64,047 i 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931. . 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 ]
To con’t’ey fund, etc., £164,477 \ 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635 j
1932. . 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) IQO
Written off, £3461 .. .. j 768,189
1933. . 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 ( 0 , n , n0
Written off, £7359 .. .. ) 810,493
1934. . 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 )
Written off, £5651 . . . . I 917,50 l
1935. 964,512 582,580 ) „ nn
Written off, £4280 . . . . j 909,395
1936. . 2,679,507 1,095.085 641,792 )
Written off, £1558 .. .. ] 941,072
1937. . 2,943,122 1,162,121 753,995 ) , nl , coo
Written off, £15,124 .. f 4,911,88.,.
1938.. 3.220,576 1,233,996 791,728 / ISI
Written off, £13,298 .. \
Not only is the A.M.P. Australia’s oldest
and biggest life office, but it is a very
sound, progressive, regular bonus-paying
institution, too, which has proved a
haven of refuge for many of its policy-
holders in time of need loans on
policies totalled £16,189,282 at the end
of 1938. Moreover, the society’s con-
tracts, which cover a wide range of
needs, are attractive investments, provid-
ing capital security long before it is paid
for, and on participating policies annual
bonus additions to the original sunt
assured make capital appreciation certain
from the jump, even though the price
of Stock Exchange and other securities
may recede. At the end of 1938 bonus
additions to these policies amounted to
£57,531,643, or 23.3 p.c. of the sum
assured (£246,493,604).
Last year the writing of fresh con-
tracts, especially in Britain, was affected
by international developments ; and lower
export prices and a dry spell (now
broken) in Australia and what is hap-
pening in Maoriland didn’t help either.
Still, the amount of new business put on
the books—Ordinary £22,229,035, down
£1,947,620 ; Industrial £6,875,648, down
£675,397 —was beaten only by the record
figures for 1937. The amount of busi-
ness in force at the end of 1938
(£556,218,289, including bonus additions)
was £18,918,056 greater than it was a
year earlier. Furthermore, the society
collected £14,849,791 (up £709,603) of
income and managed its £117,009,258’(up
£4,972,112) of investments at less cost
than for the previous term, while the
rate of interest earned on these funds
improved a trifle, despite a bigger tax
bill (£327,367, up £21,150), and the mor-
tality experienced remained at only 52
p.c. of that expected from the tables
used. It all augurs well for the con-
tinued progress and prosperity of the
organisation and for maintenance of the
handsome bonuses it pays.
The amount divided among policy-
holders in the Ordinary and Industrial
branches increased by £149,465 and
£22,631 respectively last year, making
total cash bonuses allotted by the society
since its inception £72,045,822 on Ordi-
nary and £4,095,308 on Industrial
policies:
BONUSES DECLARED. '
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288.312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
In addition to the bonuses declared last
year, £39,000 (up £7000) was reserved
for interim bonuses and £123,213 (up
£45,314) was carried forward in the
Ordinary branch, and £220,121 (up
£51,576) was set aside to provide in-
creased sums assured and other benefits
in the Industrial section. Including
£34,727 paid in interim bonuses, the
amount distributed in the Ordinary sec-
tion was equal to 43.5 p.c. of the pre-
miums received on participating policies,
compared with 42.7 p.c. and 42.8 p.c.
for the two preceding years. On ordinary
whole-life contracts reversionary bonuses
range from 40s. p.c. on one-year-old
policies to 725. p.c. on those 30 years
in force, and on endowment assurances
(same age at entry and same duration)
maturing at 60 from 345. p.c. to 625.
p.c. In the Industrial section bonuses
are at the uniform rate of 355. 6d. p.c.
In the Ordinary branch commissions,
expenses of management and taxes ab-
sorbed respectively 5.98 p.c., 7.50 p.c. and
3.96 p.c. (total, 17.44 p.c.) of the year’s
net premiums. For the previous year
the total was 17.93 p.c. The percentage
allowed by the actuary for future exes,
and profits is 18.5. In the Industrial
section, exes., including taxes, took 30.04
p.c, of net premiums as against 31.55 p.c.
in 1937.
The assurance funds, etc. (£113,432,830,
up £5,020,950 in the two departments
combined) have the support and assist-
ance of a contingencies reserve of
£2,090,752 (down £11,751), a tax reserve,
unchanged at £lOO,OOO, and fidelity guar-
antee fund of £5657 (up £200). The rate
of interest realised on that lot (mean
funds) was £4 7s. 7d. p.c., and the effec-
tive rate on mean fund less half the year’s
interest was £4 9s. 6d. p.c., the improve-
ment being 2d, p.c. in each case. Since
the office works on the basis of its life
funds alone earning only 3 p.c., there is
a healthy margin for bonuses there.
The investment portfolio is made up
as follows:
„ 1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Public securities. £65,285,147 58.3 £68,623.307 58.0
Mortgages . , 26,228,904 23.4 23.9
Loans on policies 16,309,061 14.6 16.234,626 13.9
Premises.. .. 2,002,939 1.8 2,095,872 1.8
Other ass Jets . . 2,211,096 1.9 2,057,588 1.8
There has been no change in the man-
agement’s investment policy. Most of
the money that became available during
the year was put into Government securi-
ties (up £3,338,160) and mortgages (up
£1,768,960).
Wunderlich, Ltd.
r~ Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 Hi „ „ 49.500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ ~ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. ..115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. .. 99,769
5.9 p.c.
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 —88.78 C
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 . . 72,778
from specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.4-7 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 sp,c.= 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ „ 30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59.804 11,200 7 ~ ~30,800 17.804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . . . 60,490
♦After deducting bonuses ro staff.
Despite the drop in export prices, acti-
vity in the building trade has continued
at a high level. For the 12 months to
the end of June last, the average
monthly value of new building in the six
Australian capitals combined was
£2,320,000, compared with £2,013,000,
£1,832,000, £948,000 and £384,000 for the
four preceding years* Activity in the
trade, however, appears to have reached
its zenith about the middle of 1938, since
when there has been a slight recession
in the aggregate value of permits, the
monthly average for the seven months
to the end of January being £2,223,000.
In Maoriland there has been Steady ex-
pansion in building, largely on account
of the Government housing scheme.
Wunderlichs, whose business is well
spread throughout the Commonwealth
and the Dominion, turns out architec-
tural terra-cotta (it has become very
popular in treating the facades of public
buildings), tiles, showcases, shopfronts,
asbestos-cement sheets and other build-
ing materials and embellishments. After
making what looks like liberal allowance
for depreciation (£32,513, down £1010),
the net result was £929 better at £59,804,
or sufficient to pay the prefs. their full
contract rates (7 p.c. each) and show 11
p.c. on ord. capital as against 10.8 p.c.
for the previous term —the £600,000 of
capital is in 40,000 first, a like number
of second and 80,000 third prefs., all
carrying a cumulative 7 p.c. v , and 440,000
ords.
An all-round 7 p.c. was distributed,
making the average to the ords. 5.3 p.c.
over the last nine years. For the 10
years before that the average was 12 p.c.,
and £107,369 of staff-partnership certi-
ficates was issued and paid for out of earn-
ings. This partnership fund (now £29,000)
is being replaced by a staff pension
scheme, to which the co. contributed
£3OOO last term, leaving visible support
and assistance for capital £60,490 in
excess of goodwill when the books closed.
The financial position was further
strengthened:
Paid capital; 1920. 1933. 1938. 1939.
Shareholders’ £370,666 £520,000 £600,000 £600,000
Employees’.. 14,040 39,700 31,700 29,000
Liabilities .. 38,244 111,919 127,665 118,986
Freeholds . . 151,559 ’ 380,142 362,629 329,049
Leaseholds . . 9.659 801 777 250
Plant, etc. . . 108,926 242,990 198,703 170,339
Stocks . . 136,396 109.490 162,034 162.970
Book debts . . 64,342 33,901 98,939 112,846
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. 16,598 6,436 5,918 57,464
Amalgamation of the Westralian branch
with H. Brisbane and Co., Perth, is re-
flected in a contraction of £33,580 in
freehold, £28,364 in plant, and the
appearance of investments at £51,824
(cost). The new co., H. L. Brisbane and
Wunderlich, Ltd., has paid an interim at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. Excluding invest-
ments, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£162,470)
was £23,244.
The market prices the first prefs. at
245. lid., the thirds at 225., at which
figures the return is 5.6 p.c. and 6.3 p.c.
respectively on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
seconds seldom appear on ’Change, and
the ords. can be had at par, or there-
abouts. The net tangible cover is
£l6 10s. 3d. firsts, £l5 10s. 3d. seconds,
£7 ss. Id. thirds and 225. 9d. ords.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 .. .. 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ ~ 19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 ~ 10 ~ ~19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 ~ 12$ „ ~22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 ~ 75,, „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 „ ~ 19,465 5,806 116,027
This 18-year-old Australian manufacturer
of hosiery and lingerie has an able and
enterprising management which has
always kept the business thoroughly
abreast of modern developments in equip-
ment, production methods, etc. —and that
means much so far as sales, costs and
profits are concerned. During the 1938
term there was much dislocation of busi-
ness and non-recurring expense owing
to installation of the “newest, largest and
most up-to-date fine-gauge full-fashioned
hosiery plant in Australia,” and net earn-
ings fell to less than half the ’37 figure.
The work was completed early in the
last term, and the new equipment has
since been kept going at capacity, which
is a fine testimony to the popularity of
the co.’s products, considering the rather
crowded state of the trade. Furthermore,
the co. was well stocked with raw
materials at the close of accounts in 1938,
so the rise in prices since has done
earnings no harm.
Despite the upward trend of wage and
other costs, gross earnings (£131,074) im-
proved £32,494. Exes. (£105,803) took
£18,192 of the increase, leaving the net
result £14,303 better at £25,271. That
was after providing “ample” depre-
ciation —there are indications that the
allowance has been very liberal in
the past. The profit was enough to
pay the pref. div. (£8244) and show
15.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 2.4,
15.1, 15.4, 12, 10.2, 12.4, 13, 12.3 and
37.7 p.c. back to 1930. The div., which
had been dropped to 7\ p.c. in the pre-
vious term, was lifted to 10 p.c.. again.
In 1929 the rate was 20 p.c., followed
o Continued on page 24.)


i' 1 ,
-
M
' -T; -: f A
- -
i .: j |
' ■
fT’N-
■'ill :
mt
mm
M&mm
mm
■
JLAo^
/if
n
. •
Gmw Houses
mmm
-.
■
1
'
' : ::?.>
. . . the march of progress changes all things
—even the meaning of old proverbs. To-day,
those who live and work in glass homes,
factories and offices not only enjoy all the
advantages of natural diffused daylight, with-
out the discomforts of heat and glare, but
even the proverbial stone would probably do
little damage to the modern glass brick wall.
The illustrations on this page depict the
growing popularity of these beautiful and
versatile ihasonry units, together with some of
their many applications in modern home, office,
factory, garage and store buildings.
ADVANTAGES OF “INSULUX”
GLASS BRICKS.
• Low Initial Cost
• Eow Maintenance Cost
• Easy and economical to erect
• Adaptable to small or large struc-
tures
• Blend with any type of architecture
• Admit natural daylight
• Reduce glare and noise
• Possess great structural strength
• Assure privacy
sti
m
mm
HK
~
'' , . K.
H Jill
-
J
* " i ini :
- 5
Pillliillliil
lIRlIliSE|p: ■ I
* -a- wm %
s SdR t
MM
:
•S'-1
jmm
m
<<H>vssw vw
AUSTRALIAN WINDOW GLASS PTY. LTD.
Euston Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Phone: L 3333 (8 lines)
POST THIS COUPON NOW!
to Australian Window Glass Pty., Ltd.,
Euston Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
’Phone: E 3333 (8 lines).
Please send me, post free and without obligation, illustrated literature and
details of “Insulux” Glass Bricks.
NAME
ADDRESS


SALE OF SHARES
The Australian Gas Light Company
Offers for sale by Public Auction in the Rooms of Richardson & Wrench, Ltd.,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
MONDAY, 22nd MAY, 1939
Commencing at 10 a.m.,
“A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
TO A NUMBER NOT EXCEEDING 15,000.
The Directors of the Company reserve the right to discontinue the sale at any time
without offering the full number of 15,000 shares.
Terms and Conditions announced at the sale or obtainable on application to the
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange, or The Australian Gas Light Company.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.,
Auctioneers,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(333)
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
-—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Care-free
and
CHUCKLING
a man has had the pru-
dence to buttress his life and
happiness with A.M.P. assurance,
he can look the world in the eye
and laugh at its ups and downs.
A.M.P. policies give a grand re-
turn in peace of mind. Look at
this one: —•
Policy No. 280477.
Age at entry, 35.
Yearly premium, £2B/3/4.
37j years’ premiums paid at 31st Dec., 1935.
Original sum assured .. ..£lOOO 0 0
Bonus additions to 31st Dec.,
1937 £1217 0 0
Bonus for 1938 not yet declared,
say .. . . . . . . 42 0 0
Present total sum assured . . '£'2259 0 0
Any man in good health can
have A.M.P. assurance to meet his
needs and to sweeten his life and
outlook. Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office for details, or, if you prefer,
send for a copy of “Investing in
Happiness.”
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
' A. W. Sneddon, P.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
by 15 p.c. in 1930 and then a steady 10
p.c. for the next seven years, with 2 \ p.c.
added in ’36.
Balance-sheet movements are hearten-
ing:-
103** IQQT IQQQ igqq
Paid capital. . £215,259 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Overdraft . . 2,709 1,176 69,299
Sundry creditors 69,152 44,274 45,457 50,950
Freeholds . . 75,815 79,783 80,581 78,570
Plant, etc. . . 115,870 95,588 111,786 88,285
Shares other cos. 52,546 72,546 72,546 72,546
Stocks . . 125,043 89,240 134.816 123,212
Book debts, etc. 24,875 44,639 50,484 36,865
Cash, etc. .. 14,573 11,963 1,055 1,296
A reduction of £23,501 in plant, £2Oll
in freehold, £11,604 in stocks and
£13,619 in debtors’ balances, together
with surplus earnings and an extra £5493
from sundry creditors, enabled the over-
draft (£69,299 at the previous balance)
to be wiped out. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£110,423) was £38,824. Whether the
substantial reduction in the plant item
was wholly on account of depreciation,
or partly on account of depreciation and
partly on account of sale of old equip-
ment, is not disclosed in the published
sheet.
During the current term, trading looks
like being more difficult than it was in
the last one, and costs, including taxation,
remain on the up-grade, while competi-
tion promises to get yet more of an edge
on it. The co.’s modern equipment and
its wide goodwill, however, should mean
much, and, unless something unexpected
happens, the 10 p.c. div. appears to be
in no danger.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s. ords.
at 13s. 6d. as against 11s. a year ago.
The return at 13s. 6d. is an attractive
7.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 245. 7d. yield 6.5 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £3 4s. 3d. prefs.
and 20s. 4d. ords.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 20,341 10 p.c.= 12,500 1 99 „
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO j bb^l6 llbb
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 1 ~ „. a
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO j 71 ’ 75b 648
Transferred to capital, £12,500. .59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 l QQn 7 ,
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j 61 ’ 890 74
1932.. 10,044 64 p.c. = 8,938 1 qqr 19 ,-.q
Staff Super. Fund,- £lOOO j bi,yyb
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 ar . , 7in
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) bl ’ Bbo 1/xu
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8.250 1 fi9 R , n
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 rr ( .
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ( bJ>MO ~
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 rq 9 „,
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO
1937. 7 p.c. = 9,625 \ 71 _
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j ' I,JOJ
1938. . 13,478 74 p.c. =10,313 \ - 7 „ n 9 „ 7 „
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J l6 ' I6U
19 «+ «• 13,550I 3,550 J ? C ’ = iV„nn } 75,280 2708
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j
Growing realisation of the advantages
of a corporate over a private trustee,
together with the complications now asso-
ciated with the administration of estates,
is sending more business into the expert
care of the cos., whose corpus and
other earnings have lately got a little
assistance from the slight strengthening
of interest rates and of rental, real estate
and other security values. Still, there is
not the profit margins there used to be
in trusteeship and the agency business
that usually goes with it. While corpus
and other commission charges have re-
mained unaltered, the work involved in
administration, collection, etc., has greatly
increased, and so, of course, have costs,
as the following summary of the Union’s
p. and 1. figures shows:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 . . . . £17,318 £9,728 56.1
1920 . . . . 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 . . . . 80,658 59,905 74.1
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 . . . . 97.411 82,571 84.7
1937 . . 90,731 75,776 83.5
1938 . . . . 99,595 84.117 84.5
1939 .. .. 103,275 87,725 85.9
The spring of £3680 in gross earnings
(interest and other income not separated
in the published sheet) was almost wholly
offset by the growth of £3608 in exes.,
which took an extra 28s. of each £lOO
of gross. After reserving £2OOO (same
as previous term) for taxation, the net
result (up £72) was 9.8 p.c. ~ on the
£137,500 of paid capital, compared with
9.8, 9.4, 9.3, 8.7, 7.6, 6.5 and 8.1 p.c.
back to 1932. Half a point was added
to the div., making it 8 p.c. For 11
years to the close of accounts in 1930
the co. paid a steady 10 p.c., sweetened
with £25,000 of bonus scrip. The lowest
rate paid during the slump was 6 p.c.
At 445. (495. 6d. a year ago) the return
is 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. It is a
very satisfactory yield from a sound trustee
stock with possibilities of a bit better later
on. The £2 10s. shares are paid to 275. 6d.,
and all but 2s. 6d. of the balance is a
reserve liability callable only in the event
of liquidation. The net tangible cover is
31s. 4d. per pound of paid capital.
When the books closed, the capital
and reserves—there was nothing coming
to outsiders —were invested in premises,
£136,696; Government securities, etc.,
£60,955; mortgage, £l5OB ; debtors’
balances, £4804; cash, £20,118.
8.H.P.-floated Wellington Alluvials
(N.S.W.) completed its financial year on
April 30. Dredge tally for the period
was 2,710,000 c.y. for 12,284 fine ounces
gold—2.2gr. per c.y., same as for the
initial four months’ digging. Costs aren’t
mentioned, but £lOOO per week was th©
figure given half-way through the term.
There was then an overdraft of £73,000,
largely the result of dredge cost exceed-
ing estimates and additional expenditure
on overburden equipment. Clay has
given some trouble, and so has the bucket
line, which is being equipped with new
buckets. With gold at £8 Aust. an ounce
the co.’s Macquarie River property is
estimated to contain 60,000,000 c.y. of
profitable wash down to 65ft.
* $ * *
A 19-page closely-printed reply of the
board of London-controlled Great
Boulder Prop, to the circulars issued by
the Grundt committee says the policy
of the board has been (a) to rescue the
mine from the tributors ; ( b ) prosecute
underground development with speed so
as to bring back an average grade of
ore which could be worked profitably by
an up-to-date plant; (c) discard obsolete
plant and replace it with up-to-date
equipment, capable of treating three
times as much as the old mill; ( d ) raise
the required capital to face an expendi-
ture of approximately £A700,000 ; (e)
continue to pay a minimum dividend of
25 p.c. p.a. during the whole period of
mine recovery and re-establishment. In
spite of many difficulties, it is claimed, all
these object's have been achieved, and
major mine expenditure has now ceased.
As to the committee’s criticism of mine
management, the directors say comparison
between 1935, after Claude de Bernales
became chairman and managing director,
and 1938 in the matter of gold recovery,
working costs, ore reserves and dividends
does not provide evidence of inefficiency.
In reply to the suggestion that De
Bernales was indirectly making large
profits from the Gt. Boulder co.
through his association, with other
cos. and their interlocking interests,
the directors declare “he receives no
remuneration more than he is en-
titled to, or any remuneration which is
in any way detrimental to the co.” And
they mention that an independent report
by a leading Westralian mining engineer
states that the co.’s gold mill is probably
the finest in Australia. More will be
said on both sides before the annual
meeting on June 23.
Mines in the Westralian De Bernales
gold group produced yellow metal worth
£A319,985 during the first quarter
of this year. Great Boulder supplied
more than half, while Yellowdine,
Emu, Gladiator and Comet made up the
balance. According to a recent report
from the last-mentioned producer, a
winze from the level which is 188 ft.
vertically below the surface has been
sunk 92ft. in ore averaging 18.8dwt. ovei
an exposed width of 6ft. New plant to
treat the sulphides which occur at a
shallow depth is being installed.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has just made
another half-yearly estimate of ore re-
serves. This time “actual” ore is put at
167,000 tons, averaging 5.26dwt., and
“probable” at 93,000 tons, averaging
s.lodwt. Six months ago the figures were
“actual” 175,000 tons, 5.23dwt., and
“probable” 96,000 tons, s.lldwt. A year
ago they were 186,000 tons, 5.66dwt., and
101,300 tons, 5.44dwt. In 12 months
there has thus been a shrinkage of 19,300
tons in “actual” and 8000 tons in “prob-
able,” while the fall in grade has been
o.4odwt. and o.34dwt. respectively. The
ore treated in the interim approximated
120,000 tons, but about a third of this
was purchased from other leaseholders
and prospecting parties.
* * * *
In March Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) decided to increase mill capacity
to 12,000 tons a month ; now it an-
nounces that it has taken options on
a group of leases north of the Golden
Mile which have been held for some
years by the B.A.N.Z. Co., and which
are in the vicinity of other blocks G.M.
of K. is testing.
* * t;: ©
North Kalgurli’s profits steadily in-
crease Those for 1938 aggregated
£175,281, compared with £166,466 for
1937. After spending a substantial sum
on development, making provision for
taxation, and paying 2s. per share in
dividends, £31,296 is carried forward.
* * * *
Westralian gold prospectors seem to be
doing well. From Kimberley in the far
north to Dundas in the south, and from
Pilbara in the west to Laverton in the
east, good crushings are reported from
State mills. The two best among recent
returns were from Lone Hand, Day
Dawn, 2600 z. from 198 tons, and from
Leggerini’s block, Hampton Plains,'
118 oz. from 14 tons.
* 0 £
The rise in the price of gold during
the first quarter of 1939 made the pay-
rolls of Westralian .goldminers a bit
fatter. The extra money is in accordance
with a clause in the various goldmining
awards which allows for a variation in
the special industry allowance, following
fluctuations in the price of the metal.
Present increases are 4d. a-shift and 2s.
a week for weekly wage-earners.
* * * *
Westralia, which produced 1,167,7920 z.
fine gold last year, aims at a yield of
1 i million ounces for 1939 ; and it looks
like succeeding, despite an unlooked-for
shortage in the' February return, due to
stoppages through heavy rain. First
quarter’s output totalled 275,3220 z., or
28250 z. more than for the first three
months of 1938.
J. D. Littlepage, who for about 10
years prior to 193 S held one of the high-
est jobs with the Soviet Gold Trust, says
that Russia can maintain indefinitely
second place among the world’s gold-pro-
ducers, and that output could be in-
creased “very substantially in the near
future,” if so desired ; that in the last
few years important new alluvial areas
have been discovered, and that he knows
personally of at least 10 large lode mines
and several smaller ones which only
await development.
❖ * * *
The N. S. Wales Department of Mines
has just issued a new (fifth) edition of
its popular Guide-Book for the Use of
Prospectors in N. S. Wales. Besides a
brief survey of the distribution of ore-
deposits of the State, and enunciation of
the principal factors governing selection
of an area for prospecting, the new
edition contains additional sections deal-
ing with amalgamation, corduroy-strake
concentration and cyanidation. The price
is Is. 6d., plus postage 2d.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.R.: Approach the co. first... .E.N.8.: (1)
Not bright. (2) Cannot say; no record....
G.W.: If safety of capital is important look
the other way... .J.A.W.A.: (1) The bonds are
long-term speculations, and guesses as to what
bondholders will ultimately receive out of the
venture aren’t worth much. (2) Immediate pros-
pects are not favorable. (3) Write to the secre-
tary and ask for quote.... Invest: South Aus.
Brewing appears to be a better buy at the
moment.


SMOKE-OH!
Some European countries are up in
arms but down in the mouth.
•£• *i* *3*
“Japan to Tax Dinners.” — Cable.
Through the Diet.
4* 4* 4*
“Commission spent days discussing a
comma.” — “Argus.”
Taxpayers would be better pleased if
the Commission brought itself to a full
stop.
4* 4* 'l* v
“Nowadays records don’t last very long.”
—Sporting note.
Broadcasting stations have other ideas.
4* 4* 4 1
“Racehorses are often given a lot of walking
exercise before an event.” — Turf topic.
And punters afterwards.
4* 4* 4*
“Only half of the adult population of Aus-
tralia possess normal hearing.”
—Medical statistics.
The other half own wireless sets.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“When the party had ended, Harold moodily
coaxed strange things from the piano.”
—Extract from story.
Probably cigarette butts, bottle-tops
and sandwich scraps.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I have expressed abhorrence of war. I am
not aware for what purpose I should wag it.”
— Hitler, according to “S. M. Herald.”
And wouldn’t “Granny” cane him if
he did!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A famous violinist says that he trains like
an athlete before every important recital.”
He likes to feel as fit as his fiddle.
4* 4* 4< 4*
“Ever tried to read the telephone book for
fun? ” — “S.M.H.”
Only once, but then the queue outside
the box started to get funny.
4* 4* 4> 4*
“Clever girl artist designs stained-glass
windows.” — Women’s paper.
But it’s when small boys follow their
own designs that the windows really get
a break.
“Two sections, please!”
“There is something
pathetic about the last rose
of summer.”
— Women’s paper.
Not half so pathetic
as the Rose of last
summer.
“He made a special lard from the kidney fat
of rabbits to rub on his head.”
— Women’s paper.
To raise a few hares?
►!* *!< •b
“Seaweed has almost limitless virtues when
properly treated.” — ‘‘World’s News.”
It’s worth its salt even though it’s
usually all washed up.
His Sweetie.
“I just said ‘Hello, honey’ as she went by,
and after that 1 couldn’t get rid of her. ’
—Sailor in court case.
Had he rudely cried “Ahoy, avast!”
She would have had no truck with him.
He called her “honey” as she passed,
And so she simply stuck with him.
LEON.
Anomaly.
Regarding men who drink
The soul-inspiring cup.
How strange to think,
The more they sink,
The more they get buoyed-up !.
T. W. N.
Fruit Salad.
“What is the exact nature of a ‘fruity’ kiss?”
— Women’s paper.
Well, first of all, a pear who pine for
each other make a date, he being the
apple of the girl’s eye
and she a real peach.
A louquat dress assists
in raisin the quality of
her sex appeal.
The man lets his in-
hibitions go to the juice,
grabs the girl as though
he’ll crush her to pulp,
and plants a kiss plum
on her cherry lips—or
raspberry, if that’s the
lipstick she uses.
Nevertheless, a melon-
choly situation may
occur if the man’s wife
arrives and starts going
lemony.
T. W. N.
A Few Drawbacks.
“Lake Kutubu is likely to prove valuable as
a base for seaplanes... .The only difficulty is
low cloud which forms over it every afternoon
and the mountains of about 4000 ft. to 6000 ft.
high near by.”— “S. M. Herald.”
It reminds me of Maria and the time
we were looking for a furnished cottage
at a mountain holiday resoft. Maria
discovered one near the little hamlet of
Tinpot, which she declared enthusiasti-
cally was “ideal.”
“Of course we would have to get a
car,” she added. “The place is about
seven miles out. I’m not quite sure
whether the car could use the road except
in very good weather. It’s only a bush
track. Then there’s a climb of about
500 ft. from where the track ends. And
there are no shops there, but that keeps
it select, doesn’t it?
“Somebody did tell me that the place
is full of white-ants, and you’ve got to
be careful where you tread on the floors.
But people will talk. The man on the
station said the whole ledge the cottage
stands on is cracked and may fall 1000 ft.
into the valley at any time.
“Oh! There isn’t much furniture —
just stretcher-beds and a table and some
chairs. There are a good many things
we’d have to take there to be comfort-
able ; but surely, even if we don’t get a
“Where be I see un before?”
“In BULLETEEN, I ’ speck !”
car, you’re not too lazy to carry a few
things there.
“I admit there are a few drawbacks.
The kitchen was burnt down some time
ago, so the cooking has to be done in
the open. But you could do it if the
weather was bad.
“But the place is absolutely ideal! It
has such a beautiful view!”
H. M.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
IV.
No handyman can consider himself
really competent until he has mastered
every phase of painting. It is not enough
merely to get a new brush, dip it in a tin
of ready-mixed paint and slosh it on —
anyone can do that. The handyman
should know the fundamentals of mixing
his own paints. Not only will he derive
a greater satisfaction from the knowledge
that the completed job is entirely the
fruit of his own labors, but it must come
out cheaper than paint bought from a
store because the labor of mixing it costs
him nothing.
“Measuring up” a house to gauge the
quantity of paint that will be necessary
is an exact science. The practice favored
by some men of walking around the
house and taking a rough guess cannot
be too strongly condemned.
First buy a half-pint tin of paint (any
color will do) and put it as far as it will
go on the paling fence. Now measure up
the area you have painted. If, for ex-
ample, it has covered a patch sft. by
4ft. you will know that half a pint does
20 sq. ft. and that therefore a gallon will
cover (if put on at a uniform thickness)
320 sq. ft.
Next measure up accurately the various
parts of the house that require painting.
It is best to do this systematically,
starting off with the guttering and
working down to the cellar.
Climb the ladder with your rule
and mark off each foot of guttering
with a piece of chalk, giving each a
consecutive number. Go right around
the house like this until you come to
your starting point. Say the last number
you put down is 211 and the width
of the guttering is Bin. The square-
footage of the guttering will therefore
be 140.66. In these calculations no more
than two decimal points are necessary.
With comparatively large areas like
doors, barge-boards, eaves, etc., the cal-
culations offer few difficulties, but
fiddling things like the narrow strips be-
tween window panes and latticework, in
which you are dealing in fractions of an
inch, require more concentration.
Having arrived at the total number of
square feet multiply it by two (for the
two coats of paint). Say the grand total
reaches 1020 sq. ft. At 320 sq. ft. to
the gallon (see previous calculation) this
will mean that you will need exactly 3.187
gallons to do the job.
Here is where mixing your own paint
is going to put money in your pocket.
Could you go into a shop and buy 3.187
gallons of paint? No. You’d have to
take 3i, which means that you would be
paying for .063 of a gallon that you
patently would have no use for.
So far, so good. It but remains to
bring the ingredients to a gallonage basis
to calculate the quantity you will need
to buy.
Whitelead, linseed oil, turps and a little
varnish to give the paint a shine will be
needed. Whitelead is the only one of
these not sold by liquid measure, and to
conform to the rest this will have to be
brought to that standard from its weight.
Calculation of this is arrived at simply.
Buy a pound of whitelead and put it in
an eight-pint saucepan, spreading it out
evenly. By measuring the inside depth of
the saucepan before and after putting in
the whitelead you can find out what pro-
portion of the saucepan it is taking up.
Say, for example, it is l-48th ; you will
know then that one gallon of whitelead
would equal 481 b.
By far the greater bulk of paint is
taken up in whitelead and oil, and it
would be safe to whack up the three
gallons equally between them. The .187
of a gallon that is over can be split up
evenly between the turps and varnish.
As the colors won’t materially affect the
paint’s bulk their weight can be ignored.
Get a pound of each of the colors (dry)
that you favor ; remember it is always
cheaper to buy in bulk.
Regarding the color scheme, the two-
tone effect is the most fashionable. Con-
trasting colors are, of course, the only
ones to use. By mixing your own you
get a very wide choice ; moreover, you
can experiment and perhaps get colors
which no other house in the street has
got—this is a point that should particu-
larly appeal to your wife. Something, say,
like ox-blood guttering with mustard
woodwork, or a tasteful scheme in flame
orange and battleship grey.
For the two colors two containers will
be necessary. They must be large enough
to allow you to stir the mixture without
spilling it over the sides.
Most satisfactory is a five-gallon keg
cut in half. As an empty one is prac-
tically unobtainable you will have to
get a full one from the brewery. This
will again prove a money-saver. The
beer, siphoned into quart bottles, will
come out much cheaper than the Is. 6d.
net you pay for the week-end quart at
the pub. Moreover, you can be certain
you are not drinking the bar drippings.
Saw the empty keg through the middle,
afterwards hosing it out thoroughly to
get rid of any yeast that may be clinging
to the sides, otherwise your paint may
rise on you.
Divide the whitelead equally between
the two containers, then pour the oil
over it in equal parts, following with the
turps and varnish in like proportion.
Now throw in a handful of the dry color
you have selected; if you are mixing
the colors —say, burnt sienna and Paris
green—half a handful of each. (Small
men will need to throw in a handful and
a half, large men about three-quarters
of a handful.) It now remains only to
mix them all up thoroughly.
S. W. K.


I **
LIFT GOING IF MADAM
*' • ,
l
S»
B
W
mii
as
a -
maiWraaSaiß
* Tftts illustration was drawn in the Victoria Entrance Hall
Uniformed, trained lift attendants and silent
safe lifts that take you to your home-like comfortable
room, are symbols of the luxuries and services that are
yours at the Victoria.
The special guest service is always at your elbow ... to
help you select a theatre; to advise you about sales and
shopping; to inform you about trains and trams and to
tell you all that is on in Melbourne.
In Melbourne, there is no comfort and service equal to the
Victoria’s. So, in Melbourne, STAY at the Victoria.
VICTORM PALACE
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
y
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, 8'- to 161-
Singles, 4'- to 7/6
Sidney D. Horne, Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
Island Traders.
Looked at from either the short
or long view, W. R. Carpenter at
40s, 3d. and Morris Hedstrom at 24s.
are at interesting levels. Current
yields are respectively 5 and 5.5
p.c. Copra is still down, but,
though this affects merchandising
activities, downward price trends
here fall more heavily on the
grower than on these island con-
cerns, while shipping and other in-
terests prove a solid standby even
in the worst of times. Disclosed
p. and 1. figures aren’t by any
means the full story of trading,
and recent expansion has yet to
make itself felt, too, particularly
in W.R.C.’s case.
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z. ).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
► ►
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI.HONOLULU
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Whakatane Paper Mills, Ltd.
Glowing and varied have been the tales
of potential softwoods wealth spun by
forestry-bonds salesmen. There has never
been much doubt about individual cos.’
(or rather Nature’s) ability to , produce
the trees ; the difficulty is to realise them,
once matured, at a profit—at any rate,
one commensurate with capital invested.
For Whakatane Paper Mills (formerly
Timberlands Woodpulp) the testing stage
is at hand. After considerable delays, the
co.’s first production unit started up at
the end of March. Of Swedish manufac-
ture and costing, with powerhouse and
mill buildings, a round half-million, it is
designed to turn out 12,000 tons of
groundwood pulp a year and (manufac-
turing one variety) 20,000 tons of paper
board—some 4000 tons less producing a
range of board.
Kraft paper will not be manufactured ;
so there will be no clashing with N.Z.
Paper Mills. Indeed, Whakatane may
supply the wrapping-paper concern with
portion of its raw materials when a pro-
posed 10,000-ton-capacity chemical-pulp
mill (estimated cost £150,000) gets going ;
the second phase of production is
scheduled for three years hence. Obvi-
ously, available finance for this and pro-
posed production of newsprint—at what
cost remains to be seen—two years later
still will depend on the success or other-
wise of board-making operations.
The forests are in the Bay of Plenty
district; the co. owns 69,000 acres, of
which approximately 50,000 acres is
forest. Early pulpwood requirements are
being drawn from . Matakana Island,
about 45 miles from the mill, where
cutting rights over about five years’
supply of thinnings have been ac-
quired. The co.’s own forests will not
be ready for logging for another three
years. In the initial stages about 2500
tons of chemical pulp will be imported
annually, and it is expected to gather
7500 tons of wastepaper locally.
Dominion consumption of imported
cardboard is estimated at 12,000 tons
p.a., and of woodpulp wallboard 4000
tons —total, 16,000 tons, worth over.
£300,000, most of which the co. expects
to supply, as a result of recent rigorous
import restrictions. Including £5OOO
annually for forest maintenance, all-in
costs of production, selling and adminis-
tration within the Dominion are put at
£l5 a ton. With present equipment profits
of £lOO,OOO p.a. are looked for after pro-
viding £30,000 for depreciation. The
taxgatherer is expected to take £40,000,
leaving £60,000 net.
The co. has been on the market for
£150,000 of 5| p.c. debenture money, con-
vertible into 7 p.c. prefs., of which £45,000
had been taken up at the beginning of
January. Assuming the full amount is got
in and subsequently converted, roughly
£40,000 of the £60,000 would remain for
the ords. after meeting pref. charges, or
approx. 2 p.c. on their capital. Taking
the management’s own estimates, there-
fore, it is apparent that any ord. div. for
the first few years at least is out of con-
sideration in view of the construction
programme planned.
Subscribed capital runs to the huge
figure of £2,085,834 —148,499 7 p.c. prefs.
and 1,937,335 ords. Of that, £596,467
represents bonus shares handed out in
the bond-and-share fusion of 1933, forest
lands largely being written up to balance
the accounts. At the beginning of 1939
£2,025,578 of the lot had been paid up,
leaving £60,256 to come. Financial
affairs six months earlier are here sum-
marised for what they are worth:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £1,774,457 £1,892,649 £2,017,398
Land debts .. 36,250 21,250 6,250
Trust fund .. 17,552 16,240 11,824
Other debts .. 1,229 1,557 22,018
Forests, etc. .. 1,055,697 1,054,009 1,060,199
Plant, etc. .. 46,553 185,452 497,214
Debtors .. 480 919 1,002
Shares .. 1,920 1,920 1,920
Consols, etc. .. 119,512 28,456 28,872
Public Trustee 17,552 16,240 11,824
Cash .. 152,665 186,893 17,157
Stores, etc. .. 21,032
Establishment.. 436,111 459,805 498,957
In January £90,000 was owing on Lon-
don account for raw materials and equip-
ment, and £25,000 was needed to see the
mill through the first three months’ pro-
duction. Certain trafficking in shares has
not eased the board’s financial problems.
With a largely protected market, the
co. kicks off in favored circumstances
despite the big rise in costs on the other
side of the Tasman. Trial orders are said
to have been received from the Common-
wealth, where the big and efficient A.P.M.
holds a monopoly. Hopes of building up
an export trade, of course, largely re-
volve round the question of costs, esti-
mates of which have yet to be substan-
tiated. What will happen when other
afforestation concerns get their teeth into
the knotty problem of realising their
forests in the not-too-distant future also
remains to be seen. Meantime, the
market sums up the risks by pricing the
fully-paid pound prefs. at Bs. and the
ords. at 4s. Half the co.’s 12,000 share-
holders live in the Commonwealth, West-
ralia figuring noticeably.
After years of investigation into the
tin-plate industry, B.H.P. arranged in
1935 for the drafting of plans for a
plant. Impending changes in overseas
technique, however, combined with pro-
posed expansion of the Newcastle steel-
works and other B.H.P. enterprises,
caused the project to be temporarily
shelved. Now almost immediate Federal
approval of the establishment of the in-
dustry at Whyalla (S.A.) is expected —at
Whyalla B.H.P. is putting up a million-
and-a-half blast furnace. Final details of
the tin-plate venture have yet to be settled,
but an early start with construction is
anticipated. The thing is to cost
£2,500,000 —the Government for its part
will spend £2,400,000 on bringing water
from the Murray —and will be one of the
Prop.’s biggest subsidiary enterprises, pro-
viding direct employment for 1000 men,
and affording another outlet for B.H.P.
steel. Shareholders will most probably
be approached to help things along. At
present £2,500,000 annually goes out of
the country for tin-plate. The move
should be of inestimable value to food-
canners, rendering them independent of
overseas supplies.
Industrial activity has made great
strides in S.A., especially since State
taxation was substantially reduced. Apart
from B.H.P. activities, new industries on
the list include steel-tube and chemical
manufacture and strawboard production,
and Die Casters is already in its stride.
* sH * *
A.C.I. ords. justified this page’s re-
cently-expressed opinions by running up
to 335. Iyd. last week —a new “high” and
equivalent to £6 4s. for old “Glass” ords.
The latest balance sheet is calculated to
give shareholders a comfortable feeling.
After valuation of shareholdings at
£7,043,017, total surplus from the recent
reconstruction was £4,446,219, taking into
account disappearance of the goodwill
item from the parent’s figures. Assuming
there has been no large-scale writing-up
of intangibles, appearances are that pro-
fits of the co. in its 17 years’ existence
have been understated even more than
most people thought. Thus, despite the
scattering of £2,558,814 of gift scrip, re-
serves (£2,670,428, including a contribu-
tion of £84,913 from latest profits) are
now piled £1,842,068 higher than a year
ago. While obviously any further im-
mediate melon-cutting is out of the ques-
tion, this £2,670,428 should form a nice
nucleus for something further of the sort
in later years, particularly as the organ-
isation goes on expanding. Meantime,
market interest is mainly centred in the
new div. rate. Last term’s 6.86 p.c., a
broken rate, is unlikely to be repeated ;
the 8.8 p.c. shown on enlarged ord. capi-
tal suggests 7 p.c. or even 7\ p.c. is a
reasonable expectation.
* * * *
Ruskin Motor Bodies, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne, has had its £75,000 7 p.c. cum.
pref. issue underwritten firm, mostly by
lan Potter and Co., sharebrokers. W. S.
Ross, a director, has underwritten and
taken firm 10,000 shares. An offshoot
of Allied Motor Interests (for share-
holders in which 20,000 shares have been
reserved), the Ruskin co. has five-year
contracts for turning out or assem-
bling Morris and Wolseley bodies
(21 months now run), as well as
orders covering bodies for 1939 and
1940 Hudsons. The co. made net
profits of £27,226 in the year to July 31,
1937, and £40,027 during the 1938 twelve-
month. For the half-year to Jan. 31,
1939, earnings are shown at £12,876;
though on a reduced scale, they would
cover a full year’s requirements of the
present pref. issue more than twice,
or at the rate of four times for
a year’s earnings. Net tangible back-
ing is estimated at £3 Bs. 3d. a
share. Some shareholders in Allied
Motor Interests may ask why a larger
proportion of the issue wasn’t reserved
for their prior application. The 6| p.c.
pref. issue of York Motors, the co. hand-
ling the Morris and Chrysler car agencies
in N. S. Wales, went below par momen-
tarily following listing, but are now at a
slight premium.
.* * * *
Down to 48s. at the beginning of last
week, Peters (Syd.) fully-paids later
strengthened a shilling or so. Drawn-out
legal pother over the proposed gift issue
seems largely responsible for the marking-
down of the shares from this year’s peak
of 565. On last term’s intended 17.8 p.c.
distribution —only half was paid pending
settlement of litigation—the yield offer-
ing is 5.1 p.c. Earning power of the
co. and its inter-State pups continues
robust —28.5 p.c. was shown on capital
for 1938 —and that is the main thing,
bonus issue or no bonus issue.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
While Sydney banks tended to strengthen,
National shares had difficulty in maintaining
their price. At £6 4s. the £5 paids were
yielding what looked like a very attractive
4.9 p.c.
Yarra Falls moved on to 365., with buyers
prepared to continue at that figure.
Heartened by Prestige’s showing, Beau
Monde sold up a shilling at Bs. 9d. Better is
evidently expected now the carton-printing
works have been disposed of.
North Kals. kept steady. Profit for 1938
has been declared £BBl5 better at £5175,281,
subject to depreciation and taxation. Cuth-
berts scored a good rise. Recoveries this year
have been around 2s. a ton up on the 1938 ex-
perience.


/
v. v .
?*2afc
«3
VSBSI
so
r- SJa
V
Who told the Bee-
that it is a good thing to gather honey and
put it safely away for future use? It is
Nature’s way she permits no waste.
What a lesson to those fortunate enough
to gather money even in very tiny
pieces. Follow the example of the bee
and save for the day of need.
DON’T WASTE YOUR MONEY —SAVE IT
tanonwealtl) Savings Bank of Australia
Over 4,000 Branches and Agencies j
X>kcib gitteA uow
Cbtitamttp S^rmyntMif:
*<">' "iff* ‘5i T Wow>iw/
J/V the High Efficiency Spirit which assures the Demand
from Business Men for Greater Economy
W391
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD
[INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.] ALL STATES.
Under European political influence
rubber has failed to record any appre-
ciable price-rise over the last few months,
despite rapid improvement in the statis-
tical position of the commodity—visible
stocks outside the regulated area, for ex-
ample, fell 100,000 tons (to 456,000 tons)
in the five months to the end of Decem-
ber. Most satisfactory factor in the
present outlook is improved demand
from the U.S.A. (whether partly as a
result of “emergency” stocking-up is not
clear), which absorbs approximately half
the world’s supply of the commodity. In
1938 falling-off of United States demand
(411,000 tons) accounted for 130,000 tons
of the 185,000-ton decline in apparent
world consumption (908,868 tons). For
the first quarter of the current term,
however, Uncle Sam has used up 138,800
tons, his consumption for March running
to 50,200 tons, as against 30,487 tons for
the same month of 1938. Increased
activity of motor plants—estimated out-
turn for 1939 is 3,400,000 cars and trucks,
compared with 2,600,000 for 1938 —
bigger tyre-replacement demand, and in-
creased call for tractor tyres have been
largely responsible. New uses for the
commodity in transport (street cars, for
example) and other industries are also
being constantly developed. That “the
rubber industry is now on the threshold
of the most significant period in its
history” is the optimistic view of D. M.
Goodrich, chairman of the B. F. Good-
rich Co., of Akron.
* * * *
There has lately been buying of Ber-
juntai Tin Dredging ss. shares round 12s.
The co. (paid capital £170,000) is one of
the new Malay ventures to commence
production, and it has a huge prop-
erty. Checkboring has indicated the
eastern sector to contain 50,500,000 c.y.
of 0.61 b. wash; in the western area
there is 65,277,000 c.y. going 0.471 b.
Conditionally on a 300,000-c.y.-monthly
plant being installed best monthly
effort has been 278,000 c.y.—an assess-
ment of 14,400 piculs was granted. The
dredge, bought from Kuala Kampar Tin
Fields and remodelled, set in in Decem-
ber. In the five months since average
half-pound values (255 tons) have been
won from 1,126,000 c.y. At that rate
the temporary loan raised to finish off
the construction programme should be
quickly cleared. On turnover of
3,600,000 c.y. annually, life of the prop-
erty would run to 33 years.
*
Briseis Tin shares ran up to Bs. 3d.
(buyer) last week following a lift to
£5225 12s. in the metal. Chairman Harry
Moxham says that it is “reasonable to
assume the life of the mine will extend
for 20 or 25 years.” For the moment, at
any rate, the co. is in the money, excel-
lent values being won, with costs reason-
able. Both will vary during the life of
the mine, which is well managed. Six-
pence a share, including 3d. bonus, is to
go out on May 22.
# * * *
Wide disparity exists in sharemarket
valuations of Amalgamated Wireless
fully-paids and contribs. The former ran
up to 60s. 6d. last week, as against last
dealings of 535. in the latter. With 25.,
only uncalled —no intimation has been
given if and when the money is likely
to be wanted—the contribs. are obviously
the better proposition, especially as yields
in each case are in line. The partly-
paids enjoy a much freer market, too.
* * * *
Lincoln Mills 4s. f.-ps. have lately put
on a shilling (to 75.) in Melbourne. Of
recent years the co.’s competitive power
has been strongly increased by mod-
ernisation and solid writing-down of
plant, as a result of which “further
[depreciation] provision on a scale so
generous is unnecessary,” the chairman
reported at the last meeting. Net earn-
ings showed a margin of £17,594 over
pref. and ord. handouts last term, and
the ords. could have been handed 30.1
p.c. instead of 8.3 p.c. without tapping
reserves. Trade conditions aren’t quite as
good as they were a year back, but the
market appears to be inclining to this
page’s view that the altered depreciation
policy should go a long way to offsetting
general economic setbacks.
* * * *
The public is to be given an opportu-
nity of taking up privately 20,000 to
23,000 ords. in Mantons, the Melbourne
department store, prior to which £45,000
of gift scrip, raising ord. capital to
£135,000 (mostly held by members of the
Manton family), is to go into the post.
Price to be asked is mentioned as
probably 345. Excellently situated in
Bourke-street on the old Theatre
Royal site, just down the way from
Myer’s and, like Myer’s, running
through to Little Bourke, the busi-
ness was founded by present managing
director W. V. Manton in 1925, adopted
limited liability the following year and
turned into a public co. some three years
back, when the public put up £140,000 of
7 p.c. pref. money. Quick turnover mainly
for cash is the keynote of trading. Ord.
div. of 10 p.c. went out for the year to
June 30 from net available earnings on
that class of capital of 28.9 p.c. —18 p.c.
if the present bonus is taken into the
reckoning. Visible reserves then came
to £65,032 net, apart from £53,318 in
leasehold revaluation account.
'J*
Loss of £25,214 by Australia Silknit
in its latest year, following a profit of
only £4807 in 1937, as against declared
average profits of £20,548 in the half-
dozen years before the public came in with
£60,000 of pref. share-money in 1937,
came as a shock for shareholders. Skilled
labor problems and a disastrous experi-
ence in the outerwear department, which
has been closed down, are chiefly blamed
for the latest showing. “Resumption of
profitable trading” is looked for in the
current term, while expenses have been
“reduced considerably.” One item of
outgo calling for attention appears to be
“directors’ management salaries”—£73lB
in 1937 and £6620 last term. There are
three directors, one representing the
Canadian parent, which owns the whole
of the ord. capital; only one (George
Epstein) figures as “managing” on the
balance sheet sent to shareholders.
H* •i'
Woolworths Properties’ £296,697 share
offer is to registered holders on May 26.
It will double the present 6 p.c. cumu-
lative preferred ord. issue., div. again
being guaranteed by the parent. The
issue, something of a surprise, illustrates
the extent of recent expansion of the
organisation’s affairs.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Why Stalin Shot His Generals.
[Condensed from one of the articles referred to in
last Friday’s cable touching on the resignation of
Litvinoff: “The British press draws attention to a
series of articles in the ‘Saturday Evening Post’ in which
General Krivitsky, who broke with M. Stalin in 1937,
alleges that M. Stalin’s policy has always been friendship
with Herr Hitler.” This remarkable series of aritcles
is further dealt with in the panel item “Red Army
Purge.”]
On June 11, 1937, an official bulletin from Mos-
cow told the world of the sudden discovery of a con-
spiracy by the highest officers in the Red Army. The
following day another official bulletin announced the
execution of Marshal Tukhachevsky and seven other
pre-eminent Red Army generals, after an alleged
secret court-martial. Long before Stalin had “sud-
denly” discovered and disclosed the great Red Army
plot against his power, I was already in possession
of proof that Stalin had plotted the extermination of
ihe high command.
When all the pieces of the great puzzle of the
Red Army purge are fitted together, the finished pat-
tern reveals the following facts: Stalin’s plot to
frame Tukhachevsky and the other generals had been
put into motion at least six months before the sur-
prising discovery of the Red Army “conspiracy.”
Stalin executed Marshal Tukhachevsky and his
associates as German spies at the very time that he was
on the eve of closing a deal with Hitler resulting from
months of secret negotiations. Stalin deliberately
used evidence imported from Germany and manu-
factured by the Nazi Gestapo in his frame-up of the
most loyal generals of the Red Army. This evidence
was secured by the Ogpu from Tsarist military organi-
sations abroad. Stalin had General Eugene Miller,
the chief of the Federation of Tsarist Army Veterans,
kidnapped in Paris on September 22, 1937. This bold
act, which the world did not connect with the Red
Army purge, was perpetrated in order to destroy the
one outside source of information as to the channels
through which the Gestapo had supplied to the Ogpu
the “evidence” against the Red Army chiefs. *
The background of the differences between Stalin
and the Red Army command includes the forcible
collectivisation of the peasants’ holdings, with its de-
portations and other punitive measures, resulting in
the extermination of millions of peasants. This was
immediately reflected in the Red Army, which is
overwhelmingly peasant in origin. The soldiers and
recruits were filled with resentment, bitterness and even
with a spirit of rebellion over the fate suffered by
their relatives in the collectivisation drive. The morale
of the Red Army was rapidly deteriorating. The
Political Department of the army was deeply disturbed
by this demoralisation. It was a feeling shared by
the general staff and the commanding officers* led by
Tukhachevsky.
Another cause of dissatisfaction arose about the
same time in connection with Stalin’s policy of con-
cessions before Japanese aggression. That, too, de-
moralised the Red Army, particularly the officers’
corps.
Tukhachevsky had for years pleaded in vain with
Stalin for funds to motorise and otherwise mechanise
the Red Army. Stalin knew of this weak spot in
Tukhachevsky’s armor, and offered to him the ful-
filment of his long-cherished dream. Thus a political
deal was consummated by which Stalin had his way
in general policy at home and abroad, and the Red
Army command its way with respect to its moderni-
sation.
Such was the origin of what became commonly
known as the Red Army “opposition” to Stalin, and
Stalin determined to settle accounts with the leader-
ship of the Red Army. Reports began to reach me at
The Hague from Moscow indicating the progressive
isolation of Tukhachevsky and other generals. Many
of their closest aides were being arrested. The circle
around Tukhachevsky was being narrowed inch by
inch. It was now apparent to those of us who were
on the inside that his unique recond and position
would not save him. The only possible situation
that could save him would be the international crisis.
Even Stalin could hardly dare to leave the front wide
open to foreign foes in the face of a danger of war.
In March, 1937, I went to Moscow, ostensibly
to confer with Yezhov on an exceptionally confiden-
tial matter. My real motive, however, was anxiety
to learn what was happening. The sweep of Stalin’s
purge was increasing daily, and it was working havoc
abroad.
When I reached Moscow I found an atmosphere
of terror in the highest offices of the Soviet Govern-
ment. The extent of the purge was even greater than
had been reported outside Russia. One by one, men
who had been my friends and associates since the
civil war, hardened and trusted and loyal officers of
the general staff and other departments of the Red
Army, were disappearing. No one knew whether he
would be at his desk to-morrow. There was not a
doubt that Stalin was drawing the net around the
entire high command of the army.
It was, of course, no secret in the inner Soviet
circles that Stalin had long striven for an understand-
ing with Hitler. Almost three years had passed since
the night of the blood purge in Germany which had
convinced Stalin, even while it was occurring, that
the Nazi regime was firmly established and that it was
best to try to come to terms with a powerful opponent.
Now in April, 1937, Stalin was confident that the
deal with Hitler was as good as consummated ; that
he had no immediate attack to fear from Germany.
The road was clear for the purge of the Red Army.
By the end of April it became an open secret that
Marshal Tukhachevsky, Commissar Gamarnik and a
number of other highest-ranking generals were caught
in the rapidly-tightening net woven around them by
Stalin’s special agents. Some of these leaders were
still at liberty, but they were marked men. They
were shunned at social affairs. It was considered dan-
gerous to be seen speaking to them. They walked
alone, with silence around them.
The last time I saw my old chief, Marshal Tukha-
chevsky, was on the first of May, 1937, in the Red
Square. Who could guess the thoughts of a man who
walked free in the sunshine of May Day, knowing
he was doomed? He stopped for a moment, glanced
at the Red Square, massed with humanity and floats
and banners, and proceeded to the front of the Lenin
Tomb, the customary place for the Red Army generals
during the May Day parades.
Some minutes later Marshal Yegorov came up.
He did not salute Tukhachevsky or look at him, but
took the place beside him as if he were alone. A
few moments passed. Commissar Gamarnik walked
up. He, too, did not salute either of his comrades,
but took his place in the row as if he did not see
them.
Presently the row was filled. I looked at these
men, whom I knew to be loyal and devoted servants
of the revolution and of the Soviet Government. It
was apparent that they knew their fate. Each tried
to have nothing to do with the other. Each knew
that he was a virtual prisoner, destined for death,
but enjoying a reprieve by the grace of a despotic
master, enjoying a little of the sunshine and the free-
dom which the crowds and the foreign guests and
delegates mistook for real sunshine and real freedom.
On May 4, Marshal Tukhachevsky’s commission
to attend the Coronation of George VI. was can-
celled. He had represented the Soviet Government
at the funeral of George V. Admiral Orlov, Com-
missar of the Navy, was appointed in his stead. But
Orlov’s appointment was cancelled, too, and he was
later executed. -
May brought such a succession of arrests and
executions of men with whom I had lifelong associa-
tions that it seemed as if the roof were crashing and
the whole Soviet edifice were tumbling about me.
Something like a panic seized the entire corps of
officers in the Red Army. On my last day in Mos-
cow, the general alarm reached an unbearable pitch.
Hourly reports came to me of fresh arrests. My own
staff at the Lubianka offices was being disrupted, and
was in the grip of terror.
I left Moscow the evening of May 22. It was
like leaving a city in the midst of a series of earth-
quakes. Marshal Tukhachevsky had been arrested.
By the end of the month I was back in The Hague.
An official bulletin from the Soviet capital announced
that Vice-Commissar of War Gamarnik had com-
mitted suicide while under investigation. I learned
afterwards that Gamarnik did not commit suicide,
but was slain in prison by Stalin’s men.
On June 11, Moscow published for the first time
the news of the arrest of Tukhachevsky and seven
other top-rank generals as Nazi spies and fellow-con-
spirators of the dead Gamarnik. On June 12 came
the announcement of the execution of the eight chiefs,
following an alleged secret trial by a court-martial
composed of six high officers.
At least one of these six judges, General Alksnis,
had, to my knowledge, already been a prisoner of the
Ogpu at the time when he was supposed to be sitting
in judgment on his former chief, Tukhachevsky. Later
Alksnis was executed. So were two of the other
alleged members of the court-martial, Generals
Dybenko and Bielov. Marshal Bluecher, a fourth
member, fell into the Ogpu dragnet within a few
months.
In point of fact, there had been no court-martial
at all of the Tukhachevsky group. There was not
even a pretence of a joint case against its victims.
The eight generals were not executed together. The
prisoners were shot separately, and on different days.
The false report that a trial had taken place was
issued by Stalin to make the rank and file of the army
swallow the tale of the “sudden” discovery Qf a con-
spiracy in the Red Army.
How sudden the discovery was, what the real
plot was, and what had been the nature of the evi-
dence of “such a conspiracy as history has never
known,” all of these questions solved themselves
when I returned to Paris.
[General Krivitsky here describes in detail occurrences
in his own sphere of operations which, as he pieces
them together, prove that the plot against the generals
was of long standing, that the “evidence" against them was
deliberately built up, and that the kidnapping and murder
of General Miller in Paris (necessary because he was aware
of the plot) had been planned for a good six months
earlier than it occurred, but had been postponed because
of a hitch in Stalin’s negotiations with Hitler. He
claims that Stalin had to be sure no threat from Ger-
many was pending before taking action against the
generals, out of revenge for their past opposition and
to make his own position secure.]
The truth of Stalin’s “case” against Tukhachevsky
and his associates now appeared in all its crushing
enormity. Ever haunted by fear of losing his power,
Stalin stooped to new depths when he set out to
destroy the Red Army “opposition” with bullets
stuffed by Gestapo and Tsarist agents.
It was a shattering blow to have all the proof
that the extermination of the high command of the
Red Army was not due to a conspiracy against Stalin,
but was, in fact, a conspiracy by Stalin. The fate of
Marshal Tukhachevsky and the other generals had
been sealed by December, 1936. Only the date of
the slaughter had remained to be fixed.
When the veil over the mystery of the execution
of the heads of the Red Army is lifted, the cardinal
reason for the “conspiracy such as history has never
known” becomes clear:
Once more Stalin demonstrated that he never
forgets or forgives. The old differences of opinion
with the high command of the Red Army were remem-
bered by Stalin and viewed by him as “opposition.”
And this “opposition” became a “conspiracy” when
it was dragged into the meshes of his Ogpu machine.
In Stalin’s climb to absolute power, such “con-
spiracies” served as rungs in his ladder. In the pro-
cess, his critics became “enemies,” his sincere oppo-
nents became “traitors,” and all honest and zealous
minority opinions became, with the Ogpu aid,
“organised plots.” On the bodies of his former com-
rades and fellow-revolutionists, of the creators and
builders of the Soviet Government, Stalin was mount-
ing step by step to solitary control of the entire
Soviet Union.
Poland’s Strength and Weakness.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Bernard Newman .)
To-day 50 p.c. of the people of Poland are under
25 years of age —66 p.c. under 30! These are re-
markable figures. They mean that Poland, with a
population of only 34,000,000, can mobilise an army
larger than France with 41,000,000. The conscript
classes being called up to-day are nearly as large in
Poland as in Germany.
In the years 1920-25 the average number of boys
born in Poland was 515,000. In Germany, with double
the population, it was only 675,000. More recent
figures are even more striking. Although free from
Government stimulus, the Poles are naturally more
prolific than the Germans, and in the last 10 years
the average number of boys born in Poland was
511,000, while in Germany it was 595,000. In young
man-power, therefore, Poland is only slightly inferior
to Germany.
The Polish army is thus a factor of great im-
portance. Poland is actually the fifth military power
in the world. The standing army exceeds 300,000,
including 45,000 regular officers and n.c.os., while
trained reserves exceed 2,000,000 men. In time of
war Poland could mobilise an army of 4,000,000 sol-
diers without crippling the essential economic life of
the country.
The standing army includes 30 divisions of
infantry, with two of mountain troops. Poland’s
frontiers are so vast —3438 miles —that it is impossible
to visualise warfare based on continuous lines of
trenches ; a Polish Maginot Line is not a practicable
proposition. According to its station, each division
has its allotment of mechanised and armored vehicles.
Polish tanks are of excellent quality and performance,
and are now being produced in large numbers.
Supporting troops include 30 regiments of field
artillery attached to the divisions, independent bri-
gades for general reserve, 10 regiments of heavy artil-
lery, mechanised units, anti-aircraft sections and
armored trains.
Yet the outstanding feature of the Polish army
is its cavalry. I should class this as the best in Europe.
Cavalry may be discredited in the West, but in the
wide expanses of Eastern Europe its role is very im-
portant. In a war of movement, over a country with
Red Army Purge.
The article headed “Why Stalin Shot His
Generals” is a condensed portion of one of a
series of very long and extraordinarily reveal-
ing contributions to the “Saturday Evening
Post” by General Krivitsky, the one leading
Red Army general to survive the ruthless purge
of 1937.
General Krivitsky, who served for many
years in the Soviet Military Intelligence De-
partment abroad —chiefly in Holland, Germany
and France —finally broke with Stalin after the
wholesale executions of the generals. Two
attempts were then made on his life in Paris,
before he escaped to the US.A. as a refugee,
taking with him evidence that the “purge” of
the top-rank generals of the Red Army, so far
from being a result of any sudden discovery
of their plotting in German interests to over-
throw Stalin, was plotted by Stalin the year
before and the case against them based on
German Gestapo “disinformation” willingly
used by the Soviet Ogpu because it suited
Stalin’s book.
General Krivitsky asserts that the execu-
tions were Stalin’s revenge on the generals,
not for a present conspiracy, but for past oppo-
sition, and also part of the ruthless means of
securing for Stalin his absolute dictatorship.
The long-term plotting for the overthrow
of the generals he pieces together from clues
provided by occurrences in his own sphere of
operations in the previous year. Much of
this is worked out in columns of conversation
and involved description which cannot be
condensed. The portion given in the accom-
panying article, therefore, is mainly restricted
to a personal account of how the Terror
appeared from behind the scenes.
The series of articles as a whole makes a
most revealing circumstantial account —even
the portion taken for these pages is revealing
enough.


poor communications, the activities of mechanised
forces are limited by considerations of supply, but in
any part of Poland cavalry can live on the country.
Mounted troops consist of three regiments of light
cavalry, 27 of Uhlans, 10 of mounted chasseurs and
10 squadrons of scouts. The divisions of the cavalry
are traditional—all are equipped alike, with the
machine-gun as the dominant weapon. The Poles
have developed the offensive as well as the defensive
powers of the machine-gun.
Polish arms are as good as any in Europe: some
are of native invention, others made in Poland under
license. For example, Poland now manufactures her
own ’planes from our Fury and Blenheim prototypes.
The quick-firing gun now being installed in many
British ’planes is a Polish invention.
Polish first-line aircraft number 1250, with a
similar number in reserve. There is an ample pro-
portion of bombers —neighboring countries offer far
better targets than does Poland. All her ’planes are
produced completely in Poland, and are exported in
considerable quantities to thje countries of south-
eastern Europe.
With a large, well-trained and well-equipped army,
Poland’s only potential difficulty is that of supplies in
war-time. Her Baltic coastline might easily be over-
run in the first few days, and the alternative route
via the Rumanian Black Sea ports is lengthy and
precarious. Yet Poland can be self-supporting to a
considerable extent. Her difficulties are based on the
fact that her native supplies of metals and coal are
largely drawn from Upper Silesia, which is adjacent
to the German frontier.
The problem has been tackled with foresight
and energy. The French loan of £25,000,000 two years
ago has achieved remarkable results. In a triangle
within the confluence of the rivers Vistula and San,
about the town of Sandomierz, has been created a
new industrial development. Existing towns and vil-
lages have increased their population by thousands
per cent. One new town of 30,000 inhabitants sprang
up within a year. Already dozens of giant factories
are in production. Considerable reserve stocks of
essential commodities have been accumulated. The
mountain streams of the Carpathians to the south
yield abundant power. There is even a direct supply
of “earth gas” from the Polish oilfields.
Thus the overwhelming bogey of the Polish high
command has been laid. Even if the factories and
mines of Upper Silesia were overrun or destroyed in
the first days of war, Poland would no longer be
crippled. She could carry on under her own resources
until outside help could come by roundabout routes,
or direct from Russia.
Poland’s weakness lies in her minorities —one-
third of the population is non-Polish. There are nearly
900,000 Germans in Poland (and a larger number of
Poles in Germany), but apart from these the 3,250,000
Jews, 5,000,000 Ukrainians and 2,000,000 Russians are
likely to rally against any threat from Germany—a
remarkable unifier. It is significant that the
Ukrainians show not the slightest enthusiasm for the
Greater Ukraine envisaged by Hitler —as "a puppet
State to Germany.
Some of Those New Allies.
(Condensed from an article by a Balkan correspondent
in London “Spectator.”)
What kind of States are these which have so sud- •
denly become our allies —in effect if not by formal
contract?
The great majority of the inhabitants of Eastern
Europe are peasants. There are industrial areas in
Western Poland and in the urban centres of Hungary
and Rumania, and there are mining enterprises. But
they are essentially agricultural countries. In Poland
and Hungary there are great semi-feudal estates, em-
ploying landless peasant laborers. In the Balkan
countries the land is more equally divided. But in all,
the great number live in intense poverty.
The fall of agricultural prices after 1930 reduced
many to misery, which they attributed to their Gov-
ernments, all of which replied by measures of repres-
sion. To-day there is no State east of Switzerland
where free political discussion and criticism are pos-
sible. Beneath the surface is a wealth of unrest and
suppressed hatred of which the Governments are well
aware.
German propaganda has exploited scientifically
this state of affairs. There are two main lines of
approach. One is “anti-Bolshevism.” German agents
have made great efforts to convince the ruling class
of each country that its social security is threatened
by the radicalised masses, agitated by Muscovite Bol-
shevists. The natural reluctance of the privileged to
make concessions and to face fundamental economic
problems is encouraged by their German advisers.
They have succeeded so well in many of these coun-
tries that the rulers,'obsessed with terror of their own
peoples, are convinced that the slightest reform would
lead immediately to Bolshevist chaos.
The other German approach is anti-Semitism,
used with wide success in Rumania, Hungary and
Poland as a perverted form of Socialism. Much of
the hatred of the peasants against landlords, capital-
ists and gendarmes is diverted against the Jews. The
purpose of this propaganda is to inflame hatred on
both sides, destroy all national unity and force the
Governments into a situation where, unable to rely
on their peoples, they will be compelled to capitulate
to German demands.
The chief reason given for the overthrow of
democracy has been that it opened the way to Com-
munism, always dangerous in lands neighboring upon
Russia. This argument was received with special
sympathy in Great Britain, where Russophobia has
Tu tra tpi on ar °^ er than the Bolshevik revolution.
The Eastern Europe dictators, having suppressed free-
dom because it might favor Communism, soon reached
a point where they could no longer distinguish be-
tween Democrats and Communists. All who advo-
cate political liberty are ipso facto Communists, and
receive the same treatment (of imprisonment, torture
or assassination, which is considered suitable for
Communists).
The peasant peoples have never been interested
in “ideologies.” When the abolition of Parliament
made it impossible to present their complaints, they
began to hate their arbitrary rulers. Then they noticed
that there was a word which almost every day a
spokesman of the Government would denounce, a
word which signified everything that was evil in the
world —“Communism.” So this word acquired enor-
mous prestige. To-day thousands in Eastern Europe
identify their elementary civil liberties with the word
“Communism.”
There is a danger that by becoming uncritical
friends of the Eastern European dictators we may
become the enemies of their peoples. These have
great respect for Great Britain, and hope to find in
her the leader of European defence. But they admire
her not for the sheer power of her Empire, but for
the ideas of freedom with which she has been identi-
fied. All the successes of German policy and all the
ingenuity of National Socialist propaganda have not
won more than a section of the reactionary bour-
geoisie and of the most backward peasantry. The
masses have for Germany a passionate and terrifying
hatred.
Prospects in the Mediterranean.
[This calmly-detached survey of what would be the
situation in Mediterranean waters in the event of war is
condensed from a London “Daily Herald” article by
Commander Russell Grenfell, formerly on the staff of
the Royal Naval College, Greenwich, and an acknow-
ledged authority on naval strategy.]
In a war in which Spain and Britain were involved
on opposite sides, Gibraltar would almost certainly
be unusable by the fleet. This need not mean that
it would be lost. It would be a very hard nut to
crack. The only land approach is over a narrow and
perfectly flat sandy neck, entirely overlooked by
observers on the Rock. As a defensive position,
Gibraltar is exceedingly strong, with its galleries,
tunnels, magazines and shelters cut deep into the rock.
Malta, only 40-odd miles from Sicily, is exposed
to air attack in war to an extent that would probably
prohibit its use as a naval base. That was the opinion
expressed by the Mediterranean Fleet on the occasions
of the crises of 1935 and 1938, when it evacuated
Malta and went to Alexandria. But an Italian land-
ing would be a difficult and hazardous operation.
The Italian bases are naturally mostly in Italy,
Sicily and Sardinia, but Italy has a small base at
Tobruk in Libya and a “secret” island base at Leros
in the Dodecanese (north-west of Rhodes), where no
foreigner is allowed to land. This base is just as close
to the Turkish mainland as Malta is to the Italian,
and would' be just as subject to air attack, should
Turkey happen to be on our side, as she probably
would.
The main British commitment would be the
maintenance of the shipping route through that sea.
If both Italy and Spain were against us, those routes
would be chiefly liable to interruption at two places.
One would be at Gibraltar. But guns overlooking the
Straits could not effectively prevent the passage of
merchant ships, still less of warships. The narrow
part is so short, and the coasts open out so steeply
each side of it, that even a slow ship could pass the
dangerous area during the dark hours.
A more serious danger would be an attack from
the southern Spanish coast to the eastward of the
Straits; but the most serious danger point is the
channel between Sicily and Africa. In that area,
ships would be exposed to a concentrated attack by
Italian aircraft rendered all the more formidable by
the fact that the’ predominance of the German Air
Force in Europe would presumably bestow on the
Italians a local superiority over the French in South
Mediterranean waters. This air attack could be ac-
companied by the operations of large numbers of
submarines and of steam and motor torpedo-boats, in
all of which small classes of ship the Italians possess
a large superiority.
To force a passage for merchant shipping in
the face of such opposition would occupy the whole
attention of the British Fleet and seriously hamper
its offensive operations.
Fortunately, this traffic is not as heavy as many
people think. British supplies coming through the
Suez Canal average only about 12 p.c. of the total,
and for them there is the alternative Cape route.
Trade with countries inside the Mediterranean comes
to another 10 p.c. or thereabouts. But the main thing
is that there are no British supplies passing Gibraltar
that cannot be obtained, if necessary, from elsewhere.
As regards France, the threat to her sea routes
with North Africa from a hostile occupation of the
Balearic Islands is hardly as bad as is frequently urged.
Also, the Balearics are within comfortable bombing
range of both France and North Africa, and might
therefore be made nearly as unhealthy as Malta, sub-
ject to the limitation of France’s air weakness as com-
pared with Germany.
When we consider the offensive possibilities of
the Anglo-French combination, the prospects are very
satisfactory; always provided that the British Fleet
base is reasonably secure. In the larger classes of
warship, and taking the British Mediterranean Fleet
at its present strength, the French and British have
six battleships to the Italians’ two, two aircraft car-
riers to the Italians’ none, ten heavy and nine lighter
cruisers to the Italians’ seven and 18, and 64 destroyers
to the Italians’ 59, about 30 of the French destroyers
being particularly large and powerful ships.
In the face of this combination, Italy is vulner-
able indeed. Of her total imports, 85 p.c. are sea-
borne, and about 70 p.c. come through either the
Suez Canal or the Straits of Gibraltar. Almost cer-
tainly the whole of this 85 p.c. could be cut off, and
with them would go the Italian communications with
Abyssinia and probably with Libya. Italy has a par-
ticularly long coastline with many important towns
on the seashore ; these coast towns could fall an easy
prey to warships’ guns.
Spain, too, is peculiarly exposed to maritime pres-
sure. With a superior British fleet on her Atlantic
coasts, a superior French fleet on her Mediterranean
and with France itself making the only other frontier,
her trade would be cut off as clean as a whistle.
What could she gain? Possibly Gibraltar. But
while Spanish guns were pounding at the Rock,
French guns across the Straits would be covering the
advance of the French North Africa army into
Spanish Morocco. Spanish participation in a totali-
tarian war seems to offer very little advantage to
Spain, though it might be of advantage to Germany.
German Expansion in Danubia.
[The writer of the article here condensed from
London “Times” suggests that accounts and fears of
German domination in South-eastern Europe have been
somewhat exaggerated. He directs attention to one
important matter in particular that is curiously over-
looked by most writers on the Subject—the determination
of the various Danubian countries to maintain their
own independence.]
Plans and prospects of German economic expan-
sion in South-eastern Europe have often been
described, but the wishes and interests of the coun-
tries concerned have been little regarded. If these
are considered more carefully a different picture of
probable developments appears.
The combined population of Hungary, Yugo-
slavia, Bulgaria, Greece, Rumania and Poland amounts
to some 90,000,000. Clearly all these people have two
great interests: their political independence and
their economic prosperity. Each of these States is
endeavoring to raise the low standard of living of its
population ; none of them really desires to be mar-
shalled for or against any powerful neighbor. The
real wish of all is to remain their own masters.
To-day Germany has taken her place as indis-
putably the foremost Danubian State ; the question
at issue is whether she will be able to impose a pro-
tectorate over the whole of the Siidostraum to which
the scope of the Danubian problem now extends.
Does South-eastern Europe possess the will and, if
so, the political and economic strength to resist suc-
cessfully such efforts?
Hungary, with her flexible Constitution, has been
successful in defending her independence during 10
centuries, which have included times even more diffi-
cult than the present; and whenever this was im-
paired she was always able sooner or later to re-
establish herself, as was also Poland. The other
countries are less experienced in dealing with power-
ful neighbors, but not less anxious to maintain their
independence. If, however, they are to link hands
to escape from a situation in which one can be played
off against another, then some further application of
peaceful change and minority protection is essential.
In this connection a rigid application of the racial
principle to South-eastern Europe would have disas-
trous consequences in view of the extremely mixed
ethnic character of much of the population.
Many exaggerated conclusions have been drawn
from foreign trade statistics which purport to show
that from 30 p.c. to 65 p.c. of the foreign trade of
the different South-eastern European countries is now
with the enlarged German Reich. It is further as-
sumed that with her new trading methods Germany
could increase these percentages at will. Thus statis-
tics show that, to take an example, 50 p.c. of Hun-
gary’s total exports go to Germany, Czechoslovakia
included, and only 30 p.c. to countries on sterling and
other convertible exchange. But these statistics are
misleading since they reckon the German mark at the
full gold exchange rate at which it is officially main-
tained. If the real relative degrees of depreciation
of the mark and of convertible exchanges and their
proceeds in national currency are taken into account,
we find that Hungarian exports against marks are in
fact rather less instead of much more than her exports
against sterling and other free exchange.
Since, also, the number of products without alter-
native markets in the sterling area is only small,
while, on the other hand, Germany is not in the posi-
tion to supply raw materials, it will be seen that on
the whole the relative importance of Germany’s eco-
nomic relations can be easily exaggerated.
In order to increase her exports Germany has
resorted to a form of indirect dumping by offering
high prices for the agricultural goods and raw
materials which she imports. High expectations are
entertained of potential increase of trade along such
lines, but disappointment might sooner follow. Such
expectations usually overlook the implications of the
pressure of population. The population of South and
Eastern Europe is increasing at a greater rate than
that of Germany; and, overseas emigration being
impossible, the growing pressure of population has
promoted industrialisation to an unexpected extent
in these countries, especially after 1931, when ex-
change restrictions involving the strengthening of pro-
tection were instituted. The same pressure of popu-
lation has prevented excessive mechanisation of agri-
cultural production. It is Germany’s interest to im-
port more and cheaper foodstuffs, and she is bound
to discontinue paying the present high prices as soon
as, on the one hand, she has not to compete with
national industries and, on the other, is able to in-
crease her overseas trade. In view of the density of
population any idea of excessive mechanisation must
be anathema to the Danubian peasant, and he would
certainly resist such action, even by revolt.
With care it is quite possible to safeguard the
national interests of the South-eastern European coun-
tries. Their low standards of living can be raised by
development of their sources of employment. Their
bargaining power can be increased by developing
foreign trade simultaneously with Germany and with
the sterling and other free exchange areas. They
realise, of course, that they must depend chiefly on
their own efforts ; they also realise that developments
will be affected considerably by a new British foreign
trade policy; and they will shape their course
accordingly.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES PVOUR HAIR
A LOVEUNESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
The weather kept thousands away from
the meeting at Moorefield, and thou-
sands of others would have been better
off had the club committee (Gilder,
O’Connor, Moore and Hannan) decided
not to race. The track stood up to the
nine-event programme ; it was very slow,
but safe.
Only five horses came out for the
Brighton, a £3OO mile handicap, and it
proved a gift for Hope. Favorite at
5 to 4, after a bet of £6OO to £4OO had
been booked, the sturdy old chestnut (he
is by Heroic-Rythona) scored by three
lengths from Goliath, Flamari being
half a length away third. Hope is a use-
ful horse to own ; hard, soft and betwixt-
and-between tracks come alike to him,
and he can go fast and stay. Going up
the hill, Goliath’s rider tried to get him
through on the rails. There was not suffi-
cient room and Goliath lost lengths. He
couldn’t have beaten Hope all the same.
Darby Munro, as a rule a very good
rider on small tracks, was not seen to
advantage on Kai Tere in the Moore-
field Handicap. Kai Tere was a 5-to-4
favorite, and Munro secured a nice run
early, but half a mile from home his
mount was boxed up. Then Munro
made a bad move —came away from the
rails. In the result Kai Tere lost ground
at the home turn, and in the small
straight he was pushed out by Moun-
tain Maid, whose jockey’s whip was
tangled in her mane. This gave Mono-
gram (20 to 1) a clear run on the rails ;
Hanley took the chance and beat Kai
Tere by half a length, with Mountain
Maid a head away. Plutus, looking nice
and bright, was fourth.
Cheers for Munro are often heard on
Sydney courses. There were only howls
and growls on this occasion.
Mrs. Dolly Clayton’s judgment was not
astray when she advised friends to back
Tony, who races in her colors, for the
Three- and Four-year-old. Baveon went
from 6 to 4, eased to 9 to 4 and finished
sixth in a field of seven. Tony led through-
out and beat off Last Chance —slow to
leave the barrier —by half a length ; Good
One was a bad third. Light Dragoon
had won at Ascot and Wagga on soft
tracks, but he could not manage the
going at Moorefield. Second to the
home turn he faded to fourth in the final
furlong.
This Page plumped for Tony. He had
run rather well in better company at
Warwick Farm, but not so well at
Hawkesbury—a course which a lot of
horses don’t care for. At Moorefield 20
to 1 was laid, the closing quote being
twelves.
Backers were on the ,spot in both
divisions of the Juvenile Handicap for
colts and geldings. In the first, Grand
Billy, bought as a yearling for 32
guineas and raced by Mrs. Williams, a
daughter of the trainer —he is J. Trenear,
an alderman of St. Peters —had to be
punched out, but he beat Inspector Scott
and El Valor. He started at 2 to 1.
Grand Billy has won four races—four
out of five. He is a small brown geld-
ing by Grand Joy, whose stock are smart
up to six furlongs.
The second division went to White
Ensign (3 to 1), a son of the Caulfield
Cup winner Gaine Carrington, and
trained by Cush at Randwick. White
Ensign gave the pacemaker, Mainridge,
a good start and defeated him comfort-
ably, with Opportunist third. White
Ensign shows a lot of white on forehead
and on legs. There is no doubting his
speed.
The fillies were not as good-looking
as the colts and geldings. In the first
division Gemland (6 to 1), a daughter
of Chatham, was first out and first home
—she won by four lengths from Miss
Heroic. Fay B. was third. Pruning won
the second division at 5 to 2. Ridden
by the veteran H. Reed, who is in the
forties and has nine children, she romped
home from E. J. Watt’s Corolla —a filly
that will win when she has more ex-
perience—and Lady Zenta. The favorite,
Enchant, could not stride out in the
going.
Benburb, a hard horse to ride, cap-
tured the first division of the Flying
Welter at fours. With McCarten sitting
still a matter of necessity —he beat
Belvoir by a head ; Dungala was third.
Mrs. Sam Solomon was present to see
her Bullhead filly Samurai run in the
second division. Backed from 5 to 2 to
6 to 4, Samurai had an easy job. Ezra
Norton’s imported Amaranthus looks the
goods, and the “Terewth” staff backed
him with its head down at 5 to 2. It did
its money. Amaranthus stuck his toes
in after the first furlong and finished
seventh —there were 11 starters.
* * * *
Melbourne was bare of race meetings
last week until Saturday because of the
races at Warrnambool, which extended
over three days. So far no totalisator has
been installed at Warrnambool, which is
passing strange, seeing that machine-
betting has proved a success at Geelong
and small provincial courses such as
Kyneton and Woodend.
Melbourne bookmakers flocked to the
Western District course. Though they
profited hugely on the Warrnambool Cup,
they did not have much reason for satis-
faction on the opening day. Three hot
favorites and a near-favorite caught the
judge’s eye. Even Con Devon, who won
the Tozer Welter at tens, was a loser for
some fielders, having been backed from
long odds downwards.
Dick Bradfield, the veteran Flemington
trainer, landed the Wangoom Handicap
for C. O. Fairbairn with Stoic, a four-
year-old stallion by Heroic. Last winter
Stoic gave Othello 21b. and a beating
in the V.R.C. Lawn Handicap. At in-
tervals he has revealed good sprinting
form.
Stoic was ridden by Ron Evans, who
served his apprenticeship with O. R. Cox
and piloted Temptation to victory in the
Adelaide Cup of 1930. Temptation hasn’t
been heard of since as a racehorse. He
wouldn’t have been on the roll of Adel-
aide Cup winners if H. R. Telford
hadn’t withdrawn Phar Lap on the day
of the race.
Old-stagers came to the rescue of the
Ring on the second day. Ardashir gave it
a skinner in the Cup ; his nominal quote
was 50 to 1, but even the stable —Redden
trains him for H. R. Johnson, sometime
Mayor of St. Kilda —let him run loose.
It was a very close finish, and it was
confined to outsiders. Windlite (12 to 1)
was second and Match King (20 to 1)
third.
A 7-to-4 favorite for the Grand Annual
Steeple, Deckard unshipped his rider.
The ancient Wakerife won easily in the
course-record time of 7.11 —the distance
is “about three miles.” Musical David
was a poor second, and David’s Joy a
poorer third. There were 10 starters.
* * * *
The Amateur Turf Club fixture at
Warrnambool, sandwiched between the
two days of the Grand Annual Steeple
meeting, is becoming farcical. On Wed-
nesday there were only three starters in
the Hurdle Race, while the A.T.C. Plate,
the chief event, dwindled down to a
match between Royal Jubilee and
Orlando.
Bottran (threes on) won the Hurdle
Race in the colors of Claude Palmer,
of the V.R.C. committee. Royal Jubilee
(7 to 2 on) romped home in the Plate.
Competent amateurs were so scarce that
middle-aged Jim Lindsay “wasted” 91b.
to ride at list. lib. Yet he had two
winning mounts.
* * * *
Pantoon’s failure in the middle-distance
Glen Elgin Handicap at Moonee Valley
on Saturday gave punters a severe jolt,
and was officially investigated. Explana-
tions tendered by Fryer (owner-trainer)
and Hooton (apprentice jockey) resulted
in the stewards reprimanding Hooton for
indifferent handling of the M.L. gelding.
Second out of the straight, and last of
eight runners at the half-mile, Pantoon
always looked a loser. Previous three
outings of Fryer’s prad had yielded two
firsts and a second. Regarded as the
day’s “best bet,” he started at 2 to 1.
By no stretch of imagination can this
form be accepted as true.
The finish was full of excitement. W.
R. Kemball’s three-year-old Bankshaw
wrested control from Rambler at the
turn, and scrambled home by half a head
from High Commissioner, with Sir Grey
a neck farther off. Bankshaw (9 to 2)
was second favorite with Sir Grey. He
is a son of Siegfried.
High Commissioner (Manfred-Gay
Element) is getting into cherry-ripe trim.
Last season he was runner-up to Irving
in the Easter Cup at Williamstown. The
dam of High Commissioner is by
Comedy King, and belongs to the famous
Sappho family, from which sprang Merri-
wee, Wilari, Traquette, Beragoon and
numerous other celebrities.
Conandale, a stable-companion of High
Commissioner, attracted interest at walk-
ing exercise. This son of The Buzzard
has developed into a strapping five-year-
old. Last season he started twice over
hurdles, and was successful each time.
Conandale is a candidate for the G.N.
Hurdle and Steeple, entries for which
were taken on Tuesday.
Victoria at present is sadly lacking in
class jumpers. Fred Hoysted usually has
new material at the beginning of winter.
Dornford (Windbag-Pensee) won the
Bolinda Hurdle for him on Saturday,
making four on end ; but the little bay
tired under 11,8, and was all out to beat
Mac Devon (9st.).
Opening in equal demand with Rest
ford at twos, Dornford eased to 11 to 4.
Restford, who is trained by Fullarton
and had his services as jockey, remained
at the original quote. This fellow is a
half-brother to Yarramba, runner-up in
Peter Pan’s 1932 Melbourne Cup. He
started favorite for last year’s National,
but failed. Third on Saturday doesn’t
suggest much improvement.
Brightello, first past the post in the
Moreland .Steeple, may be the most
promising ’chaser in sight. Favorite at
twos, he beat Bully Hayes (7 to 2) by half
a head. Lack of condition caused a lead
of three lengths to dwindle down to
half a head in the final furlong.
The race was taken away on a protest
for interference at the mile and at five
furlongs from home. Regan, the rider of
Brightello, was suspended for a month.
What happened hadn’t caught the eye of
most onlookers, and ringmen demanded
5 to 2 from Brightello backers who
wished to hedge.
Brightello belongs to J. Abrahams, a
hunting follower who won the Australian
Steeple with Tongala in 1937 and again
last year. Abrahams is getting the ancient
Tongala into trim for another try at the
marathon event at Caulfield in August.
Abrahams has personally taken over the
training of Tongala and Brightello.
When she scored at Williamstown on
April 8, Toscanini (Madagascar-Dame
Opera) had few backers. The filly did
not lack support in the Juvenile Handi-
cap on Saturday, being (at fives) next in
request to Bluebeard and Cavante. Once
more Toscanini led from post to finish.
Flourmiller A. E. Kimpton had a de-
served change of luck when Gladstone
(Liberal-Arrasene) won the first division
of the Bulla Trial, at fours. Chilperic, a
half-brother to this gelding, won the
Toorak Handicap of 1933. A. Murray
tried Gladstone to be nearly as good a
galloper as Lady Montague, who has been
sent to the stud.
Angular, who hails from Wangaratta,
captured the second division of the Bulla
Trial at sevens, and Old Style, another
provincial performer, annexed the Mag-
dala Welter. Odds of 15 to 1 were on
offer against Old Style. She is by Stanza
(Devizes-Comedietta), runner-up to Mol-
lison in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
of 1938.
* * * *
On a very good day for Australian-
bred horses, Mildura (Manfred-Miss
Meadows) rounded off a successful trip
to Brisbane by winning the Moreton
Handicap for A.J.C. committeeman Watt
and trainer Price. Amberspear (Spearfelt-
Ambertrumps) and Allora Lad (The Buz-
zard-Alorman) made a close finish of it
(neck; half-length) with Mildura, and
Allora Lad might have beaten him if
The Albatross had not carried Allora
Lad off the track between the mile and
seven-furlong posts. Korimako, the
favorite, failed to stay the fast mile
and a quarter (2.3), and Herarde got
tangled up at the barrier, losing a couple
of teeth and one jockey—McMenamin.
McMenamin recovered sufficiently to
ride First Prize, runner-up to Bahwing
in the last race, the Epsom Handicap.
Bahwing went out at 12 to 1 in a field
of eight—a wonderful price for a horse
who had been second (at Doomben), first
(in the Stradbroke) and first (placed
second after protest) in his previous
starts. They never lay such odds on
Sydney courses.
¥ * * *
Tempest had weak opposition in the
S.A.J.C. St. Leger. None of his five
opponents could make him gallop. The
Ring demanded 8 to 1, and there was
little of that; the straightout machine
returned exactly the money staked, but
a pound on the Windbag colt for a place
yielded £1 6s. The tote is apt to play
these pranks in respect of hot favorites.
That Tempest is not the only good
three-year-old in S.A. was proved by
Panka (3 to 1) in the Goodwood Handi-
cap. Last of nine into the straight,
Panka was out by himself at the finish,
three lengths and a half ahead of the
favorite, Valka, formerly of Melbourne,
and another neck in advance of Glentor ;
and the clock showed 1.1 If. Panka is by
Salatis-Lady Nalpa. The sire was about
the biggest horse of his day, and very
good under welter weights.
* * * *
Battle, who has been out of action
since he was hit with a clod of dirt while
riding Cooranga in City Tatt.’s Cup, will
be seen in the saddle at Randwick on
Saturday. He was a spectator at Moore -
field.
* He * *
According to Spear Chief’s part-owner
Joe Harris the Queensland horse will
spell until it is time to put him in train-
ing for spring events. His racing at
Brisbane did not harm him a bit; after
winning the Brisbane Cup in Australasian
record time for two miles, he was as
frisky as a two-year-old. But he has
earned a period in the paddock, and
should be all the better for it.
* * * *
“0.T.”: Grand National hopes con-
cerning “S. A. Rawdon’s” Deckard were
considerably diminished when he crashed
in the Grand Annual Steeple at Warr-
nambool. The gelding’s recent record of
three wins and three falls out of six
starts does not suggest dependability.
Wakerife, the winner, is trustworthy
enough, but he was considered past his
prime when he landed the Australian
Steeple of 1936. It’s wonderful how
long some of these fencers last at their
dangerous trade.
{Continued, on page 32.)
“Turoar”: “Tarry Tom’s erbout the
best runner I ever seen,” Old Bob said.
“There’s a bloke comes up ter Binnaloo
called Jerry ’Awkiris onct, ’oo reckins
’e’s one uv them distince runners. 'E’s
all the time talkin’ erbout reelin’ orf
quarters an’ eight-eighties an’ marrer-
thongs till we gits sick an’ tired uv it.
‘Look ’ere,’ Tarry sez ter ’im, ‘you am t
the only runner in the world,’ an’ ’e
challengers ’im ter run five miles fer a
quid. This ’Awkins bloke is on, an’ we
arranges the time an’ date an’ a few bets
on the side. The race comes orf orlright,
but, cripes, it’s a close thing. I thought
Tarry’d git ’ome by er nour, but ’e only
managers ter ’ead Jerry in the last two
yards. Jerry takes it like a sport, an
when ’e’s payin’ up ’e sees Tarry’s limpm
a bit. ‘Blister yer ’eel?’ ’e arsks. ‘Blister
be blowed!’ sez Tarry. ‘The blasted
mare got out this mornin’. ’Ad ter chase
’er erbout ten miles b’fore I caught er,
an’ I broke me big toe on a flarnin
stump. ’Adden bin fer that I’d er licked
yer by a mile.”
FOR RANDWICK.
Flying Handicap: Normandy or
Aureus ; next, Grey Derby.
James Barnes Plate: Cathartes;
next, Will Rogers.
Corinthian Handicap: 'Duke
Caledon ; next, Heroic Faith.
Novice Handicap: Adonis ; next,
Cable Boy.
Welter: Normandy or Arabia ;
next, Knight Folly.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Imperial Handicap: Hautboy ;
next, Finch.
Granville Handicap: Dignitary ;
next, High Commissioner.
Welter: Silver Bond; next,
Lalmoni.


From Battleships to Submarines ...
EVERY TYPE OF GRAF IN THE BRITISH NAVY DEPENDS ON tixiie BATTERIES
★
it The British Navy ... Britain’s first line of defence ...
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. . . . Battleships, cruisers, and destroyers
depend on Exide for wireless, gun-fire control and in
many other ways . . . Aircraft carriers, and their brood
of planes, use Exide .. . and the underwater propulsion
of submarines is provided by huge Exide Batteries. . ..
In like manner in industry, in science, in the arts, in
radio and in motor-cars you will find Exide Batteries
giving unfailing service. . . . Where performance is
paramount, Exide Batteries are used.
C BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
hvcap
RUBBER


Vou can depend on
champions
for DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
On. good if
Thes? plog® P'Tck’s
“eed’and power always at
sz
worn
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
OUA
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Victorin
Under the Whip
J. R. Corteen (B. 3/5/’39)
was the heaviest bettor on the Australian
turf until fortune turned against him
after disqualification over Purser’s (1924)
Caulfield Cup. At a Sydney meeting
he put £5OOO on D&arewin ; and Daare-
win won. Corteen raced Purser in con-
junction with the late George Tye, a
furniture warehouseman. Tye was in-
vited to join in the purchase of Heroic
as a yearling for 1800gns., but declined,
having already bought several M.L. year-
lings. Best horses independently owned
by Tye were Demetrius (Caulfield
Guineas, 1922) and The Monk.
The Allandale Stock Farm at Men-
tone, which belonged to George Tye and
his brother, had the best-appointed
private traifting track in the Common-
wealth. Here it was that C. T. Godby
trained Purser, Heroic and many other
notable performers. After the Purser
trouble A. T. Creswick bought Allan-
dale and installed Jim Pengilly, Godby’s
foreman, as trainer, but Creswick ulti-
mately abandoned the “Farm” and trans-
ferred his horses to Lou Robertson.
jje
“T.”: Waireka failed in the Q.T.C.
Stradbroke Handicap, not because she
was too young to be racing , against older
horses, as was suggested by newspaper
authorities, but because she wasn’t good
enough. It is quite a modern notion that
colts and fillies within three or four
months of three years are too immature
to be pitted against older nags in sprints.
In the first weight-for-age race I can
remember, a V.R.C. All-Aged Plate,
Aurum, the crack two-year-old, took on
Coil and The Officer, two representative
three-year-olds, at a mile and beat them
pointless. Coil four days before had won
the Australian Cup, and The Officer had
defeated Newhaven, who subsequently
carried off the Victoria Derby and the
Melbourne Cup, in the Caulfield Guineas.
And Aurum did his job in March. In
the winter of that year, when Aurum,
Newhaven and the other colts mentioned
were spelling, absolutely the best sprinter
in Melbourne was Key, a two-year-old.
On May 24 she won the Royal Handicap
for all ages with 8.13 up, and made hacks
of the “three years and upwards” lot.
That same day a black gelding named
Trent, by Trenton-Sumatra, won the
Birthday Handicap, of 12 furlongs, and
the last” —a mile race. The day was a
Monday, and Trent had won at Williams-
town the previous Saturday, so he had
three successes in 48 hours. They didn’t
coddle horses in those days.
M.Q. and Rafferfy
Joe Hall Knocked Cold*
In the first round of an engagement
that packed 7000 into Sydney Arena,
the snappy little American-Chinese Kui
Kong Young doubled Joe Hall up and
outed him with a powerful, perfectly-
placed left rip to the solar plexus. As he
crumpled, Kui let him have a couple of
eager swings, but the s.-p. punch was
enough.
At any stage of a fight it might have
been a winner, but the chances are that
it couldn’t have had quite such devas-
tating effect once the recipient had
warmed up. Beautifully timed, travelling
not more than a foot, it was ripped in
with the full weight of body and solid
balance behind it, the move in to deliver
it, and then the punch itself, so swift
as to take not only Joe by surprise. It
was like a sleight-of-hand trick.
Joe was literally knocked cold. The
fight had been in progress barely two
minutes, and neither of them had warmed
up. They had sparred round the ring
feeling each other out, the only previous
blow to land clean being a high inside
right delivered by Joe. In two slight
brushes of in-fighting Joe was distinctly
the better, though he did one thing that
must have sent his supporters’ hearts into
their boots. Breaking from a brief pas-
sage of in-fighting, he momentarily
changed to the southpaw stance which is
Kui’s natural style. It isn’t Joe’s, and it
gave Kui the advantage in tactical posi-
“I've got something big THIS time, Zanie .”
tion that a second or two later enabled
him to dart in and deliver the deciding
punch.
The fight really resolved nothing re-
garding either contestant. As far as it
went, Joe shaped considerably better
than in recent Sydney encounters. He
can deliver a good inside right-hand
punch, and gave a taste of it—always
a useful weapon against a southpaw.
The early impression was that he, not
Kui, was likely to win by a knockout.
Had Kui’s k.o. occurred after a few
rounds it would have established Kui
without leaving any doubts. A clinking
little scrapper, he has now won six fights
in a row since invading Australia, but
the best he had met in the first five was
Maxie Richards, who, by one means and
another, lasted with him over 12 rounds.
Then comes this quick win over a really
good ’un, but with a snap punch ripped
into a cold anatomy, and therefore, per-
haps, a bit lucky.
They will meet again, and present
scribe—together, no doubt, with all those,
who were present last week—will cheer-
fully battle through earthquakes and
tornadoes to be there.
Bargain-rate Stoush
Sydneyside supporters of stoush can’t
complain either of being heavily socked
in the pocket or not being given plenty
for their money. On the latter score,
the Arena’s seven four-round prelims, be-
fore the Young-Hall engagement are
fairly typical. Forty rounds and upwards
are often provided as one evening’s bill.
As to cost, the Arena has set down for
the day this Bulletin goes on the book-
stalls two 12-round scraps, apart from
prelims., and top price is six bob ring-
side. There’s nothing wrong with the
quality of the fare on offer, either: Dally
Moran, who recently gathered the N.S.W.
bantam title, is billed to meet Ray Under-
wood, and Frank Farrington, a solid
fighting fedder, tackles Danny la Verne
(imp.).
The crowd at the Hall-Young contest
demonstrated that there’s plenty of the
right sort of following for the game if
the matches are good. Anyway, with
other addresses mostly given over to
grappling during winter months, the
Arena has the opportunity of thoroughly
testing out just what support the Noble
Art commands these days. If Mr. Benny
Bear can think up a series of drawcards
as good as the Hall-Young affair, he’ll
be sitting on a pile of oof as big as the
Arena itself. He’d deserve it. As a pro-
moter of scraps on the Sports Ground
he has, in Mr. Stevens’s phraseology,
enjoyed the worst of luck,-taking enough
doings at the hands of Jupiter Pluvius
to discourage Job himself. Shifting from
there to the Arena, he had some shock-
ing houses to begin with, but he stuck
at it, and his weekly search-for-talent
{nights have already allowed scores of
boys to try themselves out in the ring.
Watching these lads leaves the con-
fiction more firmly fixed than ever that
fall that’s wrong with the Noble Art in
Australia is that there’s no Larry Foley
tutoring and fixing the style and par-
ticularly the balance of the dandy
material available. Night after night you
see these lads fighting with nothing else
but natural talent. It’s heartbreaking to
witness.
Footbrawl
Geelong’s in-and-out form is puzzling
the legion of local barrackers. After
Collingwood had put it through without
much difficulty, Geelong handed a hiding
to Carlton. On Saturday the lads from
the Pivot were beaten at Glenferrie by
Hawthorn, and beaten badly—by 17-14 to
8-18. It was Haw-Hawthorn’s second win,
and a place in “the four” is now dreamed
of by devoted supporters of the club so
long despised.
......
Collingwood shares top-of-the-table
possy with Richmond ; on percentages it
is well ahead. The Tigers very nearly
slipped a peg at Essendon. They had
only two points to the good at the
end, and they came from behinds —
15-16 to 16-8. The Same Old’s shooting
was superb. ’Wood wasn’t greatly
troubled by t Footscray (17-11 to 14-14),
and Carlton had a slightly bigger margin
against North (17-21 to 16-10). Carl-
ton’s 123 points was the day’s highest
score, Geelong’s 66 the lowest, but
“Sowth” could manage only two more
(9-14) in reply to Fitzroy’s 10-17. It was
’Roy’s first win, and “Sowth’s” third
defeat.
......
First on percentages, St. Kilda entered
upon the match against Melbourne with
high hopes. The Red Legs wrecked them,
scoring 16-16 to 10-21. Saints’ goal-
kickers, in great form against Fitzroy the
Saturday before, failed them badly; all
the same, Melbourne is an improving
team, and may give the premiership a
shake.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: The Melbourne football
barracker follows set rules. A player
on the other side gets a free kick by a
wily move. “Stager! ” is the cry. A forward
has successfully avoided being tripped or
bumped out of position. “What are yuh
ringin’yuh tail for, you squib?” is asked,
A leading player on the barracker’s side
is below form. “Hey! Are you on the
ice to-day?” As for the umpire—“ Give
’em a go, can’t yuh?” “Use yer eyes,


TO-DAY
THE GREAT
INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR
SHOW
CONTINUOUS
SESSIONS
11 A.M. TO 10 P.M.
A GREAT DISPLAY
OF
MOTORS, AVIATION,
MOTOR BOATS,
CARAVANS
FREE TALKIE THEATRE
NEW RELEASES
Plus Id. Tax
Entrances at Both
NICHOLSON AND
RATHDOWN STREETS,
MELBOURNE.
TB
H
MADE
IN
EFFIELD
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
mm
LIONEL lIIOBY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
k
No. 45—COOEY “MOHAWK,”
.22-cal., single shot, chambered
for short, long or long-rifle.
Barrel 2 7in., walnut stock, ele-
vating rear sight and silver bead
front sight. Overall length,
inches. Weight,
61b.
Postage, 2/—; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steei
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
3ight; weight, /I n /
about 4|lb. fcZ/IU/-
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
35/-
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight. gty / in/
weight, 4 2 lb.; *“/ U / ’
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, ,22-cal., 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, 16
long, or 14 long-rifle
cartridges; weight,
about
5 |lb.
£5/7/6
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut n-ttin /
stock xlb/lb/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges; weight, /»r»i !tf\ !
Bib. i.ZI/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, *»■« 1/11/
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. *■*■/"
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, 9/19/
about 71b XU/ia/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
you big mug!” “Smother that whistle,
you!” “Get orf the ground, you big
loafer!” “Put on a guernsey and be
done with it!” “Go and drown yerself!”
“Fair go, you lousy cow!” I find it all
rather dreary, but it thrills thousands.
* * * ' *
“Bumpkin”: Victorian Police Com-
missioner Duncan recently stated that
in proportion to population there is
more violence in Melbourne than in Lon-
don, and the Victorian capital has more
potential savages to the acre than any
other city in Australia. At a V.F.L.
match on the day the Commissioner made
his announcement, a barracker for one
side smashed a bottle over the head of
a supporter of the rival team with such
horrible results that an outraged police-
man nearly lost his baton in the offender’s
cranium. How much this sort of thing
has to do with the social habits of the
people I hesitate to say. I have seen
football matches in Wales, and there the
game is followed with the same intense
partisanship as jn Melbourne. But in
Wales almost every young man is a
member of some choral society or other,
and as their enthusiasm rises the Welsh
lads tend, not to burst into abuse or reach
for bottles, but to start singing. For
acoustic reasons the effect on the ground
is not so remarkable as at a distance,
although the 50,000 choralists sing beauti-
fully in time, instinctively take parts and
know their music perfectly. Heard one
or two miles away the singing harmonises
magnificently. I have often been in a car-
riage full of returning Melbourne bar-
rackers, and if singing is started some
lout is certain to burlesque it. If he did
the same thing in Cardiff he would be
regarded as no gentleman.
* * * *
“Zake” : When a football code is trans-
planted from its native heath to distant
climes it is a grand thing to see tradition
and enthusiasm sprouting again from the
old stock. Witness the free-for-all at
Erskineville in the South Sydney-
Newtown Australian-rules game, when
spectators hopped the fence to swap
boots and fists with players on both
sides. A leather-chaser aiming a punch
at the ball hit a man instead. That
started it, and it was a grand old Donny-
brook while it lasted.
* * * *
Vigorously championed by the “Age,”
V.F.A. football is getting increasing sup-
port. The chink of silver at the turn-
stiles becomes louder every week, and
the “Age” proudly reports that 34,000
people saw the last lot of April matches,
weighing in with £439. This is only about
a third of what the V.F.L. rakes in
weekly, but the Sydney Rugby League,
for one, would be glad to swap.
* H= =K *
Grounds for Saturday’s games in Syd-
ney’s Rugby Union competition were
largely mud patches and sheets of water ;
at Manly there were pools up to eight
inches deep. Forwards did most of the
work, floundering and splashing through,
Margins were close in all cases. East
drew with Parramatta, Drummoyne and
Gordon also finished level, and North
had one point to spare against West.
Gibbons, the scrum half, was respon-
sible : he cleverly snapped a field goal when
West was leading 9-6 and it looked all over.
There was a lot of stoush at Concord,
and midway through the second half the
West (and Australian) half, Ramalli, was
carried off, dazed and with a damaged
eye.
The East-Parramatta draw left Rand-
wick alone at the head of the table one
point above East—they meet next Satur-
day. Randwick accounted for Uni. 16-8
(three tries to one) in a hard-fought for-
ward game. Gordon slipped badly in
the second half against Drummoyne.
O’Brien notched three tries, and the
Northsiders led 11-nil at lemons. After-
wards the Reds kept the ball among the
forwards, crossed twice to Gordon’s
once, and collected points from a couple
of p.gs.: 14 all. At Manly the Villagers
applied their surfing knowledge to better
effect fhan did St. George, 12-8 (one try
apiece).
* * * *
Under wretched conditions —the worst
of the season —Eastern Suburbs’ unbeaten
run in the N.S.W. Rugby League came
to an unexpected stop when South Syd-
ney, uncorking the brand of football
that made South for years the greatest
force in the League, swamped it, 12-0.
With backs and forwards working like
parts of a well-oiled machine, the win-
ners slung the greasy ball about with un-
canny skill, and their tackling was an
eye-opener. East has an outsize pack,
but mere weight could avail little against
superior teamwork and speed. Balmain
went alone to the top of the competition
table by downing Western Suburbs 15-10
in what was more a mud-bath than a
game. Newtown, which shares with West
the hope of yet opening its winning
account, could not hold Canterbury-
Bankstown, which, thanks mainly to
Kirk, who got over once and also notched
four goals, had a margin of 14-5 at the
finish. St. George got out of a tight
corner when, with North leading 4-2 and
10 minutes to go, it suddenly tightened
up the attacking game and rattled up 8
points: 10-4.
* * * *
“D.”: Though Sydney Rugby League
has ceased to publish attendance figures,
a little light has been let in on
its finance and that of the Leagues’
Club. The club, it transpires, pays
the League 10 p.c. p.a. on a loan
of £5OOO and doesn’t charge it office
rent. The original loan was £2OOO, and
was made in 1914, a year in which began
the tedious interruption of a war ; and
because of this £2OOO “B” members of
the club—in effect, the Rugby League’s
general committee elect four-fifths of
the directors. The club owns a Phillip-
street building, and on land and premises
it borrowed £60,000 from the Common-
wealth Bank at 4} p.c., and £15,000 from
Tooths at 5 p.c. Gross trading profit for
the year to December 31 was £10,191 ;
but expenditure exceeded income by £65.
There are 31 “B” members and 1360 “C”
members. A few-score “C” members
ran a man for club president, but Flegg,
the League president, was re-elected.
* * * *
In the N.S.W. State Soccer League nine
teams with only five points separating them
create a situation unique in the history
of the code. Goodyear still has its nose in
front. The premiers had anxious
moments when Cessnock held a 1-0 lead
half-way through the second session, but
a couple of quick ’uns got the Sydney
team out of trouble. Heavy going did
little to restrain the furious pace set in
the Leichhardt-St. George match ; a final
series ol strong sorties by the St. George
foiwards failed to upset the 3-1 lead
Leichhardt had already established by
sound play. Metters revelled in the quag-
mire to crush Gladesville-Ryde 8-3.
Woonona-Bulli surprised even W.-B.
when, by incessant pressure, it tossed
Adamstown 3-2. The youthful Granville
side could not cope with the canny hard-
heads of Weston, who bent the weather
conditions to their game, the miners win-
ning 4-2. At Wallsend the home side
bogged in, but Newcastle could only get
bogged—4-0 was the damage.
Miscellaneous
“Second Bounce”: Withdrawal of
Japan from the Davis Cup owing to
unavailability of chief player Yamagishi
makes Australia’s task through to the
inter-zone final an easy one —perhaps too
easy. Japan would have given our team
very desirable match practice, and,
although Yamagishi constituted a real
threat, few expected the Japanese to do
more than extend our lads, because of
weakness in doubles and the second
string. With only Mexico, the Philippines
and Canada as the initial hurdles, it looks
like a procession for Australia.
♦ sfc * H*
“Drap” (Lond.): Austin will not play
for England in the first of the Davis Cup
matches. Reason? He is an Oxford
Grouper, and is too busy lecturing in
the U.S.A. on the movement.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A young Englishman
with an athletic as well as a scholastic
record put up at a boardinghouse in
St. Kilda-road, Melbourne. One Sunday
afternoon he found himself stuck alone
in the place, all the other guests having
departed on their various occasions. He
was wandering disconsolately about the
empty halls when he ran across an in-
dividual, older than himself, who seemed
to have been marooned as completely
as he was. They fell into conversation,
and presently the Englishman suggested
a game of tennis. There was a court
in the backyard. The young man started
to serve, and, being a considerate fellow,
he put over an easy one. He got it back
with interest, and after a couple of hours,
during which he did not win a game and
his opponent showed him no mercy what-
ever, he was exhausted. “Well, you seem
to know a bit about tennis,” said the
Englishman after they had finished.
“Might I ask your name, if it isn’t an
impertinent question?” “Clemenger,”
replied the stranger.
* * * *
“Sturt”: “Scotch” has for the first time
won the head-of-the-river in Adelaide,
beating St. Peter’s in a heat and Prince
Alfred in the final. These two still
have their private duel for the Blackmore
Shield, presented before the other schools
existed, and Prince A. won this comfort-
ably. In the annual sports programme
the next afternoon Prince Alfred also had
a margin of points.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: When the King’s Cup
race is rowed on the Brisbane River’s
Hamilton Reach on May 13, law and
order should be assured. The N.S.W.
crew includes two policemen, 12st. and
13st. 61b. respectively, and the Queens-
land boat will contain Mick Hourigan,
another 13st. 101 b. of young bobby. The
respective coxes are reported to be apply-
ing for special exemptions allowing them
to make left-hand and unsignalled turns
without risk of the police members of
the crew dropping their oars to pull out
notebooks and take down particulars of
the traffic offence.
afe . 9|; H* ♦
“Bushie”: Who said the hardy bush
sportsman was no more? At the recent
Harwood Regatta on the Clarence
(N.S.W.), one of the crews in the Open
Butcher-boat Race, the main event of
the day, comprised the three Castle
brothers and F. Ascoli. They rowed their
boat a distance of several miles to Har-
wood Island in time to compete in their
heat, which they won. Then without get-
ting out of their boat they rowed back
to the mainland, motored seven miles to
their homes, milked 40 cows, returned to
their boat and rowed back to the starting-
post to win the final.
* * * *
“Sturt”: S.A. Cricket Association,
celebrating its narrow Sheffield Shield
win, collected three members of the team
that first won the Shield in 1893-94. Of
these, Blinman was in the chair (president
Scrymgour was away ill); Walter Giffen,
younger brother of the better-remembered
George, and Ernest (or “Jonah”) Jones
responded when Talbot Smith, veteran
lawyer, Bulletin contributor and cricket
official, had told yarns about them and
their contemporaries. Responding to the
toast of the current S.A. team, Bradman
stressed the point that only 14 men had
been tried in it, implying a fair and
thorough trial for everybody once chosen,
and promising well for the future. How-
ever, he expects Queensland to do better,
and N.S.W. very much better, next
season.
* * * *
“Tee”: At Kensington, Sydney, on
Saturday veteran G. Thompson, playing
his first championship game for two
years, demonstrated that his golf arm
has lost none of its cunning. He and
partner Jim Ferrier landed the N.S.W.
amateur foursomes title with an aggre-
gate of 152 —not bad figures considering
the conditions. Jim gave his usual sound
display. Second nlace was shared bv
D. J. Davies-A. W. Bishop and C. Ruwald-
F. Headlam, three strokes to the bad.


SHOE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
ĸ
TTITT
AT THE
SYDNEY
Twice Da Hu 230-Q
Bigr New Company Overseas Stars featurint
THE FOUR FRANKS,
SENATOR MURPHY
In Broadway Hot Stlots.
“The Laugh Bound-up,” featuring
WILL MAHONEY
and 10 Other New Acts.
SHORTHAND'
You will learn jjutcon frnui u.anu uumpictciy ni
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1044 P. Wellintrlon. N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
SUNDEY
SHOWS
RIGHT OFF THE ICE.
Others who also knew precisely
nothing about skating were rushing—or,
at any rate, plodding—in where lissom
lasses were skimming like angels and even
the cruder sex was somehow managing
to look graceful. We refrained. Having
undertaken to provide these pages with
some account of a gala night at Sydney’s
Ice Palais, we looked on. A sense of
duty is a valuable possession. We trust
no sceptical person will confuse this ex-
planation with cold feet.
Entering, we waded through deep red
carpet extending to left and right into
The tyro crawl.
far distance through a cabaret vista, with
shaded lamps on the tables, and assorted
Sydneysiders in highly sporty rigouts, or
else their spare sweaters, furs, scarves and
suchlike, on the chairs. This colorful
gallery, about the length of Randwick
straight and half as wide, cuts across the
distant ends and carries up and down on
the other side also, enclosing the pride
of the Palais, an oblong lake of ice as
big as a paddock and smooth as glass.
Add a small red iron-pipe rail running
unobtrusively but importantly along the
top of the low wall dividing ice paddock
and galleries, a large dance band* estab-
lished in a multicolored clamshell across
the ice from the entrance, and a surround
of mural panels of polar bears, fir-trees,
snow and similar phenomena, and that’s
the setting, all arranged with meticulous
neatness in an interior as vast as several
town halls placed end to end and shot
through with light and color.
Kept cosy by radiators, we now had
the pleasure of seeing others as they
might have seen ourself. Here one
minute they were, chatting away in the
best of health, and the next there they
were with skates on, making an inglorious
progress foot by foot. Even that they
were managing only by hanging like
drowning souls to the red rail, going arm
over arm in the tyro crawl, legs bandied
about a yard apart following some way
behind and trying desperately to find a
foothold on a terra firma that wasn’t
there, heads held in the attitude of pained
rigidity that usually denotes a stiff neck,
tummies tucked in and elsewhere stuck
out, eyes projected like mesmerised
lobsters’, chalky expressions registering a
mixture of despairing bravado and acute
appendicitis, the general effect one of
apprehension and dismay.
Learning to skate. That’s what they
called it. And when it’s all as easy as
Inclination towards exhibitionism.
winking, as the most tentative of them
would realise every now and then, when
a staff skater would swoop along, pick it
off the rail and proceed to show it how.
Just a matter of confidence. Hasn’t Mr.
Bendrodt, who runs this spectacu-
lar place, laid down the sufficient
dictum that “anyone who can walk
can learn to skate”? And what
further reassuring could anyone
want than that proffered by the
official brochure—that “when a
person falls, as some must, their
clothes only come in contact with
clean, dry, frozen water”? Also,
if you feel a fall coming on, “don’t
struggle.”
You’d think to look at us —that
is to say, them —you’d think to
look at these timorous tyros that
the prospective fall was into the
Bottomless Pit. In fact, they look
as if that would be preferred,
simply because it would be bot-
tomless.
Yet when they do flop—“as
some must”—they seem from here
to do it in complete comfort, just
sitting down the way the Japanese
do for dinner. And what nicer
than an expanse of glass-smooth
ice to sit on? In the recent
summer . . .
Anyway, while this cripples’ progress
proceeds all along the red rail, all over
the ice paddock hundreds of superlative
examples of the graceful sex, and what
goes with ’em, are flitting and skimming
and floating like a flock of birds. The
way they do it, it looks the natural
element of the human race. And pro-
fessors have gone mad and thrown them-
selves over cliffs from pondering on the
prospect of humanity destined in only
Mesmerised
lobsters.
another few hun-
dred billion years to
enter the Ice Age!
Maybe even then
the Equator will be
a red rail, with timid
tyros making records
going hand over
hand round the
world in 50 - odd
years. But for most
it’ll be the end of
strap-hang ing.
They’ll go skimming
off to yakka, and to
the devil with fez
please and petrol
stink!
It wouldn’t look
so bad, either. Be-
lieve it or not, bald-
headed businessmen,
pot-bellied publicans,
uncles and aldermen.
all varieties and degrees of homo
sapiens whatsoever, look quite sur-
prisingly presentable once they reach the
stage of dispensing with the red rail and
skimming off across the ice-field.
A bit of figure, of course, is an asset,
especially if there’s an inner inclination
towards exhibitionism. Eighteen stone
driving along on one skate with arms
at large and t’other leg cocked up behind
like a wallaby’s tail may give a glowing
personal satisfaction, but as a spectacle it
isn’t so hot.
The perfect figure for it is the useful
possession of a young fellow named Noel
Locke, who, with the rest wafted
off the ice by a few words from
the loudspeakers, obliges with an
exhibition. He wears what look
like black tights, plus a dinner-
jacket, and what he manages to do
there on the ice, with a bluish spot-
light on him, should be enough to
shame the last timorous rail-creeper
into going and doing likewise—or,
at all events, having a shot at it.
Away from athletic fields, it
hasn’t been our experience that the
human male runs much of a race in the
Graceful Stakes, and we’re Philistinian
enough to throw in not only the ballroom
floor but the ballet as well. For even
in ballet, where they might be held to
be at about their best, they look clumsy
by comparison with a mere minor Pav-
lova.
Mr. Locke knocked these notions end-
ways with a striking performance. We
had never before seen ourself to such
advantage.
Also without touching on the profes-
sional performers, there was,..as one of
the general crowd, a lass slim as willow,
yellowish aloft, with a rainbow-hued sash
about her midst, and her attire white.
These two struck us as class ; but there
was plenty more on view of a kind to
Class.
make even the coldest feet thaw out and
turn to thoughts of skating boots. No
doubt they may even have Size 9’s for
hire . . .
After all, there is always the. Red Rail.
Australian Plays.
Australian drama month in Sydney—
a dozen or so plays by Australian
authors are to be shown at various
addresses —kicked off last week with four
one-act plays by the Players’ Club and
Dymphna Cusack’s “Red Sky at Morn-
ing” by the Teachers’ Federation
Dramatic Society.
The one-acters included an engaging
brief comedy, “The Fourposter,” by
Dora Wilcox, concerned with the refor-
mation of a flighty young minx by
seeing the ghosts of her ancestors per-
forming around her bed and by a very
substantial burglar hiding under it.
Valerie Ball as the wayward lass, at
first considerably alarmed by the shades
A flock of birds.
and then refusing to be perturbed by
fine burglar, who she refuses to believe
is anything but a ghost, gave the piece
the advantage of a very competent per-
formance.
In “That’s Murder,” another witty
lightweight, Noni Dunne, as a house-
keeper with a crime-complex who
changed a suicide to murder just to see
if the cops could work it out, proved
herself a very able comic actress. “At
Dusk,” a grim little fragment by Milli-
cent Armstrong, suffered from some poor
lines, but gained from the acting of
Valerie Scanlan. Though a little elocution-
ary at times, Miss Scanlan put a great
deal of force into the role of a fear-crazed
woman.
H. Drake - Brockman’s “Dampier’s
Ghost,” a stretch of confidence trickery
in North Australia, is a fair distance
short of this writer’s best.
Dymphna Cusack’s “Red Sky at
Morning” is tragedy set in an inn on
the Parramatta-road in the early days
of last century. An Irish rebel, an officer
and his mistress are the main figures,
with the innkeeper, his wife and daughter
filling in the background. In three acts
and one scene, and between sunset and
sunrise, Miss Cusack builds up her
characters and disposes of them effec-
tively and thoroughly. As played, charac-
terisation was remarkably vivid, especi-
ally as represented by Jean Robertson,
William Wines and Jerome Levy.
Melbourne Tit).
The American invasion of Melbourne
Tivoli continues, latest reinforcements
including Senator Murphy, Uncle Sam’s
Statesman of Political Humor.
The Senator is alleged to have once
sat in Sam’s Legislature and assisted in
its deliberations. It is possible. Every-
thing is possible in this world, and the
Senator’s observations on Hitler, Cham-
berlain and Mussolini are no more
nonsensical, and some of them are a
good deal more sensible, than what passes
for profundity in the utterances of states-
men currently doing their stuff on the
international vaudeville circuit. They
are also vastly more amusing.
Under the stimulus of the Russian
ballet, the Tivoli loyelies, a couple of
dozen maidens handpicked by an expert
in physical fitness, kick their heels in an
autumn setting which makes the old-style
Tiv. ensemble look shoddy. The Myrons
stand on each other’s heads and manipu-
late the undercarriage of a motor-lorry
with their feet in a way that makes front-
seaters think about increasing their in-
surance policies. Carl and Leone Bonner,
America’s sweethearts of song, fill the
auditorium with treacle, and Lee Donn,
the greatest pianist in variety, makes a
concert grand sound tinny.
Other items are a restless comedian
named Sammy Cohen; Mignone, a
graceful and beautifully-proportioned
lady who manipulates a pair of person-
able extremities with an amazing indif-
ference to the laws of gravitation; and
Jack Stocks, who brings the house down
by presenting an old brand of humor
in anew way as the discouraged husband.
A refreshing feature of a satisfying
bill is the amount of pleasant music
in it.
“1066 and All That ”
The suspicion that Madame Tabouis
and Mr. Zanuck might have learned their
history from this memorable opus by
W. C. Sellar and R. J. Yeatman became
a cold certainty after witnessing the
Independent Theatre playing Reginald
Arknell’s adaptation of the book at Syd-
ney Con. last week.
To students of Madame, the idea of
Marlborough as a humble descendant of
the famous Winston Churchill should
have a familiar ring.
The play evokes the hearty
guffaw in vast volume. A fairly
colorful piece, threaded with
songandance, it runs along as
smoothly as clockwork, making
a couple of hours’ pleasant and
good-natured damnfoolery.
Of a marathon cast, Howard
Craven, Sumner Locke-Elliott
and John Stacy were among the
most outstanding. O. D. Bisset
as compere was entertainment on his
own.
Extra-good Revue.
Resurveyed on a recent evening, the
London Casino Revue at Melbourne
King’s panned out an even better enter-
tainment than on the first night.
If any better conceived ballets of the
revue description have been staged in
Melbourne present commentator must
have missed them ; nor has any more
effective figure or better dancer been
seen than the seven-foot gentleman
clothed mainly in gold size who gives
point to the scene in which a bevy of


CREATEST RANGE of FORD
TRUCKS EVER PRESENTED!
17 TRUCK CHASSES • 7 DIFFERENT FRAMES
2 ENGINES • 4 AXLE RATIOS • HYDRAULIC BRAKES
With 17 truck chasses ranging in
capacity from 1 Ton to 4£ Tons,
and semi-trailers up to 12 Tons—
Ford now offers a range of models
to handle every truck job efficiently
and at lower cost than ever before.
There is a big new engine for the
tonners giving reserve power
for the tough jobs. In addition
there is an improved 95 H.P. V-8
engine, 7 different chassis frames,
4 axle ratios, 2-speed axle and
the new "Quick-stop" hydraulic
brakes designed to Ford standards
of precision and safety.
Engine improvements include:
Heavier, more rigid crankshaft.
Larger main bearings. Newly
designed connecting rods. New
type piston rings. Waterproof
ignition. Tungsten steel inserts
in both inlet and exhaust valves.
Improved down-draught carburet-
tor and newly designed intake
manifold give even greater fuel
economy.
For 1939, Ford values in the truck
field are unapproached. What-
ever your truck job—see your
Ford Dealer first!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD. (incorporated in Victoria)
CAB AND PLATFORM BODY ON 134 in. WHEELBASE.
Also available on 122 in., 157 in. and 185 in. W.B. with
All Standard Bodies.
CAB AND DROPSIDE BODY ON 157 in. WHEELBASE.
Also available on 122 in., 134 in. and 185 in. Wheelbases.
r
r
TIPPER, WITH "G-LONG" UNDERBODY HYDRAULIC
HOIST. 4or 6 Ton Capacity.
h
PLATFORM SEMI-TRAILER. TRAY SIZES up to 32 It. x 7 It.
buy from your local ford dealer
F50.27.H
WHATEVER YOUR NEED— WHATEVER YOUR COST LIMIT FORD CAN MEET IT!
e iri s loaded with ore toil up the steps
of the temple of Mammon.
The underwater ballet, in which girls
disguised as fishes and more girls arrayed
in seaweed and other flora and fauna of
the ocean-bed are caught in an immense
ae t by unseen fishermen, is another dis-
tinguished item.
If the comic and vocal matter which
fills in time while the sceneshifters are
pushing one set of. scenery against the
wall and bringing out another are no
better than is customary on these
occasions, it is no worse; and in the
circumstances the failure of the opus
to attract overmuch attention is puzzling.
Perhaps there is a trifle too much nudity
in it for Melbourne.
Car Show.
The umpteenth show of the Auto-
motive Industries has been filling the Ex-
hibition Building, Melbourne, with the
almost intolerable glitter of glass, nickel
and enamel.
Unlike the fashions worn by the ladies,
which one season take surprising leaps
into the future and the next hark back
to the Middle Ages or even to some
prehistoric era, fashions in motor-cars
progress along the lines of looking more
and more like wheeled torpedoes.
Some of the fashions worn by the
ladies look so uncomfortable that the
writer would sooner sleep on a bed of nails
than have to wear them, but the motor-
car designers are all for comfort and
convenience, so much so that the next
gadget that will have to be thought of
will be a head-slapper which will keep
the driver awake while lolling in his up-
holstered chair with the radio alongside
him lulling him to slumber.
An interesting section was the suburbia
on wheels ensconced behind the plat-
form. It offered caravans for inspection
which were better equipped than many
villas in Kew or East Malvern. The
architects of suburbia will have to pull
up their socks if they hope to meet the
new development. For a man with a
large family to have to duplicate his
abode on a slender salary is obviously
ridiculous, so the future modern Mel-
bourne suburb should consist of houses
built on wheels so that the owners can
hitch them to their cars and rush off
at the week-ends to Woods Point or
Portsea and to Lome or Mallacoota at
the Christmas holidays, leaving nothing
behind but a vacant allotment. The
present system is wasteful in view of the
state of the national finances.
“Honolulu.”
Robert Young, Eleanor Powell.
This quite palatable M.-G.-M. comedy
and songandance at Sydney St.
James deals with complications brought
about when a Hollywood star finds
his double in a planter from Hawaii
and the pair of ’em swap iden-
tities. Fillum star —fed up with having
to spend half his time in hospital through
being trampled near to death by worship-
ping crowds —lights out for Honolulu,
while planter—in Hollywood to acquire
a few manners of civilisation —does a
“personal appearance” tour of N’Yark.
Fillum star falls for the bewchus
Eleanor aboard ship, but finds himself
already engaged to a lass in Honolulu as
well as involved in some none-too-clear
financial deal. Planter finds he can’t get
outside his own door even in a coffin, and
also finds himself engaged to some movie
charmer. And there you have ’em—both
in very hot water and neither able to
communicate with the other because of
two very thorough secretaries, and be-
cause they both made such a thorough
job of the impersonations. In the work-
ing out it becomes even more compli-
cated, making a very diverting stretch of
amusement.
Mr. Young ranks with the best of ’em
in light comedy-romance, and has con-
siderable histrionic ability besides. A
personable cove, he no doubt flutters the
feminine frame while not offending the
masculine outlook. Miss Powell, of
course, should offend nobody’s outlook.
With them are Burns and Allen, of
whom it is said that they draw more
listeners to a radio network than the U.S.
President himself. Whether they are as
humorous as all that from the Australian
viewpoint might be argued against, but
certainly they are a couple of damn’
tunny persons.
“Mayerling”
Charles Boyer, Danielle Darrieux.
While the recently-reviewed French
ottering La Kermesse Heroique” was
comedy as light as froth, and this Syd-
ney Embassy film is tragedy pure and
simple, they have one thing in common,
ineir makers evidently put artistry before
everything, even to the extent of holding
up the story to get the full effect from
acting and from settings. It’s a risky thing
to do, but in both films it’s managed
without a slip—scenes upon scenes are
flawless pictures on their own and arrest-
ing studies in composition, grouping and
general atmosphere.
“Mayerling” has to do with an heir to
the Austrian throne who fulfilled obliga-
tions to his position by marrying the
woman his rank demanded. His unrest
and dissatisfaction culminated in a liaison
with a Court lass who offered him a
measure of happiness and understanding
denied by his marriage. Gossip brought
matters to the stage where he was offered
the choice of breaking of the liaison or
seeing the girl sent off to a convent. He
chose a third way by putting a bullet into
the girl and one into himself.
It’s so finely acted and so well sus-
tained on the right note of inevitability
that it makes this an outstanding film.
Boyer, excellently cast, turns in a fine
performance; he seems more at home
speaking French than English. Miss Dar-
rieux is called upon to be a wide-eyed
17-year-old girl, and she manages that
pretty well perfectly.
Children’s Art Exhibition.
Spread over the walls of the N. S.
Wales Education Department’s big L-
shaped gallery in Sydney are drawings
and paintings by schoolchildren aged
five to 18, grouped in States and coun-
tries. All the Australian States and M.L.
have contributed their quota ; England,
the Canadian Provinces, South Africa,
India, too. The U.S.A., Hawaii and Japan
have their sections.
Around the walls all day circulate long
crocodiles of school kids, marshalled by
teachers, all moving on the same itiner-
ary in accordance with a chart. These
youngsters have been selected for the
treat on some system or the other—in at
least one Sydney school the Machiavelli
in charge invited “hands up” of those
prepared to see the show out of school
hours, and then took the volunteers in
class-time.
However they’re selected, they enjoy
themselves. Despite a large placard that
meets the entering eye, “Art is Difficult;
Criticism is Easy,” they express their
opinions in no uncertain terms. Their
scorn for the efforts of those little ones
whose drawing is more than a bit wonky
and who find it difficult to find space for
all four legs on a horse is superb. Their
praise went to those ambitious produc-
tions in the 17 to 18 age class, of lads
and lasses who almost certainly will go
to art schools if they’re not already there.
In Art every little boy and girl seems to
be a little Conservative.
But to a confirmed art critic the scrawls
and daubs of the tiny tots are more in-
teresting than the older work. A small
child, unless it’s an embryo Murillo or
Velasquez, never dreams of drawing
from a model; that’s far too hard. It
draws from memory, not what things
look like, but a catalogue of their con-
stituents. Its drawing is dreadful, but
give it color to dabble with, and it shows
not only desperate courage, but often the
glimmerings of a sense of balance and
contrast.
Much of such work has a charm of its
own—the charm of sublime naivete.
Tragedy creeps in when painters at 50
seek to recapture the intangibles their
work may have possessed at five.
If you judge the age of nations by these
drawings Mother India asserts her mater-
nity. Stylised, intricate decorative de-
signs, always geometrical in basis, form
the bulk of the Indian exhibits. They
don’t look like children’s work at all.
Japanese kiddies, on the other hand, pay
no tribute to the art conventions of
Nippon ; they draw just the same sort of
figures as a youngster in Dunedin or
Saskatchewan or New York.
Among the “colonials,” Vic. pupils are
neatest; the young artists of M.L. are
the freest and least fettered. The Maori-
lander in his early years seems to be
able to achieve the absolutely open mind.
It’s a good show from many points of
view. And its very best feature (though
this will shock the people who wear
mortar-boards) is that its educative value
is its least apparent quality.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
In the autumn show this year in Mel-
bourne, Victorian Artists’ Society has
gone all modern. Young painters, and
some old ones, who a year or so ago
were pillars of orthodoxy, have been
bitten by the bug that makes them paint
buildings all lopsided, and set the necks
of giraffes on the shoulders of otherwise
normal individuals.
Alan Sumner has painted a “Gar-
dener’s Shed” after it has been hit by a
willy-willy, and in “Melancholia” Mary
Tarkington has depicted a female lament-
ing over a presumably-empty bottle.
W. Manders, in “Sketch,” and S. H.
Bond, in “Sunrise with Fog,” present
what look like first impressions, and
Percy Watson has given his brother suf-
ficient air to breathe with. John Heath
has portraits of David Sisserman, the
’cellist, Dr. W. A. Morrison and J. G.
Turner which are solid and like the
sitters.
None of the old guard makes any
advance on his usual manner.
The V.A.S. is careless about the way it
hangs members’ pictures, and some are
clustered around a balcony where it is
impossible to see them properly. Light
is the executant of an artist’s picture just
as a pianist is the executant of the work
of a composer, but this fact gets scant
consideration from Victoria’s premier art
society.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
-'I.C •
mv-ih
. - 'i
mmm
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms, ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, . 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone; 84771.
BRANDAUER-S
m
o*
*
Ctf.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDACKR * CO* Ltd* BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Legal Notice.
Re MICHAEL GUCKIAN (Deceased).
TO MARY MONA FALL or FAULL, daughter
of Mary Fall, and to all persons claiming by
or through either of the aforementioned, the
PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND, as
Administrator of the estate of MICHAEL
GUCKIAN (deceased), hereby requires you to
prove on or before the first day of October,
1939, your claim to share in such estate. After
that date the Public Curator will distribute the
assets of the deceased having regard only to
the claims of which he shall have received
notice.
DATED this nineteenth day of April, 1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH COOPER,
daughter of Arthur Herbert Cooper and Ada
Elizabeth Cooper, nee Cropley, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, please
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand?
FORBES—MISS ELSIE LINDA (daughter of
Mrs. Rose Alice Forbes, of 201 Victoria Parade,
Fitzroy, Victoria, who died on. the 28th June,
1936—sometimes known as Mrs. Rose Hughes).
Please communicate with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY-
LIMITED, 401 and 403 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
CHAMBERS.—Any person knowing the where-
abouts of HECTOR J. CHAMBERS or
WILLIAM R. CHAMBERS both sons o
CYRIL GEORGE CHAMBERS, who died at
Goulburn, New South Wales, on 7th May,
is asked to communicate immediately
MESSRS. ARTHUR ROBINSON . &
Solicitors, of 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The light in Sydney radios burned late
on Saturday night when hundreds of
their subjects listened to the vivid story
of the King and Queen’s departure for
Canada. They left from Portsmouth,
and that’s a name to thrill any of us
who must always mentally salute Nelson
and the Victory. This old seaport with
its fortifications, and here and there bits
of eighteenth-century buildings, was
steeped in sunlight and echoing with
cheers to wish the royal pair “happy
journey.” The Queen wore a dress of
powder blue. Blue also were the frocks
of the young princesses ; and they must
have made a nice family group on the
steps of the Guildhall, the Queen with
her hands filled with cream roses. And
at last, when the Empress of Australia
actually drew away from England’s
shores, it must have been a stirring sight
to watch the great white ship with the
Royal Ensign and the Admiral of the
Fleet’s flag streaming out in the fair and
freshening breeze, under the bright sun-
light of the day.
Quite a neon light in last Saturday
night’s murk was the Independents’
presentation of “1066 and All That.” If
you don’t want your humor ironic or
triangular, “1066,” with its fourth-form
fun, will keep you laughing your head
off. The players of the Independent
group scored all their points, and romped
through the pages of history from the
Romans’ departure from Britain to our
modern madnesses. Lots of the players
kept reappearing. Popular were Sumner
Locke-Elliott’s King John, Christopher
Columbus and Bruce’s spider. Ethel
Gabriel’s drawl was inimitable when she
hoped he’d “get fine weather for it,” re-
ferring to the knight going off in a huff to
the Crusades.
It certainly augured well for the suc-
cess of the Minerva to see the crowds
trying to get into the Con. for this play.
Cars slid up to the doors in a continu-
ous line, and a queue of non-bookers
stretched away into the wet night waiting
their turn at the ticket-box. Lord and
Lady Gowrie were among the amused.
Doris Fitton in cornelian-red velvet,
Betty Ward, Ethelwyn Kirk and C. H.
Morgan were glimpsed in the vice-regal
group. The dances and ballets arranged
by Pauline Francais, who has produced
ballets in Paris, were sprightly and color-
ful. Costumes, too, showed a nice blend-
ing of colors.
A bit of ■ what goes on behind the
innocent or the impudent gaze of child-
hood has been captured in the Inter-
national Exhibition of Child Art. This
positively papers the walls of the Educa-
tion Department’s galleries, and is quite
a revelation of the child mind. The work
is gathered from America, Hawaii, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, Canada, England.
There are some examples from Vienna.
Rather grim that the small Viennese girl
should have been moved by the sad and
sick-looking street-cleaner. English chil-
dren have done an Indian encampment,
while one of art teacher Isabel Mc-
Kenzie’s Sydney youngsters has been im-
pelled to do a winter impression—all
snow and bleakness.
Macabre but vigorous was the brush
of a six-year-old girl in Mexico when
she gave her Prayers for the Dead to the
world. A black coffin on white draped
trestles is hung about with very blue
wreaths hanging from its sides. There
are tall lighted candles and four nuns
praying also in this picture. The steel
and mechanised might of Detroit have
plainly seeped into the blood of one
young citizen. Wedding groups appeal
to kiddies of all countries ; so do the
ideas of Christmas and Santa Claus. One
young naturalist sends in a pictured day
in the “life of my pet lizard” ; lizard
anatomy is said to be about perfect.
There’s a small boy’s letter with one
entry. It says he likes to paint and draw
but his family want him to be a sheep-
farmer. There are ski-ing and skating
scenes, full of dash and merriment. There
are self-portraits, too. And when a girl’s
a redhead she is deep-dyed, and when a
girl is a blonde she is a real Goldilocks.
But whether north or south, east or
west, the youngsters work in vivid greens
and reds and violets.
Remarkable for the hordes of men
attending, the opening speech was made
by Lord Wakehurst. The Governor con-
fessed that he was no art critic. Still,
are any of us? Importants on the plat-
form included Director of Education
Ross Thomas, president of the Society of
Artists Sydney Ure Smith, Guenda
Bainton (father and mother were among
the strollers on the floor) and Mary Kidd,
domestic science inspector, not turning
a hair at being mixed up with the arts.
Technical College’s art director Frank
Medworth and his wife, knight Marcus
Clark, newly-elected trustee of the
National Gallery, Lister Lister, the Erik
Langkers and Ena Cambridge were
among the hundreds of interested.
A word from Mrs. Ben Edye, who is
its president, tells of great activity in
the matter of the Shawl Ball. Paisley
shawls and Spanish shawls are being dug
out of many a Sydney treasure chest.
The ball is in aid of the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, and will fill the Troca-
dero with color and movement on Thurs-
day, June 22. Cleverly enough, the
organisers have set the time for nine
o’clock. This gives supporters of the
hospital who have to earn their daily
bread a chance to drape the silken and
embroidered folds from Old Castile,
Canton, Lyons or the looms of Spital-
fields about head and shoulders to the
greatest advantage. During the evening
there will be a parade by the wearers of
the shawls, and prizes will be awarded
for the most beautiful. Many of Sydney’s
historical shawls have promised to put
in an appearance ; also there will be a
shawl ballet.
This is one of Sydney’s clever young
skaters. She is Judith Dey, elder daugh-
ter of Dr. and Mrs. Lindsay Dey, of
North Sydney. Judith, a teen-old. and
younger sister Patricia, who is just 11,
have no fear of the housed glittering ice-
fields now about Sydney. Photograph
from Robin Cale.
What did your mail bring you the
other .morning? A bill from the income-
tax man or the telephone bill? To one
at least in Sydney last week’s mail is
looked back on with joy. The Alexander
Gordon lady got a cheque for £5O one
bright morning. It was from somebody
she hadn’t even tapped for a penny for
her Day Nursery matinee. This matinee
is named “the Lady Gordon matinee,”
and its great pull is that much of the
programme will be scenes of childhood.
Children to help the children is the idea,
and Heather Gell is moulding more than
100 babes into a nursery rhyme fantasy,
a lily pond and such. One small boy
iconoclast stood out the other day. He
was going to be an angel, but struck
when he found he would have to wear
a “dress.” The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, under the leadership of Hein-
rich Kritz, and 19 of the season’s prettiest
debs, will add still more glitter to the
afternoon —May 16 at the Theatre Royal.
And if all that gaiety does not per-
suade you to give your mite, perhaps the
grim story told to this Letter by the
Gordon lady will. It was of a young
mother forced to go out to work every
day, and who had no one to take charge
of her baby. Every morning she bathed
and dressed it and left it with its bottle
of milk near it on the floor. One even-
ing she came home to find that a rat had
eaten the baby’s toes. If there were
enough day nurseries such a horror could
not happen again.
For seven years the Queen Victoria
Music Club had the benefit of an hon.
secretary whose good work was only
exceeded by her good looks. In all those
seven years Thelma Houston never
missed a committee meeting or a musi-
cale. Singing is this Albury girl’s profes-
sion, and her voice is well known to
Sydney audiences ; the good causes for
which she has sung are innumerable. It
was on the advice of the London exam-
iner when she passed her A.T.C.L. with
the highest marks in the State that Miss
Houston decided to make music her
career. Though pressure of work has
forced her to resign her secretaryship of
the Queen Victoria, Thelma still carries
on as secretary of the Martin-Hunter’s
Hill Music Club and treasurer of the
Musical Association’s women’s com-
mittee. At present she is working hard
for the success of Alice Prowse’s testi-
monial concert at the Conservatorium on
the 15th. Photograph from May Moore.
“Shore” (Sydney C. of E. Grammar
School) celebrated its fiftieth birthday on
an autumn afternoon soft as one in late
spring. There were gladsome reunions
among the 1500 or so guests. A very
erect guard of honor schoolboys in
cadet uniforms was lined up at the
school gates to greet the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie. Headmaster
L. C. Robson and Mrs. Robson, other
headmasters, churchmen (including
Archbishop Mowll), professors and
bankers (knight Harry Sheehan among
them), Cabinet Ministers and ex-Judge
Backhouse were present. There was a
band, and a flower show in a marquee,
Painter Elioth Griiner has been paying
a short visit to his Waverley home, this
time driven back from Moruya on his
beloved South Coast by the rain. Now
he’s back in the wide spaces again, stay-
ing with the Deuchar Gordons, of
Manar, Braidwood, where he hopes to
do a lot of painting. His artist eye has
obviously been impressed by the good
looks of the Hon. Mrs. Hore-Ruthven,
though he does not agree that she is at
all like Lady Gowrie, her vice-regal
mother-in-law. They met at a small
sherry party at Admiralty House. Young
Grisha Goluboff, the violinist, was an-
other of the afternoon’s notabilities.
Mostly younger Sydney went to the
dance at Admiralty House given by Lord
and Lady Gowrie in honor of their son,
the Hon. Patrick Hore-Ruthven, and his
wife. The Hon. Patrick has not been
well for the last week or so, and vas
unable to be present at the dinner the
Consul-General for the Netherlands and
Mrs. Schuurman gave for him and his
bride a few nights previous to the dance.
Before the Admiralty House gaiety there
was a regular outbreak of dinner parties
among the invited, and the Elink Schuur-
mans dined with the Jimmy Dixsons;
Philippa Stephen, too, was one of the
night’s dinner party hostesses.
Hot curried sausages and meat pasties
were among the real food served out by
Glacarium hosts at their five o’clock to
Gwen Chambers last Monday. Gwen
is Australia’s answer to Sonja Henie.
Her skating—she has gained awards for
it in all the refrigerator centres of the
world—is of the quality that makes the
eyelashes quiver. From Melbourne, she
knits all her own skating costumes.
The cocktails and the food supports were
served in the little chalet at the end
of the rink. Entertainment was provided
by kindly professionals illustrating the
different steps and stops in intricate
movements.
Lady Gowrie is very interested in the
work of the Board of Social Study and
Training. Last week she drove out to
the University to present the Diplomas
of Social Science to its successful stu-
dents. On that occasion the State’s tree
of knowledge seemed to have sprouted
into a forest of learning, for the v.-r.
found her way to the withdrawing-room
of the Union only after half an hour’s
wanderings. This year’s girls who are now
equipped with certificates to carry on
this splendid work, and who made their
bow to Lady Gowrie on Monday, are
Frances Emert, B.A. (formerly a club
leader at the University Settlement),
Helen Heney, M.A., Joyce Melville, 8.A.,
Helen Halse Rogers and Nancy Sneddon.
Joyce Melville is junior supervisor of
the Camperdown Park Children’s Play-
ground, which has been established and
is maintained by the Municipal Council.
During 1938 no fewer than 94,775
children spent happy hours on its swings
and slides, and listening t 0 stories.
Helen Heney and Nancy Sneddon are
training for medical social work, and
Helen Halse Rogers is registrar of the
Central Index which was inaugurated by
the board in 1935. Aileen Fitz Patrick
and her workers in Hamilton-street are
busy preparing a welcome for Elizabeth
Govan, B.A. of Oxford and M.A. of
Toronto. She holds the Dip. Soc. Sc.
from the latter University, has been ap-
pointed to work with the board in Syd-
ney, and will take up her work here dur-
ing this month.
Mrs. Fabienne Destombes, a popular
member of Sydney’s French community,
sends word of her travels in French Indo-
China and Siam. She mentions Cam-
bodia and Tonkin, and says that her
second book is progressing favorably.
Mrs. Destombes has already received
the gold* medal of the French Geo-
graphical Society for her first book of
travel. She had just spent a week sail-
ing in the Bay of Along before setting
out for Saigon by the route Mandarine.
A party of eight lads, junior farmers,
sent over by the Norfolk Island Young
Citizens’ League, recently spent some days
in Sydney as the guests of the R.A.S.
They were entertained by Commissioner
Charles Jackson, of the Port Kembla Dis-
trict Boy Scouts, and then left for some
weeks on the Northern Rivers. In Syd-
ney they were also entertained by Wirth’s
Circus. On Wednesday afternoons during
the Sydney season the circus has enter-
tained considerably over 2000 children,
members of orphanages and children of
the hard-up.
The evenings of music with which
Hopewood House cheered last winter are
already in the bud for the 1939 bloom-
ing. The first concert will be on June 19,
and the last on August 28. Marjorie
Hambridge, Constance Burt, John Han-
nell, Ernest Empson, Ruth Pearce-Jones,
Charles Nicis and Clement Hosking are
a few of the stars on a very coruscating
list.


SHEARERS’
DRINKING MUGS
Hygienic and Durable
FOWLER WARE
MUGS of Finest Quality,
Semi-vitreous EARTHENWARE
Perfectly smooth
No curled edges
Do not stain or rust
No lodgment for food remnants to putrefy
Retains liquid temperatures longer
Made specially for industrial and rural use
Will withstand plenty of hard usage
Always clean and glistening
$
£
Merchants throughout Australia stock Fowler Products—
Household Crockery and Stoneware, Sanitaryware,
Wall and Flooring Tiles.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century
Marrickville, N.S.W. - Thomastown, Vic. - Brisbane, Qld.
MODERN BATHROOMS
The past twenty years have seen a rapid evolution of the
bathroom, from just a necessary adjunct to the most import-
ant room in the house.
To-day, comfort, brightness and convenience are all carefully
planned.
There is no adequate substitute for earthenware —glazed tiles
for the wall, colorful tiles for the floor, toilet suites, pedestal
wash basins and wall fittings. Earthenware does not wear
away, the colors cannot fade, it is easy to clean and keep clean.
Whether you are building a new home or modernising your
existing one, Fowler earthenware will give you a lifetime of
service and the satisfaction of knowing you have installed the
best.
Leading Hardware and Builders’ Suppliers throughout Aus-
tralia stock Fowler Ware.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century.
Marrickville, N.S.W. Thomastown, Vic. Brisbane, Qld.
&
w.
m
ISB
ie
POETRV IN CHINA 1
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to
Match
Shelley is Poetry in Chiruxware
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully-colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH Pty. Ltd.
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
cm
Registered Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT—
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
ain. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. or
Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Canteens of Cutlery
by
COOPER BROS. OF SHEFFIELD
World-famous Cutlers and
Silversmiths since 1866.
k
Obtainable from all
leading stores and
jewellers.
Trade inquiries to
BOX 1389 J,
SYDNEY.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 657 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALICE RENSHAW Petitioner
And ALBERT RENSHAW Respondent.
TO ALBERT RENSHAW late of East Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE REN-
SHAW has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 732 of 1939.
BETWEEN CECILIA MELBA GLADYS
TOWNS Petitioner
And JACK CLIVE TOWNS Respondent.
TO JACK CLIVE TOWNS late of Narrabri
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CECILIA
MELBA GLADYS TOWNS has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
Dafgd this 26th day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
PHILIP GOLDMAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 674 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALICE MARY KING Petitioner
And GEORGE WILLIAM KING Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM KING late of Lans-
down in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE MARY
KING has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of August next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. Copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Third day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN J. AUSTIN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1939.
BETWEEN VALMA MAY WEDGE Peti-
tioner
And ALBERT HERBERT WEDGE Re-
spondent.
TO ALBERT HERBERT WEDGE late of
Granville in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VALMA MAY
WEDGE has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twentieth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 110 of 1939.
BETWEEN LYDIA ELIZA FOWNES-
LUTTRELL Petitioner
And RALPH MOHAN FOWNES-
LUTTRELL Respondent.
RALPH MOHAN FOWNES-LUTTRELL
(also known as Ralph James) late of Dar-
linghurst near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LYDIA
ELIZA FOWNES-LUTTRELL has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of adultery with Doreen Nellie Florence Hart
between the First day of November last and
the Twenty-sixth day of December last at
Darlinghurst in the State of New South Wales
and at divers other places in the said State
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifth day of July next and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
AND TO DOREEN NELLIE FLORENCE
HART late of Darlinghurst aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the Petitioner has
alleged that the Respondent did commit adultery
with you and this notice is given to you so
that you may have an opportunity to apply
to the Court to be let in to defend the charge
if you so desire. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of May, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY.
Registrar.
GREGORY S. MADDEN AND STOKES.
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 26 0 Connell
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Motor Show, the largest that has
been held in Melbourne, is drawing large
crowds to the Exhibition Building. Small
bqys are fascinated by the mechanised
units of aggression or defence, mobile
guns and gun carriers, service and radio
stations, also on wheels. Men gaze at
the luxury or sports cars for hours, or
they get inside and go into an ecstatic
trance in the driver’s seat. Such detach-
ment is barely equalled by women even
at a fashion show.
Chinese chow for all-comers kept
things busy as a street in a Chinese city
at the Town Hall during peak hours of
the Rice Bowl Festival (in aid of Chinese
refugees). . The food, cooked in the sub-
terranean regions of the building by
Chinese and European cooks, was carried
upwards in lifts to trestle tables in the
main body of the hall. For Is. 6d. each
customer received a bowl of rice with
fish or meat; as extras there were dim
sims, surely the most piquant sausage
mixtures ever invented.
Members of the Chinese community
flitted about like butterflies in national
costumes. Children sold all sorts of lucky
charms, and were cute enough to offer
their little gilt badges only to the people
not already wearing them. The little
women standing behind stacks of Chinese
tea, bowls of ginger, bottles of interest-
ing-looking sauces, pamphlets of Chinese
recipes and stalls laden with silks and
linen goods sold the wares as fast as
they could wrap up the parcels.
Rice ran out towards the end of the
midday session, but there was so much
to watch among the clumps of bamboo
decorations that there was no impatient
champing at the bit at the delay while
another hundredweight or so was cooked.
It is said that there are 200 Chinese ways
of cooking duck, but there’s only way
of cooking rice (fast-boiling water for
15 minutes and then a plentiful sluicing
under a cold tap, after which savory
flavorings are added at the cook’s dis-
cretion).
The Chinese children present were
much in request for lessons in the
handling of chopsticks by those who
wanted to try these ticklish implements
before taking up spoons for the rest of
the meal. Among those who attempted
the Oriental practice were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, the Gengoult
Smiths, Alice Wyett (an expert), Mrs.
F. W. Thring, the Jess lady and her
schoolgirl daughter Betty, Dr. and Mrs.
Waller Williams, Gerald Pinniger,
Lionel Middows, Simon Fraser, the Mac
Knoxes and Lorna Bradford, who per-
severed slowly but surely till her rice
bowl was empty.
The P.L.C. old-school-tie function at
the Town Hall last week was made
possible by an Old Collegian present, who
in her schooldays was Linda Knight
and who now is the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
A. W. Coles. The committee didn’t even
have to worry about decorations ; Mrs.
Coles just whispered a word in the right
direction and the stage became a garden
of rust-red, yellow and white chrysan-
themums, varying in size from tiny
pompoms to magnificent dinner plates.
All P.L.C. past pupils who could be
located were informed about the party,
a “feeler” for an Old Collegians’
memorial at the new school, Hethersett,
at Burwood, which project was explained
by president Mrs. Lex Rentoul, who is
something of an orator and never uses
notes. Among Old Collegians present
were Mrs. J. Patterson, Miss H. Neilson,
Mrs. Ernest Poolman, Isabel Biddell and
Jean Brown (the afternoon’s singer and
accompanist), and Anne Fortune and
Mrs. F. F. Fairley, a couple who helped
with various jobs of organisation ; also
Mrs. A. F. Frazer, Miss V. Patterson,
Burneice Swaine and Gwen Jones, who
wrote identification cards, carrying both
past and present names, for the lapel
of every guest.
Mrs. Harley Styles and Mrs. H. R.
Hamer made a point of coming to the
old school party. Among inter-State
visitors present were Mrs. H. R. Willcox
and Elsie McLachlan, of Sydney, Mrs.
R. Bassett, Mrs. M. Colquhoun and Mrs.
F. C. Smith, of Adelaide. Mrs. R. G.
Menzies sent a regretful refusal owing
to a previous date in Canberra, but Mrs.
Ivan Holyman flew from Tasmania
specially for (he party. Among mothers
and daughters present were Mrs. I. H.
Moss and Mrs. Dorothy Dare, Mrs.
R. L. Forsyth and Madge (who left
school last year but was on duty for
the afternoon in charge of this year’s
prefects), and Mrs. Alec Adeney and
her daughter, Mrs. R. S. Blair. Mrs.
Blair’s small daughter, now at Hether-
sett, is upholding the family traditions.
The girl with the ash-blonde hair is
Karin Neilsen, who with Allen Cavanagh
has just arrived in Melbourne to de-
monstrate and teach ballroom dancing
for Jennie and Eileen Brenan. Miss
Neilsen is of Scandinavian descent and
speaks English with a faint accent (her
friends love it, but she herself has done
her best to lose it). This accent she
attributes to association with her Swedish
mother, for since her early childhood
Karin has been in Sweden for only short
periods. She went to school in Holland,
where she learnt several languages and
also became an expert skater—a pleasure
she has now sacrificed for the sake of
the sound ankles necessary in her work.
Tennis is her favorite game, and on
board ship she often manages to get
into the finals of table-tennis com-
petitions.
Both Miss Neilsen and Mr. Cavanagh
took up dancing careers as the result
of winning competitions in early youth.
Mr. Cavanagh has passed the highest
exam, for teachers inaugurated by the
Imperial Society of Dancing. His
hobbies are swimming, photography and
astrology. He and Miss Neilsen (who
in private life are happily married to
each other) have had many dancing
successes, notably the international cham-
pionship at Nice in 1936. Among
engagements which they particularly
enjoyed were seasons in Geneva, in Den-
mark and last winter in Madeira. It
was there they met by chance the parents
of Rory and Maureen McDermott, the
brother and sister who last year were
attached to Jennie Brenan’s school.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Esme Broadhurst, who has two spots of
work to do in “Getting the Bird.” The
first she performs in equestrian garb ; in
the second she disguises her joie de vivre
in the trappings of a missionary. “The
Bird,” which is the 1939 University
revue, may be seen (if not captured) at
His Majesty’s from May 16 to 20. Esme,
usually known to her fellow-students as
Sue, is the elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Broadhurst, and will sit for
her final exams, in arts at the end of the
year. Younger sister June is doing first-
year science.
As regularly as the fall of the leaves
when the days grow cold and the hint
of green on bare branches when warmer
weather arrives six months later, come
the “Vies.’ ” —otherwise the Victorian
Artists’—'exhibitions. The spring show fills
the gallery in Albert-street just before
Christmas; the autumn show is on at
present, after being opened with a speech
from Mrs. Herbert Brookes, followed by
the usual evening function wherein a
copper full of coffee is carried upstairs
by any artists offering whose hands are
competent for more mundane tasks than
the alliance of brushes and palette.
Among those present were the David
Dows, picking up old threads of friend-
ships in Melbourne after their recent
return from 14 years in the U.S.A. Noticed
in one group at the same moment were
three lots of unrelated Andersons, sculp-
tor Wallace Anderson, A. E. Anderson,
of the National Gallery, and Geoffrey
Anderson. Mrs. Geoff’s coiffure was
admired for its decorative arrangement
of plastic curls.
Dinah Roach was there with news of
a pleasant holiday at Dunkeld, where she
met the Charles Bates couple, who in-
vited her to stay at Mt. Sturgin, the
Armitage family property, which is a
painter’s paradise. Everybody living
thereabouts can talk colloquially of
“Streeton trees,” and can show an inquirer
several spots selected by Streeton for his
pictures. Max Ragless and John Elder-
shaw were painting in the district at the
same time as Miss Roach. All three
artists, by special request, had some of
their pictures on view in Dunkeld, much
to the interest of the local citizens.
The Central Hall, well filled with
people and applause on the night of her
dance recital, must have been very en-
couraging to Vera Grist. It was her
first recital and her success was entirely
on her own merits. She had no com-
mittee, booked the hall herself, and
attended to most of the details, which,
though small, were no less worrying,
for the planning of the evening. Three
musicians gave their services, friends
came forward to help with selling pro-
grammes, and perhaps the most helpful
thing of all was the fact that Vera’s
teacher, Madame Saronova, was off-stage
with the sort of calm advice that is as
soothing balm to tuned-up nerves. The
young dancer was overwhelmed by all
her flowers and made no attempt to make
a speech. Her interesting programme
included character dances, for which she
is particularly well suited. A group of
vivacious Spanish dances were among her
best interpretations.
Jean Robertson, who has been ap-
pointed field-work tutor to the Victorian
Board of Social Studies, was not long in
making the acquaintance of her new job.
On the same day that she walked down the
gangway of the Ormonde she was look-
ing over the work in hand in the board’s
offices. Miss Robertson is Scottish, and
took her degree in Arts and her diploma
in Social Science at Glasgow University,
since which time she has spent several
busy years with heavy responsibilities for
one so young. Her experience covers
“case work” (scientific method of treat-
ing social problems) and the training of
students. In England and Scotland Miss
Robertson was employed in several in-
dustrial concerns as a liaison officer and
problem-absorber between employers and
employees, and also assisted with the
selection of labor.
She was also employed in a scheme
sponsored by the Ministry of Labor for
the removal of workers from distressed
areas to other districts where they could
be absorbed. This work also included
the selecting of men and women moved,
and dealing with their social problems
after the upheaval of their transplanta-
tion. Miss Robertson is particularly in-
terested in training students, and is look-
ing forward to living in Australia. She
has no friends or ties here ; the lure of
her new job was the particular type of
work it offered, plus the air of adventure
that clings to an unvisited country.
Dr. Anita Muhl’s lectures on crimi-
nology are proving popular with the
general public as well as with students,
the police, teachers, welfare officers and
some of the clergy. The lectures are at
bargain rates, the series of 14 for 2s. 6d.
Dr. Muhl has a keen sense of humor,
has her audience always with her, and
thoroughly understands her subject. In
a Utopia it might be compulsory for
politicians and all administrators to im-
bibe the sort of course in psychology
that she might prescribe.


GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
(i * Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys which contain 15 miles of tiny
übes andfilters. If these tubes or filters be-
pnmp Hoeeed with poisons, It may lay you up
for mat/ months. Don’t run any risk Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints
Ask your chemist for DOAN S
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Pearling Doesn’t Pay
“Kaloa”: I agree with Mr. Joe Car-
rodus, Under-Secretary to the Department
of the Interior, that the Australian pearl-
ing industry will soon be at an end if
the Japanese continue on their present
lines. From every pearling bed round
the coast comes news that baby shell is
being fished to the limit.
At the same time, it depends on how
long the Japanese can carry on. Last year
they operated on about as thoroughly-
organised a scale as was possible. They
had a converted gunboat as a depot and
about 140 luggers working from it, and
lesser mother ships in Australian waters.
A few were operating as much as 1800
miles from their base at Palau. But the
estimate of expert pearlers in the Arus —
a centre of gravity in the pearling busi-
ness—is that 75 p.c. of all Japanese boats
in southern waters were worked in 1938
at a loss which sometimes was as high
as £3OO Australian per sampan.
Prices of all tropical marine products—
shell, beche-de-mer, shark meat and fins,
trepang —are low. And much Timor Sea
shell has this year suffered from a mys-
terious sickness.
In the Arus the affection in some areas
is 100 p.c. The effect of the disease is
to cloud the interior of the shell and
rob it of its sheen. The trouble appears
to be caused by a huge influx of minute
jellyfish which find their way inside the
shell and die.
The Northern Slave
“Binghi’s Brother”: Yes, that yarn told
to a goggle-eyed Sydney audience by a
doctor who went to Arnhem Land with
an anthropologist is perfectly true.
The tyrants of the Queensland Abo-
rigines Department do turn the Cape
York Binghi into a slave. They take his
money and put it in a bank for him.
They let him take it out of the bank only
to buy, say, a sailing boat. The idea is
that Binghi will use the boat to earn a
crust. In it he goes to a lovely island
with oysters and fish all round it; and
he lies down on the beach under a tree,
only waking up occasionally to eat a
bream. Then it dawns on him that if
he doesn’t do something about the boat
he will be tied to the darn thing all his
life.
A nice beachcomber turns up and
Binghi gives him the boat. The depart-
ment hears about it and makes the beach-
comber give the vessel back.
And there we are —a haunted native
spends the rest of his life devising ex-
pedients to get rid of a craft to which
he is officially forced to become a slave.
And then those chains that used to
hamper the criminal population in the
Northern Territory. If I had a quid for
every hour I’ve spent listening to ladies
and missionaries on the subject of chains
I could buy Cape York. I am one of the
many brutes who have advocated chains
as the only expedient which stood be-
tween lone constables, bringing in cheeky
myalls, and the Pearly Gates.
But no. The Interior Department will
have none of my ideas.
I remember seeing a sergeant at Borro-
loola removing an abo. from the police
station with the toe of his boot.
“Get out of this,” he yelled. “Shure
I can’t giv yez the damned things. I
know ye’ve been wearing them, but
they’re Government property.”
And was Jacky Jacky annoyed? King
George had given him a necklace. He
had worn it for weeks and now a police-
man was preventing him from taking it
back to Arnhem Land as a souvenir for
the missus.
“Lid”: Bishop Davies, of Carpentaria,
has been up against the Naval Board in
its redesigning of Darwin. The Board
had intended to use as a drill hall the
Church of England, built not long after
Darwin was founded, and the Bishop said
he’d sooner destroy the building than see
it desecrated. The board is now consider-
ing using the church as a naval chapel.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Anzac Day celebrations
in the cities don’t touch me so much as
the little gatherings which take place in
“Just in time, Aunt — I Was goin' t' throw the Water out!”
every Australian township. From dozens
I choose as a typical one Millaa Millaa
(N.Q.), which scarcely existed in 1914.
On Anzac morning 30 Diggers met in the
main street “led by Digger McDonald
with his bagpipes.” Five small boys
were placed at the head of the march:
they carried wreaths sent by the school-
children. In the hall there were 200
people. Somebody played the “Dead
March,” and all stood up. The history
of Anzac was told by a speaker, and the
roll of* names of the little district’s dead
was read out. Wreaths were placed
on the honor board. Some reference
was made by a speaker to the interest
which the Diggers had taken in the
schools and schoolchildren and to the re-
sponse to their work. Then there was
community singing ; then a lunch at which
every Digger and his family were guests
of the community. There is something
intimate and sincere in these little shows.
And they serve a real purpose in promot-
ing neighborliness and a community
spirit.
* * * *
“X.T.”: G. H. Myers, one of the four
Australians who came back from
Flanders wearing two bars to their Mili-
tary Crosses —two are dead —turned ui
at the Anzac Day celebrations at Ipswich
(Q.). A real northerner, born at Cairns,
he spent most of his eighteenth year on
the Peninsula. He was the sergeant-
major in Captain Neligan’s company
which made the much-talked-of daylight
raid at Fleurbaix in June, 1916. He
won his first bar at Polygon Wood in
T 7, and the second during the break
through a year later.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Townsville and Darwin
pressmen look on the arrival of refugees
as a highlight in the day’s toil. Even the
most hardened among them used to have
a tear in his eye as he listened to tales
of persecution ; but not now. A pair
of exiles whose words were solemnly re-
ported were from Vienna, “home of
their ancestors for centuries ; with their
father they had conducted a trade in the
treatment of raw hides and skins.” Three
days before Hitler arrived in Vienna they
were told to get out of their slaughter-
house. German soldiers entered and
“compelled them to perform unpleasant
duties.” Their cars were removed. Their
bank accounts were marked closed. Flee-
ing to the border of France they got
help from a cousin, the governor of the
banking house of Dreyfus in Paris. Be-
fore they crossed the border their clothes
were slit into bits in a desperate search by
German Customs officers, their shaving
soap reduced to chips. It took 14
soldiers and Customs officers to do the
job. And now they had arrived in
Townsville, delighted to be in a free
country and in time to welcome their
wives and families arriving by R.M.S.
Strathmore. Some day, they said, they
hoped to make money enough by hard
toil to rescue some of their other rela-
tives—that is, if they could get work.
How did they get to TownsVilfe? By the
Empire flying boat; fares, about £250
Australian apiece.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Almost every northern town
continues to have a few words on
defence. Mackay’s Defence League
grumbled last week at the lack of Light
Horse, though a local squadron could be
formed there without difficulty, and at
the dearth of anti-aircraft guns. Then
it was moved that the committee urge the
Commonwealth Government to immedi-
ately introduce a scheme of compulsory
national service. The thing was car-
ried without even a squeak of protest,
though there were men of all political
beliefs in the league. And with it went
another resolution that the Government
be asked to allow the league to go on
organising defence units in the meantime.
* *. * *
“Vila”: Solomon Islands have had one
of the worst earthquakes in living civil-
ised memory. Gaudalcanal seemed to be
the centre of it. Fortunately communi-
ties over there are built to be quake-
proof. If the palmleaf hut falls flat, you
push it up again. If the ’quake shakes
off your lava lava, you put it on again.
Of course, you may fall down a crack,
but Solomon Island earthquakes are
usually considerate enough not to make
cracks where anybody is likely to fall
into them.
* * * *
“Scat”: Another little N.T. drama.
The wireless at Yirkala Mission near
Cape Arnhem —was out of action. A
native boy paddled 300 miles to Goul-
burn Mission re-
questing urgent
medical attention
for the Rev. Chase-
ling, seriously ill at
Yirkala. Goulburn
flashed the message
to Darwin by pedal
wireless, and Darwin
tried to get Clyde
Fenton, but the N.T.
aerial medico was
flying to Tennant-
Creek, and could not
be reached. Roy Ed-
wards, another Dar-
win flying man, took
off in his own Moth
for Yirkala, was
seen over Oenpelli,
150 miles east of
Darwin, and then
vanished. Clyde Fen-
ton flew to Yirkala,
found the Rev.
Chaseling out of
danger, and then
went looking for
Edwards. Four other
’planes joined in the
search. A Westralian
De Havilland mail
’plane found Ed-
wards on Howard Island, about 80
miles east of Millingimbi Mission. He
had run into v a storm 25 miles from
Yirkala and was forced to turn back
for Millingimbi. His petrol ran low,
and he landed near an abo. camp, where
the natives provided him with food and
water and a rough shelter. Fenton went
out with petrol, and both pilots flew their
respective ’planes back to Darwin.
Edwards, lost for four days, had little
to complain about except mosquitoes.
* * * *
“Derrot”: Pardon me for mentioning
that Darwin pub again, but 1 can now
report that the Gaskins, of Sydney, have
landed the contract. C. A. G. and R. E.
Gaskin are brothers who went into the
contracting business during the depres-
sion. Now they keep about 10 jobs going
at once, do £70,000-odd worth of Com-
monwealth work every year and will go
anywhere. Their job at Darwin will be
supervised by the Sydney architects who
designed the pub —Stephenson and Tur-
ner, whose record includes St. Vincent’s
and the Dental Hospital, Sydney, Queen’s
Hotel, Townsville, Perth Children’s Hos-
pital and the Launceston General Hos-
pital.


“Radio
Technical Digest
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (L/.5./4.)-
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE . .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.JOMES £ CO.
CHEMIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
Good CONTACT
Means SALES
it's best through
6PM Perth ...
6AM Northam. .
6K6 Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s House* St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Bead “Radio” regularly and keep In
advance of the times.
"Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
don B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
"S" Meter far Superhets.
Particulars were given in B. 12/4/’39
of a tuning indicator for anode-bend
detectors in which the type 6E5 “Magic
Eye” valve is employed. This is a simple
form of tuning indicator, but does no
more than that because direct calibration
in S values is not readily applicable. It
is possible, however, by mounting the
eye valve through an aperture carrying a
circular scale to mark off approximate
readings for signal strengths. The meter
indicator is the logical method of read-
ing strengths visually, especially where
accuracy is needed, as in a receiver work-
ing only over the amateur bands. An
English amateur dealt recently in “T. and
R. Bulletin” with the application of an
“S” meter to existing receivers, and his
suggestions are given here. In the case
of a receiver which does not include a
signal-strength indicator, the operator
Illustrating a method of applying a signal-strength meter to existing short-wave
superhet receivers for amateur and general use.
must depend upon intuition or guesswork
when giving or considering a signal-
strength report.
The basic principle of the device shown
in the circuit diagram is the well-known
one of the Wheatstone Bridge circuit,
This principle is the one upon which the
“S” meter usually works, and several
American makers of communications re-
ceivers apply the signal-strength indicator
in this way. The valve or valves used
are those which are affected by the action
of the A.V.C. When a signal is received
these valves become more heavily biased,
their internal resistance increases, and a
corresponding current is caused to flow
in the meter. The circuit diagram shows
the mixer and I.F. stages of a conven-
tional superhet receiver, and how the
“S” meter is applied. It was found best
not to exceed 2000 ohms as the value
of the resistor for insertion between the
maximum-plate voltage feed to the mixer
valve plate and the I.F. stages.
The meter is bridged through the
100,000- aqd 25,000-ohm resistances as
shown. It is a 0 to 1 milliammeter, and
as a strong signal gives a deflection of
o.6ma. it allows plenty of margin for a
larger deflection from an S9 -plus signal.
If it is found that a strong signal gives
a larger deflection on the 0 to 1 meter
desired it is a simple matter to
employ a shunt to lower the reading. It
would be wise in any case to make initial
tests with a shunt across the meter as a
precaution against accidental application
of excessive current and possible damage
to the meter. Calibration can be effected
by choosing an arbitrary point on
the metre scale, say o.6ma. for an S 9
signal, and then dividing up equally the
remainder of the scale from the other
S points. Any signal over the o.6ma.
reading can be considered as “S 9 plus.”
Inclusion of a meter in this manner will
be a useful feature for the short-wave
listener as well as the amateur.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Dhual”: A member of a militia
signals unit, the A.W.A. pedal set at the
recent R.A.S. in Sydney interested me.
Wouldn’t be a bad idea to put some of
the scrap “boneshakers” to work in this
way. Both our “A” and “No. 1” sets
operate from battery power, and no
doubt power-supply units could be
evolved in pedal-set manner from old
bikes. In time of need, anything should
be used, and in this respect an officer
who in civil life is a P.M.G. mechanic
had a bright idea at a recent camp. The
line supply did not meet the need for
the scheme, so he utilised a handy wire
fence as earth return. The idea might
have suffered in rainy weather, but in
this case it worked out all right.
* * * *
“Enno”: Television is forging ahead
in England and America. The current
issue of “Television and Short-wave
World” (Eng.) has, in addition to the
usual news about television activity, two
remarkable photographs. These are
printed from a frame of motion-picture
film, and show a blurred television image-
•broadcast from London’s Alexandra
Palace station and received by R.C.A.
engineers at Riverhead, L. 1., New York.
The images are distorted, and some detail
is lost through the motion-picture pro-
cess, but it was a remarkable achieve-
ment nevertheless. Long-distance tele-
vision is by no means too much to hope
for, properties of ultra-short waves at
this stage notwithstanding. Some genius
is quite likely to confound all u.-s.-w.
theories some day, resulting in a method
of putting ultra-shorts over very long
distances, constantly and with reliability.
Radio itself is too young to say that it
cannot be done, and the rapid progress
in television is day by day confounding
the cribcs.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: According to the 8.8. C.,
London would be without television in
the event of war. The seven-metre ser-
vice from Alexandra Palace would be
used as a medium for broadcasting vital
news over London, since because of the
more or less optical nature of the fre-
quencies involved the transmissions would
normally be unobserved outside England.
There’s a moral in this for Australian
radio amateurs. In war-time amateur
radio stations would be immediately shut
down with the exception, possibly, of
some stations engaged in defence com-
munications at key positions. The im-
portance of ultra-short-wave amateur
channels is obvious in this respect. A
relay network of ultra-short-wave amateur
stations could be of value for certain
emergencies, and it is up to experimenters
to support those now engaged in develop-
ing 56mc. communication. Such work
amply justifies amateur activity in the
eyes of the authorities. It has recently
been proved possible to put a 56mc.
relay chain of stations around and into
Sydney at a radius of 100 miles. This
distance could be extended to many out-
lying country locations, and similar relay
chains would be possible in other States.
* * * *
“Querex”: Short-wave broadcasting
excelled itself on the night of 28/4/’39
during Hitler’s speech in reply to Roose-
velt’s non-aggression message. I hand
the palm to the U.S.A.’s N.B.C. for speed
and. efficiency. On 31 metres I listened,
via the new G.E.C. transmitter on
Treasure Island, San Francisco, to a
remarkable relay. As Hitler spoke be-
fore the Reichstag in Berlin his voice was
heard interspersed at intervals by
American commentators repeating his
phrases in English. After the speech a
number of American Senators gave their
impressions of it from Washington. Re-
ception of all this, including a summary
and various comments, was first-rate in
Sydney.
Australian Radio Beacons.
The ultra-high-frequency radio beacon
at Kingsford Smith Airport in Sydney
and the others recently put into service
are t|ie first of their kind to be manu-
factured in Australia. They come from
the A.W.A. radio-electric works at Ash-
field, N.S.W. Production of this type
of equipment is considered in technical
circles to be an important step towards
making the Commonwealth aviation ser-
vices self-contained as to radio equip-
ment. The aerial systems of these
beacons are mounted on steel towers
90ft. high, the aerials themselves consist-
ing of vertical copper rods in length.
Control is by remote operation from a
monitoring unit in the C.A.D. control
rooms operated by A.W.A. There are
contained switches for bringing the
beacons into action or switching them off.
Arrays of indicator lights, meters and
speakers indicate visually and aurally
how the beacons are functioning. For
one of the transmitters generating the
signal impulses no fewer than 33 valves
are required.
A. N. W.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Daytime reception is improving, and
during most mornings quite a number of
stations can be logged at good volume.
Best are: 16 metres, DJE, W3XL, clos-
ing at 2 p.m.; 19 metres, DJR, TPA4,
WBXK, W2XE, 2RO, GSD, DJD and
DJZ. Lunch-time brings in a fresh batch.
No stations are heard on 31 metres until
about 1 p.m., when DJA and DJN be-
come audible and reach good strength
before closing at 2 p.m. At this time
GSB is up to good volume, the news
session being followed easily. At 1 p.m.
the 25-metre band has TPA4 and RNE,
with the latter often equal in strength to
VLR3. WBXK is also a good station in
this band until closing at 2.5 p.m. Dur-
ing the afternoons W3XAL can be heard,
with increased strength about closing
time at 4 p.m. W2XK, which ceases
transmission at the same time, is much
weaker.
On 31.48 metres, W2XAF and W6XBE
usually shut down at 4 p.m. At 10 p.m.
the latter station is good, frequency being
9.53mc., just clear of ZBW, and much
stronger. Around 8 a.m. W2XAF is
useful. GSB is not heard well when
W2XAF is strong here. GSC can now
be relied upon for good service at 7.30
a.m. News in English can be heard
from XGOX on 16 and 19 metres
at 1.20 p.m., the 16-metre transmission
being the stronger. At 7.55 p.m. a
Japanese station is heard on 25.58 metres,
and at 9.45 p.m. WBXAL on 49.5 metres
gives news in English.
The higher frequencies show erratic
behavior at night at this time of the
year. On 21 /4/’39 a very strong station
closed at 7.30 a.m. on 19.7 metres (the
old Czech position)—the only language
heard was German. I usually find Rome
on 16.83 metres the weakest station in
the band.
K. B. G. (Thargomindah).
A Progressive Radio Club.
Lakemba Radio Club, which already
has the largest membership of any N.S.W.
radio club, is still growing. Important
work has been done by the club in con-
nection with the use of radio for the
rescue of people lost in the bush ; a very
successful test was undertaken recently
in conjunction with the Bush walkers’
Club.
At the club’s annual reunion last
week radio inspector H. K. Burbury
emphasised the need for consideration
of radio in an experimental sense before
all else, and prophesied that in the near
future it may be necessary to fight for
the retention of many experimental fre-
quencies. Jim Corbin, VK2YC, N.S.W.
delegate to the W.I.A. Federal Conven-
tion held in Melbourne at Easter, also
enlarged on the possibility of a stiff battle
facing amateur radio at Rome in 1942,
and paid tribute to the work of such
men as Warner, of A.R.R.L., Watts, of
R.5.G.8., and Jim Malone, Australia’s
Chief R. 1., at the Cairo Convention.
Active support for the B.E.R.U. was
appealed for as an important phase of
Empire unity at a critical period.
H. F. Peterson, VK2HP, N.S.W. State
president of W.1.A., called for cessation
of “back-fence QSOs” on DX channels,
and for more use of 56mc. for such com-
munication. A lengthy talk on the present
and future status of u.-h.-f. work on the
56mc. channel, touching upon the use of
modern equipment, was given by The
Bulletin’s radio editor, Don B. Knock,
VK2NO, who was supported by John
Moyle, VK2JU.
Tom O’Donnell, VK2OD, paid tribute
to the spadework done in the formation
of the Lakemba Club by foundation
members such as Charles Luckman,
VK2JT, and H. D. Ackling, VK2PX.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Voted at the recent Federal W.I.A.
Convention that Federal H.Q. be estab-
lished in Melbourne. This is logically
correct, for the reason that Federal offi-
cers can maintain direct contact at short
notice with the authorities. N.S.W. divi-
sional officers for the year just com-
menced are: President, H. Peterson,
VK2HP; vice-presidents, F. Goyen.
VK2UX, and F. Carruthers, VK2PF;
secretary, C. Horne, VK2AIK ; treasurer,
H. Ackling, VK2PX; publicity officer,
W. Ryan, VK2TI; magazine manager,
J. Fraser, VK2AFJ ; traffic manager, J.
Fraser, VK2AFJ ; liaison officer, R.l.'s
Department, W. Ryan, VK2TI; liaison
officer, radio clubs, F. Carruthers,
VK2PF; technical officer, V. Bennett,
VK2VA.
Those who think crystal control a for-
midable business at 56mc., calling for
special valves, should benefit by VK2PS’s
method of tackling it. He uses an 80-
metre crystal in a 6A6 with harmonic
output at 20 metres. Next valve is a 42
as 10-metre doubler, followed by a 59
as five-metre doubler. With eight watts
input to the latter, link-coupled to a hall-
wave vertical single-wire-fed radiator, his


RADIO EQUIPMENT FOR DISPOSAL
Two complete short-wave radio-telephone and telegraph transmitters and
receivers. These units were designed by Don B. Knock for the Mackay 1937
Survey Expedition to Central Australia. Ground station comprises crystal-
controlled transmitter using 6L6G tritet oscillator and push-pull 802’s.
Suppressor modulation. Receiver T.R.F. type with KF3, 15 and ID4 valves.
Aeroplane installation comprises equipment similar to ground station, but
with two 6P6 sin the transmitter power amplifier. Both installations ideally
suitable for amateur transmitters or commercial use over long distances. No
reasonable offer refused.
Also for sale: The “2NO Amateur Band Superhet,” described B. 22/2/’39.
This is a 7-valve high-gain receiver for the 10, 20, 40 and 80 metre amateur
a^ves are: 6K7 R.F., EK2G mixer with oJS oscillator, 6K7 I.F.
fin .’ 6C6 plate detector, 76 8.F.0., 6V6G speaker output. Humless
80 rectifier power pack. Calibrated and ready for use, complete with valves
and permag midget speaker. A perfect receiver for the C.W. and
phone amateur.
Apply to Don B. Knock, Radio Editor, “The Bulletin.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations *>
Sheep bought * » 20
Wire netting »
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
C.W. signals are R 8 over most of Syd-
ney For higher power with a minimum
of stages, the VK2NO 56mc. crystal ex-
citer described in B. 19/4/ 39 is the
answer.
A Perth (W.A.) reader sends details
of an organised transmission-reception
test on 56-60mc. which commenced at
6 p.m. on 29/4/’39 and concluded at
6 p.m. on 1/5/’39, Westralian time. Six
stations (VKs 6BW, 6GM, 688, 6LW,
6ZX and 6GB) participated from various
vantage points in Perth and suburbs.
Three were operated mobile (6LW, 6ZX
and 6GB), and all were crystal controlled
with powers from 30 to 50 watts.
Receivers in each instance were super-
hets, and a crew of six operators was
allotted to each station. Operation was
continuous, with each station observing
a compulsory listening period of 12
minutes in the hour, thus en-
suring that one receiver
would always be combing the
band for possible signals.
The Westralian 56mc. gang
have taken the initiative in
organising such a test where
56mc. stations in Eastern
States could be assured of
co-operation over a 48-hour
period. As this is written it
is not known what results
were obtained in other dis-
tricts, but Sydney reports
nothing. Stations on the job
in Sydney were VKs 2NO,
2WJ, 2EM, 2IQ and 2PS,
watches being kept more or
less continuously. Only signal
of unknown origin heard at
VK2NO in the early hours of
30/4/’39 was a steady R 6 T 9
carrier. This was observed
between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m.
Sydney time, but it was appar-
ently of local origin. During
the afternoon of 30/4/’39 two
very weak signals were heard
at 5 p.m., one just outside the
low-frequency limit of the
band and the other around 58.5mc.
These signals were fading out of the
picture and definitely of DX charac-
teristics. Trouble when searching during
daytime at week-ends for signals on
56mc. is the presence on a sensitive C.W.
receiver of harmonics from stations on
lower frequencies. Such harmonics are
often heard at VK2NO from distances
of 20 miles or more.
At the same time as the Westralian
tests a test was conducted by two units
of the Voluntary Coastal Patrol in the
vicinity of Broken Bay (N.S.W.). New
56mc. apparatus was tried out for the first
time by VKs 2MQ and 2ZH, operators on
two of the flotilla. VK2ZH was worked
with by VK2NO as the vessel left Syd-
ney and proceeded up the coast, but
receiver trouble on board terminated
communication at a period when signals
were very strong both ways. Low-power
equipment was used afloat, and 2ZH,
reporting back on 7mc. C.W., was able
to receive VK2NO at R 7 when moored
at Newport (N.S.W.). Duplex communi-
cation between vessels by the 56mc.
’phone channel during exercise was a
great success.
In between watching for Westralian
56mc. signals in the small hours of
30/4/’39, conditions for DX on 7mc.
were checked at VK2NO. At 5 a.m.
several Swedish amateurs were heard well
on C.W., but all efforts to attract their
attention failed. This appears due to
the 7mc. band having been treated in
recent years as a purely local communi-
cation channei, and many amateurs of
recent vintage haven’t acquired the habit
of looking for weak DX signals on this
band.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Ultimate Regent Seven-valve Vibrator
Superhet.
Not so long ago the application of the
vibratory power unit as a means of
supplying high-tension voltage from an
accumulator to a radio receiver presented
many problems. To-day such receivers
give trouble-free performance on both
broadcast and short waves quite equal
to any other form of power supply.
The latest vibrator-powered receiver to
be tested by this Page is Ultimate’s 1939
seven-valve three-band console Regent,
illustrated here. The receiver was accom-
panied by a six-volt accumulator and
external vibrapack. It was found neces-
THE REGENT.
sary only to connect the pack clips to
the accumulator terminals, plug in the
cable at the rear of. the chassis and con-
nect an aerial to operate the receiver.
The first point of interest was the com-
plete absence of noise from the vibra-
pack. There was no noise within the
receiver, even around 13 metres.
The dial is a large circular type with
spin-wheel motion, allowing rapid tuning
to any portion of the range in use. It
is a 320 deg. scale dial, giving greater
separation of stations than normally. A
“Magic Eye” valve shows correctness of
tuning. Because of the turning ratio of
approximately 35 to 1, the spinner per-
mits coverage of the entire broadcast
band by one spin of the knob. A useful
feature is a logging pointer which makes
for very accurate logging for future
reference of short-wave stations.
The "three bands covered take in 13
to 33 metres on the first, 40 to 100
metres on the second, and the com-
plete broadcast range on the third.
Current drain tests show that the total
current from the six-volt accumulator is
1.5 amperes at normal operation, this
being increased to 2.5 amperes with dial
lamps and “eye” turned on.
Valves are: R.F. stage type IA4, mixer
stage 6DBG, two I.F. stages at 460 kc.
using lA4’s, IF6 as duo-diode-pentode
second detector with A.V.C., IF4 output
pentode, and 6U5 eye valve. There are
five control knobs, taking care of tone
and volume, combined dial lighting and
“eye” switch to reduce current drain,
wave-change and tuning. Special iron
core I.F.Ts. are used in the I.F. amplifier.
An interesting feature is the use of a
six-gang tuning condenser, replacing the
conventional three-gang type. Three of
the gangs tune the short-wave coils sepa-
rately, and for the broadcast gangs the
other three are shunted to give larger
total capacity. This is sound engineering,
as it permits tuning on the short waves
with a correct inductance to capacity
ratio, with consequent increase in sen-
sitivity. With the receiver in action on
short-wave broadcasting stations such as
Daventry and Berlin, this feature is at
once evident.
A calibrated volume control indicator
makes it possible, after a little use with
the receiver on the broadcast band, where
signal levels are more or less constant, to
refer quickly to the level for pre-setting.
The speaker is a full lOin. dynamic
with the well-known Rola features.
Audio quality is very satisfying.
Agents are George Brown and Co.,
267 Clarence-street, Sydney, from whom
further particulars can be obtained.
What's What in Radio.
Recent P.M.G. figures for radio licenses
show a total of 1,121,075 throughout
Australia. Experimenters are back over
the 2000 mark —2013.
* * * *
Chief Wireless Inspector Jim Malone
and Oswald F. Mingay, gen. sec. of the
Institution of Radio Engineers (Austra-
lia), have been elevated to the Fellow
Member grade of the I.R.E. Jim Malone
was a P.M.G. man before the war, and
served in France as senior wireless officer
with the A.F.C., being awarded the M.C.
He has been an active member of I.R.E.
since its inception, and last year he held
the Australian fort in the communica-
tions wrangle at Cairo. Ossie Mingay is
also a pioneer radio man, and received
his early training with the Post Office.
He served in France with A.I.F. Signals,
and after demob, played a big part in
helping to lay the foundations of modern
radio in Australia. He was actively asso-
ciated with the W.I.A. until inaugura-
tion of the I.R.E. Both are also mem-
bers of overseas institutions of note.
Comprehensive English
Catalogue.
A glance at the short-wave radio cata-
logue from Webb’s Radio, 14 Soho-street,
off Oxford-street, London, shows that the
English short-wave experimenter is well
catered for. He not only gets every con-
sideration in the provision of modern
components from English manufacturers,
but the prominent American communica-
tions-type receivers are available. The
American receivers listed include com-
plete ranges of makes, such as Halli-
crafters, National, Hammarlund and
Howard, and there is also much trans-
mitting gear from these makers.
English manufacturers have recently
been up and doing in the matter of com-
munications receivers. Eddystone now
have an excellently-engineered receiver
covering everything from 9.5 to 190
metres. The specifications of this, the
“E.C.R.” model, show that it includes
crystal gate, electrical bandspread tuning
and “R” meter calibrated in decibels.
Webb’s Radio has on its staff such
prominent G amateurs as G2NO, G2CY,
GSBJ and G6VA. Associated also is
the world’s champion high-speed tele-
graphist, T. R. McElroy, WIJYN.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
What advertising agents might consider radio
plays ? —772.
Try Goldberg Advertising (Aust.), Ltd., War-
wick Building, Hamilton-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Particulars were given in B. 21 jl j ’3B of
methods of electric-fence control. What do
the components cost, and where are they obtain-
able ? (2) What attention would be neces-
sary to provide low and high impulses for wet
and dry weather respectively ? (3) Where can
I obtain the copy of “Radio World’’ referred
to ? (4) Would there be much trouble with
interference ? —771.
(1) Several concerns are now marketing such
equipment commercially. In Sydney a type of
pulsing equipment is obtainable from Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, Ltd., 10-14 Young-street,
from whom all particulars can be obtained.
It would be possible to get an experienced radio
mechanic to make up such equipment at a
reasonable price, working on the basis of the
descriptions in B. 27/7/’3B. (2) The vibratory
equipment needs to be housed in a metal box,
otherwise the normal insulation for the fence
is sufficient at all times. (3) Nothing has been
seen of this publication for some time. All
available details were given in B. 27/7/’3B. (4)
This can be taken care of by the usual spark-
suppression methods, but there is sure to be
some radiation from the length of fencing.
* * * *
(1) My superhet receiver has developed a
habit of drifting off the station it is tuned to.
I am told that the only cure is iron-cored coils.
Is this so ? (2) Would this receiver work on
short waves by using a converter? —773.
(1) The trouble may be due to a faulty mixer
valve. First thing is to have valves tested and
replace where necessary. Gradual movement
of a loose tuning control could be responsible.
Although it is not likely, as manufacturers’ coils
are so well constructed, it is possible that the
trouble may be in the oscillator coil some-
where. If valve replacement doesn’t effect a
cure, that section of the receiver should be
thoroughly examined by a competent radio
mechanic. (2) Yes. ,
* * * *
A 500-watt transformer giving 100 volts out-
put is used on a 230 -volt house supply as
follows: A 400 -watt lamp is in action for a
few minutes with a tiny motor, for a photo-
projector machine. Thus it is handling approxi-
mately 500 watts, the rated load capacity. But
the transformer is also used for hours to light
a small ordinary 100 -volt lamp. Does this
mean that, when so used on the lamp, the
transformer is actually taking its 500-wait load
from the house current all the time? —774.
No, if the lamp consumed 500 watts, then
this would be the load on the mains, and the
transformer would stand this load continuously.
As the 100-volt lamp will be rated between 50
and 80 watts, this is all the load that will be
taken, irrespective .of the wattage of the trans-
former. The load on the secondary of the
transformer governs the current load on the
mains, and the design of the transformer
governs its ability, to handle the maximum
stated load.


PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR
GROUND ENGINEERS’ LICENCES
Rererence to the shortage of ground engineers has been continually appear-
ing in the I ress during the past few months, for the need for licensed men
is being felt all over Australia. There are many unfilled vacancies for
licensed ground engineers in civil aviation, cpialified engineers are urgently
needed in the R.A.A.F., and many opportunities will, be available in the vast
aircraft building industry now being established in Australia.
FROM 4 TO 5 LICENSED MEN NEEDED ON
THE GROUND TO SERVICE EVERY AIRLINER
As no engineer may work on aircraft or engines unless licensed,
exceptional opportunities exist m this field for those who
commence their training early. The College of Civil Aviation
provides complete instruction to qualify for ground engineer’s j
licences, instruction being in the hands of senior aviation
engineers and aircraftsmen, and the course includes
ACTUAL HANGAR EXPERIENCE ON AIRCRAFT
AND ENGINES
Accommodation is arranged for students who live away from
Sydney, m private houses approved by the College, convenient
to the aerodrome. . „ I
4
MILLIONS TO BE SPENT ON AVIATION
Millions are to be spent on the aviation industry in the immediate
future, and those who are able to enter this industry already
equipped with a training such as this College provides will have
an exceptional opportunity to progress to executive positions.
PARENTS ! A GROUND ENGINEERING CAREER
OFFERS SECURITY!
The national importance of aviation makes it the most worth-
while career for young men ... a career which promises good
pay, permanence and security. Enrol your son with the College
now. The College of Civil Aviation is the only school of its
kind in Australia specialising in ground engineering.
The College of Civil Aviation is in close touch with the
Commonwealth Civil Aviation Department, and the
training of students strictly adheres to all requirements
and regulations of the department.
Call for an Interview, or write for Details of Course to
THE COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION, Dept. 14, 255 a George St., Sydney
AVIATION
CIVIL
OF
•AT


The Kichardson Chain Hotel
■ : <?•
tit
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals f rom 12/6
rea kf ast . . from 7/6
VlM'
I^°
ir^
■
U^'
Lv
f* L p '
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
The Wool Season Closing.
“Ghanam”: Sales since Easter have
shown a weaker tendency for poor wools.
There has been a large proportion of
faulty lots in catalogues, particularly at
Sydney. It is easy to blame the drought,
but much of the trouble is due to poor
sheep and poor farming. A 5 p.c. im-
provement in general wool quality could
easily be effected through stock improve-
ment. At the last Sydney sale, 29,218
bales were catalogued and only 81 p.c.
sold —at an average price of Bd. per
pound. Brisbane has sales in the week
ending May 18, and Sydney’s clean-up
sale will finish on June 15.
Winchcombe Carsons estimate that the
wool cheque for the season will be about
£42,000,000 on a clip 10 p.c. less than
last year—2,970,000 bales. But there were
238,000 bales of carryover wool from
the previous season.
The firm prophesies that wool is likely
to be more scarce during the coming
season, that world requirements should
not be less, and that from Japan and
Italy there might be a heavier demand.
The recovery in German purchasing
activity is found “heartening.” Better
trade, together with smaller carryover
stocks, is likely to cause improvement in
prices.
In Queensland, W. L. Payne, President
of the Land Court, has been appointed
to report on the economic condition of
the industry. This followed a deputa-
tion to the Queensland Lands Minister
from graziers who declared that produc-
tion costs were higher than prices.
The Government can expect a con-
structive report from Payne: Whether
any estimate of the economic position in
such unsettled times can be of much
help is another matter.
Generally speaking, the best policy is
to let affairs take their course, giving as
much encouragement as possible to
graziers to improve their sheep and pas-
ture and provide insurance against
droughts. Taxation relics from earlier
bursts of prosperity are the worst loads
Queensland graziers, in particular, have
had to bear ; and there is no doubt that
tax incidence goes a long way to account
for the slowness of business in station
sales and for the difference between loss
and payability on properties whose low
rentals and general conditions would
otherwise assure that they could make
a profit.
Better Shearing.
“Murrawong”: In previous seasons
overseas complaints against the get-up of
our wool have chiefly been aimed at
loose fibres in jute packs and badly-
classed clips. This year the trouble is
the quality of the shearing. Manufac-
turers complain of damage to machinery
and fabrics caused by skin pieces.
The causes contributing to “bootlaces”
and bad shearing, in N.S.W. and Victoria
at any rate, are (he confinement of shear-
ing dates between August and October
and the fact that so many contractors and
graziers flout the learner section of the
shearing award.
Hundreds of stations which now shear
in the peak period could easily shear in
autumn. In some districts grass seed or
burr, dust periods, lambing and fly-strike
make spring shearing essential. It would
be possible to shear all the 55,000,000
sheep in New South Wales within three
months if labor were available, but at
present there is heavy shortage.
. Breeders must realise, too, that learners
must be brought into the industry con-
tinually. Now, in the peak period, the
shortage of labor is so serious that many
sheds never have a full board. It is no use
saying that men are not offering to learn
shearing. The largest shearing co. in
Australia probably in the world re-
ceives hundreds of excess applications
for learners’ pens every year.
'The present percentage of learners to
shearers is too small. Instead of one in
six, every fourth stand in a shed should
“Next time I see 'ee loafin' when I'm not lookin', I'll sack both of 'ee."
be reserved for a learner, and the award
should be policed. At present only the
larger sheds are forced to engage learners.
Not a few owners of six-stand’sheds de-
liberately engage only five shearers to
keep out a learner who might raise shear-
ing costs slightly.
Last year average shearing costs ranged
from 7jd. to lOd. per sheep according
to time lost through wet weather and
the size of the shed and shedhand staff.
The prevalence of skin pieces is some-
times due to the fact that owners or
managers do not know when a sheep is
well shorn, and cause unnecessary work,
besides inflicting suffering on the animals,
by insisting on inadvisable close shearing
of certain types.
In some flocks there are hard, gluey,
wrinkly cobblers that take four times as
long as an average sheep to gouge down.
Even then they look ragged. Some
owners bring their sheep to the shed
daggy and fly-blown, and expect to get
them shaved without reduction in tallies.
In most cases the dags are so close to
the skin that a piece of it must be taken
away. It is impossible to clean up the
breech of lambs which have been plas-
tered with tar and oil at marking time.
The scab formed is right on the skin and
is better left.
Why do some owners insist on having
short-woolled wrinkly lambs close-shorn?
AH the shearer can do is to run the
machine over the top of the close-packed
small wrinkles. Result —something re-
sembling a dejected tiger covered with
raw bleeding stripes.
Treating Pulpy Kidney.
“Bungaree”: Demonstrating the latest
methods of inoculating sheep against
entero-toxaemia at Young (N.S.W.),
V. G. Cole gave some useful advice. In-
oculation, he said, would not cure sheep
already infected. Vaccination is a pre-
ventive only, and deaths may occur from
e.-t. for a fortnight after inoculation.
The injection may even hasten death
where an animal has the disease acutely.
Treatment should begin at least a fort-
night before deaths can occur. As the
bulk of lamb sufferers are between three
and six weeks old, and the biggest lambs
go first, it is out of the question to
muster and yard when the biggest lambs
are a week old. Most ewes will be on
the point of lambing, and there will be
mismothering galore.
To be effective, ewes should be inocu-
lated. Two doses should be given, the
first a small sensitising dose at mating
or up to six weeks before lambing. The
second and larger dose should follow a
fortnight before lambing begins. This
ensures protection for lambs until mark-
ing, when they can be safely inoculated
without special muster.
While black-disease vaccines are now
practically 100 p.c. effective, those for
e.-t. are a long way off that level. A
single dose may protect in certain
seasons, but when conditions favor the
disease two doses must be given, some-
times a third in severe outbreaks.
One of the chief difficulties is the lack
of symptoms before death. Big, healthy-
looking lambs die suddenly without any
sign of sickness. Immediate post-mortems
often fail to reveal the cause of death to
the layman. The “pulpiness” of the kid-
ney may not be found until the lamb has
been dead a couple of hours, but the
small intestines will either be empty ot
else contain a yellow fluid like mayon-
naise.
When deaths occur the stock inspector
should be informed. Pulpy kidney has
been blamed for deaths that actually
occurred from worms. This has hap-
pened particularly towards the end of the
p.-k. season, which lasts from April to
October.
E.-t. losses are not confined to lambs.
Grown sheep of any sex or age may be
affected, and rams in particular should
be inoculated in a flush season.
A feature of the Young (N.S.W.)
demonstration was the advantage of
modern inoculating instruments and
methods. Ewes heavy in lamb may be
safely inoculated standing in a race with-
out being caught and turned over, as in
the old method. The latest type of auto-
matic syringe may be set at the required
dose, and not only does away with
irregular dosage, but cuts down the time
and labor.
Chief points to be observed in vacci-
nating are: (1) Sterilise syringe and
needles thoroughly. (2) Don’t pour un-
used vaccine back into the bottle for
future use. Calculate amount of vaccine
necessary for the day, and throw out any
left over. (3) Keep a sharp point on
inoculating needles. A fine carborundum
stone is useful. (4) Hold the syringe
parallel to the surface of the skin at
point of contact. Needle should pene-
trate skin only. If tissue or muscle is
injured an abscess and possibly lameness
will result.
Worms in Sheep.
“Kyamba”: “Bungaree” (B. 5/4/’39)
recommends carbon tet. drench for sheep
with stomach worms. Injection into the
bloodstream has the same effect as the
drench, and I’ve found it easier.
I witnessed an experiment to rid sheep
of the nodule worm which infests the
lower intestinal tract. An enema of a
solution of arsenic (2.5 milligrams to
lqt. water) was given, a bag attached
to collect the worms, and a post-mortem
held to determine the number left. In
eight out of nine cases all the nodules
were passed, and in the ninth case 96 p.c.
were killed.
It is important to use the full quantity
of water. Otherwise the top of the in-
testinal tract (and many of the worms)
might be missed. Worm-infested stock
should be treated in the winter. The
cold kills' the, larvae and the sheep do
not become infested again immediately.
Shorter-legged Cattle.
“K.Mc.”: Dr. John Hammond, the
Cambridge expert who investigated
animal husbandry here last year, advises
Australian cattlemen to get their beef
closer to the ground by crossing with
Aberdeen-Angus bulls. In this way
Maoriland, he found, was turning out
better chillers.
Crossing female rejects of other breeds
with A.-A. sires puts them to profitable
use, and ensures that only the best cows
will be used for stud purposes.
Dr. Hammond believes that A.I.S.
cows mated to good beef bulls can pro-
duce first-class baby beef for export.
Britain has closed her markets to some


2814
V A k't.
\
//Sv.
7
There’s Comfort in a Broad Square Toe
Your feet are allowed to spread naturally without pinching or rubbing.
Then again they are extremely smart and popular in design.
A model in Black or Brown Calf in full and half sizes in two qualities.
FIRST GRADE 29/6. SUPER GRADE 32/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
FORTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted by
THE N.S.W. SHEEPJBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
To be held on the
SYDNEY SHOWGROUND,
21st, 22nd, 23rd, and 24th JUNE, 1939.
SEE THE PICK OP AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE MONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheep Saturday, 20tli May
Fleece Classes Saturday, 20th May
Junior and Senior Judging Competitions .... Saturday, 20th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 24th May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz:—
British and Down Breeds Friday, 23rd June
Merinos, Corriedales, and Polwarths Monday, 26th June
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow— Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold—Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders; Bank ot N.S.W., 15.
k
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
ķ
7%£~i^’CtSe&TL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY'= c u|2H22Js>
Fresfi • Fragranf
TOBACCO
.AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/9
All British, mild . . . . 6/9
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/9
Old Peter, medium . . . . 6/9
Cavendish, strong . . . . 6/9
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 7/3
Africa, mellow and mild . . 7/3
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/*
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . . . 10/3
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . . . 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only. . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild . . . . 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . . . . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . 7/-
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for l/«
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other S'tates.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
countries, previously supplying this type
of cattle, on account of foot-and-mouth
disease. The quick returns would allow
small holders to go in for beef.
He deplores the paucity of good A.-A.
herds in Australia and the great dis-
tances established studs are situated from
commercial herds.
The doctor is no pioneer. Butchers
have been deploring the slow progress
of the doddies for nearly a century.
Central Queensland Fodders.
“Zamia”: Rotational grazing is as
profitable in the Central Queensland
coastal belt as in other districts. It
means more work and closer subdivision,
but it pays. Grass should be fed off
young, but it is sometimes hard for stock
to keep it down in the quick-growing
Capricornian country. Let it grow till it
is seeding. Then, in with the mower.
It is a country that should be well
supplied with silos. Lucerne is not
altogether suited to C.Q., though some
areas grow it well. Sorghums flourish,
and so does Sudan grass. Pitted together
those two make excellent silage.
Recently in the western part of the
district crops are being grown where
there is bore water 1 .
Seems to me that all the Central West
could be stocked up in a very few years
with reserve feed. Grow maize, Rhodes
grass, sorghum and Sudan on the coast.
Stack it in cattle and sheep trucks on
their way west to pick up stock. Let
the graziers buy it and pit-silo it near
railway stations for time of need.
Handled this way it should be possible
to build up a big secondary farming in-
dustry on the coast. Not perfect sheep
feed, of course, but, with a chaff mill,
a good standby. Increasing every year
during a run of good seasons, the reserve
could lie tucked underground almost in-
definitely.
Champion Oats.
“A.A.D.”: Belar, one of the several
useful oat varieties raised in N.S.W., took
the honors at the R.A.S. for P. A. King-
ham, of Millthorpe. The award was for
a bushel of milling oats produced from
crops entered in district field-oats com-
petitions.
It was from a 72-bushel crop grown
on red basalt soil, with 19|in. rainfall
during the growing period.
Belar is a selection made by J. T.
Pridham, at Cowra Experiment Farm,
from Sunrise, which in turn was a selec-
tion from Algerian.
Sydney millers class Belar as the best
variety, from their standard, for oatmeal
manufacture, and it is preferred to
Algerian. Recommended for growing on
the western slopes areas and Eastern
Riverina, Belar is an ideal type for the
fat-lamb raiser, providing good grazing
and recuperating to make excellent hay
or grain crops.
Skeleton Weed Again.
“Valerin”: Farmers on skeleton-weed
country will be well advised this season
to sow lucerne on the worst infested
places, even to run a light seeding over
the whole wheat area.
Dry autumns and winters of the last
three years and fallow intelligently
worked favored the growth of wheat
more than the weed, so that excellent
yields were obtained.
With a return to normal seasonal con-
ditions, s.w. may make a more rapid
growth and choke out the wheat. Where
it doesn’t, the branches will be just high
enough to twist themselves round the
rollers and working parts of the har-
vesters.
My experience so far this season is
that lucerne is getting the upper hand
of s.w., which it never did in drought
times.
Hints for the Farm.
“Corn Cob”: Autumn ploughing and
winter fallowing of land for maize, in-
stead of leaving the work over until near
planting time in the spring, add many
bushels to subsequent yield. In a seven-
year experiment at Grafton Farm, May-
ploughed land averaged 59 bushels as
against 48| bushels from August plough-
ing.
“Sir Spen”: Nothing finer in the world
can be found for making either hay or
ensilage than the much-maligned Noo-
goora burr. Nutritive value is high,
especially in ensilage, in which the seed
pod is important.
“Observer”: Don’t attempt silage-
making at this time of the year. The
February-March rains produced a pro-
lific growth of lucerne and herbage, as
well as summer fodder crops under irri-
gation. With constant wet weather the
material is too soppy for pitting, and
would not develop the fermentation essen-
tial to make good silage.
“Jumbuck”: The flush of green feed
after the rains will mean plenty of daggy
sheep. Crutching is necessary to prevent
another crop of dags as well as to mini-
mise fly strike. Don’t pull hard dags off
the legs by hand ; skin and flesh will
come off with them.
“Zedo”: K. C. McKeown, of the
N.S.W. museum, recommends derris root
as a poison for yabbies which have been
causing trouble in N.S.W. irrigation areas
by boring into banks. He found that in
a solution of one part in 400 all cray-
fish were dead in five minutes, and one
part in 6400 wiped them out in an hour.
The derris does not harm warm-blooded
animals even in strong concentrations.
“J. Want”: The attack of pleuro-
pneumonia which struck North Coast
N.S.W. herds is now under control. The
new blood complement test, which allows
of swift and widespread diagnosis, was
used for the first time. It looks as if it
will prove a big influence in wiping out
the disease, since it enables unobtrusive
carriers and supposedly recovered ani-
mals which are still dangerous to be
tabbed and dealt with.
“Wandi”: A useful plant is the native
hopbush, a hardy, drought - resisting
shrub that does well on poor sandy soils.
It grows from 6ft. to 10ft. high, and pro-
duces a good top of leafage. It can be
cut for hand-feeding in bad times. The
bark makes good fibre. The woody parts
are excellent firing material, and the
flowers are used for leavening bread and
making beer. It used to be said that
the seasoned traveller fed his horse on
the leaves and twigs, made tie-ropes with
the bark, boiled his billy with the wood,
leavened his damper and made merry
with the brew from the flowers.
“Yanco”: Sulphate of zinc, which
helped wheatgrowing in the Victorian
Wimmera (B. 19/4/’39), has proved effec-
tive in N.S.W. as a spray for the treat-
ment of the mottled-leaf condition of
citrus trees. Mottled leaf causes stunted
growth, dieback and undeveloped fruit,
and has occurred mainly in light sandy
soils deficient in zinc, on the Murray
settlements, Murrumbidgee irrigation
areas and at Narromine. The spray for-
mula is: 101 b. zinc sulphate, 51b.
hydrated lime, 4oz. black albumen
, spreader to 100 gallons water, at the rate
of about three gallons per adult tree. This
is absorbed into the tissue of the trees,
mainly through the foliage.
“A.A.D.”: The retiring president of
the Australian Wheatgrowers’ Federation,
Mr. T. H. Powell (W.A.), suggested at
Canberra that 20,000,000 bushels of Aus-
tralian wheat yearly could profitably be
converted into power alcohol. Approxi-
mately 2| gallons of pure alcohol, he
said, could be produced from a bushel
of wheat, and the spirit was of higher
octane value than petrol now in use.
The C.S. and I.R. does not seem keen
to take the matter up, probably because
there can be no guarantee of continuity
of supply of cheap wheat in future.
France, the cables have reported, is de-
naturing several million bushels of its
surplus wheat crop. Canada, too, is
endeavoring by scientific investigations to
find a way out of the glut problem
through increased use of wheat in other
channels. Of interest to Australian pro-
ducers is the fact that the residues from
wheat, after alcohol extraction, including
the proteins, make good stock feed.
“Gryllus”: The British Agricultural
Ministry has a remarkable travelling
station for demonstrating to farmers in-
tensive fodder cultivation methods by
growth in chemical solutions. A four-ton
lorry carries a ten-section metal cabinet.
Each section has a tray, a solution tank
and a heat-regulating gasburner. Each day
481 b. of seed is put into one of the trays,
the nutrient solution rained over it for
three minutes in each 24 hours, and the
temperature adjusted to correct level by
the burner. Each 481 b. charge yields in
10 days 2cwt. of green fodder at a cost
well below any other method of produc-
tion, and much quicker. The station
travels from one farmers’ meeting to an-
other, so that the crops are ready for
demonstration at all stages, including a
fully-matured sample for distribution. An
outfit for producing high-vitamin-con-
tent vegetables by similar methods is
to follow.
“Observer”: Do cattle that recover
from ephemeral fever (three-day sick-
ness) become immune? From obser-
vations of the sickness in N.S.W. coastal
areas since it swept through the country
in epidemic form two years ago, inves-
tigators consider that it is fading out.
The only recent occurrence on the coast
has been in the Kyogle and Upper Hun-
ter districts. In the west and north-west
of the State, however, mild outbreaks,
with isolated deaths, have spread through
the Forbes, Condobolin, Canonbar,
Pilliga, Narrabri, Moree, Walgett and
Inverell P.P. Board districts.
“T.F.R.”: Might not the decline in pig-
raising in N.S.W. (B. 12/4/’39) be due
to the better market now available for
vealers? A few years ago a large pro-
portion of bull calves were destroyed as
not worth rearing, and the skim-milk
used to feed pigs. In recent years, owing
to improved slaughtering and marketing,
well-fed “bobby” calves a few weeks old
are worth from 7s. to 12s. each, and have
first call on the milk, enough pigs being
reared to use what is left.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can 1 get chummy wth an old mare
that is hard to catch? —3l44.
Try sugar and petting when caught. Confi-
dence in the mare is the only thing that will
help.


you*
aU eS
b Discovery J c^atarv h,
Ne w Eo* 6 * puffer from Ch £“* VAo** I®’ 1 ®’
ece Bsavy poises? Sneez# I®’ 1 ®’
it entity toughing’
Catarrhal V Co«g
Catar : : Colas -
Constant
Choking’
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE GIVEN
k
Mr. David Burton will send you
a free trial of his effective
Catarrh Treatment with offer
of guaranteed freedom from
Catarrh or no cost.
To prove that this new English
Discovery banishes chronic Catarrh,
Catarrhal Deafness, Head Noises,
Nose-blowing, Catarrhal Headaches,
Coughing, Choking, Sneezing, Con-
stant Colds and other associated
ailments, one thousand Trial Treat-
ments have been set aside for Free
Distribution to “Bulletin” readers.
To avail yourself of this generous
offer, sign, detach and post the
coupon below. Your Trial Treat-
ment will come to you at once, free
of charge and obligation.
6
i
*
Us
m
%
■
■ H
/
A
Mil*
k
\.k ;; W:»i
i
itiitgr
: %
m
\
a
m
:?S\
. p
IlsW '
X —I
mm
*~rr
;
Sweet, refreshing,
revitalising sleep is
only possible when
you breathe through
the nostrils as nature
intended.
Distressing Head
Noises due to block-
age of the nasal
passages rob you of
sleep and make your
life an absolute
misery.
Every reader who suffers from Catarrh will be
interested in the new English discovery announced
to-day, which makes it entirely unnecessary to
tolerate Catarrhal Deafness, Head Noises, Cough-
ing, Choking, Sore Throats, Headaches, or other
Catarrhal manifestations. Mr. David Burton, a
former Catarrh sufferer, has formulated a com-
plete method which removes the basic cause so
that the trouble is completely overcome. Thus,
no matter where Catarrh germs lodge—in the
passages of the head, throat, chest, stomach or
intestines—the complete attack clears these germs
right out of the system. Not a single “centre
of infection” remains from which they can
spread back again by the nose and throat. The
head and nose clear as if by magic; mucus comes
away; throat dryness disappears; inflamed mem-
branes are healed; germs are destroyed; dis-
charges stop, and soothing, substantial relief is
quickly felt. The skin clears; the eyes resume
their former brightness, the breath its one-time
sweetness; dullness, both physical and mental,
gives place to keen alertness of body and brain;
respiratory difficulties vanish; the cheeks assume
a healthy color; catarrhal headaches become a
thing of the past; every objectionable catarrhal
symptom disappears, and the former Catarrh suf-
ferer once more enjoys vibrant exhilarating
health, with freedom from Catarrh and other
abnormal conditions.
m
Catarrhal headaches need no longer be
tolerated now that the cause is known
and the correct treatment is available.
Mr. David Burton, in association with Anglo-
Australian Laboratories, of London and Sydney, t
desires to place his wonderful discovery at the
service of Catarrh sufferers in every part of Australia.
Although numerous unsolicited letters of appreciation
from former sufferers have been received, conveying
the glad news that this new scientific combination has
permanently banished their Catarrh, Mr. Burton insists
that each sufferer must convince himself by actual
test that this new discovery is unique and really effec-
tive. Mr. Burton will, therefore, send to every reader
of this journal who applies on the form at the foot of
this announcement:
(1) A Generous trial supply of his new Anti-
septic Vaporising Oil in Capsule form, which
will give INSTANT RELIEF. This powerful,
bland, and pleasant antiseptic oil instantly
clears stopped-up nostrils and destroys
catarrhal germs breeding in the post-nasal
cavities and respiratory tract. By virtue of
its healing action it greatly aids in the
restoration of the inflamed membranes to a
healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS-SOLVENT TABLETS to
purify the blood stream, eliminate catarrhal
germs from the stomach, right digestive
wrongs, and help every organ of the body!
to function properly.
(3) An offer to completely banish your Catarrh
under a genuine guarantee of satisfactory
results, or it will not cost you one penny.
If you have Catarrh, either slight or severe, whether
merely a stopped-up nose, or whether you have been
a sufferer for many years, there is no reason whatever
why you should not now take advantage of this offer
and see for yourself, without financial risk, what this
important therapeutic discovery will do for you. You
will soon experience the joy of easy breathing. Those
constant headaches, choking, coughing and sneezing
attacks will end. You will cease catching colds. The
troublesome mucus in the throat will disappear. Your
digestion and your general health will improve beyond
belief. Head noises will cease. Your senses of hearing,
taste, and smell will all benefit.
Send the form now. That is the first step to glorious
new health and permanent freedom from an annoying
complaint, which steadily gets worse if neglected, and
which leads to dangerous and even deadly consequences.
COUPON
BRINGS YOU
FREE
TRIAL
POST
NOW
ķ
Catarrhal Deafness due to
pressure on and blockage of
the Eustachian Tube may
now he permanently corrected.
:V! :
"■ s jar ’#9 v
<r
No more stopped-up
nostrils. The David
Burton Catarrh
Treatment not only
enables you to
breathe through both
nostrils, but definitely
ends the trouble by
removing the cause.
FREE TRIAL COUPON
Mr. David Burton,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret Street,
Box 4242 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge and obligation, the trial
supply of Antiseptic Vaporising Oil Capsules and Mucus-
Solvent Tablets promised to give me INSTANT RELIEF from
Catarrh and offer to banish the ailment. I enclose 2d. stamp
for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 10/5/’39.


1
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Idst Free.
Established 49 years.
» Bankers: The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Jffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —onlv one price.
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
P3ge * S SSt ap3rt f ° r £be service of Bulletin
attarh'VZ 1 is en / irely Ali you have to do is to
El™'to“ha P „d” lr ° m ‘ he baCt COTer ot llst
n,usl T b c a c V o°pfi„“d nf to SitS a " d Se ‘ rCh ' eVery inC| “ iry
“Wanted rn B Neii” f s^r Cti ? n „ and . rejection is reserved.
Wa ted to Sell or To Let notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Exp. station bookkeeper, storekeeper, ac-
countant, 30, wants position, with opportunity
to advance, Q’land preferred. Refs. —3263.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to handling manuscripts, neat and accu-
-3270 m ° derate char B es ) seeks typing work.—
Freelance jpurnalist, widely travelled, know-
ledge composing and newspaper work, desires
position with newspaper anywhere.—32s7.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, general office
assistant, can operate telephone switchboard
seeks city position.—33o9.
Young uian (21), N.S.W., willing worker,
wants work helping drover or on station. No
previous exp., but able to ride. Go anywhere.
Refs.—33ll.
Will Captain Robert H. Clark please write at
once to J. F. Thomas, Tenterfield, NSW re-
garding Soldiers’ Memorial Hall Trust? ’’
Information Sought.
Annual cost of painting the Sydney Harbor
Bridge? —2764.
In the report of the N.S.W. Main Roads
Department for the year ended June 30, 1936
the expenditure on painting the bridge is stated
as tK),y«6. lhe average annual cost has not
varied to any material extent since
* * * *
Who originated the name of Anzac ? —3275.
The name “Australian and New Zealand
Army Corps” being too cumbrous, especially
u egrams, Major C. M. Wagstaff, then on
the operations” section of General Birdwood’s
statt, suggested that a simple code name was
required for the corps. One of the clerical
staff on Corps H.Q., then at Shepheard’s
Wotel, (B ener ally believed to be Lieut.
R-A.S.C.), suggested the word
Anzac. Major Wagstaff accordingly passed
ln. ls .^ su Bgestion on to the General, who approved
* * * *
Meaning of the term “radioactivity” ? —3251.
A property of certain substances like uranium
and radium of emitting rays of charged particles
which affect a photographic emulsion, excite a
fluorescent screen, and discharge an electrically-
charged conductor by ionisation of the air
The radiation consists of three distinct kinds of
ray”—(«) alpha-rays, or helium atoms ex-
pelled with a velocity of about one-tenth that
of light; ( b ) beta-rays, or electrons travelling
with a velocity near that of light; (c) gamma-
rays, or X-rays which have a great penetrating
power.
* * * *
(1) When and by whom was gunpowder in-
vented? (2) When was it introduced into
Europe 3—3234.
(1) This explosive was known in Asia from
times of dimmest antiquity. The Chinese and
Hindus contemporary with Moses are believed
to have known of even the more recondite
properties of the compound. The Gentoo code,
which was compiled long before the Christian
era, says: “The magistrate shall not make war
with any deceitful machine or with poisoned
weapons, or with cannons or guns or any kind
of firearms....” (2) It followed the Mohamme-
dan invasion and was used at the siege of Con-
stantinople in 668.
* * * *
To what growth did Leichhardt allude when
he mentioned “vitex” ? It appears on the pages
of his Journal as he recorded growth seen
from latitude 26 to latitude 18 Qld. It grew
in groves or scrubs, had a fresh green foliage,
was blooming in October on the outer Downs,
in February on the Isaacs. It extended as far
north to land watered by the Bur dekin. He
mentions “from the vitex the native bee ex-
tracts a delicious honey.” It grew on stiff
loamy soil and had a white blossom. The Qld.
Government Botanist, to whom I addressed this
question, thinks it might be the sandal box.—?
3060.
There seems little doubt that Leichhardt in-
tended using the name in the generic and not a
vernacular sense, since he refers in his later
pages to the trifoliate Vitex, occurring in the
Northern Territory, doubtless Vitex trifolia or
an allied species. Since no Vitex species is
known from the inland districts of Queens-
land, however, it is evident that Leichhardt
must have referred to a species of some other
genus whose flower sufficiently resembled a
Vitex for him to have confused it with this
genus. It was also evidently a species which
he did not know or refer to under any other
name. On the very slender evidence available
it seems possible that he may have referred to
a species of Eremophila such as E. Mitchelli
(sometimes known as “false sandalwood”),
which does grow in open scrubs, frequently
in association with “brigalow” (“bricklow”), as
mentioned by Leichhardt. This species is said
by beekeepers to yield a small amount of honey
and pollen, and it has a tubular white or
creamy flower slightly resembling that of Vitex
species. E. Mitchelli was not described until
a year or two after the publication of Leich-
hardt’s Journal, so that he could not have
known its specific name. He makes no men-
tion of Eremophila in the Journal, though he
does refer to the very closely allied genus
Stenochilus. Another possible species is San-
talum lanceolatum, “sandalwood,” which also
has white tubular flowers and fresh green
loliage, but it is not known to yield honey or
to P .u rm extensive scrubs. Possibly S. T. Blake,
of the Department of Botany, University of
Brisbane, a botanist who has travelled exten-
sively over the inland districts of Queensland
and studied the ecology of that State, might
be able to offer a valuable opinion.
* * * *
(1) What body issues ground engineers’
certificates for aviation work? (2) Where can
pen ticulars of qualifications necessary, etc., be
obtained. (3) For what other positions are
certificates issued, and by whom ? (4) What
positions are likely to be open to a man of
ex P erience * n automobile repair work ?
../P Department of Civil Aviation, Melbourne,
Victoria. (2) Particulars of the examination are
contained in the Syllabus of Examinations for
Oround Engineers’ Licenses, obtainable from
* e District Superintendent (Civil Aviation),
Aerodrome, Mascot, N.S.W. (3) All aspects of
maintenance work on aircraft are covered by
ground engineers’ licenses. (4) This is a
matter of arrangement with one of the aircraft
operating companies and depends on the quali-
fications and knowledge of the person con-
cerned.
* * * *
(1) What qualifications must an electrician
rn S n/i S t 0 become licensed in N. S. Wales ?
(2) What steps are necessary to ascertain whether
w. e \ e , ctrician is licensed or unlicensed? (3)
Would an unlicensed electrician be eligible to
make house-to-house inspections as recently re-
quired under Ordinance 54b of the Local Gov-
ernment Act? — 3lss.
• c^? rc ? er to an electrician’s license
m JN.b.W. it is necessary to furnish evidence
of having obtained the Certificate of Trade
Competency in the electrical trade issued by
the bydney Technical College or some similar
examination qualification, or to furnish evi-
dence of having obtained a license in another
c! a ! e °r coun tr y which is recognised in this
Mate. The only other way in which an appli-
cant might obtain _an electrician’s license is
to qualify at the written and practical examina-
tions conducted by the Electrical Contractors
„, Elec T triCia ! ls ’ Licensing Committee of
JN.b.VV. In all cases applicants must furnish
evidence of having had at least five years’ ex-
perience in the electrical trade. (2) A licensed
electrician or electrical contractor must pro-
duce his license if called upon to do so by an
authorised representative of (a) the Under-
secretary for Local Government, ( b ) electricity
supply authority from whose mains the cur-
rent is supplied for the work, (c) the owner or
tenant of the property where the work is
being done. (3) Ordinance No. 54b under the
Local Government Act provides that the peri-
odical inspections of electrical installations pro-
vided for in such ordinance shall be made
only by a person licensed as an electrician, and
any authority supplying electricity shall not
employ or authorise any person not so licensed
to make any such inspection.
* * * 4!
Names of firms in Australia manufaturing
charcoal-gas-producer plants suitable for small
stationary engines? — 32sB.
Hoskins and Co., Perth, W.A.; Major Fur-
nace and Combustion Engineers, Ltd South
Yarra, Victoria; H. E. Powell, Perth, WA •
Saunders and Stuart, Ltd., West Perth • Frank
Saunders, Ltd., Rosebery, N. S. Wales- C A
Smith and Co., Adelaide, S.A., and Wishart
Gas Producers, Brunswick, Vic., manufacture
gas-producers.
* * * *
(1) "Age and (2) examination results required
to secure entrance to the course of training at
the Sydney Teachers’ College? — 33l9.
(1) Candidates must have attained the age
of 16j by March 1 of the year in which the
course of training is commenced. (2) Selec-
tion is made on the basis of the aggregate
marks of the candidates’ best seven papers at
the leaving certificate examination. Special
importance is attached to candidates’ work in
English at the leaving certificate examination,
failure to pass in which may exclude the can-
didate from selection. Candidates are also
required to take .a dictation paper at the leav-
ing certificate examination. Failure in this
paper may also exclude the candidate from
selection.
* * * / *
Please tell me the meaning of the expression
‘Nature abhors a vacuum” ? —3282.
It is a statement of the fact that a vacuum
is speedily filled by normal air or water pres-
sure unless it is securely enclosed. It is also
a phrase used in many connotations. Rabelais
quotes it: “Natura abhorret vacuum.”
* * * *
How to make a plastic-wood substance
which can be used for moulding purposes and
for filling up small holes in woodwork? —
3164.
In the following formula, tissue paper is
used; if fine sawdust is substituted for the
paper you will find it probably the mixture
you require. Dissolve 2oz. glue over a water
bath, then add torn pieces of tissue paper until
a thick mass is formed; add 1 dessertspoon of
boiled linseed oil and the same quantity of
powdered chalk; brown or other coloring may
be added to the desired shade. The mass forms
a thick dough which crumbles when cold, but
softens when kneaded in the fingers so that it
can be pressed into moulds or used to fill wood
crevices. After a few days it becomes dry and
almost as hard as stone. It binds well and
readily adheres to wood.
(1) When is the best time to (a) plant new
roses, (b) shift older roses to another position ?
(2) Most suitable fertiliser, and when to apply
it ? (3) Kinds suitable for Sydney coastal
area ? —3294.
(1) (a) During May while there is warmth in
the soil is the ideal planting-time, although in
tropical areas horticulturists prefer June or even
July, {b) After pruning in June. (2) Blood-and-
bone fertiliser, worked about the base of the
stem in August when the young wood appears,
and again in February to assist autumn flower-
ing. Where cow manure is obtainable it is
just as helpful as any fertiliser, and should
be worked around the roses every three months.
(3) Get in touch with Anderson and Co. or
Arthur Yates and Co., Sydney; Hazelwood
Bros., Epping; or George Knight, Homebush.
All supply catalogues and will help you make
selection of varieties.
* * * *
(1) How to get rid of a hard brown scale
which has settled on a hedge? (2) The best
kinds of cupressus to grow to make a thick
hedge; how to handle them? —33o2.
fl) Spray with warm kerosene emulsion or
red spraying oil in dry weather, getting it thickly
on the pest. Three applications at fortnightly
intervals should be sufficient. May is an excel-
lent time to tackle the pest. (2) The true
spreading Cupressus lambertiana horizontalis
will make a splendid hedge and stands any
amount of trimming and cutting. It requires
plenty of water, and the best way to give it is
to set a drainpipe alongside the shrub when
planting and pour in it a bucket of water every
week. Strong hardwood stakes must also be
put in position at planting-time in order to
force upright growth in the early days of the
cupressus.
* * * *
How can the shining starling be identified?
—3232.
The shining starling ( Aplonis metallica) is
a spring and summer visitor to the Northern
Territory and northern Queensland from Papua
and the Moluccas. It is a dark-colored bird,
with glossy plumage reflecting purple and green
metallic tints, is sociable in its habits, and
feeds on scrub fruits. Targe numbers of nests
are constructed on the branches of a single tree,
which is sometimes covered with them. The
nests are large oval structures, with the entrance
at the side, suspended by a tapering portion.
The two or three eggs are bluish-grey, with
reddish markings chiefly at the larger end.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for horehound beer containing
preservative? (2) How to keep fruit saline or
fruit salts from going lumpy in extreme
humid conditions? (3) How to keep table salt
—2993 ° ltlB lumpy and damp with humidity?
(1) No preservative is required; if well
brewed, should keep indefinitely. Must not
contain more than 2 p.c. of alcohol, but this
recipe is usually very low in spirit content and
unlikely to reach the limit percentage. Assemble
2°z. whole ginger bruised with a mallet and
tied in a piece of muslin, 21b. brown sugar,
2}oz. dried hops, half-breakfast cup golden
syrup, two rough handfuls horehound, a dande-
hon root well washed and 10 quarts water.
Bring to the boil, and boil for \\ hours ; strain
and cool in a tub. While still tepid, add half-
cup of good yeast and let stand for two days:
then skim well and bottle. Tie the corks well
and keep in a cool place. (2) Keep well
corked or stoppered with glass; if very damp,
dry slightly in an open oven. (3) Nothing can
be done; dry it in the oven if very damp.
Quite impossible to treat the patent salt at
home. Scald the containers frequently and
dry salt and all in an open oven just before
meals.
* * * *
Q) My B.S.A. motor-cycle carries a regulator
which varies the current according to the re-
quit ements of the load. How does it operate?
(2) Agents for the B.S.A. motor-cycle ?— 3272.
(1) The device comprises a voltage winding
connected across the dynamo and a current
winding which carries the full current. When
the dynamo voltage reaches a certain value, the
held due to the voltage coil attracts an arma-
ture which opens two contacts and places
a resistance in the field circuit, thereby reduc-
ing the field current. This lowers the dynamo
voltage and weakens the field owing to the
voltage coil allowing the armature to close the
contacts once more. The voltage therefore
returns to its former value, the cycle is repeated,
and the armature is set into vibration. As the
dynamo speed rises above that at which the
regulator comes into operation (about 20
m.p.h.) the amplitude of vibration increases
and the interruption periods become longer,
lesulting in a constant mean voltage once the
operating speed has been reached. (2) Bennett
and Wood, Wentworth-avenue, Sydney.
* =f= * *
Would it be possible to stain bright steel
bars to prevent them from rusting? —3274.
If the bars are not too long, suggest blueing
but this method will not compare with some
protective coating. The chemicals may be pur-
chased separately and then mixed, but trouble
will be saved by purchasing a ready-made
preparation, obtainable from Sil Rohu, gun-
smith, 143 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, price 12s.
6d. Directions are included.
* * * *
Method of producing a dark tan shade on
red army boots, giving a surface that will
polish? Would it be advisable to clean
boots with petrol to remove grease? —3l67.
The only way of darkening the leather is to
rub in repeated applications of neatsfoot oil;
but these boots have been prepared to resist
weather, so they resist also staining or polish-
ing methods. This leather is never meant
to take a polish and is quite unlike the box
calf of ordinary boots; by removing grease
and not oiling the boots you might in time
raise a rather low polish by the application
of a good shoe polish and much elbowgrease
Petrol will remove the grease, but it is not
a very good liquid to introduce to leather
unless applied lightly and followed quickly
by a cleaner containing wax. If the grease is
removed the boots will not be so watertight-
and as polishing is doubtful it might be better
to let well alone and rely on darkening with
neatsfoot oil.
(1) How many times did Jack Dempsey and
Gene Tunney fight for the world’s heavyweight
championship ? (2) Did Dempsey ever defeat
Tunney? (3) How many men beat Tunney in
his whole career? —3223.
(1) Twice; first at Philadelphia on Septem-
er - ’ll?! 6, when Tunney outpointed Demp-
sey in 10 rounds, and won the world’s heavy-
w®i§ht title, then at Chicago on September 22,
u ?’ } v ‘ len . Tunney successfully defended his
championship by again outpointing Dempsey
in 10 rounds. (2) Dempsey never defeated
Tunney, although he knocked him down for
14 seconds in Chicago, and many Americans
still refer to that fight as the “contest of the
long count,” the long count being given Tunney
because Dempsey refused to retire to a neutral
corner after the knockdown. (3) In Tunney’s
whole career, he lost only once, when Harry
Greb scored a 15-round points decision over
him in 1922.
Brief Answers.
M.H.: (1) Write Divisional Officer, Meteoro-
logical Bureau, Sydney. (2) Tibooburra
(N.S.W.) had a population of 210 at the 1933
census... .N.H.C.: It was held in September,
1933, on the economic conditions of the Danu-
bian States. It recommended preferential treat-
ment for wheat exports and a fund for this
purpose... .D.M.L.: It is probable that one
will be held later in the year, but nothing has
been arranged yet....5.Y.: Write Under-Secre-
tary, Customs Department, Canberra, A.C.T.
. ...C.F.J.: In 1935 there were 13,911,659 cattle
■in Australia and 7,859,638 in Great Britain
A.8.C.: (1) State and Federal members of
Parliament pay Federal, State and special in-
come taxes in common with Other taxpayers.
(2) Unable to supply the information required,
in view of the secrecy provisions of the Act.
. ...G.C.: Cost approximately £250. Tanks
made locally, and the remainder of plant
could be purchased from McPhersons, Ltd.,
Sydney. The Mines Department only assists
after favorable report and reasonable security.
. ...E.D.: The C’wealth Government has not
appointed an Inspector and Director of Kinder-
garten schools. It has granted a subsidy to
the Australian Association for pre-school child
development, and that association has, as part
of its activities, appointed a Federal organiser
to secure uniformity of progress and obtain
co-operation in the work of the various
branches of the association V.V.C.: Length,
78ft.; width, 36ft. (doubles), 27ft. (singles);
service lines, 21ft. from centre. A line is also
made down the centre of the court, connecting
the service lines. The posts are placed 3ft.
from the sidelines N.D.: The first month or
so after marriage; now, usually, the holiday
spent by a couple after marriage before settling
down. It originated with reference to the
phases of the moon, “which is no sooner full
than it begins to wane” T.G.: Take a piece
of beeswax and scrape it finely into a tin, then
add sufficient turpentine to cover it. Set the
tin in a vessel of boiling water, and stir the
mixture until the wax has become fluid. While
still hot, take a stiff brush and rub the mixture
well into the pores of the fabrics to be treated
and allow to dry. This is considered inferior
to the oil method, as the wax cracks a little
J.T.F.: Patent protection should be obtained
in the interests of the inventor before the De-
fence Department is approached. The Patent
Act provides for the assignment of a patent to
the Commonwealth on suitable remuneration to
the patentee A.N.: It would depend upon
the value of the gold obtained as to whether
payment of the pension would be continued.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that a pensioner’s income, together with
pension, must not exceed £B4 10s. per annum.
The Act also provides that where a pensioner
has property (other than the home in which
he permanently resides) the rate of pension
otherwise payable shall be subject to a deduc-
tion of £1 for every complete £lO by which
the value of the property exceeds £5O or £25
each where both husband and wife are pen-
sioners N.H.: Tetradymite (bismuth-
telluride) is a comparatively rare mineral of
mineralogical interest only. There are several
varieties, some containing sulphur. It occurs
in indistinct bladed pale steel-grey crystals of
metallic lustre,, also granular, massive; soft
enough to be impressible with fingernail; weight,
equal to galena (cub. ft. = 4681 b.). It is found
in Norway and Sweden and other places in
Northern Europe, also parts of the U.S.A.;
not found in Tasmania; value not assignable
owing to rarity. Bismuth content (52 p.c.)
would make it valuable as a bismuth ore if
found in commercial quantities A.C.R.:
The affected portion of the violin should be
washed clean with warm water and allowed to
thoroughly dry. Then reglue the openings
with best-quality Russian glue and clamp
firmly. Immediately after clamping, wipe
away the surplus glue and then brush the
freshly-glued parts with liquid formalin and
allow to dry for 24 hours... .H. 8.: Royal An-
thropological Institute, 21 Bedford-square, Lon-
don, W.C.I; hon. sec., R. Firth... .H.C.: Pro-
vided the name of the player was entered in
the scoring-book (although he did not bat
in the first innings) such player would be en-
titled to bat in the second innings. In cricket
matches many disputes would be avoided if the
captains, before tossing, exchanged lists of
players T.M.: Law 31 of cricket is definite:
“If the batsmen have crossed each other, he
that runs for the wicket which is put down
is out; if they have not crossed, he that has
left the wicket which is put down is 0ut”....
W.C.: “Mr. Roberts and Mr. Hitler,” page 48,
Bulletin, Sept. 28, 1938; “Another for
Roberts,” page 12, Bulletin, Nov. 16, 1938.
. ...E.H.: In 1937 there were in England and
Wales 63,842 farms or holdings of one to five
acres, 166,265 five to 50 acres, 61,933 50 to
100 acres, 66,189 100 to 300 acres, 11,878
over 300 acres. Figures are exclusive of small
holdings and allotments, of which there were
965,000 in 1930 R.D.F.: Suggest that you
write to the Ministers of Education in the
various countries... .E.D.: Bisharin (or Bisha-
reen) is the name of one of the three main
divisions of the Beja, a nomadic pastoral Hami-
tic people living between the Nile and the Red
Sea.


MK
m
m
c
to
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request zue shall
be pleased to forzvard
Folder No. 99.
Four and a half weeks’ tour of the South
Sea Islands crowded with a succession of
picturesque vistas, novel and amusing inci-
dents and the delights of a sea voyage
under the best conditions..
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages and
colourful native life, offer a never-ending
source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live on
the vessel throughout. Fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS. PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: B 7901
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTINC^’”'
m
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
.free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 16/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit f and f blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &. AITREN, 654 George St./Sydney
S IS
y
w.
i
m
ISSS
GV^
ET*
ljli
stV^
tf*2
itf 1
iv« w
00
tsl
O'?
m
m
7
oBS
R©
tMi
the Gin
made as Gin
should be
made the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
i!
JJj ijvu vuLte. ijtmh health -iuitit on
■Z hvjl A|| f |!
uoraoii &
GENUINE : I, o¥b^ll|lll||
'JhtltiipU gin diililkU in the woiid
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
(excep t of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
No notice t a( fdress must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
Name ", Emitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
6° U 'ddressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
WHC . Too slow-moving... .E.D.8.:
Numbered among the legion
that missed the mark.. .W.J.M.K. - Confus-
ing and disconnected... .V.C.: Pleased to note
that she caught her man... .G.H A.. Left he
old chan to continue his soliloquy in the
wp b P J G H.: A lot of straining, but little
effect Anon: “The Failure” is aptly named.
WM.: Good idea spoilt by poor telling
FMC ■ On the drab side... -G.8.: Far-
fetched.’. . .D.M.C.: Prune, and try again....
M. 8.: It didn’t measure up... .A.W.F.:
Mabel made no stir in the bigmty. S.W.^
Slight, but promising J.C.S.: Going Places
is going home... .J.D.: Mildly amusing....
M.L.: Characters never seem to come to life.
EM H : A dreary pair of old busy-
bodies s H.N.: Too much beating about the
bush... .Y.H.: Made a bright beginning, then
collapsed by the wayside. ...F.C.S.B. : Stable
your team elsewhere... .J. 8.: Hardly worth
the length R.G.: Bill and Sarah can’t find
lodgings here G.H.: Sending the black
kangaroo back to his native haunts... .M.A.T.:
You’ve been reading too many Edgar Wallace
stories....D.l.F.: An old one E.D.:
Mechanical... .D.N.: Nothing new in it
H.S.: Artificial....W.J.W.: Not far away....
A. Still misses C.A.8.: Not up to
standard.... T.J.P.: No, again T.D.: Try
it elsewhere J.N.N.: You haven’t improved
it J.C.L.: Annie coming home K.T.8.:
You may not invade “the editorial sanctity”
with that L.Rt: Did St. George really do
that to the dragon7....P.T.E.: That gunman
might make a living in America... .T.R.C.:
Yes, “hoppit” G.N.W.: “I can’t stand the
trimmings and trappings of contemporary
writers.” Neither can we... .S.T.R.: W.p.b.
took it in a gulp... .F.G.W.: “I’m sorry to in-
flict this upon you.” You’re forgiven this time.
T.T.D.: No need to. tell us it was written
many years ago... .S.C.D.: Much too long for
what’s in it 8.R.E.: Try us with something
worth while D.L.E.: Do what you will with
its brethren, but don’t send them our way
K.R.8.: At least your handwriting is improv-
ing 8.T.C.: “Tillie’s Troubles” no concern
of ours G.U.: “I had to write this.” And
we have to reject it. .. .E.T.C.: Missed by a
whisker 8.0. A.: And if you touch that up
we’ll read it again... .8.5. L.: “You were not
in when I called with this.” We are still not
in G.F.S.: You have the consolation that
you’ll probably never write anything worse
than that 8.R.J.: “I suppose you’ve seen
plenty like this.” Yes, they come —and go
D.8.T.: Nothing there... .J.T.S.: Cut the
first half and try a daily P. 5.8.:
A corner in a volume of short stories
is about its only hope... .5.8. R.: What next?
C.E.L.: Some good work is the best in-
troduction L-8.D.: For your peace of mind,
the yarn was delivered to us intact, was read
carefully and returned because it was unsuit-
able for publication in The Bulletin
B. : Just failed to make the grade
D.D.E.: You have a very distorted conception
of the things you write about... .8.0’N.: A
few years of hard work might get you some-
where H.J.C.W.: Try the local paper
H.W.: Stereotyped D.O’C.: You sound
young, so you’re excused everything but the
“deep depressed” Spirit excellent,
execution appalling E.M.G.: “To Myself”
should be kept there GJ.: Sorry, but it
can’t march here... .L.P.: “Wiped away that
useless tear,” but more kept coming the further
we read E.L.R.: Tittered at that pun in
the infant school... .R.M.: Your vocabulary’s
remote. “Rats’s vivid green” seemed to err
the other way, till we began to suspect you
meant “rata’s” E.M.K.: “Perhaps some
obscure corner, some vacant space, which has
long puzzled you how to use, may accommodate
an occupant of such unassuming pretensions.”
Alas! P.M.R.: “Dreams” is just another
dream N. 8.: A melancholy production,
indeed H.R.V.: Second reply not for you ;
you don’t yet know what is legitimate in comic
rhyming E.P.: It must have been great, “At
Wyalong Ages Ago,” but the verse is very
slight P.McM.: No appointment yet. No
time was specified, and we want a stayer.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.L.: Murky and depressing, and the jest
dates back to the Crimean War V.S.: We
could pick out Casey and Hughes; the rest un-
recognisable W.H.H.: Considerate burglar
has called upon us before... .0.J.: A wild array
of misplaced lines... .F.T.M.: An inartistic
failure C.W.H.: Always ready to consider
original gags K. 8.: Your political tomcats
were rewarded with a shower of old b00t5....
J. Faint and indecisive pencil marks on pink
notepaper are not wanted C.M.S.: You
would do well to put in a few year’s hard study.
B.T.: An untidy and grimy batch
of misfits F.M.L.: Picture of Dad
hurling abuse at flock of crows found its
way to the w.p.b A.M.: Rejected....
T.D.: Sundowners fell by the wayside
T.J.J.: Poster-size political cartoon revealed
ambition but very little talent....A.M.G.: Lock
thought of that searchlight-and-cannon gag
a few months ag0....E.C.: For a start you
might learn something about perspective....
T.R.: The long-winded question-and-answer
type of jest has long been discarded H.R. :
There may be a living in the game for you if
you are prepared to devote the next few years
to hard study M.W.: Seven-eight-nine-oiff.
F.B.: Get more action into drawings and
more snap into jokes... .W.S.: “The Bush
Ball” fell flat; so did “The Bush Picnic”
K. Not as bad as some we get, but a
long way below the mark... .H.P.: You have
a style all your own, but it’s not one that
will carry you into print... .E.D.: The situa-
tion has altered since that cartoon was drawn.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Aqua Tofana” : Lord Rodd, who held
that the luxury of hot baths caused the
downfall of the Roman Empire and was
gravely perturbed by the growing indul-
gence in hot water, might at least find
comfort in the bathroom statistics of
Britain’s new allies and near-allies.
Rumania has only two baths per 1000
people and Poland four. Russia and Yugo-
slavia have each only one, but the Soviet
has many public baths which are not in-
cluded in the figures. The U.S.A. heads
the list with 35, and Britain is second
with 31. Things have changed in Eng-
land since his need for finding houses
with baths gave so much trouble to
George Smith, the “brides-in-the-bath”
murderer.
* * * *
If ability to speak to foreigners in
their own tongues was the test for the
post of Foreign Secretary, Leslie Burgin
would have that job instead of the new
Ministry of Supply. He gave a taste of
his quality in a speech at a wool dinner
in June, 1938, by talking alternately, with
the utmost ease and unconcern, in French
and English. A little later he went to
Denmark and spoke in Danish. He is
the only member of the British Cabinet
who knows Magyar, and has three or
four other languages under his tongue.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Lud Mayor Coles, of Mel-
bourne, could have saved himself the
trouble of radio-telephoning to Aus-
tralian-born May Robson at Hollywood
to congratulate her upon being “the oldest
working actress in the world.” In his
own city is Australian Nellie Mortyne,
older than Miss Robson, who appeared
last November in “I Married an Angel”
at His Majesty’s. On July 2 she will
celebrate her sixtieth year of barnstorm-
ing.
* % Jj. jj;
Ek D. : if height means anything,
a J9 I m P e nal Conference should be the
thing to overawe the dictators. Cham-
berlain and Menzies are six-footers.
Mackenzie King is solid as well as tall.
Lora Linlithgow and Lord Halifax
■ hC 6ft 4in - class - De Valera is
Ivon If niS he ‘ sht; di,to Lord Craig '
’ Ulster. Only Hertzog, of S.
Africa, is medium, but he makes up for
shortness of inches by an icy air of deter-
mination when angry.
% * * *
“Uramao”: European refugees are no
new story to Australasia. Seventy-four
years ago Australia and M.L. absorbed
a shoal of Danes who proved admirable
colonists. M.L. acquired no less a per-
sonage than the ex-Prime Minister of
Denmark, Bishop Monrod, who took up
farming in the Manawatu. He brought
two sons and three other Danes with
him. After three years he returned to
Denmark but left in M.L. a son who
became a pioneer of dairying. The M.L.
town of Dannevirke is one of the perma-
nent evidences of Danish immigration.
* $ * *
“P.R.”: If 1914-18 military service
were a qualification for the office
of Prime Minister, all the Empire’s
P.Ms. would have to resign save
Lord Craigavon, P.M. of Northern
Ireland, who is a South African veteran,
and was A.A. and Q.M.G. of the Ulster
Division, 1914-15 ; he had a few months
of it, but spent 1916-17-18 as Treasurer
of the King’s Household. De Valera,
32 in 1914, fought against the British.
Neville Chamberlain, 45 when war broke
out, Hertzog (South Africa), 52, Savage
(M.L.), 42, and Mackenzie King
(Canada), 40 in 1914, have no record of
military service.
H"
“Zeter und Mordio”: There isn’t much
to laugh at these days, but I did get a
chuckle out of the plight of the indig-
nant Britons who refused to use 2000
hurricane-lamps served out for A.R.P.
exercises because it was discovered that
they had been made in Germany. I
like the old-time British sentiment better
than the new. The thing which finished
the French revolutionary generals in
English polite society was their ungentle-
manly refusal to grant British officers safe
conducts to return to their homes for
Christmas through French territory. And
Wellington had been in the Peninsula
four years before the directors of the
East India Company decided to ban
French wines from their tables by reso-
lution.


.. QUICK
£R
N THE
•11
1 L
'jvjxujtf l
f ftUJSWAKTO
P »
•*_<«» «s>
•A
%
**»
/ *s*
r •'t
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
headquarters <
- House -
EDWARD STi
BRISBANE
k
NQBranch
STURT SJ
lOWNSVIIU
C.Q.Branch
ENGINEERING
g°l East S t Rockhamptom..
iippiY C9€f 41SMUA P'
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
s
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone:
’Phone:
CB3BO.
M 6505.
THE FIRST VICTORIAN
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
TFIE State of Victoria, known until
the middle of the last century as
the Port Phillip District of N.S.W.,
has a record of white penetration
amongst its native race altogether unique
in the story of such amongst the pro-
vinces of Australia. It is the only one
in which the original dusky inhabitants
were able completely to absorb the whole
of a white remnant settling in their midst,
after a very much larger one had failed
to make the job of doing so a success,
When Lieutenant-Governor David
Collins, commissioned to establish a
colony at Port Phillip, abandoned his
camp at Sorrento and took his subjects
to the Decent River in Van Diemen's
r i . ,
Land 21 of h,s involuntary colonists had
decided to settle independently in what
is now Victoria. Amongst the first to
take to the bush was William Buckley,
a young giant of 6ft. 6in., who had been
selected by Collins as one of his personal
servants. Fourteen or fifteen of the run-
aways were captured or returned to
camp, and the balance were never
accounted for with the single exception
of Buckley. He came back to his own
people 32 years afterwards, when John
Batman was unsuccessfully seeking to
finalise his famous 600,000-acre land-
grab at Port Phillip.
Buckley had been a soldier. On
at he
a life sentence of transportation. He
cleared out from Sorrento at the begin-
f IsnA
° r . ,
On July 12, 1835, abos. visited the party
Batman had left at Indented Head. One
man attracted immediate and particular
attention. He was a giant among the
others and his features were unmistak-
ably European, though in nakedness and
manner he was exactly like his com-
panions. One of his forearms, more-
over, was tattooed with the letters
“W. 8.” Batman’s men could not be-
lieve he was a native, and plied him with
questions, to which his only response
was a shake of the head, implying com-
plete ignorance of their language.
But one of the white men held out to
him a piece of bread, and he immediately
named it in English. After a few days
he began to remember his own tongue,
and was soon able to give some account
of himself. So big Bill Buckley came
back to his own world after living as an
Australian aboriginal for a generation,
He was a dull-witted fellow and a bit
of a liar as well as an ass. A narrative
entitled “The Life and Adventures of
William Buckley” was published in
Hobart Town by one John Morgan some
years later, but it is a poor thing and of
doubtful authenticity. However, from
what evidence is available it is probable
* at a£t f leavin § Sorrento Buckley fled
a ! on « the coast and eventually worked
his way round Port Phillip until he came
to the Geelong district. He said him-
se[f , ha , he ha s d spent some time in the
otway Ranges, but it is certain that for
3 q y ears he lived with the Geelong
blacks, occasionally wandering with them
as f ar northward as the Yarra, but
usually dwelling in the district of the
You Yangs. He was never able to
account for the others who had ab-
sconded with him in 1904, and nothing
has ever come to light relating to their
f a t Cj individually or collectively,
jq e was f orma qy pardoned, and for
som£ functioned as a sort of liaison
officer between the settlers on the Yarra
and abori ine§ But it didtft take
j to ove him ite useless in his
i° b and ?ar frora trustworthy. Gover-
nor » ou * e recommended him to Down-
-I"|'Street for a but the
Office was not agreeable, so in 1837 he
went across Bass Strait and the Van
p)i emen ’ s Land Government found him
employment as an assistant storekeeper,
an( j then as gatekeeper at the female
penitentiary. He was retired on a pen-
sion of £l2 a year in 1852, which the
new Victorian Government, regarding
him perhaps as the earliest white Vic-
torian, made up to £1 a week. He died
at Hobart Town, as the result of a fall
f ro m a cart, on February 2, 1856.
jf he had not been the fool he
was Buckley might have been of great
value in an anthropological sense—but
he was just an inarticulate numskull,
and nothing of any value regarding the
blacks was ever got out of him.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Ek Dum”: Page isn’t superstitious. The
number of his room at the Common-
wealth Bank building in Sydney is 13.
There used to be a Queensland M.L.A.
who, when he found himself living at a
station 13 miles from a terminus,
badgered the Railway Department to add
a chain to the mileage in the timetable.
He didn’t succeed, but went on living in
the ill-starred spot until he grew too rich
for it to hold him.
* * * *
Perth patriots complain that “large
quantities of beer are transported over
the Commonwealth railway to Kalgoor-
lie.” It is chiefly Melbourne beer, and,
although consumers have not been heard
to complain, the Perth patriots protest
that it is carried so cheap that, in effect,
the dice are loaded against Perth beer.
Freight-rates on bulk beer are £7 10s. a
ton from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie,
1051 miles, and £5 Bs. 9d. from Perth
to Kalgoorlie, . 375 miles. Obviously
one charge is too low or the other too
high.
* * *
“F.S.”: Patten, the youthful abo. who
has been lecturing in Victoria on behalf
of better conditions for his race,
was talking at Spotswood work-
shops. “I was on a laboring job
on the railways once myself,” he said,
“and we had a foreman who was never
known to smile. One day I put down
my barrow, took, a seat on the handle
and went into profound meditation. The
foreman yelled: ‘What the hell are you
doing, Patten?’ I said: Tust thinking.’
‘Thinking what?’ ‘Thinking it’s a funny
world. First, the white man takes our
country ; then he makes us push it uphill.’
The foreman joined in the laugh that fol-
lowed.” Patten was brought up and
educated on Cummerunga station, N. S.
Wales.
There is one Australian aboriginal who
has not waited for the Federal Govern-
ment’s new provisions to attain to the
full status of an Australian citizen, and
a bit over. A cheque was recently re-
ceived by Rex Battarbee, the painter of
the “Centre,” signed “Albert Namatjira,”
and a letter requesting his old master to
buy him some brushes, pigments and
canvases. Albert is the Alice Springs
native whose show at Melbourne Fine
Arts last year broke all local records by
selling out completely a week after open-
ing.
* * * *
Passed over in Melbourne at 86,
Charles Powers, who gave the hotly-
debated “Powers three shillings” judg-
ment, adding that amount to the basic
wage in the Harvester Award as Presi-
dent of the Arbitration Court. Powers
was born and educated in Brisbane, was
a Bananaland politician, and became re-
spectively its P.M.G., Minister for Educa-
tion, Crown Solicitor and leader of its
Opposition. Later he became Australia’s
first Solicitor-General. He went from the
High Court to the Arbitration Court and
back to the High Court again, and in
1929 got a knighthood. A kindly in-
dividual, he used always to travel second-
class in trains to make contact with the
men whose conditions he dictated as
Arbitration Solon.
* * * *
“F.S,”: As one who has had a lot to
do with the reproduction of pictures I
have often wondered what criterion the
professional photographer brings to his
art or science. A Melbourne artist was
asked by a newspaper for permission to
reproduce a painting. He agreed, and the
cameraman duly arrived in his studio
with his apparatus. A couple of hours
later he returned with the print. “It’s
a good photograph,” said the artist, “but
it’s not like my picture.” He proceeded
to explain the principles of tone and
color as he understood them, and the
necessity for a faithful rendering of their
values. The photographer appeared to
grasp his explanation and took another
record. The next day he turned up with
a fresh print. It delighted the artist with-
out satisfying the photographer. “It’s
like the picture, I’ll admit,” Flash re-
marked ruefully, “but it’s not a good
photograph.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Again the prize goes to Westralia. For the winner’s indictment of the way
history is taught there is only too much ground.
Contemporary History
When I left school I had learned a great
deal about happenings in this world
before 1900. Of what had happened
since that date I was almost completely
ignorant. I could tell you offhand who
was King of England in 1300, and quite
a lot about his public and private life ;
of King George V. I knew practically
nothing.
I was conversant with the battles of
Cromwell, Marlborough and Saxe, but
not with the battles of Haig or Foch
or Von Hindenburg. In fact, the names
of great leaders during the last war were
unknown to me until years after I had
left school. I could tell you who was
Prime Minister at any period in the
eighteenth century, and what his policy
was; who had held that position during
the last 30 years I could say only vaguely.
And Lord knows what his policy was.
Who were the various Prime Ministers
of Australia we were never taught.
I was fairly familiar with the terms
of the Treaties of Ryswick and West-
phalia ; those of the Treaty of Versailles
were a mystery, while the Treaty of
Trianon was unheard-of in any class I
was in. I had heard gory tales of the
Russian Revolution without knowing
what it was all about, but I could tell
you a heap about the French Revolution.
Surely this is all wrong. A general
knowledge of past events is a necessary
foundation for the understanding of
modern history, but to stuff a child’s
mind with book after book of ancient
battles, wars, revolutions and policies
seems little short of absurd. The modern
youngster leaves school with a sound
knowledge of past events but little
knowledge of the world he lives in. The
story of the past should be used as a
groundwork only a groundwork for a
fuller study and understanding of recent
and current events. —J. G. M. (W.A.).
J. G. Mason, writer of the foregoing,
lives in the Perth (W.A.) suburb of Clare-
mont. He wins the prize.
Learning by Living
If success be regarded in the light of
financial security (B. 26/4/’39) it cannot
be achieved by “education” alone, but is
largely dependent on one’s ability to
observe conditions of life, coupled with
ordinary commonsense. It is not merely
a matter of cramming, but mainly one of
individual effort.
A success in the ordinary sense of the
word did not clutter his brains with
theories, but got out into life and, using
his native intelligence, made a go of what
he went after. Self-preservation is the
primary driving force in man, and,
backed by a bit of savvy, will seldom
let him down.
Advanced school education helps in
appreciation of literature, art, etc., but
in the matter of earning a living it is
unnecessary. For instance, a university
graduate who fails to shine in his chosen
profession rarely makes more than a
bare living out of it.
The trouble with modern education is
that the young mind is for ever trying to
assimilate book knowledge, parrot
fashion, and when it starts out in the
economic world has to begin its school-
ing all over again.
History proves that the greatest leaders
are those who understand men and their
weaknesses. “The proper study of man-
kind is man.”—A. M. Y. (N.S.W.).
“The Whole Country Is Agog”
Newspapers to-day take too much upon
themselves. Almost every issue of the
more sensational dailies tells us “The
whole country is agog,” “Europe is pro-
foundly stirred,” “Australia watches
anxiously’ and the like.
I have been about the streets during
a leged crises, and, far from displaying
any feverish anxiety, most people seemed
no less keen on their petty affairs and
jus as engrossed in the chances of Hairy
t-egs in the Handicap as ever. If any
of them were “profoundly stirred” or
“agog” or “watching anxiously” it must
hav£ been perceptible only to the X-ray
eye of some newspaper editor.
To write a phrase like “the whole
country is agog” is easy; to find out
whether it is the truth or not is another
thing. Whenever G. K. Chesterton came
across some such statement as “The
whole world acclaims modern art,” he
would substitute “Jim the milkman” or
“Harry the garbage man” for “the whole
world.”
If some of our editors made the same
test before speaking so glibly about the
public mind the daily press would be
more respected than it is.— Sardonicus
(Vic.). ____
Persuasion and Coercion
A schoolteacher gives me the three
following reasons why his pupils are suc-
cessful in their examinations: (1) He
gives them no homework, (2) he doesn’t
use the cane, (3) he never detains them
after school hours.
Explaining (1) he says, “Pupils have
enough to do at school without giving
them more to do during their time off,
“ It's O.K., sir — he's just getting the right focus for you.”
when perhaps they could be better occu-
pied pursuing some hobby.”
On (2) he says, “Teachers should study
psychology with the idea of pointing out
to the child the error of his ways. I hold
that it is better to coax than to coerce.”
Regarding (3) he states, “When pupils
are kept in school after hours they’ll
never learn anything except antagonism
towards the teacher. If they can’t learn
anything during school hours it is certain
they won’t learn it afterwards.”
Summing up, he declared that his
pupils always bowed to his discipline
because he was firm with them and aimed
to understand them not so much indivi-
dually but as a class. —J. F. Hogan (S.A.).
Inferiority Complex
There is no gainsaying the fact that
an inferiority complex is a liability in
our modern State. The principle of free
competition in our business and indus-
trial organisations demands a certain
amount of aggressiveness and a healthy
self-confidence.
Inferiority complex results from
thoughts and opinions concerning our-
selves engendered during long periods of
loneliness. We thrive on competition,
and greater contact with others brings
out the best in us.
In my own early life I had little asso-
ciation with other lads, and as a result
developed an inferiority complex. Later
I lived at a hostel, and for the first fort-
night was almost afraid to leave my
room. Then one night the master caught
me tying knots in another fellow’s sheets,
and the small notoriety made me a public
hero, my ego swelled visibly and the
complex vanished.
A period of hostel life would be fine
experience for every lad; it would rid
him of any inferiority complex and also
give him a greater degree of toleration
and appreciation for the viewpoint of
others. —A. J. S. (N.S.W.).
Fight, But Not March
I bought threeha’pence worth of clear,
concise and reliable news yesterday.
Page two informed me that it is pro-
posed to reduce the length of the Anzac
Day march. Advancing years and war
effects make this necessary in the interests
of the Diggers, who welcome the move.
Page four said 60,000 forms are ready
for distribution-one for every returned
soldier in the State—asking every Digger
to enlist and form a reserve force to sup-
plement the present forces.
I’m Scotch, but the humor of the two
items dawned on me in 12 seconds.
T. McCulloch (Vic.).
Maoriland’s Militia
Premier Joe Savage told Auckland
pressmen that 50,000 men may be required
for the defence of M.L. He hoped to
get sufficient volunteers, but conscription
might be necessary. In 1930 M.L. had
30,000 men in training and twice that
number of trained men in the reserve.
Compulsory training for home defence
only (introduced by the Defence Act,
1909) was abolished by the Forbes Gov-
ernment, which was kept in power by
Savage’s party. It was openly stated and
not denied by anyone that the price of
Labor’s support was the abolition of
military training. So the good work
which had gone on for 20 years and
which would have placed M.L. in a com-
paratively safe position to-day was jet-
tisoned at the instigation of the crowd
which now talks largely of defence.
As there is little likelihood of getting
even a fifth of the volunteers required,
and as some compulsion is necessary to
establish a disciplined force, Maoriland’s
best hope is to go back 30 years and
start all over again.— Robert C. Sinclair
(M.L.).
A National Firearms Register
There must be thousands of useful
sporting weapons owned by militiamen
and rifle club members, many of them
city residents. If ever the A.R.P. organi-
sation swings into action you can bet
that there’ll be a spot of looting—remem-
ber Melbourne’s police strike? and
special police will need more than re-
volvers and batons.
A self-appointed defence committee
sent me a circular, but didn’t bother
to inquire whether I had a rifle or could
use one. The military authorities may
have tons of spare rifles, but it would
be worth while finding out just how
many over-. 22 calibre weapons are avail-
able in Sydney.
In an emergency a little man with a
25/20 or a .32 will scare more rioters
than would a hulking six-footer armed
with a baton. — Blurtinaxe (N.S.W.).
Italians in N.Q.
In B. 19/4/’39 “Optimist” appears con-
cerned about the increasing number of
Italians in North Queensland, and asks
what we shall do with them if war
breaks out.
Leave them alone.
If they never learn to speak English
what does it matter? They are good,
honest toilers, and if they do possess
some of the best land it was, after all,
sold to them by Australians. They paid
big prices for it and work very hard to
keep it.
No doubt their sons will make good
Australians and, like the sons of Ger-
mans who came here many years ago,
will be found marching in defence of
this country should the need arise.
There is still plenty of the best, land
in the North available if “Optimist” has
the courage to take it under the same
conditions as did the Italians. — Fair Play
(Q-). ,
Preference for Diggers
Why the objections to preference for
returned soldiers in the search for jobs?
People ask must it go on for ever, and
suggest that young men, even the sons
of ex-soldiers, are penalised in their
search for work.
Dig into facts. There were, roughly,
300,000 men enlisted from Australia. Sixty
thousand made the supreme sacrifice,
and of the 240,000 left many have since
died from the effects of war and other
causes, some are invalids, and some have
reached retiring age. Of those remaining
many returned to farms or businesses
they left to go on service, a few are men
of money, and some were fortunate
enough to return to employers who
honored the promise to give them back
their jobs.
Other former soldiers are scattered all
over the world. The papers recently re-
ported an Australian as proprietor of a
hotel in France, and another as a grower
of coffee in Abyssinia.
When all are totalled there is quite a
small number of Diggers in need of the
clause requiring preference for returned
men in public departments. And, any-
way, if the policy of preference had been
as rigidly enforced as the Diggers were
promised they would have been placed in
permanent positions years ago, and there
would now be none out of work to want
preference in jobs offering.— Arev (Vic.).
Horses for Defence
I wonder if Authority is fully cog-
nisant of the shortage that exists in Aus-
tralia of horses suitable for defence pur-
poses.
If war comes motor transport might
fill the bill along most highways as long
as fuel supplies were adequate, but they
might be cut off, main coastal roads
might be blown to smithereens, and, with-
out horses, movements of troops and
guns would be seriously hampered.
Good horses of the right types, and
plenty of them, will be needed in any
case, and at present we haven’t got them.
Our pre-war standard in horseflesh won’t
be reached until the authorities become
alive to the situation and encourage the
breeding of horses like those that won
fame in the Sinai and Palestine cam-
paigns.
Along the more vulnerable part of our
coastline motor transport is almost im-
possible during the wet season, and it is
here that horses and /or mules are essen-
tial.
It’ll be too late to start breeding when
the first shell arrives. —Ex - A.I.F,
(N.S.W.).
Sense of Humor Needed
A great asset to any political leader
of to-day would be a sense of humor.
It’s pretty hard to associate Hitler,
Musso. or Stalin with the gift of humor.
But how a leader with such an attribute
would capture the public at a time like
this!
He would have the world at his feet,
especially if his humor was of the brand
that could see comedy in a mapful of
puppets struggling together on the earth’s
surface trying to cut off their noses to
spite their faces.
No man with the gift of laughter could
possibly suggest that his fellow-citizens
be bathed in blood to satisfy Ambition.
—S. C. W. (Q.).
Quacks
It is a great pity that steps are not
taken to improve our knowledge of ana-
tomy and physiology.
Even elementary knowledge would
enable the public to recognise the quack,
and would assist the medical profession in
its work. Why anyone should believe that
years of intense study topped off by
periods of hospital training do not make
a man better fitted to treat our ills is
beyond understanding, and yet thousands
upon thousands of otherwise sane people
patronise the quack in preference to an
orthodox medical service.
It is lack of knowledge which permits
this rotten state of affairs. Most of the
treatments used by quackdom have been


investigated by Medicine and found either
useless or harmful, and its concoctions
can be obtained in much purer form
from any good chemist.
A sound education and less advertising
of cure-alls would make our land safer
to live in.—W. J. E. M. (N.S.W.).
Improving Rifle Clubs
What about improving on our rifle
clubs? These clubs specialise in a type
of shooting which went out with the
Boer War —slow, deliberate marksman-
ship of extreme accuracy at a clearly-
defined bull’s-eye. Riflemen shoot only
from the prone position, use the sling,
fire always over known ranges, use peep
sights, judge wind by flags, employ single
loading always, and are allowed to cor-
rect their aim with two sighting shots.
Once a year they shoot 10 shots rapid at
disappearing targets.
Of what use is this practice against
a cleverly-concealed foe at unknown and
changing ranges, appearing for short in-
tervals only, and very difficult to dis-
tinguish from his background? Rifle-
men can be found in many clubs who
cannot load a magazine from a charger.
Training should be given in distance-
judging, snap-shooting, holding-off for
wind, engaging indistinct targets, running
to a position, dropping and firing, and
the like. Otherwise the present expen-
diture on rifle clubs is largely wasted, and
splendid material brought to only an
elementary stage of training.—G. V. R.
(Vic.).
Press Sensationalism
At a time when in international rela-
tions there is an apparent feeling of mutual
distrust and suspicion, one is inclined (if
prepared to view matters dispassionately)
to see a great measure of the cause in
the statements of the “sensational” press.
Although the censored and biased press
of the totalitarian States deserves our
ready condemnation and disapproval,
equally distasteful is that press which, in
the most sensational and suspicious tone,
magnifies trivial incidents occurring .in
international intercourse.
In imputing to these incidents the most
hideous significance and intention, the
sensation press is stupidly oblivious of
the disaffection it engenders in the minds
of our foreign neighbors. While mis-
statements of fact in the “controlled”
press are harmful, a greater degree of
culpability is merited by the elaborate
(and often illogical) comment upon in-
vented facts which appears in sensational
newspapers.
It is not an assumption to say that our
English and Australian newspapers are
noticed by foreign Governments, and
hence the feelings of our people are in-
evitably gauged by these publications.
An ill-advised or bitter editorial may
well be calculated to strain (however
slightly) what may otherwise be a
healthy and normal international rela-
tionship.
While cherishing the freedom of our
press in its dissemination of sane thought
and opinion, we must conscientiously
discountenance the licentiousness of that
section of it which exudes untruthful
and vituperative comment. —E. D. M.
(Q-).
Give Leaders a Chance
From a survey of happenings here and
abroad, it seems that the cry is not for
leaders but against leaders. Every
nation down to the smallest has a
leader who has either been elected
by the people or has risen to
the position by his own personal
push. Trouble is, whether elected or
self-selected there is always someone
opposed to him.
Why can’t such critics in times like the
present sink their own petty feelings and
leave it to the man at the top to do the
job as he, carrying the approval of the
majority, thinks fit, or, in the case of a
self-made leader, as he has proved he
is able to do it?— F. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Racing Unhappiness
“W.J.H.” (B. 19/4/’39) is right in
maintaining that anything bringing hap-
piness to people without resultant pain
to themselves or others must be good,
but he takes as an example a racecourse,
and then writes of gloriously happy
people spending money they can ill-
afford.
Is it good to gamble hard-earned
money? Or to gain someone else’s hard-
earned money and thus make that person
unhappy or disappointed? Let “W.J.H.”
look behind shallow racecourse happi-
ness to the despair of the hard-up loser.
I went to a race meeting some time
ago. I thrilled to the horses’ efforts and
the brilliant color of dress and flowers.
But the favorites didn’t win. I saw happy
faces, too —on the bookmakers! —Lar
Phap (Vic.).
Back to the Fireside
In answer to J. Arthur’s plea for
quietness (B. 19/4/’39), I plead that the
zone of silence he seeks should be found
in the home. Modern life has made
people restless and wanting to be for ever
on the move, but aren’t the people them-
selves responsible for this speeding-up?
Isn’t it their desire to get somewhere
and to get there as quickly as possible
that has made them restless and suscep-
tible to all sorts of noises which they had
not noticed before?
J.A.’s suggestion for a league to prac-
tise silence is admirable though hardly
feasible. Why not, through the mediums
of press, radio and pulpit, endeavor to
make people more home-conscious? In
the scramble for existence and the desire
for more and more pleasures the home
and what it represents seem to have
been overlooked. To many the home is
merely a convenient place in which to
sleep and eat.
Just as people have only themselves
to blame for their present nervousness
and irritableness,' so they would have
only themselves to thank for their peace
of mind were they to spend a little more
time in the seclusion of the home and a
little less at picture theatres, dances,
parties and wrestling matches. —J. F. H.
(S.A.).
Chamberlain Was a Trier
As a young fellow and a militiaman, I
am tired of reading the short-sighted
utterances of people like R. H. Gordon
(B. 12/4/’39). If war had come in Sep-
tember, irrespective of the fact that I con-
sider Czechoslovakia not worth defend-
ing, I would probably have had to fight.
Would these war advocates have fought
too? Or are they just stay-at-home,
crusading sentimentalists?
Hitler earnestly stated that he desired
to regain only German-speaking peoples
for the Reich. Mr. Chamberlain believed
him. The Bulletin believed him and
millions of others, including myself, be-
lieved him. World trade and hopes of
enduring peace brightened. Meanwhile
Mr. Chamberlain saw to it that the Sep-
tember unpreparedness would not be re-
peated. Hitler “played false,” and the
world has been on the qui vive ever since.
If war comes now I shall fight readily,
knowing that no one could have striven
more earnestly for peace than England’s
Prime Minister. — Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Blind Necessity
Why are not dogs used freely to act
as guides and protectors of blind per-
sons in Australia? Every time I see a
blind person being led by a companion
I think how much freer, happier and in-
dependent he or she would be if dogs,
specially trained for the job, were avail-
able.
America has been experimenting suc-
cessfully for some years with dogs as
eyes for those blind folk who are physi-
cally strong enough to manage them.
German shepherd, Labrador retriever
and other short-haired dogs of intelligent
types have been found most suitable.
Training lasts three months, and a trainer
can manage only four animals annually.
An extra month’s coaching is usually
needed to teach the dog and its owner
to co-operate and to understand each
other.
Owners of these trained dogs are able
to cross the busiest streets confidently
and without danger, and the independence
of what is often clumsy kindness of
humans increases their happiness and
sense of well-being.
The cost of training each dog is, un-
fortunately, about £2OO, but, just as
schemes to help other types of afflicted
people have been financed before, surely
someone could think out some way that
would enable every blind person to own
a trained dog. —P. R. (Vic.).
A Safe Line of Policy
A great deal of tension might be ex-
tracted from the European situation if
the English, as so frequently advised by
their totalitarian well-wishers, were to
accept the stern realities and retire from
a sphere in which their presence mili-
tates against peace and appeasement.
First recalling their navies and garrisons
from the Mediterranean and other con-
tentious spots abroad, the British people
should sink the ships at Scapa Flow, put
the soldiers and sailors into civvies, and
then bodily migrate to some suitable
agricultural location in the Southern
Hemisphere—l’m told the Kimberleys in
W.A. are very suitable for such refugees.
Among other advantages this plan
would do much to soothe the great
totalitarian States and would obviate all
possibility of involving the Empire in a
terrible war. As Mr. Chamberlain very
candidly hinted last September, Britain,
though its defences have had all the
attention he and his Tory pals could
spare from the salmon-fishing and the
grouse-shooting for the last seven years,
is no longer able to defend itself. It is
therefore time it vanished from the scene.
With the erstwhile British Isles incor-
porated in the Third Reich, Canada part
of the U.S.A., S’Africa a German pro-
tectorate, Australia a Japanese colony
and India an integral part of the glorious
Asian Empire of Nippon, there should
be a fair prospect of at least six months
of peace—very cheap at ' the price.—
Patriot (N.S.W.).
“Gentlemen”
“Basil Boggabri’s” plea for more atten-
tion to what he terms the fundamentals
of culture —“correct speech, an upright
carriage, a worthy handshake, pleasant
dexterity with cutlery, and, through all,
common courtesy” (B. 29 / 3 / ’39) —sounds
very much like a polite boost for eti-
quette.
This fatal belief that outward signs
are indicative of inward worth is one
of the curious failings to which the Eng-
lish race is prone. Add to “Basil Bogga-
bri’s” list of “fundamentals” a pro-
fessed belief in fair play, and we have
our traditional conception of the “gentle-
man”—one that has played no little part
in determining our choice of political
leaders. Adequacy of training, proof
of sincerity and mental capacity have too
often been overlooked ; we have chosen
our representatives on their etiquette,
their outward bearing, rather than on
their true worth.
Isn’t it time that we got rid of the idea
that the standard product of our culture
known as the “gentleman” is “good
enough” for us —good enough to repre-
sent us in Parliament, to judge momen-
tous questions, and to control the greater
part of our activities?
Of what use to the world are “an up-
right carriage, pleasant dexterity with
cutlery and common courtesy” if the
possessor of these admirable qualities
hasn’t the intellect, the training or
the desire to do a worth-while job?—
Wusslean (Vic.).
“Martello Towers”
At intervals along the southern and
eastern coasts of England are round stone
towers, all of the same type and period.
These were built at the beginning of the
nineteenth century to guard against
Napoleon’s invasion threat. It is not in
the least likely that these Martello towers
would have been any hindrance to the
invasion if Napoleon had gained control
of the sea for long enough to land his
troops. But no doubt they made the citi-
zenry feel more secure.
Many of the air-raid precautions on
which Britain is to spend £42,205,907 this
year are on much the same level. They
are intended to make people feel more
secure, but they are no real protection
against attacks from the air. It is to
be expected that a good part of the Com-
monwealth’s £63,000,000 defence money
will be spent on modern versions of
Martello towers. With politics what they
are, it will be hard to avoid spending a
good deal on bits of local defence here
and there which, like the Martello
towers, will not really defend anything
but will give the inhabitants a feeling
that something tangible is being done.
More serious is the danger that we may
go on with a sort of hit-or-miss policy
of adding pieces to air, military and
naval defences without any clear policy
or any decision about what is really the
basis of Australian defence.
Hore-Belisha has just pointed out that
the backbone of Britain’s defence is in
the workshops. This is even truer of
the Commonwealth in view of her pos-
sible isolation in case of a world dis-
turbance. It is discouraging that more
progress has not been made with the
policy laid down at the Imperial Con-
ference of 1937, nearly two years ago
now. Under this the Commonwealth
was not only to push ahead with the idea
of providing the material for her own
defence, but was to make herself a centre
of supplies for the Indian and Pacific
Ocean regions of the Empire. The air
mission suggests that we may get on with
the job presently. Better late than never.
—Ysbrantz (N.S.W.).
The Refugees and Others
Surely, there is a lot of twaddle talked
on the subject of immigration. What, for
instance, is the worth of the pledge given
by ex-Minister McEwen that the refugees
will not congregate in the cities? How
is this to be prevented, short of taking
measures amounting to persecution? The
Jews being by nature city-dwellers, they
would have to be ordered out of Sydney
and Melbourne.
Such a procedure is unthinkable in
this country, but, even supposing the
refugees were made, on pain of deporta-
tion, to go into the country, what would
be the good of having as settlers people
most of whom are by nature and upbring-
ing quite unsuited to such work?
Wherever immigration takes place on
a large scale foreigners, whatever their
nationality, form into settlements. There
is small justification for the belief
that northern Europeans are easier of
assimilation than the southern ones. In
this country the former have never con-
gregated to the extent that the Italians
have because they have never come here
in Sufficient numbers. But anyone who
has seen, say, the settlements of the
Swedes in Michigan and Dakota and
those of other northern Europeans in the
American West would hesitate to look
upon them as very much easier to
nationalise than any others.
For that matter, would the prevention
of foreign settlements, even if possible,
be desirable, provided the immigrants
were of a suitable type ? And by a suit-
able type I mean immigrants who are
land-hungry ; who not only need not be
persuaded to go out in the bush, but
who could not be persuaded to go else-
where. Living in a settlement then makes
the burden of homesickness easier to
bear. It enables them to pool their ex-
periences, to discuss their difficulties, to
air their grievances.
One thing is certain: you cannot force
a foreigner to become an Australian.
This has to come spontaneously or not
at all. In many, perhaps most, cases,
the importation, of whatever nationality,
is a failure in this respect. But here a
long-range view is essential, because his
progeny, almost without exception, take
on the shape of dinkum Aussies. And
with this, Australia, should it contem-
plate large-scale immigration of European
peasants, would have to remain satisfied.
To return to the influx of refugees, it
has been justified on the ground, among
others, that it brings here men of especial
qualifications, of outstanding ability. But
what about the Australians of especial
qualifications, of outstanding ability?
Considering the notoriously niggardly
way in which the best scientific and other
brains of Australia are already treated
by Governments and other bodies, ap-
pointing refugees to jobs in which out-
standingly able Australians would do
handsomely would hasten the exodus,
already serious, of the latter. —C. A. B.
(Q-).
A Full-time Job
It is about time that members of Par-
liament took their political work more
seriously. To the of them
politics is just highly-paid, spare-time
employment. How can any alleged poli-
tician who, after being elected, actively
pursues his business or professional
career give full consideration to social
problems?
It is bad enough to have in Parliament
men whose usefulness to the community
is impaired by their money-making in-
terests outside, without having them
spend the greater part of their time on
such affairs. Until members regard their
work as a full-time job we can only
expect feeble, ill-considered legislation.
All Ms.P. should be prohibited from
continuing or engaging in any other em-
ployment whatsoever. If there is not
enough public work to occupy their full
time it is evident that the State Parlia-
ments should be abolished. —R. Pearce
(N.S.W.),
Australian Literature
In reply to “Den’s” par. on Australian
literature (B. 12/4/’39), I must say that
I am yet unable to hit upon a suitable
general formula for interpreting the Aus-
tralian life and mentality.
Spain has its motif of chivalry (or
had it until Cervantes debunked that
illusory theme), Russia its emancipation,
England its traditions, France its philo-
sophy, America its frontier romanticism.
Every great nation, in fact, has a ready-
made formula for its writers.
The Australian motif is still in the
making, and I doubt whether any Aus-
tralian story has yet been written to
which a literary critic could point and
say with conviction, “That story is truly
representative of Australia.”
We have no sharply-defined classes as
are to be found in Europe, and we have
no national characteristic which is ex-
clusively Australian except, perhaps, that
of casualness-
SCRIBE (N.S.W.).


ķ
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
dtmorses
RO OT
They Make You
Feel Brighter
m
m
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, liberal applications of
Mirpil will bring relief. If the skin
is too tender to bear being touched
by hand, lay a clean linen or cotton
cloth, saturated with the Balm, over
the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles cf your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
(
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
Or
G^
CO’
1/6
\3 V
&
A BOOK BARGAIN!
“JUNGFRAU”
A Romance of Modern ft.
City Life by Dymphna
Cusack.
A 5/- NOVEL FOR
Post Free.
o°.
Vi’-
<s '
0*
.•* . • ’
.-•*
.*• *VVt
••■ se V«° v 0
.-•■ \° 'V^S^ 6 '


k
BEST WE EVER USED,"
SAY ROAD-WORKERS
“My mate and i are road-workers, out in
all sorts of weather. If we pick up
Influenza, we work in real misery, or stay
away and lose our money. We have tried
everything, but the best thing we have ever
used is Mountain Peppermint. It
fixes us up in no time, as nothing
else has before.” (Signed) M.
MURPHY, Marrickville, 18/3/’39.
I
'• -
..
M
m
m
v \
i
K
4
T%
V
*
/<r
:: ■/,
m
t
?g3S»
I ■>
WBMm.
mm
\ ■■*
m
mm:
m
Family Size Boz. Bottle
64 DOSES
3/6
BFLUIDOZI /=>§ N,
DEFENCE
fs 0^
PinfluenzaV
WHOOPING COUGH
CROUP
BRONCHITIS
iCOUGHStCOLDSi
.. ■ •- ■
i». i to 2 teaspoonsful;
15 years, 1 teaspoonful;
k , f teaapoonful; under
10 drops. To be sipped
J hours or as direction*
ie enclosed pamphlet.
DOSE. Adults. 1
Children. 5 to 15 »
lowly
Mixture include
le six cr asm « n *
■» Ammonium
tch fluid ounce
10 VITAL
BENEFITS
1— Stops pain in
throat and chest.
2 Reduces temper-
ature - eases head-
aches.
3 —Loosens phlegm.
4 —Stops coughing.
5 Ends sniffling.
6 Cle a r s nose,
throat and bronchial
tubes of germ-laden
mucus.
7 Soothes inflamed
mucous membranes.
8— Makes breathing
easy.
9 Assists digestion.
10— Soothes tickling
nerves brings
sweet sleep.
Acclaimed Best by Outdoor Workers
'Here's Defence" against
INFLUENZA
WHOOPING COUCH,
Croup, Colds, Cough
Bronchitis, Catarr
'
7T Vi
Combining for the first time in one
scientifically-balanced treatment the
triple-acting benefits of three most
important elements Carrageen,
Peppermint and Thymus—Mountain
Peppermint Mixture achieves results
hitherto impossible. Its soothing,
healing, nutritive ingredients are
absorbed into the bloodstream,
which carries them through
the lungs, the bronchial
tubes, the catarrhal mucous membranes
and the digestive tract. It impregnates
the membrane cells with anti-germ pro-
perties. It soothes, it relieves, it heals,
it defends!
Outdoor workers whose jobs subject them
particularly to exposure risks are the best
judges of an effective remedy. They say
Mountain Peppermint Mixture is the best.
Read their remarkable letters, and realise
that you, too, can get these same benefits.
Get Mountain Peppermint Mixture to-day.
See how quickly this safe, pleasant-tasting
remedy relieves pain, stops coughing,
loosens accumulated phlegm, helps you
to enjoy sweet, refreshing sleep and aid's
swift recovery. Here’s REAL DEFENCE
against winter ills!
SEA CAPTAIN BENEFITS
“I looked for a treatment for Influenza
which was really effective, and I have
found this in Mountain Peppermint.
I was overcome by a severe Influenza
attack, with Bronchitis. I tried your
wonderful remedy, and in a couple of
days was feeling thoroughly well.”
(Signed) Capt. TAYLOR, Sydney,
16/3/39.
RADIO SINGER’S PRAISE
“I went down with a horrible attack
of Influenza, and my sore throat would
have prevented me singing. I took
Mountain Peppermint, and went on
the air without a suspicion of hoarse-
ness, my throat easy, and my Influenza
disappeared. Mountain Peppermint is
a certain, safe and rapid treatment.”
(Signed) Miss NELLIE LAMPORT,
Sydney, 18/3/39.
From throughout Australia come reports
like the above, telling of the wonderful
benefits which Mountain Peppermint
Mixture is providing for men, women and
children. It is the safest remedy for all
the family—wonderfully effective and
economical.
mm
SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Manufactured in one of the most up-to-
date, hygienic Laboratories in the Southern
Hemisphere, to which is attached a fully
qualified Doctor of Medicine, and under the
control of Chemists who were trained in
the most modern and largest English
Laboratories in the world.
FREE TREATMENT CHART, enclosed with every
bottle, helps you to enjoy the utmost possible benefit
from the treatment.
m
■?'
'V.
we;
--*■ “■ -
, ;■ ■■: • vi'
>• :... iiEaSm
—
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
•produet. <he Bong|as Drug Company, Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Sole Wholesale Agents for Tasmania: X. Pairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
