

Life
Assurance
The safe
investment and
the family’s
safeguard.
Use it for your
own peace of
mind and your
family’s security.
I-
'rww
mmt
zw.m
:
ill
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY,
War Risk
Full risk is
carried on
pre-war
Policyholders in
their Country’s
Service either at
home or abroad
without any
extra Premium.
U/)e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187 9.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
At Scapa Flow
Vol. 60.—N0. 3115.
Wednesday, October 25, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“BATTLER’S*' TALES OF EARLY
ROCKHAMPTON.
39 Chapters, 19 Photographs. Price 7/6.
May be had direct from the Author,
“The Sanctuary,” Rockhampton. Or
from K. M. Grant & Co., Commission
Agents, Rockhampton.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Bandwtting
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 139
The Red Page
...THIS ENGLAND.
The theme of Rom Landau’s Love for
a Country (Nicholson and Watson) is
that there’s a good deal rotten in the
democratic State of England, and what
are the Second, Third and Fourth
Estates and other responsible parties
doing ,about it or likely to do?
Trying to discover “what are the weak-
nesses in our present system and by what
reforms they are likely to be removed”
he interviews leading representatives of
the main branches of British public life.
He finds them in separate compartments
rather than branches, out of touch with
each other and with reality. For example,
the Parliamentary compartment:
Most Cabinet Ministers lose touch with
life as it is experienced by the ordinary
citizen. They live in a sort of vacuum
separated from the everyday world by secret
dossiers and private secretaries and Par-
liamentary questions and Cabinet meetings.
News reaches them mostly in condensed
form, colored by the idiosyncrasies of his
Majesty’s official representatives abroad,
whose own lives, equally, are not altogether
real.
Or the Justice compartment:
It is questionable whether the atmo-
sphere of. unreality which surrounds the
whole status and the personality of the Judge
serves the interests of justice. Even royalty
do not live in quite so rarefied an air
Is it not in the interests of all concerned
that the Bench should be more humanised
and brought more into line with the rest of
life as lived to-day? Should not the power
of the Judges spring from their intrinsic
qualities and from the truth implicit in the
ideal they serve, and be independent of the
paraphernalia of red robes and wigs and
'Stilted ceremony?
He questions: Whether the present con-
flict of creeds does not call for some
more specific effort if democracy is to
survive; whether democracy in its
traditional British guise is perfect, or
does it perhaps require to be reformed?
His finding is that there must be a
spiritual reawakening, fostered in the in-
dividual by all those in authority giving
closer and more unified attention to the
spiritual and cultural needs in the
national life.
He underlines the importance of the
individual in democracy, and in its sur-
vival. His general criticism is that the pre-
essential, “equal individuals,” is not nearly
as evident as it might be, and that a
greater and more unified effort must be
made to advance it, since “democracy
and individualism are inseparable.”
The interviews alone give the book
a wide general interest; pretty well every
sort of reader will have a special interest
in how one or other of the many inter-
viewed persons looks and talks in his
own particular surroundings Stephen
Spender, say, or Priestley, T. S. Eliot,
Sir Arthur Eddington, Attlee, Mosley,
John Dunne, E. M. Forster, Eleanor
Rathbone, John Rothenstein, the leading
churchmen of several denominations, and
many others.
I called on the Archbishop of Canterbury
at Lambeth Palace. The Archbishop
awaited me at the far end of his vast
study. He was standing by the window,
contemplating a stretch of smooth lawn in
the garden beneath and a huge bed of
tulips flaming in gold and red. In a
cassock of violet silk and with a cross of
amethysts on his chest he was the perfect
focal point of the scene. Not many of
the men who have conducted the affairs
of the Church from behind the high walls
of Lambeth Palace could have possibly
surpassed him in nobility of appearance.
When the rest of the book has been
read that picture is likely to recur as
not so favorable as it would seem ; that
there’s a sting in the last few words, and
that as a whole it’s a subtly presented
argument in favor of the author’s con-
tention that the leaders are out of touch
with the reality of the ordinary life of
the people. From the same chapter a
picture of the call on the Bishop of
Durham with much the same effect:
I visited him at his official residence at
Bishop Auckland, near Durham. By the
time the little mining town with its narrow
main street and its cheap shops had been
traversed and Auckland Castle reached,
dinginess had given place to grandeur.
The Gothic outline of the palace and its
park of 800 acres made the mind turn to
the spacious days before the Reformation
when bishops were also secular potentates.
Among his literary portraits he has
Priestley as a “well-fed Puck” ; “That he
is one of the most successful authors of
the day one realises as soon as one enters
his house,” which is crowded with ex-
amples of art, including a bust of him-
self by Epstein and several pieces of
sculpture by Maurice Lambert in the hall.
Stephen Spender in high-necked sweater
and grey flannels, which
“suggested the artist rather
than the Left-wing fighter” ;
“His melodious voice and
beautiful diction were those
of a poet and not of a
propagandist.” After his interview with
Osbert Sitwell (in a room with “trans-
parent models of sailing ships in glass
cases, tables hidden beneath an army of
Victorian glass, opaque and of an intense
sky-blue, cushions covered in magenta
and pink silk, and the walls plastered
with pictures”) they went out, and
It seemed to me absolutely in tune with
the occasion that when we stepped out into
the street a large and rather luxurious-
looking car should be waiting outside,
complete with chauffeur and ornate
initials on its four doors.
Not much offering in the way of co-
operation from any of those, or from
T. S. Eliot, who told him that “All that
matters to a poet while he is writing
poetry is the poetry.” Eliot, he mentions,
is a director of one of the great publish-
ing houses in London. He was found in
an office room crowded with new books.
On the political front his long inter-
view with George Lansbury in the
veteran’s simple home is one of the most
telling of all. Both Maxton and Mosley
told him much the same thing. Maxton
(rolling his “r”): “You surely don’t
doubt that under our present leaders we
are heading for an economic crisis far
worse than that of 1930. That’ll be the
moment for our revolution.” Mosley, his
eyes staring with a suggestion of hyp-
notic power, speaking for his “British
Fascists”: “Once economic conditions
begin to deteriorate, as they are bound
to do under the present system of cor-
ruption, we shall advance with rapidly-
increasing momentum We shall seek
our revolution by the declared will of
the people.”
Not much “spiritual co-operation”
there, and Mr. Landau found little better
evidence of it elsewhere. That does not
prevent him from making his book at
once a most engaging, constructive and,
on the whole, hopeful contribution to the
rising tide of investigation into the
present state and possible future of
democracy.
Unlucky Mr, Priestley.
J. B. Priestley is a very worried man.
And so, after learning what was worry-
ing him, is the present commentator. “I
cannot make up my mind,” he says in
his pew “chapter of autobiography” Rain
Upon Godshill (Heinemann), “whether I
am a fortunate man who feels unlucky,
or a lucky man who feels unfortunate;
but I still feel one of them, and therefore
not very happy and vaguely con-
temptible.”
It’s enough to make anyone unhappy.
What is the difference between “a for-
tunate man who feels unlucky” and “a
lucky man who feels unfortunate”? The
Bulletin’s dictionary (besides offering
en route the interesting information that
“forswonk” means “overlabored”) says
that “fortunate” means “lucky” and
“lucky” means “fortunate,” so that what
Priestley is really racking his brains over
is whether he is a lucky man who feels
unfortunate or a fortunate man who feels
unlucky; or else whether he’s a lucky
man who feels unlucky or a lucky man
who feels unlucky. It may mean some-
thing or other, but it’s either a very un-
fortunate sentence or a very unfortunate
sentence.
He begins to be worried very early in
the book when a New York critic calls
him “the sort of Englishman who smokes
a pipe.” He spends a great deal of time
wondering what that can mean ; and he
spends too much time throughout the
book complaining about his critics. He
worries his way through Egypt; through
America on a whirlwind lecture tour;
through the writing and production of
plays. None of this, though it is read-
able, is particularly interesting. Of Egypt
he says “though I was nearly always in-
terested or amused, nothing I saw there
made me feel very deeply,” and that’s
the measure of his writing. The sunsets
didn’t come up to those in Arizona.
In America he invites the reader to
“call me a fanciful idiot,” but that is not
at all necessary. He has worth-while
observations to make on university edu-
cation—criticising its crudities but seeing
in the crowded universities of the plains-
“not this favored group or that, but the
People coming out of their long sleep” ;
and there is a good description of travels
in the Painted Desert.
The best of the book comes when he
returns to England and begins to be wor-
ried about unemployment, the destruction
of the countryside, the future of democ-
racy and so on. He has said much of it
before in English Journey and Midnight
on the Desert, but it’s the sort of ser-
monising that can be repeated without
tedium.
From social problems he proceeds to
the time theories on which he has based
his recent plays, taking a side-glance at
telepathy and creative dreaming. He
follows Jung:
The view that dreams are merely imagi-
nary fulfilments of suppressed wishes has
long ago been superseded. It is certainly
true that there are dreams which embody
suppressed wishes and fears, but what is
there which the dream cannot on occasion
embody? Dreams may give expression to
ineluctable truths, to philosophical pro-
nouncements, illusions, wild fantasies,
memories, plans, anticipations, irrational
experiences, even telepathic visions and
heaven knows what besides.
And then he worries about whether or
not he is Mr. Priestley. Noting that “the
outward Jones is the most Jonesey thing
about him,” he recalls that in his last
book he held that there was an immortal
four-dimensional Jones —“the Jones of
the cradle, the schoolroom, the office,
the mansion, the nursing home, the com-
plete four-dimensional length of Jones.”
Still believing that, he now suspects that
“the more inward you go the less Jones is
mere Jones, and the more he is also
Smith, Brown, Robinson and much else
besides.”
With which inspiring thought these re-
viewers leave Messrs. Priestley to try to
work out whether this is unlucky or un-
lucky.
Milton and Roger the Lodger.
First statement by Mr. Geoffrey Grig-
son in his introduction to New Verse
(Faber), a collection of poems that have
appeared in the periodical “New Verse”
over the past five years:
It is a fact that both an epic and a
limerick are poems. You cannot suppose
a divine or an inspired origin for one
against a secular or rational origin for
the other. You can only distinguish in
them differences of effect and quality.
Which means: “Paradise Lost” and the
limerick about Roger the Lodger differ
in degree but not in kind.
Second statement by Mr. Grigson:
It is this fact which is accepted by the
best of those poets who have written for
“New Verse.” It gives them certain
advantages. It prevents them from that
poetic inflation which follows when a poet
mistakes the products of the conflicts in-
side himself for the gift, inspired in him-
self, mysteriously, by some outside agent.
Which means: Plato was a child beside
Freud and the skylark must have a hell
of a bad time “inside himself.”
Third statement by Mr. Grigson:
Poets deal once more with an explicable,
if not with a calculable and orderly uni-
verse.
Fourth statement:
The time is 1939, and over for arguing
that one [the epic] is poetry and the other
[the limerick] is not. And whatever may
be the quality of our best poems now in
the highest kind of poetry, I am sure of
one thing; we know with more exactitude,
with more health and less pretentiousness
and priggishness how poems come about
and how poets should be related to people.
Which means: The romantic-classic pen-
dulum, which has been swinging since
Homer, will swing no more ; and this
statement is neither pretentious nor prig-
gish.
Sample of a funny poem, “Cruel,
Clever Cat,” by Geoffrey Taylor, in New
Verse : —
Sally, having swallowed cheese,
Directs down holes the scented breeze,
Enticing thus with baited breath
Nice mice to an untimely death.
Comment: It might do for “Smoke-oh.”
Comment by Mr. Grigson: “It is not a
bit of good saying ‘Really does Mr.
Grigson think this is poetry?’ ” Final
comment: Does Mr. Grigson really think
this originated in the same way as
Auden’s “Letter to a Writer”:
I smoke into the night and watch reflections
Stretch into the harbor. In the houses
The little pianos are closed and a clock strikes.
And all sway forward on the dangerous flood
Of history that never sleeps or dies,
And, held one moment, bums the hand.
Or George Barker’s “Elegy No. 1”:
I see a scene with a smother of snow over
Love.
I know Spring shall arise and later the swallow
return;
I know, but my torso stands bogged in a load
of time,
Like Love lying under the smother of our
death and our
Dread. How soon shall the Spring bird arise
and the
Summer bells hum with the murmur of our
name?
Soon, soon,
Soon the green room goes blue with the last
autumn.
Barker and Dylan Thomas, though
they seem to be slaves of a manner (and
an almost identical manner), are the most
interesting poets of the group, apart from
established writers such as Auden,
Spender (with a fine translation from
Rilke) and Louis MacNeice. Day Lewis,
with only one poem, and that an old one,
is poorly represented.
Australian Civil Servant.
R. H. Croll, author of I Recall
(Robertson and Mullens, Melb.), was for
close on 50 years a Victorian public ser-
vant, during which time cross-country
running, anthropological studies among
the natives in Centralia and a ceaseless
outpouring of articles for the papers have
been merely side issues for him. The
key to his life is supplied in his second
chapter, where he describes how he sat
for the clerical examination for the pub-
lic service in Ballarat and was drafted to
the Melbourne Public Library.
Was ever such luck! I was a booky
boy, a reader of everything I could lay
my hands on, and here I was thrust into
the midst of one of the greatest collec-
tions of literature in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
From reading their works Croll pro-
gressed to making the acquaintance of
the writers. He seems to have met every
poet, author, artist, composer and play-
wright in Australia. With the passionate
enthusiasm of the collector he has
treasured up every souvenir that has got
into his hands of this hierarchy, and the
best part of his collection is his anecdotes
about them.
The culminating triumph of Croll’s
career was the founding of the Australian
Academy of Art in 1937. This institution
was born in the fertile brain of the Prime
Minister, Mr. Menzies. The P.M.
originated the idea of an academy which
would link up all art interests in Aus-
tralia, so making it possible for the whole
of these great cultural influences to speak
with a single voice, and Croll was
appointed organising secretary. Instead
of speaking with a single voice the great
cultural influences instantly began slang-
whanging one another. “Led,” says Croll,
“by one or two capable artists, who dis-
agreed with academies ‘on principle,’ the
mass of painters, most of whom could
never show sufficient talent to reach the
standard required by an academy, noisily
rejected the idea of such a body.” But
“there remained in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart sufficient
of the really talented exponents of paint-
ing and sculpture to found a society of
some fifty leading artists.” This body,
Croll predicts, will some day have the
prefix “Royal” and stand on the same
footing in Australia as the Royal
Academy does in England.
One for Christmas.
Fred Davison’s Duck Williams and
His Cobbers (Angus and Robertson) will
set anyone who remembers Eric, or
Little by Little envying the younger
generation. Mr. Davison’s tone is moral
enough, but he keeps sermonising down
to the minimum and he takes an obvious
delight in all his characters’ escapades.
He portrays a wholly convincing gang
of youngsters enjoying good health and
reasonably bad behavior at Bendigo.
They’re shown crawfishing, exploring,
playing bushrangers, rabbit shooting,
camping in the bush, doing some
amateur mining, taking a trip to Mel-
bourne for the day and missing the last
train home because young Blue stowed
away on a ship, quarrelling over the
leadership of the gang, outwitting their
incomprehensible parents.
Each character is sharply defined and
each rings true: Duck with perpetual
fears giving an edge to his taste for
adventure; Baldy always on the make,
selling crawfish, trading in pigeons, a
firm believer in the moralities of “I saw
it first” and “Finder keeps”; Blue, the
smallest and most adventurous of the
gang, always in trouble. Mr. Davison
knows how boys’ minds work, and is
amusingly accurate on their ability to
pretend they’re in the right when they
know they’re hopelessly in the wrong
in argument or action. Accurate, too,
is his picture of a boys’ world, indepen-
dent of adults, with its own values and
its own tragedies and comedies. It’s
a swift-moving book, and the youngsters
speak with an unmistakably Australian
accent.


£gfsri* and
I WINDO^
DOOR SETS,
HINGES AND FASTENERS
In this page will be found all the material needed to build
strong, serviceable screen doors and windows. Flies are a
dangerous enemy of man . . they are direct germ and disease
carriers. Be wise, keep them outside your home! Take every
precautionary measure.
Corner . and Centre Door Bracket (Xu
103). At Anthony Horderns'. _
PRICE, set of 6 1/3
Antique Coppered Door Handles. At
Anthony Horderns'.
PRICES, each .... 2d., 5d., s*d., 6*d.
Japanned Screen Door Hinges. At
Anthony Horderns'.
PRICES, pair 7d., 1/-
Brassed or Cadmium Door Hinges. At
Anthony Horderns’. PRICE, pair, lOd.
Telescopic WINDOW SCREENS
With Galvanised Gauze, to
to 36x12 36x19
PRICES, each . 4/- 5/-
With Bronze Gauze. At
Horderns'.
PRICES, each,
open up
-h 42x19*-
5/6
Anihony
5/- 6/3 7/3
7J
m
V>C*'
y>
7*
* N
SXS
A
NX'
&
V
A
ALL PRICES SUBJECT TO
FLUCTUATION WITHOUT
FURTHER NOTICE.
WOVEN WIRE (Fly & Mosquito Proof)
ZINCOID
Screen Door Catches, Bronze, for Flyproof Doors,
With knob, opening outwards. At Anthony Horderns'.
rnlC£, each .. 2/11
With knob and lever, opening outwards 2/9
With lever only, for doors opening inwards .. 2/3
Snappy Catches. PRICE, each -711
"Stanley" Snappy Catches. PRICE, each 1/9
DOOR OR GATE SPRINGS
Spiral Door or Gate Springs, Japanned, with
Screws. At Anthony Horderns’.
Lengths: ins. _ 9 10 11 12 14
PRICES, each _ 9d. lOd. 1/1 1/4 1/9
Nickel-plated .... 1/6 1/8
r—-IS
- 1
( . 2- - - -j
8-=i
%£REGA' DOOR CLOSER, CHECK AND
HINGE
l SIDE
SCREENDOOR CHECKS
"Rega' Door Checks and Closers, for screen doors and light
interior doors. ‘Adjustable to right or left-hand doors without
making any changes whatever. A turn of a valve instantly
adjusts to different weight of doors. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each „ 7/_
m
m
mm
■
MATERIALS FOR MAKING DOORS
We supply these in sets comprising
1 set Dressed Timber and Beading.
1 set of six Corner and Centre Brackets (Xu 103}.
1 pair Spring Hinges; I Door Handle.
Brads and Tacks and sufficient Woven Wire to complete.
FOR DOORS 6ff.6in.x 2ft.6in. 6ft.Bin.x 2ft.Bin. 7ff.x3f(<
Oregon Timber and Zincoid Woven Wire—
At Anthony Horderns'—
PRICES, set 11/9 12/- 12/9
Oregon Timber and Bronze Woven Wire—
At Anthony Horderns'—
PRICES, set ..... ... 16/- 16/6 ,18/6
By using the corner and centre, brackets supplied with sets, ,no
mortising is required, thus enabling the amateur to make and fit
a Fly Door equal in every way to any Fly Door on the market.
NOTE—The Timber in these Sets is cut for approximately 7ft. x 3ft..
Doors. Before setting up, measure off the size required for YOUR
Door and cut accordingly.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Postal Address: Box 2712 C/ G.P.0., Sydney.
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


"I’ll Marry When I’m on Full Money”
FULL Money
BY A. C. HEADLEY
Kay wasn’t the type for it—not that kind of
living. It wasn’t what Jim wanted either. He
got tired of reading the notices that no hands
were required.
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
u OULD y’ lend me thirty quid?”
I Kay. Small and fine and pretty.
There was something about Kay, her
hair and eyes, and the way she looked at a
feller. You had to like Kay, she was so pretty. Small
she was, and smart in her clothes. At dances you
could look at her and the others weren’t there. Her
hair, catching the light, would become a visible kind
of laughter. When you were near her you could
feel the roughness of machinery on your hands and
the awkwardness of your feet. You liked Kay because
she was so pretty, and, looking at her, nothing else
mattered.
“Could y’ lend me thirty quid?”
Lois. A nice girl.
It’s funny about “nice” and “pretty.” When a
girl is nice it doesn’t matter about being pretty, and
when a girl is pretty you don’t bother about whether
she’s nice. Lois. She was tall and her figure was
right, but her mouth was too large and her nose, tip-
tilted, too small. But you liked Lois, and you were
never made conscious of the awkwardness of your
hands and feet. You danced with her and gave way
to the pleasure of the rhythm. She smiled and you
liked the play of freckles beneath her eyes. You liked
Lois because she was nice and she made you feel
good.
“Could y’ lend me thirty quid?”
Jim.
You’d like Jim. It’s Jim who buys camphor and
shoelaces from fellers in the pub. It’s Jim who drops
his pennies' into the musicians’ box. He’s the feller
who sings while he works, and who won’t turn you
down on anything. He isn’t very tall, and he isn’t very
good-looking, but the thing you notice about him is
that he always looks clean and tidy—even in the
machine shop, working amongst grease and dust. You
like Jim because he’s a good feller.
HIRTY quid!
1 Machine shop. Cold bricks and winter and
galvanised-iron. Lathes shaving the brightness into
metal. Machine music and rust. Brass and iron and
cold.
The machine shop was long, reaching back from
the front office in a series of built-on additions. Two
turret lathes near the office door divided its length into
three separate alleys. Against the wall a grinder
droned its way through the day, covering everything
with a film of metal dust. At the other side a bench
and men working. Then the drills, upright and vibrant
against the squat power of the lathes.
I was fourteen when I came to work for Wick-
ham’s, and I can still remember the unsureness of
everything. It was my first job, and I didn’t seem to
be able to get over the feeling that everyone was look-
ing at me. They were, too, but it didn’t seem like I
could dare to look up and catch them. Looking up
was laziness, and I was scared the foreman might see
me. A pound a week. It was all the money in the
world.
Most of the time I
was trying to remember
the things the foreman
had shown me, about
putting the pieces in the
jig, levelling the drill into
the holes, and that too much pressure broke the
drills. It was more important than the world’s bridges.
Wheels and cogs spinning close to me made me a little
scared when I thought of the bits in the paper about
a man’s arm being caught in the belt.
All the morning I was discovering what power
meant. It was the feel of the drill in the holes and
the bite of metal. After a while I remember thinking
that they were foolish to pay me a pound a week
when there were kids who would give their right arm
for the thrill of it. This was a grand job.
At half-past eleven I broke the drill.
I remember the noise it made, and I’ve never been
more frightened in my life. I could almost feel my
heart stop beating. For a minute I couldn’t do any-
thing but stare at the stump spinning in the machine.
There was the heat of my face, the uncomfortable
feel of my eyes, and the swift emptiness of my
stomach. Thinking over it now, I could laugh. But
then it was something tremendous.
That was when I met Jim.
Apart from the foreman, he was the first one in
the machine shop to speak to me. He was short and
solid, more solid than he is now, and he had a grin
plastered all over his face. He said: “What’s up,
kid? Struck trouble?” Then his foot moved out
and he cut off the power. I watched while he took the
drill out of the sleeve, and followed him to the emery
wheel. He must have thought I was dumb, but I
couldn’t say anything because I couldn’t think of any-
thing to say. Then the drill was back in the machine
as though nothing had happened.
“If y’ bust it again, just gimme a call. I’m Jim
Ropey.”
And at lunchtime he talked to me, asked me if it
was my first job, and how I liked it. It was as though
he was breaking ground for the others and they talked
to me after a while.
You can thank a feller without saying anything.
I knew as much about Jim then as I know now. I
suppose it’s just like knowing yourself.
Jim and I got on pretty well. It was funny, too,
some of the things —the way he could make me
ashamed of dirty jokes and of swearing without say-
ing anything, because, at that age, it gives you a kind
of pride to be able to swear.
Jim was only nineteen then, but he seemed mt e
aged, he was so sure of himself.
I was sixteen when he got married.
| T brought an end to our nights at the fights and
* dances, but I wasn’t really surprised He ww alw y
talking about this Kay, telling me how pre y
WaS * She was pretty all right, but I was wondering
how they were going to get along on Jims g ■
He told me then that Kay was going to keep o
with her job until he was on full money. e
twenty and it didn’t seem so long to wait.
Jim talked about full money. Full money, wi
people still talking about the depression. Jim
was on the same job as me. We weren t tradesmem
We were doing the same work as when we a s
with Wickham’s, and there were plenty of kids that
could be hired for less than half of full money.
Then the foreman told him that things were bad
and that he was thinking of spelling some o e
men. It was Jim’s twenty-first-birthday present. It
took him a long time to realise
that it wasn’t easy to get anothei
job. And Kay kept on at the
factory, trying to keep them both
on thirty-five bob a week.
She wasn’t the type for it—
not that kind of living. I used to
see Jim pretty often then, and 1
knew it was beginning to come
out. He had a new look about
him. I’d buy him a drink, and
•he’d put his hand in his pocket
to return the shout, but I d know
there was nothing there, and I’d
tell him that I didn’t feel like
another drink.
Then he moved, and took a
room in a shabby lodging house.
I kind of sensed that things weren't
going right. It was nothing he said, but
it was as though he were ashamed and
wanted to keep the shame to himself.
Living like that wasn’t what Kay
wanted. It wasn’t what Jim wanted
either, for that matter. He got tired of
reading the notices that no hands were
required, and took on the job of running
bets for the s.p. man. In the second
week he was caught—-twenty quid or
forty days. By writing to the Minister for Justice
he had it broken down to a fiver. I lent him the
money. Jim changed his mind and gave it me back.
He said he couldn’t afford to pay it back and it was
better to do the ten days. I wanted to give him the
money, but he wouldn’t take it.
T T was as if Kay had been waiting for that break.
1 While Jim was doing his time I saw her at dances
and one night letting someone see her home. It made
me feel rotten. Then when Jim came out she still
came to the dances, but Jim didn’t come with her.
There was once when I heard her swearing at Jim,
saying words that made me look round to see if
there were any ladies present. Pretty soon it was
over.
Jim told me that they had separated, and about
the other men. It was funny to hear Jim swear.
Kay. Small and fine and pretty. But now you
notice the thinness of her mouth and the hard glint
in her eyes. You see her in the pubs. She says
“Jesus Christ,” and when you are near her you don’t
feel self-conscious any more. She doesn’t work in
the factory any more, but she seems to have plenty
of money.
THEN I didn’t see Jim for a long time till I started
bumping into him at the shilling dances. He
hadn’t changed much. His clothes weren’t much good,
but they were tidy. He hadn’t struck it for a job
yet, but he’d lost that look of abject misery. I didn’t
say anything about Kay.
I watched him dancing with the tall girl. There
was a waltz competition. Jim was always a good
dancer, and they danced well together. It was just
like one person moving to the music, taking the beat
smooth and even. Jim had a number on his back,
and at the end of the dance I slipped my vote into
the box labelled 4.
It wasn’t till the next week that I found out that
they had won it. That was the night he introduced
me to Lois. Looking at her it made me think of
Kay, and that was funny. She wasn’t the least bit
like Kay. Kay was pretty ; Lois was just nice. I
danced with her and liked her better.
You didn't feel self-conscious with Lois. It was
just like she was a girl that could make a feller happy.
But it wasn’t like she was a girl that anyone could
pick up. She wasn’t that type. She was just nice
because that was her. You could see the way she
felt about Jim. Most everything she said was about
him. And more than once I saw Jim with that little
smile on his face, and his eyes squinted, and I could
sense the ache of how he felt about her.
Lois. A tall girl with freckles clouding across
her cheeks, and a mouth always smiling back over
white, even teeth. A girl you liked to talk with, to
dance with, to sit in the quiet corners of the night with.
Jim was in love, but he was married.


She knew about Kay. It hurt, but not with the
sharp pain of jealousy. She would have taken him
to-day, to-morrow, any time, but ... he was married.
Divorce.
“I can git one for thirty quid.”
Thirty quid, and he’s on the dole. Jim will never
have thirty pounds. There’s relief work —a few weeks
at a time.
'"F HEY are living together now. Whenever I see
* Lois she wears a gold band on her finger. Married
they are, as true as all the churches in Christianity.
There were no words spoken of love, honor and
obedience, but it is something better. Lois still has
her job, but she won’t have it much longer, and a
baby makes a big hole in relief wages. Jim is always
saying: “As soon as we git thirty quid I’ll git a
divorce, and we’ll be properly married.” But he’s
beginning to think about it as a waste of money.
Lois. A nice girl. But it’s funny how poverty
affects a woman more than a man. She’s hard and
tight, and a penny is a penny. She is old, a hundred
years older than Jim. She isn’t nice and cool and
wholesome any more. She has no time for it. She
is too busy looking into to-morrow and finding it
worse than to-day.
I SUPPOSE I could lend them the money. I’ve
* got it, but it would be a long time before they could
pay it back. There’s another thing too. Lately the
foreman has been talking to me about how bad things
are. He doesn’t talk about spelling anyone because
they’ve got a new word for it. Retrenchment. There’s
a girl I want to marry when I’m on full money. And
next week I’ll be twenty-one.
ANDY
BY J. K. EWERS.
The £5 prize for the last of “The Bulletin’s” competitions for new writers
goes once again to a Westralian writer—J. K. Ewers, 51 John-street, Cottesloe
—for this brief sketch of an old bushman.
THE postmaster at Boondoona wanted a “smoker”
parrot. He already had a “twenty-eight,” a pet
kangaroo, a splay-footed water-spaniel, two cats
and seventeen bantams. But old “Lick ’Em Your-
self,” as we used to call him because the sponges for
wetting stamps on the post office counter were always
bone-dry, was something of an animal fancier. He
wanted a “smoker,” and he wouldn’t be happy till he
got it. I told him I thought I knew where I could
get one for him.
Some months previously Andy Potts had said to
me, “If y’ever want a ‘smoker,’ come over to the camp
in October an’ I’ll get y’ one.”
Andy lived a hermit’s life wherever the mood
suited him. At that time he was cutting sandalwood
in a back paddock of ours about three miles from
the homestead. He used to come over once a month
or so to tell Dad when he’d have a load of sandal-
wood ready. Sometimes he’d bring over a bag of
rabbit- and dulgite-skins for Dad to cart into the
siding for him, and whenever he came Sodom and
Gomorrha came with him. They were two enormous
black-and-white kangaroo-dogs ; Dad said they ponged
worse than Andy, and that was saying something!
When Andy came over next time, I said I’d be
at his camp that day week because old “Lick ’Em
Yourself” wanted a “smoker” parrot.
“Good-oh! ” said Andy. “Come bright and early,
and we’ll have a couple in no time.”
Mum didn’t much like me going. She reckoned
Andy was a dirty old beast. “He’s nothing but a
white blackfellow,” she used to say, “an’ that’s worse’n
a black one.”
But I didn’t see much wrong with Andy. “When
I was a boy round Toodyee way” he’d begin, and
I’d know there was a good yarn coming so long as I
waited patiently while he told it in his own long-
winded way.
When Sunday came I set off soon after breakfast
and reached Andy’s camp a bit before ten o’clock.
Sodom and Gomorrha came baying at me. They
leapt up, put their forepaws on my shoulders and
licked my face.
“Down, you rascals!” yelled Andy, coming out to
greet me. “Git down, now! Git down!”
The dogs took not the slightest notice of him until
he cut Sodom’s rump with a switch he’d picked up.
“Friendly animals, dogs,” said Andy.
I said something or other, and soon we were out
in a patch of salmon-gums about half a mile from
his camp.
“Wonderful birds, parrots,” remarked Andy as
we went along. “Got it all over maggies and crows
the way they build their nests down holler trees.
Now, you keep your eyes skinned for a likely-lookin’
hole where they might go in and out.”
I did my best, but Andy’s old eyes spotted “a
likely-lookin’ hole” before mine knew what “a likely-
lookin’ hole” looked like. He gave me a sugar-bag
to hold.
“That’s to put ’em in,” he said, and began belting
into the tree with his axe. I stood off a little to dodge
the flying chips, and when he had a scarf big enough
to put his hand into he began scraping out the brown
powdery stuff that hollow trees seem to be full of.
“If there’s a nest on top o’ this, it’ll come down
gently. See anything fly out o’ the hole while I was
chopping?”
I shook my head.
“Well, p’raps there won’t be nothin’,” said Andy.
“There isn’t always, you know.”
There wasn’t.
A white owl flew out of the next tree almost as
soon as Andy started chopping. It sat on a bare limb
not far away and blinked blindly in the bright sun-
shine.
“There won’t be any ‘smokers’ here,” declared
Andy. “Owls and parrots ain’t good mixers.”
We went to a third tree and a fourth and a
fifth ... I lost count after that. I was hungry, and
after a while Andy cocked an eye at the sun.
“Better get some lunch,” he said. “Then we’ll
have another look. Oughter be plenty o’ nests. I seen
lots o’ ‘smokers’ about lately. An’ lars’ year I got six
chicks in one morning in this very patch. We’ll feel
better after lunch.”
This seemed reasonable enough, and I was happy
at the thought of having something to eat. Sodom
and Gomorrha seemed hungry, too. When we got
back to the camp they nearly ate me.
“Git down, you rascals!” said Andy. “Not
enough work to do. That’s what’s up with ’em. A
dog’s like a man. He needs work to keep him out o’
mischief.” .
Andy kindled a fire and set a black billycan over
it. Then he glanced at me.
“You look peckish,” he said. “Well, I’ve got
some cold rabbit stoo. How’s that, eh?”
That sounded all right to me, and I told him so.
He lifted a sugar-bag from where it was hanging
on a tree and put it on the ground. From the camp
he brought two enamel plates, two enamel mugs,
some knives and forks, a tin of honey and another of
butter. Out of the bag he took a damper, grey as the
ashes in which it had been baked. He cut a couple
of chunks off. It was hard and as dry as chips. But
he put a chunk on each plate and then lifted a camp-
oven lid to reveal the “stoo.” I looked over his
shoulder. Sodom and Gomorrha hung their tongues
over the open camp-oven.
“Git back, you rascals, git back!” Andy pushed
Gomorrha’s nose aside with one of the enamel plates.
Then he ladled out some rabbit and some gravy and
handed me the plate. “Put that inside you. It’ll do
you good,” he said.
I took the plate and squatted down on the ground.
Gomorrha watched me reproachfully.
When Andy had served himself, he squatted oppo-
site me. Sodom stood on one side and Gomorrha
on the other. Their bodies straddled the sugar-bag,
on which rested the ash-grey damper, the tin of bush
honey, the butter and other tins containing salt and
pepper. He lifted his fork and gave Sodom and
Gomorrha each a bite in turn, then returned the fork
to his plate for his own share. I couldn’t take my
eyes off him. He got one mouthful out of every three.
His plate was empty before I’d fairly started.
When I wasn’t looking at the dogs, I was examin-
ing my own portion of stew. Already I had extracted
from the gravy three flies and one sugar-ant. They
were boiled black. Andy looked at me over the arch
of Sodom’s back. “You’re not much of a doer!” he
said, fishing between Gomorrha’s legs for the damper.
“I’m not as hungry as I was,” I countered meekly.
“That’s good stoo, that is,” said Andy, “though
I says it meself. Git your foot off the butter,
Gomorrha! Try some o’ this honey. Found a bonzer
hive lars’ Tuesday.”
I said I thought I would and laid my plate aside.
Sodom and Gomorrha came round to investigate. In
two minutes they had removed all traces of the “stoo,”
including the trimmings I had carefully extracted and
laid round the edge. Andy handed me a thick slice
of damper and honey. It took me all my time to get
my teeth into the damper, and the honey was
Well, I’d tasted lots of bush honey—we always had a
tin of it at home —but I’d never tasted any quite like
this. The ants probably had something to do with its
flavor. I refused a second slice and tried to satisfy
my hunger by drinking three cups of heavily-sugared
tea.
“You are a poor doer,” said Andy.
After lunch he was in no hurry to go out looking
for a “smoker’s” nest again. “Too hot. We’ll lay off
for a bit,” he said.
So we went into his camp. He made me lie on
his bunk while he sprawled on a bush blanket on the
ground. Sodom sprawled at his feet, Gomorrha along
one side of him. The bunk was made of kangaroo-
skins spread across a frame of gimlet poles. There
were kangaroo-skins hanging from the ridgepole, too,
and, as they were a week old and not yet tanned, the
atmosphere was pretty thick. Sodom and Gomorrha
snapped at flies when they weren’t dozing with their
noses on their forepaws. They seemed to be listening
to Andy’s stories. “When I was a boy round Toodyee
way” I liked Andy’s stories as a rule, but there
are limits. And so I wasn’t sorry when about half
past three he grunted and sat up and said, “Well, I
s’pose if we’re goin’ to get them ‘smokers’ we’d better
be movin’.”
The bush was hot with the haze of an early
October afternoon. The air was noisy with crickets.
Now and then a “squeaker” squawked out in the
branches. Once a pair of “smokers” flashed by, pale-
green with a glimpse of scarlet as their wings made a
quick “hush-hush” in our ears.
“Watch ’em,” ordered Andy, standing still. “See
where they go.”
They were quickly out of sight, but it was en-
couraging to have seen them.
“Their nests must be about somewhere,” I said.
“ ’Course they are,” said Andy. “We’ll find one,
don’t you worry.”
We reached the salmon-gums again. Andy found
a suitable tree and the forest echoed with the “clip-
clop” of his axe. When this tree proved a dud, I began
to have my doubts. It wasn’t going to be our luck to
find a “smoker’s” nest that day. My doubts became
a certainty as tree after tree disappointed us. The sun
was getting low. Its slanting rays caught the smooth
trunks of the salmon-gums and set them afire. And
then we found a nest. The first flow of powdered
heart of the tree Andy had opened brought a pair of
fledglings into his hand. I ran to him and gazed at
them. They were funny, shapeless little things. Their
pink beaks opened and fastened on the tough skin
of Andy’s palm.
“Too young,” he said. “No good takin’ them.
You’d never rear ’em. But I’ll put ’em back and close
up this hole. In a fortnight they’ll be ready.” He
closed the scarf with a broad chip of wood, and packed
bark into the spaces around its edge. “They’ll be as
right as rain,” he assured me. “Funny we didn’t find
any others, though. Must be a bad season for matin’.”
The sun had sunk by the time he shouldered his
axe. The shadows had melted into the greyness of
the thin scrub that grew among the trees. - By the
time we reached the camp it was just about dark.
“You’ll stay and have a bite o’ tea?” said Andy.
“There’s plenty o’ stoo left.”
I stood a moment irresolute. Before me was a
stiff three-mile walk, behind me were memories of
lunchtime. Hunger won the day.
Andy grunted pleasure at my decision. He lit a
hurricane-lantern and hung it in a branch of a she-
oak. Its pale light scarcely illumined the black, fire-
burnt camp-oven or the sleek bodies of Sodom and
Gomorrha lurking in the gloom. Andy stirred the
ashes, put some sticks on and soon had the billy near-
ing the boil. Stars were shining through the trees
when he handed me my plate. I couldn’t see what
was on it. But I knew it was the same rabbit “stoo.”
I had cleaned my plate even before Andy with
the aid of the two dogs had cleaned his.
“Help yourself to more. There’s plenty in the
camp-oven,” he said cheerfully, giving Sodom a mouth-
ful. “It’s good stoo, that is.”
“Too right, it is!” I agreed, piling my plate up.
And it was, too, so long as you couldn’t see what you
were eating.
At Night
Though we stand arm in arm, you are not near
As wind or trees or s\y;
I’ve learned to put you by
Lest love should cloud the bright inhuman
moon,
And taint the wind-cooled night
That, innocent and bright,
Glitters in eternity, yet unbetrayed.
1 turn my face up, and the stars are sweeter
Than your heart-searching \iss;
I tremble upon bliss
You do not hjiow, forget your lips and hands
And my own self almost;
Nothing am but a ghost,
The night, the moon, and leaves dar\ on the
water.
But you are warm against me; and li\e a breath
Indrawn, from towering space
I come bac\ to your face,
Close, and familiar, and dear. Oh, let’s go in,
Turn off the light and lie
Beside the fire; 1
Am yours for life; the other sweetness waits.
VICTORIA.
JEAN IRWIN.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf cpeii c H£he -cfWm mellmn&SJ-andlmiqmt
When in 1895 the plans prepared by
the late Mr. J. F. Bentley were announced
for the cathedral which was to form the
centre, so to speak, of the Roman
Catholic world of Great Britain, they
created something akin to a sensation,
providing a theme for much learned, and
equally unlearned, comment. To erect
in a modern Western city a great place
of worship on purely Eastern lines was
novel indeed. It may be accepted few
of the less-informed critics had any clear
conception of what Byzantine architec-
ture comprehended. Even when it was
explained that the famed Mosque (as
it was then) of St. Sophia at Constan-
tinople was the most notable example
in Europe, their knowledge was not
materially increased. On sketches of the
Cathedral appearing “humorists” dubbed
the design “Cardinal Vaughan’s Railway
Station.” Neither the Cardinal nor the
Architect paid any attention to the flood
of comment for which they were held
responsible. Bentley, admittedly some-
what of an idealist, as indeed all great
architects have ever been and ever will
be, had faith in his creation. Forty-four
years have elapsed since, Architect and
Cardinal have been gathered to their
fathers, and the magnificent building to-
day, complete as regards externals, stands
as one of the noblest Christian temples
ever erected, and of which Londoners of
all forms of Christian faith are justly
proud. In two massive volumes Bentley’s
daughter has described the wonders the
genius of her father brought into being,
or the wonders that future generations
will gaze upon with reverent awe when
the fane is “complete inside as it is out-
side.” That will not be for at least
a century or a couple of centuries, but
enough is now known to permit the
prophecy that it, in certain respects, must
be one of the most splendid and unique
ecclesiastical edifices in Christendom.
The Campanile, rising to almost 300 ft..
is a landmark, though springing from a
site hemmed in by dreary thoroughfares
such as Victoria Street and Vauxhall
Bridge Road, quite apart from the de-
pressing “flat area” of Ashley Place,
where is the main entrance to the
Cathedral. The site was of old occupied
by Tothill Prison, and though not set
on a hill, despite certain disadvantages
of locale, the Cathedral bursts upon the
visitor as he comes upon it from the
labyrinth of unlovely residential flats,
with an effect difficult to describe. It
were useless in a few lines to indicate
what Westminster Cathedral has even
to-day to show. It must be seen. Apart
from the profound influence it has
exerted upon the religious life of Great
Britain, it has done almost as much for
WESTMINSTER CATHEDRAL.
ecclesiastical music, a reversion perhaps to the old days of Gregorian magnificence. Here another great artist, the late Sir Richard R. Terry,
Mus. Doc., F.R.0.C., too, accomplished a work the full extent of which time alone can reveal, Bentley, Vaughan and Terry live in this imposing
addition to material and spiritual London. It is a memorial to their genius and their faith.


GENERAL MUDDLE IN CONTROL.
“Come, come, my man—I’m doing all I can.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.Cft),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
-d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
RECRUITING APATHY.
Last week it was Mr. Casey’s turn in the role of
defender of the Government’s war effort. He men-
tioned a number of things that can be reckoned to
the good. “Some” millions of pounds additional for
munition manufacture; capacity for shell production
to be doubled ; delivery of ’planes to be so expedited
that one complete squadron will be equipped with
new aircraft every three weeks.
We now produce practically everything we require.
We are turning out artillery equipment, including anti-
aircraft guns of the most modern type, armored cars,
military vehicles, tens of thousands of shells from the
smallest to the largest, depth charges and depth-charge
throwers.
We now produce not only our own rifles, but also
machine-guns—three types—also rifle and pistol and
machine-gun cartridges—millions of rounds of them
every week—also hand grenades, trench-mortar bombs,
air bombs from the smallest to the largest, and a very
wide range of other munitions and engines of war. Both
in respect to raw materials and finished product the
Commonwealth is practically independent.
Not at all a bad performance in what Mr. Casey
prefers to think of, and prefers his audience —Aus-
tralia—to think of, as the “battle of the workshops.”
Add, on Mr. Casey’s authority, that “already we are
in a position to supply the requirements of other
Dominions in many important articles of munitions,”
and the performance has an Arabian Nights sump-
tuousness. Alto, restricted compulsory service to keep
up the home-defence strength of 75,000 is to be
reintroduced in January. It is to apply to “unmarried
citizens” of 20—now, of course, without votes. A poor
thing, but a start.
Like Mr. Menzies, Mr. Casey made patronising
comparisons with the position in 1914. He did not,
however, commit his leader’s mistake of including
the man-power issue in his comparisons; but in
reporting his speech newspapers in other columns gave
some striking figures. At the time Mr. Casey was
being somewhat patronising about 1914, recruiting
was badly hanging fire.
Writing of the response in 1914, the Official His-
torian set down a picture to which no likeness can
be seen now. With only a month between the opening
of recruiting and the proposed date of embarkation,
“the great driving force of Bridges created all this new
army,” the A.I.F. Since the goldfields days there had
been nothing like the enthusiasm displayed. The rush
to enter one branch —the Light Horse—was such that
less than a month after recruiting began an additional
L.H. brigade was offered. From all parts of the
country men flocked to the capitals to enlist.
In some cases they locked their houses and left their
paddocks untended during the war. Some who had been
officers in the militia entered the force as privates. The
wealthy, the educated, the rough and the case-hardened,
poor Australians, rich Australians, went into the ranks
together
The Official Historian records that “More than
one clergyman, not accepted as chaplain, enlisted in
the ranks.” One of these, not included in his list but
known to The Bulletin, came from North Queens-
land to Brisbane seeking a chaplaincy. None offering,
he enlisted in the ranks, fought on Gallipoli, and
then, offered a chaplaincy, declined it.
Many men, rejected in the capital of one State,
made the long journey to another to enlist. One
youngster, four times refused in Melbourne, was accepted
in Sydney. Another man rode 460 miles, and travelled
still further by railway, in order to join the Light Horse
in Adelaide. Finding the ranks full, he sailed to
Hobart, and was finally enlisted in Sydney. Many,
being refused in Australia, took passage to Great Britain
and enlisted in British regiments. Other Australians
returned from every part of the world to enlist in their
own country.
One was a young Australian named George Wilkins,
who came down from the Arctic Circle.
It is not here suggested that Government bungling
is to blame because no such picture as that is to be
seen now. It is suggested that Mr. Menzies, Mr. Casey
and whoever else may have the role of defending
the Government’s war effort should refresh their
minds with some of the heroic records in C. E. W.
Bean’s volumes. They would find there little reason
to be patronising, and perhaps some inspiration.
Despite the prevailing, and much-propagated,
notion to the contrary, this war, if it is fought out, is
not going to be won without something of the 1914
spirit animating men called upon to make the sacri-
fices. It will not be—as Mr. Casey calls it, and many
like to think of it —anything nearly so remote from
human sacrifice as a “battle of the workshops.” Nor
a “battle of the machines.” It will be decided by the
fighting quality, the spirit and the endurance of ordi-
nary men, a strangely small number of whom have
been rushing to enlist.
The reasons for this are probably numerous and
complex. Apologists can point to the fact that in
1914 the old notion of war as a glorious adventure
still prevailed, but was shattered by the actual experi-
ence up to 1918. Those who did not have the experi-
ence have been fully disillusioned about the glories
of war by the war-book writers, with their parades of
its filth and horribleness. There is more knowledge,
not only about war, but about the follies of the peace-
makers. Men ask themselves whether they are to die
in order to give another set of politicians another
opportunity to make yet another war certain in the
future. The Diggers, with their heartier adventurous-
ness, had a word for such hesitaters: they called them
“deep thinkers,” with contempt. But the apologist can
say that issues now are not so clear; and there is a
lot of deep thinking going on.
One difference is that the threat does not appear
to be the same now as in 1914. Then the spearhead
of the German attack was unmistakably directed
straight at England ; at the heart of the Empire. With
the German might sweeping over Belgium and
Northern France it was a positive and an urgent
threat. So far this war shows nothing to compare
with that. For years propaganda has been devoted
to implanting the idea that the Maginot Line is im-
pregnable. The Germans claim the same for their
Line ; and that means stalemate —an impression that
this war so far has only tended to increase. There
is little in that situation at all likely to appeal to the
Australian psychology.
There are other contributing causes. The feeling
everywhere of having been for years misled by news-
papers and their hired oracles and by radio wiseacres
must be having a tremendous blanketing effect. That
would not be lessened by the thought that the same
people who were so utterly wrong about the U.S.A.
and Russia, about the fighting spirit of Czechoslovakia
and the fighting strength of Poland, and about pretty
well everything else as well, are still on the job. And
what ground, the ordinary man asks himself, is there
for believing they are right now?
A more practical deterrent has been that of pay.
The recruiters were trying to get a force together at
bargain rates. The men were told that “they must be
prepared to make some sacrifice”—by politicians who,
so far, have not given the slightest indication that
there is to be any sacrificing on their part. The
Bulletin’s investigating of comparative costs left it
convinced that the pay must be the A.I.F. rate, plus
50 p.c. At the allowed rate married men couldn’t
afford even to go temporarily into camp, let alone
enlist for the duration. Separation allowances are
now to be increased —from 2s. 6d. to 3s. a day for a
wife and from 9d. to Is. for a child. They are not
yet equal to the rates paid in Maoriland, where no
recruiting shortage has been experienced.
Most potent cause of all for this phenomenon of
halting recruits is probably the splurge of “peace-talk”
news filling the columns hitherto dedicated to war-
talk views and urgings. In the quarters most notorious
for war-urging the word “Peace” has figured in head-
lines more frequently in the past six weeks than it had
in the past six years. A common reaction is that it is
only a war of make-believe, and will be soon over.
That may be tragically wrong, but it is a prevalent
impression.
Probably all these and other questions and ob-
scurities will have to be cleared up before there will
be any enthusiastic rush of recruits, to say nothing of
the later job of securing reinforcements. It might be
as well, therefore, if those undertaking the role of
defending the Government’s war effort looked back to
that of 1914 for inspiration, rather than to belittle it.
It might even be useful to study what Mr. W. M.
Hughes was more recently able to do with his “war
thundering at our gates.”
Changes That Must Come.
Commonwealth Ministers Spender, Stewart and Har-
rison have, it seems, “embarrassed the Cabinet” by
declaring themselves in favor of abolishing State Par-
liaments and clothing the Commonwealth Parliament
with supreme and unchallengeable powers. Why this
should “embarrass the Cabinet” is a mystery, since the
three Ministers are merely advocating for Australia
what Britain has enjoyed for centuries, and “Follow
Britain!” is the Cabinet’s slogan and practice.
The Cabinet, in fact, is living in a whirl of em-
barrassments. Some are of its own making ; others are
results of the chaos brought about by a generation
of government by seven Parliaments, Premiers’ con-
ferences (to which for the last dozen years Loan Coun-
cil meetings have been added), competitive depart-
ments, courts, boards and commissions, world without
end or definite authority. In time of peace this con-
fusion was tolerated, and, thanks to the instinct of
the people for self-government, it worked in a clumsy
and very costly fashion. The events of the past seven
weeks have made many realise that it works very
badly in war-time, and that there will have to be a
very decided movement towards a simpler and saner
system. In other words, towards the one-Parliament
system, which has enabled the British and Maoriland
Governments to set our feckless, faltering and wander-
ing “national” Administration uncopied examples of
decision and energy.
It has been written that the Ministers who are
fed up with muddle and fuddle may be subjected to
'‘disciplinary action .” If the Prime Minister attempts
it, he will find they have strong support. A one-
Parliament movement has been launched in Sydney.
An outcome of the legalised robbery of N.S.W. tax-
payers by the alleged State Parliament under the
fraudulent pretence that plunder by statute is necessary
for war purposes, it has begun in a small way, but it
will grow.
The Bulletin knows from its own postbag that
the need for abolishing State Parliaments has become
a deeply-rooted conviction over a wide field. It is
getting hundreds of letters on this subject; more even
than when it was contending, lone-handed, that Aus-
tralia was not really called upon to fight Japanese,
Italians and Nationalist Spaniards for the proteges of
angry editors, professors, radio commentators,
Leaguers and Communists. And this time 50 p.c.
of the communications are not hostile nor are 25 p.c.
abusive.
Some of the letters have come from South Aus-
tralia, Westralia and Tasmania. When Mr. Menzies
complains to reporters in his confidence that one-
Parliament colleagues “embarrass” him, he has these
States in mind. His idea is that these States would
never accept the one-Parliament system and that the
mere suggestion of it would endanger Ministerial
candidates in the constituencies. Premier Playford
has been prompt in playing upon these fears. He
says unification would ruin South Australia.
Mr. Playford is now engaged in extracting another
£315,000 p.a. from South Australians by way of
income-tax and another £50,000 p.a. by means of
“slight adjustments in the scales of succession duties.”
The Budget speech in which he pleaded that these new
demands were necessary and the appendices tacked on
to the Budget do not suggest that South Australia
would lose much by “chancing” unification. They
suggest rather that it would gain in the long run.
The population of Mr. Playford’s State is esti-
mated at just on 600,000. As is the case in Westralia
and Tasmania, it grows very slowly; the increase
for nine years is reckoned at 22,000. During
the same period the State debt increased from
£93,419,100 to £108,887,000— just on £lB3 per head.
On this interest amounting to £4,075,900 (just on
£6 17s. a head) had to be found, and the taxpayers
had to find most of it (actually the interest bill nearly
equalled the tax-revenue, £4,116,000); for, since 1918
especially, there has been reckless State borrowing for
“works” that don’t pay and never will pay.
Mr. Playford quoted his predecessor, Mr. Butler,
to this dismal effect. “It would appear,” Mr. Butler
said a year ago, “that the annual loss on loan works
is now of the order of £2,500,000, and it seems un-
likely that any material reduction can be expected.” Mr.
Playford added a melancholy postscript: “In 1938-39
the loss increased by £336,600 to £2,836,500.” The
loss on the Government railways was £984,500, on
“sundry works” £657,800, on country waterworks
£374,000, on soldier-settlement £250,700 and on irri-
gation and reclamation £148,000.
Naturally, “the year closed with a deficit” —of
£397,300, and Mr. Playford calculates that this year
will close with another —of £570,000, the income-tax
increases and “the slight adjustments in succession
duties” notwithstanding. This unfortunate position he
attributes to “the ruinously low price of wheat” and
to “disabilities sustained under Federation.” Yet the
Commonwealth Government has imposed a flour tax
to prop up the price of wheat, and it has been very
generous with all manner of gifts. In “special” grants
alone it has since 1930 let the Adelaide Government
have an average of £1,178,500 a year, and last year,
in one way and another, it provided £1,623,800. It
has been equally munificent, if not more so, to the
Governments at Perth and Hobart. This year, although
there is a war on, Adelaide is getting £995,000, Perth
£595,000 and Hobart £430,000 in special grants;
Hobart’s works out at £2 a head.
Cadging for grants has become one of the main
preoccupations of these Governments. A Grants'
Commission is, quite unnecessarily, maintained to hear
their claims. Every year it casts up at one of the
capitals and listens to a prolonged whine, and its
recommendations when published are succeeded by
prolonged growls.
The Commonwealth grant and a tax on lottery
tickets, bought chiefly in other States, furnish more
than half the Hobart Government’s income. The
Perth Government also goes in for lotteries, with a
former Cabinet Minister in control. The Adelaide
Government. prefers gambling on horses, and the
licensed betting shop, with frosted windows and shut
doors, except on race and pay-out days, has become a
very dingy feature of the Adelaide landscape. In fact,
the local politics of all three States have become.de-
pressingly drab and dull. But each continues to main-
tain a Government House, two Houses of Parliament
and an expensive London office, in which the Agent-
General broods over the attitude of the Dominions
Office, which is one of chilling indifference.
Without loans and special grants these Govern-
ments would go bung, and the easy-money epoch is
drawing to a close. In the greater necessity of the
war, supplies may be cut off suddenly and finally. But
when the period of readjustment is over the people
will not suffer, although drones and ornaments will.
With regional control of regional matters and national
control of trade, commerce and industry, transport,
taxation and education, a new spirit and outlook
should come. There will have to be a shifting of
population from overcrowded and dangerously ex-
posed cities like Sydney and Melbourne, and an ex-
tension of industry to country towns, and in the bene-
fits of these changes and in those of large-scale and
planned immigration from Britain —another certainty—
Westralia, South Australia and Tasmania will share.
And national control of ports and harbors will mean
that neglected places like Albany, Esperance and Pori
Lincoln will get opportunities which their city-
dominated Governments and Parliaments have denied
them.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Turkey Makes a Treaty.
In the last war the Germans found Turkey a very
useful ally. They are to be denied Turkish assistance
this time, for the Turks have entered into a 15-year
treaty with Britain and France, and have straightway
welcomed a Franco-British military mission to Ankara.
Two provisions read:
The British and French Governments undertake to
come to the assistance of Turkey if an act of aggression
is committed against Turkey by any Power, and in the
event of an act of aggression by a European Power
leading to war in the Mediterranean area in which
Turkey is involved.
The Turkish Government agrees to come to the assist-
ance of the British and French Governments in the
event of an act of aggression by a European Power
leading to war in the Mediterranean area in which
Britain and France are involved, and if Britain and
France are engaged in hostilities in virtue of either of
their guarantees to Greece and Rumania of April 13,
1939.
The Turks are not obliged to take “action having
as its effect or involving as its consequence hostilities
with Russia.” However, “in the event of Britain or
France becoming involved in hostilities in which
Turkey is not obliged to lend assistance” —presumably
war with Russia —“Turkey will observe at least benevo-
lent neutrality towards Britain and France.” This is
taken to mean that, if Russia, Germany and perhaps
Hungary and Bulgaria try to carve up Rumania, the
Turks will give Anglo-French warships free passage
through the Dardanelles.
Mr. Chamberlain has stated that “agreement on
the terms of the treaty was reached three weeks” —
now a month —“ago ; but, with the concurrence of
the British and French Governments, signatures were
postponed”:
It was hoped by the Turkish Government that the
visit of the Foreign Minister, M. Saracoglu, to Moscow
might result in the conclusion between Turkey and
Russia of a parallel treaty. The negotiations which M.
Saracoglu has been conducting in Moscow have now
been temporarily suspended, as the Turkish Government
felt that certain of the proposals made to it could not
be reconciled with points already agreed upon between
Turkey, Britain and France. Nevertheless, it has been
announced, both from Moscow and Ankara, that
Turkey’s relations with the Soviet Government continue
on a foundation of friendship.
The “nature of certain of the proposals” has not
been revealed. It is obvious that exclusion of the
allies from the Black Sea was one of them. “You
grab Irak and we’ll grab Iran” was probably another.
The treaty is thus a facer for Moscow as well as
Berlin. It is no sure guarantee against extension of
the war to the Balkans, but it improves the situation
in Asia and North Africa. The Turk has always set
a high price on his services—in the present instance
he has received “credits” from both Britain and Ger-
many and the Alexandretta province from France —
but he has a reputation for fidelity to his arrangement
with the highest bidder.
Hollweg and Hitler.
Hitler’s last conversation with the British Ambassador
at Berlin was strangely like the last conversation of
another German Chancellor with another British
Ambassador in another August—l9l4.
“Just for a word, ‘neutrality,’ ” said Bethmann-
Hollweg to Sir Edward Goschen in the course of a
harangue which lasted for about 20 minutes —“just
for a scrap of paper you are going to make war on a
kindred nation that desires nothing better than to be
friends with you.” “In the moment of anger,” Goschen
wrote, “the true man stood revealed”:
To break a treaty pledging the national honor seemed
a natural thing to him if to keep it involved sacrifice
and danger Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg evidently
thought that a plighted promise need not be kept if
the engagement involves momentous and unpleasant
consequences. Not only does it throw the most un-
pleasant light upon his own notions of honor, but it
makes the commentator ask whether it was possible
to make any permanent settlement with a nation whose
leading statesman obviously held the _ view that any
treaty was only to be kept so long as it was profitable
to the signatory parties.
Now Sir Nevile Henderson emphasises that, in
1939 as in 1914, “the origin of the war was
deliberate tearing up of a scrap of paper.” And his
closing interview with Hitler was “heated.” Hitler de-
livered “a harangue”:
Herr Hitler heatedly denied that Germany had sent
an ultimatum to Poland. I heatedly retorted against
this gratuitous impugnment of the British Govern-
ment’s humanity. The remainder of the interview was
stormy; but it closed with an honest harangue from
Herr Hitler regarding the genuineness of his constant
endeavor to win British friendship, his respect for the
British Empire and his liking for Englishmen.
Sir Nevile gives Hitler credit for sincerity on
that point. He even places the Fiihrer among “the
geniuses.” But he pronounces the man “a mixture of
long-headed calculation and violent arrogant impulse,
provoked by the resentment which was finally to drive
him to war.”
More Trouble About Wool.
If Mr. Menzies is to save himself a lot of trouble
with the wool industry, he will need to pull up his
socks. Appraisers are getting on with their work, but
although the Government has belatedly taken growers
and sellers into its confidence about a few details,
there is still much to learn.
What has been revealed has produced some
shocks. The price is in sterling, at a pound. In
his agreement about sugar Mr. Forgan Smith had the
foresight to arrange for variation in price with altera-
tion in exchange, but there is no specific undertaking
that the same will happen with wool. As sterling is
down 14 per cent, already against New York exchange,
the position is not encouraging. In commerce with
countries which are not on sterling our returns from
wool already have a severely depreciated value.
There is, too, some nervousness about the stan-
dards of appraisement. After watching the proceed-
ings of the expensive wool realisation for a week,
Moree (N.S.W.) graziers remarked that, whereas their
wool normally brings Id. above the Australian aver-
age, and this season’s clip is of better than normal
quality, current average appraisements on consign-
ments from their district have so far fallen Id. below
the average —that is, 2d. below their normal figure.
Mr. Killen, the graziers’ representative on the
N. S. Wales Wool Realisation Committee, remarks
that the problem is to ensure that the final price for
the whole clip will carve out into the average over the
whole clip—a problem which The Bulletin fore-
shadowed last week. Therefore, he says 90 per cent,
of returns are being paid and the balance would be
kept till the end of the season for adjustment.
Under the averaging system the tendency of a
valuer is naturally to undervalue to be on the safe side.
Then, of course, at the season’s end, another problem
may arise. What will happen if it is found that
appraisements provide an average figure well below
lOfd. sterling? Will the British Government make up
the average to 10fd.? Presumably it will. Then it will
need about four battalions of actuaries to divide the
lump surplus over 1,000,000,0001 b. on an equitable
basis and months in which to do it.
As a first step towards getting clarity, full details
of the agreement should be published, not merely
Mr. Menzies’s brief and piecemeal summary and the
explanations which are dragged out of wool com-
mittees and the Government. Then we should know
where we are and what steps have been taken to safe-
guard growers and Australian manufacturers.
One Sydney firm has dismissed 1000 men because
of the prohibition of export of Australian scoured
wool, tops, noils and wastes. (three hearty Bradford
cheers!). The Government says that this is only
“temporary.” But why was it even temporary? It
should not have been agreed to in any circumstances.
Also, the position of our good-customer foreign
countries on which we depend for a market in time
of peace should be quickly and clearly defined.
If the Government is not more specific about
these matters, Parliament should have a good deal to
say about them.
War Money from Home.
A Great Sorrow has descended on A.B.C.
After the pleasant fashion of Australian commis-
sions, A.B.C. planned what is called “an extensive
building programme,” so that it and its professors and
its “news commentators” and its bands (jazz and brass)
and its Central European warblers, pianists and
fiddlers might be housed in the grand manner. It is the
ambition of every Australian board and commission,
in Sydney particularly, to raise its own particular
palace, and A.B.C. was fired by the examples of ths
old N.S.W. Savings Bank (dec.), the N.S.W. Railways
Commission, the N.S.W. Transport Commission and
the Water Board; in fact, it aspired to outdo all.
It modestly suggested that the Government at
Canberra should come down with the dust. Possibly
because the application clashed with the plans of the
Post Office, which had itself resolved to build on the
grand scale, the application was declined. Having
stacks of money stowed away, proceeds of the exces-
sive tax imposed on listeners, A.B.C. decided to
“finance the extensive building programme” from its
own resources, and started going in for lavish land
deals. Unfortunately the war interposed, and even
Minister Harrison, so meek in the matter of the Syd-
ney G.P.O. extension, discovered —or was instructed
to say—that it wouldn’t do. So “the extensive build-
ing programme” is on the ice for an indefinite period.
The news was given to the world by Mr. Moses,
the general manager, in sentences vaguely suggestive
of Cranmer at the stake and of the broken-hearted
woman who tends the grave of Mad Carew;
Our plans were for buildings which would cost
approximately £700,000, -of which £300,000 was to be
spent in Sydney. Owing to the international situation
the Federal Government has asked us to stay our hands
for the present. We were about to call for tenders for
the work. lam unable to say when we will make
another move in the matter.
Seven hundred thousands pounds for more stately
mansions for Russian-alliance professors and “The
Watchman” and Kurt Offenburg and swing musicians
and crooners and deadheads and the Central Euro-
peans who get preference over mere Australians like
Brownlee, Dawson and Marjorie Lawrence! And
“we” were going to play it up as if “we” were a Gov-
ernment of “our” own instead of being an upstart
concern existing by the favor of Parliament on the
precarious tenure of an extended term.
The next “move in the matter” should be made
by the Government —or by Parliament if the Gov-
ernment is too feeble or too inert to act. The money
for the “extensive building programme” belongs to the
nation and should be transferred to consolidated
revenue for war expenditure. There should follow
immediately a drastic change in the control of broad-
casting and a reduction of the iniquitous charge of a
guinea for a listener’s license to, at most, 15s.
A Meeting in Stockholm.
“El V.” surveys the Vikings:—-
Three Kings and a President have met in Stockholm to
discuss Russian demands on Finland, and Mr. Stalin finds
himself up against a combination of 15,000,000 white people,
as determined, efficient and civilised as there are in the world.
The President is Kallio of Finland, which is directly
threatened; the Kings are Gustav of Sweden, Christian of
Denmark and Haakon of Norway. They are as imposing a
trio of monarchs to look at as the world ever bred.
Gustav, the senior, is 81 years young. In summer he is
to be seen regularly on the tennis, courts of the Riviera.
Even a few years ago he was good enough to take the courts
with Davis Cup cracks. A lean old man whose eyes gleam
with humor behind his glasses, he is over 6ft. high. His great
grandfather was a Frenchman: Charles Bernadotte, private of
marines, one of Napoleon’s marshals and Prince of Ponte
Corvo. Bernadotte was chosen by the Swedes as heir apparent
in 1810 when the royal line of Holstein Gottorp ran out.
Christian is 6ft. 4in. He may be seen any day in the
streets of Copenhagen. A long, Cornstalk-looking fellow in
an old English shooting suit wobbles to the pavement on his
bicycle and yarns with a tradesman at a door. Everybody
hails him with a salute and a friendly grin. That’s Christian.
Haakon is his brother, elected when Norway became a
separate kingdom 30-odd years ago.
All three Kings have English habits, and their three
countries have State-endowed churches (Lutheran) after the
British fashion. Gustav married Princess Margaret, daughter
of the Duke of Connaught, and, after she died, a Battenberg
princess.
Christian, apart from his relationship to the British throne
through Queen Alexandra, is closely connected in other ways.
Haakon married Princess Maud of England, sister of
George V., and the Crown Prince was born at Sandringham.
The institutions of all four countries in the conference
are thoroughly in keeping with British traditions. Their
Governments are constitutional, they have womanhood suffrage,
advanced forms of proportional representation, payment of
members, a budget system based on the British, and old-age
pensions. Sweden has State railways. And they pay.
Sweden and Finland have separate languages—both
beautiful to hear. Danish and Norwegian for all practical
purposes are the one tongue, though Norwegians speak it with
a lilt not evident in Danish, which has a harsher note. It is
a tongue closely akin to our own. When Admiral Teddy
Evans, who married a Norwegian, left the R.A.N. command
and began a speech to a nationally-mixed farewelling company
with “Jeg [pronounced yai] er saa nervos,” everybody under-
stood him.
The Scandinavian cities are monuments to civic pride.
In Stockholm, when the great town hall was built —one of the
most beautiful buildings in Europe—the workmen gathered
the scraps from the rubble and, in their own time, fashioned
the mosaic paving of the great hall as their gift to the city.
In Scandinavia it is possible to dine on any scale, and to
hear good music or lighter entertainment for next to nothing.
And Scandinavian countries bubble with a continuous flow of
new humor, music and literature. Ibsen, Bjornson, Andersen
and a flood of lyric poets mark their level of culture in
literature, Grieg in music. In education they excel—Denmark
has' had compulsory education since the beginning of the
nineteenth century. In practical things, too. Danish farming
is a lesson to the world; Ericsson is a big name in the
telephone world; Nobel gave the world its modern explosives.
Scandinavian shipping was a considerable factor in the
last war and will be in the present war. Norwegian ships carry
thousands of tons of Australian wool. In the last carnage
many of them returning from our ports were torpedoed.
Though the atmosphere of Scandinavia is uniformly
peaceful and nobody there normally thinks of aggressive war
any more than Australians do, Russia or any other aggressor
would find the four countries a hard nut to crack. They have
compulsorily trained forces whose efficiency is built on pride
of service, respectable joint cruiser navies, some excellent
native armament facilities —the Danish Madsen guns are among
the world’s best light quickfiring weapons—explosive works,
abundant iron, endless water power for electrical generation,
a sound strategic-railway system and splendid man-power.
Knowing that their brother-Scandinavians will stand behind
them the Finns have called Stalin’s bluff. Letts, Estonians,
Lithuanians may surrender to the Georgian. Finland will not.
"Transferred to Revenue
Appropriation."
One of the wealthiest men in one of the Big Cities
laid the foundation of his fortune in the railway-
refreshment-room business when railway refreshment
rooms were leased. There are corresponding, if not
so striking, examples in other parts of Australia —one
was that of a widow who gave her son a profession
and left him a rich estate. In fact, a refreshment-
room lease on a busy line, provided the lessee knew
the business, was a sure path to a competence until
the craze for “wiping out the capitalist” asserted itself
and the eating joints were placed under departmental
control.
Since then railway-refreshment-room profits have
either vanished or, in “good” years, could be deposited
in a wineglass and covered with a gooseberry leaf.
The N.S.W. Commissioner of Railways reports,
with the familiar air of its having been an act of God,
that in 1938-39, “for the first year since that ended on
June 30, 1933,” his concern’s “refreshment-room ser-
vices showed a loss, viz., £1866, after providing for
all charges, including freight, rents, depreciation, in-
terest and exchange.” This, although “it was found
necessary to alter recently the scale of charges,” a
necessity which private restaurateurs exposed to fierce
competition somehow avoided.
“All charges” is one of those pleasant bureau-
cratic euphemisms, No rates were paid, and R.R.R.
(as it is called) is exempt from Commonwealth land
tax and the three income taxes imposed on the hotel
and restaurant trade. Depreciation was reckoned at
£12,759—d0wn £3096.
With the monopoly the department enjoys, plus
the privilege of selling liquor and tobacco at all hours,
revenue is always substantial. Last year’s sales brought
in £640,387 and discounts accounted for another £9031.
Given the same turnover and privilege, any company
in the food-and-drink line would offer £20,000 a year
for a lease of the whole outfit, pay rates and taxes and
give better value for the traveller’s money. As it is,
the “deficit” of £1866 (and the rest) was “transferred
to Revenue Appropriation Account,” which means
that it was made up out of the taxes or out of loans
at round 4 per cent.
During the same twelvemonth, Sargents made a
profit of £37,100 and distributed a 10 per cent, divi-
dend. Sargents have no liquor license, and all their
branches are exposed to fierce competition. Their rent
bill is substantial, their rates and taxes are high and
continually going higher; they have to meet heavy
workers’-compensation charges—another item which
does not figure in the railway-refreshment-room
accounts —do their own carrying (and it must cost
them a great deal more than the R.R.R. item, “motor
vehicle expenses £736”) and observe a multitude of
industrial laws. And if their fancy Fan to building
and equipping joints like the white elephant at Wyn-
yard station, they couldn’t charge it up to public loans
or charge up the losses to taxes.
But Sargents have one great advantage. They
are free from the blight of Government ownership
and the curse of bureaucratic control.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: A daylight-saving stunt was
started in Sydney by one of those flapper
papers that glorify beach brats and
“Greek gods,” many of whom seem too
pretty to enlist. Politicians took it up ;
Somebody, M.H.R., promised to see
Menzies about it, and the fatuous Mair
also undertook to see Menzies. They
ought to let the man get on with the
war and have their memories brushed.
Daylight-saving, like the no-hat craze,
may be a good thing for countries like
England and Maoriland, but in a
tropical and sub-tropical continent with
a brief twilight (if any) and standard
times it is plain idiocy. When tried in
1917 it was an unmitigated failure. In
Westralia —and, I daresay, in Queens-
land, though I wasn’t there at the time—
it is an unforgotten horror. It was in-
troduced in midsummer, and before a
week was out the entire population was
cursing the thing. The mere mention
of it brings back hideous recollections
of crowjng roosters, squalling babies,
hollow-eyed mothers and distracted
fathers with thirsts which could not be
satisfied. If the experiment had lasted
much longer Westralia would have made
a separate peace.
“King’s Inns”: Daylight-saving was
introduced in England in 1916. When
the House of Lords was discussing the
matter Lord Balfour of Burleigh raised
an ingenious point. He put forward
the hypothetical case of a peer’s wife
being delivered of twins on October 1,
when, at 1 a.m., the clocks were to be
put back an hour. The first twin arrives
at 12.50 a.m. and the second just at 1
a.m. In this case the second would be
officially and legally born 50 minutes
before the first and the change-over
would deprive the real first twin of
succession to the peerage.
* * * *
“D.A.”: It was on the battleship Royal
Oak, now lost to a German submarine,
that a few years back a bandmaster, pro-
viding dance music while the ship was
at Malta, complained that he had been
publicly addressed by an admiral as a
person of uncertain parentage. The
captain and commander objected to this
sea-dog’s behavior, and the Royal Oak
“mutiny” started. All three were later
court-martialled. The papers were full
of it —there was a social side to the
incident; what happened to whom, and
other results which officialdom was really
interested in, have since slipped my
memory, but an exchange made at the
hearing never will. Counsel represent-
ing someone asked the admiral credited
with the offending remark, “Now, just
imagine yourself a bandmaster. How
would you like to be called a blankard?”
The naval man’s reply chilled the Court.
“Really,” he said, “I couldn’t possibly
imagine myself a bandmaster.”
“D.”: A prophetic note was struck by
the chap who quoted “Toll for the
brave!” as a heading for the article
(B. 18/10/’39) anent the sinking of the
Royal Qak. He couldn’t have known
then that the Royal Oak was sunk in
harbor —as was the Royal George. The
latter ship, 2000 tons, 178 ft. in length,
52ft. in beam and carrying 100 guns, was
launched in 1756 and sank on August 29,
1782. While being refitted at Portsmouth
before sailing for Gibraltar she was
careened so that a leak below her water-
line could be repaired, and, as Cowper
wrote:
A land-breeze shook the shrouds
And she was overset;
Down went the Royal George,
With all her crew complete.
Her timbers yet are sound,
And she may float again
Full charged with England’s thunder,
And plough the distant main.
That was what the Admiralty maintained
(and, one line omitted, that is what they
are saying of the Royal Oak), but it
was more commonly accepted in naval
circles that the shifting of the ship’s
weights was too much for her. Strange,
too, that the Royal George and the
Royal Oak each lost about 800 men.
* * * *
“P.”: I’m beginning to understand
such things as £53 per week stamp bills
in Government departments (B.
11/10/’39). Sent an application for a
job, together with references, to the
N. S. Wales Main Roads Department,
and enclosed 4d. in stamps to ease the
State’s bankruptcy. A couple of days
later I received a long blue envelope 9in.
“Sorry, lady, but 1 Wouldn't be doin' me job as the Gov'mint's bottle
appraiser if I gave y' more than tuppence the lot.”
by 4in. bearing a 2d. stamp and enclosing
a 7in. by 3in. receipt for 4d. I’ll bet the
stamp, the paper and work involved cost
a deal more than that.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Mrs. Nada, a Sydney
newspaper seller whose stand has been
for 50 years on the n.-e. corner of the
George- and Park-street intersection, has
retired, at 91. The sheds of the old
markets were across the road when, to
support an invalid husband and her
family, Mrs. Nada first appeared on the
spot; and the shops of what has be-
come Sydney’s mercery block were
shabby old places all on the small side.
The market trade made her pitch profit-
able from the first.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A unique episode in Queens-
land legal history was the- selection of
jurymen for the trial of 38 defendants
in the Parliament House raid case. As
each defendant had the right to challenge
12 jurymen, and the Crown an unlimited
right of challenge, the panel numbered
600, to allow also for possible exemp-
tions. The courthouse could not provide
accommodation for so many, and the
City Hall concert hall was converted
temporarily to court use, the Chief Jus-
tice speaking through a microphone to
amplifiers. Two absentees having been
fined £2 each, 209 names were drawn
from a barrel by the associate, and
counsel for the defendants challenged
128 and the Crown 69. The first called
was not challenged. He was sworn at
10.31 a.m., the twelfth man at 11.50 a.m.
The trial lasted nine days ; all the accused
were acquitted.
* * * *
“Tab”: She’s very rich, and her enthu-
siasm for Art—when it doesn’t touch her
purse—is boundless. At the last show she
opened she remarked to the struggling
young Van Gogh who was showing her
round, and only one of whose canvases
bore a little red seal in its left-hand
corner: “What a pity that one’s sold. It’s
the only one I really like.” “Madam,”
he replied jubilantly, “it’s yours. I stuck
the seal on myself to start the ball
rolling.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I visited Helsingfors
(now Helsinki) early in 1914 when Fin-
land was part of Tsarist Russia. The
staff of the Finnish ship that took me
from Petrograd was composed of fine,
upstanding Finnish women. When I
arrived I found a beautiful, well-tended
city full of gardens, open-air cafes, well-
dressed people and music. After Moscow
the absence of poverty and dirt
was remarkable, and music and art
flourished at a high level. Even the
elegantly-clothed Finnish gendarmes
looked like philosophers or poets. A
Finn I talked to, however, was firmly
convinced that he belonged to a wretched,
crushed, oppressed nation, and looked
forward to the day when Finland could
shake off the Russian shackles. I had
previously talked to an out-at-heels Rus-
sian intellectual in dirty, poverty-stricken,
unkempt Moscow, and he as firmly be-
lieved that the Finns were in a worse
state than he was because of Tsarist
oppression.
“Lao-dah”: One of the battalion of
military commentators recently dis-
coursed learnedly on the strategic situa-
tion in far Sinkiang, on the Chinese
border, remarking that the route the
alleged army of invading Russians would
have to take would be the old “Silk
Road” along which Marco Polo marched
his troops into China. It would be news
to the shade of II Millione to know that
he led a Venetian army from the
Russian steppes into the Celestial king-
dom, and that at 21. Possibly scribe was
mixing him up with Jenghiz Khan.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Spy fever is conspicuous by
its absence in Melbourne in this war,
and no artist has yet been arrested for
painting about the foreshores of Port
Phillip, as happened in the 1914-18 dis-
turbance. But an impressionist artist
with a beard who set up his easel and
started to paint a section of a steamer
and the bay water behind it recently
attracted some attention. A waterside
habitue watched the artist at work with
growing suspicion—a “modernist” impres-
sion of Nature may look like anything
but its subject. When the painter stopped,
started washing his brushes and then
began to stow away his curious-looking
picture, the observer could contain him-
self no longer. “I suppose you’ll send
that bloody diagram to Germany,” was
his comment.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: The cables, reporting the
arrest of Leni Riefenstahl, who was
alleged to have had a “romance” with
Hitler, recalled a singular act of gal-
lantry on the part of Hollywood: “When
Leni went to America in 1938 she tried
to break into Hollywood, but because of
her association with Nazism a ‘snubbing’
was organised against her by film stars, and
Leni fled.” In view of this monumental
gesture of sympathy for the democracies
and of the film people’s two-fisted, he-
man stand against aggression generally,
I have a suggestion for them. Why not
hand over to Australia either for war
purposes or for the Red Cross the profits
made in this country by the war-propa-
ganda film “Confessions of a Nazi Spy ?
I’m aware that there’s a vulgar touch 01
practicality about the scheme, but I don’t
think it could be counted as a breach of
nootrality.
)jC ♦ * •
“C.R.”: When the bushfires roar again
in Victoria this summer forest rangers
alone in different sectors won’t feel them-
selves isolated from their fellows. They
will each carry a portable wireless trans-
mitter for communicating with one an-
other. It is designed on an American
model, is under 18in. long by Bin. broad
and weighs 121 b. Many lives would have
been saved if they had had the apparatus
last January.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: It has been remarked
by Ward Price that this war has taken all
the color out of soldiering. Brass hats and
red tabs no longer grace the battlefield.
Wellington would have liked that —he
was noted for his sober grey attire on
the field; so would Wolseley, whose
reign spelt the end of the thin red line
on service. At the same time, the new
age of transport and
organisation seems to
have restored some of
the comforts of active
service, and we may
yet find _ generals in
the position of Lord
Lake, whose staff was
aghast when he was
compelled in India to
go “for as much as all
of twenty-four hours
without claret.” About
the only thing the old
hands of the Penin-
sula would miss, ap-
parently, would be
frail ladies. They were
regular frequenters of
battlefields a century
and a half ago. What
a beanfeast the flapper
press would have if
some Junker were to
repeat the courtliness
of the Frenchman
who fell to Lowry
Cole’s lot in Spain,
and ask his captor if
he could lend him and
his outfit a few spare
girls. It was another
Gallic hero who com-
plained, in excuse for
his capture: “Ah,
m’sieur, but you have
an army. We have a
travelling bordel.”
“Adelaide”: Is it an offence in other
States for a motor-truck driver to have
a passenger sitting at his right? It can’t
be so everywhere, for two drivers just
fined at Port Pirie (S.A.) declared that
their trucks were obviously built to carry
one passenger on that side.
* * * *
“Bungham”: On a blazing hot day
Scotty and his mate were sweating at a
concrete job in the grounds of a Sydney
suburban mansion. They would have
sold their birthrights for a handle of
beer, and it didn’t make them any cooler
knowing that the wealthy owner pos-
sessed something of a cellar. About mid-
afternoon the lady of the house con-
descended to address them: “Oh, you
poor fellows, how dreadfully hot you
must be,” she cooed. “Wait, I will get
something nice to cool you.” The two
parched toilers licked their dry lips ex-
pectantly. Presently the lady returned,
carrying a couple of large cabbage
leaves. “Here, you poor men, put these
under your hats ; you will find them so
cooling.”
* * * *
E. R. Pitt, Chief Librarian and
Secretary of the Victorian Public Library
and National Gallery, writes:
Three statements by “F.S.” (B. 27/9/’39) —
(1) that Joyce and Lawrence are the only
novelists represented in the collection in the
Public Library of Victoria; (2) that copying of
pictures in the Gallery by art students is for-
bidden; (3) that scholarships to students are
granted under the express condition that they
copy old masters in the European galleries—
are incorrect. The Reference Library contains
the works of all the standard novelists, and over
2500 volumes of Australian fiction! All the
standard novels, including modern novels, are
in the Lending Library collection as well.
Copying of pictures is allowed under certain
conditions: “F.S.” should know that questions
of copyright must be cleared up before per-
mission is given. I know of no recent case in
which permission has been refused. The rule
that the Travelling Scholarship winner must
paint a copy of an old master was abolished
over 20 years ago.
DRY CANTEENS.
These dry canteens, these dry canteens,
Do they really rank with the ways and means
That make the fighting man more fit
To hump his burden and do his bit?
Is it wise or just, is it fair or meet
The pick of our men as boys to treat,
As boys in need of such shields and screens
From the lures of Bacchus as dry canteens?
Have they learned no lesson, these worthy souls
Who in brimming glasses and flowing bowls
Are ever ready the source to find
Of half the ills that afflict mankind,
Are they left no wiser from the event
Of the U.S.A. experiment
That they set the worth of a hill of beans
As drought-compellers on dry canteens?
“Tune in with Britain”—a timely word,
A sound injunction so often heard.
And who’ll convince us there’s aught amiss
In lining up with our kin on this?
Who stands to gain by the liquor ban
In camps but the handiest publican?
How rich the harvest he reaps and gleans
From the hollow fetish of dry canteens!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ek Dura”: This war hasn’t produced
pictures of generals and ironclads such as
graced the windows of loyal tradesmen
in the days of S’Africa and the Old Con-
temptibles, but there are still some
staunch souls who favor this form of
patriotic expression. I have noticed one
or two about Sydney lately and they
run true to the old form which places
fervor before accuracy. One current is
of a large, fierce-looking battleship
bristling with 15in. guns, signals and
general decorations leading a fleet
through the high seas at terrific speed.
To show she is a flagship she sports a
vice-admiral’s flag in the right spot, and
over her bows there proudly waves —
the red ensign, flag of the mercantile
marine ! But this is not all. In the dis-
tance is a small, dingy sloop trying to
keep up with her. The painter was
evidently a democrat. She, like the
battleship, is flying a flag which shows
that she contains a vice-admiral.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Theseyere young
doctors nowadays ain’t got no flamin’
sense,” complained Old Joe after a visit
to our nearest pill-dervish. “Asts me
wot’s wrong, so I says that’s wot I wanted
ter find out from' him. Then he starts
astin’ did I ’ave any pains anywhere, an’
I tells ’im that me right leg’s bin feelin’
funny an’ achin’. So ’e takes a screw at
it an’ pulls it about a bit, an’ ’as a grin
an’ tells me there’s nothin’ wrong with
it ’cept old age. ‘Cripes,’ I ses to ’im,
‘wotyer givin’ us? If it’s only old age
why don’t I get no pains in the left one,
’cos it’s just as old as the one yer was
lookin’ at?’”
* * * *
“Hamer”: In his recountal of earlier
pub names, “Dash o’ Bitter” (B.
18/10/’39) misses the most alluring of
all. Who wouldn’t feel inclined to put
on his boots if they would take him to
share a few quiet drinks in The Little
House Under the Hill? It was in Duke-
street, ’Loo—a street which carried such
a black reputation that the name was
changed ; as McElhone-street it has be-
come respectable. The Bunch of Grapes
was another pub whose title allured ; it
stood on what is now Proud’s Corner
but in later years was known chiefly as
Punch’s Hotel —the sporting rendezvous
of Sydney. There were four pubs, one
on each corner, at the King-Pitt intersec-
tion in the days when I was a boy, three
more before Market-street (the Arcadia
remains) and one on each corner of
the Market-Pitt streets intersection. Left-
wheeling, the wanderer could meet an-
other four pubs on the Castlereagh-
Market streets corner; left-wheeling
again, two more (the old Tivoli one of
them) before King-street, and at that
intersection four again. Continuing along
Castlereagh-street he would encounter,
before coming to Moore-street (Martin-
place now), the American Bar and the
Australia on one side and three pubs
on the other. That’s 26 pubs in a very
brief wander-round. A lot of the booze
pilgrims of the day fancied that little
jaunt.
* * ■ * *
“Craiser”: One of the most inhuman
rules in industry is one which appertains
to girls employed in Melbourne stores.
They are not allowed to sit down, to
read, to talk to one another or relieve
the appalling monotony of their jobs in
any way whatever. The purpose of the
rule is to keep them alert and keen,
but the effect it produces is exactly
the opposite. It is more calculated
to make them dull and reaction-
ary. Some firms allow their female
employees to knit under the counter.
The result is invariably beneficial to the
employer. Some of the work done un-
seen under the noses of customers is more
beautiful than the goods displayed for
sale on the counters.
* * * *
“D.F.”: This year is the centenary of
coalmining on the south coast of N.S.W.
In 1839 Captain Westmacott began coal-
mining on his land at Bulli, and a steamer
was put on to run between Wollongong
and Sydney to carry the coal. Captain
“Could you change this ring for something useful ?”
“I bet hell never live this down—it IS Prendergast!”
King, resident manager of the A.A. Co.,
wrote to his head office in London about
it, and the co. protested that the working
of the Bulli coal was a breach of its
coalmining rights. As a lift to the other
side, Governor Gipps directed White-
hall’s attention to a memorial from the
Australian Gas Light Co. protesting
against the alleged monopoly of coal min-
ing by the A.A. Co. The Gas Light Co.
pointed out that “this large and thriving
metropolis is about to be lighted with coal
gas,” and asserted that coal abounded
in many parts of N.S.W., and that it was
believed that some of it was better than
that supplied from the A.A. Co.’s pits.
* * * *
“Dumpy Dan”: What with “reserved”
lists and age-limits, recruiting for the
second A.I.F. is a funny business. I
know a youngster who is 6ft. tail, weighs
14st. of solid bone and muscle, can ride,
rope and shoot with the best of them, is
unmarried and has all his teeth. He
chucked in his job and made for a Syd-
ney recruiting station. After some wait-
ing, he was vetted, and all went well till
he put down his profession—“unem-
ployed station manager.” He was rubbed
out. Thoughtfully he crossed the Harbor
bridge in search of another recruiting
depot. There he appeared as an “unem-
ployed jackeroo.” Jackerooing not being a
“reserved” trade, he is now a full private
and heading for the commission which
his ancestors have kept in the family for
a couple of centuries or so.
* * * *
“Blank”: When the last war broke
out Bill, our Maoriland village reprobate,
whose deepest aversions were work and
sobriety, was one of the first off the
mark, getting away as a volunteer before
conscription came and the Government
vetoed the enlistment of fathers of large
families. Mrs. Bill, with six youngsters
and an allowance for each of them, lived
in unwonted luxury for four years. Then
Bill returned, covered with medals and
glory, and the village gave him a public
welcome. I fell in with Mrs. Bill as I
sauntered down to look in
on the gathering, and re-
marked that she must be
glowing with pride over
Bill’s achievements. “Oh,
yes,” she said tonelessly,
“I suppose he did all right
at the war. But, oh, Mr.
Blank,” with a sudden
burst of confidence, “if he’d
only got himself killed!”
* * *
“Urama o”: “M a c-
Hoots’s” reference to what
passes as poetry to-day (B.
27/9/’39) reminds me that
Alfred Noyes, speaking at
the annual dinner of the R.
L. Stevenson Club in Lon-
don, said two friends of his
in a spirit of levity wrote a
book of “spoof verse” to
see what the critics would
make of it. One poem:—-
Asparagus
Is feathery and tall.
It lies rotting
By the garden wall.
The two legpullers had not long to wait.
London “Spectator” produced a column
and a half acclaiming the work, and the
authors were asked for permission to use
the poems in anthologies “as an antidote
to Byron’s and Browning’s conventional
poetry.”
“Omadhaun”: That was a picturesque
touch when C.-in-C. Gort turned out his
Irish pipers to minister to his guests at
a press luncheon on the Western Front,
but the introduction of Tom Moore’s
Irish melodies seemed to me a modest
choice when the dudelsackers could have
burst into “St. Patrick Was a Gentleman,”
which catalogues about half the general’s
family ancestors as reasons for the Ould
Fella’s saintly eminence. And what does
“The Minstrel Boy,” which the versatile
Tom used to sing at the piano, sound
like on a bagpipe, anyhow? Perhaps,
since it was an Irish pipe and not one
of the imitation Scottish variety, pretty
good, but I’ll bet it would have sounded
still better if there had been a Pathan
behind the noise. On the North-west
Frontier the pipe is easily the most popu-
lar instrument. Gurkhas and Baluchis
take to it like mother’s milk, and many
an Afghan border camp and cantonment
rings at night with the cry of “Queek-
march —Camelsacomin,” followed by the
strange noises which make the rocks roll
into Lochaber and Loch Awe.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The sculpture which
Melbourne “Herald” included in its
modern art show struck me as mainly
academic. There was nothing in it to
compare with the “Matador” which
startled Paris when it was exhibited 30
years ago. Someone had confected an
equestrian group for the Spanish Ball,
the horse and matador being made out
of drainpipes, with the horse’s protrud-
ing entrails represented by bicycle tubing.
After the ball somebody suggested that
the sculptor should send the masterpiece
to the Salon des Independents as a joke,
and he did. To his astonishment the
critics raved about it, the author was
described as having an uncanny insight,
a penetrating wit and a bitterly satiric
vision, and one critic described him as
a modern Don Quixote tilting against
shams. Two years later I visited the
sculptor in his studio and found him
making more drainpipe statues. He re-
fused to laugh when I reminded him of
the joke he had played on the Salon des
Independents. “That wasn’t a joke,” he
said, drawing himself up and looking at
me solemnly. “It came from my un-
conscious. I was possessed by le Dieu
without knowing it. I was the medium
for a power outside human experience.”
In short, he had accepted the favorable
opinion of the critics.
“Cauboy”: Whether the “Herald’s”
allegedly modern art show in Melbourne
will result in a rush of young artists to
try the fashion I don’t know, but I am
reminded of a young woman, a musician,
I met in Paris. She got swept into the
painting world, began to listen to studio
chatter, watched a few post-impression-
ists, surrealists, cubists and whatnot sling-
ing colors about, and decided she would
have a go on her own account. She bor-
rowed canvas, pigments and brushes,
painted her first picture, sent it to the
Salon, and to her amazement woke up
one morning to find herself famous and
the recipient of a gold medal. Having
had some experience of how difficult it
is to gain even a slight knowledge of
music, she was more amused than flat-
tered. “Why, the thing’s madness,” she
told me, threw up painting and went back
to her music.
YET ANOTHER.
“The Federal Government has decided to establish
a Barley. Board.”
Of bureaucratic brothers it has plenty:
Milk, Wheat and Honey, Butter, Eggs and
Meat,
All languishing in dolce far niente,
Eating their heads off with a grand conceit.
Nor will the family’s recent acquisition
Be yet the last. Boards, too, for Rum and
Steers,
Peanuts and Pants they’ll give us in addition;
In time we’ll get them all. That’s the ambition
Of red-tape racketeers.
In infancy, the Board will have attendants
But few in number. Still, they’ll alter that.
Soon it will boast some hundreds of depen-
dants :
Clerks by the score, a secretariat.
With strength will come an overbearance arrant;
Then, insolently cocksure of its place,
The child will up and (never say it daren’t!)
Quickly tell off its fatuous, doting parent
And kick him in the face.
.N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Mi
I
CRAVEN A
twei varies- tketfri,,
riwMjs smod&spestt!
10 for 9d 20 for 1'6
o
m
was
PREVENT
MADE
POLITICAL POINTS
“The War Cabinet has decided to re-
introduce compulsory training in Aus-
tralia for home defence.” That’s how
the announcement went, but only 20-
year-olds are to be called up, and that
in January. Better than nothing, no
doubt, but there is warrant for Cameron’s
gibe that the Government must have been
“making a close study of the Children’s
Crusade.”
With a return to its pontifical manner,
Melbourne “Age,” while admitting that
“some anomalies (!) associated with the
functioning of seven Parliaments are at
such a time as this brought into clear
relief,” declares that “Australians will not
be stampeded into unification.” If the
“anomalies” go on, Australians may be
stampeded into bankruptcy.
Things must be going better with the
Japanese. Roberts sees “the looming
hand of Russia over the Chinese situa-
lion,” and pronounces
Japan “In Jeopardy.”
It is just on ten years
since the ill - starred
Scullin Administration
“suspended” national
military training, which
the Menzies Govern-
ment is restoring in its
verra cautious fashion.
One of the excuses
given was that the
League could be de-
pended upon to defend
Australia. One of the
tragic results was the
condemning to donkey
work of thousands of
adventurous youngsters
who could have been
employed in the army.
Hyman Diamond, of
Sydney, who was run
in by Scotland Yard
on suspicion of being
Woolcott - Forbes,
wanted on several
charges—he is merely a
foot shorter and about
five stone lighter—has
been fined £5O at Bir-
mingham for posing as
an Australian colonel
from France and telling bloodcurdling
battle-stories. His counsel acknow-
ledged that he was “weak, vain and
foolish:” Hyman himself said he
was a J.P. and had “stood for the
House of Representatives”—in 1929 as
a Nationalist. The report does not men-
tion whether this was pleaded in mitiga-
tion of punishment or as evidence that
accused was subject to temporary aber-
rations.
To people who believe in Famous
American Correspondents, radio com-
mentators and fairies, there seemed no
hope for Finland. Others saw a ray
when Professor Roberts began writing
with awe about “the Russian Colossus”
and Finland’s “mighty Slavonic neigh-
bor” and pointing out to the Finns that
it was all up with them.
Effective military resistance seems impos-
sible. A people of million cannot in-
definitely stand off the .armed forces of a
giant Power of 170,000,000 people.
Perhaps some friendly Australian gave
the little Republic “the oil” about
Roberts’s record as a military prophet.
Anyway, it stood up to the Big Bully and
the Big Bully backed away.
State politicians have a way of exempt-
ing themselves from the tax-measures
they pass—always in a hurry—whenever
they can. Where exemption is inex-
pedient they are apt to cushion the shock
by raising their own salaries. It was
sardonically suggested that the political
aristocracy might'be affected by the Syd-
ney Government’s latest effort in the
legalised-robbery line, Stamp Duties
“Amendment,” so called. Even a U.A.P.
paper pointed out that the plunder-bill
“would make possible the imposition of
heavy duties on property which was never
enjoyed by a testator, and even on prop-
erty of which the testator had never
heard.” The giant intellects of the Admin-
istration are at work on a new bill.
“S. M. Herald” began its account of
Sir Nevile Henderson’s report on his last
ambassadorial days in Berlin by quoting
the words “Italy endeavored to restore
peace even after the actual outbreak of
war,” and went on to repeat the
Ambassador’s tribute to his Italian col-
league : —•
I should like to record that no one ever
worked harder for peace than Signor
Attolico.
The leading article opened with a ful-
some tribute to the Turks (“Gratitude
“What does it matter to me if you’re sixty to one? Get off me foot!”
and admiration will be felt for their stout
stand”) and closed with the familiar sneer
at Mussolini —to Granny always “Hitler’s
Axis partner”:
Italian chagrin at Turkey’s enhanced
prestige in the struggle against Hitlerism
will scarcely be diminished by the reflec-
tion that it is in Ankara and not in Rome
that the Balkans now seek the champion
of their liberties.
What a war it would have been if the
Old Girl had the ordering of things!
From the other side of the Pacific:
A straw vote shows that the Americans
are strqngly in favor of Britain and France
continuing to' fight Germany.
There has been a sharp rise in Wall-
street based on the expectation of a long
war.
American ports and territorial waters are
now barred to belligerent submarines. Aus-
tralia is included in the proclamation.
Mr. Roosevelt urges immediate prepara-
tion for the accommodation of many mil-
lions of refugees and' names “Australasia”
among the suitable fields.
No, Mr. President! Australasia is not
going to be “the mug” any more. Its
post-war immigrants will be British.
Room and a welcome will, of course, be
found for Americans of the old stocks
who may wish to escape from the
Children of the Melting Pot.
Two Eminent Authorities are con-
vinced that Hitler is settled —Mr. Kurt
Offenburg, the A.B.C. “news commen-
tator,” and Sydney “Sun’s” Military Cor-
respondent. “In the East, Russia rules
the situation,” quoth the Military Cor-
respondent, and Mr. Offenburg has
expressed the same sentiment at much
greater length. Mr. Offenburg comes
from one of the Frankforts and never
eats a Hamburger.
A table “kept standing,” as printers
put it, in the last S.A. Auditor-General’s
annual reports was “Unproductive Loan
Expenditure.” Interest on Public Debt
took 36.07 p.c. of the State’s revenue
from all sources in 1938-39, and that
included £1,040,000 in one Common-
wealth grant. Aggregate losses on
Loan Works, etc., for the year amounted
to £2,836,500. Yes, Premier Playford
is positive that union under one Parlia-
ment would Roon S.A.
In two years the N.S.W. taxpayers
have had to make up losses of £52,700
on the Government tram and bus “ser-
vices” at Newcastle. In previous years
even worse results were shown, though
it is improbable that the worst has ever
been told. Obviously the services should
be leased or put up for sale to the high-
est bidder; and if security of tenure
were offered there would be no lack of
bidders. But a Transport Commission
runs the show, so the taxpayers are to
be ordered to meet still greater losses.
From the additional millions being
wrung from N.S.W. taxpayers for “un-
employed relief,” sturdy employed are
to benefit substantially. McKell, the new
Labor leader, pointed this out in the
Assembly debate on the estimates, and
went into details:
£72,000 for the Taxation Department;
£9524 for the Family Endowment Depart-
ment; £8332 for the Chief Secretary’s
Department; £48,652 for the Labor De-
partment ; £20,000 for the Police Depart-
ment; £3381 for the Child Welfare
Department, and £440 for the Tax Appeals
Board.
McKell’s indictment was unanswered.
The late g.m. of Sydney’s alleged
County Council, which runs an elec-
tricity business and competes with
private concerns in the sale of appliances
on long terms, was retired at 68 with
an allowance of nearly £9OOO. The new
g.m. coolly proposed that the old gentle-
man should be hired as “consultant” at
£6OO p.a. This was too much even for
the County Council, though it took
“nearly an hour” to debate what
shouldn’t have taken it ten seconds.
By consent of all parties, North
Westralia is grotesquely overrepresented
in the Parliament at Perth. With an
electoral population of 3669 out of
265,987 it elected four of the 50
Assemblymen last March, and an enrol-
ment of 866 (total in 1938, 86,411) gives
it three of the 30 Leg. Councillors. Yet
the aeroplane has removed its old isola-
tion for all time. Still, the probabilities
are that northerners would cheerfully
part with overrepresentation in Perth if
they were allowed to run their own
affairs.
Queensland’s new sugarcane prices
legislation creates, in the chairmanship
of the Central Cane Prices Board, one
of the juiciest of jobs. Tenure is secured
for 15 years or until 70, whichever comes
first, the appointee is removable only by
resolution of Parliament for proven mis-
behavior or incapacity, and the screw—
not stated, but expected to be £2OOO p.a.
—cannot be reduced without his consent.
Any layman “well versed in matters relat-
ing to the sugar industry” is reckoned
as qualified.
Mr. G. E. R. Gedye, the Famous
American Correspondent who reported
that the Mighty Soviet was converting
the Polish railway gauge to the Russian
at the rate of 50 miles a day, “con-
tradicts reports that Russian submarines
are reinforcing German in the North
Sea”:
There is no reason to suspect that the
Soviet is contemplating such an outrage as
secret participation in the conflict.
Stalin, it seems, is too highminded.
The beginnings of another Stevens
Stunt were reported last week. Our
portly merchant of claptrap bobbed up
in Melbourne, just as he did after he
promised the surplus of £BOOO and raised
salaries all round. “Visiting Victoria
Barracks,” he got through “on his name
alone” (perhaps they thought he was
going to enlist), and “after he had spent
half an hour with Mr. Menzies rumor
ran hot.”
Even Mr. Menzies’s statement that he
and Mr. Stevens had “merely had a per-
sonal chat” did not still reports that moves
were on foot to get Mr. Stevens into the
Ministry. The suggestion is not without
some foundation. There is little doubt
that if Mr. Stevens enters Federal politics
a place would be found for him in the
Ministry.
“If” Mr. Stevens enters Federal politics.
Mr. Stevens will be hard put to it to
remain in State politics. Stung taxpayers
are just waiting for a chance to get home
on Mr. Stevens.
Estimates of N.S.W. Ministerial
salaries, Parliamentary “allowances” and
“Pres. Leg. Council, etc.,” for the year of
Stupendous Deficit were £16,724, £52,448
and £2498 respectively ; amounts spent
were £23,420, £69,375 and £4690; total
increase, £25,815. But the Sydney Gov-
ernment is “economising.” A letter from
Manly:
The citizens of my seaside suburb have
been generous with their cash and labors
towards St.' Matthew’s training farm for
unemployed youths at Dee Why, under the
able guidance of Rev. Ebbs. Founded
during the depression, this farm has placed
600 lads in jobs on the land. Last year
100 were cared for, trained and placed.
Until June 30 the State Government came
to light with £lOO p.a., “grant towards
cost of upkeep.” This year, notwithstand-
ing the handsome presents Ministers and
members gave themselves, the grant has
been struck out. What a pity some of these
gents could not be unemployed for a while.
Perhaps some of them will be shortly.
And not only the training farm has suf-
fered. The estimate for Hammond’s
Pioneer Homes has been reduced from
£2304 (£lBBO was spent) to £423.


“THE WIDE, DRY LAND.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
df
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
rates per day.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
tr
wm
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR PRICES AND PROFITS
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS
THE GOLD QUESTION
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty- Ltd.. 252 George street. Sydney, and a 1 .
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-Commander F. N. Cook, the
only R.A.N. officer serving aboard the
Royal Oak when she was torpedoed, was
among the rescued. He was born at
Shepparton (Vic.), graduated from the
Royal Naval College, and after serving
with the R.A.N. was exchanged with the
R.N. He was flag-lieutenant to Rear-
Admiral Ford when that officer was com-
manding the Australian Squadron.
Colonel “Tom” White, M.H.R., may
possibly become a commander of one of
the wings of the Air Expeditionary Force
offered by Australia to Britain. The ex-
Minister for Trade and Customs was the
author of one of the best books on im-
prisonment and escape (from a Turkish
prison) after the last war. He is 51, and
his wife is a daughter of the late Alfred
Deakin, three times P.M. of Australia.
Dead at 56, Elioth Griiner, of Sydney,
one of the best known of Australian lano-
scape painters. Of Norwegian parentage,
he was born at Gisborne (M.L.), but his
family crossed the Tasman a year later.
Julian Ashton was his teacher. He was
a sensitive painter of quiet, restful scenes,
and loved depicting the springtime. He
has exhibited at the Royal Academy, and
is represented in almost every important
public gallery in Australia. The National
Gallery of N. S. Wales treasures his
“Morning Light, Valley of the Tweed,”
and a dozen other canvases, and honored
the artist by exhibitions of his works in
1932 and 1933.
Captain W. M. Mcßain, who passed
out suddenly aboard his little ship the
Dargo on the Gippsland Lakes recently,
had an adventurous life before he took
to inland waters, though most of it was
spent aboard tugs. Born at Williamstown
in 1877, he went to sea early. He lost
a ship off the South Australian coast, he
and a seaman being rescued from a
waterlogged dinghy by a lighthouse-
keeper after they had been afloat for 30
hours. He served with the R.A.N. during
the 1914-18 war in minesweepers, and
helped in the attempt to salvage the Cum-
berland when it struck a mine and was
beached at Gabo Island.
G. S. BOYD, new chief engineer . of
Sydney County Council’s electrical
undertaking.
Dr. Roy Burston, the new Deputy-
Director of Medical Services in the
second A.1.F., comes of the Victorian
malting family (part of Barret and Burs-
ton) and was trained at Melbourne
Grammar and Uni. Son of the general
commanding the 7th Infantry Brigade on
Gallipoli, he himself won all sorts of
medals and initials in the war, though
just 30 when it ended. After that he was
medical inspector in the N.T., but then
settled in Adelaide, where he has since
remained. He is known to his intimates
as “Ginger” for obvious reasons.
Lawrence John Hartnett, managing
director of General Motors-Holden’s, is
English-born, son of a medico, and served
L. J. HARTNETT.
his apprenticeship as an engineer in the
Vickers works at Erith and Barrow. In
the 1914-18 war he was a lieutenant
in the R.N. Air Service and the R.A.F.
General Motors claimed him in 1926,
when he became that co.’s factory repre-
sentative for all India. From 1931 to
1934 he was a director of Vauxhall
Motors, and five years ago he took his
present position with headquarters at
Melbourne. He’s also a director of the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation.
He’s married, with three daughters, and
yachting, tennis, golf and swimming claim
such spare time as he gets.
When they began to dream their dream
of an irrigated oasis in the desert at Mil-
dura, the Chaffey brothers, being unusual
men, looked for an unusual man to plan
their metropolis. They found him in a
young architect, Edward Charles Shar-
land." He went to Mildura in 1887, and
shared in his employers’ fight against
Governmental and private reaction for a
quarter of a century. He was mixed up
in every public struggle after the brothers
had departed. For many years he was
secretary of the Mildura Hospital. He
passed over the other day just on 80.
In Melbourne from M.L. is George D.
Walton, imported to produce the pageant
play “Credo,” with which will be cele-
brated the 100th anniversary of the
Roman Catholic Church in Aus-
tralia. “Credo” will be a bigger dis-
play than “Hiawatha.” Melbourne
Cricket Ground will be turned into a
stage for the 2500 performers. Walton
is Melbourne-born, and graduated
from its University as an architect. Then
he got swept into the theatre, acted, pro-
duced and took to playwrighting and
journalism. Last year he produced
“Credo” at Auckland for the M.L.
Catholic Centenary.
Dr. Halliday Sutherland, now touring
Australia, is the author of many books,
among them Arches of the Years and
A Time to Keep, and is also a specialist
in tubercular diseases. During the 1914-
18 war he was a surgeon in the R.N.
and later in the R.A.F. His hobbies are
sailing, fishing and shooting.
After the 1918 Armistice, Digger Basil
Burdett toured the great art galleries of
Europe. It stood him in good stead. He
subsequently opened a gallery in Sydney,
was associated with Ure Smith in pro-
ducing “Art in Australia,” and a few
years later stepped into Lionel Lindsay's
shoes as art critic of Melb. “Herald.
A trip to Spain before the civil war
renewed acquaintance with the Velas-
quezes in the Prado, and when Keith
Murdoch projected the bringing of a col-
lection of the works of the “modernist”
gods to Australia Burdett was deputed to
open the hearts of French and English
gallery directors. He succeeded beyond
expectation, and the collection now
showing in Melbourne is remarkably
comprehensive. The Van Goghs,
Cezannes and the Gauguins alone are re-
garded as so valuable that it has been
suggested that the 200 pictures should be
housed in Melb. Nat. Gallery until
Europe settles down.
Frederick Geoffrey Shedden, Secretary
to the Defence Department (comprising
navy, army, air and munitions branches)
and Secretary to the War Cabinet, has
recently been ill, through overwork, and
his Ministerial bosses are imploring
him to take a pull. He doesn’t
seek limelight, but he’s competent and
has won the confidence of many Minis-
terial heads of the department. He is
qualified in accountancy and economics.
On one of his visits to England he accom-
panied Stanley Bruce to Geneva and was
left there alone on the return of Mr.
Bruce to London.
Dr. W. A. N. Robertson, former Com-
monwealth Director of Animal Hygiene,
who died at his home at Elsternwick
(Vic.) recently, aged 64, was Australian-
born and a graduate of Melbourne Uni.
He joined the Victorian Department of
Agriculture in 1906, and shortly after-
wards became chief veterinary officer in
charge of the livestock division. Among
his achievements was the prompt stamp-
ing out of rinderpest, when it cropped
up 15 years ago in Perth (W.A.) market-
garden territory.
Dead at Oakland, California, U.S.A.,
Richard H. Kingsford Smith, brother of
the great Australian aviator Charles
Kingsford Smith. R. H. K. Smith, who
was operations manager of American-
Hawaii S.S. Co., had lived in America
for 30 of his 60 years. His daughter
married John Stannage, radio operator
of the Southern Cross on the historic
trans-Pacific flight in June, 1928.
Amongst Australians who got into the
present war at the start was a nurse,
“Billie” Williams, who went abroad to
look at the world after six years’ training
at Sydney Prince Henry Hospital, and
took a year’s experience in M.L. in her
stride. Being in London she volunteered
on the first day of the war, and was
immediately attached to the Third
General Hospital, 8.E.F., now somewhere
in France.
“Qwert Yuiop”: When war was de-
clared between Britain and Germany in
August, 1914, the Lord Mayor of Lon-
don was knight T. Vansittart Bowater,
who soon afterwards initiated a Red
Cross fund which realised nearly
£20,000,000. When war was declared
by Britain on Hitlerism last month the
Lord Mayor was his brother Frank, who
has initiated another Red Cross fund
which seems likely to exceed even that
immense sum. Both saw active service
in France, T.V. with the Royal Fusiliers
after his year of office expired, Frank as
a Territorial gunner from 1915 to the
duration.
“Uramao”: Passed over at Wellington
(M.L.), aged 45, William Higgins, who
claimed to be the world’s champion
shearer. Born at Pahiatua (M.L.) he com-
menced shearing at 14, and at 29 shore
406 Romney - Lincoln sheep in nine
hours at Moumahaki station. Th e
year before his tally was 383 sheep
in eight hours 45 minutes.
The A.l.F.’s most decorated soldier,
Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, regarding him-
self as not too old for the present con-
flict, is attending a military school for a
course of instruction to bring him up
to date. Murray rose from the ranks in
service with the 16th and 13th battalions
to command the 4th Machine-gun Bat-
talion ; he was continually mentioned in
dispatches, and he garnered among other
rewards the V.C., D.S.O. and bar,
D.C.M., C. de G. and a C.M.G. As
commander of the 26th Battalion, A.M.F.
(North Queensland), he has kept himselt
in touch.
The Bulletin’s Adelaide correspon-
dent a few days ago sent in a paragraph
recording the ninety-first birthday of
Langdon Bonython, proprietor of Adel-
aide’s “Advertiser,” mentioning that the
old man was still daily at his desk in the
office where he had worked for three-
quarters of a century. Now Langdon
Bonython is dead. Of Cornish stock, and
London-born, he came to Australia at 16,
joined the “Advertiser” staff, became part
proprietor at 31 and a few years later
sole owner and editor. He was editor for
35 years. A mixture of canniness and
philanthropy, he made several munificent
gifts to 5.A.—£50,000 for a Great Hall
LANGDON BONYTHON, as Low saw
him in the first month of the last Great
War.
for Adelaide Uni., £20,000 for a Chair
of Law, £20,000 for a School of Mines
and £lOO,OOO for the completion of Par-
liamentary buildings in Adelaide (this
last a donation much criticised by those
who regard State Parliaments as a pass-
ing phase). He served on various educa-
tional bodies and was one of the 14
trustees of the Soldiers’ Repatriation
Fund. He was knighted in 1898, and at
the end of the 1914-18 war was made a
K.C.M.G. Knight Lavington Bonython,
one-time Mayor of Adelaide, is a son.
Melbourne has benefited in one
direction owing to the war in Europe.
Debarred from returning to Vienna, the
Mozart Boys’ Choir has been disbanded
and re-formed as a nucleus of a new
choir at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. Dr.
Georg Gruber, the conductor, is doing
the training, and the choir will show its
quality at the R.C. centenary celebra-
tions.


I’LL TELL YOU WHY
I LIKE 333
ft
“I like 333’s because they
are outstanding in these
three vital points:
“Flav our —333’s are
smoothly satisfying not
too strong nor yet too mild.
sdf
“Fragrance In associa-
tion with flavour, fragrance
is important—the aroma of
333’s is rich and distinc-
tive.
s
“Favour —When so many
smoke the one brand of
cigarette, there must be a
reason. The secret is the
333’s blend the finest
Virginia Tobacco blended
to an exclusive formula.
Take my advice and try
333’s to-day.”
m
%
CORK TIPPED & PLAIN: 9—6 d., 18 —1/-, 27—1/6 - • - Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties
#
r c
f"
H
m
' - V"
M
BMj|||
H
■
■ \
m
wmmm
m
t
r
Mag
STATE EXPRESS
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
235 G-10.9


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Louis the Loafer,
who had charge of a back paddock on
the station, was quick to seize an oppor-
tunity. When he discovered that the new
manager suffered from
rheumatism, and always
carried a bottle of
whisky on his rounds,
it was not long before
Louis had the screws.
The manager was very
sympathetic about it,
and insisted on L. hav-
ing a couple of double-
headers to help him.
The next time he came
out L. was worse than
ever, and the boss left
half a bottle of whisky
with him. On his third
visit, the weather being
very dry, the boss
looked a bit suspicious, .but came
to light. On the fourth tour Louis com-
plained that every bone in his body was
aching. The manager fished a bottle
from his saddlebag, had a good swig,
then said, “Every bone, hey? You ought
to think y’self lucky you’re not a flamin’
river bream,” replaced the bottle, and
cantered away. It was the quickest cure
I ever saw.
* * * *
“C.R.”: My next-door neighbor runs
fowls and ducks together, and for a long
time she bitterly complained because the
ducks gobbled up the wheat like walking
grain-elevators. One day she looked over
the fence in triumph. “Well, I’ve fixed
them,” she said. “I’ve filed the beaks of
the ducks down to a point and they all
start off scratch now.”
#**::■
“Bull-ant Bill”: I'm not impressed by
that dog (B. 4/10/’39) which took a mere
onlooker’s interest in tree-felling. Dil-
linger, our dictatorial hound, does the
job himself with a set of magnificent
teeth inherited through maternal mesal-
liance with the bulldog proprietor of
“Was my sermon sound , Willyum?"
"I thought un Were all sound , Tummas."
a young couple who brought the first
caravan to this district some years ago.
Exhausted by failure to get a flying-fox
out of a sapling by barking and attempts
at climbing, he took a short nap at the
foot of it and woke with a new idea in
his single-track head. Within an hour he
had gnawed through the six-inch stem,
and though the enemy was miles away by
then he had got the notion. His latest
effort was to drop a 20ft. spotted-gum
pole clean across the lunch-rug while
we were having a picnic, and to gallop
frantically amongst the food looking for
the magpie which he had seen perch in
its top when wemnved. * #
golden Mile”: But I really can’t per-
mit “Cam Cove” (B. 27/9/’39) to be so
dogmatic on the matter of wheelbarrows
for the transport of both humans and
pigs. Obviously his experience has been
confined to the navvy’s wheelbarrow,
which is only a cranky vehicle at its
" I still say you re a cad , sirrah!”
best. Let him test out the balance of a
good old Cousin Jack barrow. Long,
narrow, with an underhung chassis, the
Cousin just can’t be overturned by any-
one or anything riding within. Probably
one of man’s first inventions, it dates back
in Cornwall to unknown ages. It was the
vehicle that materially assisted in seal-
loping out the Duchy’s tin and other
mines: and when the Cornishmen came
to Australia they brought their barrow
with them. Designed for getting any-
where, practically, that a man could
crawl, it is one of the most perfect tools
ever devised. Its relative, the navvy
barrow, is really a monstrosity ; a shallow
tray perched on a wheel and two legs,
it is designed for carrying a minimum,
and for tipping with the minimum of
effort.
**. * J ,
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat had put in tor
a pen at Big Burrawang, and the boss
was putting him through a searching in-
terrogation. He asked where Mat had
shorn, his tallies, etc., until the big bloke
became impatient. And how about p l ®
A.W.U.?” the boss finished. Yair,
snapped Mat, them, too. The A.W.
ewes, big ewes, little ewes, fat, skinny
and maiden ewes, bring em all on. He
got his P en * *
* „ *., , . , •
Septus : Oxnithologists engage n
tracing the ongm ot Flight s da
(B. 13/9/ 39) seven miles from the near.
est water can stew over'this. .
long dry spell, storms caused t -
tion of a lake about 20 miles west of
Laverton The nearest no
water was at Lake Carey, 70 miles dis-
tant yet dabchicks and another of he
flightless species known as musk duck
were present on the new lake within three
d H
c y ' * * * *
“Shamuseen”: Binghi appears to offer
good opposition to the Indian yogi in
the possession of occult powers if the feat
of old Maino, who is still headman of
the Tutu tribe on Yam Island in Torres
Strait, can be taken as a guide. A white
official on the island had reluctantly de-
cided on a lugger journey in the mad-
dening monsoonal calm of the nor -west
period to the 50-miles-distant Thursday
Island. Old Maino explained that the
trip in' a craft with sail power only would
be unnecessary as the “Gubmint” boat,
the Queensland patrol ketch Melbidir,
would arrive in the next few days. The
official knew that such a visit would be
unscheduled, but so persistent was
that he good-humoredly waited - . t h
afternoon of the next day the moto -
hove into the harbor on a tn P .
was decided on only after teiegrapn
structions from the south, r ece _iY 0
T.I. after Maino had passed on m. p
science. Maino, when pressed ro
source of his information, re “ eald< J '
hind the immemorial mask ot stonuuy
and “no savvy. * *
* Australian ». » To m Willie” (B.
11/ J ? n/ ,, Q . h ld bave been qu ite sure
H/10/ W *ouW
r£marks Qn the wavy _
grained blackbutt and the peculiar con-
dition known as “fiddleback’ whic
occurs in some of our timbers■ w that _
authonty has T.W. f &
the term fiddleback , •.
turies ago, and who told
grows “anywhere and in . ad J ... ,
tree”? The peculiar wavin
in “fiddleback” doesn’t occur in she-oak,
wild cherry, black wattle, sassafras, red
box, yellow box, bunya and hoop pine
(Q.), Murray pine, King Billy and celery-
top (Tas.). There are others, but those
will do to go on with. “T.W.” is right
as to fine specimens of fiddleback occur-
ring in the Victorian hill country, par-
ticularly among the blackwoods; but he
is talking through his hat when he asserts
that “any good bushman can pick the
tree without trouble.” The tree shows
no external signs of the fiddleback mark-
ings, and the only way to ascertain
whether the condition exists or not is by
breaking down. The percentage of
“fiddleback” in a log is never very high—
rarely as much as 50 p.c. and frequently
not more than 10 p.c.
* * * *
“Battler”: “Skull Creek” (B. 4/11/’39),
wbo sees only bad points in a brumby,
bas evidently never ridden the scrubs of
the Dawson River (Q.). On Mimosa
c r eek we got some very fine horses, a
lot of them sired by an Arab stallion,
the mares having gone bush; there was
ncd a bad one am ong them. When one
cons j ders that in the ’sixties horses in the
coas t and central districts were not
numerous, and were valuable, the in-
crease in wild bush horses was wonder-.
ful. The genesis of the brumbies would
nQt be bard to trace? and tbe f irst mem-
bbrs Q f the troupe must have been superb.
{ j have helped to trap
running in the cabs in Rockhampton and
Br j sbane and tbey were ab high quality,
Qne firs ’ t . dass h y urdle horse? Mustang,
owned by tbe Christians at Wilangi, was
mn fth scrub b Jim Archibald at
Jhe BrQWn townshi /
■ * * *
. 4 . „ ~ ,
Plat : A notorious jib could have
cost a Victorian cocky and your humble
their skins in the recent floods. With
extraordinary cussedness he baulked slap
in the centre of a swollen creek, with the
water lapping our buggy-axle and rising
every second. Whip and words alike
were useless ; so out on the shaft stepped
his boss with a providential length of
cord from my knot which he half-hitched
at the base of Dobbin s tail and made
taut to the swinglebar. There was a
* sudden rearing in the water, and a jolt
that almost pulled us off our wheels. Next
moment we were through and half-way
down the road, an erstwhile “jib” bowling
along with the ease of Ajax carrying a
couple of pounds of feathers.
THE ARK OF BOOLIGAL BILL.
In a campfire’s glow by the Kyalite as the night
came hushed and chill,
This strange account of an inland cruise was
told by Booligal Bill:
“Back in ’ninety-four I was camped, I mind,
in a bend o’ the ’Bidgee stream,
An’ one night when the moon was extry full
I had a peculiar dream —
The world was flooded, an’ out o’ the waste
I heard a voice in the night
Chant, ‘Build a boat, Bill, if you’d save yer
life!’ an’ I knew ’twas a tip all right,
“For I dreamt the same thing on the follerin’
night, an’ the night after that again.
So I borrowed some tools from a homestead
near and began work there an’ then
To fashion a craft that would bear me safe
when the big flood came that way.
I toiled from the crack o’ dawn till dark all
day an’ every day;
She had ribs o’ gum that I trimmed meself,
an’ slabs from a played-out mill;
An’ when she was made, my oath, I was proud
o’ my work,” said Booligal Bill.
“I had painted her name in letters o’ white
which read the ‘S.S. Ark’;
She was ready for rain to come —an’ it did,
my oath! one night at dark!
Right out o’ the west, where the big falls start,
in roaring sheets from the sky,
Six inches a day, an’ for days on end; and
the river rising high,
Till it covered the banks an’ the bends about
an’ lapped the sides o’ me barque . . .
An’ one wet morn we rose from the earth, me
an’ the S.S. Ark.
“A wonderful feeling it is to sail in a ship
of yer very own!
I hitched me trousers an’ yelled ‘Yoho!’ as
I floated off alone.
Then I grasped the wheel an’ swung ’er away
nor’-west for the great outback . . .
An’ two days later a homestead showed right
fair in the vessel’s track.
Deserted, I found it, as I came near; ail
hands had fled from the flood;
So I nosed in close to fossick for stores an’
anchored ’er in the mud.
“An’ what did I find? Why, lashin’s o’ grub on
shelves o’ the station store —
Tinned goods an’ flour, tobacco an’ spuds, tea,
sugar an’ plenty more!
The Ark sank down to her Plimsoll mark as
the stock on board was dumped.
And on the very last trip ashore, how me
bloomin’ ticker jumped!
For I found an untapped keg o’ rum in a
corner snugly stored!
I lumped it into me cabin; an’ sang as I sailed
with me prize on board.
“There was sad things came to me mind that
night in the dark an’ loneliness —
I even thought o’ the wife I’d wed, an’ wished
I knew her address —
So to cheer meself I unbunged the rum before
I settled to sleep . . .
It was all o’ nine bells when I woke next
morn adrift on the mighty deep.
Then suddenly out on the starboard bow there
came to me startled eyes
Four swagmen, sodden an’ hopeless like,
marooned on a sandy rise.
“Poor homeless whalers —an’ me with a ship . . .
Well, what could a captain do?
To pay for their passage an’ tucker an’ weed
I signed ’em on as a crew.
For three full days ’twas a perfect cruise, with
none of us in the dumps,
Not a sail in sight, no rocks ahead; though
we did hit a couple o’ stumps!
It was ‘Yo ho ho an’ a keg o’ rum!’ as we
made for the great nor’-west;
I’d lie at ease, sit up for a tot, then settle
again to rest.
“My crew seemed happy at gettin’ a lift,
instead of humping a drum;
They had weed an’ grub; but by some mis-
chance they got a sniff o’ the rum!
Then the greedy cows suggested that we should
share an’ share alike!
I ordered ’em off o’ the quarter-deck; how I
longed for a marline-spike!
‘You tarry lubbers!’ I told ’em plain, ‘your
place is the fo’c’sle there!’
But they plotted me doom by the galley fire ...
a treacherous, dark affair.
“An’, shiver me timbers, they mutinied!
Although they had me to thank
For their rescue, they rushed me in pirate style
an’ made me walk the plank!
By chance it was just about four foot deep
where I hit the water a thud,
I got to me feet with rage in me heart an’ me
whiskers full o’ mud!
Me swag an’ billy an’ nosebag next ker-splash
in the water fell;
Then they turned the Ark stern first on me —
with a mariner’s rude farewell!
“I waded an’ swam for a good few miles ere I
struck a sandy hill,
Where I lived, a hermit, for over a month till
the flood began to spill.
Now you’ve read how a vessel’s ribs was
found in a lone lagoon outback —
’Twas thought a steamer in some old flood
had slewed from the river track.
But that’s a notion,” said Booligal Bill, “that’s
wide o’ the bloomin’ mark:
For it’s my belief that lonely wreck once sailed
as the S.S. Ark.”
MAORILAND.
C. H. WINTER.


“Billimilla”: Heroic casual fortitude
isn’t only the prerogative of those who
answer the hop-over signal. When Joe
Jenkins, a Darwin engineer (stepson, by
the way, of “Never-Never” Jack
McCarthy), threw a dynamite charge a
second too late at a crocodile in Rapid
Creek his hand went with it. Quite alone,
he trudged through the mangrove mud
back to his car, put a handkerchief round
the shattered stump and drove the ancient
car 10 miles back to Darwin. Arrived
at the hospital he waited awkwardly in
the hall till someone came to attend him.
“I’ve just blown my hand off, sister,” he
said with an apologetic smile, and imme-
diately was concerned more with the
horror he had evoked than the urgency
of his own needs. It was with a likewise
fatalistic philosophy that he contemplated
his lost livelihood, but he won’t like miss-
ing the war.
* * * *
“K.1.N.”: Black Mat was noted for
several things, one of which was that he
never swore. Saw him one day trying
to work a stubborn old ewe through a
gate, but she would break every time she
came to the opening. Stalking with her
head high, like a plain turkey, she would
buckle at the knees as an indication she
would lie down and sulk at any minute.
Mat put in about 15 minutes coaxing her
to the gate, letting her see it, bringing
her back when she broke. The ewe was
getting weaker; Mat was undoubtedly
growing wilder ; something was likely to
happen. We watchers listened for the
outburst we were sure would come. At
last Mat worked the sheep to the gate.
She stood there, stepped slowly towards
it, nosed one post, lifted a foot to step
through, and then turned, tripped, fell,
picked herself up, raced away about 50
yards and lay down in the sulks. Mat
went crimson, his eyes glared, he puffed
his cheeks, he almost seemed to swell
visibly. Then it came, the pent-up wrath
that he had been holding in restraint:
“Oh, you jolly old acid-drop! ” he bawled.
* * * *
“Murrawong”: Big Scotty turned his
back on the fire in the shearers’ hut, dis-
placing a couple of shivering rouseabouts,
and continued to express his modest
opinion of the best shearer he had ever
known —to wit, Big Scotty. “Mind you, I
don’t say I’m better than any other man,”
he assured the apathetic audience of half
a dozen rouseabouts, the learner and the
cook’s offsider. “But I don’t reckon
there’s anybody better’n I am, neither!
My family can trace their pedigree right
back in history—back as far as Wal-
lace.” “Wallace?" queried the wrinkled
old offsider. “Yeah, Wallace!” retorted
Scotty, with more than a touch of aggres-
siveness. “I remember ’im,” mused the
slushy, a far-off, reminiscent look in his
eyes. “Damn’ fine horse he was too, old
Wallace.”
* * * *
“Turoar” : “Talkin’ erbout darncin’,”
Old Bob said, “I’m pretty good at waltz-
in’ meself, but yer oughter see Tarry
Tom. ’E could give me a pair uv them
darncin’-pumps an’ then lick me in ’ob-
nail boots. O’ course, we comes frum the
’ome uv waltzin’. Up at Binnaloo, they
sucks eggs an’ sticks the shells under yer
“I said gas masks OFF!”
’eels, an’ they don’t reckin yer c’n waltz
till yer c’n go fer ’arf-er-nour without
crackin’ ’em. They’re all champeens up
there, but Tarry’s the king uv ’em all.
’E’s so light on ’is feet ’e sticks the shells
under ’is flamin’ toes!”
* * * *
“Chips”: “My brudder Giuseppe,” said
Tony confidentially, “tella me he geta
plenty da coot in da steaka-da-oyst joint;
“I've been telling you for forty years it's rude to read at the table. I wont put up with it MUCH longer !”
nearly drive ’im offa da block, too. Oder
night ’e say da beeg bloke come in say
’e wanta some feesh. ‘Righto,’ say
Giuseppe, ‘plenty da good stuff; watta
sort you lika?’ ‘Watta you got?’ ’e say.
‘Anyt’ing you want,’ say Giuseppe—‘da
snap’, fried and da boiled; da jew, da flat-
head, da breem, da gar, da’ ‘Righto,’
saya da bloke, doa da interrup’, ‘l’ll
’ave some.’ ‘Yes, but watta sort?’ saya
da brudder, begin geta da bit excite.
‘Watta sort I want, eh?’ yella da bloke,
geta da bit excite, too. ‘I want da
feesh dat waga da tail an’ swim ; wot you
t’ink I want, da flyin’-feesh?’
Giuseppe tella me ’e feel like swinga da
undercut an’ knocka da block off, only
da bloke buya da lobst’ instead.”
* * * *
“White Ibis”: Old Bob had had a hard
day, and the missus didn’t help things
by laying down the law when he arrived
home. After bearing it well for a while
he burst out: “You! You’re a bloomin’
Stalin! ” One speechless second, then Ma
hit back. “You! You’re only a sparrer
yourself! ”
* * * *
“Wailani”: Before the A.I.M. taught
the outback the value of human life, old
bushmen died as casually as the birds and
the blacks about them. It was Terrible
Billy, known as such from the Cooper
to the Gulf because he never said a cross
word in his life, who turned up at last
at Oenpelli and politely inquired if he
might camp there and die. “Certainly,”
they laughed, “only please don’t die.” But
Terrible Billy had come to the end, and
knew it. They found him peacefully
sleeping “on the creek.” George Ligar
unrolled his swag for the last time at the
Bend of the Ord because, after the heat
and glare of the. anthill trail, it was “a
beautiful place to die in.” Another old
lad at Battle Creek told the drovers
“Well, I’m willin’. I could ’a’ died back
at the other camp, but the ground there
was too hard for you coves to be diggin’.”
Sure enough, they were “diggin’ ” next
morning. Even the women of the early
days shared the general philosophy. At
Wyndham’s first picnic the townsfolk
gathered at a billabong, and while the
women were spreading out the tucker
the men went in for a swim. Tom
Chawn, the storekeeper, and his wife were
among those present. Suddenly there was
a commotion round the swimming hole,
and “There’s a bloke here drownded!”
somebody yelled. Mrs. Tom wiped her
hands on her skirt and turned shades
paler in apprehension. “I’ll bet a pound
it’s Tom!” she said. And it was.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: “Scotsmen are hot
coffee orrite,” growled Fretful Fred. “I
spent a tenner at Sandy’s store. While he
was wrappin’ the parcels Sandy started
ter reel this off like a steam-engine: ‘This
place is ten minutes from the P.O. an’
five from the station. The radio station
is just round the corner; they tell me
the beer is good at the pub, an’ I can
personally recommend the teashop next
door. You’ll find a bootblack on the
corner an’ ’ ‘What the hell are
yer telling me all that for?’ I chips in.
He smiled. ‘Well, it’s getting near Christ-
mas, an’ you’ve been a good customer,’
he replied, ‘so I thought I’d like to give
something for discount.’ ”
* * * *
“One of the Moderns”:
Because the wool was “down”
last year Mum and the young
fry are at the shed helping
Dad get away this year’s clip.
For the same reason I did
not return to school. They
didn’t like leaving me alone
at the homestead, but I must
keep up my studies. One of
Mum’s many precautions is a
particular pan containing
boiling water an inch from
the top and in position. I
didn’t see him come, and the
dog didn’t bark. He followed
me to the kitchen, where I
packed the tucker he de-
manded, with the exception
of milk in the billy of tea. “I
bet you have milk your-
selves,” muttered the most in-
solent of tramps. “This pan
is full of boiling water,” I
said. Magic words! He
slunk off. I have had four others since
then —poor hungry-looking things, one a
woman—but that pan stays in position,
always ready.
* * * *
“Philax”: Quaint repair jobs? For
some purposes the mine engineer used a
nozzle with a jet-hole as fine as a hair.
From constant use this at last became
too big. Easy enough to cast a new
nozzle out of phosphor-bronze, but how
to drill a fresh tiny hole? “I’ll have a
go at it,” volunteered the ordinary Aus-
tralian fitter and turner. From the
draper’s the f. arid t. procured a packet
of the finest sewing needles. Selecting
one, fine as a hair, he snapped the point
off, then, on the emery-wheel, ground
the break to a sharp angle. This gave
a point and an oblique cutting edge.
Centring the blank nozzle on the face-
plate of his smallest lathe, he held the
needle short with the slide rest. With the
nozzle revolving the needle-drill was then
brought up on the slide rest, centred, and
very delicately allowed to cut its way
through. Result, an apparatus repaired
with the minimum delay, which otherwise
would have been out of action for months
pending the arrival of a new nozzle from
England or U.S.A.
* * * *
“T.-CHad always thought that the
“I won’t work for a woman” was sheer
male cussedness until McHoof took all
hands, bar the cowboy, to truck fats.
Heavy rain set in, and Mrs. McHoof
came over in the flivver to ask me to
run in her horses as the cowboy this and
the cowboy that had let the night horse
loose. I found a 70ft. gum across the
night-paddock fence, the cowboy shep-
herding the horses three or four chains
from the yards, and Mrs. Mac doing her
damnedest to stampede them. The horses
in, she requested that I make the cow-
boy go and put up the river-crossing
fences. That there was about six feet of
water raging over them mattered not to
the lady. Either the cowboy put up the
crossings forthwith or He preferred
to “or” and asked me for food and
shelter till the fresh subsided. Mrs. Mac
then hit the clouds. “You catch Bluey
and get me some wood.” “Yes, I sacked
him,” McHoof told me later. “Only
for the flood the young beggar would
have left the wife in the lurch.”
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Can’t agree with
“Killick’s” claim (B. 13/9/’39) that a
lone nigger rarely enjoys a swim in the
briny. Binghi in the N.T. treats a
shark with the utmost contempt. I have
watched an abo. dive at a 16ft. “tiger”
from the deck of my lugger. I confess
to having felt nervous about his safety;
but it was quite unnecessary. On return-
ing to the ship he remarked to me: “No
good pright, boss, I call that pfeller
brother; ’im too shamed to ’urtum
me.” Often, too, when trepanging, my
native divers have seen a shark cruising
near by. This was the signal for one
or more to chase the brute away. This
operation was accomplished with much
laughter and show of contempt for the
monster. Generally speaking sharks are
cowards, although “tigers” will tackle
anything if sufficiently hungry.
* * * *
“Snorter”: “Force of ’abit,” said old
Harry, “can ’ave its disadvantages. When
I useter disrobe sheep and I’d strike a
lively one, I’d spit ’alf a mouthful uv
terbacca jooce in its eye so’s it’d keep
still w’ile it winked that out. After the
cutout I goes to see me tabby. One
night I’m ’avin’ a bit o’ a row with ’er,
an’ absentminded like I let ’er ’ave a
good squirt of dark Derby fair in the eye.
She did go crook on me, I can tell yer.”


ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
? ;
If not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
Write tor a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
luinch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
( Dividends-
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
’36 194,702 101 p.c.= 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.e.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 . . . . 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 . . . - 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
This co. took over the working assets
of Australasian Paper and Pulp (Mel-
bourne) and Cumberland Board Mills
(Sydney) in 1926. Then, following a
slash of 4s. per share (£320,000) in ord.
capital, slump put a brake on earnings
for a while. But tariff adjustments and
depreciation of the Australian pound in
terms of sterling brought the co. much
business formerly placed overseas ; sales
expanded as conditions improved,
enabling the co. to instal new plant to
the benefit of costs and net earnings.
After much research the co, decided a
couple of years ago to manufacture from
Australian timbers the pulp it previously
imported. A new mill has been erected
at Maryvale (Vic.) for the purpose, and
large, fast-running machines to turn out
30,000 tons annually of high-grade
wrapping papers, container board and
other products have been set up along-
side. To meet the outlay on this and
other equipment 400,000 16s. ords. were
issued at 21s. each in 1936 and 1,000,000
£1 6 p.c. cum. prefs. were offered and
snapped in April, 1937, making the total
on the share-register £2,600,000 in a
million prefs. and two million ords.
Although the last of this new capital,
etc., came in during the 1938 term, the
kraft pulp mill at Maryvale has only just
commenced production on a commercial
scale, owing to delay in delivery of
equipment ; the paper machine is
scheduled to start up about March next;
so there has been a lot of money repre-
sented by assets which have not yet
had a chance to contribute to the pool.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts all the co.’s other equip-
ment was kept fully employed. But
deep cuts had to be made in selling
prices owing to competition from over-
seas, while wage and other costs rose.
Also, the result of the year’s operations
was much less favorable than the figures
in the table suggest. After capitalising
£19,152 of expenditure on account of
“forest surveys and Maryvale mill de-
velopment,” transferring £42,851 from
the reserve for taxation and contin-
gencies (now £53,668) to p. and 1., and
setting aside £50,000 (up £3000) for
taxation and £98,991 (down £20,233) for
depreciation, the profit claimed was £2030
lighter at £238,025, or £16,025 more than
the pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
called for. Leaving the transfer from
contingencies only out of the reckoning,
the net result was £195,174 (down
£44,881), or enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 8.4 p.c. on ord. capital.
As for the current term, the Broad-
ford (Vic.) plant shut down since the
close of last accounts, and there might
soon be competition from a new co. in
S. Aus. in which the Government of
that State is interested some of this
co.’s equipment was to come from Ger-
many ; much depends upon whether it
was received before war was declared.
The Maryvale plant, however, will
get a chance to show what it can
do, the war has bumped up the cost
of imported pulp and board, and
there promises to be little or no
slackening in demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts. But there have been stinging in-
creases in taxation, and costs generally
are on the up-grade. Trading results
will depend largely upon whether any
unexpected difficulties crop up in con-
nection with the new plant, and upon the
course of competition.
Here are balance-sheet figures: —-
Paid capital—• 1936. 1938. 1939.
Pref . . . . £1,000,000 £1.000,000
Ord £1,408,000 1,600,000 1,600,000
Mortgages. .1 f 6,620
Loans, etc. !- 134,236 -[ 33,937 158,331
Sundry creditors J [ 119,199 185,519
Freehold and plant 1,559,944 1,708,127 2,323,468
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,242 23,242
Stock . . . . 506,519 990,950 855,518
Book debts .. 259,483 368.314 282,419
Cash, etc 129,623 302,302 43,701
To meet last year’s net addition of
£615,341 to the book value of freehold
and plant, the co. gathered an extra
£124,394 of deposits, went to sundry
creditors for a further £66,320, drew
upon cash, etc., for £258,601 and re-
duced stock by £135,432 and book debts
by £85,895. The reduction in the stock
item was due partly to the transfer from
contingencies already referred to. Ex-
cluding shares in other cos., more or
less liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£831,168 (down £677,262) when the
books closed.
The proposal to distribute the operat-
ing co.’s ords. —A.P. and P. owns 77.62
p.c. and Cumberland 22.38 p.c. of them
—among those on the holding cos.’
registers has been shelved (only for a
month or two, it is hoped), owing to
difficulties connected with taxation. De-
tails of the distribution have not yet
been announced ; the mention of taxation
difficulties suggests the possibility of a
small bonus issue being associated with
the distribution.
The proposal was followed by a sharp
rise in the price of the holding cos.’
scrip on the market. Last week-end
prices and returns compared as follows:
, Cumberland
, Pref. , r~ A.P. & P.—
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Pref. Ord.
Price .. 27/6f 31/-* 27/6f 30/- 31/3 32/9
Div., p.c. 8 8 8 8 8 8
Yield, p.c. 5.8 5.1 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9
* Seller, f Buyer.
At the end of August A.P. and P. prefs.
fetched 31s. 9d. and the ords. 28s.
Cumberland’s seconds, thirds and ords.
stood at 28s. 6d., 275. 6d. and 255. 6d.
respectively.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, lO p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £,'£>£>
Share premiums, £33,794 .. .. 32,467
1931.. 6,083 4800 Nil 1,283 33,750
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800' 43.7* „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 124 p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,204
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 „ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33J „ ~16,066 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £ 10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised, £75,000 .. 12,951
1938.. 81,452 6800 33J p.c.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Unexplained additions, £11,500 . . 57,437
1939. . 108,544 6800 334 P-e. =66,667 35,077 92,514
* 10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined.
The old co. —Sniders and Abrahams and
then G. G. Goode —ran into a patch of
such bad weather that 90 p.c. of the ord.
capital was jettisoned and protection for
the prefs., both for divs. and capital,
was slender. Now the cover is nearly
16 times as to dividend and over five
times as to capital, and, of course, a
nice appreciation in capital value in the
market has followed. Also, attractive
returns are being won for the ords.
The turning point was in 1930, when
Carreras, Ltd., the prosperous English
concern which specialises in manufac-
ture of Craven A cigarettes, bought the
ords. at a substantial premium, and with
them control. Since then a factory has
been put up at Prahran (Vic.), the busi-
ness of Morris and Johnson (they used
to distribute the co.’s products in N. S.
Wales) has been welded into the organi-
sation, and more capital has been
gathered to help finance expanding turn-
over, growth of which has been hastened
by a vigorous advertising campaign and
the assistance of the parent organisation,
which has meant much as far as buying
and finance are concerned.
The next table shows how consump-
tion of cigarettes and tobacco in Aus-
tralia has moved since the big change
in conditions 10 years ago:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 . . 0,357,779 14,116,648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- . . 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5,190,065 14,598,251 19,788,316
1936- . . 5,733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204,114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- . . 6,891,258 15,776,449 22,667,707
The growth of smoking among women is
partly reflected in last year’s substantial
increase in consumption of cigarettes
(687,144 pounds) compared with tobacco
(24,754 pounds). Since September, 1938,
customs and excise on cigarettes and
tobacco (used for pipes and roll-your-
own cigarettes) has been 12s. 2d. and
Bs. Bd. per pound respectively, compared
with 12s. 2d. and Bs. previously. The
question of further increases is now
under consideration.
Last term the co. got its full share of
new business, the improvement in gross
earnings (£335,135) being £72,485. The
net result benefited by £27,092 of the
increase, reaching £108,544, or enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 50.8 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 37.3 p.c. for
the previous term. That was after £11,500
had been dropped from somewhere into
reserves. The div. was kept at 33 1-3
p.c., which is equal to 62.8 p.c. on cash-
paid capital, including share premiums
capitalised.
Balance-sheet movements reflect con-
tinued expansion of the business and
apparent foresight of the management:
1924. 1933. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £71,226 £78,000 £268,000 £268,000
Overdraft . . 33,794 13,083 631
Creditors . . 12,882 134,773 36,108 62,808
Freeholds .. 64,093 56,995 57,970
Plant, etc. . . 11,757 30,427 29,486 37,071
Stocks . . 50,076 137,242 190,019 285,942
Book debts . . 20,273 43,019 75,725 109,928
Cash, etc. . . 1,377 894 52,466 1,409
Subsidiary co. 20,000 20,000' 20,000
To meet a growth of £95,923 in stocks
and of £34,203 in debtors’ balances, cash,
etc., was drawn on for £51,057 and
£27,329 was added to the outside debt.
The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£353,842) was
£51,740.
At 38s. the prefs., covered by
£5 4s. 2d. in net tangibles, yield 5.2
p.c. The ords. are not listed.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
t — Dividends Towards
Pref. Re- Re-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. . serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929. .43,046 ' 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
9 & 8 p.c.*
1930. .27,725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,786 23,676
1931. 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28,231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933. .30,207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934.. 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935.-34,860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.. 13,175 6 „ ~ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937. .42,313 13,175 6 „ „ 14,630 14,608 66,584
1938. 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 16,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. 63.376
1939.. 42.087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
That is the first time the advance of
profits has been arrested in the last eight
years. The business continued to ex-
pand, but the growth in exes.—largely
taxes and wages, over which the manage-
ment has no direct control was pro-
portionately greater than the growth of
turnover. Thus the net result was £2410
lighter than the previous year’s at
£42,087.
That was enough to pay the prefs. their
full contract rates and show 10.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 11.3
p.c. and 10.4 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. Owing to the incidence of
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
which has outlived the conditions it was
originally designed to meet, full contract
rates to the prefs. would mean at least
9 p.c. to the ords. Altogether this would
call for only £2608 less than last year’s
profit. Since the board’s policy is to
keep the ord. div. at 6 p.c. and strengthen
reserves —a policy with which discerning
shareholders will not quarrel —the nrs
and second prefs. received only 6.9 P-c-
-and 6.2 p.c. respectively. Full contract
rates to the prefs. and 6 p.c. to the ords.
would call for £31,986, or £lO,lOl less
profit than was claimed last term.
Another effect has been to keep down
the capital value of the prefs. in the
market, which prices the firsts at 245. 6d.
and the seconds at 225. as against 275. 3d.
and 255. respectively a year ago. At the
lower figures the return is 5.6 p.c. and
5.5 p.c. respectively at last year's rates
of distribution. The ords. are not listed.
The net tangible cover is £5 ss. sd. first
prefs., £4 ss. sd. seconds and 265. 2d. ords.
How the current term will pan out
Will largely depend upon the extent to
which the management is able to curb
costs. There promises to be more money
about, owing to Britain’s purchase, for
the duration of the war, of our surplus
wool, butter, cheese, sugar, meat, eggs
and canned and dried fruits at very satis-
factory prices, and to our own defence
expenditure. But much of the extra cash
that becomes available will be mopped
up by the Government in taxes and loans.
However, the co. has an able control,
alive to the advantages of shrewd buying
and other problems of service, while
finances are sound and the store, situated
in one of the busiest blocks in the city,
is bright.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1929. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £325,000 £427,825 £442,175 £449.775
Mortgage 1 f 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. \ 325,640 193,614 \ 31,687 22,980
Sundry cred.* J L 86,024 97,038
Premises 1 nnc iva \ 310,561 290,561
Ft” etc.] 875 ' 318 405,178 f 90,880 88,380
Stocks 200,291 150,441 205,688 173,688
Book debts . . 47,894 55,920 82,258 88,903
Mortgages, etc. 1 „ n 7 r,s ioo i 08,874 67,912
Cash * ..j 01,807 ,>B, 1 3,810 47,007
* Including tax provision.
Last term a drop of £32,000 in stocks
and of £22,500 in the book value of*fixed
assets was accompanied by a growth of
£43,197 in the cash holding, £9038 in
mortgages, etc., and £6645 in book debts,
while £2313 net was added to the outside
debt, which includes provision for
tion. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£157,153) was £24,567.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929. . 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. ..1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073. . 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.e.=137,552 1,672,766
1& w " 4 194,4 i 3 13- - 3 ” ” Iln’nnn 1 16,891 1,689,657
Written off premises, £40,000 )
19 w '■;+ 191,3 « 4 13,3 P ’ C ' = if n’nnn 1 13.752 1,703,409
Written off premises, £40,000 J
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263,681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
Was,. 26!,538 13,3 p.c.=13;(,552 93 986 2> i 78 ,432
Written off premises, £30,000 )
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. .327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, ■ £13,229 . . 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
.Unexplained reductions, £172,314 . . 2,534,509
1939.. 335,014 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
The last is a surprisingly good result
considering the disastrous hurricane
which swept the Eastern States of North
America, the serious bushfires which
occurred in Victoria and the disturbed
conditions in East Asia —-although the co.
is Auckland-controlled, fish swim into its
net from all quarters of the globe. Net
premium income advanced £75,090:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 ~ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4 ~ 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 „ 31.0 „
1936. . 1,040,070 562,000 295,461 56.5 ~ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609 704,128 293.578 59.6 „ 24.8 „
1938. . 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 62.8 „ 23.5 „
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 „ 27.7 „
The drop of £3 6s. p.c. in the loss rate
suggests that the co. was fortunate in
connection with its risks in the special


m
» mi
uilij
"Was he a member
of the A.M.P.?”
The first thought when a man’s
death is reported
|M OTICE of a friend’s death appears.
1 ' Was he a member of the A.M.P.?
In other words, has he left his wife
and children enough money on which
to live in reasonable comfort, or will
they have to fend for themselves?
Recently the proprietor of a suburban
newsagency died. He appeared to have
been in no more than a modest way
of business, and friends thought that
his family might be faced with diffi-
culties.
As a fact he had long ago arranged with
the A.M.P. that, on his death:
(1) £2OO would be available to clean
up any debts he might leave;
(2) £6OO would be available to pay off
a mortgage on his cottage;
(3) £25 a month would be paid to his
widow until 1948, when the youngest
child would be 18;
(4) from 1948 onwards, until her death,
£3 a week would be paid to his
widow.
Through the A.M.P. you could make
some such arrangement. Ask the nearest
A.M.P. office to send a representative to
talk the matter over with you. Your
need may be larger or smaller than this
newsagent’s. Whatever it is let the
Society lift the responsibility from your
shoulders. Ask to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris*
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
OO Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
"QUALCAST" MOTOR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. MOWER
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL, “H”: 10in.12in.14ln.16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND
ALL LEADING
RECOMMENDED BY
HARDWARE STORES
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0 T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * # *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Plror.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address;
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
CENTRAL WOOL COMMITTEE
Under the National Security (Wool) Regulations,
Clause 14 provides:
“No person shall sell or buy or contract to sell or buy any wool
or wooltops except in accordance with these Regulations.”
, The Central Wool Committee has borne in mind the desirability of
maintaining as far as possible consistent with the Regulations existing
practices, and early in its Meetings considered the position of Wool dealing
having regard to Clause 14.
The Committee resolved to issue to Wool Dealers a permit to allow
them to continue to receive wool from Growers and other Owners on terms
and conditions which while consistent with the Regulations will enable
dealers who obtain permits to continue the substance of their business. A
condition of the permit is that the dealer will give an undertaking in the
following terms:
1. All wool received will be submitted for appraisement in the
store or stores of an approved Wool Selling Broker.
2. The dealer will keep true and correct records of all trans-
actions pursuant to which he received wool sufficient to enable
a proper distribution amongst the Growers and other Owners
of such wool of all payments which may follow the appraised
price of such wool.
3. The dealer will upon notice in writing from the Central Wool
Committee under the hand of the Secretary produce such
records to the Central Wool Committee or its Executive
Member.
4. The dealer will fully and faithfully account in respect of the
proceeds of such wool to the Growers or other Owners from
whom he receives such wool in accordance with the terms and
conditions upon which he shall have obtained and received
such wool from them.
There is no restriction upon dealing in sheepskins.
Melbourne, 17th October, 1939.
W. YEO, Executive
Member.
areas mentioned. However, most of
what it gained on the swings it lost on
the roundabouts, the underwriting sur-
plus (£188,120) being only £5956 better
at 18.2 p.c. on capital. Interest and rents
turned in £147,494 (up £233), equal to
14.3 p.c. on capital, or a bit more than
the 14.1 p.c. div. (same as for previous
term) called for. From the two sources
combined the return on capital was a
juicy 32.5 p.c. as against 31.9, 31.7, 30,
25.3, 23.2, 18.5 and 18.8 p.c. back to 1932.
The experience of this and other marine
underwriters during the Great War of
1914-18 was a very heartening one. Sub-
marine and other war risks sent premiums
up, of course. But the efforts of the
British Navy in dealing with the sub-
marine menace kept the loss rate below
expectations, enabling the capital of well-
handled underwriters, like this one, to
become entrenched behind a high wall
of protective reserves invested in sound
securities. Returns from these securities
have for years followed close on the heels
of advancing dividend charges, leaving
the annual underwriting surplus, or most
of it, available to swell investments to-
gether with returns therefrom. How the
South British will fare during the present
European conflict will again largely de-
pend upon the success of the British
Navy in protecting allied shipping, and
upon the extent of Government bleeding,
which is likely to be more severe than
during the Great War.
During the year £172,314 was taken
from the investment fluctuation fund
(now £231,867) and used to further reduce
the book value of assets:
1938. p.c. 1939. p.c.
Premises .. ..£604,742 12.4 £605,271 12.1
Mortgages .. .. 267,719 6.6 279,544 6.7
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 617,312 15.1 650,948 15.5
Stocks, debentures, etc. 748,262 18.3 722,382 17.2
Municipal debentures, etc. 390,355 9.6 386,917 9.2
Government securities. 1,473,370 36.1 1,543,024 36 8
Book debts . . .. 79,666 1.9 103,494 2.5
Still, at the end of August policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 265 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums, whereas
150 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
Of the £1,031,640 of capital £907,000-
odd came from reserves. The market,
with one eye on the past, prices the 10s.-
paid shares at 40s. as against 475. 3d. a
year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 3.5 p.c. on a 14.1 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for a 5 p.c. return
counts on a 20 p.c. div., or a one-for-one
bonus issue and reduction of the div. to
10 p.c., which would then call for
£206,328 p.a. The possibilities of cur-
rency depreciation in connection with
Maoriland investments should, however,
not be overlooked.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
With approx. 19,200,000 c.y. of 0.451 b.
dirt remaining to be dredged at March
31, this offshoot of Rawang Tin Fields,
by which 32 p.c. of the issued capital is
held, has a nominal life ahead,
working to capacity 240,000 c.y.
monthly. That excludes an unstated
yardage in ground now covered by the
main trunk road, which the co. has re-
ceived permission to deviate; £lO,OOO
was allocated towards the work out of
1937 profits.
The leases lie upstream of the parent
co. at Rawang (F.M.S.). The wash is
chiefly free-dredging, but there is some
limestone in parts, to handle the most
difficult portions of which a lOin. gravel
pump has been started up. An assess-
ment of 170 tons t.o. has been granted
for the unit, in addition to the dredging
assessment of 1107 tons.
Thanks to its relatively high assessment
and purchase of quotas from associated
Anglo-Oriental cos., the co. kept on the
div. list throughout slump, lowest hand-
out being Is. a share in 1931. Richest
part of the property has been worked
out, but results for ’37 and ’3B, when
recoveries were closely in line with the
remaining average for the property,
afford some indication of profit poten-
tialities under existing conditions:
J, ear > _ t —Surplus A , Divs. <
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. S'hare. Amt.
, £Stg. £Stg-.
1937 f 88,733 41,908 46,825 4/8 2/6 25,000
(To reserve road deviation, £lO,OOO.
1938..86,739 41,766 44,973 4/6 4/- 40,000
1939’. .45,201 36,847 8,354 -/10 -/6 s’ooo
* Includes depreciation: £10,982, 1937: £10,761,
1938; £5OOO, 1939.
The sharp fall of £36,619 stg. in the
latest showing, s,truck after providing
£5OOO for depreciation, etc., and £2200
for bucket-line renewal, reflects the heavy
incidence of restriction. The profit never-
theless equalled lOd. per share ; 6d. was
distributed, and a like disbursement has
been made since the close of accounts.
The buffer-pool contribution (taken in
at cost —£8162) was 60y tons.
The oxide has a high metal content:
n .. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Uomestic quota, p.c. 08.75 73.75 29.62
Cubic yaidS .. 2,852,000 2,904,000 2,956,000
T. 0., tons.. .. 595.8 615.7 416.1
Average c.y., 1b... 0.40 0.47 0.32
•Assay, p.c. .. 76.5 76.8 70.2
Working costs, c.y. 2.03 d. 2.4 d. 2.79 d
Net ore real’n, ton £135/12/10 £l4O/19/5 £123/13/4
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton £219/2/2 £224/11/2 £196/7/1
Of last term’s turnover, 398,000 c.y. is
accounted for by the sluicing unit, which
worked 10 months; average recovery
was 0.51 b. and treatment exes. 5.15 d. The
dredge dug 2,558,000 c.y. for 0.291 b. re-
coveries at an average cost of 2.42 d.
Since the close of accounts yields have
been a bit better at 0.341 b. per c.y.
Rawang Concessions is capitalised at
£200,000 in £1 shares, worth 31s. apiece
in the sharemarket. At March 31 the
co. held more or less liquids of £75,472,
of which £55,914 was in cash, and owed
£4315. Obviously the co. is well
equipped to extend its life should a suit-
able property offer.
Crocodile Creek, dredging below the
range at Mt. Morgan (C.Q.), has been
hard hit by the four months’ drought in
those parts, and regular operations can-
not be resumed until a decent wet season
arrives. Over the hill, at the Mount
itself, the shovels have slipped through
the low-grade block that made the re-
turns so low over the past three months.
Adam Boyd can now face Morgan share-
holders with the knowledge that the past
month’s recovery, over 6000 o z; fine
gold, is among the best to date.
* * * t
Tableland Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.),
has moved up in public fancy be-
cause of the smooth working of the
electrification scheme, and because re-
cent tallies have been averaging slightly
over the lib. oxide per yard that the
estimates allowed for. The war demand
for tin won’t do any harm, and the
dividend season looks much closer than
it did a couple of months ago.
* * * *
Cloncurry (N.Q.) coppermines should
boom while the war lasts. Trekelano is
producing 1000 tons monthly of 10 p.c.
ore. Mt. Oxide keeps up its reputation
with 22 p.c. stuff, and has increased its
tally to the 500-ton mark. A new show,
Ivena, is weighing in with carbonates
averaging 15 p.c., and the Little Wonder
continues to do well on half that grade.
But it all has to travel the 1000-mile
stage to Chillagoe, and the McAskill in-
quiry does not seem to have moved the
question of a central smelter at Clon-
curry to a solution.
* * * *
Net profit, after capitalising £273 of
development expenditure, of £4501 (4yd.
per share) is shown by Cullengoral Gold
Sluicing for the year to April 30. It com-
pares with losses of £4937 and £4300 for
the two preceding periods, notwithstand-
ing that values were not up to the esti-
mated general run of the property —the
dredge was in ground not systematically
bored —and frequent stoppage of the
plant for mechanical adjustments and re-
pairs. Gold yield was 1815 oz. fine, worth
£16,360 ; yardage dug is not stated. Better
is expected in the current term ; the plant
is now said to be doing a more thorough
job, and “consistently better values” are
showing across the full width of the
working face. The co. formed in April,
1933, to work a property near Gulgong
(N.S.W.), but it was not till five years
later that a 65,000-c.y.-monthly dredge
was started up —original idea had been
to instal three units. A. J. Alston
estimated the middle area to contain
8,400,000 c.y. of lOd. and the upper sec-
tion 5,400,000 c.y. of 11.7 d. dirt wilh
gold at £8 10s. an ounce. With costa a?
3d. per c.y. or less, a working profit of
£2150 monthly was looked for over 18
years. A deep-lead area is also owned,
but little work has been done here. The
£50,000 of capital is in 4s. shares, of
which 21,000. have preference for capital.
Up to 28s. 6d. in Jan., ’35, the ords. now
fetch 6s. 6d. Indebtedness exceeded
more or less liquids by £6589 at April 30.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) had its third annual roll-
up in London on September 7, when
shareholders were told (1) that ore re-
serves were five years ahead of the 5000-
ton-a-month mill, (2) that the grade of
some of. the blocks being stoped was
above mine average, (3) that a reduction
of about 6s. a ton in costs and a slight
rise in the grade were expected, (4) that
the capacity of the mill might be doubled.
* * * *
Anglo-Australian Gold Development,
first of the De Bernales Westralian gold-
mining group floated in London, talks of
a reduction of capital “commensurate
with the value of assets.” The possi-
bility of amalgamation later on with one
or more of the other cos. of the group is
also spoken of. The co. originally ac-
quired from Australian Machinery and
Investment (a De Bernales co.) the
entire issued capital of six Westralian
goldmining concerns. The properties of
five of these cos. were later found to be
auriferous duds, and were handed back
to the Crown. The sixth was taken over
by Beryl Gold Corp., in which Anglo-
Australian holds a big wad of shares ; it
also has a 20 p.c. interest in Yellowdine
Investments (which holds 90 p.c. of the
issued capital of Yellowdine, Ltd.) and a
ninth share in Comet.
St *1- * *
Hansel Mundy has abandoned its
option on the old Sun mine at Norseman
(W.A.).. A “strong” lode was said to be
visible in the bottom, but apparently it
was weak in gold contents and other
ways; the report of the expert who in-
spected the property was “not favorable.”
$ * * *
For the year to June 30 last Blue Bird
(W.A.) netted £59,437. Three dividends
of 2s. each and a bonus of 2s. per share
were paid on 100,000 shares, and in
June a further distribution of Is. 6d. was
made on 200,000 shares, the issue having
been doubled meanwhile. Three lots of
specimens, 3cwt. in all, recently treated by
berdan pan netted £4410.
* * * *
Prominent among the holdings of
Great Boulder Mining and Finance are
interests of approximately one-half in
Yellowdine and two-ninths in Comet
(W.A.). Favorable developments in the
bottom of both these mines, especially
Comet, have been reported lately. Among
the co.’s other interests are holdings in
Great Boulder Prop., Waroonga (Emu)
and Gladiator. Great Boulder now looks
better than it has for years, and, accord-
ing to official reports, Waroonga is slowly
becoming more valuable.


SHE
Have YOU taken this
%
\
Ask yourself these questions NOW!
Decide which question in each group is most applicable to you, and score the number of points indicated.
m
■m
(a) Are you subject to
severe backache?
' (5 points)
(b) Does your back ache
now and again?
{lO points)
(c) Are you completely
free from backache?
(25 points)
2
(a) Are your joints
swollen or painful?
(5 points )
(b) Does damp weather
cause stiffness in
your joints?
(10 points)
(c) Are you free from
joint pains?
(25 points )
m
5*5*^ •388®$!'*
3
(a) Is Rheumatism caus-
ing you severe pain?
(5 points )
(b) Do you experience
mild attacks of
Rheumatism?
(10 points)
(c) Are you entirely free
from Rheumatism?
(25 points)
4
(a) Have you experi-
enced definite signs
of Kidney trouble?
• (5 points )
(b) Do you suspect that
your Kidneys are
weak? (. w points)
(c) Are your Kidneys
strong and healthy?
(25 points)
m
YOUR HEALTH TEST SCORE
Question 1
Question 2
Question 3
Question 4
TOTAL
If your score is 70 or
under you have failed in
this health test —your
Kidneys are apparently
out of order and need
immediate attention. We
strongly recommend that
you take a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
is the leading Kidney
I onic sold in Australia.
If you wish- to try Gin Pills before purchasing
them from your Chemist, fill in the coupon below
and we will be glad to forward you a trial package
free of charge. Gin Pills are a natural Kidney
Tonic which do not contain any harsh or injurious
substances and are specially made to correct any
weakness or inflammation of the Kidneys. Don’t
experiment with substitutes —get the genuine
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which have proved
successful for all Kidney Troubles for over 30
years. There is no better Kidney Remedy obtain-
able than Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
ft
Co
? ws
$r
4’®
■: a
flu
Si
Wi
111
Hi
3h Jluldmu
f 27 Pills 1/9
60 Pills 2/9
N PILLS
FOR BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, JOINT
PAINS, and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES.
B. 10/3*.
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 201 D, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I have failed in the health test, my score
being Please send me,
absolutely free of charge, a trial package of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
| Mr. I
NAME ! Mrs. |
| Miss |
STREET
TOWN
STATE


SMOKE-OH!
“There are not nearly so many bow-legs seen
in recent years, even in the outback amongst
the drovers.”-— Magazine item.
They are few and far between,
•4* 4* 4*
“Fire destroys butcher’s shop.”
Probably the butcher did his block.
4* 4* 4* 4'
“Twenty-seven families in England have
held their properties for more than 700 years.”
Another few generations and they
expect to have them paid off.
4 1 4* 4* *
“A girl who is a good cook will never have
to look far for a husband.” — Women’s paper.
It’s usually a case of love at first bite.
4* 4b ■4*
“Hitler has never tasted whisky; he might
have been a better man if he had.” — “Sun.”
Ah, well, the British Army is deter-
mined to Scotch him.
4* 4* 4*
“You eat three meals a day—yet you may
be starving.”— Advt.
The writer seems well acquainted with
our boarding-house.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Business is falling off so much that to-day
I received only two orders.”
— Traveller’s comment.
Exactly: “Get out” and “Stay out.”
♦b 4‘ 4*
“Modern children are hard to satisfy.”
— Article.
Never too young to yearn.
Then there was the optimist who
thought that every time the guillotine was
applied in Parliament a politician’s head
rolled into the basket.
4* 4*
“Blessed is she who can boast a model
husband.” — Women’s paper.
As models are mostly affairs full of
springs and gadgets, the model
husband is obviously one who
does what he is told mechanically,
never knocks about with the
knuts, gives up his screw like a
lamb, and can be wound up to a
high pitch of enthusiasm over a
new dress.
D. McM.
“This year’s hats are definitely hatty hats.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
They’ll certainly be novel then.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Keep your hair well oiled during spring and
summer months.”—“Daily Telegraph.”
Why only the hair?
4*
“There is very little difference between one
kind of gambling and another.” — “Century.”
When you go to the dogs the wife nags
you ; when you go to the nags more ill-
luck dogs you.
+ 4* 4* 4*
“At 50, Charlie Chaplin opens his mouth
at last.”— “World’s News.”
If he still wears the same size boots
there’s no chance of his putting his foot
in it.
“Buy furniture that defies the bailiff.”
— “World’s News.”
The trouble is we can’t all pay cash.
+
Economy is doing without something
you need to buy something you don’t
need.
"Well, dear, I really must be going so as to let you finish that sock.”
Lucky Tom to the Rescue.
“A Sydney ‘Sun’ correspondent protested
against men enlisted for garrison duty being
ordered to report on Friday, the 13th.”
To ensure a proper regard for the
safety of our soldiers I am forming the
Lucky Tom War Aid and Omen Society.
I am Lucky Tom.
The L.T.W.A. and O.S. will see that
warship and camp ladders are so placed
that personnel will not have to walk
under them ; that a black cat is issued
to every unit and a lucky charm to each
member of the forces, and that every
camp has its special room in which sol-
diers can find a lucky horseshoe and toss
it over their shoulders, after spitting on
it for luck. And it will organise a band
of (voluntary) women teacup-readers and
card-fortunetellers, so that our gallant
defenders will have precise information
about their futures. It will also agitate
for the 13th Battalion to be altered to 12a.
And it will cost you only five shillings
to join.
Hamer.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Golf will do a lot towards curing rheuma-
tism,” says a doctor.
There is no known cure for golf unless
it is a more violent form of rheumatism.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Minister Gullett says the war news publish' I '*
in Australia is a ‘fair reflection.’ ”
On what?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is quite apparent there isn’t sufficient
work to go round.” — “Sun” correspondent.
That’s why we’re never square.
“Corsets for slaughtermen.”— Sydney weekly.
They’ll insist on a smart cut.
4* 4*
“The modern miss knows what’s going on
under her nose.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
And she makes sure that it’s kissproof.
4* * 4* 4*
“Amaze Your Friends.” — Advt.
By returning the books you borrowed?
Fly in the Ointment.
Sometimes, when
trudging through
congested streets
I yearn with all
my heart for calm
retreats far from the
swarming haunts of
soulless men. I pine
for rural lane and
sylvan glen where
Nature’s peace and
fragrance fill the air.
Ah! how I long to
wander freely where
a bridal path mean-
ders where it will.
Aye, thus I give my
yearning rein until I
realise that at the
city’s hub you’re
always but a stone’s-
throw from a pub!
P. O. M. C.
“The stars never change.”
—Astrological blurb.
Nor do the stories they act in.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In one court a deaf and dumb sign expert
spoke for five hours.”—' “Daily Telegraph.”
He had the case well in hand.
Hat Tension.
With taxes for this war so stiff,
Some husbands are debating if
Their wives, who wangle hats with tears,
Shouldn’t be classed as profitdears !
D.McM.
Mystery Explained.
“I think,” said Maria, “we’ll go and
see Mrs. Sneers.”
“What!” I exclaimed. “After all”—-
“Oh, I know she was despicable
enough to summons us, but after all we
can be magnanimous, can’t we?”
“Auntie wants to show she is not
mean-spirited. So do I,” said Sophie, who
is Maria’s ugliest niece. In the turmoil
which had reached an airing in the police
court, Mrs. Speers had made some re-
marks about Sophie’s lack of charm
which I had believed she would never
forgive. And the whole police court
business, in any case, had been unforgiv-
able—l hoped. I hated being dragged
to the Sneerses’ from time to time.
Knowing Maria, I resignedly reached
for my hat. It was then that I caught
sight of the cuttings of the newspaper
containing the report of the p.c. case that
was the culmination of months of wrang-
ling between Maria and her niece and
Mrs. Sneers.
“Mrs. Maria Aitchem, married, I
read, “a good-looking, smartly gowned
and coiffured woman, who admitted that
her age was 39” (great Scott, admitted!),
“but who looked much younger, was fol-
lowed in the witness-box by young
and beautiful Miss Sophie Bragg.”
So that was it! Mrs. Sneers was going
to be asked (jokingly, of course, as of
something so thoroughly past that it
can be laughed at) if she had seen the
reports in the paper. No wonder, glory-
ing in that triumph, Maria and the ugly
Sophie were feeling forgiving!
A horrible fear is upon me. Even
if I dared tell them that, according to
the newspaper scribes, all middle-aged
women who appear in court are well pre-
served and smartly gowned and every
young woman is beautiful they would
not believe me. And if they did there
might be worse results.
H. M.
Shrewd.
Close by my side you vowed you’d stay
Through days both drear and sunny ;
I note, though, that you picked the side
Where I always keep my money !
PATON.
A Sling-off.
“The scandal about the singer concerns his
treatment of a girl with whom he eloped only
six months ago. When he decided to leave
her he slung her a few shillings and went.”
— Women’s paper.
When first to her he sweetly sang
He slung her glances kind;
To sling her lot in, then, with hisi
The damsel was inclined.
Rich were the notes that he slung forth ;
The concert halls they shook ;
But nary a note he slung to her —
He only slung his hook.
HAMER.
Credit Entry.
“The bandits tried to threaten one of the
clerks into assisting in the holdup, but he re-
fused to be disloyal, to the bank.”
—Crime magazine.
’Twas vain to teller tale of fear
To make his honor dim,
For stoutly he refused to clear:
They couldn’t bank on him!
‘‘With all its vaults,” quoth he, “I’ll stick
Beside the bank, and so
l hope the coppers get you quick
And never ledger go!
T. W. NATHAN.
The Purge.
(A Russian Propaganda Play.)
Act 11.
(Scene: Home paddock of Ivan’s farm.)
Dramatis- Persons.
Ivan Orfelkoff ... A Collectivist Farmer
Scratchuss Iymitchi His Suicide-
complexed Grandfather
Nickoff Karntya .. A Trotskyist Wreckei
(Ivan and Nickoff are discovered, span-
ners in hand, tinkering with a tractor.
"Excellent Work, Keeper Schmidt !"
A man’s leg is sticking out through one
of the caterpillars .)
Ivan: Curse this idiot Nicoli for getting
run over! He’s all mixed up with the
cogskis. Some comrades have no con-
sideration for others.
Nickoff : None at all. I’ll souvenir this
boot. By the way, Ivan, what hap-
pened to your rubber driving belt?
This synthetic leather thing you’ve got
will go to pieces in no time.
Ivan : The War Commissar’s Department
commandeered it. It says every avail-
able ounce of rubber is needed for the
army.
Nickoff: Yes; Voroshilov is t'o put
rubber shoes on the cavalry horses so
they won’t be heard when charging,
and to fit rubber barrels to the guns
to save wear and tear on the shells.
Solo: Ivan.
The Soviet war machine’s potent and
stunning;
Its might has been sung in collectivised
verse ;
It’s highly efficient, except when it’s
running,
And then it is likely to seize up, or
worse.
The use for the rubber Voroshilov’s
needing
Is plain: when the enemy’s seen on
the flanks,
The Mighty Red Army, in rubber shoes
speeding,
Will thus be enabled to distance his
tanks.
(Exit.)
Nickoff: I’ll go and get some dynamite
and slip it into the tractor. Thus I’ll
kill two cats with the one brick —wreck
a collectivist tractor and get rid of
Ivan.
Enter Scratchuss, who hurls himself
against the tractor.
Nickoff: Curse the old goat! He got
hold of my supply of dynamite some-
how, chewed it up and swallowed it.
Now he’s trying to blow himself up.
But he can’t—he’s too well insulated.
(To be concluded.)
S. W. K.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Wool, War and Money ,
The terms of the wool agreement now
haying been settled with Britain —they
provide for a payment of 90 p.c. of the
proceeds within 14 days of appraisement,
the other 10 p.c. coming at the end of
the season —the credit of Australia
from a commercial viewpoint should be-
gin to. look better. Because of the sus-
pension of wooL sales for/over six weeks
at the beginning of this season there was
very little money coming into the
country, and, internally,, graziers had to
raise the wind from banks and finance
houses at some cost to themselves in
interest. Appraisement of wool started
in an, atmosphere of muddle last week,
but it is something to know that it has
started. Within a, week from now 90
p.c. of the appraised value of the first
few lots should be coming forward, y
The price of the clip has been fixed
at 10|d. sterling. Though about 27 p:c;
higher than last year’s sterling price, it
will take nearly 14 p.c. more sterling
currency now to pay our New' York
debts, and at least that much more to
buy goods from, neutral countries.
Over the year to Sept. 30 last the'
trading banks had to find a further
£7,325,000 of assistance for clients,
£3,650,000 of this being asked for in the
last quarter of the year. They were able
to respond partly because the Common-
wealth Bank had to pay out
£9,000,000 at the end of 1938
when approximately that
amount of maturing loans
was not converted by holders.
Much of this redemption
money went straight to the
trading banks. Between Sept.,
1938, and June, 1939, trading-
bank deposits lifted by
£10,000,000. In the quarter
ended last month these de-
posits dropped away
£5,600,000; adding the be-
forementioned rise in ad-
vances, the trading banks had
to find an extra £9,250,000
to assist both borrowers and
depositors during the three
months to Sept. 30. They
found most of the money by
discounting part of their hold-
ing (now about £20,000,000)
of Treasury bills with the
Commonwealth Bank. The
ratio of advances to deposits
rose from 90.5 p.c. to 93.3
p.c. over the quarter, though
a year earlier the ratio was
92.3 p.c.
The balance of overseas trade for the
first two months of the current financial
year was on the wrong side, but not so
bad as for 1938-39. When September
and October figures are available, how-
ever, the comparison is likely to favor
1938-39. After that the benefit of the
increased price for wool should make
itself noticeable, though it has yet to be
shown • whether, on the imports side of
our account, increased cost of goods will
be offset by reduced quantities.
Already the remittance of money
overseas is subject to Federal approval,
and transfers of money except in pay-
ment of debts, interest, dividends, etc.,
is restricted. A tax on divs. paid to
absentee shareholders is also in force,
and disposal of overseas securities
is supervised. Last week there were
reports from Canberra that restric-
tion of imports from neutral coun-
tries “as drastic as that imposed by
the Scullin Ministry during the de-
pression” would be introduced. There
was a refutation later ; also an absurd
declaration that our London funds were
in a stronger position than at any time
since the Great War. The fact is that
our overseas credit has been going down-
hill for some years, surplus value of
exports not being enough to meet debt
service charges, and it has taken a war
to awaken the sleepy intelligence of
Canberra.
We have to put our house in order
economically. The successful handling
of Australian financial affairs during the
present war would be a very great help
to the nation generally, but we start off in
rotten shape simply because of hopeless
Government mismanagement of things.
The waste of public money for some
years has been colossal ; most of the
funds raised for the relief of unemploy-
ment have been misdirected in that, once
spent, they don’t reproduce a .jot of em-
ployment. To say that the Australian
Government financial policy has been as
blind, and blundering as that of some
suburban councils is perhaps being rough
on municipal government as a whole.
The Commonwealth Bank’s influence is
the one bright spot in our public finan-
cial conduct. . . ,
For a few years after the depression
this country was very prosperous, and,
both internally and overseas, its credit
was high. For a time'we were held up
overseas as a shining example of a brand
saved from the burning. Since then we
have spent far too much inside and out-
side Australia for the value we have got
in return. As a result our credit has
become. shopworn. Support f.or loans
has had to be coaxed by offering higher,
interest rates and. “controlling” the flow
of capital to private business.
The London sharemarket . brightened
considerably last week.’’ Apparently the
outlook' for Britain’s export trade isn’t as
sober as it seemed when restrictions were
first clamped on at the'ohtbredk of war.
In spite of the amount of extra work
which defence may .call for from British
industry, it would be a very shortsighted
view that regarded armament activity as
a fair substitute for commercial'orders,
home or overseas. The war will finish,
but what is left of .the world afterwards
will carry On. Industry is principally de-
“Shay, mate, w’a they putsh you in for ?”
signed to cater. for peace-time require-
ments, and it is peace-time connec-
tions that an industrialised country such
as Britain must guard against losing in
time of war. Britain has a remarkably
fine motor trade, as well as its traditional
cotton, woollen and steel industries. It
manufactures thousands of miscellaneous
but important lines of all descriptions,
and in these, too, it has a substantial
overseas market.
. . # ‘ . • «
Though the U.S.A. may later on be
supplying Britain, directly or indirectly,
with more of the materials required to
pursue the war, it is to be hoped, not
without grounds, that U.S. manufactures
will not be necessary on the scale of
1914-18. Britain is much more advanced
in matters of chemical and engineering
production, and up to date supplies of
raw materials from the Dominions
haven’t been disturbed to any really
noticeable extent. Also, Britain has its
own leased oilfields in Iran and Kirkuk.
It controls most of the world’s tin and
rubber, and has enormous copper-mines
in Rhodesia. Within the British Isles
themselves no less than two-thirds of the
pig-iron producing capacity has been re-
placed by modern plant since 1936. The
steel-furnace capacity is now in the
vicinity of 15,000,000 tons a year—more
than 10 times that of B.H.P. and Austra-
lian Iron and Steel combined. To date,
Britain’s highest output of steel has been
13,000,000 tons in a year (1937).
Taking a cue from London, Australian
sharemarkets were firmer on Wednesday
of last week, even base-metal stocks
hardening, though no movements have
occurred in the maximum prices for lead,
spelter or copper on London Metal Ex-
change. North Broken Hill and Mt.
Lyell showed their, first real movements
(9d. and 6d. respectively) for some weeks.
Tin issues were generally stronger fol-
lowing a further increase in the world
quota to 120 p.c., and producing gold-
mines showed strength. At the moment
fine gold is worth about £9 15s. an ounce
to. Australian producers. That is up
nearly 20s. on the average for 1938.
Apart from the buoyancy in textile
issues mentioned elsewhere, market
strength was evident in the case of sugar
shares, 8.H.P., Aust. Consolidated In-
dustries, Drug Houses, shipping shares,
the brown-paper cos., Felt and Textiles
and Woolworths fin connection with
which there has been some talk of a
bonus issue). John- McGrath (motors)
and'Gordon and Gotch (periodicals and
paper) remained two very depressed
issues on the list,: though G. and G.
showed some recovery, late in the week.
This stock looks good buying.
* * * *
Textile shares were buoyant last week.
Yarra Falls scrip lifted to 425., while
Bradford; Cotton i ords. went as high as.
435. Even Amalgamated Textiles, which
had to face a drastic revision of stock
values following the death :of manager
Sutcliffe; has recovered to ss. 3d,,-after
sinking to 2s. 9dv this-year.' , Yarra-Fallsv
and Bradford Cotton are front-rank in-,
dustrial stocks. The other, show is a spey
* ' *
Fairymead Sugar, which has. sugar and
pastoral interest's in ‘ the, Bundaberg (Q.).
district, and -which' owns.the Malayta Co.
m the British Solomons, should benefit
from the new Splices for ' export' sugar,
and. a better market for copra. The'
Malayta Co. is principally interested
in copra, and it has had some diffi-
culty in shipping the stuff recently,
but that trouble should be overcome.
Britain is buying our export sugar at
7s. 6d. sterling a hundredweight c.i.f., plus
3s. 9d. preferential duty; allowing for
freight at 355. 6d. a ton (Britain pays any
excess) and insurance, there should be
a surplus of perhaps £8 sterling a ton
coming to Queensland mills, equal to
roughly £lO Australian. Though less
than half the price received for raws con-
sumed in Australia under the sugar agree-
ment, the new terms should do some-
thing towards extinguishing what is
usually a loss on the export surplus.
Fairymead shares were selling at 355.
last week, returning £5 15s. per cent, on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. There was a one-
for-two bonus issue in 1936, when 95,000
fully-paids were issued as consideration
for the Malayta assets. Paid capital lifted
from £265,000 to £492,500 as a result,
and the div. dropped from 10 p.c. to
8 p.c. next year, but 10 p ; c. was regained
in 1938.
* * * *
York Motors, handling the Morris and
Chrysler agencies in Sydney, anticipates
continuance of supplies from both
Britain and the U.S.A.
* * * *
After dropping to 425. 6d. (from 575.
6d.), Gordon and Gotch ord. shares last
week steadied at 465. 6d. The return
offering to investors was nearly 6.1 p.c.
--so long as the 14 p.c. div. continues.
Next distribution is due in December.
The co. deperids largely on imports for
its turnover, but it has a substan
in Australian and Maoriland peri •
Though there may be some distu
to British publishing activities as a resuii
of the war, besides shipping difficulties,
it is hard to see the reason for such i
heavy drop in the market for G. an •
shares. The backing for both the ords
(500,000) and prefs. (100,000) is 28s. per
share on book values, but there is reason
to suspect substantial inner strengm
exists in freehold properties and some or
the other assets. A steady improvement
in the liquid position over several yeais
indicates that profit-earning has been
every bit as good as suggested in tne
accounts, which last year showed net
profit at 17.3 p.c. on ord. capital.
* * * *
W R. Carpenter shares, selling at
under 425. in Sydney, represent an equity
in one of the most shrewdly-run Pacific
trading, finance, shipping and insurance
concerns. There is every reason to
believe that in the past profits have been
shown only after provision has been
made for. the most harrowing future the
board can visualise. Thus things like
volcanic eruptions at.Raba.ul, where the
co. had a big business, haven t disturbed
the flow of 10 p.c. divs. to 'shareholders.
In the past the tough nature of the com-
petition from -B P. demanded that the
Carpenter co.’s foundations-.be carefully
and;solidly laid.; The co. has a big busi-
ness in l New Guinea and the Solomons,
with; growing connections in Fiji. Its
shipping interests', which include three
9000-ton freighters,'were acquired at a
low average-price mostly,, from 1934 on-
wards. Though capital has doubled dur-
ing the period, it is safe to say that the
proportion laid out on shipping could
now.be realised on at. a profit. Present
yield from the shares is 4.8 p.c, .
*. • * * . *
Having once planned a national enter-
prise that prqmised to be self-supporting
apd. reproductive, as well as practicable
of achievement, no Australian Govern-
ment is likely to be refused the credit that
may be necessary to finance such a pro-
ject. In fact,, the .project would almost
create its. own credit. Any'nation, with
the necessary labor and materials can
raise credit ad lib. for. such'purposes. It
is only when a Government’s plans and
projects again and again prove a waste
of money that it ever has to squeal
about raising credit by other than “ortho-
dox” means in order to continue its
waste and to fill up “deficits.”
* * * *
The N.S.W. Stamp Duties Amendment
Bill (B. 18/10/’39) is to be withdrawn
and a revised version submitted.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, the N. S. Wales
chain-chemist co. in respect of which a.
merger with Boots, of Britain, has been
considered, proposes to issue two bonus
shares for every five shares now held.
The £126,000 involved will come from
revaluation of assets. Paid capital will
lift to £441,000. The current div. of
15 p.c. p.a. has been well covered by
earnings disclosed at 22 p.c. on the old
capital. In the past bonus issues have
not. been followed by a notably reduced
div. policy, though the W. H. Soul board
emphasises on this occasion that it isn’t
likely that there will be any more profit
available next year' to feed the increased
capital. The £1 shares last week sold up
to 965., then support relaxed somewhat.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins, the big Brisbane
brewing co., has had its new issue ap-
proved by the Federal Treasurer. The
shares, cum rights to the new one-for-
five par issue, are on offer at 21s. 6d.,
returning 6.2 p.c. when the new issue is
fully paid on Jan. 31, 1940, provided
the 10 p.c. distribution is maintained. If
the rate dropped to 8 p.c. the yield would
still be reasonable at 5 p.c.
* * * *
The public took £430,000 of the Vic-
torian Grain Elevators Board £500,000
4-i p.c. loan, J. B. Were and Son, the
underwriters, being left with less than
14 p.c. of it. It was the first semi-Gov-
ernment loan to be offered to the public
since war broke out, and it followed the
Sydney Water Board £1,500,000 4\ p.c.
loan, of which the underwriters were
left with 34.7 p.c. of the issue.
* * * *
With gold pegged in Britain at £8 Bs.
sterling per fine ounce, the Australian
value of fine gold is £lO 11s. Allowing
for “excise,” for newly-won gold the Aus-
tralian producer would get about £9 15s.
per fine ounce, less charges. Golden
sovereigns now fetch 48s. 2d. each.
* * * *
Though the inter-State steamship cos.
recently lifted their freight rates by 20
p.c., the Federal Prices Commissioner has
since decided that, pending an inquiry,
the rise shall be restricted to 10 p.c. on
the rates ruling on Aug. 31. The same
applies to intra-State freights.


m
11
m
■■■
. - .*■ I
■i
I#%
*■ .
*¥” , ispps ■*«„ %'£,
1
rTf
i-.
:
Tf»i, 1 *' *i i ; *»
V •%*£* V * r JSM
istS
£**•
■
... K
£»
I f
*§§
dTf
j£M* 4'JMjP
Ji *
’fj
* I
„r 0 .::
t K’C#l .?««
tyfej
apiigfi «*»!•,
i 5
«», ‘®feH|?f-
iaiy* 5 #Ur# ! iWlfei
11
»■> '* /.
: . ■ •■■
Jf J
• Vi
5*. ; «
■
JS#i
M
,r. J
W: "
MS > W «■ ♦v* " »> y-wWB»
a
v.
; ;<
AJ/y*
11
IPt
W *Vr
, -•- '..
ffc -O M•. < /*.' / #»£L
i
“Z*** ‘M
6*l
«
g V* » <„*■ »Aip^jp<rw^TaL»#&
„*, 5 /*"**&*„yip ,- |i §s^^mlsSL''
i fe'.;»nS^SffiSnf.aPa
Sip "4 ,*ns^
dVH dVOH ScVIIVHXSIIV 9NIHVN 3H
*"T"< HE building of roads across the great Australian Con-
tinent is one of the epics of Australian progress. 'Yet.
to move the products of farm and factory more swiftly aftd :
economically, and to increase the productivity and pros-
perity of the Commonwealth, there is r a pressing need for.
still more and better roads. And if this need were important
in times of peace it is doubly so at the present time, when
Australia should produce and ship speedily such primary
and secondary products as the Empire urgently requires.
It is to this urgent need of building and defending a nation
that the "Caterpillar” Track-type Tractor makes such a
revolutionary contribution. It replaces older and more
expensive methods by the versatility and economy of its
operation.
"Caterpillar” Tractors, armed with blade in front, nudge
aside boulders, uproot trees or carve a road in the side of
a hill. Hitched to a carrying-type scraper this same tractor
can move earth and rock as much as 30 tons at a time
make cuts and fills and eliminate or minimise grades in a
fraction of the time and of the cost required by old-
fashioned methods.
In fact with their gripping, sure footed tracks . . . tremen-
dous power . . . unusual stamina ... and sparing use of
* low-cost fuel, "Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors can accomplish
sufficient savings on one highway to encourage and aid in
building others.
Yet there is more to good road construction than bull-
dozing rocks and moving earth. Power-shovels must dig
. . . surfaces. require blading . . . shoulders have to be
made ... and ditches and banks cut. In all these opera-
tions, "Caterpillar” Diesel Power does its part, making its
contribution to the efficiency and economy of re-making
Australia’s road map.
Road-building is only one of many fields served by "Cater-
pillar” Diesel equipment. It has reduced power farming
costs to one-half or one-third of other methods, and it has
brought similar low cost power, greater scope and new
profits to timber getting, to mining, to irrigation and
practically every other great industry in which economy
and efficiency are of vital importance.
Illustrated above is a " Caterpillar ” D 7 Tractor with (( Le
Tourneau” Angledozer opening up a highway on the
Cardwell Range between Ingham and Cardwell, North
Queensland.
CaterpillarOie.se/ (mTS
j] -lwr<B,
DISTRIBUTORS :
CATERPILLAR
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
DIESEL POWER
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South Brisbane.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams & Co.
Limited,
521-523 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231-239 Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington St.,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
TREACHERY STEP BY STEP.
[This calendar of Hitler’s words compared with his
deeds was published by the “Times” in its columns
and in pamphlet form.]
The following are extracts from public speeches
made by Herr Hitler as Chancellor of the German
Reich:—•
The first and best point of the Government’s pro-
gramme is that we won’t lie and we won’t swindle. —
Berlin, February 10, 1933.
Weighing the sacrifices of the last war, we want
to be true friends of a peace which will at last heal
the wounds from which all have suffered.— Potsdam,
March 21, 1933.
Germany, France and Poland will continue to
exist. Germany wants nothing that she is not ready
to give to others. No fresh European war is capable
of putting something better in the place of unsatis-
factory conditions which exist to-day. The outbreak
of such madness without end would lead to the col-
lapse of existing social order in Europe. The German
Government is convinced that to-day there can be
only one great task, and that is to assure the peace of
the world. The German Government wishes to settle
all difficult questions with other Governments by
peaceful methods. Germany will tread no other path
than that laid down by the Treaties. The German
people have no thought of invading any country.—
Berlin, May 17, 1933.
We do not want a war merely for the purpose of
bringing to Germany people who simply do not want
to be, or cannot be, Germans. — On the wireless, May
27, 1933.
[On October 14 Germany left the League of Nations.]
The history of the last 150 years should, in its
changing course, have taught France and Germany
that essential and enduring changes are no longer to
be gained by the sacrifice of blood. As a National-
Socialist I, with all my followers, refuse on the basis
of our national principles to win for ourselves the
members of other nations, who will never love us, at
the cost of the blood and lives of those who are dear
to us. It would be a mighty happening for all
humanity if these two nations of Europe would banish,
once and for all, force from their common life. The
German people is ready to do so. — On the wireless,
October 14, 1933.
There is no better guarantee for the peace of
the world than the fanatical unity of the German
people.— Kelheim, October 22, 1933.
There are Germans and Poles in Europe, and they
ought to live together in agreement. The Poles cannot
think of Europe without the Germans and the Ger-
mans cannot think of Europe without the Poles. —
Berlin, October 24, 1933.
I am not crazy enough to want a war. The
German people have but one wish —to be happy in
their own way and to be left in peace. When has the
German people ever broken its word? — Berlin,
November 10, 1933.
The Rights of Others
The new German Reich has fundamentally no
other wish in its attitude towards other peoples and
States than to live in peace and friendship with them.
We are convinced that it must be again possible in
this world to talk over differences in the lives of
nations without always at once thinking of a resort
to force. Germans and Poles must reconcile them-
selves as to the fact of each other’s existence. The
assertion that the German Reich plans to coerce the
Austrian State is absurd and cannot be substantiated
or proved. The assertion of the Austrian Government
that from the side of the Reich an attack would be
undertaken or planned I must emphatically reject.
After the Saar question has been settled the
German Government is ready to accept not only the
letter but the spirit of the Locarno Pact. I can give
the assurance that this sovereign nation has no other
wish than to apply joyfully the strength and weight of
her political, moral and economic resources, not only
for the healing of wounds which the past has inflicted
on the human kind, but towards the co-operation of
all cultured and civilised nations. — Berlin, January
13, 1934.
We do not wish to interfere with the rights of
others, to restrict the lives of other peoples, to oppress
or subjugate other people. — Lippe, January 14, 1934.
A nation has awakened to the consciousness of
its strength. When the rest of the world asks what it
all means, what we want, we can answer: “At home
everything; abroad, only to be left in peace.” We
have a great aim before us ; a mighty work of reform
of ourselves, of our lives, of our life in common, of
our economy, of our culture. This work does not dis-
turb the rest of the world. We have enough to do in
our own house. — Gera, June 17, 1934.
The German Government, like the German
people, is filled with the unconditional wish to make
the greatest possible contribution to the preservation
of peace in this world. — Hamburg, August 17, 1934.
[On March 16, 1935, Germany announced
conscription. ]
The German Government intends not to sign
any treaty which seems to it incapable of fulfilment,
but will scrupulously observe every treaty voluntarily
concluded, even if drawn up before the Government’s
assumption of power and office. Germany has con-
cluded a non-aggression pact with Poland which is
more than a valuable contribution to European peace,
and she will adhere to it unconditionally. The German
Reich, and in particular the present German Gov-
ernment, has no other wish than to live on friendly
and peaceable terms with all neighboring States —not
only the larger States but the neighboring smaller
States.
Both we National-Socialists and the Bolshevists
are convinced that there is a gulf between us which
can never be bridged. So far as ever this Bol-
shevism draws Germany into its clutches we are the
deadliest and most fanatical enemies.
Germany neither intends nor wishes to interfere
in the internal affairs of Austria, to annex Austria, or
to conclude an Anschluss. — Berlin, May 21, 1935.
Germany is the bulwark of the West against
Bolshevism, and, in combating it, will meet terror with
terror and violence with violence. — Berlin, November
29, 1935.
European Culture
We want to be a peace-loving element among the
nations. We cannot repeat that often enough.— Berlin,
January 30, 1936.
[On March 7 Germany reoccupied the Rhineland and
denounced Locarno.]
I should like the German nation to see in the
other nations historical realities which the visionary
might like to wish away, but which cannot be wished
away. For this reason I should like the German
people to understand the inner motives of National-
Socialist foreign policy. We feel, for instance, that
it is very unpleasant that the access to the sea of a
nation of 33,000,000 should cut through former terri-
tory of the Reich, but we recognise that it is unreason-
able, because impossible, simply to wish to deny so
great a State access to the sea.
I shall demand from history confirmation of the
fact that in no moment of my work for the German
nation have I ever forgotten the obligation incumbent
on me and on us all for the maintenance of European
culture and civilisation.
—“Time and Tide,” London.
HITLER OFFERS PEACE.
France, before Locarno, had made pacts of
mutual assistance with both Czechoslovakia and
Poland. Germany did not take offence at these, not
only because, unlike the Franco-Soviet Pact, they were
subordinated to the provisions of the League Covenant,
but because at that time Czechoslovakia and especially
Poland always pursued a policy governed by their own
national interests. Germany has no desire to attack
these States, and does not believe they have any interest
in attacking her. Above all, however, Poland will
remain Poland and France will remain France, but
Soviet Russia is the exponent, organised into a State,
of a revolutionary philosophy. The introduction into
Central Europe of this mighty military factor destroys
any real European balance of power.
After three years I believe that I can regard the
struggle for German equality as concluded to-day. I
believe, moreover, that thereby the first and foremost
reason for our withdrawal from European collective
collaboration has ceased to exist. We have no terri-
torial demands to make in Europe. — Berlin, March
7, 1936.
I want to have a monument in the hearts of my
people. A 30-centimetre shell costs two thousand
marks. If I have another thousand marks I could
build a workman’s house. — Karlsruhe, March 12, 1936.
The German people do not wish to continue
waging war to readjust frontiers. Each readjustment
is bought by sacrifices out of proportion to what is
to be gained.— Munich, March 15, 1936.
I have been guided always by the principle that
German freedom has nothing to do with injury to
others. It is one of the most elementary principles
that nations should allow each other to live within
their own territories as they wish to live. — Breslau,
March 22, 1936.
The lie goes forth again that Germany to-morrow
or the day after will fall upon Austria or Czecho-
slovakia. I ask myself always: who can these elements
be who will have no peace, who incite continually,
who must so distrust, and want no understanding?
Who are they? I know they are not the millions who,
if these inciters had their way, would have to take
up arms. — Berlin, May 1, 1936.
We see in Bolshevism .a bestial, mad doctrine
which is a threat to us. I cannot make a pact with a
regime whose first act is not the liberation of work-
men but of the inmates of gaols. There are two
worlds. In Bolshevist Russia there is devastation,
grim murder and ruin. Here is laughter, happiness
and beauty. — Nuremberg, September 13, 1936.
The Bolshevist Danger
I do not want to leave any doubt as to the fol-
lowing: We look upon Bolshevism as upon an in-
tolerable danger to the world ; we shall try to keep
«*• hanger away .«* Jg?&S43S
the German people as immune as possible
Promts contain, /or this it »
SfpSSff bacilli. C ° Any S tSsr t
Sermany and present-day Bolshevist Russia would
be /f"so-'cahed°surprises is now over.-
Fascist Italy are a community
of wills which it will be impossible for any party to
ignore in future in any question of international
politics. The agreement with Japan serves the same
purpose-a standing together in defence against
attacks on the civilised world such as are taking place
to-day in Spain and could to-morrow or the day after
to-morrow begin in the East or elsewherc.-Nurem-
ber8 l Ss/most emphatically to be joined with those
whose programme is the destruction of Europe and
who do not even try to conceal this programme.
Nuremberg, September 14, 1937.
P ° la Shall I remind you of the Bolshevist Revolution
which slaughtered millions upon millions of people,
but whose bloodstained murderers still occupy high
places? With one single country alone we have de-
tested to enter into relationships. That State is Soviet
Russia. We see in Bolshevism more now than before
the incarnation of human destructive forces.
I may say that since the League of Nations has
abandoned its continuous attempts at disturbance in
Danzig and since the advent of the new Commissioner
this most dangerous place for European peace has
entirely lost its menace.
The Polish State respects the national conditions
in this country, and Danzig and Germany respect
Polish rights. Thus it has been possible to find the
way to an understanding which, emanating from
Danzig, in spite of the assertions of many mischief-
makers, has succeeded in removing all friction between
Germany and Poland, and made it possible to work
together in true amity— Berlin, February 20, 1938.
The genuineness of Germany’s desire for peace
and international understanding is demonstrated by
her large-scale building schemes. — Munich, February
24, 1938.
[On March 11 Germany invaded Austria.]
The motto must be, “Never war again.”— Berlin,
May 1, 1938. '
We are not interested in suppressing other nations.
We do not want to see other nations among us. We
want to live our own life, and we want other peoples
to do the same. Germany and Poland are two
nations, and these nations will live, and neither of
them will be able to do away with the other. I recog-
nised all this, and we all must recognise that a people
of 33,000,000 will always strive for an outlet to the
sea. We have assured all our immediate neighbors of
the integrity of their territory as far as Germany is con-
cerned. That is no hollow phrase ; it is our sacred will.
The Sudetenland is the last territorial claim which
I have to make in Europe. I have assured Mr. Cham-
berlain, and I emphasise it now, that when this prob-
lem is solved Germany has no more territorial prob-
lems in Europe. — Berlin, September 26, 1938.
Now, as a strong State, we can be ready to pursue
a policy of understanding with surrounding States.
We want nothing from them. We have no wishes or
demands ; we desire peace. No people can need peace
more than we. — Saarbriicken, October 9, 1938.
As a peace-loving man, I have made every elfort
to give the German nation the defence and the
weapons which are appropriate to persuade others also
for peace. A hedgehog never attacks another animal
except when it is attacked. No one should come near
us. We want only our quiet and the right to live. —•
Weimar, November 6, 1938.
We have undertaken very great limitations of the
aims of our foreign policy.— Reichenberg, December
2,1938 f
Contribution to Peace
In general we have but one wish —that in the
coming year we may be able to make our contribution
to this general pacification of the whole world. —
j ßerelitesgaden, January 1, 1939.
Only the warmongers think there will be a war.
I think there will be a long period of peace.—Berlin,
January 30, 1939.
[On March 15 Germany seized Czechoslovakia and
on March 21 annexed Memel.]
We are rearming, but do not dream of attacking
other nations, provided they leave us alone. We have
given Central Europe a great fortune; —namely, peace,
which is protected by the German might. — Wilhelms-
haven, April 1, 1939.
As the National Leader of the German people I
have never left any doubt that, wherever the national
interests of the European comity were at stake, national
interests must, if necessary, be relegated to second
place in certain cases. And —as I have already empha-
sised—this is not for tactical reasons, for I have never
left any doubt that I am absolutely earnest in this
attitude of mind. I have given binding declarations to
a large number of States. None of these States can
complain that even a trace of a demand contrary
thereto has ever been made to them by Germany.
If the sub-human forces of Bolshevism had proved
victorious in Spain they might easily have spread across
the whole of Europe. Since 1918 Soviet Russia has
engaged in 10 wars and military actions involving
force and bloodshed. Germany was concerned in
none of these.
Mr. Roosevelt believes that the “tide of events”
is once more bringing the threat of arms, and that if
this threat of arms continues a large part of the world
is condemned to a common ruin. As far as Germany


And Yet Lost!
Ernst Jackh, in a letter to London “Times”:
It is as well to remember that during the
period 1914-18 Imperial Germany had at her
disposal not only the very parts of Poland now
seized but also all the remainder of that coun-
try, together with the raw materials and food-
stuffs of Belgium, the North of France and
vast areas to the east, north-east and south-
east of the German Empire.
In the terms of the States of to-day, Ger-
many could then command the produce of
South Finland, all the three Baltic States,
Poland, Yugoslavia, parts of Albania, Rumania,
Bulgaria, parts of Soviet Russia, including the
Ukraine, Turkey, Syria, Palestine, Iraq and
A rabia : yet all this vast territory, four times as
large as that controlled by the Nazis to-day,
proved insufficient.
The British Navy, then as to-day, was in a
position to enforce a blockade so complete as
to cut off all the essential sea-borne supplies.
Furthermore, during the period 1914-18
Imperial Germany had sufficient gold reserves
and credit to finance purchases from her neutral
neighbors. To-day, with credit exhausted,
negligible gold reserves, and an acute shortage
of foreign exchange, it is clear that the Nazis
will not be able to buy as Imperial Germany
could almost until the end of the last war.
is concerned I know nothing of this kind of threat
to other nations. Mr. Roosevelt speaks of the reports
that he admittedly does not believe to be correct but
which state that further acts of aggression are con-
templated against independent nations. I consider
every such unfounded insinuation as an offence against
the tranquillity, and consequently the peace, of the
world. I also see therein something which tends to
frighten smaller nations or at least make them ner-
vous. If Mr. Roosevelt really has any specific instances
in mind in this connection I would ask him to name
the States who are threatened with aggression and to
name the aggressor in question. It will then be pos-
sible to refute these monstrous general accusations. All
States bordering on Germany have received binding
assurances.— Berlin, April 28, 1939.
[On August 21 Germany signed a pact with Russia,
and on September 1 invaded Poland. ]
And Now
In a speech delivered after the outbreak of war
Ftihrer said: “I will not war against women and
children. I have ordered my air force to restrict
itself to attacks on military objectives.”— Berlin, Sep-
tember 1, 1939.
[The bombing of Polish open towns began on the first
day of the war, and on September 3 the Athenia was
sunk.]
Discount German-'shortage’ Stories.”
(From a London “Daily Mail’ ’ article by Ward Price!)
Though Germany was put on rations before war
had actually broken out, she is in no danger of run-
ning short of supplies for a long time to come. Reports
of shortages” in Germany earlier this year only re-
flected the precautionary measures that the German
Government was taking as part of the war prepara-
tions. Even then, the lack of one kind of food was
made up by plenty of another.
The German housewife might not be able to buy
sweetbreads or lamb chops from her butcher, but she
would be offered other kinds of meat as a substitute. If
Berlin was short of eggs for a period, it would be found
that Munich or Cologne was adequately supplied,
and, under the national distribution scheme then
already in force, Berlin’s turn would come again.
At the present time there seems to be no lack of
provisions. The ration-scale in force allows consumers
the following proportions of the average consumption
per head in the years 1935-38: Fats, 85 p.c.; milk, 67
p.c.; meat, 88 p.c. ; sugar, 63 p.c.; coffee, 74 p.c.
As a result of systematic storage in peace-time,
Germany has plenty of wheat for bread-making,
though reserves of maize for cattle-feeding are not so
ample. According to the “Economist,” the reserves
of grain held on August 1 last amounted to 8,600,000
tons, to which the large yield of the recent harvest
must be added. It is calculated that until well on into
1941 there will be no shortage of bread in Germany,
though lack of feed for cattle may be felt by the end
of next year. This does not take into account the
supplies that may be secured from neutral countries.
Stories of imminent starvation in Germany should
therefore be rejected as quite unfounded. They are as
misleading as the account published in “Hamburger
Fremdenblatt” of conditions in London, which alleges
that: —
“So many thefts and assaults are being com-
mitted in the blackout that the population is clamor-
ing for help, as the police are powerless. Street acci-
dents are so numerous that the hospitals find them-
selves in great difficulties. Though figures of the
killed and injured are no longer published, the people,
especially in London, are displaying real panic.”
The British and French people need no over-
optimistic reckoning upon German internal weakness
to assure them of the certainty of ultimate triumph for
their cause.
How Blockade Affects Germany.
[Though Ward Price, who knows Germany much
better than most “authorities,” rightly counsels dis-
counting stories of any immediate shortage in Germany,
H. C. Hillman, in the article here condensed from
Manchester “Guardian,” demonstrates that, in time, full
blockade must be severely felt in that country.]
In invoking the law of contraband, Britain has
resorted to a powerful weapon of economic warfare.
According to the trade publications of the “Statis-
tisches Reichsamt,” Germany imported in 1938 over
1000 commodities amounting to 62.6 million metric
tons. The figures show clearly that Germany is
primarily dependent on foreign supplies of industrial
raw materials.
Germany imported these commodities from 106
different countries. In order to show what proportion
of goods in each commodity group was supplied by
these countries the countries themselves were classi-
fied as: Allies, consisting of Poland and the French
and British Empires; contiguous countries — i.e., all
those with a common frontier with Germany; all
Baltic States, including Russia ; all Mediterranean and
States of south-eastern Europe; the Near and Far
Eastern States; all South American States; and the
United States of America.
The importance of each
group of countries as a source
of supply to the German
Reich may be seen with
reference to each commodity
group:
Germany imported 38
p.c. of her ore supplies from
the Baltic States, 35 p.c. from
the Allies, 15 p.c. from the
Mediterranean countries, 11
p.c. from all contiguous
States, and the remaining 1
p.c. from the rest of the
world.
Her imports of coal were
obtained as to 60 v p.c. from
the Allies and 40 p.c. from
contiguous States.
The United States sup-
plied 22 p.c. of Germany’s
cereal imports, the Allies and
the South American States
each supplied 21 p.c., the Far
and Near Eastern countries
supplied 12 p.c., the Medi-
terranean States 15 p.c., the
contiguous States 7 p.c., leaving 1 p.c. for the rest
of the world.
Germany received 45 p.c. of her mineral oils
from the contiguous States, 24 p.c. from the United
States, 17 p.c. from the South American States, 9 p.c.
from the Mediterranean countries, and of the remain-
ing 5. p.c. the Allies supplied less than 0.5 p.c.
She imported 37 p.c. of her textile fibres from
the Allies, 31 p.c. from the Baltic States, 14 p.c. from
the contiguous States, 9 p.c. from the South American
countries, and the remaining 9 p.c. from the rest of
the world.
Germany obtained 37 p.c. of all her metal imports
from the contiguous States, 26 p.c. from the Allies,
23 p.c. from the United States, 5 p.c. from both the
South American countries and the Baltic States, and
the remaining 4. p.c. from the rest of the world.
She was supplied with meats and fats up to 36 p.c.
by the South American States, 24 p.c. by the Baltic
States, 17 p.c. by the contiguous States, 12 p.c. by the
Allies, 9 p.c. by the Mediterranean countries, and
3 p.c. by all other countries.
Of all her fertilisers and animal-feeding materials
Germany obtained 32 p.c. from the United States.
30 p.c. from the contiguous States, 27 p.c. from the
Allies, 7 p.c. from the South American States, and the
remaining 2 p.c. from the rest of the world.
Finally, of the total tonnage of all commodities,
Germany imported 32 p.c. from the Allies, 22 p.c.
from the Baltic States, 19 p.c. from the contiguous
States, 11 p.c. from the Mediterranean countries, 2 p.c.
from the Near and Far East, and 7 p.c. each from the
United States and from the South American States.
On the assumption that contraband interception
on the high seas were complete, the total tonnage
imported into Germany would be reduced by 48 p.c.
Even if Poland (whose share in the total tonnage
imported into Germany amounted to 1 p.c., which
corresponds to 25 p.c. of Poland’s total exports) were
classified with the contiguous States Germany would
be short of 76 p.c. of her cereals, 66 p.c. of her
fertilisers, 56 p.c. of her coals, 53 p.c. of her metals,
45 p.c. of her mineral oils, 40 p.c. of her ores and
39 p.c. of her fat and meat supplies.
These losses caused by the most severe appli-
cation of contraband control may not make them-
selves felt immediately. For the increase in German
imports since 1934 (living animals by 220 p.c., animal
and vegetable foodstuffs by 40 p.c. and industrial
raw materials by 38 p.c.) points to some stocks of
the most essential war-time commodities. And,
secondly, Germany has an active trade balance with
those three groups of countries (Baltic, contiguous
States and Mediterranean) whose exports (likely to be
increased) cannot be intercepted by contraband authori-
ties. Even so, if the struggle lasts, the effects of
economic warfare may be as decisive as any military
operations in ending the war.
The Siegfried Defence.
o Condensed, from a London “Daily Mail” article
by T. A. Lowe.)
It is a mistake to underestimate the strength of
the Siegfried Line. It is tremendously strong.
“Line” is a misleading word, and should not be
use< ?\ German word Stellung means a series of
positions, and the “Siegfried-Stellung” is therefore the
exact opposite of the rows of static trenches, with
their communications to supports and reserves, which
those of us who served in the Great War remember
on the Somme.
Siegfried tactics are quite simple. First, you be-
guile your enemy into forward zones which are filled
with minefields, pillboxes and machine-gun nests.
Second, if he has managed to penetrate so far, you
engage him in a forward battle zone. Third, you
harass him in a rearward battle zone. Finally, if
his reserves have not been completely used up by this
time, you lure him into your counter-attack zone.
It is on the last-named that the whole system is
based. Well-planned counter-attacks are difficult to
withstand. A pause of exhaustion must follow, leav-
ing the initiative in the hands of the defenders.
The system has certain disadvantages from the
defenders’ point of view. Pillboxes, machine-gun
nests and concrete strong points must be manned by
small garrisons which may become isolated. They
live under conditions of the utmost discomfort, they
must go “over the top” every night to obtain their
rations, they cannot be frequently relieved. If their
main lines of communication in the rear are threat-
ened by heavy gunfire, whole areas of these positions
can be starved out.
In many places on the Western Front the Sieg-
fried positions are 15 to 20 miles in depth. They
—"Daily Herald,” London.
WINDOW DRESSING.
RIBBENTROP: "Perhaps you might make her expression a little more
winning, Adolf!”
run from Switzerland to Belgium. It is obvious that
to man even the forward zones against possible attack
at any point must employ enormous numbers of men.
The opposite is the case with regard to the French
Maginot Line, where a large mobile army can be
moved quickly behind it from one point to another.
The Siegfried positions have got to be retained.
An army must keep its counter-attack troops in the
places chosen for them, and there is then not much
room for manoeuvre.
This war will test many theories. The power of
defensive weapons has increased to such an extent
that if one side or the other attacks positions in which
the enemy is ready and prepared the result will be
disastrous. If, on the other hand, manoeuvre is found
once more to be possible, huge defensive areas, the
work of years of careful planning, may become useless.
Possibly the assistance of air forces will be found
to have made all the difference. Allied ’planes can
swoop down on the German counter-attack divisions
and upset their concentrations.
Therefore, we can discard theories about German
“lines” and “walls” of defence. The Siegfried “posi-
tions” are different. Although tremendously strong,
they are by no means impregnable.
Chance for Cranks.
(From a London "Sunday Dispatch” article by
A. P. Herbert. M.P. ).
England’s danger is the cranks’ opportunity ; and
some of the cranks are ahead of the ordinary war
schedule already.
We had not been at war two weeks before Lady
Astor asked if the “liquor restrictions” of the later
stages of the last war could be at once imposed in
this one. Glasgow magistrates, I read, have ordered
the pubs to be closed at eight o’clock instead of ten.
There may, for all I know, be special justification for
this in Glasgow, but I know of none in London. (On
my alternate evenings off duty I make a point of visit-
ing the “local” to see.)
On these black nights, when one must cannon
from pedestrian to pillar-box and from pillar-box to
lamp-post in the street, crawl upstairs on all fours at
home and burrow under the blankets with an electric
torch like a guilty schoolboy in order to read a book ;
when cinemas are shut, the club empty, and the wire-
less knows nothing but war —it takes a strong spirit
not to feel that Hitler has won the war already.
It is difficult to behave like a mole without feel-
ing like a mole. And in these days, it seems to me,
the British pub, the people’s club, has justified its
existence as perhaps it never did before. For it has
been the one human corner, a centre not of beer but
bonhomie ; the one place where, after dark, the col-
lective heart of the race could be seen and felt, beating
resolute and strong.
Yet, says an Hon. Member, in a supplementary
question: “Will not the Minister remember that
cinemas are more fit for meeting-places than public
houses?” What nonsense! And what ignorance! We
need them both. No doubt we must have blackness
in street and home, but, at least, there must be light
in the civilians’ lives.
The foreign correspondent, describing the calm
and courage of a bombed city abroad, records in-
variably that “the cafes are open still.” It is a sort of
barometer, and there may be a lesson for us here. To
win the war we have to keep together, but we shall
not keep together if we never get together.
But the crank will have none of that sort of talk.
He does not really worry about us being bombed, but
he does see a grand opportunity to send us all to bed
early, without our show and supper, as he has been
trying to do so long, on the excuse that in this way
he will be winning the war.
So let us be vigilant, as well as disciplined, and,
though we have one eye on the sky, let us keep the
Other on the cranks. The lion will roar all the better
if from time to time he is allowed to laugh.


INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY
OPPORTUNITY knocks but once, according to the old
saying. To-day, however, with modern investment facili-
ties, opportunity continues to knock at the door of those wish-
ing to obtain security, independence or advancement.
A first step towards the achievement of these ambitions is to
seek a safe, sound investment for part of your earnings—no
matter how small. In this connection your attention is drawn
to the following advantages of a Fixed Deposit with the
Rural Bank: —
1. The security, backed by the Government, is unquestioned.
2. Your investment returns you interest at current banking
rates.
3. You may make a Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank from
£5 upwards.
4. Making such an investment is simple, and can be com-
pleted in a few minutes.
5. You will be banking with an institution which lends portion
of its funds for carrying out important, special functions
that contribute to the welfare and prosperity of the whole
community.
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you—Serving
the State.
NOCK & KIRBY LTD
Johnson Iron Horse
GEN ERATOR
mm
I
3NUH9II
mu
mi
Gives You Dependable
ELECTRIC ITY
at Extremely Low Cost
300 IVatts 12 Volts
(Double the usual Capacity)
Have tlie extra comfort ana con-
venience of Electric Light for your
Home . . . Power for your Radio
and Power for charging Batteries
by installing a JOHNSON GENE-
RATOR. You no longer need be
inconvenienced with old-style
lighting when Electric Light, the
boon of to-day’s civilisation, is now
available quickly and economically
with the JOHNSON IRON HORSE
GENERATOR. Dependable Electric
>/1 1
Light actually costs you less than the messy, dangerous, old-fashioned lamps.
For approximately 1/- you can burn three lights for 3£ hours every night in the week.
Here Are a Few of the More Important Features
300 WATTS ... 12 VOLTS . . . Lights 12-25 Watt Globes . . . ELECTRIC
STARTING—just push a button . . . FULL RANGE CONTROL . . . Special
Built-in Generator Powered by a Johnson iron Horse 4-Cycle Petrol Engine
. . . AUTOMATIC CUT-OUT disconnects when not
running . . . Quiet Operation . . . Minimum Vibration.
CASH PRICE
Special Terms From £lO Deposit.
Approved Country Residents may obtain immediate
possession by paying a deposit of £lO, and if
the balance is paid within 12
months there is no extra
charge for interest
£34)10/
(Batteries Extra.)
CfD
...•■••••••'■ •
Iton
tot***? «S o \aet
T VeaS f Oene vato
ftotse u
>\at« e
Addte® 5 •••
B . 10-S9
DOCK CKIRBV LTD
Postal Address... BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY
MAGNIFICENT
ADDITIONAL ATTRACTION
AT
LAPSTONE
LUXURY HOTEL
LEONAY
GOLF COURSE
NOW OPEN
The picturesque Leonay Golf Links is a full-length 18 Holes Championship
Course, situated between the Nepean River .and the foothills of the Blue
Mountains.
Lapstone Hotel overlooks the Course, the Club House being only 5 minutes
distant by car from the hotel. A Special Car Service runs to and from the
links throughout the day for the convenience of Guests staying at Lapstone.
All visitors staying at Lapstone Hotel are Honorary Members of the Leonay
Golf Club.
Because of its proximity to the Leonay Links, Hotel is now the ideal
place to stay and enjoy a perfect golfing holiday, whilst, for those who are
merely “up for the day,” Lapstone will prove a worthy “19th Hole.”
The LEONAY COUNTRY CLUB was conceived and made possible by the
enterprise and foresight of Mr. LEO BURING, of “Ye Olde Crusty Wine
Cellars,” Sydney.
LAPSTONE HOTEL
Glenbrook, Blue Mountains, New South Wales
CITY OFFICE: 12A MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Moderate Inclusive Tariff from 17/6 per day and from
£5/5/- per week.
Telephones: Enquiries and Booking Office, ’Phone 8W1553;
Hotel, Penrith 82, 85.
Telegraphic Address: Lapstone, Glenbrook.
HERBERT J. PARKER, RESIDENT MANAGER.
rntemAmmJ
The New De Luxe Caravans Are Here!
12ft., 14ft. and 15ft. 6in. Family Models.
Explore the natural charm of your own country by Caravan
NOMAD Caravans were the centre of attraction at the Sydney
N.R.M.A. Caravan Show. Specially built and designed by coach-
building engineers, ensuring the utmost in comfort and durability.
a *
10ft. JUNIOR, weighing B\zwts Suit 10-horsepower Car.
• Hire and Sales —Personal Service and Attention.
• Caravans to suit all cars. Cash or Terms.
Consult your nearest N.R.M.A. or R.A.C. Agent, or send for
free illustrated folder to the makers—
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING CO.,
OFFICE AND WORKS: 321-5 PACIFIC HIGHWAY, NORTH SYDNEY.
X 83037. X 83037.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOU HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
When the late A. S. Chirnside mated
River Trent with Cyklon many years ago
he had hopes of breeding a Caulfield Cup
winner, thus following in the footsteps of
the original Andrew Chirnside, who cap-
tured the first (1879) Caulfield Cup with
Newminster. Unfortunately, the pro-
geny, a filly, was undersized. Sold
cheaply, she raced as Riverside in 14.1
pony events on Melbourne courses.
Purchased by Harry Bamber, a native
of Coldstream, Lilydale, close to where
Madame Melba established her famous
Coombe Cottage, Riverside proved a gal-
loping marvel. She won the Ascot Thou-
sand of 1924, ran second in 1925, won
again in 1926, and was fourth in 1927,
carrying 9.13 and starting favorite on
the last occasion. The name of Riverside
was changed to Riv when she began to
compete against horses of all heights on
V.R.C. courses.
On retiring to the stud Riv had four
filly foals in succession—Rivdale, by
Moastra (son of Moabite); Rivette, by
Ronsard ; Rivonne, a sister to Rivette ;
and Rivlea, by High Brae. She has a
foal by Frilford, and is to be mated next
with Regular Bachelor. As a brood mare
Riv is as great a goldmine as she was on
the turf. Rivette gained high fame by
annexing the Caulfield Cup on Saturday.
Small, like her dam, Rivette did not
come much into the limelight as a gal-
loper until last winter, and, though six
years old and well matured, was allotted
only 6.13 in the Caulfield Cup. Subse-
quent deeds spoke for themselves, and,
the risk of a rehandicap having been
avoided, she was elevated to favoritism
in advance of the day and started in hot
demand at threes.
Ronsard, a Son-in-Law stallion, was
imported from England by the late
L. K. S. Mackinnon when V.R.C. chair-
man. Highly tried by James Scobie, he
broke down in training. Best of Ron-
sard’s get before Rivette came to light
may have been Rondeletia and Moora-
mong. In all probability Rivette owes
her brilliance and stamina to the dam.
Riv is by Cyklon (grandson of Carbine)
from River Trent, by Trenton (son of
Musket) from La Tosca, by Robinson
Crusoe from Nightmare, the granddam
of Wakeful.
Sol Green bought River Trent for
470gns. at the Newmarket (Eng.) sales
and used her at his Shipley stud, where
Comedy King and Positano served as
stallions. Green disbanded Shipley, and
at a later stage founded the Underbank
stud at Bacchus Marsh. Before leaving
England, River Trent foaled Eye Glass,
who, imported to Victoria, won many
good stakes for E. E. D. Clarke, including
the Adelaide Cup (twice). La Tosca,
dam of River Trent, was a fine per-
former in Australia, where she also pro-
duced F.J.A. (Victoria Derby) and Bur-
letta (dam of Radnor).
Caulfield Cup victory of Rivette was
thoroughly deserved. She had no easy
passage. Half a mile from home the little
mare encountered obvious trouble. E.
Preston later explained that another horse
clouted into her, and she was nearly
down on her nose. Gathering herself
together, Rivette went after the leaders
with fine courage. Following Maikai
when that horse forced an opening at the
turn, Rivette took charge after they faced
for home and, ridden right out, scored by
three-quarters of a length from the Pan-
theon gelding.
Respirator, the horse most solidly sup-
ported against Rivette —at one stage of
the betting he threatened to start in prime
demand —staged a late-finishing run such
as that which enabled him to beat the
mare narrowly in the Herbert Power
Handicap a week earlier ; but he had
every chance and was half a length be-
hind the second horse. In fact, Respirator
had his work cut out to prevent the 200-
to-1 chance, David Spear, depriving him
of third money.
Warm weather induced an enormous
attendance on Caulfield Cup day. The
crowd of 67,500 constituted an all-time
record. If such climatic conditions con-
tinue until the first Tuesday in November
the Cup crowd at Flemington will be
highly memorable. So far punters have
been well on the mark, and there ought
to be no lack of money for speculation.
Alan Cooper led off on Saturday by
annexing the first division of the Bur-
wood Handicap with his £lO,OOO pur-
chase, Gold Salute. Backed down to
11 to 8 on, the M.L. colt, confidently
ridden by F. Shean, romped home by
four lengths from Muscari, with Riviera
a close third. He covered the .mile in
lmin. 38sec. This time easily could have
been improved upon ; yet it is only a
second slower than Ajax’s course record
for the distance. Muscari’s effort was
praiseworthy. His trainer, James Scobie,
has discovered that the Madagascar colt
does not like racing on the inside of other
horses.
As in the Edward Manifold Stakes at
Flemington on October 7, Border Lass
and Snow White —stablemates and both
sired by Gay Lothario —finished first and
third respectively in the second division
of the Burwood Handicap. Winner was
a 6-to-4 favorite. Snow White started at
sixes. She may have a winning turn soon.
Always at odds-on, P. Miller’s Mar-
conigram colt Broadcaster missed a
place in the Gwyn Nursery, for colts and
geldings. He had been left at the post
on Caulfield Guineas day. This time no
excuse could be found for failure. Gold-
smith, one of the first of the progeny of
Hall Mark to face the barrier, seemed to
win, but the judge placed Mormon
(Liberal-Splice) first by half a head.
Mormon is trained by G. (“Pat”) Leek,
whose father won the Caulfield Cup of
1900 with Ingliston.
Divisions of the Mona Nursery, for
fillies, went to Pasal (9 to 2) and Partoer
(9 to 4) respectively. Pasal beat Applause
by half a length. Protest for interference
in the straight appeared to be weakly
grounded, and the stewards did not take
long to dismiss it. Pasal is by Lawmaker.
The mount on Partoer, a Portofino filly,
was entrusted to W. Cook. Sydney
jockeys had a fair day, F. Shean scoring
on Gold Salute and E. Bartle on Pasal.
Because he had not sported silk since
Newmarket Handicap day, Pamelus was
allowed to go out’ at 100 to 4 for the
Windsor Handicap. Always in the pic-
ture, he won brilliantly by a neck from
Caesar, with Beechwood a head farther
off. Tailed off for most of the journey,
Caesar electrified onlookers by gathering-
in one rival after another from the home
turn. In another stride or two Bailey
Payten’s representative would have won.
Eric Connolly must have lost a packet
over Tetreen in the Windsor Handicap.
The former W.A. galloper was supported
from sixes down to 5 to 2, supplanting
the Adelaide flyer Panka. Of this pair
Panka did best and may make early
atonement. Tetreen again disappointed
after beginning well.
South Australia had its turn in the
Wyuna Steeple, Lome (7 to 2) finishing
strongly to defeat Grantley (another S.A.
fencer) and the outsider, Prime Seal.
Waiting tactics helped Lome, who had
been ridden at the head of the field in
Adelaide outings. Lome is by Drumore,
a Wallace horse that once was trained
at Flemington by P. T. Heywood.
* * * *
Figures do not always work out correctly
in racing, but they pointed to Rivette’s
success in the Caulfield Cup. Although
she did not have marked luck in running,
her light weight stood to her after turn-
ing into the straight, and she won nicely,
though not easily. At Moonee Valley
a few weeks ago she ran third in the
Tullamarine Handicap, the winner being
Maikai, but, meeting him 181 b. better last
Saturday, he appeared one she was cer-
tain to beat.
Maikai, however, ran a great race, and
must enter into calculations for the Mel-
bourne Cup, in which, as at Caulfield,
his weight is 7.11. He won the Perth
Cup with that weight, so he has creden-
tials as a two-miler. Still, he will meet
Rivette only 71b. better, as she carried
7.2 on Saturday, and a 101 b. penalty
sends her up to 7.9 from the 6.13 origi-
nally allotted her. A mare has yet to
win the “two Cups” double, but Rivette
is afforded a great chance of doing so.
Admittedly the fact of coming home
strongly does not always mean that a
horse is going to see out two miles, but
nothing can be urged against the possi-
bility of Rivette doing so. She has an
advantage over most of those she beat,
though if Respirator had nearly as much
bad luck as alleged he should, on 81b.
better terms, make things difficult for
her. The eye trouble from which Rivette
suffered a little while back was prob-
ably a blessing in disguise. It tended
to a less strenuous time on the training
track, and that was something of a set-
off against the fact that she was racing
and showing form early in the winter.
In last season’s V.R.C. St. Leger Res-
pirator was outstayed by Tempest, and,
as he only ran third in the A.J.C. St.
Leger and nowhere in the Sydney Cup
with 8.2, many good judges struck him
off their list of two-milers. I thought
he seemed somewhat tired when racing
in Sydney in the autumn, and there is
no doubt he is much better now. That
would be necessary in order to make his
Cup chance really good, as Mosaic beat
him more than 81b. at Randwick, and
that is now the difference between them,
added to the certainty that Mosaic can
get two miles.
• • • • • +
In the Caulfield Cup Feminist got into
the trouble I feared she might. In the
Metropolitan she had a perfect run from
the start, but in the Caulfield Cup, with
91b. more weight, she was shut in early,
and that was the end of her. Flemington,
with its long stretches, will give her a
better chance, but it is now difficult to
put her up with last Saturday’s place-
getters. It was not reassuring when
excuses were made for her after the Caul-
field Stakes. She has a little less to
carry than at Caulfield, but will need to
improve upon that form by several
pounds to be among the first flight at the
finish of the Melbourne Cup.
There does not seem much hope for
Buzalong with only 21b. less than his
Caulfield weight. We saw him fail over
the final furlong of last year’s Metropoli-
tan, and also at the end of this year’s. A
mile and a half is probably his best dis-
tance. As he could not quite get that
last week, he will surprise me if he sees
out an extra half-mile.
When Fearless did so well in the Met-
ropolitan the easy pace in the early part
was in his favor, but in order to keep
near the front in the first three furlongs
of the Caulfield Cup he had to go fast
to hold his position, and that found him
out soon after entering the straight. A
slowly-run race often gives a wrong im-
pression as to a horse’s staying ability,
and it was so in the Metropolitan in
respect of Fearless. At present a soundly-
run 11 furlongs is probably as far as
he likes.
The surprise of the Caulfield Cup was
David Spear’s fourth. His price of 200
to 1 evidenced what was thought
of his chance, and as it was only at the
end he showed up he will now find back-
ing for the Melbourne Cup. He is by
David, and his dam, Spear Maiden, is
by Spearhead. She won the first King’s
Cup. There is no lack of versatility in
David’s progeny. They include jumpers,
sprinters and stayers. Another light-
weight in Historian ran well, and, of the
Melbourne Cup horses with less than
7st., he and David Spear, will now appeal
most to backers.
As Pantier came from a long way back
to finish sixth, presumably he is now a
certain starter for the Melbourne Cup,
and I suppose Ortelle’s Star will also be
one of the field. She ran much better
than in her previous race at the V.A.T.C.
meeting, and she can get two miles. She
has 71b. more than when third in the last
Cup, but only 21b. more than when simi-
larly placed in the last Australian Cup.
It looks as if Geebung can be dismissed
for the Cup. The same would appear
to apply. to L’Aiglon, who failed after
working into a good position at the turn
in the Caulfield Cup. He has 21b. less
weight in the Melbourne Cup..
Of the Caulfield Cup runners Respira-
tor, Rivette and Maikai now appeal most,
though among the unplaced runners in
that race Pantler and Ortelle’s Star still
count. Of Saturday’s non-runners,
Mosaic, Cooranga and Son of Aurous
are possibilities, and Gold Salute’s win
at a mile made a good impression. Bour-
bon was one of my early selections, but
as a weak leg caused his withdrawal from
the Caulfield Cup he will have to make
rapid recovery to be quite ready for the
longer race.
Selecting a likely collection at this
stage, I shall take Mosaic, Ortelle’s Star,
Respirator, Cooranga and Rivette. As
winner of the Sydney Cup with weight-
for-age, in record time for the race,
Mosaic must be given a great chance
when similarly treated in the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
Change of venue from Warwick Farm
to Randwick last Saturday was generally
appreciated. The A.J.C. gave £l9OO for
the day’s racing, but with a fair attend-
ance and a tote turnover exceeding
£28,000 it.is probable a satisfactory profit
resulted. An unusual feature at Rand-
wick was a three-divisions Maiden Handi-
cap. They did not produce any potential
Phar Laps, but brought to light some
horses that will later be useful in open
company.
Taking his form at his two previous
starts as a guide Brazandt did seem a
“good thing” for the Varroville Handi-
cap, especially when he drew No. 1 at
the barrier. The result proved that his
recent runs under big weights had taken
toll of him, as, though he led into the
straight with Jazbeau, his chance was
gone a furlong from home. Eased right
up, he finished last. Glorious was not
greatly fancied, but, running on better
than in the Flying Handicap at City
Tatt.’s meeting, she won comfortably
from Might Not, who finished well ahead
of her the previous week, when they met
on much the same terms.
Sigh, who was beaten for pace in the
early part, struggled on well to get third,
and will be better suited by a welter at
a furlong or two longer distance. As
usual Merry Smile displayed pace, but
is not suited by six furlongs at Rand-
wick. A race of that distance at one
of the suburban tracks will give her a
much better chance. Beaucaire’s fifth
suggested the possibility of a return to
the form shown by him in the spring
of last season. It is not often that a
winner—or, rather, part winner—of a
Breeders’ Plate runs in an average six
furlongs race with the minimum weight
early the following season.
Trainer R. Abbott deserved a win
with Braidwood Boy, who, after being
last away in the Homebush Handicap,
gradually improved his position, and,
taking charge at the Leger, had no diffi-
culty in stalling off Osculum, who
momentarily looked dangerous. It was
Osculum’s third second in a month, and
it looks as if his inability to get a posi-
tion early in a race will continue to
tell against him.
Curiosity, who had 51b. penalty, shaped
well, as did Pen Name. Both are sure
to win middle distance races at suburban
meetings. Cronus has a full share of
pace, but is an indifferent stayer; while
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By “SENTRY .”
St. Albans Handicap: Happy
Bay, 1; Procyon, 2; Partoer, 3.
Broadmeadows Steeplechase:
Grantley, 1 ; Niello, 2; Musical
David, 3.
W. S. Cox Plate: High Caste, 1 ;
Gold Salute, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Moonee Valley Gold Cup:
Donor’s Hill, 1 ; David Spear, 2 ;
Son of Aurous, 3.
Dundonald Handicap: Amiable,
1 ; Beechwood, 2 ; Red Morn, 3.
Phoenix Handicap: Crojick, 1 ;
Bramol, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By PILOT .”)
Macarthur Stakes: Sans Ame, 1 ;
All Agog, 2 ; Duke Cullen, 3.
Lady Fitzroy Stakes: Dark
Elegance, 1 ; Contestor, 2; Ken-
thelda, 3.
Flying Handicap: Rival Chief, 1 ;
Berani, 2 ; Salamyne, 3.
Cumberland Handicap: The Bliz-
zard, 1 ; Miss Linbul, 2; Pen
Name, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Sunstreak, 1 ;
Tyrannus, 2 ; Denis Lad, 3.
Parramatta Mile: Binnia Hero,
I; Rex, 2; Lord Valentine, 3.


Make sure of a Winner
by using
‘BOSCA’ SADDLERY
Sfk-IB®
■3
*11:
jm-
“Bosca” Saddles and Gear have proved
superior to other saddlery in quality and
long wear throughout the World.
Be sure it’s a “BOSCA.”
Large range in all styles of Race,
Exercise, Polo and Stock Saddles kept in
stock, or made to order.
Send for free illustrated catalogue.
FRANK ARNOLD,
122 Bathurst Street (near Elizabeth St.),
SYDNEY, N.SAV.
SAVE MONEY
w.
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
Mew
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
ference in speed, acceleration
and power. They soon pay for
themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
| An Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can.
*ess
K»SO-
-
“Y've taken the Wrong road—this is Mango Flats."
Head Check again evidenced that she
has no liking for a weight approach-
ing Bst.
Bookmaker J. Mandel landed the
Greystanes Juvenile Stakes with Shem,
who is by Portofino from Semetist, and
was bought privately. He got away
smartly, and then lost his position, but
eventually defeated Sans Ame a neck.
The latter is by Fox-earth (son of Fox-
law) from Golden Robe, and on the
maternal side runs back to a family
of good horses. His yearling price
was 180gns. Rylstone (Hall Mark-
Lady Zelteers) was a long way back in
the early part, and did well to run third.
On appearance he appeals more to me
than the first two.
Whenever a stable has a two-year-old
that shows form it is generally credited
with having another “nearly as good.”
Duke Cullen, a stable-companion of
Flying Knight, opened favorite because
he was alleged to be a galloper out of the
ordinary. He was never dangerous, nor
was Indian Emperor, who merely plugged
along, but it should not be long before
Yuletide (Christopher Robin-Cheer) picks
up a race.
Athboy added another £l9O to his
earnings when he pulled off the Mac-
quarie Grove Handicap. Setting up a
useful lead in the first three furlongs,
he was still well clear of his opponents
turning into the straight. Half a furlong
from home there appeared every likeli-
hood of his stable-companion Cherry
Bar overhauling him, but he slightly
hampered her, and then held her off.
Athboy lacks nothing in gameness, and,
with racing, continues to improve as a
stayer. Red Thespian again gave a good
account of himself, but has just about
reached his top.
June made a fair showing, though the
mile was a little beyond her. Her turn
for a win should come shortly in a six-
furlong race. High Dividend, though
well backed, was disappointing. In a
good position for the first half-mile, she
dropped right out before reaching the
winning-post. Perimond again cut up
badly, and does not look like improving,
while Forestage is also slow in returning
to form.
Prince Ariel finished strongly to win
the second division of the Maiden from
Tyrannus, who looked a winner at the
Leger. There was little between Denis
Lad and Woolooga for third, the former’s
pull in weight standing to him in the
last few strides. Woolooga is sure to im-
prove. Denis Lad and Gretchen were
the actual leaders at the straight entrance.
There was no more solid-looking horse
in the field than Prince Ariel, who cost
Skelton 300gns. as a yearling, and is by
Marconigram from Queen Balak, half-
sister to Highardo, a useful stayer.
If R. Skelton wins with one of his
horses early in the day at any meeting it
generally means a plunge on something
else from his stable later the same after-
noon. Of course results do not always
favor him in such circumstances, but he
generally gets close to the mark. Prince
Ariel’s win in the first division of the
Maiden Handicap at Randwick gave him
the foundation for a substantial bet on
Toy Time in the Farm Progressive
Stakes, and he had the pleasure of seeing
her win all the way. It was an appren-
tice race, and Toy Time was ridden by
M. Vickers, who at a recent meeting in
Sydney had the unusual experience for
an apprentice of riding over hurdles and
on the flat the same afternoon.
Lord Valentine, backed as if he could
not lose, ran into trouble at the five
furlongs, and again a little further on,
falling back to second-last at the three-
furlongs. In the straight he made such
a fast run on the rails that less than a
hundred yards from home he got within
a half-length of Toy Time. The effort
proved too much for him, as, weakening
near the winning-post, he just missed a
place. He is one of those horses that
always seem to race with luck against
them. Magic Ring was a good second,
but though in that position half-way
down the straight never looked like over-
hauling Toy Time. Marlong is worth
following, as is Camsion at mid-week
meetings.
• ••••«
A lucky run on the rails all down the
straight greatly assisted Response in
winning the first division of the Maiden
Handicap. The minor places were filled
by Brave Bird and Nimble, who were
always prominent, and many of the
latter’s backers thought she was a trifle
unlucky not to have won. The winner
is a brother to El Senorita, and finished
as if a longer distance than six furlongs
would not trouble him. Theorize, a
smart-looking filly by Bullhead from
Theory, did well for a long way, and
is worth remembering.
Mabson, a three-year-old by Constant
Son, defeated Bronze Flight by a head
in the third division of the Maiden
after a great tussle. If Sunstreak had
not run a little ungenerously half a fur-
long from home he would
probably have won. Boysun,
from C. O. Battye’s stable, was
favorite throughout, but after
being the early leader weak-
ened in the straight, as did
Praesum (by The Verderer),
who has pace. Decelea was
again disappointing, and as she
was well in the market must
be much better in private than
in a race.
* * *
In some of the Melbourne
lists issued a few weeks after
the publication of the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup weights,
and subsequent to Rivette
showing form, she was quoted
at 25 to 1 for last Saturday’s
race. At that time she was at a
four-figure quote with Respirator for
the second leg of the double. The “two
Rivettes” were also on the four-figure
mark, while £1 invested on Rivette and
Gold Salute would have meant a small
fortune in the event of the latter suc-
ceeding in the Melbourne Cup.
At the time to which I refer Defaulter
was favorite. in doubles for the Mel-
bourne Cup, with High Caste, Mosaic
and Spear Chief on the next line. Of the
quartet only Mosaic remains. Straight-
out, Defaulter was at 8 to 1 and High
Caste and Spear Chief at 14 to 1 each.
Ajax was then favorite for the Caulfield
Cup at 7 to 1, followed by Millie’s Hope,
Reading and Tempest at 12 to 1. Only
Millie’s. Hope ran, and his starting price
was 40 to 1. Sometimes early backers
beat the books in connection with impor-
tant handicaps, but not too often.
* * * *
Mildura set the pace in the Caulfield
Stakes, and finished fourth, which was
an improvement on his Epsom form.
Hilton, winner of the Toorak with 9.4
the previous Saturday, was behind him
at the finish, and only that Manrico,
with 8.5, stands so much in the way, it
might be possible to give Mildura a Can-
tala Stakes chance. He is likely to figure
prominently in that, though without win-
ning, but at Flemington there are other
races up to a mile and a quarter in
which he may pay expenses before re-
turning to Sydney. He runs that parti-
cular distance well, as he recorded 2.3,
with 7.13, when he won the Moreton
Handicap at the Q.T.C. meeting last May.
* * * *
M. McCarten has landed on that bad
patch which all prominent riders strike
sometime or other. He went through the
A.J.C. meeting without a win, and his
luck has not changed in Melbourne. Last
Wednesday’s racing at Caulfield gave him
two seconds, and on Saturday his por-
tion was a second and a third. He was
supposed to be on two “certainties,” his
mount, Broadcaster, starting at 6 to 4 on
for the Gwyn Nursery, and Tranquil
Star, on whom he was second in the
second division of the Mona Nursery,
being an even-money chance. It would
be safe to bet, though, that McCarten is
among the winning riders at Flemington.
Last spring McCarten was also unsuc-
cessful at Caulfield, but had three wins at
Flemington.
* * * *
In Sydney Gold Salute proved himself
a good horse at a mile, so there was
nothing surprising in his win with a big
weight at that distance at Caulfield on
Saturday. A. E. Cooper is reported as
now being very optimistic as to that colt’s
prospects in the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup. He is reported to have said
Gold Salute was sure to beat High Caste
in the Derby.
Cooper is an optimist and a game
one, too, going upon the prices he pays
for horses-but Gold Salute will need to
greatly improve upon hisi AJC E>erby
form in order to down High Caste. In
that race Gold Salute was well beaten at
the straight entrance. He may be much
better now, but High Caste has gone on
improving since the Derby. At his lates
start he made light of his task of win-
ning the Caulfield Stakes. Gold Salute
ran away from his opponents at Caul-
field, but they were not of the class High
Caste beat in the w.f.a race Gold
Salute’s owner deserves luck, and I think
he will need it in order to win the Vic-
toria Derby. .
Turning to the other Derby candi-
dates, Wilson’s chance of winning that
race was not improved by his showing in
the Caulfield Cup. While he did not
run actually badly, he should have done
better to put him in line for a Derby
win. He has receded in the Melbourne
Cup quotations, which points to keen
observers being disappointed by his Caul-
field run.
Neither Beau Vite nor Reading did
well enough in the Caulfield Stakes to
enhance his Derby prospects. The wav
the race was run may have been against
both, especially as Beau Vite was backed
in a manner that suggested he was ex-
pected to give High Caste a lot of trouble.
I am disposed to take A.J.C. Derby and
Craven Plate form as a correct index to
the relative merits of High Caste and
Beau Vite, and if Reading is not quite
himself Gold Salute may be High Caste’s
most dangerous Derby opponent, though
it will surprise me if the latter is beaten.
* # * *
J. Scobie trained the winners of four
Meibourne Cups—Clean Sweep, King
Ingoda, Bitalli and Trivalve —and was
unlucky not to have had another in Stand
By. I was at Flemington the morning
that horse did such a remarkable trial
at a mile and a half that it seemed only
a matter of his repeating it in the race—
despite the extra half-mile —to win.
Something went amiss with him on the
morning of the Cup, and when I got to
the course I heard everywhere “Stand By
will not start.” However, he did not
show lameness on going out for the Cup,
and if he had got a clear run in the
straight he would have won. It was
not due to any fault of his rider. He
was going for an opening when he was
squeezed out, and Stand By did not have
time to recover himself before Back-
wood, who came from a long way back
and was wider out, had the race won.
It merely added to those many happen-
ings which go to prove “There’s nothing
certain in racing.”
* * * *
Of the many Melbourne Cups I wit-
nessed the most remarkable was that of
Artilleryman. Beaten on the opening
day by Richmond Main in the Victoria
Derby, there was nothing in his effort
to suggest he would make a runaway
win of the Melbourne Cup. He


VICTORIA RACING CLUB, FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY 4th NOVEMBER
CUP DAY 7th NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 9th NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE 1 Ith NOVEMBER
£lO,OOO Added to Melbourne Cup and Gold Cup of £2OO.
£5,000 Added to The Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
did, however, fairly bolting away
from his opponents from the straight
entrance and winning by several
lengths; he ran the two miles in
3.24|, which was an improvement of
a second and a quarter on the previous
record for the race. Richmond Main
was second, and his owner, the late John
Brown, often shook his head doubtingly
concerning that result. There was no-
thing wrong, however. Artilleryman
simply improved in remarkable fashion
after the Derby, and his form in the Cup
was many pounds ahead of what he
showed in the classic race. Good as was
Artilleryman, there must have been a
slightly unreliable streak in him, as his
form was not always the same. This was
later demonstrated when, at 12 to 1 on,
he was beaten by Millieme in the A.J.C.
St. Leger.
* * * *
In trying for the probable winner of
a Melbourne Cup among horses of over
three years it is generally wiser to select
something that has shown form at a
distance approaching two miles than
chance anything not credentialled in that
fashion, even though it may appear to
have a great pull in weight. For instance,
Lancaster’s win in the 1900 Melbourne
Stakes with 9.0 appeared to give him a
tremendous advantage in the Melbourne
Cup with 7.10. However, though he
started favorite, he was out of his dis-
tance at two miles, and was beaten a
long way from home.
There are, of course, always exceptions,
and three of the last four Melbourne Cup
winners had not won beyond a mile and
a quarter prior to success in that race.
Marabou and Catalogue had won at
that distance, while Wotan’s longest win
prior to coming to Australia was at a
little over nine furlongs. At the same
time if a horse has shaped well at a mile
and a half, and has not been tried beyond
that distance, it stands a reasonable
chance of getting two miles, unless breed-
ing is quite against it Even then you
cannot always be sure that something
that, on breeding, does not appeal as a
stayer is not going to prove one. For
instance, The Welkin was not noted as the
sire of stayers, and yet his son Colugo,
who could not get beyond a mile, was
responsible for the 1930 Sydney Cup
winner Gwillian G., who made what, up
to then, was record time for the race.
* * * *
Ajax is not to run again before the
autumn, and it might not be odds on
his doing so even then. When good
horses that have done a fair amount of
racing go amiss it is never a certainty
they will “come back.” Anyhow, Ajax’s
owners are wise in deciding not to race
him at the coming V.R.C. meeting. De-
spite the interference to his preparation,
he might have been forward enough in
condition to give a good account of him-
self in the Linlithgow Stakes, but there
was the possibility of the run doing him
harm, and the actual value of the stake
was not of particular moment to them.
Fie will have plenty of time before the
autumn in which to recover from his
recent trouble, but if there is the least
doubt on that score his owners are un-
likely to take the slightest risk of the
chestnut besmirching his splendid record.
* * * *
Several Moonee Valley Cup winners
of recent years have run well in the
Melbourne Cup, but have not been able
to complete that double. Stand By was
unlucky not to have done so, and Silvius,
another winner, struck an exceptionally
good three-year-old i.n Trivalve in the
Melbourne Cup. Shadow King, the 1930
Moonee Valley winner, was beaten by
Phar Lap and Second Wind at Fleming-
ton, and Yarramba, who scored a couple
of years later at Moonee Valley, was
beaten into second place in the more im-
portant race by Peter Pan. Shadow King,
who was third to Yarramba at Moonee
Valley, was similarly placed in that year’s
Melbourne Cup. Last year Ortelle’s Star
won at Moonee Valley with 7.11, and
with the same weight was third in the
Melbourne Cup. The fact of the dis-
tance being a mile and five furlongs
makes form in the Moonee Valley Cup
worth noting as bearing on Flemington’s
two miles race.
* * * #
In last week’s issue I made the mistake
of saying that Christopher Robin’s oldest
runners in Australia were three years.
It should have been four, but, even though
his stud career has been a year longer
here than I wrote, greater success than
in his earlier seasons is still possible.
Stallions can be recalled that >did not
greatly shine for the first two or three
years, but did so later, and the fornl
of Christopher Robin’s two-year-olds at
Caulfield suggested he may add to the
number. Before he left England Chris
topher Robin served a few mares, and
had a couple of two-year-old winners.
* * * *
Over the last 20 years Heroic has a
better record in the Victoria Derby
than any other sire. During that period
he has had three winners—Hall Mark,
Hua and Nuffield. Of that trio Hall
Mark was easily the best, as he added
the Melbourne Cup to his Derby win.
The other two ran in the Cup, but had
nothing to do with the finish. Apart
from Heroic no other sire has been rep-
resented by more than one winner since
1913. Heroic is unlikely to add to his
record this year, and as High Caste is
by Bulandshar, Reading by Marconi-
gram, Gold Salute by Lord Warden,
Wilson by Siegfried, Beau Vite by Beau
Pere, and Dashing Cavalier by Constant
Son, it seems as if another new sire will
be added to the number successfully
represented in the Derby. Which indi-
cates that no matter how carefully a
yearling buyer may go into breeding, he
is lucky if he gets hold of something
that proves up to classic form.
* * * *
Broadcaster must have gone off since
he ran second in the Breeders’ Plate,
or the Victorian two-year-old colts are
superior to Sydney’s. Excuse seems im-
possible for his failure in the Gwyn
Nursery; though he was in a good
position from the start he missed a place.
As Applause was beaten in the first
division of the Mona Nursery, followers
of P. Riddle’s stable had an unprofitable
afternoon. It now looks as if Trueness,
even with 71b. penalty, is Sydney’s main
hope in the Maribyrnong Plate, though
St. Andrew may also be a possibility.
* * * *
At present it is doubtful what will start
favorite for the Melbourne Cup, but
Respirator, on the strength of his good
run at Caulfield, may have that honor.
Of course, a great deal depends upon the
horses with which Rivette has been
coupled. Double bookmakers will have
to cover themselves, and in some cases
that will tend to a few Cup candidates
being at a shorter price than actually
warranted by form. It is stated that the
success of the “two Rivettes” will take
a tremendous sum out of the ring, but
until she won last Saturday it was not
inferred that she would be one of the
worst horses in the Melbourne Cup for
the double-layers as a whole.
Commencing with Trafalgar in 1909
Melbourne Cup favorites have fared as
under: —•
Favorite. Price. Result.
1909 Trafalgar 4 to 1 Fourth
1910— Trafalgar 9 to 2 Second
1911— Trafalgar 7to 2 Unplaced
1912 — Duke Foote 6to 4 Unplaced
1913 Beragoon 3to 1 Unplaced
1914 St. Carwyne 5 to 1 Fourth
1915 — Reputation! c , TT , ,
Lavendo j sto 1 Unplaced
1916 — Shepherd King 4to 1 Second
1917 Lanius 7to 4 Unplaced
1918— King Offa 7 to 2 Fifth
1919 Lucknow 6 to 1 Fourth
1920 — Salitros 5 to 1 Unplaced
1921 Eurythmic 5 to 1 Unplaced
1922 The Cypher 6 to 1 Second
1923 Bitalli 4to 1 First
1924 Spearfelt 9 to 4 Third
1925 Manfred 7to 4 Second
1926 Pantheon 9 to 4 Third
1927 — Silvius 3 to 1 Second
1928 Strephon 9 to 4 Second
1929 Phar Lap Evens Third
1930 Phar Lap 11 to Bon First
1931 Phar Lap 3 to 1 Unplaced
1932 Peter Pan 4 to 1 First
1933 — Rogilla 5 to 2 Unplaced
1934 — Sir Simper 1 Q . TT , ,
Nightly j 9to 2 Unplaced
1935 — Marabou 9 to 2 First
1936 — Talking 3 to 1 Unplaced
1937 The Trump ] [ First
Sir Regent !■ 11 to 2 1 Unplaced
Hua ] (Unplaced
1938 Royal Chief 5 to 1 Unplaced
There is likely to be a large field for
the Moonee Valley Cup, and as Ortelle’s
Star, who won last year with 7.11, ran
well in the Caulfield Cup with 8.7, she
is sure to find backing on Saturday with
that weight if started. I am writing
before the declaration of final acceptance,
and it is hard to say what will run.
L’Aiglon might do a little better than
at - Caulfield, Pantoon is a possibility,
and lightly-weighted horses in Donor’s
Hill, Ruck Man and David Spear cannot
be overlooked. It is on the cards for
one of the last-mentioned three to win.
* * * *
In Australia we have always followed
the English custom of early closing of
entries for classic races, but it is ques-
tionable whether there is now any call
for adherence to that practice. At one
time forfeits and sweepstakes helped to
swell the value of our Derbies and St.
Legers, but they are now of fixed values,
entry and acceptance money going to
the clubs, and there is very little ante-
post betting on them.
In America it is different, as, while
thejre is still early closing for some races,
nominations for various classics the
Kentucky Derby being one —close only
three or four months before their de-
cision. The early entry merely means
additional work for clubs’ office staffs.
* * * *
Owners are gainers by the Warwick
Farm December meetings being held at
Randwick this year. There is £lOOO in-
crease in prize-money as compared with
last season. Incidentally, the club will
benefit by increased attendance and tote
turnover, as compared with “the Farm.”
As that will also tend to increased prize-
money at later meetings it should be
satisfactory to everybody.
* * * *
The Blandford horse Solicitor-General
had his first runner in Maoriland at the
Opaki meeting on October 12, and it was
a winner. The youngster was a two-
year-old colt named Absolve, whose dam,
Sweet Charity, is by Diadumenos. Capt.
B. H. Edkins gave 575gns. for him as a
yearling. Absolve was favorite in a
fairly large field, and, though he ran
greenly, won well. Ken Austin, who has
been associated with Solicitor-General
since his arrival from England, is one
man who would be highly pleased by
Absolve’s win. He has looked forward
to Solicitor-General being a stud success.
That horse bears a deal of resemblance
to his sire. Bulandshar, another im-
ported stallion, had a good winner at
the Dunedin meeting, his daughter Win-
ning Rival beating four others in the
Guineas. Last season she surprised by
defeating Beaulivre in the Welcome
Stakes at Christchurch.
* * * *
Lynch Law (Limond-Drastic) is
commencing his stud career at R. C.
Allen’s place, Willow Glen, Bylong
(N.S.W.). As a two-year-old Lynch
Law gave great promise, winning
the three races in which he started.
Two were the Kirkham Stakes and
December Stakes. His subsequent form
fell short of expectations, but, on
breeding, there is a possibility of his
being a stud success. He is a chestnut,
as are Sir Calidore and The Chief, the
other sires at Willow Glen. In future
years drafts from that stud may have a
preponderance of yearlings of that color.
SI $ * *
It is not often an owner shares a dif-
ferent partnership in the first two horses
in an important two-year-old race. How-
ever, Prince Aly Khan was in that posi-
tion in connection with the Gimcrack
Stakes, run at York a few weeks ago.
He shares the ownership of Stardust with
his father, the Aga Khan, and he and
Mr. P. Beatty are partners in Tant Mieux.
Although Stardust figured in the Aga
Khan’s nomination, both horses carried
Prince Aly Khan’s colors. The result
upset calculations, as, though Stardust
was at 11 to 8 on, he swerved badly at
the finish, and was beaten a length by
Tant Mieux (6 to 1), who was ridden by
Gordon Richards. The winner is by
Asterus from Tantine, a Solario mare.
First money was £3224.
It is customary for the owner of the
winner of the Gimcrack Stakes to be the '
principal speaker at the Gimcrack
Dinner, and when Beatty was asked why
Tant Mieux did not run in his colors
he replied: “He [Prince Aly Khan] can
make a better speech than I.”
* * * *
In order to decide which was America’s
best three-year-old filly the Washington
Park (Chicago) management gave a
£A1250 prize for Flying Lill and Un-
erring last month. The owner of each
filly also put up £3lO. The fillies had
met twice previously, Flying Lill winning
by a narrow margin. This time, with
each carrying 7.12, and the distance a
mile, Unerring was favorite, and won by
two lengths. As usual in races in
America they went away at a terrific
pace, the time for the first half-mile
being 46sec., but as the second half took
51 4-ssec. that meant 1.37 4-5 for the full
trip.
* * * *
Long-distance weight-for-age races are
few in America, and the invariable small-
ness of the fields indicates that the breed-
ing of stayers is not definitely one of that
country s features. The Saratoga Cup,
if miles, run at Saratoga last month,
attracted only two starters, Cravat and
Isolater, and was generally regarded as
little more than a walkover for the
lormer. Last year Isolater upset calcula-
tions when he defeated Seabiscuit in a
mile and a half handicap, and he gave
Ciavals backers a shock by leading all
the way in the Saratoga race, in which
he ran the first quarter-mile in 23 4-ssec.,
mile in 1.39 2-5, mile and a quarter
in 2.5 3-5, and the full distance in
2.56 1-5. First money was £l6OO and
second £3lO. Isolater, owned by W
Woodward, is by Blandford from Pris-
cilla Carter, by Omar Khayyam, by
Marco. Rather galling to upholders of
American blood that their best stayer
should have been sired in another
country.
* * * *
A peculiar action was commenced in
New York recently. G. N. W. Mc-
Naughton claimed that he bought a filly
from Mrs. D. A. Buckley, of High Acre
Farm, at the 1937 Saratoga yearlings
sales, and was assured that a “speck” in
her eye was of no consequence. He paid
£A4OO for the filly, and subsequently
spent £720 in trying to train her to run
straight. He had failed, he alleged, be-
cause the filly was cross-eyed, and did
not run in the direction she looked. He
claimed £ll2O compensation. It would
be an awkward thing for breeders if
buyers sued for damages every time a
yearling did not fulfil expectations.
* * * *
Complete figures for the Saratoga
(New York State) sales show they were
disposed of in 12 sessions—ll at night
and one in the morning. Sales totalled
643, the average being £s2s—a total of
£A337,575. Twelve colts made £2500 or
over, two selling for £5OOO each, and 21
fillies sold from £3lOO down to £1250.
Blenheim ll.’s 12 youngsters averaged
£2848, the return being more than half
the amount paid for him when he was
imported in 1936 by a syndicate of seven
American breeders. Mrs. Ethel Mars
gave £14,725 for 12 yearlings, and Mrs.
E. G. Lewis £14,660 for eight. As the
latter also bought a youngster privately
for £l5OO she actually spent more than
any other buyer.
An unpleasant fact for some of those
American critics who are always pointing
out how greatly English and Australian
bloodstock would be improved by a
strong infusion of American blood was
that the highest averages at the sales
were made by the progeny of stallions
from England or France. They were
Blenheim 11., Sir Galahad 111., Bull Dog,
Pharamond 11. and Challenger 11. in that
order. The largest consignment was that
of Arthur B. Hancock, who sold 63 at
the satisfactory average of a little over
£llOO. That, however, was easily beaten
by H. B. Scott, whose half-dozen aver-
aged £1920, but he was lucky enough for
his lot to include a £5OOO Blenheim 11.
colt.
* * * *
The temporary cessation of racing in
England led to acceptors for the Cam-
bridgeshire being so numerous that the
race was run in divisions. There were
117 entries. It is not cabled how many
horses ran in the first division, but as
there were 27 starters for the second
division, it is probable there were quite
as many for the first. Although run over
a straight course a field of over 50 would
have seen some of the runners at a great
disadvantage. The cabled accounts of
the race give the divisions as Classes I
and 11, but that may merely have meant
“tops and bottoms” divisions, and not
actually a rating of the horses.
* * * *
If the English St. Leger had taken
place this year there would have been
a small field. Only 11 remained in after
the declaration of final forfeit, and Tam-
worth would have been withdrawn if
all went well with Lord Derby’s other
colt, Heliopolis, France had two accep-
tors, Pharis 11. and Monsieur Mutuel.
E. C. Elliott was to have ridden Pharis
11., and Lord Astor’s Quick Ray was
Gordon Richards’s mount. As there were
293 nominations for the St. Leger, it will


m
7.
MJtll
Some men, by their very occupations, have great
traditions to keep up. Not the least of them is that they
should take some care of their personal appearance.
That’s one reason why such men will still shave with
Gillette. They know the Gillette System gives them
quicker closer shaves than any other system in the world
. . . and that in the long run it is the most economical.
«POCKET EDITION” SET
No. 44. Comprises a Gillette razor,
three Blue Gillette blades in plated
sheath, the whole contained in colour -
ful leatherette covered metal case, of
the handy pocket edition type.
Price .... 4/6
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/-
• BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS
GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
:
0%5
be gathered that a yearling buyer has to
be as lucky in England as in Australia to
secure something that develops classic
form. England’s two best left in the race
were Blue Peter and Heliopolis, and they
were bred by their respective owners. A
week before the St. Leger was abandoned
Blue Peter was at 6 to 5, and Pharis 11.
5 to 2, with 12 to 1 offered against any-
thing else.
* * * *
Japan is one country that does not
believe the mechanisation of armies has
done away with the usefulness, of the
horse in warfare. A little while back
the Tokio “Gazette,” which is an official
Japanese journal, commented as follows:
Many things hitherto unnoticed even by
the thinking public have been brought to
light, frequently with new emphasis and
implications, through experiences undergone
on the China and home fronts in connec-
tion with the present conflict. The useful-
ness of the horse in modern warfare is
one of such discoveries. In reality, without
the services of this dumb, faithful animal,
Japanese troops would not have been able
to carry out successful daring attacks upon
enemy positions, particularly in battles on
the rugged steeps and in the narrow passes
of the Chinese mountains. Contrary to
popular expectations, the increasing
mechanisation of the army has by no
means diminished the utility of army
horses. The present hostilities have cer-
tainly established their distinct place in
modern warfare.
It was added that the Japanese Govern-
ment was taking steps towards the pro-
duction of military horses on a large
scale, and proposed to use 7500 stallions
for remount service by 1945. It sounds
a remarkable number, and may give
Australia an opportunity of disposing of
many stallions not required for race-
horse breeding.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia .)
One of the greatest assets a golfer can
possess is the ability to play a ball from
uneven or bad lies. Many can manage
on level ground, but, as most of the more
interesting courses are laid out on un-
dulating country, many awkward lies are
encountered. And during the next few
months the courses will become drier,
when the ball is liable to find an
occasional bad lie on the fairway.
In dealing with uneven lies I have
always found the hardest shot is from
a downhill or hanging lie. With the ball
in this position it is very tempting to try
to assist the club-head in picking up the
ball. No matter what club is used, there
is the thought in the player’s mind that
the loft on the club is not enough for
the task. Any attempt in this direction
ends in the shot being ruined, for with
the ground rising behind the ball a player
has little chance of accomplishing his
object.
To play a downhill shot successfully a
most accurate stroke is required. There
is a great deal more scope for error than
when the ball is lying normally, and con-
sequently added care and concentration
are needed. From past experience I have
always found it best to keep in mind the
resolution to strike the ball a downward
blow.
By hitting down upon the ball it has
more chance of being picked up. Using
a club with plenty of loft and sacrificing
distance against the possibility of mis-
hitting the ball, the nature of the ground
eliminates much of the club’s loft, and
a reasonably powerful shot results. It
is advisable, however to control one’s
balance always and not try to overhit.
Balance is most important, and, while
much of the weight will be on the left
foot, through the early stages of the
swing it is better not to have too much
weight on that leg. In playing this shot
there is a natural tendency to allow some
weight to shift back to the right leg dur-
ing the backswing, and this causes many
players to slice and top their shots from
such lies. The shifting of the weight
should be done slowly and with a mini-
mum of body movement before the ball
is struck By forcing the club-head down
along the slope with a full follow-through
the player is prevented from “picking” at
the ball with his hands.
Uphill lies are very much simpler to
play. When the ball lies on the up-slope
it is a target few players can resist. The
main difficulty is to overcome forcing the
shot and to seek accuracy. By playing
within oneself extra distance can be
obtained safely.
With an uphill lie the club-head should
skim the ground. By having most of the
weight on the back foot a sound hitting
position is afforded. The weight, as in
the downhill shot, is gradually trans-
ferred, and moves slightly forward as the
club makes contact with the ball, which
is actually struck an upward blow. The
follow-through, however, is a great deal
shorter than for a normal shot. From
a lie where the ball is below the feet
there is always the possibility of slicing.
By reaching well over and slightly widen-
ing the stance and taking the ball mid-
way between the feet, a straight shot can
be played.
On the other hand, a ball lying on a
higher plane than the feet produces a
pull or hook. By gripping the club
shorter and making a determined effort
to hit well through the ball a hook can
be stopped. The club-face may be kept
a little open to counteract its being
closed when the toe of the club-head
comes into contact with the ground just
prior to the ball being struck.
Recently in competition play I have
sometimes found my ball lying in old
divot-holes. These shots are just as diffi-
cult to play as those on an uneven stance.
It is generally safer to use a fairly lofted
club and play the ball more from the
back foot. By hitting down on the ball
with the club-face open, the shot is
squeezed out of the lie. If a straight-
faced iron is used the trajectory of the
ball will be too low, resulting in its run-
ning through the green.
A most valuable club for these lies
through the fairway, where length is re-
quired, is a No. 4 wood, the smaller
head cutting through the lie cleaner. Con-
centration upon hitting the ball is needed
for any bad lie, and this, together with
controlled balance, will assist players to
overcome difficult shots.
Leonay golf course, at Emu Plains,
below Lapstone Hotel, was opened last
Saturday, and is a picturesque addition
to N. S. Wales’s list of public courses.
The hotel and course are agreeably near
to each other. Greens and fairways were
tried out appreciatively by Sam Richard-
son and Lou Kelly, and the course is
of championship length at 5896 yards.
There is plenty of variety in the holes.
The fourth is 91 yards, the thirsty 18th
540 yards. There are four par fives and
five par threes. The course is the baby
of Leo Buring, a great advocate of Aus-
tralian wines.
Ins and Outs
“S.T.S.”: Barring a double tie—-a
miracle which is recorded in cricket his-
tory —there could be no closer game than
one in Adelaide’s opening round. East
Torrens flopped for 89 on a bad pitch;
but so did Glenelg for the same figure.
On a still worse one on the second
day. E.T. managed only 56. Glenelg
lost nine wickets in making them.
Waite’s bag for Glenelg was 8 for
50 and 6 for 27. Brian Richard-
son, son of Arthur, the old inter-
national, took 8 for 14 and 2 for 14.
Meanwhile Bradman (3 and 27) and his
Kensington side were beaten outright by
Sturt, the team of Vic. Richardson, Ward
and Whitington.
* * * *
Sydney grade cricket, formerly duller
than even the Sheffield Shield variety,
became really exciting on Saturday.
Some of the finishes were thrilling enough
for anything. One run decided the issue
in Mosman (340) v. Waverley (339);
three runs in Gordon (242) v. Marrick-
ville (239); seven runs in Manly (169) v.
North Sydney (162); 10 runs in Northern
Districts (306) v. Petersham (296), and
26 runs in Cumberland (215) v. Balmain
(189).
There was another good “gate” at Mos-
man. For Waverley Fingleton (46), Solo-
mon (53), Human (31), A. McGilvray
(44) and the last pair, Callaway (33) and
Brooks (36 n. 0.), often gave the impres-
sion that the runs would be got, and
perhaps they would have been had Ever-
son, who was to have been tenth man,
been able to bat. He was an absentee,
so actually only nine wickets fell. Mos-
man’s bowling is not strong, and skipper
McCabe handled it well.
One of the beaten teams was St.
George, which includes O’Reilly. The
international was played with confidence
by two Paddington batsmen, Brown (61
n. 0.) and James (39 n. 0.), and he wound
up with 4 for 63 (out of 155) and 1 for
43 (out of 89).
Miscellaneous
Purcell outpointed Westbury again at
Newcastle on Saturday, and visions of
Westbury becoming a world-beater have
been shattered. But the youth showed
splendid gameness when “out on his feet”
in the eighth, and was fighting hard at the
close of the most exciting twelve-rounder
Newcastle has seen for years.
* * * *
Bruce Ryan, the G.P.S. sprint cham-
pion, broke evens in his first run in open
company. For Western Suburbs at Syd-
ney Sports Ground in the first race of
the grade season he covered the hundred
in 9 9-10 sec. Brian Dunn, of University,
did evens.
* * *
The Rugby Union team that never
played a match is back in Australia. In-
dividually and collectively the boys are
an excellent advertisement for war-time
tucker in England and on the high seas;
Hodgson, for example, has become a
sixteen-stoner. “The war’ll be over next
year, and then the Home Unions will
send another invitation,” is their cheer-
ing message to all concerned.
“C. 8.”: The doyen of night porters in
Melbourne is renowned for his imper-
turbability. Nothing has ever been
known to shake his composure. One
night a ring came in the office and, put-
ting the receiver to his ear, the old fel-
low heard an agitated voice exclaiming.
“I’m the guest in room 317. I’m going
to cut my throat!” “You can’t cut your
throat at Menzies,” proclaimed the porter
calmly. “You’ll have to go behind St.
James’s Buildings. That’s the place for
that sort of thing.”
* * * *
“Bowery B.”: Uncle Sam’s 1940 census
should provide some interesting figures
about the national population drift. Last
census in 1930 showed 108,860,000
whues, 11 ’ with a
other rac s Tananese Chinese and
large he pi g tbe ’ mos t startling
B t five . twelft hs
—50,000,000— of the human stock who
worship the Stars and Stripes were 1
foreign-born °1 forel |“"P a * Z 0 Eng
and negroes. 3. En^
fish, either lmmigr j rish y in the
grant parentage, , > qqq Nor-
same categ °|T’ nno swedes’ 6 800,000
wegians, 1.5W.000 SweC l ; ’ £
Germans 3,340,000 Poles,.
sians and 4 ’ 6 ®?t?°® ld t cb “ nl watched
las.
census less
white, even app yI? uded un der that
standards to what mcluded
deflmuon And m Lou-pToporUons
Long s old b » nieeer
were tvvo whites to one*mgger. *
• Yeah, bo, this is what we
c erv ice The New York World’s
authorities have arranged a skedool
motorist visitor who finishes up
™J n \ o m< gl wor i d , or anyways too
. kled t 0 drive b is car home. (1) Search
caf license f or his address. (2) Pin
his parking receipt to his clothing, for
use when chJges when
home m a taxi. (4) Collect charges wnen
he comes next day for the car.


o-aj-y^
Eft
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily -2 75~6
AT THE
TIVOLI
r»g:]
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILLS BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
NICK LUCAS,
The Singing Troubador.
SCOTT SANDERS, famous Comedian,
and New Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Dinner at Eight”
At the Minerva, King’s Cross, “Din-
ner at Eight,” a play or something by
Edna Ferber and George M. Kaufman,
in three acts, with 11 scenes, the cast
including: —
Ian Keith.— The American actor gives
a literally staggering performance in
dipsomania. He has the part of a former
stage and screen idol who has taken to
the bottle. He still has his expensive
apartment at a posh N’Yark hotel, but
the demon derrrrink has his number.
In the first of his two appearances he’s
seen knocking off whisky neat by the
bottleful; but he’s still cocky, still the
Great Ac-tor; his agent is out scouting
for him, and he hopes to make a come-
back. A romantic young thing—daughter
of the shipping Jordans—is having an
affair with him.
In his next appearance Nemesis arrives
in the persons of ( a ) his agent, with a
part for him in a new production—the
role of a beachcomber found dead on the
beach ; ( b ) the hotel manager, with a
Hitlerian demand for Lebensraum —trans-
lated, hoppit; (c) the bellboy, who has
failed to raise the wind at the pop-
shops with the ac-tor laddie’s few re-
maining odds and ends, and who rejects
a bite at his own lug with scorn and
contumely. Exit former famous ac-tor
to the hiss of escaping gas.
A convincing performance. Fantods
could be seen lurking under Mr. Keith’s
sofa and hovering round in the air while
Mr. Keith was knocking off rosners that
would have outed a sandstone statue
of Falstaff.
Doris Packer.— The American actress
who cut a lively figure in the stage pro-
duction of “The Women” has the part
of Mrs. Jordan, N’Yark social climber.
Most of the time she’s at the telephone
arranging the dinner. After a hesitating
beginning, she made the part with the
greatest of ease. She can make her voice
do things like a hacksaw, and whenever
the part had more in it than telephoning
she did it with vigor.
Harvey Adams.— Made heavy weather
of the part of Mr. Jordan, with a failing
shipping line and a social-climbing wife
on his hands and a failing ticker under
his ribs.
Eric Reiman and Lloyd Lamble.—Re-
spectively the Jordans’ butler and chauf-
feur, and so good in those minor roles
that they almost gave the play reality.
They believe in their parts, which is
extraordinary of them but shows up the
work of others who are incapable of such
astounding belief.
Barbara Smith— The Jordans’ maid ;
her enthusiasm gives it freshness.
Alec Einer Pratt.—As Dan Packard,
one of the guests invited to the dinner ; ‘
ex-lumberman, now hearty man of busi-
ness, putting a double-cross over poor
Mr. Jordan. A patchy performance, at
times excellent, at others just noise.
Elsa Chauvel.— Mrs. Packard, a part
as rich in possibilities as Mr. Keith’s, and
uncommonly well done, too ; a neurotic
bit of goods, having an affair with her
doctor behind Dan’s back; her boudoir
scene with Dan touching on that affair
and other things one of the liveliest and
most colorful items in the play—histri-
onically colorful for the pep she puts
into it; literally colorful as to undies.
The dozen other players range from
passably good to flat. But it may be
doubted if a whole cast of topnotchers
giving topnotch performances could make
“Dinner at Eight” anything but theatrical
hash, despite some really good scenes.
Better settings would have improved it as
entertainment, but nothing could make it
drama. If it’s about anything, if it makes
any criticism of life or humanity worth
making, if it has any point of dramatic
unity, then this scribe will eat Mr. Keith’s
empties. Dramatically, it’s a sprawling
chaos of absent beginnings and loose
ends. The only comment present on-
looker was able to discern in it was a
futile comment on futility.
* * * *
“Hiawatha”
After inspecting this opus at the Exhi-
bition Building present commentator
came to the conclusion that the Mel-
bourne City Council has a lot to learn
about the entertainment business. Musi-
cally, Coleridge Taylor’s work was much
better given years ago at the old Audi-
torium. In the vast cave of the Exhi-
bition the choristers’ voices reverberated
unpleasantly and the soloists’ voices were
blanketed by distance.
The black coats of Professor Heinze’s
orchestra in the foreground, the squaws
and braves of the local choral societies
in the middle distance, the stage visited
by Lilliputian leading characters on the
horizon and the background of moun-
tains refusing to mix with the unfinished
vaulted ceiling, the wires and cables of
the C.C. Electric Supply Department and
the amplification system of Amalgamated
Wireless did not constitute a spectacle.
The ensembles looked gimcrack.
Horace Stevens made a magnificently
youthful Hiawatha and carried the ailing
Minnehaha (Phyliss Curnow) about as
easily as if she were a baby. Thea Philips
as Nokomis was the most melodious
singer, Browning Mummery made the
most of the poet Chibiabos and Fred Col-
lier was effective as the boasting lagoo.
But the entrance of Tom Minogue as
Famine and Marion Davies as Fever
“DINNER AT EIGHT” AT MINERVA.
Butler (Eric Reiman), dipso, ac-tor (Ian Keith) and Elsa Chauvel doing their
hit towards giving hostess (Doris Packer) a snorting headache.
aroused no more mass emotion than a
couple of pickpockets in the flat crowd
at Flemington.
To wipe out the memory of what was
good in the performance, councillors and
others rushed the microphone at the
finish and bored the house to extinction
for 20 minutes with a verbosity that beat
ey en Longfellow hollow. The Tait family
cou l d have given these amateurs of the
theatre some advice on the effect on an
audience of long final curtain speeches,
* * * *
For the performance of Elgar’s great
choral work “The Dream of Gerontius,”
at Sydney Town Hall, Dr. Malcolm Sar-
gent had at his disposal an excellent
orchestra, the Town Hall organ and
about 350 singers, representing three or
four choirs. The orchestral introduction
established the right atmosphere of mys-
tery, awe and devotion, and throughout
the long work that atmosphere was maiii-
tained. The choruses could have been a
little better drilled, but not much. Soloists
Evelyn Hall, Raymond Beatty and God-
frey Stirling sang with competent in-
telligence. The performance was a re-
markably clever example of Sargent’s
adroitness in managing his material. He
got his highlights and his shadows and
let a lot of the rest slide. Elgar’s orches-
tral “Serenade for Strings” preluded the
“Dream.”
* * * *
Earlier in the week Sargent and
orchestra were heard as a background for
French violinist Jeanne Gautier, soloist
i n Brahms’s D Major Violin Concerto,
Miss Gautier, a fine technician, intimate
with the Brahms idiom, deserved her
ovation..
A breath-taking performance of Beet-
hoven’s Seventh brought that concert to
a close. Five years ago a reading within
miles of this would have been impossible
in Sydney. Applause was terrific and
heartfelt.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory, which claims to
be the oldest (1908) and also the largest
(over 1200 members) of its kind in Aus-
tralia, has taken a lease of the Tivoli,
which has reputedly the second largest
stage in Australia. It had a season’s
tenancy there in 1937 and, now that
Bert Lennon’s lease has run out, has
secured one for two years, with rights
of renewal up to ten. The Repertory
started as the “Literary” Theatre, but
changed its name later to fall into line
with Sydney and Melbourne when they
started. Its presidents have been, in 31
years, Bryceson Trehame, of the Con-
servatorium, who founded it, Ronald
Finlayson, Prof. Archibald Strong, and
Talbot Smith, the present holder.
AT THE TALKIES.
‘‘The Four Feathers”
Easily the best action film since
“Bengal Lancer” and, quite probably, the
best of its kind since the advent of talkies,
this current Sydney Regent offering is an
English production, in its own particular
class as much an achievement of film-
making as “Pygmalion.”
A. E. W. Mason’s yarn about the young
chap who at first shirked going off to
help Kitchener relieve Khartoum, but
who, after receiving a white feather from
each of his brother-officers and one from
the wench he was to wed, lit out for
Egypt to return the gifts to the donors
after some spectacular derring-do among
the fuzzy-wuzzies, has been worked by
the filmsmiths for every ounce of action
it offers. They’ve specialised in broad,
sweeping panoramas teeming with life,
and they’ve thrown hundreds upon hun-
dreds of players into scenes to get" their
effects. And they haven’t lost the thread
of the story or interrupted it one iota
by the lavish and tremendous background
they, have created for it. One scene in
particular—the Battle of Omdurman —
surpasses anything of its kind this film-
taster has seen.
Acting is excellent, Ralph Richardson,
John Clements and Aubrey C. Smith
offering the strongest portraits.
The film is in color —the best and most
beautiful sample of that medium yet wit-
nessed. Scenes of Egypt and England
have a genuine atmosphere which, to-
gether with the capable work of the film-
smiths, imbues the film with all the quali-
ties of living reality.
* * * *
“On Borrowed* Time”
Sydney Liberty’s excellent new bill
consists of a most diverting comedy,
“Bridal Suite,” and “On Borrowed Time,”
a film on a theme well divorced from
Hollywood traditions, and one which has
only been remotely resembled once in
the past seven or eight years.
For setting it has a picturesque country
village beautifully recorded by the
cameraman; for cast it has Sir Cedric
Hardwicke, remarkably good as Mr.
Brink; Lionel Barrymore, furnishing a
fine and firmly-etched portrait of a hard-
bitten old-timer; Eily Malyon, perfectly
cast as a skinflint relative ; Bobs Watson,
one of the few youngsters on the screen
who seem to know something of acting;
and such other capable players as Una
Merkel, Charles Waldron, Nat Pendle-
ton and Grant Mitchell.
To recount the slightest detail of the
story would be neither fair to the Liberty
people nor to their patrons. Suffice that,
as a well-acted film with a most unusual
and uncommonly entertaining plot, “On
Borrowed Time” has this commentator’s
unqualified recommendation.
* ♦ * s|t
“Lady of the Tropics”
In this meandering timekiller at Syd-
ney St. James Robert Taylor, to begin
with, is a super-pretty playboy, hired guest
on a wealthy guy’s luxury yacht cruising
in tropic seas. If he wasn’t an Amur-
citizen and cast for the role of hero,
the word for him would be gigolo. The
party puts in at a tropic isle where
French rule is so effective that half the
population is half-caste, and Robert cuts
adrift from his gigolo job and marries
an island charmer. From then on he
gets tougher and tougher, till before the
end he s not above soaking the lovely
creature with a forearm jolt.
Story is no dark drama of miscegena-
tion, but a parboiled melodrama of
jealousy, the ending as sticky as the sap
of the rubber-tree.
Arthur sts.
The XV Group of Independent
Artists, currently holding its second
annual exhibition at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney, puts forward an in-
teresting show. Norman Lindsay’s semi-
nude “Rita” and full-length nude “Sun
Glade” demonstrate afresh his pre-
eminence as a painter of flesh in oils.
Percy Lindsay, who shows half a dozen
quiet canvases, has never done anything
more beautiful nor more sincere than
“Evening, Sydney Harbor.” Sydney
Long’s “River Gums” and “The Lake
Side” are poems in color and form.
Howard Ashton, who, beyond all other
Australian landscapists, understands how
to make a foreground interesting, is at his
best. Young Richard Ashton sticks to
his wind-blown seas, and shows a big
advance in “The Incoming Tides.”
Non-related Will Ashton depicts the Seine
and Concarneau in canvases across which
seems to sweep a fresh and bracing
breeze.
James R. Jackson, vigorous painter ol
the Sydney waterside, excels previous per-
formances. Fred Leist, still experiment-
ing in various directions, succeeds best
in beach scenes. G. V. F. Mann regi-
ments his colors richly.
Dattilo Rubbo has discovered a new
model, a plump snub-nosed miss wkh a
straight fringe, and shows seven versions
of her. ‘ Sun-kissed” is the cleverest.
H. R. Rdusel’s portrait of G. H. Forsyth
goes to the N. S. Wales Gallery. A much
better piece of work is “A Young
Javanese.” G. K. Townshend’s quartet
of water-colors is a graceful addition
to the show. B. J. Waterhouse’s pencil-
drawings are models of good draughts-
manship. Margaret Coen is developing
a . rich, smooth water-color technique.
Hilda Rex Nicholas designed the portrait
of Miss Elwyn Hayes nicely and has
some clever painting of textures in “The
Bride.” _ “Wep’s” peculiar chalky tech-
nique in oils is best exemplified in
‘Kurrajong” and a self-portrait.
George Finey continues to paint in
duco and any other medium that comes
handy, and continues to get effects no
other artist can get within miles of. His
“Carnival,” a night scene, is a really
clever piece of impressionism. “White
Gum Blossoms” (in duco) goes to the
N. S. Wales Gallery.
* * * *
Crowds have been pouring into the
Town Hall, Melbourne, at the rate of
4000 a day to view the collection of
modern art sponsored by the “Herald ”
which advertised it on the trams like the
Royal Show. A contingent of local mod-
ernists was engaged to broadcast guide
lectures. With the methods employed to
instruct the public in the esthetics of
modern art —not unlike the methods em-
ployed to popularise a brand of soap—
it would be difficult even for anybody
with a sound criterion to know what he
felt about the display. Present viewer
liked the Van Gogh drawings, the Epstein
sculpture of a sick child and some of
Matisse, but not much of Gauguin. The
collection could have been better chosen,
the C6zannes particularly. His color
looked dead.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
BS
Specially tounded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Spring wood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMANS
LETTER
The new print room at the National
Gallery is as bright as a new pin. Behind
the clear glass of cases around the walls
the prints tell their tale of life as seen
by Van Ostade in the seventeenth century.
All the same, if peasants really walked
in that way so long ago, maybe it was
the fault of the cobbler who is so busy
sitting in what looks like a little kennel
while his dog lies luxuriously on top of
it. Any dog-lover’s heart must warm to
Ostade, because he made puppy a part
of the family circle. You see him mixed
up with father and mother and the babies
in the happiest fashion. The Arts in
those days sought their public. Here are
fiddlers going from door to door. Any
man who has had a lodge night will see
the humor of the Raven Hill print, and,
with war and ships so fashionable, Muir-
head Bone’s “On the Clyde, 1917-1918,”
fascinates with its lacery of industry.
Hovering between the small room
where “Madame Jacquemoise” smiles,
rather like a forerunner of the Gibson
girl, and the tables where Miss Mander
Jones, at the instigation of the Public
Library, had displayed books of prints
and books on the art of making them,
were crowds of Sydney’s painting and
writing world. Lionel Lindsay was there ;
so were Harry Tighe, Barbara and Hilda
Lane Mullins and sister Mrs. Norris,
Douglas Pratt, the gallery’s Director
Ashton and his wife. Before the gallery’s
president Waterhouse opened this new
room, he spoke feelingly of Griiner,
whose funeral that day had kept many
from the opening.
It is hard to believe that Elioth Griiner
has died and gone away for ever from
his little house in Waverley with its
garden clinging to a hillside slope. Never
again will the painter dispense to his
good friends the old Spanish sherry he
kept on hand for his parties. The rooms
of the house were meticulously neat, and
the small parlor with its cherished fine
pieces, its deep-blue flowers (Elioth’s
favorite was the cornflower) and its good
paintings made a harmonious interior.
The kitchen, too, always struck a warm,
homelike note, with its shining rows of
blue and white china. The painter, who
had come as a babe from Maoriland,
was a good host and a kindly spirit.
One of the most touching sights at the
funeral was the small wreath of flowers
which three women friends had brought
from their own gardens and woven into
the circlet in Grtiner’s home on the very
morning of the funeral. It was placed
on top of the coffin, and so accompanied
him to the last.
With her humorous mouth and quick
play of expression French violinist
Jeanne Gautier was a pleasure to the
eyes when she played with the Symphony
Orchestra. Malcolm Sargent conducted.
Jeanne’s lustrous green crinoline frock
had a pattern in deeper green woven
into it, and its puffed sleeves were pretty
with the slim roundness of her arms.
There was a great gathering of soldiers
at this concert; they had come from
camp at the Showground. There was a
musing look in the eyes of one or two
of them. Maybe they were thinking as
they watched Malcolm leading his forces
that soldiering wasn’t such a hard game
after all.
Lord and Lady Gowrie made entry
to a spine-stirring “God Save.” Marcelle
Poate was a pretty listener, pale blue
her frock beneath its silver coat. Mrs.
Hugh Poate’s frock was black, silver
fox her furs. A blue fox cape, snugly
fitting, was the last bit of dazzle to Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones’s amethyst velvet
coat. The red purple of Russian violets
was in Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s velvet coat.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, the wife of Chief
Justice Jordan, Mrs. Robert Dixson and
Mollie Butters were among the human
maelstrom that swirled about the coffee
buffet in the interval.
Cupid has been busy at the Conser-
vatorium and the French Alliance. Sing-
ing teacher Roland Foster and Thelma
Houston, of the same Macquarie-street
address, have become engaged. Pretty
“Billie” Williams, librarian to the
Alliance, will become Lady Poynter on
November 1 in St. Mary’s Cathedral. Her
wedding garment will be pale blue.
“Billie” has a sweet singing voice and
speaks French fluently.
In company with Archbishop Gilroy,
many Monsignori and nuns, this Letter
was transported to South America of the
Spaniard, the Inca, the negro, the
gaucho by Brazilian singer Olga Coelho.
In masterly fashion she accompanies her
singing on the guitar. She sang a song
of a Moor leaving Granada. As she
played there rose a town very white in
the hot sunshine ; then the stars were
thick and bright above a street narrow
between high houses. Somewhere in a
garden near by a fountain played, and
there was the scent of flowers. You saw
the snow-topped Andes, and the immense
silver spurs of the gaucho, and a white
bird flying over a snow lake. You saw all
this even if you were, like at least one of
the listeners, without a, word of the lan-
guage.
Olga comes from Brazil, and her hus-
band is a poet. She is very pretty, dark
and with lovely teeth. She wore a long,
straight afternoon frock of cyclamen, and
going away she carried an armful of red
roses brought by Mrs. McGirr and
daughter Pat. Pat wore her butter-soft
little jacket of lynx. Mrs. Walter Bur-
fitt and her doctor were among the lis-
teners. They are the hosts of the famed
Dr. Halliday Sutherland. Among dinners
thrust upon this distinguished novelist was
one by the Newman Society last Friday at
the University. Surgeon McKelvey’s
pretty widow, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Miss
O’Shaugnassey, of the Catholic Women’s
Association, Nevin Tait, the musicianly
Will Caspers, Mrs. Ernest Lashmar,
Florence Taylor and Barbara and Hilda
Lane Mullins were among the enthralled.
By the time you see this picture of
Pat Salenger she will be wearing her
brand-new engagement ring. Kenneth
Falconer Anderson was the bestower,
and the week-end was chosen for the
announcement, which was made on the
wedding anniversary of Pat’s parents.
Everybody knows the Salenger girls.
They go to plays, concerts and the races,
and are always among the prettiest and
the best dressed. Their smartly-frocked
and good-looking mother is almost
always near by. The three Salenger
girls are all products of Abbotsleigh, and
Mrs. Salenger is proud of the fact that
they have all been prefects at that noted
school. To-morrow afternoon the
Salenger home at Killara will resound
to a musicale in aid of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, so crowds of her
friends will have a close-up of the ring,
for Patricia will help mother in the
entertaining. Dayne photograph.
Artist Toby Williamson is now a
landed proprietor. Her new house at
Northbridge has a free and spacious air,
in spite of its smallness and being built
of convict-made bricks. It has a water
frontage, and the windows of her studio
which face this way have large plate-
glass folding windows. Gilbert Hughes
was the architect. Altogether it’s a neat
little trick, and its name is G.1.W., the
owner’s initials.
Nobody makes a better speech than
Hugh Denison. This knight of the “Sun”
opened the XV Group’s exhibition at the
Blaxland in typically suave periods that
had real kindliness and sincerity behind
them. He backed up his admiration by
buying several pictures. For women
Hilda Rix Nicholas’s “Bride” is the big
work. This painting of white frock, veil,
white lilies must be of interest to artists,
too. Hilda herself was down from her
country home, and mentioned that she
intends to show a collection of her works
later in the year. Margaret Coen’s flower
pieces, especially the cool beauty of the
magnolia, were admired. James Jack-
son’s “Autumn Afternoon” is a pleasant
memory. This Letter gave her wonder
to George Finey’s cleverness, her admira-
tion to Norman Lindsay’s beautiful tex-
tures and her heart to Syd Long’s “Lake
Side.”
On November 7 the Conservatorium
will present an animated scene, for the
concert which Peggy Bell is organising
for the Polish Relief Fund already is
marked out as one of the entertainments
of the month. This concert started out
to be a recital by contralto Kathleen
Lyons, but generously this singer decided
to hand over her date at the Con. to the
Polish relief movement. Kathleen will
be one of the evening’s stars, and the
entire proceeds will go to the cause. As
well as organising, Peggy Bell is arrang-
ing the programme, and she will lift her
own dramatic soprano in opera solos and
duets. There is to be some brilliant
dancing, and every singer and musician
has been specially picked.
Fur, feather and finery were mixed
with a lavish hand in the vestibule of
the Minerva preceding “Dinner at Eight. ’
Sydney had seen the film, and now
crowded to watch the stage production.
This went its sugar-coated bitter-pill way
with Elsa Chauvel looking pretty and
acting superbly as Mrs. Packard, the Jean
Harlow part in the film. A year’s crop
of an ostrich farm was in the swirling
fronds of her lilac neglige. Likeable,
too, was the long trailing coat of ivory
lace over pale cream satin which, how-
ever, fails to console Doris Packer Jordan
when she hears the devastating news that
the chef has ruined the aspic. Janet
Conolly Jordan made a dent on the mind
with her vellum-tinted tulles, very spread-
ing and flower-embroidered.
Wife of actor lan Keith wore pale-
grey chiffon, finely pleated, and saw her
husband in his “Dinner at Eight” role
for the first time. Mrs. D’Arcy Osborne’s
pom was the hound at the dinner party.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s chiffons were palely
lilac. Mrs. C. Hall, of Dubbo, with her
sister-in-law, was drinking orange juice
in the interval. Winifred Moore, Bris-
bane’s well-known social editor, was an
applauder. She and E. J. Tait were en-
joying a joke in between first and second
acts. Mrs. David Martin mingled grey
squirrel and mauve chiffons with good
effect. Mrs. G. Fitz Patrick’s sleek jacket
was of monkey fur.
Of interest to friends in many States
is the announcement that early next
year Allan Carswell Wylie, of Ara-
luen, Nanango (Q.), second son of
the late Allan C. Wylie and Mrs. Wylie,
of Nantwich, Coorparoo, Brisbane,
will marry Jean Helen, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert St. Ringan Mc-
Micking, of Carramar, The Rock
(N.S.W.). Jean Helen is a granddaughter
of Robert McMicking, of Manus station,
N. S. Wales, and of Cashmere, Queens-
land. Her fiance will be remembered by
his South Australian friends as a keen
polo player and a member of the Clare
Polo Club.
There’s a jubilant note in the voice of
Sam Walder’s lady when she talks of the
big Red Cross concert of which she is
president. This will be held in the Town
Hall on November 17, and by last week
all expenses were paid. A monster pro-
gramme has brought in over £3OO in
advertising, and advertising expert George
Patterson has had much to do with this
success. Organiser Marie Burke is doing
noble work. Jimmy Bancks is respon-
sible for the design on the cover of the
programme. The Governor-General and
Lady Gowrie and Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst will be at the concert, which
promises to have a record audience.
Edna Kidston, five times woman chess
champion of N.S.W., celebrated the con-
elusion of this year’s tourney, in which
she was then certain for at least a tie
Z first place,, by getting married. The
bridegroom is Lajos ’
Hungarian chess champion, no
way to becoming an Austrahap citizen.
‘1 wish I’d worn my hornet.
Dr. Halliday Sutherland (he * '
of the Years man) coyly as his Tfiid
locks were rumpled by the breeze
blew fiercely athwart the lawns of San
Sophia College on Saturday afternoon.
This garden party was a great success,
and the Apostolic Delegate was an
honored guest. His headgear was a sort
of flatfish opera hat, but it had a capaci y
(envied by every woman present) tor
staving on. Every female right hand
clutched the crown of her hat—it sug-
gested some new ism salute. Und
the bright sun and the scurrying wind
the laniana hedge spilled its gay purples,
and the college turned its handsome
facade to the day. Crisp and white shone
the goffered linen headdress of the nuns
beneath their black veils.
In her buoyant white organdies Beat-
rice McGirr struck the right garden-
party note. So did Mrs. McGirr in her
sapphire blue frock, its amethyst buttons
set in gold. Her hat with its rich plumes
was of the blue toning. Pretty Patricia
was there, too. Sable and burgundy
crepes were worn by Dame Constance
D’Arcy On a long gold chain around
her neck she swung a deep blue and
gold enamel piece. It was shaped like
a fish, and it might have carried a rose
of Provence from a troubadour to his
lady, or a neat spot of poison from a
Borgia. It opens to reveal a watch. With
Dame Constance was her sister. Miss
Kate Egan and Mrs. Leon Lyons, who
has just flown back from Europe, were
together.
Hilda and Barbara Lane Mullins, Mrs.
Norris and Mrs. Tansey formed a family
group. Mrs. Tansey’s hat was a little
bank of pale lilac. Silver-grey chiffons
and a silver-grey hat were worn by smil-
ing Kitty Barlow. Navy was sister
Helen’s choice. Dorothy McDonogh
flashed daffodil yellow as she passed.
Dorothy had been secretary for the party
which was to help the Amelie Salmon
scholarship and the Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund. Mrs. Bernard Playoust, Mrs. Fahey,
Dorothy Porter and Mrs. Bertie Kelly
(her navy frock topped by a large navy
and white hat) were notable among the
hundreds of guests.
The dinner-dance for A.T.N.A. House
was a friendly, informal affair. This is
the first approach to a public appeal that
has been made for this home for retired
nurses. Evelyn Evans, who with Beatrice
Milgate had arranged the night, was very
graceful in her swirl of brightly-flowered
chiffon. Miss Milgate’s brocades had a
very festive air.
Agnes Caspers, the pianist of the musi-
cal Caspers family, is ill in the Mater
Hospital with pleurisy.
Ella O’Shea, of Brisbane, after cheer-
ing brother Pat’s horse Albatross to vic-
tory, retired to St. Vincent’s for a slight
eye operation.
Never before has the old Exhibition
Building in Prince Alfred Park glowered
down upon so many cars as during last
week’s exhibition of tourist accessories
organised by the N.R.M.A. Twenty-six
firms exhibited thousands of pounds’
worth of articles within 15,000 sq. ft.
of display space. One result was
the heavy booking for caravan-instead-
of-sea tours. The keynote of the
exhibition was either “portable” or
“collapsible.” There were portable
combinations of sinks, ice-chests, basins
and pumps, which were displayed along-
side the camp stoves (which ranged
from mere iron frames to most elaborate
petrol affairs). Also there were inviting
stretchers shown under multicolored um-
brellas, tents and even gum-trees.


B RAN DALI ER’S
O''
GW
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAGKR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1481 of 1939.
BETWEEN LILIAN LEONE WILSON Peti-
tioner
And HENRY ALFRED WILSON Re-
spondent.
TO HENRY ALFRED WILSON late of Dubbo
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILIAN
LEONE WILSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of your- marriage on
the grounds that you have deserted her for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-seventh day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine AND in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
this Twenty-ninth day of September,
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1759 of 1939.
BETWEEN GWENDOLINE PEARL LOUISA
GARLAND (formerly Gwendoline Pearl
Louisa Stockwell) of 71 Peter Street Wagga
Wagga Petitioner *
And CYRIL JAMES GARLAND Re-
spondent.
TO CYRIL JAMES GARLAND late of Warr-
nambool in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENDO-
LINE PEARL LOUISA GARLAND has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Third day of January One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LUSHER, YOUNG & STELLWAY, Solici-
tors for Petitioner, Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
Wagga; by their Agent, C. THROSBY
YOUNG, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Estate of Mary Ethel Mclntyre.
SMITH, John Thomas, born 3/2/1914, son of
Thomas Benjamin Smith and Mary Ethel Fitz-
patrick, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
TO ARTHUR CAREY formerly of North
Fitzroy and Plenty Road Preston in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife HELENA
KATHLEEN CAREY has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the grounds
of three years’ desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of October 1939 the case
may proceed your absence notwithstanding
If you intend to defend this suit you must
also file an answer in the Prothonotary’s
Office on or before the Twentieth day of
November 1939.
W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, 305-07 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Proctors for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week was Caulfield Cup week,
and the Cup was of course the big event,
though “Hiawatha” was in the running
on its opening night on Saturday. The
Red Cross Ball was the principal occa-
sion for after-dark glitter, otherwise the
week seethed with art shows. Every day
there was a stream of traffic up and
down the steps of the Town Hall for
assimilation of the show of modern
French and British art. All the usual
galleries also were occupied with exhi-
bitions of local talent.
The length of the queues at the Caul-
field Cup tote windows was as nothing
to the thirsts of the queuers. Drinks at
the bars of the course must have run into
many thousands of gallons, and still the
barmen couldn’t serve the clamoring
crowds fast enough. It was a noisy,
dense and excited crowd, and but for the
few men present in uniform no one would
have guessed there was a war on. Among
the busy doings of Cup Day secretary
F. E. Elbeshausen was cheery and un-
ruffled, smoothing out the difficulties of
the occasion with no visible furrow upon
his brow.
Women had an opportunity of wearing
their newest and lightest clothes, and they
snapped at it good and hard, though there
were a few doubting Thomasinas in
winter suits who had been had before
by the promises of the weather. Hats
included every shape and size, the madder
the better. Age doesn’t mean a thing;
the matrons also wear the dolls’ hats, and
some of them get away with it. One of
the largest hats seen was Mrs. Norman
Carlyon’s huge white cartwheel, precari-
ously moored to a green velvet hawser
and carrying amidships a couple of
purple flowers. Mrs. Lionel McFadyen’s
navy and white hat was a devastating
success. It had a snoopy envelope peak
but is otherwise indescribable without
Frith present to turn it into a sketch.
Mrs. Osment Smith stood out in her all-
white coat and dress, white hat, gloves,
bag and gardenia. Mrs. Keith Aikman
and Shirley McGregor looked right with
the world in all-black. Mrs. Leslie
Aldridge chose a well-thought-out en-
semble, with figured frock running to-
wards purples, lightweight amethyst coat
and hat and necklace and other acces-
sories toning accurately.
Once again the rafters rang at Moonee
Valley racecourse when the Oaklands
Hunt Club Ball reverberated under the
roof of the luncheon room in the mem-
bers] stand. The man with the urge for
music was Alf Watkins, who every year
brings along a parcel of songs and turns
himself into a metronome in front of
the band—and thus is bom community
singing with a hunting plume in its cap.
The hunting folk present went through
everything from “The Park Parade” to
“Boomps-a-Daisy,” and they danced on
a cement floor, their feet knowing all
about it the next day. The Bill Coxes
were there, Mrs. Bill wearing delphinium-
blue and cyclamen. Ursula Syme wore
white satin with billowing skirt, and Sue
Fincham was a success in powder-blue
chiffon with her hair up and back.
In recognition of a time of emergency
the Animal Welfare people turned dog
on the domestic pets and ran their ball
this year for the Red Cross. It happened
in the Australia and was a social and a
financial success —social, in that some of
the grand and gorgeous gowns that would
have been in the swim with the Duke of
Kent and Marina had a chance to show
themselves ; financial, by reason of the
bookings that came in during the day,
the day having dawned with many vast
open spaces on the plan.
The lucky dip got going early; so did
the crazy balloons, made in the image of
animals never seen on land or sea. Mrs.
St. John Scott Scott, Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side and sprightly politician Harold Holt
ran a syndicate on the dips, with the
result that they shared among them
powder compacts, theatre tickets and a
thousand mothballs. Louis Nelken won a
“facial.”
Diana Stephens, a diminutive figure
m silver with combs in her uplifted
coiffure, had her luck running towards
bundles of Penguin books. Among those
who handed parcels over the counter were
Mrs. Norman Welsh, in sapphire-blue
lace; Mrs. M. R. Fairbairn, in silver
and yet more silver roses, and Mrs. Tom
Patterson, in white chiffon and a wraith
of dark-blue scarf, with her brunette
curls low on her neck. Behind the scenes
Joan Darling, wearing a beautiful silver
gown, hid her light under a bushel. She
had to go home early, as a result of her
recent illness.
President of the ball committee Mrs.
Ken Niall wore pastel-pink lace and
pearls. Mrs. M. H. Baillieu favored mist-
grey and pink roses. Mrs. H. G. Trace
chose apricot taffeta and the responsi-
bility of a long train, while Mrs. Lionel
McFadyen, of Sydney, wore black and
her coiffure swept upwards. Mrs. Morris
Sallmann’s black dress had a militant air
with all its silver frogs, and her turban
was swathed in the manner of an Eastern
potentate. Daughter Lois wore a vintage-
purple ensemble of expensive cut with
an under-the-tunic corsage in a paler
shade of lilac. Sue Fraser also had a
dash of lilac for the upper stratum of her
frock; the full skirt was a South Sea
Island printed linen.
Valerie Clarke, who returned recently
from abroad with her fair hair still
youthfully uncurled and unsophisti-
cated, was in cream and silver. As
a ticket sec., Vaire Wilkinson cer-
tainly did her share of the work. With
Miss Norwood and Mrs. U. J. Nicholas
she was “on the door” for several hours,
her black organza crinoline arranged so
as not to obstruct the traffic. Other
young committee people included Fay
Stoddart, in brief gold coat and full-
skirted black frock; Helen Lane, in
geranium-red, and Diana Wood, in an
airy creation of turquoise tulle.
In this Broothorn portrait is Roma
Ward, recently engaged to Peter, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Luxton, of
Coolart, Balnarring. Roma, who is the
youngest daughter of the late A. E.
Ward and of Mrs. Ward, of White Lodge,
Huntingtower-road, Malvern, is a past
pupil of Lauriston and of Hopewood
House finishing school (Sydney). Her
interests include music, languages and
commercial art, and she is looking for-
ward to outdoor activities such as riding,
golf and tennis, which she will enjoy
when she takes to country life some time
next year. The engagement ring is of
diamonds and sapphires.
At the Sedon Galleries Harold
Herbert’s water-colors were to be seen ;
on the first day half of them had red
seals, making this probably the cheeriest
“private view” of the year. At the
Athenaeum- Noel Blaubaum (son of Dr.
Athol Blaubaum, of Armadale) exhibited
’scapes of land and sea in oils and water-
colors.
At Riddell’s Galleries Kathleen and
Florence Martin produced charming
fantasies for grown-ups and children.
These girls are very generously giving
part of their sales proceeds to the Red
Cross. Lady Stewart opened the show,
and referred to the days not so long ago
when Kath and Florence put on panto-
mimes with dolls. At the opening were
artists and art students and as large a
proportion of the general public as could
disappear up the stairs behind some in-
teresting hand-blocked linens that Ron
Riddell and Roy Frost have fallen for
in a big way.
Olive Thomson, who, in trim black
skirt and rose-beige jacket, went giddy
and feminine about the head, all with a
twist or two of purplish veil, said the
sunny day made her think of Brisbane
and the holiday she spent there a few
weeks ago. April Mackintosh, in a plain
tailored suit, let her imagination rove
a little in a white craftwork heart upon
her lapel. Lois Gotch, all in green to
her little whirligig hat, came with Nell
Patterson, who was in nutty-brown and
a sky-blue cravat. Yvonne Cohen’s
scarf was a purple piece, her own hand-
blocked masterpiece. Sister Val had
some violet chiffon about her throat as
her contribution to color. Both girls,
beautifully suntanned, are still yearning
for Dunk Island and boats and beaches
where nobody ever thinks of wearing
stockings or shoes.
Herewith an Athol Shmith photograph
of Lieut.-General “Tommy” Blarney’s
wife, who before her marriage earlier in
the year was Olga Farnsworth, a clever
commercial artist. She has relinquished
this type of work, but hopes some day
to realise the dream of her student days
to take up art again, not for the com-
mercial side but for the joy of painting.
Her favorite outdoor sport is ski-ing.
Olga, as she is known to all her friends,
is naturally proud about her husband’s
appointment to lead the 6th Division. One
of her first reactions to the news was her
assurance that “the boys will be well
looked after.”
A great popular success was the spec-
tacular first night of “Hiawatha,” an im-
pressive pageant of music and movement.
Extra bits of the entertainment at the
Exhibition are the unusual setting of the
place, the vast open spaces of the entrance
hall and the climbing of a gangway to
the main auditorium, a built-up gallery
of seats which feels like a giant’s Mec-
cano set of metal girders and pulleys.
High above the line of vision is a plat-
form slung in mid-air for the electricians.
They reach it by climbing ladders with
the agility of monkeys.
During the intervals the audience un-
packs itself and comes down from its
lofty perches to wander about in other
barnlike wings of the vast Exhibition.
On the way it encounters herds of the
thousand-odd Indians in the cast, chat-
tering and eating ice-creams and being
superintended by a harassed young man
who addresses them as “Quiet, girls.”
Out of their wigwam clothes they are
prosaic members of choirs. The first-
night speeches were long and dull, and
they continued notwithstanding the fact
that people who came to see the show
gathered up their possessions and made
for the exits. Overseas producer T. C.
Fairbairn punctuated his address with
“My Lords and Ladies.” The Governor
and Lady Dugan were in the audience
and seemed to enjoy the entertainment.
Interest in the modern art show was
keen. The place was so crowded on
the opening day that the Consul for
Belgium, M. Rene Vandekelen, and the
National Gallery’s J. S. MacDonald
squeezed themselves on to one chair.
The Prime Minister was there ; also, it
was presumed, his armed bodyguard
(protectors against anonymous-letter-
writing threateners) —but even a hill-
billy would have passed unnoticed in the
mob.
Interest did not abate later in the week.
A feature of the show was the keen-
ness of the children, who rolled up en
masse in the care of their schools’ art
masters or mistresses. Each child was
a young critic well primed up with what
he had to look for in the pictures. On
the whole the young fry imbibed the
pictures with solemnity. One could see
an inevitable “Why?” looming in the
young minds before they gave their ver-
dicts. “Snifter,” “Pretty good” or just
(contemptuously) “Silly.” Reactions of
the. adults to some of the surrealists’
brainstorms were boredom, amusement
tempered with mild interest, derision,
and enraged shock to the point of
clamoring for a stop to be put to that
sort of thing.
way fnoni Brazil has come
Madame Olga Coelho, a slim young
brunette who sings, who plays the guitar
and who knows folklore in basic lan-
guages. She is, of course, a linguist,
though she makes an occasional faux
pas m English, as, for instance, when she
suggested to a radio-station official
recently that she would wear a night-
gown for her evening recital in the
studio. Her sense of humor almost equals
her artistic interest. Madame also knows
the way housekeeping money melts.
When she and her husband were living
in a flat in Rio de Janeiro they had a
grand time entertaining their friends
during the first part of every month. Then
for a week they lived quietly, and for
the final few days they were around “at
mother s” for most of their meals.
Madame is accompanied by her adoring
husband, also a Brazilian. Before he
met and set off to pursue the fascinating
Olga he was an engineer. Nowadays,
when he isn’t being his wife’s guide,
philosopher and friend, he writes poetry.
Madame Coelho has an enormous press-
book the size of a family album con-
taining cuttings in half a dozen languages
and it’s for 1939 only. She also carries
around with her an autograph book
opened by Mussolini, closed on the final
page by Queen Mary, and containing in
between such exalted signatures as those
of Leopold, king of the Belgians, and the
Aga Khan. Madame Coelho will broad-
cast and also give concerts under the
direction of Arthur Tait (one of the Tait
family, but distinct from the family firm).


BANISH PREMAT4IRE
OLD AGE ....
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*'
hood. Price 10/6.
GLAND
TONIC
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. J O N E S £ CO
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air Raids in Britain.
On Monday and Tuesday of last week
the Germans made their first air raids
on Britain —aimed at Rosyth on the Firth
of Forth, just above the Forth Bridge,
and at Scapa Flow, where H.M.S. Royal
Oak had just been destroyed.
The raiders of Rosyth passed over
Edinburgh—a full squadron of bombers.
No air-raid sirens were sounded, and
crowds gathered on the many vantage
points which Edinburgh possesses for
watching such a scrap. Shell fragments
from anti-aircraft bursts fell in the
streets.
The enemy reached the Forth Bridge
when the Aberdeen mail was passing over
it, and the new cruisers Edinburgh and
Southampton, 10,000-tonners, the latter of
which was completed only this year, sus-
tained casualties from machine-gun fire,
as did the new Tribal destroyer Mohawk,
of which Australia’s next ships will be
near sisters. The Mohawk’s captain died
at his post, after bringing his ship to
anchor while mortally wounded. An-
other officer and 13 men were killed and
12 seriously wounded on the three
cruisers.
Meanwhile, the R.A.F. and anti-air-
craft guns tackled the invaders, who were
driven off with the loss of four machines.
One fell into the sea, and three of its
crew were rescued by fishermen. Two
came down in Fifeshire, one in the Firth.
The morning after the Rosyth raid,
Scapa Flow was attacked. Two bombs
fell near Jellicoe’s old flagship Iron
Duke, now a gunnery training ship, but
the raiders were forced to leave after
two of their machines had been brought
down by A.A. gunners. They came back
four times during the morning and early
afternoon. The first raid lasted half an
hour, the second 10 minutes, the third
an hour and three-quarters and the fourth
and fifth each about quarter of an hour.
Damage to the base was nil, but four
German machines crashed. As the sur-
vivors flew away they dropped bombs
round a small mail steamer and tried to
sink a Belgian trawler in Pentland Firth.
In the whole of the attacks the only
objective actually hit by a bomb was
H.M.S. Southhampton. The first bomb
in the war to touch a British ship glanced
off her.
Mr. Chamberlain summed up the raids
by saying that over British coasts in two
days, eight German machines had been
destroyed without the loss of a single
British one, and it was believed that
several more enemy bombers failed to
reach home. The total number of raiders
had not exceeded 30, so that at least a
quarter of the attacking force was de-
stroyed. But, he added, while the results
were a splendid tribute to the R.A.F. and
A.A.F., and their success was a resound-
ing one, it was too soon to indulge in
foolish boasts:
There are many surprises in war and
they cannot be all pleasant. We at least
have the satisfaction of knowing we have
made a good beginning.
At the same time, it looks as if the
generally-held naval view of the ineffec-
tiveness of aircraft in raids on war-
ships has good grounding, especially
where the objectives are distant from the
raiders’ bases. The strain of flying high-
powered bombers for long distances is
tremendous. Crews inevitably arrive at
their destinations with their efficiency
seriously impaired. Apart from the fact
that a ship is a tiny target from even
5000 ft. at high speed, the advantage of
physical freshness and knowledge of local
geography is all with the defenders.
And the first concerted ’plane attack
on a convoy failed badly. It occurred
in the North Sea on Saturday ; fighter
’planes summoned by the escorting war-
ships—which opened with brisk anti-air-
craft fire—brought down four German
machines, and the rest eight wer.
counted—made off. Not one British
plane, warship or merchantman was
damaged.
The Air Observer's Job.
„ . t thp
Aldis : During the last
observer might be air-gunner m the back
seat of DH9’s 9As or Bristol Fighters, in
control of Morse communication for
artillery shoots and in contact patrol
work for attacking troopsont the ground,
In many cases he put in up t 0 2
of active service without e -
>ng to handle a plane himself, though
where dual control was fitted he was
“Slow ’er down a bit, Fish'ead, I can't reach it.”
taught the essentials of throttling down
and gliding in to land.
The air-observer branch of the R.A.F.
was re-established late in 1938. In the
modern training schedule the first three
months are devoted to a rigorous course
in navigation by map, compass, sextant
and dead reckoning. It is followed by
two weeks’ routine training in soldiering
and then a six weeks’ gunnery and bomb-
ing course at an observers’ school. After
five months the pupil becomes acting
observer, with the rank of sergeant.
He has wide and responsible duties,
including navigation of aircraft, bomb-
aiming, aerial photography, general re-
connaisance, gunnery and wireless tele-
graphy. In modern warfare the pilot
is concerned only with the task of pilot-
ing his ’plane. The course he flies is
worked out by the observer, who receives
by wireless and is responsible for main-
tenance of communication with the
ground. With the development of the
technique of air warfare the observer’s
single-winged brevet is no more easy to
attain than a pilot’s wings.
R.A.F.'s Speedy Water Craft.
“Ex-R.A.F.”: Behind the fleet of high-
speed motor-boats used by the R.A.F. is
the influence of Hubert Scott-Paine, who
in the days whsn flying was very young
built a canoe, fitted it with a derelict
motor-cycle engine and sailed it around
the creeks and marshes of Sussex. Thus
was born the Scott-Paine motor-boat. In
1922 a seaplane designed by Scott-Paine,
with Captain Baird as pilot, won the
Schneider Trophy.
With the coming of the long-distance
amphibian Scott-Paine founded the
British Power Boat Co. to build fast
motor craft suitable for attendance on
large flying-boats. In 1929 the German
Dornier DO-X was served by his new
35ft. tender, the forerunner of many
amazing craft.
First of the Scott-Paine designs to be
accepted by the Air Ministry was a 37ft.
6in. general service craft, which was in-
troduced in 1931. Riding position is prac-
tically level. Acceleration is instant, with
the ability to stop almost dead from
speed in two lengths. The boats carry
passengers, towing gear, shipside plat-
forms, cots and stretchers, and have large
open cockpits which may be inserted
under the wing of a damaged ’plane..
Following on the general service craft
came armored target boats, designed to
leave a conspicuous wake. Engines de-
veloping 300 h.p. drive the boat at speeds
upwards of 30 m.p.h.
Most striking of all the Scott-Paine
craft are the new 64-footers. Maximum
speed is an official secret, but 45 m.p.h.
has been exceeded. Other craft include
16ft. planing dinghies and their slightly
larger brothers for bomb-loading and
fuelling. These are slim little craft, sur-
prisingly stable, amazingly seaworthy and
very light in weight. They skim over
the surface at 25 knots, and handle and
manoeuvre in almost any kind of weather.
Importance of Wing Slots.
“D.8.K.”: Wing slots have been
revived in improved form, and the
chances are that they will be used on
even the lightest aircraft for private fly-
ing and training.
They were developed by the Lockheed
co. and are built in. The aim is not only
to control the turbulence or burble on the
upper surface of the wing, thus eliminat-
ing a sharp loss of “lift,” but to hold
the air stream to it so that ailerons will
function effectively, assuring lateral con-
trol and balance. It was necessary to dis-
card the original form of leading edge-
slot arrangement because of the installa-
tion in most modern commercial aircraft
of de-icing equipment, which is necessary
for all-weather operation. , _
In each wing there are six fixed slots,
each 22in. long, arranged in tandem and
extending from the wingtip towards the
root of the wing, just back of the lead-
mg edge. The slots are di on
of the major portion of the ail ° a
both wings, and are effective in gi
stall warning. Tests j* h ?^ e T oc kheed 14,
of drag reduction. A big corn-
rated as one of the world sfa Qnlv
mercial airliners, showed a los t a jj
2 m.p.h. at top speed and no loss at all
at a cruising speed of *-25 m.p.h.
speed was slowed by 4 m-P-h-
“Ek Dum”: If'the German airmen
who paid a visit to Scotland last week
had been intent on raiding the CIVI IP°P“'
lation they could have made roug
in Edinburgh on their way to Ro £
especially as nobody seems to have
thought it worth while to sound the
sirens. Edinburgh Castle—a military
headquarters —stands up in the middle
the toon like a sore thumb, with five-
and six-storey dwellings all round k.
Only a few hundred yards away
are two railway stations, destruction
of which would paralyse railway
traffic to London, Glasgow and Abei-
deen. Waverley-street runs not far
away, with another huddled batch or
medieval dwellings on its north side. The
Forth Bridge is a few miles up the Firth.
It carries the railway, which on the
southern side runs between Dalmeny
House, Lord Rosebery’s palace, and
Hopetoun House. Rosyth is on the
north side. A sea wall has been built.
The Forth Bridge connects it with the
south. The bridge would take some
shifting—two of its cantilever spans are
each as long as the main span of Sydney
Harbor Bridge.
% % *
“C. 02”: Minister Fairbairn being en-
gaged on the Imperial air training
scheme, command of Civil Aviation has
been transferred to Mr. Holt. The
Canadian Government has taken over
St. Thomas’s Hospital in Montreal to
house 3000 trainees. Aeroplanes are
hopefully expected from Uncle Sam when
sufficient Congressmen are converted
from nootrality.
* * * *
“Auld Snootie’s Pilot”: A single flight-
lieutenant and an aircraftsman were at
Ultimo, Sydney, to attend to results of
an appeal for flying instructors with 200
flying hours and pilots with 100 flying
hours. Results numbered 150. Some
were war birds in 1915-18 ; many had
come specially from the country; others
had given up a day’s work to offer. First
hitch came when they were told that
unless they had had 30 hours’ flying in
the last year they could go home. While
it was being argued that there had been
no such stipulation in the advertisements,
70 more hopefuls blew in, including a
few who, though they had not 200 hours
flying, had instructors’ licenses. They
were debarred. At 11.30 a.m. it was
announced that five men could be inter-
viewed before and 15 after lunch. And
so the second Great War goes on!
* * * *
The 21-ton Aotearoa broke the record
from Auckland to Sydney with a pas-
sage of 7hr. 55min., average speed 180
m.p.h. The crew of five had early break-
fast in Maoriland and lunch in Sydney.
# * * *
“Dihedral”: An unusual design of air-
craft is the Lockheed Vega Starliner.
Two 260-h.p. engines are placed end to
end and coupled directly to drive the
single propeller apparently the first
example of tandem application of power
units.
* * * *
“Enno”: A development in aviation,
borrowed from motor-car design by
American army engineers, is a “dynamic-
suspension” system for the mounting of
engines. The device uses rubber .shock-
absorbers on the engine bearers, and
big ’plane-manufacturers in U.S.A. are
already installing the system on new
models.
* * * *
“Enno”: Not only Nazi ’planes carry
the swastika for identification. The same
emblem is used by Finland and Latvia,
The Nazi swastika is black, perched on
one tip on a white background sur-
rounded by red; the Finnish (blue on
white) and Latvian (red on white) em-
blems are set square.
* * * *
“Jachris”: I’ve details of a “snow-
cruiser” with a small ’plane, built for
Admiral Byrd. A motor vehicle, 55 feet in
length and 15 feet high, it can house four
men with food sufficient for a year and
fuel for 5000 miles. Pneumatic tyres,
10 feet in diameter, each weigh 7001 b.
The small ’plane, fitted with skis in place
of landing wheels, is carried on top.
More than anything else the thing re-
sembles a tank, and whatever other profit
may be expected from its fantastic jour-
neyings it might demonstrate to Antarctic
inhabitants, if any, the type of machine
they’ll be expected to employ if, and
when, they too go to war. The cost was
the equivalent of £37,500.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse. t St. George’s Tce. f Perth
THE SERVICE MAN
At Scapa Flow.
Nautilus”: The usual rubbish has
been cabled and written about the loss of
the Royal Oak. She was sunk at 1.30
a.m. on October 14 (anniversary of the
beginning of the submarine offensive
against the R.N. in the last war); tor-
pedoed when at anchor in Scapa Flow.
The U-boat commander, Priehn or
Prien, claims to have torpedoed two
battleships, the other being the Repulse.
Mr. Chamberlain’s reply to this assertion
and others was that neither the Repulse
nor Hood nor any other capital ship had
suffered the slightest damage.
_ According to Mr. Churchill the Royal
Oak was anchored at the extremity of the
Flow. Two torpedoes were fired, and one
got home. “Twenty minutes later” three
or four more hits were made, and the
battleship capsized and sank. Twenty-
four officers, among them Rear-Admiral
Blagrove, and 790 men were lost with her.
It is still a matter of conjecture
how the submarine penetrated the har-
bor’s defences. This anchorage in the
last war was found to be immune from
such attacks.” Thus Mr. Churchill. He
must have a very short memory.
Scapa is a large space of sea some-
thing in shape like a diamond from a
playing-card, about 15 miles long n. and
s. and eight miles e. and w. On the
north it is sheltered by the ragged arms
of Pomona, the northernmost of the larger
Orkneys ; on the west and s.-w. by Hoy ;
on the e. and s.-e. by Burray and
Ronaldshay. There are three entrances,
but the southern one, facing on Pentland
Firth, is so guarded by islands and shoals
that it is impracticable for ordinary ship-
ping. Between Hoy and Pomona is a
narrow entrance, about two miles wide
and seven miles long, leading to the
Atlantic; on the other side, between
Ronaldshay and Pomona is Holm Sound,
about 3y miles long and two miles wide,
opening to the North Sea.
On a clear day the southern islands
round the sound may be easily seen from
the northernmost points of Scotland
round John o’ Groats. At this time of
year there are few clear days; the sea-
scape is hung in heavy drifting polar mist
moving almost as fast as the roaring tides
which wash the islands.
Scapa was chosen as a war base a
decade before the last war chiefly be-
cause it was considered to be out of sub-
marine range. By 1914 it was known
that this was an error, but, though Jelli-
coe did not like the idea of the Flow as
a base, with all its entrances and the
difficulty of mining any of them because
of the rush of the tides and currents, he
“ ’Oo fired that shot?”
reluctantly used it. The fleet could never
go in or out without elaborate sweeping
operations.
On September *l, 1914, a typically misty
day, the first alarm came. Three Dread-
noughts and some cruisers lay in the
Flow when H.M.S. Falmouth, near the
entrance, burst into salvoes. Her officers
saw a periscope and believed that they
sank a submarine. Then the Drake re-
ported a submarine, and other ships fired.
At length, according to the official
British Naval History of the War, “a
time came when Jellicoe looked for safety
in almost continued activity at sea.”
On October 12, however, he brought
the battle squadrons and some cruisers
into Scapa for a few days’ respite, while
Dudley de Chair swept the North Sea.
But on October 15 one of De Chair’s
cruisers, the Hawke, went with 500 men
—she was detached from his main squad-
ron to patrol with other cruisers from
Peterhead to the Naze —and the Swift
had a narrow escape. Then five de-
troyers, led by the Nymphe, came out
of a submarine encounter near Scapa by
a hairbreadth. A torpedo missed one
by two feet, others in line by yards.
On October 16 Fort Switha, which
guarded the Holm entrance on the North
Sea side, reported a U-boat inside the
anchorage. The Iron Duke and three
other capital ships hurriedly put to sea.
Next day two destroyers were attacked.
Then, “submarines had made the Flow
for the Grand Fleet for the moment un-
tenable.” Jellicoe ordered the fleet to the
Hebrides and to Loch Swilly, on the
north of Ireland.
On October 27 the Germans pushed
further afield, and off Loch Swilly sank
the battleship Audacious (a loss never
admitted till the end of the war, although
photos, of the Audacious sinking reached
Australia). Then the first of the Scapa
raiders fell, off Hoxa Entrance. The sea
was alive with R.N. patrols. A U-boat
came to the surface. She found herself
alongside the trawler Dorothy Grey. The
hardy North Sea salt in command swung
his helm and charged the enemy like a
mad bull. The U-boat captain dived so
hurriedly that he bumped his nose on
Muckle Skerry. Looking as if Joe Louis
had hit her wide open, UlB came up
and surrendered, and Dorothy Grey
escorted her into harbor.
The attacks went on till early in
December, but by now harbor defences
were gradually being perfected. The
Atlantic and southern entrances were
closed with sunken ships and nets. The
North Sea entrance was guarded with an
intricate system of defence. Guns were
mounted. Trawler and yacht and de-
stroyer patrols swarmed outside.
By the late winter of 1914-15 the battle
squadrons were back. The Germans did
not give up, but their day in the north
was over—save for the loss of the Hamp-
shire (with Kitchener) in 1916; and the
Hampshire apparently struck a mine.
Their last attempt on Scapa, in 1918,
after the German Fleet mutiny, was made
by a U-boat manned entirely by officers.
It never came home.
After the war, with the major develop-
ment of Rosyth and Invergordon, Scapa
defences were dismantled. I saw the
place 12 years ago on a bleak September
day. There was no sound in it but the
scream of the sea birds, the suck of the
tides, and the splutter of the seals, many
of whose ancestors had gone west in
1914-18 through being mistaken for peri-
scopes. The German Fleet—mostly
raised and sold for scrap two years later
—was still at the bottom where its in-
terned crews had buried it.
Mr. Churchill was First Lord of the
Admiralty in 1914. His newspaper
admirers have given him full credit
for the considerable achievements of the
Royal Navy in the new submarine war.
They protest that he is in no way to blame
for the fact that Prien or Priehn sneaked
into Scapa Flow and hung round long
enough to make two attacks on an
anchored battleship, with twenty minutes
between. They protest too much.
Not Quite So Quiet.
“Since September 9 no serious fighting
has occurred on the Western Front.”
Thus a German official report covering
the period to October 17. It went on
to declare the German Army losses at
“196 dead, 356 wounded and 114 miss-
ing,” and to claim the capture of 689
French officers and men.
On Monday and Tuesday the enemy
went forward in some force “four miles
east of the Moselle and 18 miles east of
the Saar.” Clearly it was never the in-
tention of the French to maintain them-
selves on the German ground gained
when it was expedient to threaten the
enemy lines by way of helping the Poles ;
anyway, it is admitted that “the bulk of
the divisions involved in the September
offensive” were “withdrawn, in accord-
ance with orders when artillery prepara-
tion began.”
The movement was successfully effected
on the whole front, at a depth amounting
to six miles at certain points. The units
involved took their stand on a pre-
arranged line, far in advance of the per-
manent fortifications, and suffered only
slight loss. One detachment, consisting of
“This’ll stop ’im snorin’!"
an officer and 50 men, was outflanked,
but defended itself gallantly. The battle-
front is, at present, stabilised on planned
lines.
Over the whole country on which the
armies are in position there has been
heavy rain. It doesn’t look as if there
will be an offensive on the grand scale
this year, but you never know what is
in Hitler’s mind.
“Chagai Charley”: Our Mr. Street cer-
tainly follows tradition. A fighting man
tried in Dover during the Napoleonic
wars for stealing bedding was acquitted
on the ground that the only way in which
a soldier could be expected to get bed-
ding was by stealing it. Mr. Street must
have studied the proceedings of Old Pivot
Dundas (author of the “eighteen damned
manoeuvres”), who ruled the War Office
in those days. The Governor-General,
visiting the militiamen in camp at War-
wick Farm racecourse and finding them
shivering and sniffling, implored the Lord
Mayor to send them blankets. Blankets!
* *
“A.Z.NCom-
plaints about new-
ar m y equipment
come from every
direction. Chandler,
the Victorian M.L.C.,
himself a private in
the 24/39th Bat-
talion, voiced one:
“The articles men
are required to bring
with them to camp
are more than the
unemployed can pos-
sibly provide.” Edu-
cation Minister John
Harris said that uni-
forms, blankets and
boots should be the
responsibility of the
Government and underclothing that of
the recruit. The recruit shouldn’t be asked
to provide anything but himself.
* * * *
“T.”: Clift Sadlier, of the 51st Bat-
talion, who won the V.C. in that wonder-
ful night attack on Villers Bret., wanted
to be the first Westralian to enlist in
Street’s Sixth Division. He looks 35 but
is 47. “Too old,” of course. It must
make him bitter to read that many Great
War Tommies are with their sons in
France, and —on the authority of young
Monson, the Westralian reporter who is
doing the Western Front campaign for
the Sydney “D.T.” and the “Argus”—
that in the German hopover last week
n.c.os. with Great War records were
conspicuous.
* * * *
‘ C.W.0.”: Submarine crews have
nothing to fear from the law, as “Fi. fa.”
(B. 11/10/’39) suggests. They cannot
be pirates. Prof. Kenny, a recognised
authority on criminal law, states: “A
pirate must be one who may be taken
to be a source of danger to the vessels
of all nations; and therefore those who
act solely against a particular belligerent
and in the interests of the Power that is
at war with it are not pirates, even
though they go beyond their commis-
sion. Sir James Stephen defines piracy
as taking a ship on the high seas from
possession or control of those lawfully
entitled to it, and carrying away the
ship itself or any of its goods in circum-
stances which would have amounted to
robbery if the act had been done within
the body of an English county.” Sink-
ing a ship cannot be an act of piracy
if none of the cargo is removed.
* * * *
Rookie”: The old-time sar’n-major’s
gift of eloquence has not been quite for-
gotten. Thus our instructor: “When
I’ve done with you lads you’ll be able to
wipe the sweat off your brows with the
loose skin on your bellies.”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: From my favorite
flapper paper:
General Weygand and General Wavell
. the French army have arrived at Ankara
by air for staff talks with the Turkish
military staff.
Wavell is a British lieutenant-general who
commanded in Palestine a couple of
years ago, left the job to become C.-in-C.
of the British Southern Command last
year, and was sent back to the Middle
East just before the outbreak of
war as C.-in-C. there. He and his fore-
bears have been in the Black Watch since
the year one.
♦ * * *
“Ross Creek”: The militia has few
keener battalions than the 31st (Q.). Its
A Company consists of 260 men from
Ayr, Proserpine and Home Hill, the
southern parts of the battalion area.
B and C Companies come from Charters
Towers, Bowen, Ingham and Halifax.
The intelligence and signallers all hail
from Townsville, as do the D Company
machine-gun and mortar platoons. Lieut. -
Colonel North is in command, and train-
ing is going well ahead. The battalion
was at full strength long before war broke
out.
* * * *
“Blurt”: One satisfactory result of J.
Bull s refusal to charge into the Spanish
civil war on the Stalinist side, as de-
manded by the Stunt Press, is that
Spanish ports are closed to U-boats and
surface-raiders. Ferrol, Vigo and Corunna
are on the main shipping route to Africa,
Asia, S. America and Australia. Ferrol
is a hard nut to crack from the sea.
Situated on a deep fiord, commanded by
modern 12in. guns on high ground, this
naval base looked very snug from outside
the submarine boom during the civil war.
Selling iron ore and mercury to the Allies
will help Spain out of a financial hole.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
o-lorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask vour chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, CRIMIVADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. R> an » ‘scj. ,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney und i 45 Branchy and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, alscleOT^entation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering aidin' bl^inisT
Bank offers the fullest facilities tor the transaction of all geneial bankin„ Dusmes„.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants. ■
<
Young lady, 25, good appearance and social ]
manner, wants job as stenographer, plain cook,
needlewoman, companion or shop work —4986. (
Young man, 27, final accountancy student, !
advised to leave city for health reasons, wants
position as bookkeeper on station in the
Riverina or in Vic. Refs. —5032.
Civil engineer, surveyor, will undertake work
in any part of Q’land, N.S.W., Vic. or S.A.
Has carried out 800 miles of railway in Aus-
tralia and in S’Africa; also large water schemes,
irrigation and artesian-bore drains and roads.
Salary or contract. —5004.
Ship and engine blacksmith, 45, wants job.
Tools, exp. heat treatment of steel, coal and
metalliferous mining, repairs machinery and
boilers, oxy-welding, etc. Used to reading
plans, blue-prints, etc. Six years’ tropical exp.
Refs.—4982.
Importer, Australian, whose activities have
been halted by the war, offers temporary ser-
vices in any capacity.—5039.
To exchange “Woman’s Mirrors,” English
weeklies, “Picture Shows,” “True Stories,”
other books, knitting and crochet patterns for
stamps, old or new and loose or collected. —
5030.
Whereabouts of Alan J. Millner, last heard
of at Chevron Hotel, St. Kilda-road, Mel-
bourne, January this year. Aged about 24.
Believed to be in Sydney.—4999.
Information Sought.
Why are ships allowed shelter in neutral
ports while aeroplanes and crews forced down
or otherwise landing on neutral territory are
interned ? —5019.
There is a substantial difference in the status
of ships and ’planes. The right of passage
into harbors of neutral ships is governed by
international law. The only laws which govern
the entry and exit of ships to any harbor in
war or peace are normal local rules, and con-
straint imposed by the enemy. With aero-
planes the position. is that any machine may
fly over a foreign country in accordance with
the laws, licensing and other regulations of the
country. Normally, permission is tentative and,
in the case of civil ’planes, subject to certain
routes being used. With naval and military
’planes, special permission must be sought
and given, even in peace-time. Thus, in war
or peace, a military machine without a special
permit flying over a foreign country or a civil
’plane flying off the regular permitted route
is liable to be called upon to land, and may be
attacked if it does not land. Its crew, if they
land, may be interned. The difference in status
is vitally necessary, apart from defence con-
siderations, because of quarantine and customs
requirements.
* * * *
(1) What six harbors are considered to be the
world’s best ? (2) Best six in Australia? (3)
Why? (4) World’s most beautiful six? (5)
Which Australian harbors have the deepest
water ? —5042.
(1) Depends on how you judge them. For
natural advantages, Sydney, Rio de Janeiro,
Hong Kong, Rosyth, San Francisco and
Hobart have their supporters. (2) and (3)
Sydney, Hobart, Albany, Gladstone, Bowen
and Port Stephens would be hard to beat for
approaches, plenty of water and shelter. (4)
There is plenty of room for dispute, but Sydney,
Rio, Hong Kong and Rabaul are among the
favorites. (5) Sydney, Hobart and Albany
among the developed ones.
* * * *
(1) Is machine telegraphy used much in Aus-
tralia? (2) Number of telegraph offices in the
Commonwealth ? —5043.
(1) Yes, between Sydney and Melbourne, Syd-
ney and Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide, Sydney
and Canberra, Sydney and Lismore, Sydney and
Newcastle, Sydney and Wagga Wagga, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide,
Melbourne and Perth, Melbourne and Canberra,
Adelaide and Perth, Brisbane and Rockhamp-
ton and Brisbane and Townsville, Murray
multiplex machine apparatus is used, and pro-
vides “telegraph outlets which permit the car-
riage of very heavy loads with a minimum
transit time.” “Start-stop” telegraph printing
systems are in operation between Melbourne
and Mildura, Melbourne and Launceston, Syd-
ney and Tamworth, Brisbane and Toowoomba,
Brisbane and Mackay, Perth and Fremantle
and Perth and Kalgoorlie. (2) At June 30,
1937, there were 9320.
* * * *
List of Australian air services subsidised by
the Commonwealth Government and routes
over which the subsidies apply? —5045.
Qantas Empire Airways, Brisbane-Darwin-
Singapore, 4361 miles; Cloncurry-Normanton,
216 miles. MacRobertson Miller Aviation
Company, Perth-Daly Waters, 2252 miles; Ord
River-Wyndham, 154 miles; Adelaide-Whyalla,
150 miles. Butler Air Transput Company,
Cootamundra-Charleville, 629 miles. Austra-
lian National Airways, Melbourne-Launceston,
. 314 miles; Launceston-Hobart, 94 miles; Mel-
bourne-King Island-Launceston, 396 miles;
Launceston-Flinders Island, 109 miles; Perth-
Adelaide, 1453 miles. Aircrafts, Ltd., Brisbane-
Cracow, 250 miles. Airlines of Australia, Rock-
hampton-Mount Coolon, 330 miles. Adastra
Airways, Sydney-Bega, 250 miles. Airlines
(W.A.), Ltd., Perth-Wiluna-Kalgoorlie, 813
miles. North Queensland Airways, Normanton-
Burketown, 100 miles.
* * * *
Particulars of Northern Territory railways?
—5048.
When the Northern Territory was taken over
from S.A. by the Commonwealth, the Federal
Government promised to complete the Darwin-
Adelaide railway. At that time the rail ex-
tended only from Darwin to Pine Creek.
In 1917 it was extended to Katherine, in 1928
to Mataranka, and in 1929 to its present
terminus at Birdum. The Central Australian
railway—Oodnadatta to Alice Springs—was
opened for traffic in 1929. Expenditure for
1938-39 on the Central and North Australian
railways was £429,911 and £166,152 respec-
tively; revenue was £137,521 .and £50,471.
* * * *
What amounts have been advanced by the
Government to settlers in N. S. Wales? —5050.
At June 30, 1937, the N.S.W. Department of
Lands had advanced for closer and soldier
land settlement £14,568,595, for soldier settlers
£3,194,844 {plus £1,891,102 expended on de-
velopmental works on soldiers’ settlements), for
wire-netting £1,398,151, for prickly pear
£110,317. Advances made through the Rural
Bank were £31,504,025, and advances made
through the Government Agency Department
of the Rural Bank were £5,754,810 for necessi-
tous farmers, £1,213,834 for unemployment
and dairy promotion, £2,102,164 for the
farmers’ relief agency, £743,011 for shallow
boring and £4851 for the Government guarantee
agency. Total amount advanced for irrigation
areas is not available, but £27,368 was advanced
during 1936-37.
* * * *
Particulars of the Australian Council for Edu-
cational Research ? —5049.
Constituted on February 10, 1930, and
financed by the Carnegie Corporation, which has
undertaken to pay it £7500 yearly for 10 years,
the council has nine members, six of whom are
elected by State Institutes for Educational Re-
search. It holds at least one full meeting
each year, and its publications in the form of
a research series, 50 numbers of which had
appeared up to the end of 1937, are published
by Melb. Uni. Press. The council has granted
174 applications for assistance to persons wish-
ing to carry out investigations or have their
works published, initiated a number of investi-
gations into education problems, and set up as
a centre for the collection and dissemination
of information regarding Australian education.
It was responsible for the survey of Australian
libraries for the Carnegie Corporation in 1934,
and it published a report based on the survey
which brought about strong movements in
several States to remove serious deficiencies in
existing library services. The council is recog-
nised by the Institute of Intellectual Co-opera-
tion, Paris, as the “National Centre for Edu-
cational Information” in Australia, and it acts
as the Australian representative of the Institute
of International Education, New York. Its
headquarters are at 145 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
My father left a will leaving half his income
to his wife and half to a cousin in England, the
whole to go to one or the other upon the death
of either, and to revert to me upon the death of
both. Under such terms, how would 1 fare if
all the income happened to be going to England
and I was without work and any means of sup-
port ?—4974.
The N. S. Wales Testator’s Family Mainten-
ance Act provides that, if a testator has dis-
posed of his or her property by will in such a
way that any child of the testator is left with-
out adequate provision for his or her “proper
maintenance,” education or advancement in life,
a Court of Equity “may, at its discretion and
taking into consideration all the circumstances
of the case,” order that such provision as it
thinks fit shall be made out of the estate of the
testator to the applicant. The application should
be made within 12 months from the date of the
grant of probate and should be served on the
executor under the will, but in such a ease as
you refer to the Court might not regard this
provision as mandatory.
H* H*
(1) Advantages of taking out patents? (2)
Cost of application for provisional protection ?
(3) Cost of filing complete specifications ? (4)
What is required when making application for
provisional protection? (4) What are the usual
royalties paid for the use of patents? (6) Is it
necessary to make a patent search before filing
an application or is it made automatically by
the Patents Office? —5047.
(1) The effect of Australian letters patent is
to grant to the patentee the sole right to make,
use or sell an invention in the Commonwealth
during the term of the patent. (2) and (3)
Fee for provisional protection is £l, for filing
complete specifications £2, and full fees for
obtaining Commonwealth letters patent are
£lO. (4) Forms of application and a provisional
specification must be filled in and forwarded
to the Department of Patents, Commonwealth
Bank Buildings, Sydney. (Copies have been
posted to you.) (5) Royalties are a matter for
negotiation between the parties. (6) The appli-
cant may search for previous patents at the
department before filing application. After he
has lodged a complete specification in con-
nection with his application a search will be
made by the examiner to ascertain whether the
invention has been already patented in the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
How to prevent mosquitoes breeding in large
open galvanised tanks? —5041.
Eggs and wrigglers must be destroyed, and to
do this the water should be treated with kero-
sene or liquid paraffin in such a manner as
to form a complete layer of oil over the sur-
face of the water and thus kill the larvae and
pupae by preventing them from breathing. The
whole surface of the water must be covered
with oil; two tablespoons of kerosene will cover
15 square feet. In summer, as the oil soon
evaporates, it should be replenished every week.
Two parts of paraffin to each 100 parts of kero-
sene give a more lasting surface film with
better spreading qualities.
:p * * H*
Was there a census of languages taken in
Australia in 1933 ? —5044.
Not expressly for that purpose, but the general
Commonwealth census required that persons
who could not read or write English but who
could read or write some foreign language
should state that language. It was the first
time such a question had been asked, and evi-
dently many persons who could read and write
both English and a foreign language stated
their qualifications. According to the census
23,638 males and 6100 females were unable to
read or write English, but able to read and
write a foreign language. Thirty-nine per cent,
of them were able to read and write Italian,
17 p.c. Chinese, 10 p.c. Greek, 5 p.c. Yugo-
slavian, 4 p.c. Japanese and 4 p.c. German.
The total included 1014 passengers or members
of the crews of overseas vessels in Australian
waters on census night.
* * * *
What materials are most used for building
purposes in Australia? —5055.
Latest figures are for 1933, when of the walls
of 1,429,868 of the 1,434,519 private houses
in Australia 54 p.c. were of wood, 29.2 of
brick, 5.3 of stone, 5 of iron, 2.6 of canvas
or hessian, 1.6 of fibro-cement, 1.1 of concrete
and 1.2 of other materials. In metropolitan
areas 53.2 p.c. of private houses had walls of
brick and 39.8 of wood, provincial areas had
67.7 p.c. of wood and 17.5 of brick, and rural
areas had 65 p.c. of wood and 5.3 of brick.
Between 1921 and 1933 brick dwellings increased
by 54 p.c., wooden houses by 28 p.c., fibro-
cement by 456 p.c., iron by 65 p.c., concrete by
132 p.c., dwellings in tents by 31 p.c.
* * * *
What areas are taken up under Mining Acts
in N.S.W., Q., S.A., W.A., Tas. and Vic.?
—5046.
N.S.W., 1936-37, goldmining 16,527 acres,
mining for other minerals 167,574, authorities
to prospect 69,681, other purposes 6951 ; total
260,733 acres. Q’land, 1936, goldmining 7452
acres, mining for other minerals 23,987, miners’
homestead leases 371,343, petroleum-prospect-
ing permits 165,127; total 567,909 acres. S.A.,
1936-37, goldmining leases 2496 acres, mineral
and miscellaneous 66,915, claims 13,937, search
licenses and permits 44,160, occupation licenses
48; total 127,556 acres. W.A., 1936, gold-
mining 69,505 acres, mining for other minerals
49,652, other purposes 36,286; total 155,443
acres. Tas., 1936, goldmining 3183 acres,
mining for other minerals 27,921, licenses to
search for coal or oil 10,900, other purposes
3021; total 45,025 acres. In Vic. at the end
of 1936 there were 214,404 acres under leases
and licenses for mining purposes.
* * * *
After he has sat for his leaving certificate
this year, what course should my son follow
to become a civil engineer? —4B7l.
He may obtain a degree in civil engineering
by taking a university course, involving four
years of full day study at a cost of between
£450 and £650. Otherwise, he may obtain em-
ployment as a cadet engineer with a public
authority such as a Government department
or an authority undertaking civil engineering
or a local-government organisation, or he may
become a cadet with a practising civil engineer.
A cadet engineer who has reached the leaving-
certificate standard should take a diploma
course in local-government engineering at a
technical school, the standard of entrance for
which is that of the leaving certificate or an
equivalent examination in English, maths. I
and 11, and either physics, chemistry or
mechanics. Matriculation in the Faculty of
Engineering at the University will be accepted
as qualifying for admission to a diploma
course, which takes five years of evening study
and costs about £27. If the boy has taken
technical drawing to leaving-certficate standard
he may apply for appointment as a cadet drafts-
man in a Government department. Before any
youngster decides on a career such as civil
engineering he would be wise to obtain
vocational guidance from the Department of
Labor and Industry, 132 George-street North,
Sydney.
* $ * *
(1) What is the condition of the trawling
industry on the N. S. Wales coast ? (2) Are
hauls now as consistent as in previous years ?
(3) Does the average earning of trawling com-
panies represent a good return on capital in-
volved ? —4894.
(1) and (2) Home grounds near Sydney are
not as prolific as they were some years ago,
and hauls are not as consistent. Trawlers
work as far south as Tas., and trips have been
made occasionally to M.L. (3) No information
on dividends available, but the fact that one
of the trawling cos. has augmented its fleet
seems to indicate that a satisfactory return on
capital is obtained.
* * * *
(1) Highest six mountains in the world? (2)
Highest buildings? (3) Largest islands? (4)
Longest rivers ? (5) Largest lakes ? (6) Longest
bridges? (7) Longest canals? (8) Largest
cities? (9) Most used languages? (10) The
seven wonders of the world? —5054,
(1) Everest 29,141 ft., Godwin-Austen 28,250,
Kinchinjanga 28,146, Nanga Parbat 26,629,
Manda Devi 25,645, Kamet 24,447—a1l in the
Himalayas. (2) Empire State, N.Y., U.S.A.,
1248 ft.; Chrysler Building, N.Y., U.S.A., 1030;
Eiffel Tower, Paris, 985; Radio Building, N.Y.,
U.S.A., 840; Bank of Manhattan, N.Y., U.S.A.,
838; Woolworth’s, N.Y., U-SA., 792. O)
Greenland 827,300 square miles, New G
330,000, Borneo 307,000, Madag£^ c -> a n 0 0 ’ (4)
Baffin Land 231 ’ 000 ; S n? 1 mUeT Amazon 4000,
Missouri-Mississippi 4502 mdes, Amaz
Nile 4000, Yangtze 3400, .Yenisei 330C, Gmjgo
3000. (5) Caspian Sea 170,000 squar m
Superior 31,200, Victoria Nyanza 2ffi200, A i
(Trans-Caspia) 24,400, Huron 23 800,
gan 22,450. (6) Figures are the length
metres of the waterway. , j 3136'
Africa, 3451; Tay Bridge, Scotland 3136
Upper Stone, India, 2999 . Rio
9707* Forth Bridge, Scotland, 1 ,
' h c S»"iS
400,000,000 people, Kus
sian 130,000,000, German 80,000,000, Western
Hindi 72,000,000, French 70,000,000. ( 0) lhe
Pyramids, the hanging gardens of Babylon, t
tomb of Mausolus, the Temple of Diana at
Eohesus, the Colossus of Rhodes, the statu
of Jupiter by Phidias, and the Pharos (light-
house) of Alexandria. ,
Brief Answers.
GDB.: “Controversy” is pronounced with
accent'on “con”; “Italian” with accent on
“tal” and “i” as in it ; dwarf with ar
as in “wharf”; “again” _ with accent on
“gain” and “ai” either as in rain or as in
“men.” “Ave Maria” is commonly pronounced
“Ahvay” — accent on “ah” ‘Mahreeah
accent on “ee”... .Crib: Rule was quoted from
Hoyle Up to Date, 1937 edition, which lays it
down that a duplicate breaks a sequence....
E H J.: The jacaranda is indigenous to Brazil,
and would not thrive in the Plymouth (Eng-
land) district. In North America it 1S . grown
successfully only in parts ot California and
Florida. Paspalutn dilation comes from Argen-
tine, and its successful growth near Plymouth
is doubtful-winters would probably be torf
severe... .Anon: If a British subject without
means but with a guarantee of employment
wants to land in Australia, the immigration
authorities at the port of landing, if satlbfi ed
with the guarantee, would permit him to do
so provided he is otherwise eligible for admis-
sion .. A.V.S.: A difficult and rarely success-
ful job for the amateur. Best to have
by someone in the trade.. ..G.G.: Leader ....
J W * There is no provision under the Aus-
tralian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act for payment
of service pension to any Australian who served
in the Boer War... .J.D.E.: Yes, its as good
a definition as any M.N.C.. Write to C. VV.
Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
M H S.: Persevere with the treatment men-
tioned ; dyes of any sort should only be used
as a last resort... .G.H.: Only information
available is that Frank Hyde was born in
London and exhibited between 1872 and 1885.
He painted historical subjects and exhibited live
pictures at the Royal Academy. You might
obtain further information from London....
R.W.N.: “Derby Day,” after Frith, was prob-
ably engraved by Holl, who also engraved
“The Railway Station” by the same artist,
which was published some years ago at 14s.
There is very little demand for engravings in
Australia at present M.G.S.: Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, can obtain for you from
London Making Pre-Cast Concrete for Profit,
6s. 3d., Pre-Cast Concrete Factory Operation
and Management, 6s. 3d., and Moulds for Cast
Stone and Pre-Cast Concrete by F. Burren and
G. R. Gregory....G.E.S.: (1) No. (2) The
matter is under consideration. (3) Write to the
distributing agent... .M.S.: (2) The minimum
educational requirement for the librarian
course at the Sydney Public Library is a good
leaving certificate or matriculation pass, lhe
course takes twelve months and the qualifica-
tion gained is a diploma from the N.S.W.
Library School. Fee is 20 guineas per annum
and there" are no exchange positions
E.A.B.: Insert an advertisement in a newspaper
circulating in the country. Know of no books
on the subject... .O.W.W.: Address letters to
H. Leander, care G.P.O., Sydney....
M.J.S.H.: The remark referred to a historical
work and not to “a bit of fiction . ...J.J..
Not advisable to try home treatment, but, it
unable to consult a vet., write to the editor ot
the “Dog World,” 16 Bridge-street, Sydney....
C.J.P.: Know of no textbook dealing expressly
with P’.O.P. printing. Ths. Dictionary of
Photography, by Wall, gives a detailed account
of P.O.P. printing methods and also furnishes
toning formulae. P.O.P. toning formulae can
be applied to any type of gelatino-chloride
self-toning papers... .J.W.: Ascertain the com-
position of the material either by analysis or
application to the manufacturers and then
address your query to the Information Section
of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, Melbourne... .H.M.G.: The religions
of the 331,781 members of the A.I.F. who
embarked from Australia were Church of Eng-
land 162,774, Roman Catholic 63,705, Pres-
byterian 49,631, Methodist 1 33,706, Jews 1214,
other denominations 20,751... .W.D.M.: U)
Art of Floral Designing, by W. C. Harry, 15s.;
The Retail Flower Shop, by Robert Kift, 15s.;
New Album of Floral Designs, 7s. 6d.; and
Floral Designs De Luxe, 21s., plus postage in
each case, all from Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney. (2) Practical Handbook on Distillation
of Alcohol from Farm Products, 28s. 6d.,
would have to be ordered from London. (3)
Sigurd or Siegfried is a figure <?f Teutonic
mythology who slew the giant Fafnir and woke
Brunhilde from her enchanted sleep, but, on
being given a magic potion, forgot her and
married Gudrun. Brunhilde married Gunnar,
brother of Gudrun, but, angered by Siegfried’s
desertion, was instrumental in his murder....
F.C.J.: The only way to ensure cremation is
to induce a relative or someone you can trust
to carry out your wishes. It can be a pro-
vision in a will, but that is not legally binding
on executors. Best to apply direct to the
Spring Vale Crematoriuip W.H.S.: Tales
of Early Rockhampton is obtainable from the
author, at The Sanctuary, Rockhampton, Q.
F.B.: Cannot undertake to search the files
at the Patents Department, Melbourne.
Records there are available for search by the
public free of charge, and consist of name, sub-
ject matter index, and printed specifications of
all accepted inventions arranged in classified
order A.H.S.: “Obsolescence” represents
depreciation (loss of value) through something
growing out of date. Depreciation, in addition
to obsolescence, might represent loss through
wear and tear, rust, decay, or through effluxion
of time, as in the case of a lease. In a mine
it is also represented by the working-out of
mine.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
This land of countless attractions awaits you
ancient temples—beautiful scenery—native customs
and colourful bazaars. Your luxury liner visits many
interesting ports along the smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious decks, restful
lounges, a tiled swimming pool, and talking picture
equipment.
At your request, we shall be
pleased to forzvard Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHIIP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
lv
rm
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
41 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
And at TOWNSVILLE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in he business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney. X
&
ms.rt-Mttb
FT
3 tt air
?i
!»SW»
mm
am
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fanc^, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.K.: Promising horses, but they’re in poor
condition... .A.W.: “I could sing songs of
flowers; about the birds and bees.” Not
here....J.McK;: It’s as lame as if every foot
had gout... .G.G.: If there weren’t 10,000
parodies of “If” W.J.McC.: Plant the
“Bushman Transplanted”.... .H.JL-B.: Turned
them out to grass J.A.: Thought of a
“curdling” fight turned us sour R.E.R.:
Try elsewhere....W.E.L.: This should be the
nastiest shock Hitler ever had: —
....W.T.S.: Why do perishing poets always
-ant to scatter their ashes “where the violets
bloom”? There are thousands of starving
aspidistras in Australia J.P.: Close
P.G.H.: Keep at it ; but don’t be merely play-
ful H.S.: Worth rewriting A.A.K.: A
daily should take it... .W.D.W.: It doesn’t
get there V.S., J.McD.. D.B.O’C., N.B.W.,
D.D., B.J., A.S.: Sunk... .T.D.B.: Doesn’t
click... .F.N.R.: That’s the umpteenth time
we’ve seen that fairy-tale L.P.R.: Neither
bright nor funny L.G.B.: There’s a lot
there, but it only trickles 8.G.L.: Reads
like a death-r 011... .8.D.C.: Dumped “Cargo.”
L.C.D.: Try us with something happier.
L.T.: Nothing there for us K.T.8.:
Heard it over the pub counter years ago
J.T.8.: None of the characters come to life,
and the plot won’t hold water F.S.W.:
Pardoned as a first offience N.T.S.: That
splutter won’t even shake “the literary fort-
ress” 8.G.P.: It might make a good re-
cruiting speech... .C.N.T.: Just a glimmer....
T.8.R.: Unhappy “Delight” V.F.1.: Easy
with the bellerdrammer N.T.D.: Dragged in
the Welcome mat as soon as we saw the title.
B.H.D.: Has its point, but you’ll have to
handle it much better than that F.L.C.:
Thought we’d laid that ghost for good and
ever S.D.T.: That “cheery item” is the
glummest thing that’s happened to us since the
outbreak of war....G.8.: The number of in-
credible stories that are told by the doctor,
doubted by the lawyer and confirmed by the
quiet little stranger while all three are smoking
expensive cigars in comfortable armchairs at
the club has now attained astronomical dimen-
sions... .8.G.W.: “Droughts,” “Interludes,”
“Sales Talks” and thirst-crazed prospectors!
Away with them all C.F.D.: You don’t
really mean that? F. 5.1.: You should bolt
for shelter when that sort of inspiration seems
likely to strike you H.S.F.: The only blot
on an otherwise pleasant spring morning
H.C.E.: No, but you’re warmer... .T.P.S.: A
very unimpressive “Deluge” M.C.R.:
Might pass as a Laplander’s idea of Australia.
....F.C.F.: Thin G.8.R., H.T., P.G.A.,
J.R., C.V.N., T.E. and E.P.C.: No.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.R.J,: If you must draw political cartoons try
one at a time, not the round dozen F.P.:
Sending the shopgirl back for repairs
P.A.W.: That’s an archaic style A.A.T.: Case
for the R.5.P.C.A.... .5.H.8.: Clumsy gags let
them down... .M.A.: You’re improving, but
slowly; why not try a life class? G. MacD.:
Couldn’t quite make out what was hidden
underneath the blots and smudges J.8.C.:
Presumably Hitler dancing with Mrs. John Bull
while La Belle France sits disconsolately
against the wall. But why? 8.D.: A sorry-
looking barmaid, a gigantic clergyman and a
weak pun T.R.: Album sketches, nothing
more... .S.S.: So that’s a battleship. You’d
do better designing tearooms F.H.J.: Spring
wouldn’t seem the same without a dozen or
so variants of that timeworn wheeze T.K.:
Your signature dwarfed the bathing beauty
P.W.: That chestnut received its discharge at
the end of the Boer War K. 8.: No hope
for the gent, crossing the bog on stilts... 1
W.C.T.: Impossible to judge from copies;
send some original work N.M.: Below
pavement-artist standard L.G.: It ended on
the reject pile... .W.W.: More suited for Lon-
don “Punch” than an Australian paper
K.T.: Hopeless... .R. 8.: Study perspective. ,
M.P.: It cost us sixpence in deficient post-
age to gaze at that horror... .E.W.: A wash-
out.
Your puerile hate
Hurts not our pate;
For ’tis our fate
To be truly great.
Not to descend to an
Alloy, Mongolian,
Whilst claiming Aryan
Which is merely Adolphean.
’Tis not our pulse
We, to convulse
By descent, to hate
Of miserable skate.
But your great clown
Of world-wide renown
Did make loud splutter
For bullets instead of butter.
THE FRENCH FORT
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
NOW that we are again at war with
France’s traditional enemy, it is
queer to recall the fact that the
first fortification to be erected on
the east coast of this continent after the
establishment of British settlement there
was a French one. It was not until N. S.
Wales had been in existence as a settle-
ment on Port Jackson for six months
that Governor Phillip gave orders to
Lieutenant Dawes, of the Royal Marines,
to build a redoubt on the east side of
Sydney Cove, near the end of Benelong
Point. The work was begun in July.
1788, and was finished at the beginning
of ’B9, when a couple of guns were placed
in it, with a flagstaff alongside. Three
years after that earthworks were placed
on the western side of the little bay, and
a battery planted on Dawes Point oppo-
site.
However, at the beginning of 1788, the
French navigator La Perouse had mounted
a couple of guns in a stockade erected
on the north side of Botany Bay for the
protection of working parties engaged in
building boats to replace those lost in
a disastrous fight with South Sea island-
ers. So the first armed citadel in Aus-
tralia flew the fleur-de-lis of Old France
above its parapets. The leader of the
French expedition dismantled his little
fort two months afterwards, and, as
Thomas Carlyle puts it, “sailed away into
blue immensity,” never to know of the
ruin and disaster that were so soon to
overwhelm the flag and Government of
his ill-fated friend and master, Louis
XVI. He went out of the world of which
he had been so bright an ornament merci-
fully unaware of the bloody destruction
about to overtake it.
There is a spot on the northern shore
of the big shallow inlet where Cook
rested for a week in the Endeavour and
the grassy hillside slopes gently down to
the waters of Frenchmen’s Bay that is
fairly familiar to Sydney people. For
112 years a rail column has stood there
to mark the site of the encampment of
some members of the expedition when
the little squadron of two ships com-
manded by Jean Franpois Galaup, Comte
de La Perouse, anchored in the bay at the
beginning of 1788. About 100 yards
nor’-east of it is the tomb, enclosed by
iron railings, which is the last resting
place of Le Pere Receveur, chaplain
and naturalist to the French squadron,
who was, as far as is known, the second
white man to be buried in N.S.W. The
first was Forby Sutherland, a seaman of
the Endeavour, who lies in an unknown
grave over at Kurnell, on the other side
of Botany Bay.
For many years—even before the
monument was erected—this peaceful and
beautiful locality has been a place of pil-
grimage for French visitors to Sydney.
The pediment of the column bears testi-
mony to this in the numerous brass plates
affixed to it recording such pious visits.
It was placed there about 1827, after a
visit by the Baron de Bougainville, in
command of another French expedition
which called at Port Jackson in 1825
aboard the ships Thetis and Esperance.
In 1829 four Norfolk Island pines were
planted round the monument, three of
which still survive. Hardly any French
warship has dropped her anchor in Syd-
ney Harbor without leaving a memento
of her stay in the shape of an inscribed
plate within the railed enclosure at
Botany Bay. This little plot of ground
has a tradition that is sacred to all the
fellow-countrymen of the great and un-
fortunate navigator.
For a long time Father Receveur’s
grave was marked only by a mound and
a few stones, together with an inscrip-
6 , , ui&cup
p ,. ir . , P a^ e P at ffi ere by
Phillip in place of the board which his
comrades had nailed to a tree in the
vicinity. In the London “Mirror” of
December 10, 1831, a correspondent
writes: During the time the French dis-
coveiy ships Thetis and Esperance lay
at Port Jackson, the place [Botany] was
visited by their commanders and officers,
and search having been made of the
exact spot where the remains of the
naturalist were deposited, some of the
bones were found, and over that spot a
monument has been directed by them
to be erected to his memory, and which
had been commenced when I visited the
place on February 13, 1829.”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “De Facto”
(B. 13/9/’39) is some 3000 years too
modest in quoting William of Rubruquis’s
Karakorum legend of 1253 as the earliest
definite record of long-ago contact be-
tween China and Australia. On the high
cliffs bordering the Daida River, not far
from Heijo, in Korea, is a huge rock-cut
inscription commemorating a “pacifi-
cation” of that long-suffering country by
Chinese armies about 2000 b.c., and also
recording some details of the extent of
China’s dominion and discoveries of the
day. Amongst them is a quite recog-
nisable map of the Eastern Australian
coast down to about Cape Byron, popu-
lated by obvious aborigines and kan-
garoos, not to speak of a couple of birds
which might well pass for kookaburras
in full cachinnatory blast. - Any Chinese
scholar knows who first discovered Aus-
tralia, but is too polite and tactful to
press the matter on a white barbarian.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
are given away free for a penny
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Another Report Lost?
In 1937 the Commonwealth Govern-
ment commissioned W. L. Payne and
J. W. Fletcher to diagnose the troubles
of the N.T., and they did the job thor-
oughly, weighing in also with a lot of
sound advice. So when winter set in at
Canberra and the political birds migrated
to warmer climes, Mr. McEwen, then
Minister for the Interior, gathered a
splendid line of cars and a magnificent
retinue of Ms.P., Senators and secretaries
and departed on a tour of the Territory
to report on the Payne-Fletcher report.
Since then the old S.A. mining laws
under which the Territory was laboring
have been revised for the better, and
cost of transport by road-train during
the dry season from Barkly and Victoria
River to Darwin has been substantially
reduced. Moreover,- the Administrator
has been given wider powers. The rest
of the Payne recommendations seems to
have been lost.
But a Director of Native Affairs has been
imported—from New Guinea. A Direc-
tor of Agriculture has been appointed—
from N. S. Wales. And the patrol boat
Kuru has reached Darwin, streets
have been decorated with silent cops, and
a sporadic outbreak of betting at Adel-
aide River has been suppressed.
And, of course, it is heartening to hear
that Mr. Abbott, the Administrator, is
still optimistic. He has 80,000 square
miles of nnoccupied productive country
up his sleeve, together with roads, stock
routes, bores and a “clear and progres-
sive policy”—though where they all are,
and what is going to be done about them,
and when, remains a mystery.
Money is being poured into Darwin
and, between strikes, the town is going
ahead. But Darwin is only a small patch
of the N.T.
“Clayfield”: The trial of the 38 men
who were arrested after that raid on the
Government Caucus room at Parliament
House lasted nine days and cost over
£l2OO. The auditorium of the City Hall had
to be used, and crowds were like those at
first-class concerts. Defendants were
called on to answer an indictment that
they had assembled in such manner as
to cause the King’s subjects in the neigh-
borhood to fear, on reasonable grounds,
that they would tumultuously disturb the
peace. Treasurer t Cooper testified to
having seen men wearing numbered but-
tons and ribbons enter the Caucus meet-
ing. “What is the meaning of this?” the
Premier asked. One of the men in a
commanding tone said: “Keep your
seats.” Home Secretary Hanlon said that
the situation in the Caucus room was
“very serious,” so much so that he sent
for the police. Police certified to the
finding of batons, barbed wire, staples
and hammers in cars. Chief Justice Blair
said the Crown had presented a simple
charge. The presence of batons and other
impedimenta formed real evidence. The
verdict was not guilty.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Queensland is hospitable
and likes to treat its guests well, but
there are limits. One was reached when
a member of a taxation department sports
team from N.S.W. bought a lottery
ticket to console himself for losing in a
golf test, and a week later won the first
prize of £6OOO. It isn’t; so much the
money going outside the State which put
up nearly all of it, but the galling realisa-
tion that it has gone to someone whose
occupation is to carve substantial slices
out of financial windfalls for the bolster-
ing up of Australia’s most spendthrift
State, and without any taxation on it at
that.
* * * *
“Moonmera”: When I was scrapping
for a little Latin and less Greek 10 years
before the last war, six grammar schools, a
few church schools in country towns and
one or two round Brisbane provided
Queensland with higher forms of educa-
tion. The only chance the hard-up rural
youngster had of getting near any of
these institutions was to win one of
six £3O-a-year bursaries or one of a
couple of dozen £l6-a-year scholarships.
Secondary education began to come with
the institution of high schools in the
war. Most of these have outgrown them-
selves again and again. Cairns is one of
the cities where it has been found neces-
sary to rebuild on a large scale. The
foundation stone of a new £30,000 build-
ing has just been laid.
7 * * *
“X.T.”: Darwin has joined the ranks
of the thirsty. Naval and military can-
teens and messes there are normally dis-
creetly wet and hotels are even wetter,
but shipping arrangements have been
disturbed. When last heard from the
inhabitants of the northern capital were
keeping their tongues inside their shirts
to avoid treading on them. Anybody
who can find the 9500 gallons of keg
beer, 4260 bottles of bottled beer and
some other sundries which are some-
where in the Indian and Pacific Oceans
is likely to be welcomed with a proces-
sion when he lands in Darwin.
* * * *
From an outback Samaritan whose
notepaper bears the printed address “On
the track”:
It is not every day that people travel over
400 miles to a picnic race-meeting. Bill Nicholls
did He left his home at Murnpeowie, down
near- Marree (S.A.), three weeks before the
Innamincka races, travelling overland across
“But, sir, you WANTED something
semi-detached."
the Cobbler track. Bill had his reward—he
took the Stockman’s Purse horde with him.
Innamincka is a small township perched
among the gibbers on the banks of the Cooper.
—a few steps from the spot where King was
found in 1861. It can still boast of half a
dozen inhabitants. Its main institution is the f
A.I.M. Nursing Home, in whose honor the
. meeting was run.
People came in their cars, buckboards and
wagonettes. The Flying Doctor from Broken
Hill was present —his pilot brought him down ’
in the middle of the course, which is situated
between two sandhills, four miles from Mrs.
Moulden’s pub.
That doesn’t mean there wasn’t a bar on
the ground. Bob de Pury sold the best brands
beneath the shadow of his bough shed. The;
judge’s stand comprised a railing and three
Toohey’s lager boxes.
There were 45 steeds in the paddock, and
their sleek girths showed the bounty of the
present season.
Ernie Spencer, who manages Kidman’s Inna-
mincka block—nearly 10,000 square miles—,
seemed never to be out of'the saddle. Ernie,
is president of the Innamincka T.C., so he
has to show a good example. He certainly
lives up to his reputation ■of being one of
the most versatile saddlemen among Kidman’s
boys.
Bert Napier, who manages Cordillo Downs,
carried off Cup and Bracelet. On the second
day he was sport enough to scratch two: of ;
his best horses to even up the field.
One-armed Harry Johnston from Cadelga ■
• was clerk of the course, and the' veteran Micky
Fewsdale took his place at the starting-post.
John Connell, the policeman, was co-ordinator-
general, and when he wasn’t bellowing out
something about the next race he was prac-
tising sprinting over to the coolabah fire where
billies were boiling. The black population from
near and far giggled lustily from their reserved
seats on the sandhill. Young Andy Russell,
the bookkeeper from Cordillo, was secretary.
On the last day an impromptu rodeo was
held. Nobody knew what was going to happen
next, but there was no lag in the succession of
events. Eight buckjumpers gave the finale to
the day, and Paddy Waye pocketed the prize
for this event. Before the people took to the
road to their several stations they gathered
for a church service on the Sunday morning
in the Nursing Home. Padre Fred McKay
christened the Cordillo Downs baby, and all
horses were then unhobbled for the homeward
journey.
They will meet again next year if the season
holds good.
“Mataranka”: Old-timers in the N.T.
are shaking their heads over the events
that followed the centenary races at
Adelaide River. The sad story deserves
to be told in full. When it was found
that I. Layem was not present, two resi-
dents agreed to make a book, after con-
sultation with the secretary, who exacted
guarantees. But as soon as their voices
were raised the police sergeant arrived,
piled the two public benefactors into a
truck for having no license and carried
them off 70 miles to Darwin. The secre-
tary protested, but was told that if he
didn’t look out he would get into trouble
for obstructing the police. At Darwin
the pair were fined two quid each and
costs, and £32 of good money , was de-
tained pending the issue of a recovery
order. Nobody ever heard of such a
thing before. .It is clear that civilisation
has come to Darwin.
• * *
“Home Hill”: .Buried with military
honors at Home Hill (Q.)V Fred
(“Porkey”) Morcom,..of the 41st and
43rd Battalions, who passed over at 57.
Everybody in the North had known
“Porkey’s” rolling, good-natured form.
His public career began when he and
• other youngsters on ,the old Charters
- Towers “Northern Miner” organised
Cravino’s circus, building their own tent
■ and r providing and training the whole
personnel, from Red Indians to the clown
—“Porkey.” Paper delivery usually
followed breakfast in the Toners after
circus l night. And every old member of
the staff remembered the happy evening
when “Porkey” went to sleep on a pile
of papers and one of his friends set the
pile on fire to wake him up —they had
some trouble; to save the office. Later
football became “Porkey’s” passion, and
many a winded adversary went down be-
fore his charge when he played for the
Natives. He transferred to the Mackay
“Mercury,” then to the war. In later
years he was the life and soul of all
northern soldiers’ gatherings within
reach, and most of his exuberance went
into helping lame ducks over stiles.
* =l= * *
“P.”: The Territory is interested in
Commonwealth Budget increases detailed
in the Estimates. “Salaries and payments
in the nature of salary” go up from
£101,716 in 1938-39 to £104,000; “pur-
chase of motor-cars” from £2959 to
£7OOO ; “aboriginal affairs” from £13,996
to £16,000; and running expenses of
patrol vessels (one cost the Common-
wealth £BOOO in damages in the lugger
cases) from £1259 to £5500 ; further, £550
is allocated for “publicity.” Expenditure
on mining leaps from £4302 to £43,250.
But this increase is warranted, and there s
a capable Mines Director to see that the
public gets value for its money.
* * * *
“Ted”: Some Territorial are parti-
cularly anxious to have a crack at Hifier.
Two, travelling the length of the • •
to enlist, jumped trains, rode.tte.mad
truck and hoofed it from the Finke;
the SA border to Darwin, where they
were fined 10s. and costs (10s.) for jump-
ing trains. One Williams walked 100
SSes from Alexandria Downs to Ten-
nant Creek, and thence on to Darwin in
the same manner as: the chaps from
Finke. Milton, who was working among
cattle in the Kimberleys (W.A.) when he
heard of the war, dropped his job and
walked 140 miles into Wyndham to pick
up a boat for Darwin. Route-marching
should be a gift to any of them.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: In the season of the south-
east trades, Torres Strait natives do their
annual burning-off on the labyrinth of
islands, most of which are cultivated with
yam, taro and manioca'plots. On a dark
night the spectacle of -the burning hills
for miles on end is an unforgettable one.
The fires leave only a blackened land-
scape, but after the first monsoonal rains,
which arrive to the day, the vegetation
can be almost seen growing. Giant tropi-
cal grasses,, the circumference of man’s
forefinger, grow at the > rate of 6in. a
day, but their rankness is evidenced by
. the complete absence of any indigenous
animal life on the archipelago.
* * * *
From “Gramu” at Wewak (N.G.):
- The spark that fell as “Kaloa” (B. 8/6/’39)
ground his axe has started a flare in the Sepik.
The new Marui-Maprik road would bring
Maprik, the centre , for the Sepik goldfields,
within one hour’s trucking distance of a Sepik
River port to which the freight
rate, from Madang is £4. Present
freight from Wewak is £2B, the
alternative being four days’ carry
by\native porters over the coastal
ranges , from that port. On the
whole route, there is not 200 yards
of swamp, which is. certainly not
almost, useless. >
As for depriving private enter-
prise of labor, recruiters with
sufficient energy to leave tire river,
where, anyway, most villages have, been grossly
overrecruited and are closed for recruiting,
should have no difficulty in obtaining recruits
in the new country that the road would open up.
Facts are useful as brickbats to heave at
Administrations, but “Kaloa’s” statements are
wilder than ’the so-called wilds about which he
writes. _ _ . .
“Kaloa” comments:
My words do not. seem to have been.so wild
after all. After one glimpse at the project
the' Administrator hurriedly shut it down and
sent the natives employed on it home to their
villages.
■ * ' * ... *
“Dominic”: The humpbacks propen-
sity for scratching itself (B. 27/9/’39)
gave some fishermen pals of mine a
rather thrilling lesson in practical physics.
Drifting on a calm midnight sea in the
vicinity of Jurien Bay (W.A.), they were
awakened by the lugger being lifted
nearly out of the water. Then followed
a snort and a plunge, and their ark
dropped back into its element. A second
later and it was half-full; —the itchy ceta-
cean had torn off half the keel. Poor
swimmers, ten miles from land—and the
waters teeming with sharks! Stripping
hastily, they prepared for the final plunge.
It didn’t come, though as the hours
passed their bottomless craft, gunwales
awash, sank, almost imperceptibly, lower
and lower. - Slowly the tide carried them
in towards the shore. At noon the rising
southerly hurried them on. By mid-after-
noon their ark bumped on shore reefs
which enabled them by swimming and
wading to reach the beach. But long
before that they had been sitting on top
of the lugger’s big icebox, all the rest ot
the wreck being submerged. That icebox
had been the actual lifesaver. Packed
with over a ton of ice, it had served as
a buoy —fresh-water ice being, of course,
much lighter than sea water. Slowly it
had dissolved, but had lasted just long
enough to see them to safety.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
a l-Bi
m
o
=9g!
*
sgip6y?
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’EAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Costs less and goes further
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
is the best mineral supplement for sheep, cattle, pigs,
etc. It supplies calcium and phosphorus in the most
reliable form—pure, wholesome, palatable. Tri-cal-os
contains over 70 per cent, tricalcic phosphate and
the minerals normally present in bone.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lamb Export.
“Ghanam”: The growth in the Vic-
torian lamb trade with Britain has caused
the Victorian Agricultural Department to
echo the fears expressed on the M.O.L.
page four years ago that the point might
soon be reached when Britain could not
absorb available supplies. The war has
settled that for the time being. It is
also to be hoped that it will settle the
quota system and give the Dominions,
to which Britain comes for first prefer-
ence in emergency, first preference m
peace times.
Victorian export of lambs to the U.K.
in the years from 1919 to 1924 averaged
1,033,000 carcasses ; in the last five years
the average was 2,939,000 carcasses.
These were not all produced in Victoria:
many were Tasmanian, S. Australian and
N.S.W. stock slaughtered in that State.
Since 1932 valuable experimental work
has been done with various crosses at
Rutherglen, where there is a well-spread
23.5 in. annual rainfall. The land was
heavily stocked, and Border Leicester,
Southdown, Dorset Horn and Ryeland
rams were used on Romney Marsh-
merino and comeback ewes. The come-
backs were large, plain-bodied mothers
with fleece around 58-60’s, the other types
bigger, lighter-fleeced and coarser, carry-
ing 56-58’s wool. In 1939 fleeces from
the latter were worth lOd. per pound
against for the comebacks.
When the experiment began 100 come-
backs and 250 cross ewes, seven-year-
olds, were mated with B.L. and South-
down rams ; next year Dorset Horn and
Ryelands were introduced, beginning with
two-tooths. This line of breeding was
persisted in till 1937. The results showed
that the Southdown lambs reached first
quality at lower weights than any other
type.
On a schedule of prices computed as
likely to rule throughout 1939 —this, of
course, before war fixed prices—the
results obtained for total values of lambs,
including carcass, skin and fat, were:
B.L. ram on half-bred ewe, 17s. 7d.;
Southdown ram on half-bred ewe, 17s.
7d. ; B.L. on comeback ewe, 16s. 6yd.;
Southdown on comeback ewe, 16s. sd.
The department concludes that while
prices of half-bred animals are relatively
uniform, whether Southdown or B.L.
rams are used, the lightweight quality
Southdowns are obviously the more
profitable ; that if the premium for light
Downs were more than id. they would
become more popular, and that produc-
tion of early-matured lightweights would
be to the general advantage of'the export
trade.
Breeders should see that in the abnor-
mal conditions of war this is not for-
gotten. Britain is, of course, now look-
ing for heavier lambs, but it would be a
pity if this temporary demand were to
place the bulk of our export carcasses
outside the most desirable peace-time
range.
Silage for Sheep.
“E.M.”: Silage pits should be un-
covered in sections about 16 feet long.
The top layers are generally rotten, but
they need not be wasted. Peel off and
put them into the kitchen garden—they
make splendid humus, but are injurious
to stock. Now break out a bench with
an axe or adze for the full length of the
pit. Block out into liftable sections,
working off a clear face to an even
depth.
Sheep should not be kept on silage
alone if it can be avoided, though for a
few weeks they will manage well enough
in emergency on an allowance of about
31b. per day. In drought a couple of
pounds per day will see them through ;
but normal silage feeding calls for 21b.
silage, hay and at least 2oz. of
maize or other grain per day. Plenty
“Yes, you beat the record all right—but where's the train?"
of salt lick should always be available
with silage.
One man should be able to feed 1000
sheep a day. The feeding is best done in
a small closed paddock. The ration
should be worked out and the whole of
the feed well spread over the surface of
the paddock before the sheep are turned
in. Where the sheep are in poor con-
dition, it is well to feed the weak and
the strong separately. Otherwise, the
•strong sheep will take the titbits and the
weaklings will get the rest.
Lamb-fattening Technique.
“Grass”: It is necessary for successful
lamb fattening to understand the stages
by which the animals arrive at maturity.
The first three or four months after
birth are a growth period in which the
proteins taken in from mother’s milk and
succulent cropping build up the frame
and flesh and muscle and provide the
foundation for later development.
The next three months or so, when
the milk supply is on the wane and the
grass is growing up with the lamb, run
much more to fat production than to
flesh forming. But after this a fresh
crop of new, young, highly-proteined
grass is sprouting, and there is more
growth.
Afterwards the drive to maturity has
its effects. Wethers grow till they are
four-tooths without any tendency to
fatten, no matter what fatty and starchy
foods they are given. Ewe hoggets on
the other hand, when put in lamb as two-
tooths immediately cease to grow, and
nutriment is diverted to the production
of reserve fat to maintain their offspring.
Those who are not in lamb, however,
continue to grow and fatten three months
about until they reach four-tooth stage,
when they will be larger framed than
those which are lambin!
, , ... a , Al
The wise breeder will watch these
stages carefully and take full advantage
of them.
Blowflies and a New Dressing.
“Ovis”- With the flush season the
Uvis . With t e hush season, the
blowfly is having a good time. From end
to end of N. S. Wales the war against
the pest is in full swing. The Mules
method seems to be having good results,
but its use has not yet extended on a
large scale to station sheep, and jetting,
crutching and dipping all have their sup-
port.
Meanwhile the McMaster Labora-'
tory (N.S.W.) announces the issue of a
new preparation consisting of an emul-
sion of camphor oil and boracic acid
and known as “C.8.E.” It has been in
experimental use for two years at several
centres in N. S. Wales and Queensland,
and has been successful in treatment of
maggot areas and in warding off the fly
during the healing process.
At the same time it is beginning to look
as if there will always be fly trouble
in good seasons so long as there are
sheep susceptible in type. Breeding out
of wrinkles appears to be the only safe
preventive against strike.
Pigs and the War.
“Pappamosca”: Maoriland has had a
nasty knock through the decision of the
British Government not to take pig car-
casses weighing less than 1011 b. There
is plenty of reason for the decision—
the war calls for as much bacon as pos-
siblc, since bacon can be stored and
handled without refrigeration—but the
m.L. industry is based on pork, because
it depends on skim-milk as a staple pig
feed and is short of grain to carry on
animals from early-matured pork to
ma t ure bacon stage
No matter how a orker is brought to
. . ~ * - .. , .
bacon weights, his conformation does not
ul^.l^ ea ] bacon conditions. Hence, e i
1 fnrmers coll c . secure grain c ea.
enough for pig feed from Australia they
w ° uld h f ve <° sacnfic , e 'hf lr pork „f‘ and ;
ards ln Ullal, ’= ove t Jbe new VP
f. arcas |- . 11 at ‘ ck t 0 ' helr .,, P
' lne ° f . breeding, the result will mean
heavy financial loss, since they can pro-
duce as baconers only seconds, their pigs
being ru|ed out o{ flrst class by over _
fatting and shortness of carcass. There
is a big .difference between No. 1 and
No. 2 grade in price.
Australia, on the other hand, should
score with p j enty of c h ea p grain she
should be able to turn off ideal baconers
—that is, if producers will adopt modern
methods and a uniform type of pig after
the fashion of Denmark.
Caring for Foals.
“Nor”: Many a foal is stunted in
growth because of lack of care. Long
before the youngster has been taken
from its mother, it should be fed a small
but increasing ration of crushed oats
with a little bran and chaff, so that the
break from milk is made naturally. At
weaning time the animal should be get-
ting 21b. of oats per day, and this should
be gradually increased to 41b. at year-
ling stage, along with lib. bran and
grazing.
In earlier stages foals need close watch-
ing for digestive troubles, especially where
they have working mothers and are fed
at long and irregular intervals. Some-
times, overrich milk supply causes scour-
ing. A dose of castor oil is the best
medicine in such cases, followed by ad-
justment of feeding conditions.
Plenty of shelter is necessary in winter.
A horse stands up to cold well, but all
horses abhor wind.
Hints for the Farm.
“Werrimee”: Hundreds of sheep have
been lost recently in different parts of
N.S.W. following a cold snap after shear-


u
42/'
972
If It’s for Hard Work, It’s the “Stockman
4
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 427-
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM —APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders: Bank of N.S.W., 15.
fsd
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
'
m s ou
1
m
m
m
m
i
n
i
m
£
ii
a*
*
a*
ft*
* I
g
■
a
,a*
il
M
TO GIVE THE SAME DEGREE .»
OF INSULATION AS 1 0F
NO home is modem unless it is
insulated ! Unless it can defy
Winter's cold and Summer's heat.
Now LOOK AT THE PICTURE
ABOVE ! The secret lies, of course,
in the tens of thousands of tiny dead-
air cells which are imprisoned in
Cane-ite. These cells remain com-
pletely indifferent to changes in tem-
perature. Heat and cold find it
impossible to penetrate them. And
the same thing applies to sound.
That is why Cane-ite keeps a room
peaceful as well as comfortable.
Cane-ite is made in handy-sized,
easily handled, white-ant-proofed
boards of just the right thicknesses
for ail purposes. It can be used in
either of its normal colours (Natural
or Ivory —to give maximum light re-
flection) or it can be colour-finished
in any tone desired. Most important
of all, Cane-ite is NOT EXPENSIVE.
ANOTHER REMINDER . . . Furniture
made from Masonite Presdwood or Tem-
pered Presdwood is the latest vogue.
Masonite boards are grainless, splinterless,
and properly applied, cannot crack or warp.
c e
THE GANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Div.)*.
Please send me free sample and details of □ CANE-ITE O MASONITE
2-25-10.
ADDRESS......
* Write to your nearest branch: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY *
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
STOCKOWNERS! ATTENTION.
SOLIDIFIED MOLASSES
MOLASCOLIC
PRODUCED BY NORTH QUEENSLAND SUGAR MILLS.
PRICE £6/17/6 PER TON, F.0.R., TULLY.
Order from Wholesale Distributors.
Enquiries to MOLASSES PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.,
BOX 56, BABINDA, N.Q.
For Inflamed
SOLD £1
H. A. Rose & Co. Pi
Eyes and Eyelids
rER YWHEHE
y. Ltd., King St., Sydney
ing. At Branga Plains 300 out of 400
perished. Similar losses occur nearly
every year on various runs. Thick clumps
of trees are often the salvation of sheep
in cold snaps. Where there is a patch of
scrub sheep and cattle camp in it on cold
nights. The necessary clumps can be
grown easily and quickly enough, and
they should be rimmed with low, bushy
shrubs to break the wind.
“B-gar”: For applying liquid dressing
to fly-struck sheep or at lamb-marking,
a brush is better than any swab. Make
it with horsetail hair cut into lengths
of about 4in. and bound with fine wire
tightly around a short handle. The horse-
hair holds the fluid, does not get soft,
and assists penetration. Such a brush also
makes maggot-removal easy,
“Mt. Boppy”: Skin and hair provide
an [ ndex to the health of pigs. The skin
of a healthy pig is moderately moist,
reasonably free of scurf and soft to the
touch. Hair is bright, soft and glossy
and slightly oily. The healthy pig has
an active, sprightly gait, carries itself well,
has bright eyes and a well-curled tail.
Drooping ears, limp, hanging tail, rising
temperature and unpleasant smell indi-
cate that the pig is sickening or needs
attention.
“Atrax”: Cabbage grubs provoke the
amateur veg.-gardener more than any
other pest. Frankly, I don’t like using
arsenate sprays, so I tried putting half a
pound of small garden chillies in a clean
kerosene-tin and pouring on about 6oz.
of castor oil. I added a gallon of warm
water, then boiled, stirring well. When
the chillies were soft and mushy I put in
about three more gallons of hot water
and allowed to cool. Sprayed on each
plant when about a quarter grown, or
before if grub signs showed, the mixture
has done a good job.
“J. Want”: Victorian experiments show
that blackberry can be controlled by
spraying—at any rate, in far southern
Australia. October has been found the
most effective month for the treatment.
The plants are cut low and the growth
burnt. The plants then are allowed to
make some leaf before being sprayed
with calcium or sodium chlorate. It
should be done while the leaf is very
young. If it is allowed to get a start
it will beat the poison.
“Ghanam”: C.S. and I.R. experiments
to deal with shrinkage of wool are along
the right track. There should be a lot
of processing worth while to improve the
quality of the fibre and to add to its
natural advantages some of those qualities
with which it has to compete in artificials.
The process appears not only to cope
with shrinkage but to strengthen yarns
and make them more flexible. Experi-
ments also are being carried on to provide
new uses for wool by-products and
wastage.
“Romney”: For the first time in Aus-
tralia, seven-months-old Dorset Down
crossbred lambs were sold by auction at
Flemington (N.S.W.) yards the other day.
Bred by Leslie J. McMaster, of Binnia
Downs, Coolah, they topped the scale at
501 b., and realised 255. each.
“Bristol”: Can’t agree that Cape weed
(B. 13/9/’39) is valueless as pasture. In
the W.A. wheatbelt the Cape weed is the
first green feed to come away with early
rains. It grows rapidly, and in a good
season is up to a foot thick and fairly
deep rooted. In summer, sheep thrive on
the dry seeds provided they have an
ample supply of water. I have never
known it to blow away, leaving the
ground bare. As dairying is usually car-
ried on in wet areas, perhaps Cape weed
would smother and choke other pastures ;
in other districts it is valuable feed for
sheep.
“Zedo”: Wheat-yield prospects are
good. Though the Mallee in parts needs
rain, other Victorian areas are making
good progress. Central and s.-w. N.S.W.
should have bumper yields. S.A., though
short of rain last month, is doing well,
and W.A. expects 39,000,000 bushels.
The Darling Downs has had a dry spell,
which does not promise Well for th?
crop.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. plant-breeders have
evolved three new varieties of flagsmut-
resistant wheats. Each of the trio —
Mitchell, Koala and Loombah—has
Nabawa, which has been the principal
factor in minimising the disease wherever
it has- been grown extensively in Aus-
tralia, as one of its parents. All three
are of medium-strong flour class, and
are promising yielders. The area sown
to definitely susceptible sorts in N.S.W.
has been reduced to about 20 p.c. of the
total acreage. It is difficult to follow the
official listing, as worthy of further trial,
of highly-susceptible varieties such as
Baldmin, Garra, Gluford and Sword.
“C.Q.R.”: Until a few weeks ago
over all of Queensland save a few small
areas round Longreach and a bit further
north there was boasting of the excellence
of the season. September was almost
rainless, and, although much of the central
west is still well rationed, many stations
are now feeding supplements, and agist-
ment country is in demand.
“Monaro”: Diversified farming and
crop production for stock-raising for the
local market have an able exponent in
J. C. Garran, of Bonshaw, Canberra,
winner of the A.C.T. section of the N.S.W.
farm competition. Usually 350 acres of the
917-acre property are sown to crops,
principally wheat and oats, for grain and
hay. Crossbred lambs, porkers ana
poultry and eggs have a ready sale in the
capital city. Wheat tor pigs and poultry
and oats for sheep-feeding return pre-
mium prices, especially with pork com-
manding a minimum price of 7d. a pound
the year round.
“Yarrunga”: One day recently 1755
calves were killed and handled at the
Grafton Co-op. Dairy Co.’s abattoirs on
the Clarence River (N.S.W.). The pro-
duct is marketed almost entirely as bone-
less veal. Cattle and pigs are also
slaughtered, and the industry has become
of immense importance in affording
farmers in the tick quarantines a profit-
able getaway for their stock. Sixty miles
to the north at Casino similar works are
operated co-operatively by district dairy-
men. Down the coast at Macksville, on
the Nambucca River, co-operative enter-
prise is constructing a £25,000 killing
works, and another is on the point of
completion near Nimmitabel, on behalf
of graziers of Southern Monaro and
dairy-farmers of the far South Coast.
“Glencoe”: At altitudes ranging to
4500 ft. the possibilities of dairying in
New England (N.S.W.) are demonstrated
by the high production of the Jersey herd
at the Glen Innes State farm. Twenty-
three cows, mainly two and three years
old, recorded for 273 days’ lactation dur-
ing 1938-39, produced an average of
7001ilb. milk of 5.27 test, equivalent to
369.431 b. butterfat or 4501 b. butter. This
compared with 62461 b. milk and 329.61 b.
butterfat for a like number of cows in
the previous year. The maintenance of
the fat content is an excellent result in
view of the increase in milk yield. The
cows were rugged in the cold months
and well fed.
“Wundi”: Canals along the Murray
are rapidly spreading their tentacles over
the N.S.W. south-west. The Mulwala
Canal has now been brought to Finley.
Water from the canal is available to 400
holdings in the Berriquin area. Berri-
quin will finally have 605,000 acres
irrigated. Wakool’s 509,000 acres are
now fully supplied. And the Denniboota
scheme will provide for 300,000 acres.
But with 1000 holdings thus watered at a
cost of £3,000,000 only about a tenth of
the whole irrigable area will be dealt
with. The Mulwala Canal is 100 miles
from the Murray to its junction with the
Wakool main artery, and is the largest
in Australia.
“Bull-ant Bill”: The chook doesn’t get
the credit it deserves. The last Com-
monwealth Year-Book gives the gross
value of egg and poultry production for
1936-37 as £9,668,494. Victoria led with
£3,766,314, followed by N. S. Wales
£3,704,000, S. Australia £721,300, W.A.
£553,397, Queensland £532,000 and Tas-
mania £390,040. Gross production value
is rising by nearly £1,000,000 p.a. War
requirements will increase the ratio sub-
stantially.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4|d. per line;
all others at 2|dL per line.
for obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
For dealing thoughtfully with the financial aspect of the war, a Victorian gets
double pay this week.
War and Debt
Can democracy as we know it stand
the burden of another long war? In the
consideration of any peace proposals that
fnay be put forward, the position result-
ing from such proposals will have to be
carefully compared with what is likely
to be the economic situation after the
end of a long-drawn-out war.
The last war has cost Australia £5OO
millions to date, of which we still owe
more than half. With this highly-
mechanised war, it is more than likely
that the cost will be considerably more,
if it drags on as did the last. And so
another large burden of debt will be
added to what we already owe, there
being no likelihood of financing hostili-
ties out of revenue.
With a total debt of £l3OO millions
already, we are paying about 14 p.c. of
Commonwealth and 30 p.c. of State
revenue in interest, let alone any sinking
fund payments, though the fact that our
debt per head of population is increasing
each year only shows we are borrowing
to repay old loans. If to this colossal
debt we are to have added the cost of
our efforts in this war, and then in per-
haps 25 years another, remembering that
the last war was to end all war, then
we must surely reach a position where
our commitments will be beyond our
ability to finance.
And so we look for statesmen, not
politicians, with a constructive financial
policy which will progressively reduce
our total debts to reasonable propor-
tions ; and not to those whose present
policy is governed by the ever-present
fear of how their constituents will vote
at the next election, and are content to
leave to posterity the solving, one way or
the other, of this problem. It is a prob-
lem which will eventually decide the fate
of democracy.—G. N. (Vic.).
“G.N.” is G. Nelson, Marshall-avenue,
Kew (Vic.).
Appeasement—and Action
A nation like Great Britain with its
productive far-flung Empire cannot afford
to become saturated with the doctrine of
appeasement. To continue to live in its
glory it must give concrete evidence of
its greatness, not in mere words but by
proving to envious foreigners by down-
right practical deeds and exterior signs
that it is a formidable force.
To be truly impressive, Great Britain
must not only show that she possesses an
inexhaustible supply of war weapons, but
she must also show that her people pos-
sess the will to use them. The time has
come when appeasement talk, which in-
cludes the thought that any line of action,
any national reverse, is to be preferred
to a modern war, must be cut right out.
The sooner people realise that the con-
flict between Germany and Great Britain
was inevitable the better.
In the past, other conflicts between
Britain and other Powers have also been
inevitable, and their inevitability was
recognised by the people. Could there
have been any wavering of national con-
fidence, any appeasement talk, when the
Spanish Armada swept English shores, or
when Napoleon was striding forward in
Europe in his mad march for power?
Appeasement is of course the humane
view, but in dealing with Hitler’s Ger-
many it is a suicidal one. This is no
time to philosophise, to bargain or to
hedge; it is the time for a practical
demonstration of power. And in the
Dominions’ Air Armada lies the writing
on the wall. —S. C. W. (Q.).
Plan the Peace Terms Now
This may be a war of life or death, a
war to the bitter end, as Hitler says. On
the other hand, it may fizzle out in no
time. But, in any case, the Governments
of the world should start working out the
peace plan now, while we can still see
things _ reasonably straight. Last time
“Hanging the Kaiser” became such a
popular pastime that under its influence
the Treaty of Versailles was concocted
as a standing menace to the world.
It is not enough to punish or to exact
vengeance for wrongs, real or imaginary.
The peace agreement must constitute a
solid basis on which to build a perma-
nent peace, or at least to remove the in-
centives to war.
At the moment essential points appear
to be: (1) a genuine appeasement plan;
(2) facilities for peaceful solution of prob-
lems of nations'; (3) plans for freer
trading between nations and the aboli-
tion of restrictive tariff walls ; (4) dis-
armament by general and universal agree-
ment ; and (5) the rights of nations to
govern themselves according to whatever
“ideology” they please.—Benn (Q.).
Sons of Anzacs
Once again the Commonwealth and
Maoriland are preparing to send forces
to help the Motherland, if they be needed.
What a great tribute it would be to the
memory of those who fell on the Penin-
sula if a regiment were formed of Aus-
tralian and Maoriland descendants of
the immortal Anzacs! The body could
be known by the honored name, and it
would personify the solidarity of the
friendship between the two countries.—
Winton Keay (M.L.).
America and us
For the first time I have to take issue
with The Bulletin, and I do so over its
attitude to the United States.
You apparently object to the pronun-
ciation of “nootrality.” The “oo” sound
for “u” comes from the Spanish part of
the U.S.A. In any case, to cavil at an-
other nation’s pronunciation savors some-
what of parochialism, and it isn’t like
The Bulletin.
Because we go to war, must we always
gird at the United States because they
fail to see why they should do so? Bel-
gium, Holland, the Scandinavian coun-
tries, Italy and Turkey are all neutral,
and the war touches them far more than
it does the United States.
Furthermore, I think you are on dan-
gerous ground when you talk about the
profit they make out of war. Any profit
over the last war is still hidden in the
£lOOO million or so we still owe them.
Profits were not confined to America
either; it was a national scandal in Eng-
land in 1914-1918.
We blame them if they don’t sell us
the goods, and we blame them if they
do sell us the goods and make a profit
on the deal. I suppose nothing short of
working for nothing and coming over
to fight our battles for us will suit us.
However, we’d probably blame them for
being such fools. —F. H. J. (N.S.W.).
Not in Those Trousers
Who was responsible for the imperti-
nent idea of changing and mutilating the
uniform of the old A.1.F.? No one will
persuade me to believe that the new
A.I.F. is ashamed of the old khaki tunic
—or the cut of it—wherein the Diggers
stormed the Gallipoli heights, “stood
Fritz off” at Bullecourt and bashed him
back from the walls of Amiens.
The Aussie uniform in the Great War
was distinctive. It added to the Digger’s
prestige. Ask the girls of England or
the mamselles of France! Women are
the best critics of men’s dress. After
the Armistice the women of Paris and
in all parts of France and Belgium copied
the style of the Aussie tunic to fashion
chic costumes.
That uniform was fought for —and
paid for. What colossal audacity to
change it! What an insult to the “glory
boys” who stayed in Pozieres!
The lads of the new A.I.F. will find it
hard enough to keep in step with the
Diggers of old. Why handicap them
with trousers that could never get through
Fritz’s barbed wire? Gold Digger
(N.Q.).
Cavemen
In O.F.M. (B. 20/9/ ’39) the “wisdom
of government” was exemplified when
the R.A.A.F. dental-officer refused to
accept a he-man because he had only
34 teeth instead of 36. Just how many
leaves the aspidistra grows under the
sunny window I do not know, but a
normal human being is only asked to
house 32 teeth as the full complement.
Maybe the youth was cutting his third
set or something. Dental - Reserve
Officer (S.A.).
“National Enthusiasm?”
The closing paragraphs of The Bulle-
tin’s editorial of 4/10/’39, “Wet-blanket
Leadership,” left me cold. “Mr. Men-
zies,” we were told, “mentioned that there
has this time been ‘no hysteria, no flag-
wagging.’ What else are these but de-
rogatory terms for national enthusiasm?
Is that desirable now? A nation fights
as a nation thinks.” First of all, there’s
no need to worry on the score of how
Australians will fight in the absence of
“national enthusiasm” —a badly camou-
flaged enthusiasm for war.
Flow many parents and teachers have
drummed hatred of war into the genera-
tion just risen? How many books of the
All Quiet on the Western Front type have
been read by the soldiers of to-day?
How many ghoulish war films have been
seen by them? It has been evident, even
in France, that an unemotional grim-
ness has been shown by the new troops,
in place of the old displays of patriotism.
Yet are these new troops any less deter-
mined to fight than were their fathers?
Also, the editorial admiringly men-
tions the leadership of “vigorous and
spectacular” Lloyd George and Clemen-
ceau. But where did these engineers of
Versailles land us? What of Lloyd
George’s post-war slogan of “Make Ger-
many Pay”? Germany undoubtedly de-
served punishment, but out of her post-
war chaos has risen Hitlerism. To what
extent Hitlerism could have been fore-
stalled by wiser treaty-framers can only
be guessed at. But this time give us
leaders typical of the new generation,
leaders who will not attempt to stir up
such emotional patriotism as will bring
about a second vindictive peace. We will
have cause for bitterness, but bitterness
simply does not pay. — Donald Charl-
wood (Vic.).
Militia Camps and the Farmer
Scant consideration for the farmer and
grazier was shown by the military authori-
ties when they fixed the dates of militia
camps. Most of the camps will be held
when shearing or harvesting should be
under way in many districts. As Light
Horse regiments and some other units
are made up largely of farm and station
workers, rural industries will be seriously
handicapped by the fact that workers will
have to go to camp.
Contrast the position in Australia with
what happened in Britain. There, the
War Office made soldiers available to
help farmers complete the harvest in the
shortest time possible.
Extension of the dates of some camps
until after shearing and harvesting are
finished should not seriously affect the
militia training scheme. There should
be some consideration for the man on
the land, whose organisations have con-
sistently advocated universal compulsory
training.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Maintaining Quality
Although Great Britain’s war-time
purchases of certain Australian primary
products will stimulate greater produc-
tion, there is a danger that there will be
a tendency to disregard quality stand-
ards, especially by those who embark in
a new form of industry as a sideline “for
the duration.” John Bull will probably
want as much wool, wheat, butter, meat,
pork and bacon as he can get, but he
is not likely to take stuff of inferior
quality.
Where foodstuffs are concerned J.B.
will need those that have the ability to
keep fresh for an extended period, and
only the best will do that. He will want
nutritious foods, and he won’t get
nutrition from poor material. From the
producer’s own angle, the fact that heavy
and profitable yields cannot be produced
from an inferior basis must be remem-
bered.
John Bull is a businessman, and it is
unlikely that he will be caught buying
anything that does not measure up to
a reasonably high standard. Waste of
time, money and energy can be avoided
if the producer sets out to produce the
highest standard possible, without waiting
to learn from bitter experience that the
poor stuff doesn’t pay. Canbelego
(N.S.W.).
Women
“C.H.” (B. 13/9/’39) asserts that
woman is an opportunist. She’s not; she’s
a victim. The opportunists are those
short-sighted employers who by employ-
ing women prevent men from securing
the jobs necessary to make homes.
In Sydney I saw women lift attendants
and women porters to carry luggage in
cheaper hotels; in two insurance com-
panies the manager and the accountant
were the only males employed in the
office. In large chain stores the em-
ployees were predominantly female. In
Brisbane I’ve seen women minding
machines for winding armatures and also
in charge of chain-making machinery.
Women are merely cheap labor. They
would be used on large pastoral holdings
only dogs are cheaper.—A. F. (Q.).
This is for the benefit of cynics like
“A.O’H.” (B. 20/9/’39), whose tiresome
remarks on feminipe fashions are remi-
niscent of parrots with limited vision.
Such gibes surely come from men
approaching the sere and yellow, for no
man with an “eye” for the decorative
sex would decry any artifice used by
women to enhance their charms.
High heels give a slender line to
daintily-hosed ankles and more shapeli-
ness to ample shoes. A hat that would
make a conservative gallop for cover at
least invites the average man to take an-
other look at the wearer, and short skirts
certainly excite the masculine imagina-
tion.
Ultra-smart clothes lend matrons an
air of confidence. As for young unmar-
rieds, they are equally appreciative of
notice, especially if not particularly keen
on remaining spinsters all their days.
Anyway, would “A.O’H.” be game
enough to parade in some of this season’s
pretty-pretties for he-men as displayed
in city stores? —A. M. Y. (N.S.W.).
As a woman, I am heartily sick of the
pose adopted by my sex. The last war
began and this war will complete their
stupidity. Twenty-five years women have
been steadily pushing men out of work—
and what have we?
Better social conditions? Happier
homes? Finer characters? Staple econo-
mics? Nothing so wonderful. Instead,
women preach a mess of sentimental
claptrap about peace and fellowship and
do all in their power to destroy these
things.
Where else is peace but in the heart
and home? But the rate of divorce in-
creases, and the number of women living
on charity when their husbands should be
supporting them proves it is pretty un-
likely to find those things there. And
who is to blame? Perhaps the women
are the victims; but I doubt it.
Homes are the foundation of nations.
Nature’s plan was to keep women at
home while men roughed it abroad. But
women have other ideas. They must
stupidly compete with men when they
were meant to complete them. The work
that is hard they avoid, without realising
that hard work pleasantly done can be
its own reward.
They want peace. Instead of training
their sons to take their rightful place *n
the world they send their daughters to
work while the lads are idle, and they
would consider it rank blasphemy if the
girls stopped at home while the boys
went to work.
But their crowning stupidity is the
Women’s Emergency Services. These
women, so eager for peace, are licking
their lips and waiting to grab yet another
of men’s jobs—fighting the war. They
proudly flaunt the chance of robbing
man of his natural inheritance as the
tiller of the soil, grabbing his trousers
in the meantime.
When will they return to the home and
bring sanity back to the world? With
women striving to create happier homes
we might stand a sporting chance of
attaining the millennium. But while they
disorganise the social system we can only
hope for confusion thrice confounded.
Whoever it was that said “women in
man’s clothes is a curse and an abomi-
nation” certainly knew what he was talk-
ing about. —A Woman (N.S.W.).
The female form is, generally speaking,
close to a nightmare, but just how close
depends on age, weight and general health
conditions.
Man-made literature depends for the
most part on female readers, so the
female-beauty stunt has got to be worked
in somehow. It will be noticed that
woman-made literature hasn’t yet begun
babbling about the beauty of the male
form. That is not a convention yet, but
it will come.
In the past classical sculptors spent
most of their time sculpting the male
form. Tha!t was the convention then.
Occasionally they might turn aside to


sculpt a Venus, but Venuses have not
been common at any time.
The sad truth is that nowadays men
are afraid to say what they mean in
regard to the female-beauty racket —in
case someone might call them by a nasty
rude name. The convention is that
womankind is beautiful, so all the robots
obediently echo “womankind is beauti-
ful.”
The fact is, however, that man is the
attractive sex. It is not my own idea.
It is Nature’s. It is just the same with
other animals. That is the way Nature
has arranged things. Some women seem
better-looking than men, but that is only
because they are painted and dyed and
wear variegated clothes. But dress
women as men dress, give them a hair-
cut and they wouldn’t look half so well
as the average man.
As an artistic production there is not
one undraped woman in 500 who would
be even good enough to be an artist’s
model. There are mighty few women
who can walk properly. The average
woman you see in the street is just a
wobbler. She wobbles about all over the
place.
Men on beaches, generally speaking,
look better than women; and if these
men on beaches seem to be attracted by
the mermaids that drape themselves
about the sandscape, it is only because
they have been suggested into it by all
this ballyhoo which, largely in the in-
terests of commerce, says that women
are beautiful. Leonardo da Coogee
(N.S.W.).
Liquor Legislation
Maoriland’s Government recently put
through legislation prohibiting drinking
in or about dance halls. In Parliament
the issue was made a “moral” one and
there were some amusing sidelights to
the debate on the bill. Very few mem-
bers had the courage to condemn the
measure as a further onslaught of wow-
serism. It was evident, however, that a
number supported the bill not because
they believed in it but because they were
deadly afraid of offending the puritanical
voters in their electorates. As soon as it
became obvious that the measure was
going to command a majority in the
House, it was extraordinary to note how
anxious members were to speak in favor
of it.
The bill is a piece of social dictator-
ship. It is probably useless, for if girls
want booze and the boy-friends want to
supply it, ways and means can easily be
found for getting it and drinking it in
secluded spots. If we must have these
restrictions for the good of our morals,
they should be as few as possible and
then rigorously enforced. I don’t approve
of the six-o’clock-closing law, but if it
were strictly enforced there would be
little need for the new legislation. It is
because liquor is so easily procurable
after hours that there is so much drink-
ing at dances.
The lounges of big sassiety hotels
in cities nearly all do a roaring trade,
quite openly, every evening. They are
rarely raided and, significantly, never
caught! But the wharf-laborer who gets
a bottle of beer after hours at a back-
street pub, and the publican who supplies
him, run a whale of a risk of a heavy
fine.
The latest Comstockian measure will
probably have similar results. It will be
difficult to enforce, and, like six
o’clock closing, will hit hardest those
with little money—those who frequent
public dance halls. — Heretaunga (M.L.).
Prices and Price-fixing
The Australian price-fixing measures
were ill-conceived. Prices will follow the
law of supply and demand, in spite of
Government action.
Fixed prices are hampering business
and holding up prosperity. Unrestricted
prices would enable some goods to be
turned over a number of times, bringing
profits to each factor in the transaction,
and more revenue to the Government in
income tax.
At the present time, some merchants
cannot trade, one of the reasons being
that they are faced with an enormous in-
crease in the replacement value of their
stock ; and they simply will not sell until
they can realise somewhere near replace-
ment value. This holdup of business is
sure to be reflected in incomes, and,
therefore, in taxation receipts.
There seems to be some confusion in
the Customs Department, which is
handling price-fixing. A large staff will
probably be necessary to inspect the
books of merchants and arbitrate as to
what constiutes a reasonable profit, and
it is safe to say that, for every profiteer
who is caught, 99 will escape.
A remedy would be to let the Taxa-
tion Department deal with the matter. It
has the staff and organisation. Every-
body could be required to furnish a re-
turn setting out buying price and selling
price of every article handled, all
profits over and above certain fixed per-
centages to go to the Government. In
the meantime, business could go on un-
restricted and the Government would
benefit in revenue. —O. K. B. (N.S.W.).
Improving Australian Films
In war-time, when we think of things
that should have been attended to during
peace, perhaps someone will do some-
thing about our film industry. Entertain-
ment is a large factor in the life of the
average Australian, and not only is the
bulk of it imported, but theatres are con-
trolled by overseas interests.
We have the talent here to play in
Australian productions many artists
have gone abroad and proved that but
our film industry is at a standstill, or,
at least, moving very slowly. A few
years ago our studios imported a few
of Hollywood’s falling stars —an insult
to Australian artists. If we must bow to
overseas superiority in showmanship, why
not import technicians and learn from
them? Then, instead of a few third-rate
pictures, we would be able to present a
regular supply of good Australian pro-
ductions. —G. H. A. (Q.).
Theatres and Films
The N.S.W. Theatres and Films Com-
mission (B. 11/10/’39) was appointed at
the request of the film industry. That
industry pays more in license fees than
the commission will ever cost. And with
the wide powers vested in the commission
it will be possible to enforce the section
of the Cinematograph Films Act designed
to make American companies produce
films in this country.
Read the balance sheets of com-
panies which depend on America for
film supplies. The dividends, if any, are
microscopic, owing to the exorbitant film
hire charged.
Make a tour of N.S.W. and count the
number of theatres that are closed and
mouldering away; theatres often built
at American instigation because the estab-
lished showman refused to pay film hire
that would have bankrupted him. For
every four persons in Australia there is
one theatre seat. Americans threat-
ened to build a lot more halls. In future
no theatre will be erected unless there is
proved beyond all doubt that it is neces-
sary ; and this without suggestion of poli-
tical interference.
Lastly, have a talk with independent
exhibitors. They will tell you they can
now refuse exorbitant demands and keep
their film hire down to a reasonable
figure. Under the protection of the
Films and Theatre Commission they can
plan safely for the future. — Exhibitor
(N.S.W.).
Unification and Grants
Lately The Bulletin has been criti-
cising the Commonwealth Government
for giving grants to three of the unneces-
sary provincial Parliaments. Although I
agree with your policy of one national
Parliament for the whole of Australia
and the abolition of the provincial bodies,
I consider that while they are allowed to
exist they should be assisted by these
grants.
As the present critical period
emphasises, the need for population in
two of these States —South Australia and
Westralia —is necessary from a defence
viewpoint alone. Now that the pioneer
spirit has almost disappeared from the
present generation of Australians, Gov-
ernment development works are necessary
to entice the people to settle in these areas
and to keep the present settlers there.
These grants enable the provincial Par-
liaments to carry out these works, which
otherwise would remain undone. Even
when we have the one national Parlia-
ment we shall have to spend huge sums
of money in the lowly-populated States
to ensure their development and to pre-
vent the congregation of the population
in the s.-e. of Australia, such as is occur-
ring at the present time.
Anyway, I don’t think the grants will
be necessary for very long now. The
Bulletin will be as successful in its cam-
paign against the unnecessary provincial
Parliaments as it has been in those major
campaigns of the past Protection and
Federation are two that come readily to
my mind. —W. H. Vaughan (Vic.).
War a Young Man’s Game
“Arev” (B. 11/10/’39) advocates that
married men hop the bags in preference
to the single men. Writing with the ex-
perience of four years in a footsloggers’
battalion in Liverpool (N.S.W.), Cairo,
Suez, France and Belgium, I say definitely
that war is a young man’s game. If it
were possible I would limit enlistments
to an 18-26-years group. The older men
I have soldiered with their hearts as
big as bullocks —could not pace it with
the young ’uns, and if they weren't
skittled they finished up at the base or
in some cushy job.
That is why I would not allow any
Digger of the last war to enlist. He would
probably look down on the “marmalades”
for a time, but youth would lose him
when the strain was put upon the chin
straps. In France, after a gruelling 12
or 14 miles' march, it was the custom
as soon as the pack was off to make a
break for the nearest estaminet, and
sometimes this would mean a trudge of
eight to ten kilos. Back again after mid-
night, a few hours’ sleep, and up again
quite refreshed. Youth is like a piece
of elastic.
Boy-like, I could give and take a joke
in camp. Little things like a smack in
the jaw with a lump of stale bread could
be laughed off. Nowadays the married
men, myself included, would rush for a
bayonet—too old and cranky.
The self-preservation instinct in the
trenches makes a soldier much more
quickly than the parade ground. Re-
inforcements that came along in the last
war—it mattered not if they had had one
month’s or three months’ training—very
quickly caught up to the older hands, and
Jack was as good as his master in no
time. I maintain it is not the parade
training that counts, but experience in the
trenches. Pte. Buggins of the 55th
(N.S.W.).
The British Navy
The radio has given the world a vivid
account of the work done by the British
navy during these first few weeks of war.
In the last war many people failed, to
realise what Australia owed to this same
British navy. Towards the end of those
four tragic years there was a move for a
“navy comforts” fund. I attended a meet-
ing in a fair-sized N. S. Wales town and
was struck dumb when one of the leading
matrons arose and asked, “But what has
the British navy done for us?” —F. U. F.
(W.A.).
Trade Unionism and Strikes
Under our system of arbitration strikes
are illegal, and contributing to the
support of a strike is also logically illegal.
The penalty provided to secure observ-
ance of the law by trade unions is de-
registration ; that is, if a trade union does
not remain loyal to its obligations it can
be debarred from benefiting by its regis-
tration —its award can be cancelled.
Trade unions cannot have it both ways.
To retain the benefits they must be loyal
to the conditions. The A.C.T.U. should
advise its affiliated unions to discipline
their members. A small section can
cripple a whole trade by refusing to work
and breathing out all manner of threats
to men who are prepared to take their
places and do what they should be doing.
Only the pioneers know what a task
it was to get wages boards. We have now
industrial arbitration throughout the
Commonwealth. We do not want to re-
turn to industrial anarchy.
The trades and labor councils would
greatly add to their prestige if they set
their faces against the slightest attempt
to defy the law on the part of any section
of the workers, and refuse to consider
any proposal to appeal to the trade
unions in support of a strike when it may
happen to take place.—J. Arthur (S.A.).
Rule Out War Loans!
On the method of financing this war
as much as on our final victory or defeat
will depend the future of democracy.
The money to carry on should be raised
by taxes —even by capital levies, if need
be—and not by loans. If borrowing is
resorted to on anything like the scale it
was last time, the already weakened
economic structure of democracy will,
even if it survives the war itself, not sur-
vive the peace following the war.
Loans are simply the means of paying
in the future instead of now. Nationally
they are justified only when, through in-
creasing prosperity and population, we are
better able to pay in the future. But is
our wealth or population likely to in-
crease in the immediate future? I don’t
think so. The war, with its waste of both
life and wealth, will have the opposite
effect —an effect to be felt for years to
come. Further, owing to interest and
charges, the longer repayment is delayed
the more burdensome it will be.
Ultimately there are only two things
to be done about loan debts: repay them
or repudiate them. If a Government
lacks the political force to raise money
by taxes when the threat of war makes
the need apparent to all, how is it going
to raise it to repay loans after that threat
has passed? The refusal of our rulers
to face an unpopular issue and conse-
quent political extermination is one of
the inherent weaknesses of democracy.
Take it which ever way you like. A
Government strong enough to enforce
repayment of war loans on top of exist-
ing debts in the coming peace must of
necessity have lost its democratic quab
Ties and become, in effect, a
And a supine Government which P
diates wholesale sounds democracy s
death-knell just as surely, because the
sanctity of the contract is as much a. fun-
damental of democracy as freedom itself.
Whatever methods are used to finance
the war, loans should be ruled out
T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Shavian Wit
Bernard Shaw has expressed a desire
to visit the east coast of England to pro-
vide an “amusing” target for a raiding
German warship. He wishes to emulate
the man who during the last war had the
spoon knocked out of his hand while en-
joying soup in a hotel in Scarborough.
He said the soldiers had a good laugh
out of it. , , . ...
Here is a good example of Shavian wit.
In the capacity of an “amusing target
for the German raiding warship he en-
deavors personally to provide humor for
the men in the trenches. The indomitable
Shaw denies humor to neither friend nor
f °He feels that refreshing humor is so
great a stimulus that he is prepared to
risk his own personal safety to bring
amusement to the men in the trenches •
a most unselfish and commendable action
for a man of his years. —E. M. B. (N.Q.).
The “Bulletin” Club
When are those “other fellows” who
have been arguing the toss for and
against the institution of a Bulletin
Club going to wake up to the fact that
there is a Bulletin Club? It is the most
exclusive club in the country, and truly
democratic, while its waiting list covers
every corner of the Commonwealth. Its
colors are red, white and Wimble’s black,
and its badge—a coveted possession—is
honored in whatever bank the member
graces with his patronage.
Neither political pull nor bankroll,
neither birth nor breeding has any bear-
ing on the nomination of would-be
members; the only recognised factor is
suitability of copy. Members may say
what they like when they like without
fear of interruption, and their freedom
of speech knows only one restriction—
whatever is said in the club must be said
in the “Bulletin style.”
There is no snobbery permitted in the
club, which gives an equal hearing to the
naturalist, city-dweller, sundowner, Abo-
liar and the intellectuals who forgather
in the O.F.M. corner. Above all, there
are no club bores! — Nairb (Vic.).
Leaders and Leadership
Under the present system of de-
mocracy the only “will of the people”
is that which has been developed by the
leaders, and unless a real leader arises
the democracy experiences stagnation.
The policies of a White Australia and
Federation were not originated by the
people but were enunciated by leaders,
and they only became the will of the
people after much propaganda had been
promulgated to overcome the self-
interests of employers of black labor and
die-hard State-rightists respectively.
The mass of the population does not
give sufficient thought to matters of
national policy to engender any “will
of the people.” The so-called will of
the people is formed largely on emotion
which is stirred up by the press and by
political speeches. That fact is evidenced
by the politicians, failures at earning a
living, who have been elected to Parlia-
ment merely because they have the “gift
of the gab.” The average elector gives
more time and thought to the selection
of a cricket team or a race-winner than
he does to the selection of a Parliamen-
tary representative.
In a young country like ours there
are numerous things which could be in-
cluded in the national policy—for in-
stance, water conservation, develop-
mental work combined with immigration,
Federal system of education, a con-
tinuous defence policy, national research
for fuel, etc.
When our education system encourages
the rising generation to take an intelli-
gent interest in the affairs of their
country, and when it develops in them
the habit of taking a long-range view
of all social and national problems, we
may then develop discussion-groups in
each suburb and country town. Those
discussion-groups will develop national
thought. The daily press would have to
be more careful regarding the class of
“news” it served up to the people, as
the development of national thought
would create an aversion to “tripe.”
Those discussion-groups of people who
had been taught to think on national
lines would provide a selection ground
for worth-while Parliamentarians and
they would tend to foster and develop
national leaders.— E. C. Smith (Q.),


.
\
>
#0
VS
■
X
%
n
•>■ :'v
<f§
&s
m
m
7/
'Sri
%y,
%%
tkxf
t\\
V
\
f*i
Theu keep
■r -±vXN. mam
Smiling
D* Morse's
m
D
1001'
V-
D
□
\
n
C
urn
Sem
m
'■';rrr
mm
nmni
Sifw
K
i' -V'^
n
*MSE&
directions.
° "Atf to
FOUB PILLS
*s SEQUIRCO
m
■, ■_■
wtfic/cre rcfkittf
INOMOT
PIUS
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
(
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/
(postage
sd. extra).
S'
<€s n \s
o°
,"i>'$ e !<v
.x ,■■'■■■■:*%&'
&
<S '
.• ?vve|
.-•• $ *&*&*'


"WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
ALL- AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
%%
WAR ATAW
'VRhe. ‘YleUinq
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT M
"WARATAH
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
* WARATAH*
•WAftATAH”
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
* WAR AT AH"
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
AN INVITATION IS EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
if
m
m
m
II
m
I|lh!P
m-
S 3
rnmmm
a
3
srv
ysZ&.m
i
. $1
>&:' : y. v :yi.;...
AT
>m& ,
ww
ETTI
DsVrXuam
ROS.f
W£ASTLS-<
■>
■
:,s>*
Ij» (
mm
sreev
IRON
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
BYLANDS BROS, (aust.) PTY. LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Rylands stand behind their products
