

A.
; i ■■
■*T-
a s
&- ■, f-ymi
-*
I T‘" > sn®s»jßr~
**'“■*' W'i
■ ' m
!9m£
/atp<i: •*•*•'*
v%.
4?*§a
> V*
G
•jfc
«
“ W-tv : .;
, --■ **V^'
I:A:’.C .A
fey'r'"*. J 0 .Iff*- «
%:*
“ { "
: + t'" M
Hi'. ' ,
,vt • ~ *
••H
t.%
H ;;,, ~
■»->» V« •» ii u f '*it l
FROM
OUR
SUNLIT
WHEATFIELDS
150 years ago the rugged untamed
bushland swarmed with obstacles
to daunt the hardiest pioneer.
To-day in our generous sunshine
lie vast expanses golden with a
bounteous harvest of food. Every
essential to perfect health and
development is held in this,
Australia’s great heritage from the
man on the land. It is a treasure
house from which fine ingredients
are drawn for the good biscuits
exported by Arnott’s to many
lands and varied peoples.
•K
m
s
If
*
f.'=
m-
»■
.
:•■ ■ '
r
W
m
WM
‘'■Si.
maA
William Arnott Pty., Limited, Honrvebusli.
11PH m i
Cbmotfe
FAMOUS
SAO BISCUITS
OFTEN BUTTERED NEVER BETTERED
The Bulletin
Comrade Ad. and Nazi Joe
Vol. 60.—N0. 3107.
Wednesday, August 30, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
e
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL "
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, exp
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney o
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
As in the 1939 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize com-
petition, the winner of which was announced in last
week’s Bulletin, the Prize for 1940 will be
awarded for the prose work which is considered the
most outstanding contribution to Australian literature,
and the prize will be £3O0 —the normal award of £lOO,
plus £2OO of accumulations to be added if the judges
consider the entry sufficiently meritorious.
The first award of the Prize was made in 1935 to
Kylie Tennant’s Tiburon, and the following year it
went to Miles Franklin’s All That Swagger. Those
two fine novels, each the positive contribution to Aus-
tralian letters to foster which the Prize was estab-
lished, set a high standard for subsequent ln
the opinion of the judges appointed for the 1937 and
1938 competitions, no entry in either year reached the
same level of achievement and, the trustees having
the right to withhold the Prize if the judges consider
that no work submitted is worthy of an award, no
awards were made in those years. When this happens,
the amount of the Prize is automatically added to the
following year’s Prize, so that for the 1939 competi-
tion there was £3OO to be won.
In accordance with the recommendation of the
judges, the 1939 Prize was awarded to Who Was
Joseph Furphy ?, by Miles Franklin and Kate Baker,
but without accumulations. Consequently the £2OO
held over from 1937 and 1938 is still there to be won,
in addition to the ordinary £lOO Prize, by an entry
of sufficient merit.
The opening of the fifth competition to all prose
works —biography, autobiography, history, etc., as
well as fiction —gave a chance to a wide field of com-
petitors, and similar conditions will apply for the sixth
(1940) competition. The competition is open to any
writers born or naturalised in Australia, New Zealand
or the South Pacific Islands (no matter where now
resident) or bona fide residents of any of these places
for the two years preceding the closing date of the
competition. It will close on June 6, 1940.
It is probably worth repeating that entry for the
competition will not interfere with any publishing
arrangements an author may have made or may wish
to make. When the award has been announced,
authors are free to publish their MS. through any pub-
lishing house they wish, in Australia or abroad. All
rights—book, serial, dramatic, cinema and radio —are
reserved to the author, subject to the proviso that The
Bulletin shall have the option to purchase the first
Australian serial rights of any work submitted. Further
particulars concerning the 1940 S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize competition may be had by forwarding a
stamped addressed envelope to the secretary, S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, 252 George-
street, Sydney.
Judging Literary Competitions.
When the eliminating judges have done their
work, the final judges in literary competitions have a
fairly light task in the matter of reading. In four
Australian competitions of national importance I have
helped to judge, experience shows that the quality of
the manuscripts submitted would need to be very high
for more than 10 per cent, of them to be sent forward
to the final judges as worthy of serious consideration.
Eight per cent, is much nearer the mark, and even
this proportion will very likely include a few passed
on for the purpose of showing the final judges, by
example, where the quality of the work begins to
taper off.
Judges, both eliminating and finalists, live in
hopes of coming on something outstanding, something
that will set up a new landmark in Australian litera-
ture. If two manuscripts run close the judges are on
their mettle. The easy way is to divide the prize,
funk the question. In my experience division of the
prize is a last resort among judges, adopted only after
re-reading and prolonged discussion.
The basic questions might be: “Which has under-
taken the larger task? Which best succeeds in its
intention? Or, is this partial success in a large way
of greater importance to the world than this greater
success in a smaller way?” In such circumstances a
judge’s lot is not a happy one. Another question
that arises is, “Does the best manuscript in this com-
petition equal or approach in quality the winners of
past competitions of equal importance?” Standards
of achievement have been set and to deviate from them
would devaluate past winners, lower the standing of
major competitions and create confusion of values
generally.
In one competition I helped judge there was
nothing within shooting distance of past winners of
similar competitions. Rather than let the prize-money
be lost to writers—it was not an annual competition
with cumulative prize-money—we whacked it up
equally among all the finalists on the grounds that by
so doing we would maintain standards and at the
same time encourage a number of writers of promise.
It turned out that a few were writers of considerable
prominence ; but that was not our fault. The best
writers are sometimes in bad form, and fallibility of
judgment in respect of their own work often leads
them into submitting an inferior effort. These two
factors should encourage beginners in submitting
entries.
Is this manuscript a good advertisement for Aus-
tralia? Will it offend Mrs. Grundy? What will they
say in London? These questions are quite out of
court as far as literary judges are concerned, yet they
exercise the minds of competitors to a surprising
degree. The only good advertisement for Australia
in a literary way is literature. Literature-—-if fiction
is a discussion of life through its created image, with
all the honesty and intelligence at the author’s dis-
posal, and in any aspect that interests him.
About half the manuscripts submitted are found
to be light romances, pink sugar, flapper fodder. Brief
investigation discloses their quality. The hero and
heroine have names like Derek and Clematis. She
usually has laughing blue eyes and figure that un-
consciously reveals its seductive curves —the hussy!
He is six-feet-two, strong yet tender, with a firm hand-
shake and a sun-bronzed throat, obviously an outdoor
man. There is a mortgage on the old homestead, and
the last couple of pages are taken up with the grand
love scene. Still, these creations are somebody’s fond
hope, and the judge, if he sees evidence of narrative
skill —and if he can find time —might slip a note in
alongside the title page mentioning publishing houses
which delight to print just that sort of thing. The bush
background of many of these light romances is often
very fine, but that is not enough.
Historical novels run to about 20 or 25 per cent.
In the main they are made up of good history and
poor fiction. Setting, whether historical, social or geo-
graphical, is only the husk of a novel; the kernel is
conflict of character, and the germ within the kernel
is the will of the individual in conflict with innate ten-
dencies and environmental influences. “The characters
are empty puppets,” is fair comment on a majority
of historical efforts.
Patriotism of the most elementary kind runs
strong in amateur novelists, historical and otherwise.
A desire to hymn the glories of “this fair land” is one
to awaken sympathy, but it is not enough in itself. Too
often it is part of a flight from reality. Reality—his-
torical or contemporary —clad in all its sins and fol-
lies is more heroic than make-believe.
Eccentric entries run to about 5 per cent, of the
total —and take up an unconscionable amount of time.
The author may be an Australian James Joyce! I
have been continually alert for profundities lurking
under an idiosyncratic manner and, to the best of my
belief, have consigned no local Joyces to the limbo of
eliminated entries.
Related to the historical novels is another small
group ; well-written novels that never come to life.
The author has acceptable style combined perhaps
with a grasp of the architecture of the novel or a re-
markable gift for reproducing the moment-by-moment
surface of life; but there is no vital unifying idea.
Perhaps in the next chapter the book will come to
grips with something—or the next —or the next. End-
ward the eliminating judge plods his hopeful way—
and is rewarded with nothing. The best of the two
last-mentioned groups go forward for a flutter with
the final judges.
Another small but important group is comprised
of the ill-balanced books. The author has some very
decided gift—an idyllic touch with homely scenes, a
truly lyrical sense of place —but a gift not strong
enough to take the weight of writing an entire novel;
it is coupled with sentimentality, an elementary lack
of dramatic sense, prudery or banality. If the
gem outshines its setting of rubbish it is clearly some-
thing for the final judges to see. Otherwise it seems to
be another case calling for a note slipped in next the
title page ; longish and carefully worded this time,
in effect, “You have a gift. Either exploit it for what
it is and no more, or, if you want to write novels, try
for all-round development.” Here is a Mary Webb
of Alice Springs or the Atherton Tableland —maybe.
Humor of any kind is very rare; serious comedy
and high tragedy almost non-existent. I have men-
tioned the main groups ; here are a few notes that may
furnish a clue to why some other works fail. The
references are to both fiction and non-fiction:
“History. Apparently dependable, but dull.”
“Socio-political study. Good, but elementary.”
“Wheatbelt novel. Excellent matter, amateurish treat-
ment.” “Bush novel. Very explanatory in respect of
local color. Apparently another light romantic with
his eye on overseas readers.” “Boyhood recollections.
Pleasant enough in substance, but pompous in treat-
ment.” “Novel. Adolescent.” “War experiences. Fac-
tually of some interest, but pedestrian.” “Socio-political
study. Interesting in fairly large patches, but random
thoughts rather than a considered study.” “Auto-
biography. Disjointed and verbose.”
D.
Fisticuffs from Melbourne.
Anybody who calls Bernard Shaw a villainous,
immoral demon is going to get a punch on the nose
mighty quick from Cousin Charles MacMahon Shaw.
He promises it on the last page of his Bernard’s
Brethren (Constable; Angus and Robertson), and
there’s nothing oversudden about the threat of
violence, for as early as page 9 he wanted to punch
Frank Harris’s head for the things he said about
Bernard’s parents, and on page 61, if a damned imper-
tinent fellow who told him his cousin was mad
hadn’t been a solicitor, he’d have struck the rogue to
the ground.
It puts a reviewer in a confounded awkward
position. Dammim if the present one didn’t have it on
the tip'of his tongue to say that Bernard was a vil-
lainous, immoral demon. Before Mr. Shaw hits his
typewriter another wallop it had better be said that
Bernard’s Brethren is a jolly good book and a jolly
good punch on the nose, metaphorically speaking, for
anybody who thinks that Bernard is the only Shaw
who is jolly good reading.
Mr. Shaw has only recently taken to boxing. He
was previously a well-known Melbourne banker, with
no more violent habits than golf. But one night, in
the rough at Toorak or thereabouts, he strayed into a
lecture a professor was giving on Cousin Bernard.
Disparaging remarks were made, and the family blood
began to boil:
My feelings during this lecture were confused; at
one moment I felt like one of Bateman’s characters
who has dropped a musket on parade or asked the
Society of Antiquaries for second-hand antiques; at the
next moment I felt like leaping to my feet, scream-
ing with fury and, perhaps, clouting that witty lecturer
I was proud of my family; and his view of it was
unexpected and unbearable. Only the presence of my
wife and my deep respect for the chairman, Mr. Russell
Grimwade, held my right arm at my side and stilled
the fury in my breast.
The fat was in the fire, and now it’s in Bernard’s
Brethren. In the portions of the book devoted to re-
habilitating G.B.S. and the generations before him
Mr. Shaw is under the disadvantage that Bernard
keeps bounding in to argue with him in red ink. For
instance, when the fist is looming towards the Frank
Harris nose, G.B.S. is given the opposite page to let
him state in scarlet:
In justice to Frank I must interpolate that the
passages resented by Charles were, as likely as not,
written by me. Frank, knowing nothing on earth about
my antecedents, invented for my father a stage Irish-
man described as a beery old bogtrotter in the most
abject agricultural conditions. It _was a wildly erroneous
invention, even as to the beer, which was not my father’s
drink.
Nor, when Mr. Shaw is on the family history
which is the real substance of the book, will Bernard
allow him to romanticise. Mr. Shaw has a story about
Bernard’s sister Lucy, who married an actor and, after
she had divorced him, “fell into a slow decline.” But
her death, he continues, was peaceful. The actor,
overcome by his better instincts, rushed to the dying
woman’s bedside, and, “gazing into the eyes of the hus-
band she still loved, Cousin Lucy died most peace-
fully.” “Charles, you are a liar,” says Bernard. Appar-
ently after the divorce it was the husband who was
lonely, so Lucy “entertained him daily until his death,
when his bachelor brother succeeded him at her fire-
side until he, too, died. Years after these events,
when she and I were in our sixties, I called on her one
sunny afternoon and found her in bed, alone. She
told me she was dying, and presently did actually
die whilst she held my hand.”
G.B.S. has his doubts about another of his cousin’s
stories, though all he can say this time is that the
story of Aunt Siss’s escape from being buried alive is
new to him. When Cecilia was young, says C. M.
Shaw, she fell into “a corpse-like state,” was taken for
dead and placed in her coffin. But her father, fiercely
on guard with a stick, refused to let the coffin-lid be
screwed down. “And, even while he stood defending
the body, life quickened under the flesh as if his great
love had brought the spirit back from God, the lips
twisted, the eyes fluttered and, with a faint, scarcely
heard sob, Cecilia returned to earth ”
Mr. Shaw undoubtedly makes the most of his
material. He is very good on Uncle Edward, a pioneer
in Tasmania, who had adventures with ships, blacks,
starving settlers and a mad doctor who on one occa-
sion “took a sword and cut down his bottles on the
table; then he was handcuffed.” And there was
Uncle William, who died while waiting about bare-
footed so as not to carry any extra weight when he
was swept up to heaven like Elijah in a chariot of
fire.
Though it is all about the Shaws—from the
ancestors who fought in the clan wars in Scotland
and emigrated to Ireland, to the 31 cousins, second-
cousins and third-cousins of G.B.S. now living in
various parts of Australia — Bernards Brethren, with its
wild men and sober citizens, its comedies and tragedies,
is not a private book, but an image of the history of
any family. Plenty of long dull novels have failed to
give such a satisfactory impression of the continuing
human comedy as do the 161 pages of this eminent
Melbourne pugilist.
The Journalist and the Ghost.
Since slang-whanging the dictators became a
profitable business there have been some strange
specimens of journalists trotting about Europe, but
there can’t have been any quite so odd as Pierre van
Paassen, who on page 236 of his Days of Our Years
(Heinemann; Angus and Robertson) begins to be
haunted by the spectre of a black dog. It is not an
ordinary hard-boiled newshound come to examine
him, but an authentic ghost:
One winter evening I felt the room growing chilly,
and thinking the coal in the furnace was burning low
I went downstairs to the cellar to throw a few shovel-
fuls on the fire. It must have been about eleven
o’clock. Returning to my room, while ascending the
stairway I felt something brush past me, and, looking
round, I saw a large black dog running down.
Van Paassen searched the house, but could find
no trace of the animal. And punctually at eleven
o’clock each night the phantom hound reappeared,
running down the stairs and then vanishing. Van
Paassen had two German police dogs of his own, and
decided one night (“I do not know why the idea had
never occurred to me before”) to bring them into the
house to meet the ghost. That night, Van Paassen
heard the patter of spectral feet, but could see nothing.
What my dogs saw I do not know, but their hair
stood on end and they retreated growling back into no
room, baring their fangs and snarling. Presently tney
howled as if they were in excruciating pam, and wc
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


T
TR
D
D
The Choice of Sportsmen who know their Shooting
\
K\
.
'
V
v
!2S«j
%
S w
The success of a day's hunting may depend upon the quality
of the Cartridges used . . . that is why we recommend Trent
Shot Gun Cartridges. They are outstanding . . . anytime,
anywhere and on any type of game. They are made of
English loading for the discriminating sportsmen who desire
cartridges of the highest quality to assist them in their sport.
BEST
SMOKELESS'
C A RTR ID OE ; .
/V 7 a t/e in JFnfj/anc/z
"SPARTAN"
4/6 Box of 25
18/- Box of 100
The Cheapest Cartridge in Australia
=pbaifU3JJt_*PMN-=.
goo i&jLtnro
TRENT STEEL LINED
CARTRIDGES
5/6 Box of 25
22/- Box of 100
OVOTAAY3H
ao
d
ci
TRENT SUPER RANGE
5/6 Box of 25
22/- Box of 100
Many thousands of Trent Cartridges have been used with entire
satisfaction by our customers. They're absolutely reliable and
efficient. There are only two firms in Great Britain making
sporting cartridges, one of them is Trent Guns and Cartridges
Ltd., Grimsby, England.
WHATEVER YOUR SHOOTING NEEDS
WE CAN SUPPLY THEM
BROWNING
AUTO LOADING
a!
it
I
Solid breech, hammerless, will fire Rim Fire .22 calibre Long
Rifle Smokeless Cartridges. 20 inch round barrel. Weight
4| lbs. Magazine holds eight cartridges. At Anthony
Horderns', PRICE ~. . £5/-/-
Also for .22 Short, Magazine holds 11 cartridges. PRICE, £5/-/-
22 Cal. Sure Shot 30/
BOLT ACTION RIFLE
An inexpensive Rifle that will
give satisfaction. "Sure Shot”
Rifle with bolt action, safety-
catch and 20 inch barrel. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, 30/-
"SPORTSMAN" RIFLE
.22 calibre "Sportsman" Rifle,' bolt action,
safety catch, 26in. barrel, with elevating
rear and bead front sights. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE 40/-
RIFLE CARTRIDGES
310 Cadet Rifle Cartridges.
22 Long Rifle Smokeless.
303 Mark VI. Cartridges.
22 Hornet Cartridges.
250/30000 Cartridges.
PRICE per 100 19/6
PRICE per 100 3/-
PRICE per 100 12/6
PRICE per 100 22/6
PRICE per 100 50/-
e
jJiiiiHiiii
Browning
TROMBONE REPEATER
.22 calibre (15 short or 12 long, or 11 long rifle). Will shoot
these different cartridges mixed. 22 inch barrel. Excep-
tionally accurate. Weight 5 lbs. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE £5/12/6
.310 B.S.A. MARTINI ACTION RIFLE
With. 25in. barrel, military elevating and
windaged back sight; range 600 yds. These
rifles have been used and are in perfect con-
dition. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, 21/-
21/-
12 GAUGE DUMOULIN
HAMMER GUNS
Smooth, fast and hard hitting
rifle for the keen sportsman. 30
inch or 32 inch barrels, side
clips, cross bolt. Superior black
£9l0 ;
finish.
PRICE
Chambered for 2| inch shell. At Anthony Horderns .
£9/10/-
• Guns and Ammunition —Lower Ground Ploor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only
•within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
■Phone M 2401
Day and Night


AT MRS. ROLFS
BY EVELYN BARTLETT.
The £5 prize for the second of “The Bulletin’s” new-writer competitions goes to Evelyn
Bartlett, 6 Edna-road, Nedlands, Perth, W.A., for this graphic sketch of childhood. “The
Bottle Brand,” the other story in this issue, though by reasons of length not eligible for
the competition, is by Frank Nunn, also a newcomer to “The Bulletin,” and from the
same Perth suburb as the winner.
MRS. ROLF was a tall, angular woman. Her
once-black hair had a rusty look, and was
screwed into a tight little knob at the back of
her head. Her deep-set blue eyes peered
shrewdly from a face crisscrossed with wrinkles. Some
said that Mrs. Rolf was not a day under seventy, but
according to Mrs. Rolf’s tally she was fifty-eight
come April. As she moved about the kitchen setting
the table for the evening meal, her movements were
quick and birdlike. A thin girl of nine followed
anxiously after her.
“Shall I put the jam on?” asked the child.
“Yes, Em’ly, it’s there in the safe. Put on the tin
of plum ; the home-made’s just through.”
Emily set the blue-labelled tin in the middle of
the table. She knew that Mrs. Rolf always did. She
hesitated an instant, and then decided against a jam-
spoon. She knew that Mrs. Rolf used her knife.
In the corner of the room a large white sulphur-
crested parrot walked monotonously up and down its
perch. “Cocky wants sops. Cocky Rolf wants sops,”
he said. Occasionally he stopped and, balancing on
one leg, hooked the other foot at the back of his head,
dragged his crest forward and let it spring back one
feather at a time. He turned his head knowingly from
one side to the other. “Kiss Cocky; Cocky won’t
bite,” he coaxed.
Instinctively Emily moved nearer Mrs. Rolf. She
hated the parrot. The nights that she rode over to
sleep at Mrs. Rolf’s were always nightmares to her.
Sometimes when Mrs. Rolf was out of the room or
not noticing, the parrot would climb noiselessly down
from his perch and move slowly and deliberately
towards Emily. Startled by a nibbling at her shoe-
button she would look down, and stare fascinated at
the great beak.
“ ’Ere’s Cocky,” the bird would say irritatingly,
looking up sideways with the bright brown eye that
Emily felt could see into her mind and know what
she was thinking. “But I don’t hate you really,” she
would think desperately, hoping that the bird would
understand and go away.
To-night as he paced to and fro the bird was
more impatient than ever. “Cocky Rolf wants sops.
Cocky Rolf wants sops,” he insisted.
“Well, ’ere’s yer sops.” Mrs. Rolf slopped a mess
of sodden bread into Cocky’s tin dish. Her voice was
nasal and metallic. It was so like the parrot’s that
Emily often looked from one to the other to see
which spoke.
“Is mother's bird ’ungry?” petted the woman.
A FTER the tea-things had been washed up and
cleared away Emily sat turning the thumbed pages
of a magazine that she had seen many times before.
When she came to stay at Mrs. Rolf’s things always
happened exactly the same. Mrs. Rolf always said
the same things. She began 10-night with her favorite
opening sentence: “ Ow’s yer mother’s ’ens laying?
Mine’s not so good. Don’t know why ; they gits plenty
of green an’ all.”
Emily knew no reply was expected, but she
answered non-committally: “Between twenty and
thirty.”
Mrs. Rolf rocked herself noisily in her rocking-
chair. The chair had once been an important piece
of furniture in the “front room.” Now its red plush
seat was replaced with hessian, its varnish was
scratched and dull, and its hinges squeaked incessantly
as Mrs. Rolf rocked herself. Suddenly she leaned
forward. “Those people who lives at the Eight Mile
are rum ’uns, ain’t they? What’s yer mother think
of ’er?”
“I don’t know,” said Emily with a shake of her
head.
“Youse went ter their Mary’s weddin’, didn’t yer?”
Emily nodded.
“Splash-up affairs is all right fer them as believes
in it, I suppose,” said Mrs. Rolf. “Waste of money,
I calls it.” She rocked herself slowly for a few
minutes; then she added: “Thirty years me an’
'Erb’s been married an we’re as good as new. We ’ad
no fancy weddin’.”
Emily was silent, and Mrs. Rolf went on again.
“It didn’t take a splash like that ter make us ’appy.
There’s nothin’ to it, ’Erb says, when we’re not ter-
gether.”
Emily wondered why Mr. Rolf went away so
often. She wished that he wouldn’t.
Presently the rocking grew slower. It stopped.
Mrs. Rolf was asleep. Emily tucked her feet up
under her and looked uneasily over her shoulder. The
parrot sat humped on one foot, scratching his crest
thoughtfully with the other. The grey skin eyelid
blinked slowly down over his beady eye ; he made
queer chumping noises with his beak; and Emily
hated him. She listened to the loud ticking of the old
carved clock on the mantelshelf and wished she were
at home.
She wondered why Mrs. Rolf was afraid to stay
alone. The house was small and wooden, with an
unpainted tin roof. It had tall gum-trees and a lot of
scrub around it, and Emily always thought the tiny
house had a crouched-down look as though it were
hiding. The straggling geraniums and great daisy
bushes that grew untended in the garden beds around
its walls made it look smaller than ever. Emily
thought of the moonlight through the trees and the
shadows of the daisy bushes ; of the white stones and
shells that had once been garden borders and lay scat-
tered untidily. She supposed they were the things
that made Mrs. Rolf afraid. They made her afraid,
too, but they were locked outside. She turned and
looked apprehensively at the parrot. His eyes were
closed, but as she watched the grey lid slowly slid
open and he stirred uneasily. He muttered something
which Emily felt was meant for her.
Mrs. Rolf sat upright, her shoulders square, even
in sleep. Her head was tilted slightly to the side, and
her mouth had fallen open. The toes of her high
lace-up black boots showed from under her long
black skirt. Emily had never seen Mrs. Rolf wear
anything different. The skirt was ankle-length, cut
with a fullness that swung to the back. Above the
waist she swelled out in an artificial bulge of tucks
and gathers. Emily looked at the woman. As usual
the front of her dress was puckered with a mass of
needles, pins and safety-pins. To-night a large bag
needle had found its way into the collection. Emily
wondered whether Mrs. Rolf took her dress off at
night.
A loud whirring noise sounded. It was nine
o’clock, and Emily knew that they would go to bed.
As soon as the clock had struck nine noisily, Mrs.
Rolf closed her mouth, straightened her head, sat for
an instant with her eyes closed, then opened them wide.
She looked first at the parrot, then to Emily. “Well,
Em’ly, Cocky’s asleep ; we’d better make tracks,” she
said.
Getting up slowly she went to a table at the end
of the room and lit a small lamp. The bowl and the
stand of the lamp were green glass. “There ain’t much
oil in it, but it’ll see yer through if yer move yerself,”
she said.
Emily unwound her stiff knees and ankles from
under her. On these visits she always slept alone in
the “front bedroom.” She often wondered whether
anyone else ever slept in that dreadful room. A great
iron bedstead stood in the middle of the floor. No
other bed, Emily was sure, could have quite so many
knobs and rings. The whole thing had grown loose. The
knobs perched and tilted at grotesque angles ; some
were missing altogether. The soft mattress sagged in
the middle so that Emily’s thin little body sank into a
hollow. The lace curtain that hung at the back of the
bed smelt of dust.
Mrs. Rolf led the way, holding the lamp shoulder
high in her right hand, and sheltering the top of the
glass from the draught with her left. They went
through the “front room,” their feet sounding loudly
on the linoleum. The feeble light of the lamp cast
long shadows on the walls that were laden with por-
traits, across the red-plush-draped mantelshelf and
the bracket in the corner. A small bamboo table
stood by the bedroom door. It was crowded with
framed photos., and Emily rounded it carefully. The
bedroom door stood ajar. The pattern had worn from
the lino, in a circular mark where it had been forced
to and fro.
Mrs. Rolf set the lamp on the cheap white-wood
dressing-table and turned to the door. “Yer’ll sleep
comf’table, Em’ly,” she said.
“Yes, Mrs. Rolf.”
“Good night.”
“Good night.” Then, as the woman reached the
door, the child called anxiously, as she always did:
“Mrs. Rolf.”
“Yes, Em’ly.”
“Cocky won’t come up in the morning, will he?”
Mrs. Rolf turned back, and stood shaking her
head. “No, Em’ly, Cocky won’t. Cocky knows ’e’s
not allowed in the front bedroom. Good night.”
“Good night, Mrs. Rolf.”
After she had gone Emily went to the door. She
dragged and pushed with all her force, but it refused
to budge. It always did. Then with a sigh she began
to undress quickly, folding each article of clothing
neatly and putting it on the foot of the bed. Last of
all she took off her shoes and socks. These, too, she
put on the foot of the bed with the rest of her clothes.
Then, jumping into bed, she hastily blew out the
flickering lamp. For a short time she lay awake listen-
ing to the wind blowing outside, afraid in the dark-
ness of the strange room, wondering whether Mrs.
Rolf was afraid.
By the moonlight that streamed in down the sides
of the blind, she could see the outline of the dressing-
table by the bed. On each cheap lace mat stood
articles tarnished by long disuse. The rubber bulb
of the pink glass scent-spray was perished, and the
pins in the large pink velvet pincushion were rusted.
After a little time she fell asleep.
IT the morning Emily was awakened as she always
was at Mrs. Rolf’s. Scritch-scratch, scritch-scratch,
scritch-scratch. Silence. Then, scritch-scratch, scritch-
scratch.
Emily heaved herself out of the sagging hollow
in the mattress. “Mrs. Rolf, Mrs. Rolf, Cocky’s com-
ing,” she shouted.
A nasal voice called loudly: “Cocky Rolf, come
outa that. Cocky Rolf.”
Emily could never tell whether it was .the bird or
the woman that spoke. After a few seconds the
scritch-scratch, scritch-scratch sounded again as Cocky
Rolf strutted slowly up through the “front room,” his
long claws scratching on the lino, as he came. In an
instant Emily seized the clothes that she had put in
readiness at the foot of the bed. On they went —
vest, knickers, petticoat, dress, socks, shoes. Then she
sat, as she always did, gazing over the iron railing,
staring fascinated at the spot where the pattern had
worn off the lino, at the bottom of the door.
Scritch-scratch, scritch-scratch. She could hear
that he was very near, and was not, as he sometimes
did, making a detour of the “front-room” chairs.
Scritch-scratch. Silence. Then, although she was
waiting for him, she started, a cold feeling at the roots
of her hair, as suddenly the large beak appeared
around the door. Cocky Rolf put his head on one
side, ruffled his crest, and looked up with his hard,
glittering eye.
“Cocky’s ’ere,” he said in a wheedling tone!
The bitd advanced slowly into the room. Some-
times he would run a few steps, then stop, nod his. head
forward, and stay quite motionless for a second or
two, with his beak touching the lino. Emily waited
until he came to the side of the bed and began to
climb up the counterpane. The climbing was a slow
business. He took a piece of the cloth in his beak,
then, with a little jump, he fumbled with his claws
until he got a firm hold in the material. He released
the hold with his beak and reached higher up. When
he was nearly to the top Emily jumped from the other
side of the bed and rushed to the door. Cocky Rolf
in his fright let go his hold and fell with a clatter on
to the linoleum. He stood screaming loudly, flapping
his wings and ruffling his crest as Emily ran through
the door, out of the house and into the garden.
After breakfast Emily saddled her pony ready to
ride to school. The parrot was on the rail of the
stableyard as she called good-bye to Mrs. Rolf.
“Good-bye, Cocky ; good-bye, Cocky,” it screeched as
she rode away, but Emily did not answer. “Please,
God, make me a good girl, and don’t let Mr. Rolf go
away any more,” she whispered.
At a Darlinghurst Window.
i.
“Dreaming while Dawn’s left hand was in the sky”—
Dreaming is hard with this disturbing hum:
A factory close at hand, a loud street-cry;
And window-square of concrete and chromium.
Dreaming of home: I see a morning rise
Over a dim world sleeping unaware:
The film of night still drawn to shuttered eyes
By vapory arms that lazily stretch in air;
Where amber dawnlight drips on ashen leaves,
In roseate frost, crisp under silent trees;
And a mist-filtre everywhere relieves
The hint of pearly-grey impurities;
Where mystery brims to Barrow’s brooding ridge;
Where friendly ghosts commune with slender gums;
But now—ah, roar of traffic on The Bridge;
And raucous hoot of Harbor morning comes!
11.
Sydney holds quiet places where time stops:
The early ferry takes a swanlike way,
Dewed with a spray of tawny-golden drops,
Purling the dappled dream of Mosman’s Bay.
And Manly—when the long waves’ aftermath
Dissolves the shifting prism of shining sky;
And falls along their singing dawnlit path
Only the mellow pines’ wind-measured sigh.
O easy waves and gentle-falling air,
My heart is on a city’s jarring heart:
Under cold buildings, iron-ribbed and bare,
I feel the day’s distracted throbbings start;
Hustle, already, and the Almighty Wheel
Rattle the stillness of Victoria-street.
Blatant hysteria of gold and steel
Beats out the boredom from a million feet!
N.S-W.
A. Lester Mclntyre.


Deception and Truth
THE BOTTLE
BRAND
by
FRANK NUNN
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
ON the pitiless stretch of ocean, as far as the eye
could see, there was a row of bottles rising
and dipping with the jerky rhythm of marion-
ettes. Len Holt surveyed them with a roguish
pride.
“Say, Canon,” he exulted, “any ship that trips
over that line will think a millionaire has passed this
way having one hell of a good time. They’d follow
a trail like this from Sydney to Honolulu.” And
then, encouragingly, “Keep it up, Canon; there’s
thousands of bottles left.”
There were not, however, thousands of leaves
left in the Bible of the missionary Joseph Prior. But
he tore out yet another with considerable anguish and
wrote upon it: “SOS. Drifting eastwards on water-
logged schooner Surf Queen. Follow bottles. Mes-
sage written by Joseph Prior for self and sole com-
panion, L. Holt.”
It was a beautiful copperplate handwriting despite
the discomfort of the conditions, for the missionary
was seated beneath a blazing sun in a few inches of
water on the submerged deck of
the schooner. But he labored at
his task with patience if with
little faith.
“Pass the bottle, Canon,”
said Holt with a grin.
The missionary inserted the
message in the neck of the
bottle, corked it up and passed
it to Holt, whose job was to
broadcast the message upon the
waters. This time, however, in-
stead of flinging the bottle into
the sea, he stood it on the crate
upon which he reclined. He ran
a finger over the raised trade-
mark of a Sydney brewery like
a blind man reading Braille and
grinned again.
“You know, Canon,” he
complained, “you’re not a good
mixer and this is a hell of a
party.”
“It’s not of my seeking,”
said the missionary primly.
“I know, I know, but you could spark up a bit.”
He produced a pack of cards from his soiled ducks
and sighed. “If only all those bottles below deck were
full, Bishop, and you could play poker and had some
dough and some cigars it wouldn’t be so bad. Any-
way, I’ll do my best to entertain you and will read
your future from the cards.”
Prior shrugged his shoulders listlessly, and while
Holt spoke of the future he thought of the past. Days
ago he and Holt, the only passengers on the Surf
Queen, had awakened to find themselves alone on the
leaking tub, the rascally skipper and crew having
abandoned her during the night with most of the
fresh water and stores. The schooner had carried
only one boat, and quite obviously there hadn’t been
room for the two passengers who had paid passage
money at Singapore for transportation to Papeete. A
rogue that gross skipper, Simon Sinfield, had been,
and, thought Prior, this fellow Holt was yet another.
Holt ceased shuffling the cards to frown once
again upon the bottle which stood on the crate. There
were several more upon the deck, and he could hear
them clinking and gulping below deck where they were
stacked like the piles he had seen in bottleyards in
the suburbs of Sydney. Sinfield had called in at
Darwin specially for these empties, which lay around
everywhere, it not being a profitable business to return
them south.
The presence of the bottles on board the schooner
intrigued Holt, no less now than in the past.
“Why,” he puzzled, “did Sinfield pick up all this
junk? He wasn’t taking them back to Sydney. Do
you know, Bish?”
“I,” said Prior coldly, “was not in the confidence
of Captain Sinfield.”
“No, I don’t suppose you were. But it’s got me
guessing. He was going to put some kind of a con.
trick over the poor South Sea Islanders, you can bet
your last zack on that. He had the Kanakas shaping
corks from blocks he lifted from the Malay fishing
praus at Koepang. I’d like to know Ah, but he
was a bad man, that Sinfield, wasn’t he, Canon?”
With this Prior could wholeheartedly agree. “In
league with the devil,” he denounced strongly. And
he looked as if he would have liked tQ include others
in that, too, but Holt’s interest had returned to his
cards, and so Prior opened up his mutilated Bible,
shuddered with horror and commenced to read. But
he looked up when Holt cried out in sudden dismay,
“Say, Canon, the cards say we’re going to die.”
“Do they?” he said stiffly. He didn’t doubt that.
He knew anyway that he would be the first to die and
Holt the last.
“They do. And the cards never lie, Canon. Look
—here’s you, the King of Hearts ; light-brown hair,
fair complexion. This is what’s going to happen”
Prior interrupted him. “I’m not interested in your
magic ; but I do perceive a threat in your words. Do
you intend to kill me?”
Holt looked up in astonishment. “Me?” he cried.
And then, indignantly: “Listen, Bishop. I’m well
known among the islands, and
there’s more than one place I
daren’t land on for good reasons,
but not because there’s blood
on my hands. Get that, Canon ;
murder isn’t my line.”
To say that Prior was re-
lieved would be a mistake; he
was mainly indifferent, too
weary to worry about what in-
fluence another rogue might
have upon his life. He shifted his position, and the
water squelched between his knees. He wondered
vaguely why the ship had ceased to sink lower. For
the whole of the morning the level had remained just
below the pit of his stomach. Whatever the reason, it
did not matter, except that it might only prolong
the agony.
The day dragged on ; the sun blazed and the
horizon remained bare of sail or smoke. Holt drank
water from a drum and grudgingly spared the mis-
sionary a drop ; he also gave him a raw potato and an
evil-looking onion with a green-grey woolly coat. Prior
devoutly gave thanks for these, but not to Holt,
whom he considered a selfish brute, for he opened one
of the few remaining tins of asparagus and ate it
like a lord. But for all that Prior devoured his modest
fare with equal relish.
As the sun dropped mercifully behind the horizon,
Holt took off his helmet and fixed Prior with a most
disturbing stare. “Where did you say you came from,
Bishop?”
Prior took off his wide-brimmed hat, too, and
eased the white clerical collar above the black alpaca
coat.
“I didn’t say,” he said wearily, “but if you insist
I came from Little Stowe to help, I hoped, with the
mission work at Ranaluka. I have no relatives in
England, nobody knows me in the South Seas, and if
I do not turn up at Papeete nobody will inquire as
to my whereabouts, for my visit is not being spon-
sored by the Church. There is a bag in my cabin
containing a duplicate set of the clothes I am wear-
ing, and my papers and several books which you will
find of great assistance if you desire to change your
identity when and if you are rescued after lengthen-
ing your chances by disposing of me. That is all you
wish to know, I think.”
Holt was not upset this time. “You still mistrust
me, Canon.”
“Whom I trust,” said the missionary with dig-
nity, “cannot be mentioned in the presence of one so
evil as you.”
A T sunrise two days later two things happened on
two islands situated ten miles apart. At Wara-
tonga a waterlogged schooner drifted sluggishly
through the opening in the reef and some hours later
sighed as it came to rest on the sandy ledge of the
beach. The curious natives found on board a man
dressed in the garb of a missionary lying on his back
in two inches of water on the deck with his head badly
smashed —apparently with a bottle which had broken
with the blow, for there were pieces of glass in the
water near him. There was a sodden, open bag close
by containing the personal clothing of a reverend
gentleman and on top, quite dry, was a Bible with
numerous missing pages.
At Loonagarra a crate to which were lashed
dozens and dozens of corked bottles, with the idea,
apparently, of making the crate a more buoyant craft,
slid musically over a submerged portion of the reef
and drifted down towards the beach. Upon the crate
reclined a form clothed in the garb of a missionary
and his right hand bound with a bloodstained rag.
There was a drum on the raft and, on top of the
drum, three potatoes and one very evil-looking onion.
As this quaint raft slid up the beach it was sur-
rounded by natives, and the exhausted castaway was
gently assisted ashore and up to the house of the trader.
The trader placed him on a couch and hustled the
natives away.
“I am,” explained the castaway very weakly, “the
sole survivor of the schooner Surf Queen. My name
is—Joseph—Prior”
“You’re a lucky cove,” said the trader. “Another
day and you’d have been the late Joseph Prior. Here
—take a swig of this.”
He gave Prior some brandy and poured out some
gin for himself. He was a good-looking chap in a
vivid, evil way, and although drink was giving him
a stomach he still looked young, hard as nails, cagey.
“My name is Bevan,” he said. “I’m the only
trader on this island ; there’s no Resident and no mis-
sionary. Loonagarra gets along quite well without
’em.”
That was not very gracious of him, and a faint
color showed on the pale cheeks of the missionary.
But perhaps the color was the reaction to the brandy.
“I hope,” he whispered, “I shall not disturb you by
my presence then.”
“That’s O.K. But as it’ll be some weeks before
a copra boat calls I suggest you don’t start in and try
to save us all from ourselves. Take things easy.”
“Thank you, thank you. But I feel I would be
lacking in my duty if I failed to drop the seeds of the
gospel on such virgin soil as this. I will not, however,
become a nuisance to you.” He raised himself to a
sitting position. Bevan narrowed his eyes and thought
what a sanctimonious mule he looked sitting there
on his haunches. “If you would kindly leave me,
Mr. Bevan —or perhaps you might like to stay and
join me? I will offer up a prayer of thanksgiving for
my deliverance.”
Bevan fled in a panic.
Thinking it over in his office he came to the
conclusion that he couldn’t have such a saint on his
premises for long, and so that afternoon he shifted
the missionary into a bungalow close by. Prior was
too weak to walk alone, and so he helped him. Half-
way across to the bungalow a pack of cards fell from
the alpaca coat of the missionary. Only Bevan saw
the pack fall, and he was far too startled to speak. To
his certain knowledge missionaries carried Bibles and
tracts, not playing-cards. On his return he picked up
the pack and retired to his office, where he found the
well-thumbed, greasy pack such a puzzle he had to
drink more gin.
Now when Bevan had a lot of gin he always
thought of the beautiful dame who owned the trading
post at Marratonga. The lady’s name was Wanda
Renzow, and her last husband had eaten a beautifully-
colored fish taken from the blue lagoon (something


we who are wise to that sort of thing would never do)
and had got a terrible pain in his stomach. He had died
leaving Wanda richer and, if possible, shrewder than
ever before. Bevan desired Wanda Renzow, desired
her riches even more, but shrank from tying himself
up indefinitely to such a woman —any woman for that
matter. Wanda would marry him any time because
he was handsome and had riches, too, and that was
all she desired of any man, for she could look after
the rest. But she wouldn’t join up with him unless it
was all legal and proper, and that was the snag. And
not even under the influence of gin would Bevan
weaken oil that point. He wanted Wanda and her
riches, but he didn’t want a woman to wear the
trousers.
THE following morning the bottles which Holt
had cast upon the sea began to drift ashore. The
missionary didn’t know this, for he was still weak and
was content to lie at ease behind the sun-blinds of the
bungalow. But to Bevan, to whom the bottles were
taken as they arrived, the situation took on an even
more baffling aspect, for the messages within the
bottles mentioned two persons, L. Holt and Joseph
Prior.
Of course, Bevan thought, one of the chaps might
have done a perish since the messages were written.
But it wouldn’t be Len Holt. Decidedly it wouldn’t
be Len Holt, whose pleasant rogueries and audacious
villainies were known even at Loonagarra. All things
being equal, Holt would outlive a mere missionary.
It looked damned suspicious to him. You only had
to think of the pack of playing cards, and the whole
business stank like a low-class fish shop.
Bevan placed the messages, written in beautiful
copperplate handwriting, in a drawer along with the
cards and crossed over to the bungalow, where Prior
greeted him with a faint smile.
“I have had a very pleasant night,” Prior said,
“and I feel considerably stronger. I shall soon be
myself again.”
The smile deepened at the corners of his mouth
as if he were sardonically amused at a hidden mean-
ing in that comely phrase. Bevan noticed it and
stacked it along with the pack of cards and the mes-
sages.
“Well,” he said, “a sole survivor of a shipwreck
is allowed to be a little weak. But how came it you
were the only survivor?”
Prior told him of the desertion by Simon Sinfield
and his crew in the open boat. “I was,” he added, “the
last person, days later, to leave the schooner, and I
left on the crate.”
“They left you—just you —alone on a sinking
ship?”
Prior hesitated, and then said in low tones of
sorrow: “There was another chap at first, but —he did
not live” But, although Bevan waited, that was
all he said.
“Cagey, not going to say too much,” thought Bevan.
“All right, I’ll trap you. I’ll get a specimen of your
writing and compare it with the messages taken from
the bottle. Me, I’m just another shrewdy, Mr. Mis-
sionary Holt.”
He said, “I’ll have to send a report out about
this. Maybe you’ll write it for me?”
“I shall be pleased, but” —Prior held up his
bandaged right hand —“I’m afraid I shall not be able
to write for some time yet.”
Bevan had forgotten the bandaged hand. He
looked at it and frowned. If this was Holt he was a
good actor, for he looked and talked like a missionary.
And he could pray like one too. Right down on his
knees, with his hands clasped, his eyes closed and a
radiant look on his face. The damaged hand was con-
venient.
“Let me bathe your hand,” he suggested.
Prior acquiesced gratefully and Bevan produced
a bowl of water and a towel and undid the bandage.
A deep, nasty gash across the palm and the first two
fingers was revealed, and Bevan shuddered. Holt
was the perfect artist. It would take guts to do that
to your own hand.
“How the devil did you do that?” he asked, busy.
“It was done with a bottle which broke in my
hand while I was lashing it to the crate.”
Bevan’s horrified admiration changed a little to
horrified fascination, for he saw at once that that
simple statement was probably more than half the
truth. The other chap had been murdered with a
bottle. He knew a bottle was a nasty weapon, but one
just as likely to injure both the assailant as well as the
assaulted. He rebandaged the wound, and the mis-
sionary thanked him. “It’s not painful, but I shall
have to forego all clerical work. It’s a great pity.”
Bevan silently agreed that it was a great pity. But
he was really convinced even when a few days later
Prior asked permission to conduct a kindergarten
kind of service to the natives. Bevan listened, voted
it the goods, and looked at the man with more
respect than ever. No wonder Holt had been able
to get away with all his slick dealings ; no wonder
he’d never been caught.
Bevan got a greater laugh when Prior calmly pro-
ceeded to marry two young people.
“Whom God hath joined together,” Prior intoned
solemnly, “let no man put asunder.”
That was the type of joke that Bevan appreciated,
and he had to retire to his office to drown his hilarity
in gin. And when he had had sufficient gin he thought
of the beautiful, the rich, the radiant Wanda.
Then all at once he was sober, cold sober.
That afternoon Bevan sought the missionary out
in his bungalow. Prior was bathing his hand, and in
answer to a solicitous inquiry confessed that the wound
was slow in healing ; in fact, it was beginning to pain.
“It’s the water on the island,” said Bevan,
although he didn’t believe,the man. “The water here’s
The missionary regarded him benignly. “I
am the Rev. Joseph Prior. In these bottles
there is Life —New Life”
a bit poisonous ; there’s something in, it that affects
open wounds.” This was quite true. "Yet over
at Waratonga there is beautiful water, and it springs
from a crater. The natives call it the Spring of Eterna
Life, for it cures and rejuvenates. There’s a minera
or perhaps there’s radium in it. It certainly heals.
The missionary, he noticed, listened without in-
terest and, drying his hand, bound the wound again.
“You wish to see me about something?” he asked.
It was obvious that Bevan wished for something
more than companionship or idle conversation ; he
was tense, excited. But he was a full minute befoie
he said, “Yes, I want to see you about something,
something really important. That wedding service
of yours this morning has given me an idea. I m in
love, and she’s in love with me. We want to marry,
but neither of us can spare the time to leave our
trading posts and travel hundreds of miles to get
married. Your coming has simplified matters consider-
ably—that is, if you’ll marry us.”
“I shall be delighted to marry you,” said Prior
gravely.
“Thank you, indeed. I’ll write a note to Wanda
immediately and tell her of our good luck. The
launch will take it over.” And he hurried away, the
missionary watching him with a queer look in his eyes.
AT Waratonga ten miles away a person clad as a
missionary knelt before a spring, and every time
a native filled a bottle with clear, crystal water and
corked it he chanted a few words from a mutilated
Bible he held in both hands. There were rows upon
rows of filled bottles and stacks and stacks of empty
ones.
There was a nasty scar .across the forehead of the
missionary, new but cleanly healed, and every now
and again he would touch it reverently and make
gentle passes over the full bottles. And the natives
would bow their heads in awe. Presently he raised a
hand ; the day’s work was done, and at one shilling
a bottle (the funds to be used for the building of a
large mission on the island) it was a good day’s work.
“Come, my children,” he murmured, “let us wend
our way to the beach to see how the work on the
schooner is progressing. I am anxious to leave as soon
as possible on my tour of the islands, to cure the sick,
to give them the blessings of the divine waters of the
spring. Forward.”
They did not understand, but they followed him
humbly, for he had been dead, but was now alive.
They understood this, however ; he had been cured
by the waters of the spring—not cured, resurrected.
He was anxious that they should understand that and
tell all others whom they might come in contact with
so that the miracle would become widely known —
and marvelled at —throughout the Pacific.
There were natives at work on the schooner, which
Simon Sinfield would have recognised as the Surf
Queen. She was now high and dry on the beach with
several ugly patches along her hull. These the mis-
sionary inspected with a sharp eye and commended
the work of his helpers. Along the beach there were
more bottles, thousands of them, and the missionary
paused to eye them shrewdly. What wealth did they
represent at one shilling per bottle? And what
couldn’t a missionary do in the South Seas with so
much money? He attempted to work out what a mis-
sionary could do, but his head throbbed and the
bottles danced a crazy dance of Bacchus. He sank
upon the beach, and after a short rest opened his
Bible and devoutly turned the pages.
A name that Simon Sinfield had undoubtedly
made notorious throughout the Pacific Islands, from
Sydney to San Francisco, was no name for a vessel
which was about to undertake an errand of mercy.
He was searching for a name, and he found it in St.
John v. Bethesda was the name, and it had been con-
nected with a healing pool.
A few days later, then, the Bethesda, heavily
laden with bottled health, gently drew away from the
beach and headed for the break in the reefed lagoon.
“This,” said the missionary to the native at the
wheel, “is a proud moment in my life.”
His eyes glowed beneath the livid scar and the
helmsman shrank a little from him. The native had
sailed in many ships with many skippers, but this man
was different from all the others ; he was holy and
exalted, and the native was afraid of him. They passed
through the opening in the reef and stood south for
Loonagarra.
BEVAN was too excited to remain in his office, so
he went down to the beach and watched the
islanders at work on their outrigger canoes. He was
a magnificent picture in a spotless white suit and
dazzling helmet, and he was content with himself, for
he knew he would not disgrace Wanda. She was on
the island, and he could guess what a delectable vision
she would be when, an hour hence, they would meet
at the missionary’s bungalow. Despite the short notice
she had the smartest of things for the occasion, just
as if she had been prepared.
At the moment she was being assisted into all
these delicious things while the missionary was mak-
ing the bungalow look as much like a church as he
knew how. When Bevan thought of that he was
amused ; when he thought of the farcical wedding
that was presently to take place he was more than
amused. But he frowned when the natives paused in
their work to point at a sail out on the lagoon. He
wanted no interruptions, no delays. Who the hell


WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each 1 100 words.
Closing date for the third monthly com-
petition is September 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.
could it be? A trading schoner after pickings. Well,
he d soon send the fellow on his way.
The schooner came to anchor a short distance
from the shore. The name of her, he saw, was the
Bethesda, but that meant nothing to him. He watched
while the small boat, something fashioned from a
canoe, was lowered into the water, and then he rubbed
his eyes, for a strange thing was happening ; bottle
after bottle was transferred into it from the schooner
and then, finally, a man clad as a missionary climbed
delicately aboard and commenced to paddle it towards
the shore. Bevan waited until the natives, always help-
ful, had beached it, and then went down to greet the
visitor.
“Good day to you. Who are you and what have
you there?”
The missionary regarded him benignly. “I am
the Rev. Joseph Prior. In these bottles there is Life
—New Life”
Bevan started and paled. The genuine Prior. He
could only stand and stare at him helplessly.
“I am,” continued the missionary, “on an errand
of mercy, to heal the wounds of His children and to
cure the unfortunate sick. My steps have been guided
by divine influence, and the discovery it has been my
privilege to make will ease the pain of those afflicted
by the devil—as even I was afflicted.” He swept off his
wide-brimmed hat and pointed dramatically to the
nasty scar on his forehead. “The imprint—the brand
of the devil is upon me, as you see, and I would
not now be here but for the fact that I was led to the
divine waters of the Spring of Eternal Life and was
healed. I am a living witness to the powers of the
Heaven-sent waters, and henceforth I shall go about
the islands distributing the waters among the suffer-
ing. A small charge will be made for each bottle, for
I have in mind a large mission at Waratonga, where
will come the sick of the world for relief from pain
and agony. That,” he concluded with dignity, “is
the reason for my visit here.”
From his coat he produced a Bible and began to
mutter the words of a passage. The wind fluttered the
pages and Bevan saw that many were missing.
That only made Bevan feel more anxious about
the masquerader in the bungalow. He certainly didn’t
want a genuine parson on the island on the day of his
wedding. The missionary had to go.
“Listen,” he blustered, “I’ll have no missionary
make trouble among the natives here. Get back to
your boat and pull out.”
“The bottles,” purred the missionary, “are one
shilling each.”
“Hell! You’re a charlatan anyway. I’ll have
you arrested.”
The missionary blinked and then said severely,
“I have a duty to perform, and I shall not permit
myself to be deviated from the path thereof. I shall
go and address myself directly to the natives”- —-
“Listen,” said Bevan desperately. This couldn’t
go on or disaster would overtake his plans. The mis-
sionary might catch a glimpse of Holt or Holt might
see the missionary talking to him. Wanda was shrewd,
and if she scented something amiss “Listen. How
many bottles have you come ashore with?”
“One hundred,” said the missionary promptly.
Bevan was in a daze.
“How much is that?” he fumbled.
“Five pounds,” said the visitor more promptly
still.
Bevan withdrew a wallet from a pocket placed
there in readiness to pay the preacher his fee. He
extracted five pound notes with a trembling hand and
gave them to the missionary, who forthwith placed
them in his Bible and murmured, “Thank you, my
brother. A blessing upon you. I shall depart now
feeling that the lot of many who would have suffered
in the future has been improved by my visit.”
He turned and unloaded the bottles on the beach.
Bevan knew that five pounds was a lot of money
to pay for Waratonga spring water; but not too high
a price to pay for the removal of a menace.
The menace turned and smliled upon him. “Good
day to you, sir.”
Bevan stood and watched the missionary paddle
back to the schooner. Only when the ship was well
away did he sigh with relief, pick up two bottles and
leave the beach.
“\l/HY, you are somewhat early,” said Prior as, a
* little later, Bevan entered the bungalow with
the two bottles in his hands. And then, archly, “But,
of course, the eagerness of bridegrooms on such days
as this is well known.”
Bevan looked at him ; he thought of the ugly
scar on the real missionary’s forehead and shivered.
The man who had dealt that murderous blow was to
marry him. The service would be farcical and the
solemn words would be blasphemy on such lips. He
didn’t feel very decent for the moment.
“Look,” he said shortly, “here’s some of that
mineralised water from Waratonga for your hand.
How is it?”
Prior hesitated. “Getting along but slowly, un-
fortunately.”
“Will you be able to give Wanda a signed certifi-
cate after the —after the ceremony?”
“Oh, but there will be plenty of time for that,
won’t there?”
“Not on your life. Wanda won’t reckon she’s
married until she’s got the lines.” And then, still
more anxiously, “Look, you naturally haven’t a printed
certificate and you’ll have to write the whole thing
out. Can you remember the tex t 9”
Bevan’s anxiety seemed a reasonable thing. Prior
smiled and tapped his head solemnly. “It is written
here. I have filled in so many, you see.”
Bevan looked away. A damned fine actor, this
Holt.
“As long as Wanda is satisfied that’s all that
matters. She’s already got two certificates to com-
pare it with. So watch out.”
But the missionary showed no alarm. “Your
wife will be satisfied, Mr. Bevan.”
Bevan thought an ironical emphasis had been
placed on the word “wife.” Well, the fake could have
his laugh. But he’d have the loudest laugh in the
end. He’d kid Holt and Wanda along and when he’d
got all he wanted he’d expose the whole business, and
when Wanda clamored for another wedding he’d have
one final belly-aching laugh that’d be heard right over
at Sydney. He got hold of a bowl and poured a shil-
ling’s worth of magic water into it.
“Bathe your hand in that,” he ordered. “A
quarter of an hour’s soaking will do it the world of
good.”
There was no response and he turned. Prior was
staring thoughtfully at the bottle, which was branded
with the trade-mark of a Sydney brewery. Bevan’s
heart stood still as he lied swiftly and easily. “You
recognise the bottle as an old friend, eh? I took
some off the crate you drifted ashore on, and I sent
the launch over to Waratonga to fill ’em with the
spring water. I was a bit worried about your hand.”
Prior sighed as if with relief and Bevan breathed
again.
\ WANDA, a sweet vision in a Parisian creation,
“ answered the missionary’s solemn questions with-
out hesitation, for she was both eager and experienced.
Bevan, on the other hand, stumbled quite a lot, but
was prodded along by both the missionary and the
bride. When it was all over Prior shook Wanda by
the hand.
“Allow me,” he said gravely, “to have the usual
honor of being the first to congratulate you, Mrs.
Bevan.”
Bevan mopped his brow afresh. That sounded
very final and binding, that “Mrs. Bevan.”
“And,” continued the missionary, “I hope your
married life will be one of greatest happiness.”
It was very sincerely said, and Wanda smiled upon
him roguishly. “Thank you. I think we shall be very
happy, because I know how to look after husbands,
you see.”
Bevan saw in that a threat, and shivered, for the
solemnity of the occasion had somewhat submerged
the farcical. But it was farcical; the gleam in the mis-
sionary’s eyes was, of course, one of mockery. He
was able to shake Prior firmly by the hand after see-
ing that gleam ; it restored his confidence and brought
him back to realities.
“When you’re ready,” he suggested, “come over
and drink the health of the bride, will you?”
“With pleasure.”
“And don’t forget to bring the marriage lines,”
Wanda warned him with a laugh.
“I shall be over in a few minutes,” he promised.
Bevan then led his bride out of the bungalow and
across to his own sumptuous home. On his way he
glanced over his shoulder and saw the white sail of
the schooner still upon the lagoon, whose waters were
barely rippled by the faint breeze that was blowing.
It was just a pin-point, however, and very shortly it
would be out of sight.
He led the way to the cane chairs upon the wide,
sun-blinded verandah and called to a native to bring
drinks. He sank back and looked around him with
pride. “Ah. A beautiful wife, a lovely home. What
more could man wish for? And you’d have to go a
long way in the South Seas to find a better place
than this, my darling.”
Mrs. Bevan immediately screwed up her face and
shuddered. “But, sweet, we will not live here. We’re
going to Papeete first, and then to New York, Paris,
London, Sydney. We’ll sell both places.”
Bevan looked dismayed, and then suddenly he
remembered. “All right, darling. But it’ll take time
to sell. I’ll sell yours first, and while we’re cleaning
up we’ll live here. Don’t you think that’d be better?”
Wanda looked stubborn, and Bevan said hastily,
“All right, all right. Don’t let us quarrel now; we’ll
fix it up later.”
The drinks arrived, and presently Prior appeared
in the clearing with a folded paper in his
hand. Bevan left his wife and waylaid the missionary
on the steps. He took the paper from Prior’s hand
and clapped him jovially on the shoulder.
“Go along and talk to the wife for a second. I
just want to go to the office for a cigar.”
There was a grin on his face as he sat himself
at the desk. This was where the cream of the joke
lay; a useless certificate. The signature of a mas-
querading parson was as valueless on such a certifi-
cate as Holt’s would have been on a cheque.
He spread the sheet out on his blotter, and
frowned. He then groped with sudden urgency in a
drawer, and his hand encountered the pack of playing-
cards first. He flung them on the table, where they
burst and scattered, leaving one card —the King of
Hearts—upturned. It caught his eyes and seemed to
mock him. With a curse he extracted the pages which
had been torn from a Bible and compared the writing.
They were both beautifully executed 'samples of
copperplate.
Bevan spoke aloud, in a panic. “A blasted forgery
—of course it is—forgery” But there was a fear,
a rather horrible doubt. And how to lay it? Bring
back the missionary on the schooner? No, that was
too desperate. But he could pursue the missionary
and get a specimen of his handwriting, and if that
were similar to the Bible samples he Would be satis-
fied. And if it weren’t
Bevan forgot all about his wife and the missionary
on the verandah. He picked up his helmet, stuffed
a fountain-pen and some paper, together with the mar-
riage certificate and torn Bible pages, into a pocket
and dashed down to the beach where lay his launch.
He was in it and away in a few minutes.
In an hour he was alongside the schooner, which
had turned into the wind on his approach, and in
that hour his crafty brain had been at work. He shut
off the engine as the natives aboard caught hold of
his painter. He scrambled aboard regardless of his
spotless raiment and came face to face with the mis-
sionary.
“Do you,” the latter purred inquisitively, “require
some more bottles of the divine waters from the
spring”
“Listen,” Bevan interrupted him as calmly as he
could, “that money I gave you—l’ll have to get a
receipt from you for the auditors.”
The missionary stared, hesitated and then shrugged
his shoulders regretfully. “But I have no pen, no
paper”
“I have both.” Bevan thrust them into his hand.
“It’s only a formal matter, y’know”
But the missionary was suspicious. “It’s not
usual, surely. Perhaps it is that you do not trust me
and believe that I will not utilise the five pound notes
for mission purposes?”
“I don’t care how you use them. I bought goods
with the money. That’s all that matters to me.”
“Then you are quite satisfied with the transac-
tion?”
“Yes,” groaned Bevan. He felt a cold fear in
his stomach again, for he had heard that bland ques-
tion before from the mouths of tricksters and grafters.
“Then, if you will kindly note that upon this sheet
of paper, I will write your receipt beneath it.”
Bevan wrote as requested with a trembling hand
and handed the sheet back, together with the pen. He
watched the missionary writing laboriously, and
snatched the paper almost before the signature was,
written. His eyes would not focus at first, but through
a mist eventually he saw the name of Joseph Prior-
standing out in a large, uneven scrawl.
It had been his intention of comparing the hand-
writing, and he did so in a daze, mechanically. The
missionary came and peered inquisitively over his
shoulder, and only when he heard the missionary’s
startled exclamation did he awake from his ghastly
dream; He rounded on the man in a fury.
“Holt —you’re a blasted swindler.”
Holt looked from the marriage certificate to
Bevan’s immaculate finery, from the torn sheets of a
Bible to the trader’s face. He was shrewd enough to
guess what had actually happened. “So the Bishop got
through. But it’s you who’s the swindler.”
And then before Bevan’s outraged eyes he pro-
duced his Bible and commenced to mutter. Bevan
listened because he recognised that a more experienced
swindler than he, a greater artist, was at work. He
wondered where it would all finish now, for he was
fairly caught in a trap.
Holt closed the Bible and commenced to chant a
mockery of a Psalm. “Thou shalt not steal; thou
shalt not commit a mockery, nor a deception, nor a
swindle lest your body be branded like an empty
bottle. And I’m telling you because I myself am
branded.” He bent a disapproving eye upon Bevan.
“You have committed a sin, and while the bottles
last you shall pay for it. Yea, you shall pay for it —
at two shillings a bottle. And maybe that’s too cheap.
Simon Sinfield had a line of graft that was going to
net him more than that, I’m certain. But let it go.
Two bob a bottle. Two bob”
“How many bottles are there?” asked Bevan
giddily.
Holt clasped his hands, closed his eyes and his
face became radiant. “Thousands,” he whispered.


è
STATION STEELWARE
«co
t AHc
ai«
BAKER’S RED TANG SHEARS, double
hollow ground, Sheffield made. Inter-
N.S.W. state
Each. Post. Post.
901— Sin. Bagging Shear .. 6/9 9d. 1/-
902 — 6in. Lamb Shear 7/3 9d. 1/-
903 72in. Sheep Shear 9/- 1/- 1/6
Hra
BLOODLESS EMASCULATOR. Length
overall. 12in.: width of jaw, 2fin. Trice,
£3/5/- each. Postage, 1/6. This size is tne
most: suitable for all-round work.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
No. 40
Baker’s
Dagg4ng and
Bottle Out-
fit. Co n-
sists of Red
Tang Shear,
I Pint Galv.
Tin Bottle
and Oil
Stone. The
Sheath is
made of
Solid
L e a t h e r,
32/6 com-
plete.
Postage,
1/6 extra.
w
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
snapping and biting in all directions, as if they were
fighting some fierce enemy. I had never seen them in
such mortal panic. I could not come to their aid,
for I saw nothing to strike with the cudgel I held in
my hand. The battle with the invisible foe lasted less
than two minutes. Then one of my dogs yelled as if
he were in the death-throes, fell on the floor and died.
After this remarkable experience, Van Paassen
called in the Abbe of the French village at which he
and the ghost were staying, and the Abbe fixed the
ghost with his eagle eye and it became “hazy” and
vanished, and was never seen again. And the Abbe
told him to sack his young servant, because “such
instances of Poltergeist frequently centre around a girl
in puberty.” “We will talk of this business again some
day,” said the Abbe. “But he never did,” concludes
Van Paassen.
There's no harm, doubtless, in a journalist seeing
a ghost and then seeing Hitler, but it’s an odd way of
establishing his reputation. The present commentator,
having rather a liking for ghosts, wouldn’t make the
dog a bone of contention, but Van Paassen’s story of
the Pope appearing in the trenches in the 1914 war
needs rather closer scrutiny. Disguised as an old
priest, the fable runs, the Pope was taken to the
trenches where the Bretons were facing the Bavarians ;
he climbed over the parapet in no-man's-land, re-
vealed his papal vestments, and soldiers from both
sides ran towards him, and until he fell unconscious
and was carried away there was peace. The story is
quoted here because Van Paassen tells it in all serious-
ness ; he doesn’t quite pretend to believe it, but he
will not admit its impossibility:
For years I have tried to verify this story. I have
looked into army records, both in France and Germany,
to find out which regiments were in the opposing lines
on the Champagne front on the 27th of October, 1917.
In both countries I have spoken with survivors of
that month’s struggle. They did not remember. In
Rome 1 questioned men who might have heard about
a short absence of Benedict XV. from the Vatican.
There was a dubious shaking of heads and a dis-
turbed, questioning look.
How, after that, is one to look at Van Paassens
book with anything but a very disturbed, questioning
look? The legend might be all very well told in the
right place, but the right place is not in a book which,
for the most part, is supposed to be factual reporting
of events of world importance in Germany, Italy,
Abyssinia, Palestine and Spain.
And, if that were not enough to make one
approach Days of Our Years very cautiously, Van
Paassen’s violent partisanship in every country in which
he has been a reporter can’t but be condemned by
anyone who thinks that truth is best presented impar-
tially. He rails against alleged Italian brutalities in
Abyssinia and French atrocities in Morocco. In
Palestine, he holds that Arab rulers are solely to blame
for the troubles with the Jews, though they are abetted
in one paragraph by Mussolini and Hitler, and in an-
other by the British, who like the idea of civil war theie
because it lets them “divide and rule.” In Spain, he
tries to debunk the Alcazar episode and even, conveni-
ently forgetting the thousands of known and docu-
mented murders of priests and nuns by the Reds, lists
some slayings of priests by Franco’s troops, in a really
absurd attempt to confuse the religious issue.
Van Paassen was born in Holland, and writes most
attractively of his youth among the grim Calvinists.
He emigrated to Canada, enlisted for the war after a
woman had publicly pinned a white feather to his coat,
endured the common bitter experience in France, and
came back hating the idea of imperialist wars. Yet,
time after time in this book he reproaches Britain for
not taking action that would have meant plunging into
war again.
He is undoubtedly sincere, and he has seen
enough brutalities to make any man indignant; but
indignation and prejudice are not the best qualifica-
tions for the interpretation of facts. They do make
for vivid writing, however, and no doubt the Ameri-
can and Canadian newspapers who have been employ-
ing him since his rather belated entry into journalism
got excellent value for their money.
A Winifred Holtby Play.
The work of Winifred Holtby, who died young at
the end of 1935, is slowly filtering into the world. The
latest is a play, Take Back Your Freedom (Cape), with
emendations by Norman Ginsbury, which the title
page assesses at collaboration, a preface by the author’s
literary executor, Vera Brittain, and an introduction
by Tyrone Guthrie. Written in 1934, the play is still
topical, and it is difficult to see how it has missed
production.
It is a psychological-ci/m-political study set in the
England of the near future. Dr. Arnold Clayton,
Under-Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, is a
handsome young don from Oxford, an only son very
much ruled by his strong-willed, ambitious mother,
who is a modern Volumnia. At the opening of the
play he has electrified England by an attack upon
his Government’s economic policy in a speech given
at a banquet at Liverpool. He had intended to say
the usual things, but at the last moment, and despite
himself, his bitter resentment at the cavalier treat-
ment the Prime Minister had meted out to a long,
careful report that he had submitted on the state of the
country broke through. He appealed directly to
public opinion.
The conclusions pass over his hearers’ heads, but
the force and anger of the speaker stir their imagina-
tion. In the cold light of the next day Clayton believes
that his career is over, and sends in his resignation.
His hotheaded friend, Dick Lawrence, whom he has
always admired as a man of action, persuades him
that it is only beginning. He works upon him to begin
a political campaign with his Liverpool speech as
platform, to found a new party, the British Planning
Party. Clayton is sick of his own donnishness:
“You see, I’ve tried academic life. I’ve even made a
success of it. But that ivory castle withdrawal from
the world no longer appeals to me. Wine, adolescent
enthusiasm and unending aphorisms about absolute truth!
I don’t like pubs-, adolescents bore me, and as for the
aphorisms—the pursuit by the impotent of the non-
existent! No, I can’t go back to academic life.”
He is also sick, though he doesn’t know it, of
domination by his mother. He wants to prove himself
a man of action. He is a dangerous type, though no
one recognises it—an idealist with a pathological
streak. The new party is launched. To get press
publicity Clayton is forced to compromise on some of
his principles and accept a policy of Dominion Credits
which he believes to be shoddy, if not injurious,
because it is the darling brain-child of a newspaper
peer. On the eve of general elections his guards man-
handle an inoffensive clerk so that he dies. To save
the day Clayton declares the episode to have been
planned to discredit him and the two guards respon-
sible to be agents provocateurs. By the end of the
first act, Clayton, once sensitive and overscrupulous,
is saying:
“But I’ve learned at least enough to know that it’s
fatal to calculate —fatal to waver —fatal to regret! I
have seen one way of serving my generation. It may
fail. It’s a gamble with all the odds of tradition, estab-
lished authority, vested interest, against me. But I
see no alternative —I see no alternative! ”
In the second act he is saying:
“Fight for the Plan. Remember, nothing else
matters. Other people, spiritual egotists, may pick and
choose their weapons. We have given our allegiance
to something larger than our spiritual integrity. What
does it profit a man to gain his own soul—and lose
the world? We’re going to save England—from war,
from poverty, from vulgarity, from the frustration of
dwarfed, humiliated, uncreative lives. We’re going to
give her order, pride and dignity.”
In the third act it is:
“I said, ‘What is my soul compared to the success
of the Plan?’ So I gave up my soul. Then I said,
‘What is the Plan to the supremacy of the Party?’ And
I gave up the Plan. Then I said, ‘What is the Party
to the satisfaction of my friends?’ And I gave up the
Party. Then I said, ‘What are my friends to the neces-
sity of action?’ And I gave up my friends. Now there
is nothing left but action, action to assert my inde-
pendent will!”
Clayton has become the full-blown dictator. He
cuts Gordian knot after Gordian knot, even to shoot-
ing his friend Lawrence in a council meeting, but still
he cannot keep up with bolting event. At last he has
England on the brink of war against the world. He
understands well enough what has happened. His
mother entreats him to turn back. He answers:
“The nation should have thought about its children
before it decided on mass emotion, parades, bands and
. banners. It demands more and yet more fuel for its
burning pride, doesn’t it? Well, I am providing the fuel.
It will unite only under its Leader to face a common
danger, won’t it? Well, I am ferreting out the danger.
Haven’t I sought everywhere for new enemies—the paci-
fists, the Jews, the international bankers —and now a
whole host of our malignant traducers?”
His mother shoots him to save England. Curtain.
As a piece of morbid psychology Take Back Your
Freedom seems to hold water, and no doubt, full of
action and heady words as it is, it would be effective
enough on the stage, but as contribution to the dis-
cussion of present difficulties it fails. It doesn’t con-
tribute. Like many plays of its ilk — Idiot’s Delight
is a sample—it only exploits the dramatic and sensa-
tional possibilities of spectacular events. It has no
intellectual basis. The psychological analysis is no
more than the glib patter that can be heard anywhere.
The audience is never given even an outline of Clay-
ton’s Plan. All the thinking is left out; the author
goes only for the dramatic sugar-plums. The play
strikes the attitude of discussion drama —but leaves
out the discussion. It is a piece of well-engineered
sensationalism, but has really nothing to offer except
the incitement and ranting it sets out to attack. Aside
from its portrait of a demagogue, it is a lamb in
wolf’s clothing.
Linklater Turns to Tragedy.
From his usual farcical comedy Eric Linklater
has turned to tragedy. He is not the first novelist to
be drawn to the story of Judas, and it has been shown
in many aspects.
The Biblical account is bare ; Judas’s tragedy is lost
in the greater one. For centuries he was the arch-
criminal, the man wholly bad, the black spot on the
world’s imagination, but now, with the contemporary
passion for revaluation, he is being presented as a
man of sorrows driven by some reason unknown to
destroy what he loved best. It is the reason unknown
that is the challenge. Some have found the reason in
frustrated love for Mary of Magdala and in the pres-
sure of predestination, against which his human will
could not stand. Linklater cuts deeper. He seeks his
solution in character and that alone.
Judas (Cape) is a short book. It attempts only
one thing, and that is an analysis of the state of mind
that brought Judas to the betrayal. The action covers
one week, from the Sunday before till the Sunday
after the Crucifixion. Jesus does not appear on the
stage of the book. He can be seen off in His effect on
the other characters. To Mary of Magdala, “He’s
mercy, I tell you, he’s beauty and truth and justice,
and all I am and everything I have is his to do as he
likes with, now and for ever more.” And to Cyborea,
the mother of Judas, he is “a crazy illiterate car-
penter who paraded the country like a mountebank
to persuade bigger fools than himself that he was
the Son of God.” To the Temple he was revolution,
and the Sanhedrin feared and hated that more than
they feared and hated Rome. To the Romans he was
one more petty disturbance in a turbulent State. The
whole story is thrown back into its historical perspec-
tive and the reader is given contemporary eyes through
which to see it.
The story is fixed. All Linklater can do is to
develop the character and motives of Judas. He is
represented as a rich young man, the only son of a
widow. His uncle Phanuel is in the Sanhedrin. To
his family it is inexplicable that he should follow
Jesus round the countryside ; it is against the grain
of his upbringing and tradition. Their disapproval
works on his mind. Yet his discipleship really arose
out of the qualities he shared with his family. He was
afraid of life. His uncle said of him, “To enjoy life
you must take it as it is. The world isn’t all it should
be, but if you have a good appetite for life you don’t
mind the sour bits and a bad smell here and there.
But Judas was too particular. He wanted to set the
world to rights before he could enjoy it.”
He was sensitive and frightened. He wanted a
Millennium, and he thought Jesus was going to bring
it —at once by a painless miracle. He wanted every-
thing safe and tied down, and his world to go on for
ever with just the unpleasant things left out. It was
when Jesus scourged the moneylenders from the
temple that Judas began to doubt. This wasn’t re-
ligion, he thought, it was politics. He was afraid. He
asked himself, “If Jesus so loves the world why does
he want to turn it upside down and ruin the livelihood
of thousands of poor people?” Into this open wound
of doubt Phanuel began to rub worldly wisdom.
The people brought Jesus to Jerusalem in triumph,
shouting Hosanna, and Jesus prophesied the fall of
the Temple. Judas saw that He was challenging not
only the Sanhedrin but also Rome. War with Rome
would mean annihilation. “Even if we escaped with
our lives there’d be nothing left to make life tolerable.
Our only neighbors would be misery and wounds and
widows howling.” The thing his uncle asked him was
a small one, only to tell the Temple where Jesus could
be found so that He could be arrested for His own
safety and to stop the popular Jewish rising that
everyone feared. If there was trouble Rome would
make it an excuse to send soldiers into the Temple,
and that would be the end of Jewry.
Judas gave in. He saw himself as something of
a hero, a savior on his own account, but the Sanhedrin
saw him only as an informer worth 30 pieces of sib er.
A promise that Jesus would be taken into only tem-
porary arrest was overlooked and He came before the
Roman Judge. Judas was ignored,- left alone with
what he had done. He knew then that “He loved Jesus
so much that he could not live without him.” Hang-
ing himself on a tree in the courtyard of his mother’s
house, he was the only disciple to die with him.
Linklater’s book gathers force as it goes. A rich
and sonorous style is curled, as the theme develops,
into a sort of passionate economy. Judas’s death is a
fine piece of restrained writing. The book ends with
the reverberations of Calvary spreading through the
world. Already Judas is lost, become utterly unimpor-
tant in the magnitude of the other tragedy.


A.W.A. pioneered the Beam Wireless
Service from Australia to Great Britain
and to North America, saving the Australian public
over £1,000,000.
A.W.A. pioneered overseas radio telephone services,
enabling telephone subscribers in Australia to ring
over 30,000,000 telephone subscribers throughout
the world.
A.W.A. pioneered Beam Wireless Picturegram ser-
vices, bringing photographs of world events to our
daily newspapers.
A.W.A. pioneered world-wide broadcasting services,
enabling good news of Australia to be radiated to
all countries.
A.W.A. pioneered manufacture of radio apparatus
for use in ships, aircraft and on land, making Aus-
tralia largely self-contained in this vital key industry.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
j'J ffcit Itihe tfsia/ie mellcumcJSmulMouq^d
WESTMINSTER BRIDGE, 1839-1939.
The Valley of the Thames from Lon-
don to Hampton Court is particularly
rich in beautiful scenery, and none more
striking than that in which nestles the
delightful and historic “village” of
Twickenham, vis-a-vis Richmond. From
our parents and grandparents Twicken-
ham earned the hardly-merited title of
“dull and old-fashioned.” To-day, what-
ever there is of “old-fashionedness” re-
maining is most welcome to those to
whom “the jazz age” makes no appeal.
Twickenham looms large in our literary
history. There once resided the dilet-
tante but gifted Horace Walpole, and
here too
“Pope his moral music spoke.”
Here he purchased an estate and loved
it and the famous villa, grotto and gar-
den ; “my Tusculum” he fondly styled
them, and refers oft to this theme with
continued and undisguised pleasure. At
the villa such men as Swift, Gay, Arbuth-
not, Bolingbroke, Atterbury and War-
burton, to instance a few, were wont to
assemble round the first poet of the age.
He died in 1744, and was interred in
Twickenham Church, seen in the 1839
illustration. His monument is a tablet
with a relievo portrait. It bears, besides
the usual information in Latin as to date
of birth and death, his well-known lines
which bespeak pride no less than
humility. On the monument may be
read:
“Poeta loquitur.
For one who would not be buried in
Westminster Abbey.
“Heroes and Kings, your distance keep ;
In peace let one poor poet sleep;
Who never flatter’d folks like you;
Let Horace blush, and Virgil too.”
While in literary circles Twickenham en-
joys a just renown, it has earned a wider
fame from the beautiful song written
and composed by Theo. Marzials,
“Twickenham Ferry,” returning, and
justly, to popularity once more. In the
early days of steam navigation, river
craft carried passengers on pleasure-bent
to this lovely village, adjacent to which
is the famous Eel-pie Island, where
citizens-in humble walks of life regaled
themselves on the delectable dish from
which the ait (little island) derived its
name. The visitor will find the river
journey from London Bridge to Twicken-
ham greatly enjoyable.


THE TWISTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 879 U.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia. Gordon & Gotch (Atis.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
COMRADE AD. AND NAZI JOE.
The only note of jubilation which was heard in the
announcements of the brotherhood of greed and fear
into which Nazi Germany and Communist Russia have
entered emanated from the official German broadcast
station in Berlin. The news, an announcer said, had
so stupefied London that the only comment there was
“incredible.” It had proved “a bombshell to Paris,”
so unbelievable that the papers had refused to publish
it till it was confirmed by telegram. Warsaw was-
“stunned.”
“Stunned” it doubtless was, and Australian Reds
and Pinks were thunderstruck. When the Berlin com-
munique came out Sydney’s “Workers’ Weekly” was
describing Goring in a leading article as “a Fascist
beast of prey and drug addict.”
This hypocritical monster dares to write * that the
Poles “possess the rule of the cudgel” when the world
is full of thousands and thousands of homeless out-
casts.... who bear on their bodies the marks of
the Nazi beasts, the boot of the stormtrooper and the
whiplash of the Dachau fiends in human shape.
Day after day and week after week this “central
organ of the Communist party in Australia” had called
upon “Chamberlain,” in the name of “the people,” to
“sign the Anglo-Soviet pact” instead of “trying to
make treacherous bargains with the Fascists” ; to sign
it “at once” and dish the Njizis, who were “plotting
a new Munich, from which Poland and the Soviet
Union would be excluded.” Obediently to instruc-
tions from Moscow, Communist writers and spouters
everywhere repeated these demands.
Then the thunderbolt fell. Under the very noses
of a press—Conservative, Liberal and Labor as well as
Communist —which saw salvation for the democratic
world in a Russian alliance ; unknown to the Foreign
Offices of Britain and France, which, at the invitation
of the Stalin-Molotov gang, had sent a military mission
to Moscow; unknown to the mission itself; unknown
even to the German people, who had been told for
years it was their sacred mission to defend Western
Europe against the onslaught of a blood-drunk Bol-
shevism, two faithless dictators had been arranging to
become Comrade Ad. and Nazi Joe.
The first intimation that there was something
wrong came from Berlin on Monday, August 21, in
the form of an announcement that a Russo-German
trade agreement had been signed. London was not
worried ; it was merely an arrangement for Germany
to supply machinery and electrical goods and receive
minerals, oil and limber, and “it had no relation to the
Anglo-Russian political and military discussions.” But
that very night Berlin was triumphantly proclaiming
that another and vastly more important agreement had
been arrived at; and next day a dazed Europe learned
from Russia as well that Ribbentrop, the German
Foreign Minister, would “visit Moscow shortly to
negotiate a non-aggression pact.”
Such of the Russians as are not of Asian or
Eurasian origin—like Stalin himself —are Slavs. The
Czechs are Slavs; so are the Poles. Despite their
abandonment of the Czechs it was hoped against hope
that the Moscow gang would do something for Poland.
Gunther, the American reporter, who happened
to be in Moscow, informed the anxious world —far
too credulous of American reporters, particularly
those with Leftish leanings—that an “escape clause”
would be written into the pact. There was nothing of
the kind. The text, when published, showed that the
Mighty Soviet of flapper-press fancy had not merely
become a neutral, but was definitely aligned with Ger-
many and debarred from associating with any nation
opposed to Hitler’s policy, irrespective of how preda-
tory that policy might be. To “negotiate” and sign the
thing took Molotov —who actually invited the Anglo-
French soldiers and naval men to Moscow —and
Ribbentrop, flying time from Berlin included, a whole
day.
Why did Stalin sell the pass to Hitler? Because
he was scared stiff. He feared Japan, Germany,
counter-revolution and loss of the Ukraine, which sup-
plies the European parts of his ramshackle empire
with most of its material resources.
Why did the author of the Anti-Comintern Pact
suddenly abandon it, and Japan with it? Because he
was alarmed and resentful. While set on grabbing
Danzig and the Corridor and as much more of Poland
as he could take, he was afraid of encirclement and
another British blockade. And by swallowing his con-
victions and doing what he said a thousand times he
would never do, he secured his country against both.
No use denying that. He blotted his name and fame,
but at the same time he smashed Mr. Churchill’s
Grand Alliance.
The pressure on Poland was tightened forthwith.
In Danzig, nominally under League control, every-
thing short of formally annexing it to the Reich was
done to show that it was Germany’s for the taking.
More armed men rushed to the frontiers, and from
both sides came allegations of terrorism and
sporadic shootings. With deepening anxiety peace-
lovers contemplated the military situation of the Poles,
always unfavorable and now, with superior forces
on three sides, become desperate. Would they fight
rather than surrender? Their Government announced
that they would fight as they fought against the Tsars.
And the Governments of Britain and France intimated
that they would support the Poles with all their forces
if Poland was attacked.
In a Cabinet statement, London declared “un-
hesitatingly” that the Moscow arrangement could in
no way affect the British Government’s obligations to
Poland. Those obligations it was determined to fulfil.
In Eastern Europe there were no difficulties which
could not be settled by friendly arbitration : but “if,
despite all efforts, others insist on the use of force
this Government is prepared, and is determined, to
resist it to the uttermost.”
Elaborated in a detailed memorandum, this
declaration was carried to Hitler at Berchtesgaden by
the British Ambassador —it was the first of several
meetings between Sir Nevile Henderson and the Ger-
man leader. It produced only the dry statement, issued
for general consumption, that “the Fiihrer had left
the British Ambassador in no doubt that the obliga-
tions that Great Britain had undertaken could not
cause Germany to renounce her pursuance of national
rights and vital interests.”
This answer was interpreted by Mr. Chamberlain
as “amounting to a restatement of the German thesis
that Eastern Europe is a sphere in which Germany
ought to have a free hand,” a thesis which “entirely
misapprehends the British position.”
The catastrophe has not yet come upon us. It is
still hoped that reason and sanity will find a way to
reassert themselves. Peace or war does not rest upon
us. We hope that those upon whom the responsibility
rests will think of the millions of human beings whose
fate depends upon their actions. For ourselves we have
a united country behind us.
But there was a highly belligerent tone in the official
broadcasts from Berlin. Britain, it was charged, had
“repeatedly and deliberately encouraged Poland’s pro-
vocative attitude” ; British statesmen were “intent on
stirring Poland’s Chauvinism” ; “Poland was taking
every step to thwart German ambition ; it had entered
on a course of violence, provocation and terrorism
which would be brought to a short and sudden end.”
The British Parliament was in recess. It was
called together by urgent summons, and with little
debate and only four ‘dissentients —Independent Labor
members —an emergency measure conferring vast
powers on the Government was passed. One of the
many effects was the placing of shipping under
Admiralty control. In France, M. Daladier, who
since March has been empowered to govern by decree,
called up 3,000,000 men, beside placing French in-
dustry on a war-time basis.
An exodus of British and French from Germany
had already begun. Germans were relatively tardy in
departing from Britain and France, having evidently
been led to believe that the Poles would give in. When
they received their marching orders they rushed every
available ship, ’plane and train; and German ships
in or bound for Empire ports —Australian among them
—soon made themselves scarce.
In Australia, national-security regulations had
been drawn up in a War Book ; and, proclaimed at
Canberra on Friday night, such of them as were im-
mediately necessary were applied with an impre'sive
appearance of efficiency. Mr. Menzies counselled the
nation to keep calm and to go about its business in its
customary way. If Britain were plunged into war, he
said, it would not go alone. A similar assurance was
given by the Acting Prime Minister of Maoriland.
For Canada and South Africa it was said by Ministers
that the Parliament of each Dominion would decide
how far it should go. The Canadian Prime Minister
joined the Pope, Piesident Roosevelt and the King of
the Belgians in making personal appeals for peace.
One he addressed to Mussolini, stressing the . latter’s
“great power and influence.” The reply was to the
effect that the Duce would “leave no effort untried to
safeguard a just and lasting peace.”
The attitude of Italy and that of Japan were
among the reassuring features of a gloomy week. The
Japanese, indignant at their desertion by Hitler, imme-
diately moderated their anti-British campaign and are
expected to give notice of withdrawal from the Anti-
Comintern Pact. Nothing is really certain about their
intentions, but there is some ground for the belief
that they will enlist the aid of Britain, if not that of
the United States, in seeking a way out of what they
call the China Incident. An early and honorable settle-
ment would certainly command Australian support,
and as a friend of both parties the services of the
Australian Prime Minister would be available to both
if solicited by e ; ther.
Italy is bound by the alliance with Germany,
which is one of the lamentable consequences of the
foreign policy of Mr. Eden and the Eden press. But
now, as in September, 1938, the alliance is not so
binding as to shut Mussolini’s eyes to the advantages
of peace and old friendships. For years The Bulletin
has been abused and slandered for saying that it is
necessary to be on good terms with the Powers which,
good customers both, could, if baited into enmity,
block its most important trade routes. Alone in Syd-
ney, it has contended with newspapers and radio
“commentators" whose bright idea was that Australia,
with two or three cruisers, a handful of militia and an
air force with a few score second-rate machines, should
go crusading for slaveowning Africans in Abyssinia ;
Stalinists, Trotskyists and anarchists in Spain; Aus-
trians and Czechs and Communist and Kuomintang
Chinese A sudden and abject change has come over
the crusaders, especially those who, even a few weeks
ago, were proposing a blockade of Japan.
What does Hitler want? “Danzig and the Cor-
ridor,” he said to M. Daladier, rejecting a suggestion
that he should negotiate with Poland direct. If the
Dominions could be sure that he would be content
with Danzig and the Corridor they would be in favor
of letting him have them. Australians know how they
would feel if a lost war left foreigners in possession
of, say, the N.S.W.-Queensland borderland together
with the port of Brisbane. They don’t want to be tied
to Poland, and no Dominion Government would dare
to sign the Anglo-Polish treaty, which provides for
“support and assistance” in the event not only of actual
aggression, but of “any action of a European Power
which clearly threatens, directly or indirectly, the in-
dependence of one of the contracting parties,” and
which gives that party the sole right to judge.
At the beginning of the week the world was wait-
ing to learn what Hitler had written in his last com-
munication to the British Ambassador, and what the
British Government had replied. Running true to
form the international press suggested that the Fiihrer
had pre ented an ultimatum, and went into details.
Downing-street dismissed these impertinences as “en-
tirely unauthorised and quite inaccurate.” One good
sign was that, while the Tannenberg celebrations
(August 27) and the Nazi “peace rally” (September 2)
had been called off, the Leipzig Fair was going on.
But the issue of peace or war remained in the hands
of one inscrutable man.
Behind the Scenes.
That the peoples of Britain and the Dominions were
left in ignorance of what was going on behind the
scenes speaks poorly for British diplomacy and the
Empire press. As far back as June, 1938, Dr. Seton-
Watson told the Royal Institute of International Affairs
in London that German abuse of Russia was “simply
a blind”; a “German-Russian alliance” had been
“within an ace of success last summer,” and was
“always possible.”
The shouting of Mr. Stalin at the Communist-
party conference, held at Moscow in March, to the
effect that he would “find a strait-jacket for the
lunatics in Germany who made any attempt to
snatch the Ukraine” had fright written on every word.
Mr. Hitler was not deceived. On April 28 he
denounced the Polish-German non-aggression pact
and the naval agreement with Britain. Mr. Litvinov’s
“resignation” as Foreign Minister followed within four
days. He was replaced by Mr. Molotov.
The German salute to the change was given by
“Angriff” and the Frankfort “Zeitung.” They
reported, on the strength of dispatches from Moscow
and Warsaw, that “Litvinov’s retirement was the sequel
to a bitter quarrel with Voroshilov” —he had declared
that the Red Army was neither willing nor prepared
to fight for Poland, or to accept “far-reaching foreign
obligations to the Western Powers.”
On May 31 Mr. Molotov demanded that any
agreement with the Western Powers should include
guarantees to all States bordering Russia “without
exception.” At the same time he vehemently
denounced the fortification of the Aaland Islands by
Finland and Sweden. Finland, Latvia and Estonia
treated him with contempt. The Finnish Diet met
next day to pass the bill for the fortification of the
Aalands. The President of Finland remarked that
his country would “resolutely defend itself against
any effort to drag it into the whirlpool of Great
Powers’ policy,” adding that “anybody trying to help
us without our request will be repelled as an invader” ;
and the Estonian Foreign Minister spoke in similar
terms.
On July 27 a special reporter of the British Imperial
Policy Group summed up the results of the British
guarantee to Poland. He wrote that it would be “a
fatal mistake if the divided and tottering Powers of
certain parts of Europe were, mistaken for strong,
resolute, virile allies, able to play a full and formid-
able part in a European war.”
The tragedy is that the really vital interests of
Empire have become clouded by a vast press campaign
in London and Paris which, when combined with propa-
’ E mo j rej has hampered the
British and French Governments.
On the Russian position the I.P.G. reporter said:
“The Soviet citizen is more Oriental than the inhabi-
tant of old St. Petersburg,” and “the choice of
Moscow as a capital was the first step towards the
East.” The U.S.S.R. Council of Nations, he pointed
out, is composed of deputies chosen at the rate of ten
per federated republic, five per autonomous republic
and two per autonomous region:
The result is that the representatives of the Asiatic
republics are the most numerous. It is very improbable
that they would approve of taking part in a European
conflict.
Relations with Germany are not really so bad. There
is nothing to prevent the heads of the States changing
their camps whenever they wish.
Intervention in Spain was the last attemot of the
Russian to mix directly with European politics. The
men who encouraged the Soviet dictator to pursue the
course which this Caucasian judged to be useless have
since paid dearly for their mistake.
By way of conclusion, he insisted that it was not
the intention of the Soviet Government to intervene
in a European conflagration, and that the (Russian)
public was being educated to think of Asiatic rather
than Euronean problems. He was right; and the
Foreign Office was wrong.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some Were Right.
Our forefathers were right. “Scratch a Russian and
you find a Tartar” —an Oriental barbarian. And
Kipling was right in his “Truce of the Bear”:
When he stands up as pleading, in wavering, man-brute guise,
When he veils the hate and cunning of his little swinish eyes,
When he shows as seeking quarter, with paws like hands in
prayer,
That is the time of peril—the time of the Truce of the Bear!
There is no truce with Adam-zad, the Bear that walks like a
man!
The lines should have been remembered by the poli-
ticians and newspapermen who, directly and indirectly,
were the means of sending those missions to Moscow,
to be “had” with Tartar “hate and cunning” ; and
let Hitler make the most of them. But his record
shows that he can take care of himself in such transac-
tions ; certainly his signature on the instrument
whereby Stalin placed another nation of Slavs at his
mercy, and sold out the German and French Com-
munists, is worth .no more than the pledges that he
gave to Mr. Chamberlain at Munich.
And Krivitsky was right. “Stalin Appeases
Hitler” was the heading of the article that “former
general in the Red Army” contributed to the “Satur-
day Evening Post” of April 29. “Stalin,” he wrote,
“has, since the death of Lenin, been the first among the
Soviet leaders to favor close co-operation with
Germany.”
If one can speak of a pro-German in the Kremlin,
Stalin has been that figure all along.
From the very beginning of the Hitler dictatorship
Stalin pursued a policy of appeasement towards the
Third Reich.
The true picture of the relations between Stalin and
Hitler is that of a persistent suitor who will not be
discouraged by rebuffs.
Stalin is that suitor. There is enmity on the side of
Hitler. On the side of Stalin there is fear.
Stalin’s foreign policy in the Western World was pre-
dicated upon a profound contempt for the “weakling”
democratic nations and upon an equally profound
respect for the.... Nazi regime.
Stalin was guided by the rule that one must come to
terms with a superior Power.
Every word of that was borne out last week.
The Bulletin printed the gist of the Krivitsky
article, with acknowledgments to the admirable
American weekly which, in publishing it, rendered
noble service to the democratic cause. The article was
denied in America by a parcel of lying Left-wing Jews,
and the denial seems to have been circulated all over
the world. Anyway, the truth, vouched for by a pub-
lication with a world-wide reputation for honesty in
the collection and presentation of facts, had no effect
on the pack of journalists, professors and blah mer-
chants who howled for an alliance with Stalin as
they howled for war against Italy, Japan, Ger-
many and Nationalist Spain, or on the lesser breed of
lunatics of the pictorial press, the films and commer-
cial radio. They went on muckraking and discovering
that Mussolini had a French tart, Hitler drove a film
actress to suicide, Goebbels robbed an actor of his
Czech wife and gaoled the husband, and so on. One
result of this campaign of calumny can be read in
“Uncabled Additions” and it is not pretty reading.
A Witches' Sabbath.
“Ek D.”: Sunday, August 27, was in Sydney what the
Greeks would have described as a halcyon day. It re-
called the weather of the Riviera at its best. Bright
sunshine lit the gardens. The harbor was smooth as
glass, disturbed only here and there by the wash of a
pleasure-going ferry or the white wing of a yacht.
Spring arrived unheralded, save to the short-wave
radio men, who noted, while westerlies were still
sweeping the country earlier in the week, the equinoc-
tial changes in long-distance reception hours.
But the Sunday newspapers were full of Hitler
and of war. People read of ir lying full length in
shorts and shirts in gardens or on the roofs of the flat
houses of Darlinghurst, or heard of fresh calamities
over the wireless.
A glass revealed girls chasing each other on the
yellow, peaceful sands of Camp Cove, under the guns
of South Head, and the polar bear at the Zoo slowly
parading above his pool, reaching up every now and
then for a thrown titbit.
The main streets were empty, save for the usual
holidaymakers in cars or trams or loitering round
wharves waiting for the Manly boat, on which the
tiny band played German music. In King’s Cross
refugees, well clad, opulent, shopped as usual, pausing
at electric-power posts to read the urgent calls to
join the A.R.P.
Strolling through the sunlit streets, through the
green gardens, where girls lay on the lawns reading
their books and the eugenia-trees had taken on a
newer green against the scarlet of the blossoming
flame-trees, it seemed that any talk of war must be
unreal.
But a turn of the switch destroyed any illusion.
The voices of Germany shrill with anger, fulminating
against Britain and Poland, rang with disaster in every
sentence. The calmer voices of 8.8. C. announcers
reported the most ominous happenings as if they were
reporting the village cricket match. These, with the
French Government talking to its Parisians, the urgent
“Kakh?” of Russians on the trans-Siberian telephone,
the high-pitched excitement of the American stations
and Japanese lady announcers falling over their sen-
tences as they retailed each new excitement in English,
turned the Sunday hours in which it was possible to
listen into a sort of witches’ Sabbath for Australians
who had power to hear, breeding the wish that it
were possible to hitch this peaceful, well-fed, well-
clothed continent to a planet and tow it to safety in
another universe. ■
Useless and Dangerous.
Three weeks after it was alleged, in the third month
of the financial year, that the N. S. Wales public
accounts for 1938-39 would show a surplus of nearly
£BOOO, the ninety Assemblymen made haste to award
themselves a rise, starting from July 1, of £205 per
member per annum, making the stipend or legalised
swindle £875 p.a. The financial year closed with a
deficit of £2,750,000 or so, a loan juggle having been
effected to prevent it from reaching £3,750,000 or so.
Have the members who thus rewarded themselves
in a time of great financial stringency offered to make
restitution of the £205 apiece and go back to £670 p.a.?
Are they doing more work for the money? Not they!
On Saturday Assemblymen are free to go to the
races, flashing their gold passes. But Wednesday,
another race day, is also a sitting day, and this causes
an embarrassing conflict of loyalties. Last Wednesday
proceedings had to be adjourned for an hour because
there was no quorum.
The principal U.A.P. newspaper, which frequently
remarks that Mr. Stevens has done wonders for N. S.
Wales in all fields, particularly that of finance,
came out with the following account of the incident
(and refused to withdraw it when chided by the
Speaker):
Broadcast race results were being received in another
part of Parliament House. Mr. Weaver ordered the
bells to be rung to summon enough members back
to form a quorum. Only a few members answered
the summons, and Mr. Weaver said he would leave
the Chair till 5 p.m.
Members filed out of the Chamber. Keen followers
of racing among them were able to return to listen to
the broadcast.
When the House resumed at 5 p.m. there was a
quorum present, but the attendance of members
throughout the sitting, both before and after dinner,
was very poor.
In the same issue of the principal U.A.P. news-
paper, Mr. Mair, the new Premier, was reported to
the effect that “We should make ‘Business as Usual’
our watchword,” and that it would not be possible
to economise in any way, “every branch of Govern-
ment expenditure” having been “brought under the
closest scrutiny with a view to avoiding waste and
getting the best return for the taxpayers’ money.” In
another column, Mr. Mair’s plans for taking another
£4,000,000 or so of “the taxpayers’ money,” by means
of heavily-increased income and “special”-income
taxes (apart from other millions to be sought by other
desperate expedients), were announced.
“It was expected” by the principal U.A.P. news-
paper that “ordinary income tax will be increased by
15 per cent.” and company tax, now 2s. 3d. in the £,
by “sd. or 6d.” Printed underneath was a report from
Canberra foreshadowing a 15 per cent, increase in in-
come tax, 1 per cent, on sales tax —now 5 per cent. —
and so on.
The measures embodying the Mair impositions
preceded the presentation of the Mair Budget. This
is a superlatively insolent departure from precedent,
but it shows what Mr. Mair thinks of the alleged
Parliament and what the alleged Parliament has
degenerated to.
Mr. Dunstan, of Victoria, at least preserves a
show of respect for Parliamentary control of the public
purse ; also, he is above posing as an imitation of the
Prime Minister of the great country which has one
Parliament and not seven. He is no “Premier without
portfolio,” like Mr. Mair, but Premier, Treasurer and
—though a layman—Solicitor-General.
Mr. Dunstan presented -his taxation proposals with
his Budget, and intimated that another £3so,ooo—not
another £4,000,000 —of income-tax money will balance
it. The new income-tax schedule will give Victorian
companies and businessmen a tremendous advantage
over their competitors in N. S. Wales. For example,
company tax is to be 2s. in the £, not 2s. 9d. ; and
maximum personal and property rates are fixed at
Is. 9|d. and 3s. 4d. in the £ respectively; in N. S.
Wales they are 4s. 3d. in the £ already. And Victorian
relief tax is not to be increased. Incidentally, though
drought hit Victoria as hard as or harder than it did
N. S. Wales, Mr. Dunstan contrived to keep his deficit
down to £787,000, and his loan expenditure was rela-
tively small.
What can be done to make the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment something more than an incubus and a tribu-
lation? Nothing. In the words of the first Common-
wealth men, it is useless, dangerous and ought to be
abolished.
- _
Mail at 7s. an Ounce.
Airmail charges have come up for consideration in
connection with the trans-Tasman service. The
Aotearoa arrived in Sydney on her way to Auckland
while a stung public was discussing them. In Aus-
tralia they are still sd. on |oz. letters for Britain,
although replies can be posted in that country for ljd.
Cabinet, asked to remove the gross and grotesque
surcharges, had recourse to “expert estimates.” The
experts —an “inter-departmental committee” —esti-
mated that removal would mean a loss in revenue
approaching £300,000 p.a.: £78,000 in 1940-41 bn
Empire airmail alone, and £200,000 on internal airmail,
the surcharge on which is 3d.
Postage in Australia is the dearest in the Empire.
To send a letter across the street it costs Australians
a halfpenny more, and from one air-route town to
another 3|d. more, than it costs an Englishman to
send a letter 12,000 miles by air.
According to Mr. Menzies “abolition of sur-
charges would mean a substantial increase in the
amount of first-class mail matter sent by air”hence
greater expenditure. Larger aircraft would be needed
and larger aerodromes and larger subsidies. So de-
velopment must stand still, the Post Office must con-
tinue to rake in fantastic profits and Australian aero-
dromes, in contrast to Australian air services, must
continue to be the worst-paved, worst-equipped and
most inadequate on earth.
Far different is the British attitude. Despite its
enormous defence liabilities, the British Government
has helped the aerial mail-carriers on Empire routes
to meet the expansion consequent on the introduction
of cheap postage by increasing annual subsidy from
£1,500,000 to £4,000,000.
There will be no danger of great expansion on
the Pacific mail route, which has been obligingly
handed over to Americans. Apart from postage from
Australia to Maoriland, Is. is to be exacted for car-
riage of a letter to Noumea, 3s. 6d. to U.S.A. and
Canada. Noumea is 850 miles from the Australian
coast.
Strangling the Wine Industry.
Kipling’s Australian soldier, riding into Lichtenberg
“in the rain,” caught “the smell of the wattle” and
in fancy was carried straight back to “the little home-
stead on Hunter River, and my young vines joining
hands.” If he has ever returned to Hunter River, or
if he ever revisits it in the glimpses of the moon, he
would see no “young vines joining hands” these days.
After a later and greater war, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment and the Governments of Victoria and South
Australia assisted returned soldiers to plant vines,
assuring them that there would be a great market for
wine grapes. And so there would have been if those
Governments had given the wine industry a fair deal.
By continuing, in their fatuousness, their war-time
licensing laws, they have done their best to strangle it
—this while the Commonwealth Government has pro-
vided wine export bounties and extended to distressed
grape-growers, soldiers and civilians, its debt-relief
measures —and in the Hunter River valley strangula-
tion is not far off accomplishment.
The secretary of the Federal Viticultural Coun-
cil is a competent witness. He says:
State liquor laws have had such a disastrous effect
upon the trade in our magnificent dry natural wines
that areas upon which they are best produced have
either gone out of production or have been greatly
reduced. In the Hunter River valley the area under
vines has been reduced 50 p.c. during the last few
years, and as each year passes more vineyards are
going out of existence.
It is a social as well as an industrial calamity. Aus-
tralian dry wine—hock, chablis, sauterne, claret, bur-
gundy—is something more than a delicious beverage.
It has tonic and mild aperient properties. Drunk in
moderation at meals, it wouldn’t intoxicate an infant,
and it would help to prevent constipation and indiges-
tion, which cause so many Australians to take pills
by the gross and liquid purgatives by the
bucket. By the same token, it would cut down the
astonishing consumption of tablets and powders to
relieve headaches —very often the consequence of
washing down meat meals with tea.
No man of our time has seen more of the world
than J. H. Curie, the writer, and there is no greater
admirer of Australian beverage wine. He says he can’t
understand why Australians neglect it. If he studied
the working of the licensing laws, and their effect on
the millions who can’t afford to put up at expensive
hotels where boarders can get wine at any hour of the
day and night, the distinguished author would under-
stand well enough.
The wine people are asking the Governments of
the three six-o’clock-closing States to license reputable
restaurants to sell beverage wines with meals. It is
the least they can do if they have any regard for the
rights of the people who lunch and dine at restaurants ;
it is the least they should do if they want to save an
industry which, given a fair chance to grow, would
become great.
Shylock's Uncle at Work.
“El V.”: Brisbane depends for its major theatrical
entertainment on companies from the south. As a rule,
these are mostly composed of Australians. The girls
average £4 a week or so. Out of this they have to
provide their own make-up, as well as board, lodging
and local fares. If they were typists, living in their
own homes in their own towns, they would be exempt
from taxation. Because they travel at greater expense
—incidentally, they do most of their travelling on
insolvent Government railways—State departments
line them up and squeeze the smallest of them.
Here is the experience of one apprentice actress
who has been touring the States. The first call was
Brisbane —a fortnight’s season; she was Brisbane-
born and -educated. Her gross earnings in that capi-
tal were £B. A taxation official went over her ex-
penses and decided that she was entitled to deductions
of £1 55., leaving £6 15s. He took 10s. from her by
way of tax.
Next stop was Melbourne. There the company
stayed from June 24 to July 15. But they worked
only nine days out of the three weeks and, in accord-
ance with theatrical custom, were not paid when not
at work. While waiting to move to Adelaide, they had
to keep themselves. The earnings of the junior victim
in Melbourne totalled £5 155., out of which she had
to pay for three weeks’ board and other living ex-
penses, apart from theatrical expenses. The Victorian
Taxation Department collected ss. 6d. in tax. Thus,
out of £l3 15s. gross—her whole earnings for a year,
by the way—two State departments extorted 15s. 6d.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“El V.”: News of the Berlin-Moscow
Pact had just burst upon the world and
we sat beside our short-wave set waiting
for the first stunned reactions of the
British to the catastrophe. The 8.8. C.
came on the air dead to the minute, and
the usual blasd voice began: “I —ah —-
told you at our last session—that next
month we would issue for distribution to
the Empiah a new 8.8. C. publication
‘London Calling.’ ‘London Calling’ will
be issued” In leisurely fashion he
gave its trivial features and added: “You
will now hear Big Ben.” We heard Big
Ben —his chime filled the room momen-
tarily from 12,000 miles away. Then, in
exactly the same tone as that in which
he had told us of his new paper, the
announcer spoke of the pact. And in
his next effort he gave pride of place to
a cricket match, in winch a lot of the
players were coons.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: It’s a popular but
mistaken belief that in a case of drown-
ing the whole body must go under water ;
but writers on medical jurisprudence cite
many a sad story to show that not even
the whole head need be submerged for
the fulfilment of the act Epileptics,
falling unconscious during their fits, have
been found drowned in tiny pools, and
drunken men dead with their noses and
mouths immersed in mere puddles.
Lunatics, over and over again, have com-
mitted suicide by stubbornly keeping
their faces below water level in half-
filled basins. But stranger than any of
the textbook cases was tnat of a N.S.W.
baby. The poor mite, having apparently
fallen from bed, died by drowning, its
lips and nostrils in a small dish holding
half an inch of water.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, chequed, de-
cided to see Sydney. He was pretty
sozzled when he arrived, and confided to
the taxi-driver that he was bushed and
wan'.ed to catch a Manly boat. Some
time later Mat was struck by the simi--
larity of the Town Hall to a building
he remembered passing before. When
he saw it again he nodded his head sagely
and sat back, sober. With a flourish the
taxi drew into the Quay. The big fellow
hopped out, said “Wait,” and went over
to a handy traffic cop. “What’s the taxi
fare from Central to ’ere, 'mate?” he
asked. The cop told him. Mat handed
him some silver. “Pay that bloke,” he
said. “I’ve gotter catch a boat.”
* * * *
“Miro”: In the post office of our small
riverside village in the M.L. baekblocks
Dad Blank was having a chat with two
cronies when a boy appeared at the doo' -
and announced: “Hi! Mr. Blank, me
brother just come down from your place,
and he says your Bella’s sick.” Dad
dashed for the door, and a minute
later the postmistress saw him chug-
ging upstream in the contraption he
calls a launch. Then she discovered
a slip, cf paper left on the counter
by Dad ; it contained a list of medicines.
Handing it to the chemist next door, she
asked if he knew anything about it. “Oh,
yes,” said the chemist, “those things are
for Mrs. Blank. Dr. Smith sent word
they were to go up to-day without fail;
Old Blank’s to call for them. “Well, he
won’t call to-day,” said the p.m. “He’s
gone. A boy came and told him Bella
was very ill.” “Bella,” said the chemist,
feelingly. “That’s his prize cow!”
=i= * * *
“Copley”: Curious how quickly
domesticated plants revert to a wild state.
Wandering through the south-west of
W.A. one comes occasionally on long-
abandoned bush homes, only the remains
of the garden and perhaps the orchard
being left Invariably only the roses and
the bulbs will have survived, all others,
seeding annuals particularly, having gone
under in the struggle against native
weeds. And the roses will bear little
resemblance to their carefully-nurtured
English progenitors. As wild and straggly
as the blackberry, they carry thorns as
sharp. But bulbs will bloom on and on
apparently without degeneration. I came
upon a lost garden beside a creek. Acres
of irises, thousands of delicate blooms,
their fragrance floating on the evening air
—a memory to be cherished through a
lifetime.
■» * * *
“Coral”: Apropos of the assertion (B.
16/8/’39) that the Chinese knew Aus-
tralian waters long before the Dutch and
the Portuguese visited them, the Japanese
make similar claims. In Thursday Island
some years ago the secretary of the Japa-
nese Society told me that Japanese his-
tory books for school use contained
accounts of voyages made to the north
and eastern coasts of Australia during
the early part of the fifteenth veatury.
The expedition sailed right down to Tas-
mania, where memorial stones were
carved to record their visit. Some of
the par'.y died, and were buried at a spot
along the North Queensland coast. By a
coincidence, some curiously-incised stones
have just lately been discovered on the
Tasmanian coast, which are considered to
be of outside ongm ana not aooxigmat
work.
* * * *
“Old Boy”: Touching that “Pyjama
Girl” film (B. 23/8/’39), this old police
newshound got a laugh when it was an-
nounced that the commentator was the
“Chief Crime Investigator” of Associated
News. I don’t know what would have
happened if a title like that had been
tacked on to a poor reporter in my day,
when we were just “the blokes that do
the police rounds.” He would probably
have ended up by being scragged for
murdering a few derisive fellow-workers.
But that was before newspaper pro-
prietors had developed a real sense of
their employees' dignity. I, in future,
propose to be known in my office as the
Deputy-Commentator on Motion Picture
Art.
*** . *
“Wingella”: In his remarks on pic-
torial scoops, “Lao-dah” (B. 2/8/’39)
doesn’t mention the most brazen of all,
staged by a Melbourne newspaper after
the Darwin cyclone of 1937. In common
with other Darwin reporters, I was asked
“The poor cow can't know it's Saturdee afternoon
“Of course 'e don't. 'Ees boss gives 'im fish an Fridee's paper t' read."
to supply pictures of the damage done
by wind and storm. I sent some good
negatives away by the first possible air-
mail, only to have them returned
with word that they were too late —an-
other daily had scooped the pool. Know-
ing that no other photographs could
have travelled any quicker than mine did,
I was amazed, until copies of the paper
arrived in Darwin. The pictures were
taken after the Darwin cyclone of 1896,
and showed old-fashioned street lamps
such as went out when Queen Victoria
died. A weatherboard cottage ap-
peared on a block now occupied by a
substantial stone building, and the well-
known Hotel Victoria was shown minus
all its verandah-shutters, and with two
small cottages beside it which had been
condemned and pulled down when
Edward Seven was on the throne.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: It is about 40 years since,
the fresh-air cult having come into
fashion, a few venturesome individuals
began to sleep on their own verandahs
in Melbourne. There were terrific pro-
tests, but in those days there was far
less interference with the liberty of the
subject than there is now. A Mel-
bourne suburban council has just started
a movement to drive the fresh-air addicts
indoors again, and as a beginning has
compelled the removal of 113 sleep-outs.
To carry the campaign further, it has
declared sleeping on verandahs illegal,
grounds, ethical or logical, not being
stated. Possibly the council doesn’t
know that it is putting the clock back
to the days of the Vikings, who slept
in closed cupboards and took their
swords in with them. There were rows
of these cupboards surrounding the
great chief’s table, and there was a
rational motive behind them, as sleeping
in the open was a dangerous indulgence.
When times became more peaceful the
cupboards were built in the middle of
the bedroom but were still closed m,
the notion having got around that night
air was poisonous. The fourposter bed
was the cubicle’s lineal descendant,
draperies being substituted for the
wooden walls. The first settlers in Aus-
tralia carefully excluded ventilation
from their bedrooms even in a heat-wave.
This was more or less the position when
t' 3 revolt began which produced the
slcepers-out who are now being hounded
bawjs. again by tJummes.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Promoters of the Maori-
land centennial exhibition propose to
open the show by using the light from
a star that will be handy at the appointed
time. Chicago officially opened its exhi-
bition by using the light from Arcturus.
If it’s a cloudy night it will be just too
bad, as the apparatus used cost a lot of
money.
* * * *
“C'ne Ma”: I see where Mr. Adolph
Zukor »ays that the success of any film
depends on its in-
ternational outlook.
He is right there,
though his rightness
depends on what he
means by “inter-
national.” Human
nature is inter-
national, and a film
that deals faithfully
with human nature
should be as easily
understood by a
Zulu as by a South
American or a Ger-
man. The “Dods-
worth” film was a
good example. It
dealt with the eter-
nal triangle. The
eternal triangle is
international, and I
am ready to bet that
a Mormon (old
style) or a Moham-
medan could feel the
situation in “Dods-
worth” just as
acutely as a Euro-
pean. It is when we
get to the non-art
which most films are
composed of that
there is trouble and
national prejudices
go on the rampage.
The spy film is an
example. Our own
spies working in a
foreign country are
all heroes and Sir
Galahads, and the
foreign spy-preven-
ters are all malicious
scoundrels. A
foreign spy in our
own country is a
reptile and our pre-
ventive officers are heroes. But an
attempt to flatter everybody’s prejudices
is worse. It produces films completely
denatured of all interest.
A CANDID JUDGE.
“Judge Curlewis, on bis retirement from the
N.S.W. Bench, said that on his appointment thereto
he had made up his mind to be always patient and
courteous, and never to say anything unkind. tic
was afraid he had failed in his high resolve, having
been irritable and bad-tempered on occasions and
not sufficiently careful of other people’s feelings.’’
When status judicial to me was assigned
1 firmly determined to try
A plan of my own that was clearly defined,
A rigorous rule to apply.
Though tempers and nerves might be frayed in
the grind
Of lega; proceedings. I’d keep it in mind
To be courteous ever, and patient and kind,
Said 1 to myself, said I.
I’d never grow petulant, cutting or curt,
Or a hearing impartial deny
To a witness, however evasive or pert,
Or a litigant foxy and sly.
No counsel should ever be heard to assert
He’d got up my monkey or got out my shirt.
And even a crook may have feelings to hurt,
Said I to myself, said I.
Though a verbal precisian I’ve always been
styled
And scarcely can stifle a cry
At seeing the well of our English defiled
By words that the Yankees supply,
When I heard them in court I’d lorbear to be
riled
And make my corrections as gentle and mild
As an amiable nurse’s reproof to a child,
Said 1 to myself, said 1.
That, I promised myself, should be ever my
roie,
But now ’twould be vain to deny
I was baffled by forces 1 couldn’t control
And instincts too deep to defy.
My standards were high, but 1 failed of the
goal,
For a Judge is but human—in that lay the
hole —
And open confession is good for the soul,
Say 1 to myseli , say 1.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“It must be the dingo bait We're carryin for Charlie.”
“X.S.”: Extraordinary insensiuveness
was shown by Melbourne dailies in
reporting the acquisition by the Police
Department of a new Black Maria, the
invention of a member of the force. The
“Argus” observed that a note of luxury
had been introduced with air-condition-
ing and electric light, missing the point
that the air-conditioning is not for com-
fort, but so that prisoners can be sealed
up in a steel box without being suffo-
cated. Another newspaper jauntily re-
marked that one advantage of the new
conveyance was that three persons
charged with murder could be conveyed
from prison to court and back again in
one journey, as against two with the pre-
vious vehicle. It might have gone on to
suggest that a more “luxurious” equip-
ment should be installed at Pentridge, so
that condemned men could be hanged in
batches instead of one at a time, as at
present.
* * * *
“Ortho” : Strange how we Australians
despise grammatical niceties. A pal of
mine, a chap with an M.A. degree, is a
sort of liaison officer for all sorts of
public servants. Was in his office for a
chat which was interrupted every few
minutes by a discreet tap at the door.
“Who’s there?” my friend would shout.
“It’s me” would be the response, and
the responder would come in and give
or receive a message. Then came a
commanding rat-tat-tat, followed by “It
is I” in response to my friend’s inquiry.
“One of those damned school-teachers!”
snorted my friend.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: When Melba was alive it
was fashionable for some of the public
to laugh at the multitude of potential
great singers she was always discovering.
Why the layman should imagine that he
would be better able to recognise poten-
tial talent than the expert it is difficult
to imagine. The fact that many and
possibly most of Melba’s discoveries
never attained to distinction proves
nothing. Success as an artist in any line
depends on many qualities apart from
natural aptitude. Melba wasn’t a psy-
chologist, she was a great singer. It is
fair to judge her by her successes, not
her failures. Brownlee, for one, was
a Melba protege.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: I find it difficult to under-
stand why all these persecuted minorities
go into a huddle when they reach Aus-
tralia. In almost every little street in
Melbourne nowadays there is a foreign
club where each particular brand of alien
clusters together. The Czechs are the
latest to start one. Thirty or so years
ago there was a great immigration of
Danes to Victoria, and the original
migrants formed a club. - It is still in
existence; but the oldsters lament the
fact that there are so very few young
members. Denmark has solved her social
problem so effectively that young Danes
no longer have to emigrate, and the chil-
dren of the old Danes, sensibly enough,
have tended to drift off and become
assimilated with the population of their
adopted country. The new influx is faced
with an even more difficult problem.
Some varieties of them are not popular
to start with, and the sensible thing for
them to do would be to disseminate
themselves through the community. If
they remain all jammed together in their
own self-made little ghettoes taking in
each other’s spiritual washing they will
only call attention to themselves, and then,
whenever some politician wants to call
attention to himself, he will call attention
to them, and soon everybody will begin
to think that they are hatcheries of plots.
That is what happened in Europe.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A quite new excuse has been
put up in an Adelaide court, where a
man just arrived from Sydney was
charged with falsely pretending to be a
telephone official, and with unlawful pos-
session of the appropriate kit. He visited
a city store as a ’phone mechanic on
four consecutive days, and on the fourth
was questioned and arrested. The excuse
he gave in court was “infatuation” for
a girl working there. As for the kit,
he “happened to notice a satchel at the
railway station, and on opening it and
seeing the contents took it away; but
had, no intention of doing anything
wrong.” He was anxious to return to
Sydney at once, an uncle having sent
him the fare ; but the P.M. insisted that
he should enjoy southern hospitality for
five months.
* * * *
“Spadger”: “W.8.D.” (B. 16/8/’39) on
Cassidy’s brogue—or lack of it—makes
me remember and tabulate. Cassidy may
be, and frequently is, an egotist who pro-
nounces his initial letters as straight and
flat as does an Englishman. He may
even pass muster with his r’s, the rolling
of which seems to lessen with every year
of absence from the Old Sod, but ask
him to pronounce column and minute (of
time) and he’ll sound the u in both
words. “Colyum” the Anglo-Saxon has
to say to get anywhere near it, but neither
tongue nor spelling can give the “uit”
sound he puts into minute. And to make
sure of Cassidy’s birthplace, examine the
shape of his temple and cheek-bones. In
a son of Erin they will be two ridges
converging into a V at the eye-corner,
with a stretched hollow in between. This
bone shape belongs only to a Cassidy
or an O’Toole ; no Anglo-Irishman, be
he the palest of the pale, possesses it.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: The statements in
my par. (B. 16/8/’39) about the virtues
and drawbacks of the new sulphanilamide
drugs, now freely sold to the public, are
borne out by an article in a recent
“British Medical Journal.” The writer
has seen, in patients over-susceptible to
such things, all sorts of skin-rashes, some
like that of measles, some so closely
resembling the eruption of scarlet fever
as to bluff the best of physicians. Other
victims develop enormous weals and
unattractive blebs, or go through agony
when sunlight touches them. All this is
fairly harmless, of course, and the symp-
toms clear up when the drug is stopped.
But more important is a letter from no
less a big gun than the medical adviser
of Imperial Airways. He doesn’t like
the sulphanilamides —or rather, he
doesn’t like the chance that some pilot
may be susceptible to them. One of
Airways’ pilots, having dosed himself for
a sore throat, suffered from severe
anoxaemia (oxygen lack) “at the moderate
altitude of about 13,000 ft.” My point
is that the gulping down of these power-
ful drugs, like the wholesale swallowing
of aspirin and headache powders, has
its dangers.
* * * *
“Sevenoaks”: The protracted and un-
successful search for Woolcott-Forbes
reminds me. During the war, before
Paris leave was general in the A.1.F., two
Diggers whose unit was resting, finding
village life dull, decided to visit the gay
city. After several days there they were
picked up by the Jacks, who notified
their battalion, which sent an escort of
four to bring the deserters back. When
the escorters reported at M.P.H.Q. in
Paris, they were / informed that the
prisoners had escaped a few hours previ-
ously, but they would soon be recaptured.
The escort was told to have a look round
the city and report next morning. This
went on for three weeks, when deserters
and escort were gathered up drunk in a
cafe by the M.Ps. Defence of the ser-
geant of the escort was that they were
sent to escort, not to arrest. They ran
across the escapees on the second day,
and reckoned that the longer the deserters
were at large the longer holiday the escort
would enjoy. The A.P.M. stormed a bit,
but sent them off to their unit unblamed.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: One of the large estates that
have been proclaimed for resumption is
Berembed, in the Grong Gong (N.S.W.)
district. Alongside this old run is Berem-
bed City. But no imposing buildings and
cathedral spires adorn this hamlet, for it
has been a “city” since it was only a pub.
Tacking “city” on to the names of towns
in their infancy is a habit in America,
but Berembed City is the only example
of the kind I know of in Australia.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Removal of the ancient
plaster statues in the Fitzroy Gardens
won’t represent the first time that one of
the casts has gone on a voyage of dis-
covery. Some years ago a journalist
and a well-known writer were traversing
the gardens in the small hours, having
been celebrating a fellow-writer’s birth-
day, when an idea struck them. They
lifted a plaster Cupid from its pedestal,
and with much labor transported it to
the doorstep of a near-by foundling hos-
pital. Then they rang the bell and de-
parted. The night nurses were also
imbued with the carnival spirit appar-
ently. They carried the heavy image
into a ward, tucked it into bed and made
the usual entry in the register. The next
morning it was discovered by the matron
during her round of inspection. It was
returned to the gardens committee, and
next day was back on its pedestal.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Ship canals will
form one of the most notable features of
the present century. America is expected
to parallel the Panama Canal shortly by
another through Nicaragua, primarily for
Atlantic-Pacific naval transfers. The
£14,000,000 Antwerp-Liege job is com-
pleted, and the Kiel Canal from the Baltic
to the North Sea is being widened and
deepened. France contemplates one
which will enable the French Fleet to
pass between the Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean without using the Straits of Gib-
raltar. Risks from air attack on the
Forth Bridge bottling up the Rosyth Base,
and the distance of Scapa Flow from
docking or supplies, are causing British
naval strategists to press for a full-size
ship canal across Scotland, between the
Forth and the Clyde. There is already
a boat canal from Grangemouth to Bowl-
ing on the Clyde, and no great engineer-
ing difficulties to meet. The English
Channel and‘North Sea would then be
avoidable for war- and food-ships, and
an optional course open north or south
of Ireland. Cost —£250,000,000.
“I've balanced the book, boss. Wot'll I do next?”
WOT WON THE LAST?
“The Speaker of tire N.S.W. Assembly was com-
polled to leave the Chair for nearly an hour on
Wednesday afternoon, a quorum being found un-
obtainable. Newspaper insinuations that it was be -
cause race results were being broadcast in the
billiard-room are denied.”
Our House—or some of it—was going about
The country’s business with due decorum
When some observant tribune pointed out
It lacked a quorum.
The Speaker gazed around with mild regret;
Then frowned at so inadequate a sprinkling
Of legislative nobs, and promptly set
The bells a-tinkling;
The monitory bells that seem to say
To those who loiter in the outer spaces:
“Buck up and do your job and earn your pay!
Into your places!”
A few, a very few, appearance made;
The rest, by matters more engrossing halted,
The peremptory summons disobeyed—
In short, defaulted.
Where were they? In the library, perhaps,
Weighing the pros and cons of Coalitions,
Or lost in study of electoral maps
And Royal Commissions.
Was it that rapid-moving world events
Made them of duties close at hand forgetters?
Or were they writing to constituents
Important letters?
Who knows? Yet if, during that hour’s ad-
journing,
Along those stately corridors you’d passed,
I’ll venture you’d have heard a bit concerning
Wot Won the Last!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ŵ
CRAVEN A
9/1 JO J OZ P 6 *°i 01
jtfw}*m<wm shv/yv
"tyfam -tmvj wmh
o
ẁ
POLITICAL POINTS
Bruce Lockhart mentions in his latest
book that the young lions of the Foreign
Office habitually referred to Eden as
“Anthony,” a liberty unknown in days
when the F.O. was admired and feared.
Perhaps the Eden experience demoral-
ised it; anyway, it has let Britain down
horribly this year. It hadn’t the faintest
notion of what was impending at Prague
in March or at Moscow last week, and
on each occasion it left Chamberlain
completely in the dark. The old P.M.
has many clumsy servants, but the
Foreign Office Johnnies are the clumsiest.
The great John Gunther was in Mos-
cow when Stalin turned dog on the
democracies, of which his Oriental
despotism was claimed to be one. “Rus-
sian officials” assured the flapper-press
idol that “a clause has been inserted in
the pact with Germany to provide that
ANOTHER RETREAT FROM MOSCOW.
it should become nullified in the event
of either signatory attacking a third
Power”: —-
The Russians wish to dispel ideas that
Germany is now at liberty to attack
Poland.
There is no such clause in the pact.
Probably for the hundredth, perhaps for
the thousandth, time Gunther had his
leg pulled.
One of the minor tragedies of the time
is that so much of the foreign “news”
that has been served up for public con-
sumption has been collected by smart
Alecs like Gunther. One understanding
Scot, such as Lockhart or lan Hamilton,
is worth a paddockful of Gunthers,
Mowrers, Smedleys and Snows.
Sydney “D.T.” discovered last Friday
that “we have always been good friends
with Japan” ; and on the same page it
had a cartoon of a noble-lookmg samurai
consigning a signed photograph of a low-
browed Hitler to the w.p.b. Not three
weeks ago the “D.T.’s” senior contem-
porary suggested a blockade of Japan.
Nearly two years ago the “D.T.” was all
for “positive action against Japan,” and
it recently returned to its vomit. Hitier
and Stalin of the Mighty Soviet War
Machine (another “D.T.” standby) are
not the only twisters knocking around.
Stevens’s successor Mair is meekness
itself in the presence of his joss—doesn’t
he “pray” for the time when Stevens will
be Premier again?—and of the bureau-
crats that surround him. But he has had
the infernal impudence to tell the public
that was bled for another £205 for each
Assemblyman in the £3,750,000-deficit
year that he can’t possibly economise,
and to introduce thumping increases in
the two income-taxes. This by way of
anticipating not only his precious Budget,
but that of the national Government,
which has first call on the taxes for de-
fence. Lang tried the same game, and the
people dished him. Next time they are
thoroughly aroused they will dish the
alleged Parliament.
Dunstan is increasing the Victorian in-
come tax to bring in another £350,000.
He is not touching relief tax, which starts
at 6d. in the £ and rises to Is. Mair is
demanding anything from £4,000,000 to
£6,000,000, and for relief tax as well as
income tax the sky is to be the limit.
Precise details were withheld last week,
except in the case of the basic-wage
man ; he is to pay 2s. 9d. a week on
£4 Is. On £4 Is. to £4 10s. Victorian
relief tax is Is. 4d.; on £4 I Is. to
£5 10s., Is. Bd.; and on £5 11s. to £6,
2s. Dunstan is no great financier, but
compared with Stevens and Mair he is
a genius.
From the report of Comrade Manuil-
sky to the Communist Conference in
March Comrade Stalin on the plat-
form :
As Comrade Stalin wrote in an article
published in 1927, “British capitalism
always was, is and will be the most
vicious strangler of popular revolutions.
Ever since the French revolution at the end
of the eighteenth century, down to the
Chinese revolution no.v in progress, the
British bourgeoisie has always stood in the
front rank of the butchers oi the liberation
movement of mankind.”
“Loud cheers” and loud cries of “Hur-
rah for our beloved Stalin.” It was after
this that our Glorious Press and its tame
professors became convinced that J.B.
must go cap in hand to Stalin if the
world was to be saved.
The Lang faction was beaten at the
onety-oneth Labor unity conference
which raged in Sydney at the week-end.
It was left without representation on the
new A.L.P. executive, which will be
dominated by the Labor Council, famous
for boycotts of this and that; and Parlia-
mentary party positions are to be put to
a Caucus vote. The Big Fellow may form
another “parly”—“the anti-Communist
Labor party.”
Running true to form, the Sydney
Government slugged the man on the
basic wage in the first of its pre-Budget
taxation measures. Out of his meagre
earnings it will take 2s. 9d. a week, “as
from . September 1.” It recalls what
Carlyle wrote in an early chapter of
his French Revolution: “A widow is
gathering nettles for her children’s
dinner. A perfumed seigneur hath an
alchemy whereby he extracts the third
nettle and calls it rent.” The perfumed
seigneur is gone, but the political harpy
has succeeded him.
Ruthless punishment has been imposed
upon the two Commonwealth Works
bosses held responsible for the failure to
honor the P.M.’s undertaking to Parlia-
ment that the Sydney G.P.O. extension
contract would not be signed. Director-
General Mehaffey has been reduced to
Assistant D.rector-General at £l3OO p.a.
instead of £l4OO, and N.S.W. Works
Director Orwin is transferred to the Can-
berra branch at £950 p.a. instead of
£lOOO. Mehaffey was found “guilty of
being negligent or careless” and Orwin
of “improper conduct in having taken
part in a discussion in the presence of a
person outside the service.” To the
official mind such penalties are fiendish.
There is still, in name at least, a
Jewish Autonomous Republic in Stalin-
land. Distant observers were puzzled at
the reluctance of German, Austrian,
Czechoslovakian and Polish Jews to fly
to the autonomous republic; instead
they packed cargo boats bound for the
Levant, China and other remote and
reluctant countries, in some cases suffer-
ing the tortme3 of the damned. They
must have had a good idea of the re-
ception that would await them in the
Workers’ Paradise, in which all men,
without distinction of color or creed, are
free—to receive bullets in the back oJ
the neck.
In the goodness of its heart the Lyons
Government sold Australia a pup when
it agreed to admit 15,000 European
refugees at the rate of 5000 a year. For
the first six months of 1939, 3712 land-
ing permits were issued, and the Lord
knows how many refugees landed with-
out permits—certainly the Government
doesn’t. Apparently landing permits are
restricted to “Germans” and Czecho-
slovaks, who are chiefly Jews. Last year
1151 Poles, 955 Hungarians and 344 Rus-
sians came in. They also were nearly
all Jews, but technically Poles, Hun-
garians and Russians, increasingly
numerous, are not refugees.
The deadly parallel for the “Workers’
Weekly,” “central organ of the Com-
munist party in Australia.”
August 22.
The Nazi hangmen
write of the Polish
State as a “misfor-
tune for its citizens.”
In the organ of the
Fascist beast of prey, -
drug-addict Goring,
the Poles are accused
of possessing a “rule
ot tne cudgel.”
Germany under the
Nazis is not merely
a land “ruled by the
cudgel,” but, under
the Nazis, the rule of
the headman’s axe and
the midnight strangler,
of dehumanised thugs,
the dregs of humanity.
It is the stench from
this festered bodv of
German Fascism that
is polluting the world
to-day.
August 25.
Hitler compelled
to recognise the grow-
ing might of the
Soviet Union... .sends
Ribbentrop to Mos-
cow to try to make
terms a great vic-
tory for the Soviet
and for peace. The
Soviets agree to sign
a non-aggression pact:
but that does not
mean, and could
never mean, that they
are prepared to give
Hitler a free hand for
new and greater
aggressions....
Ribbentrop, when
he commences negoti-
ations with Molotov,
will soon find....that
in the event of un-
provoked aggression
the pact becomes null
and void.
There is no such “escape clause” ; so,
Tovarisch, it won’t do! Stalin has killed
Comunism in the British Commonwealth,
and the corpse is already putrid.
A. W. Palfreyman, the jam man, is
ba... L oin a m Soutn Airica. The
politicians there, he said to a Perth re-
porter, are “striving to produce the mil-
lennium,” and he doesn’t care for some
of their “experimental legislation,” but
Nobody pays income tax unless income
is over £4OOO a year. Tax on personal
income is 2s. in the £, and on company
profits 2s. 6d., with a 30 p.c. discount in
each case. Railway freight-rates are the
cheapest in the world, yet the railways are
paying handsomely.
If Australia could say the same, Aus-
tralians would think the millennium had
arrived. South Africa, of course, has
only one Parliament and one lot of de-
partments, and the railways and ports
are under national control.
A.B.C. wouldn’t let the public hear Men-
zies or Curtin on foreign affairs, but it
can always find time to put Roberts on.
When Moscow twisted it interpolated that
exploded “authority” in one of its “un-
alterable” programmes to admit of his
blealing that he was “staggered.” There
followed 20 minutes or so of mournful
mush from “The Watchman,” whose
kussian-adiance recipe was “Send Eden
to Moscow.”
Like Tree’s “Hamlet,” Granny
“Herald,” bewailing “the strange
duplicity” with which Russia “double-
crossed the peace front,” was funny with-
out being vulgar. Its tame Roberts
(“Chalks Professor of History, Univer-
sity of Sydney”) was funnier. His tor-
tured mind turned back to “several Mos-
cow correspondents” who “reported, even
in July, that the Soviet-German trade
talks were attracting more attention than
the Anglo-French political negotiations—
clearly a straw to show wh.ch way the
wind was blowing.” Roberts is a wonder
at seeing straws after events that maxe
his writings ridiculous.


HOOVES ACROSS THE SEA.
“After the voyage from England, during which he did not miss a single meal, the Duke of Kent’s horse Dhoti arrived at Melbourne in splendid condition.”


There are THOUSANDS of
ẃ
ẅ
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE INVESTOR AND THE CRISIS.
HOW WARS ARE FINANCED.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
Spnien-W ? S c, ue On Sa’e Nex 1 Saturday.
PRICF 21 - PER COPY, or £112If) PER ANNUM POSTED.
p„Mi.|„,l i iv The null' tin Co I’tv Ltd.. 25? Grorgo Street. «vdt.,v. an.l .11 States
PERSONAL ITEMS
George L. Carpenter, who succeeds
Evangeline Booth as General of the Sal-
vation Army, is an Australian who joined
the Army in Sydney in 1892. He had
had printing and newspaper experience
at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), his birth-
place, and after he donned uniform he
had a good deal to do with the “War
Cry,” of which he eventually became
Australian editor-in-chief. Other posts
were vice-principal of the Training Garri-
son, chief secretary for Eastern Australia,
Territorial Commander in S. America,
literary secretary to General Bramwell
Booth (who sent him back to Australia
for tendering unpalatable advice) and
latterly (since 1937) Territorial Com-
mander in Canada.
Black-and-white artist L. F. Reynolds,
accidentally killed at Beaumaris (Vic.)
last week, was one of three Tasmanian
freelance artists —Jack Quayle and Alex.
Gurney are the other two —who crossed
from the Speck to the mainland to make
good. Reynolds had not long left
Hutchins School, Hobart, when he be-
gan contributing caricatures to The
Bulletin, and work by him appeared
in this paper weekly for many years.
He followed S. G. Wells on Melbourne
“Punch” and J. C. Bancks on the “Sun-
News Pic.” Outside of his newspaper
work he turned his hand to water-colors,
oils and etchings. He could handle a
sporting rifle and fishing rod as well as
he could wield a pened and brush, and
was one of the stalwarts of Melbourne’s
Savage Club. He was 42 when the end
came.
The Flying Doctor service founded,
by Flynn of the Inland has closed
all gaps in the net which it has been
flinging over the continent since 1935.
It is now considered that with its six
bases —the last has been established at
Alice Springs—its six machines, six doc-
tors, six pilots and six wireless operators,
plus a few assistants, it can attend
to the sick and injured anywhere in
sparsely-populated areas of the Corn-
J. W. COLLINGS.
monwealth, an amazing achievement
for an annual expenditure of £24,000.
A good deal of this result is due to
J. W. Collings, the Melbourne-born pub-
lic accountant who, as general secretary,
directs things from the southern capital.
Melbourne has alwavs had a romantic
interest in the Far North, and although
tne otate nas no flying doctor of its
own it has contributed more in pro-
portion than any of the other States.
One of Collings’s jobs is
to open private purses.
To get material for lec-
tures he recently circum-
navigated the continent
It was the first time he
had been up in the a r,
and he came back full of
admiration for the work
the flying doctors do.
Successor to Vine Hall
(who moves up into the
g.m.’s chair) as ch.ef en-
gineer of Sydney County
Council’s olectr.cal 'un-
dertaking is G. S. Boyd,
who has been in the ser-
vice for 35 years and is
now 54. He started his
apprenticeship as a lamp-
trimmer and had experi-
ence in all sections.
Stages in his promotion
were assistant engineer,
ma ns engineer and con-
struction engineer. He
was in charge of design
and construction at the
Bunnercng plant from
1926 to 1930, and is in
charge of the extensions
now in progress, wh.ch
bring the cost up
to £5,500,000.
“Bohem.an”: A link with Maoriland’s
Taraweja eruption of 1886 was Chief
Mohi Wikiriwhi, who died recently at
82. At the time of the eruption of
boiling mud he was living at Rotorua.
Not unused to such upheavals, he
covered his body with layer after layer
of Maori mats, thereby saving his life. He
was descended from one of the occu-
pants of the historic canoe Arawa. He
married the daughter of the paramount
chief Te Tapuke, and had a family of
two sons and two daughters.
Adelaide Uni. and charities are to profit
by over £20,000 under the will of Mrs.
William Mortlock. Daughter of one
wealthy squatter, Andrew Tennant, and
widow of another, she had the wise hand-
ling of large sums. The University’s new
endowment is £5OOO for cancer research.
She had already, with the sole surviving
son, J, T. Mortlock, established in
memory of his dead brother a big
research trust at the Urrbrae Agricul-
tural Institute.
Dr. W. Stewart Ziele, Sydney dental
surgeon, who died last week at 56 from
injuries sustained in a motoring accident,
was born and educated at Dunedin
(M.L.), qualified in dentistry at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania and practised in
Maoriland till 1911, when he came to
Sydney, where he soon climbed into the
front rank of his profession. He was
interested in music, and befriended many
young people of talent. He was a pillar
of the Big Brother movement, and any
appeal on behalf of the children of re-
turned soldiers was sure to elicit his
active and practical sympathy. Ore of
his latest interests was the establishment
of the Corps of Commissionaires. He
was unmarried.
Professor Laby, of Melbourne Uni.,
met an old pupil when he took the physi-
cists’ congress to visit the Commonwealth
aircraft factory at Fishermen’s Bend.
Th.s was Wing-Commander Wackeit,
who has general-managered the concern
since its inception. On returning from
the war Wackett sat under Laby for his
bachelorship of science, and emerged with
sucu success tnat ne has since been an
em nent pioneer in aircraft engineering.
The —politically—late Archdale Park-
hill was lcoxed on as unbeatable by nis
supporters in Sydney’s Warringah elec-
torate, which embraces the prosperous
suburb of M osman, till Percy Claude
Spender came on the scene. He revealed
himself as an unobtrusive, middle-sized
K.C, originally from Adelaide, 40 years
old but iooking younger, with a self-
P. C. SPENDER .
(Modelled by Frith.)
deprecatory manner and a line of argu-
ment which was based on reason rataer
than on aggressiveness. He nau packed
a good deal of experience into his youth,
had enlisted at 21, had graduated with
first-class honors in law at Svdney Uni.,
had married a girl with a flair for fic-
tion writing, ana had found ms way on
to the councils of the Royal Empire
Society and Toe H. His independence
of viewpoint appealed strongly to an
electorate long ridden by political organ-
isations, and he won the seat by some-
thing more than a nose. He has since
joined the U.A.P., and when the Menzies
Cabinet was formed became Assistant
Treasurer. His entry into politics has
meant a considerable financial sacrifice,
for, as one of the youngest of Australian
K.Cs. (he took silk in his thirties), he has
always had a pile of briefs. He is a keen
surfer and golfer, and an avid reader of
all sorts of literature.
Judge Moule, passed over in Mel-
bourne at 81, was the last surviving
member of the Test team that toured
Engiand in 1880. In the only Test match
that was played one of the wickets he
felled was W. G. Grace’s. Judge Moule
was born in Victoria, educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar and Uni. and called to
the Bar in 1879. He enjoyed the repu-
tation of having the sharpest tongue and
the kindest heart of any of his contem-
poraries when it came to sentencing a
first offender. He was the Common-
wealth’s first Judge in Bankruptcy, and
had a spell of six years in the Vic. Leg.
Assembly in the ’nineties. He retired
in 1935.
South Australia’s new Governor, Sir
Malcolm Barclay-Harvey, was a Scottish
M.P., representing Kincardine and West
Aberdeenshire, 1923-29 and 1931-38.
He’s a product of Eton and Oxford, and
has had two terms as Parliamentary
Secretary to the Secretary of State
for Scotland. Served in the Great War
as an officer of Territorials. His first
wife died in 1935. Last year he married
the widow of Captain H. H. Liddell-
Grainger, youngest daughter of the Earl
of Lindsey.
Some September birthdays:—*
Ex-S.A Senator Duncan-Hughes, 57, on Ist;
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 68, and author Will
Lawson. 63, on 2nd; George Rowe (sec. A.J.C.,
Syd.), 58, J. A. Carrodus (Dept, of Interior,
Canberra), 54, and S.A. Senator Wilson, 39,
on 3rd; General (and Senator) Brand (Vic.),
66, on 4th; W.A. Hon. Min. E. H. Gray,
M.L.C., 60, and O’land Sneaker E. J. Hanson,
61, on sth; Macpherson Robertson (Vic.), 79,
on 6th; Postmaster-General Harrison, 47, on
7th; Bishop Coieman -< iaxid
Attorney-Gen. Mullan, 68, and Chief C’wealth
Electoral Officer Turner, 50, on Bth; Judge
Storkey (N.S.W.), 48, Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic.
Govt Astronomer), 61, G. W. Martens, M.H.R.
(Herbert), 67, S.A. Min. for Agric. A. J. Blesing,
60. and Dick Windeyer, K.C. (Syd.), 71, on
9th; knight Lavington Bonython (Adelaide),
64, V. C. Thompson, M.H.R. (New England),
S 4, and R. J. Hedron, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 49,
on 10th; L. J. McKean (N.S.W. Crown Prose-
cutor), 54, on 12th; Field-Marshal Birdwood,
74, and ex-Senator Guthrie, 67, on 13th; W.A.
Chief Justice Northmore, 74, on 14th; W.A.
Agent-General Troy, 62, on 15th; Prof.
Walter Murdoch (W.A.), 65, Commander Wil-
liams (Maritime Services Board, Syd.), 60, and
artist Percy Lindsay, 69, on 17th; ex-Prime
Minister Scullin, 63, Justice Webb (N.S.W.),
54, Alexander McVernon (Q’land Ins. Co.), 68,
and C'wealth Railways Commissioner Gahan,
58, on 18th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.), 64, and
Vic. Director of Educ. John Seitz, 56, on
19th; Wil Ashton (Director, N.S.W. National
Art Gallery), 58, and author lon Idriess, 49,
on 20th; J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 61,
and authoress Dymphna Cusack on 21st;
Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 56, and Vic.
Director of Agric. H. A. Mullett, 49, on
22nd; Major-General Brudenell White, 63, and
author Leslie Haylen, 36, on 23rd; Bishop
Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 72, knight Sam Hordern
(Syd.), 63, and author E. S. Sorenson, 70, on
24th; W. M. Hughes, 75, and Vic. Police Com-
missioner Duncan, 51, on 25th; S.A. Chief
Justice Murray, 76, and poet Frederick T.
Macartnev, 52, on 27th; knight Herbert Gepp,
62, and author T. Inglis Moore, 38, on 28th;
Brig.-Gen. Wisdom (former New Guinea Ad-
ministrator), 70, Judge White (N.S.W.), 70,
and author Rev. Father Eris O’Brien (Syd.),
44, on 29th; ex-Senator Needham (now M.L.A.,
W.A.I. 65. F M. Cutlack (War Historian), 53,
H. W. Horsfield (gen. sec. U.A.P., N.S.W.),
52, and T. C. Roughley (zoologist), 51, on
30th.
New Chief Secretary of S.A., re-
placing George Ritchie, retired through
ill-health, is Alexander Lyell McEwin.
A farmer, and the son of a pioneer settler
of the Blyth district, he has made his
mark as a wheatgrower and a breeder
of merinos. He has represented the
Northern Districts in the Legislative
Council since 1934, and was chairman
of the State Advisory Board of Agri-
culture for two and of the Federal
A. L. MCEWIN.
Advisory Committee for one year. He’s
42 and his hobby is rifle-shooting, in
which sport he has represented his State.
He’s also a keen bowler, and was secre-
tary of the Blyth B.C. for many years.


0
!
3
f
r
i/
PRESENT
! mu I r,
c
0
k
%
/'
/
if
a
*
1
H
three senjens
W \IVRG\UVft.
p\GKRETTES
three sevens
three sevens
* ~ iin mu ill
A State Express
Product
t
f
ll
To-day, State Express give you the best ten cigarettes you've
ever bought for sixpenc e—“ Three Sevens ” in the new green
packets. Ten fresh, fragrant, cork-tipped Virginias—blended
as only State Express could blend them —Viscacelle-wrapped
for fresher flavour. Smoke better at your favourite price—
btiy “Three Sevens ” to-day. io for 6d. 20 for i/-
*****
11
oft
24ig-«s.v


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Tapalin Jimmy,” who’d
lived in the bend longer than anyone
could remember, was easily the oldest,
“ That's the one they say'll make me cough no more.”
dirtiest and toughest of the hatters. He
eked out his pension with rabbiting and
fishing, was three-parts of his time drunk
on schnapps, and smoked vile tobacco
in pipes that would have gassed an army.
When boozed he’d lie out in all weathers
or fall in the river or get kicked by a
horse or something else, but on he lived,
game as a bull-ant and full of a certain
native wit. Some reckoned he was over
100 ; all agreed he’d never see 90 again.
The time he won a tenner in Tatt.’s he
was “blind” for days, and finished up
in a bunk at the bush nurse’s, with the
Balranald doctor working on him. When
the old ’un came to, the quack regarded
him in wonder. “You ought to be dead,”
he said. “I’ve known other men go on
as you do, but none of them go much
beyond sixty.” “Aw, them blokes,”
rasped old Jimmy, likely to die for want
of a drink ; “I tell y’, doc., plenty of
booze and bacca’ll keep y’ goin’.” The
doctor shook his head. “It doesn’t work
with many.” “No,” growled James, “ ’cos
they don’t keep it up long enough! ”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: A moonlight night and
a gleaming galvanised-iron roof have
often spelled disaster for wild duck in
the back country, the birds mistaking the
roof for a waterhole. At Mudgee
(N.S.W.) there was a variation when a
flock of duck, spotting from on high a
patch of wet asphalt under a street light,
came down on it with a rush. The
casualty list was heavy.
* * * *
“Muderup”: Mention of the search for
petrol in Australia always reminds me
of the success that dawned on a couple
of city blokes fishing and punting on the
backwaters of a south-west W.A. river.
Rowing one day up a quiet billabong
they suddenly came across oil. Oil! The
dinkum stuff, no film of iron compound
this time. Real oil slowly oozing out of
the river bank and spreading in an irides-
cent film across the gently flowing waters.
No possible mistake. With visions of a
gusher the pair hurried back to town,
canvassed St. George’s-terrace and had a
secret syndicate formed within a day.
Then back to the scene with half a dozen
amateur “experts.” The oil was still
there. While the launch drifted gently
those about-to-become-rich gazed fasci-
nated. Then, though it seemed almost
desecration to break such soil, someone
suggested a little digging, “just to see if
the flow increases.” “Yes, and give the
show away before we can get our lease
granted,” someone warned. But the dig-
ging faction won, and the spade went in
A foot down, and all fell back, com-
pletely routed. The oil was there, a still-
nearly-full reservoir—O’Sullivan’s ancient
sow, a veritable mountain of a pig.
Caught by her last farrow at the water-
side, the lady had expired, and her sor-
rowing owner had buried her on the spot.
Tidewater had smoothed the recently
disturbed sand, and a broiling sun had
done the rest.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: George, our district
foxologist, considers that present-day
foxes are poor creatures whatever way
you look at ’em. “A few years back,”
he told me, “an average-sized skin was
as big as a flamin’ blanket —now you’d
have to skin four or five of ’em to get
enough to make a weskit. As for cunnin’,
I remember one winter when our lambs
was disappearin’ like smoke an’ never
a fox to be seen —nothin’ except a few
wallabies hoppin’ across the paddicks
now an’ then. Couldn’t make it out, till
one day I potted one of the hoppers for
dog-feed, an’ blast me when I goes to
pick it up if it isn’t a fox in disguise—
what’s more, he was carryin’ a lamb
under his offside front paw where I
couldn’t see it. Must’ve practised the
hoppin’ stunt in the bush before they
tried it out in the ewe paddicks ; ’fact,
only a few weeks after, back in the scrub,
I comes on a mother fox with her five
pups perched up on their tails taking their
first lessons in hoppin’. Brains, them
foxes had.”
* * +'
“Tired Tim”: If “Bogaduck” (B.
16/8/ ’39) learns to chop left-handed, cuts
the frill one-quarter way round the trunk
and then reverses, he will get neither
giddy nor bushed. Poisoning is not bad
work, and should be done phlegmatically.
But it’s when the timber is dry enough
to burn that the fun really starts. “B.”
is unfortunate in that he doesn’t like
stoking fires, rolling logs, carrying chunks
and picking up sticks, for to many a job
of clearing land represents the most pleas-
urable of the bushwhacker’s box of
tricks. Some fellows have a mania for
it Here’s one tip. Those occasional
stubborn, fire-resistant stumps behave
better if allowed to cool for a day or
two. The contrary is true of logs. Keep
the crossfires burning.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Except in the cities,
where riding has become fashionable of
late, and the outback, where hacks are
still more or less of a necessity, the much-
vaunted horsemanship of Australians has
deteriorated sadly. In the dairying and
wheatgrowing districts about one kid in
ten can handle a saddle-horse. As for
breaking-in a young ’un —well, when the
few old-timers in the game are gone I
don’t know who’ll do the job. Recently
came on a lad of 19 messing around with
a puzzled-looking animal which was sup-
posed to be undergoing a process of
breaking-in. After watching the prad
twisting round a fe\y times and wrapping
itself and the “breaker” in a tangle of
rope reins, I asked him if he had spent
much time mouthing the horse. It
turned out that, although he’d been driv-
ing a team since schooldays, he’d never
heard of mouthing or knew the neces-
sity for it.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: For many years Mulhearn
Bros., of Coramba (N.S.W.), have main-
tained a pigeon postal service between
their chain of sawmills in the rugged
North Coast country. Most of the mills
are in isolated parts, away from tele-
phone communication, and the trained
pigeons are both time- and money-savers.
Recently one bird carried an urgent mes-
sage between Tyringham and Lowanna
mills, a distance of 60 miles, in three-
quarters of an hour. The same journey
by car over the winding, hilly road would
have occupied close on three hours.
* * * *
“Flat-foot Floogey”: Things are slower
up at Yerrabigalak than anywhere else
I know. On my old man’s farm a stream
runs through the property that’s slower-
moving than Sydney’s Circular Quay
extensions. There were trout in it, and we
were troubled a lot by poachers. Well,
one day some cove got away with a lot.
The old man sighted him, but he was
too quick. One day about a year later
Pop hops inside, grabs his shotgun and
hit out after some cove he sees wander-
ing round with a rod. When he came
back I inquired the reason of his
assaulting a perfectly harmless visitor.
“Perfectly harmless me eye! ” bawled the
old boy. “Didn’t you recognise the cove
what pinched all our fish?” He then
took me down to the creek bank, and
sure enough there was the bloke’s reflec-
tion still there!
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: The supply of rabbits
and lambs for the commissariat doesn’t
constitute the sum total of a wedge-tailed
eagle’s worries—the magpie occasionally
gives it a headache. Maggie, when
annoyed, can give the big bird some
hurry-up while in flight; the wing-joints
are the vulnerable spots, and cases have
been known where eagles have been
grounded during one of these attacks.
Usually the eagle, aware of the disad-
vantages it is under in trying to beat
off its diminutive tormentor, just gives
the accelerator the works.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Admitted that the
Nor’-Westralian abo. can do good work
with his wooden fish kylie (B. 26/7/’39),
he nevertheless likes to keep step with
progress and readily adopts a superior
material. The deadliest fishing kylies I
have ever seen were made of iron, flat
sheet from a water-tank drifted ashore
from a shipwrecked lugger. Thinner
than the wooden kylie, these chopped
through the water like a sword, disabling
fish otherwise too big to be knocked out
by anything less weighty. But what
really tricked me was how the niggers
managed to cut the tank-iron to shape.
They had a pattern, of course, in their
previous wooden kylies, but how was
the actual cutting done? A white man
would be baffled without his hammer and
cold chisel. I could only imagine that
the black craftsman took the hardest
stones obtainable, split to a sharp edge,
then patiently scraped round the line of
the pattern until the required shape could
be broken out. But no abo. would ever
disclose the method, either because of
inability to explain such matters verbally,
or, more probably, because he considered
it white pfeller’s cheek to be poking his
nose into matters that shouldn’t concern
him.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: While the “civilised”
whites of lower latitudes rush the astro-
logical columns, Jimmy Susu and his
Torres Strait cobbers rely upon por-
tents of nature. If a married man
is bitten by a shark it denotes
matrimonial infidelity. Should a sea-
snake be inadvertently killed —if ever
one got hooked on the towline of
my lugger the boys invariably made a
wild rush to set it free —a cyclone is
bound to come. When harpooning
dugong, if the hunter is unsuccessful at
first go he must give place to another, or
the luck of the party will be off. At the
turtle season a pregnant woman must
conceal herself should a turtle come
within sight or there will be no
luck in turtle-catching ; and for the same
reason a man whose wife is “catching
piccaninny” must dive down below before
the turtle catches sight of him on the
boat. Big frigate birds sailing overhead
are an omen of death —they are piloting
the soul of some native to the place of
rest in the west; and the sight of a
frigate bird generally causes much specu-
lation as to which of the crew’s relations
have passed on since they left the island.
Falling stars are unlucky, but there are
“good-luck stars” which the islander sits
up to glimpse at the beginning of fishing
and planting seasons.
* * * *
“C.C.8.”: Stealing corn and missing
the sentry’s warning brought about
Cocky’s downfall, for some pellets
clipped off the point of his wing. He
was not badly hurt, but his flying days
were finished. Tried on the spot by the
farmer, he was sentenced to the term
of his natural life in a large aviary
owned by a Tenterfield (N.S.W.) pub-
lican. Shortly afterwards the farmer
sold out and left the district. Three
years later he returned, but Cocky
hadn’t forgotten. The old boy was sit-
ting contentedly on a high perch when
his beady eye lighted on his old enemy.
Raising his crest, he shrieked and
crashed to the floor, where he spun
and beat his wing in great distress. When
the man walked off the bird quietened
down, but each time the farmer returned
the old sinner went into fresh spasms
of terror.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Zane Grey prophesies
that Watson’s Bay, Sydney, will shortly
become the world’s most popular big-
game angling centre. Amongst his
reasons are the presence of a modern
hotel close to a well-sheltered wharf
with enough water to accommodate sea-
going craft, good weighing facilities, an
unlimited supply of bait all the year
round within 10 minutes’ run outside the
Heads, and within another 20 minutes
a reef-ground where several world-
record fish have already been taken. In
addition, the city is within half an hour
by good tram and bus services. The
Watson’s Bay weighing figures for the
year up to June 30 seem to justify his
praise. They include 29 marlin aggre-
gating 56941 b., and 32 sharks scaling
14,6921 b.; total, 61 fish, 19,9631 b. Three
of the sharks topped 10001 b. each. In-
cidentally, the six sharks of over 10001 b.
taken in Australian waters during the
season constitute a world record never
approached by any other country since
big-game angling was invented.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: “Dogs,” said old Jack,
“must have something to do. They’re
like men in that way, but they’re better
at finding jobs for themselves. Take a
dog away from his natural inheritance,
which is hunting, and he becomes an-
other unemployed forced on to the dole.
It doesn’t suit him; he’s not like a
horse who can stand in a yard all day
just being careful not to think. He’s
got to think all the time, and if he stops
for a moment another hound will get
a point on him. I don’t mean dogs in
permanent jobs, like those on stock
work, but the townies. They’re the un-
skilled, odd-job dogs, and they take on
anything. But big Red Peter has the
dandiest of all jobs. He’s appointed
himself caretaker of building construc-
tion in his suburb. The first day the
work begins he puts himself in charge
and there he struts about like an over-
seer. The house gets built around him,
and when the last lick of paint is on
he leaves by the front door along with
the mortgagee and the rest of the king-
pins. Mind you,” concluded Jack,
“Peter isn’t a hatter ; he’s just a natural
home-lover —a bit overdeveloped on the
human side.”
THE DRAWBACK.
“Migrants fail to make good for a variety of
reasons. One young Midlands man, who seemed to
get over his initial loneliness, and who was doing
reasonably well, returned because he missed the
dialect of his home county.” —Migration official.
He came, he saw, and, in the main, he con-
quered
That feeling of nostalgia which at times
Assails, and in so many a case has stonkered
The unsophisticate from northern climes.
The drought; the flies; the sun as hot as
blazes —
These he had looked upon as “Na’ so
baad,”
But one thing got his goat —he heard no
phrases
Such as his “Oo aye, laad!”
He'd left the meadows and the hawthorn hedges,
The home of leafy lane and village squire,
In hopes of stacking on serrated edges
The coin he’d heard was easy to acquire.
He might have been a full-blown dinkum
Aussie
Eventually, but —well, he got a snout
Upon the place; and that befell because he
Struck no one who said “nowt.”
He hadn’t minded when, without suspicion,
He walked for miles to shear hydraulic rams,
Or when they put him in a competition
For wigging and dehorning poley lambs.
To find the place “champeen” was his endeavor,
And very close it came to suiting Choom;
He might be here to-day if someone ever
Had hailed him with “Bah goom!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“D.Mc.”: As Dad strolled along to the
end of the verandah after tea he came
on the new hand twanging on some sort
of musical instrument and howling like
a half-starved dingo “All That I Want
Is Love.” “And, by cripes,” Dad ex-
ploded, “if the wheat market doesn’t look
up that’s all y’re damn’ well goin’ to get! ”
* * w *
“Valencia Creek”: When my neighbor
found me setting rabbit-traps without
using paper on the plates he remarked
that if a herd of elephants walked over
the blanky things they might spring
them, but he was darn sure that rabbits
couldn’t set ’em off. Even when I
showed him my previous night’s catch —
almost 100 p.c. —he was still uncon-
vinced. “Any fool can fluke ’em,” he
remarked severely, “but to really catch
rabs. you just gotter use trap-papers.”
Perhaps the council would adjudicate on
the matter. I contend that the use of
trap-papers originated with city bush-
men—anyone with a knowledge of the
art can trap the cottontails using only
the good earth as a plate-covering.
* * * *
“Felis”: The reason why cats are not
mentioned in the Hebrew scriptures (B.
16/8/’39) is that there is no word for
cat in biblical Hebrew. In rabbinical
Hebrew you can use either khatul or
shunara. The rabbinical word for cat
(which approximates to khatul) has its
roots in a verb which means to hide or
deceive, and in Arabic khatul means
a wolf. So to the ancient Hebrews it
is probable that the cat was a beast of
evil omen.
* * * *
“Granova”: The boss and the new
hand had been fencing across the flat
all the morning and were about to start
up a rise when dinner-time came. The
boss had to go away for the afternoon,
so he left Chum to the job, giving him
“ Must've done it Wrong, lads. Well ’ave ter do it all over again”
strict instructions to keep the line
straight. Arriving home after dark the
boss inquired how the fencing was
going. “It’s hard to keep them straight;
there’s not much of them left now,”
was the reply. When he inspected the
job in the morning the boss was stag-
gered to find only a foot of the last post
the hand had put up showing above the
ground. He had sighted along the tops
of the posts and was still keeping them
level as the boss had done on the flat,
and was fencing into the hill instead of
over it.
* * * lit
“Mundowie”: It has been stated that
the abos. provide a pension or insurance
against want for the old and feeble. It
works out that way, but the real oil is
that the old fellows are regarded as the
wise men of the tribe. They make the
laws, and coupled with these are in-
gra’ned superstitions that favor the
patriarchs. There are many foods which
young abos. must not eat, but nothing
is barred to the old chaps, apart from
individual totem birds or animals. There
is no private ownership of foodstuffs.
The village community is one family,
and when some hunters are luckier than
others the meat is shared. The “wise
men" always get plenty, even when they
become too old to move about with the
tribe. If they are important persons
they are carried. But in central regions
prospectors occasionally come upon a
“death gunyah” where some aged and
ailing person had been shut up with
provisions and left.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: I refute the Abo. Council-
lor’s recent contention that periwinkles
are a rarity in Australian waters. As
kids we found them not only succulent
but profitable ; grandmother was always
willing to pay threepence per hundred
for the small white button which the
’winkle uses to close his front door when
danger threatens or when the tide is
out. Dyed various shades the disks
served as counters in card games. Proof
that Binghi appreciated the shellfish lies
in the great mounds of grey ash, plenti-
fully studded with periwinkle, mutton-
fish and cockle shells, many in a cal-
cined state, which, strung around our
coastal caves, remain as monuments to
great tribal feasts.
“Botono”: “T. Willie” (B. 2/8/’39)
will search the forest in vain seeking his
original gumtree. At a very conservative
estimate it is at least ten million years
since the first eucalypt flowered cn Aus-
tralian soil —possibly fifty million might
be nearer the mark. View the immense
diversity of the species. Victoria has
blue and red gums, stringybark, mess-
mate, mountain ash, mallee and how
many more? Tasmania and the eastern
States have their diversified gums. Then
come to W.A. Consider jarrah with its
28 varieties. And karri, tuart, white
“D’yer mind if l turn it in early, boss? Me 'oroscopes crook f'r this afternoon.”
and red gums, yate, wandoo, mallet —
the full list would fill a column. Then
the salmon gums, gimlets, mallees of the
goldfields country. And the ghost gums
of the Centre and the river gums of the
north. Each variety distinct with its
different bark, leaf, seed-case, yet all
bearing the family resemblance. Un-
imaginable time was required to produce
such diversification, especially in slow
growers like the jarrah and tuart. Take
the banksia. How many varieties of that
in Australia? But we can trace banksia
back. Once it lived in Europe. Its
fossils, bearing the family resemblance,
come to light in clays and coal measures
laid down millions of years ago. Any-
way, I doubt if even the microscope can
definitely tell the age of, say, a king
jarrah. Growth rings long ago have
been absorbed into a homogeneous whole.
* * * ' *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It’s on the cards
that a young bloke like “Cam Cove”
could travel quite extensively nowadays
without striking a white exponent of the
art of gumleaf music (B. 9/8/’39); but
not so many years ago they were as
common as sundowners. In fact, that
was about the only music you would
hear in many of the old mining camps,
and many a man scratched out a pre-
carious living with a pick who would
have made easy money on a vaudeville
show anywhere. And it wasn’t a case
of blacks teaching the whites, but the
reverse. All the native music I’ve heard
—if you’d call it music—was a monoto-
nous wail quite unsuited to the gumleaf.
Black Brother probably picked up the
art as he picked up much, good and
bad —with an alacrity that is surprising
in the reputedly “lowest race on earth.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: All the Indian
hawkers I knew in the N.S.W. Riverina
were Hindus, yet in Gippsland they were
Moslems to a man. Perhaps this was
the result, or perhaps the cause, of the
presence there of Jellal Deen, the only
resident Mohammedan priest in Aus-
tralia. Beginning with a packhorse, he
early acquired the poled waggon, and
for over 30 years was a familiar figure
along the roads between Western Port
and the Baw Baws. Evening found him
pulled into a good camp, horses well
fed and rugged, smoke drifting from
his fire and his hookah bubbling duets
with the creek. During Ramadan a
few of the faithful were always some-
where near Jellal, and we youngsters
never ceased to wonder at the perfect
regularity with which the lid came off
the savory pot exactly as the sun dipped.
Jellal was a nimble thinker. On a
trip to Melbourne, he was carrying an
armful Qf groceries when his large watch
was grabbed. The little priest promptly
broke a packet of flour over the thief,
who, thus branded, was quickly cap-
tured and gaoled. On another occasion
a couple of louts bailed him up at a
bush camp. Feigning frenzy, he flung
his bag of odd coppers away into the
grass and the amateur Kellys, falling
into the trap, dashed after it. They
were helped along by both barrels of
a breech-loader, and next morning Jellal
Deen, still chuckling, walked across and
picxed up his pennies.
CRUISING.
As I row upon the Harbor
Through the golden afternoon,
Sure the scene seems set to music,
Mated to a merry tune.
For as cruising, cruising slowly,
On and on I gaily fare.
Joy-of-life seems on the waters,
All around and everywhere.
Io the urge of dancing ripples,
Shining, seething as they flow,
Lightly goes my boat a-dancing
As with blades a-drip I row.
While above me, white of bosom,
White of wing, the seagulls glide,
Coves I coast where merrymakers
Romp together in the tide.
Now a shore-wind from a garden
Stolen sweetness round me sheds;
Now a liner sounds her siren
Heading bravely towards the Heads.
Yon afloat upon the surface,
Beak on breast, a gannet sleeps;
Yon a kingfish, silver-sided,
From the underwater leaps.
Now on highland, now on lowland,
Now in bush and now in tree,
Birds I know and birds I know not ■
Lift a joyous melody.
Thus I row upon the Harbor
Through a goiden afternoon,
Like to one with soul surrendered
To a sweet, compelling tune.
Count of time I am not taking—
Time with all its cares and ills —
Cruising hither, cruising thither,
Cruising whither Fancy wills.
N.S.W.
BROGALOW.


ẁ
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
‘Grancentral,” Sydney.
Tf;
a ' »•
Tt
r 1
rr
m
g®
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May. Profit Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 332,671 10 p.c. =z 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written oil old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written oil old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 . . 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12J p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 . . . . 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 12£ p.c.= 659,880 623,291 0,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 . . . . 7,353,800
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938. 1,340,461 12J p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 . . . . 8,415,358
1939. 1,431,513 124 p.e.= 760,715 670,?98 9,086,156
This co. is an example of the proper
use of the tariff in fostering the growth
of Australian industry. A large group of
subsidiary, associated and kindred organ-
isations has grown up around, and is still
largely fed from, the big works at New-
castle. Together with the recently-
acquired A.I. and S. plant at Port
Kembla, these works are the backbone
of Australia’s heavy industries, as well
as an important supply factor in
our defence requirements. Indeed, the
co. has recently sold steel to the British
Government, and that at a profit. It is
fine testimony to the skill of the man-
agement, the quality of the co.’s products
and the efficiency of Australian industry.
Last term demand for iron and steel
was stronger than the co.’s figures sug-
gest, much of the increased business being
passed to the Kembla works of A.I.
and S. However, all B.H.P.’s production
units worked at high pressure, largely on
account of increased export demand.
Production of the three blast furnaces
was 76 tons of pig-iron lighter than the
previous year’s outturn. But with sup-
port from Kembla the 13 open-hearth
furnaces produced an extra 15,635 tons
of steel ingots:
1932. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Tons. Tons Tons. Tons.
Pig—iron .. 153,563 346.752 674,520 674,444
Steel ingots* 195,183 414,245 854.269 869,904
Coke.. .. 167,160 361,109 602,165 625,922
* Includes foundry open-hearth, furnaces.
The output of the blooming, heavy, mer-
chant, rod and other mills increased, and
the production of coke stepped up 23,757
tons, mainly on account of another bat-
tery (No. 3), comprising 55 Wilputte
ovens, which commenced production
about the end of April. There was a
proportionate increase in by-products—l-
- ammonium sulphate, naphthaline,
toluol and xylol. Despite a steady rise in
costs, the co. is still supplying Australian
consumers with steel cheaper than it can
be obtained elsewhere.
• Demand for the products of subsi-
diaries is reported well maintained. The
co. owns all the £4,700,007 of ord. capital
in A.I. and S., which has not yet paid
an ord. div., but is expected to be a very
substantial contributor to the pool later
on, and there is much to support the
claim. Other subsidiaries include Rylands
Bros., Stewarts and Lloyds, B.H.P. Col-
lieries, B.H.P. By-products, Australian
Wire Rope Works, Bullivants (selling
agents for the rope co.), Commonwealth
Steel, Lysaght Bros., Structural Steel Co.
(W.A.), Titan Wire ana Nail Pty. and
Milhield Greta Collieries. B.H.P. is also
the largest shareholder in Commonwealth
Aircraft, Ltd. (capital £600,000), and is
interested in Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries of Australia and New Zealand.
On the mining side, the old silver-lead
property at the Barrier closed down on
March 3, 1939, following depletion of ore
reserves. In its 54 years it produced over
12,280,000 tons of ore, which yielded
more than 1,445,000 tons lead, 189,457,000
ounces silver and 603,000 tons zinc, and
many engineering and metallurgical prob-
lems were overcome in the process. Chief
mining interests are now Hannan’s North,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), and Wellington Allu-
vials, Macquarie River (N.S.W.), neither
of importance so far as B.H.P.’s earnings
are concerned.
The year’s sales, etc., sprang £1,705,723,
reaching £10,110,026, or nearly double
the 1935 figure. Working profits bene-
fited by £401,119 of the increase, but
returns from subsidiaries and other in-
vestments (in at £6,496,918) were down
£44,104, making the gain in gross earn-
ings from all sources £357,015:
Gross earnings:—- 1929. 1938. 1939.
Working profit . . £795,953 £2,337.456 £2,738,575
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 255,995 811,891
Total .. .. £938,921 £2,593,451 £2,950,466
Exes.:—
Depreciation ..£417,592 £709,054 £850,670
Office and other exes. 61,854 111,293 110,335
Debenture interest 81,094 12.643 7,948
Income tax .. 45,710 420,000 550,000
Total exes. .. £606,250 £1,252,990 £1,518,953
After allowing an extra £141,616 for
depreciation—the £850,670 is a liberal
provision—and setting aside an additional
£130,000 for the taxgatherer, the declared
net result was £91,052 stronger at
£1,431,513, or 23.5 p.c. on average capi-
tal employed as against 24.9, 26.4, 24.4,
22.4, 14.3, 10.5 and 3.4 p.c. back to 1932.
The div. was kept at p.c.
A consolidated p. and 1. account for
B.H.P. and its subsidiaries puts net earn-
ings at £1,873,414, or £441,901 more than
the parent alone claims.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
Liabilities.
Sundry
Paid Creditors,
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Etc.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005,336
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,353
1935.. 2,987,708 3,929,978 365,400 1,206,968
1936.. 4,249,851 5,941,671 286,600 1,160,646
1937.. 4,982,014 6,939,927 211,100 1,340,146
1938.. 5,807,333 7,983,749 135,600 1,721,116
1939.. 6,671,564 9,086,156 60,800 1,993,049
Assets.
Steelworks,
and Other Stocks, Book Investments,
Plant, Etc. Stores, Etc. Debts. Cash, Etc.
1929 .. £5,711,522 £512,871 £848,637 £1,054,486
1931 . 5,954,085 514,063 442,492 1,244,840
1935 . . 5,411,367 827,569 602,171 1,628,948
1936 . . 5,000,041 856,674 1,247.431 3,914,624
1937 . . 5,435,760 957,883 2,354,943 4,999,987
1938 . . 6,443,189 1.467,856 1,167,007 6,904,035
1939 . . 6,825,921 1,680,083 2,048,679 7,256,888
Last year’s £864,231 of fresh capital
(there was still £279,514 to come when
the books closed), together with share
premiums (£431,609), surplus earnings
and £271,933 added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, was invested
£382,732 net in works, etc., £212,227
stocks, £881,672 debtors’ balances and
£352,853 investments, cash, etc. Besides
the new coke ovens already referred to,
good progress was made with erection
of the blast furnace, wharves, storage
bins, etc., at Whyalla (S.A.), where the
building of further coke ovens, steel fur-
naces and rolling mills is a possible future
development.
Before going ahead with its long-pro-
jected tinplate venture, the co. has asked
the Government to lift the tariff on tin-
plate from 765. to 80s. per ton for 10
years or 15 years, according to whether
plant, etc., expected to cost £4,500,000
or more, is set up at Newcastle and Port
Kembla or at Whyalla (S.A.). The co.
undertakes to sell tinplate at a figure not
higher than the average price paid by
importers during the three years to June
30, 1938.
This and the widening demand for the
co.’s products, following recent estab-
lishment of the aircraft, galvanised iron,
sheet-steel and precision tubing industries,
arid the fact that avenues for further
development of the said demand are not
yet exhausted, sent the f.-p. pound shares
from 555. 3d. in March to 61s. 9d. in
May. The price remained fairly steady
at the higher figure until the beginning
of last week, when, owing to the war
scare in Eastern Europe, it fell to 575. 6d.
On a nervous market from which
buyers had largely withdrawn the figure
flopped to 555. at noon on Friday
last. A few hours later it shot up to
655., following announcement at the
annual meeting of a £4,459,790 bonus
scrip issue, 64 for 100—presumably
fractions are to be sold arid the cash
distributed among those concerned. The
gift comes not from accumulated profits
but from share premium reserve (now
£4,459,790), and will in no way affect
the co.’s earning power. It will lift
issued capital to £11,410,868, on which
124 p.c. would call for only £5155 less
profit than was netted last term ; a 10
p.c. distribution would call for £290,426
less than last year’s profit.
The net price of the scrip at 655., cum
bonus issue, would be 395. Bd., at which
figure the return would be 5 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Given British command of
the seas, war in Europe would be more
likely to stiffen than weaken B.H.P.’s
earning power.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Rg—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ ~ 119,682 9,042 1,254.700
1931.. 99,820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
To depreciation reserve, £165,044 . . 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100.685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ „ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ „ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO [-27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.c.= 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938. . 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and: guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939. . 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
The foundations of this big wool-
broking, pastoral-finance and merchan-
dising business, whose name has long
been a household word throughout S.
Australia, were laid one hundred years
ago (1839) by A. L. Elder, son of a
Scottish shipowner and merchant. He
set up in Hindley-street, Adelaide, as
a shipping and general commission agent.
Thomas Elder and two other brothers
joined the business in 1853, and Robert
Barr Smith in the following year. Later
Edward Sterling joined the partnership,
and the business became Elder, Sterling
and Co., but when Mr. Sterling dropped
out in the ’sixties the name was altered to
Elder, Smith and Co., with Thomas Elder
and Barr Smith as the sole partners.
These two men and others associated
with the business have contributed much
to the development and progress of S.
Australia and Centralia.
For many years the co. confined its
operations to its home State ; but it now
has strong and growing connections in
Westralia, mostly developed since the
Great War, and the woolbroking busi-
ness of Geo. Hague and Co., Geelong,
was welded into the organisation a couple
of years ago. For 24 years to the close
of accounts in 1929, shareholders enjoyed
a steady 10 p.c. div., sweetened with a bit
extra in the richest years and by a num-
ber of new share issues. Then, on the
heels of a long drought in S. Australia,
came the collapse of the market, and the
div. fell to 4 p.c. ; it rose to 7 p.c. in
1937, and has remained steady since.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its wool
turnover, etc., but for the 12 months to
June 30 last the volume and value of the
clip in S. Australia and in Westralia
compare with the three preceding clips
as follows:
f ■■■— Adelaide f Perth
Gross Gross
Bales. Value. Bales. Value.
1935- 263,280 £4,151,232 202,736 £3,539,995
1936- 257,299 4,603,315 150,355 2,884,976
1937- 273,056 4,018.249 148,530 2,270,359
1938- 325,857 3,842,381 179,739' 2,293,906
The average per bale last season was
£ll 15s. lOd. (down £2 18s. 6d.) Adelaide,
and £l2 15s. 3d. (down £2 10s. 6d.)
Westralia. The average for the Com-
monwealth was £l3 14s. 2d. (down
£2 Is. 3d.). More livestock was handled,
too, and merchandise sales continued to
expand.
So, despite low prices, gross earn-
ings advanced £7466. That was after
allowing whatever was considered neces-
sary for bad and doubtful debts and
writing £24,945 (down £5313) off
premises, etc.:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200 462,451 318,476
1930 . . 2,393,040 569,121 440,397
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 .. 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 .. 2,393,640 513,647 365,024
1935 „ . 2,393,640 518,930 373,255
1936 . . 2,393,640 559,282 394,005
1937 .. 2,400,000 641,244 436,408
1938 .. 2,400,000 694,960 493,124
1939 . . 2,700,000 702,426 516,926
The growth of £23,802 in exes, was due
mainly to the larger physical volume of
business handled, and to bigger wage
and tax bills. The declared net result
(down £16,336) was 7.5 p.c. on average
capital as against 8.4, 8.5, 6.9, 6, 6.2 and
4.4 p.c. back to 1933. A year back share-
holders were warned not to expect any-
thing extra on the occasion of the co.’s
centenary, owing to low prices and the
uncertain outlook. However, a new par
issue in February of 50,000 £lO shares
called to £6 each was in the nature of
a bonus to shareholders, since the scrip
commands a premium on the market.
Balance-sheet figures reflect expansion
of the business and a stronger call from
clients on account of low prices, etc.:
1936. 1938. 1939.
Deposits, etc. .. £839,143 £878,3C7 £935.509
Other liabilities.. 1,117,237 1,159,968 963,501
Provident fund, etc. 313,975 363,256 392,936
Freeholds, plant, etc. 579,007 674,586 750,340
Gov. sec. and cash 2,019,899 1,376,731 1,291,455
Advances, etc. . . 3,021,705 3,690,625 3,854.959
Stock . . . . 127,223 203,908 245,326
Shares other cos. 150,842 152,479 155,103
The £300,000 of fresh share capital that
came in, together with an extra £57,142
of deposits, £29,680 added to the staff
provident fund and a reduction of
£85,276 in liquids, was used to lop
£196,467 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc., add £75,754 net
to freehold, etc. (mainly extensions to
Fremantle and Geelong warehouses),
£164,334 to advances, £41,418 to stocks
and £2624 to shareholdings. Excluding
the provident fund, outsiders could see
13s. 7d. of every pound coming to them
in liquids when the books closed. The
balance, together with the provident
fund, was over three times covered by
advances alone.
As for the current term, a slightly
heavier clip is expected, but international


BRANDAEJER-S
»Vf
fcCV
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a B&AXUAOKB * CO- Ltd. MimUMUHAM. KXO
ẃ
V
wm
ttsy*
mmmm
SUPER
PLUME
ETHYL /
says
"The introduction of ETHYL petrol enabled great
strides to be made in the development of motor
car engines. Many leading car manufacturers, recog-
nising the important advantages gained by the use
of ETHYL are, therefore, recommending Ethyl petrol
in their instruction books: a view I can fully endorse
from my years of experience!"
Always use
SDPEB
PLUME
Australia's best petrol
VACUUM 0!L COMPANY PTY. LTD
(Incorporated in Australia)
P 93
developments obscure the immediate out-
look so far as demand and prices for
the staple are concerned. At £7 7s.
(£8 Is. a year ago) the £lO shares paid to
£6 return 5.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is £8 13s. in net tangibles.
Cash Orders (Ama’gamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net r— Dividends , Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, flcit.
c l 4 *
1929.. 8,365 10 p.c. 8 p.e. 8,327 38 13.121
Written oil, £165 .. . .. 12,9 >6
Li ws
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil Nil 61,936
June,
1931*. 5,901 Nil Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71.
Reserves.
Capital written off. £74.289 .. 2.404
1933.. 5,795 37J p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3..>39
1934.. 16,799 7J „7$ p.c. 8,522 8.277 11.816
1935.. 23,046 10 „12| „ 18.129 4,917 16.733
1936.. 40,823 10 ~15 „ 29,334 11,489 28.522
Added goodwill, £2OOO .. •• 26.222
1937.. 79,076 111 p.c. 15 p.c. 55.128 23.948 51.170
1938.. 101,604 10 „ 15 „ 71,342 30,262 80,432
Loss sale property, £5782 .. .. 74,650
Added goodwill, £lOO .. .. 74,550
1939.. 103,896 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,425 32,471107,021
*Nine months
This co. lopped Bs. per share off capital
in 1932 to cover bad debts and other
losses, and made changes in the control.
It has since made extraordinary progress,
and is now the largest of its kind in Aus-
tralia ; it has 23 branches and five fur-
niture showrooms in N. S. Wales, half
a dozen branches in Queensland and a
subsidiary in Victoria wdh offices at Mel-
bourne, Footscray and Geelong.
For these cash-order cos. the tide has
been favorable ever since it turned
in 1932. Steady growth in the volume
of employment and lifts in the basic-
wage rate created ideal conditions for
vendors of short-term credit by giving
rise to a hunger for the things we hadn't
got and to a readiness to borrow to buy
them, and at the same time reducing the
risks in respect of bad debts. But with
employment at about the full, costs be-
coming vexatious and still climbing, and
Governments asking for more from a
national income already reduced by a
fall in export prices, appearances are
that the earnings of cash-order cos. have
reached their peak.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts this Amalgamated cp.
bought two small furniture businesses in
N. S. Wales and maintained its turnover
at about the previous year’s figure,
which was approximately £2,000,000 (up
£400,000). After deducting provision for
unearned income and cost of collection
of debts, gross earnings were £3646
better at £302,286. Exes. (£198,390) took
only £1354 of the increase, despite re-
organisation of the Victorian subsidiary's
business on account of the new Money-
lenders Act in that State. The net re-
sult (up £2292) was sufficient to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate (10 p.c.)
and show 23.6 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 23 p.c. and 22.3 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. The div. was kept at
15 p.c.
There is thus a wide margin between
earnings and distributions. Obviously
earnings will be largely governed by
the co.’s ability to keep its funds fully
employed and upon the soundness
of debtors’ balances. The practice of
the management has been to write
olf 50 p.c. of any debt in which col-
lections are two months in arrears,
and to write off the entire amount if
no collection has been made for four
months. Over and above this, 10 p.c.
used to be struck off all accounts as
provision for contingencies.
During the year the co. sold the block
of land it bought for £90,000 at the
corner of George and Market streets,
Sydney, to the Commonwealth Savings
Bank for £lOO,OOO. After allowing for
rates, taxes, interest, etc., the loss on the
deal was £5782, which has been charged
direct to reserves in the table. The net
reduction in the book value of freehold
was £99,667, which was used to reduce
outside liabilities (down £99,911):
1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £171,766 £176.874 £526,177 £526,177
Liabilities .. 10,500 52,248 287,750 187,839
Freehold .. 102.617 2,950
Equipment .. 3,167 8,151 18,718 19,246
Stock .. 1,073 3,142 12,068 24,287
Investments .. 33,295 24,743 99.993 99,993
Book debts .. 82,563 216,540 669,662 68 J,813
Cash, etc. .. 1,331 1,504 5,405 7,864
Surplus earnings were sufficient to add
£12,219 to stocks, £11,141 to book debts
and £2549 to cash, etc. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less l.quid
surplus (£525,115. including stocks but
not investments) was £125,730, due
mainly to property sale already men-
tioned.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the 125.-paid ords. at 16s. and
the pound prefs. at 245. The return at
these figures is 11.2 p.c. and 8.3 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. and 10 p.c. div. basis respec-
tively. The cover per pound of paid
capital is 84s. sd. prefs. and 255. Bd.
ords.
Sons of Gwalia, Ltd. (W.A.)
At 445. Aust. Sons of Gwalia's
lOs.-paid shares do not appear to be
overvalued. At the end of December
ore reserves had risen a further 20,841
tons net to nearly six years’ feed for the
mill, average grade being fractionally
lower at 6.3Bdwt. With gold at £9 an
ounce in local currency, all-in costs, in-
cluding taxation, at 38s. a ton Oast year’s
figure) and a 92 p.c. extraction, practi-
cally all the present market valuation
of the mine is covered by the net value
of ore proved. In addition there were
surplus liquids totalling £69,161 stg. at
the end of 1938. Also, there are large
tonnages still to be developed on No.
29 level and at greater depth, where
preliminary tests have indicated continu-
ance of both values and tonnages. Two
winzes to the proposed No. 30 horizon
sunk 1085 ft. and 1265 ft. south on No. 29
level gave values of 6.7dwt. and
B.Bdwt. over widths of 60in. and 72in.
respectively, the former for 230 ft. and
the latter for 135 ft. Developments else-
where have been heartening, too.
The co. has been working its Leonora
(W.A.) property since 1893, and has paid
divs. totalling £ 1,694,650 stg. Occurring in
greenstone schist, the lode is composed of
lenticular quartz veins, and underlies
west. There are three ore-bodies—Main,
South Gwalia and Western. From No.
30 drive, to be put out at an incline depth
of 5035 ft., a new internal shaft is to be
put down in the footwall of the ore-body
at an estimated cost of £50,000-odd ;
£35,000 has so far been appropriated
from profits for the purpose.
Increased demands (£34,000, up
£14,000 last term) by the English tax-
gatherer have lately made heavy inroads
into profits, despite an increased price
for gold:
IcZ Revenue. Exes.- Surplus.
1936. . £323.124 £209.587 6/- £97,500
J 938 328099 111.880 'SfcSS l' L ~ siJS!
* Including depreciation: 1936. £7OOO ; 1937-38.
£ 5 ' 030 -
As a result of the increased taxation, last
term’s div. was cut from 60 p.c. to 50 p.c.,
the net result being lighter by £9123
stg. That excludes an unexplained addi-
tion to bullion reserve of £4891 (£5255
in ’37), and leaves these appropriations
out of the reckoning:—
1936. 1937. 1938.
Directors’ percentage .. £1,953 £1,950 £1,625
IIS *•- IoS
Investments, in at £54,324, consist mainly
of a holding in Leonora Corp., which
took over most of the Gwalia’s outside
interests in 1934
Of recent years the grade of ore mined
has conformed closely to annual reserve
estimates-
1936. 1937. 1938.
Treated, tons .. .. 143,294 152,938 164,794
Gow ad yieid, ue o Z . dwt ' 46?566 4.V722 45,692
Dwt., ton .. .. 6 49 5.98 5 90
SWSXu. :: 2./!'.? m/I!
Gold, fine ounce .. £6/19/9 £7/0/5 £7/3 a
Considering the lift in labor and other
charges, a tight hold has been kept upon
unit working costs. Last term’s apparent
reduction of 1.6 d. a ton reflects a de-
crease of £4761 (7.9 d. per ton) in de-
velopment expenditure (£22,457, or 2s.
10.8 d. a ton). For the first seven months
of the current term the cost figure has
risen a few pence on treatment of 88,578
tons, but recoveries have been up a bit
at 6dwt.
Paid capital is £162,500. At Dec. 31
property, plant, etc., was in at £179,464,
stores £45,053, investments £54,323,
debtors £1358, bullion and cash £53,014.
There was then £84,608 coming to out-
siders.
Although Gold Mines of Papua’s
proper ty (formerly Mt. Sisa) adjoins
Misima on Misima Island,
there is some doubt whether it is really
On the UtUUna lode (Cuthbert’s) or On
the unpayable Gmesea lode; and an ex-
ploratory crosscut to prove this is not yet
OUt far enough tO Settle the question.
Prospecting is to continue, but milling
with the very expensive and efficient plant
i 3 to cease, temporarily, at any rate. This
leaves Cuthbert’s as the only active mine
on the island, with the exception of Ara
Creek—worked unsuccessfully by a co.
years ago—which has just started milling
w'th a small plant owned by a local syn-
dicate.
* * * *
Tanami (Australia) Gold Mining Syn-
dicate was formed by Bewick, Moreing
and Co. in 1932 to make money at
Tanami. It was unsuccessful, and m 1933
changed its name to Tanami Gold Min-
>ng Syndicate raised additional capital
and purchased the Rosterman claims in
Kenya, East Afnca. Later it floated
Rosterman Gold Mines, Ltd., to work
the property. Last year it incurred a loss
of £4721. In addition to its large share
interest in Rosterman Gold Mines, Ltd.,
the co. has a big say in Pakaneusi Pros-
pectmg and Development, Borderland
Syndicate, Chunya Goldfields, Klerksdorp
Consolidated and Alpine (Barberton),
Ltd., all East and S. African cos. in
search of gold.
* * * , XT c * , ,
“Quidam": Sunny Corner (N.S.W.) had
high hopes of resurrection when some
time ago Zinc Corp. started test-drilling
near the old Sunny Corner silver-lead


ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per niglit; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M4GOI.
INVEST IN THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN
4
PER ANNUM
INTEREST
PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY
PRINCIPAL REPAYABLE Ist SEPT., 1952
GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
A SINKING FUND OF 10/-% PER ANNUM
WILL BE PROVIDED BY THE BOARD
THE LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE
SECURITY IN NEW SOUTH WALES,
QUEENSLAND and TASMANIA.
Payment may be made in full or by instalments up to
4th December, 1939.
Prospectuses obtainable from any branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Bank of New South
Wales, or The Sydney Water Board and Branches,
Members of a recognised Stock Exchange, or from the
Underwriters
J. B. Were and Son.
(Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne)
Melbourne, Sydney and London.
NOW OPEN
APPLY AT ONCE
ẅ
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
sssss
sas
ASSURE
your BABY
£3 a year will provide a
Policy for £lOOO
nr HE A.M.P. has a policy (called ZN)
A under which a father can cut the
cost of his son’s (or his daughter’s) life
assurance in about half, by starting the
policy when the boy is young, with the
intention of the boy taking up the
premiums when he is 21.
The ZN policy has two special
features: (a) Should the child die
before the 21st birthday, all premiums
are returned with interest at 4 per
cent, per annum, (b) Should the father
die before the child is 21, no further
premiums are payable from the date of
his death until the child is 21.
If the parent be 30 next birthday,
and the child less than a year old, an
annual premium of £7/17/'6 will provide
a policy for £lOOO payable (with Bonuses
added) at the child’s death if occurring
after age 21. What parent could not
afford that?
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
a man to explain this ZN policy to you.
It is a boon in which thousands are par-
ticipating. If you prefer, ask that book-
lets be sent to you by post. Do that
to-day and start building up your boy’s
financial welfare.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, 1v.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
w
mine. It was understood that an exten-
sive campaign, similar to that which
revivified Captain’s Flat, was to be car-
ried out. But only one hole was sunk,
and that at an angle of 45 degrees. At
700 ft. the drill jammed in the bore and
was lost. The hole proved nothing, except
that the Mine Hill now contains two
diamond-drills one havmg been lost there
years ago. A silver-lead lode which kept
such a mine as the old Sunny Corner
going for years, when, before dis-
covery of Broken Hill, it was the premier
lead-silver mine of Australia, should be
worth systematic drilling. Captain’s Flat,
which had somewhat similar ore, but not
as rich, was quite as dead until the
diamond-drill stabbed ore-bodies hitherto
unsuspected.
The dredging proposition on Three
Moon Creek, Cania (C.Q.), is to be tested
during September, and the drilling outfit
is expected to reach the area in the next
week or two. Wallace Smith and H. H.
Miller, of Golden Plateau, Cracow, are
moving spirits in the enterprise.
* * * *
The Midas mine at Lolworth (N.Q.)
has put up a few surprises in the past,
and still looks full of promise. Recently
25 tons of prill ore yielded 7oz. gold per
ton. This ore is heavy mineral, and will
probably continue to be sent to Chil-
lagoe, although the mineowner (W. J.
Congdon) is about, to erect a battery on
Lolworth Creek, three miles from the
mine.
Declared policy of Norseman (W.A.)
is to get the most out of its mines while
the price of gold keeps up. Hence the
new 100,000 ss. share-issue, to bring in,
with premiums, £BO,OOO. Since October,
1937, £BO,OOO-odd has been put into plant,
over half of which has been provided
out of earnings, balance by way of over-
draft. Present capacity is 15,000 tons
monthly, and working costs at Norseman
have been got back to 275. a ton and to
10s. for Iron King ore, savings of 3s. a
ton in each instance compared with last
term. Further additions now contem-
plated, costing £20,000 and lifting
throughput to 18,000 tons monthly,
are expected to again lower unit
costs, improve recoveries and lift
annual profits by £27,000 or thereabouts,
and there is a hint that another £20,000
may be spent on additional extensions
at no distant date. Development on the
main mine has proved continuance of
high-grade ore-shoots both at depth and
to the south, while deeper portions of
the mine are yielding big tonnages of
profitable lower-grade stuff, the large low-
grade Iron King property is confirming
earlier expectations, and the Northern
Star and Mt. Barker reefs, worked by
subsidiaries, are said to be showing
strength and permanence. There are
also other known ore-bodies on all
properties yet to be opened up. For
the current year mine working profit
of the parent has been averaging £12,700
monthly, while a further £2OOO a month
has been cleared from re-treatment of
old residues.
* * * *
South Kal. (W.A.) is financially well-
ribbed to tackle development and equip-
ment of its Hainault leases if the pros-
pects warrant. Including stores (£10,185)
and £65,183 in public securities (market
worth showed a “substantial surplus” over
book values, and the margin has widened
since the close of accounts), the co. had
more or less liquids of £122,953 stg. at
March 31 and owed £28,214, of which
approx, half was coming to the tax-
gatherers. Last term basic-wage and in-
dustry-allowance lifts amounted to 10s.
2d. per man per week, and there has been
a further increase of 3s. 2d. weekly in
the minimum wage since.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) has a de-
ficiency account of £231,600. Paid capital
is £224,800. Since its Boulder lease (now
successfully operated by Kalgoorlie En-
terprise, Ltd.) lapsed, assets have been
trifling. At the end of December, 1938,
they consisted of £7OO cash, £l3OO War
Loan stock, 500 £1 shares in Wiluna and
500 ss. shares in Southern Cross. The
latter holding has been written off as
that co. is in liquidation. Wilunas are
valued at £2OO. Together with War
Loan stock (since realised), it isn’t much
of a set-off against £9OOO creditors.
Last year’s income was only £44, while
general charges amounted to £132 and
directors’ fees (less £450 waived) to £3OO.
It looks like a job for the undertaker.
Directors are A. H. Collier (chairman),
ex-Westralian Governor Campion and
Claude de Bernales.
Adelaide-controlled Luxall, North En-
terprise and Ora Banda North, none of
which has thus far met with much suc-
cess, have all gone to Nullagine (W.A.)
to secure goldmining options. There are
a number available there, but whether
any will prove suitable remains to be
seen.
* * * *
Rothsay (W.A.) has secured six months’
exemption while the undertaker does his
job. The co.’s accounts show expen-
diture £155,000, of which £59,000 was
wages, machinery £36,500, mining • re-
quirements £40,000. Gold production was
worth £61,000, leaving a deficit of
£94,000.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.S.: The price paid is the London or
New York price, whichever is the higher, plus
exchange, less a small amount (it used to be 255.
p.c., but is now less) to cover handling costs,
etc. The Commonwealth Bank or any of the
trading banks will buy A.F.H.: Bonuses to
policy-holders not yet in sight.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
9 According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
9 Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
g
P
S 3
STB
rru
mi
mi
mi
m
ra
rw
JIUIM
aia
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£1 /1 /- per day.
Write For Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARL'MCHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“Pig Escapes in Traffic.”
Probably wasn’t noticed amongst the
road hogs.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Canada has a periodical edited by a Red-
skin chief.” — “World’s News.”
Naturally Indian ink is used.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fifth-avenue goes to a woman’s head like
rare wine.” — “S.M.H.” women’s supplement.
But the chap who pays the bill gets
the hangover.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“You look at the small boy contentedly
sucking a candy apple on a stick. What is
going to become of him, you ask yourself.”
—“Sun.”
He’ll probably come to a sticky end.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Stated that the cinema to-day is the best
school.”
Next we’ll hear of a boy wagging it
from the pictures.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sir Norman Nock said that since he came
into possession of his lucky charm he had be-
come an alderman, Lord Mayor and kmg.it.”
— “Sun.”
The Norman Conquest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wrestler helps to pull airliner out of the
mud.”— News item.
With a flying tackle?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What Do Your Stars say?”
—Astrological blurb.
“Darling, I Love You,” every tiunared
feet or so of celluloid.
4* 4" 4* 4*
“Solitary confinement” means an idea
in a politician’s mind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Squatter Tricked of £1200.”
Somebody must have pulled the wool
over his eyes.
“Actors speak the worst English,” says Ber-
nard Shaw.
Well, playwrights shouldn’t write it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The atmosphere at Danzig is electric.”
—Cable.
Flowing from the positive Pole?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Quintuplets to be used for advertising well-
known make of car.” — Motoring page.
Five-seaters, no doubt.
4* 4* 4* • 4’
“'E must have a devil of a thirst , Dave, drinkin' out of two bottles at the one time."
Taxation is becoming the smoker's
heaviest drawback.
•!« 4* 4‘ 4*
“Beer does not adversely affect the voice,”
declares singer.
If anything, it gives a liquid tone.
.> * * *
Arts and Crafts.
“He ret : red from the sea and became an
artist.” — “D.T.”
He spread his canvas to a favorable
breeze, and, although a little at sea when
it came to landscapes, sailed on heedless
of what breakers might be ahead. The
compass of his work was considerable,
but his masterpiece was a fanciful picture
of some salthorse winning the Melbourne
Cup.
His sudden disappearance created
a mystery. He was painting a yacht
at the time, and it is supposed that
he limned the craft so realistically that
he was carried away by his subject.
Sdcenate.
“Young water-color artist works up butter
run.” — News item.
Taking to oils and canvass.
“Nine couples from one shoe factory
married.” — News item.
Sole mates.
•> * * *
“On one occasion reports were put in bottles
which were conveyed across the Channel in a
case of condiments.”— “Sun."
Sauces of information.
Ring Events.
“The stability of marriage is obviously
weakening bit by bit,” says a Judge in divorce.
Well, you’re the ref. and you should
know,
But I dispute your view, old chap.
For, after all, the records show
That Cupid gets his knockout blow
Not bit by bit, but scrap by scrap !
P. M.
Adaptation.
Dear Sir, —We are pleased to inform
you that your scenario has been accepted
for immediate production. It has not
been found necessary to make any drastic
alterations in the script, but the head of
our story department has advised us to
slightly change some of the scenes.
For instance, the setting will be in
Brazil instead of Alaska. Unfortunately
your heroine, Lara, the half-caste Eskimo,
would have little box-office appeal, so
we are substituting Lola, the half-starved
blonde from the Bronx. Instead of Lara
fleeing on her sled from a pack of
ravenous wolves, we are having Lola
dodging hard-hearted landladies from
Pittsburg to Rio de Janeiro.
Big Jim Blake, the fur-trader, gives
place now to Sammy Blackman, an out-
of-work swing-band leader who is travel-
ling incognito to Rio to try to win a
nation-wide talent quest.
The touching episode where Big Jim
declares his love for Lara by playing
“Believe Me If All Those Endearing
Young Charms” on his mouth-organ has
been retained, although we have stream-
lined the action a little. Sammy is no
suck-and-blow virtuoso, so he goes to
town on his clarinet, assisted by his
Sixteen Slick Swingsters in their theme
song, “Baby, I’m Nuts on You.”
Sammy wins the contest with Lola
helping out with the vocals. Your fade-
out of Lara and Big Jim Blake facing the
sunset hand-in-hand as they gaze at the
silver-fox ranch he has bought has been
improved. Lola and Sammy put their
dough into a chop-suey joint on tne
waterfront at Rio, and the picture closes
w.th a pan-shot of them doing the
latest craze, “The Boomps-a-Daisy.”
Your title, “Frozen Love,” has been
amended to “While Passion Burns.” We
shall be glad if you will be on the set
next Monday morning so that we can
refer any matter regarding the script to
you. We are particularly anxious to
faithfully transfer your story to the
screen. Yours truly, Oscar von Stein-
ehion, Prodigious Productions, Inc.,
per MELTON.
Fiery.
“Mrs. Burns said that when they quarrelled
respondent used to get very drunk.”
—Divorce report.
When fires of anger burnt at home,
With scorching words from which he
shrunk,
With smouldering heart out went poor
Burns
And soon, of course, got flaming
drunk.
H. M.
The Giver.
She gave me smiles; she gave her love ;
She gave herself without a question;
And still her gifts to me go on—
Her latest one is indigestion.
H.
Washing Day.
“No man,” Maria loves to assert, “can
possibly know how trying washing day
is to his wife.” I begin to realise this
when Maria’s elbow nudges me out of
beautiful dreams.
“Don’t be so selfish,” she says when I
complain. “It’s washing day ; and before
1 get up to face it the least you can do is
get me a cup of tea. All you have to do
is to go to town all day and enjoy your-
self.”
When, shivering, I bring her tea and
toast, she sleepily tells me that, as I’m
up, I might as well put those clothes into
soak and get the copper going. When I
come back again it is to find that Maria
has dozed off, but she wakens up again
when she hears me to complain about
being given cold tea. While she talks
bitterly about the hard day ahead of her,
1 make some more tea.
Then the washerwoman arrives.
“A-u wiifio vo ,iV e getting yo'"- own
breakfast,” says Maria, “you might get
some for Mrs. Sudds. She’ll expect it.
With a hard day ahead of me I may as
well get what rest I can.”
When I arrive home at night to an
out-of-the-can dinner it is to find Maria
“dog tired.” She has, it appears, been
in town shopping and to the pictures.
“Mrs. Sudds and I were getting in each
other’s way—that’s the worst of living in
a poky little place—and while you’re
here,” adds Maria, “there are still some
clothes on the line; you had better get
them in. 1 can hardly drag one leg after
another. You men have the best of
things all right.”
H. M.
Big Business Analysed.
II.
Directing the Directors.
In addition to governing directors,
managing directors and chairmen of
directors, public companies have plain
directors, the chief functions of these
lesser lights being to say “hear, hear”
when the chairman pauses.
Wh.lst directors supposedly direct the
affairs of their companies, they in turn
must be directed in their directing—by
director-directors.
A director may be simultaneously on
the boards of a dozen different com-
panies. He may be chairman of one,
governing director of another, managing
director of several more and plain
director of a number of others. This
sometimes gives rise to confusion in his
thinking.
For instance, he may have to dash
straight from the board meeting of a
co. which manufactures dolls’ eyes and
letter-box holes to take the chair at the
meeting of a mining co. ; from there he
is due to rush away to another meeting
of a lolly-manufacturing concern. Bustling
into the mining co.'s office, he wipes his
face, grabs instinctively for the papers at
his elbow, champs the end of an un-
lighted cigar and lets himself go.
“Well, gennelmen —hrumph!—let’s get
on with the business in hand. Our out-
put this week, I am happy to announce,
has been perfectly satisfactory. The de-
mand for double refractory dolls’ eyes
with Myrna Loy lashes is keeping up,
and during shaft-sinking a strong lode,
carrying clear metal and payable milling
ore, was encountered. We should soon
be in a better position with our cough
drops and chocolate elephants, for which
there is a widening market, and with
16,000 ft. of developmental work and the
same footage of diamond-drilling we
should, with adequate publicity, get our
new line of Kandy Kumfits going, par-
ticularly if we can secure a good dredg-
ing lease with a wide stretch of alluvial
below reefing country that”
Here the director-director speeds to the
rescue, points out with great tact that he
is now addressing a purely mining gather-
ing, and puts in his hand details of the
last crushing.
Similarly, a director is liable to get
mixed up as to which particular board
he is really chairman of. This is more
liable to happen if he is rushing from
one meeting at which he has officiated
as chairman to another of which he is
only a plain director. Possibly, also,
the market has dropped I|d., and he is
worried nearly stiff as to where his next
2000-h.p. cruiser is coming from. In
such harassing circumstances he is likely
to hit the roof when, pacing into the
boardroom, he sees another chairman.
“Gad, Thistlethwaite, this is pretty
rich! What the devil are you doing in
the chair?”
The chairman, startled, will adjust his
pince-nez and look witheringly at his late-
coming fellow-director. “Why, I”
“Stuff and nonsense, sir. Get out of it
and let me get on with the job. I appre-
ciate your little joke—ha! ha! --but busi-
ness is business, Thistlethwaite. Time is
money, and by this fooling you’re wast-
ing the co.’s cash. Come on, now”
Once more the director-director has to
smooth things out. He may even have to
turn up the minutes of the last annual
general meeting to convince the director
that he is not the chairman.
S. W. K.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
A Hectic Week
Last week will be a memorable one in
the minds of Australian investors. With
increases in taxation imminent in nearly
every sphere, with the internal economic
position drifting to a state beyond the
mentality of professional politicians to
grasp—in this condition of confusion
there occurred a deadlock over Poland,
the only possible outcome of which for a
time seemed to be war on a vast scale.
The sharemarket showed signs of going
to pieces, but with dogged commonsense
the hardier type of investors held their
scrip. “If shares are no good, what good
will money be?” was the rather loose
way the fundamentals of the situation
were summed up. The Sydney ’Change
index covering 34 ord. shares fell to
116.7 on Thursday and to 114.7 on
Friday (the average for July was 121.8),
but the low level (110) touched on Sept.
28 last year was not again reached. On
Saturday there was a rallying largely
due to one thing.
In the midst of Friday’s confusion
Broken Hill Prop, announced a bonus
issue of 64 shares for every 100 held—
the lot to be provided out of premiums
charged on previous issues of shares for
which cash was asked. No bonus issue
ever came at a more timely moment.
Following increases in pay and holiday
concessions to workers at the Newcastle
steelworks, when it showed up as a news
item in the stop press on Friday after-
noon the bonus of scrip appeared to
be almost an admonishment to jitters.
People who understood its significance
read it twice, shook themselves to see if
they were awake, then gave themselves
over to bitter-sweet regrets for not having
bought the shares in the morning for
555. By evening in Sydney 655. was being
paid. On Saturday dealings opened at
675. 6d., then settled down at 655. 9d.
Dunlop Perdriau also, on Friday, an-
nounced a record profit, with the ord.
div. steady at 7 p.c. Yellow Cabs came
out with a report showing good, profits
and a 12 p.c. distribution. Queensland
Brewery announced a new one-for-four
issue of shares at par. George Farmer,
the Victorian (Ballarat) bacon-curer,
showed an increased profit and declared
the first ord; div. in four years.
In London the exchange rate was freed
on Friday, and the price of gold bounced'
up to £7 15s. sterling an ounce fine on
Saturday, thus leaving abruptly the steady
£7 Bs. 6d. an ounce that had become
customary (mentioned on page 27). This
depreciation of sterling was a.big factor
in the rise in base metal and other prices
that followed. Barriers firmed ; so did
Mt. Lyells.
With these things to cogitate over, the
sharemarket 'faced the weekr-end news
from Europe. Sydney ’Change issued a
warning against bear operations, and
Australian banks declined to quote
foreign exchange. All should have real-
ised by this time that war is less likely to
depreciate the money value of ordinary
shares than it is to strike at many other
forms of investment. The big danger to
shares at the moment is our own internal
economic problems.
The week hardly got started before
the sharemarkets had to face up to the
announcement of a non-aggression pact
between the Reich and the Soviet. The
markets opened stale *on Monday, and
when the news came through on Tuesday
there was a widespread slump among
leading market stocks. Turnover on the
afternoon call throughout most Austra-
lian ’Changes was substantial, Electrolytic
Zinc (down 3s. 9d. in two days) and
Broken Hill Prop, (down 4s. 3d.) being
prominent; in Sydney there was exten-
sive turnover in brewery shares at lower
prices, Tooth dropping Is. 3d., Carlton
Is. 6d., while activity in Tooheys ceased
with the morning call. Bonds weakened,
and Bank of N. S. Wales shares fell 7s.
to £27 13s. —near the lowest price on
record.
On Wednesday there was a steadying.
B.H.P. shares, which had closed the even-
ing before at 575. 6d., were dealt in at
58s. 6d., then 595.; Electro. Zincs, 465. on
Tuesday, recovered to 58s. Tooth shares
also came up a few pence. But the
market on this occasion had more than
one problem to consider. During other
“scare” periods the effect of war finance
was the one question to be faced, and,
though the market usually faced it the
wrong way, there was generally a clear-
cut recovery within a few days or a few
weeks. This time we are surrounded by
other economic problems that have little
or no bearing on European diplomacy. We
have the prospect of increased taxation.
We have Ihe great problem of our export
production having to be sold at low
prices, and we have the even more seri-
ous matter of internal costs inflation to
cope with. When inflation of this kind
eventually brings disorder into trade and
causes unemployment, a country often
becomes a house divided against itself.
Such a thing happened during Lang’s
term of office, and it is always likely to
happen where nothing is done to cope
with the watering-down of the buying-
power of money and money-wages. Aus-
tralians wouldn’t go to the dearest coun-
try to buy manufactured or other goods
they want from overseas; they would go
to the cheapest, of course. The same
thing applies to Australian goods for sale
overseas. Although we may have little
say as regards the price we get for our
goods sold on the world’s markets, the
disadvantage of our high production
costs shows up when they are debited
against the meagre proceeds we receive
for our goods. While the exchange rate
remains fixed, excessive costs of produc-
tion are a grave handicap both in the
“Mum says to eat it while it's hot”
home and export markets. And if we
have to manipulate the exchange rate in
order to relieve the position, it only
shows that we have been unable to deal
with the problem of excessive costs in,
the obvious, straightforward way.
The ’Change slump on Tuesday of last
week seems to have been partly “profes-
sional.” The initiative appeared to have
come from regular market operators
shrewd enough to judge that the German-
Soviet pact would take the public com-
pletely unawares, and leave it wait-
ing for a cue ; operators in such cases
are often only too ready to provide a cue
by tossing prices one way or the other.
Last week, as is usual these days, prices
fell rapidly one day and recovered sub-
stantially the next. The ordinary investor
isn’t so quick to act as all that.
It was strange to contrast sharemarket
behavior in Australia with what happened
on Wall-street. The U.S.A.’s principal
worry in the international sphere seems
to be Japan, and Japan had been left with
one leg in the air by virtue of the Fascist-
Communist pact. Wall-street immediately
rose two points on the news. London
fell a point and a half.
New York quickly repented its opti-
mistic behavior of Tuesday; on Wednes-
day Wall-street slumped three points, a
day on which London was inclined to
steady slightly. Australian ’Changes also
became gloomy again on Thursday, a
wide range of stocks being shaved of a
few pence in price, while B.H.P. came
back sharply again to 575. 9d. Electro.
Zinc dropped 6d., to 48s. 6d., and “de-
layed action” was evident in the case
of David Jones ords. (down Is. 3d., to
325. 9d.) and William Atkins (down
Is. 6d., to 225.).
On the receipt in Australia of graver
news from Europe on Friday morning,
the face of the share lists began to look
pulpy. The bashing taken during the
week had shaken the nerves of many
investors, and Tooth shares slumped to
475. on Friday morning, looking weak at
that. B.H.P. scrip dropped to 555., then
firmed to 565., leaping to 655. late on
news of the bonus issue. Electro. Zinc
faded a shilling, then recovered sharply ;
Australian Consolidated Industries ords.,
which had opened at 335. ex rights to
the new issue, fell to 31s. 3d., but
were really among the steadier of the
market leaders. They saw 335. 9d. on
Saturday morning, when Tooth shares
regained 495. 9d. and Wall-street recov-
ered. There are no rules about war-scare
prices. In the affair of September last
year, when Tooth shares were around
their present quote, B.H.P. scrip slumped
to 50s.
* * * *
Melbourne Stock Exchange last week
agreed to fall into line with the new
method of charging commission to be
adopted by Sydney and Brisbane as from
Sept. 1, and the revised both-ways rates
of commission on investment shares will
come into operation. Melbourne will
allow free selling of mining shares up to
a month after purchase ; in Sydney and
Brisbane the period is six weeks.
* * H= *
Shares in the Zinc Corporation are an
issue well worth watching during uncer-
tain days. At any figure below 70s. they
look interesting. Zinc Corp. is the Barrier
mine with the most promising immediate
future, and a long life lies ahead of it.
Standard copper at last week’s quote
of £45 and electrolytic at £5l represent
no reduction on the prices ruling at
August 10, when the production quota
for, countries outside the U.S.A. was
raised from 95 p.c. to 105 p.c. Just as
£230 a ton was the figure aimed at (and
virtually reached) by the tin buffer pool,
£45 for standard metal is the pivotal
price visualised by world copper pro-
ducers under present, conditions. Repre-
senting about £5l sterling a ton for elec-
trolytic, it should be quite a profitable
level for Mt. Lyell, if maintained. As
regards maintenance, for some time the
stock position of the metal outside the
U.S.A. has been very strong, consump-
tion running well ahead of production.
But until the end of June America was a
potential exporter on a large scale, and
it was feared that a lift in the ex-U.S.A.
production quota at that time would
have been abortive. Recently U.S.A.
stocks were reduced substantially by
orders for Japanese and French war re-
serves, and the production controllers
decided that the time was opportune to
lift the quota. Similar action had not
long before taken place both in regard to
rubber and tin, commodities not pro-
duced in the U.S.A.
The 105 p.c. of standard tonnages now
operating represents only about 60 p.c.
of output capacity, and the extra ton-
nage permitted will mean about 6000
tons a month among co-operating pro-
ducers. On present indications this will
still leave the output rate below that of
consumption, so further lifts in the quota
may come along later.
Following the quota increase in 1936
the market went mad because of pro-
jected rearmament expenditure —that was
before people began to realise what war
would really mean —and the price of
standard soared to £7B in March, 1937.
It collapsed the next month in circum-
stances that represented another mile-
stone in world economic history. Last
year, when copper was on the up-grade
again, restriction was lifted altogether as
soon as the metal reached £47 10s., and
if there is any sign of the price running
away now restriction would most likely
be removed once more.
* * * *
Sydney Ferries ss. shares had weakened
to 4s. 3d. before last week’s war scare.
They have been on a more or less steady
decline for two or three years, and the
increasing costs of running ferry services,
combined with those problems which
beset this co. in particular (dealt with on
these pages before), have made the divi-
dend outlook particularly uncertain.
* * * *
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd., which runs a
chain of drapery, clothing and furniture
stores in all States except Queensland,
has shown a net profit of £60,567 for
1938-39 (after writing off £5696 Adelaide
rebuilding and removal exes, and allow-
ing an extra £4BOO for taxation), com-
pared with £65,597 in 1937-38. The ord.
div. stays at 15 p.c., and £12,451 of the
year’s earnings remains in the business.
Operations have been getting a wide
spread on, but earning power has not
been maintained ; the past year’s trading
probably felt the effect of a more
cautious attitude by people towards build-
ing and furnishing resulting from the dis-
turbed appearance of things internally
and overseas.
A new cash issue, two for five at par,
is to be made by Cox Bros. It follows
two one-for-two issues in 1936 and a
bonus issue of one for ten after the close
of the 1937 accounts. The market prices
the - ss. shares at 10s. 6d., as against
11s. 6d. in March. In 1931 the old £1
ords. could have been picked up for
Is. 6d. Before subdivision into ss.
counters in 1937 they went as high as
81s. At present most of the co.’s £492,539
of capital (£290,490 of it in 7 p.c. prefs.)
is represented by debtors, largely in re-
spect of furniture sold. At the 1938
balance day debtors amounted to more
than four times the value of the stock
on hand. The new ord. issue will bring
in £80,819 of new funds; the previous
lot of capital came in after June, 1938,
and totalled £67,350. It would be in-
teresting to know whether the latest lot
is intended for business expansion or to
enable repayment of some of the debt.
* * * *
London Stock Exchange “nomina-
tions” - anyone aspiring to become a
member must buy one—have slumped
to £4OO, against a price'of £2OOO during
the 1937 boom. The present price of
£4OO is the lowest since 1932. It would
cost an eligible applicant £l6OO to be-
come a member now, as against £3600
in 1937.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
’H. B. Dickie, manufacturer of towels and
terry cloth, disclosed a profit of £13,422, down
£422 compared with the preceding year. The
ord. div., 8 p.c., was maintained, calling for
£8000.,. The 15,000'prefs.’now carry 6 p.c.,
having been raised from 5 p.c. All distri-
butions were well covered by the year’s profit.
Mytton’s, Ltd., cutlery and household
metal'manufacturers, showed profits of £13,662,
up £65 Ton 1937-38. Turnover was slightly
lower during' the, year. . Ord., div. remains at
10 p.c. Paid capital of Mytton’s is £134,100,
£25.000 of it being in 6i p.c. prefs., the rest
ord. money.


TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who:' have
invested small and large sums Jn .
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton 5 '
Ltd,
Write for a Free Booklet to ?
the Managers of r the Trust; '
BOX 4028 V*V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294 '
s
m
•w
s
few'lf
Hunting is symbolic of England’s finest traditions. Traditional
too is the standard set by the Canadian Australasian Line
on its Trans-Pacific service.
Regular monthly sailings between Australia and Canada, with calls
en route at New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii.
All information from:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George
Street,
Sydney.
Canadian Oudlalaiian
Jim
59 William
Street,
Melbourne.
tf/ccfatej? id iteafcdif /lets/
m
Wt
IS
mmmmm
ma
wßm
m
m
Xx ■' '
mmm
m
m
P/W
mm
m
■*.■■■■;
to ~**
„l * Caterp i\\at
v ,\tV»° utn ': tooV»e»-
S aY* #**
Cut your fuel costs to the bone
with CATERPILLAR Diesel Power
In harvesting, all culti-
vation jobs, in tank
sinking, clearing land
and earth moving, you
will find that you can
do the job far cheaper,
quicker, and with lower
maintenance cost with
a “Caterpillar” Diesel.
“My ‘Caterpillar’ Diesel D 2 is showing me a fuel
saving of over 18/- per 8 hour day,” says Mr. J.
Tooher, a prominent “Caterpillar” Tractor user.
“The D 2 is using heavy diesel fuel costing B%d. per
gallon. Burning 7 gallons in 8 hours, the daily fuel
cost is 5/- per day as against 23/- with my former
kerosene tractor of the same horse power. I believe
that the ‘Caterpillar’ Diesel D 2 is the most powerful
small tractor ever built.”
CATERPILLAR
Reg U.S Pat. Oft.
DISTRIBUTORS
The S.A. Tractor Company
Flinders St., Adelaide
South Australia:
Victoria Cr Tasmania:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
Collins Street Melbourne
Wigmores Limited
Wellington St., Perth
West Australia:
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Ptv. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road
St. Peters, Svdney
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane
Mail this coupon
to-day
Address to your State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
:osts with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 1.39
The position in Europe last week
scared funds from Britain at a fast pace,
the flow of capital to America being at
the heaviest rate of 1939. The Exchange
Equalisation Fund, however, kept the ex-
change rate steady, and up to Friday
freedom in the transfer of gold bullion
was permitted. Gold has been stationary
around 148 s. 6d. in London all this year.
Immediately after the outbreak of war
in 1914 Britain’s holding of gold and
dollar securities was mobilised to buttress
the national credit.
From the outbreak of war there was
a veiled suspension of the gold standard
by Britain. Legally, Britain possessed a
gold standard throughout the war, but
export of the metal was prohibited by
law in August, 1916. Inflation, bred of
a costly war, reduced the value of the
pound. But during the period of hos-
tilities exchange on New York was kept
close to Mint par; this was vital, be-
cause of Britain’s large war-time imports
from U.S.A. The exchange rate was
“pegged,” when other funds were ex-
hausted, by the sale of Treasury bills
in New York. This practice ceased in
1920, and sterling collapsed to $3.19.
Though Britain made an abortive return
to gold in 1925, abandoned in 1931* both
the pound sterling and the dollar have
dragged their anchors further from even
post-war levels. The pound at its worst
in 1920 was two-thirds of its post-war
gold value ; just now it is seven-twelfths
of its old gold value. Another period
of war-time inflation would mean a fur-
ther watering-down.
The Bank of England discount rate
was lifted to 4 p.c. on Thursday of last
week. This was the first such movement
since 1932, when it was fixed at 2 p.c.
in accord with Britain’s “cheap-money”
policy. Lifting the bank rate has the
effect of raising all other borrowing or
discount rates throughout Britain. It
makes London bills cjieap to buy and
unprofitable to sell, and tends to attract
money to London, or at least to check
the flow of funds from London. It also
encourages exports from Britain and dis-
courages imports. But against these fac-
tors which tend to strengthen the position
of the country’s funds, by increasing all
other interest rates .the increased bank
rates penalise borrowing industries and
the Government as a borrower, thus tend-
ing to increase taxation. It also causes
gilt-edged and other fixed-interest securi-
ties to fall by reason of the hardening
of interest rates on new issues. For this
reason the Committee of London Stock
Exchange last week banned all dealings
in British, dominion and colonial bonds
at prices below the lower quote as at
Aug. 23.
The lifting of the bank rate in London
last week was followed almost automati-
cally by the addition of an extra l\ p.c.
to 2 p.c. to the discount rates for bank
bills and the loan rate on Treasury bills.
In 1914 London Stock Exchange closed
on July 31 and did not reopen until
January 4, 1915. Runs on all the banks
followed. On July 31 the Bank of Eng-
land changed its official rate three times
in the one day, raising it from 4 p.c. to
8 p.c., and to 10 p.c. on Aug. 1. It was
reduced to 6 p.c. on Aug. 6 and to 5 p.c.
on Aug, 8. A month’s moratorium
(later extended by two months) on most
cheques and bills of exchange was
granted, and the Government began to
issue an emergency currency of it's own,
popularly called “Bradburys.” The re-
mains of this issue were replaced in recent
years by Bank of England notes. Owing
to the breakdown of the foreign ex-
changes and the impossibility of making
remittances the Government indemnified
the Bank of England against loss on any
bill drawn before August 4 and dis-
counted by it. Assistance to the extent
of £120,000,000 was granted altogether,
and business went on more or less “as
usual,” though many accounts were
frozen until after the war. The people
caught worst were carried speculators
on the stock and commodity exchanges.
They were generally looked after “for
the duration.”
* * * *
Town and Country Merchants, Ltd.,
has been formed in Sydney with the
object of selling all classes of merchan-
dise on a semi-co-operative basis, especi-
ally to country people. The aim is to
rebate to clients who are owners of one
or more shares in the co. a substantial
portion of the trade discount received by
the co. from wholesalers, thus giving a
shareholding more than a mere dividend
value. Provided it works out as planned,
the idea is a good one —anything that
will tend to cut down the high cost of
distributing goods in country areas is
worth consideration. The co. aims to
handle proprietary as well as other lines
on this basis ; if it can do so on a large
scale it will find many supporters among
consumers. It is proposed to raise
£20,000 of capital by cash subscription,
and 6000 fully-paids go to Town and
Country Direct Supplies Pty. for assets
covered by an agreement details of
which are not included in the prospectus.
* * ❖ *
Bradford Cotton, the Sydney textile
concern that lately acquired control of
Austral Silk and Cotton, Melbourne, has
maintained its ord. div. at I2j p.c. p.a.
Buyers offered 365. 9d. in last week’s
weak market; sellers asked 38s. 6d., the
figure at which last sales were made.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
SURVEY OF THE SOVIET.
(When it was confidently expected that Stalin would
join the “Peace Front” not many English newspapers
reached such a peak of optimism as did London “John
Bull” in the extract quoted below, but practically all
discussions of European strategy took Russian assistance
for granted. Samples of attempts to “build up” the
reputation of the Soviet forces are given here; in
assessing the loss to Britain and France, the apolo-
getic tone of those articles is as important as the
statistics; Stalin himself appears to have reached the
conclusion of the London “Times” correspondent that
“history has shown that this great force is more effec-
tive in defence than in attack.” Other possible reasons
for the deal with Germany are suggested in two articles
—one Swiss and one German —condensed from London
“World Review.”]
The Super-optimist
(Extract from London “John Bull.”)
Wherever you turn the balance of power is shift-
ing to the Peace Front’s scale.
Hitler has passed his zenith and is visibly declin-
ing. He is getting no recruits, and as the prestige of
the Peace Front rises his chance of doing so fails.
His one ally in Europe, Italy, is torn with internal
discontents, and all the reliable news that comes from
there shows the popular hatred of the German alli-
ance and the declining authority of Mussolini.
With the accession of Russia, the advantage in
every essential of victory—material strength, moral
appeal, finance, command of the sea, even man-power
—is with the Peace Front
The Red Army
(Condensed from London “Times")
The Red Army numbers about 2,000,000
in peace-time, being composed of over 100
infantry divisions and at least 30 cavalry
divisions. Cavalry is of particular utility in
a country which is not well equipped with rail-
ways and roads. On the completion of
mobilisation some 4,000,000 men would be
under arms. There is compulsory military
service for two years, which gives the coun-
try a reserve of trained men amounting to
something like 12,000,000.
The army is well equipped with the most
modern weapons. A tradition of German
training Has produced non-commissioned officers
whose qualities of thoroughness are accompanied by
a certain. lack of initiative, and reluctance to take
responsibility is a defect that becomes more pro-
nounced the higher the rank. This is partly the effect
of the “purge,” It is perpetuated to some extent by
the system of associating a political commissar with
the commander of each unit.
The highest ranks largely consist of new men, who
make up in keenness what they lack in experience,
and the “purge” is now sufficiently far past for its
effect to be wearing off. The army has, at any rate,
had continuity of command under Marshal Voro-
shilov, whose close association with the undisputed
leader of the nation dates from their exploits in the
civil wars.
History has shown that this great force is more
effective in defence than in attack. Communications
in Russia are not what they are in Western Europe,
and rapidity of manoeuvre in the highly complex con-
ditions of modern war is not to be expected. In
defence of its own soil the army would undoubtedly
be extremely formidable, the more so as scarcity of
communications can be a worse hindrance to an in-
vader than to the defender, as the Japanese are finding.
The Russian Navy
(Condensed from an article by W. V. Emanuel in
London "Spectator")
In contrast to 1904, Russia’s Far Eastern Fleet
now contains no ships larger than destroyers, and is
clearly incapable of taking on Japan’s battle fleet of
10 battleships and 35 cruisers. On the other hand,
Russian submarines at Vladivostok number at least 70,
and are reliably reported to be increasing by one a
month. There are 60 or 70 Russian submarines in the
Baltic.
If recent manoeuvres and articles are any guide,
Russia’s surface ships also will be more active in the
Baltic than they were in 1914-17. The two battle-
ships, five modern cruisers, dozen flotilla leaders and
15 destroyers based on Leningrad will not spend all
their time there. The battleships are of pre-war design,
but between 1929 and 1935 were rebuilt and given
new boilers and anti-aircraft batteries ; one of them,
the Marat, made a good impression at our Coro-
nation review. Though their 12in. guns would prob-
ably be no match for the 1 lin. of Germany’s new
battle-cruisers, they could, if well led and aided by
scouting aircraft, act as the spearhead of most damag-
ing raids on the absolutely vital German iron-ore traffic
from Sweden. The by no means negligible Polish Navy
should also be useful in this connection, provided it
could use a Russian base.
The Soviet press has recently been advocating an
“offensive” policy and a big navy, based on the new
battleships, now begun, which are badly needed as
the proper backing for the considerable light forces.
How far these doctrines would find expression in action
depends on that essentially unknown factor the per-
sonnel. In the past the Russians have shown no great
gift for maritime enterprise, and the passivity of their
sailors impressed Nelson. Yet the State-owned mer-
chant marine is now extremely efficient, and anew
pride in the sea is being aroused by skilled propa-
ganda. The traditions of an Imperial Navy which
dates back to Peter the Great are being revived.
“Pravda,” for example, recalls the navy’s heroism
even at such defeats as Sebastopol and Tsushima.
Party fervor is strong in the navy, especially since
the “purges” which two years ago removed every
single fleet commander. There are political commis-
sars in every warship, though these are not necessarily
non-sailors.
With so incalculable a people as the Russians it
is impossible to say whether this strong infusion of
party enthusiasm into a combatant force makes for
increased efficiency. It is true that in April com-
plaints of bad discipline began appearing in the naval
journal “Krasni Flot.”
In view of the way in which the “purges” must
have undermined the authority and initiative of the
officers, such a state of affairs is scarcely surprising.
On the other hand, the frank criticism of defects in
a service journal is hopeful.
Air Strength of the Soviet
(Digest of an article by J. M. Spaight in London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
When one finds enormous numbers of aircraft
credited to a particular State one is inclined to suspect
that something more than first-line strength is being
included. This seems certainly to be the explana-
tion of some of the estimates given in a recent book,
The Military Strength of the Powers, by Max
Werner (English translation, 1939). It is, as a whole,
a panegyric of Russia’s might on land and in the air.
The figures quoted are challengeable. The “Wehr-
macht,” a German military organ, is given as the
authority for a Russian air force of “between 15,000
and 17,000 machines” in 1937, and in support the
Czech paper “Venkov” is quoted as estimating that
16,000 machines would be the strength in 1938. One
can only surmise that reserves are included, possibly
-“Gringoire,” Paris, July 13. And “Gringoire” was right.
“IN THE SAME BAG."
training machines as well. One suspects that Colonel
Von Biilow’s estimate of 8000 to 10,000 first-line Rus-
sian aircraft in 1937 also includes reserves. Max
Werner’s own estimate that Russia could “put approxi-
mately 12,000 machines into the air” is, from its form,
quite possibly intended to cover reserve machines,
since these could be “put into the air” if pilots were
available to fly them. The inquiry whether the first-
line aircraft (proper) would then have any replace-
ments would, no doubt, be ignored as an embarrassing
question.
A much more modest estimate is given by M.
Pierre Cot, who was Minister for Air in the French
Government of the Popular Front and would not
be disposed to minimise Russia’s strength. In his
view, Russia’s first-line strength would be now about
4500-5000 aircraft; of these, about a quarter would
have to be retained in the Far East, and at least 3500
would be available in the West.
A considerably lower estimate was given by
another ex-Minister for Air, M. Laurent Eynac, in
“L’Air” for July, 1938. He credited Russia with 3000
first-line machines only.
On the whole one would probably not be far
wrong if one computed Russia’s first-line strength at
something between 4000 and 5000 machines. This
is slightly more, in all probability, than Germany’s
first-line strength, but German performance is likely
to be superior to Russian.
The quality of Russian aircraft seems to be mixed.
Max Werner quotes many eulogies of the performance
of Russian machines in Spain, but the references are
to the years 1936 and 1937. In those years the Russian
fighters do appear to have been better than those
employed by the Nationalists, but the balance of
advantage seems to have shifted in 1938. The Russian
fighter then most commonly used, the Rata, heads
the published list of aircraft brought down by the
Nationalists. It was probably outclassed by the newer
Messerschmitt and Heinkel fighters, both of which
have a very high performance.
The Russian Air Force is neither of such colossal
dimensions nor of such pre-eminent quality as some
of its admirers would have us believe. Max Werners
“ten-thousand-ton bomb salvo” may safely be dis-
missed as a phantasy. It would be a grave mistake
at the same time to belittle the value of Russia s air
arm.
Military Difficulties
t London “Spectator” commenting on the British and
French military mission to Moscow 10 days befote
the first hint of a Russo-German pact.)
The soldiers will be up against one rather serious
difficulty. Can staff talks without unreserved disclosure
of plans on both sides achieve much? Can there be
unreserved disclosure of plans of the utmost secrecy
between countries making this kind of contact for
the first time in twenty years? There is nothing in the
world the German Secret Service wants to know so
much as French and British military plans and rather
a lot of Russian officers have been shot on the charge
of treasonable communication with Germany.
A German Opinion
(Extract from Marshal Goring’s “Nationalzeitung,
reprinted in “World Review.’)
England betrayed the limits of its power
by overstepping them. One of the spheres
of encirclement, that in Central Europe, was
to have been established by a campaign of
propaganda; it was bad luck for Britain
that this move drew the other two spheres
of encirclement into the open day of world
politics. The world has become aware of
the second zone of encirclement, the Medi-
terranean, and of the third, the Far Eastern.
But, with the rest of the world, Moscow,
too, has reckoned with the fragmentation of
British forces which must of necessity occur should
England simultaneously come into conflict with all
three encircled Powers —Germany, Italy and Japan.
The Soviets’ whole tactics of negotiation were
based on the belief that they could make ever-increas-
ing demands on a weakened England. London's Far
Eastern adventure has perhaps removed the last uncer-
tainty in calculations of relative power.
The wooing of America was of still uncertain
significance in connection with the Far Eastern aspect
of the Soviet-British alliance efforts. England’s im-
portance as an ally could be completely changed by
a sudden decision of the United States.
And why should not the United States join the
British front, when their own China trade is faced
by the same prospects as Britain’s? The bases of
their formerly more active imperialism lie on the
frontiers of Japan’s spheres of interest. Their Far
Eastern squadron has nine battleships lying off Shang-
hai, but they are avoiding the Yellow Sea, where, off
Tientsin, the conflict is concentrated.
Once a Russian fleet experienced the difficulties
of a battle in a gulf, in a sea morass colored by the
sand of distant Mongolia. America is keeping out
of the sphere of conflicts which might lead to a similar
end. The conclusion of the Singapore conference has
so far not been able to induce any change in its atti-
tude. Halifax is listening for a word from America:
Molotov, too, is standing waiting hand at ear. But
still nothing is to be heard between the Rocky Moun-
tains and the Appalachians. U.S.A. does not reply.
Communism versus Democracy
(This forecast of the Soviet’s retreat from the
democracies, written by Nikolaus Basseches, appeared
in “Die Weltwoche,” Zurich, and was reprinted in
“World Review,”)
Though the conversations which the head of the
Red Government is holding with the representatives
of the Western Powers are concerned with diplomatic
measures only, the issue at stake is nevertheless whether
or not the opposition of Bolshevism to the bourgeois
world is to be removed or bridged over. It is no exag-
geration to state that by the conclusion of the pact
the world would be relieved of having to choose
between Fascism and Bolshevism.
Differences arose over the question of a guarantee
to the Baltic States. People talk of “Baltic States”
without differentiating. When the Soviets speak of
“Baltic States” they mean, curiously enough, Finland
in particular. In Latvia and Estonia authoritarian
regimes are in command which are described as
Fascist in the Soviet, while Finland is governed demo-
cratically. Nevertheless Russian mistrust is concen-
trated chiefly on Finland. In Latvia and Estonia the
feeling is such that any Government which tried fol-
lowing a clearly pro-German policy would never be
able to maintain itself in power.
In democratic Finland, however, it is no secret
that the army and the very influential corps of officers
are openly pro-German. Between the Finnish and the
German armies there are links of a very intimate
character. The Finnish army arose out of the volun-
teer battalions which went to Finland in German
ships and fought under German command with the
German troops against the Bolsheviks. These pro-
German circles are supported politically by the great
organisation of the Volunteer Guards, the Finnish
Fascists and the so-called Carelian Societies. The
extreme Right groups make territorial claims on Russia.
When the Soviets collectivised agriculture, which
also included the Finnish peasants round Leningrad,
Right circles in Helsinki began a strong anti-Soviet
campaign, which led in 1931 to a tense diplomatic


situation. The Soviet replied with the brutal removal
of the Ingermanland Finns from this threatened
frontier province.
In Moscow they are afraid that a German offen-
sive would have something to offer Finland. It is
also regarded as possible that an internal revolution
might lead to Finland’s becoming a German base.
Leningrad is difficult to defend against an attack from
Finland.
Of course, a guarantee for the Baltic States even
against their will alters the whole content of the pact.
No longer a passive wall of resistance against the
aggressiveness of the Axis, it creates a block which
contains essential offensive possibilities. But the
Soviet mast obtain the greatest possible advantages if
it is to participate at all.
It is not only the isolationist elements which are
causing the delay. For by this pact the bogey of world
revolution will be banished for the first time. The
Soviets at the outset defended themselves against
armed intervention from the outside world. But they
guard themselves now against intellectual intervention
rather than armed intervention. That is why from the
Polish frontier to the Pacific Ocean one cannot buy
or read a single foreign publication. That is why a
visa for the Soviet Union is so seldom granted, why
the number of foreign journalists is limited to a mini-
mum, and why foreigners who live in the Soviet are
completely isolated from the population.
The regime sees its greatest danger in a deform-
ing of the ruling ideology. And friendships are better
suited for carrying out spiritual intervention than
enmities.
The Soviets have always been more afraid of
attempts at friendship than of attacks. In 1922 when
the Treaty of Rapallo was concluded with Germany,
and individual military officers came into close con-
tact with their German counterparts, Moscow was shy
of any step that gave the impression of a direct
alliance.
If a pact is made with the democracies, the whole
activity of the Comintern will be paralysed for a
considerable period. Every destructive revolutionary
activity by Communist parties against the democratic
State will be an attack against the Red army itself.
Instead of being a radical opposition against bourgeois
regimes, Communist parties will become superfluous
hangers-on of the various Government camps.
There are many people in the great democracies
who feel a certain discomfort at the thought of an
alliance with the Soviet. They fear an infection of
their own country by Bolshevism. It is more than
intriguing to note that the same discomfort is felt in
Moscow. They fear that open alliance with the demo-
cratic Powers might be the end of world Bolshevism.
Everything of practical political value that can be
secured by the treaty appears meagre in Bolshevik eyes
in comparison with what may perhaps have to be
given up. •
Goebbels Has His Say.
[This particularly choice specimen of word warfare
is the main portion of the Goebbels reply to the
first newsletter Commander Stephen King-Hall smuggled
into Germany. At Commander King-Hall’s request
London “Daily Telegraph” published Dr. Goebbels’s
.invective, with a further blast from the Commander
complaining—and with justice —of “the lies, the insults
and the ill-mannered allusions.” In the next item on
this page Beverley Baxter, M.P., makes the appropriate
comment on this deplorable bickering.]
You commence your letter with “My dear Ger-
man reader.” It will be obvious to all that the recipient
of your letter is a German. But whether he is a
“dear” you will best be able to judge after reading this
article.
You write that you are a British naval officer and
that you have served 21 years —from 1906 to 1928
in the Royal Navy. That in itself is most important
and decisive. You therefore served in that particular
Royal Navy which from 1914 to 1918 carried out a
starvation blockade against Germany. Time-honored
principles of British policy were applied in starving to
death hundreds of thousands of defenceless women
and children ; the same principles had been applied
during the Boer War when British concentration camps
accounted for the deaths of 27,000 Boer women and
children.
You worked “seven years in the Scientific
Research Department of the Royal Institute for Inter-
national Affairs.” No doubt you had ample oppor-
tunity in this period of closely studying British colonial
history and learning something about the brutal
methods which the British Empire employed against
defenceless people, who either surrendered uncondi-
tionally to London or were ruthlessly crushed.
Was your attention not drawn to the fact that in
1771 Liverpool was singled out as the principal port
for shipments of colored human cargoes to all parts
of the world? Also to the fact that Liverpool in those
days possessed 105, London 58 and Bristol 25 slave-
carrying ships? That in those days and under the
English flag 30,000 blacks were annually shipped, and
that this fact accounts for a good deal of British wealth
to-day? Can you recall to mind the English bom-
bardment of Zanzibar in 1896, when 20,000 rounds of
shrapnel were fired on a totally defenceless town?
Have you any idea of the methods applied in
1896 in the conquest of the former Kingdom of
Burma? If not, then let us refresh your memory.
Burma was incorporated in the British-Indian Empire
by means of a one-sided British declaration ; those
who offered resistance were treated as insurgents and
shot as robbers.
Have you ever heard of the Amritsar blood-bath
in 1919? Just listen to this: On April 11, 1919, Eng-
lish soldiers opened up rapid fire on a gathering of
5000 people. Five hundred were killed in cold blood
within 10 minutes ; 1500 were severely wounded and
261 others were sentenced to be flogged.
It is possible that during the course of your re-
search work you have overlooked to take note of the
manner in which the Waziristan rising in 1937 was
suppressed—when 720 insurgents were killed, practi-
cally the same number severely wounded and 10 vil-
lages bombarded? . ,
And have you ever read what thoughtful English-
men have said on the subject of these blissful methods
of British colonial policy?
Mr. William Ewart Gladstone, the English states-
man, is doubtless no stranger to you. In a debate in
the House of Commons on the opium war, he stated
on April 8, 1840: “I am not competent to judge how
lone this war may last but this 1 can say, that a
war more unjust in its origin, a war more
calculated in its progress to cover this coun-
try with disgrace, I do not know and I
have not read of.”
Is it not these selfsame English colonial
tactics that you would so much like to
employ in regard to Germany? Can you
remember how many times you have tried
this game?
You proudly state that you “have been
nominated as a candidate for Parliament.’'
Do you expect the Germans to receive this
notification with awe and respect? That,
indeed, would be enough to wrinkle the face
of a cab-horse.
Mr. Candidate-for-Parliament you
say that the staff of your newsagency
“works five days a week and has a month’s
holiday on full pay.” Dear, dear ; and is
that really possible in England? Very
modestly you add: “The practice of five
days per week is becoming more and more
customary in Great Britain.” Well, that
is really no cause for surprise considering
the fact that Englishmen have so many other nations
working for them. If the English experiment of once
again crushing the German people should succeed,
then doubtless Englishmen would have no need to
work at all. According to their formula, their work
would then be done by those Germans who to-day are
merely your “dear readers.”
As far as we are aware exemplary English social
policy has not yet penetrated sufficiently into the Eng-
lish distressed areas. In those districts there are people
who even work less —in fact, they do no work at all
for the simple reason that for years they have been
unemployed. Their standard of living is in keeping
with this state of affairs. Perhaps you will make a
note of this, Mr. King-Hall, and not forget to say
something on this subject to your “dear German
readers” the next time.
You go on and put a somewhat scurrilous ques-
tion to your German reader: “Why do I write to
you?” All that now remains for you to do, Mr.
Paid-Propagandist, is to talk about humanity and
understanding. And, by Jove, here it comes. “I am
writing to you because I want peace.” Now we know
where we stand.
No doubt you are referring to that selfsame
brand of peace which prompted England at Versailles
to throttle a defenceless nation ; which oppressed that
nation for 14 years —plundered and looted it. That
same spirit of “peace” prompted England to demand
delivery not only of our navy, but also of our mer-
cantile fleet, robbed us of our colonies, and never
lost an opportunity to torture and humiliate us.
You subscribed to all these measures probably
because you thought it was fashionable to do so. No
doubt you thought it right at the time to steal the
bread from the mouths of your “dear German readers”
of to-day, plunge our country into currency inflation
and economic ruin—and by means of hypocritical and
oily phraseology rob the Germans of one vital right
after another. Or did you perchance moralise on your
brutalities in those days with a lot of gibberish talk of
humanity and civilisation?
You are a man “middle-aged, 46 years of age
with three children, and you want peace if you can
obtain it on honorable conditions.” Who has ever
expected you to exact a dishonorable peace?
Is Versailles a German or an English product?
Or is Versailles perchance an honorable peace?
No. Right up to the present day England has
denied us an honorable peace. In direct contradiction
of all solemn pledges you have jobbed us of our
colonies. You administer them under the mandatory
system. They are useless to you. Your country is
incapable—as many Englishmen have confirmed —of
making profitable use of our colonies. You have
neither the people and perhaps not even the inclina-
tion to work them. And yet you do not return them.
Why not? For the simple reason that not only a
thirst for power prevents you from granting Ger-
many those “honorable peace terms” which England
claimed for herself, but these selfsame terms were
designed to completely crush our people. And despite
this, you raise the question as to whether we shall
have peace.'
The average Englishman —according to what you
tell us —is “so disgusted with the despicable way in
which the German Government has broken the
Munich Agreement that he is becoming more and
more convinced that its leaders —Ribbentrop, Goebbels
and Himmler at least—are impossible people with
whom one can never conclude agreements that will be
kept.” If that is so, then these gentlemen have quali-
fied to become honorary Englishmen for the simple
reason that the charge preferred against them is based
on nothing less than the centuries-old distinctive fea-
tures of British policy.
During your research studies at the Royal Institute
for International Affairs did you ever come across a
book on Anglo-American Treaties, written by John
Bigelow, major in the U.S.A. army? Bigelow’s inves-
tigations led him to the conclusion that, of the 30
treaties and agreements concluded between the U.S.A.
and England in the period 1783-1913, eight were
violated by England and five of them by the U.S.A.
on approved British lines.
From where do you obtain the moral right to
reproach Germany for something you cannot prove —
because like your letter it is a pack of lies. And
where is your right to reproach us for something which
throughout the centuries has been an established prac-
tice in English policy?
You say that it will be hard for us to hear the
news but that you are compelled to say it- that
very little reliance is nowadays placed on Hitler.s word
in England.” But that does not sound harsh or terrible
to us. It would be terrible indeed if it were otherwise,
Hitler’s word, you see, is believed in Germany,
You go on to say that there is not the
—“Le Canard Enchaine,” Paris.
ANGLO-SOVIET TETE-A-TETE.”
slightest hope that Great Britain will make any con-
cessions to Germany until faith in Germany’s word
has been restored.” This shows up your crass ignor-
ance of the real situation. No one is asking you to
make concessions. No one expects them.
We do not want your mercy. We want our rights.
We do not stand before your capitalistic democ-
racies as beggars or supplicating “have-nots.” If our
rights are denied us we shall seek to secure them our-
selves. But let no one then hypocritically bemoan
the fact that Europe is plunging from one crisis into
another.
’ It is almost ludicrous when you raise the question
whether we were aware that, “prior to the Czecho-
slovak act of robbery, the whole of our colonial
demands had been the subject of very serious con-
sideration in Great Britain.”
Oh, yes, we were fully aware of that. We know
from past experience what these “serious delibera-
tions and considerations” have brought about. You
also seriously discussed our disarmament proposals
until we were finally forced to rearm ourselves. You
no doubt also seriously discussed an increase in the
size of the German army. You kept on discussing the
matter until Germany was forced to introduce general
conscription. You seriously discussed military
sovereignty in the Rhineland until German troops
marched across the Rhine bridges and brought about
an established fact. You seriously discussed the Aus-
trian problem until the Fiihrer concluded his historical
mission at Vienna. You seriously discussed the
Sudeten German problem until you were confronted
by a fait accompli.
Why appear more stupid than you really are?
But, above all, do not make the mistake of believing
that the Germans are more stupid than you yourself
appear to be.
And now all of a sudden you take strong excep-
tion to our reproach that England is attempting to
encircle us. Not only do we say this but actually we
observe and are witness to it. You want to crush us
—because our demands for vital rights are becoming
irksome to you —because in the course of your history
you have always counted on being confronted with a
weak and defenceless Germany, which to-day is no
longer the case.
You often think —as you put it —“that we have
something to learn from you in regard to conducting
foreign policy.” Heaven forbid! And you invite us
“to come to you and organise things in England
like our road transport, which is in a chaotic condi-
tion.” No, thanks!
You clean up your own mess. We are not uni-
versal traffic cops.
You continue painting the horrors of a coming
war and cheerfully broach the subject of another
British blockade. It’s the same old tactic you em-
ployed during the last war, you English disciple of
humanity!
You say: “After such a war a peace treaty
will be concluded compared with which the Treaty of
Versailles was child’s play.” That lets the cat out of
the bag. Now we know where we stand.
You write that “the more you contemplate
these things, the more you will realise that people like
you and us must find ways and means of preventing
such matters.” Carry on by all means with trying to
find ways and means, but carry on without us. Over
here the Fiihrer is busy on this question. In his case
we all know that he deliberates the matter calmly and
in our own interests. Any English help in this respect
is not wanted and has been declined for years past.
Tomfoolery such as that contained in your letter
can no longer bamboozle us. You can tell those
tales to the marines, you honest old British Jack-tar.
The Word-bombardment.
(Condensed from an article by Beverley Baxter, M.P., in
“Sunday Graphic”)
There is nothing more tragic in the miserable
story of the last five years than the vulgarisation and
the prostitution of the written word. One might go
further and say that nothing is more menacing. Almost
every nation has entered into the business with varying
degrees of venom and violence. While one naturally


must bow to the thoroughness of the German
propaganda machine, it does not hold the field by itself.
The Moscow press does not keep up an incessant
barrage, but periodically assails the greed of Fascism
and the weak fumblings of the pluto democracies.
The Japanese press is contemptuous and defiant.
Here again one sees the decline of the printed word in
relation to other national institutions. In spite of her
disastrous foreign policy and her unsuccessful unde-
clared war on China, Japan is still the home of in-
stinctive and even elaborate courtesy. But not in her
newspapers!
Even America has abandoned the policy of isola-
tion in the war of words. Nazism is attacked wi(h a
sustained fury throughout the American press. Despite
this heavy bombardment there is still enough ammuni-
tion to fire at Great Britain and its Prime Minister.
The basic feeling of America towards this country is
one of friendship and admiration. But a large number
of people and a whole lot of political writers feel
that Britain should have fought Japan over Man-
churia, fought Italy over Abyssinia, fought General
Franco over Spain and fought Germany over Czecho-
slovakia.
There is a pretty sharp feeling that we should
have fought over Austria as well, although no direct
blame is attached to us for not fighting Paraguay over
Bolivia. Thus Mr. Chamberlain is picturea as a piti-
ful creature who for capitalistic or other vile reasons
keeps the British Empire at peace (and growing
stronger every day) when it could have been fighting
all over the place.
The British press has not descended to the level
of some of its foreign rivals, but it maintains a pretty
constant fusillade against the dictators. There is no
question that the position of Herr Hiller as head of the
German State complicates matters considerably.
I cannot remember a single word of criticism in
any German newspaper or from any German politician
concerning our King. That is one decency that is
retained. It is true that the King is not a controversial
figure nor is he responsible for political policy, but
ridicule and vilification need no logical basis.
On the other hand, Herr Hitler is not only head
of the Reich but the political boss. To our minds that
brings him into the whirlpool of controversy. Not all
Germans agree with that. They say that the Nazi
policy should be criticised, but that the personality of
the head of the State should be respected. It is not
easy for us to understand that, but at least we should
admit that the incessant ridiculing of Herr Hitler has
offended many Germans who are normally of a broad
mind.
Commander King-Hall has been much in the news
lor the multiple letter he smuggled in by thousands to
Germany.
He told the German people, more or less, that
they had better get rid of their Government. “Ribben-
trop, Goebbels and Himmler at least are impossible
people with whom one can never conclude agree-
ments that will be kept,” he wrote as the impression
of the average Englishman.
Raising his sights he let the barrage fall on the
head of the German State. “Very little reliance is
nowadays placed on Hitler’s word in England.” And
so on, with other material that was admittedly good
stuff and in no way offensive. Is there anyone, though,
who can doubt the unfortunate reactions to such a
document?
Either we must fight Germany or make peace with
her. We can never talk peace with each other if we
approach the other side with the words “liar” and
“cheat” on our lips, and if they keep on screaming
that we are degenerate, cruel and cowardly.
The World’s Oil.
(Condensed from an article by Wentworth Day in
London “Daily Mail.”)
Britain controls the majority of the world output
of oil outside the United States and Russia, through
the tentacles of her trade, finance and treaties in the
Near East, Venezuela, Canada, the Dutch East Indies,
the Persian Gulf and such far-flung unconsidered pro-
ducers as British India, British Burma, Egypt and
British Borneo.
The normal peace-time oil consumption of this
country is more than 12,000,000 tons. That rate of
consumption is increasing by from 500,000 to 600,000
tons a year. And we have no difficulty in getting it
here. But of that vast consumption of oil products,
less than 8 p.c. is produced in Britain. Our main
supply comes from the United States, the Dutch East
Indies, Venezuela and Iran.
Greater Germany consumes 7,000,000 tons of oil
a year in peace time. She produces a little over one-
third of it herself.
The addition of the oil in Austria, and even her
superlatively ingenious methods for making synthetic
oils, cannot bring her oil supplies up to anything like
her peace-time iequipments, m ail, sne proauces
about 2,400,000 tons of oil a year, including synthetic
petrol, benzol and motor alcohol. The rest she gets
from America, the Dutch Indies, Iran and Rumania.
The first three sources of supply would be cut off the
moment a war was declared.
Rumania’s oil output is not nearly so important
as the man in the street imagines. The present output
is about 6,000,000 tons of crude oil, which would not
nearly suffice to cover Germany’s war-time require-
ments, even should she be able to reach and control
Rumanian oilfields. She tried to do so in the last war,
but we blew them up. Also, Rumanian oil must go to
Germany either by the Danubian route or by sea
through the Straits of Gibraltar, commanded by
British guns.
Our oil supplies are also brought to us by sea.
But we happen to command the seas. And there is
more than one sea route by which oil can be brought
to Britain should the Mediterranean be made dan-
gerous.
The three great refineries —Abadan on the Per-
sian Gulf, and Curacao and Aruba in the Dutch West
Indies—can supply more than twice as muen oil as
Britain needs for normal civil requirements. In addi-
tion, we can obtain oil from the Dutch East Indies,
with its 7,700,000 tons per annum; Iraq, with its
4,300,000 tons ; Colombia, more than 3,000,000 tons ;
Trinidad, 2,700,000 tons ; Peru, 2,200,000 tons ; and
others of less capacity. And from the United States,
the world’s largest supplier, and our friend.
The total output of crude oil during the first six
months of this year throughout the world was no less
than 139,609,000 metric tons. Britain, her allies
and her friends can call on the vast majority of that
production.
Italy, already short of oil, has even had to export
it from her own meagre stocks to Abyssinia. Japan,
which uses at least 4,000,000 tons of oil a year, pro-
duces less than 300,000 tons of it.
Russia produces about 30,000,000 tons a year.
She needs it all.
Oil comes to Britain by tanker. The total tonnage
of the world’s tanker fleet for this year is 11,436,880.
Great Britain and her Dominions own 3,264,241 tons ;
the United States 2,800,780 tons, and —surprisingly—
Norway comes third with 2,117,381 tons.
Holland is fourth with more than half a million
tons of tanker shipping. Japan has 429,000 tons, Italy •
426,000 tons and Germany a mere 256,093 tons. The
British Empire, United States and Norway, in fact,
own more than 71 p.c. of the existing tanker tonnage.
So that in the event of war the bulk of the tankers
would be British and American.
As for the protection of our sea routes, we have
the biggest Navy in the world to attend to that. That
Navy can refuel on oil at almost any port in the
world. In the Mediterranean alone, battleships can
refuel at Cyprus, Port Said, Alexandria, Tripoli and
the French ports. Under the new Turkish Pact and
the guarantee to Greece, those harbors would also be
open. At Port Suez, there are some of the biggest oil-
storage tanks in the world.
Our ships can bunker at every big port in India,
at Rangoon in Burma, at every big harbor in South,
East and West Africa. Trinidad, in the West Indies,
produces nearly 3,000,000 tons of its own oil, Canada
nearly a million tons, Egypt more than a quarter of
a million tons. No British ship need fear an oil short-
age on the seaways of the world.
Dictatorship in Greece.
(Condensed from London “Spectator”)
“When 1 have made a decision, and frequently I
may make a decision contrary to your views, that
decision is final and unalterable I do not permit to
anyone —and I ask you to make this clear to your
subordinates—any hidden opposition to be shown to
my wishes, in any way whatsoever.” The author of
this sufficiently challenging injunction is General John
Metaxas, the Greek dictator. He was addressing the
higher officials of the Greek Ministry of Education
on November 28, 1938 ; he had just added that
Ministry to his existing offices of Prime Minister,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the Army, the Navy
and the Air Force. Some examination of the form the
regimentation of Greek intellectual life is taking under
his direction (he was himself trained in Imperial Ger-
many, at the Prussian Kriegsakademie) may be not
unprofitable.
Four principal methods have been pursued: limi-
tation of opportunities of education ; control of the
school and university curriculum ; punishment or ex-
pulsion of pupils and teachers suspected of disaffec-
tion ; censorship of publications and suppression of
all free discussion.
There is no fixed school-leaving age in Greece.
On passing through the elementary school children
are free to leave ; they usually do so at 12 or 13.
Metaxas has raised the secondary-school fees. At
the same time the cost of living has risen. As a result,
only an insignificant number of children can continue
their education beyond the elementary school.
All young people’s organisations, including the
Scouts and the Y.M.C.A., have been dissolved ; so
have all student societies. They have all been replaced
by a single official organisation, the “Neolaia,” run
on familiar Fascist lines, with semi-military drill,
saluting and so on.
In the headquarters of the large force of
“Security” oolice hang four portraits—of the King,
Metaxas, Hitler and Goebbels. The # Security police
has two branches ; one conducts espionage among the
working-class and the other among students and intel-
lectuals. The latter branch closely supervises all forms
of higher education, and the intellectual life of the
country in general. At all lectures notes are taken by
police agents: sometimes manuscripts of lectures are
censorea beforehand.
Before publication all books must be submitted
to a police censor. There is a Security police officer
in every newspaper office, by whom the whole con-
tents of the paper must be scrutinised. It has even
been found necessary to censor the classical writers of
Greece. Passages have been expunged, for instance,
from Plato’s Republic (Plato described the tyrant as
the basest and most miserable of men), from Thucy-
dides’ Funeral Oration of Pericles (for its democratic
tone), and from the Antigone of Sophocles (for being
against tyrants).
Public opinion under an oppressive regime often
expresses itself through applause in public places. All
applause in cinemas has for this reason been forbidden.
The Greek dictatorship is inspired and guided
by Nazi Germany. The heads of the Security police
are trained by the Gestapo. The press obtains much
of its material from German sources. Many leading
officials pay frequent visits to Berlin. Kanelopoulos,
head of the Neolaia, spent two years studying youth
organisations in Germany. Students are encouraged
to go to German universities; and obstacles are put
in the way of students or teachers who wish to visit
England or France.
When Metaxas assumed power there was no
national emergency ; nor had he captured the imagina-
tion of a large part of the nation, as Hitler had in
Germany in 1933. It is only by means of the police
and the army—which he has been obliged to purge of
many of its most able officers —that he can hold his
position. Over ten thousand political opponents are
in prison or living in exile, in wretched conditions,
on small islands. There is great and widespread dis-
content and some organised opposition. But opposi-
tion is very difficult and dangerous.
Britain and France have guaranteed the indepen-
dence of Greece. Meanwhile the youth of Greece is
being subjected to all the methods of a totalitarian
regime. To that extent at least the influence of the
dictator is being thrown much more on the side of
Greece’s potential assailants than on the States which
have undertaken to defend her. But Greece has a
King as well as a Prime Minister. Though George
11. was chiefly responsible for General Metaxas’s rise
to power, he is believed to be susceptible to British
influence. It was never more urgent that it should be
exercised through any channel that offers.
Egypt Not So Easy.
[The writer of the article here condensed from
“Great Britain and the East” explains why Egypt would
be no easy nut to crack in any war against Britain.
Rather, he submits, it would tip the balance of strength
about the Mediterranean in J. Bull’s favor.]
It has been freely suggested that the conquest by
Italian forces of both the Sudan and Egypt is a com-
paratively simple matter. It is hinted that the two
white battalions in the Sudan, the local forces of the
Sudan and the Royal Air Force, could not possibly
be a match for any serious invading force from the
south-east Similarly it is hinted that the white bat-
talions in Egypt, plus the Egyptian forces, could not
resist any serious invading force from Libya, that the
garrison of Mersa Matruh could either by overcome
or outflanked, and that the way would then be open
to the heart of Egypt, what time, it is assumed, the
remaining defending forces could be pent up in the
zone of the Suez Canal.
Those with whom the defence of Egypt primarily
rests, however, make their dispositions with no
theatrical advertisement. They are aware of the
dangers to which Egypt is exposed, both from within
and without, of the importance of the Suez Canal, of
the integrity of Alexandria as the naval base for the
Eastern Mediterranean, and the value of Egypt as a
place from which air attack is possible. Very steadily
and, to those in the know, very impressively, they are
safeguarding Egypt both for defensive and offensive
purposes, and, doubtless, have their plans ready for
reinforcing it if extra help is necessitated.
In this connection they can look not only to
neighboring Palestine, but also to their friends in
Syria and Turkey, even as far afield as India. It
is a very great mistake to imagine that in time of war
Egypt would be so encompassed as to deny the possi-
bility of outside forces coming to its assistance.
When one talks of the invasion of Egypt it is pri-
marily an invasion from Libya that is envisaged. Such
a movement, however, would be fraught with very
considerable difficulties. In the first place, even the
more southerly road to the Egyptian frontier would be
under the fire of heavy naval guns. Secondly, water
supplies present a most serious obstacle. Thirdly, an
attacking force would, crossing open country, be sub-
jected to crushing aerial bombardment. Nor should
it be overlooked that an army attacking Egypt could
itself be attacked from Tunisia, where the French,
both defensively and offensively, are exceedingly
strong.
That there is a potential danger to Egypt none
would deny, but it is quite certain that to so astute
and calculating a mind as that of the Duce it is
apparent that there is also a potential danger to Libya
itself. Signor Mussolini realises keenly the strategic-
disadvantages of his Empire, as well as the threat
which on the surface it holds for other lands, and
can be relied upon to do his utmost not to endanger
its. very foundations.
Certainly the Egyptian authorities and their ally,
Great Britain, are taking no chances. The Eastern
Mediterranean, so far as it is possible to prophesy, is
safe.
After all, the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of 1936 was
signed when the writing was already on the inter-
national wall, and the British and the Egyptian authoii-
lies at that time must have had a shrewd idea of the
effort of which Egypt was capable.
Deportations
From the “Saturday Evening Post”:—
The Government of Chile in mid-May
expelled Hans Voigt Schmidt, representing the
German State Railroads in Chile. At the same
time, it deported Charles Wilson, a Briton,
who was fomenting a boycott of German
goods and distributing anti-Hitler leaflets.
Eighteen other alien offenders were deported,
and this was to be followed, the Government
stated, by the deportation of “all foreigners,
without exception, who are considered to be
associating themselves in any way with local
politics.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Unless plans are radically altered, Ajax
and Defaulter will not meet in Sydney,
and it is no certainty that they will meet
in Melbourne. It will be a thousand
pities if they don’t, for the matured De-
faulter showed at Warwick Farm that he
is capable of giving Ajax a great race.
He obviously wintered well, and has
greatly improved in appearance. “Over-
rated,” was this Page’s first impression
of him in the autumn, but it doesn’t think
so now.
The A.J.C. committee would dearly
love to get the champions of their re-
spective countries together in a race at
its spring meeting, preferably in the mile-
and-a-half event on the first day. Appar-
ently it has a notion of putting up a
special prize for the occasion. That
should not be necessary. Without clubs
like the A.J.C. where would owners of
racehorses be?
High Caste is another colt who looks
all the better for his winter spell. He no
longer suggests the plough-horse. He is
a big fellow certainly, but he exhibits
more symmetry now. The story at Rand-
wick is that, as a three-year-old, he did
himself too well at the manger, and that
limits have since been set on his appe-
tite. Whether he will go the Derby dis-
tance remains to be demonstrated. Not
a few judges who are accounted shrewd
prefer Dashing Cavalier as a Derby colt.
Reading is entitled to another chance, but
it seems highly improbable that the partial
“better-than-Talking” verdict on Bonny
Loch will be vindicated.
Feminist was here named at the issue
of the weights as likely to win any of the
big long-distance handicaps this spring:
Metrop., Caulfield Cup or Melbourne
Cup. She impressed everyone at War-
wick Farm by the speed she displayed in
the w.f.a. race, and by the plucky manner
in which she stuck to Defaulter and
battled out the finish. She has grown into
a stylish mare, better-looking than her
dam, Loquacious, who won the Metrop.
ten years ago. She is now favorite for
that race, having supplanted Cooranga,
another good mare who is shaping attrac-
tively at Randwick.
Respirator’s fine finish in the Warwick
Farm Cup has directed attention to him
again. He is a very fine-looking horse,
better in that respect than his sire,
Windbag, though he is never likely to
rival that great horse’s achievements on
the racecourse. As a four-year-old he is
rather favorably handicapped in the Met-
rop. and the Cups ; but Malagigi is in
the same stable. Malagigi, though no
sprinter, ran encouragingly in the Camp-
belltown Handicap.
Fine though it was, a dusty north-
westerly made matters unpleasant at War-
wick Farm on Saturday. It didn’t affect
the attendance, which was estimated at
14,000. The going was fast, and good
times were recorded in all events.
“New Zealand’ll win everything to-
day,” said a punter from that country;
but a Maoriland-owned horse, Te Hero,
let his backers down badly in the Camp-
belltown Handicap. He had only two
pounds more than his Epsom impost, and
backers snapped up the short odds on offer
—never better than 5 to 2—but Te Hero
was stubborn at the barrier, swung away
when it was lifted, and cantered after the
field when they had gone two furlongs.
It will be a long time before he is favor-
ite again.
Victory went to the locally-trained
Brazandt (10 to 1), who.had top weight,
9.3. Coutts let him run along for a
time on the bit. Approaching the home
turn he slipped away, but he had to be
punched out to beat Caesar, who, badly
placed most of the way, came with a
splendid dash in the short straight.
Royal Prince was a close third ; half-neck
and neck. There was no money for
Adios, who finished fourth. His effort
from the home turn was noted, and he
has firmed considerably for the Epsom,
in which he has 8.4. Brazandt was not
nominated for that race. Caesar comes
down from Bst. to 7.11.
Though Defaulter was having his first
run since the autumn, and his last race
was a two-miler, he was always an
odds-on favorite (11 to 8 on finally)
for the Warwick Stakes. He was ridden
by A. E. Ellis, one of the most versatile
jockeys in Australasia —he won the N.Z.
G.N. Hurdle and Steeple double on
Padishah —and went very kindly through-
out. Feminist, exhibiting speed and cour-
age, kept him company to the home turn ;
but immediately Defaulter was straight-
ened for the judge’s box he ran to the
front and scored by \\ lengths, St. Con-
stant dead-heating with Feminist for
second. The time, 1.25*, beat the previ-
ous track record for seven furlongs by
half a second.
Despite his excellent track trials, Gold
Rod was a complete failure. He made
a half-hearted attempt near the top of
the straight, but lost ground when he ap-
peared to get too close to the leader’s
heels. With Ajax away, Defaulter looks
to have the Randwick weight-for-age
races at his mercy.
High Caste (6 to 4) looked stones
above his opponents in the Hobartville
Stakes, and, in that race at least, appear-
ances did not deceive. After dwelling
slightly at the barrier, he made a fast run
near the half-mile. Bartle wisely let him
take the lead at the top of the straight,
and, quickly crossing to the rails, the big
colt went on as straight as a gun-barrel.
He won by a length and a half from the
consistent and improving Dashing Cava-
lier, Bonny Loch being third, half a
length away.
Reading tarnished his reputation.
After running second for three furlongs
he dropped back, and beat only two
horses home. There was some excuse
for his failure ; the horse float that car-
ried the colt and her fortunes broke down
on the way, arriving only 20 minutes
before the race was timed to start. In the
rush to get him ready, Reading became
“toey.” No doubt he was upset, but a
worse experience befell Mala on the
morning of the 1936 A.J.C. Derby, and
it didn’t seem to affect him in the race.
In the Warwick Spring Handicap
Respirator put in a real Windbag finish.
He got up in the last stride and beat
Buzalong by half a head. Own Folk was
third, 2* lengths back. Respirator thus
completed a double for Jamieson, the
trainer of High Caste, and Bartle. His
victory was anticipated by the stable, as
he was backed from twelves in the pad-
dock-fifteens in the Leger—to 6 to 1.
Respirator carried 8.7, and has 8.5 in
the Metropolitan. He looked rather for-
tunate to beat Buzalong; had more use
been made of the Caulfield Cup winner
at the top of the straight he may have
won. Evidently Munro was keen on sav-
ing his not-quite-ready mount undue
exertion.
Although it was supposed that Billy
Cook would pilot Red Sails in the Glen-
lee Handicap, he was astride Gilltown.
Nevertheless, the chestnut was weak in
the market, the price receding from fives
to tens. As it happened, he went to the
front from barrier-rise and stayed there ;
although very weary, he beat Tony by a
neck and Volpato by another length. Red
Sails was favorite. When making a fast
run near the three furlongs he met with
interference, and in the circumstances his
fourth was no mean effort. Perimond
was fifth.
A Derby candidate not to be despised
is Marengo (7 to 1), a comfortable
winner of the Farm Stakes from Katanga
and Hieron. Bought as a yearling by
the lamented surgeon McKelvey, the colt
is now raced by “Lorna Doone,” wife of
Dr. Utz, the new member of the A.J.C.
committee. He is a nice-looking colt and
can gallop.
* * * *
Spear Chief has been scratched for
all spring engagements. He has not
broken down, but the owners were ad-
vised that he might break down if the
leg which has been bothering him was
subjected to the rigors of training. It
is very bad luck for them, for Spearfelt’s
son has developed into a magnificent
horse and might have won any distance
event —even the Melbourne Cup with
9.7 —had he kept right.
* * * *
E. A. Underwood has been elected to
the V.R.C. committee. He owns the
Warlaby stud at Oaklands Junction,
where King Offa and Devonshire sired
many winners. Lord of the thoroughbred
harem now is Portofino (imp.). *
Compared with some of his colleagues,
Underwood looks young, yet his connec-
tion with the turf as an owner dates back
to 1920, when, with Accrington, he ran
second to Eurythmic in the Caulfield Cup.
The best galloper Underwood has bred
was Royal Feast, who, in the , 1926-27
season, credited W. E. J. Craig with
over £12,000 in stakes. After racing only
once as a three-year-old Royal Feast died
from some mysterious ailment. Craig
has had no luck with horses since then.
His brother won a Melbourne Cup with
Bitalli.
* * * *
The promise revealed by Destiny Bay
(Heroic-Roserea’s Balloon) when he ran
second to Nuffield in the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes of 1938 was not sus-
tained in the following spring. After
failures at Randwick and in Melbourne
he was added to the list of geldings and
turned out for a long spell.
Pat Quinlan, his present trainer, took
Destiny Bay to Bendigo last week, and
did bookmakers a good turn by winning
the Inglis Handicap on Wednesday with
the handsome chestnut. Supposed to be
in the country merely for change of air,
Destiny Bay eased from fives to twice
those odds.
Journey was only 5j furlongs, a dis-
tance regarded as too short for Destiny
Bay ; yet he joined the leading division
as they turned for home, and beat Great
Legend by half a head. Backed down to
5 to 4 Albany, a cast-off from Scobie’s
stable, sadly disappointed his supporters.
Recovery of form by Destiny Bay will
revive the ambitions of his owner, Mrs.
Elliot True, whose husband has a medical
practice at Hartwell, an expanding Mel-
bourne suburb. Quinlan, the trainer,
prepared Cragford for an A.J.C. Metro-
politan victory in 1930 and landed the
Newmarket of 1935 with his own horse,
Count Ito.
The principal event at Bendigo went
to Diablote (Gay Lothario-Mnebiad),
owned by A. J. Staughton, the Western
District sportsman. In several of his
metropolitan outings Diablote had either
been left at the post or got away too
badly to have any chance of success.
Stable confidence in Diablote having
mended his manners was reflected in the
betting market. Sent out a 5-to-2 favor-
ite, the chestnut caught El Nene half-way
down the straight and beat her com-
fortably. Diablote was trained by Jack
Holt, but for some time past has been in
the stable of F. H. Lewis, a brother to
retired jockey Bob.
* * * *
It was fear of the adjacent creek over-
flowing that prompted the transfer of
Williamstown races to Caulfield. The
Williamstown Cup which Richmond
Main won in 1919 was run at “the
Heath.” On another occasion the Wil-
liamstown club staged its Easter Mon-
day fixture at Moonee Valley.
The late John Brown bred and owned
Richmond Main, who dead-heated with
Artilleryman in the A.J.C. Derby and
beat that great rival in the Victoria
Derby. However, the ease with which
Artilleryman captured the Melbourne
Cup proved beyond doubt that he should
have been first past the post in both
classic events.
Always temperamental, John Brown
was so chagrined at Prince Foote strik-
ing his colors to Malt King in the Caul-
field Guineas of 1909 that he vowed
never to start another horse on that
course. He might not have done so but
for the venue of the 1919 Williamstown
Cup being changed.
Making his earnings £31,800 and mov-
ing into tenth place on the list of great
Australian winners, Ajax captured the
weight-for-age Underwood Stakes on
Saturday for the second season in suc-
cession. Effortlessly he beat El Golea by
four lengths, with Ortelle’s Star a length
farther off.
Galloping conditions were wretched,
but they would have been much worse
if the venue of the meeting hadn’t been
transferred from Williamstown to Caul-
field. Jack Holt would not risk running
Pure Gold in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, but Frank Musgrave knew that start-
ing Ajax was a mere case of “put and
take.”
Ajax has competed ten times at Caul-
field for as many wins. If anything he
is fitter for racing now than at any pre-
vious period and further triumphs are in
sight. No doubt the champion will retire
at the end of this season. Part owner
A. W. Thompson is itching to have him
at the stud.
The Underwood Stakes, though won in
hollow fashion, had some interesting fea-
tures. Glenfino, the only three-year-old
competitor, gratified his owners, Dr.
C. N. Raphael and his wife, by keeping
within nice distance of Ajax for a large
part of the journey.
Glenfino, who was bought last season
for llOOgns., was having an A.J.C. Derby
trial. He will sport silk again next Satur-
day before a decision is reached regard-
ing the Sydney trip. The colt is by Porto-
fino (imp.) from Glenlucian, by King
Offa from Glenluce, by Wallace from a
sister to Marmont, winner of the Grand
National Hurdle and Australian Cup.
There was no occasion for enthusiasm
over El Golea’s display, but Ortelle’s Star
finished with a great rattle in third place.
Last spring she won the Moonee Valley
Cup and ran third in the Melbourne Cup.
Elanage, a Bagot Handicap and King’s
Plate winner in 1918, faded out after
being prominent for six furlongs. Fred
Foulsham has the M.L.-bred stallion well
forward in condition. He was coupled on
the course with Ortelle’s Star for £12,000
in a two-Cups double.
Six of the seven events at Caulfield went
to heavily-backed favorites. Glenlonan
scored at 5 to 2, Grand Patrol at twos,
Ajax at sixes-on, Pibroch at twos, Mal-
devon at threes and Fearnought at 5 to 2.
No wonder that the faces of bookmakers
matched a weeping sky.
Sunshine Boy (sevens) defeated Mace-
donia (a 3-to-l shot) in the first division
of the Three-year-old Handicap. This
saved ringmen from financial disaster.
Sunshine Boy is a Son o’ Mine colt of
considerable promise. He often has led
in races. On this occasion waiting tactics
were successfully employed.
There is excellent blood in the pedigree
of Grand Patrol (The Night Patrol-
Arnette), whom Ashley Reed piloted to
victory in the second division of the
Three-year-old Handicap. His dam runs
back to a sister to Chester and comes
from the same family as Chatham,
Dewey, Solution, Jolly Beggar and
Prophecy.
Pibroch, trained by Elwood Fisher for
R. Turnbull, acting V.R.C. chairman,
beat Caragona by a head in the August
Handicap, but the margin would have
been greater if W. Cox had not ridden an
overconfident finish. In his last six starts
Pibroch has been successful four times.
Trained by R. P. Trihey, of Regular
Bachelor fame, Maldevon squeezed home
by half a neck from Con Naru in the
Truganina Handicap. Interfered with in
running, he would have been unlucky to
lose. Lochlee, who had not raced for a
very long period, showed some of his old
pace and may regain winning form.
H. J. (“Bert”) Morrison, who rode for
W. R. Wilson in the palmy days of the
St. Albans stable, had the mount on
Fearnought in the Manor Welter, for
jumping jockeys, and pulled his backers
through by a head from Fancifort, with
Old Boy half a head farther off. .
Fearnought is owned by F. Brady, pro-
prietor of the Palace Hotel, Perth (W.A.).
One commissioner put £4OO on for the
stable. Nearing home Fearnought began
to hang in after catching the “squibby”
Lautus.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on
next page.)
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Stakes: Brazandt;
next, Gold Rod.
Canterbury Guineas: Dashing
Cavalier; next, Marengo.
Flying Handicap: Delmestor;
next, Tolerant.
September Handicap: Enatic;
next, Hilarious.
Ashbury Handicap: Volpato;
next, Tony or Astounding.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Memsie Stakes: Ajax; next, El
Golea.
Heatherlie Handicap: Carpen-
tier; next, Temple Coyn.
. Whittier Handicap: Manrico ;
next, Nightguard.


SAVE MONEY
m it's
*s* THRIFTY
[ TO INSTALL
I till NEW If
CHAMPIONS
s>
m
m
I mßsi&i
m
ms
w.
sSi
<Sf W
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your ear the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
Champions allow less carbon to
form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
Champions save you money!
M.Q. and Rafferty
Armstrong has lost his lightweight title
to Ambers, from whom he lifted it.
The affair took place in New York, and
went 15 rounds “of wild slugging.” It
was a punishing fight; “blood flowed
freely from both boxers long before the
finish.” In five rounds the black landed
low punches, and on that account was
held to have lost all five ; otherwise he
might have got the decision. His man-
ager protests—as managers always do in
these cases—that he was robbed. Judging
by the accounts, neither seems to be a
really high-class boxer. Perhaps high-
class boxing disappeared with the Foley
school; style in boxing certainly did.
* * * *
Alf Blatch, the only Australian who
has fought Armstrong the coon
knocked him out in three rounds in
1937 —is returning to the game. He is
still young, but absence from ring
activities for two years won’t exactly
help him, though as a fireman he has
had plenty of gymnasium work. And, a
welterweight now, he will have some
good lads to meet. Optimists at New-
castle continue to pronounce Westbury
“another Darcy.”
A Queensland lightweight, Len
Schluter, has had a couple- of scraps in
Melbourne and made a distinct impres-
sion on old-timers, besides the more dis-
tinct ones he made on his opponents.
His first mill he won handily, bringing
to light a clean straight left and a useful
right with which he thumped head and
body. In a 10-rounder last Wednesday
he lost a decision to Mike O’Connor,
but most of the ringsiders disagreed with
the referee, Jack Carroll.
Foothrawl
There were no V.F.L. matches in Mel-
bourne on Saturday. Though golfers
turned out for the last round of the
open, the weather was too unpleasant
for football or football finance. It means
another late season, with the last round
of preliminaries still to be played. Mel-
bourne, Collingwood, Richmond and St.
Kilda are “the four,” and likely to re-
main such. Carlton may replace Saints,
but it’s the merest chance. The rest are
nowhere.
* * * *
Gordon, the baby Rugby Union club,
has won the “minor” premiership. With
Randwick, North and University, the
Gordon ires are going over their gear
in preparation for the semi-finals.
Gordon, second before the last of the
preliminary matches played on Saturday,
tackled North, which was leading. The
teams cut even in the matter of tries,
three apiece; O’Brien’s kicking for goal
gave Gordon a 15-11 advantage. But
that is only part of the story. Play was
never really so close. The Gordon pack
called the tune all the time ; in set scrums,
rucks, lineouts and the loose, it swarmed
"'I' s radiator's boilin', sir.”
over its opponents. If the backs, indi-
vidually good, could work together with
the same cohesion Gordon would be a
certainty for the premiership. As things
are Randwick or University may lower
its colors.
Under the Union system the two lead-
ing teams (Gordon and ’Wick) meet in
the first semi-final. The winner goes
straight into the “grand final” ; the loser
is to meet the winner of the second semi-
final (North v. University) in a “final.”
This arrangement gives Gordon and
’Wick two chances.
Randwick was expected to wallop
Manly, and it did. The Green backs
scored nine good tries; 37-14. Univer-
sity. a more evenly balanced combina-
tion forward and back, did very nearly
as well against Drummoyne. The Reds
couldn’t settle down, and the Students
notched four tries, one —by winger Mc-
Closkey—as fine a piece of work as grade
followers have seen this season: 'Varsity,
26-5. Parramatta handed West a trounc-
ing ; 29-9, six tries to three. East and
St. George turned on another scramble,
and finished level, 9-9.
* * * *
By its fine-finishing 23 to 10 win over
St. George at the S.C.G., South Sydney
earned the right to meet Balmain in the
premiership final of the Sydney Rugby
League. Play was hard rather than spec-
tacular, and an epidemic of dropped
passes spoilt many promising movements.
The Dragons had to battle hard to
hold their own in the opening phases,
but just before the half-time bell Hazel-
ton sent Hart flying across, for Smith
to convert and hoist a 10-7 lead. The
effort cost Hazelton a leg injury, which
made him a passenger for the rest of the
match. On the resumption the Red-and-
greens did all the attacking. Tuohey
pierced the defence to make it 10-all, at
which figure it remained until only
quarter of an hour was left. Then the
relentless pressure of Souths’ big pack
began to tell. Tuohey notched his second
try with some snappy sidestepping. In
quick succession Thompson and Quin-
livan cut through the now demoraiised
opposition to put the issue beyond doubt.
Until his injury Hazelton. who got over
once, was a real menace to Souths. The
winger was being well fed by the tricky
McAndrew, whose work behind the St.
George pack was first-rate. Johnson, the
winners' full-back, gave a good display
of kicking and handling, and Fred Felsch
guided the leather over the bar four
times. A crowd of 21,000-odd saw it.
* * * *
Goodyear tightened its grip on the
N.S.W. League Soccer premiership with a
1-0 win over Cessnock. A strong wind
blowing straight downfield made kicking
judgment difficult. The miners, by poor
markmanship, lost opportunities of mak-
ing a draw of it; nevertheless, their for-
wards kept goalie Conquest and full-
backs Whitelaw and Evans hopping with
determined charges. Peculiarly, the only
goal was netted against the wind. New-
castle offered stout opposition to the
strong Wallsend eleven, and held them to
a 2-all draw. Metters ran over Glades-
ville 6-2 ; Weston shaded an improved
Granville 4-3 ; St. George beat Leich-
hardt 4-2, and Woonona-Bulli downed
Adamstown 2-1.
Nineteenth Hole
For the second year in succession Jim
Ferrier (N.S.W.) is the national open
champion. Playing machine-like golf
throughout, his total of 285 was only
three strokes worse than Sarazen took
when he shattered the record for the
event three years ago. What makes
Ferrier’s consistency at Royal Melbourne
so meritorious —in the four rounds his
variation was only 3 strokes —was that
sodden fairways, heavy greens and tricky
winds had to be contended with. Martin
Smith and Norman von Nida tied for
second place with 287 ; A. N. Waterson
(N.S.W.) was in fourth place, a stroke
away. C. Connors (Vic.) was the only
other man to get below 290; it was,
generally, low shooting for an open.
There were some good individual
rounds. Martin Smith cracked a course
record with a 67 in the opener. Von Nida
unwound a 68 on the second day tem-
porarily to lead the field. At the end of
the third Ferrier, Smith and Von Nida
were square. With the Manlysider equal-
ling par in the final phase his rivals would
have had to turn on super golf to win.
But Von Nida, to whom the perils of
prognostication have been painfully
brought home, was at outs with his
putter all the way home —so greatly that
he smashed the offending club at ihe
finish —and could only notch a 72.
Martin Smith also slipped several cogs
on the run up to the cup to finish two
over par.
* * * *
Victorian teams were supreme in the
inler-State golf tourney at Royal Mel-
bourne. Outstanding among the home-
State amateurs was Williams, who beat
Waterson, Ferrier’s conqueror in the N. S.
Wales championship, 3 and 2. Ferrier
himself accounted for Duffy, 1 up, but
at the end the Victorians had 4| matches
to 2\.
The Westralians furnished an interest-
ing surprise by defeating S.A., 5 to 2.
Flail beat Ackland Horman 5 and 4, and
Pix was too good for Christie, 2 un. P'x
turned in a nice 72, and in the tussle with
the Victorians weighed in with 71, his
opponent, Duffy, losing 6 and 4. But
Hall couldn’t cope with Williams (4 and
3), and the Victorians prevailed by 5+
matches to l\.
Pix, who is 21, belts them off driver
and iron With great vigor, and can sink
’em on the sward from a long way out.
He looks like becoming a great acquisi-
tion to a State whose golf is making solid
headway.
In the national amateur foursomes over
36 holes, Ferrier (N.S.W.) and Keane
(Q.) tied with Duffy and Payne (Vic.) The
figures, 151, were not bad for a heavy
course topned with a high, icy wind. In
the play-off ihe four again couldn't be
separated over 18 holes—each pair took
74. It was not until a further five holes
had been played that a 20-foot putt by
Keane gave the honor to the N.S.W.-
Queensland combination.
In the pros.’ 36-hole purse, Von Nida
again demonstrated his consistency with
two good rounds of 74. Toogood landed a
brace of classical putts —a 50-footer and
a 60-footer —but approach lapses proved
costly, and he could only run into second
place, one stroke away.
For the Vicars Shield the Victorian
pros, were much too strong for S.A.
(4 to I). Martin Smith, however, lost
his match with Auld at the nineteenth.
For N.S.W. against Westralia (3 games
to 2), Von Nida had Johnson down 6 and
5, but veteran Tommy Howard trounced
Billy Bolger 4 and 2, and Godden upset
Don Spence’s applecart, 3 and 2. In the
vital N.S.W.-Vic. match Von Nida was
again in top form to beat Ted Naismith
7 and 5. Cremin had his second win of
the day when he had George Naismith
in the bag at the seventeenth. But Martin
Smith, Wood and A. Spence, with narrow
wins over Bolger, S. Richardson and Don
Spence, put the issue beyond doubt.
* * «C *
Nervous people who believe everything
they read in the cables and everything
barked over the air by “news commen-
tators” should petition Great Dailies to
put international sporting items on their
cab'c oases. Even while the latest Crisis
was working up last week, Cotton was


FOR BETTER SPIRITS
DRINK DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
FINEST OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
TO REMOVE
STAINS from
FALSE TEETH
'Steradent’
BEFORE
AFTER
removes stains
and decoloura-
tions from den-
tal plates. You
simply fill the cap
of the tin with 'Stera-' -
dent’ and pour the
powder into a glass con-
taining sufficient warm
water (not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir well.
Put in your dentures and
leave them while you dress or overnight. Take
them out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Every stain disappears. Plates regain their whole-
some appearance. Dingy, discoloured teeth be-
come clean and natural-looking. Price 2/-.
Double size 3/6. At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515' 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney,
and mention the name of tins paper.
Steradent
RECD. TRADE-MARK
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
ONLY FIVE
MOVING PARTS
Twin-cylinder, two-stroke valveless
engine with only 5 moving parts.
Flywheel, starter, dynamic and igni-
tion distributor in one compact,
dust-free unit. Free-wheel device in
all models. No vibration because
transmission shaft is eliminated.
1
Engine and
gear box are
one single unit.
Strong cardan
shafts rotate front
wheels, thus en-
suring perfect cor-
nering on all roads at
all speeds. Slippery sur-
faces present no terrors
to the driver of D.K.W.
Front-wheel drive is the
ultimate in light car
design . . . safe, effici-
ent, smooth, economical.
m
P
r
X*-. '3
4
■
iX,
ftk
.ssrsrssrrd'^*:—
§ nr..
» 1 Sm
r
|J||
; '.:--oi:X' ;; XX?X : ' ;
ii
1
We removed all worries in advance
"Design an economy car with every potential cause of trouble completely eliminated.
These were the orders given to D.W.K. engineers. Their success is now motoring
history. First came Front Wheel Drive abolishing the power-stealing, vibration-creating
shaft placing engine, clutch and gear and differential in one compact, easily-accessible
unit. Then the oil sump was abolished—petrol and oil are efficiently "mixed" (Petroil
lubrication). The gear change was put on the dashboard. Independent super-strength
springs banished another common worry. Result —a fast, smooth-riding, roomy easily-
handled, easily-serviced family car . . . giving up to 50 miles to the gallon of petrol
, . . "The little wonder" . . . D.K.W.I
Driving is believing. Take a run in a D.K.W.—without obligation—and as our guest.
DISTRIBUTORS:— N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Ltd., Sydney. Vic. and Riverina: Regent
Motors Pty. Ltd., South Melbourne. S.A.: Continental Motors Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: Auto
Union D.K.W. Sales Ltd/; Perth. Q'land: Muller Brothers Pty. Ltd., Brisbane and Toowoomba.
A PRODUCT OF AUTO UNION
é
Much of the reliability of the D.K.W. motor can
be traced to the experience gained by Auto
Union engineers in building the internationally-
known world record racing engines—with their
unprecedented series of victories—such as the
one illustrated here. DKW. 2-9
placidly playing in Germany for the
golf championship of that totalitarian
country —he won it. At the same time
British military motor-cyclists were en-
gaging in races with their opposite num-
bers in Germany. And the Japanese were
completing arrangements for a band of
Australian wrestlers to visit Japan next
month.
* * * *
“S.T.S. ’: A freak match on the Glen-
elg (S.A.) links between a moderate
golfer and a good thrower, both. Adel-
aide “Advertiser” men, ended in a win
for the legitimate method by 2 and 1.
Yet by stroke-play the thrower was 106
for the 17 holes, against the hitter’s 107.
He was twice on the green in one, at short
holes, but naturally his arm tired towards
the end. It seems clear, however, that
the only historic example in the Hand-
book, a thrower who backed himself
sportingly to go round in 200, was on a
good thing.
Racquet and Bawl
Australia’s Davis Cup team got the
shock of the season when in the inter-
zone final at Boston Puncec beat Brom-
wich, 6-2, 8-6, 0-6, 6-2. The Yugoslav
ace found Australia’s double-handed
player short of a gallop, and he pounded
the corners with speed and accuracy to
keep his opponent on the run. The Illa-
warra man was in no case to try out
his vaunted new net-rushing tactics, and,
pinned at the base line usually his
strong point—his game sagged. He man-
aged to stop the rot in the third set, but
on the resumption the pugnacious Euro-
pean came back revitalised to take the
last set easily and the match. Then Quist,
playing at the peak of his form, equalised
by hoisting a 6-0, 6-3, 6-4 victory over
the weaker Mitic.
The doubles was never in doubt. Com-
bining perfectly, Quist and Bromwich “sat
on the net” for the best part of the
match and stabbed unanswerable volleys
at will. Kukuljevik was the chink in
the Yugoslav armor on which the Aus-
tralians concentrated. Puncec held his
own in the ground-stroke exchanges. It
was 6-2, 6-3, 6-3 at the finish.
In the vital final singles Bromwich
quickly put the Yugos out of pain by
belting Mitic 6-1, 6-3, 6-2. It was more
like the real Bromwich, but he’ll need
solid practice during the week against the
best players Hopman can co-opt if he is
to win against Riggs and co. at the week-
end. With the tie Australia’s, Puncec
put Kukuljevik on in the singles against
Quist. It was a bit of practice for Aus-
tralia’s second string, and he won 6-2,
6-3, 6-4.
_ The Americans then decided on their
team to defend the Cup—Riggs, of course,
with Parker, Joe Hunt and Kramer to
help him. Mako, in the team since 1936,
was dropped.
* * * *
Twenty years to the day after he and
Gerald Patterson won the American
doubles title, Norman Brookes saw the
tennis wheel turn full circle. He. was
present when Quist and Bromwich beat
team mates Crawford and Hopman in
straight sets to lift the trophy again for
Australia. As so often happens after
slashing semi-finals, and even more often
when there is no international rivalry as
incentive, the final didn’t reach the stand-
ard of the earlier play. Nevertheless, the
score, 8-6, 6-1, 6-4, clearly demonstrates
that the Quist-Bromwich combination is
far and away the strongest in the amateur
world to-day.
One N’Yark scribe argued that Craw-
ford-Hopman set an example to Amurr-
kins by showing the advantage of alter-
nately lobbing and keeping the ball low
instead of trying to pound them by sheer
speed. But the scores indicate the suc-
cess that these tactics had. Bromwich and
Quist feed on that stuff as voraciously
as they do the high-powered game, for
the simple truth is that its mastery is the
basis of the Australian doubles game.
Miscellaneous
In abominable conditions at Enoggera
(Q.) —a westerly blew targets out of the
ground and wind gauges had to be varied
up to 11 degrees—that wonderful marks-
man P. A. Pavey, of Caulfield (Vic.), won
the King’s for the eighth time. He got
311 out of a possible 355. C. Campbell,
of Dubbo (N.S.W.), was in second place,
three points away. Pavey also notched
the champion combined aggregates for
the Weinholt and King’s.
* * * *
Don Bradman is now “squash” cham-
pion of S.A. His opponent in the final
was another Don, Turnbull. The former
Davis Cup man romped away with two
sets, 9-0, 9-4; but the cricketer, with
correct and often delicate play, was un-
tiring, and wore the tennis-player down
to win the next three, 10-8, 9-3 and 10-8.
“T.”: Really, Bradman has a genius
for games. He is the best golfer among
Australian cricketers, and would give
even Ferrier, Williams and co. headaches
if he decided to concentrate on their
pastime. He is an excellent bridge-
player, and going to England with the
team of which he was captain he was
outstanding in all manner of deck com-
petitions. Incidentally, he is a capital
pianist and a neat after-dinner speaker.
Don’t be surprised if he tackles politics
some day—as a unificationist. The re-
markable young man has no use for pro-
vincialism or the parish pump.
* * * *
The bat beat the ball in the third and
last England v. West Indies match, and
the thing was drawn, leaving the Eng-
lishmen with the rubber. They were
without Bowes, and, though Perks took
5 for 156 in the West Indians’ one
innings, the tourists knocked up 498
(Headley, run out, 65, J. Stollmeyer 59,
V. Stollmeyer 96, Weekes 137 and Con-
stantine 79), giving them a lead of 146
on the first innings. Hutton (165 not out)
and Hammond (138) made up the leeway,
and it was 3 for 366 when stumps were
drawn for the last time.
Hammond’s century gave him 22 in
Test matches, lowering Bradman’s record
of 21. He made his runs in three hours,
and when he loosens up like that he is
a most attractive batsman. But Hutton
took five hours and twenty minutes to
make his 165.
* * * *
N.S.W. won’t have the S.A. proposal
for an amendment of the leg-before-
wicket rule to admit of batsmen being
dismissed for playing leg-breaks with
their pads; so that ends that. The asso-
ciation has appointed five selectors
(Dwyer, Vincent, Burt, Marks and Wells)
to pick N.S.W. teams. One seems to be
enough, but the idea is evidently that
there is safety in numbers.
* * * *
George Morley’s success in the 10,000-
metres cross-country championship at
Hobart has inspired hopes in the buzzums
of Westralians that their State, which has
never had an Olympic representative, will
have three in Finland next year, the
others being Decima Norman and
Dorothy Green —if Miss Green can over-
come a little difficulty she has had with
the swimming authorities. Westralians
are certainly doing things in sport. Their
cricketers had none the worse of two
matches with a strong Victorian side.
Their footballers, though they lost to the
Victorians on a wild and watery day, beat
them fair and square in a return match
when the clouds had cleared away and
the ground was dry; and their native-
born Paddy Boxall claims the lightweight
championship of Australia on the score
of a points decision over Tod Morgan,
who, old as he is, is still a dangerous man
in the ring. In the inter-State lacrosse,
hockey and baseball tourneys, Westralian
teams finished second.


ë
WILCOX SMITH & C,
Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 I'uge liu.vui« and
Selling U»l 1 ree.
Established M years.
Hauliers; Tbe Uulou
571
AT
' H
ē
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Min ster of Mirth
And H s All Star Company.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Captain Fury**
Brian Aherne, Victor McLagleri, Paul Lukas,
June Lang.
Interesting as the first attempt by
Hollywood to romanticise early Austra-
lian history, this Sydney Plaza offering
manages to be pretty fair entertainment.
The film is entertaining in spite of its
Australian setting, rather than because
of it. The only attempts to underline
the country are a few seconds of a
brace of kookaburras perched on four
feet of tree, a couple of seconds of half
a dozen emus, and a second of as many
kangaroos—introduced in rapid sequence
and supposed to represent Australia.
There are no broad sweeps of typically
Australian landscape outdoor scenes,
which constitute three-fourths of the film,
are jammed up to country which might
be anywhere. For a moment early in
the piece there is a glimpse of buildings
resembling those Greenaway gave to the
Sydney of the early nineteenth century,
but they’re too obviously painted on . a
backdrop, and they’re seep only in
passing.
The film sets its time only by inference.
Convicts were still being sent to the
colony (New South Wales received none
after 1839); settlement had progressed
on a large scale well into the interior;
there were plenty of sheep ; roads through
the back country were numerous and
good, and small settlers had become a
source of annoyance to the larger land-
holders.
Chief merit of the film is its vigor,
and it achieves full-blooded melodrama.
A political prisoner arrives in Sydney a
convict and, with a number of others,
is assigned to an up-country station.
Threatened with ill-treatment, he escapes
to the bush until, discovering that his
former employer is harassing the smaller
settlers in an endeavor to push them off
the land, he returns to release a chosen
few of his convict companions and con-
duct a guerrilla campaign on behalf of
the settlers. There follows much dare-
devilry and resourcefulness until Fury
is captured and only saved from being
strung up by the timely interest of the
Governor.
Characters are well portrayed, but they
have no importance or stability as Aus-
tralian types. ’ Brian Aherne roisters
through the film much in the same smil-
ing, devil-may-care manner that Errol
Flynn has roistered as Captain Blood
and Robin Hood. He numbers notable
lieutenants among his band in McLaglen
and John Carradine. George Zucco
is a brutally effective landowner,
equally well-served by a whole host of
villainous underlings. The settlers are
tall, lean, stern men, all of them having
many of the qualities of Paul Lukas’s
God-fearing Francois Dupre, and
seemingly more the type of the puri-
tanical American colonist than the no
less determined but traditionally more
liberal-minded adventurers who pioneered
Australia.
If the film can succeed in interesting
the Australian industry, with its more
evident advantages of settings, in the
possibilities of this country’s beginnings,
then it can be counted a successful
venture.
“The Four Just Men.**
Propagandised in the local press
as a terrific revelation of efforts to
undermine the British Empire—such a
terrible indictment, in fact, that the iden-
tity of the players could not be supplied
as it might endanger their lives—this spy
film at Melbourne Majestic turned out
to be a perfectly innocuous, sublimely
idiotic, though amusing and well-worked-
out melodrama of a very famil.ar brand.
Plot is based on the discovery by the
Four Just Men of a scheme of an un-
named European Government to get a
stranglehold on the Empire by sinking a
ship in the Suez Canal and simultaneously
blowing up an oil well or two. It has
an accomplice in an English M.P. who
always shaves and baths at the same
hour. The Four Just Men go about the
world mysteriously rightmg fearful
wrongs at fearful odds, and they devote
their lives and their uncanny intelligences
to frustrating the machinations of the
foreign Power.
But, since said Power works through
such respectable agents as Ministers of
"If I win the lottery I'll buy y that for a birdcage, Cocky.”
the Crown, the press of England—back-
ing the wrong horse as usual —is cn
the side of the foreign Power and
against the F.J.M. Moreover, there is
the usual pretty female crime reporter
athirst for a front-page story who
butts in and gets the position all upside
down. The situation becomes further
complicated by her falling in love with
one of the F.J.M. and he falling in love
with her. A conflict arises in her maiden
breast as to she shall sacrifice
her love for*a good story or the good
story for her love. who. in his turn, is
the victim of a conflict between his desire
to save the Empire and his desire to have
the goil.
Consequently, the task of the Just Men
is hard, and they make it five times harder
by inventing a method of communicating
with one another which recalls Tom
Sawyer’s celebrated insistence that
Huckleberry Finn should smuggle a rope
ladder in a pie into a nigger s cell to
assist in his escape, althougn his prison
was on the ground floor. However, they
succeed in confounding the enemy con-
spirators because the foreign spies have
an even more idiotic method of com-
municating with their fellow-spies. The
Four Just Men win out, or three of them
do, and the political poltroon gets elec-
trocuted in his bath just as he is about
to release the signal that will set the
world aflame.
There is a grand final sequence show-
ing tanks and bombers rushing about,
Territorials on the march, G.rl Guides
rallying to the flag and the public re-
ma'ning calm, which is meant to indicate
that the denouement of the melodrama
finds the Empire ready for any emer-
gency. Strange to say, or perhaps not
so strange, a section of the audience was
worked up to an intense pitch of patri-
otic fervor on the night The Bulletin
was there by an opus that in pre-Crisis
days would have been taken merely as
an average bit of enierta.nment.
“The Little Princess.**
Shirley Temple. Arthur Treacher.
This Sydney Regent attraction has its
sails set to smash all school-holiday box-
office records, and a lone copper was
given a torrid time by the crush on the
open.ng day.
It’s in technicolor, which should de-
light all Temple addicts and make those
less favorably disposed to juvenile stars
a little kinder to this miss. She takes
kindly to color, which itself goes on
improving with each successive offering.
Once more a soldier’s cheild, Miss
Temple is deposited in an exclusive Lon-
don girls’ school while her parent goes
off to tell the Boers where they get off.
While the shekels continue to roll in the
stony-hearted principal of the school re-
ma.ns devoted, but when the soldier lad
is reported to have turned up his toes
at Mafeking, leaving daughter an orphan
and financially featherless, the lass is
straightway assigned to the scullery. Of
course, report turns out to be a mistake,
but there’s much discomfort, abuse and
blows for the Temple girleen before
wounded father and cheild are reunited.
Harrowing material, but there’s an ex-
cellent supporting cast to help see it
through Richard Greene and Anita
Louise, both very pretty ; Arthur Treacher
with a rib-damaging performance as a
music-hall artist turned elocution master ;
lan Hunter, Cesar Romero, Miles
Mander, and juvenile Sybil Jason, sur-
passing herself in a grimy Cockney
slavey’s role. And there’s an engaging
fantasy the show’s highlight that
should keep all kiddies’ thumbs well and
truly in their mouths.
“Wolf Call.**
John Carroll, Movita.
Jack London wrote The Call of the
Wild long before the advent of passenger
’planes and radio sets, but both appear
prominently in the film version of his
novel that comes first on Sydney State’s
programme. It also goes without saying
that London never penned many of the
incidents which bedeck tnis English film,
but the proceedings are stirring enough
to keep the eyes of stoush addicts glued
to the screen.
At the kick-off John Carroll, a tall,
personable cove, is frittering away his
boodle and youth in the foolish pursuits
Qf the idle rich. During one of his sense-
less escapades he collars a police-dog
and earns the disapproval of his peppery
father. Dad sends the young man—the
dawg goes, too —to Canada to keep an
eye on the family radium mine, where
he cobbers up with an Irish priest, an
Irish odd-jobs man and an Indian maid
(played by dark and spirited Movita).
The bunch of them, plus dawg and
an old codger who has discovered an
economical process for the recovery of
radium, find themselves up against a
gang of crooks whose aim is to close
down the mine.
There’s much stoush and shootin’ and
a pack of wolves in the offing to liven
things up, and there’s lurv interest with
the Indian maid and a snooty sassiety
lass in conflict.
“Looking for Trouble”
Spencer Tracy, Jack Oakte.
“Trouble,” in this current Sydney Capi-
tol item, refers partially to telephone
failures, and a passable yarn has been
spun around the men who track the
trouble down, and their work in emer-
gencies. There is a fair measure of
excitement, and the whole piece is well
salted with comedy.
It has to do with a couple of “trouble-
shooters” who are rivals for the affec-
tions of a fellow-employee. One of them,
dismissed for mild malpractices and mak-
ing use of his knowledge of things tele-
phonic, sets up a realty office as a “blind”
and engages in the nefarious activity of
tapping lines to cash-in on confidential
stockmarket information. From there it’s
an easy step to criminal activities, the
exposure of which and the clearing up of
a murder that follows it keep the honest
telephone employee and his comic off-
sider going at a lively bat. An earth-
quake is thrown in for good measure.
It’s a tailor-made role for Tracy, and
he plays it with his customary thorough-
ness. As the hard-bitten but sentimental
mechanic who knocks promotion back
because a white-collar job is anathema
to his way of thinking, he’s a pleasure
to watch. Jack Oakie as his carefree
“stooge” wrings grins out of unpromising
situations. The girls in it only have to
stand around and look pretty.
“Sergeant Madden ”
Wallace Beery, Alan Curtis, Laraine Day.
Though it purports to go deeper, this
current Sydney State attraction merely
scratches the surface of things in an aim-
less though quite excitable and mildly
entertaining fashion.
The Beery brew of sentimentality and
toughness is somewhat adulterated for a
milaer potion. He’s an easygoing Irish-
American copper with a habit of adopt-
ing any waifs and strays that happen to
cross his beat. His son is a flatfoot, too,
but with a certain measure of undisci-
plined ambition which throws him foul of
a mob of petty gangsters and gets him
into hot water with his superiors. He is
involved in a bank robbery, and gets
deeper into the mire until there develops
that not entirely original situation where
a copper is sent to bring his son to justice.
As a big blundering cop, Beery, of
course, needs no recommendation ; Curtis
as the younger flatfoot gives his role as
much weight as it can carry. Laraine
Day as one of Beery’s adopted strays
makes a pretty enough heart-interest, and
Tom Brown takes things seriously as a
younger brother.
“West of Cheyenne .**
Charles Starrett.
There’s something familiar about the
ingredients of this Western opus at the
Sydney Capitol—the hahnest, square-
jawed cowpuncher who plans to buy a
ranch the previous owners of which have
been bumped off in mysterious circs.; the
deep-dyed villain (recognisable instantly
by his frock coat and four-in-hand tie)


Enjoy more xest for work and sport
. . . see your system is kept in
perfect regularity with that needed
drink of Goicryst in warm
water, Goicryst works wonders in
keeping things right , . . it's safe,
pleasant, sure! Goicryst at 4 i.,
Bd, and 1/3 from any chemist or
Storef '
7ix
T
THE PETROL LOSSES
CAUSED BY POOR LUBRICATION (
ARE UNSEEN AND COSTLY -
PETROL blows by poorly lubricated pistons —past
sticky valves and it's wasted in the drag of
rubbing bearings.
YOU can*t see It but your pocket-book feds it. VEEDOL ban-
ishes this waste. It seals the pistons; keeps the valves opening
and closing on time; puts the “film of protection” between all
moving parts. The minute your motor starts . . . VEEDOL starts
saving petrol. Remember that only the best oil can give you maxi-
mum petrol economy. That’s why millions of users the world over
prefer VEEDOL. It’s refined from the world’s most prized crude
into the finest of all motor oils.
Demand VEBDOL—It costs no more
V 392
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
[INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.] ALL STATES'.
who chews cigars while ruminating on
his cattle-rustling machinations or direct-
ing his band of killers to pump the new
owner of the Bar W plumb full o’ lead ;
the sweet goil, daughter of —yes! —a
straight real-estate agent who still has
a noble faith in the square-jawed one
even when dastardly attempts are made
to make him appear a steer-duffer.
The tedium of watching bad men
swinging into saddles while holding their
smoking gats and the hero and his faith-
ful followers demonstrating endlessly
their indestructibility is relieved —or is
it? —by a spot of part-yawping by the
he-men in chorus.
Vaudeville in Melbourne.
Some of the items on the new bill at
Melbourne Tivoli are an interesting
example of the effects of changed
environment on an audience. The
“World-famous Singing Troubadour,”
Nick Lucas, a crooning guitarist from
America, sings some of the songs John
Brownlee has been singing at the Town
Hall. “Trees” is a notable example, but
Mr. Lucas doesn’t sing it as Brownlee
sings it. He would probably get boos
from his audience if he did. The atmo-
sphere is not that of the Town Hall.
The taker of elderly parts, Scott
Sanders, is the best provender. As
a broken-down actor he holds the
attention of the house better than
Ming and Toy, an Oriental couple
who are a sad contradiction of Kipl.ng’s
assertion that East and West can’t ming ,p .
Chuck and Chuckles are two colored
dancers who carry contortionism to the
limit, but the Tivoli girls more than make
amends with a succession of ballets.
Good Amateur in Melbourne.
Maie Hoban’s Un-Named Players put
on Dodie Smith’s “Call It a Day” at the
Central Hall on Saturday, and, with cer-
tain reservations, it was as good as the
previous professional production.
What Miss Smith sets out to show is
that husbands don’t know what their
wives are feeling, parents don’t know
what their children are feeling, and chil-
dren don’t know what their mothers and
fathers are feeling. Consequently, when
they all get into their separate pickles
they explain them by having headaches
or complaining about the cooking, and,
as these explanations are regarded as all-
sufficing, the tyrannising that goes on
makes the Nazi regime seem like an
earthly paradise.
None of the characters in Miss Smith’s
play are like human beings, and the situa-
tions are artificial, but at least the prob-
lem she deals with is a real one. More-
over, having scant knowledge of stage
technique the Un-Named Players were
more like individuals than like actors,
and, especially in the first scene of the
last act, succeeded considerably in vitalis-
ing the proceedings.
The names of the Un-Named Players
are all printed on the programme, so their
title, apparently, doesn’t carry the usual
dictionary significance. Vernon Mar-
getts as the timid husband was outstand-
ing, and Phyllis Seggie as his self-pitying
daughter ran him a good second. Others
worth mention were Phyllis Hargrave,
Gwenda Wilson, Cuth Barrington and
Nancye Griffiths. Mabel Berry, as the
cleaner who explains that she is taking
the leavings from the kitchen home for
herself and her husband because they are
not fit for human consumption, got the
most and best laughs of the evening.
The Chemical Show.
This year’s “Chemxal Industries Ex-
position” at Sydney Town Hall appeared
to the layman to be very much the same
as the one last year. The term “chemical”
was strained to include metallurgical,
electrical and mechanical (as evidenced
by the Monel metal show, the display of
X-ray appliances and the exhibits of the
Society of Model Engineers), and it
came as a little of a snock to be told
that, as well as paint, biscuits, bread and
beer are the products of chemical pro-
cesses.
The N. S. Wales Police Department
made a show of its resources in the way
of chemical analysis, microscopic inves-
tigation, finger-printing and plaster-cast-
ing, with a colored reconstruction of the
lineaments of the Pyjama Girl in the
centre of the display. Health Department
activities had a similar good advert.se-
ment. B.H.P. showed the diversity of
its products, and gas manufacturers
demonstrate their methods.
The basement, where, when the show
was in full swing, various models were
working, was a Mecca (or should one say
Meccano?) for small boys. There were
loudspeakers all over the place, and when
this showman called one was blaring
forth a Strauss waltz—“ Wine, Women
and Seng.” So these also are chemical.
Melbourne Music.
There were no signs last week of the
musical marathon at the Melbourne
Town Hall coming to an untimely end.
On Sunday week Marcel Dupre returned
to the Town Hall organ and performed
the feat of improvising on the spur of
the moment an entire symphony on
themes presented by four local com-
posers, including Louis Lavater and Mar-
garet Sutherland.
It was a display of virtuosity which
impressed the musicians who set M.
Dupre his problem, and it drew thunders
of applause from the biggest audience
Melbourne has provided, even for a free
concert. The Frenchman was then un-
wisely billed by the A.B.C. to give a
series of midday concerts for which a
mere bob and one and six were demanded
from the public. Instead of the two oi
three thousand who stormed tne hall on
Sunday only a handful turned up to hear
an equally distinguished programme.
There was no musical reason w v
pianist R ° semalre a K=nny should draw
Shfpfayed some Schubert, Beethoven and
Chopin very charmingly, and gave an
excellent exposition of the 20 items of
Schumann’s severely long “Carnival.”
But, though full of promise, she has not
yet reached Dupre’s level of achieve-
ment. She is a of Schnabel, who
thinks so much of her that he has offered
to teach her. ...
John Brownlee continued to sing him-
self further into public appreciation A
new item m his repertoire was When I
Get There,” by Herbert Carroll, an Aus-
tralian comooser whose song-writing is
liLTTwas rSSftS f ,hatT £
'eared as an encore in later programme,
Another big crowd turned up on Sa ur-
day to hear the Geelong singer work his
way through another model programme
which began with Handel and Mozart
and concluded with one ol those Eng is
panels which enable him to score so well.
The beautiful serenade of Don Gio-
vanm was sung with smoothly flowing
tone, and there was enough virility in the
Brownlee voice to carry through such
hackneyed items as “Largo al Factotum'’
and the “Toreador Song.” Accompanist
Ivor Newton earned some complimentary
adjectives both for the verve with which
he played his solo and for his tactful
accompanying.
Malcolm Sargent was in his briskest
mood when he appeared as guest-conduc-
tor for the sixth of the celebrity concerts
in conjunction with the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra. Celebrity was Melba’s
protege, S‘ella Power. The vocalist sang
ff, e “Dove Sono” from “Figaro” and the
“Alleluia” of Mozart with pure unemo-
jjonal t one> anc j j n a still small voice
w j 1 j c j 1 was ij ke a m j n j a ture of the diva’s
cwn> “g satr j ce anc j Benedict” over-
ture Berlioz, said not to have been
hither . to heard jn Aus , ralia> the |ove|y
«yU “id the ‘‘Jupiter” front
Planets suite of Gustav Holst filled
the first half of the bill. The second was
occupied by the Symphony No. 2 ot
Elgar. Its length and diffuseness would
dismay most conductors, but nothing dis-
mays Sargent, and he kept up his inspira-
don tQ tbe end
An extra celebrity concert by the Sym-
h Orchestra and organist Dupre,
conducting, completes the
~ . 6
weeks inventory,
Sydney woo,sate, the opening auction
o the IMWO -son, was tojiave^be-
f ning B hour buyers met and it was
t y the sale for a W ge k
tQ aUow t £ e £ ternational situation to
devd It was the on ly course since
Continental buyers were obviously un-
&bJe tQ operate and Japan feh her posi _
don uncer t a j n . Growers, however, need
bave no worr y a bout the position. Agents
Sydney, acting for oversea concerns,
report that there are plenty c f orders
offering and currency changes based on
tbe r j se j n the price of gold are all in
favor of sellers. Moreover, this time
Governments have not been caught nap-
ping. The fate of the clip in the event
of war has been a matter of discussion
between the British and Australian Gov-
ernments for some time.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
Ah . »
SEaOl r •sw-v
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Missing Friends.
ESTATE PATRICK NEARY, late of Lear-
month, Victoria, Australia, Farmer, deceased. —•
INFORMATION is sought as to the where-
abouts of THOMAS ADAMS, who it is
believed lived in Kalgoorlie, Western Aus-
tralia, MARGARET BEHN, of Sydney, New
South Wales, and ELIZABETH McDONALD,
of Christchurch, New Zealand, being children
of the late Margaret Adams.
CUTHBERT, MORROW, MUST & SHAW,
Solicitors, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia.
WILLIAM BURSTON, son of Benjamin Joseph
Burston and Jean Burston, formerly of Mel-
bourne, Salt River, West Australia, Rabaul
and Sydney, please communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
TO CHARLES OSBORNTBrother of HAR-
RIETT OSBORN, who died in New
Zealand on the 13th December, 1938, and
to any child of the said CHARLES
OSBORN and all persons claiming by,
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send to the undersigned on or before
the 31st October, 1939, your claims to share in
the estate of the abovenamed HARRIETT
OSBORN, failing which such estate will'be dis-
tributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 18th August,
1939 —The Solicitor, PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 209 of 1939.
BETWEEN RONALD KEITH COOPER Peti-
tioner
And MARY LAWRENCE COOPER Re-
spondent
LANCE BOWHAY Co-respondent.
TO LANCE BOWHAY of Yeoval.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RONALD
KEITH COOPER has commenced a suit
against his wife MARY LAWRENCE
COOPER in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
adultery wherein the said Ronald Keith Cooper
alleges that you have been guilty of adultery
with the within-named Mary Lawrence Cooper
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-first day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
chsrsc
DATED this 23th day of August, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. B. KELLY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wellington; by his Town Agent, MAURICn
J. McoRATH, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
A WOMANS
LETTER
By the time this is in its pink overall
the fourth farewell party given by the
Governor-General and Lady Gowrie will
be but a memory. The farewells were
late-afternoon tea-parties with sherry as
a side kick. The flowers each day were
more beautiful than the last; and each
party brought a regiment of black-
frocked women to Admiralty House.
Looking around, you realised that black
is really the wear of the rich woman.
To look its best it must still have the
gloss (so different from hard-wear shine)
of newness upon it. It must look expen-
sive in the grain, and be impeccable in
cut.
All tt»ss and more was the black with
its dash of white worn by Dame Mary
Hughes. Her hat, by the way, wore a
white ostrich plume. She was quite one
of the belles of the second day. Mrs.
Sep Levy was one of the exquisite in
black, warmed with silver fox. Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones’s frock, straight from
Paris, was black, worn under a cape of
silver fox. Her fair hair shone under a
little hat that Marie Louise might have
worn, cyclamen and royal blue feathers
its plumage.
Mrs. Toby Browne wore platinum
greys, and was having quite a yarn,
maybe “wear more wool” its theme, to
U.S.A. Consul-General Wilson. Mrs.
Peter Moore and Mrs. Howard Giblin
were two attractive guests. Lord
Lurgan, Ivie Price, Mrs. Fred Payne,
and the Peter Binghams (he’s a
nephew of Lady Gowrie) were sprinkled
through the gaieties ; so were General and
Mrs. Anderson, Captain Bracegirdle and
Captain Palmer. General Anderson is
to be deputy-comptroller to the house-
hold of the Duke of Kent, and Captain
Bracegirdle is to be the royal Governor-
General’s deputy secretary. Artist Elioth
Grtiner and Brian Cannell motored
down from the North Coast to yester-
day’s farewell. Particularly admired
were Lady Gowrie’s pale blue romaine
frock, which she wore for the first re-
ception, and one of burgundy crepes
showing the new draped skirt.
One cheering grain of news amid last
week’s dark harvest was that the grace-
ful and friendly wife of our State Gov-
ernor is on her way back. The Aorangi
will bring her to Sydney on September
22. A few days after her return she and
Lord Wakehurst will spread a garden
party, and this will give us ail a chance
to tell Lady Wakehurst how glad we are
to welcome her. The Hon. Henrietta
Loder is returning with her mother. Since
last in Australia she has finished her edu-
cation, and has been presented at Court.
Two military dances on Friday and
one on Saturday night gave our soldiers
and their best girls a surcease from worry,
anyway on the ' surface. Telephone
numbers, however, had all been left with
Authority. In spite of the absence of
eight important officers, the A.A.
Veterinary Corps officers’ mess made
quite a bright night of it at Elizabeth Bay
House on Friday. Maroon, the corps
color, appeared everywhere. Particularly
sumptuous were the wide maroon ribbon
bows with long ends sweeping to the
floor that tied up the high standards of
red roses and arum-lilies. In a reception-
room heady with stock and roses, presi-
dent of the mess Major J. A. Schofield
and his wife smiled a welcome and pre-
sented guests to * C.O. Colonel Max
Henry and daughter Judy. Liked both
Judy’s and Mrs. Schofield’s frocks. The
first wore chiffons in the pastel tones of
the moment and fluttered pale-blue
shoulder scarves. The second was a
glitter of silver lame bright with flowers.
Major Hilless and his wife were among
the dancers. If Mars should ever decide
that Sydney was a nice bombing target,
you couldn’t have a better neighbor than
Mrs. Hilless. She has graduated in A.R.P.
first aid and home nursing, and has quali-
fied as a driver of trucks and suchlike
vehicles. For the dance she was slim
brightness in apricot satins, a red flower
looped in her hair. A special salute to
mess secretary Captain H. G. Belschner,
who, in spite of war clouds and absence
of official guests, can notch up one of the
dance successes of last week. Liked the
true-love-knots of black ribbon velvet
on the skirt of Mrs. Bennet’s spreading
white organdie, and the subtly-mingled
beige and brown velvets of Mrs. G.
Payne.
Sydney “kissed the flower and turned
the hour” all right last week when in
large and opulent-looking crowds it went
to the Royal to see Marie Burke spring
up anew as a Wildflower. She was a sur-
prisingly girlish and agile Nina, quite be-
lying the never-mind-how-many years
between the revival and that very first
night when she turned Sydney’s head
with the Bambalina. This Letter hadn’t
seen the show before, and, what with
“Danzig” written as it were in letters of
warning on the night sky, it seemed im-
possible to believe in a world that had
once looked upon as important the ques-
tion as to whether Nina the village girl
could keep her temper for six months
and thereby win a fortune.
One reason for the bright sparkle in
Marie’s eye was a cable from daughter
Patricia, now appearing in a show in
London. Another was that husband was
giving a supper party for her after cur-
tain fall at Prince’s. Noticed Mrs. Rus-
sell Gillies and daughter Brenda Dun-
rich just back from their travels. Brenda
wore the prettiest cape of woollen
chenille, its fronts emblazoned with
anchors enormous enough to steady the
whole British Navy. Mrs. Harold Bott’s
feather cape in two tones of lilac won
admiring glances. Winifred Wilson and
Miss Jobson were good-looking shep-
herdesses to a young flock from Hope-
wood House. Janet Nelson, from Too-
woomba, flashed a nice smile above pink
moire. There was a vestal look about
June Burgess’s white chiffons. Mrs. E. J.
Tait and Mrs. Byron Wrigley came to-
gether. The Eric Baumes, who leave for
England in a few weeks, held impromptu
farewells.
Up to the very last minute before she
packed her hockey sticks for the great
adventure overseas, Jean Sale stuck to
her post in the Conservatorium library.
Casabianca was no firmer in sticking
it till his task was done. Jean is
librarian at the Con., and before that
she was in the Education Department.
She is a keen hockey player, and is one
of the 1939 team that will play England,
Holland, France and maybe Germany
In addition, Jean is a talented member of
the Thespians and the Y.M.C.A. group.
She has taken a leading part in “Love
from a Stranger,” “Middle Watch” and
“Baa, Baa, Black Sheep.” Photograph
from Hood.
The birth of the new little Dutch
princess was not allowed to pass without
suitable rejoicing in Sydney. On Friday
evening the Point Piper home of the
Consul-General for the Netherlands held
250 of Queen Wilhelmina’s subjects, drink-
ing the health of her latest granddaughter.
In the evening Dutch residents danced at
Cahill’s in further celebration. Orange
was, of course, the flower scheme at both
parties.
Herewith Shona Dunlop. She says
that to get the Scots tang into the name
you must stress the “lop.” Shona ought
to know, because her native heath is Dun-
edin (M.L.), and that is more Caledonian
than the Highlands. Shona is here with
the group of dancers, pupils of the
Bodenweiser method of dancing. These
girls were all taught at the State Academy
of Art in Vienna under the direction of
Madame Bodenweiser. Shona went there
direct from Dunedin, and found a Vienna
glowing with chestnut blooms —white and
pink candles alternately along the Prater.
How she loved the Prater, especially on
those feasts, such as the confirma-
tion days when the little girls and boys
who had just been confirmed, dressed in
their best, drove along its green and
happy avenues in open carriages all-
decked with white flowers.
The State Academy, where dramatic
art and music as well as dancing were
taught, overlooked the great outdoor
Skating rink for which Vienna is noted.
How stimulating it was, between classes,
to look down on the gay skaters, or to
run down to a bench in the warm sun-
shine while close by the petals from enor-
mous lilac-trees drifted down. This was
in the days before Austria became part
of Germany. The girls studied not only
the steps and movement of the dance, but
the history of its evolution. Costume, too,
and the music of the various periods
were subject matter for their examina-
tions. Since her Vienna days Shona has
toured South America.
Madame Bodenweiser is a sparkling-
eyed Viennese who wears her dark hair
Pavlova fashion. Her English is excel-
lent. Not only does she speak it, but
she reads it with discrimination. She
was talking of the necessity of art to
express its period, and she quoted Somer-
set Maugham: “Tradition should be a
guide. Do not let it become a gaol.” One
of her ballet girls is from Bulgaria, one
from Czechoslovakia by way of Vienna ;
the other three are Viennese. Their tea
party at the Australia was one of the
interesting happenings of last week.
Cards from the Sterling Levis family
reveal them at Edinburgh in full sight of
the castle. Since Joan’s presentation at
Court the family has been touring the
British Isles. Son Miles, now with them,
is to start a course of eye work in
London in September. The English and
Scots countryside is reported lovely,
harvesting in full swing and the
roadside gay with poppies. Nice and
Switzerland have already been sampled.
Ireland was next "on their visiting list.
The entertainment programme to help
Rotarians soothe their weary brows after
heavy hours of conference (from Sep-
tember 4 to 8) is so comprehensive
as to bespeak a touch of genius.
First item is a great corroboree in the
showboat Kalang on the night before the
business of the conference starts. After
a cruise about the harbor the Kalang will
land its passengers at the Royal Sydney
Yacht Club, Kirribilli, for supper, and
bring its charges back to Sydney by
eleven o’clock. On Tuesday there’s to
be an evening of good-fellowship in
Grace Brothers’ auditorium. A ball at
the Troc. and a tour of Taronga Park
are other gaieties, not forgetting a break-
fast session at the Australia next Thurs-
day at eight o’clock. This is listed “Men
Only.” But what woman, unless she were
Helen of Troy or Cleopatra, wants to
meet her public at eight in the morning?
Former Belgian Consul-General in
Sydney Henri Segaert will be with us
once again next month. What is more,
the now Minister Plenipotentiary for Bel-
gium to Siam will take the stage of the
Conservatorium just as in old times. The
French Alliance is presenting a musical
and dramatic evening for one of its good
causes, and the programme positively
coruscates. The music of Saint-Saens and
Debussy will be performed under the
direction of Bertie Kelly. The Com-
tesse Jean d’Espinay, late of the Odeon
Theatre, Paris, will throw her sparkling
little personality into dramatic recitations..
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet has
given his patronage. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
is the organiser.
Australian-born earl Lord Ducie and
his Australian-born Countess arrived in
the Otranto last week to pay a visit to
their own land. For 14 years now their
home has been at Tortworth Court, at
Falfield, in Gloucestershire. As Mr.
and Mrs. Moreton, their home was in
Maryborough (Q.).
During last week-end the life of F. J.
Davy, a Sydney businessman, became
curiously tangled with the politics of
Poland and Germany. Mrs. F. J. Davy
is manager of the Australian women’s
hockey team, just about to embark for
Europe. They were booked in the More-
ton Bay and were to get on board at
Adelaide after playing in a hockey
tournament there. All their luggage ex-
cept what would go in small hand cases
had been tucked into the ship. Then war
clouds loomed, and Authority took over
the Moreton Bay. Mrs. Davy appealed
by ’phone to her husband, and he threw
himself gladly to the task, and saw to the
unshipping of the whole team’s impedi-
menta.
Joan Hammond’s admirers had a treat
last Friday night when the first records
of her singing were the reason of a party
given by the Penfold Hylands at Toft
Monks, their Elizabeth Bay home.
George White, Cedric Ashton, William
Krasnick and Robert Miller, who make
up the Sydney String Quartet, were
among the night’s music-makers. Lady
Gowrie was a guest, and with her. were
Padre Hugh Gordon and his wife.
Noreen Dangar, Ivie Price, Clifford
Huntsman and Lord Lurgan were lis-
teners. It was a pay party, the money
going to the Joan Hammond fund. Joan
has just been signed up for 12 months as
a lead in the Vienna Opera House.
Last week the mail brought a small
book of verse by Yvonne Webb. It is
called Into the Wind, and is free of
fancy and warm with emotion.
Marjorie Hesse writes from London
telling that the day after her arrival she
was walking past Augener’s, the great
music publishing firm, and in their main
window in Great Marlborough-street she
saw three of her own compositions. Mar-
jorie, after three months in Europe
sampling the Acropolis, Capri, Venice,
Paris, Vienna, Munich, Berlin and Swit-
zerland, is settling down to hard work
with Dr. Gordon Jacob at the Royal Col-
lege, studying composition and orchestra-
tion. She has visited and played accom-
paniments for Sydney’s old friend Spencer
Thomas. Dorothy Helmrich, Dulcie Hol-
land, Osric Fyffe and the helpful Jimmy
Walker are among her little circle.
Jimmy’s latest work was conducting at
the Saville Theatre for J. B. Priestley’s
play “Johnson Over Jordan.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1316 of 1939.
BETWEEN IVY MARY BARNARD Petitioner
And JOHN TREVOR BARNARD Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN TREVOR BARNARD late of
Marion Street Clovelly in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY MARY
BARNARD has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wil-
fully deserted her and without any such cause
or excuse have left her continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Sixteenth day of November 1939
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 17th day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BOD if,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 917 of 1934.
BETWEEN MARY ETHEL SMITH Peti-
tioner
And JOHN CHARLES SMITH Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN CHARLES SMITH formerly of
Broadmeadow in the State of New South
Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ETHEL SMITH has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Third day of November a.d.
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this sixteenth day of August a.d.
1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GILBERT C. MURDOCH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1222 of 1939.
BETWEEN AVENIA JANE YERBURY
(formerly AVENIA JANE KITSON)
Petitioner
And ARCHIBALD EDWARD YERBURY
Respondent.
TO ARCHIBALD EDWARD YERBURY late
of Hillston Leetan and Griffith.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AVENIA
JANE YERBURY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day
of November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day <?f August, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
C. D’A. ROBERTS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 56 Young Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction. •
No. 1240 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY ANN FISHER Petitioner
And WALTER FISHER Respondent.
TO WALTER FISHER late of Canowindra
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY ANN
FISHER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day of
November 1939 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 15th day of August, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. S. DAVIES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 61 of 1939.
BETWEEN GLADYS ELLEN CHATMAN
Petitioner
And GORDON NEIL CHATMAN Re-
spondent.
FO GORDON NEIL CHATMAN late of
Dubbo in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
ELLEN CHATMAN has commenced a suit
igainst you in this Court and is praying for a
fissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-second day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 23rd day of August. 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ERROL V. HICKEY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week Melbourne abounded with
professors of physics, dentists and golfers.
The scientists were here for the Aus-
tralian branch of the Institute of Physi-
cists’ Conference ; the dentists gathered
together for similar discussions in their
line of work, and the golfers, among
them some of the lowest-markers from
all over Australia, competed against one
another for honor and glory (in theory
and in practical hardware) on the links
at Royal Melbourne. Stormy weather
and damp fairways diminished their
galleries somewhat on several days, but
interest was very keen in the national
open championship title. For the first
round of this event the first pair got away
at the breakfast-time hour of 8.30, and
the last pair (there were 130 entries) at
2.30, arriving back at the nineteenth with
still a little daylight to spare.
The physicists, a race apart from
ordinary human beings, who greet a
cosmic ray x as an old pal and live on
terms of intimacy with neutrons, elec-
trons and other mysterious phenomena,
spent most of their time at lectures and
inspections of munition and aircraft fac-
tories, communicating with one another
in their own language (mostly log-
arithms). If they came up for air it was
at night only.
Those present at the Dentists’ Con-
gress managed some time off for golf
and drives in the country and a pro-
gramme tightly packed with cocktails and
dinners. Their luncheons were often
eaten at the University cafeteria. These
dentists took like a drill does to a tooth
to the idea of lining up with their trays
among all the hungry students. It was
the cafeteria and not the restaurant up-
stairs which served them the most meals.
Many of the visiting tooth-pullers
brought their wives with them, so that
practically all the hotels were full.
Two social fixtures, the only large
affairs for which the sexes were segre-
gated, were a successful women’s dinner
at No. 9 Darling-street, coinciding with
an evening when the men were enjoying
a Harmony Convention (a smoke night
with trappings) in the South Melbourne
Town Hall. Souvenirs of this bright
smoke night were engraved beer-mugs
for everybody. The womenfolk, too,
received their souvenirs, presents to them
from the men, which helped to decorate
their tables. They were quaint little
drumsticks which are supposed to save
lily-white hands the energy of clapping
after-dinner speeches. The last big social
function of the congress was the dental
ball at the Palais.
The Little Theatre’s original invita-
tions to a “Theatrical Frolic” at Gros-
venor, in three acts and five scenes, in-
cluding the Supper, the Dancing, the
Drinking and the Prizegiving, attracted
over 250 people, most of them in fancy
dress (attire was optional, but according
to the invitations it was compulsory to
be present). For her Venetian lady, Love-
day Hills won a first prize of a travelling
clock, so she no longer has any excuse
for being late for any appointments.
Mrs. Alf Johns also received recognition
for her Cuban lady, as did Cuthbert Bar-
rington for his idea of the Founder of
a New Religion (his was a bare-knee cult)
and Syd Benjamin for his Football Re-
sults (mostly mud and bruises). Irene
Mitchell made an imposing Queen Vic-
toria, and Pat Henry displayed a shapely
pair of legs as the youthful Hiawatha.
Pink and white blossom brought spring
into Grosvenor for the Trustees, Execu-
tors and Agency Co.’s dance, a yearly
present to the staff from the directors
and management. Hon. secs, were W. R.
Wright, E. Bloomfield and Miss L. Pater-
son. She was busy with various details
before and during the party, and she also
assisted two young maidens in distress
who had left their tickets at home and
visioned their all-important young men
being locked outside in the cold and the
wet. Among the 260-odd present were
General Brudenell White, Stuart Murray,
the Sydney Jones couple, K. M. Hughes,
John Fordyce (who was happy when he
saw a bridge table had been prepared for
him) and his daughter Elsie, and Mr. and
Mrs. G. V. Briggs. A solo table was
a counter-attraction to the swing music
for the S. H. Scotts, the Norman Thom-
sons and E. Bradley.
Broothorn made this photograph of
Mrs. P. V. Nagel, whose husband was
one of the long-distance visitors in Mel-
bourne for the Dental Congress. The
couple came from Stanthorpe, in Queens-
land, and took a leisurely week over their
journey by car. They expected to be home
again and reunited with small daughter
Janice, aged two, on Sunday evening,
27th. Mrs. Nagel’s hobbies are tennis
and golf.
With its £156 profits the lucky dip at
the Queen Victoria Hospital bridge party
at No. 9 Darling-street must have broken
a few records for an afternoon function
at least. Much of its success was due to
the persuasive powers of Mrs. Ted Tron-
son and Mrs. Eric Harrison, who received
many valuable gifts from business firms.
Mrs. Rupert Harvey also assisted materi-
ally by organising out of thin air and all
in a few days a bridge party in her own
home in Whernside-avenue to help defray
expenses of the dip.
At the bridge party the foyer of No. 9
was festive to the ceiling with white
blossom, a useful furbishing left over
from the Landale-Squires wedding. Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh won a turkey with the
right raffle ticket, a popular drawing, for
she defrayed all expenses of the party.
Mrs. Charles No drum’s luck seemed to
run towards sheer silk, for she won
several pairs of stockings. Mrs. W. J.
Flynn’s acquisition was a handsome
handbag, and a string of pearls fell into
the hands of Mrs. Harley Styles. Over
the telephone Gavin Paton (at his job of
work among motor vehicles) received the
pleasant surprise of a night out, with
dinner and dancing, for four. The
winner of a case of whisky had given his
address as the Austin Hospital, so that
draw was particularly popular. Among
young people who helped were Beatrice
Mollard with her trayful of Turkish
delight and other sugary morsels, Althea
Drake-Brockman with cigarettes for sale,
and Peggy Tronson and April Mack-
intosh, who saw that nobody had a lapel
unadorned with flowers.
The International Club gave a party
last week at which the nations mixed as
amicably as ever. A Polish member saw
that a German visitor had her teacup re-
plenished at the most opportune moment,
and with something very small and ex-
pensive in cameras a Japanese waited his
chance to photograph the guests of honor,
Monsieur and Madame Dupre, who both
made short speeches of appreciation
about the welcome they had had in Aus-
tralia. The French Consul came to the
party, but the disabilities of winter chill
prevented Madame Puaux from being
present to chat with her countrymen.
The handsome table in the boardroom
of St. Vincent’s Hospital reflected in its
polished surface party decorations of Ice-
land poppies, orange candles in silver
candelabra, orange squash in tall glass
jugs and silver peacocks with magnificent
long tails. The gathering, at which the
Mother Rectress was hostess, was an
opportunity for the auxiliary represen-
tatives to discuss plans for St. Vincent’s
Ball, to be held in the Melbourne Town
Hall on Cup eve. President Mrs. Len
Buxton and vice-president Mrs. J. J. Daly
addressed the meeting, which progressed
successfully.
Present also were the chairman of
the medical staff, Dr. Frank Davies,
with his wife, and the dean of the
clinical school, R. F. O’Sullivan, and
his better-half. Persuaded to speak to
the assembly, Mr. O’Sullivan, short, firm
and sturdy, with his feet firmly planted
on the floor, looked it in the eye and an-
nounced that although he wasn’t up to
date in the newest hot rhythms he’d seen
a lot of people who were, of all ages up
to 70, and a Cup eve date was a good
one for them to keep in mind. It was
agreed to have a lucky dip at the ball,
for which the first gift was immediately
forthcoming, a quaint toy of the genus
spotted dog, brought to the hospital for
the dip contingency by Mrs. D. -W.
Reddan.
Peggy Tronson, who returned from
Europe recently with her aunt, Mrs.
Adrian Boccard, brought with her her
portrait, painted in Paris by Jean Gabriel
Doumergue. one of the fashionable
modernists who are making a lot of money
at the moment painting portraits, of
young girls particularly. During a recent
visit to the U.S.A. he executed 25 com-
missions. Peggy said she enjoyed her
sittings. Monsieur was no martinet, and
showed no objection to her moving now
and then nor to a little light conversa-
tion in French, his English being very
limited. Peggy found him an amiable
and suave Frenchman, “elderly” but with
a light in his eye, wearing a little goatee
beard and a long white dentist’s coat. His
elegant, centrally-heated studio is in his
own home. Peggy’s portrait is character-
istically colorful. She is wearing an even-
ing gown without shoulder-straps of tur-
quoise and ivory gauze, and her fair hair
is long on her shoulders and tied with
a big jeune fille bow of multicolored
ribbon.
Wearing the hat that’s a challenge to
spring is Mrs. J. F. Chambers, who re-
cently returned from abroad with several
such intriguing millinery appurtenances.
Her holiday was short —she was away
only four months. Home called, for it
was the first time she had left her hus-
band and her children. Mrs. Chambers
enjoyed particularly her motoring tour-
with friends through France, Italy and
Germany. The only flying she did was
from Marseilles to London. She still
likes the air, but only as a passenger,
having let her air pilot’s license lapse
during the last few years. Broothorn
photograph.
Kate Baker, who with Stella Miles
Franklin won the Prior Memorial
Prize for “Who Was Joseph Furphy?”
is living quietly at No. 7 Norman-avenue,
South Yarra. Among her most precious
possessions are two packing cases full
of Furphy’s letters and manuscripts. Miss
Baker, who is the most modest of women,
makes no claims to being Furphy’s “guid-
ing star,” but people who knew him
intimately agree that that is just what
she was. They say that but for the
encouragement given him by her (she
was then a young schoolteacher with a
deep love of literature) he would never
have persevered with his writing. In
those days he was bullock-driving up
around Rochester and Miss Baker was
boarding with his parents at a little town-
ship several miles away. Miss Baker has
taught young Victorians all over the
State. Two years ago she received an
0.8. E. for her practical interest in Aus-
tralian literature.
Among the most intent listeners at
John Brownlee’s four concerts were his
three young cousins, Bruce, John and
Patrick, steps-and-stairs of Mrs. Gordon
Brownlee. The boys look upon the singer
of the family as a particularly stout
fellow, the sort of cousin who isn’t pre-
sented to many other lads of their
acquaintance. Other relatives always
present were the singer’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. James Brownlee, his wife, his
sisters, Jessie and Christine Brownlee, and
the boys’ mother, Mrs. Gordon Brownlee.
At one of the concerts Mrs. Sid
Gullett was a picturesque figure in ice-
blue gown with gloves and bag to match
and a white ermine wrap, kindred spirit
to her lovely white hair. Another much-
admired coiffure belonged to Mrs. R. A.
Little, whose hair was well suited to its
“blue dip.'’ Mrs. J. Orme Smith wore
orchids upon her fur coat. Belle Craig’s
earrings dangled like clusters of coral
grapes. Mrs. M. H. Baillieu, who wore
a black velvet cloak over her black gown,
was accompanied by daughter Sandra,
also in black, with a glimmer of ermine
as a characteristic accessory for the collar
of her velvet wrap.


FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don't pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
AUSTR A, U I A. N
WOMAN’S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production “ ~
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom —Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“F.N.”: Forgan Smith opened Mac-
kay’s million-pound harbor on August 26
—the Premier is member for Mackay.
He arrived in one of Vestey’s Star boats
amid a general air of festivity. Shops
were closed, streets were beflagged, Em-
pire flying boats were diverted from their
routes to be present, and there were
speeches as long as the breakwater. But
Mackay would have put up with much
more than that to get its harbor.
* * * *
“X.T.”: People have been seeing sub-
marines off the North Queensland coast.
The first story was that they had been
noticed coming through Torres Strait.
Then they appeared inside the reefs near
Palm Island abo. station. Finally, lights
and other manifestations were noticed
near the southern extremity of the
Barrier. Names of observers, of course,
were not given. Defence Minister Street,
after aerial investigation, says that the
objects were very likely whales. Possibly,
but the whale or the submarine which
ventures into those waters takes a big
risk. There isn’t an outlet through the
reef for tens of miles together. The in-
side waters are full of jagged coral, and
the sub. that ventured in there would have
little chance of getting out uncaught once
sighted. A Thursday Island man who
knows the waters round Cape York and
the Strait islands says that there is “no
concrete evidence” of any submarine
having been in those parts, but he adds
that in the present state of our northern
patrols, and with the region swarming
with foreigners, “anything might happen.”
A fleet might be guided through the chan-
nels of those waters by anybody who
knew them without Authority being any
the wiser.
* * * *
“Ayr”: Under the Queensland Motor
Spirit Act production of power alcohol
rose 100,000 gallons to a total of 714,000
gallons last year. The Act compels ven-
dors of motor fuel to buy two gallons
of locally-produced alcohol for every
100 gallons of spirit sold. Alcohol sales
have reached an average of over 80,000
gallons a month. It would not hurt if
other Australian States helped northern
industry by introducing the same type
of regulation. But Australian States seem
to be watertight compartments.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The ’plane continues to
make mere distances a joke in Australia’s
Far North. The N.T.’s chief medical officer
visited all the 10 hospital bases, a matter
of 2740 miles, in 10 days, partly flown
by Dr. Clyde Fenton, the rest by airlines.
On the ground it would have required
3400 miles’ travel, occupying over two
months. A relieving constable was sent
from Darwin to Lake Nash, 1340 miles.
He covered 1190 miles to Camooweal
(n.-w. Q.) by airliner and 150 miles by
car- —total travel time 30 hours. The
Minister of Health wanted an opinion
from the Protector of Abos. at Thursday
Island, and wired to him to come to
Brisbane. The Protector was away in the
Gulf of Carpentaria inspecting missions,
but a radio enabled him to board an
Empire flying boat at Karumba, and he
was in Brisbane 11 hours later. Forty-
eight hours afterwards he was back on
his boat again in the Gulf.
“Mataranka”: The shrinking con-
stabulary of the N.T. are going through
a tough time. First, the Interior De-
partment took from them their right to
call themselves mounted troopers, a
designation which distinguished them
from the ordinary unromantic pavement-
pounders of the cities. Now a union
organiser has risen to complain that
they are employed as chauffeurs, cook-
boys and messengers for Government
House—yes, it is “Government House”
now, instead of merely the “Residency.”
Mr. Abbott, of Government House,
vigorously denies the accusation, and the
Police Superintendent says it is “all eye-
wash.”
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Dr. H. Thompson,
chief of the Fisheries Section of the
C.S. and 1.R., has told Australia that the
prospects of a big tuna canning industry
are excellent, and that it will have im-
portant advantages over the American
one. All species used in America are
found in Australian waters, also other
usable ones, and their quality is superior.
Most of the 70,000 tons of tuna which
was processed into 3,000,000 cases in
“Some mug left it in a park!”
California last year was taken in waters
nearly 3000 miles away, whereas the
greatest distance for Australian supplies
need not be over 300 miles. The Minis-
ter for Supply and Development has also
prophesied a great future in that line.
But, as querulous professional fisher-
men keep on pointing out, imports of
cheap tinned fish from overseas have pre-
vented, still prevent, and w.ll continue
to prevent anything of the kind so long
as they are allowed. It is a useful bar-
gaining instrument for Canberra, but we
cannot have it both ways.
* * * =?
“Dungeness”: Oskar Speck, who
arrived in Samarai in an 18ft. canvas
canoe, has certainly been having adven-
tures. The canoe is the sixth he has used
on a four-year voyage from Hamburg
via the Rhine, Danube, Black Sea, Medi-
terranean, Red Sea and Indian Ocean,
around the Dutch Indies, north-about
along the coasts of Dutch New Guinea
and the Mandated Territory, and along
the eastern end of Papua. The next leg
of the voyage will be to Thursday Island,
southward by the Great Barrier Reef
Inner Passage and thence to Sydney.
* V * *
“Kiap”: The committee on the amal-
gamation of New Guinea and Papua is
writing its report, which is likely to be
unfavorable and will concern itself
largely with “difficulties.” The move-
ment received an unexpected blow from
Hubert Murray, who declared himself
opposed to “any form of amalgamation,
combination, federation or co-ordina-
tion.” He rested his objections chiefly
on grounds of administration and
finance, considering that “both territories
were doing well” and that “it is wise
to leave well alone.” If, contrary to his
advice, he declared, amalgamation were
decided upon, he would willingly help,
and he thought the first step should be
the creation of a board of advice. How-
ever, it is a matter which the Common-
wealth Government should consider not
on the basis of local opinion and con-
venience but on that of national policy.
New Guinea and its islands and the
Solomon Islands form a large and valu-
able possession as rich in possibilities
as the major islands of the East Indies,
which have made the Netherlands Indies
a wealthy world Power. They should
have a unified Government, policy, civil
service and defence plan, and they will
not be safely Australian till they get it.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Thanks to the Government’s
pampering policy, New Guinea, with
500,000 natives, mostly engaged in sit-
ting under palm-trees for the greater
part of the day, is suffering from a severe
labor shortage. Not long ago it was in-
tensified through the closing of several
areas to recruiters, “in the interests of
the natives.” A meeting of employers at
Rabaul considered two alternatives —the
handing over of recruiting to a Govern-
ment-controlled labor bureau and the im-
portation of Asiatic coolie labor. That
Australia won’t have. There are thou-
sands of boys who would be willing to
sign indentures, and who would be better
for the work, but “interests” discourage
men from leaving their own districts and
the attitude of the Administration is
unhelpful.
* * * *
“Gain”: Papua is thinking of send-
ing out an expedition of headhunters
to catch a clerical gent, who has been
telling the English of his experiences in
a tome which he has called The Happy
T raveller :
Port Moresby has no harbor. Ships have
to lie some miles off the coast. The
town has no laid-out streets, the bungalows
being erected in clearings in the jungle.
Should you go inland you will be quite safe
if, when approaching a village, you adopt
a fearless air, raise your arms in the air,
and shout “Kai-kai.” “Kai-kai” means
“peace.”
Good stuff, but the visitor missed the
giant anacondas in the Moresby pubs
and the dance of the headhunters under
the electric lights of Hanuabada village.
And he did not apparently know that
they serve “long pig,” a useful domestic
animal which the local sinabada seeks in
vain to domesticate, at every local
banquet usually with a dressing of
choice Scotch wines.
* * : ‘i
“Ugar”: Whatever their practices may
have been in the past with regard to in-
fanticide, the Torres Strait islanders
haven’t any illusions to-day about the
necessity for maintaining the population
at full strength, which no doubt accounts
for the fact that on some islands num-
bers have doubled through natural in-
crease during the last 20 years or so.
And the native councillors keep tally to
see that each pi'ospective mother does
her duty. A dusky official told me: “We
got names b’long all women that must
have piccaninny this year and next year,
and we tell them, ‘You look out good ;
this island got to have plenty man, so
he can come up good. ’Spose you no get
piccaninny, then we want to know which
way.’ ” At one time, should a couple
decide on limitation of the family, they
would get the native nurse to take and
bury portion of the umbilical cord (which
was placed inside a trumpet shell); until
this was dug up again, “Woman she can’t
have piccaninny any more!” But this
idea is out of favor now.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Forty-four years ago, out
from Coolgardie in the Wealth of Nations
locality, two young fellows, Alf Wilson
and Frank Campbell, both from the Cab-
bage Garden, were working a small show.
Campbell went down with typhoid. Day
and night Wilson nursed him, unable to
leave in search of help. Water was scarce,
food also; and it was midsummer.
Campbell became delirious. After that
Wilson hardly dared to close his eyes
lest his mate wander away into the bush.
Twice this nearly happened. At last
came the full moon. Taking his mate on
his back and waterbag in hand, Wilson
set off for the nearest camp, my elder
brother’s, seven miles away. It had
been impossible to venture on this jour-
ney during the day, nor had it been
possible through the nights of dark. From
sundown to daybreak was the span of
that nightmare journey. Over the
roughest~of country —sand, scrub, gullies,
stony ridges. A hundred times Wilson
tripped and fell. And when he finally
collapsed at my brother’s tent door it
was difficult to tell for the moment which
was the sicker man. It would be good
to say that Campbell recovered ; but he
didn’t. Ten days he lingered. Then they
buried him in a coffin made from a
couple of kerosene-cases and some sheets
of bark. The Lord’s Prayer was his only
burial service.


Stop the Tax Grab!
Resist new taxation
for further fantastic spending
“OUR SERVANTS ARE BRINGING US TO OUR KNEES”
Expenditure
£14,471,000
O
D
1911
Expenditure
i 34.447.000
1921
Expenditure
£51450.000
1931
Expenditure
£61.596.000
l
5t
1939
The Government of N.S.W. spent over £61,000,000
in the financial year 1938-39 (this almost equals the
amount spent by all other States combined
... it exceeds pre-depression levels by £21,000,000
a year). The Premier (Mr. Mair) now calmly asserts
that further taxation is inevitable. In fact "the
public will be asked to dip rather deeply into their
pockets."
The public have dipped deeply enough to pay
for their servants' reckless financial binge. It will
be no case of "dipping" to meet fresh taxation ...
it will be a case of digging desperately for every
farthing.
The Servant calls the tune —
the Master pays the piper
We are asked to meet further taxation before we
are told what happened to the £61,000,000 spent
last year. Mr. Mair says there was no waste. We
want more than his assurance or statement ... we
want PROOF! No waste
when 150 State politicians
travel free on our railways!
. . . when literally millions
are sunk in unproductive
avenues ... when thousands
of pounds are spent on ex-
pensive Royal Commissions!
. . . when uneconomic tour-
ists' roads are built at a cost
of £ 100,000! ... when pub-
lic moneys are used to build
dance pavilions and dress-
ing sheds! ...
VOICED FOR
Protest by Telephone
Protest by Letter
Protest Personally!
Bat PROTEST to your State
Member. He is paid to represent
you let him know your views.
PROTEST NOW!
Taxa:ion breeds poverty . . .
Ever/ individual, every company, every corporation
has to live within its income because none has un-
limited supplies of cash on which to draw. Neither
has the N.5.W. Government. Reckless spend-
ing cannot bring prosperity. Funds that might have
been invested in factories, industrial undertakings,
and other enterprises productive of widespread
employment have gone, and still are going, through
taxation, into the bottomless pit of wasteful
Governmental expenditure. Thus industry is crippled
. . . unemployment grows . . . the politicians' pan-
acea is "More Taxation" . . . And so we go round
the vicious circle, faster and faster, until our
momentum becomes so great we fly off the edge
to individual and nafonal bankruptcy.
Demand your righls . . .
With cool audacity the Government is now asking
Parliament to pass fresh taxation legislation
before the Budget is introduced. If Parliament
does so, it spinelessly relin-
quishes a right your ances-
tors gained with Magna
Charta ... a right which in
the past your ancestors
guarded with their life-
blood . . . the right of Par-
liament to control the pub-
lic purse.
Demand that your State
Member exercise that right.
You have to pay the
piper —so you should
call the tune .
THE PEOPLE DY
The Taxpayers’ Association of N.S.W., He Castlereagh St., Sydney
John M. White, Secretary,
ns "


MACQUARIE GROVE
FLYING and GLIDER
SCHOOL PTY., LTD.
CAMDEN, N.S.W. —'Phone: Camden 13.
Official opening of the new hangar
and workshop by the Minister of
Aviation, Mr. J. V. Fairbairn, M.H.R.,
on Saturday, September 30, in con-
junction with the Royal Aero Club
Aerial Race Day.
Dance in hangar at night, for which
tickets are available at 15/- each,
including refreshments.
Receive flying instruction at the company’s own
ideally situated aerodrome at Camden.
Training ab initio to Commercial Pilot’s
Licence.
Write for particulars.
E. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, Manager,
Box 4, Camden.
The AIRCRAFT
INDUSTRY says:—
“There is a demand for A.E.S.
Graduates.”
This is the ONLY School providing
INDIVIDUAL
INSTRUCTION
with PRACTICAL TRAINING on
IN-LINE and MODERN RADIAL
ENGINES
Students are trained to fill responsible
positions >vith a course including
AIRCRAFT ENGINE OVERHAUL
AIRCRAFT METAL WORK
AIRCRAFT DRAFTING
AIRCRAFT AND ENGINE
MAINTENANCE
Only Students who, on graduation, will
be iin asset to themselves, the Aircraft
Industry and the School are enrolled.
We have Government Licensed Engineers
of high repute as instructors.
Our Aero. Engine Training Equipment
is more comprehensive than in any
other school in Australia.
A.E.S. graduates have been placed
within the Aircraft Industry inside our
first year of operations.
Write or call on
THE AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERING SCHOOL,
30 Cleland Street, Mascot, N.S.W.
THE FLYING COLUMN
High-altitude Passenger
Flying.
One of the most interesting features
of proposed British and American pas-
senger aircraft is a supercharged, sealed
fuselage to enable passengers to rest in
comfort at atmospheric pressure approxi-
mating that at sea-level, whilst flying in
clear, calm and less dense air thousands
of feet above the earth. The Fairey Co.,
England, and the Seversky Co., U.S.A.,
are progressing with such designs.
An aeroplane operates more economi-
cally and comfortably at altitudes
between 15,000 and 30,000 feet, higher
speeds being obtained without increased
expenditure of engine power. But in
an open machine, flying at 18,000 ft. or
over, the decrease in atmospheric pres-
sure and density causes muscular fatigue
and breathlessness. Changes of pressure
in climbing and, conversely, losing
height cause further discomfort.
The technical details of such super-
charged airliners are interesting. Air is
supplied to the sealed fuselage at ground-
level pressure from two superchargers
driven by two of the ’plane’s four
engines. The air is forced through an
inlet valve at a given pressure, and should
that become too high an outlet valve
operates automatically. The super-
chargers are designed to deliver up to
20 cu. ft. of conditioned air a minute
for every passenger, more than double
the quantity actually needed.
The safeguards against leakage through
the fuselage walls are extensive. Thou-
sands of rivets are used in the metal skin
covering the fuselage, each rivet sealed
with material tested in high water pres-
sures much in excess of atmospheric
pressures. The sealing material is used
along every seam of the metal skin where
sheets meet or overlap.
Calculations show that the power re-
quired to fly at 15,000 ft. is only 85 p.c.
of that required for flying at the same
speed at sea-level. The consequent sav-
ing of fuel by one of the new liners on
a 1000-mile journey at 15,000 ft., com-
pared with a similar flight at 7000 ft.,
amounts to 5001 b. in weight. The rate
of climb of a modern liner is about
300 ft. per minute, since passengers might
be affected by any more rapid change
in atmospheric density. At this rate of
climb, 50 minutes’ flying is needed to
reach 15,000 ft. ; and the descent must
take just as long. In comparison, the
Fairey liners will be able to ascend to
15,000 ft. in 15 minutes.
Fourteen of the new Fairey liners are
on order for use on European and Em-
pire routes. They are 19-ton monoplanes,
designed to cruise at 220-230 miles an
hour with 30 passengers at 15,000f1.
Their top speed in level flight will be
about 275 m.p.h.; and their non-stop
range will be, according to the payload
carried, between 500 and 1700 miles.
Four engines are to be fitted in the lead-
ing edges of the wings. These will prob-
ably be Bristol Taurus air-cooled, sleeve-
valve motors of 1025 h.p. each.
The liners will have auxiliary wings
which may be brought into action at the
take-off and landing, thus providing
extra lift at critical stages of flight. When
in use these auxiliary wings will tem-
porarily convert the monoplane liner into
what is virtually a biplane with staggered
wings of unequal span and chord, and
will reduce the wing-loading from 32.51 b.
to 251 b. When in full flight the auxili-
ary wings will be retracted into recesses
in the main wings.
D. B. K.
Good Flying.
Flying accidents don’t just happen;
there’s always a reason. And they can
be avoided.
Some things should always be remem-
bered.
Don’t take things for granted. Check
over fuel and controls before you take-
off. It is the mark of a good pilot.
Get away from home. You may know
your own ’drome well enough, but a
“I do hope you don't mind me hanging my washing here, pilot."
few landings in strange ’dromes are
good experience. When qualified, do all
the cross-country flying possible. Pick
out wind directions from trees, smoke,
water, grass, etc.; leave the windsock
till last.
Watch the weather. Stay on the
ground when things look doubtful.
Study the regulations. Watch for
signals and obey them.
Don’t show off when flying.
Know your limitations. Don’t try to
perform the impossible with yourself or
your ’plane.
Think ahead.
Remember, too, the rule: Fly high.
Fly fast. Keep your nose down on turns
and your mind on the job.
LIONEL WATSON- Pilot.
Owner-pilots will find much to interest
them in the new Piper “Cub” aircraft
now available through various State dis-
THE PIPER “CUB” COUPE LIGHT AEROPLANE.
tributors. Demonstration machines due
in Sydney shortly include the 50-h.p.
Sport (85 m.p.h. and costing £710) and
the 65-h.p. coupe (100 m.p.h.; £875). The
latter machine is illustrated here. The
Piper designs come from U.S.A., and
aim at low-running costs, safety and ease
of operation. Australian representative
is Wings, Ltd., 32 Jamieson-street, Syd-
ney, which also conducts an attractive in-
struction course in flying.
“R.F.C.”: July 31 was the forty-fifth
anniversary of what was probably the
earliest heavier-than-air flight on a power-
driven man-carrying ’plane. It was made
in Kent, England, by Hiram Maxim, as
pilot, witn Arthur Guthrie and Thomas
Jackson as operating mechanics. Hiram
Maxim spent over £20,000 experiment-
ing in mechanical flight. In this case he
made a compound steam-engine, develop-
ing 180 b.h.p., but weighing only 3101 b.,
and mounted two of these on a machine
with a wing span of 104 ft. It rose
from the ground at 45 m.p.h., and flew
for about eight seconds. The aim was
to perform only a straight-line flight, and
the machine had a controlled rise of no
more than 2in. from the ground. Maxim
held that altitude record (2in.) for over
nine years.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”:, A.W.A. has completed
radio equipment for installation at Auck-
land (M.L.) to provide continuous con-
tact with flying-boats crossing the Tas-
man once the service to M.L. is begun.
Transmission will be both by telegraphy
and telephony. Adcock-type short- and
long-wave direction-finders are included
to afford a check on the position of any
’plane in flight. Bearings will be taken
at the Auckland station, with cross bear-
ings taken from a second station. Every
flying-boat will carry a radio compass
and homing device. By use of the com-
pass, the navigator will be able, regard-
less of weather, to plot bearings on the
new Auckland station, together with one
or more other stations. The “homer”
can be used to fly directly towards a
station, even though it may be a few
hundred miles distant.
* * * *
“Musso II.”: Figures published in
“Le Vie dell’ Aria,” which the English
“Aeroplane” reprints with the remark
that “there is no reason to doubt their
accuracy,” claim that during the Spanish
war Italy had two groups of heavy
bombers, two groups of high-speed
bombers, one autonomous group, three
groups of pursuit ’planes and a few
others in Spain, with a group of night
bombers operating with two groups of
high-speed bombers and one of pursuit
’planes in the Balearics. Personnel, in-
cluding civilians, was 6011 —which would
mean 200 to 300 pilots in service. There
were 86,420 flights ; about 2500 tons of
bombs were dropped and 1,042,712 cart-
ridges fired. Combats numbered 266,
bombardments 5318, reconnaissances
2170 and ground attacks 155. The
Italians claim to have sunk 224 ships
and shot down 903 “loyalist” planes,
apart from 40 destroyed on the ground,
at a cost of 86 of their own machines.
Judging from pictures of some of the
Russian machines and the reports on
Russian armament, the figures are be-
lievable.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Aeroplanes have strange and
exciting lives Smithy’s trans-Pacific
Fokker was rebuilt from George Wil-
kins’s Polar ’plane—but few have met
the adventures of a bus which has just
had its quietus in Washington (U.S.A.).
It was a Granville Gee Bee, bought by
Jacqueline Cochrane for the Mildenhall-
to-Melbourne race and forced down in
Rumania, where the lady sold it. The
Rumanians handed it to the Yankees
again, who raced it in various long-
distance contests. A Mexican had it next
and broke the record from Mexico City
to New York—23so miles in' lOhr. 47min.
He was killed when taking off on the
return trip.
* * * *
“Aileron”: British air figures, charted
by the “Economist,” show enormous
progress during the last 10 years.
Licensed pilots have increased from
under 1000 in all categories to about
10,000. Passenger mileage in ’29 was
7,000,000; in 1938 it was just on
60,000,000. And light-aeroplane-club
membership has grown in 10 years from
under 1000 to 9000.
* * * *
“Nazi Bill”: Hitler has done himself
pretty well with his new private ’plane —
a converted mail line Focke-Wulf Condor
which, like everything from purges to
palaces, he seems to have designed him-
self. The machine has a top speed of
over 250 m.p.h., and ordinarily would
carry 26 passengers, but it has been fitted
with a lounge, an office, a guardroom for
S.S. men, a buffet, toilet rooms and a
refrigerator.


TELL your story
in the WEST
Through
6PM Per* ...
6AM Northam. .
6KG Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse.. St. George’s Tee., PertSi
ft
ft
9i
$
?<•/
The Circuits
of Australia’s
Standard Sets
Specially compiled for instant reference,
the circuits of Australia’s Standard
1937 Sets are contained in Vol. 1 (392
pages), and the 1938 circuits are con-
tained in Vol. 2 (412 pages*.
Price of either Volume, 7/6 (with limp
covers) or 10/- (with stiff covers) ;
postage. Sd.
In addition to the circuits, each volume
contains dozens of pages of data which
are indispensable to the radio amateur
or professional serviceman*.
Australian Official
Radio Service Manua f
is recognised as Australia’s Standard work. Obtain-
able from radio and electrical wholesalers, book-
sellers, or the Publishers, “The Electrical & Radio
World.” G.P.O Box 1538-V, Brisbane.
PAYMART
PRECISION DIALS
ę
All metal parts
insulated from
shaft for safety
—spun nickel
finish —f i n e
appearance and
accurate to the
last degree.
Type TXJ,
as illustratedj
22in. dia.
list Price,
9/6.
Write or ’phone “The Friendly Wholesale
House” for full particulars of all amateur
requirements.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
Clarence Street. Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGE
Transmitter Coupling for
End-fed Aerials
One of the most useful methods of
aerial coupling for the transmitting ex-
perimenter is the “Collins coupler” or
Pi-network. It provides an efficient match
for any single-wire system of almost any
length, and gives good harmonic discrimi-
nation. Illustrated is a circuit arrange-
ment, as suggested by G8US in “Short-
wave Magazine” (Eng.). The scheme
should be worth a trial, especially where
interference with near-by broadcast
listeners is a problem.
LI, Cl, and C2 form the usual arrange-
ment, in this case link-coupled to the
P.A. output tank coil, with an additional
tuned circuit, L2, C3, in the earth lead.
The coupler is adjusted in the ordinary
way, with C3 at minimum capacity. The
Modified Collins coupler for Marconi
and end-fed transmitting aerials.
latter is then moved towards maximum
until a further resonance effect is ob-
tained, the result being an increased read-
ing on the aerial ammeter A and a corre-
sponding improvement in sigpal strength.
It is not possible to apply the system
to twin-fed aerials or even to those in-
volving the use of single-wire feeders.
The size of L 2 will be dependent upon
the length of the earth lead and coupling
between LI, and the P.A. tank must be
loose enough to avoid too great an in-
crease in plate current when C 3 is tuned
to resonance. If the coupler is being
correctly used in the first place there wili
be no excessive rise in plate current when
L2/C3 is in tune.
Twin-feed systems cannot be used be-
cause the coupling circuit is already in
balance and working independently of a
direct earth connection. With single-wire-
feeder systems, the first essential is that
the feeder must not radiate. In other
words, it must not carry standing waves.
If the s.-w.-f. type aerial is used on this
coupler, the whole will tend to work as
a Marconi system, throwing the “flat-
top” out of action as a Hertz. Thus a
mistuned s.-w.-f. system would go on
working, but not in the way intended,
since the feeder line would be radiating
instead of acting as a matching trans-
former.
This modified Collins coupler is most
effective when used with an ordinary end-
on aerial, which radiates all the way from
the aerial ammeter A to the insulator at
the far end. Analysis of the circuit shows
that the action of L2/C3 is such as to
produce from the earth connection to
the far end of the aerial a very accurately
matched and tuned Marconi aerial. It is
a system applicable to any band, and
with more than 100 ft. of wire in the
aerial itself it is practically omni-direc-
tional at the H.F. end of the amateur
frequency range. C 3 can be 150mmfd.
for the H.F. bands, and 250mmfd. to
300mmfd. for 3.5mc. and I.7mc. Value
of L 2 must be found by experiment be-
cause of varying length and resistance of
individual earth leads.
S. W. M.
Amateur Chaffer.
Details are to hand of further Euro-
pean instances of 56mc. DX. G5TX, at
Newport, Isle of Wight, records recep-
tion of 23 British stations and two Con-
tinentals, PAOPN, Middleburgh, Holland,
and ON4DJ, Knocke, Belgium, 220 and
190 miles distant respectively. G3FA,
of Newcastle-on-Tyne, was heard by
G5TX at 285 miles, and G2AO, G2MV,
G20D, G2UJ, G2XC, G2ZV, G3YY,
G5BY, G5MA, G5MV, G50J, G5RD,
G5UK, G6CW, G6DH, G6FO, G60T,
G60U, G6PG, G6XM, G8LY and
G80S were also logged there. Some
of these calls, will be recognised as
those of old hands from the DX
bands. G5TX has a good location
440ft. above sea level with a good aerial
system, but his receiver is a plain-tuned
R.F. type. G6CW, who made many of
the Italian contacts referred to previously,
used a T.R.F. receiver also, but with an
elaborate rotatable aerial array having
six half-wave elements in phase with
600-ohm transmission line. It is signi-
ficant that horizontal polarisation is em-
ployed at most British 56mc. stations, a
fact which suggests that tests -should be
run in VK with horizontal instead of
vertical arrays. Much of the success dur-
ing this 56mc. DX period in Europe is
attributed to more use of C.W., stable
transmitters, well-designed aerial arrays
and improved receivers. The old-time
super-regen. equipment has had very
little place in the results.
The week ending 13/8/’39 was notable
in Sydney for the success of relays from
56mc. to 3.5mc. On the night of 12/8/’39
VK2IQ completed his W.I.A. 56mc. trans-
mission for the u.-h.-f. section at 8.15
p.m., and after opening communication
with VK2NO changed to 3.5mc. The
56mc. ’phone transmission from VK2NO
was received at his Burwood location
and re-radiated on 3.5mc. Duplex trans-
mission was employed so that either
station could do the actual calling. At
VK2NO the Sky-Raider DX9 receiver
was tuned to 3.5mc., and anything heard
was passed back to VK2IQ through the
microphone standing near the loud-
speaker. In this fashion contacts were
Looking up the 75-foot mast at VK2VU,
Singleton (N.S.W.), showing the king-post
method of strengthening the structure.
speedily made with VKs 2SO, 2CI and
2KQ. Later VK2KQ passed on the in-
formation that ZL2JD was receiving the
transmissions well from VK2NO’s 56mc.
transmitter through VK2IQ, VK2KQ
then being in duplex communication with
the ZL, located in Wellington. Through
this hook-up VK2NO was able to use
duplex with ZL2JD whilst actually trans-
mitting on 56mc. It was learned on the
following day that another ZL had been
picking up the transmission and relaying
it on 56mc. in his own locality. Next
mght the relay scheme was continued
through VK2IQ, contact being made with
VKs 2CI and 2VU on 3.5mc. On this
occasion VK2IQ was able also to pass
on the 56mc. telephony from VK2EM,
Killara.
Harry Hatton, VK2AGU, of Abbots-
ford, Sydney, made his first appearance
on 56mc. ’phone on 13/8/’39. The signal
was rock-steady and RB-9 at the writer’s
location, communication being effected
with VKs 2IQ, 2NO, 2ACR and 2ACF.
VK2AGU is probably the outstanding
14mc. DX ’phone station in the Sydney
district, and sports an elaborate close-
spaced three-element array, motor-driven
from the operating room. So fat
VK2AGU has kept 76 consecutive morn-
ing schedules with GBGQ, and recently
a contact with a Spaniard, EA7BA, gave
One of the rack-and-panel transmitters
at VK2VU.
him his sixty-eighth country on tele-
phony.
After considerable trouble with a re-
fractory 10-metre crystal, VK2ABZ,
Dundas (N.S.W.), appeared on 56mc.,
using C.W. on the night of 14/8/’39.
Signal at the writer’s location was T 9,
R.S.T. 589. Contact revealed that this
hefty signal came from an inside aerial
coupled to the doubler stage. An 809
final is to be added, and with an outside
aerial this station will reach out well.
This is another instance of the superior-
ity of the well-filtered stable signal over
the futile “wobbulated” type. Some
stations with inherent instability, and
using outside aerials, don’t do a quarter
as well as those with crystal or three-
stage e.-c. control, even with higher-
power input. The 56mc. band will show
its real value only as stations with the
right kind of transmission make their
presence felt.
VK2NO.
Philips EL3N.
New High-mu Power Penthode.
This newcomer to the Australian-made
valve range is in two different types: the
EL3N, with “P” base, may be used as a
replacement for the existing EL3 ; and
the EL3NG, for equipment purposes, has
an octal eight-pin base.
Electrical rat-
ings for both
types are almost
identical with
those for the
EL3 and EL3G.
Heater current,
however, has
been reduced to
0.9 amps. Self-
bias, using a
lou-ohm cathode
resistance, is re-
commended. In
view of the high
mutual conduct-
ance, a suppres-
so r resistance
should be used
in the control
grid circuit.
The EL3N
and EL3NG
may be operated
as oower triodes
with screen tied
to plate. Under
triode conditions
a cathode resis-
tor of 425 ohms
is required, and
an output of 1.1
watts of 5 p.c. distortion can be obtained
with an input signal of 5.9 volts r.m.s.
applied to the control grid. To avoid
self-oscillation the screen grid should be
connected to the plate through a resist-
ance of 100 ohms without decoupling.
These valves can also be used to ad-
vantage in Class AB push-pull amplifiers,
and an output of 8.2 watts with 3.1 p.c.
total distortion may be realised with a
grid-to-grid drive of 13.4 volts r.m.s.
In the new valves the cathode and grid
windings are oval instead of round. As
a result, a greater area of the cathode
may be used and almost uniform spacing
between grid and cathode may be
obtained. The cathode coating is applied
only to the curved surfaces. The grid
dimensions have been so arranged that
the upper curvature of the dynamic
characteristics is improved. As a result
the plate voltage can swing to relatively
low values, thus increasing the undis-
torted power output.
P. T. C.
The Question Box.
Fnil name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) I am substituting a DX 9 Reliance com-
munications receiver {B. 2/8/’39) for a Jones
Super-Gainer used with a half-wave doublet cut
for 10 metres, and consisting of 18 -gauge
copper wire with transmission line of ordinary
lighting flex. Two halves of the aerial are
spaced about 12 in. apart in the centre, and
the line begins to fan about 18 in. below the
aerial. What would be the best type of aerial
for the new job ? To what wave-length should
a horizontal half-wave doublet be cut for best
overall results from 8 to 125 metres for the
Sky-Raider receiver? (2) Any suggestions for
spacing in centre of aerial and fanning of the
feedline? (3) Some radio journals say that
transmission line can be of any length, and
others state that it should be an odd number
of quarter-waves. Is this point important ?
(4) The review in B. 2/ 8/*39 says that “signal-
strength meter can be set for individual cali-
bration according to the operator’s sense of
audible strength values.” How is this done?
—BO2.
(1) and (2) Best all-round aerial for the wide
coverage needed would be the R.C.A. double-
doublet type as described in various hand-
books. Alternatively the G.E. doublet should
work well. This is 25ft. each side, with a
spacing of 10ft. between the two halves. The
sides of the feedline fan for 10ft. to the twisted
section. (3) This is immaterial for general
reception, but ordinary lighting flex is not the
best feedline. An excellent commercially-madc
line is the English Belling-Lee 80-ohm type,
obtainable in 65ft. reels from Carlyle and Co.,
Hay-street, Perth, W.A. This will stand up
to weather indefinitely. (4) The meter has a
potentiometer control for adjustment so that
it may be set to read full scale or any portion
thereof as desired.


(JJJjTny,
m
IIJ
walks away with it !
Only the very finest whiskies ; from Scotland’s most famous
distilleries are good enough for Johnnie Walker. Mellowed
and matured by years in the wood, they are blended with
traditional skill. No wonder Johnnie Walker is the favourite,
and walks away with it!
Born 1820 Still Going' Strong'
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


The Richardson Chain Hotel
i <&
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE’S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
4*
p°
\r
r * db-i
r
■ < *£>£-
_ HTh £ y
&5X
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Season.
“Ghanam”: The annual report of the
National Wool Selling Brokers’ Council
shows that sales at Australian centres
during 1938-39 totalled 2,929,000 bales—
the largest since 1934-35. Returns were
nevertheless the smallest since that year
—38,673,957, or 10.39 d. per pound aver-
age greasy and 17.48 d. per pound
scoured. Of all wool available for the
season 96.25 p.c. was sold, and the carry-
over was only 115,245 bales at June 30.
About 84 p.c. of all wool was taken by
four countries Britain 43.59 p.c.,
France 19.71 p.c., Belgium 12.39 p.c.
and Japan 8.31 p.c.
The season closed with all good wools
in strong demand, and the winter sales,
especially at Brisbane, where buyers for
Germany and Italy competed vigorously,
afforded grounds for belief in an im-
proved outlook.
Sydney sales now in progress will be
followed by openings at Adelaide on
Sept. 5 ; Brisbane on Sept. 11 ; Perth,
Sept. 18 ; Melbourne, October 2 ; Gee-
long, October 5 ; Albury, October 19.
First Hobart sale will be January 25 next
year.
The council notes the following con-
ditions in buying countries:
Britain: Industry in better shape than
for long past. Old high-priced contracts
have been liquidated, and restocking, added
to increased demand from actual con-
sumers, has brought activity to a high level,
in finer sections as well as crossbreds.
France, though figures are below pros-
perous years, seems to be regaining ground,
helped by the devaluation of the franc
and the relaxation of 40-hour week regula-
tions. Though her imports have been high,
stocks are not unduly heavy.
U.S.A.: Apparel stocks at low level, and
if present general activity continues there
should be a reasonably good demand from
U.S.A. for overseas wools*
Belgium has suffered in trade by the
absorption of one of her best customers,
Czechoslovakia, by Germany. Re-
exporters have had a lean and difficult
year, and though stocks of known Belgian
ownership are not unduly heavy, deliveries
against Antwerp futures have created a
floating bulk of unconsumed wool, which
tends to depress prices.
Germany’s buying, mostly from countries
with which she has trading agreements,
has been larger than for many years. She
is believed to be accumulating wool and to
have from nine to 12 months’ stocks on
hand. Relatively little staple fibre is being
used in what are normally wool industries,
most of it being manufactured along cotton
and rayon lines. Usage of reconditioned
wool—old wool rejuvenated and re-utiliscd
—has probably been double, that of arti-
ficials during the past two years.
Italy is feeling the economic position
severely, and there has been contraction
in the imports both of raw wool and
tissues. The reduction in usage is not
confined to wool but affects artificials.
Japan is still restricted by war com-
plications and financial considerations
from buying more heavily. Her attempts
to fill the gaps in wool available by the
manufacture of staple fibre have been
checked by the same difficulties in buy-
ing wood pulp as she experiences in buy-
ing wool. In spite of increased buying
late in the season, Japanese wool stocks
are down to about one-third of normal
trade needs. However, the situation in
the Orient will have to be ironed out
before buying can expand to anything
like the previous volume.
Sheep Brands.
“Murrawong”: Complaining about
unsuitable branding fluids, wool manu-
facturers have sent samples to the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association. There is
a bulky assortment of brands picked out
of the greasy fleece wool which illus-
trates, above all, carelessness on the part
of the brander. The tip of each staple
has become a solid knob of pigment
and dirt, taking up over of the
staple length.
In some mills brands are trimmed
off the wool with shears, which means
extra work and reduced value.
In most unscourable brand exhibits
the hard lump of pigment remains un-
“Mum ses to Watch out for bones in the stoo .”
dissolved, but there are instances of
permanent discoloration of the surround-
ing fleece during the scouring process.
It would not be a bad idea to submit
every branding fluid to a . thorough test
by the C.S.I.R. The sale of any pro-
duct which did not come up to standard
could be prohibited.
A good branding oil should be guar-
anteed for lasting qualities, scouring
ability, should not irritate the skin, and
should dry quickly. Home-made brand-
ing fluids tar, fat and kerosene or
lampblack mixtures are the chief
sources of worry to the scourer.
Greater care should be taken in
branding sheep, not only off shears but
with a “T” brand when carrying a fair
fleece. Crossbreds, in particular, are
hard to brand legibly, and the tendency
is to slap on more oil.
The .branding race should be filled
tightly. Cut down a petrol or oil tin
and place a piece of pelt in the bottom,
wool side up. If the weather is cold,
keep branding oil close to the fire or on
the steam engine, and, most important
of all, stir it thoroughly from the bottom
of the tin before pouring any oil out.
Put just enough branding fluid into the
half-tin to soak the pelt. The brand
will then carry out just enough to give
a clean-cut impression without dribbling
a stream of surplus fluid over the backs
of the shtep.
Sheep Vaccination Problems.
“J.R.D.”: Some of the latest vaccines
for use against diseases in stock are of
very thick consistency. This applies par-
ticularly to. black disease and entero-
toxaemia vaccines, and because of the
difficulty in passing these thicker fluids
through fine-gauge hypodermic needles
some sheepmen strain off the sediment.
The sediment is alum, and it has a
fixed purpose. In the early days of vacci-
nation of stock it was necessary to ad-
minister several doses at varying inter-
vals to give protection. In certain dis-
eases protection could only be given by
the absorption of vaccine over a period
following the first sensitising' dose. Two
injections of 5 c.c. each would give better
results than one dose of 10 c.c. or even
of 15 c.c. The alumTprecipita.ted vac-
cines have helped to solve the problem.
A fluid of the consistency of water,
injected subcutaneously, will be absorbed
by the animal within a few hours. The
alum, however, takes time to s disappear,
so that the sheep is actually absorbing
small quantities of vaccine throughout
that period, with the result that in all
but abnormal seasons one dose of vaccine
may protect the animal.
Remember if the vaccine is not well
shaken during inoculation the first few
sheep will get no alum, while the last of
the vaccine will be a thick paste which
won’t pass through any syringe.
The lump formed by the alum at the
site of inoculation may remain for weeks,
and it is inadvisable to use an alum-
precipitated vaccine on fat lambs. It
may remain as a slight blemish which
will have to be cut out when the carcass
is on the hooks.
This fact bears on the site of inocu-
lation. Some vaccinate on the brisket
or under the forearm, some inside the
thigh, and others high up on the neck.
The bare patch of skin on the inside of
the thigh is probably the best spot as, if
a blemish should have to be nicked out
of the carcass, it is less noticeable there.
Although we are barely half-way
through the pulpy kidney season, this has
already proved the worst year on record,
and the demand for vaccine has broken
all records. Inoculation is needed even
in western N.S.W. this season. Every
State in the Commonwealth is affected,
and deaths are occurring not only in
lambs but in rams, ewes and fat wethers.
It should be remembered that vacci-
nation is a preventive, not a cure. Ewes
should be inoculated while in lamb, as
this will also protect the lamb until it
is six weeks old.
Hornless Merinos.
“Poly”: Can’t agree with . “Valerin”
that hornless merino sires will never be
(B. 16/8/’39). The modern trend
is to dispense with useless gadgets—
wrinkles, heavy dewlaps and horns —on
both sheep and cattle. A few years ago
{Continued on next page.)


u
l**-:
I I I v'
I''
ni
vi.'"
1308.
There s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, S 3 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS,. SYDNEY.”
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
i
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
c
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3SO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: MQSOS.
JTuT&ztllett/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-COS TAIN 111) SANITARY SYSTEM—AFFROV LI) BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.SAV., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
e
è
polled Shorthorns and Herefords were
rarely heard of. Now they are popular.
By rigid selection —using only about
1 p.c.—there is no obvious reason why
polled rams cannot be built up to the
same high standard as horned ones
within 30 generations. Note the rapid
improvement in polled Shorthorns dur-
ing the last 10 years. The Border Leices-
ter and Romney do not require horns
to denote masculinity. Flornless heads
make for quicker shearing —a big fac-
tor in getting down the rate —and less
cutting of ears.
“Jumbuck”: Agree with “Valerin”
that hornless merino rams will never meet
with general approval, and also that the
horn is a reliable indication of character
and masculinity. Still, the absence of
horns does not count in any way against
the Corriedale. At the latest Brisbane
ram sales, six poley Boonoke selected
rams sold readily at 12 guineas. Queens-
land boasts a registered flock of polled
merinos, and at Urana (N.S.W.) there is a
non-registered stud from which flock
rams are distributed.
Lightweight Lambs.
“Yarrunga”: The Australian Meat
Board and other bodies representative of
the industry are joining forces in a cam-
paign for the marketing of fat lambs at
an earlier stage of development than has
been customary.
The plan is to secure lighter weights,
while still aiming at a high standard of
quality and early maturity in approved
export types, thus placing Australia in a
position to ship more lambs of a given
aggregate weight, tp meet the British Gov-
ernment’s quotas.
The lightweights, it is anticipated, will
realise as much as, if not more than,
heavier lambs marketed later.
First-grade export lambs are wanted
that will dress out at 281 b. to 321 b., and
other grades in proportion.
Last season N.S.W. average weights
were: First-grade 341 b., second 291 b. and
third 241 b., with “summer” lambs at
381 b., 331 b. and 271 b. The other States
were all higher than N.S.W. by lib. to
21b.
An average reduction of lib. per car-
cass would equal the 3 p.c. reduction in
the quota for the ensuing season, which
numerically would eliminate the limita-
tion placed on export.
Sales on the Hook.
“A.A.D.”: The N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers’ Conference favored the adop-
tion of the system of killing stock by the
Meat Industry Commissioner and sale
of meat on the hook. Various advan-
tages and higher net returns to producers
were claimed for this method as against
selling on the hoof, through the yards.
From a draft of 40 nine-months vealers
(Aberdeen Angus x dairy Shorthorn
grades) sent to Homebush two even lots
of 11 head were separated, one of which
was sold on the hoof and the other on the
hook. The former realised a total of
£56, which, less £4 Os. sd. charges and
commission, netted £5l 19s. 7d., or
£4 14s. 6d. per head. The second lot,
killed and sold on the hook by the com-
missioner (averaging 2831 b. dressed),
realised 4d. per pound, or £5l 19s. 4d.
To this was added £lO 4s. for offal, hides,
caul fat and heads, total £62 3s. 4d.
Charges amounted to £7 10s. Id. and the
net return £54 13s. 3d., or £4 19s. 4d. a
head.
Anthrax Precautions.
“Beefo”: Just recently anthrax broke
out in a mob of cattle travelling down
the Lachlan near Hillston (N.S.W.), 40 of
them dying on the town common. It is
possible that in districts known to be
anthrax-infected seasonal conditions are
favorable. If anthrax is suspected of
having caused deaths of cattle or sheep
the local stock inspector should be noti-
fied immediately. To handle any beast
that has died from anthrax is a grave
risk.
Symptoms vary according to the
nature of the attack, which may strike
either the tongue, intestines, spleen or
breathing organs. Invariably anthrax-
affected animals develop a high tempera-
ture, quick breathing and cold extremi-
ties. Death strikes so quickly that rarely
are symptoms noticed.
There is no known cure, although
inoculation will give some degree of im-
munity. All carcasses should be thor-
oughly burnt and the residue sprayed
with a strong disinfectant. All stock
should be removed from the paddock or
paddocks where deaths occurred. Pad-
docks should remain unstocked for three
months.
“Wundi”: Border Leicesters are hav-
ing a great run in N.S.W. There have
been 31 applications by new studs for
entry in the Australian British Breeds
Society flock-books since February last.
L. Headon and Sons, of Lara, Hay, has
started with Blake sires and dams from
Forest Hill; M. W. Mclntosh Pty., at
Glen Innes, has acquired
ten stud rams, eight from M.L.; and W.
Taylor, of Kaladbro, Old Junee, began
operations in May. There is a steady
inflow of other breeds from Maoriland
and overseas. In a word, the lamb men
are doing what the beef men should be
doing—providing a wide choice of first-
class sires. So far, they have found it
pay.
“Baa Black”: A Mudgee (N.S.W.)
sheepman, whose property is infested
with St. John’s wort, has a black merino
ram which begets a high percentage of
black lambs from black ewes (B.
16/8/’39). They’re cleaning up the St.
John’s without ill-effects.
“Valerin”: Abnormal growth of grass
this spring means bushfires. Safeguard
homesteads, outbuildings, woolsheds and
yards now. Firebreaks should be ploughed
in strips, leaving a couple of chains be-
tween them which can be burned when
grass is dry. Firefighting appliances—
watercarts, pumps, buckets, beaters, axes,
shovels —should be overhauled and got
ready. Bushfire brigades should be under
the control of a local body—shire council
or P.P. Board whose inspectors will
supervise equipment and its locating in
suitable places.
“Ek D.”: J. B. Sparkes, one of the
oldest-standing breeders among Queens-
land Hereford men, has just bought six
polled bulls and 22 cows in U.S.A. They
will go to his Lyndley stud near Dalby
(Q-).
“Ek D.”: It would be hard to beat
the judging-ring record of D. C. Pryce,
of Toogoolawah (Q.). I acted as his
steward at a show in 1912, and he was
quite a veteran then. This year he cele-
brated his fifty-third anniversary in the
ring, judging the A.I.S. at Maleny, Black-
all Range (Q.). Pryce started a herd in
the Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.) in 1880
with a grandson of Major, a bull which
holds something of the status among Illa-
warra cattlemen that Hubback does
among British Shorthorn breeders. He
first judged at Broughton Creek —now
Berry —and for many years in those days
when butter still came to Sydney in kegs
he himself won major prizes at the Kiama
and Nowra shows.
“Ceres”: Wheat feed for dairy cows
receives a boost from the performance
of the Friesian cow Wyoming Betty
Echo, which has become the highest
butter-producing cow of the breed in
Australia, with an official record of
1030.691 b. butterfat (equal to 1250|1b.
butter) in 273 days. Owned by A. S. R.
Shearer, of Singleton (N.S.W.), she was
fed a ration including wheatmeal daily
during the warm months of the test
period. Wyoming Betty has displaced
her Charles Hindmarsh’s dam Aline Bank
Echo, the previous holder of the record
(832.951 b. fat), and is the first Friesian
in the Commonwealth to produce 10001 b.
butter under official test.
“P.”: M. C. Gay, of Binna Burra
(N.S.W.), has obtained highly profitable
results by substituting wheat for maize in
rearing and fattening baconers. During
the last month’s “topping” period 41b.
wheat and one gallon skim-milk formed
the daily ration. The cost ran out at
£7 12s. 6d. for one draft of 14 pigs,
which at six months realised £3B 10s.
The landed cost of wheat at North Coast
farms has ranged from 2s. lid. to 2s. 9d.
a bushel.
“Observer”: In a trial of oats and field
peas for green fodder at Oxley Island,
Manning River (N.S.W.), sulphate of am-
monia gave outstanding results. A mix-
ture of lcwt. each of suiphate and super,
per acre produced 14£ tons cow fodder,
compared with 10 tons from lcwt. super,
and four tons from the no-fertiliser check
plot.
“Yarrunga”: Plant-breeder S. L.
Macindoe has discovered that the Vic-
torian wheat Minflo (Minister x Florence)
has the true winter habit of growth,
though this character is foreign to both
parents. Although Minflo is too low in
baking quality to justify commercial cul-
tivation in N.S.W., it is being extensively
used by Macindoe as a parent in crossing
with more desirable varieties in his
winter wheat project.
“C.W.S.”: The Agricultural Council,
representative of all Ministries, has de-
cided to recommend the various State
Parliaments to introduce legislation to
control the sale of margarine for table
use in Australia. The trade has agreed
to submit to a quota of 80 tons per
week, but it is believed that the maxi-
mum will be fixed round 70 tons, which
equals about 4 p.c. of average normal
butter output. In Britain about lib.
margarine is sold for every 2|lb. butter,
and the danger of the competition to
dairying has grown in the last few years
with the improvement of margarine
quality and flavor. At the same time,
provided margarine is produced locally
and from oils grown in Australia or one
of the Australian tropical dependencies,
there is no more reason for restricting
it than there would be for restricting
butter because it competes with mar-
garine. Indeed, if the palm industry
could be developed in parts of the North
which are short in population and where
dairying is not a success, there might be
every argument for encouraging a mar-
garine industry under suitable conditions.


WELL HERES TO'EE
ft
i *
w~
\ ''S
m ,
n i
-
V. .
■
# %
■
i
' '*3
•111
:
• ’ Wst
■■
■
% 4
r' H m
pnf
0
rf: ■ - At;
L ‘
M
1 :
m
mmm
m
m
p
I
! X »
* .< i*
I
M I*l
ssjsiSw-
:
TDOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical^—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
Cd. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORGES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 W.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON* SHORTHAND .(N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
page * s set apart I° r ibe service of Bulletin
nttai * serv ' ce * s endre ly L" ee - All you have to do is to
fr ° m the ‘ nside back cover of last
c ° n f USI °n in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
f r * g bt of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
é
m which something lies. Neither has a long-
established history behind it; the Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary has only one quotation earlier
than the nineteenth century, and that is for
lie ( the proper lye of the land, 1692); lie
seems also the more reasonable form, lay
having issued perhaps from sailors’ and rustic
talk, in which the verbs are not kept distinct.”
* * * *
A tree has been cut down end eventually
made into a beautiful suite of furniture, and
in what purports to be its autobiography the
tree is represented as proudly displaying itself
as the suite and saying: “This is me as I am
to-day.” Is that expression correct, or should
it be: “This is I as I am to-day” ?— 4501.
The rule is that the verb “to be” in all forms
takes the same case after it as before it, so
“This is I ” is grammatically correct. The
rule is often broken in talk (“It wasn’t me”
is a common example), but, as Fowler says,
“should be observed in print, except when
the solecism is preserved in dialogue as charac-
teristic.”
* * * *
What relaxations have been made by the Eng-
lish Marriage (Prohibited Degrees of Relation-
ship) Acts since 1907 ,? —4546.
Marriage with the following have been
permitted: Deceased wife’s sister (1907),
brother’s widow (1921), deceased wife’s
brother’s daughter (1931), deceased wife’s sister's
daughter (1931), father’s brother’s widow (1931),
mother’s brother’s widow (1931), deceased
wife’s father’s sister (1931), deceased wife’s
mother’s sister (1931)), brother’s son’s widow
(1931), sister’s son’s widow (1931).
❖ :Ji • :jc
(1) I have just read an article on the Irish
Free State and should like to know the meanings
of the following words: (a) Saorstat Eireann,
(b) Uachtaran na h-Eireann, (c) Taoiseach, (and)
Tanaiste, (e) Oireachtas, (f) Dail Eireann, (g)
Seanad Eireann, (h) Ciiirt Uachtarach and (i)
Ard Ciiirt? (2) What are the English equi-
valents of the following Irish Christian names:
(a) Sean, (b) Seasmus, (c) Padraig, (and) Liam,
(e) Proinnsias, (f) Gear did and (g) Muris? —
Cl) (a) Irish Free State, (b) President of
Ireland, (c) Prime Minister, (and) Deputy Prime
Minister, (<?) Parliament, (f) Mouse of Repre-
sentatives, (g) the Senate, (h) Supreme Court,
(0 High Court. (2) (a) John, (b) James, (c)
Patrick, (and) William, (e) Francis, (/) Gerald,
(g) Maurice. '
* * * 9
What are the 12 longest bridges in the world,
with length, in metres, of waterway ? —4557.
Lower Zambesi, Africa, 3451 metres; Tay
Bridge, Scotland, 3136 metres; Upper Stone,
India, 2999 metres; Godavari, India, 2707
metres; Forth Bridge, Scotland, 2527 metres;
Rio Salado, Argentina, 2043 metres; Golden
Gate, San Francisco, U.S.A., 1908 metres; Rio
Dulce, Argentina, 1788 metres; Hardinge, India,
1641 metres; Victoria Jubilee, Montreal, 1623
metres; Moerdijk, Netherlands, 1432 metres;
Sydney Harbor Bridge, 1257 metres.
•f- * .v
What plays have secured a run of 1000 con-
tinuous performances and upwards on the
London stage? —4ss3.
“Chu-Chin-Chow,” 2238 performances;
“Charley’s Aunt,” 1466; “The Beggar’s Opera,”
1463; “Qur Boys,” 1362; “The Maid of the
Mountains,” 1352; “A Little Bit of Fluff,”
1241; “A Chinese Honeymoon,” 1075; “Ro-
mance,” 1049.
* * * *
I intend settling on Norfolk Island. What
local taxes are payable by the inhabitants? —
4542.
No taxes are levied, but for the purpose of
carrying out public works every male person
over 21 years and under 55 who has been domi-
ciled for at least six months on Norfolk
Island is required (a) to pay an amount calcu-
lated at the rate of 6s. per day for such number
of days, not less than nine nor more than 15
in each year, as are from time to time fixed
by the Administrator; or ( b ) in lieu of such
payment to perform such labor as the Ad-
ministrator requires as notified, not exceeding
15 days a year.
* * *
Names and addresses of Australian Govern-
ment Trade Commissioners abroad, other than
in Great Britain ? —4548.
France: C. H. Voss, 6 Rue Halevy, Paris.
United States: L. R. MacGregor, 25 Broad-
way, New York. Canada: R. R. Ellen (Assis-
tant Commissioner)), 15 King-street West,
Toronto. Maoriland: C. E. Critchley, D.I.C.
Building, Wellington. China: V. G. Bowden,
China, Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Cor-
poration Building, 12 The Bund, Shanghai.
Japan: E. E. Longfield Lloyd, 8 Sanchome,
Marunouchi, Tokio. Netherlands East Indies:
H. A. Peterson, Noordwijk 39, Batavia
Centrum, Java. Egypt: C. E. Hughes, 41
Sharia Kasr-el-nil, Cairo.
* * :js
At what age may a youth be employed in the
stables of a N.S.W. retail store? What wages
should he be paid, and the proportion of
grooms to youths .?—4537.
When an employer employs four grooms he
may employ a youth of 18 years of age or
over as an assistant, provided always that
youths shall not be employed at night. Youths
commencing work in the industry shall receive
£2 18s. 4d. per week in Sydney, and £2 16s. 2d.
per week elsewhere, with an increase of ss.
per week at the end of the first six months’
service and 2s. 6d. per week increase for each
further six months’ service, until they arrive
at the age of 21 years or reach the minimum
wage prescribed in the award.
* * * *
When does spring commence in N, S. Wales,
and how long does it last ? —4397.
Astronomically seasons are determined by the
position of the earth in respect of the sun.
For instance, spring commences in Australia on
September 21-23, according to the date on
which the sun passes over the Equator—the date
varies slightly from year to year, within the
limits stated. The other seasons—summer,
autumn and winter—commence, of course, at
three-month intervals; for instance, following
spring, summer commences on December 21-23,
and so on. Meteorologically spring commences
on September 1, summer on December 1, etc.
Owing to the considerable variations in weather
from year to year an exact date of commence-
ment has no particular significance. For con-
venience of statistical comparison, however, the
N.S.W. Weather Bureau takes complete months
in all meteorological seasons, and consequently
spring extends for its purposes from Sep-
tember 1 to November 30, the other seasons
following at intervals of three months.
* * * *
Process of preserving fiowers and leaves in
their natural shape and color? —4341.
Place lib. white paraffin wax in a saucepan
and heat it until it is fluid, but not hotter than
necessary for this. Then take fresh flowers or
leaves free from moisture and dip them in the
wax until they are covered with a fine coating,
moving them about to get rid of air bubbles.
Drain off surplus wax and hold them until they
are dry enough to handle. The wax dries
quickly and does not break readily. For
lengthening the life of flowers in vases, use,
instead of water, 20 grains salicylic acid, 10
minims formaldehyde, two fl. oz. alcohol and
one quart of distilled water.
* * * *
Number of members in each of the Upper
and Lower Houses of the seven Parliaments of
Australia and their annual salaries? —4521.
Commonwealth: House of Reps. 75, £IOOO
p.a.; Senate 36, £IOOO p.a. N. S. Wales:
Upper House 60, no salary; Lower House
90, £875 p.a. Victoria: Upper House
34, £2OO p.a.; Lower House 65, £SOO
p.a. Q’land: No Upper House; Lower House
62, £650 p.a. S. Aus.: Upper House 20,
£4OO p.a.; Lower House 39, £4OO p.a. W. Aus.:
Upper House 30, £6OO p.a.; Lower House 50
£6OO p.a. Tasmania: Upper House 18, £435
p.a. (average; actual salary varies according
to electorate); Lower House 30, £435 (average;
actual salary varies according to electorate).
* * * *
Mean and absolute maximum shade tempera-
tures in Brisbane for each of the 12 months of
19384528.
January, 77deg. mean, 94.6 deg. absolute max.;
February, 78.8 deg. mean, 97.1 deg. absolute
max.; March, 75.2 deg. mean, 90.5 deg. abso-
lute max.; April, 71.6 deg. mean, 94.1 deg. abso-
lute max.; May, 66.8 deg. mean, 82.5 deg. abso-
lute max.; June, 60.3 deg. mean, 76.7 deg. abso-
lute max.; July, 57.9 deg. mean, 73.2 deg. abso-
lute max.; August, 59.3 deg. mean, 80.4 deg.
absolute max.; September, 63.4 deg. mean;
86.6 deg. absolute max.; October, 69.9 deg. mean,
86.3 deg. absolute max.; November, 73.7 deg.
mean, 93.8 deg. absolute max.; December,
77.9 deg. mean, 102.3 deg. absolute max.
* * $ *
Particulars regarding weight, tractive effort,
size and stroke, adhesion, wheel arrangement,
etc., of the Mountain type passenger engine
in use on the S.A. railways? —443o.
Mountain type (4.8.4), sft, 3in. gauge;
cylinders, diam. 26in., piston stroke 28in.;
wheels, coupled diam. sft. 3in., wheelbase (rigid)
17ft., total engine 40ft. sin.; superheater,
835 sq. ft.; grate area, 66 sq. ft.; boiler pres-
sure, 2001 b. per sq. in.; adhesive weight, 91.1
tons; tractive force at 85 p.c. boiler pressure,
51,0001 b.; tractive force (boaster), 80001 b.;
horse-power, 2434; total weight in working
order, engine and tender, 223 tons; ratio
of adhesion weight to tractive force, 4.0; length
over buffers, 84ft.; boiler heating surface,
small tubes 2190 sq. ft., large tubes 1088 sq.
ft., firebox and arch tubes 331 sq. ft.; tender,
tank capacity 7000 gallons, coal capacity 11
tons,
* * * $
Names of theatrical biographies or books
where the artists relate their experiences in Aus-
tralia ?— 4513.
Oscar Asche’s Recollections, Granville Ban-
tock’s Round the World with a Gaiety Girl,
Fred Graham’s An Old Stock Actor’s Life,
George Shelton’s Smee and Life of Signora Ris-
tori, Bobby Watson’s Behind the Scenes and Ella-
line Terriss, Fred Leslie’s Recollections, George
Wirth’s Round the World with a Circus,
Nellie Stewart’s Recollections, T. Dewarie’s
Through the Opera Glass, Cyril Maude’s Story
of My Life, Genevieve Ward Abroad, Frank
Gerald’s A Millionaire in Memories, Robert
Courtneidge’s 1 Was An Actor Once, Whimsical
Walker’s From Sawdust to Windsor Castle,
Louise Jordan’s Sixty Thousand Miles with
Shakspeare.
* •:< *
A few hints on growing the camellia? —4s4o.
The plants require a situation protected from
hot winds in the summer and from frosts when
they are in bloom in the winter. A southerly
or easterly aspect, with shelter to the north
and west, is the best situation, but the plants
can also be well grown in a bushhouse or
shelter shed if desired or in large pots or tubs.
A good loamy, peaty soil gives the best re-
sults. The best months for planting out
camellias are from April to September. After
flowering and before growth again commences
trim the plants into shape. Liberal applications
of water during dry weather are necessary.
When preparing the ground, work a little bone-
dust into the soil and give a dressing of this
each year after flowering. When planting out
in beds or amongst other shrubs allow at least
10ft. between the plants.
Brief Answers.
R.D.: See Commonwealth Official Year-Book,
available all public libraries... .T.H.: The pro-
portions recommended for the making of breeze
concrete for use in building flowerpots are
one part of cement, two parts of sand and
three parts coke breeze... .E.A.H.: Write
“Truth,” 61 Kippax'-street, Sydney....
W.A.G.: (1) Probably worth about 7s. 6d.
(2) Rabelais was never on the banned list....
R.C.A.: Outside this page’s scope. Consult a
textbook... .E.W.: The lines were written by
Adam Lindsay Gordon MJ.C.: Rub over
with pumice stone to make an even surface,
but do not wear it down too low. Then rub in
very sparingly with a stiff brush small quanti-
ties of neatsfoot oil, a drop at a time, until
an even appearance results. This usually
darkens sufficiently; but you can brown the
skin by using a little tan shoe polish very
thinly applied and brushed well. This is a
good preservative E.C.N.: Wash all
affected walls with hot soapy water, then keep
the places well dusted with pepper... .E.A.:
(1) Will answer later in “Information Sought.”
(2) Bradman was caught Waterman, b. Gilbert,
for 0 at Brisbane on November 6, 1931. (3)
No; only the suit can be called... .W.T.K.:
The spider is probably an orb-weaver of the
genus Gasteracantha. If a specimen were for-
warded to the Australian Museum, Sydney, it
would be readily identified. The spider is prob-
ably not harmful to man. Spiders are best
preserved in methylated spirits or 70 p.c. a1c0h01....
h 01.... F.J.: Consult Grove’s Dictionary of
Music, available at any public library... .C.D.:
Books on Hitler and Nazism are legion. A
selected bibliography will be found on page
997 of The Statesman's Year-Book for 1939....
J.R.C.: (1) A formal statement, or admission,
of the indebtedness signed by the debtor and
duly witnessed could be produced as evidence
of the validity of your claim. (2) Not if legiti-
mately obtained, properly drawn and duly
stamped. (3) Legitimate claims on the estate
have to be met before the residue can be dis-
tributed among beneficiaries... .A. 8.8.: Anti-
mony ores are sold on a unit basis, the price
per unit depending largely on the metal con-
tent; the present price varies from 6s. 6d. per
unit for 40 p.c. to Bs. per unit for 60 p.c.
grade. The highest and lowest prices of
antimony ore are not known. There is a good
demand for ores at the price quoted; O. T.
Lempriere, Ltd., of Bowden-street, Alexandria,
(N.S.W.), are buyers... .A.R.R.: (1) Spring in
California is from March to May, and you
should leave Sydney during February. (2) £4OO.
Australian currency at the prevailing rate of
exchange, 3.72 dollars to the £l, represents
1488 U.S. d011ar5....H.W.8.: Prices and par-
ticulars of all gear and materials may be
obtained from Henry Berry and Cos., 515 Kent-
street, and Stuart Walker and Cos., 174 Clarence-
street —both Sydney... .M.H.: If the tumor is
localised to one small area, the best method
of treatment is surgical removal... .R.W.: In-
valid and old-age pensions are paid only to
residents within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, and immediately a pensioner leaves the
Commonwealth payment of pension is sus-
pended... .S.P.: The most satisfactory way of
correcting a defective job of this character is
by providing an additional cement render in-
ternally. Leaflet dealing with the subject has
been posted E.R.G.: So far as the Aus-
tralian universities are concerned, candidates
for the degree of Master of Arts must have
previously obtained the B.A. degree. Can-
didates who have obtained the B.A. degree
with honors may usually obtain the M.A.
degree by writing a thesis only. Candidates
with the pass B.A. degree are required to
present themselves for a written examination
in addition to writing a thesis... .E.A.D.:
Cannot trace an artist named A. Belot. A Mrs.
Julia Cecilia Bellot exhibited at the Royal
Academy in 1884. She was a figure painter
A. : (1) Cannot trace the plant, but apparently
it was a portable pump driven by a petrol
engine; sounds more like a tool that could be
recommended to farmers and graziers. (2)
Write Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, and give full details of the ground you
wish to work and the water supply available. He
will advise you... .H.F.S.: The corns are relics
of the days when horses had five toes. In
the process of evolution four toes developed
into the present hoof. The fifth toe or thumb
remains as the cornlike substance on the in-
side of the leg. This serves no useful purpose
and is not attached to the legbone. There is
no point in removing these corns; in any case,
the wound is very difficult to heal D.W.:
Yes, 3|d. per line, with a minimum of Is
B. : (1) Call at this office and inspect the
files. (2), (3) and (4) Would require further
details before replying 1.M.M.: See the
Australian Encyclopedia; also Johns’s Aus-
tralian Biographical Dictionary... .G. R.S.:
According to the Ballarat “Star,” a Dr. King
imported a pair of foxes to Victoria for breed-
ing purposes. There were many other introduc-
tions at other times... .A.T.F.: (1) The Aus-
tralian team. (2) The Wallabies. (3) All Rugby
League teams to England were labelled the
Kangaroos; the R.U. team to England in
1908-09 was known as the Wallabies, and the
N.S.W. 1927-28 R.U. team to England the
Waratahs. (4) The naming of football touring
teams is left to the controlling bodies. The
R.U. Annual for 1938 contains all teams under
R.U. control... .P.F.S.: Write Naval Staff
Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, Sydney... .W.H.:
(1) A brief biography of the Rev. W. B.
Clarke will be found on page 272 of the
Australian Encyclopedia, vol. I. He published
two books, Researches in the Southern Goldfields
of N. S. Wales and Remarks on the Sedimen-
tary Formations of N. S. Wales H.C.G.:
Elson’s History of the United States of America
(second-hand 7s. 6d., postage Is.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney J.D.S.:
Write A. E. Smith and Cos., 9 Hunter-street,
Sydney L.C.: Neither the work nor the firm
is known in Sydney... .J.S.: Confidential
Chats with Boys, by W. L. Howard (35.), What
a Young Boy Ought to Know, by S. Stall
(6s. 9d.), Growing Up, by Schweinitz (6s.) —
all obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. _________________


Bali —Singapore
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA'' and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
I BE
■
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
EVER HELD IN THE
SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE
Come over to New Zealand —the Wonder-
land of the Pacific —and celebrate with us
our 100th Birthday! Here, situated in
nearly 60 acres, is the greatest Exhibition
ever held in the Southern Hemisphere •
Colossal . . . unprecedented . . . impressive
displays covering 14 acres of buildings . . .
gardens ... 10 acres of amusements, a feast
of fun and entertainment, representing the
very latest spectacular devices of the world.
A THOUSAND
THRILLS AWAIT YOU
Now is the time to arrange your trip .2£ days'
sail to Wellington, where the Exhibition is mag-
nificently staged. Modern transport by rail, road
and airways gives easy access to the scenic, sport
and health resorts of the Dominion, truly described
as “the Paradise of the Pacific.” Send to-day for the
beautifully illustrated folder outlining the holiday of
a lifetime. Address: New Zealand Government
Tourist Bureau, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, or
all travel agents.
AT WELLINGTON
NOV., 1939, to MAY, 1940
e
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contribu^ turns
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
.1 w • Competent enoueh but the idea’s
ancient... .A.W.F.: Try elsewhere... .1.T.H.:
They blow along without getting anywhere
SB.: Have yet to hear a politician “sob’
C. The joke is as feeble as the verse....
H.F.: If it wasn’t written by someone very
young it shouldn’t have been written at a 11....
A.L.H.: Breezes might “sing” and “sob” and
“kiss,” but “hugging” is really beyond them.
... .J.W.McC.: Not a kick in “Horses”....
J.V.E.: Better read something more up to
date H.G.D.: Glad to hear it’s spring
D. : You’ve been reading Ogden Nash
J.H.: If that’s what “came to the writer during
an afternoon doze” he’d be well advised to try
a lighter lunch... .H.S.: “Overtone” a little too
faint J.W.H.P.: Both miss J.J.R.: Your
alliteration’s awful C.W.G.: Afraid that
the poem which “the Wesley College’Chronicle’
wouldn’t print in the naughty ’nineties” will
still have to blush unseen... .A.S.A.: Forced,
. ...J.R.W.: A women’s paper, perhaps
N.S.: It has its moments... .J.O’C.: Leave it
to Flecker G.A.S.: Have you ever seen a
fisherman’s chest “heaving unbounded”?
L.L.P.: Close... .M.H.: Labored... .M.F.:
Thin E.M.R.: “Old Bill, the Dowser,” laid
gently to rest D.F.: Cobwebs on that bottle.
.... .R.S.: Ninety lines of doggerel about the
bush and you call it a “little original poem”!
L.F.B.: You'll need better than “Jemmy”
to crack our safe H.C.R.: Pretty, but that’s
all. ...T.S.T.: Too long, too slight and too
gloomy... .8.G.R.: You’re wasting a lot of
good ink and paper 8.T.5.: Your imagina-
tion is exceeded only by your optimism....
J.C.R.: Horrible C.F.W.: Have you ever
been north of 28?.... V.L.R.: Gavin Casey has
already written it... .L.C.R.: Whither next?
. ...G.R.N.: Dragged in the “Welcome” mat
after the first page... .C.N.T.: All very well
to feel that way, but why tell anyone about it?
H.B.R.: That’s not a ticket to the Bulle-
tin paddock....B.G.P.: You’d do well in Par-
liament F.T.W.: It’s a little bald....
D.L.T.: If you take your ideas from the daily
news, at least build some semblance of a yarn
around them... .8.T.5.: Copper turns blind eye
while reformed safecracker opens safe to rescue
cheild! See O. Henry... .N.G.D.: That “di-
gestible fragment” is probably giving the w.p.b.
indigestion C.R.C.: Yes, we’ve seen worse
—and we’ve printed better... .8.T.W.: Read
it from a soapbox... .L.R.G.: Consult
Dorothy Dix about “The Love Life of an
Ostrich”... .D.C.R.: We’re always afraid that
someone will send in something like that
F L P : If you cut out the worthless bits there
wouldn’t be any left C.L.R.: Have you
ever heard of punctuation?... .D.M.D.: You
might have to answer for those some day....
BRL : Pleased that you don’t consider it a
publishable yarn... .G.G.L.: Lose it, burn it—
anything G.F.L.: Practise and study your
markets J.P.C.: “The Amateur Salesman”
couldn’t even sell us the price of his return
ticket.. ..8.F.L.. Thank goodness
hardened to prospectors ghosts.... D. • • •
You might land any of them with a flapper
sheet... .G.F.T. : They re all right, but right
off our beat.. ..8.T., F.N.ON., L.R.C., S.U.
and P.S.S.: Elsewhere perhaps.. ..J.S.M..
“The Fires of Spring are cold .. .N.H 1.8..
Not here... .V.C.: Don t want playlets....
D.M. (Rangoon): Not up... .S.H.b.. You ve
been reading those American crime magazines.
E.L.: “Reprieve” wasn t effective....
M.T.: Good old Matilda.. ..H.D.: N 0....
D.McC.: Over-sentimental—.NJ3.: Poor girl,
... .A.F.: Served ’em right... .C.M.W.: Har-
rowing... .N.McG.: ‘Toffee is too thin....
J.T.: We trembled at ‘Hawk Eyes Revenge.
. ...A.T.: ’Fraid we don’t agree... .r.S.: try
it on the flappers. ...DTE: Not that one, but
come agam....M.08.: You, too; try it with
a women’s mag E.E.: Out. ...H.U.:
Futile... .G.H.T.: Don t hke witch doctors.
....8.G.: Appreciate how you felt, but we
can’t help Orab: Hooray! W.K.:
“Tangled Web” is right J.ON.: Border-
liner... .C.W.C.: We wept with relief when
“Valerie eventually freed herself from the
Count’s venomous grasp” V.R.: Hope they
lived happily ever after R.H.: Childish
J.N.: About the worst copy we ve ever seen.
—~ . A
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC,
CORRESPONDEN IS.
7- .... .
W.S.: A jungle of misplaced lines and an
ancient gag... .P.L.8.: Sending the angular
blonde back to the family circle... .E.R.:
Soldier who forgot to shave fought under Wel-
lington...-T.S.: You might place them, but
not here... .E.J.8.: The figures are all
dummies, and the gags are coated with the
dust of age....W.W.: Same old undressed
couple on a desert island and same old ragged
shirt fluttering in the breeze.. ..F.S.M.: The
lopsided preacher is delivering his sermon m
the w.p.b.... .H.A.: Better than the average
first attempt... .C. 8.: Cant see you doing any
good without lessons... .S C.D.: One glance
was enough... .N.H.: You score this week s
booby prize... .8.J.: Next time you have an
idle moment try working out a crossword
puzzle... .L.M.: Corkscrew linework didn t
appeal to us... .S.T.A.: Gag doesn t fit the
drawing....V.R.: Your locomotive pulled. lo
at the wrong station... .E.A.: that drunk is
a very old enemy P.D. : The day of the
He-She gag beneath a head study has passed.
....0.J.C.: Not enthusiastic about the new-
chum bushed in the lucerne paddock....
A.J.M.: An oft-repeated jest poorly illustrated.
. ...D.T.: You haven’t mastered the first rules
yet T.P.: The lass is nicely shaped, but her
humor fell flat.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Atrax”: Why is it that a long war is
always followed by a definite increase of
male births over female? One hypothesis
is that prolonged war means lessened
food supplies for the home population,
and that undernourished women bear
more male children than do the well-fed.
But the same thing should happen in
famines, and from extensive observation
in India and China it does not. Another
maintains that, as the ratio of male births
diminishes with increasing age of the
mothers, the absence of young husbands
on active service creates a preponderance
of female births because the older mar-
ried women then bear most of the chil-
dren. When they return, the ratio of
male babies goes up. It should show up
in lesser degree in short wars such as the
Franco-Prussian and the American share
in the Great War—but it did not in either
case. Insurance statisticians who have
been working on the subject admit that
they can find no reasonable explanation,
* * * *
Returned to Melbourne on furlough,
D. A. Murdoch, of the Eastern Extension,
Born in Maoriland, he has seen service
in various Australian and Asiatic stations
and was in Hong Kong during the fierce
fighting around Canton. A student of
Chinese customs and language, he was
walking one day outside the leased terri-
tory of Kowloon when a Japanese
bomber swooped low and dropped a
bundle. Expecting it to burst, he took
shelter, but it turned out to be pamphlets
exhorting the Chinese to lay down their
arms and subscribe to the “New Order.”
Before coming to Australia Murdoch
travelled China, Japan, Korea and Man-
churia, and found the Japanese easier
to get on with than is currently imagined.
He is a cousin of Keith Murdoch, of
Melbourne “Herald,” and has had two
children educated in China.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Who owns the South Pole?
Not that I’ve any designs on the chilly
spot, but it’s an interesting point of in-
ternational law. Australia’s Edgeworth
David first raised the flag at the south
magnetic pole in 1909. Shackleton had
already traversed the Polar Plateau in
1908. In the same year the British Crown
extended the dependency of South
Georgia to the South Pole. Amund-
sen, on December 14, 1911, took posses-
sion of the South Polar region in the
name of the King of Norway. Assuming
that the six Antarctic dependencies all
extend to the Pole, the thing seems to
be divided among Australia, M.L.,
Britain, the U.S.A., Norway and France,
w'ith additional somewhat vague claims
by Germany and the Argentine. Japan
and Russia also want slices of Antarctica,
If they all have their claims recognised
ten frontiers will meet at one point.
* ,„ * , * . * , ,
‘Nakhoda : Bombay has introduced
a dry law, and noting broke out
immediately. Indian legislators have
made matters difficult by separating
the / iatl Y e om toddy , on - lhe
one hand and, on the other, discrimi-
nating m favor of die sahib, who can
still get his dozen bottles of whisky a
month on permit, though at the stiff
price of 18s. a bottle. Gandhi is the
main driving force behind the teetotal
crusade. A huge proportion of India s
revenue is derived from the liquor trade,
and the loss is to be made good by
taxes on factories and farms. Gandhi
suggests that the financial problem could
be solved by cutting down the Indian
army by half, but if the army were cut
down by half the Afghans would soon
be over the border,
* * * *
A refugee who has had a disease
named after him is among recent
arrivals in Melbourne. He is Arthur
Schueller, one-time professor of neu-
rology and psychiatry at Vienna Uni.,
where he lectured for years, among his
pupils being many Australian medicoes
taking post-graduate courses. Specialists
all over the world refer to Schueller for
diagnoses of certain obscure brain con-
ditions. He was a pupil of Freud and is
the author of a drayload of books and
scientific treatises.
_ * . T * ~ u*d*
, Dead in London Dr. Scoresby Rout-
led 8 e > Australian who achieved
notable distinction in exploration, eth-
nology and natural-history research.
Born and educated in Melbourne, with
a post-graduate course in London, he
studied primeval races by living for
two years with the Micmac Indians m
central Newfoundland, and later amongst
the Akikuyu people of British East
Africa. In 1912 he built a schooner, and
with his wife carried out an archaeologi-
cal and ethnological survey of Easter
Island and other islands of the Eastern
Pacific where traces exist of a lost pre-
historic civilisation. He was awarded the
Challenge Cup of the Royal Cruising
Club for the 10,000-mile voyage under
sail, which occupied nearly three years.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Another for South Australia this week, the subject being independence of the
wrong sort.
“Independence” or Cussedness?
“A poor thing but mine own” appears
to be the motto of a growing number of
Australians. Just what is the bee in so
many Aussie bonnets that makes a man
prefer the haggard worries of a penurious
“independence” to a regular wage en-
velope? There is a whole range of them,
from the struggling backyarder who never
collects half his earnings and never has
any time to himself, to those shufflers
along from day to day, always up against
it and possessing nothing except that fatal
and fictitious “independence.”
The men I have in mind are not the
unemployables or the unskilled either.
They have energy and intelligence, and
would probably keep steady jobs in indus-
try if they would only consent to be em-
ployed. They will never rise above their
self-imposed struggle, for they have not
the finance, administrative capacity or
training in commercial practice to break
the circle that hedges them in. They
accept their lot with a stoical grouse
when times are specially bad. Wife and
family are in it with them, condemned
to a life of petty sacrifices and doing-
witliout.
They have a good-natured scorn of the
man who is content to be an employee,
take orders, clock-in and clock-out, and
line up at the pay window on Fridays.
Yet the employee is probably buying his
house, runs a cheap car and sends the
kids to music lessons, while perhaps all
the time he’s not as good an artisan as
our “independent.”
Just what is this growing trait? Is it
at bottom another form of punting—the
unpersuadable gamblers who will never
learn? Is it blind Micawberism, that
really does believe that something will
turn up? Is it a glorious egoism that
wears corporal’s stripes and dreams of
the marshal’s baton? Is it a sport from
the old pioneer spirit, that considered a
free life worth any cost? Or is it just
cussedness?—F. Olsen (S.A.).
The address is 58 Torrens-road,
Cheltenham, S.A.
So Much Gas
With other patriotic citizens I volun-
teered for a course of air-raid precautions
and was duly impressed with the fright-
fulness of gas warfare, the horrors of
lachrimators, sternutators and vesicants.
We delved into chemical formulae that
exhausted the alphabet. We learnt to
appreciate the diabolical skill of the
chemist who cunningly mixed his gases
to tempt the unwary civilian to cast away
his gas ma —sorry, his respirator, and
so get the full force of mustard, phos-
gene or lewisite.
We came away convinced that 24 hours
after the start of the next war all man-
kind would be laid low as squirming,
blistering, coughing horrors.
I could no longer stand waking up in
a cold sweat after dreaming of being
thrown into a river of mustard by cack-
ling fiends in death’s-head respirators, so
I sneaked into a library to get the real
low-down on gas. A Yankee book by
Professor E. R. Riegel seemed to fill the
bill.
It needs an alarm clock to wake me
now because the Surgeon-General of the
U.S. Army reported that 27 p.c. of all
U.S. Army casualties were gas cases. All
except 2 p.c. recovered, but approxi-
mately 25 p.c. of all casualties produced
by weapons other than gas failed to re-
cover. Thus a man injured by gas had
12 times as many chances of recovery.
Furthermore, says Riegel, such chemi-
cals are powerful germicides. Contrary
to widespread belief there are few after-
effects among those wounded by gas or
chemicals, provided they had ordinary
body resistance.
Bring out your gas! —Denarius
(N.S.W.).
The Bar Dictators
Progress associations and other town
bodies never seem to achieve the success
which results from the pronouncements
and resolutions of bar-room dictators.
Amidst the blowing of froth and the
clinking of glasses can be heard the voices
of the would-be dictators of town affairs.
Hiccupping at this move or protesting
against something else, till everyone lined
up at the trough is quite convinced that
they are right.
Squatters, pot-bellied barmen and the
shrewd boys who grow rich quick on the
geegees are the chief offenders, and they
are always right.—L. J. M. (Vic.).
Employment
Here’s a personal slant on the vexed
question of employment of women.
Those who would return them to the
home, willy-nilly, and close the dopr,
overlook the fact that many dislike
housework intensely. For years I have
struggled with it honestly, but to-day
I hate it more than when I started.
Not even the bringing-up of children
should prevent me from doing something
in my spare time (even mothers need it)
to act as an antidote to the work of
sweeping and cleaning that is for me
drudgery. To “bridge” I am not able ;
golf bores me ; but one thing I’d * love
to and I did it before marriage
and should now be more capable than
before, but there is actually a law in
this State to forbid it. For years I have
spent every available minute in the study
of the art —and it is an art. I occupy a
ringside seat and have watched the show
go on, but must not climb down and
perform myself.
Why not freelance teachers ready to
step in when occasion permits, when
full-timers are sick, when schools are
low-staffed? I, for one, would be will-
ing to do it for nothing, and I wouldn’t
be pushing out a man —only filling a
vacuum. I am a trained teacher ; why
can’t I do it?— M. M. (N.S.W.).
A Westralian movement with a record
of efficiency put forward some pro-
posals, repeated from 1931-1937:
(1) That equal pay be given both sexes.
(2) That as nursing, etc., is earmarked
for females, so certain occupations should
be earmarked for males.
That instead of expensive training, with
no employment to follow, there should be
a system of subsidised apprenticeships for
additional employees.
(4) That a bureau of apprenticeships be
formed in every State to which lads may
be apprenticed, because so many hundreds
of employers (builders particularly) have
insufficient guarantee of permanent work
to apprentice lads.
(5) That the present “rates for age” be
respread to avoid too great a jump at 19,
20 and 21.
(6) That the question of taxation for
employment be closely investigated, because
taxation for this purpose defeats itself —as
it merely transfers employment from the
original place to the taxational outlet.
Employment is certainly not increased
by taxation. On the contrary. Thus
it is that we see the numbers register-
ing with Government Sustenance Depart-
ments constantly increasing, these men
being deprived of their original work
by taxation, and having to look to that
taxation to replace them in positions.
Just another vicious circle. — Crux (W.A.).
Country Dead-ends
We hear about dead-end jobs in the
cities. What of the farmers’ sons who
have not drifted to the cities? The ruling
rate of pay for country work not covered
by an award is Bs. to 12s. per day of eight
or nine hours, with no holidays on full
pay, and in some cases no wet-weather
pay.
I write from experience, having spent
all my life on the land, working at a
variety of jobs. Hundreds of young
men (and those not so young) in the
dairying and fruitgrowing districts are in
the same case.
If one becomes ambitious and wishes
to grow vegetables or fruit for market
a proposition is put to a landowner who
has spare land, usually covered with
undergrowth or scrub. He suggests £5
per acre per annum for a five years’
lease. That, at the end of the term,
means that he gets back his land, im-
proved, besides having collected twice its
value per acre in rent, whilst the young
man, the would-be pioneer, is five years
è
é
have yet to hear of a lad under 21 stand-
ing for Parliament. I am 17.
Surely we should have some say m
governing the country which we would
be willing to fight for in time of war.
If war comes along to-morrow it’ll mean
yours truly going because my having the
“wind up properly’’ won’t be excuse
enough for staying back. Have I joined
a training camp? No, because the nearest
to my knowledge is about 100 miles dis-
tant, and a cocky’s son can’t afford to
go that far —often. —J. E. B. (Q.).
Farmers and ’Varsity Men
By appointing university graduates to
its field staff, the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture is not acting in the best in-
terests of farmers. With few exceptions,
’Varsity men are unable to think in
the same terms as farmers. Often when
given advice by a graduate a farmer has
to seek someone else to have the advice
explained, as the graduate speaks in scien-
tific language that the farmer can’t
fathom.
Years ago the department founded its
Hawkesbury Agricultural College as a
training-ground for future departmental
officers, as well as a place for the prac-
tical training of potential farmers. Offi-
cers backed by a Hawkesbury training
can meet the farmer on his own ground,
and they impart instruction far better
than do more scientifically trained
university graduates. Best of the latter
are those who went through the college
before going on to the university.
University training may be essential for
research "workers and veterinary officers,
but for men whose daily work brings
them in personal touch with the farmer
the department should stick to its
Hawkesbury trainees. They have proved
themselves streets ahead of university-
trained men.
Several years of practical farm work
appears to be the only way to give uni-
versity men the right outlook. The men
themselves are not to blame—the fault
lies with the method of training them.—
Cow Time (N.S.W.).
New Uses for Wheat
With the whole country in a fair way
to lengthy embarrassment over the wheat
surplus, might it not be worth while for
the Government to set scientific minds
working, with the promise of a substan-
tial reward for the discovery of an en-
tirely new use for wheat? Anew drink,
anew sweet, anew fuel, might be the
means of rendering that uncomfortable
surplus non-existent.
Bounties and taxes bring their own
penalties. The knocking-up of a batch
of hot scones is no longer the casual
matter it used to be in the average house-
hold. The prudent housewife takes rue-
ful stock of the stinted measure of flour
her money buys and thinks again
Other Ways (Vic.).
The National Register
Suppose that in nine months’ time the
Government has urgent need to use its
national register. In general, the records
will be fairly accurate, but in hundreds of
individual cases much of the information
will be misleading.
For instance, John Smith, single, may
in nine months be married. Pietro
Spaghetti, now an Italian subject, may be
a naturalised Australian with a big fruit
farm —while Horatio Windbag, M.L.C.,
may be on the dole!
It follows, therefore, that the register
needs continual revision, and the simplest
way to do this would be to make avail-
able at every post office, cards similar
to those supplied for electoral enrolment.
Then, when a man gets married or a
foreigner becomes naturalised, when a
student masters anew language or an
apprentice completes his training, he
could fill in particulars on a card and
post it to the national register.
The boycott spirit may gnash its teeth
and call it “Fascism,” but true patriot-
ism will not be afraid to co-operate. It
must be done, otherwise in a year or two
the register will contain so many inaccu-
racies that it will be of little use. —
Owen C. Pike (N.S.W.),
Office Jobs or Farm Work
A. Daly (B. 26/7/’39) is right in think-
ing that the large surplus of labor avail-
able for some jobs and the difficulty of
getting domestics and farm lads denote
something wrong with this country ; but
it is a mistake to regard the youth of
Australia as being work-shy because they
refuse to undertake this type of work.
The refusal is the result of their
parents’ experience, outlook and com-
monsense. The parents know (examples
can be seen everywhere) that, once a boy
Australian Literature
ë
ē
JANET
NELSON
ę


starts work on a farm or a girl as domes-
tic, any hope of promotion or prosperity
must be laid aside. The boy will become
and remain a laborer and the girl a
domestic.
The mere fact that they have wasted
a few years working in either of these
capacities will surely disqualify them
when, later and older, they try to obtain
any other class of better-paid work. No
employer will give them a chance. “No,
we only take men or women who have
had previous experience,” they are told
when they apply.
Farmers, farm lads and domestics are
mostly depicted as mentally deficient and
made the butt of innumerable jokes in
the press and elsewhere. The young are
very sensitive to ridicule.
Farm work is hard, badly paid and
lonely; the hours are long and living
conditions are mostly rough. The work
is often seasonal, and when the busy
time is over the luckless youth is sacked
—just turned adrift when most other
farmers in the same locality are also put-
ting off hands.
The living conditions of the domestic
help are better than those of her brother-
farm-worker, but she is even more poorly
paid, and is expected to be on duty every
minute of the day. No six or eight hours’
work as in the office or factory, or free-
dom to do as she likes afterwards, but
12 or more per day, Sundays and Satur-
day afternoons included, with one even-
ing off per week, and even this liable to
be arbitrarily withheld or postponed to
suit her mistress’s convenience or whim.
-A. F. (Q.).
Comparative Melancholy
“Taysider” (B. 16/8/’39) is correct in
his surmise that I have never seen the
favored land that R.L.S., in a letter to
Barrie, refers to as “the cold old huddle
of hills from which we came.”
But if I do not know my Kirrie, 1
know my Barrie and his description of
the heart of the town. “The square,” as
he recalled it most readily, “in the mist
which so often filled it, loosening the
stones and choking the drains.” (“No
one will admit the Scotch mist,” says
Barrie.) “At such a time the square
would be empty but for one vegetable
cart left in the care of a lean collie,
which, tied to the wheel, whined and
shivered underneath. Pools of water
gather in the coarse sacks that have been
spread over the potatoes and bundles of
greens, which turn to manure in their lid-
less barrels. At long intervals a farmer’s
gig rumbles over the bumpy, ill-paved
square, or a native with his head buried
in his coat peeps out of doors, scurries
across the way and vanishes.”
That the dreary impression gained
from this, and much more in the same
strain, is not entirely erroneous is sug-
gested by the terse comment passed by
an exiled Scot from thereabouts on my
complaints of a bitter winter: “You
Australians don’t know what a grey
day is.” Whether the mist-drenched,
sunless prospect or the sunbaked,
droughty one is the more melancholy is
largely a matter of taste. Personally,
after a month on end of what might be
called “Scotch mist,” nothing would give
me greater pleasure than the fulfilment
of “Taysider’s” benevolent wish to dump
me in Gin Gin or Quambone —drought
or no drought.
Anyhow, when Gin Gin or Quambone
produce a genius as indomitable as J. M.
Barrie’s, they may not object to being
cited, with Kirrie, in support of the
writer’s contention that pessimistic litera-
ture cannot be laid at the door of melan-
choly scenery. —£1. A. D. (Vic.).
Capital Punishment
That Maoriland has, within the past
five years, had “fewer homicide cases
than in any like period in its history” (B.
16/8/’39) is not of itself proof that
abolition of capital punishment has de-
creased grave crime. There has been a
far higher murder rate in N.S.W. re-
cently than for a long time past, but it
would be absurd to attribute it to the
fact that several of the murderers have
met a well-deserved end.
It will have to be very strong proof
that will convince me that anyone is
more likely to commit murder if the
penalty is death than if it is imprison-
ment, nominally for life, but, in many
cases, merely for a term of years.—
Denton Aitchison (N.S.W.).
“Back to Methuselah”
Reading many of the views expressed
in the O.F.M. leads me to wonder if any
of the other fellows —and lasses —have
ever read Bernard Shaw’s play “Back
to Methuselah.” The long-life and the
let-youth-take-the-helm advocates, and
Miss Smith (B. 2/8/’39) with her “segre-
gate-the-old” policy, might do worse than
get a copy (mine cost ninepence) and
draw a moral therefrom.
The play starts in the Garden of Eden,
where Adam and Eve, appalled by the
prospect of immortality, seek a way out
of their dilemma. It progresses in five
steps from then till “As Far as Thought
Can Reach.”
The second part, “The Gospel of the
Brothers Barnabas,” should be of interest
to the let-youth-take-the-helm advocates.
In it Shaw draws the conclusion that a
lifetime of three hundred years is the
least in which a man could expect to
acquire the wisdom and experience neces-
sary for successful management of
national affairs.
In Part 111 the “Thing” has happened.
Two of those who were in the house
when the doctrine of long living was first
pronounced are well past the two-fifty
mark. They marry and start the new
race of long-livers.
Part IV, “The Tragedy of an Elderly
Gentleman,” deals with an old short-liver
who visits the British Isles, whence
his kind had been expelled by the long-
livers. While there he is subject to
attacks of a disease called Discourage-
ment —at the present a not unusual com-
plaint amongst those who get out of their
element.
I direct the attention of Miss Smith
to Part V, “As Far as Thought Can
“Here's that fur necklet I promised yer!"
Reach.” In it the aged and the young
are segregated, not by compulsion
but by mutual agreement. The young
find the ancients dull and uninteresting ;
the ancients give themselves up to a life
of meditation. The material body has
become, to them, an unnecessary thing.
They look to the day when there will no
longer be body—only spirit.— Ques Tion
(Q.). __
A “Bulletin” Club
A Bulletin Club (B. 16/8/’39)? Well,
we had something darned like it in Gis-
borne (M.L.) 12 years ago. There were a
service-car manager, an elongated
chemist, an M.D. with some saucy remi-
niscences of life in the Northern Terri-
tory, a legal light and a surveyor who had
run his chain over most of the dry spots
this side of the Equator. We met once
a week in the back room of a music
shop, and the only membership fee was
arranged on a sliding scale to suit the
capacity of the individual to pay for the
beer he absorbed.
We had one thing in common besides
the beer. Each and all possessed manu-
scripts rejected by The Bulletin. These
were read between drinks, and the
opinion of the meeting was that both
beer and Bulletin were right. “Darius”
was the only member who had received
the famous “Thank God, that’s paid,” and
he occupied the chair. I often wonder
if some of his pars, originated in that
back room. —Kam Ray (N.S.W.).
The idea of forming a Bulletin club
is commendable, and if it is ever insti-
tuted I shall be one of the first to join.
Meanwhile, I do my best in my own
circle to gain new readers for The Bul-
letin. I am not mentioning this to catch
the editor’s favorable eye, because doubt-
less there are many more of its regular
readers and contributors who unosten-
tatiously do the same.
I think that, like myself, they have a
deep respect for Australia’s national
newspaper and its splendid traditions, and
believe in supporting and advertising a
journal that has always agitated for a
united, prosperous Australia, and is re-
nowned for its straightforward criticisms
of both friend and foe. — Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Sex Equality
Nowadays you can buy a fight in
mixed company almost anywhere by the
mere mention of sex equality. I’ve
studied the subject from all angles, and
I’ve come to the conclusion that there is
but one solution —let the women have it!
The whole trouble is that what women
want is not sex equality but a mere
hankering after some of the undoubted
advantages which men enjoy, with an
equally strong aversion to shouldering
the burdens. Take the subject of equal
pay ; if a woman can do the same work as
a man, it is only common justice to give
her the same pay for it—and equally just
to demand that she work under exactly
the same conditions to earn it. But that
last factor is the one which all ardent
feminists want to dodge ; when discussing
the matter they always grow offended at
the mere idea of expecting a woman to
do such a thing.
Next, child maintenance. Under our
laws, the whole burden of keeping the
child falls on the father. Under a just
system of sex equality, each parent would
pay half the cost. The same thing holds
good with buying a home —each would
pay half of the cost of setting up house-
keeping.
In time of war, women would have to
run just the same chances of horrors like
gas gangrene or an abdominal wound
as the male soldier ; they would have to
face conscription of their services, too.
Of course, you can say that all this is
like trying to teach dogs to meow on
the rooftops at night while the cats are
taught to bark ; you can also point out
that Nature is the most ardent anti-
feminist of the lot; but if women, in
their desire for sex equality, choose to
overlook things like that, it’s their pigeon.
The greatest advantage of the lot,
however, in giving women sex equality
in this: All through history women have
shown that they will fight tooth and nail
to secure something they set their hearts
on, but as soon as they do get it they find
they don’t want it any more.
That's why I’m so firm a believer in
letting them have it. —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
It Begins at Home
I have just put down my local paper,
which mentions that living in camps on
the river banks and in other places at
Dubbo (N.S.W.) are 100 expectant
mothers, all of whom are in necessitous
circumstances. Though I sat over a
kindly fire I shivered. Needing relief
•from that picture, I took up a Sydney
paper, to read that a visitor puts the case
for Palestine mothers, and is in Australia
to raise funds and form an auxiliary here.
Palestine needs a maternity hospital.
I could go on with news from that
paper—how a future visitor will receive
£7OO a week, and how a committee for
Spanish refugee relief has cabled M.
Daladier that “funds will be maintained.' 5
What in the sacred name of charity are
we all about? Aren’t we in the same
position exactly as a mother who leaves
her ill-fed children locked up in a dark,
dirty room whilst she goes off to church
conscious of her saintly example to the
neighbors, and thanking God she is not
like Mrs. Smith, who is “only interested
in her own home”? Did I say I was
shivering? I am burning with indig-
nation. — Ezra (N.S.W.).
Gambling
“Eureka s s” claim (B. 16/8/’39) that the
gambling evil could be wiped out if we
“allowed all forms of gambling, but con-
trolled so that the public would have a
reasonable chance of winning,” does not
sound particularly logical. Surely, if the
public is to be given a better chance
of winning than it has now it will be
keener than ever on gambling; and,
anyway, just how can we control all
forms of gambling, ranging from raffles
to horseracing?
The idea that gambling run for the
public benefit in any way improves con-
ditions in a community keen on gam-
bling has been disproved over and over
again. Every State-controlled lottery has
encouraged many people to waste money
they could ill afford, has tended to make
a thrifty State and a thrifty worker
equally foolish in the eyes of the public,
and has contributed little to State
finances compared with its costs.
Gambling has a hold on most of its
adherents because it supplies a delusive
hope, a considerable amount of interest
and a cheap form of excitement for
people whose circumstances offer little
hope for the future, whose work is un-
interesting or whose everyday life is dull.
How can we hope to “abolish” it except
by offering something better to the com-
munity in the shape of more secure living
conditions and more purposeful occupa-
tions? —D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Language Barrier
After personal fanaticism, the question
of language must be the largest obstacle
standing in the way of international
understanding.
Imagine Hitler, Chamberlain, Musso-
lini, Franco, Daladier, Stalin, Chiang Kai-
shek and Japan’s P.M. setting out to-
gether for a long walk across an English
heath and eulogising, with a common
tongue, the fascination of the English
countryside, the view from the Dover
cliffs, the weather and the political situa-
tion.
After serving the schnitzels and rice
on the grass, Chamberlain could say, be-
tween mouthfuls, “I say, Adolf, old man,
what about this Danzig affair? Damned
awkward, what?” Then Hitler, under-
standing the drift of the remark without
an interpreter (who could easily make it
sound aggressive—“He said, ‘Danzig,
what about it?’ ”), would reply, “Here,
Neville, have another schnitzel while I
think about it. I generally do this at
Berchtesgaden, you know.”
Esperanto, which is a comparatively
simple, all-embracing language, if taught


in all the schools of the world would do
more to stimulate accord between the
people of different nations than any other
factor. The confusion which enveloped
the tower of Babel would appear to be
an orderly meeting compared with what
passes nowadays for an international
parley.
Break down the international barriers,
of which language is the chief, get to
know what the other fellow really thinks,
and the newspapers will have to go to the
divorce courts for their crises.— William
Lynch (N.S.W.).
“If So, Why?”
J. R. Cole (B. 9/8/ ’39) asks, in con-
nection with the late war: “Is this
lunacy going to be repeated all over
again. If so, why?”
The answer can be found in “Banjo”
Paterson’s story of the request made to
Kipling to compose an epitaph for a
tablet in a war cemetery. This is what
he supplied: “Had our fathers not lied
to us, so many of us would not be here.”
Needless to say it was not used. — Oont
(N.S.W.).
Simple Living
Although at present domiciled in a city,
my previous employment lay out in the
west. Station work, droving, shed work,
etc. A few days ago I was examined by
a doctor previous to taking out an insur-
ance policy. “Sound as a bell,” he said
approvingly. Then, after tapping me on
the chest, “Attribute your health, young
man, to the open air and simple living,”
or words to that effect.
I thought of asking him to define
“simple living,” but, like Muggins, I let
the opportunity slide. But what does
constitute simple living, anyway?
Living at an out-station, up at sunrise
and to bed with the crows, is that simple
living? Tucker principally damper,
mutton, syrup, black tea and beans —
baked, boiled or served up in hash —is
that simple living? It is, in some re-
spects ; but how many men are there
content with such a living?
I doubt if there are more than ten in
the whole of western Queensland. Be-
cause few men will assent to such con-
ditions —if there are better jobs offering.
But as it is a job of work and returns
some sort of dividend men put up
with the conditions and console them-
selves with thoughts of what they’ll do
in the future.
And so there we have it in the prover-
bial nutshell. Unless there is content-
ment also, simple living is impossible.
There is no simple living for ambitious
people. It is through ambition that worry
is born ; and a worried man, although he
may be benefiting physically, in some
respects, from the open air and plain
diet of the stock country, is certainly not
at “peace with his mind.” And simple
living, as I would define the term, is a
living from which a man gleans both phy-
sical stimulus and mental contentment.
Of course, life itself is a simple affair;
but how many of us live life the way it
should be lived? Most of us are strug-
gling for recognition (the writer in his
attic ; the stockman on the station), so
how can we struggle and at the same
time retain a grip on contentment?
Which, as we know now, is part and
parcel of the “simple life.”
So, boiled down, it all amounts to the
answering of John Stuart Mill’s query:
“Which would you sooner be —a con-
tented hog or a discontented philoso-
pher?”
Choose the former, and you have the
“simple living” well within your grasp. —
Zend-Avesta (Q.).
Beauty
“Mary Mary” (B. 12/7/’39) mentions
that man-made art and literature stress
the beauty of the female form. Exactly!
If woman monopolised the world of
ideas, the accent would be on masculine
beauty.
Bodies, male or female, if well-nour-
ished and exercised, are beautiful, but if
they are neglected they’re desperately
ugly.— Fitz (N.S.W.).
Abuse of Authority
Although women are successfully tak-
ing their places in many spheres of life
outside the home, it is a very rare woman
indeed who can hold a position of author-
ity without abusing it. Most women are
lacking in consideration towards subordi-
nates, insensitive to the feelings of others,
often snappy to the point of rudeness,
intolerant and unforgiving. In short,
generally speaking, they are slavedrivers.
Why this should be, so is not altogether
clear. The facile explanation that it is
due to old-maidish frustrations does
not by any means fit all the facts. The
tendency to abuse authority is often just
as apparent in married women as in spin-
sters. It may be, in part, that efficient
women are overconscientious and hence
impatient of the inefficiency of anyone
under them.
It seems to me, however, that the chief
reason is that, after long generations of
subordination, women have not yet fully
adjusted themselves to their new emanci-
pation. Suddenly elevated to positions
carrying authority, they are apt to be-
come intoxicated by their sense of power.
In a lesser degree this intoxication of
power can be noted among men who,
not fitted by birth and/or training for
authority, are unexpectedly raised to
positions of responsibility. It is a point
worth bearing in mind in regard to poli-
tics as well as in other activities. No
matter how much we would like to be-
lieve to the contrary, the best leaders
and bosses are those whose heritage and
education fit them to be so. There are
exceptions, of course, but in the main
men who rise suddenly from the ranks
are less successful in authority than those
who are trained to it.
It may be that the suppressed ego,
when suddenly released, asserts itself too
strongly in order to cover up an uncon-
scious sense of inferiority. Or it may be
that the bitterness bred in unhappy sub-
ordination finds some relief in “taking
it out” on others.
In any case, there appears to be danger
in a too-sudden relegation of authority
and power to people, or classes of people,
who are not accustomed to have them
and who are not trained to wield them
wisely.— Heretaunga (M.L.).
“The Outsider” and Sentiment
While Norman Lindsay’s cartoon on
the self-destruction of a workless 18-
year-old youth may have given a jolt in
the right quarter, it seems to have roused
a bit of sickly sentiment. The cold fact
is that the unfortunate lad must have
been either extremely neurotic or a bit
non compos, for, work or no work, life
is rich at 18, and no normal boy would
destroy his own.
As to his being homeless and friendless,
plenty of Australians have been in that
position at even younger ages, and duly
got out of it with the exercise of a little
of that enterprise, dish and resource for
which the type is justly famed.
The suicide type is found among boys
of good position, as well as bad, but no
fuss —except in the flapper press —is
made over them. They, like the poor
devil on the Randwick rifle range, are
psychological freaks and cases for the
clinic. In this country there is no lack
of food, no lack of sympathy, though
some lack of opportunity for the normal
young. I may be a lone voice, and hun-
dreds may visit their contempt on me,
but I maintain that no other land is as
good as ours and anyone, young or old,
who shoots himself here is not normal.
Let me add that I speak as one who
has been through the mill, beginning as
a penniless orphan of 14.
And do let’s stop dragging in the
allegedly gay Sydney smart set and night
life. There isn’t enough of either to
warrant a jeer!
At the same time, I agree with “Arev”
that a little discipline would do much to
reduce the numbers of neurotic youths
who feed their minds on unwholesome
fiction and screen stories. — Not Forty
(N.S.W.).
Women’s Fashions
It is about time that women in Aus-
tralia had a say in what style of clothes
they would like to wear. If, as we are
told, men are mostly the designers of
women’s fashions, they must have com-
bined this spring to see how absolutely
ridiculous they can make us women look.
Anything more absurd than this
season’s fashions in millinery could not
be imagined. Styles which are designed
for cooler climates are not always suit-
able for Australia. I don’t think a wisp
of straw trimmed with a bunch of flowers
or a bird jauntily sitting on the side of
the head is enough protection against our
oftentimes blistering sun.
There is a great opportunity for Aus-
tralia to develop a style of its own —
distinctive and suitable for our climate.
Why should we follow the dictates of
Paris or Bond-street? Haven’t we
fashion designers in Australia? M. L.
(S.A.).
“We Shall—Some Day”
They were two quite ordinary chaps,
and their conversation, of which I caught
only a fragment, is noteworthy only be-
cause it typifies a general attitude.
“Means a lot of hard work,” one ex-
plained. “But it can’t be helped. There
isn’t a machine capable of doing this
job.” “Why doesn’t someone invent a
machine that will do it?” the other de-
manded. “Someone will some day,” the
first replied casually. “Just a matter of
time.”
Doesn’t that sum up our own opinion
on things? Can we imagine anything,
however preposterous, of which we can
say definitely, “It is impossible and quite
unattainable?” Are we surprised at any
new invention? Don’t we confidently
look forward to the time when all un-
congenial manual labor will be dispensed
with?
It does, and we can’t, and we’re not,
and we do. In the light of past dis-
coveries and inventions, our attitude is
natural and quite logical.
Does it strike you that we can apply
this reasoning to our soicial and inter-
national problems? We haven’t devised
a perfect system of distribution of the
world’s goods—but we shall, some day.
We haven’t learned to value culture, and
education, and intelligence rightly l —but
we shall, some day. We haven’t arrived
at the correct formulae for universal
peace— but we shall some day.
Think along these lines. Replace a
war-psychology with a hope-psychology,
and we’re half-way to attaining our
mutual ends. Try it and see.—Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
For Unification
Australia’s surplus politicians and an
average of one Parliament per million
have already been put forward on this
page in the cause of unification. For
further justification, add traffic regula-
tions. With registration disks, licenses
and insurances, driving a car inter-State
is worse than, touring Europe, where
one’s stay is not so limited and tempor-
ary residences don’t have to be regis-
tered.
We have six Education Departments,
some pro- and some anti-technical in out-
look, preparing students for competitive
Commonwealth examinations which lean
towards one State’s educational pet likes.
Again, I know several teachers who have
arranged temporary transfers to a certain
State where it is well known that B.As.
and M.As. are handed out for half the
trouble.
The case for police, railways, hospitals
and roads under one control is as strong
as that for customs and post offices.
And why should one die in Wodonga,
where probate duty on a £2OOO estate is
at 4i p.c., when by dying across the river
at Albury only 2\ p.c. is payable? Taxa-
tion differences are so marked between
the States that if we were a race of cara-
vanners half of Australia would be de-
serted. Yes, I’m with The Bulletin for
unification to cut out senseless waste and
inefficiency.—H. W. Green (S.A.).
The Youth Problem
“One of the greatest problems to-day
is. finding something for boys and girls
to do on leaving school,” declares
Deputy Commissioner of Police T. J.
Lynch. Most parents painfully try to
match their children with a career by
abstract calculation, but, after all, the
seemingly casual shuffling of human lives
by the world’s routine is just as good a
guide as human wisdom.
Contact with a world rough as a
cobbler’s rasp has led to success far
beyond the niceties of universities. Our
Henry Parkes, our Billy Hughes and
others have been well polished as the cur-
rent of life thrust them hither and thither.
But do we speak contemptuously of their
youthful occupations, menial as we know
they were?
It may not be a very palatable thought
for a father who is spending money on a
son for a special position that the lad
who comes to his back door with the
meat, the groceries or the vegetables may
be the colleague of his university-trained
son in some high sphere of business, and
give him points and a big beating in
acumen and courage. Yet it happens as
often as a man loses his money at the
races.
I’ll admit that apprenticeship is essen-
tial for a proper supply of labor, for effi-
ciency and trade organisation, but early
application of it should give a youth the
chance of natural choice. Imagine a boy
with a bent for mechanics being tied to
a cobbler’s bench!
No man can afford to idle unless he
holds down a politician’s job, and no
man is naturally industrious. That state
belongs to the dog, and Nature sees to
it by packing its hair full of fleas.
The invaluable habit of work has to
be acquired, and acquired young, but
there must be stepping-stones at the feet
of youth, not milestones. The corrective
“salts” for a system choked by an in-
human desire for high dividends at the
expense of youth is legislation prohibit-
ing the garbage-tinning of the 18-21 class.
—Aussie (N.S.W.).
Gullibility
“P.K.P.” (B. 26/7/’39), who describes
gullibility as the most glaring weakness
of humanity to-day, is both an alarmist
and an optimist. The proportion of
gullible folk in the world is no greater
to-day than it was in the days when
Laban fooled Jacob over a marriage
contract and was later fooled by Jacob
over a share-farming contract —it re-
mains constant at 100 p.c. We are all
gullible, but most of us go through life
without having our particular weaknesses
exposed.
If there is one particular weakness
of humanity that is more glaring now
than at most other periods of the world’s
history it is a lack of manners. Not that
manners in general are worse, but good
manners are more necessary now than
ever before and consequently their
absence is more apparent.
In the spacious days before the in-
dustrial revolution people had plenty of
living room. Communities were more
independent of one another, and in-
dividuals much more so. To-day the
world is crowded, social contacts are
closer and one individual’s misbehavior
is more likely to have a direct effect on
the welfare of a number of his fellow-
citizens. And, although we hear much
in these days of the community’s duty
to the individual, we hear all too little
of the individual’s duty to the com-
munity. Our corporate manners, have
improved, but the manners of the in-
dividual are regrettable.
Who that has ever seen a five o’clock
train to Suburbia stormed by a horde
of homing city workers could doubt
that good manners on the part of its
patrons would make railway travel more
pleasant? Why should it be necessary
to employ able-bodied men to patrol the
streets asking pedestrians to keep to the
left? Why should it still be necessary
in this year of grace to force people to
form queues at ticket-windows?
The road-hogging that maims and slays,
vandalism that despoils our parks and
gardens, litter that defiles our picnic
grounds, hoardings that make our roads
hideous, offensive barracking that dis-
gusts all sportsmen, amplified elec-
tioneering that destroys our peace, re-
ligious intolerance that is poisoning our
political life —what are all these but
exhibitions of bad manners?
International affairs are in their
present state of “tension” mainly through
the efforts of certain leaders to attain
their objectives without regard to the
feelings of others. And those leaders
are cheered on or execrated, as the case
may be, by the most ill-mannered press
on record.
If civilisation is ever to be more than
a name we must all mend our manners.
We must learn to regard anti-social con-
duct of any sort, not as a breach of this
or that by-law, but as an offence against
the community. We must learn —and
the teaching must come not only from
our schools but from the press and the
pulpit, the radio and the rostrum —the
profound truth contained in old William
of Wykeham’s motto “Manners Makyth
Man.”— lchabod Crane (N.S.W.).
A National Outlook
There is an urgent need in Australia
for a national outlook. At present there
is too much States complex; people can-
not see beyond the borders of their own
State, and are, more interested in the
development of that rather than the de-
velopment of the continent as a whole.
Australia is a growing nation. No
longer is it merely an appendage of
Great Britain, but a Power that will in
time play a major part in Pacific affairs.
But the co-operation of all is needed to
make its voice heard. Wrangling be-
tween States will retard rather than ad--
vance a national solidarity.
In the allocation of Commonwealth
projects and finance the States with the
greater population and industrial ex-
pansion are claiming the greater share,
and the smaller States, not unjustly,
resent this. It is most essential that
these works and moneys be apportioned
fairly, so that the economic stability of
each State be strengthened, and that
boundaries be not regarded as barriers,
but as gateways for closer friendship
and understanding.
Further, the centring of all important
industries in several States would present
a disastrous climax in the event of any
invasion. The enemy would need only
to concentrate on these and the resist-
ance of the whole country would be
paralysed.
It is most desirable that goodwill be
cultivated between States, and this can
be accomplished only by resolutions to
share alike. And it is also essential for
the welfare of the people themselves,
and for the advancement of Australia,
that it not be thought of as a nation
divided into States, but as States welded
into a nation.— Robert Ewing (S.A.).


/
'
/
\
■
\
\
■
1
RICH
and POO
A
t „
mm,
m S'
H
1 V :
SKEW* 5
' v
in
I
Both Use Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills
t)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are to-day more
extensively used by all classes of the community than
any other such remedy sold in Australasia. Male
and female, rich and poor, town and country dwellers,
all use them. The merchant, the miner, the lady
of society, and the girl in the factory—they all find
in this remedy just what is required to keep the
system in proper working order.
Sluggish Liver —Biliousness
Indigestion—Constipation
caused by improper or too much food or drink, and
Headaches, etc., arising therefrom, are quickly banished
by a dose or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They are a safe and reliable remedy sold at a
moderate price.
Dr. Morse’s
u
DANGEROUS
PARASITES
Worms Cause Havoc
in the System.
Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Thread
Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter of an inch long, resembling
a piece of thread. They live in the lower
bowel in considerable numbers, particularly
in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them form
a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are
continually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flies, on the hair r e hoc . ' pets in raw
food, in drinking water or i-iereiy by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—The s'-mproms ct vn.u< infec-
tion are many and c ten obscure. liching of
the nose is the most-; common indication of pin
worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen st'..“iach, desire to vomit,
voracious appetite ; d craving for stramge
foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grindir teeth. bluish, look
about the eyes, ner c *. ;~d :rr.i.t?bility.
In children convulsio; sor. o , . -.ur The
danger to the person "eo* -.- m not
so much in the syn , r ■•selves .as. in
certain results which n he continual
irritation of the digest;.';; a a:... 'nay cause t.
number of digestive di ■ r.h ;s. The strain on
the nervous system may aT bring mote
serious trouble. The | mcial vitaiity is lowered,
the patient feels tirec. ar i wc? . the natural,
safeguards of the b ! ; oyainSt disea arc
lowered and grave alb nets may he contracted.
Many physicians now believe that arn -
are often a cause of appendicitis. Ris certain
that worms axe sometimes found in the appen-
dix.
Treatment. —For homo treatment i- is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and foS;ovy ,i with a kxa-
tive so that the worms ai d egg:-' wf; be ex-
pelled in the waste ma ;r. Sc era' creast-err ;
should be taken to assu ;hut any eggs which
may remain will not .-,u-rt the trouble . • v/.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets nve
made for just one 'purpose- to : cai.su a e
destruction of round and pin worms, A
Specific Medicine, they act on she worms -nly,
and can be given in c . vh r- the .presence
of worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all cL-miiUi cud aiores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/~ per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
If writing, mention this paper.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion.
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Eases chilblains.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on the
soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post free upon receipt of postal notes or
stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23
Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
- o'*
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ...
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
and Ytrrroc
"KS fi JH JCtJKriSP
mmm
,!$k Robert KUie.
I '''£&* >
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
* o '
>'<*'
<X
**
0
o«-
«.°X
0°
(A*
,s^
.•••■■ ..••■»<«s
, s»'V«X°'
. * * Sv e l
• -' - AV)°


Great Distribution of Hair Treatments
to Bulletin Readers —Limited Offer!
n
9
m
m
m
«
tt
|y|
tome
an get NEW HAIR Quickly i
PHENOMENAL RESULTS IN
AUSTRALIA OF THIS
UNIQUE TREATMENT.
OTILL they come, letters and letters,
hundreds and hundreds of wonderful
reports rolling in daily from all parts of Aus-
tralasia from men and women in all stages of
this wonderful treatment —some who were
completely bald, others with hair receding at
the temples, thin .on the crown and with bald
patches; and yet others suffering from “snow-
storm dandruff,” scurf, greasiness, falling hair,
and many of the other varied scalp disorders;
but all more than delighted with the benefits
derived—-and they all tried this treatment
without RISKING ONE PENNY—on an
absolute trial basis! Now it’s your turn! Here
is your opportunity to use this treatment in
your own homel
• PNSSS IS NOT
INEVITABLE
‘ 1 • ,,s - - acr inevitable, nor a necessary con-
° adv -.ring years. It is NATURAL
t > l a head u ; >cl healthy hair. It has been
P letters opposite speak for
selves), in; mar. riking cases that even when
hi"'■ '» tail■ ■■< pr-. . •, dandruff, etc., are far
ci tutq wilt, in many cases, yield to suit-
h ir -'tmei ; month, to every man and
wot ir in who would remedy their
he.' ‘Otibie >er( it die chance of a lifetime to
'■:?£ ’h Mffnu.so-'- Method without financial risk;
i; is >r. r> positive of the confidence we
i' -'V" m this »r;a: Treatment—but hurry, 1500
7 \ ivnK ts oni i.fc for Trial Distribution —
die w-,em ;h- la;; one goes you will be too
let i ..rry cr rm for particulars.
Sydney Branch. Cases from all parts of Australia and
New Zealand are treated from here. This is part of the
general offices. If you would banish your hair troubles
quickly and easily, then here and now is your great
opportunity-—post the coupon this moment!
WHAT MURCHISON
DISCOVERED ABOUT HAIR
JT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if
1 you are fast going bald—or what you have tried.
You have not used the RIGHT method. Murchi-
son’s own hair fell out in handfuls, until he fast
began to go bald. He tried everything, but now
has a thick, lustrous growth of hair—thanks to
an' important discovery.
A NEW SYSTEM TO REMEDY
BALDNESS
T HERE is one underlying principle that stimulates
1 new hair growth—that principle is involved in the
New Kelso Murchison Treatment. It’s a new way
—entirely different, and successful. . It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle.
With it you can stop your hair troubles overnight!
Don’t waste more time and money on worthless
“tonics” and “hair restorers,” but accept my great
offer and watch your hair grow! Get this special
offer coupon in the post TO-DAY!
TRY THIS TREATMENT
WITHOUT RISKING ONE PENNY!
I\J OW you can test it for yourself—try this
famous Treatment in your own home —under
any condition you like—and if it doesn’t grow new'
hair, rid you of dandruff, or any other hair
trouble you suffer from, within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING! —not a penny! But you
must hurry; this offer may never be repeated.
It places you under no obligation; all you have
to do is to post that coupon NOW!
LUXURIOUS HAIR IS ONE OF
YOUR MAIN SOCIAL ASSETS
■y OUR social standing is seriously affected if your
* hair is thin and unhealthy. Signs of approaching
baldness subconsciously repel. Here you can read
of what this Course has actually accomplished
for hundreds of others who have suffered from
scurf or dandruff, bald patches and falling hair.
Healthy hair can make so much difference to your
appearance that you should take this opportunity
offered you to really try this Course as others
have, and prove, without risk or loss, whether
it will or will not really do for you all it has done
for hundreds of others. Why not send the coupon
below at once?
WHAT OTHER GRATEFUL
PEOPLE SAY—
WAS BAUD FOR 16 YEARS—HAIR NOW
GROWING.
’’Hair started to grow over parts which have been
bald for 16 years.”—(Signed) G. L. HORTON.
HAIR BEGINNING TO GROW.
“Results are quite satisfactory. New hair is
beginning to grow on the thin, sparsely-covered
space, and altogether my hair looks much better
and healthier.”—Q. B. ESDAILLE, A.
YOUNG HAIR COMING ON FOREHEAD,
“T am pleased to be able to inform you chat I
am quite satisfied with the treatment. There is
absolutely no trace of dandruff on my Scalp, and
young hair is coming round my forehead, so I
should have a splendid head of hair in another
few months.” —L. F. MOONEY, T,
NEW *HAIR ON THIN PARTS.
“You asked me to report progress after using your
Hair Treatment for one month. New hair is
appearing on the scalp, and it has cured dandruff
completely. I have no hesitation in recommend-
ing your Treatment as the only course to follow
for falilng hair.” —P. BOLAND, O.
(N. 8.: These are but a few of hundreds of other
glowing reports of the efficacy of the MUR-
CHISON METHOD.)
I ?!!_MW JRI AL_ COUPON_|
J. KELSO MURCHISON, 1
Dept. L, LOMBARD CHAMBERS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. 1
NAME I
ADDRESS I
I
30/8/’39. |
SEND NO MONEY—YOU INCUR NO OBLIGATION WHEN YOU SEND -
THIS COUPON. |i
GENUINE PROOF FROM ALL
PARTS OF AUSTRALIA
L. PHILLIPS, of DUNOON, says: "HAIK HAS GROWN
H THICK!” “After the first night’s treatment
!! began to disappear; at the end of three days
tely gone. New hair was growing at the
on crown of the head at the end of 30 days,
■y short period all my hair and scalp troubles
or good. My hair has also grown twice as
)od.v suffering from any of the hair disorders
* z
mm
MRS. A. BURGESS.
I have had and desiring to get rid
of them for all time and obtain a
good head of hair, just write to
J. Kelso Murchison.”—L. Phillips, D.
MRS. AX NIT A BURGESS, of
BEAUMARIS, says: “COURSE A
BLESSING!” "I am writing to
Jk
li. PHILLIPS
tliank you for the wonderful results received from your
Hair Treatment. r was in despair—my liair had been
failing out and bad got very thin, and no life in it at
all. and was full of dandruff. I decided to trv your
course. Well, I can really say it has been a blessing
to me, as my hair now looks really better than 1 have
ever known it to be. You will agree that the photograph
speaks for itself.’- 1
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
* M
ẃ
£lOOO
GUARANTEE
We guarantee that
all testimonials pub-
lished in this an-
nouncement are
genuine letters or
extracts from
reports received by
grateful men and
women wh o have
used the Murchison
Method successfully.
These letters, to-
gether with
hundreds more, are
open for inspection
at our offices at
any time.
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept L, LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
