

IN THE MAKING
.
ill
■
■
•*- J!.N! »
%■*: :
im
r
■. ifcss'aijisiffl
J , ■ • , >|
J
mmsm
m
&L
1111:
■. .
II
r
. ’ill
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS - - - - NEWCASTLE, NSW.
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the master metal
which gives life to the nation’s industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
industry.
The Bulletin
Labors War Policy
Vol. 60.—N0. 3120.
Wednesday, November 29, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
IAN HAMILTON'S BOYHOOD
At 86, General Sir lan Hamilton has
written When l Was a Boy; he couldn’t
have written with more energy and
freshness of mind at 26. He declares:
“I am not out in these memoirs to say
striking things but to render up as faith-
fully as I —almost a ghost myself—can
render up and co.nvey to readers of Eng-
lish the ghosts of a past era.”
They are no ghosts but living places
and people he conjures up. Even so,
they are astounding. They are originals ;
their like is seen no more. He thinks
of them and writes of them humorously.
His life has been too long, too crowded,
too varied, and his own character and
philosophy too hospitable, for malice.
In a letter to the Red Page, Morley
Kennerley, for the publishers, Faber and
Faber, mentions that, “without exaggera-
tion, Sir lan to-day is more active than
the ordinary man in his twenties.” He
adds: “His span of life is perhaps best
indicated by mentioning that he was in
Germany preparing for Sandhurst dur-
ing the first year of the Franco-Prussian
War of 1870.”
Sir lan’s boyhood was spent at the
family home, Hafton, on the marge of
the Holy Loch, not far from Dunoon.
He was educated at Cheam ; at Welling-
ton College; in the extraordinary school
—though all of them were that—of a
professional crammer for military exams.;
then in Dresden, Germany ; then Sand-
hurst. Each of these has a long chapter,
and there is a chapter of his early officer-
training in Ireland to round off.
The engaging illustrations include a
picture of Hafton among trees by the
Loch, as stately as Government House,
Sydney, among trees, by the Harbor.
Some idea of it —taking the opportunity,
too, to show Sir lan’s writing—can per-
haps be had from the description of one
of its sideshows:
Grampapa was very fond of ice-pudding.
Wenham Lake was not. to be depended
upon—sometimes it melted. A warm week
at the Pole meant no ice-puddings for
Grampapa. So the old gentleman spoke
to himself very probably in the following
sense: “Let them say what they like to
say, but if Queen Victoria builds a Crystal
Palace of glass and steel for her
mammoths and stuffed monkeys, I mean to
raise a temple of heather and wood for
my ice-puddings.” Architecture, however,
was not Grampapa’s strong point. His
design was cribbed without any disguise
from a mushroom —quite enormous—not
in childish memory only, for at its heart
lay 100 cartloads of ice. Three-quarters
of the mushroom lay underground. The
idea was to keep the warm air from the
ice. So the thatch was of heather, very,
very thick—probably 2|ft. This came down
to about 4ft. from the ground; grown-ups
had to stoop before they could unlock the
ponderous door and enter. When they had
done so they found themselves in a pas-
sage lined with zinc, and, lighting a candle,
they followed it once round the mushroom
till they came to another very heavy door
lined with lead. Opening this they found
themselves in an inner circular passage which
made a second circuit of the mushroom,
until at last a final door was opened,- and
then the explorers would find themselves „
standing in a very odd place—namely, a
big round pit lined with silvery metal and
filled with glittering slabs of ice from the
Lochan and many other lakes, casting
green and blue and yellow reflections in
the light of the candle. The air was very
raw and cold, and we were never allowed
to stay for more than a moment.
Sir lan’s book is a continuous description
of people and places as interesting, odd
and unusual as Grampapa and his ice-
pudding house, enlivened all the way with
dramatic action: e.g., brother Vereker
burns down the £lOOO ice-pudding house.
The description of Hafton —interior and
surroundings, together with occupants —
is just as clear and realistic ; none the
less so though both place and people
seem now properly to belong nowhere
except in a book. Burgess, who “came
from being first footman to Sir Robert
Peel,” and who, his butler’s black suit
not being ready, served at table for the
first few days in Sir Robert Peel’s bril-
liant livery of blue, lined and faced with
scarlet; “so bright a bird of paradise
walking round with the air of a Field-
Marshal.” Uncle and Aunt Basset, who
“drove up to Greenock in a coach with
four horses and two powdered footmen,
from Tehidy, in Cornwall.” Miller, the
cook, “queen of below stairs,” presiding
over the Hafton kitchen, which “was like
Valhalla in the time of Siegfried.” His
father, who at 21 came into a fortune
of £21,000, and by the time he was 22
had blued the lot—at whist!
Grandfather forgave, and
put him in funds again.
On to Cheam ; and here
a school and its head that
Dickens would have loved
to flay. What is most striking here, and
next at Wellington, is the way Sir lan
brings dozens of other lads to life, as
lads. Similarly with Sandhurst and the
young bloods there in his day, and the
terrifying Captain Brooke. At Wellington
he was almost daily caned across the
back by a future Archbishop of Canter-
bury till, with the color of the old blue
and yellow and fresh red bruise stripes,
his back was like a zebra’s, and, when
he stripped his shirt off to swim, filled
the other boys with respectful awe. That
was mild to treatment handed out by the
head of Cheam. Sir lan doesn’t dwell
in anger on these matters; as they hap-
pened he describes them, and passes on
—always vividly and freshly, and always
with humor.
Theatre, Medicine, La w.
If you go Round the Room with
Edward Knoblock you’re offered the un-
usual sight of a playwright, dressed in
the white robes of an Arab, prostrating
himself to Allah. Knoblock used to
do it every morning, write in his white
robes all day, and at evening prostrate
himself again. This was the way he
worked himself into the proper mood
for writing a play called “Kismet.”
In spite of that shining incident, it’s
a dullish pilgrimage. He collaborated
with Arnold Bennett, wrote the scenario
of “The Three Musketeers” for Douglas
Fairbanks, knows celebrities of all sorts.
Some stories of Secret Service in the last
war enliven one section. It’s published
by Chapman and Hall.
James Bridie, author of One Way of
Living (Cape), is another playwright.'
He came to the theatre by way of
medicine, and most of the book consists
of humorous adventures from his school
and university days.
It’s a portrait gallery of oddities:
“Cocky Young was Keeper of the
Hunterian Museum and Professor of
Zoology, a fierce little man whose fancy
it was to look like Shylock, ragged beard,
elf-locks and all. Once when he was
travelling by ship he came up suddenly
from below, causing a Highland deck-
hand, who did not know him, to ex-
claim ‘The Duvvle! ’ ” Professor Cleland,
who had been insulted by Huxley in his
youth and who, whenever the great man
was mentioned, had a fit, sometimes
“sliding down the wall and sitting on the
floor.” The corpses in the anatomy room
“lying in the attitude of the daily dozen”
under the affectionate eye of “the attend-
ant ghoul named Stewart, who looked
like a corpse himself.” The physics lec-
turer who was a little unwell and began
his lecture, “I don’t know why I am
standing here. I don’t know who you
are. I suppose Life has something to do
with it. But I don’t know. Nobody
knows.” And H. G. Wells: “I met Mr.
H. G. Wells on the first night and was
entranced by his resemblance to a spar-
row and by his silvery voice.”
As a doctor’s book One Way of Living
is unusual in that only on the rarest
occasions is it either grim or gruesome.
Joseph A. Jerger’s Doctor — Here’s Your
Hat (Cape; Angus and Robertson),
though its tone is cheerful, has its full
share of medical horrors. It’s no San
Michele, but of its kind —praising the
country doctor, “telling” what was
humorous or macabre in both city and
country practice—it is good. The doctor
was born in England and practised in
America, but he had his schooling in
Sydney and has since visited Australia.
He woke up in a hospital in Cape
Town during the Boer War and saw at
the foot of his bed the cheerful notice
“Ship body to Parramatta, Australia.”
His dissecting-room attendant at the
American medical school was several
degrees worse than Bridie’s ghoul: “I
asked him how he could stand his grue-
some job. He told me that when he was
a child he had loved to run after acci-
dents. When the people involved did not
die he was not at all pleased. Now that
he had this job he didn’t have to chase
ambulances or follow up obituary notices
any more; he could satisfy his interest
in death and be paid for it.” Later the
doctor struck the same “curious mental
quirk”; a woman brought her elderly
husband to have him cured of his passion
for calling on dead strangers.
In Chicago Dr. Jerger numbered
gangsters among his patients. He has,
too, some strange and tragic stories of
dope-fiends. There’s plenty of light
relief in the chapters on country prac-
tice, including one—he had to go to the
confinement of an Italian farmer’s wife
and mistook the sleeping schoolmistress
for the patient—that would have pleased
Rabelais.
The Life of Sir Edward Clarke, by
Derek Walker-Smith and Edward Clarke
(Butterworth; F. W. Preece, Ltd.), is a
much better book in style and construc-
tion than any of the foregoing, and
in its quieter way it vies with One
Way of Living and Doctor Here’s
Your Hat as a piece of entertainment.
Clarke appeared in the “baccarat case”
when Edward VII., then Prince of Wales,
had to give evidence as to whether Sir
William Gordon-Cumming did or didn’t
cheat at cards; he prosecuted for Oscar
Wilde in his libel action and defended
him in the criminal court; he defended
Dr. Jameson after the Jameson Raid.
Some of the murderers he defended were
characters as weird as any from a
doctor’s case-book.
The Life follows the usual straight-
forward method of legal biographies:
the progress from obscurity to success
in law and politics ; the fees gradually
mounting from a total of £lOO in 1865
to £27,000 in 1902 ; the struggling young
barrister securing the acquittal of two
nobodies, charged with keeping a brothel,
by an amazingly ingenious defence, and
the grand old man writing a vigorous
biography of Disraeli at the age of 85.
Woe Is Waugh.
After a course of Evelyn Waugh’s
novels, and with the knowledge that the
history of Mexico has had more than
its share of comic-opera, one expects
Robbery under Law: the Mexican Object
Lesson (Chapman and Hall; F. W.
Preece, Ltd.) to be farce or light satire.
But it’s a sad, earnest Waugh this time:
Mexico is a huge country with a long
and proud history, taking precedence in its
national unity of half the States of Europe;
now, every year, it is becoming hungrier,
wickeder and more hopeless; the great
buildings of the past are falling in ruins;
the jungle is closing in and the graves of
the pioneers are lost in the undergrowth;
the people are shrinking back to the river
banks and railheads; they are being starved
in the mountains and shot in backyards,
dying without God. And General Cardenas
and his gang stand on their balcony smirking
at the applause of Communist delegations;
the tourists tramp round the Exhibition of his
work marvelling at hammers and sickles in
crbss-stitch and clenched fists in plaster of
Paris and the plans of monstrous public
offices that no one is ever going to build.
Waugh spent only eight weeks in
Mexico. He is violent in condemnation,
grudging in approval.
He gives the impression that he has
been driven into exaggeration by the
idiocies of “Leftist” intellectuals who
have reported that everything is won-
derful in Mexico since Cardenas raised
the clenched fist and expropriated the
oil wells with a vague promise to pay
compensation some time. Most of the
Pinks applauded Cardenas as another
fighter agaihst “Fascism,” but when he
snatched the oil wells he sold the oil
to Germany, Italy and Japan; and in
any case Waugh thinks that Mexico is
moving towards Hitlerism rather than
Stalinism —if the terms can be dis-
tinguished these days.
Opening with a sketchy chapter on
“tourist Mexico,” Waugh proceeds to a
historical survey: from the Toltecs and
the Aztecs (he refuses to sentimentalise
over Aztec art, believing that it could not
compare with that of medieval Europe)
to the emergence of the Revolution-
ary Party of Mexico consisting of
Generals Calles and Obregon, supported
by the C.R.0.M., “a labor union
organised on Marxist principles.”
That is the party which governs
Mexico to-day. Its record is a compli-
cated story of assassination, violence,
confiscation, attacks on the Church,
movements towards the “Left” culminat-
ing in the regime of Cardenas and his
Marxist adviser Lombardo Toledano.
Further violence is the only certainty
for the future that Waugh can discern ;
Communist upheavals, religious or mili-
tary counter-revolutions, even an ex-
plosion of primitive and pagan
nationalism such as D. H. Lawrence
foresaw in The Plumed Serpent. Both
German and Russia are powerful in-
fluences. Waugh thinks that Mexico may
become part of the United States within
a century; and he also suggests that
the U.S. armaments programme is
directed not to preserve European
frontiers but to counter the danger of
“the adherence of Mexico to the German
trade group that is being busily built up
in Latin America.”
The acounts of the oil-well grab and
Cardenas’s six-year plan make Robbery
under Law an exceptionally interesting
book, but it would have been all the
better if Waugh had remembered to pack
his sense of humor. The Waugh of
Scoop and Black Mischief could have
made rich comedy out of the school-
children who, having the right to strike
on ideological grounds, exercise it against
any unpopular teacher ; the children who
came out on strike as a protest agams
the “Yankee imperialist fascism or
President Roosevelt; or out of Cardenas s
great exhibition in which the “Mexican
tools and machines that so delighted tne
wandering Pinks were nearly all made
in the United States or overseas.
Air Challenge and the Locusts : Hugh
Wansey Bayly (Bodley Head). Entirely
new sort of anthology—passages culled
from “Hansard.” Purpose: to show up
Stupid Stanley and Naughty Neville, and
show off Wise Winston.
London Gardens of the Past: Helen
G. Nussey (Bodley Head). Starts the
sad thought that the booties of any given
London John Hop up to his hocks in
slush on point duty may be covering half
an acre where formerly grew lush eglan-
tine and buttercups.
In Hotel in Flight, Mrs. Nancy John-
stone gives a picture of W. H. Auden
visiting Spain during the war, staying at
the hotel run there by herself and her
husband, Archie, and prowling “for hours
about the village, a long, loose-knit
creature with a shock of tow-colored
hair, with the eager clumsiness of a
mastiff.” Then:
Later we were not so lucky in our
young poets. The Spanish War seemed to
attract them in droves. They drifted from
the bloody battlefields to the Casa John-
stone to recuperate. They sat about the
terraces or lounged in chaises longues and
wrote tiny, tiny poems in large white
books with Eversharp pencils. These
they read to each other and made suitable
comments. Modern poets seem very kind
to each other, we thought.
We were mistaken. They occupied their
evenings b% reading aloud from an an-
thology of modern poetry, which a modern
poet clutches to him through war’s alarms
in the same way that a political commissar
clings to Lenin’s works, pocket edition.
After each poem there was a chorus of
high-pitched criticism.
“How too, too fakey!”
' “I think it is rather nice in a horrible
kind of way.”
“My dear, have you seen this? It really
is too Isherwood.”
“Have you been anthologised yet?
Rather exciting!”
“What do you think of the new Auden?”
“Oh! Auden !”
“My deaf, the man is completely out of
touch with life, don’t you think?”
After each batch of poets Archie sat
down and wrote a poem on the Spanish
War. It was a very short poem, and it
varied only slightly. It ran:—
bullets bullets bullets bullets
bullets
bullets bullets
bullets bullets bullets,
The high point of the poem, accord-
ing to Archie, was the final comma.
The Melody That Got Lost: Kjeld
Abell; adapted from the Danish by
Frances Sinclair and Ronald Adam
(Allen and Unwin). The Little Man
again, curse him. A revue —like a popu-
lar version of Auden’s Dance of Death —
in which a symbolic Mr. Johnson, bored
with the office, searches for the Melody
of Life.
Children’s Christmas Fare. —While
the Story-log Burns: Thornton W. Burgess
(Bodley Head). Same setting and same
sort of inhabitants as Tales from the
Story-teller’s House, and as beautifully
illustrated by Lemuel Parker Bunty
and Bianco: Vera Elkan (Hamish
Hamilton). “Dedicated to children of
all ages who love dogs.” Leading charac-
ters are bull-terriers, shown in play
moods in a striking series of large-page
ph0t05..... Willy Nilly and William and
His Kittens : both by Marjorie Flack
(Bodley Head). Toddlers’ tales and
pictures Pony for Sale: Ann Stafford
(Hamish Hamilton). Novel for boys and
girls; leading characters three young-
sters, a pony and many dogs. They
write these things well these days
Rachel of Romney: Primrose Cumming
(Country Life). English country life set-
ting ; Rachel’s a lady sheep ; story’s a
charming account of her doings and
those of a natural lot of youngsters
Sue Burton Student Nurse (Bodley
Head). Tiptop novel for girls, especially
those thinking of tackling Sue’s pro-
fession Australians All: Nellie Grant
Cooper (Angus and Robertson). Rhymes
of Australian birds, animals, insects and
fish, well illustrated by Dorothy Wall
and Phyllis Shillito... .Alfred, King of
the English: Carola Oman (Dent). A
first-rate item, sound in history and done
as an engaging story.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —in all sincerity.
THE SENIOR STORE
m
m
m
%
/
S
l
¥
18?
i
m
z
.
:: V..T.
'W .*BBB
i
'■? .. mam®®#*
1
i"'
:
i*
ns
:>
'ms
mm
m
ma
m
■ ■
3s
” m
.v
ssai
*
•V;:
•OB
Worn* ■
$W' : sS** . .sZZ-
' ' ***
£*>>
$e
Itmi
1
m
'*r
m
3®m
mi:
\
ZZ'..-
11
M
' :
m
x
3s
3
m
rnzrnmm
m
m
11-Z-y.
y-
M
m
m
m
m
m
m
Have you considered the importance of sturdy pro-
tection for your belongings while travelling? We
offer a comprehensive range of Wardrobe and
Cabin Trunks, Fitted Auto and Picnic Cases, Hat
Boxes and Rugs ... in fact, everything that is
required by the modern traveller . . . and at our
famous low prices.
A.—This is the Rug that will afford ample pro-
tection while travelling. It is of pure Wool in
serviceable Check designs.- Fawn, Brown, Blue
or Grey tonings. Fringed ends. Size 80 x 60
inches. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 27/6
B. —Strong Fibre Motor Cases with two wooden
bands round body of case, and secure locks with
centre clip. Lined throughout.
Sizes, ins. 26 28 30 32
Prices 22/6 25/- 27/- 28/6
C.—Always useful and made for service! Leather
Attache Case with leather capped corners, two
good locks and strong metal frame on body of
case. Lined throughout.
Sizes, ins 14 16 18 20
Prices 17/6 20/- 22/6 25/-
D. —Fitted Picnic Case made of smooth fibre and
fitted for 2,4 or 6 persons. Obtainable in Blue,
Green, Lemon or Orange Harlequin ware with
cups, saucers and plates, two jars, salt and pepper
shakers, tin opener and stainless cutlery. Lined
washable leatherette.
Fitted for 2 4 or 6 persons
At Anthony Horderns’ 39/6 55/- 75/-
E. —Hats need all the protection you can give
them . . whether travelling or at home. These
Hat Boxes are in Horseshoe shape and are made
of fibre. Nicely lined and finished inside pocket.
Sizes, inches 16 18
At Anthony Horderns’. Prices 13/6 14/6
F.—Leather Suit Cases made of smooth, genuine
Cowhide with two secure locks, capped corners,
covered iron frame. Cloth lined.
Sizes, ins 20 22 24 26 28
At Anthony Horderns’ 37/6 42/ 45/ 49/6 53/-
G.—Merino Wool Travelling Rugs. Reversible.
Some have plain backs, other are in check de-
signs. Also popular Tartan effects. Fringed
ends. Size 80x60 inches.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price 52/6
• Travel Goods—Ground Floor—Pitt Street—or First
Floor — George Street. Freight paid on Rugs only to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
.willow HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2172 C, G.P.0., Sydney


“A Pyrenee of Tears Fatting a Dampener on the Curse of True Love": Mrs. Parsley
THE TRAGERIGAL BOBGETTS
BY HAROLD MERCER
i i rr if they happen to be tragy deans, which
I suppose is better than the rest,” said Mrs.
I Parsley decisively, “I don’t want any of them
tragerical people in my establishment.
“Experience does it; and my experience of them
tragerical Bodgetts was enough for me. They had
the whole place in a state of terra firma, as the saying
is; a sort of diverse case of the Pyrenees of Tears it
was, Mr. Slompack said, with everybody scared to
death that that there Mr. Bodgett would go and be
tragerical somewhere about the place, and they might
be irresponsible. And him putting a dampener on the
curse of true love and everything, too!
“Very nice people them Bodgetts seemed when
they came into Number B—especially8—especially the daughter,
which was as pretty as that picture no artist can paint,
and went about like one of them zebra breezes of the
spring, always as happy as the daisy’s long, as they
say. I was quite inauspicious when Mrs. Bodgett said
that about her husband being one of them tragerical
Bodgetts. Which the way she said it she seemed
quite proud, though it didn’t mean a thing to me.
“ ‘l’m sorry,’ I says, ‘I never heard of them. 1
hardly never go to the circus.’
“ ‘Circus! ’ she cries, quite offended. ‘Oh, Mrs.
Parsley, what a mistake to make! The Bodgetts are
a well-known English fambly which they call the
tragerical Bodgetts because of the tragedy connected
with their name. From degeneration to degeneration
there has always been some Bodgett who has died by
his own hand.’
“It seemed a terribly silly thing for anyone to be
proud about; but I merely told Mrs. Bodgett I
wouldn’t have people dying in that way in my estab-
lishment and thought no more of it until that fatal
day when Mr. Bodgett went out on the roof.
“T'-'HE first I knew about it was when I happened
' to look out of my window and saw people
talking all excited-like and looking and pointing;
then someone came banging at my door, crying out
about Mr. Bodgett being on the roof and she thought
he was going to commit suicide.
“It gave me plantations of the heart when I saw
him sitting there poised on the very ledge of maternity,
as Mr. Slompack’s nephew, which was rather a poet,
said. He must have found one of them upper flats
open and climbed through the attic window; and
everybody in the flats seemed up there pleading with
him to come back, and Mrs. Bodgett quite historical
with crying.
“ ‘Oh. I say, come back, there’s a good chap,’
says Mr. Slompack. ‘You’re upsetting your wife.’
“But Mr. Bodgett still sat on that there ledge of
maternity, which was the brick coping of the old
houses before they was turned into these flats, where
he might fall into the street at any moment if the
bricks gave way; and he talked about being‘doomed
by Fate, and it might as well be now as later. ‘Poor
Hilda, she will be better off without me,’ he says.
“ ‘Oh, Ned, don’t say that! ’ wails Mrs. Bodgett.
“‘You come back at once, Mr. Bodgett!’ I
says, sharp-like. ‘I don’t permit goings-on like this
in my flats —making an exhibition-building of the
place.’
“But I might have talked to water on a duck’s
back for all the notice he took of me, or any of us,
which we were all of us ajittertated —especially when
he moved and we thought he was going over —and
talking about how we could get him back. Young
Mr. Slompack, who had come to see his uncle that
afternoon, was trying to cheer up Miss Bodgett, who
wasn’t a bright zebra any more, and she was trying
to cheer her mother. We were all on the horns of
them tenterhooks; it was Confucius worse confound
it, as the Chinese say, when Detective Cassidy came
and talked about bringing the fire brigade with a
ladder to get him down. Which he said, though, that
if we made any move towards him Mr. Bodgett might
throw himself into the street.
“ ‘Yes; and if the fire brigade brings a ladder he
might do that, too,’ says the Major.
“It seemed we would never deduce him from his
position in a degeneration of cats, when Mrs. Bodgett,
who had been speaking to Mr. Slompack and Mr.
Wassail, undressed him again, as the saying is. ‘Do
come back, dear,’ she says. ‘You’ll get your death of
cold.’
“Which that seemed a funny thing to say, with
him sitting on that ledge of maternity.
“ ‘Come back, darling. The rent has been all
fixed up,’ she says.
“Well, of all the things that ever happened! Mrs.
Bodgett had spoken to me about letting the rent stand
over, but never in my born life, or my unborn life
either, had it concurred to me that a man would make
all that fuss about being behind in his rent, which
seems to come natural to some people. Of course I
knew that Mr. Slompack and Mr. Wassail must have
given Mrs. Bodgett the money, when she told them
what it was that made her husband go on like that,
as if his mind was disarranged. Even then Mr.
Bodgett didn’t seem inclined to come back, going on
about being doomed by Fate, and it was as well now
as later; and he didn’t assent until Mr. Slompack
said, when he had talked about only having fresh
difficulties to face, that he needn’t let a small amount
of money worry him.
“After that, he caught the end of a rope that was
thrown to him and came back, though my heart was
in my mouth, the way he slipped. I thought he would
slide off the roof. Which he seemed as frightened as
any of us, the way he looked as pale as one of them
whitened sepulchures, and panted like the heart that
never rejoices. Which it served him right, frightening
us all.
“But everybody was so glad that he was safe
again that you would have thought he was a hero.
Mr. Slompack took him down to his flat and gave him
a whisky; which I was very glad when he gave me
one, too, for them plantations were still going on in
my heart.
“ ‘By rights we ought to run you up to the station,
Mr. Bodgett,’ says Detective Cassidy.
“ ‘But you won’t, eh, Cassidy,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack. ‘You mustn’t do that sort of thing again,
Bodgett.’
“ ‘lt’s the curse of the Bodgetts—the tragerical
Bodgetts,’ he said, gloomy, but as if he was quite proud
of it. ‘We Bodgetts are doomed to meet unhappy end-
ings. It is a dark history, ours. When I was on the
roof there, I couldn’t help thinking of my great-uncle,
Colonel Swashwockler Bodgett, who died in the fortress
of Jibel-Jibel in India.’
“ ‘Tell them about it, Ned,’ says Mrs. Bodgett,
adoring-like.
“ ‘My uncle,’ says Mr. Bodgett, ‘was an officer
of Hurrahs, but he was transformed to service in
India, and when his regimen was cut to pieces in a
sudden insectarian amongst the Panthers he held out
in the fortress. One by one the men fell, till my uncle
was the only revival. The delivered ants that would
have saved them did not come, and Colonel Bodgett
knew that them Panthers would torture him if they
captured him. So he ended his life with his own
sword.
“ ‘And half an hour later,’ said Mr. Bodgett, ‘that
there delivered ants arrived ; a British force, that had
been delayed, scattered them Panthers. But that just
shows why we are called the tragerical Bodgetts.’
“And there, especially when Mr. Slompack gave
him more whisky, he went on talking about indifferent
people who had cut off their own heads or stabbed
themselves with resolvers ; which they was all Bod-
getts and they all did it by mistake. Very proud of
them he seemed ; and the other people appeared most
depressed about him having illustrated aunts’ sisters
and coming from a fambly which had somebody
always committing suicide from the days when they
had round heads down to this year of disgrace, as
they call it.
* ‘ | DIDN’T have the time to stop to listen to all he
* he had to say, but that seemed to be the grist to
the mill of it; and it didn’t appeal to me at all to have
a man in the place who might jump off the roof or
drown himself in one of the baths, for that matter, at
any moment of the day or night, when he owed a
little rent. I couldn’t say that at the time, but I took
the opportunity by the foresight next day.
“ ‘lt’s not, Mr. Bodgett,’ I says, ‘that I have any-
thing against you or Mrs. Bodgett, which is a very
nice woman; but dead corpses are things that I will
not tolerate in my establishment. I think it would be
better for you to go before you make up your mind
to be one.’
“ ‘Very well, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says with a look
of that there painted assignation in his eyes ; very
queer it seemed to me, and it made me uncomfortable.
‘lt would not be fair, I daresay, to blame you for
anything that may come of this. It is the fate of the
tragerical Bodgetts.’
“The way he spoke and the tragerical way he
went to his flat gave me the creeps. I ran all the way
up them stairs, with the plantations in my heart to see
that them upper flats was all locked and he couldn’t
get out to the roof again; and when I came down-
stairs there was Mrs. Bodgett come to see me, all in
tears, and Mr. Slompack and Mrs. Wassail with her.
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley, you shouldn’t have said that
to my husband! If you had spoken to me first, I
could have broken it to him. But he’s one of the
tragerical Bodgetts. He’s so sensitive to the stinging
arrears of enrage us fortune that he might have gone
out and thrown himself under a tram,’ weeps Mrs.
Bodgett.
“ ‘I don’t think it was quite wise, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Mr. Slompack. ‘Mr. Bodgett has a very peculiar
indisposition, and, although it may be very irritating,
none of us would care to feel that we were irrespon-
sible for his death. It is a matter of Herod ditty.’
“When Mr. Slompack brought Herod into it like
that it gave me quite a scare, because everybody knows
what that Herod was like, having a brazen woman
doing that Alimony dance before him with the head
of John the Baptist on a platter. I was quite relieved
when I heard what Mrs. Bodgett said next.
“ ‘I took the liberty of telling Mr. Bodgett that
you didn’t want us to go ; you had only spoken in a
momentum of indication.’ Which I didn’t like her put-
ting it that way, but as I didn’t want to have Mr.
Bodgett’s death on my conscientiousness I let it go
at that.
‘ ‘ CO there I was with a tenant in the house I daren’t
hardly say a word to because of him being
tragerical. I was like those people who daren’t say
booze to a goose, though why anybody should want
to mention likker to a goose I do not know.
“It wasn’t that they didn’t pay up their rent
pretty well; Mrs. Bodgett saw to that, poor soul.
Which, although I don’t approve of them women as
are always nagging their husbands, never seeming to
have learned that motter that speech is silver but
silence is impossible, I felt sorry for her, frightened
almost to debt about doing anything that might make
that Mr. Bodgett tragerical.
“ ‘lt’s a sort of diverse case of Pyrenees of Tears,’
says Mr. Slompack. ‘lt must be awful for that poor
woman, living with a man who’s a libel to go off the
handlebar at any time. It makes her a slave; I
wouldn’t like myself to feel I was irresponsible for
Bodgett carrying out the urge that comes down from
his aunts’ sisters, so I can judge what she feels, poor
thing. The money he owes me doesn’t matter, thank
heaven ; but I am very glad my feelings collanade
with his regarding my nephew and Gwen.
“ ‘Not that Gwen isn’t a very nice young lady,’
says Mr. Slompack hastily, ‘but,, you understand, Mrs.
Parsley, I wouldn’t like a nephew of mine to marry
into a fambly which has a tendaciousness to suicide.’
“Which why he said that was that ever since that
day when Mr. Bodgett had sat on the roof young
Mr. Walter Slompack, who had tried such a lot to
comfort Miss Bodgett, started coming regular to see his
uncle, which he never had done before, and he never
seemed sorry when his uncle was out if he could
happen to see Miss Bodgett. Which, somehow, she
always seemed to meet him accidental on the stairs,
as if she been watching from the window and had seen
him coming. They say that love will find a way to go
to the pictures, and that’s what they were doing soon,
even though that Mr. Grabblewit, whom Miss Bod-
gett’s was supposed to be going to marry, was expected
to be coming to see her.
“How I learnt the way the wind was blowing no
good to anybody was when Mrs. Bodgett came run-
ning after young Mr. Slompack and Miss Bodgett as
they were going downstairs ; and she was all pale and
ajittertated.
“ ‘Oh, Gwen, where are you going?’ she asks.
‘Your father heard you go out, and he’s talking dread-
fully ! I’m sure he’s in a mood for something
desperate. You know Mr. Grabblewit is coming
to-night.’
“ ‘Oh, mother,’ poutered Miss Bodgett, ‘l’d much
rather go out with Wally than stay to see Bill. Bill’s
such a bore!’
“ ‘Gwen, you mustn’t say that about your—about
Mr. Grabblewit. You know your father has built his
hopes on your marrying him.’
“ ‘She won’t if I can help it, Mrs. Bodgett,’ says
young Mr. Slompack. Mr. Walter Slompack didn’t
seem to have any of his uncle‘s diversion to getting
married, the way he spoke. ‘Mrs. Bodgett, Gwen and
I are fond of one another’
“ ‘Oh, this is dreadful! ’ cries Mrs. Bodgett, look-
ing quite terrified, as if a glass of port in the storm
would have done her a world of good. ‘lf ever it
comes to your father’s ears, that will be the end! ’
“Them two young people was standing there
before her, holding hands with their fingers all twisted
together; and a very fine couple they made.
The Mirror.
And round and round
The world was wound
Her starling-flying hair,
But closer round
The night were bound
The dew and leaves of flesh where thought
Could find the dark of sleep it sought.
The sharp clock speaking,
Piercing, breaking
The dark of dew and branches there :
A woman in the mirror shaking
Her starling-flying hair.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


“ ‘Of course,’ says Mr. Slompack, ‘I was
<*oing to speak to him.’
“But even Miss Bodgett cried out about
that. ‘Oh, no, you mustn’t!’ she says.
“ ‘Haven’t you told young Mr. Slompack
that your father is one of the tragerical Bod-
getts?’ asks Mrs. Bodgett. ‘Surely even if it
was impossible for him to marry you he would
not like to have his father-in-law’s death on his
unconscientiousness. Neither would you, if
you have any feelings as a daughter. And
to-day you must come back! I won’t answer
for the subsidences if you don’t,’ she says.
“ ‘l’m afraid I’ll have to go back, Wally.
You don’t know what my father is like,’ says
Miss Bodgett.
“‘I saw him sitting on the roof,’ says
young Mr. Slompack, sulky a bit. But he
agreed when she pleaded about not wanting
to be irresponsible for being a murderess as
she would be if her father
killed himself because she
had disobeyed him. He
made her kiss him before
he’d agree, though, right
there at the top of the
stairs.
“ ‘And I do love you,
Wally,’ she says. ‘l’ll
never marry Bill.’
“All the time there
was poor Mrs. Bodgett
wringing her hands, and
looking round as if she
suspected that Mr. Bod-
gett would come and listen
to what was said, and
then show how tragerical
he was by throwing him-
self out of the window.
“ That's him below , sir . He's wild because you wouldn't let
him lead the squadron."
“‘Oh, please! Please!’ she says. ‘You know,
Hilda, I’d like you to marry who you like ; but we
daren’t cause the death of your poor dear father.’
u \7 OU talk about them Pyrenees of Tears. If ever
1 there was Pyrenee it was the way that Mr.
Bodgett had everybody scared about him being likely
to commit suicide and them being irresponsible for it.
Mr. Slompack said that he had found out where Mr.
Bodgett was a clerk, and the firm had wanted to put
him in a trench for twenty years and didn’t dare to
for fear they’d cause him to commit suicide, though
why they should want to is far beyond me, as they
say.
“He had his fambly properly scared ; and so, soon,
was everybody about the place. And when that Mrs.
Cruickshank got frightened of speaking to him about
him having kicked her little dog, which she said she
was going to tell him off about it, but she didn’t when
Mrs. Bodgett told her what might happen, it seemed
hopeless for them young people. Especially when
Mr. Grabblewit began to say that hope defied makes
the art thick, and he wanted to get married soon.
Which Mr. Bodgett talked more and more about
them tragerical Bodgetts every time the poor girl said
she didn’t want to get married yet. You see, Mr.
Grabblewit was as rich as a Crisis, so they said.
“ ‘lt’s ridiculous, of course,’ says Mr. Slompack.
That uncorrugated rascal has been getting his own
way all his life through this Herod ditty weakness
to suicide. I wouldn’t like, myself, to give him any
chance to kill himself because of anything I’ve done ;
I daren’t even ask him to pay me back my money.
But I wish I’d let you get rid of him when you gave
him notice. I won’t interfere if you do it again.’
“ ‘No, thank you, Mr. Slompack!’ I says. ‘I don’t
want no dead corpse on my conscientiousness, even if
I would sooner not have Mr. Bodgett in the place.’
“ ‘l’m really sorry for poor Hilda,’ says Mr.
Slompack. ‘I wouldn’t like Wally to marry into a
fambly like that, but it’s terrible to think the poor girl
should be forced to marry this Grabblewit just be-
cause her father hopes to be kept in comfort. A dis-
grace. But I don’t suppose anyone can stop it.’
“Which it didn’t seem that anyone could. Poor
Miss Bodgett ceased being the happy zebra she had
been, and she was crying often when I saw her with
young Mr. Slompack, and saying that surely he
wouldn’t like her to murder her father. Which he got
very bad-tempered about it, and said once that it
would be a jolly good job if Mr. Bodgett did throw
himself under a tram. He had to come back and
hang about to say he was sorry for saying that, after
she had run away from him and wouldn’t see him
again.
‘ ‘ r T' ALK about tragerical Bodgett! It was them
* young people who seemed tragerical to me.
Especially after that night when there was loud voices
in the Bodgett flat and Mr. Bodgett came down the
stairs looking very gloomy and saying everybody
wanted to see him dead. Which the whole fambly
came rushing down to coax him back. And when
Mr. Grabblewit came down he was smiling.
“ ‘l’m very happy 'to-night, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says,
passing me. ‘ln another week’s time I’m going to be
married.’
“I wasn’t going to tell him I was glad, when I
thought it was a shame; I knew that poor Hilda had
a heart bowed down with weighty woe, as the song
says. I condoled myself by saying in my mind, ‘Aha,
my friend, you don’t know what being a married
couple is yet!’
“Young Mr. Slompack was nearly mad as a
parched hare when he heard about it; and though his
uncle might have been glad that his nephew could
not marry a tragerical he was upset too. That’s what
made me surprised when I heard Mr. Slompack laugh-
ing as he came up the stairs that night. There was
another man with him, who laughed louder ; in fact,
it made me laugh, too, when I heard him—a jolly,
stout gentleman he looked.
“ ‘I beg your pardon, Mr. Slompack,’ I says, ‘but
it was the way your friend laughed that made me
laugh ; his laughter was contiguous. He seems to be a
jolly Roger gentlemen if ever there was one.’
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack, ‘this is a
friend whose acquaintance I made to-day. I thought
I would bring him home to-night. Mr. Bodgett.’
“ ‘Mr. Bodgett! ’ I cries.
“It seemed to me that Mr. Slompack had a queer
look when he said it, as if he was a sort of Namesthis.
“ ‘l’m glad you can laugh, Mrs. Parsley,’ says this
new Mr. Bodgett. ‘I like people who can laugh.
Laughter’s a fambly extradition, as they say. My
fambly has been known for degenerations as “the
laughing Bodgetts.” I didn’t tell you about my uncle,
Colonel Swashwockler Bodgett, did I, Slompack?’
“You could have knocked me down with the last
feather to fly with when that jolly Mr. Bodgett went
on to tell Mr. Slompack and me all about that Colonel
Swashwockler Bodgett who had been in the Hurrahs,
but killed himself with his own sword to escape the
Panthers in India. Only, with this Mr. Bodgett, the
Colonel emptied a wagon of wine—which I should
say was a grocer’s exaggeration, as they call it —laugh-
ing at them Panthers, who could see him drink it,
before he killed {lisself.
“ ‘My goodness! ’ I says ; but this Mr. Bodgett
didn’t know why I said it.
“ ‘And he was hardly dead before the delivered
ants came?’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Yes ; that was the joke of it. A bit tragerical;
but we Bodgetts can see a joke even when it is like
that. As long as he died with a laugh on his lips,
what better death could a man have? That’s why
we’ve been called the laughing Bodgetts.’
“What them two men hadn’t noticed was that
there was the tragerical Bodgetts on the stairs
behind them, held spelling-bound by what was being
said, and that tragerical Mr. Bodgett looked very
white. Then downstairs he came.
“ ‘Harry! What do you mean by coming to the
place where I live and talking like this?’ he says, angry-
like.
“‘Why, Ned!’ cries the jolly Mr. Bodgett. ‘Mr.
Slompack said I could see you here! It’s a treat. I
haven’t seen you since you were a kid.’
“But the tragerical Mr. Bodgett didn’t take any
notice of his hand, which he was holding out. ‘You
know damn’ well it’s the tragerical Bodgetts,’ he says.
“ ‘Don’t be silly, Ned,’ says Mr. Harry Bodgett.
‘Of course your mother —my stepmother—when she
married dad, thought that “tragerical” would be much
nicer than “laughing.” But dad was proud of his
aunts’ sisters who had died with a laugh on their lips.’
“ ‘lt’s a lie!’ says Mr. Ned Bodgett.
“That made the jolly Mr. Bodgett angry, too.
“ ‘What the blazes do you know about it, Ned?’
he said. ‘You were only a kid when dad died ; and if
it comes to that, you’re not a Bodgett! You’re a
Wranglerotter, only when your mother married dad
you took my dad’s name.’
“If ever anybody was dumbfloundered after all
we’d been standing from that Mr. Bodgett because of
that Herod ditty which might have made him com-
mit suicide, when after all he wasn’t disentitled to it,
it was me! I seemed to come out of a trance when
I heard Mrs. Bodgett speaking.
“ ‘l’m going back to the flat to tell Hilda she can
marry who she likes,’ she says, looking very angry.
‘As for you, you false pretence, you can go out and
throw yourself under a tram for all I care. Putting
that Pyrenee on your fambly all these years!’
“Which off she went; and so did Mr. Ned
Bodgett, too, down the stairs ; but he was back before
midnight, not a dead corpse but dead drunk if ever
a man was that way.
“But it was Mrs. Bodgett who gave me notice
next day; and from what I heard she goes on still at
other places about them being the tragerical Bodgetts ;
she’s proud of it. The great difference was that Miss
Hilda didn’t have to marry that Mr. Grabblewit, and
we got rid of them.
“I won’t have any more tragericals in the place,
even tragy deans —no, not even if they’re tragy
archbishops.”
Thaumantias.
Here are her letters. At the rainbow’s death,
Before the storm came blackly on, I found them.
The large but submissive T’s” she made; the breath
Of verse upon the envelope around them.
O afternoon long fallen from this land,
Return to this sky, and to my garret door
Bring the old miller, holding in his hand
Her first sad letter, telling ever more
Upon its back the truth that made me sting . . .
Showing how I had grown too false and wise,
And was to her “a reed, an earthy thing;
A pinch of glittering scorn flicked in the eyes
Of gods too bland; a little whiplash snake
That ran and vanished on our temple floors,
And for love of love, and sorrow’s selfish sake,
Impelled by lights and sounds and fleshly cause,
Choosing at last the destiny of dust.”
I! who turned weeping from poetry to lust.
O August sun that shone down those old stairs
Up which she climbed, green-suited, staff for friend,
And in that high-pitched Pehlevi of hers
Greeted me well, and asked me to what end
I kept the gold smoked fish hung from my roof,
And why the nets, the music box, the viol?
I, eating from a saucepan, sat aloof,
Apart from this slow daughter of the Nile.
My soul, a clever thing, an old hag grown,
Dark and fantastic, hating full and free,
Taking the word apart, the flesh, the bone,
And finding under hate love’s agony.
Hate well the poet, brother and sister poet.
We are so few to whom the song is sung.
In each of us, all. We know, and hate to know it.
But as we die we let the world grow young.
Thus, only to islands in the south’s Greek seas
She gave her youth; to wahines walking slow
And pregnant through the gorse’s golden peas,
With rough black hair. They do not need to know
She loved their unborn wild seed while she walked
And smiled to see them marked upon each dress
Of wild south seal, and listened while they talked
In ferny Dorian down the wilderness.
O Light! the earth you loved and rambling wave,
Rise out of me, despite of me, and cry to you,
“Death has returned to us- that which we gave.
Triumph of our wish were you, good-bye to you!”
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
/f tfcit Hme ofWio mellowncJi andlcuq/uet
THE ROYAL OBSERVATORY, GREENWICH.
Who has not heard of Greenwich Observatory? Now there is a report that from the spur of Shooter’s Hill upon which it stands, over-
looking the park and the “winding reaches of the Thames,” it is to be removed to a site where clearer atmospherical conditions will permit of
finer astronomical work. London’s commercial attribute, “smoke,” plus the fogs which “roll o’er the Thames and settle down,” has
rendered the change necessary. Greenwich minus the Observatory will hardly seem the same. It is one of the three chief attributes of
fame possessed by this ancient town, coming first in the list; the others being the noble and beautiful park and the almost matchless
Royal Hospital, the stateliest building on all Thames side. Every schoolboy knows that Greenwich Observatory constitutes the central meridian
of longitude in all British calculations. To Charles 11., that “Merry Monarch,” but “not altogether bad,” the erection of this Observatory
is due, put up for the use of the celebrated Flamsteed, whose name the hill retains, and rendered famous in its career by noted astronomers,
among whom the names of Halley, Bradley, Maskelyne and Airy are not the least prominent. Greenwich was the birthplace of that
extraordinary personage Henry VIII., and in the Castle that stood on Observatory Hill were born the Princesses Mary and Elizabeth, both
to become Queens and exercise great, though diverse, influences on the realm ; and consequently on the trend of events from which may
be said to have been born the British Empire as we know it.


THE SOWER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LABORS WAR POLICY.
No fireworks illuminated Mr. Curtin’s exposition of
Australian Labor’s war policy in the Sydney Town
Hall. The declaration, “We do not seek to tear down
Hitlerism in Germany—that is the business of the
German people,” brought one of the few bursts of
applause, the applauders no doubt including many
who until recently proclaimed the exact opposite.
The Labor paper reported it as news that Mr.
Curtin “scorned notes.” It may have been a back-
hander to Mr. Lang’s successor, Mr. McKell, who
laboriously read a dull speech. Mr. Curtin spoke
comparatively well. Within limits imposed either by
nature or political considerations he is a logical
thinker. In a short view he can be realistic, in a long
view as romantic as the worst of them. He put
Labor’s general ideas about the war —sound in parts —
as plain as anyone could want them.
Australian Labor is “unequivocally behind Britain
in her struggle for the preservation of the British
Commonwealth of Nations.” A welcome change from
the “crusade” flapdoodle that has been floating about.
In a war fought for national security the whole of
Australia will be with Britain. There is no enthusiasm
for any other sort of war, but for that sort Australia
would go—and will have to go—a great deal further
than Mr. Curtin envisages.
“The primary obligation of Australians is to safe-
guard Australia.” Mr. Curtin advanced this as argu-
ment in support of Labor opposition to an expedition-
ary force leaving Australia. At first he opposed the
sending of such a force to “a war theatre thousands
of miles away” ; later he narrowed the field to “ser-
vice outside Australia.” Circumstances might yet
make nonsense of that; but taking a realistic view of
existing circumstances Mr. Curtin was on fair ground.
“Today,” Mr. Curtin said, “the maximum of our
man-power is the minimum of our defence require-
ments.” True again. But “conscription of man-
power represents a principle which is alien to respon-
sible government in a democratic country.” Mr.
Curtin can somehow reconcile this with insistence
on compulsory unionism.
By latest available figures the maximum of our
man-power, including babies in arms and centenarians,
is about 3,500,000. Between the ages of 20 and 45
the total is about 1,300,000. This can be halved by
industrial and suchlike requirements ; halved again by
unfitness and suchlike causes. The final figure might
be some 300,000-odd men to do the fighting—as many
of them as cared to volunteer. They should not be
“coerced” in any circumstances ; in the A.L.P. view,
as expounded by Mr. Curtin, the defence of one’s
country —its women and children, its institutions and
way of living—is a right, not a duty.
According to these same romantics, that right is
one to be exercised preferably by men who have had
no training: “the A.L.P. rejects compulsory training.”
By what other means does Mr. Curtin propose to
have available “the maximum of our man-power”?
If that is “the minimum of our defence requirements”
—and a more optimistic estimate was never uttered —
will Mr. Curtin explain how a Labor Government —
in the very remote possibility of one being returned
with such a defence policy—would set about getting
that minimum into uniform and keeping it there for
an adequate term of training?
Mr. Curtin will not attempt to answer that ques-
tion. He could not lay down a concrete scheme for
keeping up a voluntary army employing even one-
tenth of the available man-power. He knows that it
took the most popular and experienced recruiter in
Australia, working a spectacular, and certainly not
understated, appeal for all it was worth, to get together
a temporary voluntary army of about 70,000. If Mr.
Curtin cares to inquire, he will learn that even that
small proportion of his “minimum” could not have
been kept up to strength, even though there is a war
on, if compulsory training had not been reintroduced.
In 12 months the strength would have been reduced
by not less than half.
Mr. Curtin can learn, if he wants to, that many
of Mr. Hughes’s recruits want to get out of it. That
is not so surprising. The compulsory training intro-
duced is a very restricted variety ; it might have been
intended to do no more than keep up the strength.
Trainees see the tens of thousands in the generous
reserved occupations, or otherwise outside the reach
of this restricted compulsion, going about their ordi-
nary affairs and enjoyments, and naturally there is
dissatisfaction. That will only be overcome by com-
pulsory training applied generally.
Mr. Curtin is again on good ground in emphasis-
ing the importance of air defence ; it stands to his
credit that he has always done so. Apart from that
one enthusiasm he appears to be profoundly ignorant
of military matters. He accepts that the reason for
the “apparent stalemate” on the Western Front is
that “either side taking the offensive would pay a
tremendous price in casualties.” That last is true
enough ; but if casualty lists have become a deterrent
to military action it is something amazingly new in
warfare. Mr. Curtin —he is not alone in it —over-
looks that at the moment General Mud is the chief
warlord in the North of France. A tank could not
go 50 yards across country there at present.
Therefore —again not alone —Mr. Curtin deduces
that “this war will be fought in the air and on
the sea.” The idea is that it will be fought there
and nowhere else. Hence the Curtinian notion that
a strong air force is enough ; hence the refusal of the
A.L.P. —per its leader —to face up to the hard, cold
truth that if Australia is to be adequately prepared
for its own defence —against possible invasion—the
full available man-power will have to be called on
and will have to be trained.
Star Chamber Marketing.
There should be a full-dress debate in the House of
Representatives on the arrangements with the British
Government for the sale of Australian produce. The
subject should have been discussed before the bargains
were concluded, but the Government did not choose,
nor was it challenged, to let Parliament know what
it was doing. Even now it is only disclosing its secrets
piecemeal.
The sales were effected by a harassed High Com-
missioner weighed down with other work. The basis
agreed upon will affect most Australian export pro-
ducts for the period of the war and a year afterwards.
All produce is treated as if it were the property of
the Government, though the butter, sugar and metal
industries, through the concentration and strength of
their organisations, have had a say in details.
Wool in particular is becoming more and more
a matter of contention between producers and selling
organisation. The discovery that the price had been
arranged on a sterling basis, almost contemporane-
ously with a fall in sterling in New York, followed
a natural outcry about the extravagance of spending
£370,000 a year on an appraisement staff and the
muddled arrangements for appraisement itself; and
shock after shock has been suffered by growers since.
It appears that, even with about a fifth of the wool
appraised, there are still outstanding details which
make it impossible for Mr. Menzies to issue a full
statement regarding the agreement. He promises to
do so “as soon as possible.” Meanwhile, as part of
the general fogginess, ships have been hung up in
harbors waiting for wool.
The agreement provides for an average price of
10fd. sterling over the whole clip, which will this year
be about 3,100,000 bales. This certainly represents a
nominal overall advance of nearly 30 per cent, on last
year’s prices ; but it gives no guarantee as to what the
price of individual wools will be. That has been left
to the discretion of appraisers who are working on
a table of clean-scoured limits over 1500-odd types.
There is no assurance that growers of poorer wools
or wools which the British Government does not
require for its own purposes will receive any 30 per
cent, advance. So long as the average price is realised
over the whole clip, and so long as lOfd. sterling is
paid, the agreement will have been carried out irre-
spective of returns to individual growers and of the
value of sterling.
Mr. Bell, chairman of the central committee,
announced the other day that the limits table ranged
from lid. to 45d. clean-scoured, and that prices must
therefore “show a wide variation.” The complaint
of growers in some districts is that so far it is not
showing nearly the expected variation from last year’s
prices. Even then 10 per cent, is being retained for
a year to keep the pooling organisation on the right
side when payments are made.
It is little consolation to be told that half the
profit arising from resale of wool by the British
Government will go to the grower. That part of the
agreement is conditioned by the statement that “profit
cannot be determined until all the wool taken under
present arrangements has been finally sold.” And,
since “the period of the arrangement is for the dura-
tion of the war and one full year after the cessation
of hostilities,” the ascertaining of the profit, if any,
“must await the termination of the arrangement.” If,
therefore, the war lasts five years, growers will wait
at least six years for their share, by which time they
may have been bankrupted by taxation. Payment of
taxes will not be deferred. Neither will payments
to brokers, who are receiving normal commission on
all wool sold.
At a meeting of the council of the N. S. Wales
Graziers, Mr. J. P. Abbott, of the central com-
mittee, “explained the position so far as he was
permitted to do so under the regulations.” Then
resentment broke loose. Some delegates considered the
average price too low. Others objected that if it were
fair today rising costs, ballooning taxation and general
dislocation might make it unpayable tomorrow.
Carried unanimously were resolutions urging the
immediate publication of the terms of the agreement
and declarations that the prices of north-west N. S.
Wales and burry wools were far too low and should
be revised at once. It was further impressed on the
Government that “the danger of internal and external
rising costs makes it imperative to review, not later
than June, 1940, the price for the 1940-41 clip,” and
that on any body which discusses present conditions
producers should have greater representation —they are
in a minority on every committee. Finally the
council took exception to “the secrecy adopted
by the central wool committee” and to “the restric-
tions which are preventing brokers from com-
menting on growers’ wool as to quality, length,
condition or type,” it being “essential that confidence
should be restored.”
Denied the criticism of buyers, the grower is
under an obvious handicap, especially if it is neces-
sary for him to improve his clip.
As to whether 10Jd. sterling (13.437 d. Austra-
lian) is a fair average for wool, only time and the
world market can tell. Thus far, values in the United
States have advanced 50 per cent. If, over and above
supplies needed by Britain itself, the market were
free, Australia could cash in on foreign increases now
instead of having to pay half the profit on foreign
sales to Britain, and to wait perhaps four or five years
for its half. Furthermore, under the existing scheme
there is nothing to prevent British manufacturers
laying away reserves which could be used to depress
prices after the war.
Parliament may find it necessary to appoint a
joint select committee to report on all the marketing
schemes. In the meantime, the nation should be
acquainted with full details of what is going on instead
of being thrown a few scraps occasionally when pres-
sure of public opinion becomes too strong for the
Government.
The Syndicated Press.
Sydney is witnessing a fierce competition in Sunday
journalism.
The “Telegraph” made it fierce by giving away
with its first Sunday issue a 16-page “color-comic,”
drawn, written, engraved and printed in the U.S.A.
and presumably admitted free of duty, a privilege ex-
tended to “comic papers of American origin,” accord-
ing to the Minister of Customs. The obvious reply
to syndicated stuff is more syndicated stuff, and already
readers of the rival sheets have been regaled with
more, and still more is promised or threatened. Syn-
dicated stories, syndicated articles on foreign politics
and syndicated offal about film actresses, fan-dancers,
strip-tease girls and jitterbug morons, complete with
syndicated illustrations, showing as much nudity as
the police will permit. Syndicated stuff is a commodity
which never runs short, and the private lives of deni-
zens of the Hollywood monkey-pit is a subject with
an unfailing appeal.
The American “color-comic” is a particular threat
to the “Sun.” The “Sun” company (“Above all, for
Australia”) issues a home-made “comic” and protests
that the other concern’s “comic” represents grossly
unfair competition. But the “Sun” company itself
goes in for syndicated stuff on a large scale. It issues
a photographic weekly called “Pix,” which in get-up,
language, crude suggestiveness and misinformation is
a close copy of an American rag produced for people
of the mental age of 12. Certainly the blocks are made
in Australia, and the Australian portion is not so
scanty as it used to be, but as an Australian publica-
tion it is a travesty of the office motto.
In the current issue of “Pix” you are “At Home
with the Gables” (“Happy Hollywood couple, Carole
Lombard Gable and Clark Gable Lombard, own a
fine 20-acre ranch at Encino, California. It’s escape
from Hollywood’s mad rush”). Follow two pages
of the Gables. On another two pages a previously
unknown “Diann Dives to Health,” obviously because
Diann has very little on. And “Root Beer His Guiding
Spirit, E. A. Zatarain, of New Orleans,” gets two
more pages. There are also two for Turkey,
“Where Pretty Girls are the Judges” ; two for Goring ;
four for the German-American Bund; three for
“Peace in Unhappy Ireland” (“In the late nineteenth
century there was a strong move, both in Parliament
and by the Sinn Feiners, for Home Rule. Three efforts
were made to pass this bill, all were cunningly
blocked”); two for “Helsinki, White City of the
North” (“The Russian Revolution gave the country
its independence ; estimated that 15,000 men, women
and children killed under ‘White Terror’ ”); a
“Photocrime” page, and so on.
Parliament will have to do something about syn-
dicated stuff. Australia needs writers and artists ; how
are they going to live if newspaper proprietaries can
prosper by not employing them? Australia needs an
Australian outlook ; how can an Australian outlook
be cultivated if newspapers and magazines are Ameri-
canised or Anglicised in the cheapest and nastiest
ways?
During the last four troubled years Australia has
been saturated with the opinions of foreigners on
foreign affairs. The bellicose sentiments of these
foreigners, often quite obscure, have been repeated in
editorial columns, and over the four years Australians
have been told a thousand times that it was their clear
duty to go to war against Italy for the Abyssinians,
against Japan for the Chinese, against Nationalist
Spain (Italy and Germany along with it) for the “demo-
crats” of that country and, of course, against Ger-
many for the Austrians and the Czechs and the
Slovaks. It is no mere coincidence that the wildest of
war-urgings and the most reckless assurances that the
U.S.A. would be on the British Commonwealth’s side
against Japan, and the Mighty Soviet on its side against
Japan and Germany, as well as the muddiest attacks
on foreign rulers and their womenfolk, appeared in
papers notorious for the publication of syndicated stuff.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stick to the R.A.A.F.!
All publishable details of the Empire Air Defence
scheme have not thus far been published, but Mr.
Menzies said last week that he hoped to be able Jo
make a statement to Parliament before it rises in
about a fortnight.” Many fundamental issues have,
it seems, still to be settled.
Canada will be the centre of the scheme, and 1500
machines have already been ordered from U.S.A.
Reports that when the plan begins to operate advanced
training will cease in the other Dominions, which will
merely provide raw material to be put through its
paces in Canada for inclusion in a unified R.A.F.,
have been answered by Mr. Fairbairn. In a broad-
cast in Canada the Minister for Air gave out that
“nearly 20,000 airmen will be completely trained in Aus-
tralia, in addition to those trained in Canada.” But
according to a cable from London, “only a small pro-
portion of Australian volunteers is likely to serve in a
purely Australian Air Force under the scheme,”
because it is “improbable that more than a small pro-
portion of pilots could be absorbed into Australian
squadrons.”
This is true for the moment, but it need not con-
tinue to be so if machines are provided by purchase
or if the Government will only hasten the manufac-
ture of modern Australian machines, promised year
in and year out since the days of Mr. Parkhill.
Of the first importance in any air scheme to
which the Commonwealth is a party is the develop-
ment of the defence of Australia. This can best be
provided by expansion of the R.A.A.F. and produc-
tion of its aeroplanes and armament here. And there
certainly is no justification for agreeing to any plan
which will obliterate the identity of the R.A.A.F.,
wherever R.A.A.F. detachments may go.
Nobody would argue that the system under which
the A.I.F. maintained its individuality was inefficient.
It was so efficient that its commander might have
become commander-in-chief of the British armies if
the war had continued a year or so longer. And
nobody can argue either that any troops which may
be sent from the Commonwealth to fight overseas in
this war can act as an independent force like the old
A.I.F. unless they are furnished with all the units
necessary to carry out the functions of an army. An
air force is an essential part of an army, and the
commander of any Australian expeditionary force
should have Australian air units under his control.
There is more involved than helping Britain
against Germany, great as the task may be. Our
forces need to come out of the war as a single whole,
capable afterwards of defending their own country
in time of need.
This should be made quite plain. Mr. Menzies
should condition any offer to send men overseas by
insisting that, save for the fact that our divisions must
fit into the general scheme under a supreme com-
mander, as the British forces are doing, every man
sent from Australia shall be under the control and at
the disposal of the Australian Government. It is a
matter which does not admit of compromise.
The War at Sea.
Outside a few facts, the greater part of “mag-
netic” and “bubble” mines reporting can be heavily
discounted. But those few facts should be grim enough
for any taste.
More than 20 ships—including neutrals and others
with general passenger lists —went down off British
coasts inside six days, with heavy loss of life, victims
of unattached mines. The death roll included women
and children. Anyone capable of crediting the German
fighting machine with scruples about breaking rules
for war made in time of peace might perhaps be
shocked. This fresh barbarity, however, can be taken
as a foretaste of what will happen on land and from
the air if the war so far held in check becomes all-in.
“Magnetic” or not, this indiscriminate mining is
an advance in callous cruelty even on submarining,
in which there is often some warning, and sometimes
even a measure of chivalrous conduct. Not that
warning is of much avail when those aboard a doomed
ship are left in open boats in mid-ocean, to battle as
best they can through the prevailing bitter icy weather
and rough seas, with only a day or so’s supply of
food and water.
Survivors of the Arlington Castle thus battled for
six days in the Atlantic before they were picked up.
Masefield might make a heroic story of their terrible
experience—suffering from frostbite and exposure,
bailing to keep the small boat afloat in wild seas till
their fingers were torn and bleeding, without food for
days, and with so little water that they could use it
only to moisten their lips.
In contrast to that, survivors of the Darino came
ashore praising the submarine commander’s chivalry.
They were taken aboard the submarine and given food
and bunks, and eventually transferred to a neutral
ship. But apart from one or two such examples, the
war at sea has been sharply intensified and made ruth-
less in the German attempt at counter-blockade of
Britain. When this page went to the printer two good
ships—the Rawalpindi (16,697 tons), formerly a R
and O. liner, lately an auxiliary cruiser; and the Pil-
sudski (14,294 tons), a Polish luxury liner under
charter to the British Navy —had been added to the
list. The Rawalpindi lost all but 17 of the 300 men
aboard. ...
The latest departure—the indiscriminate mining—
is so recklessly barbarous that the optimistic might
read into it signs of desperation, and for purposes of
sensationalism it has been served up as something
extraordinary. The bitter truth is that it is only in the
ordinary nature of war —it, and worse.
Blockade and Neutrals.
The barbarous mining of British and neutral vessels
and Britain’s retaliatory Order-in-Council making
“exports of German origin or ownership” liable to
“seizure on the high seas” have sent historians back
to their Napoleonic-war books.
In May, 1806, the British Government declared
all the ports between Brest and the Elbe in a state of
blockade. Napoleon replied, in his Berlin decree, by
putting the British islands under a paper blockade,
and, in respect of the countries “occupied by the
troops of France or of her allies,” prohibiting all
trade in British manufactured goods, shutting out
every vessel which had touched at any British port
and declaring every British subject a prisoner and his
property lawful prize.
Portuguese “disobedience” of this decree was a
pretext for the invasion of Portugal in 1807. The
Prince Regent of Portugal, while agreeing, very un-
willingly, to declare war on England, refused to con-
fiscate English property. Britain retaliated with the
Order-in-Council of November, 1807, which declared
France and all its tributary States to be in a condition
of blockade, and made all vessels subject to seizure
which should attempt to trade with any part of the
world thus blockaded ; all neutral vessels, either going
to or clearing out from a hostile port, were required
to touch at a British port and pay customs dues.
Napoleon came back with his Milan decree of
December, 1807: the British dominions in all parts
of the world were declared to be in a state of blockade
and all countries were prohibited from trading with
each other in any articles produced or manufactured
in the British dominions.
The Orders-in-Council were spiritedly opposed in
Britain itself. “Taken in combination with the Berlin
decree,” the “Edinburgh Review” wrote, “they inter-
dict the whole foreign trade of all neutral nations ;
they prohibit everything which that decree had allowed
and they enjoin those very things which are there
made a ground for confiscation.” The protests of the
merchants of London and Liverpool were delivered
through the mouth of Brougham at the Bar of the
House. In April, 1809, by virtue of a new Order-in-
Council the blockade was confined to France, Holland,
part of Germany and the north of Italy, and vessels
were allowed to proceed to foreign ports under
license.
Meanwhile there had been great loss of trade and
serious trouble with America, which had been a large
buyer of British commodities and had done a thriving
carrying trade. Though under continual fire in one
House or the other, the Orders-in-Council were en-
forced to America’s detriment until April 3, 1812,
when they were revoked as regards the U.S.A., con-
ditionally on the latter revoking an order which ex-
cluded armed British vessels from its ports while
those of France were admitted. This was followed on
June 23 by an unconditional suspension of the orders
in their application to America. But it was too late.
On June 18 the Washington Government had declared
war.
The present Government at Washington was
mindful of that experience when it prohibited Ameri-
can ships from entering the war zone. For this avoid-
ance of private dangers and of the possibility of being
embroiled and for the loss of shipping trade the
Republic can count on being richly repaid. But the
little European neutrals, Holland, Belgium, Denmark
and Norway especially, can’t remove themselves from
the danger zone nor can they enrich themselves by
cash-and-carry. Their plight commands sympathy,
though in one quarter they won’t get it.
Chamberlin Was Right.
One American correspondent who doesn’t claim to be
Famous was right about Russia. He is W. H. Cham-
berlin, of the “Christian Science Monitor,” one of
the few American periodicals that have never been
anti-German, anti-British (or both) and pro-war.
Chamberlin warned the British and French that
their negotiations with the Moscow twisters, demanded
by the Churchills and Edens, and in Australia by
Great Editors and radio commentators, would be
“futile from the beginning.” He is of opinion that,
even if they had conceded everything, as the Great
Editors and radio commentators wanted them to do,
“Stalin would have quite probably taken what he
wanted and betrayed the Western Powers after, rather
than before, the actual outbreak of war.” But Stalin
will keep his medley of republics out of war because
he “knows his own system would scarcely stand the
test,” and that “the army, which he deprived of its most
capable leaders through executions, would stand little
chance against the Reichswehr,” and because he aims
at the “prolongation of the European war for the pur-
pose of destroying Western individualist civilisation
and promoting a general social revolution when the
war-weary peoples can stand no more.”
W. H. Chamberlin spent 12 years in Soviet Russia
studying the working of the Revolution. He went
there favorably disposed to it; he left thoroughly dis-
illusioned. To him “the first striking feature of the
Soviet invasion of Poland, with the obvious collusion
of Germany, is the tragically ironical similar parti-
tions of Poland between Russia, Germany and Aus-
tria in the latter part of the eighteenth century.”
The cynical joint Soviet-German communique
announcing that the two countries had no purpose except
the restoration of order in Poland has an historical
parallel in its opening phrases to the first treaty par-
tition of 1772, when representatives of the three Powers,
after invoking the name of the Trinity, expressed first
that the alleged Polish anarchy would injure their
interests and announced their intention to “give this
State a political existence more in conformity with the
interests of its neighbors.”
And in signing “the sensational German-Soviet
non-aggression pact, which proved to be an aggression
pact against unfortunate Poland”—
Josef Stalin betrayed his former professed anti-
Fascism as Adolf Hitler betrayed his anti-Bolshevism.
Here one finds the real clue to the systematic destruc-
tion of so many veteran Soviet Communists, besides
military leaders and diplomats, on charges of fantastic
sabotage activity and treasonable plotting with Germany
and Japan.
Krivitsky found “the clue,” and revealed it to the
world through the “Saturday Evening Post.” But the
and the Churchills, the Great Editors and radio
commentators knew better.
Another for Mecca ?
Lascar seamen refused to take a ship out of Sydney,
alleging fear of German submarines, and the position
reached deadlock. An SOS to India brought Khan
Bahadur M. F. Karim in a ’plane. A Mohammedan
who had made the pilgrimage to Mecca, he ordered the
strikers back to work. Some haggled. Mr. Karim
administered a few kicks and cuffs in judicious places,
whereat the disgruntled took to prayer and there was
a rush to pledge loyalty to the Empire and get the
ship to sea.
Meantime, out at Homebush abattoir, Sydney’s
gigantic meat-handling establishment, which is con-
trolled by a commissioner responsible to Health
Minister FitzSimons, slaughtermen downed steels
because one of their number, elderly and getting a bit
slow, was given a job more in keeping with his ability.
For over the thirtieth time in two years Sydney found
part of the abattoir idle and the stock industry of
N. S. Wales disorganised. An exasperated Indus-
trial Commission, to whom the dispute was referred,
deregistered the Meat Workers’ Union. Thereupon
all hands and the cook ceased work.
There will be “a settlement,” of course, but the
producers and other taxpayers face the maddening
certainty of another holdup before long.
Mr. FitzSimons recently visited Britain, France,
Germany and a lot of other countries at the public
expense. He should have gone to Mecca.
Hist! We Are Observed.
“Ente Marid’s” expedition to Darkest Europe:
The German coup of the war has been achieved in
Holland. Teutons dashing over the Netherlands border shot
a defenceless Dutch chauffeur and returned to their native
earth clutching two captives, Mr. Sigismund Payne Best and
Mr. Richard Henry Stevens. There were loud cheers for the
Gestapo, because proof was found on Mr. Best that he was
Chief of the Western Division of the British Secret Service.
This is denied by a New York sportsman, who says the
captive is his brother, a free-born American citizen, and
no minion of the British Secret Service. But the proof is
absolute —Mr. Best wears a monocle, and every German
knows that a monocle is the brand of the British S.S. More-
over, his companion is Stevens, a name which has helped to
keep the wolf from the door for many a German Wilhelm
Le Queux.
The two sinister figures have, it transpires, been promoting
revolution in Germany and unwittingly consorting with the
Gestapo while suborning laborers to blow up a beerhall,
complete with Fiihrer. Another theory is that they were pro-
moting peace. Anyway, they came from The Hague, and
openly flouted their secrecy within sight of German troops.
This was indiscreet of them, because one of them had been
living in The Hague for 22 years, and no German tourist
could possibly have gone there without having him pointed
out.
The Hague is a pleasant town, if somewhat flat. It is
almost surrounded by polder and velds. The presence of
the Court gives it an air like that of Adelaide, and apart from
tulips and the groote kerk and the nieuwe kerk and the statue of
a king the internal scenery consists almost entirely of palaces.
When you set out to see it in the morning with a guide
you form the impression that it is a somewhat dull spot,
though the atmosphere has a wave-motion induced by the
kind of cigar they keep for visitors.
You pause before a noble edifice. “The Royal Palace,”
says the guide, waving a yard of smoking gasper, “Hist!”
He nudges you violently. A tall man, immaculate in the
kind of suit bank clerks wear in Constantinople, goes by
glaring through his monocle. “Der Chief of der Rumanian
Secret Service, Vestern Division. Vot about a schnapps?”
You have schnapps. You have two schnapps. After the
second you have another cigar.
A tall fellow with red hair surmounted by one of those
white hats from the Middle West paces in and nods sternly.
“Hist!” says your guide, catching the ribs in the same old
place—“der Chief of der American Secret Service, Vestern
Division. Have a schnapps?” “How did you find out?” you
whisper. “He did tell me in convidence,” says the guide.
“Have a schnapps?”
You go out. “Der palace of der Prince of Orange,”
remarks your mentor. “Hist!” You dodge in time. Two
large persons, seemingly twins and seen as through water,
are floating down the street. Their probosces are as the
ridge of Lebanon. “Der Chief of der Russian Secret Service.
Vot about ” And before St. James and the Palace of
Prince Frederick there are more of them, each more flavored
with schnapps and smoke.
Other capitals in Europe have crops of Secret Service men,
particularly British. The British have a reputation, so when-
ever a gay lad in Leeds runs away with the curate’s wife and
the cashbox and needs an excuse for living permanently in
Tatar Bazardjik he becomes openly a British Secret Service
man, which earns him as much local respect as if he were a
retired archbishop. It is known that the British Secret Service
has great influence in the City, which may one day float a
loan to aid the distressed Tatar Bazardjikian. The great man
will cheerfully admit his connection with Downing-strcet to
a fellow-national, but he never produces a certificate. And
the Legation will not deny him. He is a useful foil.
Unfortunately the average reputed S.S. man is not hall-
marked. It is the business of a Secret Service to be secret.
It does not plot with bomb-throwers because then it would
cease to be useful as a gatherer of information, which is its
prime function. There is a strong suspicion that the back-
bone of the Secret Service is diplomatic. What better agent
could there be in, say, Bulgaria than a handsome young
first secretary with pots of money and a Bulgarian wife
(daughter of a poverty-stricken general); member of all the
clubs, tutor in local sport, a free spender in fashionable
restaurants and with entree to the Palace, diplomatic
immunity and the gift of speaking the language like a native?
Moreover, in war-time, the chief of the western bureau
of a Secret Service (if it exists) is not likely to be at The
Hague. As in the last war, he will be busy in Germany
itself. There was a flock of S.S. men there during the last
war. One of the best was a clergyman’s son in the Consular
Service. He was educated in Australia, and the Government
thought his work worth a bonus of £lO,OOO after 1918.
And Mr. Best certainly was not “Chief of the Secret Service
in the last war,” though the Gestapo says he was.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Shorus”: The orator in the Sydney
Domain was singing his weekly hymn
of praise of the communistic life as lived
in Russia or anywhere else it might get
a chance to flourish. The meagre audi-
ence listened with obvious boredom.
“Well,” demanded one fed-up individual
after about half an hour of undiluted
flattery of Stalin and
co., “if Russia’s the
bosker place you say
why ain’t you livin’
there?” A spasm of
pain crossed the orator’s
features. “Bekus, com-
rade,” he said with con-
centrated bitterness, “I
got the kind o’ missus
as won’t live nowhere
but at King’s Cross!”
* *
“Kerys”: Quite true
that the Australian is
prepared to bet on any-
thing. I called with a
message at a small
timberyard and found the proprietor and
his assistant seated in the dingy office
gazing through the cobwebby window at
the rainy world beyond. Except to lift a
warning hand each neither took the
smallest notice of me. Thinking they were
engaged in some abstruse mental calcu-
lation, I waited respectfully for about
three minutes. Then “Yours has won,
Bill,” said the boss, and explained they
had had a bet on a couple of raindrops
trailing down the pane. What’s mere
business compared with that?
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Sometimes Australians
bet for queer reasons. A bloke in my
platoon in France used to back himself
to be killed each time we went into the
line. He went on paying his few francs
after every return to reasonable safety
in a glum sort of way to Diggers who
were regular customers. At last I put
it to him that this gamble was rather
one-sided ; if he won his bets he wouldn’t
be there to collect. “That’s all right,”
he retorted. “Once I’ve made me bets
I know I’m safe. I’m too blanky unlucky
to win anything.”
* * * *
“Toeclip”: According to N. S. Wales
Transport Minister Bruxner the Septem-
ber quarter of this year produced 360
accidents to cyclists, as against 297 in
the corresponding period last year.
Deaths went up from 14 to 21, injuries
not fatal from 283 to 339. Of course
this means, more than anything else, that
the bicycle is reviving in popularity in
N. S. Wales, and the activities of various
Government departments, including Mr.
Bruxner’s, in making transport ever
dearer, are probably responsible. None
the less it seems time something was
done to bring a sense of responsibility
home to the cyclists, mostly young lads,
whose daring and carelessness make the
roads more dangerous than they need be.
Mr. Bruxner has in view an American
scheme involving traffic-court prosecutions
and impoundings of bicycles for various
periods. Not a bad idea, but it would
be easier to work if bicycles were licensed
like motor-cars and given license num-
bers. A bob fee for a license wouldn’t
hurt anybody and might help to reduce
accidents by impressing on cyclists that
they have the same responsibilities as
all other road-users.
* * * *
“Ship Ahoy”: Due in Sydney any day
now is Fred Rebell in the yawl Reine
D’Arvor from Suva, which he left on
November 4. Fred, a Latvian by birth,
learned all he knows of sailing in the
Sydney Public Library. In 1933, after
a spell on the dole, Fred made pencil
copies from atlases in the library to
serve him as charts. His chronometers
were a pair of cheap watches. His
sextant was home-made from pieces of
hoop-iron and a hacksaw blade, with a
bit of stainless-steel table knife for
mirror; his log was based on an alarm-
clock, converted to read in sea miles.
And with this Heath Robinson equip-
ment he sailed from Sydney in 1933
across the Pacific to Los Angeles in an
“You’ll be a sad case when I'm finished with you , Prendergast! Sending
my guests in by the tradesmen s entrance!”
canvas hoo(J £or his
, , u , ~ r of „_
only shelter, and all akm .
sailed along the Eur p concrete
bottQm Re left - Fa i mo uth in his present
cra f t j n July, 1938. What for? Fred
explains it all in Escape to the Sea—
shortly to be published by John Murray,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland, though pat-
riotic to the core, isn’t one-eyed about
it. The Alpine Clubs of Taranaki will
commemorate the centenary of the first
ascent of Egmont by Dr. Ernst Dieffen-
back on Dec. 3, 1839, by erecting a small
cenotaph surmounted by a bronze plaque,
Dieffenback was a German, but he did
climb Egmont.
* * , * * . M
-Pr.vate Spudpeeler ': Dunno where
Retired Sergeant (B. 22/11/ 39) re-
tired from, though I suspect it’s either
the Salvation Army or the sergeants’
canteen (they have wet ones). Otherwise
he’d know that the army doesn’t form
threes at all—the men simply fall in
that way. If “R.S.” ordered his men
to form threes he probably achieved a
result similar to that obtained by an
aspirant to his second stripe when
handling a mob of raw recruits under
the critical eyes of some of the bigwigs.
The lads were marching across a small
clearing and the rising-sergeant, un-
nerved by the presence of the sahibs,
bellowed “Right turn; no, right wheel;
no, dammit, right form. Oh, hell, I
mean left form.” And then, when the
boys were sorting themselves from the
scrub, he turned to the bigwigs with
“Blast it, I’m through. Sort the so-and-sos
out yourselves.”
“C.R.”: A meteorological curiosity
was associated with the performance of
“Credo” for the Catholic Centenary
at Melbourne Cricket Ground. The
weather prospects could not have
been more unpropitious, and rain
drizzled up to the time of the
opening of the spectacle. Then it cleared;
but it rained heavily in other places in
town, and a sharp shower even fell on
the pitch without touching the per-
formers. A subsidiary spectacle not seen
by most of the audience was provided at
the close when a charabancful of
angels were being moved off to their
homes. Elated by the success of the
production, they struck up “Boomps-a-
Daisy! ”
* * * *
“Craiser”: Touching Melba’s cele-
brated impetuosity of speech. Some Aus-
tralians were watching a Test match at
Lord’s. In the silence which preceded the
delivery of the first ball to a new bats-
man, they heard a voice exclaim loud
enough for the whole stand to hear it:
“My God, Clara, if we could only draw
houses like this!” It was the diva, sitting
with Clara Butt.
* * * *
“El V.”: Wreckers are tearing down
the first building which Governor Mac-
quarie put up in Australia. They
began by razing the first substantial
, . .... T 7 „ ,
public building, Foveaux s Store, built
during the Rum Rebellion interregnum,
When Macquarie arrived at the end of
1809 he found the colony virtually starv-
• j 1. * u- a + woe
ing, and about his first official act was
to send somebody to Castle Hill to plant
potatoes. But he determined that the
nlapp would never starve asain and. his
place w °uici never starve again, anu ms
next measure was to provide ample stor-
age for large quantities of grain in a
new stone building in Lower George-
street, not far from the spot where
irderv. on ware
Phillip s landing had taken place 20 years
before. It was many a long year before
N. S. Wales was off rations — which were
PYartlv thp same for evervbodv from
exactly the same everyDoay, irom
commandant to convict. lney were
doled out — not in Macquarie’s old store,
but in one almost opposite where The
Rm r ctiki nflfipp nnw stands hv two men
Bulletin office now stands oy two men,
one of whom used to point at random to
an issue while the other, his back
turned called the next name on the
;. , ’.lx fovnritism
list, SO that there could be no *
Sentipient might have spared these
ancient edifices, but contemporary poli-
tieinns are so wranoed UD in themselves
tldans are so ™PP e “ U P , •
that they can think of history only
terms of Stevens and Mair.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: The occupation of a
traffic policeman detailed for testing
motorists for driving licenses is t ull l or
thrills. The officer who has fulfilled that
riskv dutv in Brisbane for the last five,
risKy y j-i and has
years averages 50 tests daily, and nas
driven With more than IU,UUU drivers, me
majority of them entirely new to the*
Thev have crashed into walls and!
game. jl y hanks eoti
telegraph posts, capsized O » Q ,
out of control on hills and collided Wltn,
other vehicles, but he has always escaped
without any even moderate injury. Now
by the irony of fate he is away on leave
with a fractured wrist caused by a back-
fire kick from the cranking handle of his
own car during a day off duty.
* * * *
“Lange”: Walking alongside a major-
general, I passed within the space of a
few minutes two lieutenants, a cap-
tain and a major. Not one of the
officers saluted as they passed. Then
came along a private whose hand shot
up in a most soldierly fashion. The
brasshat briskly returned the compliment,
and the surprised expression on his face
was as refreshing as a pot of beer at a
bushfire.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Why has the war given
authority in Melbourne such a terribly
bad conscience? If Henley-on-the-
Yarra was considered a good thing in
peace-time, why isn’t it a good thing
in war-time? Or do they think that
if civil life is made as drab as possible
soldiering will become more popular?
There are some people in Melbourne
who get the horrors if they see a soldier
enter a pub or smile at a girl, and in
the last war they wanted to cut off his
tobacco. The spectacle of the Lud
Mayor and other important personages
floating in bowers of roses, and of the
proletariat promenading the banks in sum-
mer regalia or propelling its girl down-
stream on satin cushions may not have
been of great intellectual significance, but
it certainly looked more attractive than
the pictures of the misery and destruc-
tion in war-scarred Europe which the
newspapers print daily; and tens of
thousands of people liked it. This year
Henley was reduced to a shadow of its
former glory, and there was nothing to
look at except the rowing and the
crackers and fireworks in the evening.
Consequently the public was conspicu-
ous by its absence.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: My friend McSheik, who
has been talking about a death-pact with
his latest attraction, has decided against
it, a Maoriland item convincing him
that, should he survive, he can be charged
with aiding and abetting an attempt to
murder himself. This fate befel a M.L.
woman who recovered after trying to
share a mutual end, only to find that
both had failed. Her partner is charged
with attempted murder and she with
aiding and abetting.
* * * *
“F. Ossicker”: Combination of rum
and the spirit of the outback caused an
explosion in Maryborough (Q.) court
when a miner took a header out of the
dock, jumped clean over an astonished
solicitor, and proceeded to bombard the
police force with inkwells and water-jugs.
Recaptured and redocked, he told the
outraged Beak, “I have t’ let off steam
now and again.” It cost him £l7.
* * * *
“Wodgil” attends Labor’s Security
Drive:
In this queer age no show of any descrip-
tion seems complete without the presence of
barelegged womanhood; so, going to the
Sydney Town Hall to hear Curtin and McKell,
I wasn’t greatly surprised to see the platform
adorned with a vision in shorts. She stood
clutching an immense blue-and-white flag, and
had thus to stand for the best part of an hour,
chairman (really immense), speakers and
privileged supporters making their appearance
nearly 10 minutes late. Then she sat down
on a very hard seat with no back to it.
The nice young woman represented the Aus-
tralian Labor League of Youth. In the body
of the hall were girls distributing what I
thought were programmes. They were really
printed invitations to a .League of Youth Camp
at Corrimal: Ten Days for 375. 6d.; Sand,
Surf and Sunshine (with portraits of nine girls
in bathing costumes); Wacko! What Fun!
And How!
There was no “wacko!” about the meeting,
though nearly 30 trade-union executives had
“invited” their members by newspaper adver-
tisement to attend and be sure to get tickets,
and the “Daily News” had assured us all that
“the tramping feet of thousands of men and
women assembling there will denote that the
army of Labor is again on the march to vic-
tory.” The hall was at most two-thirds full,
and enthusiasm was strangely lacking. Before
half-past eight people were pacing out, even
though Curtin was up and saying some good
things, I thought, in the style of the prac-
tised speaker. All through McKell’s effort
“tramping feet” were on the way to the doors.
He took twice as long as Curtin, reading from
. a pile of manuscript in a voice which seemed
to have a compass of four notes, like that
affecting composition “Show Me the Way to
Go Home.” I found myself mumbling the
words (“Show me the way to go home, I’m
tired and 1 want to go to bed”) and musing
on McKell’s three fighting uncles, and wishing
that their painfully-correct nephew would vary
the monotony of his conventional criticism by
offering to avenge the wrongs of the workers
by putting a head on any selected U.A.P.
champion, Mair preferred.
Something has gone out of the A.L.P.. The
languid applause that was Curtin’s portion
would in the old days have been considered
an insult to the Commonwealth Labor leader.
Fisher was merely a dull, honest Scot, with
no gift of language such as Curtin possesses;
but 30 years ago he could command a packed
attendance in any hall in Australia, and people
hung on his words. Perhaps familiarity with
Labor politicians has chilled the old zeal for
Labor politics. There are so many politicians
-about, all sorts.
THE WATER WAGON.
“Few literary masterpieces have been created by
teetotallers.... .The heroes of Waterloo and Trafalgar
did not ride to undying glory on the water wagon.”
—Letter to “5.M.11.” on the wet canteen controversy.
An admirable vehicle, no doubt,
For whips of wayfarers to travel in
Who’re apt to look too long on beer and stout
And over-lovingly on beer and gin;
A homely and expressive symbol, too,
For Prohibitionists to fly their flag on.
But isn’t it as obviously true,
Whatever tipped the scale at Waterloo,
It wasn’t won upon the water wagon?
The Iron Duke admittedly was not
The man to look at stimulants askance:
Invincible Horatio took his tot,
Likewise his seamen —when they got the
chance.
Nor ever, since on Hastings field went down
Slain Harold’s standard with the Golden
Dragon
Thereon, and Norman William grabbed the
Crown,
Has any fight of credit and renown
Been won, I’ll wager, on the water wagon.
Bards of the Mermaid tavern in the times,
Elizabethan times of long ago,
Could you have woven your immortal rhymes,
Shakspeare and Ben, on milk or H2O?
And Villon, when you had to do a get
From Paris and to put the pedlar’s swag on
Your shoulders, wheresoe’er the course was set
That was to be your luckless last, I’ll bet
You didn’t start it on the water wagon.
The bowl may brim too high, it’s well agreed,
And all too frequently be filled the flagon.
And yet my artless lilts might be indeed
Harder for me to write and you to read,
Were both of us upon the water wagon.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Did either of you gentlemen ring for the ambulance?”
“Mac Hoots”: The war won’t pass un-
sung. In the streets of Sydney a patriot
is selling a broadsheet that should stir
the hearts of all. There seems to be a
pacifist note about the couplet
What’s the use of killing people
By dropping bombs upon the steeple?
But the tone set by the first stanza is
little short of heroic: —•
The British lion is king of the jungle;
Hitler will find he’s made a bungle
When he treads on the lion’s tail —
There’s be no more Hitler hail.
Since the poem is priced at a penny I
forbear to quote it in full, but the
author’s list of his qualifications should
be put on record. He says he is:
“Actor, Wood Carver, Poet and Com-
poser ; One of the World’s Greatest Bone
Manipulators and Variety Entertainers.”
His services are available for Pictures,
Smoke-ohs, Vaudeville and Society En-
tertainments.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: One of the most dis-
turbing features of city scenery to old
gents like me is the new perfection
reached in the production of what used
to be called dressmakers’ dummies.
A dozen or so completely naked figures,
rosy with health and brimming with
allure, pose shamelessly in a draper’s
window. Tussauds never did anything
more lifelike. But the owner excelled him-
self the other morning. Those unblushing
forms had each been decorated with a
hat of the latest chic, carefully tilted at
the most enticing angle. The whole tram
abandoned its “Daily Horror” to gaze,
and fortunately there was the usual ex-
pert present to explain. “Cripes, the
bloke that did that had a sense of
humor,” said his mate. “Humor?” mut-
tered the expert, returning to his perusal
of submarine-drowns-ninety. “They got
to wear somethin’ today. Carn t yer see
it’s rainin’?”
* * * *
“Capt. P.”: A new bus service was
started in a Sydney suburb, and proved
so popular that the bus was always filled
within the first section. Soon there
appeared daily a young woman carrying
a baby in arms and followed by young
hubby. Of course, somebody gave her
a seat. Every morning the trio boarded
the bus, and always the mother got a
seat. Then somebody woke up that she
always got off at the next stop and
allowed her lord to slit) into the vacancy.
They tried it for a while longer, but the
lady soon got tired of holding the
youngster amid an icy silence, and now
hubby straphangs alone.
* * * *
“F.U.F.”: W.A. also had its stillborn
city, very similar to the M.L. one (B.
20/9/ ’39). When Captain Stirling brought
the first settlers to the Swan River settle-
ment in the 443-ton Parmelia he anchored
in Cockburn Sound, which lies slightly
to the south of the Swan River. Perth
and Fremantle were founded imme-
diately, but Stirling also drew up am-
bitious plans for a large town on the
shores of Cockburn Sound. This was
marked on official maps as Clarence, with
the Great Plain of Quartania lying behind
it. Both names have long disappeared
from maps and memory.
* * * *
. “C.Q.”: A potential recruit to the
Second A.I.F. in Melbourne had nearly
succeeded in passing through the exami-
nation on the basis of being within the
age limit of 35 years. Then some in-
quisitive official asked him if he had had
any previous military experience. “Mili-
tary experience?” he retorted. “You’re
asking me!” and he pulled out of his
pocket a sheaf of medals, including some
dating from the Boer War. Rejected.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Traffic policemen in Syd-
ney last Wednesday, trying to sort out
the jams of the peak hour, found an
unprecedented problem on their hands
when 53 striking Lascar seamen appeared
in a body marching along the city streets.
Without order, and disregarding all
signals, the black tide ebbed and flowed
across intersections, washed along pave-
ments, and surged in and out of arcades
while cars, lorries, trams and ordinary
pedestrians fought profanely to un-
tangle themselves. Eventually the wan-
derers, after lone police had made several
fruitless attempts to reason with them,
reached the posh Hotel Australia. “You
can’t come in here ; this is private prop-
erty,” said the guardians of the sacred
portal, and locked the doors, while
shocked society flappers and horrified
old gents turned pale as dark faces
gibbered at them through the plate glass.
The siege attracted hundreds of on-
lookers, and for a while the Australia was
the centre of a seething mass that blocked
two streets. Finally the police rounded
the Lascars up and found that some of
the poor devils were weak from hunger.
Fed, they were bedded down at a police
station, and the startled city simmered
down. The incident has cleared up one
mystery, however. Whatever else it is,
the Hotel Australia isn’t a public house.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: There is a flavor of tropi-
cal ennui about the series of events which
led to the sinking of the 8.1. liner Sir-
dhana in Singapore harbor. She was
clearly seen to be entering a known mine-
field by the officer commanding a bat-
tery overlooking the harbor. As he had
no authority to fire a warning shot he
’phoned the fire commander, who was
engaged elsewhere. The fire commander
had no authority either, so he ’phoned
the port war station. The battery com-
mander thereupon realised that no warn-
ing could be given legally. It was too late
to do anything then ; and he had the
mortification of seeing the 7745-ton ship
blow up and sink. Twenty lives were
lost.
# * * *
“Pawang”: One of the interesting
things about present-day war-time Mel-
bourne is the almost complete absence
of sensational local news in the dailies.
Before the war gong sounded all the
great organs of enlightenment devoted
columns of space to assaults, accidents,
brawls, domestic squabbles with violence,
queer incidents in the daily lives of
humble citizens and so forth, and these
were largely obtained from private indi-
viduals who expected to be paid for it.
The virtual disappearance of such
“Can't make it out , doc. Keep seein' pots before the eyes.”
pabulum is odd—very. The queerest acci-
dent I have heard of lately was of a man
having his tongue trodden on by a cow,
and it was missed even by the “Herald,”
so war-focused is that journal.
* * * *
“Bo”: Few of those who thrill the
world with a matchless exploit live
to bore it to tears. This dubious
honor has been reserved for the flying
Mollisons, whose record for civil inanity
must be unique. Acres of guff in the
flapper press marked the inauguration
of their marital partnership; soon after-
wards the pair started barneys with avia-
tion authorities, ’drome officials and a
host of others—each one duly publicised.
The sequel was inevitable: apparently
running out of fresh material, they
picked on each other. A long-suffering
public had to put up with their endless
rows and rumored reconciliations until
Romance was finally interred. But the
public wasn’t to be let off so lightly as
that. Individual arguments and scrapes
then hit the headlines. Jimmy got into
trouble in France for stunting during
a binge. Amy scratched a traffic
cop’s mitt when pulled up for motoring
offences. She admitted telling off the
limb of the law, pleading that her
“language” was inspired by constant
contact with pilots. An unimpressed
Beak set her back five Brad bury s, with
an extra half a flag for not having a
license. Wearily we await the next
cabled splurge about them.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: Our flapper press
screams that it is our duty to keep our
chins up in this time of national peril. As
with most of its American catch-phrases,
the advice is totally wrong. The inevitable
psychological reaction to an uplifted chin
is a strong desire to slip a short one
across on the projecting feature. An
upheld chin in time of conflict simply
begs for trouble, both by offering a dan-
gerous point on which an enemy may
attack and preventing its owner from
watching for unsportsmanlike tactics on
the part of the foe’s boots.
* * * *
“F 2”: Modernism in Paris has its social
as well as its artistic side. The social side
is more important than the artistic. This
aspect is not being neglected in Mel-
bourne, and one artist is getting himself
talked about by taking a mincing
machine with him when invited to
dinner. After expounding a theory he
has about the necessity for more efficient
methods of mastication he pulls his
machine out of his pocket, screws it to
the table and passes his meat through it.
Obviously one of those eccentricities that
give the hallmark to genius.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Our national pastime of
“heading ’em” is of very ancient English
origin. No doubt the Puritans suppressed
it, as they suppressed the theatre and
bear-baiting (the last “not because it was
cruel to the bear, but because it gave
pleasure to the spectators”); but it sur-
vived those wowsers militant. Its vogue
in London 130 years ago was mentioned
by a grave Speaker of the House of Com-
mons in his diary. The Duke of York
was then Commander-in-Chief, and the
facts of his connection with “an aban-
doned woman,” Mrs. Mary
Anne Clark, had come out
in evidence given at the Bar
of the House, and spread
over several hundred pages
of “Hansard.” Impassioned
ducal letters to Mary Anne
were read ; they showed that
the love-nest was maintained
in part by the sale of “pro-
motions, exchanges and
appointments to commissions
in the army.” Popular re-
action to the revelations is
the subject of the Speaker’s
entry in his diary: “The
joke of the streets among the
people is not to cry ‘Heads
or Tails’ when they toss up
ha’pence, but ‘Duke or Dar-
ling.’ ” What a humorous
fellow the Cockney has been
in all ages!
* * *
“C.Q.”: Reported that the
Great Nicola, his wife and
company and all his illusion-
ist equipment were saved
when the liner Sirdhana sank
at Singapore after an explo-
sion. Perhaps he made the
lot disappear and reappear
elsewhere. During his last
Australian tour a suburban magician of
the same name challenged his right to
the title. The case was settled out of
court, possibly by the more eminent
necromancer threatening to make his
rival vanish if he went on with it.
THE EXILE OF DOORN.
I’ll wager, in his Holland nook,
His lamps are ever centred on
The land from which he slung his hook
Full one-and-twenty years agone.
So long “All Highest”—and anon
Shattered and snapped his birthright links,
Now bent and aged, worn and wan,
I wonder what The Exile thinks.
Does he recall the years of yore
When, with a crown upon his brow,
Sceptred and orbed, he stood for more
Than any upstart Fiihrer now?
Or when, ’mid revolution’s row,
He quits a toppling throne and slinks
Across the border? Anyhow
I wonder what The Exile thinks.
Does fickle fancy take him back
From his arboreal retreat
To when, with Bismarck giv’n the sack,
He featured fortune at his feet?
Or when, distraught, disowned and beat,
Into obscurity he sinks?
What time he saws his logs “a treat”
I wonder what The Exile thinks.
Ask of the winds as wisely, or
As well interrogate the Sphinx.
While all men else debate the war
And tip what Hitler’s heading for,
What of the fallen Emperor?
I wonder what The Exile thinks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


V
&S.
m
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
**** Mtif /
itt
mk
E SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
Value of exports to Britain was
reckoned at £65,000,000 Australian last
year. Increased war purchases, including
the whole of the wool clip, are expected
to raise the amount to £101,540,000 this
financial year. Substantial, but
£23,000,000 less than the amount col-
lected in taxes last year for maintenance
of seven Parliaments, seven Govern-
ments, seven Government Houses, seven
London offices and the multitude of de-
partments, boards and commissions in the
style to which they have become accus-
tomed —as well, of course, as upkeep of
all the services.
“The A.L.P. not only rejects compul-
sory training but also conscription and an
expeditionary force for service outside
Australia.” As reported by the official
Labor paper, Curtin said that in Sydney
on November 20. On the following day
Minister Street intimated that the Second
A.I.F. was 1742 short of the quota, which
was understood to be 20,000, but is now,
it seems, a mere 18,182, and that 60,527
men were left in the militia. This in a
country with a population three millions
greater than that of Finland, which is
standing up to the Mighty Soviet, and in
the eleventh week of another war with
Germany. If Curtin’s party goes on re-
jecting compulsory training Australia
will reject Curtin’s party.
N.S.W. Assembly has 90 members at
£875 p.a. (raised from £670 p.a. in the
year of the huge deficit), and ten (10) are
on a select committee of inquiry into
night trotting. Probing of this momen-
tous subject being incomplete, Lee, the
chairman, proposes that the committee
should travel to Perth to see how night
trotting is run there. He coolly points out
that the gentlemen, having free passes
over all Australian railways, as well as
just on £73 a month, will need only to
be fed on trains and put up in pubs
and have trifles for tips and taxis. In
the way of daring deadheadism there is
evidently no limit to what State poli-
ticians will propose, but Lee will learn
that there is a very definite limit to what
a legally-looted people will stand.
Faced with a war, rising costs, in-
creased taxes, a calamitous debt, un-
employment and a restless electorate that
wants to abolish it, Mair’s Government
has at last heeded the public demand
for economy. There wifi be no depart-
mental cards issued with seasonal greet-
ings this year. The saving? £2000!
“Validly appointed but” because
they were company directors “not
eligible to act” —such was the decision of
Mann, C.J., in the cases of Walter Leitch
and J. C. Gates, the Victorian Savings
Bank Commissioners ; and a third Com-
missioner, Hocking (“the Kingmaker”),
may be in the same boat. But Leitch
and Gates, at least, are still Commis-
sioners and thus entitled to be paid for
services they are legally unable to render.
Though absence from four meetings
would justify their removal by Order-in-
Council, they could, on petition, be
reinstated by both Houses of Parliament.
As in the affair of the Egg Board there
will doubtless be “validating” legislation.
State Parliaments spend half their time
“validating” and “amending” their slip-
shod laws.
Gregory, M.H.R., who has turned 80,
and as an Agrarian has always been a
bit difficult, embarrassed his party by
tabling a motion ordering his Govern-
ment to withdraw its wheat plan and
guarantee the growers a minimum of
3s. 6d. a bushel f.o.b. Cameron refused
to be placed in the position of having
to vote with Curtin to turn the Gov-
ernment out, and, amidst Labor jeers,
the Gregory motion was relegated to a
safe place on the business paper. Mean-
time the guarantee is still 2s. 9d. and
2s. 7d. for bagged and bulk respectively.
Menzies believes restriction of acreage
inevitable next season.
The Wheatgrowers’ Federation, sitting
in Melbourne, resolved to ask C.P. men
to ensure that the first advance be not
less than 2s. 6d. net at sidings, and that
3s. lOd. f.o.r. ports be the guarantee for
all wheat delivered. “If any changes in
the Federal Government are necessary
to give effect to these requests, such
changes can and should be effected with-
out an election.” Ernest Field, president,
pointed out that if wheatgrowers forced
an election they would lose public sym-
pathy. He’s right.
Victoria’s Dunstan Government has,
very tardily, commissioned a Supreme
Court Justice (Gavan Duffy) to inquire
“While officers’ and sergeants’ messes are ‘wet,’ ‘dry’ canteens are still the order for
other ranks.”
“But I tell y', Dig, we are fighting this war for democracy.”
into charges of “funny business” in con-
nection with recent legislation. They
appeared in Melbourne “Terewth,”
which alleged in particular that “a slush
fund” was raised to “influence” certain
members of Parliament. The allegations
having been repeated in an article
addressed “to the Members of the State
Parliament, Melbourne,” the Legislative
Council very properly appointed a select
committee of inquiry; the other shop
not only refused to do so, but would not
let Dunstan and Hogan appear as wit-
nesses. At the inquiry four members
were mentioned invidiously in what
Eager, M.L.C., rightly described as
“hearsay evidence.” Denials followed,
and then Dunstan came to light with his
royal commission.
A.B.C. receipts amounted to £720,133,
up £78,052, in 1938-39, £658,736 being
from listeners’ fees. From the surplus
of £127,455, reserve fund (now £249,700)
took £107,375; the balance goes to
accumulated fund (£179,940), assets
being increased by £100,369 to £450,868.
Listeners, who pay £1 Is. per year,
provide the bulk of the income. They
are to get, by paying an extra threepence
a week, a magazine which nobody wanted
and which will compete, free of income
taxes, with established journals that have
to pay increased costs and thumping tax
bills.
Minister Stewart added to his charge
(denied) that manufacturers tendering for
military boots contracts quoted 40 p.c.
above pre-war prices by insisting that
“an attempt had been made at flagrant
profiteering.” He added ominously that
the boot industry wasn’t the only one
against which the Government “may have
to take drastic action.” “Drastic action,”
he suggested, might be in the form of
Government production of the goods —
which would certainly be drastic to the
taxpayers, who would foot the usual bill.
W. P. Conelan, the new M.H.R. for
Griffith (Q.), asked the P.M. in the House
whether he had made a statement attri-
buted to him by “a reputable newspaper,
The Bulletin, personally vouching for
its accuracy”:
“Business as usual” was urged by the
Prime Minister, who almost at the same
time communicated with the financial insti-
tutions and the big insurance companies
and instructed them that only a limited
amount of finance must be made available
to the semi-Governmental bodies.
Menzies denied the soft impeachment,
nor was any such assertion made by
The Bulletin. The words quoted
appeared in a letter written by the Lord
Mayor of Brisbane. Still, The Bulletin
thanks Mr. Conelan for giving it a cer-
tificate of character. He thereby healed
a wound its honor had felt ever since
little Mr. Parkhill, exploding in the same
place, thundered that it wasn’t “a repu-
table newspaper.”
“That embittered dupe of Moscow
Von Ribbentrop.” In these words “S. M.
Herald” began an article on “the bloody-
handed men who have usurped power”
in Germany; “the assassins who have
declared war on humanity”; “the
gangsters of Berlin.” If Rib. is really
“that embittered dupe of Moscow” he is
not without company. There are stacks
of embittered dupes of Moscow in these
parts, though even now they won’t admit
that they were dupes or that their legs
were lent to liars.
The ancient Gregory has been chal-
lenged in Swan by C. O. Barker, the
financial gentleman who got in for
Irwin-Moore at the State election and
mysteriously resigned without taking a
seat. At the instance of Latham, the
State Cocky leader, a select committee
has been going into proceedings of
Barker’s company, Litchfield’s (A/asia),
but Barker evidently thinks that the
farmers retain their confidence in him.
Anyway, nothing could shake Barker s
faith in Barker.
Tasmania has an unfunded deficit of
£733,4oo—about £3 per head. “It is
financed,” the Auditor-General says, by
the Loan Fund from loan moneys raised
for capital purposes,” a practice con-
sidered illegal,” and not confined to Tas-
mania:—
Apparently there has been a tacit agree-
ment between the States and the Com-
monwealth to avoid the payment of the
4 per cent, sinking fund on revenue defi-
cits under the Financial Agreement, and
the omission to obtain Parliamentary
authority for the purpose of raising definite
loans for revenue deficits has served as a
means of escaping from such sinking-fund
payments.
There is an appalling lot of humbug and
make-believe about Australian Govern-
ment finance, and there always will be
until it is placed under one supreme and
unchallengeable authority.
In the domain of N.S.W. Government
transport, Neale, of the Trams and Buses,
is beginning to compete briskly with
Hartigan, of the Railways. He is already
running buses from Sydney to several
suburbs on the North Shore
railway, and is planning to
run more from Wynyard to
Eastwood and Epping, both
served by another Govern-
ment railway. For this pro-
ject and others he has
ordered 50 double-deckers
without reference to the
alleged Parliament which has
to vote the money. Antici-
pated loss on Trams and
Buses this year is just on
£48,000, and Trams and
Buses may yet challenge the
performance of Railways,
hitherto supposed to be un-
approachable.
Hollywood films should
certainly be placed on the
list of restricted imports.
The always-unfavorable bal-
ance of trade with the U.S.A.
has been made so much
more unfavorable by war
conditions, with exchange
complications and uncer-
tainties added, that it may
be hard to finance essential
imports, let alone Hollywood
stuff. Theatrical companies,
Australian and British, producing spoken
plays, could supply the deficiency, if
any. An invitation, coupled with large-
minded assistance, to British companies
would relieve the Old Man of the neces-
sity of feeding idle mouths, and remove
a possible nucleus of discontent, besides
being of cultural advantage to Austra-
lians.
Reporting J. B. Brigden’s appointment
as economic adviser to the Department
of Supply, Melbourne “Argus” recalls
that “on the collapse of national insur-
ance he became secretary of the Depart-
ment of Social Services, which also col-
lapsed.” Seems a sinister way of putting it.
“C.H.S.”: The latest of many strikes
at Sydney’s gigantic abattoir emphasises
the folly of centring in the city an in-
dustry whose natural and economic
venue is the country. Country killing
centres never have idiotic industrial
troubles. There is no loss of bloom on
killing stock nor loss of animals on long
rail journeys. And employment and
business are brought to the town —
Bourke, for example. Homebush, which
has cost the taxpayers millions, is a
thorn in the side of Government, pro-
ducer and consumer, who has to pay
higher prices every time there is a strike.
It should be withdrawn, split up and
replanted in selected rural spots.


, This u. teach "=%.
YOU NOT TO JAY-WM.K 1
//
NOW YOUR NEIGHBORS „
WILL GET SOME PEARCE !
All right;
k transferred!
\ TO ORDNANCE*
HO MORE DWOTS POR Vou, ME LA,o".
r/ 1 / i ”
G»WE that to Me; Vouve had enough .
ft / f '»■
"THAT’S VIHATT GOMES OP MA»VCIHGi A, \NEITTER, OF ICE.S •
W M\SS, BUT vou'ul HA.YE To
hand ONER VOUR COSTUME FOR MOT
4 BATHVMOv between -WE FtKQS •
CONFISCATION.
“Mr. Bruxner, N. S. Wales Minister for Transport, is considering a suggestion that pedal cyclists who break traffic rules should be deprived of their machines for a time.
This confiscation scheme could be extended.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised ..
Capital Issued
. £1,250,000
. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
cad Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR AND INDUSTRY
AUSTRALIA’S CHANGING ECONOMY AND THE
EFFECT OF WAR ON FINANCE.
A FULL BUDGET
OF WAR-TIME FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS, BALANCE-
SHEET REVIEWS AND MINING INFORMATION.
December Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
MELBOURNE’S
GREATEST
HOTEL
Stay at this great hotel in
the heart of Melbourne,
near shops and theatres,
convenient to trams and
trains. Room-only tariffs:
Singles, 5/- to 7/0;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
UICTORID
PRIME
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Melb.
PERSONAL ITEM S
John Rymill, the S.A. pastoralist and
explorer, gets an unusual distinction.
Members of the Grahamland expedition
are receiving the Polar Medal (British).
Rymill was the leader of it, but he
already holds the medal for his work in
the Arctic, so he now adds an extra silver
clasp. Thus he is honored for exploration
at (or towards) both Poles.
When the Bishop of Fulham (Eng.)
called for volunteers to go into German
prison camps and administer spiritual
help to British prisoners of war and
civilian British internees, he got a re-
sponse from Maoriland, the Vicar of
Cambridge (Rev. C. W. Chandler) offer-
ing himself. The vicar is an Australian
who was once a bushworker, and knew
what it was to hump the bluey in the
outback. He went to M.L. from Sydney
10 years ago.
Round Mendooran (N.S.W.) way they
tell a tale about Tom Manusu, one of
the part-owners of the dual Derby win-
ner Reading. Tom whs in Melbourne
and was asked if he could play billiards.
He said he could, and was given 900
in 1000 up by a fellow known locally
as Walter Lindrum. Tom broke ’em,
left the red in balk and the white on
the balk line. His opponent then made
a break of 1002. What bothers those
who witnessed it isi that they still don’t
know whether Tom can play billiards
or not.
J. E. McCullough, the Sydney police
magistrate who has been appointed to
the Price Fixing Commission, was bora
J.E. McCULLOUGH.
on the Temora (N.S.W.) diggings 58
years ago. Has been a civil servant most
of his life, his departmental experience
covering railways, post office, prisons and
justice. His first job in a judicial capacity
was as a mine warden. He saw service
in the 1914-18 war with the 2nd Bat-
talion. Golf is his pet recreation.
Dr. Francis William Henschke is
Wagga’s new Roman Catholic bishop.
Born at Hookina (S.A.) 47 years ago, he
went to Glenelg Marist Brothers, spent a
year in S.A. Education Department, then
studied for the priesthood in Ireland and
Italy, gaining a doctorate of philosophy
in Rome. In 1918 he was appointed to
Jamestown (S.A.), was chancellor of the
Port Augusta diocese and later vicar-
general, under Archbishop Gilroy, and
was consecrated Auxiliary Bishop of
Wagga in 1937. He has two brothers and
a sister in holy orders.
David Maclaren, of Maoriland, dead
at 67, had a chequered career. A native
of Glasgow, he first
came into promi-
nence as secretary
of the Wellington
Watersiders’ Union.
He was Welling-
ton’s first and only
Labor Mayor. He
opposed the re-
cruiting of Boer
War contingents,
and the Welling-
ton Trades apd
Labor Council
passed a vote of
censure on him.
Years afterwards,
when thousands of
Chinese were im-
ported to work the
S’African mines,
the council ex-
punged the motion
from its records,
but Maclaren gave
no thanks. He rep-
resented Welling-
ton East as an in-
dependent Laborite,
but when official
Labor became
strong he faded out
of the picture. For
a while he was
organiser for the
Anti-Labor Wel-
fare League.
JUDGE EVATT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Back in Melbourne after half a century
in China, Rev. Francis S. Joyce, of the
China Inland Mission. Educated at
Wesley and Melbourne Uni., he went to
Honan province at 21 and has talked
Chinese and lived Chinese ever since,
training native missioners at a school
beyond Hankow which is now in
Japanese hands. He is 71 and has a
wife, a son and a daughter working in
the same field.
“R. Volt”: Ernest Fisk, of Amalga-
mated Wireless, who has been appointed
secretary to the Economic Cabinet and
Director of Economic, Co-ordination,
was at one time regarded as a harmless
lunatic. That was in pre-war days when
he was insisting that wireless was a
serious threat to the old-fashioned
methods of communication. When he
established a service between Australia
and one of the South Sea islands it was
suggested that the messages had probably
been smuggled over the cable. But one
day the cable was totally interrupted, and
wireless messages continued to be re-
ceived in Australia.
Christopher Lodge, whose pleasant
tenor has been heard over the air at
various times, is in the news as runner-
up in a divisional wheat championship
staged by the Sydney R.A.S. A son of
scientist Sir Christopher Lodge, and
nephew of the eminent savant and
spiritualist, Sir Oliver, the young man
is growing wheat at Forbes (N.S.W.),
having come to Australia about 12 years
ago with a Cambridge M.A. in his
luggage. His brother Charles was asso-
ciated with him in the Forbes farm until
his death a few years ago.
Fifty-four years ago James Paroissien
Johnson and John Vicars established a
woolbroking firm in Sydney. Vicars s
Marrickville tweeds have since become
known all over Australia. Though not
so prominent as his partner, J. P. John-
son was a philanthropist in his quiet
way ; building and equipping the Kea-
fern Day Nursery at a cost of £9OOO
was one of his good deeds. Recently
£lOOO went into the Lord Mayor’s fund,
and in the last five years about £16,000
has gone to various causes. He was
74 when he died last week.
Herbert Vere Evatt, K.C., LL.D., is the
youngest High Court Judge ever
appointed by a Commonwealth Govern-
ment. He was 36 and his colleague, E. A.
McTiernan, J., 38, when the Scullin ad-
ministration presented them with full-
bottomed wigs nine years ago. This was
strictly in accordance with the texture
of ’Sonah’s career, which, with the ex-
ception of his essay in politics, has con-
sisted of successes piled on successes.
He was born at East Maitland (N.S.W.)
and won all the High School prizes within
his reach. At the University he took
his B.A. with triple first-class honors and
prizes in English literature, mathematics,
law and philosophy. His M.A. carried
first-class honors ; his LL.B., the Univer-
sity Medal; his LL.D., gained at 30,
again the University Medal, but his
scholastic activities still gave him time to
plunge into University politics and sport.
At 31 he became Labor M.L.A. for Bal-
main. Prophets whispered: “The future
Prime Minister.” But the bulging Evatt
temples were too much for the No. 6
brains of his party, and Langism was a
little too much for Evatt. He gave him-
self more and more to the law, was a
K.C. at 35, and after only a year of lead-
ing practice went to the Bench. His
vacations are spent on literature, his roll
of books lengthens every year and he is
fast becoming an acknowledged historical
authority. His Rum Rebellion has just
gone into a second edition—it is one of
the few uncolored accounts of the course
of early N. S. Wales history.
First layman to be appointed, G. A.
Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc., goes from Sydney
C. of E. Grammar to be head of the
Armidale school (New England). Pro-
duct of Ipswich (Q.) Grammar, he gradu-
ated at Sydney Uni., captained the Rugby
Union team for three years, won an Aus-
tralian Universities’ blue, and played for
the State. In 1935 he went to Shrews-
bury (Eng.), and while there studied pub-
lic school trends in the British Isles and
Europe. He is no stranger to Armidale,
having been senior science master there
in 1927.
Some December birthdays:
Botanist Richard Baker (Syd.), 85, knight
John Evans (Tas.), 83, artist George Bell (Vic.),
61, and authoress Helen de Guerry Simpson on
Ist; knight Raphael Cilento (Director ol
Health, Q’land), 46, Judge Kelly (S.A.), 41,
and knight Jas. D. Connolly (former W.A.
Agent-Gen.), 69, on 2nd; knight Stanley
Argyle (Vic.), 72, and knight David Rivett
(C.S. and 1.R.), 54, on 4th; Major-Gen. John
Gellibrand (Speck), 67, and Dr. Charles Ander-
son (Australian Museum), 63, on sth; Judge
Brennan (Q’land), 55, on 6th; T. J. Hartigan
(Chief Commisioner of Railways, N.S.W.), 62,
Speck Chief Sec. D’Alton, 44, and Archbishop
Prendiville (Perth), 40, on Bth; Prof. T. H.
Johnston (Adel.), 58, on 9th; Bishop Nutter
Thomas (Adel.), 70, on 11th; former N.S.W.
Senator Hardy, 41, and Vic. Min. of Agri-
culture Ned Hogan, 55, on 12th; Brig.-Gen.
H. A. Goddard (London “Times’s” Aust. rep.),
70, and authoress Dulcie Deamer on 13th; W.
Warren Kerr (Vic. State Savings Bank Commis-
sioner), 75, Dean Jose (Adel.), 71, and Prof.
H. J. Wilkinson (Q’land), 48, on 15th; Dr.
Cecil Purser (Syd.), 77, and Prof. H. C.
Richards (Q.), 55, on 16th; Rev. T. E. Ruth
(Syd.), 64, on 17th; A. O. Badman, M.H.R.
(Grey), 54, Prof. V. A. Bailey (Syd.), 44,
and poet R. J. Cassidy (“Gilrooney”), 59,
on 18th; J. T. Jennings, M.H.R. (Watson),
61, Maj.-Gen. Lavarack, 54, and D’Arcy W.
Addison (former Speck Agent-Gen.), 67, on
19th; Prime Minister Menzies, 45, Herbert
Brookes (Melb.), 72, and knight-aviator Keith
Smith, 49, on 20th; “Texas” Green, M.H.R.
(Kalgoorlie), 70, on 21st; knight John Harvey
(Syd.), 74, and knight John Butters (Syd.),
54, on 23rd; W.A. Collector of Customs Bird,
61, on 25th; authors J. H. M. Abbott, 65,
and S. Elliott Napier, 69, knight Harry
Sheehan (gov. Gommonwealth Bank), 56, and
Dr. J. J. C. Bradfield (of the Bridge), 72, on
26th; painter W. Lister Lister, 80, Bishop Hart
(Wangaratta), 73, and Dr. Buntine, M.A. (Hale
School, Perth), 41, on 27th; knight G. Mason
Allard (Syd.), 73, Dr. E. E. Anderson (St.
Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 67, Speck Min. for
Agric. Robt. Cosgrove, 55, and H. P. Brown
(former Director-Gen. of Posts and Telegraph),
61, on 28th; knight Hubert Murray (Lieut.-
Gov. of Papua), 78, and ex-Premier Theodore,
55, on 29th; knight Kelso King (Syd.), 86,
and Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, V.C., 56, on
30th.
Reginald Robert Stuckey has been
Under-Treasurer of S.A. for the last 16
years. He’s 58, Adelaide-born, and started
to earn his living in the Adelaide office
of the A.M.P. In 1914 he was appointed
Public Actuary of S.A., and while in
that office was co-opted by the Federal
Government in connection with the in-
ternal debt conversion loan. He was
chairman of the committee that cata-
logued his State’s disabilities under
R. R. STUCKEY.
Federation, and is chairman of the State
Bank Board and of the S.A. Public Debt
Commission, and president of the S.A.
Superannuation Fund Board. The right
to tack C.M.G. after his name came to
him in 1932.


W' re 5ef y ' ce c e tvH e
te tu\nea et y\ce
\^\te' eS set vlC ® S
f ** *
Br Tat* Sef \etv» c ° s
o ! 'c"«r.s*»" »et“ T *
P,CY *
Vf\»
ReSe ~,tton^
«'" e T c t,
Br° ad k R»4'°' s
•vh® f,sk
% I* n * e i k*' 1
*4i, 4 .'° MfIRELESS ****
National


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Long Steve got a job
for the wheat harvest with a Pinnaroo
(S.A.) cocky. He had breakfast in the
town and was driven out to start on the
header that morning. He expected, but
did not get, the usual tea and cake for
smoke-oh, and was fairly ravenous when
he joined the family at midday for dinner.
After the meat and spuds had gone south
Steve grabbed some bread and reached
out for the butter, but the missus (the
real boss on that farm) beat him to it,
withdrew it from his reach and remarked
coldly, “Oh, there’s no butter for the
working men.” Steve thought it over,
then rose and firmly collected the butter,
helping himself to a large share. With
fire in her eye the lady snapped, “Didn’t
yoq hear me?” Steve swallowed calmly.
“Yairs, missus, I heard y’,” he said, “but
it don’t apply t’ me. I stopped workin’
here a minute ago.”
jjc 5k H* H*
“The 0.D.”: The problem of the runt
pig in the litter was solved on a Manning
River (N.S.W.) farm. A kelpie bitch had
mothered two pups about the same time
as the sow farrowed, so the runt was put
on the kelpie. It and the pups thrived
together. The pig is now weaned and,
except for a tendency to bark at stran-
gers, is doing well. The farmer finds it
particularly useful in rounding up the
other pigs when he wants to change their
paddock.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Australia seems nowa-
days to be oddly without a universal
form of friendly salutation. Just after
the big disturbance it was “Hey, Dig.!”
Prior to that one was greeted along the
track by “Hey, mate!” But no form
ever came near the universal “Jack” of
40, 50, perhaps 80, years gone by. When
I was a kid, just before the first January
of this century, every male stranger,
every chance-met wayfarer was “Jack.”
Even back in the ticket-of-leave era, suc-
cessive to the convict days, “Jack” was
the popular salutation. Every convict
was a Jack. Did it originate with the
convict system or did it arrive in Vic-
toria along with the multitude of jack-
tars that quitted their ships to try their
luck on the goldfields?
sf* sjc jfc ifc
“Billy See”: Those outback business-
men and their queer ledgers remind me
of Old Sam, storekeeper in a tiny W.A.
town. Sam was suing a teamster, the
case being tried before a grumpy S.M.
who periodically did a circuit of 100
miles or so, and was always in a hurry.
A ledger showing indebtedness was put
in. The Bench eyed it doubtfully. “This
book appears quite new: these debts are
claimed to have been contracted over
years. Is it the original ledger?” “Well,
your Worship, it isn’t,” Sam’s mouthpiece
admitted. “Actually it would be some-
what difficult to produce the original
ledger.” “What?” snorted the S.M.
“This Court must have the original docu-
ments, otherwise I shall be compelled to
nonsuit.” Sam and his lawyer had a few
whispered words. “My client says the
original ledger can be produced, but asks
an hour’s adjournment.” “Granted. Next
case,” snapped the Bench. The hour
slipped past; the “next case” was finished.
The Court was itching to get away. Came
a commotion outside, the rumbling of a
dray, loud commands to a horse, fol-
lowed by sundry bumps and bangs. Then
in staggered Sam carrying a big jarrah
door, with hinges still attached. “The
ledger, your Worship.” Able to read and
write but no hand at bookkeeping, Sam
had started business pencilling customers’
accounts behind the door. Periodically
chalked all over, it had served ever since.
Easy for debtors to refer to and econo-
mical of paper, no small consideration
in the W.A. backblocks. Sam won his
case.
* * * *
“Toolangi”: Tali trees, is it? Well,
I’m not arguing about the past, for they
may have measured 400-footers, as
“Atrax” (B. 1/11/ ’39) asserts. But,
again, refreshments in those days, car-
ried per bottle, were much more potent
than the pale brews we have to sample
nowadays. Thus Victoria’s tallest-known
tree, now standing in the Cumberland
Valley, Gt. Dividing Range, only tops
a bare 301 ft. 6in. —official record. One
found fallen north of Noojee after the
fires of last January did indeed tape
331 ft., with the top broken off while
still 3in. in diameter. So that one
decidedly was taller, but still much short
of Baron von Mueller’s 471 ft. Furm-
ston’s tree, in the Healesville (Vic.) dis-
trict, acclaimed as Australia’s mightiest
growing tree, tops only 287 ft. At sft.
from the ground it girths 62ft., a moun-
tain ash. Next comes W.A.’s biggest
known, a karri, growing 11 miles west
of Manjimup; it tops 285 ft., quite
svelte compared with the Furmston plant,
measuring only 24ft. 6in. at breast height
from the soil.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Back-o’-Bourke in
summer, particularly after rain, when
there is green grass about, has more flies
on show to the acre than any other part
of Australia can muster to the square
“ I had no idea he'd grow so big. He's so heavy on my lap now."
mile. Knew a Warri boundary-rider
who, to escape their incessant attentions,
anointed his own and his horse’s face
before starting on his rounds in the morn-
ing with a preparation of salad oil and
pennyroyal. Though the face-cream
was rather sticky and gave him an un-
inviting odor when you got too close to
him in the heat, it was more effective
than veils or corks round the hat. But
after a duststorm it was only possible to
recognise him by his dog.
* * * *
“Knark”: Where did “Mulga” get his
information regarding the oleander (B.
1/11/’39)? On this property, on the
mulga plains between St. George and
Cunnamulla (Q.), are two of the finest
oleander shrubs I have ever seen, one
single-flowered, the other a double
variety. The earth around them is hard-
baked and hot. At present they are a
mass of bloom, but I haven’t noticed the
blowflies tumbling over each other to
get at the nectar, and the fly is particu-
larly active among the sheep now.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Hats off to that good
Australian Nanny, a pioneer whose
family dates back to Phillip’s arrival in
January, 1788, and who shares, deserv-
edly, with green-’ide an’ stringybark the
honor of being one of the three main-
stays of outback life. No stock pests
affect her; in fact, she has no diseases
of any kind. She feeds herself where
no other animal can raise a mouthful,
and comes sensibly home to the evening
milking. She scorns birth-control and
increases her family twice yearly, often
generously by twos and threes. But for
her milk many a brawny western pas-
toralist would have perished in skinny in-
fancy instead of growing up to denounce
Taxation Departments. Completely
droughtproof, Nanny has provided
cream, butter, milk and cheese for many
a beleaguered family in a stricken land.
More, she has yielded up her life and
those of her offspring to furnish meat for
them. Good meat, too. Shame on Vic-
toria for not even including her in its
stock returns! Honor to Queensland,
where more of her live than in any other
State! Cripes, she ought to be on Aus-
tralia’s coat of arms!
* * * *
“MS”: A binder expert who hit Derby
(Vic.) this season will long be remem-
bered. He was working on somebody’s
machine when a brown snake appeared.
The expert tried to jump on its head —
and missed. The snake bolted for the
crop with the expert galloping along
behind, making spasmodic leaps in
further vain efforts to land his boot-heels
on its head. As the snake vanished it
gave its tormentor a nasty look, and
he, suddenly realising something, fainted.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: I have read and heard of
birds being caught, killed and eaten by
at least four species of Australian spiders,
and now for the first time I have seen the
actual tragedy. The victim was a little
thornbill ( Acanthiza nana ), the killer a
brown-and-yellow spider with a leg-
spread of some 4in. and a bulky body.
It was straddling the feebly-moving re-
mains of its prey on the ground and
sucking at the flesh of the abdomen,
which was punctured and torn in several
places. Before I could get a net to
collect the hunter it had made off. No
trace of a web could be seen in the tree
under which the little victim lay, and
there was none on its body except one
attached strand about a foot long,
seemingly part of the spider’s dragline.
Apparently the attacker had stalked it on
the ground and paralysed it by a bite.
Fang marks showed clearly on the back
of its head.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: What appears to be
either a new sport or a novel method of
training the population against air raids
is reported to have developed in M.L.
—dynamiting hawks. If a sport, further
details are required to show where the
fun comes in, but it certainly costs money
—to others. A hawk with a stick of dinny
tied to its leg alighted on the roof of a
riverside farmhouse for a rest. The
attachment exploded, the inmates of the
house luckily escaped unhurt, but the
damage ran into £5OO. The cabled story
states that the load was tied to the bird,
but there are lots of trout in the Waikato
River where the thing happened, and the
hawk may have mistaken a thrown charge
intended for them for something to eat.
* ■ * * *
“Alligator Rock”: When I contemplate
the scars on my shanks I mind one pas-
time every bit as exciting as “Bushy
Park’s” eel-fishing (B. 8/1 / ’39). About
100 yards off the beach at Cottesloe
(W.A.) there’s a reef running parallel to
the shore for maybe a mile. At low tide
it’s covered by only a few inches, at
high by several feet. At sunrise, when
the water was like glass, we’d pull on an
old pair of shoes, a pair of trunks, sling
half a sugarbag over our shoulders, then
wade and swim for a hundred yards until
we clambered on to the reef. There were
potholes where lurked cobbler and rock-
cod, pools with John Dory and batfish,
clear sandy bottoms with whiting,
flounder and flathead, and rocky ledges
alive with leatherjacket and, less fre-
quently, rock snapper. The long loomers
tnat rolled in occasionally were nothing
to worry about really —sling your rod
over the wave and dive into it before it
broke, and when it had gone seething
towards shore just swim back and
clamber on to the reef again. But it was
the curlers that sneaked on us unseen
that ringbarked shins and caused the
swallowing of a few gallons of brine. It
was worth the attentions of prowling
octopuses and stingrays to stagger beach-
wards with heavy bags and then stretch
out like dogs in the sun. Truly a sport
for the gods.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: “ ’Struth! ” snorted
Greenhide, interrupting his perusal of
the “Goanna Gully Examiner,” “wot’ll
they put in the papers next? ’Ere’s a pro-
fessor bloke reckons ’e can tell the weight
of the moon. Now, ’ow can ’e do that
when the blasted moon’s always changin’
its size?”
* * * *
“Badilla”: The foremost Chinese
storekeeping family of a N.Q. town were
replacing their old business premises with
a concrete structure. Concrete was mixed
on the footpath and wheeled inside by a
gang of barrowmen, a tough, hard-bitten
crew of ex-canesloggers naked save for
dilapidated shorts. One of them, having
trodden on a rusty nail, had stepped
aside from the line, removed the nail and
was tapping around the puncture with
an engineer’s hammer in an attempt to
force out any impure blood. The con-
tractor appeared, and, noting the seated
man, shouted, “Hey, you, what in hell’re
you doin’?” The concrete-wheeler looked
up. “Mister,” he said, “I just trod on
a blanky nail. I knew I wouldn’t ’ave
time to pull it out, so I’m bendin’ the
flamin’ thing over till smoke-oh time.”
* * * jJ:
“Kooragai”: While fishing from a
scrubby point on the Richmond River
(N.S.W.) I noticed a sudden scatter of
fish near the surface, and
then a black streak shot
past at an astonishing
speed. A little lower down
it popped up with a fish
glistening in its beak —it
was an Australian darter,
or snake-bird, in action.
That fish-chaser is the
swiftest feathered sub-
marine I know ; yet I have
never seen it swim fast on
the surface, and on wing
it is as slow and ungainly
as the rest of the cormor-
ant tribe. Though fairly
plentiful on rivers and
lakes, it often escapes
observation through its
habit of submerging its
body. In that position it
can swim swiftly, and
against a bank, or among
reeds and roots, with only
the snakelike neck above
water, it is difficult to
locate. At a little dis-
tance in clear water, with the body out of
sight, it is frequently mistaken for a
black snake, and when a boat approaches
it the neck is drawn under like the dis-
appearing periscope of a submarine.
"*< * * *
“The 0.D.”: There was great excite-
ment in the community. They were like
men who heard of a new gold-strike or
new land being opened for settlement.
The inhabitants buzzed eagerly about
their doors, gossiping, alert, darting
hither and yon. The excitement and ad-
venture of leaving the old home to estab-
lish a new one in fresh fields had gripped
hundreds. Then a positive fury of sound
and movement developed as a big
batch set out together, almost climbing
over one another in their fever to be
gone. Another big batch was making
ready. The authorities became rather
anxious, for they feared depopulation. So
they caged the queens and put a stop to
the departure of the bee swarms.
ifc :|i 5jC - ' Sfc
“Septus”: “Youse coves don’t know
what drovin’ is,” snorted young Mike,
who had had to listen to yarns of pro-
digious feats by the old-timers. “Pushin’
sheep an’ cattle along’s nothin’ com-
pared to a job I just finished. Yair, I
brought 3000 head of petrol drums
from Kalgoorlie to North Fremantle.
The swipers was all right in motor
traffic, but they’d break away at the
sight of a horse, an’ at Merredin they
savaged a Diesel tractor. But I kept
’em rollin’, an’ passin’ over the Darlin’
Ranges I’m layin’ back thinkin’ of the
cheque I’ll draw when a dam’ old Colas
drum charged right into the mob an’
stampeded ’em everywhere. ’Struth!
I’m three weeks combin’ them hills ’fore
I got ’em together again; then, when
I gets ’em to the oil company’s yards
the boss goes snaky because they’re in
poor condition an’ docks me because
he says I’d been drivin’ ’em too hard.”
CONDAMINE BELLS.
By a forge near a hut on the Condamine River
A blacksmith labored at his ancient trade;
With his hammer swinging and his anvil ringing
He fashioned bells from a crosscut blade.
And while he toiled by the Condamine River
He sang a song for a job well done.
And the song and the clamor of his busy
hammer
Merged and mingled in a tempered tone.
And his bells rang clear from the Condamine
River
To the Gulf, to the Leeuwin, over soil and
sand;
Desert eagles winging heard his stock bells
ringing
As a first voice singing in a songless land.
The smith is lost to the Condamine River,
Gone is the humpy where he used to dwell,
But the song and the clamor of his busy
hammer
Ring on through the land in the Condamine
bell.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


“Wang”: “Bein’ up against it brings
out the best in dorgs as well as human
bein’s,” remarked Dan. “Take my foxy
Pincher, for instance. One day him an’
me wus crossin’ a paddick when 1 had
t’ scale a tree t’ escape from a bull, which
parades around me haven of refuge,
snortin’ an’ feedin’ in turns. Pincher tries
t’ persuade him away be barkin’ an’
snappin’, but it ain’t no go, an’ presently
I see him go trottin’ off. About half
an hour later I hears an enraged sorta
beller, an’ the next thing I see is that
bull tearin’ hell fer leather after Pincher,
who is sprintin’ across the paddick away
from the fence, which is a hundred yards
off. I slides down an’ legs it fer safety.
The first bloke I meets is Sam Fellowes,
the wheelwright, standin’ outside his
shop with his trouser leg up examinin’
one of his shanks. When he spots me
he lets out a roar. ‘Where’s that tyke
of yours?’ he bellers. ‘l’ll have the law
on yer fer keepin’ dangerous animals.’
I manage t’ calm him down a bit, an’
he explains hisself. ‘A quarter of an
hour ago,’ he ses, ‘l’m standin’ here paint-
in’ a dray wheel when y’r ’ound comes
rushin’ up an’ stands watchin’ me fer a
second or two. Then he makes a grab
at me leg, an’ when I drop me pot of
paint he goes rollin’ hisself about in it.
He’s mad, that’s what he is. Look out,
here he comes now!’ Pincher comes
puffin’ up, lookin’ pleased. I pats his
head. ‘lt ain’t madness he’s sufferin’
from, Sam,’ I ses, ‘it’s intellergence. Come
over t’ the pub an’ I’ll shout yer a couple
an’ pay y’ fer that pot of red paint of
yours he covered hisself with!”
* * * *
“Jalak”: The alleged link between
certain abo. and ancient Roman words
that has been discussed by the Council
of late has been confined to the
language of eastern Australian tribes.
The West supplies another. Natives of
the Northampton district think that
every waterhole is guarded by a tutelary
spirit (generally a huge snake) called
Bimarra. Before drinking or taking
water therefrom a handful of dust must
be thrown in the water to keep the
Bimarra quiet. Not so far removed, this,
from the rite of injecto pulvere of
the Romans, who held that an unburied
man’s spirit could be finally set at rest
by three handfuls of dust thrown on
the human remains, a custom that still
survives in our burial service. And that
abo. custom had been going on long
before any white man’s funeral service
was seen by native eyes.
* * * *
“Ess”: This war should be remem-
bered by Aboliars as having vindicated
the Aussie’s old felt hat, which has fre-
quently been assailed and vigorously
defended in these columns. A Bega
(N.S.W.) man, a survivor of the Athenia
disaster, said that the first thing he did
when the tragedy occurred was to reach
for his hat. Later, when it was found
that the crowded lifeboat was leaking
dangerously, everyone in it was glad of
that old cady —used for baling it prob-
ably saved them from a watery grave.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Nature was in a malig-
nant mood when she painted the interior
of Australia red. How much less arid
would be the centre were its color scheme
white or even grey! White tends to
reject heat, throws the sun’s rays back
into the atmosphere, dazzling the eyes
but giving coolness underfoot. More, it
conserves such moisture as may exist.
The dazzling white surface of a dry salt
lake efficiently protects from evaporation
the reservoir of brine in the semi-liquid
mud underneath. Grey would do equally
well—would indeed be more soothing to
the eyes. But red, and especially the
deep red of the central plains—what a
tragedy in color! How it burns! And
such an expanse of it: from W.Q. almost
to the Indian Ocean. The darker
the color the greater the absorption of
heat. Moisture vanishes speedily from
red soil. Burned at the roots, grass and
herbage wither —vegetation which, did it
live, would be a protection against
aridity. So hot does red soil become that
only the thickest boots give foot protec-
tion. Even the blacks, children of the
ages, have in some localities failed to
evolve a sole sufficiently resistant.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Lyrebirds and quail are
far from being the only fowl that dis-
regard the convention of breeding in
spring. Most nomadic birds nest when
and where the feeding is good, for the
chief consideration in the domestic plans
of feathered tribes is the assurance of
abundant tucker during the hen’s in-
activity and the youngsters’ growth —a
matter sometimes overlooked by stray
members of the genus Homo. In the last
week of last year I picked up, in Palm
Valley, Centralia, a honey-eaters’ nest
showing signs of fairly recent occupation.
A month later Centralia was drenched,
and everything in feathers bred again ;
young Port Lincoln parrots were squawk-
ing in May instead of October-November.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: Have heard bush
wiseacres say that ferrets will die if not
kept in captivity and fed on milk, bread
and suchlike domestic fodder, but in
one of the hill districts of Victoria where
rabbits are plentiful a ferret colony has
established itself in the warrens, and
seems to be living well without human
assistance. They are wild as dingoes,
and bolt underground as soon as anyone
approaches, and apparently they change
their living quarters as soon as the supply
of bunny runs short. A local com-
munique reports the finding of,a wom-
bat kicking his last with about 30 of the
little yellow devils tearing at him ; but
from what I know of the ’bat I’d back
him in a free-for-all against all the
ferrets, wild or otherwise, in the State.
“Keep still, companero, and give the boys a fair go!”
“Quick, bunny—under the pillbox.”
“Langshan”: We’re still chuckling over
the varying facial expressions on Scor-
field's nags in “The Comeback" (B.
1/11/39), but the proud owneris pictured
leading the winner in by the off-rem, and
that, according to Long Bill, simply isn’t
done if you value your safety. “Reminds
me," said Bill, “o' the time old Pilot won
the Cup at Cowflat. In me excitement I
dashes up, grabs the off-rein, mtendin to
lead him over ter me girl, when the fool
jockey tries ter dismount, an’ old Pilot
sidesteps on ter me corn. O’ course, I
asks him politely to get off it, an’ that
long-nosed john tries ter pinch me fer
langwidge. He makes such a fuss that the
horse gets excited an’ steps on his No. 11,
so I didn’t get run in after all—me
remarks bein’ rather faded compared
with the john’s before he ran out o’
breath ”
* * * *
lin , „ T , • , • ,
Bungham : The greemes chirruped
delightedly over their day-old nestlings;
but I foresaw trouble in that family
circle. Featherless and blind, they were
no beauties, and one of the trio was
manifestly abnormal, quite dwarfing the
other two. As he grew older he de-
veloped an appetite in keeping with his
size. In spite of his parents scolding he
hogged most of the food and screamed
for more. His attitude towards his under-
fed brethren became daily more menac-
ing. They, in evident fear, cowered pre-
cariously against the rim of the tiny nest.
Then one day I discovered the glutton
in sole possession, with his alleged parents
working overtime to fill his voracious
maw. Perhaps a passing hawk had
snatched up the other two, or maybe a
prowling cat; but suspicion pointed
darkly to the adipose survivor.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I sees an ad. in the paper
fer a coupla laborers one time,” said
old Ben the handyman, “so I ’ops over
ter see if I can land a job. I gets there
early, but, s’elp me bob! there’s over
fifty blokes there already. When I sees
the mob I’m thinkin’ o’ clearing off
’ome ergain when one of ’em ses we’ll
sell a ’orse ter see ’oo stops an’ gets
the jobs. All ’ands is willin’, but just
as we’re goin’ ter start up comes a
important-lookin’ bloke. ‘All right,’ ’e
ses, ‘l’m fixed up fer one man, so I’ll
only want one other.’ ’E points ter me,
so I steps aside and all the others drift
off. I takes off me coat and asks ’im
where I’ll start. ‘Search me,’ ’e ses ;
‘we’ll ’ave ter wait till the boss comes.
I’m after a job meself, and I didn’t like
me chances with all that mob ’ere.’ ”
*!• 4 s Jflr #
“Loulalo”: Little Mallee Mike was
busily lugging barrowloads of earth up
a sloping plank and spreading it on the
roof when I came on the scene. “Saw
in The Bulletin where an Aboliar’s
township was busy camouflagin’ itself
with green paint,” he explained. “I
reckon they’ll be sorry in the autumn
when the surroundin’ country looks all
parched an’ brown. When I get this
spread well I’m goin’ to sling a bit of
grass-seed up here and let it grow.
Then I can depend on the roof and
paddock matchin’; besides, it’ll make a
decent bit of pasture for the goat. I’ll
tether ’er up ter the chimney. Ma’s
worried erbout the water supply,” he
added, “an’ they tell me green paint
spoils the drinking water something
cruel. Anyway, there’s plenty in the
dam if she don’t like crop drainage.”
* * * *
“Rufus”: The alleged custom among
wild abos. of refraining from attacking
red-haired whites (B. 15/11/’39) has had
at least one exception. In 1877 three
tree-fellers—Ryan, Henley and a man
called “Scotch” George—were murdered
by blacks on the Daintree River (Q.).
When the bodies were found the scalps
of Ryan and Henley were missing, but
Scotch George’s fiery thatch was still
intact. A possible explanation is that
the latter had his hat on when attacked,
and that when closer inspection revealed
his hair color the coons wouldn’t touch
him. Perhaps they shut up about it
when they got back to the tribe.
A VANISHED VOGUE.
“The shy, stammering bush—girl was once the butt
of everybody’s humor; but she has disappeared, to
give place to the modern, smart, sophisticated girl
of the farm.” — “S.M.IL”
The swiftly-passing years have seen ,
Full many a change in every sphere—
In styles from whiskers and the screen
To transport and the taste of beer.
But nothing’s changed so much, I fear,
As damsels who de-juice the cow.
That coyly unobtrusive dear,
The shy bush-girl—where is she now?
When (she’d be looked on now as “green”)
Some hefty mulga cavalier
Bantered with clumsy words his queen
Her blush would spread from ear to eai.
A nervous giggle, p’raps, you’d hear;
No more—she never talked, somehow.
She simply had to disappear,
That shy bush-girl—where is she now?
Survey, I pray, the rural scene
Before you in this present year:
The nymphs are stained with nicotine
And lipstick spreads its ghastly smear.
At flannel undies now they sneer.
Moreover, they can talk, I vow,
These new farm-girls. But —shed a tear!
The shy bush-girl—where is she now?
“Times change, and we with them.” It’s
clear
That to this truth we needs must bow.
The cockies nowadays don’t rear
The shy bush-girl—where is she now?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


R
m
M©
&l\d
STILL
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington
Street, PERTH. . „
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
YICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE. A
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY*
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART. ITXrr , li , C rrf»xr
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON. „
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’llote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone M 4601.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . • • £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street', E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
r Dividends N
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sent., Profit. 9 p.c. 6 p.c. serve!?, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129,431 565,429'
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,3U2,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
Hi p.c.
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
Ordinary.
£
1928.. 590,134 124 p.c. =485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised •• •• 740,817
1929.. 634,054 124 p.c. =539,860 94,194 835,011
1930.. 686,392 111 ~,,632,317 54,075 889,086
1931.. 480,829 8 ~ ~ 449.648 1 24 181 9 i 3) 267
Employees Fund, £ ( 000 )
1932.. 467,474 8 p.c. =449,648 \ 8 g 26 922,093
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO | ’
1933.. 482,204 84 p.c. =477,751 1 _ 919,546
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO j
1934.. 567,119 94 p.c. =533,957 1 2 8,162 947,708
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO )
1935.. 628,699 124 p.c. =702,575* 873,83-
1936.. 696,028 10 „„ 589,017 1 106 011 979,843
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO \ i -iok q-q
1937 774 695 104 p.c. =649,179 120,516 1,105,3i>9
1938.' i 841,839 114 „ „ 71i;006 130,834 1,236,193
1939.. 855,709 12 ~ „ 741,919 1 k>8,790 1,344,983
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO )
* Including special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
During the Great War (1914-18) the aver-
age consumption of beer per head of
population fell away, owing partly to
early closing and partly to dispatch of
a large expeditionary force overseas. In
1914 Tooths paid 10 p.c.; the average
for the six years to the close of accounts
in 1919 was 7.5 p.c. Then the board
began to buy up the trade of large and
thirsty areas. In 1920 Castlemaine and
Wood Bros. (Newcastle) was taken over ;
Mahon (Wagga) and Lincoln (Narran-
dera) were absorbed in 1924, and five
years later Resch’s business (one of the
other two big Sydney breweries then) was
welded into the organisation. Meanwhile,
share capital (£900,000 in 1910) had
grown to £5,620,598, of which £2,150,097
had come from reserves, visible and
otherwise. The total on the share-register
has since increased to £6,182,657 by a par
issue in 1936 ; and divs. over the last de-
cade have averaged 10.1 p.c.
Average consumption of beer in N. S.
Wales fell from 11.3 gallons per head of
population in 1929 to 6.9 gallons in 1932.
Since then consumption and expenditure
figures have moved in this way:
t —Expenditure—
Ended Per Head
Dec. , ’OOO Gallons N Total, Popu-
-31, Beer. Spirits. Wine. £’ooo. lation.
19.32.. 18,042 610.4 1271.3 10,380 £4 0 6
1933.. 18,925 617.4 1473.0 10,500 4 0 9
1934.. 21,573 716.8 1559.5 11,490 4 7 7
1935.. 23,764 761.4 1619.2 12,530 414 9
1936.. 26,218 785.9 1641.8 13,320 419 10
1937.. 28,881 824.1 1663.9 14.520 5 7 9
1938.. 34,249 848.1 1622.5 15,870 516 8
Last year’s expenditure per head was the
heaviest since 1927-29, when the average
was about £7 2s.
After striking off £116,344 (up £15,012)
for depreciation and making an unspeci-
fied provision for other contingencies,
there was a sharp spring of £223,850 in
gross earnings for the 12 months to the
close of last accounts:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Seipt., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1933.. 1,078,981 596,777 55.3 482,204
1934.. 1,237,497 670,378 54.1 567,119
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1936.. 1,505,003 808,975 53.7 696,028
1937.. 1,642,657 867.962 52.8 774,695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,582 53.7 841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,562 58.1 855,709
The lift in wages and other costs is re-
flected in a growth of £4 4s. p.c. in the
ratio of exes, to gross earnings. The net
result (up £13,870) was 13.8 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 13.6, 12.5, 11.8, 11.1, 10
and 8.5 p.c. back to 1933. The div. was
lifted half a point, making it 12 p.c.
Operating and distributing costs con-
tinue to increase, the Federal company
tax has been doubled, excise has been
bumped up 3d. per gallon (only part of
the increase is borne by the co.), and
further Government bleeding can be
expected.
Since the beginning of 1939 the pound
shares, visibly backed by 245. 4d. in net
tangibles, have fluctuated between 555.
and 465. 9d. in the market. At 505., the
price last week-end, the return is 4.8 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
Assets:— 1925. 1938. 1939.
Breweries, etc.. . £2,426,241 £6,397.118 £6,544,466
Book debts .. 1.172,258 1,129,430 1,158,665
. Stock . . . . 409,451 355,940 370,230
Liquid . . . . 182,522 947,192 1,060,927
£4,190,472 £8,829,680 £9,134,288
Sundry creditors. . 424,740 960,173 1,152,441
Net assets . . £3,765,732 £7,869,507 £7,981,847
Paid capital . . £3,100,493 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
When the books closed the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,437,381) was £35,008
less than at the previous balance. But
that was owing to a net addition of
£147,348 to fixed assets, including hotel
freeholds, which are reported thoroughly
up to date. There is no price-cutting in
the trade ; competition takes the form of
buying up hotel freeholds, thus widening
and anchoring turnover.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 102,508 12J p.c. = 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10' „ „ 50,000 12,299 703,723
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ ~50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 60,000 53,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
!936.. 130,648 10 „ „,75,000 \ 5O 648 C 95.453
Staff bonus, £5OOO j
1937.. 126,284 84 p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 94 „ ~ 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 ~ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
The market has always had a high
opinion of this co.’s scrip, and it has
not been disappointed in its anticipations
either, though investors have often had
to wait for their benefits. Formed in
Sydney under the aegis of Burns, Philp 53
years ago as the North Queensland,
where much business was gathered, the
co. remains of N. S. Wales constitution,
which to shareholders is of importance
to remember for income-tax or probate
purposes. The business is spread through-
out the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
extends out over the Pacific, and to
Southern Asia and Western Europe as
well. Of the £750,000 of capital
#
£675,000 has come from reserves, which
were piled £156,007 higher than
capital at the end of September.
Further, the co. has a cautious manage-
ment, there is a wide margin between
earnings and distributions, and the re-
turn from investments (£68,505 net, up
£5652 last term), equal to 9.1 p.c. on
capital, treads close on the heels of
the 10 p.c. dividend charge, leaving most
of the underwriting surplus available to
swell investments and the returns there-
from.
Since the beginning of 1938 the price
of the co.’s fully-paid pound shares has
fluctuated between 575. and 545. in the
market. At 555., which was the price last
week-end, the return is 3.7 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 4.6 p.c. on his money counts on a 12y
p.c. distribution, which would call for
£50,014 less profit than was claimed last
term.
During the Great War insurance cos.
won some nice returns from marine
risks, thanks to the success of the British
Navy in dealing with the submarine
menace. This time there is likely to be
a lot more Government interference,
both in respect of premium rates and
taxation, while costs generally can be
expected to climb. Still, much of the
co.’s marine business is done in con-
nection with trade around the Austra-
lian coast, out over the Pacific Ocean
and with the East Indies, where the risk
of loss due to the King’s enemies is
negligible compared with the North
Atlantic. Hull insurance is generally left
to London underwriters.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
underwriting performances:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118.126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,397 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190,021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
1933.. 435,679 208,207 188,643 47.8 „ 43.3 „
1934.. 453,718 221,893 189,818 48.9 „ 41.8 „
1335.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 „ 40.9 „
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324.500 221,573* 53.1 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 691.771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 „
1939.. 728,792 381,557 271,976 52.3 ~ 37.3 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
.—£10,577. 1935 ; £BO9B. 1936 ; £8593, 1937 ;
£10,938, 1938 ; £16,755, 1939.
t Including contributions to staff fund.
Foreign connections appear to be develop-
ing nicely. Last term an extra £37,021
was gathered in net premiums, and there
was a contraction of Bs. p.c. in the loss
rate. But the larger business cost an extra
545. p.c. to handle, which explains the
drop of £12,394 in the underwriting sur-
plus, reducing it to £75,259, equal to 10
p.c. on capital. The net return from all
sources combined was £6742 lighter at
£143,764, or 19.1 p.c. on capital as
against 20, 16.8, 17.3 and 13.7 p.c. for
the four preceding years.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1938— N r 1939- x
p.c. p.c.
CJov. securities . . £1,089,690 52.0 £1,106,243 49.7
Municipal sec’ties. . 62,929 3.0 62,929 2.8
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. . . 780,211 37.3 781,918 35.1
Premises . . . . 160,088 7.7 276,094 12.4
Outstanding feature last term was a
jump of £116,006 in the book value of
premises, owing to purchase of Ocean
House, Martin-place, Sydney, remodel-
ling of Hobart premises purchased in
1938, and continuance of the policy of
branch development.
When the books closed policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 227 p.c.
of the year’s net premium income,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Towards Re-
April, Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 15,582 12* p.c. = 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 B',, „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 ~ 9,599 1078 ?4,300
Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56,447
1932.. 7,987 5* p.c. = 8,797 os,bJf
1933.. 8,093 5 „ „ 7,998 9a 55,732
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2360.. a0,09<
1934. . 10,790 6 p.c. = 9,598 1192 59,289
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2000.. 61,-89
1935.. 6,399 4 p.c. = 6,399 61,289
1936’. . 8,220 4i*, „ 7,200 1200 62,309
Transferred to rebate account, £2OOO. . 60,309
1937.. 10,854 6 p.c. = 9,600 1254 61,563
1938.. 9,776 5 „ „ 8,000 1776 63,339
1939.. 9,211 5 ~ „ 8,000 1211 64,550
* £3 17s. Id. p.c. p.a.
This pastoral-finance, agency and mer-
chandising co. does not publish its wool
and livestock turnover. The number of
bales put under the hammer by all
brokers in Brisbane last season was
538,090, or 54,533 more than for the pre-
vious one. The amount realised was
£7,629,006, down £50,960, the average per
bale being 335. lid. lighter at £l4 Is. 7d.
The weakness in the wool market was
reflected in the price of sheep, too.
However, the larger clip and a welcome
rise in the price of cattle and hides en-
abled the co. to show an extra £2443 of
gross earnings from trading (£33,908),
while interest, rents, etc. (£20,573), were
up £2507, making gross earnings from all
sources £4950 better at £54,481. Includ-
ing an unspecified rebate of commissions
to clients, something for depreciation,
£3BB for the provident fund, £lOOO for
doubtful debts and £B2O to cover loss
on sale of a resting paddock at New-
market, exes. (£45,270) took all the in-
crease in gross earnings and £566 besides.
That left the net result at 5.7 p.c. on
capital as against 6.1, 6.7, 5.1, 4, 6.7 and
5 p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
5 p.c., making an average of 5.5 p.c. over
the last decade. The £l2ll put on the
sflelf lifted tangible support for capital
to £64,550 —goodwill (£30,000) is not
treated as an asset herein.
Under the agreement whereby Britain
takes Australia’s surplus wool for the
duration of the war, and one full clip
thereafter, growers will receive an aver-
age of 13.43 d. per pound for the current
clip. The comparable figure for the pre-
vious season was 10id. If the current
Australian clip cuts up to expectations it
will realise about £55,000,000, or some
£12,000,000 more than its immediate pre-
decessor. Further, the British Govern-
ment has agreed that 50 p.c. of any
profits obtained from the sale of Austra-
lian wool outside the U.K. shall be
handed to Australia. It should mean
better earnings for the broker as well as
the grower ; but taxation and other costs
are likely to run away with much of the
gains, and it is doubtful whether share-
holders need look for much better than
5 p.c., for a while at any rate.
Here is the financial structure:
1927. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £90,000 £159,959 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities . . 61,282 91,033 151,206 154,064
Properties .. 91,719 91.730 86,466 84,414
Plant, etc. . . 1,341 5,862 4,909 4,500
Advances . . 47,044 219,441 289,106 297,194
Shares in other
COS 40,816 1,024 38 38
Cash, etc. . . 2,289 2,486 2,102 2,092
To add £BOBB to advances to clients the


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1883.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
ķ
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888)
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
THE
II MITCn iNSURANCE
(Jill I EU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
ĸ
k
ENDURA
Pens-Pencils-Sets
Every Hour Is
CONKLIN
Gift Time
A dependable writing
instrument is a necessity
in every age of life and
every walk of life.
The pen and pencil, in
earliest school days,
business and social life
and retirement of age,
finds daily constant use.
What Gift is more
appropriate for any-
body, at any time, than
a Conklin Endura, which
yields splendid perma-
nent satisfaction in
ownership and notable
distinction in the beauty
and modernity of its
appearance.
Their assorted colours
and shapes represent
the ultimate in gift time
suggestions.
Guaranteed Free Service
for all time. The Pens
are priced at 30/- and
40/-.; Pencils to match
at 25/-. Complete Sets
in Presentation Cases,
55/- and 65/-.
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Departmental
Stores everywhere.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
ķ
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been, sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for sain©, 35/- extra,
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “II”: 10in.12in.14in.16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/r 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
board went outside for an extra £2858
last term. The year’s improvement in the
more or iess liquid surplus (£145,222) was
£5220. The extent to which the co. has
<>one into the pastoral-finance business in
the last dozen years is obvious from the
advances item in the table.
The market for the pound shares,
which are covered by net tangibles with
a book value of 285., has been fairly
steady around 18s. The return at 18s. is
5.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
sent Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
* £. £ £ £
1929.. 11,672 83 P-C. = 16,846 74,713
Profit on sale of land, £516.. .. 75,229
1930.. 4,315 5 p.c. = 9,626 69,918
Loss.
1931.. 8.267 Nil 61,651
Written off, £6383 .. .. .. 55,268
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
Profit on sale property, £6301 .. 57,481
Profit.
1933.. 184 2J p.c. = 4,813 62,852
1934.. 3,054 2* „ „ 4,813 51,093
1935.. 9,944 6 „ „ 9,626 318 51,411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937.. 13,690 6£ „ „ 12,033 1657 52,630
1938.. 11,887 6i „ „ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 74 „ „ 14,440 1229 53,713
Water-pipe and art-pottery manufac-
ture helps, but earnings depend mainly
upon making bricks for home-building.
There are 14 brick cos., or thereabouts,
in the Melbourne metropolitan area,
which means that competition is very
keen, and delivery charges, which are
part of the costs to the buyer, have
become an important factor affecting
manufacturers’ sales.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, fair trade, the chairman
says, was maintained in both the brick
and pottery sections of the business.
The monthly average recorded value of
building permits in the metropolitan
area for the year to June 30 last was
£702,000, compared with £669,000,
£667,000 and £597,000 for the three pre-
ceding years. After providing for taxa-
tion and striking off £3603 (up £2022)
for depreciation, the year’s net earnings
were £3782 better at £15,669, equal to
8.1 p.c. on capital as against 6.1, 7.1,
4.7, 5.1 and 1.5 p.c. back to 1934. The
div. was lifted 1| p.c., raising it to 7\
p.c. for the year, and making the average
over the last seven years 5 p.c. For the
two years before that shareholders were
shown an empty basket.
Here is a picture of the business looked
at from another angle:
1932. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. 8,235 8,354 6,542 7,099
Freeholds .. 79,588 75,767 75,017 75,552
Plant, stores, etc. 80,887 71,839 64,378 62,557
Stock.. .. 20,863 21,169 27,396 26,672
Shares other cos. 41,821 41,821 44,321 44,321
Book debts .. 12,018 18,695 19,729 23,403
Cash. etc. .. 23,148 28,536 29,157 31,686
To carry an extra £3674 of debtors’
balances, add £2529 to cash, etc., and
£535 net to the book value of freeholds,
the outside debt was increased by only
£557 last term. When the books closed,
more or less liquids exceeded the debt
by £74,662, an improvement of £4922
over the twelvemonth. Plant, etc., was
reduced by £lB2l net: much depends
upon the efficiency of the co.’s equip-
ment, which is its chief earning asset.
As for the current term, the chairman
says the war has not materially affected
the co.’s activities to date. But costs
continue on the up-grade, which means
that competition is likely to get still
more of an edge on it, and the calls of
the taxgatherer are growing louder.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the fully-paid pound shares at
14s. 6d. (15s. a year ago), at which the
return would be 10.3 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
255. 6d., mostly in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn.
Barrytown Gold Dredging (M.L.) may
not be far from the div.-paying stage.
Last year 2s. a share was netted, which
was devoted to debt-reduction:
Year, Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs,
Mar, C.y. Oz. O.y. C.y. Profit.
1938.. 1,306,000 4701 1.73 3.67 d. *12,108
1939.. 2,469,000 6842 1.33 2.81 d. 20,019
Chrrent term promises to turn out better,
thanks to improved recoveries—l.9gr.
for the seven months to October, when
the working surplus ran to £25,100. That
should have taken care of most of the
£28,000 net of debt existing at March 31.
So far the recovery problem —the gold
is in an extremely fine state —has beaten
the management, flotation of the black
sands proving unsuccessful last term.
Timber in the overburden has also helped
upset original estimates of monthly work-
ing profits of £6750; but around 13s. 6d.
the fully-paid pound ords. at present
appear reasonable buying.
jjj jjj jj;
Queensland.this year is only just hold-
ing its gold production level with 1938.
October yielded 12,885 fine oz., bringing
the total, Jan.-Oct., up to 119,3760 z. Of
the old fields, Bowen and Charters
Towers show the best increases, in the
former case due entirely to developments
at the rich Kelsey Creek mine. Mt.
Morgan, with 63940 z., produced prac-
tically half of the State output.
* * * *
Eungella (N.Q.) was a field noted for
its rich leaders. Evidently they were not
all worked out, for a prospector’s crush-
ing that catches the eye is J. W. Street’s
10 tons that yielded almost £l7 a ton.
The ore carries heavy mineral, and con-
sequently has to be shipped to Chillagoe,
but there appears to be a good living for
active prospectors.
* * * *
The battery at the former Oakey Creek
Tin Mines (N.Q.) is actively employed
on customs ore. A party is develop-
ing a big chloritic tin formation at
the Summer Hill mine near Coolgarra.
A shipment of 150 tons is being crushed
at present, and will pay if it averages
1 p.c. tin, but the owners estimate a
11 p.c. grade. The lode has no defined
walls, and the tin, which is very fine, has
to be tracked with the prospecting
shovel. It is the same type as the
Irvinebank lodes —brown or black tin in
a green chlorite formation.
* * * *
Exemption from labor conditions has
been obtained by Adelaide Tin Explora-
tion, N.L., on its dredging leases on the
Running River, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.),
presumably because drilling results did
not come up to expectations. The ground
is shallow, and of nine bores put down
the best values were around £lb. tin
oxide per yard.
* * * *
The Swedenborg, at Charters Towers
(Q.), is still looking for lost shoots. It
hasn’t yet found anything to relieve the
gloom of shareholders, and prospecting
work at several points has been stopped.
Faulting and diorite intrusions seem to
be the trouble. A stope is being de-
veloped on No. 7 south winze, in which
ore has made up to a thickness of 12in.
It is of the light mineralised variety,
which generally means modest values on
Charters Towers.
* * * *
By a majority decision Westralian
Arbitration Court decided that the gold-
mining workers’ industry allowance is
determinable on the Australian standard
price of gold, not on the amount received
by the mineowners after deduction of
excise. The employers’ representative on
the Bench disagreed. He held that the
payment to the workers could be made
only out of the actual proceeds received.
In the light of the decision the obvious
course for the mineowners, he said, was
to apply for an amendment of the award.
This is being done. Westralia is the only
State where the industry allowance
operates.
* * * *
At 131,554 tons, of which 12 p.c. came
from the low-grade but easily-worked
Iron King, throughput of Norseman
(W.A.) expanded 52 p.c. in the term
ended October. But indicated working
surplus is up only £12,800 at £137,300,
because of the lower grade of mill feed.
Since commencement of treatment in
mid-1933, the co. has extracted and
milled 435,000 tons of ore. Though on
its own account the co. is now handling
six times as much ore annually as in its
initial operating period, aggregate plant
capacity is being further extended from
15,000 to 18,000 tons monthly; hence
the recent 100,000 share-issue, to bring
in with premiums £BO,OOO. In conformity
with its policy to get the most from its
mines while the price of gold keeps up,
further extensions after that are already
in the back of the management’s mind.
The co. is thus making a rapid transfor-
mation from a medium- to low-grade
producer. Present rate of divs. aren’t
expected to be interfered with in the
process, while life will be considerably
extended.
* * * *
Net profit of Lake View and Star
(W.A.) for year ended June 30 last was
£526,459, compared with £482,031 for the
previous 12 months. After handing share-
holders £280,000 (2s. a share), deducting
cost of special development, plant, etc.,
setting aside an impressive sum for taxa-
tion and providing for other heavy ex-
penditure, including £lO,OOO in directors’
fees, there was little left to carry for-
ward. Past five years’ revenue aggregates
nearly £A7,000,000, and it now amounts
to about £137,000 a month.
*•••••
Ore reserves, despite extraction of
nearly 700,000 tons a year, steadily bulge.
Latest estimate puts the mine more than
six years ahead of the mill. Known gold
deposits keep going down. During the
first quarter of the current financial year
174,929 tons of ore was treated and
165,171 tons of old residues re-treated
for £A413,616. Working expenses took
£A194,030 and ordinary development
£34,048, leaving a working surplus of
£A 185,538. Expenditure on capital
account, special development, plant, etc,
totalled £25,775. Outstanding features
of exploratory work were the exposure
of further supplies of payable ore in the
Lake View, Chaffers, Horseshoe, Ivan-
hoe, Associated and Hannans Star leases.
* * * *
Accounts to May 31 last of North Kal-
gurli United —the third of De Bernales’s
Westralian London flotations —shows an
increase in the debit balance to £36,731.
Directors state that results of the year’s
operations didn’t live up to expectations.
On the recommendation of the manage-
ment operations were suspended during
the year pending completion of diamond-
drilling from the bottom level.
* * * *
After several unsuccessful goldmining
gambles, one in Queensland and the
others in Westralia, Apex, N.L., has
acquired a half-interest in another West-
ralian auriferous venture “recommended
by its advisers.” Unfortunately it is in
a district where nothing suitable for a
co. has been found to date.
# * * *
After two years’ gold production
Yankee-controlled and profitably-operated
Big Bell (W.A.) has over 130,0000 z. to its
credit. This wealth was extracted from
about 850,000 tons. Monthly through-
put has never been less than 30,000 tons
and has been as high as 40,000 tons. Yet
this was a mine which failed to attract
Australian or London capital on account
of its low average grade. The plant and
equipment put on it by the Americans
and their method of working represent
the last word in efficiency.
* * * *
Blue Bird (W.A.) has bought a battery
and will soon do its own crushing in-
stead of sending ore to the State plant.
There is talk of additions to the battery
when output warrants.
* * * *
Empress, Norseman (W.A.), considers
results promising; and, in an endeavor
to prove the property quickly, a winze is
following the reef down, and some
diamond-drilling is being done in the
hope of striking the rich Blue Bird shoot.
From its holding of 24,000 Blue Bird
shares the co. received £6698 in divi-
dends during the year.
* * * *
Freney’s oil-boring plant (W.A.) has
halted pending the arrival of surface
control casing from America, and the
market has taken some paces to the rear.
This casing is officially stated to have
been ordered months ago, but owing to
“war-time shipping dislocation” it is
not expected to reach the bore site until
December.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.C.: (1) Don’t like your chances. (2)
Write to the co., § Bond-street, Sydney, and
ask if it can be 501 d... .S.H.: See page 25,
this issue.


DID
YOU
KNOW
7
■
Did you know that Mr. L. J. Keast
used a standard Ultimate Radio
when compiling a log of over 400
short-wave stations?
....That this short-wave log was
featured in “Wireless Weekly”?
. . . .That Ultimate Champion Radio
can enable you to listen to short-wave
stations you have never heard before,
can bring you news of the moment
easily, clearly, from overseas?
....That when Commander R. E.
Byrd led his Expedition to the South
Pole, he selected an Ultimate Re-
ceiver for his radio work?
. . . .That Mr. R. N. Shaw compiles
his “Wireless Weekly” Short-wave
Notes from an Ultimate Receiver?
. . . .That the Australian Adviser to
the British Broadcasting Commission
uses Ultimate Receivers exclusively?
....That 798 verified separate
short-wave stations were received
on a standard Ultimate Receiver—a
world 9 s record?
Wouldn’t you be proud to have an
Ultimate Receiver in your home!
What a wonderful story you could
tell your friends about it, and what
satisfactory service and enjoyment
could you get from it. All we ask is
that you give Ultimate due con-
sideration before buying your Radio
Set—we are prepared to abide by
the result. Send the coupon for
particulars.
NEW
MODELS
AVAILABLE
SHI
:
\
Uli
m
m
s
I
V'-.
■ h
m 1
m
mm
Get OVERSEAS NEWS
as clearly as local broadcasts
"*• ULTIMATE
Never has European history been stepped up to such a high tempo.
News to-day is entirely changed to-morrow. Keep in direct touch
with overseas situations with “ULTIMATE” Champion Radio.
“Ultimate” Champion Radio is custom-built to give matchless
performance. Every ultra-modern radio luxury is incorporated.
Overseas stations can be perfectly tuned, even by a child. Overseas
reception strength is equal to that obtained in ordinary sets from
local stations.
There is no “surge” . . . just crystal-clear reception, whether it’s
Moscow or Melbourne, Berlin or Adelaide. Models are available
for either A.C. or battery operation, and a cabinet choice of either
a full console or handsome mantel model. “Ultimate” Champion
radio costs nothing to test!
Log Chart giving positive identification of over 400
overseas stations and details of “Ultimate” Champion
Radio.
NAME
ADDRESS
‘N*.
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
i m
HI
i
ill
If! 1
III!
Ilf!
11l
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“The new season’s women’s hats will look
warlike.” —Fashion note.
But will they look like hats?
+ + 4*
“Listeners prefer comedy.” —Radio mag.
They should listen to some of the
dramas broadcast.
“England’s most daring fan-dancer is A.R.P.
warden.” —News item.
And she tells people to take cover!
4 1 ■i*
“Men who garden in the rain sow the seeds
of lifelong rheumatism.” —Medical journal.
At least they can boast of having sown
something the next-door fowls haven’t
been able to scratch up.
•p *i*
“When he heard that his wife had given
birth to a son, the sub-editor’s phlegmatic calm
was upset.” —Extract from novel.
Well, he knew it meant an extra
edition.
Then there was the landlubber who
thought that dead-reckoning was the
counting of the empties on Monday
morning.
“It seems tragic that peace should be so
frequently upset by a mere scrap of paper.
—Radio commentator.
Still, most women love to have a
marriage certificate.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Millions of feet of film are wasted every
year in Hollywood.” — Article.
Yes, and we’ve paid to see most of it.
*£• ►!« »I* v
“The mere act of diving achieves its pur-
pose—long, smooth, flat muscles.”
“ S.M.H.” women’s supplement.
Particularly on the stomach.
•i* 4* 4* *l*
“Thirty thousand bees, in a swarm, once
descended on a cyclist riding along a country
road.” — “World’s News.”
He resented this so much he got off
his bike.
•i* 4* 4*
“Surgery taught by film.” —News item.
There ought to be some good cuts.
“Refugees soon master the English lan-
guage.” —News item.
In fact, it’s no time before they know
the A.B.C.
*l*
“There are more than 600 kinds of humming
birds,” says an ornithologist.
This estimate excludes relatives.
“One man at the ball, a policeman, gave
amusing imitations of some well-known public
figures.” —Newspaper item.
He would naturally have a talent for
taking people off.
* * * *
“By ordering a woman, unsuccessful litigant
in an action against the London Transport
Board, to pay costs at the rate of a shilling
a month, the Judge gave her 680 years to
liquidate the debt.”—' '‘World’s News.”
She’ll see them in hell before she pays.
Another Menace.
“Two well-bred racing greyhound pups,
about five months old, died as a result of an
accident with a cyclist. One was killed out-
right, and the other had to be destroyed. The
boy escaped serious injury ."—“S.M.H.”
Granny’s leader-writer lets himself
go:
“The time is long overdue for drastic
steps to be taken to provide for the
safety of our canine life on the roads
of this State. Not much longer will the
people tolerate the menace of straying
boys who ride their devilish machines to
the imminent danger of every greyhound
pup which, taking the air in a public
place, has the right to expect those
normal provisions for its safety which
are the inalienable right of every British
subject. The State can ill afford the
loss of these young lives, and it behoves
the authorities not only to tighten up
and more strictly police existing regula-
tions but to explore ways and means of
more thoroughly removing the menace.
That the boy escaped serious injury is to
be regretted, as he is now able to con-
tinue as a menace to our valuable canine
life.”
O. D.
•|«
“A London woman at her death left £2OO
to her nnrrot.” —News item.
A nest-egg.
Predicament.
Although I’m deshidedly shober,
I’m drefful afraid I may fall.
Ish queer, but my legsh have gone funny ;
I can’t undershtand it at all !
They sheem to refuse to shupport me,
Of bother I’m in quite a shpot;
For, if they’re like thish when I’m shober,
Gosh, how will they be when I’m shot!
T. W. N.
Home Truths.
“A lot of our present troubles might have
been avoided if Hitler had married.”
— Women’s paper.
And, what is more, we’re inclined to
think that if Hitler had been caught
young he never would have been heard
of at all.
Imagine Hitler barging down for
breakfast and trying the bounce.
“For why does my frau not salute her
Fiihrer?”
“Listen, you, get your snout into that
sauerkraut before it’s cold or I’ll salute
you under the ear with this pan.”
“Ach!”
“What’s that?”
“Er—nothing, my dear. Just thinking
what a grand day we’re going to have
for the big rally.”
“Too right. I’m playing bridge this
afternoon and you’re going to rally
round young Adolf and take him to the
Zoo.”
“Mein Gott! Mein speech! Mein”
“Speech me foot! And get this: I’m
not going to allow any more of those
rat-bag meetings in my front room. That
big bull of a Goring has busted every
spring in my lounge suite. Now get out
and do something to that lawn.”
“Yes, mein frau.”
“I’ll call you when I’m ready for the
washing-up.”
“Yes, mein frau.”
“And remember what I said about
sneaking out the back gate to the beer
garden.”
“Yes, mein frau.”
“Aw, get out of my way!”
Written under such conditions, Hitler’s
My Struggle would have been a gem
of self-expression. Our censors would
have jumped on it with both feet.
D. McM.
Disgusting McGregor.
“Alas! Alas!” cried toothless Ruth,
“McGregor loved me well in youth ;
But now we’re old, to tell the truth,
He bites me with his ruthless tooth!”
MACHOOTS.
Those Trials.
“Many servants are a trial to their em-
ployers.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Too right! And Maria is both
prosecutor and Judge during any trial
over servants in our matrimonial juris-
diction.
About the day after a new girl arrives
Maria decides that she is better looking
“ No, Miss Jones , you haven't quite got the idea!”
than she thought when the selection was
made. The idea that she has been
grossly deceived embitters Maria.
“You keep out of the kitchen,
Aitchem,” she says. “I’ve got my sus-
picions about Jape. I think she is the
sort of girl who encourages men. Not
that you need any encouragement. Don’t
think I have forgotten the trouble we
had with that last girl Annie.”
Neither have I forgotten. I’m not
allowed to. But the case of Maria and
Annie is only one of the precedents for
the trial that has just begun.
“And don’t think I’m blind, Aitchem.
I noticed the looks you and that girl
exchanged at breakfast this morning.”
Thereafter I lead an uncomfortable
existence avoiding the girl. Should I go
to the club to get out of the house Maria
taxes me about my neglect of her; and
I’ve had to miss many a good night at
the club because Jane happens to have
that night off. We couldn’t possibly be
out together without being out together,
according to Maria.
Never shall I forget the day when
Maria asked me to see whether the
fowls had laid any eggs, and Rosie (it
was Rosie then) about the same time
thought she would gather them. That
was the end of Rosie.
Servants? I’d willingly do the house-
work myself, but Maria simply must
have one. How could she strive for social
importance without one?
H. M.
Heritage.
All of our grand old pioneers,
Alas! are dead and gone.
One link with them survives the years —
Their jokes still linger on.
PATON.
Around the Army.
III.
The Quartermaster-Sergeant.
A bsolutely independent,
Always clobbered so resplendent
{And if he can’t be, then who the blazes
can ?);
With assurance that’s unbounded,
In his store he is surrounded
By equipment, S.R.D. and sundry
scran.
With the mob he’s rarely pally.
When the bugles sound reveille
He just snores and snoozes on. His
favorite sport
Is to turn deaf ears to pleading
That a pair of socks you’re needing —
And he slings more weight than Game-
lin or Gort.
A private may, in the ebullience of his
natural spirits, or those he has imbibed,
with comparative immunity slap his
choleric colonel on the back and ask
him how his cheese-and-kisses is ; he may
nod familiarly, hands in pockets, to a
general; but no man, unless he be in the
last stages of delirium tremens, would
take liberties with the Q.M.S. After all,
who wants to go on rocky route marches
with his boots always down to the uppers
or look forward to a winter in the mud
with a holey waterproof-sheet and the
thinnest blanket in the store?
A Q.M.S. can be picked out instantly
by his perpetually corrugated forehead.
This is due to the intricate calculations
he must make before dishing out the daily
rations. Take, for instance, the bread
ration. He gets, say, 29 loaves to go
around 135 men. It would need only a
lightning calculation, you think, to
deduce that that would run a loaf to
every five men, with two loaves over.
But it isn’t so simple as all that. He
must play safe. What if some unheralded
reinforcements arrive, or a lot of prison-
ers were to be taken just after he had
dished the dodger out? His reputation
and prestige would suffer. Worse, he
might do his job in. So, after much
laborious arithmetic, he announces that
it will run seven men to a loaf; he issues
19 2-7 loaves and keeps the 9 5-7 as
temporary spares.
The same applies to butter, jam and
rum. But if any slogger were to listen
carefully outside the Q.M. store in the
late hours he would probably hear the
steady champing of jaws and a gurgle
such as might be made by a rum jar being
tilted into a mug, and he would reach
the conclusion that the reinforcements
and prisoners had failed to materialise,
and that the surplus rations were being
mopped up by the Q.M.S. and a few of
his privileged cronies to save them —the
rations, that is going
stale. Nothing is more
abhorrent to a Q.M.S.
than waste.
The issue of clothing is
an art that amounts almost
to a disease. So expert
does the Q.M.S. become
that it is nothing for him
to get within five sizes of
a man at one glance. You
go into his store for a first
uniform. He gives you
one swift look up and
down, and growls, “What
size do y’ usually take?”
“Aw, I go about four
and a half hammer-handles
round the chest, sarge.”
“H’m. This should fit
y’.”
It does—all but the tunic and trousers,
which only touch here and there. You
take it back, wearing it. He looks up
belligerently.
“Well, what’s wrong with it? It looks
all right to me.”
“Yair, but the strides are a bit loose
under the armpits, sarge, and I think
you’ve given me an overcoat in mistake
for a tunic.”
“Some of you blokes’d want pillows in
your coffins. Here, see if this one’ll suit
y\”
This time you split the pants trying to
pull them over your calves, and there
will be four inches of skin showing be-
tween tunic cuffs and wrists. If you
have the effrontery to go back again he
will ask, with heavy sarcasm, if you’ve
had an invitation to Government
House, adding that if you’ll come round
after mess he’ll get the head cutter to
measure you up for a real Savile Row
fit.
It has often been remarked that a
Q.M.S.’s uniform .is always so well
groomed that it looks brand-new. Actu-
ally, it is brand-new. And it isn’t just
because its wearer has a whole storeful
to pick from and the embarrassment of
riches urges him to put a new one on
every time he looks at them. It has to
be remembered that the only exercise
a Q.M.S. gets is when he slips his braces
over his shoulders of a morning. This,
combined with the fact that he lives like
a fighting cock, means that no uniform
will fit him for more than a few weeks.
S. W. K.


DIGEST OF WAR LEGISLATION
A DIGEST in clear and concise language of all emergency and
legislative measures, including Statutes, Rules, Regulations,
Proclamations, Orders, Notices, Bills, and incorporating amendments
with original measures —issued frequently. Quick and sure reference
through cumulative index.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION: 31/6 (post free)
LOOSE-LEAF BINDER FREE postage extra
From the Publishers,
BUTTERWORTH & COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; and at Melbourne.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John’s
College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £45 per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late
James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the
case may be.
Forms of application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the sth January,
1940, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later
than the 9th February, 1940, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and
further particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x 11 in.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
ķ
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,.
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., Ltd.,
319 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: BTV? 133.
{Near Wynyard
Statioti.)
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Precious Foreign Funds
Perhaps it is politic to talk that way
now, but it was refreshing, if not par-
ticularly cheering, to hear P. C. Spender,
Acting Federal Treasurer, admit last
week that our London funds are abnor-
mally low. In the past Canberra has per-
sistently displayed a sickly sort of
optimism about our overseas trade, and
in its traditional manner refused to face
facts.
Mr. Spender issued this warning in
order to check the tendency to “over-
estimate the effects that increasing export
prices will have on Australia’s overseas
funds.” The question of the London-
Australia exchange rate has been con-
sidered in The Bulletin lately, and Mr.
Spender, like this paper, will believe in
the likelihood of a drop in the rate in
Australia’s favor only when he is able to
see it. He mentions that our export
prices for 1939-40 may be up 10 to 15
p.c. on last year, but will be 5 p.c. below
1937-38 (when we had a favorable
balance of trade that didn’t cover our
external interest commitments), and
20 p.c. below 1936-37, a boom year in
which we added perhaps a net £15,000,000
sterling to our London funds after pay-
ment of all interest, etc., commitments.
But since then we have drawn on our
balances to a greater extent than
£15,000,000.
On the question of imports, the Acting
Treasurer says that the volume may fall,
but so far it is up to last year’s level.
Increased prices and importing costs will
tend to counterbalance any reduction in
volume. And a greater expenditure over-
seas on defence equipment, etc., will also
reduce the amount of London money
available for ordinary commercial
exchange purposes. So, even if we have
a favorable trade balance this year as
big as for 1936-37, we may be hard put
to it to meet defence liabilities after
providing for our external interest
commitments out of revenue. That is
unless we resort to overseas borrowing,
which is more in the shape of dope than
food for our economic system.
Before the outbreak of war any money
Australia held in London could have been
sent freely to New York, Japan, the
Dutch Indies or elsewhere, there being
no restriction on exchange transactions
between London and New York or other
foreign monetary centres. British trading
activities went on as usual and main-
tained something like a balance, assisted
by income from overseas investments.
Now, however, Britain’s export trade has
been shaken by the repercussions of war,
and foreign exchange funds have become
precious. In 1914-18 Britain “borrowed”
fabulous sums from the U.S.A. in order
to pay for American munitions, etc. ;
this time the basis of purchase is “cash
and carry,” and the importance of actual
credits in America has been multiplied.
In the month of October British
exports were valued at only £24,622,000
sterling, compared with £42,600,000 in
Oct., 1938. Here is a drop in income of
nearly £18,000,000. Imports were valued
at £61,841,000, compared with
£79,000,000 —a drop in expenditure of
about £17,000,000. Though, on balance,
the position is much the same as for the
same month last year, the full effect of
the suspension of the U.S.A.’s embargo
on the export of arms to belligerent coun-
tries has yet to be seen in Britain’s im-
ports. When this is considered, the fall
in income from exports looks much more
serious.
Looking at all these aspects it can
be seen that, while the war carries
on in the shape of an endurance test,
“ 'E Wantsh t' know where's case of broken whisky.”
Britain will be very careful of how its
funds in neutral countries are spent. And
in this regard Australia is directly con-
cerned. Our surplus wool and most other
primary products have been sold to
Britain What Britain resells will be paid
for in the currency of the buying coun-
try —paid to Britain. Australia will be
paid by Britain in sterling currency.
It is thus clear that Australia will only
have at its disposal such foreign credits
as it can raise by the export of produce
outside the terms of its war contracts with
Britain, plus whatever exchange facilities
London is prepared to make available in
regard to the sterling funds we may
possess. Wheat and flour sold to Asia
may be of more importance than usual,
also miscellaneous export connections
established outside the Empire. Wherever
they are established in neutral countries
they can nearly always be transferred to
the U.S.A., in which Australia spends a
great deal on motor-cars, petrol and films,
or to the Netherlands Indies, another big
source of our petroleum products.
The reason for the talk of rationing
petrol and American films, restricting the
imports of motor-cars, etc., becomes
plainer after studying this question of
foreign exchange. It doesn’t seem that
much credit will be granted as between
nations during this war, and that, per-
haps, may be all to the good in the long
run, as the realities of the waste involved
will be noticed all the sooner.
The 12s. shares in A. Goninan and
Co., steelworkers and engineers, New-
castle, possess interesting market possi-
bilities. On a paid capital of £179,262
the co. last year earned £33,171, equal to
18.5 p.c., and paid an 8 p.c. div. Earn-
ings were £4727 lower than in the pre-
ceding term, when 21.1 p.c. was dis-
closed, but the drop is not particularly
significant, especially when div. require-
ments were still covered 2} times last
term. The co., the affairs of which are
to some extent wrapped up with B.H.P.
and Howard Smith, is participating in
defence orders, and its shares at 14s.
give a yield of just under 7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, while the visible back-
ing is 15s. 9d. a share in net tangibles.
The scrip represents reasonable buying
on present figures, with distinct future
possibilities. The writing-off of Bs. a
share in 1935 took care of any mistakes
and losses of the co.’s earlier years.
'i s
The ordinary shares in Bradford
Cotton soared to 51s. 3d. on Tuesday
of last week, when 550 changed hands.
There was a weakening towards the
close of dealings, and on Wednesday
sellers couldn’t attract buyers at 50s. 6d.
On Thursday sales took place at 495.
A few months ago this page was ad-
vising investment in the shares at about
375. Many developments have taken
place since, including the formation of
C. and D. Mills, to make canvas and
duck, and of Sanforising Services, to
pre-shrink cotton goods; the co. has
also acquired the business of Austral
Silk and Cotton Mills, Victoria. Now
more capital is wanted to extend the
business generally. It is difficult to fore-
cast, however, how long the sharemarket
will support the present high level of
prices for the co.’s scrip. The co.’s
trading outlook certainly looks to be
particularly bright, but the sharemarket’s
rise has been very steep —after a long
period of dullness.
* * * *
Helped by the increased price of gold,
Great Boulder’s revenue and profit for
October were the highest in its records as
a low-grade mine. The new plant is
averaging about 38,500 tons a month, an
for the quarter ended Oct. 31
tons was milled for a revenue of £275,15-
Australian (average 475. sd. a ton), ordi-
nary development, mining, milling and
general working charges running to
£159,995 (275. 7d.), leaving a working
surplus of £115,160 (19s. 2d.). Capital
outlay, including special development and
mine preparation, was £17,626. Multi-
plying the quarter’s results by four, a
working surplus at the rate of £460,000
Australian a year is indicated. Taxation,
depreciation, office exes., etc., have to
be charged and capital outlay (which
may be greater or smaller than the present
rate of £70,500 a year) allowed for. A
div. of Is. 6d. (stg.) a share would call
for £235,000 in Australian money. Dur-
ing September and October the working
profit was better than 20s. a ton.
* * * *
Canberra is prophesying, after five
months having run, that the trade
balance in Australia’s favor for 1939-40
will be “up to £37,000,000” —apparently
sterling. Allowing £22,000,000 for debt
service charges, an esti-
mated favorable bal-
ance of payments
amounting to
£15,000,000 remains.
Out of this the cost of
the air-training scheme
in Canada and cost of
munitions, etc., bought
overseas would have to
be met. If estimates are
correct, the 1939-40
trade surplus will be
similar to that for 1936-
37. The actual balance
of payments will de-
pend on the extent of
our external defence
commitments.
* * *
According to cabled
reports, America is
“starving for wool,”
consumption being at
the highest rate for 10
years. Previous in-
stances of unusual wool
imports by the U.S.A.
have been traceable to
spells of “prosperity” in
the States, imports of
many things rising
rapidly in such circum-
stances. At the moment
some other cause —mili-
tary equipment, per-
haps—seems responsible. It so happens
that Australia can’t sell wool this season
or next —to look no further ahead —since
our output passes to Britain for the dura-
tion and one season thereafter. Though a
mercurial wool-market, it is pleasing to
see the U.S.A. a potential customer for a
greater quantity of at least one Empire
product, since Britain will need all the
dollars it can get in order to finance the
purchase of aeroplanes and munitions
from the U.S.A. Incidentally, Australian
growers are entitled to half the profits
on resales of wool by Britain —after the
war is over.
* * * *
Though appraisements and advances
are now being made in accordance with
the preliminary announcement of the
more essential terms of the wool agree-
ment, the agreement itself “is not yet
completed,” according to the Prime Min-
ister. He advances that as a reason why
full details of the scheme cannot be made
public. There could hardly be any other
valid reason why details should not be
published, except, perhaps, that Canberra
had mislaid the original document, seals
and all.
* * * *
Since the outbreak of the present war
the cost of living in Great Britain has
risen about 9 p.c. On Oct. 30 retail
prices of food were 50 p.c. higher than
in August, 1914, while the comprehen-
sive cost-of-living figure was up 65 p.c.
*** , *
The factory price of motor tyres and
tubes went up 1\ p.c. as from the begin-
ning of last week. Professor Copland,
Prices Commissioner, says increased costs
and taxes justify the rise. •


ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
?
if not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN URIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
Write for 0 Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 W/, O.P.G., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 8 S294
V
Treat him kindly this Christmas! Let him wake up to a
surprise the sort of present that a man really want si
In other words, give him a VALET SAFETY RAZOR SET.
He’ll find that it’s not only the means of a comfortable,
perfect shave, but is an attractive piece of equipment, and
amazingly simple to use. There are no bits and pieces to
fiddle with: just a few brisk strokes across the strop and
the blade is keen for a perfect shave. After use, a rinse
under the tap and the razor is all set for use again.
IB t
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
No. 55 Nickel Set.
(illustrated here). Con-
tains self - stropping
Valet Razor, three Valet
blades, and a strop of
good quality in hinged
container. The whole
in a highly-polished
nickel-plated case lined
with velvet . . . . 12/-.
★
For Christmas, Valet
Razor Sets are packed in
an attractive seasonably
decorated Gift Box.
Prices from 4/6 to 65/-.
m
tfpE
o&
OF ALL DEALERS BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
“Costless Credit” and the Trans.
Two or three times a month The
Bulletin can rely on being asked.
As an argument for credit expansion it
is often asserted that the construction of
the Transcontinental railway was financed
by an interest-free credit or advance by
the Commonwealth Bank.
(a) Is this true ?
lb) If not, how was it financed?
The query apparently arises from the
propagation of schemes and theories for
the financing of public works on cost-
less credit” or some other such fanciful
notion, the minds of many people being
receptive to such ideas when they are
confused and bewildered by the effect on
their welfare of political waste and mis-
management of the public purse.
This same question about the Trans,
railway and “costless credit’ has been
asked elsewhere. From Federal “Han-
sard” of 18/5 / ’39:
Mr. Nock (Riverina): How much
money was provided by the Commonwealth
Bank for the construction of the East-
West railway? , ,
Mr. Menzies : The Commonwealth
Bank was not directly concerned in financ-
ing the construction of the East-West rail-
way. The total cost of construction of
that railway was £8,470,000. Of this,
£1,826,000 was provided from revenue and
£6,644,000 from the Works Loan Fund. Of
the amount provided from the Works Loan
Fund approximately £5,300,000 was bor-
rowed from the Australian Notes Fund,
the balance being borrowed partly from
other Commonwealth funds and partly from
the public. The greater portion of the
Notes-Fund moneys loaned to the Trea-
sury for this purpose represented profits
derived from interest on investments. These
transactions took place before the note
issue was transferred to the Commonwealth
Bank in 1920.
Perhaps the form of Mr. Menzies’s
reply is still unintelligible to the ordinary
person. Obviously the portion of the
money found to finance the railway of
chief interest to currency theorists is the
£5,300,000 borrowed from the Australian
Notes Fund, “the greater portion repre-
senting interest on investments.” What
those investments were we don’t know
at this late day. But it is possible that
some represented securities lodged or
acquired, yielding interest, in return for
the issue of Australian notes within the
limit fixed by the constitution of the
Notes Fund at that time.
Here, of course, arises the theory of
“costless credit.” But it was not neces-
sary for theorists to drag in the Trans,
railway at all. This year, last year —
every year since it was formed —the
Commonwealth Bank earns interest on
its note issue, and this profit nowadays
is transferred to the Treasury. It
amounts to something less than £900,000
a year.
Profits are made on the note issue
by lending such notes to the trading
banks, etc., at interest. So long as there
is a limit to the note issue, however,
there must be a limit to the profits from
it. Profit on the note issue cannot be
expanded at will, since, if an excess of
notes is printed in the ordinary way,
the notes will find their way back to the
Commonwealth Bank (if they ever leave
it), where, not being on loan to anyone,
they earn no interest. It is only while
the notes are out on loan that they earn
profits for the bank.
Currency notes are a portion of a
nation’s till-money. They represent a
fleabite in the total credit, fixed and float-
ing, in Australia’s economy. Profits on
the note issue are a nice Government
perk ; but if notes are pushed into cir-
culation extensively for purposes other
than till-money they lose their value by
direct or indirect inflation. Even the
private banks, when the privilege of
issuing notes and making profits there-
from was theirs, learnt by hard experi-
ence that an over-issue of notes was
ruinous.
Barrier silver-lead stocks are very
weak in London. North B.H. shares
at 325. sterling are the equivalent of
40s Australian, whereas the scrip is
selling at 455. in the Commonwealth.
South scrip is at 19s. 9d. in London—-
255. Aust. —which compares with a Mel-
bourne price of 265. 7d. Reason for
these wide differences is the difficulty
of getting Australian money to London
for the purpose of buying shares of any
kind. Transfer of money overseas is at
present largely restricted to payment for
usual imports by trading firms, payment
of interest and dividends to absentee
investors, and to limited transfers of
capital by absentees and tourists.
Mt. Lyell is another London-listed
stock at wide variance with the Aus-
tralian sharemarket. The 21s. asked in
London represents 255. 3d. Australian ;
Melbourne quotes are 3s. higher than
that. Our gold shares are better sup-
ported in London than the base-metal
issues.
* * * *
The North and South mines at Broken
Hill have shown anomalous features in
disclosed earnings and sharemarket scrip
prices on various occasions in the past.
Recently some prophets were staggered
when accounts for the year to June 30
were published. The big North mine,
which milled 38.5 p.c. more ore during
the year than South, claimed a net profit
£19,820 lower than South. Investment
incomes in each case were almost iden-
tical. The North mine has been almost
invariably the bigger profit-earner in the
past. Here is a comparison of some of
last year’s figures relating to both mines :
North. South.
Ore milled, tons .. .. 5 £2,676 377,250
Lead concentrates, tons .. 94,814 70,640
(73.7 p.c.) (76.5 p.c.)
Zinc concentrates, tons.. 91,462 78,779
(51.8 p.c.) (53.2 p.c.)
Working costs, ton ore .. 355. 4d. 30s. Id.
£ . £
Depreciation provision .. 30,000 33,000
:: 41.000 {jsg
Other administration .. 42,608 33,427
Mining profit .. .. 396,827 217,902
Investment income .. 133,30 i ijz,iuo
Net profit .. • • £330,188 £350,008
At first sight the comparison seems to
indicate something incomprehensible
about North’s figures. But closer analysis
will explain much of the mystery. North s
rriilling of ore, though over ,a third
greater in volume than South’s, this year
is lower in grade—lead 14.1 p.c., as
against 15 p.c. South. These factors
don’t appear in the foregoing table. But
it will be noticed that North’s mining, de-
velopment and milling costs last year
were 355. 4d. per ton of ore, as against
30s. Id. South. Here over ss. per ton
of ore, or more than £130,000 in North’s
total milling, is explained. North has
been spending a lot on development and
plant installation, both of which should
help rather than hinder earnings in the
future. Another thing that tends to
explain North’s lower earnings last year
is the fact that it had 730 tons more lead
on hand unsold at the end of the term,
and 47,7930 z. more of silver. South, by
drawing on stocks, sold slightly more
metal than it turned out during the term.
* * * *
Following announcement by Gordon
and Gotch of a profit of £46,245 for the
Sept. 30 half-year (down £4638 compared
with the same half in 1938) and main-
tenance of the ord. div. at 14 p.c., the
sharemarket for the scrip firmed to
475. 9d. Divs. call for £70,000 annually,
and are still well covered.
* * * *
At slightly under 245., Arthur Cocks
ords. look particularly attractive for
Sydney investors.
* * * *
Though Goliath Cement Tasmania,
showed an increased profit of £66,344
during its term to Sept. 30 —up £14,808
—and sellers hung out for higher prices
for the shares, sharemarket support for
cement issues slackened last week ,in
Sydney, where activity was more pro-
nounced. Kandos scrip dropped to
295. 3d., after having been up to 30s. 6d.;
Standard was firmer than Kandos, but
not so active. Melbourne seemed to
favor cement issues more than Sydney,
and at 365. 3d. Australian Cement scrip
was being bought to give a yield of
6.9 p.c., the same as that obtainable
from Kandos scrip, though Kandos
shares are better backed by the holding
in Aust. Portland Cement.
* * * *
Production of steel in the U.S.A. is
up to 94 p.c. of plant capacity, com-
pared with about 63 p.c. this time last
year. Manufacture of munitions, etc.,
and trade diversion from Europe to the
U.S.A. are the principal accelerators.
New York share prices remain very
steady near the highest level reached
soon after the outbreak of war. The
New Deal apparently isn’t considered
by Wall-street speculators to be in the
same class as a good-size European war.
Some recent public-body debenture
issues have carried the following rates of
interest: —
June, Melb. Tramways Board, £650,000,
4 x p.c.
June, Victorian Electricity Commission,
£900,000, 41 p.c.
Aug . A Sydney Water Board, £1,500,000,
Sept., 2 Victorian Grain Elevators Board,
£500,000, 4i p.c.
Oct., Sydney County Council, £600,000,
p< r; x, , _ ~, ,
N-. Melb. Board of Works, £6- , ,
8
Taken together, they add up to
£4,800,000, all asked for within six months.
Efforts are being made now by the finan-
cial authorities to put the brake on the
amount of public-body borrowing and to
cut something off the interest rate. And
in order to give the first of the defence
loans a fair go the Commonwealth Bank
T n ° W ? roVldl “ 8
£10,000,000 for State loan requirements,
thus leaving the public market clear foi
a big defence effort early in 1940.
* * * *
W. Forster Woods, chairman of Mel-
bourne ’Change, added his weight at the
annual meeting of members to the volume
of opinion which sees prospects of grave
danger in the tendency of costs to rise
unchecked within the Commonwealth.
Referring to the effect of rising living
costs on inflating money-wage incomes,
he said that “some day the danger zone
will be reached, with disastrous results.”
As has been stated here before, the in-
flationary stimulus of war, if not carefully
watched, only aggravates the disparity
between costs and prices and induces a
top-heavy economic system. This dis-
traction by war of our attention from
proper management of our domestic
affairs has been one of the worst features
of this country’s participation in war in
the past, and all the danger-signs are here
again.
* * * *
Prices to be paid by Britain for Aus-
tralian cheese have been lifted 2s. a
hundredweight. Choicest will be sold at
765. sd. Australian, third-grade at 71s. 7d.
* * * *
Butterworth’s Digest of War Legis-
lation continues to come out promptly
as developments in regard to new regu-
lations, prices, etc., are announced. The
cumulative index issued each month
makes reference to the maze of red-tape
now regulating business particularly easy.
Annual subscription is 31s. 6d., including
binder.


UNCSABLED ADDITIONS
RUSSIA REVIEWED.
[Views and observations on Russia and Soviet policy,
particularly in regard to the present war, are here
condensed from various acknowledged sources. Remark-
ably, the “mighty Soviet,” though its action more
than anything else started the war, and though it
participated ruthlessly in the carving up of Poland, still
enjoys a very good “press.” There has, for instance,
been much the same silence about its part in that
carving up as there was over its part in Spain. The
main purpose here, however, is to throw some light
on recent happenings and present policy—though Soviet
policy is quite capable of being something entirely
different next week or the week after.]
Prophecy
Looked at from a purely military point of view
a war by Germany-Russia against the West of
Europe, but more likely against the whole world,
would be an overwhelming catastrophe. The struggle
would be fought not on Russian but on German soil
without Germany receiving any real support from
Russia. The very fact of a treaty with Russia would
be the signal for a new war. Its end would be the
end of Germany.— Hitler, “Mein Kampf.”
There is a school of thought that believes in trying
to pacify and satisfy Russia, the better and quicker
to defeat Germany. But what is there but aggression
in its most outrageous form in Stalin’s seizure of half
of Poland, his destruction of her society, her churches
and her individual existence? Is there the slightest
moral distinction between Russia’s attitude towards
Finland and Hitler’s past record over Czechoslovakia?
Let us clear our minds of cant. Both Britain and
Germany are now confronted with a paralysis of their
respective national efforts and ideals by an approach-
ing political and irreligious force which is certain to
grow and gather force as it comes rolling Westward.
—London “Daily Sketch.”
* * * * *
Policy Shifts
(From an article by Sir William Oudendyk in the
“Fortnightly.")
Stalin, no doubt influenced by Litvinov, discovered
that the “League of Collective Impotence,” as the Bol-
sheviks always dubbed the institution on the banks of
Lake Leman, might with advantage be turned into
an exceedingly useful instrument for the protection
of the U.S.S.R. through “collective security.” This
strengthened countless people in the illusion of the
support of the U.S.S.R. for the peace of Europe, and
it hid the fact from them that that country was seek-
ing above all to keep itself ready for the final and
decisive struggle for the triumph of Bolshevism.
Litvinov played his part in Geneva with con-
summate skill. The Bolshevik members on the League
Council were always to be found on the side which
stood for maintaining the existing state of things in
Europe, which held within it only too numerous
causes for conflict and war. This evidently suited
them to perfection.
Joining the League of Nations was only one item
on the programme. Bolshevik penetration in foreign
countries had to be worked by collaboration between
the Communists and other political parties. The
former had to pose as patriots instead of international-
ists. They were ordered by Moscow no longer to
obstruct the military preparations of their respective
Governments. They were forbidden to form a Par-
liamentary group apart, but to seek alliances with
socialist and radical parties for a United or Popular
Front. It was an ingenious device, thought out by
Dmitrov, for undermining the enemy bastions which
had obstinately withstood the Bolshevik frontal
attacks. Political liberty, still existing in democratic
countries, made the execution of this plan possible.
One can imagine what would happen in Soviet Russia
if some such scheme were proposed there.
The real object of the Communist parties abroad
was in the meantime never lost sight of, and Stalin
himself was very instructive on this point when he
said at the Congress of March, 1939: “The principles
of the sister-parties must consist in facilitating the out-
break of a general war. Revolutionary action on a
large, scale will only be possible if we succeed in ex-
ploiting the antagonism between the capitalistic States
to precipitate them into an armed conflict.”
An example of what was implied was furnished
in France after the September crisis of 1938 when the
spectre of war stood grinning on the threshold. A
sigh of relief was heaved all over Europe when that
evil spirit was exorcised by Mr. Chamberlain and M.
Daladier. Not so, however, in Soviet Russia, where
disappointment over the safeguarding of peace was
openly voiced. The Communist Mayor of the little
French town of Vallauris resigned from the party
utterly disgusted by the action of the headquarters,
which, believing war to be inevitable, had secretly
asked all the members for the most detailed denuncia-
tions of their relatives and friends for the coming
terreur. These revelations were not relished by the
party, but they were an eye-opener for many who
had believed Stalin’s Russia to be without danger.
Nothing had happened to demonstrate any change
in the set purpose of the Russian Communist party,
of the Soviet Government or of the Comintern’s
organisations to create disorder abroad. During this
period of Soviet Russia’s respectability and of her
labors for peace there has not been a corner in the
world where fighting has been going on where the
Bolsheviks from Moscow have not had a hand in it.
In Spain the programme of the creation of a
Popular Front, of strikes and disorders, civil war and
the establishment of a Soviet Government seemed to
insure complete success. Large numbers of revolu-
tionary experts were dispatched from Moscow ; Rosen-
berg went as Ambassador to Madrid; Antonov-
Ovseenko as Consul-General to Barcelona. Every-
thing appeared to be going according to plan. Unfor-
tunately for Stalin the civil war went wrong.
Next to his action in Spain came that in France.
A two-years rule of the Popular Front played fast
and loose with the country’s economic position as
well as with its finances. But the country saw through
the scheme after the war scare of September, 1938, and
far from falling asunder in internecine strife the
whole nation was roused in the hour of danger by a
wave of patriotism and rallied around democracy’s
ideals.
It being so evident that Stalin’s peace policy was
absolutely insincere and nothing else than a masked
gesture for leading the world into war, it seems almost
incredible that responsible statesmen of Great Britain
and France could have entertained the slightest hope
of inducing the Bolshevik leader to join a Peace Front.
Nothing could be further from that man’s mind. His
own utterances as well as those of his collaborators
and the expositions of Soviet Russia’s policy were there
to prove this. Yet the British and French went on
trying to win over the Soviet Government to some
arrangement in the interest of peace. Did they rely
on Stalin’s noble statement of March, 1939, that he
and his Government stood for the support of nations
which are victims of aggression and are fighting for
the independence of their country? The Poles were
victims of wanton aggression and were fighting desper-
ately for the independence of their country. Stalin’s
army marched in on September 17. On September 25
—“Daily News,” New York.
MODERN DIPLOMACY (AMERICAN VIEW).
“Come, Benito, I want you to shake hands with this
son of a b-.”
the Polish officers who defended themselves in Vilna
and Polish landowners were put against the wall and
shot.
*.*<***
Bargaining
(George Glasgow, in the “Contemporary Review”)
When the British delegates went to Moscow last
June in the misguided hope of mobilising Russia in a
“peace front” against Germany, they were met vir-
tually with this argument: “Your purpose is anti-
German. We are willing to help you at a price. We
are willing even to call ourselves partners in a com-
bination to prevent German aggression (for the words
do not much matter by contrast with the substance)
if we can strike a bargain. Our own purpose is
aggression. You may cloak it as you wish. Let us
put it in this way. Your object is to defend Poland
against Germany. Neither you nor France can reach
Poland. If there is to be any defence of Poland, only
Russia can undertake it. Therefore we demand the
right, if and when we diagnose the danger of a Ger-
man aggression, direct or indirect, against Poland, to
occupy Poland with our troops. For our part, that
happens to be our particular object: to occupy Poland
with our troops.”
The negotiations failed, as they were bound to
fail. It was politically impossible for Britain and
France to combine a Russian alliance for the purpose
of defending third parties against aggression with a
tacit and compensating connivance at Russian aggres-
sion against those very third parties. When by con-
trast Ribbentrop went to Moscow in August, he talked
what gangsters recognise as good sense. Germany
wanted the diplomatic victory of swinging over Russia
from the Allied to the German grouping. Russia
wanted Poland, or half of it. The deal was made
on the spot.
Russia had made Germany conquer Poland for
her, and had broken her own encirclement by the
Anti-Comintern alliance. What then was to be her
further object? There was never any mystery about
it. She became devastatingly “neutral” towards what
she gladly welcomed as the war in the west. She
wanted Britain, France and Germany to fight to the
last man and to the last bean, was willing impartially
to supply both sides with anything they wanted, if
they could pay for it, and of the two sides would
rather Germany were exhausted first because Ger-
many was the next on her list for Communist
revolution.
(From an article by the editor of the “Nineteenth
Century.”)
The negotiations between the Western Allies and
Russia for a military agreement never had, because
they could not have, any reality. The Allies could
offer Russia war plus nothing at all, whereas Germany
could offer her peace plus immeasurable plunder.
Berlin and Moscow had compounded long before the
negotiations between Moscow and the Western capitals
had begun. For Moscow the negotiations had no mean-
ing except in so far as they could secure the conni-
vance of the Western Allies in the annexation of the
Baltic States and the partition of Poland.
The negotiations failed because Russia insisted
on a definition of “indirect aggression” which, if
accepted, would have authorised her to do exactly
what she has now done in Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania. They also failed because Russia demanded
the right not only to send troops through Poland, but
to establish military administrations in the district of
Vilna and in the Ukrainian regions of South and
South-Eastern Poland ; in other words, to annex, with
the consent of the Western Allies, those regions which
she has now annexed without their consent. If there-
fore an agreement between Russia and the Western
Powers had been signed, it would hardly have affected
the situation, except in so far as the Western Powers
would have been connivers in the Russian campaign of
conquest and spoliation. Their honorable refusal to
play this part was the reason for the failure of the
“Anglo-Russian talks.”
*****
Words
{From a Manchester “Guardian” leader.)
Molotov has given as the three aims of Soviet
policy a free hand in international affairs, the main-
tenance of neutrality and the restriction of the war
in Europe. These aims differ somewhat from those
laid down by Stalin in March. Stalin’s list included
“support of nations which are the victims of aggres-
sion and are fighting for the independence of their
country,” but that, after all, was a long time ago. As
Molotov put it frankly:
Certain old formulas—formulas which we employed
but recently and to which many people are so accus-
tomed—are now obviously out of date and not applic-
able. We know, for example, that in the past few
months such concepts as “aggression” and “the
aggressor” have acquired a new and concrete connota-
tion, a new meaning. It is not hard to understand
that we can no longer employ these concepts in the
sense we did, say, three or four months ago.
Quite. But before we put aside those “old formulas”
for ever a few echoes from the past may be justified.
When the British Government gave its guarantees to
Poland and Rumania resistance to aggression was still
one of the principles of Russian policy. We did not
know, of course, that the Soviet statesmen considered
Poland “an ugly offspring of the Versailles Treaty.”
In a Note to the German Government the Soviet
Government had just declared that
it is difficult to admit that any people would volun-
tarily agree to the destruction of their independence
and to their inclusion in another State, still less
a people that for hundreds of years fought for their
independence and for 20 years maintained their indepen-
dent existence.
And though these words were used of the Czech nation
we had no reason to think that they would not apply
equally to the Polish nation. To-day Molotov accuses
Britain and France of being aggressors in the present
war against Germany. Would it not be fairer to say
that our formulas have not kept pace with those of
the Soviet Government?
At the risk of seeming unkind, one most quote
another “old formula” from Stalin’s speech. The
second aim of Soviet foreign policy was then declared
to be the following:
We stand for peaceful, close and friendly relations
with all the neighboring countries which have common
frontiers with the Soviet Union. That is our position,
and we shall adhere to this position so long as these
countries maintain like relations with the Soviet Union
and so long as they make no attempt to trespass,
directly or indirectly, on the integrity and inviolability
of the frontiers of the Soviet State.
Trespass indeed!
m * * » $
Partners
(From the “National Review.”)
The working partnership between Russia and
Germany will continue as long as each finds advantage
in it, and so far the advantages have been great, what-
ever our propagandists may say, for both countries.
In return for Germany’s acquiescence in Russian
Baltic supremacy, that country has obtained far more
of Poland than she had dreamed of. The map shows
this, and that Russia has accepted to have the worst
of this deal. In Poland Germany has nearly all the
industrial districts, all the coalmines, all the iron ore,
all the zinc and lead. It is true that she has only one
producing oilfield, but this —it is near Jasto —gives
118,000 tons of oil a year. Germany also has the
larger part of the districts growing wheat, rye, oats
and potatoes. In fact, she has what she most needs,
and she has it in districts served by railways. Eastern
Poland, which has gone to Russia, is a poor country,
except for the Ukrainian area. Much of it is marsh,
peat and sandhills with neither roads nor railways.
Our wishful-thinkers should realise that Herr Hitler
got a Polish quid pro quo for his Baltic amiahilitv. The


deal was by no means as one-sided as they are fond
of suggesting. . .
(I Wilson Broadbent, in London “Daily Mail.”)
Stalin, having got what he wanted most an
understanding with Hitler —is now playing dummy in
the game of power politics. The cards are running in
his favor, but he is letting Hitler play them. It the
hand wins he collects. If the game goes wrong he has
every chance of escaping responsibility and of avoid-
ing being involved in war, which he fears more than
anything else.
We must assume that Hitler has got something
almost as good as a military alliance. We must assume
that dreams of carving up the British Empire have
been revived in Berlin and Moscow. Stalin would
dearly love to stretch his hand towards India.
* * * * *
Polish Choice
(From the “Daily Sketch.”)
In an interview Count Antoni Sobanski, a distin-
guished Polish refugee, declared that 99 per cent, of
the people of Poland consider the Russian invasion
incomparably worse than the German because of its
infinitely greater cruelty. “Massacres of immense pro-
portions are in progress,” he said. “Russia encourages
this on the radio among her own people by informing
them that ‘Justice has been dealt to so many Poles.’
“The Polish Foreign Office left behind about 60
commissionaires. These were all executed in one day.
Anyone connected with the Polish Government, even
in the humblest way, every priest, Polish or Russian,
and even rabbis, plus Ukrainians who were loyal to
the Polish Government, have either been or are about
to be executed or deported. The concentration camps
of the Russians are infinitely worse than the German.”
* * V * *
Supplies for Germany
(Condensed from a “New Statesman” article by a
correspondent in the U.S.S.R.)
Granted the Soviet Union desires to help Ger-
many, for the present at least, how much can she
give? In Moscow there are long lines of people on
the streets every day waiting to buy shoes, kerosene,
cloth, finished clothes and often for such foods as
milk, meat, vodka. There is the greatest difficulty in
obtaining good quality petrol; tyres are almost un-
obtainable in the open market. Further, the country
is working out its third five-year plan, which calls for
considerable construction and the expansion of pro-
duction in almost every branch of industry and agri-
culture. These projects will consume all that the
Soviet Union can produce in the way of raw materials.
Will the Russians scrap their third five-year plan in
order to support Germany?
Some foreigners in Moscow are of the opinion
that, even if they want to help Germany by breaking
the British blockade, they cannot do it because the
people would not stand being squeezed down to a
lower standard of living. In my opinion this is an
incorrect analysis of the situation. I was in half a
dozen Russian cities during the winter of 1932-33,
when the Government was squeezing very hard in
order to reinvest about 56 per cent, of the national
income in heavy industry. The people were hungry.
For months on end they had only black bread, and
sometimes the supply of that failed for several days
at a time. They exported bread and butter to buy
machines on an enormous scale, and the people went
hungry, but went on working.
Russia can export to Germany everything that
was previously exported to France and England. The
Soviet Union will be able, given the desire, to increase
exports of a number of products. All the ores, for
instance, are available in much larger quantities than
are normally exported.
Then there is re-export. The Soviet Union can
buy oil products and resell them to Germany. Con-
cretely they import some 200,000 tons from the United
States every year, of which a large part is high-test
petrol; there is no way of telling how much of this
goes to Germany already. This, of course, depends on
the United States being prepared to send unlimited
supplies and on the effectiveness of the British ration-
ing system.
Transport is the most serious difficulty. Poland’s
railroads were badly damaged by the war. Besides,
the gauge of the rails is narrower than that in Russia ;
transhipping at the old Soviet-Polish border is a diffi-
cult business.
Summarising all these factors, my view is that the
U.S.S.R. will be able to furnish sufficient quantities of
produce —particularly those most necessary to Ger-
many, such as iron ore, bauxite, wheat and meat —to
be of tremendous importance to Hitler. And, para-
doxical as it may seem, I think the U.S.S.R. will keep
on giving Germany what she needs until the German
war machine is too badly damaged in the war with
France and Britain to be a potential danger to Russia.
In other words, Russia is paying Germany to fight, to
keep the war going. The ultimate aim of this, from
the Bolshevik point of view, is a destruction of Western
Europe, subsequent disintegration and then revolution
helped on by the Red Army.
* * * * *
“Workers’ Paradise”
(Freda Utley, in the “Spectator.”)
From the experience gained during five and a
half years in the U.S.S.R., I can state that the fact that
class differentiations in Russia are different from those
in our capitalist society does not prove that there
are none. High executives receive 5000 roubles a
month or more, against an average wage of about 200
roubles for factory workers. Also, they are given flats
of four or five rooms, datchas (wooden summer resi-
dences near the large cities) free or for minute rent,
places in the best rest homes or sanatoria free for
their summer holidays, motor-cars for their personal
use and other luxuries. It is a common practice for
party functionaries who have acquired datchas free, or
for a rent of 300 or 400 roubles, for the summer to
let them out in separate rooms for anything from 500
to 1000 roubles a room. Private capitalism is, of
course, non-existent.
The fact that education is theoretically the same
for all does not mean that in practice this is so. The
best schools are reserved for the children of the
“boyars of the bureaucracy.” Even if schooling were
the same for all, this would not mean equal oppor-
—“It Travaso delle Idee,” Rome.
IN THE BRITISH ARMY (ITALIAN VIEW).
“ Jeeves, aim the rifle, and when everything is ready inform me and I
will come and pull the trigger.”
tunity for all. Can it seriously be maintained that the
children of a worker who live in one room with their
parents, and whose staple diet is black bread, cabbage
soup and kashas (boiled cereals), have the same oppor-
tunity as the children of high officials, with their large
flats and European diet and country holidays?
The fact that the U.S.S.R. is not capitalist does
not prove that the exploitation of man by man has
ceased. One can define Russia to-day as a society in
which the State owns the land and capital, but in
which the State is owned by a despot and his satellites,
who appropriate to themselves the profit from the
labor of worker and peasant alike. Russia under
Stalin has more in common with Russia under Peter
the Great, or even with Russia under Ivan the Ter-
rible, than with the “bourgeois democracies.” This
does not imply that the workers and peasants are
better off than in our “class sobiety.” Being State
serfs they are infinitely worse off.
(Gioia Owtram, in the “Spectator.”)
In the summer of 1936 the average wage, as given
by a Soviet guide, was 200 roubles a month. Actu-
ally, I think that it would have been a liberal estimate
to put it at 150 roubles. A tram conductor was get-
ting 120 roubles a month. Other workers of whom we
knew were getting 135 roubles. The workmen in the
State Motorworks at Gorki were receiving an average
wage of 150 roubles a month. Food prices were:
Roubles. Kopeks.
Bread (black) 90 per pound
Bread (white) .. .. • • 4 60 „ „
Meat 9 60 per kilo
Fish 9 60 „ „
Butter 35 0 „
Broken biscuits .. .. • • 9 0 „ „
When I was in Moscow a plate of fish soup, the first
course at dinner, cost, in the Savoy Hotel, Moscow,
six roubles —that is, more than the average day’s wage
of many Soviet workers.
Most people who go to Russia rarely see what
it may be convenient to refer to as the “Toiling
Masses.” These seldom frequent the restaurants and
show places which tourists are encouraged to visit.
Technicians together with the Soviet officials form the
vast new bourgeoisie which Russia has created. They
earn salaries from 600 to 2000 roubles a month ; with
the pick of the housing. They are the happy, healthy
folk in the Park of Rest and Culture. When I was in
Russia that Park was not free. The “Toiling Masses”
were to be found elsewhere —in the Lenin Park, for
instance, which was free. They wore, in almost every
case, no shirt at all. One never saw leather on their
feet. Nor were they in the least like the folk in the
Park of Culture ; nor, on the wages I have quoted,
could they possibly be.
Can the Allies Pull Out?
(From an article by the editor of the “Nineteenth
Century.”)
The Second World War is but the continuation of
the first. The peace that separated them was but an
armistice. The proposals made by Hitler after the
termination of his Polish campaign were but pro-
posals for yet another armistice that would give Ger-
many time to recuperate and to consolidate and
extend her conquests before beginning the Thi,rd
World War.
For France to demobilise and then to remobilise
after a brief period so as to face another
war with diminished prospects of victory is almost,
if not quite, impossible—psychologically even more
than physically. For Great Britain to dismantle the
vast bureaucratic machinery she has established to
wage the war, and to undergo the difficult and dis-
ruptive transition from war to peace, only to reverse
the process, and pass from peace to war after a year,
perhaps even less, would place an almost impossible
strain upon her resources and upon her people.
Germany would not have to carry out more than
a partial demobilisation, for she could maintain whole
armies on the conquered regions, where they would
“live on the land,” and having much imported mobile
labor —Czechs, Slovaks, Poles and even Italians, who
could be sent back to their native countries —she could
ease her labor market to accommodate the men she
chose to demobilise. Able to exploit newly conquered
territory, to establish an influence or an ascendancy
in other regions, to augment the economic advantages
(at present very small) of her alliance with Russia,
and to replenish her depleted stocks, Germany will,
when she chooses —and not when we choose —begin
the Third World War with a vastly
augmented assurance of final vic-
tory.
That is why Hitler’s proposals
had to be rejected, that is why there
must be no peace with Germany
except the peace that will make it
permanently impossible for her to
go to war again.
The closeness of the German-
Russian alliance is shown more
clearly by the support they have
given one another in promoting
these proposals even than by their
joint partition of Poland. Even
now that the proposals have been
rejected, the defeatist propaganda
which the Germans would be making
in this country if they were allowed
to is being made by Russian diplo-
matic and commercial agents and
their many sympathisers, so that
we have a kind of “neo-appease-
ment” spreading from amongst the
defeatists on the Left as well as on
the Right, where the chief defeat-
ist and pro-Hitlerite organisation is
the newly-formed “British Council
of Christian Settlement.”
The initiative, whether for
making war or proposing peace,
as well as in the actual conduct of the war,
has been and is in German or in German-Russian
hands, thanks to the passivity of the Western Powers
and their preoccupation with abstract rather than
“Realpolitik.” Germany is now conducting a very
limited offensive on land, on the sea and in the air.
No doubt she will take her supreme initiative in the
spring and try to fight the “decisive battle.” Not until
the political and the strategic initiative has been taken
out of her hands will it be possible to say that we are
beginning to win the war.
Nevertheless, given the relative unpreparedness
of the Allied Powers, their strategy would seem to be
right in the circumstances. Great Britain was unpre-
pared for war on land. In the air she was only pre-
pared for defensive warfare, while the French Air
Force was inadequate even for defence. This makes
it impossible, or at least excessively dangerous, for
the Allies to take the offensive this year. Their main
task is to “contain” the German menace and to avoid
any excessive loss of men and material until, with
the help of their superior material and moral
resources, they achieve an ascendancy which will
enable them to force a final decision, an ascendancy
that will be brought all the nearer by the progressive
weakening of the German “home front” as the result
of economic warfare.
It is only natural that there should be discontent
over the apparent lack of vigor with which they are
prosecuting the war. It is only natural we should
feel ashamed that we gave no direct help to our
ally, Poland, in her fearful need. But final victory is
everything—on that, and on that alone, does the
restoration of Poland (as of Belgium and Serbia in
the last war) depend. Care, caution and the utmost
economy in lives and material are needed before it
will be possible to begin those operations which must
bring swift and decisive victory. Indeed, it is much
to be thankful for that, so far at least, the Allies have,
without prejudice to their ultimate success, been spared
horrifying massacres such as those that bear the
names of Somme, Chemin des Dames and Passchen-
daele, as well as the slaughter that was expected from
air raids on our densely populated cities.
Italy Undecided.
o Condensed from an article by the “Times'’ Rome
correspondent.)
When the Italian Cabinet decided on September 1
not to initiate any military operations a wave of pro-
found and outspoken relief swept over the country.
Poland Today.
As reported by the Riga correspondent of
the “Times”:—
According to the investigations of Dr.
Otto, the German Mayor of Warsaw, more
than one-third of the houses there have been
completely destroyed and one-fifth very badly
damaged, though not beyond repair. There are
besides a number of less badly damaged budd-
ings. Destruction was caused chiefly by artil-
lery, not by bombs. .
The number of inhabitants killed is not
yet, if it ever can be, ascertained. It is esti-
mated at some 50,000 ; but hundreds of corpses
are believed to be still buried under the debris.
People are still in great distress; thousands
are without a permanent dwelling; and many
are destitute and without the means of eain-
ing a living. The supply system is not yet able
to meet the difficulties of feeding and clothing
the people.
Warsaw’s plight is that of the greater part
of the area of Poland occupied by Germany.
The towns and villages abound in aimless
paupers, uprooted from their homes, wander-
ing, hungry and hunted creatures. The pro-
visioning system scarcely anywhere approaches
adequacy. Trustworthy travellers and refugees
say that the number of deaths from underfeed-
ing and exposure is appalling.


Everybody was confident that Signor Mussolini would
not involve Italy in war of his own volition, but the
horrid doubt kept popping up lest he might be dragged
in by his impetuous and masterful ally.
Judged by the casual remarks of the common
people dropped artlessly in their day-to-day conver-
sation, the Germans are admired for certain of their
qualities and achievements, but are neither liked nor
trusted. At best the alliance with them was reluc-
tantly accepted as a pis abler, forced upon Italy by
the Anglo-French attitude towards the Abyssinian
war, by the imposition of sanctions, and by the
refusal of the Western democracies and their
“satellites” tc give any practical consideration to
Signor Mussolini’s repeated demands for revision of
the peace treaties. Rarely, then, has the Fascist regime
interpreted popular feeling more faithfully than it did
on September 1. Glum faces gave way overnight to
smiles.
There could not, however, be a greater mistake
th'an to suppose that Italy has already said her say
and will in all circumstances abide by her present
policy. Three choices lie before Italy. She may elect
to pursue her course of non-intervention. She may
enter the war on the side of her German ally. She
may pass over to the Anglo-French camp. He would
be a bold gambler who would risk a prophecy which
of these three courses she will adopt.
Cold logic alone would point to the third as the
least likely course. Although there are many circum-
stances common to the situation in which Italy found
herself in 1914 and in which she is today, it would
be vain to shut one’s eyes to certain salient differences.
In 1914-15 the Triple Entente was in the happy posi-
tion of being able to raise Austria-Hungary’s reluc-
tant bids by cheerful overbids at the expense of its
enemies. The boot is now on the other leg. Italy
has nothing to ask from Germany, but Germany can
dangle the bait of Tunisia, Egypt, British and French
Somaliland or what not before Italian eyes. Never-
theless, the tradition of Italian friendship with Eng-
land has by no means died out.
Such traditional feeling is, moreover, reinforced
by more practical considerations. The possibility
envisaged by Hitler of a solid German-Russian mass
dictating its wishes over the whole of central, eastern
and south-eastern Europe has caused many heart-burn-
ings in Italy. Ever since the Great War Italy has
striven indefatigably to build up her political and
commercial interests in this region. More particularly
since the annexation of Albania she has herself be-
come a Balkanic country and shown symptoms of
coming forward as the acknowledged leader of the
Balkans. The Russo-German Pact has come to be
looked at askance by many Italians, who are perturbed
by the sudden revelation of Stalin’s Panslav ambitions,
are amazed at Hitler’s cynicism, and fear in their
hearts that, to judge from what has already happened
in Poland, the pass has been sold to Bolshevism.
How uncongenial the German alliance is to many
people may be gauged by some of the wild talk which
was often to be heard in the anxious days of August.
Such talk has now largely died down, but it is still
common enough to hear good Italians declare that,
while they will unhesitatingly obey any orders given
them, they would fight beside Germany without enthusi-
asm and even with regret. However, there is preva-
lent an uneasy feeling that in the eyes of the outside
world Italy’s present position is unworthy of her new
status. Nobody who has studied Signor Mussolini’s
character can imagine that he would wantonly fail to
honor his bond. It is universally supposed in Rome
that the published clauses of the Italo-German alli-
ance do not tell the whole tale and that there were
secret clauses or a secret understanding under which
Signor Mussolini, having failed to curb Herr Hitler,
has had full justification for his attitude. But the
mere notion that this justification is not everywhere
appreciated chafes Italian pride. To cut a brutta
figura is the last thing any Italian ever wishes to do,
and rather than do that some Italians would prefer to
stand by the published terms of their alliance.
A continuance of the present non-intervention
policy, however, still seems to be what the great mass
of the Italian people most desire. But so authoritative
a publication as the “Critica Fascista” has carefully
explained that a neutral is an onlooker “because his
own interests are not at stake and because he is not
concerned in the struggle.” Italy, the writer went
on to say, is on the contrary intimately concerned in
the present struggle, and has every intention of saying
her word at the moment she thinks fit and in strict
accordance with her interests, unhampered by any
sentimentality.
Germany’s Oil Problem.
o Condensed from an article in New York “Times.”)
Not men or explosives, not food and metals (for
these will probably come from Russia), but oil is
Germany’s major war problem.
Possony, in Tomorrow’s War, goes so far as to
say that the German Army will be reduced to immo-
bility in a much shorter period than the British anti-
cipate. In the last war the Allies consumed in a
single month as much as 500,000 tons, which does
not include merchant marine or naval requirements.
Allied ’planes alone numbered 7407 when the Armis-
tice was signed. Most of them were driven by single
motors. As the present conflict progresses, the number
of heavily powered pursuit ’planes, interceptors, recon-
naissance machines and bombers will mount to several
times 7407. Moreover, squadron fighting was intro-
duced only during the last stages of the World War.
Tanks, relatively few in number, were only occasion-
ally sent against an opposing force in 1918. Today
they play an important part in battle. Add also the
tractors that have replaced horses in hauling artillery.
Possony, who has made probably the most thor-
ough statistical study of an army’s requirements,
decides that as much as 40,000,000 metric tons will
be needed by a belligerent, not including naval con-
sumption. The “Wehrtechnische Monatshefte’s” figure
is 12,600,000 tons annually, an estimate that is too low.
For the purpose of this article it is assumed that
Germany cannot win a long war unless she is able
to obtain a minimum of 20,000,000 metric tons of oil
annually—an assumption that agrees with that of most
military authorities in Great Britain, France and the
United States.
“World Petroleum” credits Germany with a domes-
tic crude-oil production in 1938 of 580,000 tons (includ-
ing Austrian), and with domestically produced motor
fuel of 2,000,000 tons, a total, therefore, of 2,580,000
tons. Not very much of the importation (5,000,000
tons) could have been stored, considering the needs
—“Canard Enchaine,” Paris.
THE SECRET WEAPON.
“Heil! I have discovered the design of the trumpet
with which Joshua demolished the Jericho Wall.”
of an army that has been for two years on a quasi
war footing and of a rapidly expanding industry.
We must add to the foregoing estimate of
2,580,000 tons about 20,000 that can be produced in
Czechoslovakia. Polish production normally amounted
to 500,000 tons annually. In their retreat the Poles
destroyed refineries and wrecked wells. Even if Ger-
many rehabilitates the PQlish fields and refineries left
to her, she can hardly squeeze more than 200,000
tons annually out of her conquest. This, however, is
little better than a guess. Adding the Czech and
Polish possibilities to the foregoing estimate of
2,580,000 tons, we have 2,800,000 tons.
Despite their efforts in the last war, the Ger-
mans extracted from rehabilitated Rumanian fields
and refineries only 1,240,000 tons in 1917 and 1918.
It is doubtful if Germany can count on as much as
this annually from Rumania. Nevertheless, we add
these 1,240,000 tons to 2,800,000 tons and we have
4,040,000 tons.
The recently concluded trade arrangement between
Hitler and Stalin leaves no doubt Germany will receive
some oil from Russia. Here there is the difficulty
of transportation by water and over inadequate rail-
ways. Soviet Russia’s production is about 28,500,000
tons annually, of which approximately 940,000 tons
was exported in 1938. Her principal oil exports have
been kerosene and fuel oil, whereas Germany needs
petrol and gas oil. It is impossible to infer how much
oil Russia will send to Germany. Assuming that it
will amount to the exportable surplus of about
1,000,000 tons, our previous total is increased to
5,040,000 tons.
Germany’s situation at its best presents itself thus
for the first year of war:
Domestic Production.
(Including Austria.)
Metric Tons.
Crude oil .. .. .. .. .. .. 580,000
Motor fuel (including synthetic petrol,
benzole, propane and fuel alcohol) .. 2,000,000
Czechoslovakian crude .. .. .. .. 20,000
Polish crude .. .. .. .. .. 200,000
Imports.
Rumanian crude and refined products .. 1,240,000
Soviet products .. .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
5,040,000
This total falls far short of the actual requirements
and far short even of consumption in a recent peace
year. . .
In the last few years Germany has increased net
production of synthetic petroleum products o
1,300,000 tons a year, including benzole, propane ana
fuel alcohol. It is certain that she will bend every
effort to make good her natural oil deficit by syn-
thesis, though the cost is four times as high as tna
of ordinary liquid fuel. Apart from the enormous
investment required for new plants, there remains the
question of labor. On the basis of a war demand o
only 12,600,000 metric tons of petrol, the “Wehrtech-
nische Monatshefte” states that “the production of
this amount demands the employment of 250,000
workers in round numbers, to which must be added
100,000 miners for the delivery of the necessary coal.
For it takes between four and five tons of coal to
make a ton of synthetic petrol.
With only 5,040,000 metric tons of petroleum
products in sight, it is evident that Germany may draw
more heavily than we have allowed on Rumania. By
applying pressure, with Russia’s consent, Germany
might obtain nearly all the Rumanian production of
6,000,000 tons. Add 6,000,000 to our previously
obtained total of 5,040,000 and we have 11,040,000
tons. This still falls short of the “Wehrtechnische
Monatshefte’s” estimate of 12,600,000 tons as the
minimum requirement. By drastically curtailing
civilian consumption and resorting to other measures,
the improbable total of 11,040,000 tons might be
slightly increased.
In the light of the most favorable statistical
presentation, it seems doubtful if Germany can fight
the war of three years for which Great Britain is
prepared.
Gandhi at Seventy.
[Gandhi was 70 on October 2. He declared himself
against Nazism and its methods of force when war broke
out, but is one of the severest critics of Britain’s latest
proposals in regard to India’s constitutional future
(“Uncabled Additions,” 15/11 /’39). This depiction of
him is condensed from an article in New York “Times
Magazine” by Krishnalal Karamchand.]
At threescore and ten the apostle of non-violence
finds himself in a world torn by international
violence. Opposed both to fascist aggression and also
to the war method, he is once more in a dilemma. Dur-
ing the World War he managed to compromise with
his pacifism sufficiently to help send 1,338,620 Indians
to aid the Allies. Now he has again lent his moral
support to the Allies. But he has also asked for a
clear statement of Britain’s war aims in relation to
democracy and imperialism. He has demanded that
Britain regard India “as a free and independent
nation.”
His present home is a thatched hut in a hamlet
called Segaon, in Central India. Around him are a
few of his disciples, all of whom follow Gandhi in a
life of simplicity, piety and service.
Far away from a railway station, this tiny village
formerly was typical of rural India in its illiteracy,
poverty, dirt and disease. Gandhi and his disciples
pitched their tents there some three years ago and have
made of it a model community. A beehive of
activity with its night schools and weaving classes,
sanitation centre and scientific farming, it is the head-
quarters of Gandhi’s huge programme of rejuvenating
rural India through the revival of cottage crafts.
Gandhi rises at three o’clock in the morning and
attends to his correspondence for an hour. At four he
leads his congregation in meditation and prayers. At
4.30 he takes his morning walks and gives visiting
celebrities and foreign correspondents an audience.
Upon returning, he breakfasts on dates and curds
—the first of the three austere meals he takes during
the day. Gandhi is a strict vegetarian; his diet is bal-
anced and, contrary to popular belief, keeps him in
good form and vigor.
After breakfast begin conferences with different
lieutenants on a variety of problems ranging from
reorganisation of the community kitchen to ways and
means of ending British rule in India. An hour before
midnight signals the end of the day’s work, and he
retires to a cot under the open sky. His curious
efforts at identifying himself with the poverty-stricken
masses of India prevent him from using a mosquito
curtain. Instead, he applies a little kerosene oil to
his face to keep the insects away. Like Napoleon, he
falls asleep within a second. When he gets up, after
four hours, he is fresh and vigorous.
From this unpretentious headquarters Gandhi
guides the entire nation. Twenty-five years of con-
tinuous and conscientious service have enabled him
to create a vast political machine. Every village in
India has a “Gandhi worker” now, and district
organisations are headed by his disciples. Gandhi’s
lieutenants head the administration of nine out of the
eleven provinces under his Congress party’s control.
Thus this hamlet in which Gandhi resides has
become the hub of the nation. Here Gandhi receives
the leaders of the Hindus and the Mohammedans with
a view to patching up differences between the two
warring communities. From here, especially for the
last two years, he has been conducting his fight against
what he calls the misrule of the maharajahs ; he is striv-
ing to democratise their respective autocracies by fos-
tering “representative Governments in the native States
under the aegis of the ruling princes.” And, whenever
he gets a month off, he takes long and arduous jour-
neys to the trouble centre of India, the North-West
Frontier Province, to try out his doctrine of non-
violent resistance among the .bellicose Pathans
This control over India’s destinies is due more to
Gandhi’s personality than to his politics. It is the
queer combination of a fair fighter and a messiah that
has made Gandhi. Unlike any other leader with a fight
on his hands, he is popular even among his enemies.
His opponents find him a charming and lovable char-
acter.
Lindbergh.
Harold Nicolson, in the “Spectator”:—
Lindbergh told me that when his child had
been kidnapped he received a clue which
seemed at the time hopeful. He leapt into his
car to follow it up. As he left Princeton he
found four press cars following in his wake.
He stopped and addressed the leading car.
“Yes, boys,” he said, “I have got a clue. But
unless 1 am left alone to follow it up, there is
no chance of success. / beg you as human
beings not to follow me.” The younger news-
papermen were embarrassed by this appeal.
An older one answered for them. “Sorry,
Colonel,” he said, “but business is business.”
Lindbergh turned his car back to Princeton
and drove home in white anger. “So you see,”
he said to me, “I have cause to hate the press.”


SPORTIONG
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT”)
Backers are not likely to overlook any
Westralian-owned horse engaged in the
Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield next year.
When Maikai won the race last Saturday
he completed a hat-trick for the West,
Manolive having won in 1938 and Balkan
Prince in 1937. W.A.T.C. vice-chairman
W. J. Winterbottom, owner of Maikai,
was part-owner of Balkan Chief, who
got the race on protest from Donaster.
Maikai is an Hawaiian word meaning
good, and the gelding of the name is all
that. In the Eclipse Stakes he demon-
strated that it takes a lot of increased
weight to stop a horse at the top of
his form. At the home turn he must
have been 10 lengths behind Buzalong,
who had run to the front near the three
furlongs, but, pulled to the outside, he
responded in amazing style when Morne-
ment got to work on him in earnest.
Mowing down the leaders one after an-
other, he headed Desert Chief in the
last couple of strides, and won from that
hcrse and Landlaw in time only a second
outside the Australasian record for 11
furlongs. The record, 2.15 F, was hung
up by Burlesque in the Eclipse Stakes
'then known as the Consolation Stakes)
of 1934.
Maikai’s toughness can be summed up
in the words of his jockey, “I think he’s
better now than at any stage of the
spring. It’s just as well the Melbourne
Cup isn’t next Tuesday.” Maybe,
too, it’s just as well for owners of other
horses that Maikai now begins a spell
instead of being sent to Adelaide to con-
test the Port Adelaide Cup late in Decem-
ber. Penalty notwithstanding, Maikai
would have been very hard to beat in
the S.A. race.
With the autumn meetings not far off,
Maikai’s holiday necessarily will be
short, and, though now high in the
weights, there are fair prospects of his
improving his record before the end of the
season. Successive wins in the Williams-
town Cup and Eclipse Stakes, the two
races being worth £3600, have gone a
long way towards counteracting Maikai’s
misfortune in finishing second to Rivette
in the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
Desert Chief has the reputation of
being one of the most unreliable horses
in training, one who knows how to
gallop, and gallop well, but will not
always consent to do his best in a race.
His form in running second to Maikai
was a big improvement on his showing
in the Final Handicap at Flemington at
his previous start, but another runner
came down on one of Desert Chief’s fet-
locks while the field was at the barrier
for that race, and Desert Chief was
slightly fame when he returned to the
enclosure. He recovered quickly, and
his showing in the Eclipse Stakes was to
decide whether a trip to Adelaide for the
Port Adelaide Cup was warranted.
Trainer H. (“Snowy”) Wolters stated sub-
sequently that Desert Chief would go to
Adelaide.
In view of Maikai’s remarkable win, it
is difficult to make excuses for any beaten
runner in the Eclipse, but backers of
Landlaw are of opinion that the French-
bred grey would have finished closer than
third had he not been hampered seri-
ously coming to the turn. Landlaw
finished strongly when he got clear, and
it seems certain that he will win a good
race or two next year. He is a definite im-
prover, and, judged by his second to High
Caste in the C. B. Fisher Plate, might
reach weight-for-age class. Although a
four-year-old to Australian time, he will
not be actually four until January 1.
Catalogue ran the last race of his latest
Melbourne trip when he finished out of
a place in the Eclipse Stakes. The old
chap, evidently feeling the effects of his
spring campaign, did not move too freely
in his preliminary, and lacked dash at
the finish. He more than paid expenses
with £lOOO earned by his success in the
Hotham Handicap, and his second in the
Williamstown Cup. Probably he will be
kept in training for the Wellington (M.L.)
Cup, run over a mile and a half in
January, and perhaps next spring he
will visit Australia again to have an-
other crack at the Melbourne Cup at the
age of 10!
When V.R.C. committeeman Frank
Smith decided to become a racehorse-
owner after his return from the last
World War, he entrusted Flemington
trainer “Bill” Burke with the care of his
first horse. The Smith-Burke association
has been continued ever since, and Frank
Smith became the first patron of Burke’s
son Phil when the latter set up as a
trainer in August. He sent Phil a gelding
by Portofino from Devonie, for which he
had paid 260 guineas as a yearling.
Named Poilu, that youngster won the
second division of the Maiden Two-year-
old at Caulfield on Saturday. Phil Burke
was his father’s foreman for years. Some
time ago he took a couple of his dad’s
horses to Sydney, winning a race there
with Grail Girl.
Andy Morrow, owner of Nightguard
and others, had a change of luck when
he won the Caulfield Stansmore Two-
year-old with Linkboy, a Night Patrol-
Casilda colt for whom he paid 500
guineas as a yearling. Linkboy looked
to have a better chance in the Maiden
Two-year-old later in the afternoon, but
Andy preferred to have a crack at the
stronger field, and had the satisfaction of
seeing Linkboy, backed from 16 to 1
down to tens, win from Mormon and the
favorite, Neutron. Linkboy received a
lucky run in the straight, but won in a
style suggestive of further successes. His
owner also has reason to feel confident
concerning the future of another of his
juveniles, Cyden’s Son, who finished
nicely in third place behind Much to Say
and Deirdre in the first Maiden Two-
year-old division. By Constant Son from
Cyden, a good performer in her time,
Cyden’s Son cost 700 guineas as a year-
ling, and should be worth it.
Much To Say, a 120-guineas filly by
Chatham-Beauvue, landed a plunge, and
at the same time gave Queensland rider
W. Beresford a happy kick-off in Mel-
bourne. Beresford’s decision to settle in
Melbourne could have been costly to
him, for he won the Queensland Cup on
Spear Vale on the eve of his departure,
and left a lot of good riding behind.
Beresford handled Much To Say well,
but he was rather lucky to beat Deirdre,
who started from the extreme outside of
the barrier.
Saturday at Caulfield was an unlucky
day for owner W. R. Kemball. He ex-
pected to win a double with Bankshaw
and Amiable, but each was beaten into
second place, Bankshaw by Riviera in the
Ormond Handicap, and Amiable by Rex
Felt in the Rosstown Plate. Bankshaw
had every chance, but Amiable dropped
a long way out of her ground early, and
came from a seemingly hopeless position
to run Rex Felt to half a head. She
would have won in another stride.
“Billy” Duncan, once the idol of Mel-
bourne racegoers, earned an enviable in-
come as a rider, and is now on the way
towards becoming one of Melbourne’s
leading trainers. Painstaking, and with
no delusions that his geese are swans,
Duncan is never far from the mark when
he declares that a member of his team
has a good winning chance. He won
races with Rex Felt and The Progeny
during the V.R.C. spring meeting, and
again won with Rex Felt on Saturday.
Rex Felt has had four starts for two
wins and a second since entering Dun-
can’s stables.
Once considered to have broken down
so badly that he was useless for further
racing, only to recover soundness and
form after a season in the hunting field,
the South Australian gelding Lome re-
corded his second win from three starts
in Melbourne when he justified his favor-
itism for the Caulfield Tara Steeplechase.
Lome is trained by W. S. Carter, who
rode him in his latest Adelaide wins, but
Carter, seeing Bill Beckwith pilot Tes-
tudo to success in a steeplechase at Gee-
long, decided that Beckwith’s style would
suit his horse, and engaged him. Result
proved the soundness of Carter’s judg-
ment, and, at the same time, gave Beck-
with a welcome change of luck.
* * * Hi
Four odds-on favorites won at Rose-
hill last Saturday, and, although the
prices were beyond the pockets of the
smaller men, big backers did not hesitate
to invest their hundreds on Harley,
Phalaran, Rylstone and High Rank. On
form the four horses stood head and
shoulders over their opponents, and each
won in impressive style. Another favor-
ite in Binnia Hero won the November
Handicap, and Klimop and Tyrannus
were heavily backed in their races. The
longest-priced winner of the day was
Might Not in the Clyde Handicap, and
she had backers at 10 to 1, and shortened
to 8 to 1.
R. Bruce, one of Sydney’s oldest
trainers, has not worried much about
hurdlers, but in Harley he has a horse
who is likely to develop into a champion
jumper. Backed to odds-on in the Hurdle
Race at Rosehill on Saturday he raced
up alongside the pacemaker, Belvoir, at
the five furlongs, and the two horses
cleared right away from the rest of the
field. They were almost level at the last
jump, where Harley made a faulty leap,
but he recovered quickly, and won with
a lot in hand. The other runners were
a very rough lot, but Glaucus, who fin-
ished fourth, will improve. It was his
first start over hurdles.
After Phalaran’s brilliant gallop on
Thursday morning it was surprising that
some bookmakers offered even money
about him in the first division of the
Two-year-old Stakes. That was soon
snapped up, and the demand was so
strong that Phalaran started at 2 to 1 on.
McMenamin, as alert as usual at the
barrier, jumped Phalaran away with the
leaders, and then let him settle down in
fourth place. Approaching the turn he
made a rapid move to join Thaledon in
the lead, and over the last bit outstayed
his rival. Phalaran (Sion-Baccaret) is
the first horse owned by Mrs. N. Buffier.
His record is two wins and a second in
three starts.
McMenamin was also successful on
Rylstone in the second division of the
Two-year-old Stakes, but he had to use
all his vigor to defeat the locally-trained
filly Dawn Mary, who was backed from
10 to 1 down to 3 to 1. Reports of
Dawn Mary’s galloping ability, combined
with the heavy support for her, caused
Rylstone to drift in the betting from 7 to
4 on to 10 to 9 on, and even money was
available in a couple of places. Rylstone
(Hall Mark-Lady Zelteers) is raced in
partnership by his breeder, H. S. Thomp-
son, and S. W. Phillips. The colt is still
inexperienced, and will keep on improv-
ing. It was a pleasing win for H. S.
Thompson in more ways than one, as it
provided a nice advertisement for Hall
Mark, the oldest of whose progeny are
two-year-olds.
Among the beaten runners in the divi-
sions of the Two-year-old Stakes were
some promising colts and fillies. One of
the most attractive runners in the second
division was Beauregard (Beau Pere-
Emberalto), who finished strongly in
fourth place. He looked a trifle above
himself in condition. W. J. Smith and
“Mr. Constable” bought him in M.L. for
575gn5., and should soon get a return of
the outlay. Gold Earth (Fox Earth-
Delhi Queen) finished a long way from
the placegetters in the same division, but
will do well later in the season. He is
owned by Mrs. S. Cash, whose husband
won the A.J.C. Derby with Talking
before selling him to A. E. Cooper for
£19,000. Columbus, third in the first
division, is a good sort of colt by Chris-
topher Robin from La Vasca, and will
prove cheap at the 450gns. B. R. Payten
gave for him as a yearling. Another
likely sort is Kiwi (Waikare-Queen Avis),
who was backed and beaten in the first
division. Lack of experience told against
her.
Although he had weakened at the end
of six furlongs at Randwick, the easier
pace in the early part enabled Tyrannus
to run out the mile in the Novice Handi-
cap. He lugged out at the finish, and
some thought that Baveon, on the rails,
had headed him off. D. Munro, rider of
Baveon, stated afterwards that he knew
his mount had been beaten, but that he
was in front a stride after the post.
W. Miller, trainer of Tyrannus, is hope-
ful that the colt will develop into a
stayer. He has sprinting blood on the
side of his dam Etoru (The Welkin-
Teppo), but that might be balanced by
the stamina of his sire, Pantheon. Con-
fab, a half-brother to Tyrannus, won at
a mile and a half at Randwick, and Trey,
a sister to Etoru, produced Trivalve when
mated with Cyklon, a sire of stayers.
Gundagai was backed confidently in
the Novice Handicap but loafed in the
early part, and did not get into the pic-
ture until the race was almost over. He
was doing good work at the end in
fourth place. He seems to be a handful
for apprentice riders, and will do better
when a vigorous lightweight has the
mount.
The running of the favorite, Beau
Ercil, in the Clyde Handicap was the
subject of a steward’s inquiry, but the
owner, J. Mandel, produced evidence
that he had backed the gelding heavily.
Beau Ercil did not raise a real gallop
at any part of the race, and finished
last. He suffers from a wind infirmity,
but apart from that he apparently is
not nearly as good as he was a few
months ago. The winner, Might Not,
had been out of the winning list for a
long while, but she appreciated her light
weight of 7.5, and finished too well for
Jocular. Bel Oiseau, a heavily-backed
runner, did not seem to be going com-
fortably in the early part. His rider was
hard at work on him coming to the turn,
but he responded so well that he looked
a possibility inside the last furlong. His
run had ended before the post, however,
and he finished third. Still, it was an
encouraging performance.
Will Rogers, a candidate for the long
races in the summer, was racing out of
his distance in the Clyde Handicap
(seven furlongs), but was “specked” at
20 to 1, and ran well enough to indicate
an early win over a longer journey. lie
could not pace it with the sprinters in
the early part, but made up a lot of
ground in the straight. Although he has
been placed in open company at Rand-
wick, Will Rogers is still a maiden.
Binnia Hero would have won the Rose-
hill November Handicap in any cir-
cumstances, but it was quick thinking on
the part of his apprentice rider H. Darke
(Continued on page 29.)
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(By “PILOT.”)
Maiden Handicap, first division:
Gretchen, 1 ; Edna Star, 2 ; Bruns-
wick Joy, 3.
Maiden Handicap, second divi-
sion : Charlton, 1 ; Iliades, 2;
Windjammer, 3.
Flying Handicap: Benburb, 1 ;
Royal Ensign, 2 ; Some Boy, 3.
Welter Mile: Snow Queen, 1 ;
Between, 2 ; Drouthy, 3.
Three-year old Handicap: Mel-
rose, 1 ; Helenik Boy, 2; Sir
Regal, 3,
Hawkesbury Handicap: Sigh, 1 ;
Fakenham, 2 ; Snow Queen, 3.
Novice Handicap, first division:
Macduff, 1 ; Woolooga, 2 ; Wallace
Foote, 3.
Novice Handicap, second divi-
sion : Dinny O’Dowd, 1 ; Lady
Houston, 2 ; Foxhall, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Appeal Hurdle Race: Ken, 1 ;
Glowing, 2 ; Whernside, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Linkboy, 1 ;
Sun Valley, 2 ; Stage Law, 3.
Benefit Handicap : Oliver Reis, 1 ;
Magic Circle, 2 ; Ramdin, 3.
Fund Handicap: El Bruno, 1 ;
Ronwin, 2 ; The Progeny, 3.
Benevolent Highweight Handi-
cap: Lord Windburra, 1 ; Pine
Peak, 2 ; Ramdin, 3.
Relief Trial Handicap: Com-
panion, 1 ; Swettenham, 2 ; Manu
Forti, 3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(To be held at Moorefield.)
(By “PILOT:”)
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Belvoir, 1 ;
Harley, 2 ; El Banado, 3.
Progressive Stakes: The Kaiser,
1 ; Bradley, 2 ; Majunga, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Colum-
bus, 1 ; Shem, 2 ; All Agog, 3.
Flying Handicap: June, 1 ; Royal
Ensign, 2 ; Bel Oiseau, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Gold
Spark, 1 ; Santa, 2 ; Masterpiece, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Baveon, 1 ;
Grey Derby, 2 ; Fakenham, 3.


ĸ
k
ķ
NOVEMBER
SHOP-EARLY
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
QJ
m
♦
6
JswC
6a
0
6"
Utfe
USUAL PRICE £B/8/-
LESS 10%
£7112
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
■
XT
si* m
--v %<<
~~ >.*>
■ ' fm
.......... v s ’ . *•*** ?
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD.. BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M6506


that made his task so easy. After going
two furlongs Binnia Hero was wide out,
and two or three lengths behind the
leader, but when nothing seemed anxious
to make the pace Darke slipped his
mount into the lead, and had such a big
break on the field at the top of the
Straight that defeat was out of the ques-
tion. He went farther ahead over the
last furlong, and could easily have in-
creased his winning advantage of four
lengths over Snow Queen.
, . • • *
Apart from the colts that ran in the
Derbies, Binnia Hero is one of the most
promising three-year-olds in sight, and
will get his chance in the summer handi-
caps at Randwick. Vestal looked in need
of a race, and her performance bore out
that idea.. She was never a possible win-
ner, and finished a bad last. The run
will do her a lot of good, however.
J. Harris, part-owner of Spear Chief,
had a win at Rosehill with High Rank
in the first division of the Maiden High-
weight Handicap. Bookmakers did not
give him much chance to back the colt,
as the best quote was 6 to 4 on —not
surprising in view of High Rank’s good
sgcond to John Peel at Randwick the
previous week. High Rank, who cost
575 guineas as a yearling, is a three-year-
old by Chatham from Christmas Lily,
a Comedy King mare, and it will be sur-
prising if he does not develop into a good
stayer. The win broke a long run of
bad luck for his trainer, George Young.
Klimop (Heroic-Regamond) won the
second division of the Maiden High-
weight Handicap with a brilliant burst
over the last 100 yards. He went out
second favorite at 4 to 1. When trained
by G. Price, Klimop showed a lot of
promise as a two-year-old, but after some
disappointing runs was given a spell, and
then handed over to J. O’Connor, who
prepares a small team at Bathurst.
O’Connor deserves a lot of credit for
the condition in which he produced
Klimop on Saturday, and he seems sure
to win more races with him before he
returns to the country.
* * * *
Newcastle Jockey Club held a success-
ful two days’ meeting on Thursday and
Saturday. The Great Northern Cup, run
on Saturday, resulted in a close win for
Silmond (Veilmond-Silver Cloud), who
has raced well on a couple of occasions
in Sydney. He might have been a trifle
lucky to defeat the Sydney-trained Sigh,
who lost ground through being forced
wide in the straight. Osculum, who was
only a head and a neck away in third
place, went close to completing a very
nice week for his trainer, G. P. Nailon,
who won with Postman at Menangle
Park on Tuesday, Radio Queen at Rose-
bery on Wednesday and Phalaran at
Rosehill on Saturday.
* # * *
“You won’t catch me betting again on
early two-year-old races,” declared a
leading bookmaker after odds-on favor-
ites, Phalaran and Rylstone, had won at
Rosehill on Saturday. He complained
that under the special-weight conditions
which are in operation until the beginning
of December, the chances are limited to
one or two horses. A good colt or filly,
unless it has won a race, carries only
the same weight as a bad one. Results
this season have certainly added justi-
fication to his argument. Thirteen two-
year-old races have been run on metro-
politan tracks in Sydney, and have been
won by eight favorites, two second favor-
ites, two third favorites and one 10-to-l
chance. Conditions of the Rosehill race
on Saturday were so framed that Dark
Elegance, winner of three races, includ-
ing one at Randwick, had the same
penalty as All Agog, whose sole win was
in a small event at Moorefield. Neither
horse started, but that did not get away
from the fact that the events might have
proved more farcical than they actually
did. The penalty conditions meant that
three of the best two-year-olds in N. S.
Wales—Flying Knight, Trueness and
Broadcaster —would have been weighted
on the same mark as All Agog.
* *. * *
W. A. Freeman has put so much
money into racing that nobody would
begrudge him the ownership of a good
horse. The ill-fortune that he suffered
with Silver Standard in his seconds in the
Metropolitan (twice) and Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups may be remedied by his
latest purchase, Yours Truly, which he
bought after the horse had won the New
Zealand Cup. Yours Truly, a five-year-
old by Siegfried from My Own, is ex-
pected to arrive in Sydney this week, and
will be trained at Randwick by F.
Dalton
* * * *
Sydney Cup winner Mestoravon, who
broke down so badly on two occasions
that further training seemed impossible,
made a reappearance at Newcastle lasi
week, and stood the strain so well that
he was able to race in the sprint on
Thursday and in the Great Northern Cup
on .Saturday. He finished a long way
behind the placegetters in both events,
but it was encouraging for his connec-
tions that there was no recurrence of his
old fetlock trouble. He raced in a special
elastic boot, which provided support for
his doubtful leg. Mestoravon has been
entered for the summer races at Rand-
wick.
* * * *
Moltain, winner of a Maiden Two-
year-old Handicap at Newcastle last
Thursday, is a half-sister to Waireka,
champion two-year-old filly of last
season. As a yearling Moltain was
bought for lOOgns. by Sydney bookmaker
A. J. Matthews, who leased her to G.
Nattrass. Her sire, Plantain (imp.), was
a failure as a racehorse when trained by
G. P. Nailon for A.J.C. Committeeman
E. J. Watt, but he has the breeding quali-
fications that make a successful sire. His
own sire, Plantago, is from a half-sister
to Valais, and his dam is by Chaucer.
Miss Molong, dam of Moltain, has been
a remarkably successful brood-mare, hav-
ing thrown eight winners.
* * * £
Royal patronage has been of inesti-
mable value to racing in England; it
would probably have been the same in
Australia if war had not prevented the
Duke of Kent from coming here as
Governor-General. With the Duke racing
horses, it would have been considered
“ Boy—have I caught a fish!”
the correct thing in certain circles to be-
come an owner. However, the three horses
the Duke sent to Australia have been
sold in Melbourne. Dhoti was bought
by E. A. Underwood, of the Warlaby
Park stud (Vic.), Greenwich by Mrs.
L. R. Buxton, and Moonray by a patron
of J. Holt’s stable. Holt will continue
to train Greenwich, as well as Moonray,
but Dhoti becomes one of R. Sinclair’s
string.
Mrs. Buxton, the new owner of Green-
wich, has been one of Victoria’s luckiest
owners. She won the Cantala Stakes in
1928 with Highland, and the Caulfield
Cup in 1929 with High Syce.
* *
W. Kelso knows something about the
luck of yearling buying. Acting for M.
Gearin at the Maoriland yearling sales in
1937, he outbid H. D. Greenwood, and
secured a chestnut colt by Defoe from
Brown Paper for 260 guineas. Greenwood,
still anxious to buy a colt by Defoe, got
the next lot, a bay from Expense, for 160
guineas. Gearin’s colt is the fast but
squibby Postman ; Greenwood’s purchase
is Defaulter. “What a pity I didn’t make
a mistake and buy the ‘wrong’ one,” said
Kelso when Defaulter had made good.
* * * *
Surprise entrants for the big summer
handicaps at Randwick are High Caste
(Villiers and Tattersall’s Cup) and Respi-
rator (Summer Cup and Tattersall’s Cup).
Both horses had a hard time of it at the
spring meetings, and, as they will have
important engagements in the autumn,
J. T. Jamieson is scarcely likely to have
them at their top in December. Possibly
they were nominated to get the handi-
capper’s assessment. Jamieson still has
Malagigi and Round Up to rely upon
in the long-distance races.
G. Price has a strong hand in the
Villiers with Mildura, Adios, Denis, The
Squire, Glorious and Marengo. Adios
was unplaced with 8.4 in the Epsom
Handicap, for which he started favorite,
and, although he is sure to get more
weight in the Villiers, summer class is
usually a long way below that of the
spring. Adios looks particularly well,
and so does Mildura, who should soon
make amends for his costly Melbourne
failures.
Vergure has been mentioned as open-
ing favorite for the Villiers, but it is
doubtful if that race will be his summer
mission. His owner, A. Frauenfelder,
has expressed his confidence in the Irish
horse’s ability to win the Carrington
Stakes (six furlongs), with the Oakleigh
Plate and the Newmarket to follow ; con-
sequently it is improbable that he will
take the risk of knocking him out in a
hard-run mile event. yergure is the
sprinter of the moment in Sydney, but
from a Carrington point of view keen
judges are not losing sight of Trimmer,
one of the finds of last season. His
trainer, F. Russell, gave him a holiday
after his return from a successful trip to
Brisbane in July, and now has him going
along nicely in his work. Always a mas-
sive gelding, Trimmer is even bigger as
a result of his spell, and weight isn’t
likely to trouble him.
• •••••
An interesting entrant for the Summer
and Tattersall’s Cups is Old Rowley, a
winner of two weight-for-age races at
the Randwick autumn meeting of 1938.
Since then his legs have given a lot of
trouble, and he missed the autumn and
spring meetings this year. His trainer,
J. A. Scully, has been very patient with
him, and is confident that this time he
will come through a solid preparation.
Last week Old Rowley commenced to
work at a faster pace at Randwick, and
completed his tasks satisfactorily.
* * * *
On most of his visits to Australia H. E.
Russell, a Maoriland trainer, has had
plenty of luck, either in the winning of
races or the profitable selling of his
horses. This time, however, he has been
particularly unfortunate. He has been
in Sydney for six months with Pen and
Bronze Flight, and has not yet won a
race, Pen having filled seven minor plac-
ings and Bronze Flight three. Both three-
year-olds were backed again at Rosebery
last Wednesday, and the stable losses
were increased when Pen finished second
and Bronze Flight third. With an ounce
of luck Pen would have been a winner
on more than one occasion in Sydney.
* * * *
The word “mentor,” when applied to
a horsetrainer, often makes me wonder
whether the writers really intend using
“minder.” There are so many licensed
trainers who could really be described
as “horse-minders.” If they get hold
of some natural galloper they cannot
avoid winning races, but as for “mak-
ing” a horse that is somewhat slow in
striking form, that is out of the question.
They wipe it off as “no good,” whereas
a more patient and capable man would
at least stand a fair chance of develop-
ing it.
More trainers have been “made” by
a horse than have made horses. They
have been fortunate in getting hold of
something outstanding, and that has
caused them to get opportunities that
never came the way of more knowledge-
able men. That holds as good now as in
past years. Not so very long ago I
heard a successful trainer remark :
“Training! Almost anyone can train
horses. If you can afford to feed them
properly, and they’ll stand galloping,
you’ll be unlucky if you don’t win races.”
I am not disposed to think it is as easy
as all that, but there are horses that, if
you can give them enough to eat, can
almost train themselves.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee")
Both Sheffield Shield matches were
won with a margin of three wickets.
Victoria, with a weakened eleven
against full strength of South Australia,
found it has young men of resource to
rely on. G. Tamlyn with 67 and 29, lan
Johnson 33 and 41 and D. Ring 19 and
31 played their batting parts soundly. A
little more use of Fleetwood-Smith’s
corkscrew bowling, when the home team
was battling for runs, might have reversed
the result. Nevertheless, it was good
fighting cricket that gave South Australia
over 300 runs in the fourth innings.
New South Wales needed its win at
Brisbane following a series of six defeats
last season. Better things will be seen
this time provided the selectors can hit
on the best possible bowling support for
O’Reilly. McCabe with 98, Solomon 89
and Pepper 81 batted like champions.
Queensland struggled on gamely after
losing fast-bowler Ellis after an over or
two. But Brown’s solidity and skill in
making 87 and 137, the two breezy 45’s
by left-hander R. Rogers and T. Allen’s
77 notwithstanding, too many mediocre
scores adorned the Queensland book.
Fingleton has had an atrocious run
since the English tour. He should be
due for something better in Adel-
aide and Melbourne, though Grim-
mett’s cunning slows have always
troubled the opener. Fingleton's
first-class scores since the beginning
of last season are 23, nil, 3, 45,
10, nil and 5 ; in the last three
innings against Queensland he has
fallen a cheap victim to wicket-
keeper Tallon.
N. S. Wales players returned to Sydney
on Saturday morning after an all-night
train trip from Lismore. It must have
been stimulating: that afternoon Pepper
drew Petersham’s biggest crowd for
years, and against Waverley put on 107
in an hour and 50 minutes. He did not
have overmuch of the bowling, but he
clouted sixers at well-judged-intervals, bat-
ting soundly and picking the right ball to
hit. Three of the big hits were off V. Jack-
son, just back from England. One return
drive to Norman McGilvray travelled so
fast and low that he could not evade it.
He was off the field for an hour, but
returned to trap Pepper into a mighty
pull. He skied it and was out. Pepper’s
weight in Brisbane was 14st. 111 b.
Dudley Seddon, Petersham captain,
put on 110 almost as fast as Pepper. His
forcing strokes to the on would have
done credit to Clem Hill. Successive
innings of 88, 120 not out and 110 have
shown a more accomplished Seddon than
Petersham patrons ever saw before.
After Mosman had routed Gordon for
167 Stan McCabe started with a square
leg hit for six. It was the keynote of
what was to come. When play ended
he had made 101 in a minute or two over
the hour —the real McCabe.
J. G. Lush, just back from England,
cast his bowling speed in with his earliest
club, Mosman, and helped, with 3 for 37,
to bring down Gordon.
O’Reilly netted 6 for 9 on a good
wicket against University. As captain of
St. George he has not been calling on
himself so often. Still, he has taken 28
wickets for 281 runs so far this season.
* * * *
E. H. Bromley, who headed Mel-
bourne scores on Saturday with 102 not
out for St. Kilda, first showed promise
as an all-rounder in Westralia in 1930.
He has performed ably enough with the
bat to have justified more regular selec-
tion by Victoria, though his bowling
never developed devil or distinction on


MARIE BRIZARD
(1714-1801)
French Liqueurs
of World Fame
The world’s standard of quality and
the choice of connoisseurs every-
where.
CREME DE CACAO (Marie Brizard’s)
Large bottles, 10/11. (Usually 18/C.)
GREEN HERMANN
(Marie Brizard’s Chartreuse Type)
Half litres, 6/11. (Usually 12/-.)
CHERRY WHISKY
(Marie lirizard’s Special Liqueur)
Large bottles, 10/11. (Usually 18/6.)
Stocks are limited, and owing to the war
it may not be possible to obtain further
supplies.
These Liqueurs were part of the
Hotel Plaza’s Gigantic Liqueur Pur-
chase from the Collector of Customs.
Obtainable ONLY from
HOTEL PLAZA
The Hotel for the Connoisseur,
291 George Street, Wynyard Station,
Sydney.
Address Mail Orders to No. 3 Bottle Dept.
(F.O.R. or F. 0.8. Sydney.)
starched pitches. His five Shield victims
cost 85 runs apiece.
* * * *
Bradman, dropped at seven, went on
to pile up 303 in 3f hours for Kensington
v. Glenelg. The last hundred came in
35 minutes, and there was one lot of
25 off one over. The champion’s highest
in Sydney grade matches was 246.
Trumper once made 335 in 2\ hours for
Paddington. He pelted the ball into Red-
fern streets 25 times, but in those days
hits out of the ground in all classes of
cricket counted only five.
* * * *
P. L. Dixon rose to it ably for Queens-
land when Ellis became disabled. His 3
for 44 and 4 for 67 against New South
Wales on a wicket inviting runs was
excellent. He also bagged 5 for 59 for
Brisbane University on Saturday. With
a little more pace he might easily get
among the top-notchers.
R. Rogers, who batted breezily in each
innings against New South Wales, hit
up 155 for East Brisbane v. Valley. Next
week he will sample the spinning brigade
in Melbourne. There, a year ago, he
made 104 and helped Bill Brown to put
on 181 for first wicket when Queensland
closed at 5 for 510. Rogers has since
changed to lower down the list.
Six for 42 was G. C. Cook’s bag for
Western Suburbs against Toombul. Some
consider him better with bat than ball.
He’s pretty good with both. Cook has
had 70 innings for Queensland; only
E. C. Bensted (93) and the late Ron
Oxenham (84) batted more often.
* * * *
Westralia will have a visit from S.A.
in February. If the Westerners can re-
produce last season’s form against Vic-
toria South Australia will need to send
its best eleven. In the first match W.A.
closed at nine for 396, A. E. O. Barrass,
a former Melburnian making 113, O.
Lovelock 71, D. Watt 54 and C. McGill
48. Victoria was dismissed for 266 and
310. The second time the Westerners
again took the honors. G. Eyres secured
5 for 47 in the first innings. Victoria had
all the Shield bowlers except Sievers.
Ring alone made an impression. Fleet-
wood-Smith’s one wicket cost 192 runs!
Nineteenth Hole
{By JIM FERRIER .)
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
To many golfers the most dreaded of
all recovery shots is that played from a
bunker. They don’t mind playing from
heavy lies in thick grass, but when the
ball is in the sand the mental hazards
that are conjured up, coupled with lack
of knowledge of how to make the shot,
make bunker play difficult. So many
have ruined scores by a disastrous visit
to a bunker —through overcaution and
other things—that the fear of bunkers
should force every golfer into trying to
improve his play.
It is remarkable that most players
have only the vaguest ideas of escaping
from bunkers. One has but to study their
expressions when in a bunker to realise
their great mental strain. Their despair-
ing looks and swipes must take away a
lot of enjoyment of the game. Actually
bunker play can be very fascinating ; I
have taken a great fancy to playing shots
from the sand, and consequently have
improved this part of my game consider-
ably in the last few years.
Bunker play has its own individual
points, and must be closely studied before
success can be achieved. A nicety of
judgment is needed, as well as a certain
amount of determination once a decision
has been made about the shot. The
reward a player gets from a good bunker
shot is invaluable, for one’s confidence
is retained or restored, and that may
mean many shots saved during a round.
There is no doubt that the American pro-
fessionals are the greatest bunker ex-
ponents in golf today, for it is due to
them that such clubs as sand-irons and
dynamiters have become familiar sights
in every player’s bag. These clubs are
the result of modern bunkering; deep
and cavernous bunkers in the United
States forced these professionals to in-
vent suitable clubs to make recovery
from them certain.
It was from the visiting American pro-
fessionals in 1934 that I learnt the finer
points of bunker play, for they amazed
Australian golfers by nearly holing out
from the sand-traps when it was then
considered a feat to get the ball within
10ft. of the hole. Up to this period I
had always tried to chip the ball out
cleanly from bunkers, taking very little
sand with the shot, but their methods
convinced me that the ball had to be ex-
ploded to make certain of success.
Exploding the ball gives the player a
much safer and more accurate means of
playing. Firstly it is far easier to gauge
uie iuiiount ot sand to be taken than by
trying to nip the ball up cleanly;
secondly, a great deal more “stop” and
control can be exercised by exploding.
It is most advisable to use a sand-iron or
heavy niblick, as the stroke is greatly
simplified by the heavier club. Of the
two clubs the sand-iron, with its rounded
sole, is the better, for it eliminates the
possibility of the club’s slipping under
the ball. Though many older players have
stated that the sand-iron makes bunker
play too easy, it has to be remembered
that the shot has to be mastered and
played correctly. Anyone can buy a
sand-iron, but using it is another
matter. I have spent many hours learn-
ing to use the sand-iron, so, if anyone says
the bunker shot can be bought from
the professionals, don’t believe him.
To the average player bunker play can
be made much easier if he has the confi-
dence to persist along definite lines. While
using the usual grip for the explosion
shot, the stance should always be an
open one, with the right foot at least a
couple of inches ahead of the left. My
weight is usually kept equally distributed
on both feet, and the ball played on a
line about three inches in from the left
heel. Comfort is essential in this shot;
any tautness is fatal, as the shot calls for
accurate hitting and a reasonably short
and compact swing
In order to get the ball up quickly
and cut underneath it a fairly upright
swing is called for, and consequently the
player has to stand much nearer the ball
than for an ordinary stroke. Standing
in closer enables the swing to be made
outside the line going back, thus cutting
across the ball slightly at impact. The
club should enter the sand about an inch
and a half before the ball is reached,
though this varies according to how far
the ball is required to travel. The further
the ball has to go, the less sand should
be taken ; if the ball lies close into the
bunker bank and has to go only a few
feet to the hole, more sand is taken. A
little practice can readily acquaint the
player with this, and he will soon know
approximately how much sand should be
taken for each type of stroke.
Bunker shots are most important, as
nowadays bunkers are far more numer-
ous than they used to be. There is that
classic instance of the great Walter Hagen,
who, during one of the rounds in a British
open championship, visited 14 bunkers
and yet returned a 72. Personally I
would much rather be in a bunker than
in heavy grass, for at least the ball is
lying in position where it can be played.
Still it is hard to get handicap golfers to
realise that they can improve their bunker
play greatly by following along the cor-
rect lines and thus add more enjoyment
to their game.
* * * *
The N.S.W. authorities are again un-
decided upon the manner in which inter-
club matches in Sydney should be de-
cided. The unpopularity of grade golf
since the teams were increased from
nine to fifteen players, and then, in the
case of the A-grade clubs, back to nine-
a-side, has forced a consideration of the
Victorian system. The majority of
players would like to see the seven-a-side
teams, as in Melbourne, with all teams
meeting on the same day on the same
course. It has been decided to appeal to
the clubs for their opinions. The smaller
teams make the contests much more
even.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards Keeps the Title
Defending his Australian middleweight
title at the Rushcutter Bay Stadium,
Ron Richards swung a heavy right to
the side of Jack McNamee’s neck soon
after hostilities opened, and thereafter
it was a one-man war. Unsteadied, Jack
hunched up on the defensive, but a short
right got through to the jaw and dropped
him. He came up at once—he’s game
enough but presently he was down
again for the count of three to a right
uppercut. At it again, Ron went in
ripping rights and lefts to the body;
one of them —a pretty vigorous left —
was low, but Jack had leapt a foot into
mid-air while the punch was on the
way.
Jack hung on like a bailiff for the
rest of the round —in fact, for the rest
of the scrap. His one effective weapon
was a straight left, but it was pushed
rather than punched, and Ron was no
way troubled by it. Ron was mean-
while continuously the aggressor, punch-
ing hard and fast, mainly for the body.
With Jack staying there at all only by
virtue of clinging on and spoiling, it
became a matter of waiting till Ron got
home the deciding punch.
It happened in the fifth. Ron had
committed several purposeful misses by
way of inducing Jack to open out and
have a go. Thus enticed, Jack did let
loose a decent left hook. He tried an-
other ; Ron shifted his head an inch,
and, as Jack’s glove slipped past, moved
in with a sharp hook that sent Jack back
to the ropes, and followed it up with
a right to the jaw. As it landed the
bell rang, and Jack had the courage to
grin, though one more would have outed
him. He was near his corner, and sat
down with a thin red streak showing
up on his left cheek. Call for the doc.,
who found the cheek cut clean through.
Decision to Ron on a technical k.o.
Just as well, for a tough and game
customer like young Jack would have
stayed there out of his class and been
cut to ribbons. The cut called for several
stitches, after which sewing bee Jack was
heard to say he’d like to meet Ron again.
Some people just go looking for trouble.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The last time I saw the
wrestling and boxing bill at West Mel-
bourne I felt something was needed.
Apparently the management has found
what it is. An added boxing attraction
is announced for the final contests of
the season. Six or eight selected prelimi-
nary boxers will be put into the ring
together blindfolded. The last man left
standing will receive the money prize. It
sounds like an item from the late Em-
peror Caligula’s Court gazette.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Some sporting
scribes have fallen into the error of
imagining that, because the Australian
amateur wrestling team scored wins in
a Japanese tour, jiu-jitsu has proved
ineffective against orthodox European
styles. In Japan wrestling {sumo) is
the favorite national sport, and its 48
falls, comprised of 12 throws, 12 lifts,
12 twists and 12 throws over the back,
make it not unlike the Cumberland style
in many details. Jiu-jitsu, properly jiudo,
is a totally different affair. It is less of
a sport than a system of defence by an
unarmed man against an armed one, de-
pending on speed, suppleness, balance
and holds of deadly efficiency. Forty-
odd years ago the relative man-handling
merits of the two systems were tried out
for army-training reasons. The exponents
selected were the 17-stone champion
wrestler of Japan and a nine-stone jiudo
graduate of the second class. In re-
peated bouts the wrestler never lasted
longer than 90 seconds before signalling
his own defeat.
Miscellaneous
Rain during the middle of the week
upset the N.S.W. championship tennis
programme, leaving the finals to be played
off on Monday. There were other upsets
also. Bromwich found the umpiring dis-
concerting. On one occasion in his match
against Sidwell the Davis Cup man had
a close point called against him. He
“hurled his racquet at the foot of the
umpire’s stand, caught the next ball
‘ served to him, served indifferently, and
threw away two games to lose his first
set of the tournament. Few worse dis-
plays of temperament have been seen at
White City.” Only among highly-ranked
tennis amateurs are such outbursts put
down to “temperament.” They’re just
childish bad temper or bad sportsman-
ship. And the tennis authorities are
largely to blame. What the young man
needs is a good rest from tennis. He’s
been playing hard in America for some
months; he’s been feted there and here,
and he’s been overworked since his
return. It may not affect the quality
of his tennis largely, but it must get
on his nerves.
The Davis Cup team filled the last four
places in the singles event —Crawford v.
Quist, Bromwich v. Hopman. Crawford
made a strong bid. He’d been playing
grand tennis all through, and as easily
apparently as he did some years ago. He
took the first set from Quist, 6-4, lost
the next two, 3-6, 3-6, and fought hard
for the fourth ; he tired then, to lose 6-8.
Hopman ran Bromwich to 7-5 in the
first, then went quietly 6-1, 6-3. The
Bromwich-Quist final was quickly over.
Bromwich dropped the first set 2-6, then
proceeded to wipe his opponent off the
court, 6-0, 6-4, 6-0.
Quist and Bromwich, as was to be
expected, skated along through the
doubles without dropping a set, though
the Victorians Harper and Long took
them to 9-7 in one during the semi-final.
Crawford and McGrath, too, met with
little trouble in their march through to
meet the acknowledged world’s best
pair.
In the mixed doubles Hopman, paired
with his wife, had his chance. The Vic-
torian couple outed Bromwich and
Thelma Rice to meet Huxley and Joan
Hartigan in the final.
The women’s title went to Victoria.
Nancye Wynne met the holder Thelma
Coyne in the last match, was behind >
in the first set, then went straight ahead
to win, 8-6, 6-3.
* * * *
Haberfield collected the N.S.W. Cham-
pion Fours title for the third year in suc-
cession. Rowing strongly against a fresh
headwind, the holders took the lead at
the mile and a half, and then went on
gradually drawing away. At the end oi
the two miles Haberfield had six lengths
to spare with the Sydney crew next, and
Mosman third.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: One of the saddest spec-
tacles to be seen about Melbourne last
week was a lady cyclist pushing a bike
round and round a 40-mile course on
the Mornington Peninsula in a strenuous
endeavor to beat the record for endur-
ance established by another lady cyclist
in Sydney, who pedalled 1107 miles in
seven successive days and nights. Fol-
lowed by a caravan to provide her with
the necessary sustenance, and dogged by
lack of sleep, the damsel was reported to
be making good headway by the middle
of the week, and was so encouraged that
she was hoping to lower another world
record established by an English damsel.
If the war had not intervened the lady
would have been the darling of the
flapper press, and would have been front-
page stuff. But she pursued her painful
and thankless odyssey in almost com-
plete obscurity except for brief mentions
on back pages. Everything is relative in
this bad world, and in happier times her
achievement would have appeared in a
more heroic light.
* * * *
“Ilkley”: The lad who stepped ashore
from the destroyer H.M.S. Gipsy, mined
off the English east coast, wearing a
black-and-white jersey and shouting “All
right, chaps, I’m playing for Newcastle,”
certainly would have had his cheer. New-
castle United (“The Magpies”) has been
a famous team in British Soccer, though
latterly it has come down to Second
League. Before the war, while other
teams picked budding Tynesiders from
under its nose, its recruiting-ground
for talent was the Clyde, and it had
a hefty eleven whose names are still
remembered wherever Soccer is played
in the British Isles. Lawrence (goalie),
McCracken (Irish international) and
McCombie (Scottish international), backs;
McWilliam and Gardiner (Scottish inter-
nationals) and Veitch (English inter-
national), on the half-back line; Jackie
Rutherford (English inter.) and Howie
(Scotch inter.), with the locals Appleyard,
Wilson and Gosnell, as forwards, were a
champion combination. The team in
those days was in the final for the Eng-
lish Cup seven times, won it three times
and even beat the redoubtable Aston
Villa with a substitute goalkeeper. But
the war and the depression destroyed its
old-time glory.


ĸ
k
AT THE
ķ
SAEICI’S PARISIAN PUPPETS.
Amazing—Unbelievable.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILES BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
GEO. WALLACE & NEW VARIETY
STARS.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“La Bandera”
Two things are “different” about “La
Bandera” at Sydney Savoy—Annabella
and the Foreign Legion. Both are com-
pletely credible. Because it’s a French
film there’s no exploiting of Annabella s
quaint “Frenchness.” She is a little
native dancing-girl in a cafe frequented
by the Legion, but she’s far from the
conventional exotic. She is dark and
quiet and rather pathetic, suggesting deep
emotion by a masterpiece of understate-
ment. When her love affair with the
soldier portrayed by Jean Gabin ends
in tragedy, the sense of grief is shown
simply by her turning away from the
man who brought the news.
It is a conventional enough Foreign
Legion story: Gabin has killed a man
and, followed into the ranks by a police
spy, joins the Legion ; the spy hounds
him wherever he goes ; there are cafe
scenes and cafard scenes, and then of
24 men, including Gabin, who volun-
teered to hold an outpost, only the spy —
now a better man —is left alive when
rescue comes.
The presentation, notably when Gabin
and the spy come to a showdown and
in the final scenes of fighting, thirst,
madness and heroism, is extremely
dramatic, but the film’s “difference” lies
in the suave or rugged accuracy with
which each soldier is portrayed. Each
man is real, and the life they lead as
soldiers is real.
Gabin showed in “Grand Illusion”
how he could depict a soldier with power
and simplicity, and here he creates much
the same sort of character. Aimos, his
wizened, humorous comrade, makes a
good foil to him ; Robert Le Vigan, oily
without being too villainous, is the spy *,
Pierre Renoir is both strong and vivid
as the commanding officer.
Apart from a few shots of bare hills,
there is less landscape in “La Bandera”
than in previous French offerings; nor
is there much “action” as Hollywood
interprets it — no hordes of tribesmen
galloping to the assault. The photography
concentrates on the faces of the men;
the action arises from the forces of
comradeship and hatred working upon
their characters in the close communal
life of the army.
“The Wizard of Oz’
The M.-G.-M. people must have been
strongly influenced by filmed “Mikado”
and “Snow White” when they made this
lovely pantomime, showing at Sydney
Liberty. Scenery and characters are as
grotesque and fantastic as anything Dis-
ney has ever created and every bit as
picturesque; some of the tunefulness,
occasional satire and parody and many
individual scenes have a strong flavor
of Gilsullivan about them. But the dif-
ference between “The Wizard” and filmed
cartoons is that there is a better sense
of perspective throughout, and the
characters, being acted instead of drawn,
have a wider range of action and are
more human and expressive—though no
less fantastic.
The range of Disney’s pen in no way
exceeds the latitudes of clever photo-
graphy and dexterous scene building. The
Witch’s Castle (a wild, forbidding for-
tress perched high up on savage crags),
the Witch’s Forest (a brooding swamp
with decaying trees and twisted grasping
branches), the Emerald City (a modern-
ist’s dream in glittering translucent
green), and Munchkinland, with its
waxen trees and. flowers and grotesque
dwarfs, equal and, occasionally, surpass
anything yet seen from the Disney fac-
tory.
And certainly Disney couldn’t have
produced a better pictorial representation
of the fairy story about Dorothy being
transported from a farm in Kansas to
Munchkinland and departing thence to
consult his nibs the Wiz. in the Emerald
City in the wonderful land of Oz. Her
companions on her pilgrimage along the
Yellow Brick Road are the Straw Man
who wants a brain, the Tin Man who
wants a heart, and the Cowardly Lion
who wants courage; the casting and
make-up of those three oddities is some-
thing to marvel at.
Bert Lahr is one of the rarest of rare
birds on the screen—a genuine comic—
and makes a roar of the Cowardly Lion ;
Jack Haley and Ray Bolger as the Tin
Man and the Straw Man are perfect
figures of pantomime; Judy Garland
tones down her somewhat pugnacious
personality and wanders wide-eyed with
wonder at the talking trees, flying mon-
keys and “the horse of a different color”
which, like a chameleon, changes through
a splendid color range of greens, reds,
yellows and purples.
Film-goers who have wondered at the
apparently everlasting youth of Billie
Burke will wonder all the more to see
her here as the Good Fairy, looking well
and truly on the napkin side of eighteen.
Frank Morgan as the Wiz. naturally
needs no recommendation.
The film is done out in splendid tech-
nicolor and threaded with light catchy
tunes, and present commentator will scoff
his tile if half of Sydney aren’t soon
twisting their tongues over
We’re off to see the Wizard —
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.
We hear he is a wiz. of a Wiz.
If ever a Wiz. there was.
If ever, if ever a Wiz. there was
The Wizard of Oz is one becoz
Becoz, becoz, becoz, becoz, becoz,
Becoz of the wonderful things he doz.
We’re off to see the Wizard,
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.
* * * *
“In Name Only”
There’s nothing very new or exciting
to this umpteenth version of ye olde
The Cowardly Lion (Bert Lahr) plucks up courage to challenge the Straw Man
(Ray Bolger ) in “The Wizard of Oz” at Sydney Liberty. Tin Man Jack Haley
seconds the craven, with Judy Garland disapproving.
triangle at Sydney Regent, and its three
corners Cary Grant, Carole Lombard
and Kay Francis need every bit of
ability they have to keep the film afloat.
Miss Francis injects plenty of venom
and some very good acting into the part
of Grant’s wife, and Miss Lombard
manages a kind of worried sincerity;
there is some accurate dialogue and psy-
chology when the pair unsheath their
claws. Grant takes most of it very lightly
and manages to keep alive a streak of
light comedy until he is supposed to
succumb to pneumonia so that the
wenches can fight it out over his un-
conscious body.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Under Your Hat”
Except for two senile anatomical puns
and one equally venerable mispronun-
ciation of a common noun, there isn’t
a single gag in “Under Your Hat” at
Sydney Royal that you could repeat as
funny in either the bar or the croquet
club. Nor is there either a song or a
ballet to rave about.
But it’s too cheerful to be dull, and
with a sufficiency of song and dance, a
couple of funny situations and Marjorie
Gordon’s unfailing brightness it makes
an entertainment that the first-night audi-
ence had no hesitation in accepting.
It takes a long time to warm up. Most
of the first act is spent in unfolding the
information that Jack Millett is mildly in
love with Carole Markov, and, having
been roped in by the Secret Service, is
off to the South of France to recapture
a secret carburettor the lady has pinched,
thereby annoying wife. The best part of
the act is some Russian ballet stuff by
Gerald McErlean as a man from Cooks.
In the second act the show improves
greatly. The ballet girls, once in air-
hostess costumes and once in ballet
frocks, turn on a couple of pleasing
items; wife (Marjorie Gordon) sleuthing
husband in disguise keeps the proceed-
ings merry, and Millett (Edwin Styles)
has both whiskers and the “Dammit,
sir!” manner to help his humor when
he turns himself into a colonel from
India. He and Billy Holland (in a Wode-
house chappie role) stage a bright inter-
lude with a guide-book and a French
peasant. And there’s a schoolmistress,
very grey and prim, who suddenly turns
flips.
* * * *
“When We Are Married”
The plot of this Priestley play, put on
by Gregan McMahon at Melbourne
Comedy, concerns three elderly York-
shire laads, successful citizens who
assemble with their wives at the house
of one of them to celebrate the twenty-
fifth anniversary of their nuptials.
Daughter of the house is in love with
handsome but unacceptable young organ-
ist at village church. Young organist
providentially discovers in conversation
with an African missionary that the
three husbands have never been married
to their wives, the celebrant not having
been officially ordained or not having
conducted the ceremony according to the
established rules. The husbands duly
learn this, to their mingled horror and
delight, and wives are informed of the
same dire truth per medium of a domes-
tic who listened-in through the keyhole.
The farce-comedy has plenty of amus-
ing lines and all the Priestley facileness,
but it is as Dickensianly old-fashioned
as was the Dickens style but as the
essential Dickens was not. Lorna
Moriarty and Phyllis Bones were two
incredible domestics, Geoff de Fraga was
the young organist, and Frank Goddard,
Maud Crougey, Norman Tucker, Patricia
Isles, Dick Webb and Phoebe Marks were
the impossible three couples whose matri-
monial applecart had been upset. H. N.
Gregory was a press photographer who
has taken a drop and was, as usual, ex-
cellent, if irrelevant.
Presentation was as sticky with farce
as the play, and left present commentator
thankful that Priestley never took to
writing plays as longwinded as his books.
Shaw’s latest, “In Good King Charles’s
Golden Days,” is expected to clear the
air of the Comedy on Saturday, Dec. 9.
* * * *
Adelaide thinks it may have a singer
out of the common in Shirley May, a
young soprano with a taste for the
dramatic. Her production is easy, ex-
pression sincere, and a voice not yet —
at 17 —actually powerful has a resonant
tone that makes it carry. Her opening
Town Hall concert was largely given to
Mascagni and Puccini. Molinari, who
has taught her, lent strong support with
his robust tenor in various duets from
other operatic sources.
Artbursts.
The “Modem Art” Show
The exhibition of French and Eng-
lish “Modern Art” at David Jones’s
George-street gallery, Sydney, was called
in Melbourne an exhibition of “Contem-
porary Art.” Neither term acknowledges
that the particular forms of art in which
this show mostly specialises—the work
of French post-impressionists and their
English imitators —do not occupy the
whole field to-day and that less sensa-
tional and more intelligible methods of
painting are still practised in France and
in England.
But it’s an interesting show. Such sin-
cere pioneers of new methods as Cezanne,
Van Gogh and Gauguin, and such clever
revivers of old ideas as Seurat, are splen-
didly represented. There’s a portrait,
“Tete d’Homme,” by Van Gogh, with
enough life in it to supply a whole Royal
Academy show; there are color essays
by Gauguin that take the breath away,
and a couple of pointillisma efforts by
Signac, disciple of Seurat, which are
pretty enough for travel posters.
The grotesqueness of Modigliani,
Soutine and Rouault, the abstractions of
Braque and Picasso, the gloomy clumsi-
ness of Cezanne and Utrillo and the queer
muddles of Matisse are another matter.
The isolators of these remarkable egotists
lay stress on the observation that beauty
lies in the eye of the beholder, and that
appreciation of these efforts can be
attained only through prayer and fasting.
Such devotion will lead him to a mental
state in which he can derive delight from
a portrait of a lady whose features seem
to have been flattened by a road-roller, or
from fantasias of smears and smudges
that represent no-
thing on earth.
* %
Wilfred M c C u l-
loch, his first show,
is exhibiting waters
and oils at the Rid-
dell Galleries, Mel-
bourne. Despite their
roughness, he gets
enough of the ping
of Nature into his
oils to make him dis-
satisfied with his
work in the other
medium, wherein his
hand is slick enough
but his eye looks
tired. A small sea-
scape in oils is remi-
nisc e n t of Van
Gogh.
* *
The show of
travel sketches by
Hilda Rix Nicholas
at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney,
consists mostly of
crayon drawings of
picturesque people
and buildings in the Paris Latin quarter,
Brittany, Picardy and Morocco. The
draughtsmanship is sound, the eye sees with
humor and sympathy and the medium—
sometimes black chalk, sometimes oils
and sometimes colored crayons —is well
understood. Portrait sketches, such as
“Madame Gough,” “Old Farmer’s Wife,”
“Breton Woman,” “Head of Old Woman”
and “The Gentle Soul,” stand out.
Moroccan sketches in color are gay and
well composed. “Charcoal Vendors” is
a decorative gem.
* * * *
Adrian Feint, whose show is at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, has been
hitherto best known as a designer of
graceful woodcuts and the like. His
work is always decorative, always in the
nicest of taste, and in the oils of the
present show he makes sonnets in paint
on such themes as flower groupings and
quaint porcelain figures. The craftsman-
ship in these is uniformly excellent, and
the signature is the prettiest and neatest
this critic has ever seen affixed to paint-
ings. Seen just after a visit to the post-
impressionists, cubists and surrealists who
hold sway further south in George-street,
Feint’s little show was like a rondo by
Mozart after a cacophony by Hondegger.
Nearly all the pictures were sold on the
first day.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
•'" 4,
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
(grammar #rt|onl
ljouar
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to:—
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET ,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
For many December 1 will be like
turning the clock back a quarter of a
century. Women and men who worked
for patriotic funds during the last war
will again be on deck putting their
energies into making a success of Mayor
Nock’s field day. In addition to them
there are armies of eager and enthusiastic
assistants, many of whom had not even
been born when the Armistice of 1918
was signed. All pulling together they
have every hope to land £20,000 worth
of gold bullion on the Great Day. Of
course, the onslaught on the public
purse is timed for Friday, which, to most
of us, is pay day.
Martin-place will be chatterful, enter-
taining and colorful as an Eastern
bazaar. It will be lined up with stalls
from George-street to Elizabeth-street,
and these will be loaded with glittering
merchandise from all the Seven Seas.
You can buy a Pekinese pup or a Persian
cat; you can have a chance in diamond
pendants. Flowers from bush and garden
will beckon from many stalls. The Town
Hall grounds will be set with stalls, and
here Mayoress Nock will be surrounded
by a company of aldermen’s wives, all
eager and willing. In the Town Hall pre-
cincts there will be a flower stall run by
the Hon. Henrietta Loder and Morna
MacKenzie. Games of chance, gipsies
and strolling musicians will help to turn
Sydney into something like the Bagdad
of our imaginings.
There was quite a homely atmosphere
about the Victoria League’s reception to
Lady Wakehurst at the Women’s Club,
for almost every woman had brought her
knitting and knitted on steadily until five
o’clock, when tea was served. There was
only one pause, and that was when Lady
Wakehurst said the only criticism she had
heard in London of the Australian
branch was that it did not have enough
prominent men members, “and looking
around I think there is some truth in
this.” That put a stop to the clicking
of needles for a moment. The laugh that
followed almost drowned Miss Mac-
arthur Onslow’s reply, “Well, the Empire
Society seems to have all the prominent
men in Sydney, and we live next door
to them in the greatest peace and amity.”
Lady Wakehurst’s speeches are always
like a talk she might have with a friend,
and everybody felt she meant every word
she said in praise of the Victoria League’s
hospitality to her in London.
When Margot Reid, a young member
of the League, described Germany two
months before the war, you saw the
polished spades of the labor corps, the
child soldiers (children who should be
at their preparatory schools), the doors
of the small houses in the little towns
they motored through all hung with the
Nazi flag. Also the small Austrian- vil-
lages, where men and women were still
dancing folk-dances in the evening in
their picturesque peasant costumes.
Evelyn Lea, another young member who
was at Cambridge when war broke out,
told of the care given to the evacuated
children, and of how one day, when there
were roast beef, vegetables and rice pud-
ding for dinner, two babies cried, saying
they didn’t like that, they wanted bread
and jam, like they got at home.
Sydney was up to the tops of its ears
in art shows last week. Water-colors and
oils were even as a rainbow round its
shoulders. The first was the big exhibi-
tion of modern French and British art,
which got off briskly early in the week
to an introduction made by B. J. Water-
house. This was a lure to the fashion-
able as well as to the art-minded, and
the opening day might in more senses
than one be described as a masterpiece
of art.
Sydney’s old friend Basil Burdett, who
had plucked the exhibits from London
and Paris, is up from Melbourne to see
no one gets off with a Gauguin, and
every day since the opening the galleries
at David Jones’s have been crowded with
people anxious to see this collection.
Sydney Ure Smith was behind the move-
ment to bring the show to Sydney. After-
noon lectures are enthralling those who
are modern-art-minded and provoking
those who aren’t.
Among the opening-day notables were
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet, Mrs.
Jimmie Burns, Mrs. David Maughan,
Mrs. Sim Bennett, the Charlie Lloyd
Jones couple, Chief Justice Jordan and
his wife, Justice Evatt, the Bertie Kellys
and Admiral Feakes and his wife. Pretty
artist Jean Bellette is at the exhibition
every day to explain the points of the
pictures.
The Grosvenor Gallery decked itself
in flowers in season to greet the opening
of Adrian Feint’s first show. Adrian
paints with a delicacy and with an atten-
tion to detail that give his work the
charm of pieces in an old-world salon.
He caught the favor of his public, for by
the early afternoon most of the pictures
were sold. Sydney Ure Smith opened
the show, his words of praise having the
right ring of sincerity. Among buyers
and lookers-on were Dr. Douglas Miller
and his wife, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland,
Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones, smart in a
navy-and-white-striped pleated frock,
Mrs. Scott Stevenson, also in navy-and-
white-striped frock and white hat, Mrs.
Jimmie Burns, Mrs. B. Norris, Bar-
bara and Hilda Lane Mullins and
Margaret Preston. Howard Hinton was
there; so were Oswald Cheeke, Mrs.
Mollie Grey, Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar,
Hera Roberts in a lime-green suit and
flower-trimmed white hat, and Mrs. Fred
Nisbett, who bought this Letter’s favorite,
“Azaleas.” Another buyer was J. R.
McGregor.
One person in Sydney who will be glad
ships are no longer to be painted grey
is Landale Beeston. Landale, who is
one of Sydney’s sculptors, has a studio in
Jenkin-street. The artist’s studio, which
is 90 years old, like its neighbors, is low-
roofed and of grey stone. It is high
above Darling Harbor, and its windows
look out io the rounded hill of Balmain.
Miss Beeston hopes soon for the return
of the days when gaiety and bustle were
signs of the departure of overseas ships,
and when streamers made a rainbow from
steamer to wharf, and later turned the
road beneath her windows into a color-
ful maze. Norton-Trevaire photograph.
Hilda Rix Nicholas (Mrs. Edgar
Wright), who lives just now mostly at
Tombong, came to town last week for
her show of paintings of scenes of
Morocco and France. These paintings
show the artist’s old vigor and attack,
and drew old and new admirers to the
Macquarie Galleries. Dame Constance
D’Arcy opened the show with one of
the clever speeches for which she is noted.
Among those who gazed at the modestly-
priced canvases, the dearest 50 guineas,
were Mrs. Claude Plowman, Mrs.
Rowley Walker and daughter Patricia,
Prof, and Mrs. Waterhouse, Mrs. Tempe
Houston and Dr. Marie Hamilton. Con-
sul-General for France Tremoulet was
among those who enjoyed these glimpses
of his native land.
Lovers of the ballet made for the Con.
on Saturday night when Sydney’s old
friends, Kousnetova, Shaievsky, Sobishev-
sky of the Covent Garden Russian Ballet,
Slavinsky of the Monte Carlo Ballet and
Sydney girl Stephanie Edye, took part in
a ballet to help stricken Poland. The
evening was a great success, and the
standing-room-only notice soon appeared,
“Les Sylphides” and “The Spectre of the
Rose” were performed. Mrs. Roy Under-
wood was in charge of the flower- and
programme-sellers.
In the crowded house were knight
Francis Anderson and his wife, who
were the guests of the Consul-
General for Poland and Mrs. De Nos-
kowski and Mrs. Lennox Bode, whose
black sheer frock was worn under a full-
length pink coat With her were the Reg
Bettmgton couple. Enid Riddle brought
her mother. Consul-General for France
Tremoulet, the Conservatonum Director,
Dr. Bainton, and Mrs Banton Mrs. A. C.
Thomas and Mrs. David Roper were
others Joint secretaries, Mrs. C. Lorenz
Mrs. A. Louisson and Joyce Aggs, smiled
happily as they counted the takings.
Dr. and Mrs. Walter Burfitt, of Rad-
stoke, Elizabeth Bay, have received word
of daughter Esmey’s engagement to
Robert Allan Quinn, son of the Charles
A. Quinns, of Boston, U.S.A., and
Northampton, England. Esmey, who is
well known in University circles, has
been abroad for two years and is now
doing A.R.P. work in England. Her
fiance is with the British Army at Aider-
shot. Dayne photograph.
Between acts of “Under Your Hat”
people remarked to one another that the
bubbling fun of Marjorie Gordon’s per-
formance reminded them of the irrepres-
sible Dot Brunton. The sets with their
alternate moonlight and sunlight views
were attractive and in keeping with the
sparkle of the show. The audience re-
acted to the comedy atmosphere.
The sultry night brought delicate moth-
like tonings in the frocking. White
occurred again and again. Robin Eakin
was all white from the gardenia in her
hair to the hem of her organza frock.
Mrs. Stuart Doyle also wore white ; her
satin frock had an overskirt of fringe,
Gladys Moncrieff’s black frock had a
silver lame top. Mrs. Dan Carroll’s
hyacinth-pink satins were worn with a
bolero of chilfon. Barbara Salenger’s
blue frock was covered with a full-length
pink cloche coat. The bodice of Mar-
garet Cary’s mist-blue marquisette was
tucked, the skirt pleated ; Mrs. F. J. Davy
wore blue and silver lame; Mrs. Ernest
Lashmar rose pink, and Mrs. T. H.
Kelly’s white satin frock had long
shoulder drapings of chiffon. Colored
sequins glinted on Mrs. Claude Plow-
man’s black frock. Mrs. Sim Bennett
(Cooma) wore a spreading frock of
orchid tulle. Margot Ruthven was there.
Mrs. Byron Wrigley, Mrs. Edmund Play-
fair, Mrs. Eva Wunderlich, Mrs. J. L.
Ruthven and Mrs. H. D. Cary were
others of the smartly-dressed audience.
Married at St. James’s, Spanish-place,
London, Jane, second daughter of the
E. P. Hollingdales, of Edgecliff and
London, to Dr. Alexis Bankoff, of
Harley-street. The wedding was a quiet
family affair, very few outside guests
being present, but Alfred O Shea sang
during the ceremony. The bride s frock
of brown crepe was lit up with silver
sequins, and over this she wore a mink
coat. The honeymoon is being spent in
Italy.
Under two flags, as it were, the mem-
bers of the French-Australian League
continue to meet. Smart and alert as any
daughter of the regiment whom Ouida
could have imagined, a group of them
talked over the afternoon of ballet which
is to fill the League’s Christmas stocking
for our French Allies. The scene at the
Australia the other afternoon was rather
like one of those battles offstage de-
scribed by hot-foot messengers. But
here was no talk of disasters —only suc_
cess. Everybody, including Lady Gowrie,
had bought tickets. Mrs. Erik Fischer,
who was ballerina Kirsova, is to train
Audrae Swayn in a polka which Kirsova
originated in London. She will also lend
her brilliant pupil the mittens she wore
for this dance, and has lent her the
costume so that she may have it copied.
Stephanie Edye is billed for some dashing
Spanish numbers. The whole will be
surrounded by a nimbus of Frances
Scully’s ballet pupils.
Everybody is sipping tea these days to
the accompaniment of Olga Coelho’s
sweet, smooth voice. This in turn is
accompanied by the Weintraubs or her
own guitar. Songs of South America
are her star turn, and on the day of her
opening at Prince’s she paid a pretty
compliment to the boys for their inter-
pretation of her Brazilian numbers. All
the women liked Olga’s lithe figure in
its Lanvin model. This was of black
velvet, the skirt hooped. It got a pea-
cock effect from being long at the back
and ending just above the ankles in
front. Among her listeners were Mrs.
Jimmie Burns and Mrs. Mollie Grey,
Consul-General for France Jean Tremou-
let, Mrs. Craig, Mrs. Jack Campbell and
Sylvia Thorby. Sylvia was guest of
honor at a pre-wedding tea given to her
by some members of the committee of
the Far West Children’s Health scheme.
Her wedding to Alan Beeman will take
place on Saturday.
Not even a cloudburst could keep the
women interested in the matinee of
“Elizabeth the Queen” in aid of the
Phcenix Free Kindergarten and the Aus-
tralian Medical Corps fund away from
the Minerva. They came in their hun-
dreds, many of them wrapped about in
cellophane. When, after driving through
a deluge of rain and through streets run-
ning rivers, cars and taxis dashed up with
a swish at the theatre, page-boys dashed
out and under large umbrellas convoyed
the occupants to cover and into the hands
of the programme- and flower-sellers.
Out of their wrappings, frocks emerged
crisp and smart. Hats ranged from the
smallest of doll hat to the large picture
variety. Every seat was filled, and secre-
taries Mrs. A. Odillo Maher and J. Han-
ron and treasurers Mrs. Norman Mul-
roney and J. Mingaye smiled happily
over the result of their work.
In the audience were Mrs. Clay Von
Hake, Mrs. John Belassario, the Julius
lady, Mrs. Arthur Chater, Joan Peacock
(very smart in grey), Marie O’Brien ditto
in an all-black ensemble, and president
of*the success, Mrs. Rex Vyden.
Mrs. E. T. Pilcher, of Clifton Gardens,
who is another of the talented Macks,
informs this Letter, which had said that
Gertrude Mack was still in London, that
Gertrude predeceased Mrs. Harrison.
Mrs. Pilcher is also a writer of stories
and has had her work published in The
Bulletin, “Pearson’s,” “Black and
White” and other papers. Another of
the sisters, Mrs. W. J. Creagh, is a
singer.


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
1 itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
lor the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become .chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic*
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
k
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO JOHN SHEEHAN formerly of Ulverstone
in Tasmania Baker.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LINDA
ELSIE SHEEHAN has filed a petition for
divorce against you on the ground of de-
sertion If you wish to defend the matter
you must enter an appearance at the Supreme
Court Hobart within Thirty days from the pub-
lication of this notice.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
SHIELDS, HERITAGE, STACKHOUSE &
MARTIN, of No. 55 Paterson Street, Laun-
ceston, in Tasmania, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
TO MARGARET PATRICK DAY formerly
of Glebe Road Glebe Sydney in the State
of New South Wales wife of William John
Day but whose present whereabouts are
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by writ of sum-
mons No. 448 of 1939 by WILLIAM JOHN
DAY your husband in which he claims a dis-
solution of his marriage with you and by his
petition filed herein he alleges that in the
month of July 1927 you without cause deserted
him and such desertion has continued up to
the date of the petition AND IT HAS BEEN
ORDERED that service of the petition and of
the writ of summons on you be effected by
filing and sticking up on the notice board in
the Registry of the said Court a copy of this
notice and by the insertion of this notice ©nee
each in the “Bulletin” and the “Telegraph”
newspapers published in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and in Brisbane in the
State of Queensland respectively If you desire
to defend this action you must within Sixty
days from the performance of the last act done
as aforesaid enter an appearance at the said
Registry and in default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you.
DATED this Twentieth day of November,
1939.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
, Second Deputy Registrar.
J. J. O’CONNOR, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Colonial Mutual Building, Queen Street, Bris-
bane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1718 of 1939.
BETWEEN SARAH BUXTON MARSH Peti-
tioner
And CYRIL HAMILTON CLYDE
MARSH Respondent.
TO CYRIL HAMILTON CLYDE MARSH
late of Granville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SARAH
BUXTON MARSH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a decree of dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twentieth day of February One
thousand, nine hundred and forty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of Novem-
ber, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FREDERICK McGUREN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The coolest frocks from every ward-
robe were the right frocks for Saturday
at Caulfield, but the dressing wasn’t ex-
citing. Even the hats seemed more sub-
dued than usual. Many were white and
large enough to give some protection
from the sun, but the little bits of
nonsensical headwear seen around the
lawns during the uncertain weather of
Cup week were absent, as if their owners
had left them at home for the next cock-
tail party. The type of ensemble chosen
by Mrs. Walter Timmins was looked
upon with favor —a frock and bolero
strewn with big white daisies upon a
black ground worn with white hat and
shoes.
Win Kellow wore all white, even
unto shoes and hat. Mrs. Lindsay Mil-
dred preferred a simple dress of pastel-
pink crepe scattered with white cres-
cents. Mrs. Jim Monteath (Perth) wore
black chiffon, cut on the cross and
cleverly pintucked, with an all-over
diagonal design. Mrs. Alistair Mac-
kinnon’s choice ran towards pleated skirt,
and printed crepe in shades of purple.
Sue Dennett’s penchant was for pleats,
plus stripes, narrow white ones on green
linen running horizontally for bodice
and diagonally for skirt. Green gloves
and a burnt-sugar brown hat were
accessories.
A thunderstorm, the one reputed to
have caused several thousands of pounds
of damage in 20 minutes, broke just
as the bridge party for the Red Cross
and Comforts was arriving in its many
cars at Bromley, Irving-road. Mrs. Alan
Robinson, who was president of the com-
mittee concerned, the Toorak branch of
the Australian Women’s National League,
went all out on a 50 yards’ sprint to
open the big gates of the drive and re-
turned from her efforts with her snappy
brown hat still at the right angle. Mrs.
W. J. Wearne, who lent Bromley for the
occasion, wore a black frock with
shoulder and yoke motifs of hand-
embroidered marquisette. Tea in relays
for each of the bridge-rooms was served
in the dining-room, where the silver
candelabra and a crystal bowl of roses
received the admiration they merited.
Over 300 players and stayers were
present, the overflow establishing them-
selves at tables on the verandah, for the
rain stopped once its sudden violence
was exhausted. Among the many helpers
was Mrs. Keith Aikman, who drove
round the district replenishing the flowers
stall from her friends’ gardens as the
afternoon proceeded. Hope Kellow, in
navy blue and a water lily, also worked
among the stocks and snapdragons. Sales
of the very delectable cakes left over from
tea helped in the rounding up of a fat
sum of money. Among the players were
Mrs. Rupert Harvey in navy blue and a
little white gem hat swathed with navy
veil, and Mrs. Oswald Benjamin, who
carried home a basket of fruit from the
market stall and some bottles of beer
from the lucky dip.
Bridge reigned for an afternoon at
Mrs. J. A. O’Brien’s home in Glenbervie-
road, Toorak, when the 65 tables booked
were scattered all over the house even
to the comparative quiet of spare bed-
rooms. The effort raised over £lOO for
soldiers’ comforts on behalf of the Loreto
Red Cross Emergency Association and
the Loreto Old Girls’ Association. Lady
Armitage, deputising for Lady Dugan,
enjoyed her cups of tea upon the terrace
and stayed long enough to visit the lucky
dip, a happy hunting-ground of discoveries
due to the generosity of many business
firms. Maidie O’Brien organised the
dip with the help of Sheila Breheny,
Betty O’Grady, Mrs. D. J. O’Connell
and Joan Barry.
Sailors as well as soldiers like a pipeful
of tobacco, the crunch of nuts in Christ-
mas puddings, tins of sweets, warm pull-
overs for windy days and dry socks to
put on after the decks have been awash
in a hurricane. The men of the merchant
fleet, who have a big responsibility in this
war, would no doubt appreciate any
tributes from a grateful country. If any
pastoralist, for instance, who can already
feel the crinkle of his wool cheque in his
hands for his bales which the merchant
fleet carries overseas, feels like showing
his thanks in the form of a few cigar-
ettes, the Mission to Seamen will distri-
bute them with pleasure.
Depots are at Port Melbourne and
in Flinders-street Extension (past
the intersection of Spencer-street).
Though the Mission has never been
a wealthy or a fashionable concern,
it dips into its pockets for 1000
small gifts every year to hand to the
men who enter its doors over the Christ-
mas period. This year Mrs. Horace
Calder, who is president of the Harbor
Lights (the women’s auxiliary which
works for the Mission), hopes that cigar-
ettes will be an addition to each gift. So
far she has little hope of anything for
the seamen from the Comforts Fund or
any other war charities.
When the Mission’s popular padre, the
Rev. Oliver, was called up for service
with the Navy when the war broke out,
an auxiliary was formed to assist the Mis-
sion. It pledged itself to raise £5OO to
put the balance sheet in order by the end
of the year. A useful bit of help towards
this promise was made by the produce
and cake stall at the Arts and Crafts
Exhibition. The committee had a very
short time to organise its stall, so
several members rolled up their sleeves
and worked in their own kitchens right
through the three days’ fair. Mrs. Reg
Flack and Miss N. Moore were among
the cooks who toiled the longest hours ;
their efforts were crowned with much
success.
When Mrs. David Worrall (Spencer
Shier portrait) saw a burlesque circus as
an entertainment motif at a party in
Hollywood earlier in the year she tucked
the idea away for future reference. Mrs.
Harold Clapp saw a similar circus in
America, as did Mrs. Jack Kemelfield
on her last visit to that country, so when
these three people met to discuss a party
run by the Originality Branch of the
Comforts Fund the circus idea bobbed
up in no time, was acclaimed without dis-
sension by those present and will be given
a large-type place on the programme at
the 6-12 Gaiety Night at the Australia
on December 7. Those who like to eat
their chicken wing in hand won’t go
hungry at this party. There will also
be the genuine article in club sandwiches.
Though officially summer is here “A
Night in Switzerland” was a great success
on the ice of St. Moritz. The boys and
girls who are working up a week-end
suntan on the beaches got out their skates
with alacrity for a gala evening in aid of
the After-Care Hospital and the
M.D.N.S.’s War Comforts Fund. In
between sessions of general skating were
entertainments by specialists like Betty
Cornwell, 12-year-old prodigy Gwen
Hallam, Gladys Beauregard and Ed
Rushka, the girls of the ballet and some
comedians on skates.
Lucky dips, raffles and a sweets stall
made a heap of money in between
times. A small girl won a fine pair
of skates and a little boy in short
pants collected a tea service, the
Gullett lady secured a pair of sheer stock-
ings and a prank of fate presented Mrs.
Mortimer Robb with 10 gallons of petrol
(which she had begged from her favorite
garage). The petrol is for the moment
“in bond” while Mrs. Robb makes up
her mind what to do with it. In the
meantime she has gone off to Sydney on
another tank of volatile spirit with Una
Louden as chauffeur.
Mrs. G. J. Coles was among the
busiest of committee workers last week.
She ran the sweets stall for the “Night
in Switzerland” at St. Moritz and she
helped to organise a spring day’s drive
to Macedon in aid of the Alfred Hospital.
The drive covers transport by car both
ways, luncheon and tea at Mrs. Colts’s
Macedon home, and it also carries an
entree to some of the famous gardens
on the mount, all for 10s. per passenger.
Thus, for value, it knocks the bottom
out of the Government Tourist Bureau,
now in its extravagant new quarters in
Collins-street. Mrs. Coles’s third bird in
hand is the Alfred Hospital Golf Gym-
khana, to be held at Kingswood on Satur-
day, December 2. For the open mixed
foursomes entries are a mere ss. per pair
and the trophies are such that every
golfer, even the champions with several
shelves of shining beer mugs, will be
interested.
Joan Clark (Athol Shmith photograph)
is on the committee for the Zooie Ball
on December 9.. She’s the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. C. Clark, of
Caulfield, and among her hobbies she
numbers needlework and children, for
she’s equally happy sewing a fine seam
and helping voluntarily at the Renown
Free Kindergarten. At the moment Joan
is delighted to have her pal Jean Wallace
Mitchell home again. Joan and Jean
were at “Grammar” together since the
days when they played with the kinder-
garten’s beads and blocks.
Sherry, the mellower for being tasted
in the vicinity of old furniture and other
rich and rare antiques, was Mrs. W. E.
Agar’s manner of hospitality for her
friends last week. She gave two late-
afternoon parties in the tea lounge at
the Antique Exhibition in the Town Hall.
Among those at the first party was Fred
Doidge, who had to leave early to catch
the Sydney express, but he almost missed
it owing to his admiration of beautiful
silver, glass and other pieces of fine
craftsmanship. Mr. Doidge was well
known in London’s Fleet-street during
the years 1914-1918 and afterwards. This
war he is watching from a back seat,
having retired to a quiet life in M.L.
Also at the party was Mrs. W. J.
Young, who hopes that medico-daughter
Sylvia will desert her Arab patients in
Palestine for three months’ leave to
come home for Christmas. Wearing the
special smiles of those privileged to be
grandmothers were Mrs. W. Pulteney
Mein and Dr. Deborah Buller Murphy ;
the addition to Mrs. Mein’s quiverful of
grandchildren is a son for Mrs. Alan
Stuart. Dr. Deborah is rejoicing over
a daughter for Mrs. Mac Knox. The
address of both these new arrivals is
Epworth.
Professor Agar, an unobtrusive host
at his wife’s parties, recognised many
pieces of furniture around him, for every
time he’s returned home recently he has
found another empty space formerly
occupied by a possession lent to the Ex-
hibition. Some of his wife’s kitchen
basins, cake-mixers, etc., are also reported
missing, being temporarily in request by
the kitchen adjacent to the Exhibition’s
tea lounge. Both Professor and Mrs.
Agar look forward to overseas mails as
eagerly as anyone in Australia, for they
have a son and two daughters abroad.
Elizabeth, who was to have studied social
science in London, is doing this course
at Oxford. Latest news of Olive is good
news, for she is making a satisfactory
recovery from her recent sudden illness.
From Salisbury in Southern Rhodesia
comes news of a wedding of interest to
many Tasmanians and Victorians. The
bride was Hilda Blyth, who lived in Tas-
mania with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Blyth, before her father, who is
well known in the world of mining, trans-
ferred his activities to another part of
the Empire. The family has not lost
touch with Australian friends. Hilda and
her parents have been back to this
country on several visits, and they would
have come again this year but for the
war. The bridegroom was H. I. A. Shaw
and the marriage took place in Salisbury
Cathedral. The bride, who was given
away by her father, wore a gown of
palest pink crepe with her tulle veil held
in position with clips of ostrich-feather
tips.
Mrs. Jack Hood, Mrs. Harry Oliphant
and her sister Mrs. John Roberts were
among attractive young matrons with
gardening instincts who made their way
to Sonning, Bickleigh Vale, Moorool-
bark, on Saturday afternoon. Mrs. P. K.
Davey was also there looking fresh as
a daisy in black and white. Mrs. C. R.
Anderson and Mrs. Bill Ferguson also
motored up for the afternoon inspection
of Edna Walling’s landscape garden
property. Most people took the oppor-
tunity of a picnic with their own
hampers; for those who hadn’t sand-
wiches and flasks in their baggage, tea
in the barn was most welcome. Pot-
plants and other garden impedimenta
were for sale on the spot. Miss Walling
did the honors in linen suit and shady
hat. The good work concerned was the
Y.W.C.A.
Inez Abbott, water-colorist, is holding
her first exhibition at the Sedon Galleries.
She comes from Bendigo, is a daughter
of Senator Richard Abbott and a grand-
daughter of the late J. H. Abbott, an
M.P. of the early days of the State. Miss
Abbott was abroad for 10 years, studying
and painting in Paris and along the coast
of the Mediterranean. One of her pic-
tures of wattle and gum-trees was ac-
quired by the National Museum in Paris.
The Leonard Lansell couple deserted
Bendigo even during that flourishing
town’s big race week to come to Mel-
bourne for the opening of their friend’s
exhibition. It was owing to their per-
suasion that she held it.


PETROL RATIONING
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in an “emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia.
WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can now make his own effi-
cient gas plant to operate Tractors, Trucks,
Cars or anv kind of spark plug stationary
engine—from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design. , . ~
A good gas plant can be made out of odds
and ends for a few shillings so simple is
the principle. Our set of easily understood
drawings and complete instructions, which
cost £1 shows you how to do the job in a
practical' way, and the engine is not altered.
You can drive on petrol or charcoal at will, and
SAVE 90% IN FUEL COSTS.
Send now.
F. MAHER
178 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
CLOSE, SMOOTH SHAVES
WITH
THE
INSTANTLY
ADAPTABLE!
The Packard operates from
6- or 12-volt car batteries
or houselighting plants;
also from 240-volt A.C.
mains through specially-
approved step-down trans-
former (supplied with
shaver).
PORTABLE
6-volt Batteries.
Now it is possible for the
camper, traveller, soldier
or sailor to enjoy the
comfort of a Paekaid
electric shaver no matter
where they may be. The
specially-constructed Vesta
6-volt Battery gives 400
shaves —enough for more
than a year—and can be
recharged at the cost ot
a few pence. The Battery
is supplied free of charge
in place of the step-down
transformer.
are the “Always-remembered” Xmas Gift !
The lowest-priced quality electric dry shaver, PACKARD gives
you everything the most expensive shaver does—and MOKfc.
The patented smooth round cutting head is, the most effective
ever invented for close shaving, electrically safe operation is
assured “Safe as a Telephone,” and 1,000,000 Packards now
in use all over the world guarantee that Packard is the best
shave at any price! Insist on “The Smooth Round Head.
POST COUPON NOW —FOR DETAILS OF
SPECIAL GIFT OFFER.
Telegrams
“Journal',’
Sydney.
myMSWi
The Friendly Wholesale House.
’Phone:
8W3109
(2 lines).
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Please send me full details of the Packard Lektro-
slmver and special offer. I am particularly interested in the
• 6- or 12-volt car battery or houselighting plant model-
• 240-volt A.C. model.
1 Portable 6-volt battery model.
• (Mark article interested in.)
Address
THE SERVICE MAN
Frightfulness in a New Form.
“Nobby II.”: In 1907 representatives
of the Great Powers of Europe met at
The Hague and laid down strict rules
for the use of mines. Minefields were
to be indicated. Unanchored mines were
not to be laid unless so built as to
become harmless within an hour.
Anchored mines were to be of a type
which would be ineffective the moment
they broke loose.
When war broke out last September
the Germans declared that they would
observe the convention. Their broad-
casting stations gave lengthy details of
dangerous areas.
Then mines began to appear off the
U.K., and a week ago it was obvious
that they were being laid in quantities
and willy-nilly in the North Sea. At
this time of year all the drift is toward
the British coast and the sea lanes which
lead to the great northern ports of
France, Holland, Belgium and Scan-
dinavia. No mine could have been laid
south of Dogger Bank without the know-
ledge that it was bound to destroy some
of the great stream of neutral shipping
which pours through the English Chan-
nel and round the north of Scotland.
The mines used by the Germans,
according to Sir John Simon, are not
ordinary but magnetic mines. They are
the most deadly and insidious and in-
discriminate form of attack on shipping,
and are difficult to sweep, because
sweepers attract them as do other ships.
They are not only being laid by sub-
marines and minelayers, but from the
air—not a difficult matter with big
Dorniers and Junkers available which
can carry bomb-loads running into tons.
A mine is usually safe when it is put
down. It is left for chemical action
by sea water or otherwise to make it
lethal. And, especially with the magnetic
type, it does not need to be a surface-
floating mine. It may drift along with
the current, 15ft., 20ft. or even 30ft.
below the surface, or it may lie on the
bottom of some relatively shallow channel
through which ships are bound to pass.
The disasters which have followed the
initiation of this policy have hit neutral
nations more heavily so far than Britain.
The first big ship to go, 18 miles off the
east coast of England, was a Dutch
liner, the Simon Bolivar, bound from
Amsterdam to the West Indies. Out of
400 passengers, of whom 75 were British,
140 died, among them women and little
children. Most of the remainder went to
English hospitals, many of them severely
injured or ill from exposure.
There followed the British freighter
Blackhill (2500 tons), the Yugoslavian
Carica Malica (6370 tons), the Italian
Grazia (5827 tons), the Swedish B. O.
Borjesson (1586 tons), the Lithuanian
Kaunas (1521 tons), and an unknown
ship, all in one black week-end. Mean-
while, U-boats were active and the
British Arlington Court was torpedoed
off the Irish coast. One man was killed,
11 were injured, and the survivors suf-
fered bitter privations in the bleak
Atlantic November weather. The Pen-
silva (4258 tons) was torpedoed in the
same region, but her crew of 34 were
rescued by a warship.
Minings continued last week. Naval
losses were small but not negligible. A
1330-ton 1936-model destroyer, the
Gipsy, was mined off an east-coast
nort: “40 men missing; 21 injured.”
,i'he cruiser Belfast, torpedoed or mined
“ the Firth of Forth, had 20 injured
but steamed safely to dock. Three
sweepers, the Mastiff, Wigmore and
another, went down. A Danish fish-
ing vessel was mined in the Baltic, a
trawler and a sweeper were sunk by
U-boats in the North Sea.
There followed the crack Terukuni
Maru, one of the best passenger ships of
the Japanese Nippon Yusen Kaisha,
whose commodore, Captain Matakura,
was in command, and the Italian Fianona.
The Terukuni Maru was close to land
off the south-east of England, and had
just been cleared for contraband,
Five navigators were on the bridge
watching for mines when the ex-
plosion happened. The bridge was
shattered ; the ship immediately heeled
over; but only four persons were in-
jured, and the whole complement of 178
with 27 passengers was rescued. It is
a grave loss to Japan, which is short oi
“Ye know, Tummas, tez ard t ’ believe Were fightin' a War.”
liners and owns nothing bigger than
17,000 tons. The Fianona was badly
holed, but by pumping her crew kept
her afloat. The P. and O. liner Sussex,
carrying chilled beef from Australia, was
mined in the Channel, but was towed into
the Thames.
At the moment when these frightful
events were occurring, Britain and her
Dominions were observing the strictest
letter of international law towards Ger-
man commerce. Though contraband was
rigidly controlled, the rights of German
owners were being respected to the last
inch. Even while mines were killing
British and neutral women and children
German shipping companies were asking
for port-of-refuge contributions on ship-
ments of German goods consigned to
Australia in ships sheltering in neutral
ports, and the Associated Chambers of
Commerce, with the London Chamber of
Commerce, were negotiating to have the
proposed charges reduced and the goods
released.
The British Government resolved on
reprisals. Said the Prime Minister:
As a result of the ruthless brutality of
German methods, the Government has de-
cided, as a measure of justified reprisal,
to make exports of German origin or
ownership subject to seizure on the high
seas, as was done in the last war.... Ge-
rmany has observed none of the provisions
of The Hague Convention regarding the
laying of mines. Attacks have been made
without warning and in complete disre-
gard of the rules of the Submarine Proto-
col to which Germany subscribed, or of
the elementary dictates of humanity.
France has followed the British lead.
A similar measure was taken after 1915
as a reprisal for the unrestricted German
submarine campaign. Before 1917 the
eventual fate of goods seized was a
matter for Prize Courts, which might hand
them back to the owners. But when the
submarining became intensified the regu-
lations were, amended, and thereafter
goods were liable to summary confisca-
tion and vessels to confiscation if they
had not, before capture, called at an
Allied port for examination.
The measure now taken will bear
hardly on neutrals, but not nearly so
hardly as the wanton and summary de-
struction of their ships and the murder
of their nationals. It is unlikely to stop
the mine campaign, but it may curb it.
In any case, British ingenuity and cour-
age will find a way of checkmating this
new form of frightfulness.
“T.”: It is cheering to learn that the
Military Correspondent of Sydney “Sun ’
has no use for the “new-fangled theories.
“The Allies must attack,” this expert
thundered —twice. “They must outflank
the Siegfried Line, and drive along the
west bank of the Rhine as far as they can.”
And “the Dominion troops, with their
flair for attack,” though “unfortunately
not yet ready,” must be in the van. “They
could ultimately provide 12 divisions of
storm troops. These, with the 20 best
British divisions and, say, 20 divisions
from the French Army,” would be suffi-
cient. What if Gullett tells us (Nov. 16)
that “Germany has at the moment a sub-
stantial superiority in both the number of
army divisions and aircraft”? A fig for
Gullett!
* * * *
“Snorter”: Splinter was six-foot-two
and as fine as a whipstick, but was keen
to enlist with a few of his mates. He
went in first to be medically examined.
Before long he came out and his face
showed he had been turned down. “What
did the quack say?” one of them asked.
“The big fat cow said if I had a few
more navels I’d make a flamin good
flute! ”
* * * *
“5.0.5.”: Speaking in the House of
Reps., Lt.-Colonel “Tommy” White said
that arrangements for the second A.I.F.
did not compare with those of the
first A.I.F. He pointed out that sacri-
fices had been demanded of enlisting
men but not of camp-builders. Archie
Cameron followed, declaring that A.I.F.
pay should be Bs. a day. Jha,
he added, “was a Government prormse
and there was no tag to it. There was
a technical tag-a peace-time fining
allowance of 3s. a day, r a j
Street, Minister for the Army. Ha
that been abolished too? asked M .
Cameron. “Yes,” said Mr. Street. Mr.
Cameron thought it “a remarkable posi-
tion to lay down that war-time pay
should be lower than peace-time pay.
is * * * *
The British Secretary for War told
the Commons during the week that
nearly 1,000,000 men are under military
training in Britain, and to the original
158,000 men in France thousands are
being added every week. He added
significantly: “To win, the enemy must
break the Allied defences, an
assault is awaited with confidence by
Marshal Gamelin.”
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: German claims to
possession of a submarine capable of
descending to 300 ft. and working an
escape apparatus at that depth leave me
cold Pressure at 300 ft. would be not
less than 1201 b. to the square inch, tak-
ing only fresh-water weights, and salt
water would be considerably heavier.
Thrust into such pressure the unprotected
body would be crushed instantly.
And the wearing of a metal headpiece,
however strong, would merely make
matters worse. Cruising around out-
from-Broome pearling-grounds, I had
gruesome first-hand evidence of the fate
of a Japanese diver who had torn his
dress in 22 fathoms, permitting the
cushion of air inside to escape. Under
pressure of a mere 661 b. to the sq. in. his
shoulders had been forced up into his
helmet, jammed in so tightly that the head-
piece was buried with him. In yet another
case, down past 26 fathoms, the air hose
had burst, again releasing the protective
air cushion. The body looked as if it
had been through a mangle. Again, what
about the “staging” of ascent? A sudden
ascent from anything over 100 ft. almost
always brings on paralysis. Nor could
a sub. at 300 ft. use any telescopic
tube apparatus, such as is employed in
the taking of undersea movies ; pressure
again would be too great.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Britain will soon have in full
production a new heavy machine-gun—
15mm., or about fin., capable of firing
500 rounds per minute in short bursts at
a muzzle velocity of 2800 ft. per second.
The Besa is belt-fed like the Vickers, and
is suitable for tank and aeroplane mount-
ing or for any form of infantry trans-
port. It is likely to be a deadly weapon
against swooping aircraft because of its
mobility. In the last war heavy machine-
guns were kept away from front posi-
tions —their flashes betrayed them and
enabled them to be quickly located. And,
anyway, by modern standards there
weren’t then any heavy quick-firers worth
while.
* * * *
“Minden”: No, “C. de C.” (B.
15/11/’39), active service was not so
popular in Guernsey during the early
days of the 1914 rumpus. I remember a
series of letters in the Guernsey press
under the nom de plume of “One of the
Knapsack Breed.” They were written by
a pert young schoolmarm and fairly set
the islanders by the ears: the Chief
Constable had to ask the young lady to
write no more. The islanders are ad-
mittedly great rifleshots. They have
also produced Corporal Nurse, who won
the V.C. for saving the guns at Colenso
during the S. African war.


XMAS GIFTS
For Young Horse Riders.
ķ
THE
“KEMP
JUNIOR ”
CHILD’S
SADDLE,
£6/15/-
(MOUNTED)
Made of best quality
kip, the seat has no
seams and the panel
has leather points
down sides.
N.S.W. rail freight on saddles paid for
cash with order.
CHILDREN’S RIDING WHIPS.
4-plait, 4/6. 6-plait, 5/6.
Post 9d. each.
WALTHER * STEVENSON KZt
395 CEORCE ST. 3YPMEV
w&bg&f.
I Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
f nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
TNMO2
gjnvMGffi
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Put the
“second”
hand on the
clock of communication
In the space of a split second,
the latest news flashes across
the world to you with clarity
and brilliance—when your
radio is re-valved with
m
Z
Sealed for your protection
THE FLYING COLUMN
Australian Aerodromes.
“Aileron”: The accident at Mascot
(Sydney), the Commonwealth’s busiest
aerodrome, in which two machines were
smashed to atoms and six persons killed,
including two pilots, emphasises the
deficiencies of Australian ground organi-
sation.
Mascot is short of things which an
aerodrome needs. No modern bomber
could use it, nor would it be big enough
for the new Douglas DC4’s which will
be needed for inter-capital traffic before
long. With short runways (none over 800
yards) and too few of them, landing
’planes converge to the same point,
must come in over an identical line,
cover the same air area roughly in
approaching, and at approximately the
same altitudes. Though there is a con-
trol officer, his duty does not include
signalling in machines and guiding traffic
in the air. His duties are so heavy that
he could not possibly do the extra work.
The Air Accidents Committee long
ago recommended that 1200 yards
should be a minimum for all runways,
and experienced pilots think even this too
little. The Kyeema inquiry committee
at the beginning of the year recom-
mended the appointment of check
officers who would help to plan flights,
keep tab on the movement of ’planes in
the air and generally take steps to make
individual flights safe and prevent col-
lisions. In addition some change is
necessary in the system which sends
learners —even with instructors —off the
same ’drome as passenger and com-
mercial machines.
Air companies themselves, through
their traffic officers, and those in
control of landing grounds do their best
to protect their own and other machines,
but the commercial aerodrome of the
biggest city in the Commonwealth is
no place for light ’planes, except in ex-
ceptional circumstances. Flying clubs
and trainees should have their own
separate grounds well away from main
bases.
French Aircraft Production.
“Ailo”: The building in France of 5000
first-line aircraft and 12,000 engines was
planned in two phases, the first stage to
be completed by the spring of this year
and the second by the spring of 1940.
That plan has already been completed.
Curtiss P-36 single-seat fighters, Vought
V-156 dive-bombers, Martin 167, Douglas
B-19 twin-engine bombers and North
American trainers have been ordered in
the U.S.A. at a cost of £12,000,000, and
licenses have been acquired to manufac-
ture British engines.
When the French Armee de I’air was
formed in 1934 the force consisted of 2087
officers and 37,750 n.c.os. and men. Later
the number of all ranks was raised to
52,500. By Government decree, effective
on June 16, 1938, the force was further
increased to 3085 officers and 59,410
other ranks. Now a force of 150,000 is
planned, on the theory that there should
be at least 30 men per ’plane.
Fighter squadrons of the present force
were, at the outbreak of war, composed
mainly of Dewoitine 510, Morane-Saul-
nier 405-6 low-wing monoplanes and the
Bleriot 510 biplane. Curtiss P-36 single-
seat fighters were being added, and new
French chasers now in production include
the Bloch 151-2, a low-wing, all-metal
monoplane. Other new fighter types on test
are the Dewoitine 520, the Galtier Chaser
and the C.A.0.200. The Dewoitine,
“Forced landin', eh, mister?"
“ Shh! She's laying an egg."
Bleriot and Morane-Saulnier machines
are fitted with Hispano-Suiza liquid-
cooled engines, and are armed generally
with a light cannon which fires through
the airscrew hub.
Among the finest of new fighting
machines in the French Air Force are
the light fighter-bomber monoplanes. As
fast as single-seater fighter types, they
have considerably heavier armaments and
a crew of three. They are the Potez 63
and the Breguet 690-1, both with top
speeds of 310 m.p.h. The Potez 63 is
a low-wing monoplane fitted with either
Hispano-Suiza or Gnome-Rhone radials
giving a total output of 1300 h.p. Out-
standing in the bombardier-rapide class
is the mid-wing Amiot 350 twin-engined
monoplane. Gnome-Rhone radials of
1050 h.p. are used, and Rolls-Royce
engines have also recently been fitted.
Bombers include the new Loire and
Olivier 45, which recently exceeded 310
m.p.h. during tests. Another 11-ton all-
metal, low-wing monoplane is fitted with
two Gnome-Rhone radials of 1050 h.p.
each. The normal crew is four, and it
carries a cannon as part of the defensive
armament. Maximum range is 1430
miles.
Today's Aircraft Armament.
“Aldis”: At the end of the 1914-18
war all fighting machines were equipped
with machine-guns and a few with larger
guns firing through the arc swept by the
propeller. Now single-seater fighters
have one or two shell guns for long-
distance attack and a battery of machine-
guns in the wings for close-range fight-
ing. The machine-guns are either con-
centrated on one point or divided into
sections which shoot in the same direc-
tion.
The modern two-seater fighter carries
fixed guns (machine or cannon) for the
pilot, with movable guns for the observer-
gunner. In multi-purpose and reconnais-
sance machines, the armament is purely
defensive, and consists of machine-guns.
Most suitable weapon for this type of
aircraft is the heavy machine-gun of
12.7 mm. or 13mm. bore.
One of the latest types of multi-
engined machines for reconnaissance car-
ries a quick-firing gun in the forward
gun position. The bomber aircraft needs
to be armed in such a way that it can
repulse attacks of single- or multi-seaters.
This calls for cannon as well as machine-
guns. Dive-bombers, which must not be
confused with the heavy bombers, are
usually armed with one movable and two
fixed machine-guns. Flying-boats have
four gun positions, that in the bow often
equipped with twin guns.
Machine-guns are of two types,
light (6.5 mm. to Bmm.) and heavy
(10mm. to 15mm.). Typical fixed guns
are the German M.G.08/18 and the
Vickers and Madsen heavy and light
types. They all work on the same prin-
ciple. The explosion of the charge in
the cartridge forces barrel and breech
backwards. This movement is halted by
a spring which returns the moving parts
to the starting point. Whilst the return-
ing movement is taking place, feeding
and loading of a fresh charge are done
automatically. Ammunition is carried
either in belts of 250 to 500 rounds or in
drums, and empty cartridges and metal
links of belts are discharged into a con-
tainer to avoid possible injury to the
machine or pilot.
Highest rate of fire for movable or
observer guns where ammunition is car-
ried in drums, such as the Lewis, is 1200
rounds per minute. These guns are
usually mounted in tandem on movable
rings, functioning by expansion of gas
after explosion of the charge. The gas
forces back a piston against a spring,
which reverses the motion, and during
this operation the gun is reloaded.
Small-calibre, quick-firing cannon were
experimented with in aircraft as far back
as 1913, and in 1917 the French ace Guy-
nemer demanded the equipment of
machines with motor cannon. The type
tried was a 37mm. Hispano-Suiza motor
cannon, but the rate of fire was found
to be too slow. The Germans built three
different types of 20mm. shell gun during
the last war, the Becker being largely used
at the end of 1918. The Becker gun is
the basis of the Oerlikon shell guns of
today, which, with the Breda, the His-
pano-Suiza motor cannon and the Mad-
sen, are of 20mm. calibre. The largest
calibre shell gun is the 37mm. of the
American Armament Corporation.
There have been no great changes in
machine-gun and cannon ammunition
since 1918, the three basic types being
the tracer, incendiary and explosive.
Shells, however, have been vastly im-
proved in the last decade, with higher
efficiency in the sensitivity of fuses and
the destructive power of explosives. Most
shells contain, besides the percussion fuse,
a time fuse, which causes explosion of
the shell after seven to ten seconds. In-
stallation of fixed guns, either on top or
both sides of the engine, has been im-
proved only in the post-war period, the
principle being the same.
Fitting of guns in the wings of
fighters such as the Hurricane and
Spitfire was caused by the necessity
for increasing fire-power for the few
seconds of actual attack. An advan-
tage of this method of installation
is that no synchronising gear is needed,
the guns being outside the propeller arc ;
and, as the guns are no longer operated
by the engine, they can fire at maximum
speed. The disadvantage is that stop-
pages can no longer be cleared by the
pilot.
Caudron”: There is a heap of mys-
tery about German flights over Britain.
Sometimes, single machines go over—
London saw her first one a few days ago
—sometimes they appear in flights.
Almost always there are German casual-
ties. The machines used are not the
newest types, but Helll, such as were
used by the Condor Legion in Spain, and
Dornier 17’s. At least one has been seen
dropping mines by parachute into the
Thames estuary. Others continue to raid
the Shetlands, whence a joking R.A.F.
man carried a dead rabbit, the sole
casualty in earlier raids, to be dropped
into Germany. On the Western Front the
French lost two Curtiss 75’s, the Germans
eight ’planes in a single combat. The
only British loss was a moored seaplane
in the Shetlands. British reconnaissance
flights beyond the Siegfried Line con-
tinue with little opposition.
* * * *
“R.W.”: Tests of the Spitfire fighter
with a variable pitch airscrew put its
maximum speed at 367 m.p.h. at 18,400
feet, compared with
362 m.p.h. with
fixed-pitch. At Brus-
sels recently the Spit-
fire achieved 410
m.p.h. The Sopwith
Snipe of 1919, with
a Bentley rotary
engine, had a ton
speed of 118 m.p.h.
It was followed by
the Armstrong-Whit-
worth Siskin (155
m.p.h.) and Gloster
Grebe (145 m.p.h.), both fitted with Sid-
deley Jaguar engines; the Bristol-Jupiter-
engined Gloster Gamecock (152 m.p.h.)
and Hawker Woodcock (138 m.p.h.).
After the Bristol Bulldog (174 m.p.h.)
came the Hawker Fury (220 m.p.h.) with
a Rolls-Royce Kestrel engine, the Gloster
Gauntlet (230 m.p.h.) and Gloster
Gladiator (255 m.p.h.), both with Bristol
Mercury engines. The last three types
had not completely disappeared from the
R.A.F. at the outbreak of war.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every week six to nine
patterns are featured.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( USA .).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation ot
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ino- radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Brisbane’s New Government.
“Clayfield”: Brisbane’s long-awaited
Civic Reform Bill, in effect, creates a
miniature but impotent Parliament.
The Lord Mayor is to be relieved of
the arduous job of presiding at council
meetings by a chairman who will be a
Speaker, as it were, and receive £lOO a
year over his aldermanic salary. A civil
servant is to be city manager and to
allot duties for and control the staff. It
will be compulsory for the council to
act on his recommendations regarding
staff numbers and duties, efficiency,
economy and general working, training,
discipline and organisation.
There does not seem to be much left
for the council to do except try to look
dignified. Standing Orders are to be
approved by the Governor-in-Council,
aldermen are liable to suspension
for breaches of them, and the Gov-
ernor-in-Council is also given power to
declare resolutions null and void.
Contracts may be voided by the
G.-in-C., and the other contracting party,
left high and dry without right to com-
pensation, though the council may be
allowed to reimburse him.
Mr. Jones must, however, be grateful
for the small mercy contained in the
clause which states that the appointment
of the chairman shall “in no way preju-
dice the Lord Mayor as leader in council
or his right to control the business of
the council or its committees.” Also for
Minister Hanlon’s explanation why a
chairman has been provided for. It
appears that his Worship, being in the
chair, is “unable to reply adequately to
cowardly slanders upon the city and in-
sults to the occupant of the chair” and
finds himself in an “almost unendurable
position,” since he cannot remove offen-
ders against decorum without “laying
himself open to a charge of trying to
stifle criticism.”
In other words, it seems that keeping
order among the handful of Bumbles
in a city that has been brought to the
verge of bankruptcy is a whole-time job,
answering criticism is another whole-time
job and managing the city is still another
whole-time job. And none of the in-
cumbents saddled with these duties is
free to carry them out without Cabinet
control.
Mr. Hanlon says that “drastic legisla-
tion was called for to deal with the
situation.”
Drastic the bill is—as odd a bit of
municipal legislation as Australia has
seen.
“Q.C.R.”: Forgan Smith in a statis-
tical moment has calculated that the
speech of Herbert Yeates, M.L.A. for
East Toowoomba, on his Estimates was
14 yards long when reduced to print. It
filled 32 pages of “Hansard.” The
pioneers would have thought nothing of
that. Joe Lesina, Clermont’s Solon, once
spoke impromptu for 6hrs. 40min. —it
was on the Hampden-Mt. Elliott Railway
Bill in 1908. Printed, it ran to 64,000
words —the length of a moderate-sized
novel. But Joe was a sparkling speaker,
who could always depend on a full house
for an audience. That time he kept it
laughing all night.
ip * * if
“D.” meets a Territorian:
Anybody who reckons there’s no gold at
Tennant Creek (N.T.) should have a word with
A 1 MacDonald, now in Sydney on a holiday
from mining, his wallet bulging with what
he has dug out of the field. Before he took
to mining A 1 had an interest in the fight game
—he is N.T. champ, now. After attend-
ing the big 1914-18 affair he had the gloves
on with such boys as Harry Casey, Ernie
Unwin, George White, Pud Segar, Gordon
Kiley, Dick Elmour, A 1 Burke, Vince Parker
and Eddie Butcher. Then he tried pearling and
trochus-shelling around Broome and Derby.
MacDonald headed for Tennant in 1932.
There he borrowed a blanket and swag from
Jack Noble —now owner of one of Tennant’s
pubs—and the pair sank the first shaft on the
field, the Wheal Doria. They sent H tons
of ore to Peterborough (S.A.) and got 58
ounces of gold out of it. Next year A 1 staked
the Black Angel, sold half an interest for £250,
took £2500 worth of gold out of the show
himself in 14 months and sold his remaining
half for £3OOO. In between times he has cleared
£BOO on Wolfram from Wauchope, taken Dr.
Buffer Murphy and party out to Hatches Creek
to see the wolfram there, and chased after tin
out from Ti-Tree.
Boxing is not his only love in the sporting
line. He organised Tennant’s third football
team, the Black Angels, which boasted an All
Black of 1932, the holder of the N.Q. blazer
for 1938, and a one-time Scotch international.
To the disgust of Darwinites, who play Aus-
tralian Rules, Tennant plays Rugby League.
A 1 married a Tennant Creek lass last year—
“ Three-decker cake, all Tennant was there, and
the beer cost £75.” Mr. and Mrs. MacDonald
are returning to the field after they’ve driven
their utility truck and caravan to Adelaide.
“Hey! No goin' out over y'r depth!”
Al’s description of the field is graphic: “Good
place . .. 1000 men there . . . plenty of gold . . .
both batteries booked out until February . . .
need more batteries and more water.”
* * *
“Ching Do”: A little of the spirit of
the old North has flared up in Mary-
borough (Q.), where a miner jumped
from a dock, heaved a water-jug and ink-
well in the general direction of attendant
constabulary, threw a full inkwell at the
nearest reporter —a John Hop gallantly
deflected it —jumped over a gent, one, and
grappled with four coppers. The Court
charged him with “interrupting proceed-
ings,” to which charge he meekly replied
that he sometimes found it necessary “to
let off steam.” His method was more
exciting but less effective than that of
the Milo shearer who once reached
quietly over and grabbed the late
W. R. O. Hill, P.M., by his nanny-goat
beard. “L-l-let me gu-go,” spluttered Hill,
who stuttered except when he sang in
choir. “All right,” said the sheep’s
barber. “I let you go, you let me go.”
“I w-wu-will,” yelled Hill, whose lower
jaw was beginning to stretch. And being
a sport —he was a fine boxer and as
game a little man as ever walked —he
kept his promise. But that shearer was
careful not to come before him again.
* * *
“Ross Creek”: Townsville is growing
into a sizable port. It handled 470,000
tons of cargo last year (compared with
420,000 tons in 1936) and spent £17,000
on dredging to improve approach
channels. Altogether, since the inception
of the board in 1897, nearly £1,500,000
has been spent on works and mainten-
ance, and revenue has totalled just on
£2,500,000. In its first year the board
collected only £13,775. In 1938 income
was nearly six times the amount, despite
the fact that harbor dues have been
reduced below pre-war standards.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Rankine” has been
forestalled in his idea of a picked unit
of mixed-bloods as an adjunct to the
Darwin Mobile Force (B. 15/11/ 39).
Forty strong, they have gained the praise
of the M.F. instructors for their intelli-
gence, military aptitude and soldierly
keenness. During the four months since
the platoon was formed they have
averaged five nights weekly for drill and
training. All wear the standard militia
uniform, all are educated and speak
English well. They do all types of in-
fantry training, and have already attained
high efficiency. And “R.” shouldn t be
ungrateful to pure-blood abos. because
of alleged Dravidian origins. Some put
up mighty good shows in Gallipoli and
France.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: It looks as if Rabaul is to
remain the New Guinea capital in spite
of the reports of two committees ol
inquiry, which favored Lae on the main
island, and of Mr. W. M. Hughes, who
favored Salamaua. The Government has
received private information that there
may not be another volcanic eruption
round Matupi for another half-century.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Unless the results of a
beer-drinking effort at Mt. Isa have been
scandalously understated Queensland s
far north-west has degenerated sadly.
A local suction-artist backed himself for
£5 to down eight pints in 15 minutes with
the usual proviso attaching to such feats
that he should hold it against any return
trip within the specified time-limit. He
started strong and stowed away six in
five minutes ; but the seventh was heavy
going, and by the middle of the last the
bet was called off under the non-return
clause. In pre-war days Cloncurry in
those parts could have provided a dozen
experts who would have been overjoyed
to take on that wager, even with a couple
of pints already under hatches as a han-
dicap, and none would have lost. Their
technique was one of slow, steady
swallows, not less than 15 seconds apart.
One A-grade performer used a piece of
glass tube to save waste effort in lifting
the pots.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Scathing reported
sample of the kind of aldermanic oratory
which resounds through Brisbane’s costly
though depreciated City Hall, where loans
from any source will be gratefully
received:
Like a good Labor man, Alderman
Dent clutches at a straw to keep him
afloat until the axe of the Q.C.E. floats up
and the guillotine reduces him to a con-
dition in which we hope he will be a
worthy citizen.
It almost attains the level of the West-
ralian political denunciation of an oppo-
nent for shamelessly dragging a red
herring across the dazzling vault of the
blazing heavens to obscure the Eye of
Truth.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A N.Q. miner is con-
gratulating himself on his choice of Tas-
mania for a holiday trip with his wife
and small daughter, although neither
scenery, climate nor apples were respon-
sible for making it so pleasant. During
a bush walk in the Scottsdale district
he came on a strip of land where rub-
bish and forkings from old shows on
the abandoned Lisle goldfield had been
dumped. Local prospectors told him that
they had tried it and drawn a blank, but
he decided to give it a fly for amuse-
ment. He managed to bring in water,
and his wife, who has practical mining
knowledge, attended to the sluicing. After
a few colors he struck a lead which
cleaned up for nearly 14oz of gold, for
which he got £ll7. The family is le-
arning north with much appreciation
of their pleasant change in the Apple
Isle-in fact, a solid bit more than mere
change.
* * *
“Mitch”: The craze for association
has infected heads of nine great public
schools, who have formed the Head-
masters’ Association of Queensland for
“betterment of secondary education and
advancement of education generally.,
P. M. Hamilton, boss of Brisbane Boys
College, is secretary. Some people think
they see a connection between this and
the recent claim in the State Parliament
that education should be investigated.
:jt * * *
“Atrax”: “Lam” (B. 15/11/’39) on
NT vital statistics for 1938 gets bogged
in the common but grievous error of
considering only rates, not the numbers
they are based on. His marriage rate
of 11.7 per 1000 is made up from 67
marriages in a population of 5645, his
record twin birthrate from four sets of
twins, and his female birthrate (it
“dwarfed every other part of the Com-
monwealth”) from 48 girl babies. The
54 boys give a far higher rate. Death-
rate figures are even more misleading.
Two male and four female deaths under
one year comprise the alleged “largest
proportion” of such deaths in Australia.
The Victorian rate of 34.21 was calcu-
lated from 1038 infant deaths in a popu-
lation of 1,187,818.
*„ * h * tj for some .
** A * • s w Lrn Queensland
body to visit. western
reduce the incident of sandy blight,
a sma u boy 40 years ago
chronic aeony every year; and
r th “= Barco V rot . A
m t dinic with a nurse ,or
™ eill s fflo ur £hea _ standard pro-
|ecti ’ ve which would ward off
flies, would help, and so would a large
supply of light, all-enclosed goggles. A
Sydney doctor with whom I discussed the
mader remarked that if mothers took
pro p er care Q f t heir kids the incidence of
tbe trouble would be reduced. That
me dico had evidently never been a Paroo
or Bulloo mother living in an iron
shanty, clearing water from the billa-
bong w j tb as hes, cooking, cleaning,
rnonHincr and sometimes chODDins wood
mending ana sometimes cnupp g
in a temperature round the century mark.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
■
:
k
?' V
l l
>:
i
M m*.
n
m
m
S
;
: l
WE#
7 <
ses
■1
■
-
m
n
n
■
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
O Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
@ out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
0 fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
REGD.
cdt tyicjJi
BORN
SHORN
WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
}
MANLY
Queen of Pleasure
Resorts
“JUST ACROSS SYDNEY’S FAMOUS HEADS”
SIXTY MILES OF SCENIC WONDER
The Dress Circle view of Sydney Harbour, embracing over sixty
miles of magnificent harbour views, is obtained from a Manly
Beach Steamer—the finest and cheapest of all harbour trips.
MANLY’S FREE WONDER POOL
The largest enclosed Free Bathing Pool in Australia affords endless
fun and enjoyment—Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving
Towers, Springboards, Crazy Floats, Rolling Logs and Horses—
and many other aquatic novelties are in the WONDER POOL.
The Pool is floodlit at night both over and under the water with
3,000,000 candlepower lamps, and remember ... it is FREE!
WHY NOT STAY AT MANLY?
Travel by Steamer—lt’s Safer—Quicker —Cheaper
Daily Fares: Adults, 6d.; Children (up to 14 years), 1 d.; 5 years
and under, free.
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY STEAMSHIP
CO. LTD.
No. 2 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY. ’Phone: 83221, 83783
r
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.J.W.: Not taking that “Cure” J.F.:
Occasional crudities spoil them A.D.: Leave
it to Tennyson A.H.M.: Not up E.T.W.:
It limps M.A.S.: Rhetoric D.V.R.: Try
elsewhere L.H.H.: Doubt if they are syndi-
cating poetry yet W.E.L.: Curious
G.C.G.: Thought “Gone” was about the
children till we came to “No wagging tail
now greets me at my door” P.R.D.: Beer,
Glorious Beer” might make a marching song
for the militia, but it won’t go down here....
M.H.: Satire needs wit ; yours has only sar-
casm M.McM.: Lively ; but little
E.F.E.: “The Punter’s Lament” is truly lament-
able. .. .N.P.C.: For children 0n1y... .P.K.:
What about giving it up for the duration ?
R.J.M.: A weakling F. 0.: Another dying
swagman!... .W.S.: No doubt the lady will
like it... .G.H.T.: “Something” tells us no.
G.W.H.: Color not bad, yarn not up
J.M.K.: Neat, but off our beat H.H.G.:
Just a glimmer of a plot J.G.H.: Try a
daily A.G.M.: That, too, should find a
market 8.5.: Have you heard the one about
the three bears? G.F.: No H.MJ.:
Where’s the point?... .E.W.: Slick but slight.
•.. .R.D.: “Return” returning N.M.: Also
‘You Can’t Return”... .R.R.: One of many.
....M.C.; Even the 0.8. E. doesn’t help
V.T.: The Religious Editor has framed a copy.
. ...M.T.G.: You’re on the wrong track alto-
gether T.R.N.: “A Wisp of Smoke” just
that... .G.R.1.: “I’m a little up in the air.”
You’re out of sight... .F.N.R.: It trudges over
familiar ground 8.R.H.: Tittle-tattle
F.J:. “Passport” won’t admit you... .8.R.L.:
Nothing in that batch, but come again
P.0.M.: Say it more concisely G.L.M.:
Not worth talking about... .J.W.: Both
featherweights 8.L.: Might get through if
you add a few more examples U.8.T.: He’s
a good writer but a bad model F.K.R.:
No room for fairy stories H.T.D.: There
are some things we can’t forgive L.P.T.:
You’re wasting your time and ours, t 00....
F.T.S.: No, we haven’t seen anything like it,
and we hope that we never shall H.R.P.:
“Begone!” indeed S.S.D.: That’s about the
999,999 th prospector to discover that lost lode.
N.H.P.: “The Merits of Prohibition” drove
us out for a reviver C.D.J.: You forgot to
cheer at the finish... .C.D.S., L.N., P.W.M.,
H.R.W.8., P.F. and T.H.: None of them hit
the mark D.8.R.: “Island Justice” isn’t very
exciting 8.R.: Neither of them strikes any
fire E.L.: No E.A.T.: Better suited to
a daily; and too late for that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.W.: You’re a feeble punster and an indifferent
draughtsman... .H.A.: Tossed out W.8.G.:
Neatly arranged, but humorless A.R.J.: The
bomber is now winging its way home E.F.:
We didn’t fancy those scratchy lines G.S.:
Pay a visit to the Zoo next time you’re in
Sydney... .E.H.: Do you want to make us the
laughingstock of every wardroom in the Aus-
tralian Navy? ... .W.M.: The strange-bedfellows
idea is not as new as you think it is
0.G.5.: A glance at our columns should have
told you that we don’t want abstract studies
of that nature... .V.T.: Not quite this week’s
worst... .P.P.: You managed the stripes on the
convicts’ uniforms, but that was about all
A.S.H.: You have one redeeming feature—
you do send sufficient stamps for the return
of your drawings D.L.: An old friend
M.C.: Poses are wooden, and there is not
sufficient contrast between the tones
M.R.R.: Nothing about it to make us want to
unlock the cashbox R.R.: We have seen
worse, also many thousands better A.A.:
No hope for your lanky friend or his down-at-
heels partner.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“J. Umbo”: A note from London sug-
gests that Whipsnade Zoo may put its
elephants to the plough. The zoo owns
a bit of land in Bedfordshire, and is
thinking of transferring a lot of its
charges there away from the danger of
air raids. Fodder is likely to be scarce,
and portion of the area may. be sown
to crop, the pachyderms being used in
the implements. It should be a sight to
startle the local yokel, if any of the
breed is left.
* * * *
What politicians call our small popu-
lation is a favorite excuse for addle-
headed paternalism, wild loan-drunks and
meek Following of Britain, except in the
one-Parliament matter. It is a large
population compared with the population
of Wales (559,000) and of Scotland
(1,652,400) at the 1801 census. Even in
England the census-takers of 1801 could
find only 8,609,000 people. And for
eight years U.K. had been fighting the
French and granting subsidies to half
Europe, besides being busy with any
amount of other things, including the
colonisation of Australia.
* * * 4!
“B. Park”: Australians may find much
to be sore about when they realise what
the war is costing them, but it is doubtful
if any one of them had to pay £BOOO
out of his own pocket as a result of
the declaration, a fate that befel Harry
Parker, a London bookie. He bet 2 to 1
no war.
* * * *
The British and French have with-
drawn troops from North China. Tokio
welcomed the step as calculated to im-
prove relations, but according to one of
those Famous American Correspondents
“the Japanese Army at Tientsin considers
the movement a sign of weakness” and
has “renewed insults to Britishers.” An-
other Famous Correspondent thereupon
learned “in diplomatic circles” what Rib-
bentrop “angrily declared” when informed
of the Franco-British replies to the
Dutch-Belgian offer of mediation —“King
George and President Lebrun will rue the
day they sent their impudent answers.”
After the invasion scare, the Dutch talked
of expelling the whole body of Famous
Correspondents from their section of the
vast lie-factory. If they were all packed
off to Tristan da Cunha, the Mad Con-
tinent would have a chance of becoming
sane.


CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
.. The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Exp. young subsidised schoolteacher wants
to hear of position with musical people in
a place where there is some social life.—5392.
Words of poem “The Hellgates of Soissons.”
—5417.
Source of the line “In what green island of
the Nile does Cleopatra still despair for
Anthony, the debonair?”—5389.
Information Sought.
What is “international law,” so often referred
to in the newspapers ? —5422.
It is a body of principles described by one
authority as “the slow growth of modern
times under the combined influence of Christi-
anity and commerce.” Its infancy took the
modest form of commercial usage, then passed
into the authority of royal ordinances, and
“finally became by silent adoption a generally
connected system founded, upon natural con-
venience, and asserted by the general comity
of the commercial nations of Europe.” No
nation is bound by, it, but by this silent adop-
tion it has come to have the effect of law
without the force of promulgated legislation.
It is a law of usage and precedent. Many
textbooks, have been written, on this unwritten
law, which may, unfortunately, be flouted at the
will of any dissentient nation. To some extent
its principles have been codified and, defined
as the result of conferences between the
nations. ,
* * * *
How far may a person go in self-defence if
he is attacked or threatened by, say, a thief,
burglar or footpad? —5430.
Self-defence has been defined as a “primary
law of nature,” and the defence of oneself,
wife, parent, child, master or servant is a
right which belongs to every person. The
party whose person or property is attacked is
not required to retreat, as in ordinary defence,
but may attack his assailant and even follow
him up until he himself, his dependants and
his property are out of danger. This, however,
would not justify anyone in indiscriminate use
of a revolver; he must be sure of his man or
men, but once assured he may in self-defence
even kill the offender. He ought not, however,
to proceed to this last extremity until he has,
in reason, taken all other possible steps. The
Crimes Act (N.S.W.), following English legisla-
tion, provides that “No punishment or for-
feiture shall be incurred by any person who
kills another by misfortune only, or in his own
defence.” There are also the cases where the
homicide may, in the eyes of the law, be con-
sidered as justifiable. For example, a woman
is justified in killing one who attempts to ravish
her, and also a husband in killing a man who
attempts a rape on his wife or daughter.
* * * *
(1) Does the bulldog ant sting or bite?
(2) What is a handy bush antidote for its
sting or bite? (3) Is its sting or bite dan-
gerous ?— 5400.
(1) It does not bite, as is supposed gener-
ally, the large jaws being used merely to hang
on so that the sting in the tail can be driven
into the victim. As the sting is plain, not
barbed, as is the sting of the bee, the ant can
insert and withdraw her sting as often as she
wishes. (2) In most parts of the bush a handy
antidote for the sting of the bulldog ant is the
root of the common bracken fern, which, when
cut and applied to the wound, brings almost
instant relief. (3) Although causing great pain
the sting of the bulldog ant cannot be re-
garded as dangerous.
(1) Prospects of making a living at fishing
on the Murray? (2) Best locality? (3) Means
of sending the fish to market? (4) Would £100
buy sufficient equipment for a beginner ? (5)
Any other hints for a novice ?— 5108.
(1) Uncertain. Success is governed to a great
extent by the seasons. In good years with fairly
high river competent fishermen do well; in low,
clear water in dry years their catches fair to a
non-payable minimum, and most river fishermen
follow some other calling in such conditions.
(2) A long stretch of lightly-worked water lies
between Moira Lakes and Swan Hill, but no
particular locality can be specially recom-
mended. (3) Railway transport to Melbourne
market is available at numerous places along
the Murray. (4) Easily—all that you would
need would be a light boat, drum and meshing
nets, lines, etc. (5) If you have no river-fishing
experience, you would do well to visit the
Murray and observe the fishermen’s methods
before buying plant.
* .* * *
(1) Would cider-making be a profitable side-
line for an average N.S.W. apple-grower? (2)
blames of publications dealing with cider-
making ? —5 111.
(1) Not recommended. The process is as
intricate as that of wine-making and requires
expert knowledge, long experience and very
close attention. (2) Study in Cider-making, by
W. B. Alwood, The Apple i Pear as Vintage
Fruits, by R. Hogg and H. Graves Ball,
Reports on Cider-making at Butleigh, by Lloyd,
and C. W. Radcliffe Cooke’s book on the
subject. Pamphlets and other literature are
obtainable from the various State Agricultural
Departments.
(1) Where can I learn to become a marine
diver in Sydney? (2) Qualifications? (3) Is
there a shortage of divers in Sydney? (4) Age
to begin to learn ?— 5120.
(1) There is no regular course. Get in touch
with a contractor engaged on underwater work,
offering services as assistant or tender. Thus
pick up knowledge about dressing and undress-
ing, the construction of the pump and the use
of the signal- or lifeline. After that, for
a gratuity or otherwise, you may be able to
secure an opportunity to get under water. You
will then discover whether you are suited for
the work—some men are not. It takes years
in any case to become efficient. (2) Apart from
actual diving exp- ience, a diver should be a
combination of shipwright, boilermaker, car-
penter and rigger, with some knowledge of
masonry, pneumatic toolwork and oxy-acetylene
cutting added. (3) There are generally sufficient
competent men available. (4) Between 20
and 25.
* * * *
(1) Is it necessary to obtain registration in
order to trade as an estate agent in Sydney?
'(2) Any books on the subject? (3) What Acts
of Parliament is an agent required to know ?
(A) Any examinations one could sit for in order
to secure a <■ diploma- in real-estate work?
(5) Any, lectures given on the subject? —3262.
(1) There is no registration necessary for
anyone starting as a real-estate agent so long
as he confines himself to real estate. Should
he desire to sell a business, including resi-
dentials, it is necessary to take out a license
‘ under the Business Agents Act and pay the
required fees. (2) There are not many books
available oh real estate ; such as there are may
be inspected in the library of the Real Estate
Institute of N.S.W., Sydney. This institute
publishes a monthly paper, obtainable at ss.
p.a., in which will be found helpful information.
(3) The main things an agent requires to
know are the contents of the various Acts of
Parliament which govern real estate, Law of
Contracts, Landlord and Tenant Act, etc. (4)
All the real estate institutes in Australia are
amalgamated in a Federal body which con-
ducts examinations every two years and issues
a diploma to successful candidates. (5) The
Real Estate Institute of N.S.W. conducts a
course of lectures in conjunction with the
University Extension Board.
* * * *
Qualifications and duties of a surveyor’s
chainman ? How long would it take one to
learn the job ? —5242.
Any man of ordinary intelligence can be a
surveyor’s chainman; he must, however, be
physically fit and observant. A chainman is a
surveyor’s laborer, and his duties naturally are
to do as the surveyor wishes; he must be able
to read a tape or chain, use an axe, use a
plumb bob, and assist a surveyor in “running
lines.” He should be able to use his common-
sense and to anticipate some o r the difficulties
a surveyor may encounter. The chainman has
generally to work ahead of the surveyor, and
unless he has some idea what is required of
him it is necessary to go and tell him, which,
of course, is waste of time. A surveyor’s duties
are numerous and varied, and the routine of
one class of survey may be quite different from
another, so that the experience gained on one
class of work would not necessarily mean that
a chainman is qualified in another class, though,
generally speaking, after about a month’s ex-
perience with one surveyor on one class of
work a man would be able to do all that is
required of him.
* * * sp
What is vegetable ivory? —s2so.
Vegetable ivory is obtained from the tagua-
palm, which grows wild along the west coast
of South America. It is a palm-fern, 10ft. to
20ft. high, with a short trunk crowned with
large, bright-green feathery leaves. The fruit
is somewhat similar to the coconut, growing
in drupes about the size of a man’s head.
A woody, fibrous wall encloses the seeds
proper, which are hard, white and fine-grained,
like real ivory.
* * * *
Origin of the prefix “Fitz” seen in family
names, and what does it mean ? —5246.
From old French fflz or ffz (modern French,
fils'), which were derived from the Latin filius,
it is a word in use from the twelfth century
in names of English families, especially of
French origin, meaning “son,” and in earliest
times was used especially for the illegitimate
sons of kings and princes of the blood. Thus
the children of Henry I. and his mistress, Nesta,
daughter of Rhys Ap Tudor, prince of South
Wales, were called Fitzhenry. From her were
also descended the families of Fitzmaurice and
Fitzstephens, members of which were among the
Anglo-Norman leaders who invaded Ireland
and settled there.
* * * *
How to mount a map on calico? —5118.
The calico, cut two inches bigger than the
map all round, is tacked to a board, keeping
it free from wrinkles and fairly taut, spacing
the tacks three inches apart all round. The
map is laid flat face downwards on a sheet of
clean paper and damped all over with a wet
sponge or cloth. Then apply paste evenly all
over. The calico should then be slightly
damped, and while damp the pasted side of
map is applied to the calico commencing at the
top and smoothing downwards and outwards
until all the map is in contact with the calico.
To remove any air bubbles between the map
and the calico, a squeegee should be passed
over the surface of the map, but not too
heavily. The job is left until thoroughly dry,
when it is removed from board and trimmed.
* s* * *
Is there food value in powdered skim-milk?
If so, what is its ratio of food value to ordi-
nary cow’s milk? —5115.
Skimmed cow’s milk has definite nutritional
value, since it possesses both protein (casein)
and carbohydrate (lactose). .It will furnish
about 11 calories (heat units) per ounce, com-
pared with 20 calories per ounce of normal
milk. Skimmed milk alone is not a balanced
ration, but it is a valuable foodstuff for sup-
plementing other food. Any process of drying
is liable to injure the vitamins present in the
fresh article.
* * # *
(1) Points to observe in buying an Airedale
terrier ? (2) Are these dogs suitable if children
are in the house? —sl44.
(1) Large head, square muzzle, dark eyes and
powerful jaws; front legs straight, with plenty
of bone; ribs well sprung, with ample,space for
lungs; coat harsh and short; feet small and
well bunched together; tail should be carried
well; weight, 401 b. to 451 b.; height, 21 in. to
22in.; color, head and legs tan, ears dark
tan, body darker tan. (2) Yes, though as
youngsters they are inclined to be rough in
their play.
**• * *
How to grow the Australian flowering-gum
from the nut after the blossom has dried off?
—5150.
You don’t plant the nut or fruit of euca-
lypts, including the flowering-gum (Eucalyptus
ficifolia) ; you extract the seed. The fruit
should' be .. collected . when the flowers have
fallen; *if not dry, artificial heat up to lOOdeg.
F. should be applied until the seed is released.
The best method is to place the fruit on a fin.-
mesh sieve and shake from time to time during
the drying process. The seed from this species
is easily distinguished from others on account
of its wings. It needs no further treatment
before sowing.
* * * *
(1) Best time to lop Moreton Bay fig-trees?
(2) Bluegums ? —4935.
(1) The Moreton Bay fig can be severely
cut at practically any time without harming it,
but severe lopping is best carried out during
winter, since the sap commences to move in
spring, and the young growth comes much
earlier than if the tree is cut in midsummer.
(2) Bluegums are best cut back during winter,
but, if not cut very severely, they may be
lopped now.
* * * *
How can I eradicate slaters ? —5133.
The best control for slaters is to dust their
haunts and hiding-places with sodium-fluoride
(poison). A useful method is to set out flat
boards in damp situations, and to dust beneath
them with sodium-fluoride, when the slaters
have commenced to congregate there. Do not
apply the dust directly to plants, except weeds.
Also, lightly-boiled potatoes cut into slices,
which are then sprinkled with Paris green, cal-
cium arsenate or lead powder, are recommended.
Place these potato baits under boards, stones
or in damp situations where the slaters accumu-
late.
* * *■ *
(1) Latest Australian unemployment figures?
(2) State populations at June 30, 1939 P (3)
Names of State Premiers and political color
of their Governments? (4) Have any State
elections been held this year? —s4sß.
(1) The latest available particulars are the
percentages of trade unionists unemployed in
the September quarter of 1939. These are as
follows: N.S.W. 12.1, Vic. 11.2, Q’land 5.8,
S.A. 9:4, W.A. 8.2, Tas. 8.3, Aus. 10.4. (2)
State populations at June 30, 1939, were as
follow: N.S.W. 2,746,871, Vic. 1,881,433,
Q’land 1,016,498, S.A. 595,770, W.A. 465,429,
Tas. 236,646, N.T. 6189, A.C.T. 12,054, Aus.
6,960,890. (3) N.S.W., A. Mair, U.A.P.; Vic.,
A. A. Dunstan, C.P.; Q’land, W. Forgan Smith,
Labor; S.A., T. Playford, U.A.P.; W.A., J. C.
Willcock, Labor; Tas., E. Dwyer-Gray (Labor).
(4) The only election held this year was in
W.A., where the Labor Government was re-
turned.
* * * *
Is the old legal maxim “the greater the truth
the greater the libel” a contradiction in terms ?
—5270.
It may at first sight appear to be a contra-
diction in terms but is not really so. The
maxim is framed on the assumption that an
injurious or derogatory statement which is true
is likely to cause more offence than one which
is not true. In an early case a lady charged
another lady with having said that she had a
“red nose.” This the complainant admitted,
but added pathetically: “if I had not had
a red nose' I should not have minded, but
unhappily I have.”
* * * *
Can 1 call upon the owner of an adjoining
property in Sydney to contribute his share
towards the erection and maintenance of a
dividing fence ? —5266.
The Dividing Fence Act (N.S.W.) provides
that an adjoining landowner may be called on
to pay half the cost of the original dividing
fence and assist in equal proportion to its
subsequent repair. You should furnish the
neighbor with a notice to do so if he is not
prepared to fall in with the requirement. The
Government, however, is exempt, for you
cannot claim for half the cost of a fence
along a public thoroughfare.
* * * *
What is meant by blood pressure; cause and
symptoms? Is it dangerous, and can it be
cured by dieting and medicine? —s2l4.
It is an increase of force in the flow of the
blood through super-hardened arteries. The
causes are many, the chief one being over-
work (chiefly brain work), lack of rest, faulty
diet and overfeeding, too much alcohol, kidney
disease, etc. Symptoms range from mild head-
ache and giddiness to a “stroke.” The con-
dition can be considerably relieved by rest and
careful attention to the amount and kind of
food taken. Drugs are of value in some cases.
Brief Answers.
A DJ.: Skyhigh to Shanghai, by Frank
Clune (12s. 6d.), Australian Journey, by Paul
McGuire (125.), They Built a Nation, by
Francis Clancy (9s. 6d.), I Recall, by R. H.
Croll (7s. 6d.), and Pastoral Symphony, by
J. J. Hardie (7s. 6d.) J.H.: Bindarregah is a
N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “the native
pine-tree” N.M.: Write general secretary,
Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation
Committee, 66 King-street, Sydney H.F.M.:
Write Department of Commerce, 419 Collins-
street, Melbourne... .A.H.: Write to the
Inquiry Officer, Victoria Barracks, Sydney
W.A.K.: William 11. was the son of the
Emperor Frederick 111. and the Empress Vic-
toria, Princess Royal of Great Britain and
eldest daughter of Queen Victoria. The
Tsarina was Princess Alix of Hesse, fourth
child of Alice, the third child of Queen Vic-
toria; therefore the Kaiser and the Tsarina
: were cousins... .A.W.W.: Write to Divisional
Officer, N.S.W. Weather Bureau, Miller’s Point,
Sydney D.G.C.: (1) No tax is payable by
the employer, and the TOd. per week is de-
ducted from the wages paid to the employee.
' (2) Any form of wages record is accepted by
the Taxation Department so long as it com-
plies with the instructions on page four of the
employers’ schedule, which may be obtained
from any post office. (3) The tax is payable
by the employee on weekly earnings, irrespective
of the manner in which the wages are paid....
N. 0.: (1) N.S.W. delegates to the Federal
Convention of 1897-98 were Edmund Barton,
G. H. Reid, J. H. Carruthers, W. McMillan,
W. P. Lyne, J. N. Brunker, R. E. O’Connor,
J. P. Abbott, J. T. Walker and B. R. Wise.
(2) and (3) Consult files of “S. M. Herald” in
N.S.W. Public Library... .A.H.: Unable to
trace preparation... .G.W.F.J.: There was no
such rank either in the A.I.F. or in the British
Army during the Great War of 1914-18....
M. : According to Farmer’s Native Vocabu-
lary, Guyong means “fire.” It was used by
the aboriginals inhabiting the Brisbane Waters
and Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.) districts F.F.:
(1) and (2) Consult a builder... 1K.8.: It was
published by the R. S. Sampson Printing Cos.,
971 Hay-street, Perth 5.M.8.: Reference
would need to be made to the law of the
country in which a ship was interned to deter-
mine whether such ship was liable to port
charges and, if so, upon whom the responsi-
bility for payment rested... .T.M.: Purcell
outpointed Jake Kilrain, welterweight champion
of Great Britain, in 10 rounds at Glasgow
on August 20, 1937, but did not have the resi-
dential qualifications to fight Kilrain for his
title. Purcell planned to stay in England for
six months and fight Kilrain for his champion-
ship, but Ernie Roderick stopped Purcell in
five rounds at London on October 15, 1937,
and Purcell returned to Australia. Roderick then
won the British welterweight championship
by defeating Kilrain in Liverpool on. March 23,
1939....A.W.: The majority of the rods used
in Queensland are made by amateurs for their
own use, but finished rods may be obtained
from the following: G. Shaw, Albert-street,
Brisbane; H. Sparkes, Stanley-street, South
Brisbane; E. Paspall, Melbourne-street, South
Brisbane; G. Sanders, Thornside, via Wynnum;
and Hoskins and Cos., Creek-street, Brisbane.
. ...8.H.A.: Willis, Barrett and Duncan,
Mason’s Buildings, Sugden-place, Melbourne.
.:. .E.H.L.: Write Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney... .R.E.T.: Refer your
question to the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission, 264 Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.T.8.:
The Service Dept, cannot undertake to make
a search of patent records. Suggest that yon
consult a patent attorney or call at the Patents
Office, Commonwealth Bank Bldg., Martin-place,
Sydney... .D.M.S.: The lottery was instituted
by the Equitable Building Society for the reali-
sation of the assets of the Queensland De-
posit Bank, and was drawn on December 18,
1893, by George Adams, of Tattersall’s “con-
sultation.” The first prize of £30,000 was won
by H. Butler, of Melbourne... .K. 8.: N.S.W.
Railways Commissioner T. J. Hartigan joined
the N.S.W. railways service as a junior clerk
in 1892. He was appointed Chief Commissioner
on December 23, .1932 E.K.: Every member
of a partnership is at common law liable for
the whole of the debts of the partnership. He
is not, however, liable for the individual debts
of a partner incurred in his private life such
as for food, clothing and so on J.J.C.: (1)
It is erected to mark the boundaries of the
separate enclosed properties and has no rela-
tion necessarily to the exclusion of trespassing
animals, except that trespass by stock on en-
closed land is. an offence punishable by fine.
(2) There is no universally recognised form
of fence. (3) It would be a trespass. (4)
It is not incumbent on him to pay half cost.
If pigs invade his property and cause loss he
may recover damages in court H.N.: Coola-
lie is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning
“south wind” ; Noamunga is a S.A. abo. name
meaning “fishing-place”... .H.M.A.: (1) Man’s
Manly-Sydney season ticket costs £8 7s. 6d.
yearly, £4 7s. 6d. half-yearly, £2 7s. 6d. quar-
terly, 17s. 6d. monthly and 4s. 6d. weekly. (2)
Consult Manly estate agents or see advertise-
ments in the Manly “Daily”...-HJ.: At
present Vic. student teachers are trained at the
Melbourne Teachers’ College. Those who have
passed the school leaving examination and
the intermediate examination in arithmetic or
its equivalent may be admitted to the college,
provided they have had at least one year’s teach-
ing experience and that their teaching abilities
have been satisfactorily reported on by their
inspectors... .C.J.W.: (1) and (3) No authen-
tic figures have yet been published, only vague
estimates. (2) None, so far as can be traced.
... .A. 8.: Information not available in Sydney,
and doubt whether it is available in England
through ordinary channels. Probably only the
persons concerned could tell, and it is unlikely
that they would divulge such information
W.W.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of De-
fence, Melbourne... .A.S.: (1) No value. (2)
New copies are selling at 4s. 6d. each. ..
W.E.R.: As your husband’s income is £l9B
per annum, you are not eligible to receive a
pension... .H.J.: Yes, the pension rate would
be affected by a lottery win; pensioner should
notify the pensions authority W.H.M.: The
N. representative of Hjorth and Cos is
Nelson and Cos., 352 Kent-street, Sydney
J.T.: Would have to read the book before
answering the question... .A.J.C.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne
S.M.C.: Names and addresses of contributors
are not furnished without their permission.
Will forward any letters addressed to them care
of this office.


V •
MTS
LYS
PROOF.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
. '■ ■ .-V { ■»>
JB*
wmM
Su.—-;'
ternmwk
4 lii*
h*!ssm
, -■-<».
~
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "L Y SAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
The Mules Operation.
“Bungaree”: In spite of strong opposi-
tion the Mules operation is becoming in-
creasingly popular in N.S.W. The C.S.
and I.R. has declared in its favor.
It must be carried out by trained
operators. The mere lopping of an odd
wrinkle will not give results.
Animals should be treated when britch
wool is shortest; immediately after shear-
ing or crutching is the best time. As
a rule, only ewes are treated, but wether
hoggers very wrinkly on the britch may
also be done in districts where fly-attack
is severe. One operator can treat some-
where around 600 sheep per day. At
least three catchers are needed for each
cutting, and if two or more are working
together an offsider may be required to
apply a dressing.
There is practically no bleeding if the
job is carefully done, but a wise pre-
caution is to sprinkle boracic powder
on the wounds. This may be applied
from a blower or shaker (a lib. tin with
holes punched in the bottom). A pound
of boracic powder will dress 80 sheep.
Dagging shears are handiest for the
job, but ordinary hand shears may be
used. They must be kept sharp. Keep
a spare pair on hand to save time in
sharpening. Keep the spares in disinfec-
tant, and frequently dip those in use.
The operation may be carried out in
a shed or shady yard free from dust.
Catchers should sit sheep on a rail at a
convenient height. Sheep should be held
in the same way as lambs for marking.
Relax hind legs so that wrinkles lie in
natural conformation. After treating, the
sheep should be lowered carefully to their
feet, not dropped on their tails in the dust,
and should not be kept yarded after the
operation. Let them out into a clean
paddock.
There is no set rule as to how much
should be taken off. The object is to
render the sheep as plain as possible from
the tail to the hocks. Snipping off the
tops of the wrinkles is not enough. Re-
move not only the wrinkle but a strip
of skin bordering it so that when the two
edges draw together again the skin sur-
face will be tight and plain.
The need for experienced operators is
plain. In the treatment of saucer or
heavily folded tails, for instance. Some
sheep carry wrinkles converging closely
on the bare patch of skin under the tail
and round the vulva, and in these cases
the loose skin of the wrinkle must be
manipulated away from the bare skin
before cutting, so that the latter is not
interfered with. Wrinkles turning at
right angles need two separate cuts.
Cleanliness is needed. Avoid dust;
don’t operate when flies of any sort are
numerous, and don’t dress wounds with'
arsenical dip or extra-strong phenolic
dressing.
There are some disadvantages. Don’t
rely entirely on the operation instead of
trying to breed out the wrinkles. Also,
the operation militates against culling of
wrinkly britched sheep, so that a buyer
of apparently plain britched ewes may
get a crop of lambs like concertinas.
There is a lot to be said for the proposal
that all ewes operated on should carry
a special identification mark.
The Wool Clip.
“Murrawong”: The season has been
good in most districts, and the heavy
crop of grass-seed will be welcome on
b erties £ eaten out or drought . strick en
for years.
Arrivals of wool into brokers’ stores is
no t always a reliable guide to the size of
the clip. This year, on account of
the appraisement scheme, storage space
is cramped by the extra hundreds
of thousands of bales which used to be
shipped direct to London for salo.
„ Statistics compiled by the Graziers
C °"° p - Sheann g Co - each y ear from con '
secutive annua i shearings, covering 218
‘ Thanks , so’ jer.”
typical sheds in north-west, west and
southern N.S.W., the Riverina and Vic-
toria, show an increase of 100,296 sheep
—3.7 per cent, compared with last year.
Weight of wool cut has increased by
4,291,2801 b., equal to 20.96 per cent.
In New England, Monaro, Victoria
and Tasmania shearers are still on the
job. It is safe to predict that this year’s
clip in the three south-eastern States will
be 20 per cent, greater than last year.
Joint 111.
“K.”: Joint or navel ill, inflammation
of the joints, is common in foals. Re-
cently I have had lambs with similar
trouble. Two or three weeks after birth
youngsters become lame in one leg, tem-
perature slowly rises and the inflamma-
tion spreads to other joints. Standing
becomes painful. In more acute cases
evil-smelling navel discharge and diar-
rhoea occur, abscesses form under the
skin and death follows.
Germs entering the abdomen via the
unhealed navel cord after birth cause the
disease. No cures are offered, but walk-
ing should be avoided. Painting the
navel string of newly-born animals with
tincture of iodine is a preventive. Foals
and calves should be placed on their
backs and a pin pushed through the navel,
string at the base, a ligature of catgut
or silk placed between the pin and the
abdominal wall. Sterilise pin and liga-
ture with carbolic oil or a lysol solution.
Treating Sorghum Poisoning.
“Mookau”: In a lush season, sorghum
poisoning needs to be reckoned with. It
can be handled by careful watching and
by having the right antidotes handy.
Dissolve loz. ordinary washing soda
in a pint of water. In another pint of
water, mix joz. iron sulphate. Label
each bottle or jar separately. Mix only
just before giving the dose —equal quan-
tities —and don’t keep either mixture in
a tin. Half a pint is enough for a sheep
and two pints for a cow. The mixture is
cheap—3d. worth of each chemical will
make two dozen of more cow doses.
Sometimes an animal cannot be
drenched because of its condition. The
dose should then be inserted with a
canula used as in piercing for bloat, the
width of a hand in front of the hip bone
on the near side.
If antidote mixture is not available,
try diluted molasses. It is a good emer-
gency palliative.
xt- . • » »t
Victorias Northern Mallee.
11A1 , . „ , , , ,
, - imei . Victoria s rural skeleton
veaA ni fcrn Foster 1
years ago, posters called the Northern
Mallee “the future granary of Australia.”
Hundreds of thousands of acres of scrub
were cleared and brought under the
plough ; millions of bushels of wheat
were harvested. Towns sprang up, rail-
ways were built, money was thrown
about freely.
Then nature asserted itself. The light,
sandy loam, denuded of its cover of
scrub, loosened and refined by successive
cultivations, began to blow away. Soon
many farms had lost most of their top-
soil and were down to the table of lime-
stone which lay beneath at depths vary-
ing from 3in. to 6ft. Droughts came in
cycles, with week-long blows. The soil
shifted so quickly that water channels
were choked and railway lines buried.
A few years ago, the Sea Lake train was
a week getting through, so deep was the
sand. Last summer, while bushfires raged
in the south, more millions of tons of
Mallee soil darkened the sky.
Practically no mortgage money has
been advanced on Northern Mallee
securities since 1933. The effect on
values, apart from poor seasons and low
wheat prices, has been disastrous. This
season, from Ouyen out to Underbool,
crops are reasonably good. From
Murrayville to the border they are bad.
The banks have had enough. Northern
Mallee farmers can borrow no more.
The area needs drastic treatment if it is
ever to prosper again: erosion control,
altered farming practices, restoration of
fertility through a long-range plan. That
means money ; and can the money be
found? Barrels of it can be found for
useless “works.”
Apples and Pears Acquired.
“Pip”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has decided to take over the 1940
apple and pear crops and pay the first
advance on Jan. 31 next. A second ad-
vance will be made later in the season.
The advances will be on 75 p.c. of the
commercial crops.
—2s. on apples and
3s. on pears.
The scheme pro-
vides for the usual
pool with plenty
of committees and
regulations. All
growers must regis-
ter, and submit
details of the last
three seas o n s’
plantings and pro-
duction with an
estimate for the
coming year and
expected picking
dates. A central
marketing co m-
mittee with sepa-
rate State com-
mittees will oper-
ate through licensed
agents, and from
March 1 next it
will be illegal to
sell either apples or
pears not grown by
a registered grower.
Growers’ crop estimates will be
checked by State Agricultural Depart-
ment inspectors, and on March 1 the
whole of the Australian crops of apples
and pears, whether assessed for advances
or not, will become the property of the
Commonwealth Government. Early-
maturing varieties may be sold before
that date.
Little fruit will, of course, go overseas.
Mr. Stewart says there is a market in
London for 500 tons of fruit rings, pro-
vided they are up to United States
standards, and 250,000 cases of canned
apples may be saleable in the English
autumn next year, needs before then
being filled from Canada.
Nowhere is there any enthusiasm for
the scheme. The Tasmanian Agricul-
tural Minister said that it means that at
least 1,200,000 cases of fruit must be
allowed to drop from the trees since it
would be illegal even to give it away.
On this, growers will lose anything from
Is. 9d. to 2s. 3d. per case production
costs. Mr. D’Alton says the plan spells
“disaster to Tasmania.” There should be
at least a pulping market in Asia, and if
no other use can be found for the fruit
it should be convertible to stock food at
some price, even a partial loss being
better than a total one.
Even though Victoria, the largest pear-
growing State, will be 25 p.c. short of
normal in its crop and production is
down in N.S.W., there will be a surplus
of about 250,000 cases of pears above
Australian demand. But N. S. Wales


OFFICER’S BOOTS
STANDARD MILITARY PATTERN
48/6 Per Pair
• HIGH MILITARY LEG
• HEAVY DOUBLE
SOLE
• WATER - RESISTING
OOZE CALF UPPER
• WAT ERPRO OF
TONGUE
• CAL F-L I N E D
THROUGHOUT
Write for a Catalogue of
our stock of Country
Boots and Shoes.
i
1
a
mm
.
■
8942.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
\ SACRIFICE OF DEUTZ FULL-DIESEL TRACTORS
We have for sale two only 25-28 h.p. and one 45-50
h.p. Deutz tractors complete with pneumatic tyres.
Will accept £525 and £685 each respectively.
The smaller tractors fitted with electric generators and glow plug
starting equipment; larger tractor with compressed-air starter m
conjunction with glow plugs.
Wire inquiry to:
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
mechanical and electrical engineers,
172-174 PULTENEY STREET. ADELAIDE.
Tel. C 6696 (6 lines). Est. 27 years. Tel. address: “Parol>, Adelaide.
NOTE: TRACTORS ARE ABSOLUTELY NEW.
In 1873
Special Constables
at COROWA
Early in the seventies, the little township of Corowa on
the New South Wales bank of the Murray was endangered
by the excursions of the Kelly Gang from across the
border. In those trying times the Bank of New South
Wales took every precaution to guard against robbery,
and special constables were sworn in to protect the Bank.
Ever since its foundation in 1817 the Bank of New South
Wales has given the same careful attention to the varied
interests of its many clients.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
the oldest bank in australi a
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
2/- per copy, or £l/2/6 per annum posted
growers feel that with effective market-
ing this quantity could be dealt with at
prices below normal. They have sug-
gested that pears be excluded from the
scheme. They also suggest that to in-
clude in one pool all varieties of apples,
irrespective of production and the parti-
cular market for each kind, is unwork-
manlike and that highly-popular Granny
Smiths, for instance, should not be
thrown into the pot on the same basis as
less popular kinds.
There is everything to be said for a
free market with some guarantee that if
it does not succeed the Government will
take the surplus. At inevitably cheaper
prices, a lot more fruit could be sold in
the Commonwealth, especially if the rail-
ways help.
Champion Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: The S. Australian wheat
Bordan has come to the front in N.S.W.
this season, winning first and second
places in the R.A.S. crop championship
of the central-west division,
At Cowra W. A. O’Neil won with a
dense and exceptionally well-filled crop
estimated to yield 50 bushels per acre —
the highest yield recorded in 25 years,
The runner-up, S. E. Lodge, of Forbes,
bad another high-class crop, assessed at
45 bushels. Both these farmers have
g rown Bordan during the last three years
apd pronounce it their best yielder among
several varieties each season,
of m id-season maturity, with tall,
S | rong straw, resistant to flag smut and
wjth d resis tance to stem rust, Bordan
...... ~ , ’ irv ,
S raln ls fl attractive golden and medium-
strong flour class. It has a reputed ten-
dency to pinch under dry finishing con-
ditions. This certainly applies to the
outer dry areas. Adapted to the more
favored portions of the central-western
and south-western slopes of N.S.W., it
is assured of extensive cultivation next
season and to some extent in preference
to Dundee.
“Wester”: Bencubbin (B. 15/11/’39)
gave nothing else a chance in western
N.S.W. this season. Of 181 crops entered
in district contests, 132 were Bencubbin.
It won nine of the 12 contests, and filled
first six places in the R.A.S. champion-
ship.
Crops in the area, which ranges from
Dubbo (N.S.W.) to Hillston, generally
had a good season and are fairly bulky,
average of the 12 district winners being
about 37 bushels an acre. Farmers about
Lake Cargellico, Tullibigeal and Hillston,
who were unable to grow competition
crops last season, were in with good ones
this time. Frost touched most crops,
but they recovered. The Mill Bros, and
their mother, of Gunningbland, are
R.A.S. champions. Bloomfield, of
Trundle, and Barber, of Peak Hill, filled
places.
Tobacco at Dimbulah.
“Brolga”: Agricultural Department
experiments at Dimbulah (N.Q.) have
given interesting results. They covered
three different spacings in the rows, two
distances between rows, and two different
methods of cultivation.
The first experiment showed the closer
spacings of 16in. and 21 in. to be better
than the usual 24in. About 12 plots of
each spacing were used. The 16in.
spacing gave a return of 12001 b. of leaf
per acre, worth £lOl 16s. 2d. The 21 in.
spacing returned 11791 b., worth £99 14s.
4d. The spacing of 24in. yielded 10311 b.,
worth £B4 2s. 3d.
In the second experiment, a row
spacing of 4ft. 6in. gave a slightly in-
creased money return as compared with
a 4ft. spacing, but the yield was a little
less, and the difference in the two
spacings is not significant.
In the third experiment American-type
plough cultivation was found much
superior to the usual Australian scuffler
system. In the 18 plots used in each
experiment, plough cultivation gave a re-
turn of 12621 b. per acre, worth £ll3 18s.
3d. ; whereas the scuffler method returned
only 10121 b., worth £76 10s. 3d.
Copper for Crops.
“Wagit”: The W.A. Agricultural De-
partment has work the last
few years on the effects of copper on
crop and stock. The experiments were
begun by Dr. W. G. Bennetts in seeking
the cause of widespread rickets in W.A.
sheep. He found the disease due to
mineral deficiency and evolved a tech-
nique for feeding copper in licks. A step
further was the feeding of copper sulphate
to wheat soils, in which Bennetts was
associated with Dr. L. J. H. Teakle and
G. L. Throssell.
Dressings of 201 b. copper sulphate per
acre on poor, gravelly, sandy soil which
was previously a wheatgrowing failure
gave striking results.
The experiments have been extended
to S.A., where barley and wheat have
been improved on experimental plots on
the calcareous blown s.-e. coast soils.
A soil analysis seems worth while in a
lot of low-yielding grain districts.
Hints for the Farm.
“R. Ney”: If sheep must be shifted
any distance during hot weather, travel
them early in the morning and late in
the afternoon, allowing them to camp
during the heat of the day. You 11
get them there in shorter time and in
better condition.
“8.C.”: Watch the grain sample as the
wheat comes off. If a going-back in
quality and brightness is evident, it’s time
you got a new lot of seed of that variety
from some outside source.
“B. Cubbin”: Often there is doubt
whether a wheat crop is suffering from
footrot or take-all. Investigate the roots
of affected plants. If there is a crust
of fungus-like threads on the sheath or
straw just above the root system—a crust
which flakes off readily and is dark
brown or black in color its take-all.
There is no incrustation when footrot is
the trouble, though most of the other
symptoms are similar.
“Bundalinga”: When cows scour after
grazing on clover, limit the grazing tim>-
to an hour or two each day. Provide
some dry feed to balance the succulent
pasture. Sufficient hay can be conserved
each year by shutting up certain pad-
docks for that purpose. Give the scour-
ing cows (night and morning) ioz. of
ginger, loz. of baking soda, ylb. of treacle
and i pint of water each.
“Ente”: Queensland coastal districts
are having an epidemic of cattle blight
which causes blindness and heavy loss of
condition in milder cases. Individual
treatment alone will help. Leakings from
the eyes must be washed from the face
and the hair round the eye sockets
smeared with vaseline. The eyes should
be syringed night and morning with a
bulb syringe and a disinfectant solution.
A good one is nitrate of silver 3 grains,
morphia sulphate 1 grain, distilled—-not
tank or river—water loz. Quantities
must be exact. Excess of silver nitrate
is calculated to do almost as much
damage as the blight. Another useful
mixture is 2 p.c. zinc sulphate and 2 p.c.
boracic acid in boiled water.
“Wester”: It is possible to grow
lucerne in very dry districts. A Warren
(N.S.W.) man puts about 41b. of seed
per acre through the fertiliser box of a
combine, mixing it with fine sand, and
using a false bottom in the box. He
chooses ground that has been under flood
from the Macquarie River, and so far
has got good strikes.
“R. Ney”: Though it means a loss of
yield per acre, the cutting of a crop in-
tended for silage at a very early stage
results in a more concentrated feeding
value, often doing away with the neces-
sity for buying supplements.
“R.”: Keep a watchful eye on the
tank this hot weather. As the water goes
back the sheep churn up the wet mud,
and a weak animal can easily get stuck.
“Greener”: Carrots, which can be
grown almost anywhere on deep, friable
soils, are profitable. Even after reaching
saleable size the roots may be left in the
ground for some time. They make a
good sideline in coastal, tableland and
some parts of the plain country.
“Zedo”: Somebody should look into
the question of water culture of vege-
tables for parts of the far north where
soils and climate are unsuitable. Dar-
win, for instance, never makes a success
of its vegetable gardens, but it has plenty
of water and plenty of labor, and the
addition of a few chemicals should pro-
vide the rest. The Yankees are doing the
job on coral islands in the Pacific where
there is no soil at all, and already the
system is beginning to have a vogue in
southern cities. Sydney recently formed
a society of water-culture enthusiasts,
which might help. At present Darwin is
woefully short of green stuff.
“Granuma”: Edward Barber, a 17-
year-old of Rochelle, Peak Hill (N.S.W.),
has headed his dad for first place in the
district wheatgrowing competition. He
led 14 other competitors, all grown-ups,
with a return of 14 bags to the acre.
It was a Bencubbin crop, too, free of
all disease and weed growth.
“Gumblegubbin”: Since M.L. placed
an embargo on the export of white pine
Victoria has been experimenting with
Gippsland ash for butter-boxes; recently
permission was given for a trial ship-
ment of 1000 boxes. Hitherto the im-
ported pine was used almost exclusively.
Then Queensland hoop pine was tried,
but is too expensive. Dorrigo (N.S.W.)
pine has had some success locally, but
has to be steamed to drive out objec-
tional odors. Victoria for its butter
industry uses about 10,000,000 super, feet
of timber annually. N.S.W. uses con-
siderably more, and the difficulty of
providing the timber will become greater
if steps are not taken to grow supplies.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4gd. per line;
all others at 2|d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
“The war was fought in vain.” This despairing cry, nowadays heard often, is
questioned by a Westralian writer in a little article for which he gets double rates.
Not in Vain
Because the last war wasn’t succeeded
by a period of universal peace and pros-
perity, a feeling arose and has increased
during the last few weeks that the war
was fought in vain. But what did we
expect? A revolutionary change in
human nature? A total cessation of
strife? Everlasting tolerance and good
humor?
I think few of us expected any such
miracle. Rather we hoped that the
Armistice would usher in a new era of
arbitration and reasonableness, of dis-
solving racial barriers, of increasing
goodwill wherein the slaughter of 1914-
18 could never be repeated.
On the face of things, even these hopes
appear to be dashed. But let us look
deeper. True, we have strife, but it is
a wondering, unwilling strife. We have
war, but where is any sign of war fever?
Despite the agony of the world there is
no hatred, and never were the people
of the world, as a whole, so prepared to
hear the other fellow’s view or to admit
the possible justice of his claims.
This altered attitude towards narrow
nationalism and the efficacy of force is
largely due to the personal experience
and suffering of soldiers and civilians
during the war of 1914-18. We saw
then, as we realise today, that the enemy
was very like ourselves, that he was actu-.
ated by similar motives, that our com-
mon faults were ignorance and its pro-
geny intolerance, and we began to ap-
preciate the value of common education.
—Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
“Gravelsnatcher” is W. J. Walkerden,
of 21 Anzac-street, Bayswater, Perth.
“Carrying On As Usual”
Whom was Mr. Menzies addressing
when he asked us to carry on as usual?
The g.m. of a public monopoly called
a meeting of his salaried staff (distinct
from the wages mob, thank you!) and
proposed unctuously that each member
forgo one week of his annual leave “for
the duration.” Proposition adopted,
there being no alternative.
Of course, if it would really help to
win the war you and I and everyone else
would gladly forfeit all our holidays, but
it seems that such a course would accom-
plish no more than the ruination of in-
numerable small mountain and seaside
businesses. —Petty Canker (N.S.W.).
War Charities
Why are funds and war charities
always accompanied by some form of
entertainment calculated to loosen the
purse-strings of the public? The idea
that the normal citizen will not put hand
in pocket unless he gets something in
return is a reflection on the vaunted
generosity of the Australian.
A case in point is the elaborate Gar-
den City which occupies most of the
Treasury Gardens in Melbourne. An
appreciable sum has been spent in fan-
tastic lighting effects, and in arranging
and stocking the display. The proceeds
—net proceeds, of course —are to go to
war charities.
The money spent in preparing Garden
City and other entertainments for the
same cause would be much better em-
ployed if deposited in a lump sum to the
credit of the fund as an example and
incentive to the citizens to do their bit.
Though such a course would deprive
civil dignitaries of the opportunity to
air their oratorical proficiency, their
patriotism would find ample scope in
writing handsome cheques to swell the
fund.
When poor old John Citizen comes to
light with his “bob-in” he is satisfied by
the knowledge that his money will be
spent in a deserving cause. Why impose
on his sense of public duty by expecting
him to patronise entertainments which
are considered to be a dazzling success
if their net profits represent a miserable
fraction of the outlay?— Nairb (Vic.).
German Misconceptions
A little over a year ago I met the
cadet crew of a German training ship.
Well educated, good physical specimens,
they created among the people of the
seaport a distinctly favorable impression.
Most of the lads were too polite and
well-bred to be drawn into arguments,
but some were quite ready to discuss
their country and its leaders. They had
every faith in Hitler and regarded him
as their country’s savior. The same
applied to other German leaders, with
the exception of Goebbels.
They obviously regarded Britain as
decadent and unable to block Germany’s
ambitions, even if she wanted to —which
they also doubted. When they men-
tioned this idea they were, I’m sorry to
say, backed up by three people present
—a young woman who had recently been
on a trip to England, their host, who was
a returned soldier, and the master of a
British cargo steamer. The remarks of
these three left the impression that Britain
was not the country she was and that
her people badly needed some of Hitler’s
discipline to make them think of some-
thing other than sport. They gave un-
stinted praise to Germany’s renaissance
and spoke deprecatingly of everything
British.
The only man who had nothing to
say was the chief engineer of the British
steamer, a craggy-faced old Scot who sat
smoking and listening. I walked back to
his ship with him after the party and
deplored what we had heard. “That’s
the typical English attitude,” he said.
“And that’s why foreigners can never
understand us.”
He paused under one of the lights and
tapped me on the shoulder. “Ah’ve got
two brothers in the Navy,” he announced,
“and if yon lads think they’re going to
knock us out with their submarines and
aeroplanes in another war they’re mak-
ing a bluidy awful mistake now.”
Can you wonder that Von Ribbentrop
formed totally erroneous ideas about the
English?— Tompion (S.A.).
A Fair Price
Persons complaining that prices paid
by Britain under the war-time purchase
schemes are too low should remember
that Australians are lucky to be able to
sell many of their products for any price
at all under war conditions —the prices,
in fact, are better than were realised the
previous season, when the Empire was
not at war.
Chief point, however, is that if it were
not for the British Navy dairy-farmers
would be greasing their boots with butter
that could not be sold, cattle and lambs
would be at bargain rates, and we should
probably be able to sell only a fraction
of the wool clip.
Britain has bought the stuff and will
provide shipping and protection. Some
people are never satisfied. —Cow Time
(N.S.W.).
Pending Discharge
In one gaol where there are, say, 500
men all condemned to so-called hard
labor, how can the governor of the gaol
arrange the labor for them all? He prob-
ably accomplishes it by having “corridors
cleaned every half-hour and cells every
ten minutes,” as one convicted man said.
Westralia has many abandoned farms.
A national loss! Convicted men could
be placed on these farms to rehabilitate
them, and by closer contact with nature
and natural conditions rehabilitate them-
selves. — CONVICTATIONIST (W.A.).
Not Enough Control
In the name of National Security, the
Federal Treasurer now has power to con-
trol the formation of companies, the in-
crease of their capital, and the issue of
securities or the giving of mortgages by
companies—and it’s about time the Com-
monwealth did put a finger into com-
pany pie.
It’s all part of marshalling the financial
resources of the Commonwealth; boiled
down, the regulations disclose a Federal
intention to control investment in and
borrowing by companies, so that funds
for war purposes may be conserved.
But the biggest fish of the lot have
again escaped the net —State expenditure
and State taxation still go their own sweet
way ; and unless the Commonwealth steps
in and controls those activities also it
might still find the taxpayers’ and inves-
tors’ pockets as devoid of sustenance
as Mere Hubbard’s pantry. Nisio
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
The farce of Australian Labor oppo-
sition to the National Register is only
recent, and now Labor politicians and
trade-union officials are acting in the
same asinine way over compulsory train-
ing for home defence. They have for
years been trying to have compulsory
unionism placed on the Statute Book, but
when it comes to compulsory training for
the defence of their country and the privi-
leges they enjoy under the Australian
Constitution they are opposed to it and
are threatening the Government with
what they will do to nullify the Act.
The name “scab” is used by unionists
to denote anyone who does not join their
unions but enjoys the benefits obtained
by them. Don’t they realise that they are
worse than the “scab” on their union
when they sit pretty and hang on to their
jobs in Australia while the unionists of
England and France are fighting as con-
scripts for our freedom as well as their
own?
Compulsion is quite right, according to
the Australian Laborite, as long as it
means more wages and shorter hours,
but not when it means having to fight for
the right to live and enjoy these things.
—W. Cybar (S.A.).
The War and Gold
Locked away in Fort Knox and pro-
tected with all the ingenuity man can
devise, the Great Nootral holds three-
fourths of the world’s monetary gold.
Despite credits of over 1000 million
sterling which the Allies are said to hold
in New York, more and more gold will,
if the war lasts, be shipped across the
Atlantic in exchange for munitions and
the like. What will happen if Uncle gets
the other fourth?
The first qualification of currency is
that it circulates, but the odds are against
Uncle getting his gold into circulation
again. Even if he fancies himself as a
Great Creditor Nation, i.e., moneylender,
gold will not be shipped to approved
borrowers. The procedure is to grant
credits in New York to the extent of
the loans, and let the borrowers cut them
out in U.S. goods and services. But
unless Uncle has a series of unfavorable
trade balances, which is most unlikely,
the gold will stay in Fort Knox.
As soon as gold ceases to circulate
the nations will lose interest in it as a
currency—in fact, they will lose interest
in it altogether. After all, you can’t eat
it, and, apart from filling teeth and making
fountain-pen nibs, it has few uses. Re-
membering that the second qualification
of money is stability, gold, even as an
international currency, has behaved badly
of late in that its value in terms of com-
modities has fluctuated. When interest in
gold is lost it will lose its value.
No doubt Uncle would, for a while,
maintain its value artificially by buying
all the freshly-mined gold in order to
convince himself on paper how rich he
is, but eventually the laws of supply and
demand would win out. This would be
a good joke on Uncle Sam and those
other uncles who buy goldth out of
kindneth, but a bad one for Empire gold-
mining interests. However, there might
be compensations.—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Is Morality a Convention?
E. T. Herington (B. 8/11/’39) swims in
waters which have threatened to drown
ethical philosophers from Socrates to
Shaw. He asks “Is morality a conven-
tion?” and takes Sunday golf as an
example of the morality issue. There are
two schools of thought worth quoting.
The joint fathers of Utilitarianism,
Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill,
held that the right or wrong of an action
is a matter of the consequences. If the
aggregate consequences of Sunday golf
are good, then Sunday golf is moral. If,
however harmless the game might be in
itself, society directly or indirectly suf-
fers as a result, then Sunday golf should
be taboo among right-thinkers.
On the other hand, such thinkers as
Bishop Butler, Richard Price, James Mar-
tineau and others maintain that there is
a moral sense by which humanity decides
right and wrong, without affecting
society. Thus society, and not the indi-
vidual, decides by an unconscious major-
ity vote. Professor Moore points out
that it is impossible for the Utilitarians,
being merely human, to determine what
the ultimate consequences of any human
act will be, and that the intuitions of the
race here should step in.
If “H.” goes nap on his moral intui-
tions when it comes to digging out the
plus-fours on Sunday morning he will
have a great army of wise men and
women on his side —including the flap-
pers who believe that ethical philosophy
of the kind that worries “H.” is all
“hooey.”— Father’s Voice (N.S.W.).
The problem “Is morality a conven-
tion?” is not a new one, but it is only
because so many have found the wrong
answer that it exists as a problem at all.
Unfortunately too many have accepted
the idea of a morality that changes
according to time and place, and we see
on all sides the watering-down of prin-
ciples, the dismissal of high ideals with
the adjectives “archaic,” “Victorian,”
“simply not done.” Further, there is
the class that thinks that whatever is the
law of the land is right, and that majori-
ties can change the Ten Commandments.
Thus, if the morality of playing golf
on a Sunday depended on whether it
were done in Australia or in Scotland, it
might be logically claimed that the ban-
ning of religion in Russia or the perse-
cution of the Jews in Germany is moral
because it is upheld by local custom. The
whole argument along these lines rests
on one basic fact —that the Author of
the moral law is left out of it, and that
as long as one does not unduly offend
one’s neighbor everything is right.
But the first and greatest command-
ment is still “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God.” “Love thy neighbor” is only the
second.
“E.T.H.” and others similarly per-
turbed might read with profit the recent
encyclical of Pope Pius XII., which points
out that the deepest and ultimate cause
of the evil of our times must be set in
the rejection of the universal law of
morality. It goes on to show how this
rejection has opened the way to the
spread of agnosticism and paganism in
the spiritual sphere, and the adoption of
a philosophy of government which makes
the State transcend all law, even the law
of God. —F. P. Rout (Q.).
As a Maoriland newspaper rightly
asserted, morality is governed by social,
economic and political conditions at a
given time and place. It is as moral
for a South Sea Islander to go about
naked as it is for Lady Macßlither-
ingham to wear the furs of God’s
creatures, since in the first instance
clothes are inexpedient, and in the second
they are everything.
Because a thing is illegal it doesn’t
necessarily follow that it is immoral,
although custom determines in the long
run what is right and what is wrong,
A new-born child knows nothing of
morality, and as it develops tries to
adjust itself to contemporary morals. A
clergyman recently told me that it is
useless trying to preach morality to a
child who doesn’t instinctively recognise
it. Yet how can a child know right from
wrong except by watching what other
people are in the habit of doing and say-
ing?
“E.T.H.” need have no moral fears
about playing golf on Sunday, for it
needs only enough people doing the same
thing to make it moral. The majority
rule applies as effectively to morals as
it does to meetings. Remember the
Spooner costume?— Goebbels (N.S.W.).
Rail Gauge Conversion
That “Political Point” (B. 11/10/’39)
notwithstanding, it’s quite possible that
the Yank who wrote of the Russkis alter-
ing rail gauges in Poland at a rate of 50
miles per day was telling the truth. Given
half a dozen gangs of fettlers, I could
run a C 36 into Spencer-street inside a
week without any bother; merely a
matter of shifting one rail 6jin. The
Russian job was easier still, a movement
of 3|in. being sufficient. In neither case
do technical problems caused by differ-
ing curve radii come into it. No men-
tion is made of rolling stock, the only
sound reason against eliminating the
abominable Irishism existing in Victoria
and S.A.
The conversion of narrow-gauge lines
to standard is another matter. It would
call for a complete new track, sleepers,
tunnels, bridges and rolling stock, and
in hill country a brand-new alignment:
N.S.W. squeezes with a costly effort round
one curve of eight chains radius near
Lithgow, Queensland has dozens twice as
tight—all of which runs away with
money.
The solution of Australia’s problem is.
to alter the stupid sft. 3in. to standard.
A fairly simple and cheap matter as
regards per. way ; and much of the more
modern rolling stock has been built with


a view to future conversion. This would
give a through line from Brisbane to Kal-
goorlie, 2927 miles. It would hardly pay
to alter the 3ft. 6in. gauge extremities
in Queensland and W.A., but there is
every justification for this gauge, which
with the similar metre forms 20 p.c.
of the world’s mileage. There is no
justification for the mongrel sft. 3in. —
E. J. 8., Calcutta (India).
Cricket Broadcasters’ Jargon
One of the few things I like to listen
to over the radio are descriptions of
cricket matches, yet even these are marred
by the artificial speech frequently used.
Cricket is a straightforward game, and
what better language could be used for
talking about it than plain, blunt Saxon?
But a batsman never misses the ball —
he “fails to connect” ; he never hits it to
the fence —he has to “dispatch it to the
boundary.” That McSwiper “sacrificed
his innings” means he got himself out. On
the field, when the ball whizzes your way
you either catch it or drop it; over the
air it is “accepted” or “declined” —you
can almost see the fieldsman writing a
letter about the darned thing.
And even when stumps are drawn and
the inevitable old-timer comes on for a
few minutes’ yarn, he always “gives a
resume” of the play and never sums it
up.— Wippegong (N.S.W.).
Taxing Cars Off the Road
I’m beginning to think that motor-car
taxation will force Australians to return
to the horse and buggy. The new regis-
tration fee puts £1 10s. on to last year’s
tax on a four-cylinder job, and the price
of petrol is soaring all the time. Taking
insurance, third-party risk, registration
and license into consideration, it looks
like costing John Citizen ten pounds per
annum before he even opens the door of
his baby car.
What justifies John Citizen’s grouch
against car taxes is the way in which
they are spent. Some of the chill would
be taken away if the money were used
to provide employment and decent roads,
but it is lumped into Consolidated
Revenue and the powers that be pat
themselves on the back for their financial
brilliancy.—S. C. W. (Q.).
Eat More Fruit
As a two-year resident in Sydney I
have frequently wondered why the
humble apple should have become a
member of the luxury class and be sold
accordingly. Perhaps somebody can
explain why good-quality apples which
can be bought at for 6d. (cheaper
when in season) in Adelaide should cost
l|d., 2d. and 3d. each in Sydney ; and
why pears, which I have many times
bought at 41b. for 6d. in Adelaide, should
be 3d. and 4d. apiece here.
Of course, it is desirable to secure and
maintain overseas markets, but it does
seem a pity that such a necessary item
of diet as fruit is not within the reach
of all the inhabitants of a land where it
grows in abundance. —G. W. (N.S.W.).
Lighter Stories'
Congratulations to Frank Middlemiss
for “Rebellion at the Beanstalk” (B.
15/11/ ’39).
His story is one of the best published
between the red pages for many a long
day. More of the “Beanstalk” type,
please! —A. W. F. (N.S.W.).
Plain Australian
Having read the free comic which is
the pride and crown of the new “Sunday
Telegraph,” my feelings hardly bear ex-
pression. I had hoped at least for plain
Australian, but, instead, all local senti-
ment is drowned in the cheapest forms
of Americanism.
What is there about our own Aus-
tralian humor that the paper should avoid
it so religiously? Is it dull? Unexpres-
sive? I have not found it so. If we
must have slang, the slang of the “Sen-
timental Bloke” is forthright and honest.
Above all, it is Australian. That is cer-
tainly not true of the present impor-
tations.
Thought of its effect on our mother
tongue induces the worst kind of nausea.
I applaud good humor and hope our
young Australians learn more of it. But
let it be Australian. —So What (N.S.W.).
Books and Disease
“Does it ever occur to people that
library books are a potential grave
danger to public health?” (B. 15/11/’39).
Speaking personally, I’ve been using
public libraries for more than 30 years,
but have not yet contracted any disease
more serious than a headache from
books. Quite a lot could be done with
libraries to make the general atmosphere
more hygienic, and also to encourage a
higher sense of personal cleanliness in
the ranks of library patrons. In the
spacious days of the Roman Empire
some of the Emperors had the pleasing
idea of combining libraries with swim-
ming baths, and I don’t see why that
could not be done in Australia. Read-
ing, of course, would not be encouraged
in the swimming pool.— Libensraum
(N.S.W.).
Country Life Drawbacks
My neighbor married a city girl, and
she was doubtful about country life
until told that she could have all the
amenities of the city in the country.
Her husband installed an electric plant
and all the gadgets that could be run
off it; he fitted a kerosene refrigerator
to solve the food problem, gave his wife
a car of her own and as much credit as
she wanted at the petrol station.
So the girl enjoyed country life very
much until she happened to see the bills.
Then she was shocked. In cities, light,
power, refrigeration, transport and fares
amount to very little, but the same facili-
ties cost her husband a staggering
amount. She now has twinges of con-
science every time she switches on the
electricity or takes the car out of the
garage.
He insists that she go on as before,
but it seems unfair to him, particularly
since a very large proportion of his costs
goes in taxation —taxes on petrol for
power and transport, car registration,
sales tax and duties on imported articles.
If it were not for the excessive cost
caused by these, many country people
could afford amenities they now dismiss
as luxuries.
Why should they have them? To keep
them in the country. That is an aim which
all our Governments profess, so why
they don’t encourage it by relinquishing
some of the taxation on the means of
country amenities I cannot comprehend.
They boast about Australia’s “high
standard of living,” ignoring the fact
that their taxes force a very low stand-
ard of living on all but the wealthiest
country-dwellers.—E. and O. (N.S.W.).
A Sure System
Here is my model betting system.
Write down on a slip of paper the name
of the horse picked for each race, place
the slip on the mantelpiece with the
amount of money that you intend to put
on each horse, leave it there until after
the last race, and then check it over with
results and starting prices, and work out
how much you would have lost or won.
Be your own bookmaker, and remember
the bookmaker never loses.
You can then go one better. Don’t
spend the money on the mantelpiece but
put it in a box. Do this every Saturday
for twelve months and, if you are in
the habit of betting five shillings on each
race, you will have the best part of £lOO
in a year’s time. And who wouldn’t want
to back the winner at 100 to nothing?—
Tosh (Vic.).
Fitness
Councils for the promotion of physical
fitness and the hiring of State organ-
isers at lucrative figures with a view
to making the people “physically-fit-
minded” are one of the major Parlia-
mentary topics of the day in South
Australia.
Physical fitness is a priceless asset to a
country, but why do such councils always
seem to regard the propagation of gym-
nastics and similar strenuous exercises as
the chief means of developing robust
bodies?
Physical fitness, like many other attri-
butes, starts in the home, and we are be-
ginning at the wrong end when we talk
about classes for teaching young people
physical culture. How can a child, or
anybody else, benefit from gymnastics if
he or she is not well nourished? Such
exercises, in the case of a weakling,
defeat their own ends.
It would be much wiser if a woman
skilled in dietetics and domestic economy
were authorised to visit our homes to
ascertain that well-balanced meals are
being served to the community? The
appointee could also act as general health
inspector by looking into home hygiene
and sanitation and rendering advice and
help where necessary. A woman with the
necessary qualifications would prove a
better acquisition to the State than a
man paid £5OO a year, plus travelling
expenses, for making people “physically-
fit-minded” and encouraging gymnasium
classes. — Josephine Scollan (S.A.).
This “Fertile” Land
For some extraordinary and inexplicable
reason the vast majority of people, in-
cluding many contributors to the 0.F.M.,
are convinced that Australia has vast
natural resources and large uninhabited
tracts of extreme fertility.
“Celt” (B. 27/9/’39), for one, speaks
of “thousands and thousands of acres of
the most fertile land in the world un-
ploughed” and apparently unsung. The
following facts may interest him: Aus-
tralia contains the largest desert in the
British Empire, comprising 1,067,357 sq.
miles of permanent drought, with an
annual rainfall from lOin. down to no-
thing, and with a tremendous annual
evaporation. The region takes in parts of
N. S. Wales, Queensland, W.A., S.A. and
the N.T., and in places extends right to
the coast.
Next comes 603,605 sq. miles of tem-
porary drought, with an annual rainfall
from 15in. down to 10in., and again with
a heavy evaporation. The rest of Aus-
tralia and Tasmania —1,303,619 sq. miles
—has a passable rainfall, while small por-
tions around parts of the coast might be
classed as fertile and are consequently
ploughed almost to the last sq. inch.
The 105 miles of trans-Australian
railway does not cross one single perma-
nent fresh-water rivulet.
Australia’s average wheat yield in
bushels per acre is 13.74, which placed
her thirtieth on a list of 50 countries,
Denmark topping the score with 42.42.
That was in 1937, when Australia had a
bumper year. This year she was placed
seventh for total production among the
countries of the world.
Certainly Australia now tops the list
with sheep, the Soviet having fallen from
that position, but our position in the
world’s lists of other products is in all
cases poor. As cattle-owners, we are
ninth, horses fourteenth, gold a poor
fifth, and pig-iron and steel thirteenth.
Our coal-production is extremely poor,
though we can at least beat Yugoslavia.
And all this in spite of the many boun-
ties provided by the Government.
Whitaker’s Almanack, 1939, gives Aus-
tralia as producing 800,000 tons of sugar
from cane and being placed ninth. She
is seventh in butter-production, third for
lead and sixth for silver.
The townsman’s remedy for all evils
that beset this country is to “send the
men to the country and settle them in the
great open spaces.” No doubt he would
be annoyed if the countryman adopted a
like slogan and insisted on sending all his
sons to the city, though they would prob-
ably do much better there than the city
overflow would ever be likely to do in
the country—“the intensely fertile” coun-
try of which we hear so much and of
which we see so little. Mallyree
(N.S.W.).
Seniority
It seems to have become a fetish in
many Government departments to pro-
mote solely by order of seniority.
This is inviting stagnation as far as
progressive efficiency and the discovery
of exceptional talent are concerned.
While one can appreciate that an elder,
more experienced employee deserves con-
sideration for his services, it is foolish
to allow his seniority alone to gain him
promotion.— Petermac (N.S.W.).
Value of Philosophy
The chances are that at no other period
iu the history of the world have there
been so many pessimists and so few
optimists as there are now.
In years gone by, when nation fought
nation more for recreative purposes than
anything else, the average man was more
inclined to the philosophical than other-
wise. There were very few pessimists.
Life and death were taken for granted,
and earthly sufferings, such as disease,
starvation, the aftermath of war, etc.,
were attributed to an inscrutable Provi-
dence who worked according to his own
plan, and not to the plan of man.
Life, in short, was regarded as a pre-
liminary to a better life, and the greater
the hardships a man endured in this life,
greater would be his reward in the next.
And so few men grumbled at their lot;
man’s philosophy being strong enough to
stifle any misgivings at birth.
But modern man is such a highly-
strung individual that one doubts if he
could even find peace of mind in his
grave. Nothing is taken for granted in
the modern world. War, economic up-
heavals, disease, crime—everything is
attributed to a man-made system that
pampers to the capitalist and ignores the
worker.
And from such a delusion do revolu-
tions originate, and from a welter of
blood and suffering emerges a system
that is really and truly man-made. A
cast-iron system that respects neither
God nor man, and recognises but one
arbiter —the whistle of a bullet through
the air.
Philosophy (which is but the surveying
of difficulties from all possible angles
until the good aspects are found to pre-
dominate over the bad) is, in many re-
spects, the champagne of life. It means
all the difference between peace of mind
and acute mental despair. And yet a
philosophical attitude on things in general
is not so very hard to acquire.
All one requires is the minimum of
commonsense, the ability to read and to
think over what one has read, and the
power to put thought into words. Could
anything be simpler than that?
But philosophy must not be compared
to scepticism. The former is a neces-
sity; the latter is a minor evil. Few
sceptics have made any sort of mark in
the world, but from the very earliest
times the philosopher has been the light
that illuminated whatever age he lived in.
Is there a philosopher in the world of
to-day who can be compared with, say,
Plato or Christ? Both of them founders
of movements ; movements that are still
of importance even in this materialistic
age.
The world awaits such a philosopher;
but until mankind in general acquires a
more philosophical attitude no supreme
philosopher will arise. Because philo-
sophy, like anything else, requires en-
couragement if it is to thrive and bloom,
and so dispel the shadows that enwrap
humanity.—R. Conquest (Q.).
Laughter
Perhaps I’m a bit old-fashioned in my
outlook, but I can see the modern world
growing glum for want of a good hearty
laugh in the old style.
Where are the clowns, nigger minstrels,
comic songsters and the riotous
comedians we roared at when we were
kids? There’s only a sprinkling of them
left, and they can’t be heard above the
din of talkies, jazz bands and politics,
and their type of fun is now considered
crude and childish.
“Laughter holding both his sides” is
a too-rare sight these days. Humor has
lost much of its robustness and gained
in the less sincere qualities of subtlety
and irony. At the present moment, more
urgently than at any time, is needed that
boisterous laughter which brings occa-
sional relief from our problems. But
there’s an unhappy shortage of jesters.—
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
“Pulling the Strings”
In both public and private concerns
this business of “pulling the strings” has
become a menace. To get on at all you
must know somebody with a bit of influ-
ence, which counts so much more than
ability that many capable men and
women find themselves left behind simply
because they are without influential
friends.
Nowadays if you want to place your
child in an office or workshop you look
round for somebody with a bit of influ-
ence in the business you select, and you
find that your child stands little chance
of a decent job until the sons and daugh-
ters of the manager, foreman, shareholder
and their circle of friends have been
catered for.
If it is a Government job you can go
through the necessary official routine, but
when it comes to actual employment
those with influence get preference in a
roundabout fashion. If you can wangle
a letter of introduction to a departmental
head you have gained a big advantage
over the other chap.
If you want a road repaired, a railway
extension or any other public service the
best plan is to see somebody who can
“pull the strings.”— Eureka (N.S.W.).
“World-famous” ?
Why, when a quick-sketch artist or a
foreign hack journalist or an opportunist
lecturer visits Australia, does he become
world-famous overnight? Lionised and
pampered by a clique with restricted
mentality and unlimited snobbery, he
suddenly takes on the importance of a
world-figure. But until he made the
master step that landed him off the gang-
plank on to Australian soil he was prac-
tically unknown.
Of course, there are some visitors
whose fame (or notoriety) does precede
them. But most of the others, like Com-
rade Egon Kisch, were nonentities who
achieved world renown by the very act
of coming to Australia.
Gratifying as the contacts with this
spurious nobility of intellect may be to
flapper cliques, the whole business is a
rather disgusting insult to our national
intelligence.
To some sections of the daily press
I say “Lay off us with ballyhoo about
this type. We’re about fed up. When
somebody worth while—like Millikan —
comes along give us the works then,
if and when he has something to say.”
—Benn (Q.).


Mainly Mail-Order
A CYMA FOR CHRISTMAS
On time all the time.
World’s Leader of Precision Watches.
The Standard Quality of CYMA WATCHES
is Unquestionable.
—.....5r0n...
!)ct. Gold, £6; 9ct. White Gold, £6/10/-;
Chrome Steel Back, from £3/10/-.
Send for Free Illustrated Watch and Diamond
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
-
Ring Catalogue.
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY,
OPR OAVIDJONES
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTL.ESEAGH STREET. SYDNEY
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
„ BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
ĸ
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzaii’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanisin cures mind-wandering and
develops a power of
CONCENTRATION
that enables you to see more and see
farther than the other man. It goes to
the root of sound thinking.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Hinders Lane, Cr.
Market St,, Melbourne. Telephone MU2355.
DIAMONDS
Burfords’ Diamonds are specially selected
and made to our own Exclusive Designs.
We sell direct to the public at
manufacturers’ prices.
k
ķ
All rings guaranteed and sent direct to
your Bank on approval if desired.
Send for free illustrated watch and diamond ring
catalogue.
DIAMOND
tf WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ĸ
112 MARKETS!
I SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVID JON!
AN IDEAL
XMAS GIFT
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “lievysown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 do/.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOI I FVY Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
fcJV/L. V I , 713 George Bti> Sydney.
Goods sent %C.O.D. if desired.
k
BRIGGS sSTRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGLE-CYLINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
i to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £l7/10/-
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
aMPUOm (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
SB2 Kent St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
DEAF
ķ
The World's Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid—
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
WHITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 60JB, City Mutual
Bids., cnr. Hunter an<l
Bligh Sts., Sydney.
7^3
SE3
This MODERN DESIGN 15-jewel Swiss
TITUS Gent’s (or Lady’s) Wristlet Watch.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY—pay
only 50/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
80/-). Write for particulars of other models.
LENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY.
SAVE MONEY AND BENEFIT
<l/3
YOUR HEALTH AND POCKET
use (his
SUCTION CIGARETTE HOLDER
with special Filter System
which Protects the Heart
and Lungs. It is
Tasteless and
Unburnable
Price
1/3
cigarette smoked is
It is
computed
that usually
wasted, but this Suction
Holder grips the cigarette
firmly and holds it so that it
may, be smoked right to the end.
There is no waste. Thus- over _
period, a definite saving can be made.
Also the Special Filter Apparatus enclosed
overcomes any danger to heaiFor lungs from
injurious acids.
heait 1 .
Only 1/3 posted.
[UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY!
I 299 Elizabeth Street Melbourne, C.L
BOYS' BATS FOR XMAS
ĸ
all Personally Selected by
BERT OLDFIELD.
Selected Willow, Treble
Spring- Handle.
Size 4 9/6 and 12/6
Size 5 10/6 to 19/6
Size 6 11/6 to 25/-
Harrow 13/6 to 32/6
SPECIAL!
BOYS’ CRICKET SETS
comprising' Bat, Stumps, Bails,
Ball, Score Book 16/11
BERT OLDFIELD'S SPORTS STORE,
54 Hunter Street, Sydney.
“SENATOR”
fitted with special
hand-tuned reeds.
Single and double
rov models from
25/-.
Post tree tor cash
with order. Terms
can be arranged
if so desired.
Write for illus-
trated catalogue.
NAYLOR, Musical Instruments,
137 and 154 Castlereagrh Street, Sydney.
MEMORi« ithEA S E
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
k'F’
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
unds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
The King
Stockwhip
Hantl-plaited with
Best K a n g a r o o
Thong, S-plait, with
plaited handle to
match 19/6
Others from .., 10/6
Write for free illus-
trated catalogue.
k
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18 -20 WILSON ST. NEWTOWN
VV H WILLIAMS
TILLEY LAMPS
ķ
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1} pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
□ and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 55/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
\V. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
378 Kent Street, Sydney.
Here’s a Novel
Xmas Gift
A Flower Secateur which cuts
and holds stem of any flower,
13/6 each.
Posted Free for Cash.
Post one to your friend,
W.JNO. BAKERS
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
■: i VI
Senior Model
(CORK INSULATED)
Ideal for picnics, motor
tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes.
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 39/6.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 29/6.
All Stores or direct from,
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150-152 Brighton Street, Richmond, El, Vic.
m
"Winchester
twin-service
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-ceII, 350 ft. or /
Range .... “«V"
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
'PAGE
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street, Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
OIL HEAT
BATH HEATER
Burning Fu e 1
Oil, the Cheai>est
Fuel known.
A Hot Bath for
a third of a
penny.
Catalogue Free.,
Sands’ “Handi”
Pumpless Iron.
Lamps of All
Kinds.
ĸ
T. W. SANDS,
387 LONSDALE ST., MELBOURNE.
STOPvour Rupture
comfort.
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—-
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli -
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. .
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (.plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
29/111’39 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


YOU WOULD BE WELL ADVISED
TO HAVE
As Much Life Assurance
As You Can Secure
with
THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
"THE IVI.LC.'
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ITS FINANCIAL POSITION IS EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG
Assets Exceed £29,000,000
Annual Income Exceeds £4,300,000
