

■,.:v
m
m
■E ::
%
«
1
m
V
........-s
■
, ivW-
m
;w-
111
-■ ■■
•v.-'v ~
,
-
. ■
ms
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
TJ
J 1
NATURAL
k
TONIC
I
“Great stuff, this
HUTUWAI”
“People who saw me when I was so ill with
Rheumatoid Arthritis are astounded at the
wonderful improvement in my health since I
started on Hutuwai.”
—(Miss) Billie Elliott, Clovelly, N.S.W.
“Between meals my digestion was so bad that
I had to seek aid. 1 have no hesitation in
recommending Hutuwai to any person simi-
larly afflicted.”
—L. F. HUNT, Oarlinghurst, N.S.W.
“After a few bottles of Hutuwai I CAN NOW
DRESS MYSELF, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
FOURTEEN YEARS.”
(MRS.) M. J. FIELD, Wentworthville, N.S.W.
“HUTUWAI IS WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN
GOLD ... I am recommending Hutuwai to
all my friends and sufferers of Neuritis.”
—ALICE C. McMULLEN, Bankstown, N.S.W.
“I am now relieved permanently of all my
Rheumatism, Neuritis and Kidney Trouble
sufferings.”
(MRS.) S. B. WOODWARD.
“I am now 77 years of age, and want you to
know that Hutuwai has given me entire relief
from pain, and has given me new life.”
(MRS.) ELLEN AMOS, Croydon, N.S.W.
“W r e are deeply grateful to Hutuwai. People
who saw mother when she came to me eighteen
months ago cannot get over how well she now
looks.”
(MRS.) W. E. BAKER, Home Hill, N. Qld.
“I ean eat and sleep well. I NEVER FELT
BETTER FOR YEARS THAN I DO TO-DAY.
due to your wonderful HUTUWAI TONIC ”
(MRS.) L. KENNEDY. Brunswick, N.lO, Vic.
LARGE
BOTTLE
46
INCLUDING
VALUABLE
DIET CHART
FREE
The “Hospital” Bottle contains five times the quan-
tity of the 4/6 size, and costs only 18/-. SAVE 4/6.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to Hutu.vai
Distributing Co., 210 George Street, Sydney.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY CHEMISTS
AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
H
Wm
Hutuwai contains the JUICE of HERBAL PLANTS.
HUTUWAI helps the system to expel the injurious acids and
poisons and to eradicate aches and pains. Hutuwai can give you
steady nerves and an excellent appetite, and you will sleep well.
Headaches soon disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your
friends will tell you how well you look, and you will take a renewed
interest in life. Hutuwai is prepared under the supervision of a skilled
chemist, and under ideal hygienic conditions. Hutuwai is different. . .
it is genuine.
Hutuwai is Alkaline
HUTUWAI aids digestion by correcting acidity, and helps the system
to cleanse itself of poison-forming waste matter. Hutuwai gives
genuine relief and corrects the cause of Indigestion and Stomach
Troubles NATURALLY. The natural and medicinal qualities of the
Herbal Plant Juices contained in Hutuwai explain why HUTUWAI
NATURAL TONIC is achieving such amazing results every day.
Get rid of your aches and pains...drink
HUTUWM
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
FOR RHEUMATISM AND NERVES
The Bulletin
Read “Uncabled Additions ': pages 28, 29.
Vol. 60.—N0. 3082.
Wednesday, March 8, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
t
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL "
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. Ilkst 'f c i
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement Syst •
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
a.B. 139
The Red Page
COLERIDGE AND THE
WORDSWORTHS.
After writing a number of books, all competent,
none distinguished, Helen Ashton has struck form in
William and Dorothy : The Story of the Wordsworths
(Collins). She appears to have needed a ready-made
framework to build on, and to have found a congenial
one in the journal of Dorothy Wordsworth, the writ-
ings of her friends and the biographies of many of her
circle. Assembling her facts with loving care, passing
them through a sympathetic understanding, she has
achieved a book that is truly creative and that illu-
mines the life of a quiet, steadfast and sorrowful
woman.
Dorothy Wordsworth’s life was tragically empty
of event. The most important things in it always
happened to someone else. An only daughter in a
family of boys, she was orphaned young and brought
up haphazard by relatives. As soon as she was old
enough she made a home for her brother William,
her favorite because he was the unsuccessful one and
needed her most.
They made a home as caretakers of Raccdown
House, a mansion in Dorset, and, in the intervals of
William’s gloom, were very happy tramping the
countryside. They were poor, and William could get
no hearing for his poetry, which was revolutionary in
its simplicity. He was also a prey to bitter remorse
because the Napoleonic wars had prevented him from
returning to France to marry his mistress, Annette
Vallon, who had borne him a daughter. The wrong
he had done them lay very heavy on his Puritan con-
science, and Dorothy had her work cut out soothing,
serving and rehabilitating him. “He always hated her
to give her time to anyone but him.” If marriage was
mentioned he said that she must never leave him.
At 25 Dorothy had no thought of marrying, for
she was already in love with Coleridge, then at the
height of his brilliant promise, a young man who
looked every inch a poet and lived in a state of genuine
if improbable poetic abandon. At home he had a
pretty, foolish, garrulous wife, tied by her rapidly in-
creasing family, who became bitterly jealous, but with-
out cause, of Dorothy. Coleridge plunged into friend-
ship with the Wordsworths with his usual verve, per-
suaded them to come and live near him at Alfoxden.
made a third on their long “wanders” about the
countryside.
He urged them to go to Germany with him, travel-
ling like troubadours, almost without money, but when
they arrived there he deserted them for new friends.
Brother and sister spent the winter at Goslar, snowed
in, Dorothy so consumed by hopeless love that she
fell ill, William so wrapped in poetic inspiration that
he never noticed her distress.
Back in England the two families resumed their
old relationship, the two women at silent war, the two
men comfortably ensconced in their impervious self-
ishness. Dorothy was happy to serve their genius.
For her brother she kept a journal, recording in detail
the natural scene about them under the changes of
light and weather, that he might have raw material for
his work ever at hand. Since he had no gift in dealing
with people she went among the cottagers gathering
their stories and their turns of expression for him to
use. It is curious that the man who brought poetry
back to nature and simplicity was himself too stiff to
communicate directly with the people he portrayed, but
must do it through his sister.
They moved to the Lake District. Coleridge fol-
lowed them, and the old relationship was resumed
once more, but with a difference. Coleridge’s promise
was already tarnished. His health was failing, and he
had begun to take those “black drops” which were
to be his ruin. The Wordsworths were now in better
circumstances as William had rescued his share of a
large debt owed to his father by a former employer.
He was in love again, this time with his cousin, Mary
Hutchinson, but was so slow and distressful a lover
that Dorothy had to take a hand and arrange the
marriage. It went to her heart to yield up her place
at her brother’s side. William, however, declared he
still could not do without her, and she remained on
in his home. She and Mary became “dear sisters”
and the children gave Dorothy the greatest happiness
in her life.
Coleridge had now left his wife, and they both
besieged the Wordsworths with their complaints.
Coleridge was always ill, in debt, unhappy, erratic.
Dorothy was no longer his friend and comforter.
Mary’s sister, Sara Hutchinson, had taken her place.
The two women lived side by side, devoured with
jealousy of each other, until Coleridge had worn Sara
out, too, with his capriciousness and constant demands
upon her time and energy, when they came together
in sorrow, disillusionment and pity.
When William and Coleridge finally quarrelled
and the exacting guest came no more it seemed as if
Dorothy was free at last, but Coleridge had left his
mark too deep upon her for her ever to recover. Her
world diminished year by year. William was now “a
simple, dreary old gentleman, white-haired, green-
spectacled, harsh and unapproachable.” One of his
beloved children had died in Dorothy’s arms, their
friend Southey was insane, Lamb dead, Scott bank-
rupt, De Quincey lost in the fumes of opium, Hartley
Coleridge, as brilliant as his father, almost as com-
pletely a wreck. Coleridge’s death came as the last
stroke of fate. Dorothy was 64 and worn out. Her
mind gave way completely. She survived it for
another 20 years.
This' book is written from the woman’s point of
view. It is sympathetic and intimate and cuts through
the simple story of a wasted life to its core of uni-
versal tragedy. The prose style is sensitive and touched
with an elegiac grace. There is a strong feeling for
nature. The moment in which Dorothy’s life reaches
its trembling zenith, listening to the nightingale with
Coleridge and her brother, is impressed in a natural
image.
The air was like milk on their lips and the dew
sticky like cobwebs on their laces. There was not
light enough to cast their shadows before them; but
there must have been a wind moving somewhere, for
before they came to the edge of the woods the
clouds parted abruptly and left the full moon sailing
in glory in the centre of a black-blue vault, followed
by a multitude of stars, small, sharp and bright.
When they turned and looked back the lawns Were
bleached by the bright soft light as if they were
covered with hoar frost. The broad white sea looked
full and swollen to the very brim.
William and Dorothy gives certain of Words-
worth’s poems a setting in the context of his life.
Study of a Traitor.
In the monument at Saratoga, U.S.A., com-
memorating the heroes of the American War of Inde-
pendence, there is an empty niche awaiting a statue
unlikely ever to be chiselled, for the man whose like-
ness might have filled it occupies a place in the
thoughts of his countrymen “second only to Judas
Iscariot.” His name was Benedict Arnold, one of
Washington’s bravest and ablest generals, who deserted
to the British at a time when the fate of war hung in
the balance. He is the subject of two recent novels,
Rabble in Arms, by Kenneth Roberts (Collins), and
Renown, by Frank O. Hough (Harrap). Hough
observes, “History seldom evaluates men correctly ;
tradition never. It is in tradition that Benedict Arnold
lives.”
A unifying tradition —in this case, a tradition of
unity—was necessary to a people who had gone into a
struggle as 13 colonies, almost as suspicious of each
other as of the enemy, and had emerged socially
dishevelled. The necessity gave rise before long to
such catchcries as that anent Washingon, “First in
peace, first in war, first in the hearts of his country-
men” ; despite that in the beginning he had said
that the true interests of the country lay in reunion
with England; that he had been made commander of
the armies largely to win the wavering allegiance of
Virginia; that in a moment following victory when
one section wanted to place a crown on his head
another section was calling him “That monster ; that
despicable tyrant; that usurper of our liberties.”
Arnold, who was a merchant trading with the
West Indies, recruited a military force at the outbreak
of war and fought with gallantry and skill from
Quebec to Saratoga. He was immensely popular with
the troops, who approved his tactics. He sought the
enemy out rather than waited upon him. He seemed
to be in all places at once during the opening stages of
a battle, and when his manoeuvres had given him the
desired result he led his reserves in the charge with
a brandished sword and a “Come on, boys!”
With his social and military equals he was less
successful. Superbly confident of his abilities, arro-
gant in dispute, ungracious to the defeated, he made
a host of enemies. In a war in which generals had
often to pay and provision their troops out of their
private purses, subsequently billing the Government,
he was easily vulnerable.
Rumor of corruption rose apace with his military
reputation. Congress, many of whose members were
“without experience of anything larger than a town
council,” was easily moved by outside pressure. When
he presented his accounts it was found that his papers
—carried through a campaign—were muddled and in-
complete. One ingenious Congressman even suggested
that perhaps money was owing from Arnold to the
Government.
The situation was ridiculous and humiliating. In
financial difficulties, Arnold returned to the field of
war. A series of successes won him wide popular
acclaim, but his enemies were implacable. Eventually
he was called before Congress to answer, among minor
charges, one of defrauding the public. His position
seems not to have been different from that of any
other general of his time, but this was a case in which
the burden of proof, for all practical purposes, lay
with the accused. He was ordered to receive a repri-
mand before the army at the hand of Washington.
Washington, who valued him highly, carried out the
order perfunctorily, but Arnold couldn’t tame his own
proud spirit. He changed sides.
The British had offered him a command equal to
that which he had held with the Americans, but as
soon as he had taken the irrevocable step their enthusi-
asm waned. He was made a Colonel of Regiment,
but without a regiment. Believing that a large number
of American soldiers were ready to follow him he
prepared an elaborate prospectus of a corps which he
proposed to form and had it widely circulated by spies
among the colonial troops. The only response was
from a few malcontents and degenerates whose units
were the better for their absence.
After a painful interval he was sent to Richmond
on. what looked like a desperate enterprise. He
achieved a brilliant success, linked up with Lord Corn-
wallis and made possible the Virginian campaign
against Lafayette. Cornwallis dismissed him at the
beginning of it on the plea that he couldn’t risk the
life of so valued an officer!
Wearing “the consciousness of his moral recti-
tude” as a sort of breastplate, Arnold spent his re-
maining years trying, with great courage, to mend a
broken life. He went to England and sought the
recognition to which he felt himself entitled. He
would likelv have got it but for the fall of the Tories
and the rise of the Whigs, with whom he was in sym-
pathy but who would have none of him. In Canada
he began again in trade, but for family reasons re-
turned to England, where unsuccessfully he long impor-
tuned the Government for military employment against
the French. He died in obscurity, leaving behind a
family whose members subsequently rose to some
prominence, in England and a wife who believed in
him to the last.
A certain irony waited upon Arnold. In the first
place it was his victory at Freeman’s Farm that resulted,
two days after news of it arrived in Europe, in France
declaring war on England and becoming the ally of
America. To a large number of Americans, including
Arnold, this was a most unwelcome turn of events.
They regarded the war as a domestic squabble and
the alliance with France as “unnatural.” In the
second place it was Benedict Arnold’s defection that
stiffened the American ranks. The war had begun
as a struggle for civil rights, and separationist aims
had developed only as the radical element rose to
power. The Declaration of Independence was opposed
by all persons of conservative opinion—about a third
of the population. On top of this there had been con-
stant quarreling between the military and a Congress
so uncertain in its aims that even such a man as
Benjamin Franklin had suggested sending a propor-
tion of the army into the field armed only with bows
and arrows on the ground of economy.
A large number of officers, weary of confusion
and half-disapproving the trend of the struggle, had
been contemplating the course taken by Arnold, yet
no sooner had he taken it than such a wave of popu-
lar indignation swept the country that they, forgetting
their recent sentiments, were caught up in it.
Clearly, Arnold could plead many extenuating
circumstances for what he did, but it is also clear that
his exceptional egoism was an important factor. It
earned him the role of arch-villain in a legend cover-
ing a period which Americans are now ransacking
for rational values.
In Renown, Hough serves history as neat as the
exigencies of fiction will allow. In Rabble in Arms,
Roberts serves it with as much sugar of light romance
as it will dissolve.
Fighting Irishman.
Patrick Alexander was bom in Ireland —“bounc-
ing into the world roaring like a bull” —of an Irish
father and a Scots Presbyterian mother. He grew up
on two levels ; working on his father’s farm, poaching
with local experts, taking a caning a day at the village
school; meeting every important man and woman
who came to Ireland at his father’s table, acting as
King Edward’s esquire when.he shot the local covers:
one foot in the great world, the other in the under-
world.
At fifteen he ran away to sea in search of ad-
venture. When the captain of the ship, a friend of
the family, discovered he was aboard without his
father’s permission he had to jump ship to escape
the humiliation of being promptly sent home. He
stowed away aboard a German ship and spent the
voyage taking and giving lickings. At Cape Town he
deserted—if a stowaway can desert —and went up
country with a batch of horses, living on his wits.
He moved on to Egypt, where he advanced his
age and joined the Scots Guards on garrison duty,
He rose to be a sergeant, took part in desert patrols
and saw a good deal of fighting, private and public.
After sampling life in the Camel Corps he returned
to England in July, 1914, and bought his discharge.
A week later he was back with his regiment and on
his way to Flanders. He fought through the war.
doing, even for a soldier, a great many unconventional
things, even to keeping a pet dog for a year in the
trenches, and developing great skill in foraging, sc
that his company lived like lords. He went to Arch-
angel with the British expedition, and fought there
with the maximum of sporting impartiality.
Such is the substance of his autobiography, M
the Sparks Fly Upwards (Cape). The book ends witf
Patrick departing for Waziristan in search of furthc
adventure—a sequel being probably intended. This
is a cheerful, vigorous book depicting a man of high
vitality happily fighting his way through the world.
Its interest lies not so much in the main narrative
as in the inset anecdotes. Unlike most autobiographies,
the account of Alexander’s childhood is the most
interesting part. It shows a world that has gone, a
semi-feudal state that fostered individuality.
An animal lover, he gives an epic touch to some
of his stories of domestic pets. He had a dog, Smut,
found shot under a bush and nursed back to health,
who taught him poachers’ tricks. His father had a
horse, Jack, who knew all the pubs and would stop at
each one, refusing to move until he had had his pint
of beer. Going away from home he would be so
lame that he could barely hobble, but turn him home-
ward and he would out-trot anything on the road.
Once a Humane Society matron reported Patricks
father for cruelty—he who never carried a whip.
Summoned before a fellow-magistrate, Dad roared,
“Come out and look at my abused horse!” Jack
was as fat and sleek as a butter tub. “Get up behind
him,” Dad insisted, and the magistrate complied. Dad
headed Jack away from home and he limped painfully
down the street. “Home, Jack,” Dad ordered, and the
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” the salt of business.
THE SENIOR STORE’
. . .'V
Hlllfp
116“ ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION
A
i
mm
ii
m
I
m
M Wool
New season's designs in all
wool knitted cardigans. Finished
with V front.- Latest Grey and
Fawn Jacquard designs. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, ea., 22/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE 17/6
/
m
■
f /
m
I
\ \ H
■A
m
m
S i
IV6 Business SHIRTS
” Hordura" (Regd.) business
shirts, our own reliable make.
British weave. Two starchless
collars. Blue and Grey stripes.
14 to 19 inch necks. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, ea., 11/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE, ea., 10/6
ţ
2/11 ELASTIC BRACES
Strong elastic webs fitted with
strong leather ends; and they are
the reputable Police and Firemen
Braces, Shirley make. Anthony.
Horderns’ Regular Price, pair, 2/11
29
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE, pair 2/9
YOU CAN SAVE
By SPENDING NOW
7/6 ALL WOOL
UNDERWEAR NOW
Exceptionally good, Nat-
ural all wool underwear!
Lightweight. Undershirts
have short sleeves, under-
pants to ankle. Sizes 34
to 44 inch chests or waists.
53
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, per gar-
ment, 7/6. ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE, 5/3
2/11 CASHMERE
HALF HOSE NOW
"Hordura" (Regd.) brand
fancy Cashmere half hose.
All' wool except orna-
ments. Newest stripes,
checks and diamond ef-
fects. Grey, Navy, Fawn
grounds. 10 to 12 inch.
26
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair, 2/11
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE 2/6
m HORROCKSES’
Flannelette ’Jamas
Ideal cloth. Double warp
flannelette. Smart col-
ourings. Collar button-
ing to neck. In S.M.,
Medium and O.S.
116
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pr., 12/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE 11/6
6/11 BUSHMAN
WORK SHIRTS AT
No other shirt to beat these
ior long wear! Double
sewn seams. Finished
collar and pocket. 14 to
19 inch necks. Heather
and Blue shades.
66
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, ea., 6/11
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE 6/6
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor —George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
m
JMEP,
WHILE I LIVE I'Ll GROW
is#
2V- FDR FELT HATS
Men's pure Fur Felt Hats. Smart
snap brim styles with narrow or
medium brims. Silk lined. Light,
Medium or Dark Grey; Fawn,
Brown or Navy.
/
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 217-
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE, each 16/6
i ?
7
/
m
: >>X :
9/6 All Wool Underwear
Natural all wool underwear. A reli-
able medium winterweight. • Shirts
have short sleeves and underpants
lor comfort to ankles. Sizes 34 to
44 inch chests or waists.
6U
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, per garment, 9/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE, each 6/11


THE BASSETTS
by A. C. Headley
DRAWING BY PHILLIPS.
THERE were so many things to do that Mrs.
Bassett never quite got round to noticing the
children, even the babies. There were meals,
to be sure, and getting them up and off to school,
but she never quite got over that air of strangeness
with them. It was as though she stayed her foot, drew
it back, and stared with constant surprise at the weird
but living, crawling things fronting destruction.
Regularly each year she had a baby, and the district
visitor from the Church of England, whose name was
Miss Pross, arranged for the comfort of its arrival.
Secretly Mrs. Bassett was contemptuous of Miss
Pross and confident of the youngest Bassett’s ability,
like some newly-hatched chicken, to fend for itself.
But it was pleasant all the same to receive the parcels
of food and clothing, even if it did entail moments of
silent prayer. “She’s a great one for this silent prayer
business,” she told Bassett more than once, and
Bassett, who disliked Miss Pross’s insistent promises
to find work for him, would dismiss her as a “hyper-
crit” without knowing exactly what he meant.
Bassett disliked work, too. Over a period of
years his frailty had been growing on him, until he
was assured that any sustained effort would tear his
heart from its socket and commit him to an entirely
bedridden existence. He was a small, grey man, and
whenever he looked at himelf in the cracked mirror
he was more than ever convinced of himself as the
receptacle for all mortal diseases. He was thin, and
his shoulders seemed, by progressive stages, to have
climbed up past his ears, forcing his chest in so that
it gave the impression of having been chopped off.
On Wednesdays and Saturdays —race days—he earned
five shillings by watching outside a hotel for the
police. Mrs. Bassett knew nothing about this, and the
fact that he usually returned from these duties half
drunk elicited only the information that he had “met
someone,”
For that matter Mrs. Bassett was glad to have
him out of the house on race days. Somehow or
other she always managed to save enough from the
endowment money to afford a sixpence each way on
horses of her choice, though mostly her investments
failed to pay a dividend.
The endowment money was possibly Bassett’s
greatest deterrent from going to work. Five shillings
for each child, and there were seven, not counting
Kenny, who was seventeen and earning thirty shillings
a week from selling papers, and Mary. Then there were
the dole and Miss Pross, who could always be relied
on for parcels donated by the Ladies’ Church Aid. It
was, for Bassett, an altogether pleasant and complacent
From the step
Bassett saw
them carrying the
stuff into the empty
factory. “Hey, ma,”
he called, “it’s gonna
be a gymnasium.”
existence. He had done some relief work at one
time, and there had been a job repairing tramlines.
But his ineptitude for anything requiring physical
exertion had resulted in his being stationed at the
head of the gang with a flag to control the traffic.
That job suited him. He had felt splendid.
There were disadvantages about working. The
dole, for one thing, vanished automatically, as also
did the Chief Secretary’s contribution towards the
rent for that period. As Bassett put it, “Y’ slave y’
guts out an’ y’ ain’t no better orf.” He was always
frightened of Miss Pross and her promises of finding
work for him, and he kept out of her way. Some-
times it was impossible to evade her, but he coped with
this by always being in a hurry to see someone about
a job, and raising his hat very respectfully.
He never got over Mrs. Bassett’s perpetually
frightened attitude about having children.
“Emma,” he would say, “the more kids we ’ave
the more five bobs we git, ’n’ when they grow up they
can keep us in our ol’ age.” And so each year another
Bassett was added to the list, and there were long
bouts of silent prayer with Miss Pross.
The children were Bassett’s particular province.
On Friday nights he boiled the copper and they took
their turns in having a bath. One tub of water for
the lot. The Bassetts trooped patiently through.
Bassett liked all the kids, but his preferences were
for the boys. There were three —Kenny, Joe and
Fred. Bassett liked to talk about them in the pub.
Joe, he insisted, was a “lad.” He would stand back
from the bar, wipe his mouth with the back of his
hand and begin: “Wha’d’yer think ’e done las’
Christmas?” It had happened four years before, but
it was always “las’ Christmas,” and it had to do with
Joe’s raffling of two ducks which belonged to some-
one else. “ ’E’s a card, Joe,” Bassett would conclude,
and attack his beer with a prideful air. But Kenny
was his favorite, chancing perhaps from the fact that
Kenny was selling papers and bringing in thirty
shillings a week.
There was one irritating factor in Bassett’s placid
acceptance of life—Mary. She toiled not, neither was
she available for the endowment. She, of all the
Bassetts, had not looked forward to leaving school
when she was fourteen or earlier. She was sixteen
now, and still at school, talking about leaving certifi-
cates, not to leave, as Bassett had fondly expected,
but to go to the University. He was always telling
himself that something ought to be done about it, but
nothing ever was, and he was left lamenting the fact
that she could get twenty-five bob a week in the lolly
factory.
I T was quite by chance that Bassett stumbled on fee
1 free entertainment of the gymnasiums.
The family lived in an ancient two-storey house
on the corner of a street, a dirty-looking place with
cracked windows that Bassett was always going to
have patched up. Fronting directly on to the street,
there was no verandah —nothing except the solitary
step encroaching on the footpath. From this step
Bassett saw them carrying the stuff into the empty
factory.
“Hey, ma,” he called, “it’s gonna be a gym-
nasium.”
Mrs. Bassett, with a baby on her hip, edged the
door open and looked helplessly at the men with flat
noses.
It was not long before Bassett was talking
learnedly about hooks and counters and footwork.
He liked the atmosphere of the gym., the smell of
sweat and liniment, the heavy thudding sound of
gloves. He liked calling the fighters by name. He
often related stories of fights, invariably successful,
that he had had in his youth. They were always tales
of battling against odds, and no one believed him.
He read the boxing news with a zestful interest, and
always knew why the champion was beaten. “’E
drops ’is shoulder when ’e leads,” or “It’s ’is right—
’e telegraphs it.”
There was good money to be picked up in fights.
A quid for a four-rounder; thirty bob for a six.
Bassett thought about it and spoke to Kenny. “Listen,
Kenny, if y’r ’alf like y’r ol’ dad, y’ could beat most
of ’em without trainin’. Besides it won’t interfere with
y’ papers. Y’ could train any time.”
After a while it became apparent that Kenny
was not going to emulate his father’s brilliance. The
boy was willing, and he fought hard, but that was
all. When he was fighting, nothing existed for him
but to plant his fist in his opponent’s face. But
promoters were always looking for hard-hitting boys
like that to fill the preliminaries. There were plenty
of four-rounders. Sometimes Kenny got two and three
fights a week. He was making good money.
Then suddenly the one disruptive influence in
Bassett’s life was removed. Mary left home. She had
got a job in an office somewhere. After what she
had said to him he was glad she had gone. It was
a fine thing when your own flesh and blood turned
on you. He had stood there, goggling at her while
Mrs. Bassett jogged the baby’s crying and occasionally
interceded with a “Now, Mary.”
That one, he reflected afterwards, knew too much
for her years, and he offered his opinion to Mrs.
Bassett that something rotten would happen to her.
Occasionally there were letters to her mother, but
Bassett chose to ignore them completely. He gathered
however, that she was doing fine, and felt soin


because his prophecy had not materialised. Mean-
while there was Kenny’s fighting to occupy his interest.
KENNY was getting on. He had come to that
sequence of wins that visits every prelim, boy at
times. Altogether he had taken eight fights in a
row. Bassett was beginning to get ambitious.
“Look, ma,” he said, “ ’e’s developin’, that’s wot
’e is. ’E’s been findin’ ’isself. ’E’ll git right up t’ the
top if ’e takes notice of ’is ol’ dad. Sometimes y’ git
a ’undred quid f’r a fight.”
Mrs. Bassett would put hands on her rounding
stomach and declare: “It don’t seem ’ardly possible.”
Kenny went on winning fights, and Bassett was
beginning to push him, seeing promoters and reciting
the lengthening list of his victories. Then there were
six-rounders and sometimes a ten. The boy was
beginning to take on the look of a fighter. His nose
had been broken twice and flattened back against
his face, and one ear twisted forward in an ugly lump.
He had become quieter, content to follow his father’s
lead in everything.
He was eager to get into the ring, eager to fight.
He was still selling papers, but he was finding it
difficult with his change. It was funny, but it took him
a long time to count out the change for two shillings.
He seemed to have lost his touch of sureness with
things. But in the ring it was different. Nothing was
more sure than the menacing gloves of his opponent,
than the white strands of rope, the birdlike antics of
the referee. It was as though his eyes had been
propped wide open, clear. He liked to get in there
and punch and batter. It was a relief from that heavy
daze.
Even Bassett had noticed if, and when Kenny
started losing his fights he cast speculative eyes on
Joe.
“Joe,” he told Mrs. Bassett, “’d make a good
fighter. ’E’s got brains, ’n’ y’ gotter ’ave brains t’ go
far.”
Joe was fifteen .then and bigger than Kenny
already. Bassett obtained an old set of gloves from
the gym. and started taking him in hand. He would
sit in the tiny backyard and watch while the boy
punched a bag. After a while he took him to the
gym., and Joe started to get fights.
K4ARY came home.
V It was late one night when he came back from the
stadium. He had come in the back way and, opening
the door, he heard Miss Pross’s thin voice. He was
half inclined to go away and wait until she was gone,
but Mrs. Bassett’s keen ears had noted his arrival,
and in response to her call he went into the front
room.
Miss Pross was there, looking dignified and de-
termined in her white collar. And Mary. He noted
his daughter’s presence with surprise. She was sitting
on the bed with both arms propped out stiff behind
her, eyeing him defiantly. Dimly the realisation came
to him that she was pretty. It occurred to him that
he had not seen her for nearly three years, and he
couldn’t think of anything to say.
“I’m so glad you came.” Miss Pross broke the
silence.
The girl on the bed moved impatiently. “Let me
talk, please.” She stopped, looking sullenly at her
father. “Father, I’m going to have a baby. I’m not
married.”
It was difficult to analyse his feelings at that
moment. He stood looking at her, his mouth stupidly
open. Then suddenly his prophecy came flooding
back into his mind.
Bassett was conscious of a queer sense of satis-
faction.
Miss Pross said tentatively, “She’s your daughter,
Mr. Bassett.”
“This,” said Bassett, breaking the silence, “is
a pretty kettle of fish. Wha’d’yer want me t’ do?”
“He can’t marry me. That’s all. I want to come
home.”
“It’s your Christian duty,” said Miss Pross.
Bassett was thinking it was an extra mouth,
perhaps two, to feed. “It’s all very well,” he began
uncertainly; and then with clearer thought, “Ain’t
there somethin’ —somethin’ about keepin’ the kid —
maintenance or somethin’? Twelve ’n’ a zack a
week?”
Her eyes were dull. “He’s got no money.”
“It’s all very well,” Bassett repeated with dull
insistence.
“It’s your Christian duty,” said Miss Pross again.
O OMEHOW it all merged into finding something
for her to sleep on, and the corner of the room
where the children slept was finally piled with old
coats. But it was hard to sleep when the backs of
her eyes were hot and moist. From the next room
she could hear her father snoring, and presently her
mother came in. She felt the pressure of the thin
body against her as her mother knelt on the coats,
and a swift wave of unreasoning resentment descended
on her. “Go away. I’m all right.”
She felt her mother’s body stiffen. Then, “Kenny
was born before I married your father. It turned
out all right.” She was gone then.
The girl lay still, staring into the darkness. It
turned out all right. Bassett. She could see her
father’s thin, sanctimonious face. Bassett, who had
never done a hand’s turn in his life. Bassett, and a
young Bassett every year, the smell and filth of dirty
babies. And the boys with their punch-flattened
faces. She had seen Kenny and he had hardly known
her.
She remembered him now with a queer bitterness
in her heart, standing there, his hollowed eyes blinking
stupidly. Sure it turned out all right. It turned out
all right. She turned her head into the pile of coats
and commenced to sob.
Bassett woke when his wife climbed into bed.
“After it’s over,” he mumbled sleepily, “she can
git a job in the lolly fact’ry. She oughter git thirty-
five bob.”
THE DEVIL IS A DIRTY FIGHTER
BY A. E. YARRA.
Q* ANDY’S little black horse did its best to keep
under him as he made his way home from the
Highland Gathering and the subsequent banquet,
but a winged Pegasus would have had his work
cut out, with sideslips and spiral dives, to keep Sandy
in the saddle when he was wrapped round all the
whisky he could hold.
Magpie Creek had struck its colors to him that
day when he opened its eyes with his caber-tossing,
and when he obliterated the wrestler from Sydney in
the second round it had to take a good Scot across
to the pub and fill him with real Australian brew to
show that the Empire had not lost its thin red tie of
kinship. So Sandy, not so familiar with the road to
his holding as he might have been, waved his bottle of
whisky like a claymore, and challenged the Devil him-
self to come and try conclusions in catch-as-catch-can,
or to toss the caber with him, there and then.
So then and there the Devil accepted the chal-
lenge, reached out a hand from a rabbit-hole just
inside Sandy’s property, and pulled the forefeet from
under the sturdy little black horse, throwing Sandy
to the earth with a bump that caused him to take the
count and ask for an extension of half an hour or
so. When he remembered to roll over on his elbow
and survey the position, there was the Devil himself,
in full evening dress, but without his head, standing
quietly in the middle of a cluster of rabbit-holes.
“Whurrurrhee! ” yelled Sandy joyfully. “Sae y’
hairred me? An’ ye’re here alane. What’s agley wi’
y’r heid, mon? Hae ye mislaid it?”
The Devil made no reply, contenting himself with
standing there ; sadly, it would seem, though he had no
face to show it. His long coat-tails swayed gently in
the faint breeze, and his white expanse of shirtfront
reminded Sandy that the Devil is always a gentleman.
Then Sandy saw his black waistcoat and his
Broadway tie, with full evening dress, and he was in-
expressibly shocked a Broadway tie and a black
waistcoat with tails and stiff shirt. “Ye must be
drunk,” Sandy roared in honest indignation, “or fay.
Awa’ wi’ ye, mon ; ye might as well be naked. Awa’
wi’ ye an’ get somethin’ to wear. D’ ye think this is
a sailor’s weddin’?”
Still the Devil preserved a silence so cool that it
seemed the essence of contempt. Now Sandy under-
stood repartee or fighting, but contemptuous silence
was something outside of his ken. He subsided for a
moment to think it over, but could not fathom it.
Here Old Nick had answered his challenge and ap-
peared personally at Magpie Creek to take it up, but
he would not talk to a Macpherson o’ the clan! And
what sort of behavior was this, appearing without
his head? It looked like a wrestler’s trick to Sandy, for
the head-hold is deadly.
Sandy groped for the bottle and started to pull the
cork with his teeth. “Here,” he growled, “tak’ a sup
o’ the barley-bree. It’s colonial whusky, ye ken, but
it’s the best we hae the noo. Maybe ye’ll feel y’r
bristles when ye hae t But then ye hae forgotten
y’r heid, ye loon.”
So Sandy finished the whisky himself, staggered
to his feet and got on with the business. Advancing
with his hands set for a hold —though his feet weaved
more than he would have wished —he was about to
reach for a flying-mare when the Devil turned
coward. He slowly resolved himself into Sandy’s little
black horse, standing head-on with the moon behind
him.
“Losh! ” said Sandy softly as he watched the black
magic at work. The white expanse of shirtfront turned
into a big blaze on Jerry’s long black head, and the
unspeakable black waistcoat became the remainder
of Jerry’s nose right before Sandy’s astonished eyes.
The Devil’s tall collar slowly transformed itself into
two tall horse’s ears with the moonlight shining
between them, and the awful Broadway tie, flapping
in the breeze, was now Jerry’s forelock. The coat-
tails became a horse’s tail.
“Wull ye luk at that, noo?” said Sandy, non-
plussed for the moment, for what good is a wrestling
hold when the antagonist is a horse?
Sandy thought it over and decided that, while he
could not punish the Devil hiding in the form of a
horse through cowardice in the presence of a Mac-
pherson, he still had his spurs. So, warily, lest the
Devil should suspect, he took the bridle, led the
Devil to a stump, placed the reins over his head,
and with great exertion mounted and rode him
through the gate of the cultivation paddock to a spot
of ploughed ground.
“I’m no the man tae blaw,” said Sandy aloud
to the Devil, “but if I canna ride ye tae a stan’still
I’m no a Macphairrrrson, ye ken.”
So Sandy took a good grip of the monkey-strap,
set his heels well against the stirrup-irons and ripped
the Devil down the ribs with his spurs. The result
astonished him. The Devil sprang into the air, sun-
fished swiftly and vigorously, back-pedalled, propped
and shot Sandy, head-first, into a pile of sacks that
had been left there after sowing a crop.
When Sandy could clear his head the Devil had
turned himself into a small black steer, and was
standing there, blowing through his nostrils at the
fallen Highlander.
“Auld Clootie,” said Sandy with rising anger,
“ye’re a dirty fighter.”
The Devil shook his head, fire came from his
eyes and smoke from his nostrils, but all he said was
“Bah! ” which brought Sandy’s anger to boiling point.
The Macpherson sprang and secured a headlock, a
good one, and they went to the mat, Auld Clootie
bellowing for his myrmidons and Sandy grimly
chuckling as he thought that by the time they came
from hell he’d have trounced Auld Clootie to a
finish and would have him patting the mat with
both hands.
Sandy loved the headlock better than any other
hold, and he was grateful for the fact that the Devil
had made a bad slip when he changed himself from
a headless man to a steer, but while he was thinking
this the Devil kicked him on the chin with a swinger
of an uppercut and loosened the hold.
Auld Clootie was up and away on the instant,
bellowing with pain, for Sandy had not spared his
strength in the headlock. As he bumped into the
stockyard fence and rebounded, Sandy was on him
again, before the Devil could think up another quick
change, but Macpherson’s body scissors missed, and
he had to be content with a good grip of the Devil’s
tail until he could manoeuvre for a better. So he
wound a couple of turns of the tail round his hand,
and set his feet to hang on.
“Clootie,” he said, with more of sorrow than
of anger, “ye’re a dirty fighter.”
As the Devil pulled towards the house where
Sandy’s wife and daughter were sleeping peacefully,
having given him up for the evening, an idea came to
the Macpherson that if he could bring off the wrestling
match on the grassy patch in front of the house and
let his goodwife see him put the Devil down he’d
make an impression on that dour objector to whisky
and Highlan’ Gatherin’s. So as long as Auld Clootie
pulled towards the house Sandy let him go, steering
him by the tail.
Presently they were at the verandah, and Sandy
raised his voice above the bellowing of the Devil,
to bring his wife out.
“Mistress Macphairrrrson,” he roared. “Wull
ye come oot 6’ the hoose a wee bit an’ watch a
Macphairrrrson tak’ a fall oot o’ Auld Clootie?
There’ll be a hangin’ forbye, if I can get the beastie
tae the slaughteryard gallows, d’ye see? Oot wi’ ye,
an’ referee the match! Ye’ll no see a better.”
Mrs. Macpherson and her daughter appeared
at the window where a light showed, and all the
goodwife said was: “Ye pair o’ drunken louts! Ye’ll
no come intae this hoose the night. Awa’ tae the
byre wi’ ye, an’ sleep wi’ the kine.” Then she shut
the window, without seeing or realising that Sandy
had the Devil by the tail.
“She thinks it’s Macphail,” said Sandy as the
Devil dragged him towards the barn, no doubt hop-
ing to squeeze in and shut Sandy out while he
changed into a snake and slithered through a crack.
Sandy let him go until they stumbled across a
disk plough in front of the barn and went down to-
gether, but Sandy was awake to that trick. Before
the Devil could rise and run into the barn Sandy
had a hitch with the tail round one of the sharp
disk blades of the plough, and the Devil was squeal-
ing for assistance again and pulling with vigor.
And then Auld Clootie must have remembered
his black magic which he had forgotten in the terror
of meeting a Macpherson, for suddenly he had van-
ished, leaving Sandy with nothing but the Devil’s tail
in his hand.
Some time later Mrs. Macpherson and her daugh-
ter heard the door they had locked burst in violently.
Stealing, trembling, to the dining-room door, they
saw Sandy with a hammer, nailing the Devil’s tail
to the wall between the biggest set of deer antlers
that ever came out of the Highlands, and a certificate
that Sandy had won the championship of the High-
land Clans’ Society at catch-as-catch-can wrestling.
They heard him muttering as he drove the nails
home: “Ye’re a dirty fighter, Clootie, but I’ve a
trophy that wull mak’ the clans sit back an’ whus'tle.


Mrs. Parsley "On the Horns of Tenderhooks ”
Necessity After The Fact
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
il ERSONALLY I believe,” said Mrs. Parsley
| sententiously, undoubtedly deriving inspiration
from the headlines about the latest mystery
staring from the newspaper on my desk, “that
if there is a murder or a suicide there should be a
dead corpse. It is one of the baser principles. That’s
why everyone was so mystrified when they said that
Mr. Sottom’s dead body didn’t belong to him.”
“That would certainly be embarrassing,” I re-
marked.
“It was most embracing for me, seeing that I was
a necessity after the fact, as the police call it. It’s all
over now, but I was on the horns of tenderhooks for
ages over it. I never knew when that sword of Oclees
(which I can’t get myself to use the ‘damn’ as Mr.
Slompack does) was going to fall and cut the Gordon
knot.
“That poor Mr. Sottom was one of them men who
is born into trouble as the sparks fly upward. When
them Sottoms was quite new tenants in Number 14
I overheard them having an argument as I passed their
flat.
“ ‘But I did it for your sake, darling,’ he says. ‘The
money being short this week, I thought I’d make it up
by giving it a fly at two-up.’
“ ‘And I suppose you got drunk for my sake, too?’
she says.
“ ‘You know I’d do anything for you,’ he says.
“It didn’t seem to me any good for her to call
him a bungalow, always messing things up ; but really
she didn’t go for him half as badly as some wives I
know would have done.
“It wasn’t half an hour later that the woman in
Number 15, which was one of them I was thinking
about when I spoke of other wives, came running
down, all agertated, to say that something terrible
was happening in Number 14. There was several
tenants outside the flat door, and from the sound in-
side someone was sharpening a razor, very loud. One
of the people said that Mr. Sottom sounded desperate,
and they heard him say he intended to commit
suicide.
“ ‘Well, good-bye, everybody! ’ That was Mr.
Sottom’s voice; and then there was a thud as if some-
body had fallen to the floor.
“It gave me plantations of the heart; I didn’t want
anything like that happening in my residential. But
when I poundered at the door and it was opened,
there was Mrs. Sottom calmly laying the table.
“ ‘lt’s only Mr. Sottom committing suicide, Mrs.
Parsley,’ she says; and she calls out: ‘Get up from
the floor, Jack, and don’t go on acting the fool. Tea’s
ready.’
“While I stood there dumpfoundered, he came
out from the bedroom looking rather sheepish, but
quite hungry..
“He was always committing suicide ; but when
people got used to him nobody ever thought he would
really do it. It happened every time he had an argu-
ment with his wife ; but after I’d told them both that
I wouldn’t have no suicides in my residential he used
to go out to do it. Whether it was to throw himself
under a train or jump off the Gap he never seemed to
get any further than the corner pub. And he always
came back again.
“At other times he was a jolly little feller and
everybody liked him. And Mrs. Sottom, too, who was
a handsome woman still, and must have been fond of
him to stay on the endurance file with him, the way he
was always getting into trouble, and owing money,
and having policemen coming
with summonses. There was
a Mr. Palty, who was
Number 20, was a friend of
theirs, and I often heard him
telling Mr. Sottom that he
wasn’t going to lend him an-
other penny. But I know Mr.
Slompack lent him some
money and still said he liked
him.
“But there came the
time he didn’t come home.
<‘ \A RS. SOTTOM was
Iworried, but she tried
to be cheerful. ‘I expect he’s
only lost his job again, and
doesn’t like to return and tell
me,’ she says bravely. ‘He’s
like that.’
“It was when she rang
up his employers and found they hadn’t been his em-
ployers for a couple of weeks, though he had left
home every morning as if they were, that she was
really upset. Only a little time after that the news
came that Mr. Sottom had really and truly com-
mitted suicide. It was Mr. Palty on the ’phone from
the city who gave the inflammation.
“ ‘To think that he should speak about the in-
surance being all right,’ Mrs. Sottom wailed on my
neck. ‘As .if that would dispensate for the loss of a
man like Jack! He had his idiot sins and crazies,
but he was one of the best men that ever lived.’
“He went on becoming better and better the
longer he was dead; and Mrs. Sottom came back
from identifying him at the morgue all broke up.
Not that she could identify him much, because his
body had been found in the water below Boulders
Bluff all battered with the sea, an’ all the clothes
tore to ribbons. But some of the people who had
driven down in cars to amuse themselves looking at
the place where the unidentified body had been found
had found some papers under a stone. And then
everybody knew that poor Mr. Sottom had gone,
for there was a farewell letter from the poor feller,
besides summonses and pawntickets. There was no
doubt in anybody’s mind about it being him.
“The funeral obsequiousness was quite a big
affair, and when they came back Number 14 was
full of people all talking about what a good chap
Mr. Sottom was, and how he had borrowed money
from them. It was Mr. Palty who was the residing
genii, as Mr. Stompack called him, serving out the
liquor and all that.
“When a knock came at my door and I opened
it I thought I had seen a ghost. I shut the door
quick ; but when he kept on knocking I thought it
couldn’t be a ghost, although, but for the whiskers,
it looked like Mr. Sottom.
‘ ’Sail ri’, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says. He was drunk ;
there was no mistake about it. ‘l’m not a ghost.
I’m my uncle.’
“Well, of all the things that ever were —a man
making a statement like that! I couldn’t make out
what to make of it.
“‘Why aren’t you upshtairs, Mrs. Parsley?’ he
asks. ‘I wan’ you to hear what everybody thinks
of me —of my nephew, I mean. You was always very
good to me—to my nephew and his wife.’
“It seemed a terrible thing to me to have a dead
man there standing at my door telling me he was
his uncle ; I didn’t know what to do about it. And
I was glad when Mr. Palty and a friend of his, Mr.
Darby, came along looking very upset, and caught
hold of him.
“ ‘Can we bring him into your flat, Mrs. Parsley?’
asked Mr. Palty.
“Bring him in they did, while I stared at them.
It was a nine days’ blunder to me. They pushed him
into a chair, and then they pulled him up, shaking
him, trying to make him sober.
“ ‘You fool! You’ll make a nice mess of things.
You’ll get us all into a jam-tin,’ says Mr. Darby.
“ ‘All right! All right! ’ he says. ‘There’s only
one thing left for me to do. I’ll commit suicide.’
“ ‘You have committed suicide, you fool! ’ says
Mr. Palty. ‘Have some sense, man! You were in
an awful mess. You’d lost your job and hadn’t told
your wife: you’d bamboozled money from the firm
before they sacked you, and they’re liable to find
it out any time, although they won’t worry about it
now you’re dead. That’s oply part of the troubles
you’re in. Your liable to go to gaol for contempt
of Court over that District Court order.’
“ ‘So we helped you to die. And what’s your
gratitude?’ says Mr.' Darby.
“ ‘lt was the only way
out for you,’ says Mr. Palty.
‘That unidentified body at
Boulders Bluff came in
nicely. Darby here motored
out and put those papers of
yours under the stone and
then drew someone’s atten-
tion to them. It was all
nicely arranged; and your
wife will get your insurance.
But you’re going to spoil
everything, you bungalow!’
“ ‘You had to go to the funeral!’ says Mr. Darby
bitterly.
“That seemed to annoy Mr. Sottom. ‘Well, whose
funeral was it?’ he says quite hotly. ‘l’d a right to
be there.’ And then he got subdued and mournful
again. ‘lt wouldn’t be showin’ proper respect if I
didn’t go to my own funeral.’
“It appeared that, because they was frightened he
would turn up anyway, them friends of his had let
him go to the funeral as his own uncle, him having
grown that beard. But he had been a lot of trouble
to them. One of his ideas was that after the burial
he should have got on a tombstone and returned
thanks for those who had attended. He had become
worse later on ; one of the things Mr. Palty hadn’t
liked was the way Mr. Sottom had made up to his
wife. Kissing her in a way Mr. Palty didn’t think
was right in an uncle just making her acquaintance
for the first time, and telling her he’d stand by her
just as if he was his own nephew.
. “‘I never knew she thought so much of me,’ says
Mr, Sottom, full of sediment and liquor. ‘lt’s worth
being dead' to find out.’ But really Mr. Sottom was
drowsy; and while they were going at him he started
to go to sleep. They’d been so busy reminding him
of all they’d done for him and what a bungalow he
was that they’d hardly taken any notice of me, who
was just standing there like a codfish out of water.
“ ‘We’ll have to take Mrs. Parsley into our con-
fidence trick,’ says Mr. Darby. ‘I daresay you see
how things are, Mrs. Parsley. As friends of Mr.
Sottom we took the only way to get him out of terrible
difficulties. Now we’ve got to go on. So’
“ ‘Don’t you say a word about all this, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Palty, sharplike. ‘lt will only mean
trouble for yourself if you do. You are a necessity
after the fact now.’
“That made me angry, with the sharp way he
said it. ‘Don’t you call me names like that, Mt.
Palty,’ I says. ‘I want none of your vile dispersions.’
‘ ‘l’m sure there’s no need to talk to Mrs. Parsley
like that,’ says Mr. Darby, which was a nice man.
‘Mrs. Parsley will keep our counsel for the sake of
poor Sottom and poor Mrs. Sottom. You see, Mrs.
Parsley, if it comes out that the identification was
wrong, and Sottom isn’t dead, there will be trouble
for all of us.’
“ ‘I shall be as silent as the graveyard,’ I says.
‘There’s no need to call me a necessity. I wouldn’t
do anything to give trouble to nobody.’
((AH, what a tanglefoot they leave when first they
practise to deceive, as the Bible says; and,
though I shouldn’t say it was the first with that Mr.
Palty, there was no doubt that was true. Those poor
men were worried ; but no doubt they had acted for
the best, especially in trying to get the insurance money
for that poor Mrs. Sottom, and I wasn’t going to do
anything to harm them. Especially as it seemed true
about my being a necessity after the fact if it came
out that Mr. Sottom wasn’t his own uncle but himself.
I let them leave Mr. Sottom locked in my flat, him
having gone to sleep.
“Them two men had hardly gone before they were
back again, both looking very upset.
“ ‘His real uncle has arrived,’ says Mr. Palty.
‘He motored down from Queensland ; and he says
he doesn’t know of any other uncle, unless his mother
had a brother he had never heard about.’
“There was a nice kettle of fish and chips! They
got him out by the back gate, and Mr. Darby took
him away. -Mr. Palty had to go back to look after
the mourners.
“It was terrible for me being a necessity after the
fact, and that Mr. Sottom likely to do something
stupid like the bungalow they all called him. There
was them insurance companies making a fuss about
paying up. Them insurance companies! I’ve no time
for them, with their talk of premiers (which I always
say there should be only one Government) and poli-
cies as if they were political meetings; and them no:
wanting to pay unless they are quite sure that some-
body’s dead. As bad as them banks that make cheque*
dishonorable, they are.
“It seems that Mrs. Sottom’s parents had made
Sottom get out big insurances when first they was
married, and they had been kept up, as the saying is:
Mrs. Sottom must have managed that, because poor
Mr. Sottom couldn’t. As Shakspeare says, the best-
laid schemes of micey men gang daft with glee; but
it wasn’t a laughing matter with them two men or
me, who was a necessity.
“It would have been bad enough if Mr. Sottom-
who was Sam Billings now, and had a job at the fisi
markets which Mr. Palty, being a fish salesman and
having influence there, had got for him, had been


content to stay away. But he didn’t, and, although
he only came like the thieves in the night, some people
in the residential started to talk about seeing ghosts,
which there had been talk of ghosts in the place just
before.
“Whenever there was a smell of fish about the
place all me nerves got going with the thought that
Mr. Sam Billings was there. He didn’t like being dead,
and the money he was paid wasn’t enough, and he
thought he ought to have some of the insurance
money ; and he didn’t like the thought that his widow,
who looked very nice in black, I must say, and almost
young, might marry again. He began to be jealous
of Palty, who saw her every day and looked after her
affairs —which I must say myself Mr. Palty seemed
to take more interest in her than was necessary, and
was always taking her out. He said she had to be
lifted out of her sorrow, which he seemed to like
doing.
“Mr. Palty began to get annoyed with him, too,
because whenever he came up he borrowed money.
Sometimes I kept him in may flat when he came,
because then we could get him out of the back gate
better without him being seen. And there was almost
rows sometimes.
“ You fellers killed me,’ says Mr. Sam Billings.
‘You wiped out all my friends ; I can’t go and borrow
money when I’m short. I’ve got to come to you.’
“ ‘Do you know,’ said Mr. Palty, turning to Mr.
Darby, ‘the man’s blackmailing us! I’m not going
to stand that.’
“‘You can call it what you like,’ says Mr. Sam
Billings as cool as a concubine. ‘You know you’ve
both committed a criminal defence.’
“‘You ungrateful swine!’ cried Mr. Darby. ‘What
we did we did to get you out of a hole. Dammit, man,
you’d have been in gaol, and your wife —what would
have become of her? She’s got the insurance money,
which makes her comfortable.’
“ ‘And if it comes out you’re in it, too,’ says Mr.
Palty.
“ ‘Me?’ he says, as calm as one of them evening
zebras, as the saying is. ‘They can’t charge a man
with a criminal defence for being dead. / didn’t swear
I was dead,’ he says.
“'J'HERE were fresh implications when a man
named Tomsitt came out, shaking like an aspic,
to see Mrs. Sottom. He said he had seen her hus-
band’s ghost in a bar in town where they used to
drink together. As he had seen Mr. Sottom buried
he was naturally upset, especially when the ghost
asked him to have a drink. Mr. Tomsitt said he didn’t
know what happened then: he must have turned tailor,
as the saying goes, and bolted. Outside he hailed a
taxi and came right away to tell Mrs. Sottom.
“ ‘Do you know, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says, ‘I some-
times have a feeling that dear Jack isn’t dead—that he
might come back to me.’ She was excited, but not
as upset as she might have been, hearing that her
husband was wandering about like a disembowelled
spirit.
“ ‘Wouldn’t it be awkward about your insurance
money? You’d have to pay that back,’ I says.
“ ‘Oh, that would be terrible! ’ she says. ‘I am
so comfortable now, for the first time in my life. I
often wish I had Jack to share it with -me; but, of
course, that could not be.
“ ‘Mr. Palty has been suggesting that I should go
to New Zealand,’ she says. ‘He even suggests that I
should transfer my money there ; he says he would
get that done for me. Mr. Palty says he could take
a holiday and see me safely over. I think,’ she says,
smiling sadlike, ‘that Mr. Palty might ask me to marry
him. But I don’t think I could forget my poor dear
Jack so soon.’
“Well, there was another kettle of fish and chips
—Mr. Palty going on like that like a snake in the
glass in sheep’s clothing, without saying a word to
anybody else; and him knowing that her husband
wasn’t rightly dead!
“I was beginning to feel that I would be glad to
be rid of the whole lot of them and being a necessity
after the fact. If they went it would be two of them
gone, anyhow. If I said anything about what Mrs.
Sottom told me it might make matters worse ; but I
did tell them men about Mr. Tomsitt seeing the ghost.
“ ‘The bungalow! ’ cried Mr. Palty. ‘When he gets
a few drinks aboard he’s liable to do anything. He’ll
turn up one day with his beard shaved off. Then
we’ll all be in the soup.’
“ ‘This sort of thing can’t go on,’ says Mr. Darby.
‘A man schemes to help a friend out of a mess, and
thi9 is what he’s got to endure.’
“ ‘No, it can’t go on. It’s not going to go on as
far as I’m concerned,’ says Mr. Palty. And knowing
what Mrs. Sottom had told me I could read between
the lions, as the saying goes.
“It seemed to me that we was all expended on
the horns of them tenderhooks; but there was worse
to follow. One morning the paper was full of an
account about how the man whose body had been
found at Boulders Bluff had been murdered.
“A man who had been arrested had made a state-
ment that he had seen two men fighting at the top
of Boulders Bluff. One of them had pushed the other
over. He had been camped in the bush dodging a
warrant, and he had seen everything. He wasn’t going
to give himself up to make the report, but when he
was arrested he wanted to tell all he knew.
“‘Good God!’ cries Mr. Palty, coming into my
flat with the paper in his hand. ‘Murder! Now the
flats will be in the fire!’
“ ‘Not my flats, I hope, Mr. Palty,’ I says. ‘I
can’t be a'necessity after the fact about Mr. Sottom
being murdered, because we know he wasn’t
murdered.’
“ ‘No ; but the whole matter will be opened up
again,’ he says. The insurance companies will make
a fuss. The only thing is for you not to say a word
of what you know, Mrs. Parsley. It’s more important
now than ever.’
As he had seen Mr. Sottom buried,
he was naturally upset, especially
when the ghost asked him to have
a drink.
course everybody in the flats was talking about
the new envelopment; the news ran like wild-
flowers all over the place. Mrs. Sottom took it quite
calmly." Mr. Palty and Mr. Darby were there when
she came downstairs.
“ ‘That couldn’t have been Jack. He must be
somewhere, and he may be dead, but that couldn’t be
him. Nobody would want to murder Jack,’ she says.
“Mr. Palty and Mr. Darby looked queer. I think
they had often felt they wanted to murder him.
“ ‘All along I’ve had an idea that that identifica-
tion was wrong,’ says Mr. Slompack a little later.
“Sottom had a lot of trouble and he might have de-
cided to disappear. I’ve got a depression that he’s still
alive.’
“The silver lining is before the darkest hour, so
they say, but I couldn’t see it, and people talking like
that made me more uncomfortable, me being afraid
to say anything, although people usually admit that my
conversational debility is good.
“In the effluvia of time the next day came ; it
was worse. In the midday paper was all about how
that criminal had made a new confession. He said he
had murdered the man whose body was found at
Boulders Bluff. He wasn’t John Sottom at all, but
James Chapman. What made matters worse there
was nobody I could talk to. Mrs. Sottom wasn’t in
her flat; Mr. Palty wasn’t in his ; and I didn’t see that
Mr. Darby.
“ ‘lt was awful. I thought perhaps they had all
been arrested and maybe they would be coming for
me soon, me having been that necessity. When I
heard Mr. Darby’s voice on the ’phone it was almost
like the voice of one of them angel sheriffs that sing
in heaven.
“But he was very agertated ; he wanted Mr. Palty,
and seemed worried he was not about.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, tell him I met —our friend—you
know, Sam Billings—walking in Sydney all shaved,
and —tell him to wait, if he comes home.’
“Well, if ever anyone was extracted it was me.
He rang off without saying anything more ; and all I
could do was to wait like them patients on a monu-
ment, though that seems a strange place for patients
to wait. I was glad to know, however, that Mr. Darby
wasn’t arrested.
“It never rains without pause was very true the
way them two arrived, almost together. Mr. Palty
was first; he asked if I had seen Mrs. Sottom and
rushed up to her flat. When he came back, not having
found her, Mr. Darby had just arrived.
“ ‘Sottom’s been walking about Sydney, shaved
and without disguise,’ says Darby.
“‘I know. He came to my office,’ said Mr. Palty.
“Mr. Darby seemed surprised. ‘I got rid of him,’
he said as if he was pleased with himself. ‘When I
demonstrated with him he said that there was a boat
leaving for New Zealand in half an hour. He was
prepared to get away if I gave him twenty quid. He
said you would probably give half to get rid of him.
That’s what I rang up here about. But I wasn’t going
to miss the chance. I found
the money. I pushed him
into a taxi, drew down the
blinds and saw him safely on
the boat.’
“‘You blinded fool!’
yelled Mr. Palty at him.
‘Why didn’t you come to my
office first? He locked me in ;
there’s an outside bolt and he
drew it. Being Saturday, the
offices were shut. It wasn’t
until I’d pummelled for hours
that I was let out. / was
going to catch that boat; and
now I’ve missed it!’
“ ‘Oh, you were going to
catch that boat, eh?’ said
Darby. ‘Well, I suppose it’s
fair ; but / was going to tell
you I’m leaving for Brisbane.
Oh, and Sottom gave me a
message. I didn’t understand
it. He said his wife thanks us
both for helping her to that
insurance money. He said his
wife wanted her love sent to
you ; although how’
“Mr. Palty looked as if
he was going to have that
appleplexy which is so dan-
gerous.
“ ‘Curse it! ’ he yelled. ‘His wife was on that
boat! ’
“The way that Mr. Darby looked at him was a
caution. ‘So that was it!’ he says. ‘You were going
to run away with her —and the insurance money; and
he cut you out! Palty, you’re a b cad! ’
“It’s a word I don’t like using, but that’s what he
said. And then he went out. I was glad when Mr.
Palty went that night, too.
“Them insurance companies kept sending people
to try and find out where the Sottoms had gone, but
officiously I didn’t know, and I never heard anything
more about it. A still tongue keepeth a silent head, as
the saying goes ; and there was none left to say I was
a necessity after the fact.”


You Can Depend on Baker’s Cutlery— lt’s the Best Quality
ť
Bread Board and Knife, coloured
corners and handle, 14/6 complete.
Postage 1/-.
jjmgewwjvT&in;- .in*;
■r.
V>
Ladies’ Snap-
cut Garden
Secateur, 7/6
each. Post. 6d.
Stainless
Carvers in pre-
sentation case,
39 /6 complete.
• -T
feVY JNO.BAKEA
£33HUHTEJISLSY{>
o
-. . ..
Baker’s “Juno
Special” Blade
Razor, white
xylonite handle, fin. or fin.
blade, 15/- each.
•
Hair Scissor, 7in., 7/6 each.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“The Cutlery Specialists”
ŧ
Horse and Cow Hide Razor Strop,
7/6 each.
Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
old sinner, his lameness forgotten, raced off like the
wind.
Jack also taught another horse to steal bread
and share it with him, and blackmailed friends for
sugar.
One of the young Alexander’s happiest moments
came when dining in exalted company. Reference
was made to his service in the Guards. “What rank,
sir?” asked the colonel beside whom he sat. “Sergeant,
sir,” replied Alexander. “My God,” spluttered the
colonel, “and I thought you were a gentleman!”
Mrs. Alexander was fey, and used to see visions
of coming events in the same way that a traveller
may see a distant place reflected in a mirage When
the son had run away and no one had any idea of
where he was, she saw him walking along a desert
road to Cairo, doubled up with laughter. On the
strength of this she wrote to him care of Shepherd’s
Hotel. He collected the letter an hour after the inci-
dent she had seen in her vision actually occurred.
Before the Great War broke out she saw incidents
in it which afterwards befel her son and daughter.
The tough young Alexander takes this quite for
granted. As the Sparks Fly Upwards is a young man’s
book; one step forward from a boy’s adventure yarn.
A Shabby Romeo.
By its title Elizabeth Bowen’s The Death of a
Heart (Gollancz) seems to promise a romantic tragedy
on noble lines, something large and sad and cleansing.
She had such a theme under her hand, but, appar-
ently at the last moment, experienced the embarrass-
ment of a sophisticated person caught in sentimen-
tality, and turned the whole thing into small change,
substituting anti-climax for tragedy.
The Death of a Heart tells a story of innocence
in conflict with the world. Portia, at 16, was taken
from the raggedy life in cheap Continental hotels that
she had shared with her vague and helpless mother
to the sophisticated home of her half-brother, Thomas
Quayne, in London.
She was sent perfunctorily to a finishing day
school, given a latchkey and her presence suffered
with casual good manners. She was expected to be
as self-contained as an adult and as self-effacing as a
child. She was in enemy country, besieged and cut
off, but happy, noting in her diary the phenomena of
this strange new world. Her sister-in-law, Anna, alter-
nately exhibited and repressed her.
Portia was invulnerable in her innocence until
Eddie, one of Anna’s acquaintances, made fanciful,
half-tender, half-mocking love to her. He was a
complex, shoddy young man who found life at once
too easy and too difficult. In flattering and cajoling
Portia he discovered a new emotional attitude that
rested him for the moment. But Portia took him
seriously and loved him with all a Juliet’s fire and
innocence, only to discover that he was repelled by
her sincerity. When she learned that she provided one
more wry joke between Anna and Eddie and that
Anna had been reading her diary the foundations of
her life were torn away. The childishness that had
made her immune broke down now that her last
privacy was rifled. She ran away and took refuge with
Major Brutt, an elderly man who had once sent her
a jigsaw puzzle. The book ends in a long discussion
scene in which Thomas, Anna and a novelist friend
pick Portia’s little skeleton bare, articulating her
tragedy with wit and acumen. The housemaid is then
sent to fetch her home.
The characters are arranged in a neat pattern.
On one side there are the innocents, Portia and Major
Brutt. They were both, by reason of their guileless-
ness, unable to cope with the world in which they
found themselves, both vulnerable. Portia was not
being fitted for life and the major no longer fitted.
There was, of course, his courage—something now
with no context, no function, no outlet, fumbled over,
rejected, likely to fetch nothing. Makes of men date,
like makes of cars; Major Brutt was a 1914-18 model:
there was now no market for that make.
On the other hand, there were Eddie and Anna,
both equally spurious, without morals and without
pity, but where Anna was successful Eddie was a
failure deceiving no one. Flanking the four principals
are two neutrals: Thomas, who, loving his wife, was
for ever impaled on the suspicion of an earlier and
happier love affair in her life; and the novi&ist, St.
Quentin Miller. The background is filled in with
other figures—Anna’s ornate friends balancing the
people Portia meets on a holiday at the seaside, and
who give her a little rough-and-ready education in
living.
This is a book about people with abnormally thin
skins. Their perceptions and emotions are exhibited
in great detail and canvassed to the last drop. The
whole book is quarried out of some super-sensitive
material; it trembles and flinches and then rebels
against itself. Under this tender flesh there is a
skeleton of iron, an accumulation of black and relent-
less irony. To the delicacy is owing some really beauti-
ful descriptions, notably one on the return of spring;
from the irony comes whatever strength the novel pos-
sesses.
For all its insistent individuality in detail and
handling The Death of a Heart is really a stock pat-
tern in English fiction to-day. These novels charged
with awareness, examining inch by inch the lives of
their thin-skinned characters, come nearly as thick as
their opposite numbers, the stark, rough-hewn tales
of toil or crime, the blood-saturated detective novels
and the conscientiously sensational autobiographies.
One is a flight from the other. They are alternative
solutions seeking to convince the public, turn and turn
about, either that it is still in its primitive state of
bloodlustiness or rarefied into a superior state of
emotional and mental subtlety. You pay your seven-
and-six and you take your choice.
Arctic Recollections.
Beginning with his return to his native Denmark
from Greenland, Peter Freuchen, author of Eskimo,
has turned off in It’s All Adventure (Heinemann) a
very readable story of personal adventure. The Danes
hold a writer-explorer in high esteem, and Peter en-
joyed both the deference paid him and the large audi-
ences that assembled when he went on a lecturing
tour.
In the early pages he is very much the simple,
good-natured giant from outback, a trifle awkward
among the fixings of civilisation and a trifle con-
temptuous of the puny physique of townsfolk. (Peter
is six'feet five inches high, bearded and, as a result
of frostbite in Greenland, has a peg-leg which, in a
tight corner, he uses as a weapon.)
However, he doesn’t let his amiable dramatisa-
tion of the backwoodsman run off with his sense of
humor. He tells how, after the success of Eskimo, he
bought himself a wide-brimmed black hat so that he
would really look the part of an author. On his first
stroll abroad in his new hat he was accosted from
behind by a couple of girls. He turned round to look
at them, and for the first time they got the full benefit
of the hat and the beard. “Du lieber Gott!” squeaked
one. “It’s a missionary!” And they fled.
A settled life couldn’t hold him for long, and
there follows the story of his travels to Russia, Fin-
land, Germany, U.S.A. and back to Greenland. He
is at his happiest, in a literary sense, when in con-
tact with something that reminds him of the land
where he grew to manhood. There is a particularly
good chapter on life among the Finns ; their delight in
the brief summer and how a fit of “winter madness”
would sometimes seize a whole settlement during the
long dark months. Effective are such items as where
he approached what he took to be a belt of low-grow-
ing scrub that turned out to be a herd of a couple of
thousand reindeer lying down to chew the cud. Their
massed antlers were what he had mistaken for the
branches of the bushes.
Kayak hunters appear to have tricks in common
with surf-board riders:
It is by no means easy to handle a kayak in a rough
sea. One danger is that if the paddler takes the crest
of a wave sitting upright he may have his spine broken,
and to avoid this danger the hunter turns his kayak
and himself bottom up. In that way the force of the
breaking wave is taken on the keel, and after it has
passed he dexterously rights himself and his boat and
paddles along, until the trick has to be repeated.
The clothes of the hunter are fastened to the
kayak, so that man and boat “become a practically
watertight unit.” It is very cold at starting, “but the
hunter soon becomes warm and comfortable.”
Back in northern Greenland Peter Freuchen was
called upon to settle a dispute among some Eskimos.
His decision pleased no one, and when, in answer to
protests from all sides, he explained that he had
handled the matter in the way it was always dealt with
elsewhere, he was told, “It may be all right to settle
things that way among white men, but not here among
human beings.”
In South Greenland he does a little debunking:
We went out to look at some ruins dating back to
the ancient Vikings, and this proved to be a thing no
romantic person should ever do. You read in the great
Norse sagas about the heroic doings of the Vikings, their
fights, and how a man could hide himself in the throngs
at their feasts. And then you see a structure with
rooms the size of an ordinary dining-room table. The
disappointment is severe.
There is the feeling that It’s All Adventure started
out to be an autobiography and became a travel book.
This was a happy change of direction, for Peter
Freuchen explaining himself is not half as interesting
as Peter Freuchen telling what he saw and did in wild
lands or retelling some epic story of life among the
scattered people of the Arctic Circle.
On with the Crinoline.
Keith Winter’s new play, Old Music (Heine-
mann), is set in 1854, the year of the Crimean War,
and its subject matter has been sedulously adapted to
the popular conception of the period. It is a melo-
drama of the Victorian vintage complete with the
usual stage properties.
Geraldine is young and beautiful, and has been
carefully trained by her mamma for the marriage
market. Judith is a poor relation whose: father, alas,
was an artist. She lives in her aunt’s house as gover-
ness to Nicholas, an enfant terrible who makes him-
self useful by giving all the characters away to one
another and to the audience.
Geraldine has netted a very rich peer when her
heart is assailed by romantic doubts. Should she not
after all take the less rich but very fascinating Captain
Anthony Yale? No sooner has she decided in favor
of the dashing captain than she discovers that he
has been coming not to see her but Judith. The
scene that ensues precipitates a proposal which Judith
accepts because she is heartily sick of being a gover-
ness. Geraldine marries the peer and Judith the
captain, and the hatchet is buried between them.
But Judith and Tony are not happy. She discovers
his Past, a lieutenant falls abjectly in love with her
and the captain becomes insanely jealous. Geraldine
reappears and woos Anthony, who responds out of
pique. Judith finds out, but realises that her husband
is only a lonely, misunderstood boy. She falls
genuinely in love with him, but pride, in the best
tradition of the period, keeps two loving hearts apart,
for the time being. The humor that bedizens most
of the action is suitably coy. For instance, the family
is having a picnic in the woods and—attended by two
footmen —is playing at boiling the billy:
Mrs. Decker: You know a watched pot never boils.
Tony: I wonder who was first responsible for that
extremely arbitrary statement.
Geraldine: It comes from the Book of Proverbs,
does it not?
Judith: No, dear, it does not.
Edward: Nor is it to be discovered in the Song
of Solomon!
Tony: If we must find a Biblical source, I should
suggest Jeremiah. It has the same hopeless inaccuracy
that characterised most of his observations.
Mrs. Decker: I think the conversation is bordering
on the profane.
Geraldine: Oh, Mamma, I think one is permitted to
take a few liberties with the Old Testament!
That is one of the brightest rallies.
The Crimean War acts as a solvent of the matri-
monial cross-purposes, A passionate reconciliation
takes place at a ball —but Geraldine sees Judith a nd
Tony kissing and in a spasm of uncontrollable jealousy
shoots Tony. The curtain falls on Judith protecting
her cousin with a tale of suicide.
This story is clamped between a prologue and an
epilogue, dated thirty years after, which shows Judith
and Geraldine living together and Judith turning past
history to good use in a little spiritual blackmail on
behalf of Geraldine’s son. This is a sad strategical
error on the part of the author as it belittles the main
action. Further, he seems never to have decided
whether Old Music was to be a comedy or a tragedy.
The reader is not prepared for the final catastrophe,
so that it comes as a surprise rather than as a con-
summation. Cold print is unkind to Old Music. It
might play better than it reads.
For Writers.
Novelists, dramatists, short-story writers, poets
and other writing folk seeking guidance regarding
overseas literary markets have a choice of two excel-
lent annual reference books: The Authors’ Handbook,
1939 (John Lane), and The Writers and Artists Year-
Book, 1939 (A. and C. Black)—both ss. 3d. in Aus-
tralia.
The Handbook is edited by D. Kilham Roberts,
secretary of the Incorporated Society of Authors, and
is in its fifth year ; the Year-Book has been a standard
work for 32 years. Each contains a classified list of
journals, their requirements and rates of payment;
lists of British, Dominion and U.S.A. publishers and
of literary agents, news and press agencies, art and
photographic agents, broadcasting and stage require-
ments, both professional and amateur; details regard-
ing copyright, publishers’ agreements, dramatic and
serial rights, censorship, and the law of libel, advice
to composers and lyric writers, and a wealth of other
practical information.


ULTIMATE
ALL
WORLD
RADIO
“Precision Built for Performance—The slight extra cost is worth it”
OUTSTANDING RELEASES FOR
1939
I T LTIMATE has always led the radio parade... last year’s cabinets, spin dial, extended tuning
range, battery economy switches, and visible controls are only now being adopted by other
manufacturers! 1939 models still contain those features plus other necessary refinements such as
six-gang tuning condensers, all-wave coverage, inbuilt power switch on volume control, new type
dials, etc., etc.
YOU SHOULD KNOW THESE FACTS ABOUT
ULTIMATE
(a) A standard 6v. A.C; “Ultimate” holds the world’s record for the greatest number of verified stations
received—79B on the Broadcast Band.
(b) An ’Ultimate” Battery Set has created a record in logging 531 verified stations.
(c) An Ultimate in New Zealand holds Nine Champion of Champions Awards.
(d) Ultimate was used by Commander R. E. Byrd in his expedition to the South Pole.
(e) Mr. R. N. Shaw, of 'Wauchope, uses an Bv. A.C. All-wave * Ultimate” for compiling “Wireless
Weekly” Short-wave Notes.
(f) Dr. Sinclair, of Eastwood, official advisor to the 8.8. C. on Australian Short-wave Reception, uses
"Ultimates” exclusively.
(g) Mr. Keast, of Randwick, advisor to technical publications on short-wave reception, uses an Bv.
A.C. “Ultimate.”
9
11
1
m
mm
■n
.
n
■■ ■
■
& tm
to*-;
THE “CENTURY.’
1939 ULTIMATE RADIO
RECEIVERS
COUNTRY MODELS.
MANTELS—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator.
7-valve All-wave Battery.
CONSOLES—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator in Regent Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Vibrator in Century Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Battery in Regent Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Battery in Century Cabinet.
PORTABLE—
5-valve Broadcast Vibrator.
ELECTRIC MODELS.
MANTELS—
-- Dual-wave.
8- All-wave.
CONSOLES—
7-valve Dual-wave in Regent Cabinet.
7- Dual-wave in Century Cabinet.
8- All-wave in Regent Cabinet.
8-valve All-wave in Century Cabinet.
1 3-valve All-wave in Regent Cabinet.
RADIOGRAMS—EIectric Models —
7- Dual-wave.
8- All-wave.
13-valve All-wave.
RADIOGRAMS—Country Models—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator powered.
7-valve All-wave Battery powered.
THE “REGENT.”
ULTIMATE PORTABLE.
Ideal for operation in your car on
journeys to the camp or week-ender.
Extremely economical in use, and
transportable to any location.
Two set adaptability and performance
for the price of one.
iIH
Sji
Ik
;
■
PRICE
25 Guineas.
23 Guineas Less Battery.
BE FAIR TO YOURSELF WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Cable, Radio and Telegrams: “Brownlock,” SYDNEY.
’Phones: M 2544 (3 lines).
Please send me, without obligation, details of the Special New De
Luxe “ULTIMATE" RECEIVERS.
NAME
ADDRESS
(State whether battery or electric and voltage and type of current of
power supply.)


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
me
WESTERN ENTRANCE TO PICCADILLY AT APSLEY HOUSE.
Comef Tha ' Wh , ich gree,s ,he eye whe ” Piccadffly is
arresting, especially when viewed from the vantage point of the unner dectr r»f 6 ° n -U ornamer^ entrance to the capital, is superlatively
sssm
commencement of a London highway in many respects unique and unequahed in an 'y city ta^hfworid’"princes” sTreet^ldtabuilh 6 offere
si»<n. s r^^
life ofTareTa^netiorago'« trnh &S»ST£S1
recalling classfc spie, where “briSs and mortar bfgin ” t £* £ Z t Ritz Hotel, architecturally
»noted- 1
Apsiey House. It was the residence of the victor of Waterloo, the Duke of Wellington In it the great Field £ldf?’Inertod
of thirty-six years the Waterloo Banquet on each anniversary of that classic Ttmegle The
park were closed with bullet-proof iron shutters from 1831 to 1852, the year of the Dike’s death Thif die t S 8 the
year, opposed to Wellington’s attitude to the Reform Bill, attacking thehou*andshapering fte N«rdoi? to aX
House, the building displaying suggestions of light and graceful Italian architectural influences, was the town residence of Baron Rothschild
which was and still is one of the finest private residences in the Metropolis. To the right proceeding east not included in the w
opposite the Rothschild menage, is the Triumphal Arch, surmounted by a statue of Peace m her XS Th £u th picture ’ bu J
of Constitution Hill, and through it passes the Coronation and Great State ptoZSoli on thei?way toXtiSer
aesthetically pleasing “ornament” is the memorial-noticed, amid! the trees-to Wellington giarded at corner to none J 0 °
troops he commanded—a Grenadier Guardsman,; a.Highlarider, !an Inniskilling Dragoon arid a Welsh Fusilier Y In pre-raUway 6 days
Piccadilly was part of the mam route for stage-coaches to the west of England. To-day it is still a main thornuphtore ilfrlXl
conditions of transport; for all of that the traffic : pressing Eastward and^w&S an appeal to
when seen from the omnibus roof, a fascinatiori, arid even certain picturesqueness, all its own. ’


INFANTICIDE OFF—FOR THE TIME BEING.
“With a vigorous speech, Mr. Monties saved the national-insurance scheme which a majority of Ministers, headed by Mr. Lyons, wanted to sheive."
“Mother, you shall not abandon our child!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper,
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d:
SPAIN PAYS FOR COMMUNISM.
Keeping out of the Great War, Spain profited hand-
somely, and when its civil war started upwards of two
and a half years ago it was fairly rich. Now, with the
end definitely certified by the British and French recog-
nition of General Franco, the country is bled white
and the nation Franco will soon control is burdened
with debt.
It has lost the cream of its young manhood. In
Spain it is estimated that a million Spaniards are dead.
That number includes 20,000 members of religious
orders, among them hundreds of nuns; also many
mothers and children killed in air raids on both sides.
But the vast majority—as always—is the young man-
hood of the country, identical in appearance, manner,
thought and quality with those recruited in Australia
over the past six months.
Because General Franco is evidently an astute
statesman as well as a successful military leader, the
war has not been so destructive of property and towns
and villages as the Great War was in parts of France
and Flanders. To Diggers and all others with a per-
sonal recollection of the North of France laid waste
and places like Ypres obliterated, the pictures pub-
lished of captured Bilbao and Barcelona must have
come as a striking contradiction of newspaper sen-
sationalism. Even so, the destruction has been bad
enough, and the cost is all Spain’s. The enormous
expense of war in material and equipment makes up
the total of the huge biff that Spain has to foot.
By rights the biff should be addressed to Moscow.
For the truth about Spain’s civil war which will now
become increasingly clear is that its cost to Spain is
the bitter price of having taken the beginnings of Com-
munism too lightly. By way of poetic justice, the
defeat of Communism in Spain is the result of the
Communist clique having taken too lightly the generals
and the army and the Spanish nationalism which they
represented and led to victory. The whole affair has
been so obscured by the smoke-screen of propaganda
masquerading as news that most people now have only
a distorted idea of it. Its beginnings were completely
obscured. Yet in those beginnings there is a signifi-
cant lesson for Australia and Britain and other coun-
tries where Communists are taken lightly because, op
the evidence provided by elections, their numbers
appear negligible.
The accepted date for the beginning of the civil
war is July 17, 1936, when the Nationalist movement
openly began in Morocco, starting up next day in
Spain and spreading rapidly. Its real starting date
was years earlier, when Lenin named Spain as the
advance headquarters of the Communist International
in Europe. Russian adepts in the cult were cocksure
about Spain. There was plenty of evidence that this
country was ripe for a change of some kind, and Mos-
cow was confident it could be made a change to Com-
munism. That accomplished, Portugal was next on the
list, with France as the next easy mark, and after
France Britain. This pretty plot has failed because
the Communists underestimated the strength of
national feeling. Spain was in the state of unrest in
which Communism has its opportunity, but Com-
munism, as exposed when its supporters had achieved
a measure of political control, was too revolting for
the national Spaniard to stomach.
Spain’s internal disturbance, working up for years
previously, came to a head in 1931. The country had
already sampled a dictatorship of sorts, that of Rivera,
which collapsed, leaving the country, nominally under
the “control” of General Berenguer, in a state of be-
wilderment and anarchy. In this situation the 1931
municipal elections were held. First results from the
big industrial centres showed a majority for the anti-
monarchical parties. Without waiting for the results
in country districts, which were to show an 80 p.c.
majority for the monarchy, a small group of profes-
sional politicians, lawyers, professors and journalists
tricked King Alfonso into fleeing the country, pro-
claimed the New Republic and constituted themselves
its Government. Though the main line of all our
crusading interventionists —from the outright Com-
munists to the Labor Attlees and limelighting Lloyd
Georges—has been urging to save democracy in Spain,
neither the “Government” with which they have sided
nor any other Government in Spain since 1931 has
been by any stretch of the term democratic.
Between 1931 and 1936 Spain had 28 different
Republican Cabinets, every one of them a sham judged
by British ideas of democracy, every one of them
tainted because the first had not been elected but had
seized power, and none of them able to control the
increasing anarchy as the Russian-bred cult began to
take what it understood to be its opportunity. On the
same day in May, 1931, 300 columns of smoke rose to
the heavens as Communists by prearranged plan
set fire to convents. Mobs took control in the streets ;
arson, murder, confiscation and destruction of pro-
perty were the general rule in Spain. The clique-
dictatorship of the intelligentsia was replaced by
clique-dictatorship of the “proletariat,” this to be
replaced by the dictatorship of a few demagogues over
the “proletariat.” Communism, in fact, was shaping
on approved lines.
Such was the shabby and vicious beginning of the
“Republic.” To thrust that Republic on a people
which has given every sign of loathing it, English-
speaking Communists and their dupes have for up-
wards of two and a half years urged what would have
instantly become a world war, with, on the one side,
a close-knit combine of nations, including the Spanish
nation, and, on the other, a France split in two and a
divided Britain and Empire, with the democracy of
the U.S.A. idealistically perched once more on the
box seat.
Over the next four years Spain paid in general
unrest, wholesale murder, incendiarism and worse the
advance price of having tolerated its apparently few
Communists. By 1936 the butchery of priests and
nuns and the destruction of church property had be-
come such unrestrained savagery that it brought from
all French churches, including the Protestant and the
Jewish, a spontaneous and unanimous protest. It is
something Spaniards remember against an otherwise
clean record that no such protest came from Britain,
even when the slaughter was at its worst.
This clearly could not go on with a people both
so national in spirit and so traditionally religious as
the Spanish. In 1936 the rebellion against the dictator-
ship of the demagogues broke out. Though the first
sign was given in Morocco, the movement had ex-
tended within 24 hours to Burgos, Valladolid and
Seville ; and in another 24 hours the war was on. Two
months later the Nationalists had demonstrated the
earnestness in their cause and proved the mettle of
their pasture in such heroic engagements as the de-
fence and relief of the Alcazar. By October 4 they
already controlled so much of their country that
General Franco was proclaimed head of the State.
Owing to the mountainous nature of the country
in which much of the fighting took place, owing still
more to the determination of the Nationalists and their
leader not to destroy any more than necessary the
Spain they felt destined to inherit, owing also to
other circumstances peculiar to civil wars —such as
the need for consolidating the administrative as well
as the military position as the country was taken —the
war progressed slowly. Meanwhile Spain was made a
cockpit, the Republican side being helped enormously
by tens of thousands of men and huge supplies of
material from France and supplies from Russia, and
Franco’s side by tens of thousands of men and huge
supplies of material from Italy and material and other
backing from Germany. Despite this, it has remained
essentially a Spanish civil war.
Its progress has been fantastically misreported. It
has been represented to Australia as an invasion of
Spain by Italy and Germany. French and Russian
help to the Republican side has been kept from Aus-
tralian readers of dailies, who have been misled into
believing—if they could believe such a crude lie —
that the Spanish Communists who have been defeated
were upholders of democracy of the British and Aus-
tralian pattern. They have been fed with other crude
journalistic fabrications, and told by itinerant
scribblers and others that when the war was over
Italy would have control of the Balearics, and would
share with Germany territory in Spain and Spanish
Morocco; that Francoist-Italian-German forti-
fications would dominate the French frontier, and their
guns be in a position to control the Straits.
Now, with the end as good as settled, the truth
is beginning to come out. The Spanish people—as
The Bulletin has insisted all along—will not part
with an inch of Spanish territory. If any country will
have a measure of influence in Spain it will be Britain,
the one great European nation which said non-inter-
vention and carried it out. Britain is in the position
to help the Spaniards to re-establish peace and
orderly government, and nothing is more certain than
that their Government will be purely Spanish and of
a kind to suit peculiarly Spanish national character and
requirements. As for Spanish territory—about which
more rubbish has been spouted than about any other
aspect of Spain’s civil war —only one fragment of it
will remain in foreign possession—Gibraltar.
Lindbergh's Opinion.
Sydney “Worker,” though published by a good Aus-
tralian union which has rejected Communism and all
its white-anters and works, periodically goes off its
rocker about Russia.
In its issue published on the first mild day of
March, it hotly denied that the events of September
and the Stalin purges had consigned “the Great
Socialist Republic” to “enigmatic obscurity.” On
the contrary the Great Socialist Republic continues
to perform miracles, though the information is “either
censored or distorted by the capitalist press.” The
Great Socialist Republic has “made phenomenal pro-
gress,” not in the art of bumping off critics, but “in
industry, art, science, education, housing and culture.”
As for aviation, the Great Socialist Republic “has
the world’s finest aviation industry ; it has the greatest
fleet of military and civil ’planes in the world ; it ranks
first in the world in the length of its airlines; and the
services rendered by its civil airplanes are not equalled
in any other country.”
Lindbergh did not think so. America’s No. 1 air-
man, who is inventor as well as ace, visited Russia
while detachments from “the greatest fleet of military
’planes in the world” were trying to win a civil war
for the Spanish Comrades. The report he carried to
England, his second home, was that, for striking power,
in a major European war, the Soviet air force wasn’t
worth a cracker. In fact, his general remarks on Soviet
machines and organisation were such that the Red
aviation bosses lost their tempers and excelled them-
selves in ground and lofty objurgation at his expense.
A very stupid exhibition of spite and bad manners,
for Lindbergh is admired and honored by all English-
speaking people, Reds and kidnappers excepted.
Hitler and the Professors.
Australian professors go off to Germany and come
back full of opinions about Hitler. Most of them
are uncompromisingly hostile ; some are facetious in
the academic way; one indulged in predictions which
events have made preposterous. All take it for granted
that they know something about Hitler, and, having
observed him in his native habitat, know even more
about him than the rest of us. But how could a
professor know anything about Hitler?
A professor is, ipso facto, an unadventurous man.
He deals with what has been found out. When con-
fronted with a proposition in ideas, he does not reason,
though he may think he does: he remembers and
reiterates. All his excursions amongst books do to
him is to stimulate, not his inventiveness, but his
memory.
Everybody knows Professor Nimbus. How many
professors would feel offended if you told them that
Dr. Nimbus was the professorial archetype? They
would think you were paying them a compliment.
How many professors would not think you were
throwing off at them if you spoke of Shakspeare,
* M.A., or of Socrates, Ph.D.? How many pro-
fessors think that Captain Cook could have
learnt navigation, H. M. Stanley exploring, Kingsford
Smith aviation and Napoleon the science of war in a
university? Not one of them.
Whether we like Hitler’s ideas or not—I don’t
like some of them—he is as different from a professor
as is humanly possible. Hitler learned the science of
government not in universities, but in beer-gardens.
When he doesn’t know what to do he can’t ask some-
one else ;he has to ask himself: a professor looks it
up in a book. Hitler believes in himself. A professor
believes in his professorship—a very different thing.
Hitler is not like a professor; he is more like a
Captain Cook.
Professors have to explain the enormous influ-
ence of a Hitler, an influence they quite fail to wield
themselves, even over a handful of girl undergraduates,
so they think that Hitler has hypnotised the German
people by propaganda. How could he hypnotise them
by propaganda any more than Cook could have hypno-
tised his crew? Cook had faith in his star, and his
crew had faith in him. Suppose Cook had rushed
up on deck and cried “I don’t know where we are,”
and then gone below to solace himself with rum. How
many of his crew would have continued to follow
him, even if he had been an admiral, had fourteen
university degrees and had press, pulpit and Govern-
ment all propagandising on his side?
A professor cannot understand Hitler because he
has had no experience of dictators. When he dis-
parages Hitler he is reacting against Hitler ; when he
praises Hitler he is reacting for that person. In either
case he is not criticising, since he is talking about
something he does not know.
I went aboard a German steamer which had
photographs of Hitler everywhere. I talked to the
officers, all young men. One said:
“Steaming along your Victorian coast we saw
millions of ringbarked and burnt trees, remains of
forests we would give our eyes to have in Germany.
We were told you were in terror 1 for fear the remain-
ing forests would be destroyed by fire. Is that so?”
“Yes,” I said.
“We have also been told that you are in deadly
fear of floods, erosion, all sorts of things, because
your catchment areas need reafforestation on a whole-
sale scale. Is that so?”
“Yes.”
“And you have thousands of people who are
unhappy because they have no work?”
“Yes.”
“Why, then, don’t you use your unemployed to
plant trees on your catchment areas?”
“Don’t ask me”
“But you, as a Victorian, want the trees planted.”
“Yes.”
“And the unemployed men want work?”
“Yes.”
“So neither of you can get what you both desire?”
“No.”
“H’m. Well, that isn’t Hitler’s way.”
The officer may have been more hypnotised by
Hitler than a professor is hypnotised by a book,
but what he said was reasonable. I suppose
what the professors want to do is to prevent Hitler
descending on Australia or an imitation Hitler shoot-
ing up here; but they won’t succeed by thinking, and
persuading others to think, that Hitler is what he
is not.
L. L.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Conceptions of Leadership.
The English still hold that it is the duty of the
Government to govern, and in unquiet times to keep
Parliament in action so that it may profit by its deli-
berations and secure authority which might be needed
at any moment.
So members of the Ministerial parties proceeding
to Canberra last week read in their newspapers that
the Chamberlain Government had on Monday —they
never sit on Mondays —announced that it had taken
the responsibility of recognising the Franco Govern-
ment, and was defending its action vigorously
in Parliament. Their mission was to help the Lyons
Government to struggle out of its indecision about
its health and pensions scheme, introduced ten months
before with the assurance that it was the greatest
measure of social reform ever offered to an expectant
nation, and since furthered by the appointment of a
huge staff and the enrolment of hundreds of thou-
sands of members of approved societies. Their Gov-
ernment had closed Parliament on December 8, and
arranged to reassemble it on April 18, meanwhile
declaring that the international situation was so bad
that “peace hangs by a slender thread.”
These members read also, in newspaper reports,
which were not denied, that a majority of the Cabinet
had decided to “recommend” the shelving of Health
and Pensions and the sacrifice of the half-million or
so to which the Administration had been or would
be committed ; and that if this were done Attorney-
General Menzies would resign.
A joint party meeting had been arranged. Before
it happened the U.A.P. and the U.C.P. considered the
position separately. Out of the U.C.P. discussions
came a resolution to the effect that “family medical
service, with sick pay and provision for dependent
children ” should “replace the present Act,” the argu-
ment being that “until all the States are prepared to
fully co-operate, in order to eliminate duplication, a
satisfactory, complete and equitable spheme cannot
be established.” Out of the U.A.P. meeting came
nothing but hot breath.
At the joint meeting, in the words of the Prime
Minister, “the whole position was discussed thor-
oughly, and as a result the Government is giving
further consideration to the subject of national insur-
ance in all its aspects.”
I desire to make it clear that the scheme in its
present form has not been abandoned. What I wish to
emphasise is that the whole position will be
thoroughly reviewed immediately. The Government
hopes after it has considered the discussions at the
party meeting to-day to draft proposals for submission
at another meeting of the parties.
Thai there was seen the familiar rush for city-bound
trains. Nobody had resigned ; the No-decision Gov-
ernment remained ; all was for the best in the best
of all worlds.
On the following night the Prime Minister spoke
from a national station and scolded the press. In
“a number of newspapers” there had been “an unequi-
vocal announcement that the Government had decided
to create a standing army.” There had been no such
decision ; “when asked whether there had been any, I
stated definitely ‘no’,” and “Mr. Street emphatically
answered ‘no.’ ” As for national insurance, “some of
our newspapers, while devoting columns to accounts
of the meeting, do not refer to the official statement.
Other newspapers have so mixed news and their own
views that the majority of people cannot disentangle
them.
Our newspapers are entitled to record facts, and
are free to indulge in guesswork; but I do suggest that
they have a duty to the public, first, to tell the news
and relate facts, and then to tell where news ends and
comments begin.
It will be scandalous indeed if a practice which
has made cable columns notorious is transferred to
the reporting of Australian politics. But Melbourne
“Age,” while acknowledging that “a regrettable lack
of responsibility and a thirst for sensationalism” are
“exhibited in some quarters,” protested, very reason-
ably, that the P.M. was “unfair to those journals
which, despite difficulties created by the Government’s
furtive secrecy, are diligently and honestly striving
to present the uncolored truth.”
It is very improbable that the health and pensions
scheme can be patched up ; still more improbable that
Mr. Lyons will remain Prime Minister. The nation
expects leadership, and will not accept as a substitute
vacillation, with spasms of the jitters. Evening papers
which helped to put Mr. Lyons where he is have
turned against him. But they want Mr. Stevens, and
that would be going from bad to worse ; from an
exhausted provincialist to a borrow-and-bust paro-
chialist, who would be leaving things in bad shape
for his successor —if he could get a seat.
Our Unborn Millions.
“Ysbrantsz” discusses them:
When Mr. Menzies returned from London in 1935 he urged
the framing of a Commonwealth policy that would give Aus-
tralia a population of 20,000,000 by 1950. The Common-
wealth Statistician now estimates that the continent will have
7,000,000 people by June, 1940. As the growth for 1938 was
just over 50,000, of which net balance of migration gave 908
for the first nine months, there will have to be an amazing
change if the population is to reach 10,000,000 by 1950. It
seems more likely that, with luck, it may be about 8,000,000.
If we could go back to the birthrate of 80 years ago we
would certainly have 10,000,000 or more by 1950. In 1860
the Australian rate was round 26.4 per 1000. It has been
falling ever since. The tendency to fall is found over most
of the civilised world, but it does not follow that it cannot
be reversed.
There is the example of Germany to prove the contrary.
In 1933 the German birthrate had dropped to 14.7, one of the
very lowest in the world and well below that of France, which
was 16.3 that year. Things were particularly bad in the cities
(though of course half the population of Germany does not
live in a few big cities). In Berlin in 1933 deaths exceeded
the births by 14,000.
When Mein Kampf was written in 1924 the German
birthrate was still high enough to let Hitler estimate that
in another century there would be 250,000,000 Germans in
the world. It was very like the estimate of the white popula-
tion of the overseas British Empire which Seeley'made when
he wrote The Expansion of England in 1883. In 1933
statisticians were calculating that by a.d 2000 Germany
would have a population of 45,000,000, of whom 11,000,000
would be over 60 and 8,000,000 under 15, leaving 26,000,000
of working age. ...
Marriage loans, bachelor taxes and aids to large families,
measures which appeared very comic to would-be newspaper
wits, have made an astonishing difference. Number of
marriages, which had fallen to 510,000 in 1932, was 731,000
in 1934. The rise of 221,000 almost coincided with the
number of marriage loans for 1934 —225,000. Number of
births, which had fallen to 957,000 in 1933, rose to 1,181,000
in 1934. In Berlin the deficit of 14,000 was changed over to
an excess of 5474 births over deaths.
For the two years 1934 and 1935 the German birthrate
averaged 19.2, a rise of 4.5 per 1000 compared with 1933.
Austria’s birthrate in 1933-36, by the way, was the world’s
lowest, 13.5. Figures are not yet available to show whether
absorption has made any difference.
Every now and then an Australian politician remarks
that babies are the best migrants. They do not get much
encouragement from politicians. Bursts of oratory about
holding the continent for the millions yet unborn are not
worth much if so many of those millions are never going
to be born.
"Eggs-a-Cook."
Food control by boards as N.S.W. knows it
is a method of stinging the consumers without satis-
fying the producers. It obliges the latter to become
politicians, arithmeticians and profuse letter-writers.
The arithmetic is concerned with never-ending cal-
culations as to what proportions of the exertions of
beasts, bees and hens are required to sustain the
administrative side of “orderly marketing”; the letters
are written to local members, newspapers, producer-
agents, organisers of protest meetings and the board —-
itself a word-spinner in constant practice.
After recent hot weather, consumers were in-
formed by the Sydney Egg Board that half the fowls
in the yards supplying Sydney had turned up their
toes, and that an egg famine impended. ' The position
would be relieved when consignments sent 12,000
miles to Britain had completed the return voyage,
necessary orders having been transmitted to the Lon-
don end ; meanwhile the board would fix the whole-
sale price at 2s. a dozen. People couldn’t or wouldn’t
pay tuppence-ha’penny an egg, and the “famine” faded
into hot air.
Presently the fixed price came down to Is. 9d.
But while it remained—officially—at Is. 9d., the board
itself sold eggs at Is. 7d. The idea, it was blithely
announced, was “to bring consumers back to eggs”
concessions were granted, “as the board thought fit,”
to regular customers — i.e., “the biggest buyers”—and
the public was “getting the benefit of the concessions
in most cases.” The feelings of those not “getting
the benefit of the concessions,” small buyers and their
customers and other customers, were not referred to.
Last week brought an “official” reduction to Is. 4d.
and cursing all round the compass.
In these matters boards have superseded the
alleged Parliament which drags on a superfluous
existence in Macquarie-street, Sydney, so it is im-
probable that light will be let in on these remarkable
transactions from that quarter. For real enlighten-
ment the public will have to wait for the next annual re-
port of the Auditor-General. That useful officer has
just written a report on the 1937-38 operations of
this Egg Board. During the twelvemonth, he says,
4,232,880 dozen eggs exported to London were sold
for £342,710 (Australian), 19.43 d. per dozen; but
export expenses brought “net realisation in Sydney”
down to 14.72 d. per dozen. Sydney sales, of 9,750,334
dozen, realised £679,806 175., 16.733 d. per dozen. Then
comes this illuminating paragraph:
Only first-rate eggs are exported, whereas the local
eggs comprise not only first-grade but medium and
pullet eggs and other products which are not first-grade.
Proceeds of all sales and “producer-agency con-
tributions” amounted to £967,519 2s. Bd. Expenditure
and charges reached £103,765 10s. lOd. (whew!), but
fowl-valets didn’t divide all the difference,
£863,753 11s. lOd.
Of this, £706 13s. lOd. was applied in payment of
interest on the accumulated Pool deficit, £3140 as an
instalment towards repayment of the 1933-34 Pool
deficit, £13,568 in liquidation of the 1936-37 Pool deficit,
and £14,094 13s. lid. surplus was carried forward to
the 1938-39 Pool, and appropriated subsequently to the
Building Amortisation Account.
At the close of the 1937-38 Pool there ' remained
a deficiency of £15,412 17s. sd. During the twelve-
month £3lO 4s. 3d. was lost on “‘Organised Market-
ing,’ a journal published by the board.” Incidentally,
the Auditor-General remarks that the board pays by
cheque and doesn’t ask for receipts.
As already reported, the provisions of the Stamp
Duties Act are thereby evaded... .The audit in respect
of acquittances must be regarded as unsatisfactory.
Until recent months N.S.W. had a Banana Board.
Growers voted it out of existence. The same fate
awaits this Egg Board. Indeed the only question
among feather-squatters is whether the Sydney Egg
Board or the Melbourne Egg Board, which has a long-
standing quarrel with the owners of the biggest poultry
farm in Australia, will go first. The Melbourne Egg
Board has been publishing plaintive advertisements
to the effect that the “1938 export season resulted in a
loss of £31,000 to the Pool,” and that 1939 prospects
are bleak, partly because the Sydney Egg Board,
which was “committed to even greater chilled-egg
contracts, raised local market values to bring about
a reduction in consumption.”
At Stevens Villa.
“El V.”: You can always separate the strata of pros.-
perity in Sydney by studying the flats. Those in which
I live date from Bruce-Page. Bruce-Page buildings
run to three or four storeys and to between 20
and 30 “apartments.”
“Apartments” is the jargon of that period. The
1939 label is “units.”
My apartments consist of a lounge, bedroom,
kitchen, bathroom, all large. They are comfortably
furnished in silky oak, with big upholstered chairs in
the lounge. The kitchen has an aluminium sinkboard.
Rents are round £2 to £2 10s. a week furnished.
The windows command a view which looks right
down to Sydney Heads, and you can set your clock
by the naval bugles. But the estate which owns the
building must be losing money. Its asset is outmoded.
People think twice about taking flats which have no
electric refrigerators and no lifts.
Flats of the “unit” age, which have been going
up like toadstools, are more compact. There are any-
thing from 50 single or, double “units” upwards. Some
buildings are as big as a Martin-p Lace insurance office,
and are fitted with shops so that the tired housewife
will not have to walk out at all to do her buying.
Living quarters are ranged along passages outside
self-closing lifts. To right and left there is a long
row of closed doors which look like Tasmanian black-
wood, but are more likely to be moulded-artificial. A
thick pile carpet warranted to pick up all the city dust
shelters the feet from contact with so vulgar a necessity
as a floor. Inside, if the residences are in the £2-a-week
single or double “unit” class, the inventory is about
as follows:
Small table for two. Chairs made for persons of
flapper size, mainly of electroplated gaspipe. A com-
bination settee and bed for one or two —at most a
double bed. Pictures of (1) Joan Crawford and (2)
R.M.S. Strathaird at sunset. Two curtained recesses.
One is the kitchenette (two persons can stand side by side
in it), complete with gleaming enamelled electric stove,
refrigerator and sink. The other is the bathroom;
it has a £lO bath and gleaming showers. There is carpet
wherever there is space to put carpets down.
Presently another age will arrive. The “units” will
perhaps be reduced to molecules or even elements ;
but they will be fitted with built-in television, auto-
matic totes and parachutes, and the rent will be £1
higher. So those of the electric-refrig, age will join
those of the aluminium-sink age in decline.
Some of the inhabitants will by then have to
repair to another kind of flat —the Stevens Villa, to
which workers are being encouraged to repair in the
suburbs. They are £lOO down or thereabouts, and
Government finance enables you to pay the rest. They
have all the features of the more expensive “unit,”
but they are on cheap land, which makes the difference.
I examined a street of them. One out of nine
had a vegetable garden ; the rest had pocket-handker-
chief lawns. In the first we called at, on a Sunday
morning, we overheard a conversation as we ascended
the steps of the ornate porch: “Joe, where’d y’ put
the aspirin?” “Aw, it’s in the frig.”
That cottage, like the rest, had a parquet floor,
tiled kitchen, refrigerator, wireless, washing-machine
and electric range—installed by the County Council,
no deposit. Decoration and furniture (t.p.) were
fashioned, as nearly as space and money permitted, in
the likeness of the impedimenta of the Riverside Drive
apartment of Greta Gobbo in “Gangster Gertie.
There was a shed—it housed motor-bike and sidecar.
A feature wanting in most of the Stevens Villas
—one, “owned” by a vandriver, boasted a miniature
cocktail bar—is the very young Australian. I found
eight children in nine villas, the householders being
all in the 25-35 age-group. Four villas had no
children. , . .
Children soil the parquet. Anyway, there is little
room for them in Stevens Villas after the frig, and
the bike are squeezed in.
The Lesson of Cowal Creek.
“Dungeness” : If the N.T. is not too proud to benefit
by an excellent illustration of how the detribalised
aboriginal can work out his own salvation without
white tutelage or supervision, much can be learned
from the settlement at Cowal Creek, near the tip of
Cape York, in furthest-north Queensland. There in
24 years the remnants of three once-hostile tribes,
united in a common purpose, have evolved into an
orderly, settled community of 232 people, living in
a clean, picturesque and well-planned village.
Apart from visits by the Protector of Aborigines,
the village is entirely self-governing. It has its
own elected council, its own police and its own school,
where the children are educated up to third-class
standard. The only assistance received from the
Government has been a cutter, tools, fencing wire and
some second-hand building material.
The original organiser was an aboriginal who had
been educated at the Anglican Mission school in Torres
Strait. After his premature death, leadership passed
to Jomen Tamway, an intelligent Torres Strait Islander,
also a product of mission-school training. He is school-
master, scoutmaster, preacher in the village church and
councillor. Another Torres Strait man who has done
much for the community is Mairu, from Badu. A skilled
carpenter, he and Jomen asked the Government for
a disused building at Thursday Island, dismantled
it, ferried it across the 20-odd miles of sea, and, with
the help of the villagers, built from it a school build-
ing 40ft. long by 20ft. wide, with an Bft. verandah,
all on 6ft. 6in. stumps. They also put in a cemented
well which gives the village an ample supply of water.
There are many other intelligent, educated men
of enterprise and character among Torres Strait
natives. Of Papuan stock originally, they inherit
ancient traditional associations with the mainland
aboriginals, and are looked up to by them as superior,
although quite understandable, distant relatives. In
past days it was a truism that a Strait boy as leading
hand would get more out of an abo. crew by good-
humored chaff than any white man could with a
waddy. Fine boatmen and sea-workers, good culti-
vators and inheriting a highly-developed tradition of
communal living, they are the natural implementers
of any movement designed to convert aboriginal
nomads into settled workers without abrupt disloca-
tion of tradition or custom.
It would materially help the prospects of N.I.
Binghi's racial survival if the new Native Affairs
Department were to recruit Torres Strait Islanders for
service in the police and as residential organisers.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nagheer”: Throughout history
women’s tears have been liable to cost
man a lot of money, but in this hard
machine age they sometimes have to
pay for such luxuries themselves. Soon
after wireless telephony to England be-
came available a Brisbane lady decided
to speak to her sister in London, whom
she had not seen for many years. They
were put into communication at the
usual rate of £3 per minute. When a
bill for £27 was dished out the caller
was astounded, and declared strenuously
that she had not taken anything like
nine minutes. Heated argument, and
reference to the check room showed that
both ladies, on hearing each other’s voice
after the long parting, had spent the first
two minutes entirely in tears of joy. The
heartless department refused to allow
even half rates for the six quids’ worth
of feminine liquid enjoyment.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: I was sitting in one of
Melbourne’s most ornate pitcher theatres,
which advertises every possible amenity
for its patrons, artistic, social and
hygienic. A woman came in with a
newspaper under her arm, carefully un-
folded it, placed one sheet on the floor,
another on the seat and another on the
backrest. Then she settled down to en-
joy herself. “Might I ask what you did
that for?” I asked. “Keeps the fleas off,”
was the laconic rejoinder.
« f * *
“El V.”: Congratulations poured in
after Canberra had the courage to deal
with sex-and-horror magazines. One of
which the authorities were specially
proud came from the secretary of the
Committee upon Objectionable Literature,
Montreal (Canada) Rotary Club. It con-
tained a loud cheer for the Customs
Department’s censorship. The writer’s
name is Lindsay.
* * * *
“Clio”: When last year we held a
magnificent carnival (vide the posters)
in our up-country town for a Good
Cause we were delighted to secure gratis
the services of a professional promoter.
He saw that everybody did his or her bit,
and when he called on the young woman
who runs the local tea-rooms and asked
for the loan of her new player-piano she
felt she could do no less than oblige.
After she shut up that evening she went
along to the final of the carnival, which
was a promenade concert, interspersed
with raffles, competitions and dancing,
in the local hall. Her appearance was
the signal for a bunch of enterprising
flappers to rush her and beseech her to
buy a half-crown ticket in the big raffle,
prize a player-piano. She bought it, and
then looked round to see where her
own instrument was. When she saw
it labelled as the prize she almost
swooned,' but recovered sufficiently to
search wildly for the promoter. Him
she found sinking a pint secretly on the
back porch. He listened calmly to her
vehement protests. “Now, me dear,” he
said, waving an ample hand. “Don’t get
all het up. That’s your piano all right,
and it’s making money for the Cause.
A hundred tickets at half-a-crown each.”
“But I didn’t give you the piano,” she
wailed. “I only lent it.” “Quite right,
me dear, quite right,” was the comforting
reply. “It’s being raffled in half an
hour, but don’t worry. I’ve got the win-
ning ticket in me pocket.”
* * # sf:
“Fi. fa.”: A Sydney man who was
recently relieved by the Court of a
gold watchchain as an asset of value
in the course of an examination in bank-
ruptcy has had former feilow-sufferers.
Early in the century a voluble ex-showman
in Brisbane bombarded the Insolvency
Court with loud and assertive statements
concerning his utter lack of assets or
prospects, emphasising his oratory with
declamatory gesticulations. The weary
judicial eye was attracted by a golden
gleam from the insolvent’s whirling shirt
“Don'tcher know daWgs ain't allowed in that trough?"
cuffs and recognised its source as a set
of links made from sovereigns, a style
affected by the flasher kind of bucks
of the day. His Honor stopped the
orator in full cry with an order to take
them out and hand them to the court
orderly for delivery to the Official Re-
ceiver, together with an ornate and glit-
tering shirt-stud. He confided to a friend
over a pot, later on, “The old cow
would’ve ’ad the pants orf me if I ’adn’t
shut up.”
r # % SfC
The Office Antiquary again:
“Banjo” Paterson’s memory deceived him
badly when he penned the Morant chapter
of his reminiscences, which have been appear-
ing weekly in “S. M. Herald.” So badly that
the “Herald” added a note in which its own
F. M. Cutlack spiritedly defended the memory
of Morant. “Paterson,” Cutlack said, “does
not even remember his universally-known nick-
name of ‘The Breaker,’ the name with which
for years he signed his verses in The Bulletin ;
great numbers of people loved him despite his
faults, and when I last saw it, in 1913, his
grave was the greenest in Pretoria cemetery.”
There were other errors and omissions. To
“one J. F. Thomas, of Tenterfield, the lawyer
who defended Morant,” was attributed the
statement that a “Dutch padre was shot,”
instead of a German missionary. “Thomas
....died years ago and has taken his troubles
to a Higher Tribunal.” Morant’s devoted
friend is still on deck.
Poor Morant! What he did in his wild
campaign in that African wilderness has been
done in all wars by soldiers who did not have
to face a firing squad. “I’ve starved and
trekked and done my work tolerably success-
fully from the Buck River to the Portuguese
border.” So he wrote in his last letter.
“Write to roy guvnor, my girl and The
Bulletin.” And in his last Bulletin verses:
Carve in stone above his head.
Words that some old Christian said:
“Grace he sought, and grace he found,
’Twixt the saddle and the ground.”
That should be his epitaph.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : To celebrate the anniversary
of Melba’s death, the broadcasting sta-
tions put on special shows in which vari-
ous individuals painted a strangely
romantic picture of the diva’s character
and temperament. One admirer repre-
sented the singer as equally at home in
all walks of music, a shot well off the
target. On one occasion a well-to-do
relative thought to please her by giving
a musical party in his London flat. He
hired the most famous string quartet in
Europe, and much of the evening was
given up to opuses by Bach, Beethoven
and Brahms. Melba could hardly con-
tain herself until the last guest had gone.
Then she turned on her astounded rela-
tive and shouted: “If you want Nellie
Melba to remain your friend, never make
me listen to that sort of thing again!”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Dammit, what’s
England coming to when the best clubs in
London are empty at dinner-time, with
the members at restaurants feeding with
a pack of chattering women, and bribed
to it at that? A man’s food can’t do him
any good when he’s cackled at from soup
to savory, and blared at by a 1 bally band
as well. It’s hard to believe that the
national spirit has fallen so low that even
White’s and Boodle’s allow their mem-
bers to dine at the Ritz or Carlton at
reduced rates, provided each one brings
a lady with him. Any bounder who
dared to smirch the club’s reputation like
that in my day would have been instantly
called on by the committee for his resig-
nation. In my old dad’s day it was in-
decent for a man to take even his own
wife to a hotel restaurant without a third
person at the table. No wonder the
country is getting all jumpy and rushing
into bomb-proof shelters every time a
small boy lets off a cracker. It’s all damn’
cackle, and no chance of enjoying one’s
food in peace.
* * * *
“X.S.”: There is nothing much
wrong with Victorian youth- Bruce
Hughes, a junior member of the Chelsea
Lifesaving Club, saw a child floating
face downwards out to sea past the
jetty, dived in, seized him by the hair
(being too small in reach to get his arms
round the body), dragged him in and
applied the orthodox methods of resusci-
tation. Then he carried him home half
a mile and assisted to put him to bed.
Hughes is 13.
* * * *
“York”: April 7 is the bicentenary
of the very sudden death of Dick Turpin,
the spiritual ancestor of all bushrangers.
His memory lives mainly through Har-
rison Ainsworth’s account in Rookwood
of a ride from Rochester to York on
Black Bess, but the real hero of that
adventure was William Nevison, another
highwayman. Turpin, according to the
contemporary “London Magazine,” was
“a mean and stupid wretch.” He was
an ill-favored butcher’s apprentice, and
was hanged at York without any fuss
whatever.
* * * *
“Key”: On the balcony of a residence
on Bellevue Hill, Sydney, the host was
relating to three guests exciting incidents
of his youth, which he had spent mainly
at sea.' Tales of thugs, fights and hair-
breadth escapes followed one after the
other, but despite the thrill of the narra-
tive one guest, a portly legal light, fell
asleep and toppled off his chair. The
three others hastened to proffer assist-
ance, but the fallen one arose, and, hitting
right and left in the dim light, managed
to lay out two of his companions before
the host retreated behind an upraised
chair. “Gone suddenly berserk,” was the
verdict of the three victims as they
avoided the cause of the uproar, who,
stopping suddenly, blinked with return-
ing clarity and exclaimed, “Good Lord,
what am I doing? I must have gone to
sleep and dreamed I was being attacked
by a gang in some place and had to
fight for my life.” There were no more
tales of derring-do.
* * * *
“Selma”: A Sydney suburban school-
teacher was giving the youngsters exer-
cises in adjectives ending in “ful,” and
after her dissertation asked each child
to select three words with that ending
and give the meaning of each, with ex-
amples. A youth of 11 bent earnestly
over his work. With his first two selec-
tions,’ “joyful, full of joy, as a happy
person,” and “pitiful,” similarly extended,
he got on well, but his third choice,
“bashful” (probably chosen from a
memory of “Snow White”), gave him
pause. After much concentrated effort
he handed up the result, complete with
example: “Bashful, full of bash, as a
prizefighter.”
“D.F.”: Astrological predictions are
nearly right sometinyes. A year-book
published at the beginning of the year
has this for the February full-moon
period, given as from February 4 to
March 6: “The stars reveal sudden altera-
tions in the plans of some Australian
Governments, some kind of minor poli-
tical crisis, with resignations possibly tak-
ing place and changes in the Cabinet,
party splits, bad temper in debates
the loss of some prominent politician.”
Jje sfc *
“X.S.”: A young man who had been
born and bred in a township not 20 miles
from Melbourne had never been to the
metropolis. He yearned to taste the de-
lights of the wicked city, and announced
his intention one day of going there for
the week-end. His father grudgingly
granted him permission, but painted a
picture of the temptations he would be
liable to fall into, the number of spielers,
uncles from Fiji and other conspirators
who would be certain to prey on his in-
nocence. However, he survived all perils
until he went to Flemington to see the
races. He was standing watching a hurdle
race with both hands firmly clinging to
the money in his pockets, and with one
eye on a smart-looking girl with plucked
eyebrows and lacquered fingernails who
was standing alongside him, when the
leading horse fell on its head, throwing
its rider off like a rocket, and half a dozen
other horses tumbled on top of them.
The girl shrieked, spun round, and col-
lapsed with every symptom of having
fainted. Taken by surprise, the young
man released his grip on his capital and
put his arms round the girl. Then he
remembered his father’s repeated J varn '
ings. “No, you don’t!” he muttered, anu
dropped her like a hot potato.
UTILISING THE WASTE PRODUCT.
I have no time for either Communists or
Bolsheviks—
Or Fascists for the matter o’ that—l view
them all askance.
On profiteers in any wares, from guns to bread
or bricks,
1 turn a disapproving eye and hostile counten-
ance.
But to the hottest place of all I’d cheerfully
consign
Those vendors of the beverage that’s made
from malt and hops
Who’ve hit upon a profitable secondary line
By re-utilisation of the drippings and the
slops.
I have a strong abhorrence for the take-downs
and the scuts
Who seek to trap their fellow-men by
methods low and dark,
The conscienceless fraternity who sell you
mouldy nuts
Or substitute for snapper what you’d diagnose
as shark.
But lower than the barrowman with his
vociferous tongue
Or the seductive foreigner who deals in fish
and chips
I would deliberately place the Machiavellian
Bung
Who saves for reconditioning the sloppings
and the drips.
I have a vehement distaste for racecourse crooks
and tugs,
The old three-card practitioners and others
like to these;
I loathe the gents who victimise the suckers
and the mugs
By selling shares in worthless mines and
bogus companies.
And where the corks are popping and the merry
beer-pump’s plied,
I trust they’ll make ’em smart, the health-
inspectors and the cops,
Those licensees whose native ingenuity’s applied
To showing extra profit on the drippings and
the slops!
n.s.w.
PIPARDS.


"Hop inside an borrow a tin-opener, Dig.—l can't get out o'th' flamin' thing!"
“Cine Ma”: The P.M.G. says that
there is no possibility of early extension
of the activities of the A.B.C: to include
television. The movie people were mak-
ing the same sort of disclaimers up to a
week before the talkie tornado hit them.
Soon after the talkies started the same
people were saying that there would never
be another famous fiddler, pianist or
singer to visit Australia, the vocal screen
having made their physical presence
superfluous; and they were also con-
vinced that the legitimate theatre was as
dead as the dodo. When broadcasting
came in an Australian novelist told me
that there would be no more novels
written, because people would not bother
to read when they could sit about and
listen. It was just after this that 1000-
page novels up to three bricks in weight
became best-sellers. And I suppose by
the time we can all lie in bed and by
turning a switch get our pictorial morn-
ing paper, complete with bathing-beauty
pictures, thrown on the ceiling, there’ll
be quite a devil of a run on such tomes
as the Decline and Fall and Buckle’s
History of Civilisation.
* * * *
“Cortex”: While newspaper magnates
are worrying over the coming increase in
the price of newsprint, deckhands on
Sydney ferry steamers, cleaners of
suburban carriages, park-keepers and
other handlers of litter are wonder-
ing if the rise will lessen their
labors. Just now they spend a good
deal of time clearing away discarded
racing supplements. On horsy days
these tip-sheets are dropped all over
the place. Half the buyers of newspapers
don t seem to want them. On my wharf
you can always tell the day before the
races by the sheets carpeting the surface
or blown about by the wind. Sydney’s
astutest journal, by the way, has in-
structed its newsagents to take out the
supplement when delivering to parsons.
* * * *
“J.D.”: One of the local R.L.S. mem-
bers was commissioned to show a fellow-
Digger around our country town. He
proudly pointed out the Anzac Memorial,
a - fine piece of statuary showing a soldier
poised ready to throw a hand grenade.
“Not bad,” was the comment, “but
there’s one thing wrong with it. A digger
wouldn’t throw a bomb at a pub.”
* * * *
“Sally”: “Dash o’ Bitter” (B. 1/3/’39J
is right: affluence breeds Bohemians. As
Aunt Emily has brought us up very
strictly, we don’t know many, but one
of them, after a long absence due to lean
times, materialised in our seaside garden
at 2 a.m. last week. Standing in the
moonlight laden with parcels of all shapes
and sizes and yodelling blithely, he de-
manded our presence downstairs. Aunt
Emily, looking over her balcony in dress-
ing-gown and curlers, said coldly,
“Really, Mr. Cashless, this is an unreason-
able hour to call. Is your business im-
portant?” “Rather,” was the enthusi-
astic reply; “I’ve just been given the
recipe for a super-salad, and I’ve come
along to make it before I forget the way.”
By this time, despite Aunt’s protests, we
had slipped downstairs, where we united
in a plea to our visitor to depart. “Well,
if I can’t make my salad I’ll hurl myself
over the cliff,” was the response. With
this he dumped the ingredients—bags of
mixed fruit, bunches of carrots and heads
of celery and several bottles—and made
for a jutting ledge just below us. Our
united shrieks roused a neighbor, a hefty
athlete, who pounced on the would-be
suicide and told him not to be a varie-
gated idiot. After that our visitor threw
the salad-makings into the sea, save a
bottle of beer, which he and the rescuer
drank in harmony on the cliff. Cashless
called next morning to apologise and
explain that he had sold a picture for
two-pounds-ten, and the success had gone
to his head.
* * * *
“Kerys”: The question in a school
exam, paper, “What are the boundaries
of Australia?” baffled a small girl re-
cently. But not for long. She rose nobly
to the reply, and wrote them down as
“kangaroos, wallabies, wallaroos and
some kinds of jumping rats.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: Workmen were demolishing
the Punt-road Bridge over the Yarra, a
new and particularly ugly successor hav-
ing been built in the vicinity, when it fell
with a crash into 20ft. of water, from
which considerable effort will be required
to dredge it. Half a dozen rowing crews
and young men with their girl friends
were pottering about in the stream, but
none sustained any damage. They were
more fortunate than an eight which took
a spin under the Fremantle bridge during
a war-time strike. Stalwarts were waiting
with a boulder poised on the handrail.
As the slim craft sped under the missile
plunged downwards. It crumpled the tail-
end, thus registering, if not a bull’s-eye,
at least an outer in the class war. It
happened, however, that the oarsmen
were all trade-unionists.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Infra-red photography has
produced some curious results. A moun-
tain, 330 miles away, showed clearly on
an infra-red film exposed in favorable
weather from a ’plane at 23,000 ft. The
curvature of the earth is the only limit
of distance under such conditions. Clear
pictures can be taken in pitch-dark in-
teriors. Infra-red rays penetrate fog, and
an apparatus used on many liners ex-
poses, develops and fixes a picture every
60 seconds from the ship’s bridge. A
picture of a freshly-shaven face shows
a beard—the hair-follicles under the sur-
face epidermis. The difference of trans-
lucency shown by different inks on an
infra-red plate is one of the most effec-
tive methods of detecting forgeries. In
1632 the Spanish Inquisition deleted with
an ink roller important passages from
a book of voyages. The censor’s ink
was transparent to infra-red waves, the
printer’s ink was not, and the censored
matter was read for the next time 300
years later.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A quite new excuse has
been offered in an Adelaide court by a
man of 26 for riding a bicycle without a
hand on the bar: “Was just taking the
paper off a chocolate frog.” The frog
proved expensive—255. in all.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Forms of salutation afford
some quaint glimpses into history, ancient
and modern. The Nazi uplifted hand
was readopted for modern days by that
warlike poet Gabriele d’Annunzio when
he was narking the League of Nations
by his private capture of Fiume from
Yugoslavia. He apparently believed it to
be the salute used by ancient Roman citi-
zens, but in cold historical fact free
Romans shook hands, and only slaves
held them up. Nowadays an Englishman
who kisses another is apt to stop one on
the beezer, but Nelson’s historic dying
request, “Kiss me, Hardy,” although often
erroneously ascribed by the modern pic-
ture-going young to Laurel, shows how
recently the custom has gone out in the
navy. Sovereigns kiss each other on both
cheeks when meeting, and subjects kiss
the hand of a ruler. Chinese regard both
kissing and handshaking as insanitary
and vulgar, and shake their own hand on
meeting a friend.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Zoos appear to me to be the
most ridiculous anachronisms in mod-
ern civilisation. The one in Melbourne
gets more publicity than the art collec-
tion at the National Gallery, it costs a
lot of money and the animal population
is always getting into trouble owing to
the climate, the attentions of small boys
and other causes. The attentions of
the small boys, regarded by the authori-
ties as spiteful, are to my way of think-
ing perfectly understandable. Nothing
irritates the normal child more than to
see a half-dead, lethargic, overfed and
bored beast mooning about a cage or
lying snoring when the movies have
acquainted him with the same animal in
the wild state full of splendid life. The
desire to stir it up and make it behave
in a more manly or beastly manner is
irresistible. Museums appear to me even
more preposterous institutions than zoo-
logical gardens. The one attached to
the Nat. Gallery is a chamber of horrors
to anybody with the least sensibility of
feeling, and it wastes valuable space that
would be better employed for the pur-
pose of hanging the pictures that are
stored in the gallery basement.
"Quick, slow down that escalator!"
JAW-CRACKERS.
‘Sir Earle Page, most garrulous of Ministers,
obscured bis meaning as usual by rotund phrases
about fundamental development and economic im-
pregnability.”—“S. M. Herald
My oath, if you should ever take the knock,
It won’t be due to lack of verbiage, Doc.!
The village dominie of Goldsmith’s lay,
Who taught—and argued, too —down Auburn
way,
Had nothing to outstrip you, I’ll be bound,
In “words of learned length and thund’ring
sound.”
Whatever your deficiencies may be,
You lead the field in glib loquacity.
Ore rotundo —with round voice and full —
In any strife of tongues your weight you'd pull,
The master of whatever force there dwells
In platitudes and polysyllables.
Though it’s occasionally hard to glean
From what you say precisely what you mean,
The fairies at your christening, old chap,
Surely endowed you with the gift of yap.
What though your colleagues mostly seem con-
tent
Just now to be a trifle reticent;
Though Lyons is deaf to queries and as dumb
In vital matters as a busted drum;
Though Thorby, sore and savage as a bear,
Will suffer no reporters near his lair;
It’s mighty seldom that you miss or slip
An opportunity to give it lip.
Ah, if sophisticated rhetoric
And many-jointed words could do the trick
And guide us through these times of stress and
shock,
We’d never need to look beyond you, Doc.!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


:
Ill
fell---
>$: <:••• - '
You'll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
iL
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E. 1866
PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Pius XL has been succeeded by Pius
XII., who, as Cardinal Pacelli, was the
Vatican’s Secretary of State. In extreme
quarters his Holiness is described as a
politician, and Madame Tabouis con-
fidently expects him to support her brand
of politics. So does the “Cronk-News,”
which refers ecstatically to the share-
market reaction —“a thoroughly rousing
atmosphere of demand for industrials,
almost comparable with a boom.” High
above these sorry speculations echo the
Pope’s own words, spoken in a broad-
cast, that his programme is “the further-
ance of peace on earth and charity for
all—infinite peace between the nations
by way of mutual and paternal help,
friendly collaboration and cordial under-
standing.”
A Great Statesman on Health and
Pensions Insurance:
The community has been eagerly awaiting
the introduction of this measure. The
Government has consulted with every or-
ganisation in Australia that it thought
could contribute something of value in con-
sideration of the scheme. Three million
pounds will be annually distributed to in-
sured persons who are laid aside by sick-
ness. For the first time elderly insured per-
sons will get the old-age pension as a
right, free of any deduction or any in-
quisition. It would be tragic if this bill
were not passed. In after years members
who have assisted in putting it through
Parliament will look back with pride and
satisfaction upon the part they played.
Lyons said all that, and a lot more, on
May 24. On March 1 he wanted to drop
the thing and at least £500,000 with it;
but his “followers” wouldn’t let him.
How these Sydney papers hate the
Country party! “Page and his country
bumpkins! ” sneers “Terewth.” Page
gave up a princely income, derived from
Sydney as well as Grafton, to follow the
gleam. As for “bumpkins,” it would be
long odds on McEwen, Fadden and
Cameron beating any three Sydney news-
paper proprietors in a general-knowledge
test.
Welcoming Bruce to Brisbane, Forgan
Smith said that Queensland would be
glad to have him, even if his visit had
. a political complexion:
In these days it would be highly refresh-
ing to have at least one able man capable
of making up his mind.
At that very moment Lyons, who had
gone to Canberra intent on burying
Health and Pensions Insurance, was
letting supporters make up his mind
against burying it.
Extract from Lord Riddell’s Intimate
Diary of the Peace Conference : —
After dinner Lloyd George said “When
the budget of 1910 was introduced it met,
as you may remember, with strong opposi-
tion The same applies to the Insurance
Act. No bill was ever more unpopular.
It was assailed by both employers and
employees by doctors, too, very fiercely.
Not a day passed but there was some
agitation against the bill. Well, you know
what was done. We fought and won.
The rumor that L.G. has disciples at
Canberra must be a sarcastic furphy.
Sawmillers, timber-workers, C.S. and
I.R. men and foresters have colla-
borated in a plan for salvaging timber
from Vic. forests through which the bush-
fires swept. Government is to build roads
and tramways, 22 new mills and 17 re-
built ones will be established, timber will
be logged to dumps for preservative treat-
ment, and the cost, £514,000, will be
recovered from the millers over a period
of years as timber is marketed. The plan
has points, but Dunstan is already up to
his ears in “commitments.”
There have been anti-German
demonstrations in Poland, which sided
with Fritz against pore Czecho. The
change is attributed to “the posting of
a notice, written by German students, at
the University of Danzig: ‘No dogs or
Poles! ’ ” That sort of thing does make
people nasty. Early in the century an
enthusiastic Queensland Labor editor
wrote that the motto of his party was
“No dogs or gods admitted.” It helped
to keep his party out of office for a
decade.
“My policy about railway affairs is
free transport for the worker between his
home and his work.” Thus the Sydney
“Just as Mr. Stevens has been N.S.W. Premier longer than any other N.S.W. Premier,
Mr. Lang has been leader of the Opposition longer than any other leader of the Opposition.”
“Ma conscience, laddie, this is rideeculous”!
barrister who is Heffron Labor’s can-
didate for Hurstville. The drawback is
that about £160,000,000 is “invested” in
Government trains, trams and buses. The
railways are virtually bankrupt now—the
Auditor-General reckons accumulated
losses for 14 years at £23,164,100 —and
“free transport for the worker” would
mean that they would all go bung. And
that would mean that the worker would
have to pay crippling taxes. As a sub-
stitute for free transport the gentleman
from Pymble is urged to consider free
law. It is an old democratic aspiration,
and Heffron Labor claims to be demo-
cratic.
A year ago radio commentators were
blithering about “the decisive victory of
Teruel,” and cablemen were writing mush
about the “rebel” commander who sur-
rendered the place and explained that
the heroism of the attackers could not
be withstood. The Nationalists replied
scornfully that his nerve failed. They
found the poor wretch the other day.
He and the Bishop of Teruel, with many
other prisoners, were shot by “demo-
crats” bolting to France and their bodies
were fired. No wonder the Little Nations
disowned the “democrats” and recognised
the Franco Government; and in this
some of them anticipated France and
Britain.
The Hurstville by-election was ex-
pected to provide another scene in the
comedy of the two Dromios —no, the
two Lazzarinis —but casting arrangements
had to be postponed. Carlo Camillo
Lazzarini, M.L.A., twice expelled by
Lang, is Heffron Labor; Hubert Peter
Lazzarini, M.H.R., is Lang Labor. It
was hoped that Carlo Camillo would
strut the boards for Heffron and Hubert
Peter for Lang ; but Carlo Camillo is
too indisposed to play his part.
Unlike the N.S.W. and Victorian
groups which changed their labels in
1931 to oblige Lyons, the Westralian
Nationalists have never dropped the
name that the Libs, and Labs, took after
the conscription rumpus in 1916. Nor
have they ever adopted pre-selection, and
they are scrupulously fair about their
“open go.”
Norbert Keenan, the oldest and ablest
Westralian Nat., is running for the Ned-
lands Assembly electorate, and so is a
newcomer, Crooks. For Subiaco the Nat.
candidates are Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, the
member, and Richardson, a former mem-
ber. In the party advertisements there
are portraits of all four candidates. Un-
der Keenan’s there is print asking Nats,
to give him No. 1 vote and Crooks No.
2; under the counterfeit presentment of
Crooks it is Crooks 1, Keenan 2. The
same procedure is followed with Mrs.
Cardell-Oliver and Richardson, and also
in the case of two candidates for Nelson.
Every Nat. gets his picture in the paper,
plus a party appeal for a No. 1 to people
who like his politics or his phiz. Nothing
could be fairer.
“The British Labor party is bitterly
opposed to the White Australia policy.”
Bruce said that in Brisbane a week ago.
On the same day the leader of the British
Labor party demanded, in effect, that
Britain should prop up the Communist
cause in Spain by refusing recognition
to the de facto Government. The gentle-
man who was patron of the Major Attlee
battalion of disgruntled Reds accused
Chamberlain of “stabbing the heroic de-
fenders of democracy in the back.” Per-
haps he likes a bit of color. Communists
do. In the words of one of their former
hopes the blowhard who boasted at
Moscow that “revolution had stepped on
the stage in Australia” —they would make
this “a black, brown or brindle” Com-
monwealth if they could.
Tackled about the cost of his visit to
Europe, Pirow, the South African Minis-
ter of Defence and Railways and Har-
bors, replied that he had gone to Britain,
Germany, Italy, Holland, Portugal, Bel-
gium and Spain on South African busi-
ness, and that his personal expenses
amounted to £B5O. Any globetrotting Aus-
tralian State politician or commissioner
would be astonished at his moderation.
Pirow mentioned that while in Spain he
had “investigated modern methods of
warfare in territory corresponding to
that of our Union” ; but he hadn’t been
invited to “Republican” territory because
he “didn’t wear a Red tie.”
Murrutnbidgee rice-growers, threatened
with total loss of their crops by the cut-
ting off of supplies from Burrinjuck dam,
have been saved by drenching rains over
the catchment area. Burrinjuck is to
be repaired or reconditioned or some-
thing all the same, and “works carried
out already” are being “validated” in a
bill. The whole job is to cost £1,850,000.
Mair, the Sydney Treasurer, whom
Stevens shoved into a job that had be-
come embarrassing, by way of forward-
ing his own Federal ambitions, has laid
it down that more money will hm to
be found by the Commonwealth Bank—
for more reconditioning, validating and
footpath-chipping, no doubt.
The Sydney Government flats in
Erskineville, about which so much brag-
ging has been done, are to have a pub
within biscuit-throw. A publican be-
came possessed of “a site facing the
Government flats,” and applied for trans-
fer of a license from another suburb,
Alexandria. The inevitable board granted
it In N.S.W. boards decide and alter
public policy, and an alleged Parliament
which recently distributed another
£14,000 p.a. among Assembly members
and Ministers (increases dated back four
months) never even whimpers.
Sydney “D.T.,” which a while ago
was all for “positive action” against
Japan, now demands “positive action”
against the Country party (“the Stand-
over party”)—or it did last week. An-
nouncing that “stand-over tactics have
won, Cabinet has thought it wiser to sacri-
fice National Insurance than to lose the
support of the Country party,” it had a
vision of Menzies leaving the Ministry
and rejoiced at it.
As a private member he might be able
to convince the U.A.P. that it would be
a much sounder policy to fight the Country
party in every electorate than to allow its
national policy to be frustrated by petty,
sectional, seat-holding obstructionism.
If the U.A.P. follows this “much sounder
policy” it will have a swift and sticky
finish.


THE RABBIT.


ARE yOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
■ißlllllllilllllß
. If not you owe II to yourself and
/family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton ltd*
■' Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.PwO., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; 8 5294
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
GOLD AND STERLING
FEDERAL LOAN FAILURE
GOLD AND EASTERN TIN NOTES
FINANCIAL REVIEWS AND SHAREMARKET
PROSPECTS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
For the first time in history the
traditional announcement that a new
Pope has been elected, “Habemus Pon-
tificem,” was broadcast from the Vatican
radio station, and for the second time
in history a Papal Secretary of State has
been made Pope. Cardinal Pacelli is
now Pius XII. Young as Popes go—he
was 63 on the day of his election —and
a msmber of a noble Roman family, he
is the most widely-travelled Pope of
all time. He represented Pius X. in
London at the crowning of George V.,
took Benedict XV.’s peace message to
the Kaiser, was in Buenos Ayres as
Legate in 1934, in France in 1935 and
in U.S.A. in 1936. He chose the title
Pius to indicate that his administration
of the Church will follow along the same
lines as those of his predecessor. Hilde-
brand (Gregory VIL), the only other
Secretary of State to become Pope, is
ranked as one of the greatest of them.
W. J. Masson, g.m. of the Bank of
Adelaide, retires after 42 years’ service.
He joined it in London in 1896, did good
work there, especially for Australians
during the war, and since 1922 has been
in the head (Adelaide) office.
Anyone in the Sydney motor trade,
asked who Richard Cobden was, would
tell you that he was the head serang of
York Motors. If you mentioned Corn
Laws to them, they would very likely
reply that Cobden was interested in a
racehorse or two, and he hoped one day
to win a Derby, but they didn’t think he
had a horse with that name. The Cobden
of our generation, pictured here by
Dubois, was born in Queensland 48
years ago, and became interested in
motors about 1916. He was managing
director of Overland Sydney until six
years back, when he formed York Motors
RICHARD COBDEN.
to handle Morris and Chrysler agencies.
Hobbies, apart from the turf and com-
piling sales charts for Lord Nuffield, are
golfing and swimming.
Australian art, art galleries and artists
have benefited considerably from the
munificence of Howard Hinton, whose
kindly features Frith has captured in plas-
ticine. He has given to the National Art
Gallery of N.S.W., of which he has been a
truste © s ‘ n^ e 1919, over 200 pictures, and
to the Teachers College, Armidale
/xt c „ Acn * * +i 1,.
(N.S.W.), over 450 pictures, mostly bv
*
HOWARD HINTON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Australian artists. Last December he pre-
sented to the N.S.W. Gallery for use in
its boardroom a 120-year-old long table
of Honduras mahogany and 16 chairs.
Born in Surrey, Howard Hinton arrived
in Sydney in 1893 by the sailing ship
Torridon; next year he joined the firm
of W. and A. McArthur as a junior
clerk; and he was a director of
the McArthur Shipping and Agency
Co. when he retired in 1928. As
a young man he started to buy
pictures, denying himself more ordinary
pleasures of youth. He recalls that his
first purchases were Bulletin black-
and-white originals—Lambert, Minns,
Leist and Mahony were among them.
Later, as his salary grew bigger, he
went in for paintings, and built up a
fine collection of the early works of
Hilder, Griiner, Norman Lindsay and
Streeton. A Lambert portrait of him
hangs in the Gallery, and in 1932 he
was awarded the Society of Artists’
Medal, designed by G. Rayner Hoff.
He has the 0.8. E.
Ernest Cooper Riddle, dead in Syd-
ney at 65, was governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank for 11 years, having
steered it through the Great Depres-
sion, and had been retired only a
few months. Son of a grazier, he
was born at Gundamaine station,
Narrabri, N. S. Wales. At 16 he en-
tered the ’Asia office at Narrabri as
a clerk at £4O a year. Twenty-six years
later the Commonwealth Bank board,
looking for a manager for its Perth office,
a job which called for extra-special quali-
fications, beckoned Riddle out of the
’Asia. After eight years in Perth he
served for a while as acting-manager in
Sydney. A chief-inspectorship, manage-
ment of the Melbourne office and two
years as deputy-governor were stages in
his climb to the governor’s chair. He
attended the Ottawa Conference in 1932
as financial adviser to the Australian dele-
gation. Riddle played golf, and in
retirement, and in failing health, took to
bowls.
Members of the British House of Com-
mons rubbed their eyes recently when
introduced to their overseas colleague J.
A. Lyons, and wondered how the photo-
graphers had made him look like a koala.
But it was not Joseph Aloysius whom
they greeted, but John Alexander Lyons,
M.H.A. of South Australia, where he has
been a member for 13
years, sitting for Stanley
(the Commonwealth Lyons
was born at Stanley, Tas.).
John A. comes from Wild
Horse Plains and is a
wheatgrower and grazier,
Who's Who in Australia
describes Ambrose Pratt
as “journalist, novelist and
businessman.” Rangeng
Tin, N.L., West Siam
Pratt is chairman of direc-
tors—has just given point
to the last of this trinity
of attributes by returning
a net profit of £10,055.
Pratt’s interest in Siam be-
gan with a visit some years
ago which produced an
entertaining and provoca-
tive book. He has always
mixed commercial enter-
prise with literature, and
between his thirty-odd
novels are sandwiched a
dozen brochures and
books on industrial
economics and other dry
subjects. Born at Forbes
(N.S.W.), he passed out of
Sydney Uni. to become a
solicitor in 1896, went to
England and returned as
a journalist; visited South
Africa in the retinue of
Andy Fisher in 1910 ; became editor and
part-owner of the “Industrial Australian
and Mining Standard ” and finally threw
up journalism for company-pro-
moting and novel-writing in 1927.
He is one of Melbourne’s few
bearded men.
Still actively interested, at 76, in
the’ larger problems of water con-
servation in Australia is A. J. Mac-
Donald, of Melbourne. Trained as
an architect and engineer, he was
in the Patents Office when the project
of a Federal capital was first mooted.
When Burley Griffin won the award
for the design MacDonald became
his chief assistant and stood by him
during all the political wirepull-
ing that surrounded the birth of Can-
berra. MacDonald was the author
many years ago of a vast scheme for
remodelling Melbourne and shifting
and utilising the waters of the Yarra.
There are few men in Australia who
know more about the hydrography
of the continent, and he has one of
the best libraries on the subject in
the Commonwealth. He retired ten
years ago, but looks as fit as a fiddle.
A friend of Archibald and lames Ed-
mond, of The Bulletin, he was a
frequent contributor on his special
subject.
Next Moderator-General of the
Presbyterian Church is to be John
Flynn, of whom Bret Harte would be
parodied for anybody in Northern or
Central Australia who showed ignorance
of him:
Didn’t know Flynn—Flynn of the Inland?
Lookit here, stranger, whar hev you bin?
Flynn, long, lean, looking more like a
grazier on holiday than a meenister, not
only founded the Inland Mission, but for
many years virtually was the mission.
And, as a mission, the A.I.M. is the most
tolerant concern of its kind in the world.
To the use of its widespread hospitals
and flying-doctor services, to its aid in
providing radio facilities, every comer is
welcome and no questions asked.
Passed on at Thursday Island, as the
result of a motor accident, 91-year-old
Bill Noelke, or “Captain,” as he liked
to be called. Bill came to Thursday
somewhere in the ’seventies in a German
ship; he had “traded” in the Pacific
before the Blackbirding Act came into
force. He’d also had a lot of pearling
experience, and when the time came for
him to abandon ship-life he was a familiar
figure in the packing-sheds, sorting and
grading the stacks of pearlshell prior to
shipment. His burly frame used to be
seen nightly doing a constitutional round
T. block before returning to the
Federal for his nightcap. He will be
missed as one of the landmarks of T.l.’s
early history. He had seen it grow from
the date of its removal from the old
settlement at Somerset.
Dr. R. H. Morgan, dead suddenly at
Peterborough (S.A.) at 42, was mud
better known in other States. Bom
Moonee Ponds (Vic.), educated at Scotch
College, graduated at Melbourne Uni.
in 1919. he spent some years on Perth
Hospital staff, and had a practice at
West Perth till last rr> r 4
R. E. Allan, a ; , visitor from the
U. to Victoria, \ , awakened many
old coaching memories, for he is a grand-
son of Freeman CJSobb, who came to Vic.
in 1853 to seek Xartune on the gold-
fields. It was Freemau Cobb (in partner-
ship with John Peck, James Swanton and
John Lamber) who started the famous
coaching service, and although the busi-
ness changed hands several times it car-
ried the name of Cobb to the end.
George Lake Dix, South Australia’s
new Deputy-Director of Posts and Tele-
graphs, was born at Kent Towpa, S.A.,
62 years ago. He joined the yoj-tal ser-
vice as a cadet at 16, and in 1914 was
appointed District Inspector. Nine yeais
G. L. DIX.
later he became Chief Inspector. His
knowledge of S.A. is encyclopaedic, his
inspectorial duties having taken him into
every nook and cranny of the State. He
has served as president of the Postal In-
stitute, is a keen motorist, plays a good
game of tennis, bids soundly at bridge
and prides himself on his garden.


THE TRIAL SPIN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The young man hit Prill
Park (N.S.W.) fresh from the south, ac-
coutred in riding breeches, leggings, etc.
The old boss, who looked on jackeroos
with the prejudice with which he regarded
rabbits, A.W.U. organisers and insurance
agents, asked him if he could ride. The
newcomer told of the roughies he had
mastered on Victorian stations, so the
boss gave him The Challenge, a flaring-
eyed chestnut filly that all of us avoided.
Her second buck sent the jackie over
the fence. “What y’ doin’ there?” roared
the boss. “She bucked me off,” quavered
the shaken youth. “Buck be jiggered!”
roared the boss; “she only coughed.
You wait.” But the jackie didn’t.
* * *
“Gumblegubbin”: The queer little
marsupial mole, the Arra jarra of the
Centralian blacks, strikes one as a very
ancient form that has changed its mode
of living. The hind feet are partly
webbed, and with them it sweeps back
the earth that is loosened by the power-
ful front claws when burrowing. The
webbed feet may have been designed for
that purpose, but they suggest an aquatic
life at some remote period when its
desert habitat was an inland sea, and the
eyes and ears functioned and the tail
wagged. To-day Arra jarra has no voice,
ears, eyes or tail. It lives underground,
coming to the surface only at night. It
finds its food, consisting of insects, grubs
and the eggs of ants, by its keen sense
of smell, and can detect danger on the
air quicker than any other animal.
* * * *
“Dan”: Your bad-tempered workman
is usually the man at odds with his en-
vironment. The worst-tempered under-
ground worker I have ever encountered
made a first-class opera singer when he
left the mine for good. Few men are
physically and mentally equipped for
underground work. If the proper authori-
ties studied the miner’s problem from
this angle, with a view to eliminating un-
suitable types and ages, half the pull of
agitators on the minds of irritated men
would be gone.
# * * *
“Bogaduck”: For some creatures life
must be a constant torment. I caught an
old stumpy-tailed lizard in my vegetable
patch, and I picked him up to toss him
outside the netting fence. Something
peculiar about the look of his ears made
me examine him closely, and I found
that both were literally bunged up with
ticks. With the point of a nail I removed
five from one ear and eight from the
other. Others were right inside the head,
but apparently they caused him no ill-
effects. The same evening a bat flew into
my room. I picked him up and took
him to the light; he was covered with
a wonderfully fine and soft fur, and his
tiny face had the most savage expression
“Shall I put this one with the others, boss?"
I ever saw on any living thing. He was
smothered in parasites about the size
of a dog flea, brown in color and able
to run as fast as an ant; they would race
about on him, then burrow into the silky
fur, With the aid of a pair of fine
tweezers I caught them all; there were
sixty-odd, and, like the lizard, he had
no earthly hope of getting rid of them by
his own efforts. Life for a neglected dog
is one long scratch, though it is pleasing
to reflect here that even the flea itself
is plagued with hordes of minute para-
sites.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Watching Hector,
Woolbale’s new shepherd, having much
trouble to round up the ration sheep, I
remarked that the fellow’s dogs did not
seem to be much good. “Nugget’s his
best,” old Woolbale said tersely. “Which
is he?” I inquired. “The one with the
saddle on! ” snapped the old man, wav-
ing towards Hector’s horse.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me an’ old Mat have
done a bit o’ yakka in our time, an’ we
got out this list as among the hardest
work we knew of: Weeding vines;
shovelling loose sulphur, coal or ore;
metal-spreading on a wet road; boring
belar posts; rabbit-trapping ; pushing a
bike over black soil after rain ; treating
many fly-struck sheep ; learning to shear ;
in the bag-hole of an old-time chaffcutter ;
weaning Hereford calves on horseback
in open country; lumping spuds and
wheat; trenching in blue clay ; lumping
green cattle-hides ; firing a cranky boiler
on a Murray steamer going upstream on
a muggy day ; writing letters; carrying
the knot in the Mallee on Christmas Day.
“Valencia Creek”: During the recent
Victorian bushfires deep gullies choked
with fallen timber and dense undergrowth
became infernos where the flames reduced
everything to white ash except a few
stumps. Not even an overseas cable re-
writer would have imagined that any
living creature could have survived, but
two days after the fire the white-ants
were busy on the still-smouldering
stumps.
* * * *
“Edjudina” : The N.Q. abo. in adapting
himself to a diet of flesh, fowl and good,
red Burnett salmon (B. 8/2/’39) was no
marvel. He lived fat and well, as also
did the abos. right around the coastal
fringe, with the exception of the country
adjacent to Shark Bay and along the
Bight. White men, notably Buckley and
several others who lived with the tribes
for years, were also able to keep in good
nick on the same diet. The real marvel,
unique among humans, is the abo. of the
Centre. He never had much flesh, fowl,
and good red salmon. Yet he lived, kept
strong and produced his kind, practically
without proteins. But no white man could
survive on his diet, as witness from Burke
and Wills down to yesterday’s Lasseter.
Even nardoo, which to the central abo.
represents bread, contains no starch ; it
is really a fungus with about the same
nutrition value as dried mushrooms.
Burke and Wills were given ample
nardoo, but they starved to death on it.
King, probably not so finicky, survived ;
possibly he supplemented the menu with
anything from bardies to grilled lizard.
But, anyway, the Eskimo never had any
starchy foods.
* * * *
“Nap”: I didn’t say anything when
old Dan hobbled into my hut, booted the
cat off a chair, sat down and filled his
ancient pipe from my tobacco-tin. I just
waited. “Jack Anderson’s a flamin’
nigger-driver!” he snarled presently. My
experience of Anderson was the reverse,
but I didn’t say so. “Gave me a start
fencin’, put me to carryin’ battens. A
few trips, an’ I doped it out that twelve
was a decent load for any man. One
trip I counted ’em orf an’ found I had
thirteen up ; I was just carryin’ the odd
one back to tine stack when Anderson
snooped up, asked me wot I was doin’
an’ then sacked me. Yair, a flamin’
nigger-driver—an dopey with it, if yer
ask me!”
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Throwing a beast by
the tail (B. 15/2/’39) is an art all
too easily acquired, provided you don’t
grasp the same caudal appendage too
often. But out here it’s only done once,
and that’s between the rains, or, to be
explicit, during the open season for clean-
skins.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Dillinger, outcome of
a mesalliance between a lady bull-terrier
and a French poodle, conceals the quali-
ties of a desperado under the outward
guise of something like a goatskin mat.
He is the.object of fervent adoration by
the female child of this house, and when
I threatened his exile for having made a
casualty of a visitor’s Irish setter who
was fool enough to look for trouble,
relations became strained. To-day she
rushed in with the paper and announced
breathlessly that Dillinger couldn’t pos-
sibly go, because of our Jersey bull. On
sorting out the feminine logic, it ap-
peared that a nondescript and unwanted
dog had saved a Kin Kin (Q.) dairy-
farmer from being savaged by his Jersey
bull. “And,’* she concluded, “you know,
Daddy, how Mr. Langtry”—that’s the bull
—“always runs away and hides whenever
he sees Dillinger, and, Daddy, I’d so hate
you to be killed because Dillinger wasn’t
there to save you.” So now, blast him,
he’ll be masquerading as Daddy’s body-
guard.
* * * *
“Dusk”: I am a student of all slug-
gards and idle fellows, and prolonged in-
activity always commands my respect,
but my hat comes off to a squadron of
seagulls I saw drifting up the Burnett
River (Q.) with the tide, their heads point-
ing to the source and their tails towards
the sea. These philosophic and highly-
leisured birds hadn’t even the energy to
turn round, for when the tide turned the
same seagulls could be seen floating back-
wards.
* * * *
“James W.”: Wild hogs? The main-
landers are gentle pets compared with those
on Moreton Island (Q.). That’s one place
where the hogs have outlasted Binghi.
How they got there is a mystery, but
presumably their ancestors struggled
ashore from some wreck of long ago.
They are undoubtedly of central or
southern European origin, being very un-
like their wild mainland brethren, which
still retain the “porker” characteristics of
the northern European pig. They grow
long and herring-gutted like a kangaroo-
dog, and develop a snout like a mine-
sweeper’s ram. The head and shoulders
present a mass of bristle, hide and bone,
and the only bullet I ever saw pierce
that armor was a steel-jacketed .25-.20,
fired at point-blank range. I saw a boar
stop two .303 nickel jackets at 80 yards;
they didn’t stop the boar. A soft-lead
.32 just abaft the shoulder dropped him,
and examination showed the .303 slugs
embedded in his frontispiece. His fore-
head bones had no cellular formation as
a porker’s have. They were solid ivory,
and he had exactly of tough hide
and bone protecting his microcephalic
brain from frontal assault. Unless a
direct hit is made, that armor will deflect
any bullet. Judging by the wallaby bones
lying about, the Moreton Island pig is
now mostly carnivorous.
* * * *
“Poseidon”: How hard a crack on
the brain-box is necessary to turn sheep
into mutton? Saw a young wether re-
ceive a pat on the top of the skull with
a shearing handpiece that had got away
from the barber. Although its skull shed
a piece of bone as large as a florin it
survived to reach Homebush several
months later. Another had a horn
wrenched off, taking some skull with it.
It was quite easy to see jumbuck’s grey
matter pulsing through the hole, but that
sheep showed hardly any ill effects a
week later. On the other hand, I have
seen one killed with an old broom-
handle wielded by an impatient jackeroo.
* * * *
“Seafoodster”: “Woodki” (B. 8/2/’39)
surprises me with his statement that
although N.S.W. estuaries teem with
edible blue swimming crabs the crusta-
ceans are too common to send to market.
Has anyone ever tried? Sydney has a
population of over a million. Perth, with
a population of less than 150,000, eats all
the crabs that can be supplied, and would
eat more. I once attended a supper given
to visiting Eastern States yachtsmen, the
meats on the menu being entirely crusta-
cean. The visitors reckoned they knew
crays and prawns quite well in their home
States ; but Swan River crabs! —well,
they were like H. G. Wells after his first
sup of Australian wine. Other rivers pro-
duce fine edible crabs; in fact, they are
both plentiful and edible from Mandurah
right up to Broome. I guess that it would
be a safe bet to say that Sydney stores
are well stocked with expensive imported
tinned crab.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: With his mention of
the tented wagon “S. Punch” (B. 8/2/’39)
stirs memories. I, too, as a boy saw them
rolling away to the north and the west.
But my most poignant recollection is of
several of them rolling back, with a
mattress, perhaps two, on the floor, the
occupant or occupants young men and
women who had been taken with the
fever up in the Mallee, or even across the
Murray in the Riverina, now being
brought back to cool Ballarat to re-
cover, but more often to die. What epic
journeys those must have been! With a
male there would be no other attendant
than the bullocky, who did the best he
could. With a girl perhaps some old
woman would be brought along, though
I’ve seen it when the only woman to be
got was a blackgin. After all, Australia
has made some' progress —from the un-
sprung tented wagon ambulance to the
flying doctor aerial ambulance —and in
less than the space of one man’s lifetime.
DEPLORABLE IGNORANCE.
“You keep y’r mince pies open an’ y’ll find,”
said B.ob the Bot,
“There’s lots o’ blokes ain’t qualified to ’old
the jobs they’ve got;
I don’t mean coves like ’ickey-’ocks, ’oo
specialise, y’ see,
Or them ’oo do their yakka with their German
bands, like me.
“But some o’ these white-collar coots —why,
strike me pink! they’re duds v
(This pig’s ear’s pretty good—hey, Joe, a few
more pints o’ suds!).
’Ow do I know? To Sydney once on ’olidays
I goes;
The rubby are full, so to some boardin’
joint I blows.
“I struck some jokers there ’oo teach the billy-
lids at school;
Y’d think that they’d be smart —but ev’ry one
of ’em’s a fool!
I mentioned once the scran we got was pretty
take-yer-’ook,
But, starve the spags! the answer that I get’s
a vacant look.
“At table, if I asked some bird to toss the
Uncle Ned
Or shove along the axle-grease ’e’d pass the jam
instead.
Or if I says ‘Shoot down the bung’ or ‘Sling
the ’tain’t-me-fault,’
They’re far too dull to know I’m simply
meanin’ cheese an’ salt.
“One night we’re maggin’ on the weather an’,
when I suggest
That sweet-refrain was wanted bad out in the
coat-an’-vest,
They look at me reel pfizzled. When I says
I’ll hoist me drum
An’ hog it back to mulga-land they gawp at
me, dead dumb.
“An’, mind ye, they’re supposed to be well
eddicated, yet
Just ordin’ry King’s English ’as the stupid
blankards wet.
Just fancy coves like them to teach the billy-
lids, why, ’struth!
No wonder there’s complaints about the igger-
ance of youth!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Turoar”: “They forms a blood-trans-
foosin corpse at Binnaloo wunst,” Old
Bob said, “an’ me an’ Tarry Tom puts
our names in as volinteers. One day the
parson’s missus’s taken ter the ’orspital
an’ gotter ’ave a transfoosin at wunst. The
doctors look up the chart they’ve made
uv the blood-donators, an’ Tarry’s the
only bloke ervailable in the same blood
group. But Tarry’s down at the pub
well shot. ‘No matter,’ says the doc.,
‘we gotter ’ave ’im.’ So they ’auls Tarry
orfter the ’orspital ’alf seein’ things, an’
they puts the siphon on ’im. Yer won’t
believe it, but that there op.’s a wunner-
ful success. Yair, the way that little
woman sits up after it’s all over an’
gives a coupla hiccups is somethink
marv’lous.”
* * * #
“Vulagi”: Came across an old pal re-
cently, a nurse with many years’ experi-
ence who settled down to poultry-
farming. I asked her why the change of
jobs. “Well,” she said, “after what I’ve
seen I felt I couldn’t look another sick
old woman in the face. With them
you’ve got to grin and bear it, but with
a sick fowl you can wring its neck.”
H 1 5? jjt
“Bushy Park”: I wonder how much of
this “drift to the city” has been caused
by the ordinary farm grindstone. Any
boy who has turned one of the accursed
things while his painstaking parent
brought a blunt Kelly to a razor-edge
never forgets the experience; I’ll back
it against anything to produce that fed-up
feeling and dissatisfaction with life in
general. The aches that develop in the
turner’s back and arms are bad enough,
but it’s the slowness of the operation that
sears the soul —it seems hours (and often
is) before the implement is brought to
the required degree of sharpness. A
quarter of an hour with the file is worth
an hour on the grindstone, but none of
“For heaven's sake , forget about Bali!”
my cocky employers ever tested this
statement or assisted in the turning part
of the business.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: After watching his co-opera-
tive work in fishing, I am inclined to give
the palm for bird brains to the pelican.
When a flock discovers a school of small
fish near the shore they approach in a
half-circle, and by beating the water
with their wings drive the prey into the
shallows. Then you see the swift lunges
as the huge bills scoop up the small fry
like bucket-dredges. The bill-pouch will
engulf several pounds of fish at once ;
then the gorger heaves with his rubber
neck, gulps and blinks,
and down goes the
lot. But that is only
a mouthful. The peli-
can is the most glut-
tonous feeder on the
swamps. When he
can’t swallow any
more he will fill his
pouch as a reserve
store. In that bag,
too, he carries a
dinner when going on
long flights. Abos. say
that their ancestors
learned to organise
fish drives from watch-
ing the pelicans at
work.
* *
“Hatter No. 1” :
The chap they call
“The Other Hatter”
had the infernal cheek
to call on me unin-
vited after a mere two
years’ speaking ac-
quaintance. We have
20 miles of N.Q. beach as our domain
and then the beggar couldn’t keep
his distance. It was lunchtime, but
he insisted that he wasn’t hungry—“ U-
nless you are one of those stupid people
who are offended if the guest doesn’t
eat. In that case I’ll just take a bite.”
He ate one large crab, one fried mullet,
two thick slices of damper cooked in an
18in. camp oven, half a large pawpaw,
two oranges and five bananas, and
swamped down three large mugs of tea.
I probably shall not have time to
write next week as I am busy clearing
a patch two chains wide round my camp
so that I can see him coming next time.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: The main reason for the
preponderance of fatalities from death-
adder bites (B. 1/2/’39) isn’t so much
length of fangs as the habit of lying half-
dormant in the grass or in the dust of a
track, too tired to move out of the poten-
tial victim’s way. Additional to this is
the trick of striking upwards like a hoop,
both head and tail springing into action.
The tail, of course, has no sting, but its
clinching action materially assists in the
fangs being driven well home. Some
time ago I made this assertion, based on
personal observation —and met with
much ridicule from George-street bush-
men. I then thought that just possibly
my eyes had deceived me, but recently
in Gus Luck’s memoirs (published in a
W.A. weekly) I find that he says the same
thing. And Gus Luck was one of the
first to explore the Nullarbor and cross
Madura Pass.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: A theory of my own
(all rights reserved) is that the child of
the plain leaves his bones on the plain,
and the native mountaineer remains a
hillbilly to the end. In one of Poe’s
stories the author lays it down that he
who builds on a high spot for the sake of
the view simply doesn’t know what’s
what. Bet the first bit of this good earth
young Edgar saw was flat. I once knew
“Got a jack, mister?”
a land-hungry youth to forsake his
Victorian alps with horse and sulky to
traverse a thousand miles of unbroken
plain, and to settle finally, cooing like a
dove, astride the wild and wooded Bunya
Range (Q.). I have known men from the
Snowy River and other inaccessible parts
incapable of taking any real interest in
the pursuit of agriculture, while deriving
a good living from it. As one of their
number expressed himself: “There must
be a bit of the dingo in me —I always
want to be getting further back.” Per-
sonally, I like my terra firma laid out
like a billiard table. So would you had
you been born on the Darling Downs,
where as far as your little eyes could
sec extended a green and level world
whereon bluebells and buttercups blew.
* * * *
**Laetitia”: One of nature’s most effi-
cient jobs is the toolshop with which she
supplies the robber crab, common on
most South Sea islands. The robber’s
staple food is the meat of the coconut,
and the two claws are admirably adapted
for the extraction of this from the shell.
One claw is slender and is inserted in
one of the eyeholes of the nut, which is
then rotated around this member by the
larger claw until friction has worn a
hole large enough to permit of the extrac-
tion of the meat.
* * * *
“Wang”: “The fastest dorg I ever
owned,” said Dan, “got killed be a bull.
Me an’ him wus crossin’ over the pad-
dock where the boss kept his stud bull
when the brute spots us
an’ after us. I makes for
a tree an’ shins up it.
Towser dodges behind the
tree-butt; but the bull
spots him, an’ with his
head down goes fer him.
The tree-butt’s about five-
ioot through, an’ Towser
scoots round it, the bull
roarin’ after him. After
about ten rounds the bull
gets knocked out, an’
stands orf, watchin’ Tow-
ser tearin’ around. The
tyke’s that scared he don’t
notice he ain’t bein’ chased
any longer, an’ keeps goin’
like a merry-go-round. An’
every time he passes the
bull the long-horned devil
lets out a snort, an’ with
every snort Towser claps
the pace on till he’s goin’
that fast round the tree the
bull gets giddy watchin’
him, an’ flops down right on top of poor
ole Towser an’ squashes him t’ death.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralian horses
and cattle have been suffering hell
at the hands, or probosces, of a species
of fly, similar in appearance to the com-
mon house-fly, but equipped with a
bloodsucking apparatus which makes a
taxgatherer seem like a fairy godmother.
The sight of a couple of dozen in a
bunch on a cow’s leg, their bodies
bloated like ticks, sends shivers through
a man’s blood. Having at odd times been
mistaken by one for a cow I can vouch
for their sting. Sharper than a mos-
quito’s, it imparts an excruciating pain
that seems to paralyse the nerve without
deadening the feeling, and it is inflicted
immediately the fly alights. Their habits,
name and history are a closed book to
me, and my interest in them arises solely
from the fact that my cow, apart from
being driven nearly mad, has fallen off
over a gallon per day in her milk. That,
of course, is a greater reduction than
would occur in a herd, where the flies
wouldn’t have such an open go, but the
loss to dairymen throughout the State
each year must be considerable. As the
flies operate only during the summer,
and are most active on hot, sultry days,
the drop in production which they cause
is probably attributed to lack of green
feed and the weather. From my obser-
vations I’d say that some animals are
immune, others highly susceptible. Has
the little blighter ever been scientifically
investigated?
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The meanest cocky on
the Darling Downs (Q.) used to cut a
potato to get exact weight, and would
offer half a cucumber as ha’penny change.
When one year he grew a particularly
good crop of corn all his little world
wondered whether he would rise to the
occasion and pay wage's or allow the
farm to run itself while he tackled the
job single-handed. They now know a
trick worth two of either. The co-
operation of the pastor was invoked, and
a married couple harvested the corn.
* * * *
“Beat”: Seeking to explode fallacies,
a Sydney illustrated weekly picked on
the saying “as the crow flies.” Ac-
companying the text was an alleged
illustration of the grazier’s anathema.
Either the cunning Kelly has been
camouflaging himself to resemble the
magpie, or it was specially touched up by
the artist to distinguish it from its more
villainous cousin the raven, for the
creature’s wings and the back of its neck
were white, and it had a scraggy tail and
wing-tips. No doubt, as cheap Yankee
syndicated tripe increasingly appears in
our patriotic journals, the koala will be
publicised as carnivorous, and the emu
will soar into the empyrean with the
wedge-tailed eagle.
* H= * *
“Bufo”: “V.D.’s” yarn (B. 22/2/’39)
about bathwater swirling in different
directions according as the plughole
is north or south of the Equator is an
ancient furphy. If it did, one wouldn’t
be able to empty the darned thing at
all on the Equator. I once lived for a
period within 20ft. of the Equator, and,
though we didn’t have a bath with a
plughole, tried it out with all sorts of
other water receptacles, north, south and
on the Line. They all swirled the same old
way, clockwise, But I’ll admit that a
German D.O. who always drank his beer
Heidelberger-style, by tipping his head
back and pouring it in from aloft, used
to swear that he couldn’t enjoy it in our
bungalow 20ft. south of Mother Earth’s
waistbelt, because his tonsils had been
trained in northern latitudes, and it hit
the wrong one first. He lived a quarter
of a mile north, and certainly got plenty
of practice both sides. But plugholes
swirled clockwise there, too.
’ROOS.
When ironbarks lean up and sprawl
Darkly on ashen skies,
Black-latticing the blurred scrub wall,
Silver-chinked where the sunset dies,
Old bush tracks flicker white and fade
Along the firebreaks,
Each with its dusky colonnade
Of still, stark trees and shadow flakes.
Nearer, the sheep pads’ crinkled threads
Wind to the river’s gleam:
Woollybutts lift their brave brown heads,
And white shags wade, and codfish dream.
And ’roos from creviced scrub haunts leap,
Beyond the plashy river—
Leap out like wraiths who wake from sleep
Beneath the young moon’s slender sliver;
Stare through the smoky twilight grey
With questioning wide eyes,
Then with great bounds flee far away
To where the darkness deepest lies.
I saw the graceful ghostly band
Afar: I did not hear
Their curved tails thump, nor understand
In their sad eyes the lurking fear.
N.S.W.
T. ROSE.


mpp wmm -
/a.sf //can (Ml
may not meet to-day’s conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and
other factors may affect the intentions expressed
in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you con-
sult your Solicitor and have your Will revised
periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS &
AGENCY COMPANY LTD. as your Executor, its
appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and
moderate charge, the services of a Company with
more than 60 years' practical experience in the
administration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits, £959,810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS. 401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O. „ .
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Manager: K. M. Hughes
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
W.R. 3-16-38
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
SMOKE-OH!
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 131,188 14 p.c. = 114.379 16.809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ ~114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 10i „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ ~ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 „ „ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257.479
1936.. 106,787 12 „ „ 98,038 8,749 266,228
1937.. 135,090 15 „ ~122.549 12.541 278,769
1938.. 136,180 15 „ ~ 122,549 13,631 292,400
The beer of Carlton and United
Breweries, in which Carlton Brewery,
Ltd., with its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Victoria Brewery, owns a 32 p.c. interest,
is sold far and wide, from Kalgoorlie to
Cairns and the Islands. The greater part
of the brew is certainly absorbed before
it gets a chance to cross the Victorian
border, but the N. S. Wales Riverina,
North Queensland and the Westralian
goldfields sink their quota of Foster’s,
Abbot’s and Victoria Bitter. The C.U.B.
enterprise is one of the most prosperous
breweries in Australia, and it is soundly
financed as well.
It was not always so, and it does not
detract from the present appearance of-
the organisation’s strength if we become
reminiscent for a moment. Carlton took
over two waterlogged Melbourne
breweries after the crash of the ’nineties,
selling out (for shares) to Carlton and
United in 1907. By arrangement with
creditors divs. were limited to 3 p.c. until
the accounts were balanced, and up to
1922 that was all there was in it. But in
coping with the Victorian thirst something
had to happen. Old debts were cleared
off by 1923, and next year the share-
register was multiplied 17 times by the
capitalisation of reserves. There were
some generous cash distributions about
this time, too, divs. lifted, and from 1926
to 1929 (inclusive) 14 p.c. p.a. went out.
In slump-time nothing less than 8 p.c.
was paid.
In all this period—over 40 years--
shareholders in the Carlton holding co.
haven’t had to put their hands in their
pockets for more than £20,000. Since
1924 C.U.B.’s capital has grown from
£1,100,000 to £2,925,000 by cash and
bonus issues, but Carlton shareholders
have maintained their equity without
having to put up a penny. It is perhaps
a case without parallel among our really
big cos., and the principal point to be
drawn from it is that Carlton’s interest
in the growing earning power and assets
of C.U.B. is not spread over any more
shares than in 1924.
Victorian beer production and con-
sumption for the seven years to June 30
last are shown in this table:
, —* Consumption
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750,800 11.2
19.38.. 27,647,194 23,700,300 12.7
C.U.B.’s net earnings for the 1937-38
term lifted to £493,668, up £39,671 on the
preceding year’s record profit. Carlton
and its Victoria Brewery participated in
divs. as follows (Carlton also collecting
the rents, etc., shown on its own
account):
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1928.. £106,336 £28,638 £5493
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1934.. 63,120 22,113 180
1936.. 90,930 25,770 2186
1937.. 111.788 29,481 6583
1938.. 111,788 31,162 6350
Net profit as shown in the introductory
table represented 16.6 p.c. on Carlton’s
capital. The 15 p.c. div. paid for the
second year in succession was thus more
than covered by profit in hand. The
equity in the undistributed earnings of
C.U.B. for 1937-38 represented another
5 p.c. on Carlton capital.
Other assets beside the C.U.B. interest
are seen in this table:
1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital ... .. £816,992 £816,992 £816',992
Creditors .. . . 15,787 18.776 39,974
Suspense account . . 15,374 14,630 14,360
Hotels 119,062 117,418 157,287
Breweries . . . . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Furniture . . . . 137 115 93
Shares C.U.B 631,704 631,704, 631,704
Mortgages, etc. . . . . 237,881 .266,038 273,163
Cash, etc 7,698 25,164 12,752
Last year’s chief movement among the
assets was the addition of £39,869 to the
book value of hotels. Apparently the
management finds that the most profit-
able use can thus be made of funds not
invested in C.U.B. The holding in C.U.B.
(928,295 £1 shares) is in at £631,704, no
account having been taken in the books
of the one-for-two gift issue of 1934.
This makes distributions by the working
co. worth more than the declared rate on
Carlton’s £816,992 of capital.
At 645. 6d., Carlton £1 shares yield
£4 13s. per cent. If other members of the
C.U.B. group be left out (Foster’s, Melb.
Co-op., etc.), it is the yield best covered
by disclosed earnings (when C.U.B. undis-
tributed earnings are taken into account)
among all leading Australian brewery
stocks.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
, Dividends Nominal
z— To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
’33.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5,734 19,626
’34. . 10,982 9247 t Nil 1,735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 .. ..18,792
Dec., £
’34*. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,67524,095
’36. . 22,626 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37. . 25,150 2214 3000 10 .. „ 9.162 10,774 43,119
’3B. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 ~ ~12,075 8,336 51,455
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). t Includes arrears. } Six months.
Turnover again increased “appreciably,”
which is the main thing, even though
there had been much talk about overpro-
duction and price-cutting in women’s
hosiery. Holeproof, in addition to its
large output of women’s stockings, is one
of the largest makers of men’s socks in
the Commonwealth. It markets mainly
in the medium-price field, though there
is a wide range of. grades. There has
been a distinctly healthy note about the
expansion in profits over the past four
years, and it has all been done without
capital getting much of a spread on and
without any strain on finances.
Staley and Staley, Ltd., took over a
proprietary of similar name in 1929.
The public came in next year, when paid
capital rose to £77,375. It soon expanded
to £167,306, but depression and other
things kept earnings very low, and pay-
ments on the prefs. fell behind. With
recovery from slump came an associa-
tion with the Holeproof people, of
U.S.A., and in Dec., 1935, the co. took
its present title. Profits started to recover
in 1934 and 1935 ; years’ pref. arrears
were cleared off in 1934, when the ords.
also got 6 p.c. ; in 1935 an 8 p.c. ord.
div. went out, and for the three years
since 10 p.c. p.a. has been paid.
Last term, after valuing stock
(£136,380) at £10,141 more —unsettled
conditions overseas prompted heavier
buying of raw silk and rayon, and prices
were favorable —net earnings (£25,626)
were shown at £476 higher ; the £36,649
(two for five) of new ord. capital got in
during the year caused a drop in earning
power to 16.9 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 21.7, 19 and 10.9 p.c. back
to 1935. To reserves £8336 was carried,
against £10,774 in 1937, making them
£51,455, subject to intangibles (goodwill,
trade-marks and brands) of £15,934. Of
the reserves, £lO,OOO is earmarked as pro-
vision against fluctuations in prices of
raw materials, and for other contin-
gencies.
The extra capital got in last year, which
lifted the share-register total to £205,955,
was mainly used to strengthen the liquid
position:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1-938.
Ord. capital .. £91,621 £91,621 £91,621 £128,270
Pref. capital . . 75,685 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities* . . 58,304 41,749 68,818 49,229-
Freeholds, etc. .. 68,045 70,787 77,947 83,241
Plant and fitting-s 67,241 65,349 63,571 68,686
Shares other cos. 5,000 ■ 16 16 16
Stocks . . . . 92,709 98,203 126,239 136,380
Debtors . . . . 8.718 2,862 3,141 10,421
Cash, etc. .. 659 2,017 1,581 2,264
* Includes tax provision.
Liabilities (£49,229, including provision
for taxation) wdre reduced £19,589, and
only £10,409 more than was written off
was spent on fixed assets. Stocks lifted
£10,141, as explained, and debtors, still
low at £10,421, increased £7280. The
more or less liquid surplus (£99,836) was
£37,693 stronger, so it might be said that
all last year’s new capital remained
liquid, and that additions to plant were
financed out of undistributed profit. The
co. has started the new year in a com-
fortable position.
Ample provision for depreciation is
stated to have been allowed on fixed assets,
and the new plant installed has kept the
mill in excellent working order. The
co.’s working assets appear to be valued
on a very conservative basis, which is all
to the good in view of the competitive
nature of the trade. Last week a meet-
ing was held in Melbourne, at which
Sydney manufacturers were represented,
with the object of doing something to-
wards stabilising prices of fully-fashioned
hosiery. This line has been heavily pro-
duced in recent years.
Holeproof ords. at 235. return 8.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and the visible
net tangible backing is 255. 7d. per share.
The pi et. capital is more than covered by
surplus liquids ; the all-over backing is
£8 14s. 4d. per share firsts, £4 ss. sd.
seconds. The 6 p.c. seconds, more active
o f f wo issues, yield £5 10s. per cent,
at 21s. 9d.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Dec., Dividends. serves, serves.
IQ9Q" lo’iko !<?P- c -= 24,000 4,070 300^54
Z- ” ” 30 > 000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,003 2o „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
1932.. 38,364 25 „ „ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933.. 31,737 25 „ „ 30,000 1,737 314,325
1934. . 36,069 25 „ „ 30,000 6,069 320,394
freehold sold; added reserves, £41,873.. 362,267
1935.. 40,034 27.1 p.c. = 32,500 7,534 369,801
1936.. 35,804 25 „ „ 30,000 5,804 375,605
1937.. 40,395 29.1,, ~ 85,000 5,395 381.000
1938.. 36,585 29.1„ ~ 35,000 1,585 382,585
The co. has a remarkably fine business,
thanks to great canniness in the selec-
tion of risks. Most of the profit comes
from a fine pile of investments, built up
during 66 years of trading. Of the
£120,000 of capital, all but £6250 has
come from accumulated surpluses, and
the fat heap was still piled over three
times higher than the share-register total
when the accounts were ruled off. Hefty-
looking divs., though moderate in rela-
tion to total funds belonging to share-
holders, consequently go regularly into
the post, the average for the last decade
being 25.5 p.c. Transfer of more of the
visible lay-by to capital account would
make the position look more like it
really is. The last gift-giving was in
1918.
Last year looked like turning out
better. Bushfires and a Sydney blaze
in the last month of the period, however,
sent fire losses up £5154, and net earn-
ings were written £3BlO lower at
£36,585. That was enough to maintain
the 29.1 p.c. handout, with 1.3 p.c. on
capital to spare, compared with a margin
of 4.5 p.c. in ’37.
Of the £36,585, £16,568 (down £3897,
but 13.8 p.c. on capital) was the surplus
from underwriting, to which all taxes
are charged in these calculations. In-
vestment revenue, £20,017 gross (up
£187), contributed the other 16.6 p.c.
The expense rate is very favorable,
considering the amount of small business
put on the books:
Loss. Expense,
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. M.
1900. . £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. ClfA
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ «.» „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 4U „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 „ 45.3,.
1927.. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3,,
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 „ 52.0„
1933.. 94,292 32,835 52,255 34.8 „ 55.4 „
1934.. 99,759 32,149 54,339 32.2 „ 54.4 „
19 3 5.. 100,14 0 2 6,3 1 6 52,77 0 2 6.2 ~ 52.6 „
1936.. 104.668 35,834 52,480 34.1 „ 50.1 „
1937.. 110,565 38,322 51,778 34.6 „ 46.8 ~
1938. . 112,763 42,433 53,762 37.6 ~ 47.8 „
The management has always looked
askance at workers’ compensation con-
tracts, and its car-insurance connection is
select; intention of the State to compete
with public underwriters in these fields
in N.S.W. should therefore leave little
mark on the business. Vic. and Queens-
land, where the co. has branches, have
long had Government offices.
With net tangibles equal to 445 p.c.
of net premium income—lso p.c. is gen-
erally accepted as a satisfactory margin-
few cos. can offer stouter backing for
their contracts:
1926. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £120,009 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 15,089 16,432 18,531 20,375
Freeholds . . 142,771 6,771 6,771 51,199
Mortgages . . 45,9'90 173,746 157,712 154,293
Investments . . 157.545 242,881 254,573 254,573
Cash . . . . 82,663 106,723 123,604 88,161
Debtors . . 15,440 8,613 11,853 9,733
The lift of £44,428 in the property item
.and depletion of cash balances by £35,443
are interconnected with purchase of
Yaralla Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney,
to be remodelled as new head offices —
the co. at present lives in rented premises.
Investments are chiefly in Government
stock, at £226,570 in at cost less depre-
ciation.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts Co.
To Re- Re-
Dee Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 10.365 8 p.c. = 9600 765 55,8a2
1929.. 7,181 6 „ „ 7200 55,833
1930.. 5,276 3 „ „ 3600 1676 57,509
1931.. 6,253 5i „ „ 6600 57,16-
1932.. 6,942 5 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,409 6 „ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 84 00 159 68,532
1935.. 7,920 6i „ „ 7800 120 58,6a2
1936.. 7,855 6J „ „ 7800 55 58,707
1937.. 7,459 6 „ „ 7200 259 58,966
1938.. 8,135 7, „ „ 84 00. 58,701
The “little extra” that shareholders get
above 5 p.c. or thereabouts seems to
come when activity in the building trade
is high ; in slack times lift-maintenance
is a solid old standby—a source of in-
come, in fact, that has never let share-
holders down even during the worst
period of the last depression. In 1930
4.4 p.c. was earned on capital, and that
{"Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


Acute
ii
; «*?' s?* r ±
m*.
im
mmm
PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR
GROUND ENGINEERS’ LICENCES
"Shortage of ground engineers ...This phrase has been continually appearing
in the Press during recent months, for the need for licensed men is being felt
all over Australia. As civil aviation develops, the need for licensed ground
engineers becomes even more acute, for from four to five licensed men are
needed on the ground to service every airliner. The College of Civil Aviation
has been established to provide complete instruction to qualify for ground
engineers’ licences.
Actual Workshop Experience
At The College Hangar, Mascot
And instruction is in the hands
of senior aviation engineers and
aircraftsmen of long experience.
Accommodation is arranged for students living away from
Sydney, in private houses approved by the College, con-
venient to the aerodrome. THE COLLEGE OF CIVIL
AVIATION IS THE ONLY SCHOOL OF ITS KIND
IN AUSTRALIA. As no engineer may work on aircraft
or engines unless licensed, exceptional opportunities exist in
this field for those who commence their training early. Write
for full particulars of the College courses now, or
The C.C.A. Syllabus Is
Approved by the Com-
monwealth Civil Avia-
tion Department .
From 4 to 5
Men Needed
on the Ground
to Service Every
Airliner ! ! !
Call for an Interview or Write for Details of Courses to THE COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION, Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
OF


NOTICE.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
One Shilling (1/-) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Wednes-
day, the sth day of April, 1939.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, the 15th day Of
March, 1939, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Friday,
the 17th day of March, 1939, and shareholders
registered on Thursday, the 16th day of March,
1939, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
2nd March, 1939.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.-— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, «/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.80 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
THE ANTI-NATIONAL
INSURANCE LEAGUE
OF AUSTRALIA
Clyde House,
Phone: C 2726. 182 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
An open letter to the
people of Australia
National Health and Pensions Insurance was
a Plank in the platform of each Party that went
to the poll at the Federal Elections held in 1937,
and was endorsed by every candidate as being a
necessity to the future social security and welfare
of the Nation.
The Bill, being introduced to Parliament,
passed both Houses On the 30th June, and became
law on the 3th July, 1938.
Since the passing of the Act the anomalies
have been so many that it has been found
necessary to, from time to time, postpone the
operation of the Act.
In view of public opinion against the National
Health and Pension Insurance Act 1938, the
Anti-National Insurance League of Australia has
been formed with the intention of presenting to
both Houses of the Federal Parliament a Petition
representative of all sections of the community
affected by the said Act requesting:—
(a) That the Act in its present form be
repealed; and/or
(b) A referendum on a matter so vitally
concerning the interests of the Nation
be taken at the earliest opportunity.
The Anti-National Insurance League of Aus-
tralia is definitely non-political, and, in order to
make your view manifest, we ask your support by
your becoming a member of the League so that
your desires will be made known to those who hold
your welfare in their hands.
We can help you to help yourself.
On behalf of the Committee,
Yours faithfully,
W. GOLDING,
Honorary Secretary.
was the poorest showing during the
present century.
For 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 the average div. was 7.3 p.c. p.a.
Over the nine years since 5.8 p.c. has
been the mean annual income to share-
holders. Nothing wonderful, perhaps,
and the distributions year by year have
had a steps-and-stairs appearance; but
the average return has been reasonable,
and the directors have made a habit of
handing out most of the profit shown.
This policy has been possible owing to
the fact that ample depreciation has been
allowed on new plant installation, and
book values of fixed assets haven’t been
allowed to swell. In other words, before
profits are arrived at, full provision for
maintenance of the undertaking has been
made.
The co. has a swag of assets with low
earning power. It has most of its capital
laid out on hydraulic mains and plant;
but of recent years, when electric eleva-
tors largely superseded hydraulic lifts,
agencies for electric types were taken on,
and the business of Major, Stevens and
Coates was bought and the Common-
wealth agency for the Express Lift Co.,
London, acquired. Supplying and ser-
vicing high-speed electric lifts and mov-
ing stairways has kept the staff employed,
but growing exes, have pretty nearly off-
set advantages of the increased turn-
over : —•
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. ' Revenue, penses.
1924. . £41.158 £31,666 1934. . £46,261 £37.702
1926.. 47,279 37,415 1935.. 88,054 80,134
1928.. 61,935 51,629 1936.. 88,507 80,652
1930.. 47.875 42,598 1937.. 73,019 65,560
1932.. 89,025 32,083 1938.. 105,577 97,442
Last term there was a sharp lift of
£32,558 in gross profit (£105,577), but
exes. (£97,442) took all but £676 of the
increase, net profit lifting only by that
amount, to £Bl35 —6.8 p.c. on capital,
compared with 6.2, 6.5, 6.6, 7.1 and 6.2
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was raised
from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c., and it took £265
more than the disclosed profit.
The reserves shown in the introductory
table, together with capital and a little
outside money, are represented as fol-
lows :
1932 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 10,417 35,021 18,904 23,912
Mains & plant 135,703 136.556 135,918 135,199
Freeholds . . 35,197 35,231 35,231 35,231
Leaseholds .. 1,149 1,149 1,149 1.149
Stock. . . . 9,136 27,568 13,177 18.211
Debtors . . 8,678 14,779 14,103 18,103
Cash, etc. . . 2,309 2,290 2,290 20
The larger business done during the year
is reflected in the growth in stocks and
debtors, to finance which the co. drew on
its cash resources and went outsiders
for a little more. Plant has been main-
tained in “a high state of efficiency,”
which, as indicated before, means a good
deal.
The co. apparently finds trade flush
at the moment, but a slackening-off in
building activity is likely later this term.
It may mean a slight reduction in the
co.’s earnings. On a 7 p.c. div. basis
the fully-paid shares return just over
9 p.c. at 15s. 6d., or 7.7 p.c. if the rate
comes back to 6 p.c. Net tangible back-
ing is 295. 9d. per £1 of capital paid up.
Cocks Pioneer (Vic.) is in production
again. From 15s. 3d. in December, the
15s. shares (paid to 145.) were taken to
255. 6d. last week (coming back to 225.).
Part of the support has been no doubt
due to the good record of its
neighbor, Cocks Eldorado, at Eldorado,
and the Victoria co. at Newstead. From
1934, when the old Pioneer co. was
bought out, until 1937, a total of 9s. per
share went out on the 10s.-paids, holders
in addition receiving the nice gift of one
share in the Eldorado co. for every two
of their holding when portion of the
leases was sold to that co. Then in-
trusion of a granite bar across the work-
ing paddock changed the outlook.
Subsequent boring, however, disclosed a
new lead at the north end of the lease,
values being put at Is. a yard for
12,500,000 c.y. It is deep sluicing, bed-
rock averaging 180 ft., with 80ft. or so of
barren overburden to remove first. A
new 900,000-c.y.-p.a. unit was put to
handle the latter, increasing plant capacity
to 1,800,000 c.y. annually. On turnover
of 1,500,000 c.y. working profits of
£31,250 p.a. are indicated over eight
years with costs at the estimated 7d. a
c.y. Recoveries and costs in the past
came very close to estimates. The share-
issue (100,000) isn’t big.
* * * *
In the fortnight ended February 28,
Tableland Tin’s No. 1 dredge at Mt.
Garnet (Q.) dug 14,000 yards for a yield
of six tons of high-grade concentrate —
about a pound a yard. The low yardage
is due to the reconditioned bucket engine
proving to be too lightly powered for
the heavy wash dug. Better results will
be got when improvements, now being
effected to the mooring-winch are com-
pleted, but good results must await the
electrification of the bucket drive, which
is now in hand, the board reports. The
mooring-winch is being electrified at the
same time ; on completion of this the
whole dredge will be under electric power
supplied from the company’s station,
where ample power is available. Electri-
fication should not take more than two
months, and the cost in materials and
labor is estimated at £3OOO.
* * * *
New Occidental’s meeting in Sydney
on Feb. 28 was an uproarious affair. The
point at issue, really, was whether knight
Harry Moxham or Arthur Vickery was
to sit on the board. Starting at 2.30 p.m.,
the session continued until 15 minutes
before the pubs closed. As the “Herald”
put it: —•
After long and stormy discussion it was
decided to appoint a committee of three
shareholders to investigate the company’s
affairs thoroughly and report back to share-
holders. A poll was taken on a motion to
reduce the number of directors from seven
to five.
The meeting was adjourned until March
21, when the poll on the number of direc-
tors is to be announced and a share-
holders’ committee appointed. Moxham
after the meeting announced his intention
of resigning from the board.
* * * *
Wiluna smelter, which has been
running since October, 1936, ceased
operating on February 28. High costs,
due to dearer fluxes and expensive trans-
port charges, was the reason given for
the stoppage. The smelter has been a
huge disappointment.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.B. (M.L.).: Full list too extensive for
these columns, but most of the banks, 8.H.P.,
Electrolytic Zinc, some pastoral-agency con-
cerns, the Barrier cos. and some of the tin
group find ready markets in both London and
the Dominion... .1.G.R.: Your holdings are
a solid lot, pastoral co. excepted, but that now
looks like doing better. Australasian Paper
is worth consideration. Even the best gold-
mining stocks are speculations L.G.M. and
J.A.C. (W.A.): Co. was operating in Perth
and Adelaide. Definitely do not recommend.
....Dad: Morris Hedstrom, Mauri Bros, and
Thomson, Australasian or Cumberland Paper,
8.H.P., Carlton Brewery, National Bank and
Hordern Bros, prefs. look a solid bunch....
L.P.8.: Both cos. are in liquidation. Write
liquidator, W. Hayes, Royal Insurance Build-
ing, St. George’s-terrace, Perth, re Edjudina;
W. H. Stringer, 422 Collins-street, Melbourne,
re Corbetts 8.E.H.: Zinc Corps, look the
best of the three... .A.B. (Syd.): Can’t see
them going higher at the moment.. . .J.A.L.:
High returns as a rule aren’t compatible with
safety of capital —which appears looked for
in your case. Arthur Cocks (Syd.), however,
is a sound concern giving a yield above the
average. A selection from the list of “Dad”
above may suit.... J.E.: Mt. Kasi should prove
the better stayer R.R.R. (Nannup): Pros-
pects for shareholders anything but bright.
Production was to have started last month....
A.C.McK.: The co. is domiciled in Maoriland.
Doubt as to the Dominion’s political outlook
seems responsible. New Zealand Insurance,
whose h.o. is also across the Tasman, has
been similarly affected. Both stocks look worth
consideration W.H.P.: Both quite fair specs.
W.T.C.: Can’t say exact position at the
moment, but co. is among the also-rans. Get
in touch with secretary. Any value attaching to
the bonds is questionable... .T.W.D.: Produc-
tion on a small scale by the first half of 1940 is
reckoned on. The venture looks looks turning
out well N.A.: No open market for the
bonds; write secretary and ask him to find
a buyer, or try R. F. Cormack, 440 Collins-
street, Melbourne.


SMOKE-OH!
“Suggested that radio station be established
at Canberra for the broadcast of Parliamentary
debates.”
After that the crooners won’t seem so
bad.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Girl jilts milk-bar attendant.”
—News item.
Apparently his sundaes weren’t free.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Radio-script writers are poorly paid.”
—Wireless mag.
Then they do get paid by results.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There are approximately four drivers to
every car in Australia.” — Motoring journal.
Does this include wives and mothers-
in-law?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some boxers are passionately fond of
music.”— Sports writer.
Swing music?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Writers who endeavor to live by their
natural bent are usually broke.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She advised him to stretch his legs; he
was suffering from pins and needles.”
— Women’s paper.
And, of course, he did sew.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I always think it is rather humbling to con-
sider that we may have come from the same
stock as a tomato.” — Sydney cleric.
That man is of vegetable origin, how-
ever, is by no means certain. After all,
a tomato can only be pickled when green,
a human being when “ripe.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A jockey’s first essential is an iron nerve.”
—Sporting writer.
A horse is also useful.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Slight Mistake.
“Good looks and no grammar won’t get a
girl very far in the business world.”
— “Women’s paper.
The boss sent for the chief clerk.
“Entwhistle,” he snapped, “that new
girl, Miss Beautie, is not satisfactory.
Her spelling is atrocious, her punctuation
awful, and her grammar is practically
non-existent, and I particularly told you
to engage a girl for her grammar.”
“Grammar!” mumbled the chief clerk.
“I thought you said glamor.”
Many a fellow has gone to a party in
a boiled shirt and come home stewed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why do too many girls insist that all their
accessories match?”
— “D.T.” Women’s Supplement.
Because it looks awful to have a red-
headed man on one arm and a brown-
headed one on the other.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many young couples marry on a basis of
sheer heady rapture.”— Women’s paper.
Later on, if she isn’t given her head,
she’ll put her foot down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Colds are part of the price paid by man-
kind for the many physical benefits that civilisa-
tion brings.”— Medical note.
Is this an insinuation that civilisation
is something to be sneezed at?
“Sall right , Miss. Plenty more poles where that come from!”
“A Canadian drove his dog team 150 miles
through ice and snow just to tell a girl he
loved her.” — News item.
That’s a lot of mush.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Physiologists state that we make the finest
and most delicate use of our muscles in speak-
ing.” — “World’s News.”
Then maybe a fellow with a squeaky
voice is really suffering from muscular
rheumatism.
4* 4* 4*
“Rev. Arnold Watts was one of the early
missionaries to these islands. He mysteriously
disappeared. ” —‘ ‘D.T.”
Amongst the natives “Watts for
dinner” was a statement, not a question.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every girl should demand that her intended
husband owns a block of land on which to
build a home before she marries him.”
As it is, women take a lot for granted.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When an argument occurs in a cardroom the
recognised expert is indispensable.”
— Women’s paper.
He can pour Hoyle on the troubled
waters.
You can judge some men’s characters
by the company they float.
4» 4* 4* 4*
“In walking one mile, the average person
raises each of his feet a distance totalling a
height of 340 ft. — “World’s News."
When walking into a picture theatre
in the dark one raises each foot over
twice as many feet.
Blooming Expensive.
“The smartly-dressed women are a credit to
this garden city of yours.”
—Visitor in interview.
You’ve said it, friend — I’m one who
knows.
1 plucked from this wide garden, Rose
/ clad her well and sent her out
for visitors to rave about.
J\f fairest of fair blossoms, she,
And, oh, she’s very dear to me.
To keep this flower a-bloom content,
I’m left, alas, without a cent.
LEON.
The Toiler.
“My dear, you don’t know what a day
I’ve had. I had to rush to catch the
ten past eleven bus, and then when I got
into town at half-past who should I meet
but Alice. She kept me talking for ages
and I simply couldn’t get away.
“Well, we decided it was lunchtime,
so we went and had a quick bite to eat,
and Alice told me all about a court case
the Holroyds had had. Anyhow, I sud-
denly looked at my watch and, what do
you "think, it was half-past two!
“I had to tear round the shops trying
to find stockings to go with that em-
bossed organdie of mine. Do you think
I could get what I wanted? My dear,
I must have gone to a dozen places, and
those shopgirls just brought me pile after
pile of ones which didn’t match it at all.
One of them looked at me quite rudely
when I went out without getting any.
“Finally in despair I bought a pair
which wasn’t really what I wanted, but
I couldn’t go anywhere else because it
was almost six and the place I was in
was being all shut up: they never seem
to work a second longer than they
have to.
“Yes, it’s a relief to slip my shoes off.
I’ve been going all day, and I’m simply
woj-n out!”
MEOW.
Reverse Action.
“The Magistrate: ‘Apparently defendant
wanted to buy the car very badly. When
plaintiff declined to reduce his price he assaulted
him brutally.’ ” — “Sun.”
How badly reason is o’erthrown
When envy fills the cup !
He could not beat the owner down
And so he beat him up.
H. M.
Heartbreak.
Over spilt milk ’tis more than useless
crying:
That’s very clear.
But what philosophy can still the sighing
Over spilt beer ?
T. W. N.
Conclusion.
“The road to hell is paved with
Good intentions,” they declare.
If that is true, then there must
Be some politicians there.
PATON.
The Art of Politics.
III.
Although only one party, or perhaps
a coalition of two parties, can reach
office, actually every party contesting an
election can boast a victory at the polls.
By the also-rans this victory is called a
“moral” one. This means that the party
only thought it would be a moral to win.
Whilst chivalry may be defunct so far
as other spheres of life are concerned, it
is still very much alive in politics, as
anyone who has witnessed the declaration
of a poll can testify. Although the gloves
may have been off in the fight on the
hustings, compliments fly when the
numbers go up, with mutual congratula-
tions on the “Clean way in which my
worthy opponents fought.”
Cynics may sneeringly point out that
the victor can afford to be magnanimous,
and that the vanquished, if they make
goats of themselves by whining in public
at their defeat, may jeopardise their
chances of gaining pre-selection in future
elections. But that it is pure chivalry
no true lover of politics will doubt.
Likewise, on the hustings, certain un-
written laws of etiquette are rigidly ob-
served by even the bitterest opponents.
Should a candidate, for instance, be con-
ducting a meeting on a street corner, his
rival would no more think of approach-
ing closer than fifteen yards with nis
loudspeaker than he would permit his
hand to shake when he went to collect
his Parliamentary salary.
Party bosses recognise that it is sound
strategy to select as candidate one who
has the reputation of biting like a fish.
The reason is patent. He will thus be
assured of crowded and uproarious meet-
ings. A tip-off to the flapper press and
the resultant publicity will drag his name
before the public more than will a dozen
decorously-conducted meetings.
Incidentally, a good “bite,” should he
get into Parliament, stands an excellent
chance of reaching Cabinet rank, for his
value to the Ministry will be enormous.
His natural antipathy will be to the in-
quisitive gents of the press, and the
mutual and well-publicised recrimina-
tions in which they will indulge will help
to refute the idea in the public mind that
the Cabinet must have died off or gone
for another trip abroad or something.
Selection of a suitable chairman is very
important. Eminently useful is one
who can be depended on to make long,
dreary, platitude-studded opening
speeches, and thus soporifically dull the
audience so that it will hear the drooling
of the chief speaker while in a sort of
trance.
For the candidate who is called on sud-
denly to make an extemporaneous speech,
and who is acutely aware of the poverty
of his ideas, exploitation of one simple
monosyllabic word will extricate him
from most of his difficulties. It has been
calculated by a Government statistician
that if all the “ers” used in any election
campaign were placed end to end they
would never meet.
It is obvious that if, instead of firing
at 250 w.p.m. a sentence commencing “I
am of the opinion,” he drawls “I —er —
believe—er —that is—er —l—er—am —er
of the—er —opinion,” with the whole
speech in like proportion, he should be
able to string out a ten-minute affair to
last over an hour.
For this his audience will be deeply
grateful, as nearly all those men who
attend political meetings do so with the
object of getting a break away from,wives
or the kids who keep asking homework
questions. The popularity he thus
achieves might well mean the saving of
his deposit.
The problem of the interjector is one
which demands careful handling.
The abusive interjector can be fixed by
tossing at him seriatim the stock list of
witticisms supplied by the committee.
The persistent interjector is in a dif-
ferent category. The man who keeps
asking “What did Palmerston say in ’68?”
has to be handled carefully. This might
be only a variation of the old one about
Gladstone in ’B4, used merely by the
questioner to ensure that he will be shot
out, and thus be able to keep his appoint-
ment with the man about the dog.
On the other hand, it might be din-
kum. If the obvious reply, “Well, I’ll
be the goat —what did he say?” fails to
raise even a grin, and he still persists, in-
stead of racking his brains to think who
the devil Palmerston was, anyway, or
whispering frenziedly to his chairman for
an elucidation, a candidate’s best bet is
to beckon the police sergeant and order
the man’s removal for disturbance and
abuse.
These tactics are also beneficial at ques-
tion-time if some bull-voiced fellow asks
a question difficult to answer.
S. W. K.


Australasian Paper.
From the point of view of in-
come stability and possible future
market appreciation, Australasian
Fapei ords., cum 9.6 d. div. pay-
able on March 21, looked as good
a buy as any at 28s. 9d. last week.
Yield is £5 13s. per cent.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Are:You About to Travel?
TF you are going abroad- and require expert management of your affairs during your
A absence, you cannot (to better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorn'ey of Agent. < The Company offers the services of a staff highly
(iualifled to manage all"' details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the-world. You are invited, to make an appointment
with a senior - officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge, You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS; . . „ T „ _ „ T _-
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director.
P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Meeting and a Moral
Last week’s rowdy meeting of New
Occidental, entertaining as it may have
been to some, showed that the actual
productive operations at Cobar are not
being carried out with the co-operation
of the full board, and that there is a lack
of harmony that can hardly be conducive
to the best of results.. It was stated as
recently as last month that six members
of the board were in favor of retaining
the services of mine-manager Blackett,
and that only one, Mr. Vickery, had made
a suggestion that Blackett should be dis-
missed. The upshot of this argument was
that the mine manager was signed on for
a further two years. Actually, Blackett,
who was for years on the Golden Mile,
seems to be doing a very good job at
Cobar, and it isn’t on the mining or mill-
ing side that the enterprise has been a
disappointment. Recoveries of metals,
all things considered, have been good,
and in the difficult New Cobar proposi-
tion they are improving.
Mr. Vickery (ex-chairman), represent-
ing, apparently, a minority of one direc-
tor, but supported by
a couple of sharebrokers
(among others), had a
great deal to say at last
week’s meeting. So had
knight Harry Moxham
(chairman), and argument
was wi(d and furious. But
New Occidental meetings
have never been very
educational, and this was
noticeable when Mr.
Vickery was chairman.
Blackett was criticised
last week on the score
of estimates that had
been made and not real-
ised, but at no period
was Mr. Vickery heard
criticising himself. Yet
in Jan., 1935, Mr. Vickery
spoke of costs of “245. or
255.” a ton, and that was
before Blackett appeared
on the scene. Occidental’s costs for
the first five months of commercial
production were 38s. Id. a ton, and for
1938 working costs were still 355. 7d. A
year ago Mr. Vickery said that 30s. a
ton working profit should be won from
Occidental and New Cobar ; in 1938 225.
3d. and 14s. 4d. a ton respectively were
the actual figures. In 1936 Blackett had
suggested a profit of 21s. a ton from New
Cobar, and as every schoolboy knows
21s. is nearer to 14s. 4d. than is 30s.
When New Occidental was floated in
1934 chairman Arthur Vickery was de-
scribed as a “pastoralist” ; the other direc-
tors were W. U. Goodall, “machinery
merchant,” and T. M. Owen, “mining
engineer and metallurgist.” Two more
directors were added sQon after, and,
following the acquisition of New Cobar
in Sept., 1936, the directorate was lifted
from five to seven and the board’s re-
muneration from £750 to £l5OO p.a. The
last report showed W. H. C. Chappie,
G. H. Blakemore (two old-timers, with
experience of Cobar mining in earlier
days), T. G. Murray, M.L.C., and knight
Harry Moxham (a dentist) to be the other
members of the board.
Early in 1937 Mr. Vickery, as chair-
man of the board, signed a report stating
that “since the appointment of Mr. C. E.
Blackett as general manager a most satis-
factory improvement has taken place in
operations at the mine, with resultant re-
duction in costs and increase in profit
per ton of ore treated.” About three
months earlier Mr. Vickery’s board had
been content to sling another mine—the
New Cobar —at the feet of the mine man-
ager. Heaven knows why the property was
ever bought. Unless much more ore is
produced, or much more profit per ton
won, this addition to the manager’s head-
aches is barely worth the outlay already
“Brave fine outcrop, Mcwther! Wouldn be s’prised if there’s lode of
ore under un.”
made on it, and that is after treating
“probable” ore as “positive.” So far it
has stre tched the co.’s finances and held
ac j c dividends.
, . . , , d « ex _
The board ts now in hoqs, arm ex
planations, investigations n
nations are in order. The chairman
says he ' s gol " g Wn-.l
of ' he dissension New Occidental
was floated during the gold-share boom
certainly, and a large number of its
shareholders are speculators rather than
mining investors. That, perhaps, accounts
exaggerated importance
in P arl ror me exaggeraieu nnpuiume*
given by the public to sharemarket be-
havior in the stock. But it is perfectly
clear that predictions and estimates made
in the past have often been wrong,
and the only conclusion that can he
arrived at from the data available is that
errors were due to mistakes or to lack
of knowledge on the part of the board as
a whole, or on the part of those directors
who took the initiative.
The mining industry of Australia has
suffered severely from the ease with
which brokers and others were able to
float mines during the gold-share boom.
Often a mining co. started off with a fair
wad of shareholders’ cash in the till, a
property, but no one expert enough to
make the mine a success. New Occi-
dental was lucky in having one economic
mining property and an expert metallur-
gist in the shape of Tom Owen on
its board from the beginning ; and in
securing Blackett as manager later on
the co. was more fortunate than a great
number of new floats. But to-day, five
years after flotation, shareholders have
received only a fraction of the par value
of their scrip back in dividends, and they
have the overcapitalised New Cobar mine
slung round their necks like tha Ancient
Mariner’s albatross.
Mining is a highly technical and intri-
cate business, and the conduct of mining
should be reserved for those who under-
stand the productive side of the game in
conjunction with others who understand
the financial aspect. And at all times
harmonious co-operation is essential.
For these reasons it would prob-
ably .be better if the listing of
mining stocks on ’Change were prohi-
bited until milling commenced, and if
sharebrokers were debarred from join-
ing mining directorates. In this way
conservative and efficient mining might
be encouraged, and that woolgathering
type of speculator discouraged from
gambling in half-baked prospecting
schemes and so bringing a disturbing
element into what should be a hard-
headed, scientific occupation. In the
present case the New* Occidental mine is
far from being a wild cat (aspects
of the mine were reviewed in B.
22/2/’39), but the board (now in
disorder on £l5OO a year), to say the
least, has issued overoptimistic reports in
the past, it is up to the present unable
to show anything that charms the heart
or delights the eye from the pur-
chase of New Cobar and the sub-
sequent heavy outlay on plant, and last
week’s dogfight among certain directors
and shareholders can be in no way
helpful to actual productive operations
at Cobar.
The bonus issue of Australian Con-
solidated Industries, otherwise Australian
Glass, is to be at the rate of 11 free
ords. for every four now held—just
under three for one. If 6 p.c. p.a. is
paid on the reconstructed capital, share-
holders who hang on to their new scrip
will be doing slightly better than on the
present 15 p.c. div. and smaller capital
basis. Every 1 p.c. distributed above 6
p.c. will represent 2\ p.c. on the present
capital, so that if 8 p.c. p.a. goes out in
the future on the new capital it will
represent 22 p.c. on the old shares that
were selling last week at £5 12s. each,
thus giving a yield of about 4 p.c. A
10 p.c. div. would return present buyers
a shade under 5 p.c.
Separation of the different activities
of Australian Glass is being achieved by
selling sections to various subsidiary
cos.:
A.C.I. Engineering Pty., Ltd., to take over
the engineering side in Melbourne and
Sydney; A.C.I. Metal Stamping and Spin-
ning Pty., Ltd., the metal-spinning and
cap-making sections of the Sydney works;
A.C.I. Plastics Pty., Ltd., plastics section of
the Melbourne works; A.C.I. Fibre Pack-
ages Pty., Ltd., cardboard and printing
sections in Sydney; A.C.I. Investments
Pty., Ltd., to take over shares in sub-
sidiaries and associated companies and to
handle the company’s investments gener-
ally ; Queensland Glass Manufacturers
Pty., Ltd., Queensland branch works; New
Zealand Glass Manufacturers Pty., Ltd.,
the Maoriland branch works; and Aus-
tralian Glass Manufacturers Co. Pty.,
Ltd., the glass-making activities in Aus-
tralia except Queensland.
It is out of “a surplus of £2,558,814”
from the sale of “certain assets” to these
cos. that the bonus scrip is to come.
Allotment is to be made before March
31 if possible.
* * * *
Australia’s favorable trade balance for
the seven months to Jan. 31 was
£6,728,000 sterling, an improvement of
£2,399,000 sterling. Exports (£67,441,000),
including gold, fell £4,031,000 ; imports
(£60,713,000) were cut down by
£6,430,000. Wheat, wool, skins and base
metals fell heaviest among our exports.
Butter,, meat, dried fruits and gold in-
creased in value. Imports to be dispensed
with were principally textiles,
motor-cars and timber.
* ' *, * *
In 1938 Briseis- Tin (Tas.) sluiced
722,000 c.y. for 543 tons tin oxide. The
average yield was above 1.681 b. to the
yard,‘ and represented 45 tons a month
over the year. In January and February
of 1939 58 tons and 55 tons of tin re-
spectively have been won, averaging
2.361 b. and 1.91 b. to the yard. Working
profit in 1938 was £38,687.
* * * *
Highgates, Ltd., the Sydney chain-
credit-store concern that never got more
than a few links in its chain after a
couple of years of trying (it was formed
in Canberra on March 25, 1937, with
E. C. B. Midlane, of Selfridges, as chair-
man), is having a shareholders’ investi-
gation made to consider whether.the co.
should or should not be wound up. A
decision is to be made on March 27.
* * * *
Yarra Falls, Australia’s biggest tex-
tile concern, announced an interim of
10 p.c. p.a. last week —an unchanged rate,
payable April 5. The market was pleased,
paying 38s. for the shares after the an-
nouncement, which compares with 365.
6d. a few weeks ago.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Triton Gold Mines’ board decided against
the payment of a div. for the quarter ended
March 31. Grade of milling ore has dropped
lately, and there has been expenditure on
prospecting and development. The market
accepted the news with comparative equanimity,
the mine’s future generally being regarded as
sound.
Felt and Textiles announced an ord.
interim div. at the unchanged rate of 10 p.c.
p.a., half of it being income derived from
outside Australia.
G. J. Coles ords. were slightly firmer at 765.
Myer ords. kept very weak. An ord. div.
is due next month.


SALE OF SHARES
THE AUSTRALIAN CAS LIGHT COMPANY
Offers For Sale by Public Auction in the Rooms of
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., 92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
MONDAY, 27th MARCH, 1939,
COMMENCING AT I 0 A.M.,
“A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
TO A NUMBER NOT EXCEEDING 20,000.
The Directors of the Company reserve the right to discontinue the sale at any
time without offering the full number of 20,000 shares.
Terms and Conditions announced at the sale, or obtainable on application to the
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange or the Australian Gas Light
Company.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.,
AUCTIONEERS, 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(170)
FOR 19S
FORD
9
FORDOR SALOON
m
m
am
s S]
THE NEW ENGLISH FORD TEN
Grace ... pace ... space
and 35-40 m.p.g. ECONOMY
And now (at new low prices) comes the
Prefect—a leader alike in elegant grace, silent
pace, surprising space, luxury equipment
and all-round economy—the evolution of a
proved success. Your nearest Ford Dealer is
enthusiastically waiting to show ... to dem-
onstrate. Terms to suit are willingly given.
BIG FEATURES include entirely new,
smartly tailored spacious interiors with
ample leg and head room; improved centre-
poise ride; smaller wheels and larger tyres
(16x5.00); amazingly roomy luggage space
and every convenience for your comfort —
enclosed glove box, clock, ash trays, adjust-
able seat; easy quick-stopping brakes; safety
glass all round; permanently brilliant body
finish in the new Ford baked enamel with
a wide choice of colours. Tasma, the car
radio of quality designed especially for
Ford cars, optional at slight extra cost.
Fordor Saloon £286
Sport Tourer - £262
Tudor Coupe Saloon * £2BO
Sport Tourer de Luxe £274
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax
AT NEW REDUCED PRICES
SPORT TOURER
DE LUXE
TUDOR COUPE
SALOON
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
ford Motor company of Australia pty. ltd. (incorporated in victoria)
F32.48E
There has been renewed activity in.
motion-picture scrip. West’s £1 shares,
down to 4s. Id. at one stage last
year, are changing hands at 6s. Eight
months ago West’s, owner of the
Olympia Theatre, Adelaide, and holder
of a four-fifths interest in the King’s,
Wellington (M.L.), agreed to spend
“up to £40,000” reconditioning its
Adelaide house. This theatre is leased
to G.U.T. until 1941 at a weekly rental
of £53 17s. 6d., plus rates and taxes.
The lease was extended to 10 years on
similar tenns, plus 8 p.c. p.a. on the
additional capital outlay. The M.L.
theatre brings in £624 a year. A div.
of at least 2 p.c. p.a. by West’s should
be possible if the rentals keep steady.
Most of the capital is represented by an
interest in G.U.T.; what the future holds
in store for that no one seems to know.
* * * *
The ord. shares in Bradford Cotton
(Sydney), pointed out on these pages
when at 375. 6d. a few weeks back, lifted
to 395. last week; there were dealings
for two successive days after an extended
period of inactivity. Interim div. has
been maintained (\2\ p.c. pa., paid
March 1) and a new pref. issue an-
nounced. Buyers at 395. on Tuesday of
last week, allowing for the Is. 3d. div.
payable, paid 375. 9d. net, and on that
basis the return is 6.6 p.c.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks ords. in Sydney have
improved to 255. ex rights. Prior to
announcement of the new issue they had
not been more than a shilling higher.
But, assuming that the 10 p.c. div. is
maintained —it was well covered last
year, with more than enough to spare as
regards the recently issued capital—the
return offering to investors at the present
price is 8 p.c. It is a well-conducted
business of its type, and has been so
over a long period.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Gibraltar Governor’s Report.
[Further reference to this item —a digest of a “Times”
report of an address given before the Royal Empire
Society in London by General Sir Charles Harington,
recently Governor of Gibraltar —is made in the panel
headed “Jibbed at Gib.”]
“Our relations with the Germans at Gibraltar were
very interesting. In the early days of the Civil War
I was on the roof of Government House one after-
noon with my wife when we suddenly saw the
Deutschland, the 10,000-ton pocket battleship, coming
in with her flag at half-mast. She had been badly hit
from the air, and had 26 dead and 80 wounded on
board, mostly terrible cases of burns which we had in
our hospital for weeks and months. We buried the
dead, but they were subsequently taken back to
Germany.
“Quite recently, directly after the crisis in Sep-
tember, and while our own fleet was still mobilised, I
received information that the Deutschland wished to
pay a visit of courtesy. It was only a week or two
before I left Gibraltar. I entertained the captain arid
officers at luncheon. H.M.S. Hood was in at the
same time, hnd the liaison between the two ships was
remarkable.
“The streets were full of our sailors and theirs,
arm in arm —85 per cent, of the German Navy talk
English. The cafes, cinemas, football grounds were
full of their sailors and ours. It was a wonderful
sight, and, as I told his Majesty on my return, it was
a great pity those sailors could not be sent together
round all the capitals of Europe. Our sailors will not
do it with any other nation, but they have a great
respect for the German sailor.
“It is interesting to look back on that time. We
in Gibraltar were totally unprepared. The French
had massed a large number of troops on the Spanish
Moroccan border, and might quite likely have taken
Ceuta and Tetuan. In fact at that time General
Franco was bringing troops back from Spain hurriedly
to Spanish Morocco.
“My information, for what it was worth, was that
General Franco had wished to be neutral, and that
Herr Hitler had told him that he could be, but that
he would use his bombers from Spanish aerodromes,
and I think it quite likely that if the French had
jumped Ceuta he would have retaliated and perhaps
naturally on Gibraltar. I had only four anti-aircraft
guns—two at each end of the Rock. I am told that
things are very different now. With unlimited money,
Gibraltar daily grows stronger.
“I am always interested when I read in the press
of all General Franco’s guns which threaten Gibraltar
and of all these heavy I2in. howitzers at Palayo,
near Algeciras. To my certain knowledge there were
never more than four of these great howitzers, and to
my certain knowledge they had all been removed
over a month before I left Gibraltar, two to the
Ebro front and two to Cadiz.
“I hold no brief for General Franco, but all the
territory I know of which is now administered by
General Franco is better administered than it was
before. If General Franco wins he will instal law
and order in the country. For how long it is impossible
to say. There is no doubt that the various factions —
Falangists, Requetes, Monarchists, etc. —will demand
their pound of flesh. With the end of the war his
troubles will not end. Far from it. On the other
hand, he is a man —he may not be a very great one —
but it is doubtful whether the Government has a
man at all who could lead it.
“I am quite convinced, and have been for over
two years, that General Franco will not keep either
German'or Italian troops one moment longer than is
necessary. Nor will he cede any territory. He is
sick to death of both. He may keep a certain amount
of German instructors for a short time. I have never
for a moment even thought that he has ever intended
to be dominated by German and Italian forces. Con-
cessions, yes—both those nations are bound to get
concessions.
“Before I left, any business houses falling in
Seville and Malaga, etc., were being snapped up by
Germans. I realise the danger of that influence, but
that Spain under Franco is just going to be dictated
to by either Herr Hitler or Mussolini I just don’t
believe, and never have. I quite realise the danger
to us if such an event ever did take place, and I fully
recognise what a difficult role our own Government
has had throughout, and I think in the end it is quite
likely that General Franco or Spain will be thankful
to us for having kept out of it.”
The Jewish Problem in Poland.
(Condensed from an article by Stefan Litauer in the
“Fortnightly.”)
Not only has Poland among all countries the
highest percentage of Jews in the whole world, but
the social and economic structure of Jewry in Poland
is so unnatural and unsound that, overcrowded as she
is, Poland has to suffer from the burden of the conse-
quences of that problem more than any other country.
The Jews constitute 10 per cent, of the total popu-
lation of 35 millions in Poland to-day, but the number
of 31 million Jews living in Poland is not evenly spread
over the territory of the Republic in the same pro-
portion. Seventy-five per cent, of the Jews live in
towns and are a typically urban population, which,
compared with Poland’s total urban population, con-
stitutes nearly 28 per cent. The large cities like
Warsaw, Lodz, Lwow, Krakow and Wilno are over-
crowded with jews.
In Warsaw alone, as against a Polish population
of approximately 800,000, there is a Yiddish-speaking
population of 340,000. In Lodz the Polish-speaking
population numbers 357,000 and the Yiddish-speaking
192,000 ; in Lwow 200,000 use Polish as their language
and 90,000 Yiddish.
The vast majority of the Jews in Poland have
remained a foreign element. The growing Jewish
nationalism was a check even to that limited process
of assimilation which was going on previously. During
the years from 1921 to 1931 the Jewish factor in
Poland underwent a colossal change. At the
census in 1921, out of a total of 2,849,000 persons of
the Jewish faith, 2,111,000 declared themselves as
Jews not only by race but also by national conscious-
ness and as speaking Yiddish, while 738,000 regarded
themselves as Poles and gave Polish as their mother
tongue ; whereas at the census in 1931, out of a total
of 3,114,000 persons of the Jewish faith, 2,733,000
declared themselves as Jews by national consciousness
and as speaking Yiddish, while only 381,000 regarded
themselves as Poles.
This process has gathered speed during the last
few years. To-day not more than 200,000 Jews regard
themselves as Poles. Thus a bare 6 per cent, of the
Jews in Poland are united with the Polish nation in
their hearts and thoughts, and 94 per cent., forming a
body of over three million people, regard themselves
as an alien element. Herein lies the fundamental dif-
ference between the Jewish question in Poland and in
Germany. In Poland 94 per cent, of the Jews are an
alien element, whereas in Germany the great majority
of the Jews, probably not less than 90 per cent., repre-
sented a thoroughly German element, if not by race,
then in their sentiments, culture and language. The
touchstone for this is Palestine ; 80 per cent, of the
immigrants since the Balfour declaration have been
Jews from Poland, whilst the Jews from Germany
form only a negligible percentage.
If it be admitted that the Jewish question has
transcended the bounds of a domestic problem and has
assumed international importance, this is true in the
case of the Jews in Poland rather than the Jews in
Germany. To recognise the Jewish problem in Ger-
many as an international problem is to put a premium
on the persecution and forcible expulsion of Jews.
On the contrary, to treat the Jewish problem in Poland
as one of international interest is but to realise the
existence of a state of affairs which, if not solved, may
lead to grave consequences.
South Africa’s Service Battalions.
[Condensed from a London “Times” letter by
Colonel James L. Sleeman, who is Chief Commissioner,
St. John Ambulance Brigade Overseas.]
In 1935 I completed the Brigade Command of
the 160th (South Wales) Brigade ; a period of over
four years coinciding with the most bitter period of
unemployment in the mining valleys of South Wales.
It had been an experience which had accustomed me
to the tragic sight of a fine young manhood, vigorous,
capable, and anxious for employment, eating out its
heart on the dole and awaiting with pathetic hope for
brighter days.
Two months later I was invited by Mr. Pirow,
then Minister of South African Defence, to inspect
one of the Special Service Battalions at Pretoria.
These battalions had been formed in order to
offer useful and healthful employment for unemployed
youth in South Africa. As one of the original six
adjutants at the formation of the O.T.C. I was not
unfamiliar with the training of youth, but I was truly
amazed with the quality of the material and the work
which I was to see at Pretoria. What perhaps im-
pressed me still more was the obvious pride and
pleasure these fine youths were taking in their military
and civil work and their physical and mental fitness.
Under the firm but discriminating guidance of
carefully selected officers and n.c.os. their mornings
were spent in physical training, marching, drill,
musketry and other defensive requirements. Their
afternoons were employed in learning those trades
which they had selected, noteworthy among which was
aircraft construction. They were varied occupations ;
a restaurant car was drawn up on an adjoining rail-
way line while squads of youths were taught the
requirements of waiting. The general impression of
the camp was, indeed, a human beehive of activity,
the characteristic feature of which was the obvious
interest, indeed joy, with which all were facing up
to their duties.
To those who visualise such employment in terms
of monetary reward it will be a surprise to know that
their pay was but one shilling a day, while the restric-
tions compelled the absence of alcoholic stimulant,
proving quite conclusively that what youth really wants
—whether it knows it or not —is not “sops,” but work
which keeps it fit and self-respecting.
All were required to serve a full year in these
Special Service Battalions, helping to add many a fine
aeroplane to the strong air fleet of the Union. After
that period those who were offered permanent employ-
ment were allowed to take it; others served on until
such employment offered.
When I contrasted the two systems, the dole and
its most degenerative results and the Special Service
Battalions, with their stimulative and healthful em-
ployments, it became quite clear to me that we in
Britain have lost a magnificent opportunity for turning
tragedy into high success, viewed in terms of the
future. For probably the most tragic result of allow-
ing youth to waste its energy is the fact that such a
large percentage of the criminals of to-day are to be
found in those between the ages of 18 and 23.
The Nelson Touch.
[John Bull’s present naval strength—including that
created by a recent reawakening of the Nelson spirit—
as described in a (condensed) article by London “Daily
Telegraph” naval correspondent Hector C. By water.]
The British Imperial Fleet is to-day considerably
stronger in most respects than any conceivable hostile
combination in Europe. Only in submarine tonnage
is it inferior. It should be capable of keeping open all
important trade routes in time of war with the excep-
tion of the Mediterranean, where, however, the co-
operation of the powerful French fleet could no doubt
be reckoned with.
In the Far East our naval forces are clearly in-
adequate for Imperial requirements, and the situation
in that quarter will remain precarious until it becomes
possible to dispatch a battle fleet to Singapore.
We are paying now for the folly of the Labor
Government at the London Naval Conference of 1930
in scrapping five still efficient capital ships (four Iron
Dukes and the Tiger) without a quid pro quo from
any other Power. Those five ships would have been
invaluable as the nucleus of a Pacific battle force.
At the present moment the Empire can muster 15
capital ships, 15 heavy cruisers, 44 light cruisers, six
aircraft carriers, 166 destroyers, 54 submarines, 43
escort and patrol vessels, 42 minesweepers and 16 motor
torpedo-boats. During this year the following new
ships will join the Flag: Six light cruisers, 16 heavy
destroyers, eight submarines, four escort vessels, 11
motor torpedo-boats. Next year’s reinforcement will
include: Two battleships, 11 light cruisers, four large
aircraft carriers, eight destroyers ( plus an unknown
number which will probably be laid down under this
year’s programme) and six submarines.
Progress in low- and high-angle gunnery has been
phenomenal, thanks to new guns, new ammunition,
and new fire-control methods lately introduced. No
other fleet is better equipped, for example, to repel
aircraft attack. Torpedoes and mines of highly effi-
cient types are coming forward in substantial quanti-
ties. Tactical training stands at a high level. Special
attention is paid to anti-submarine methods.
One asset possessed by the Navy of to-day cannot
be assessed in terms of arithmetic. This is the know-
ledge shared by every officer and man that the Navy
may, in the near or distant future, be called upon to
put forth a supreme effort for the salvation of the
Empire. Previous to 1935-36 the parsimonious treat-
ment of the Service was having a bad effect on morale,
though it is true that, with one unfortunate exception,
discipline never seriously cracked.
All that is now changed. Training of every
description is carried out with a zest and an intensity
born of the knowledge that it may be preparation for
the greatest ordeal in the Navy’s long history. Also,
the offensive spirit now predominates in place of the
theory of the “fleet in being,” with its implicit condem-
nation of initiative, audacity and “the Nelson touch.
It is a safe assumption that plans have been pre-
pared by the naval staff for striking hard at weak and,
perhaps, unsuspected joints in the armor of potential
enemies.
Because of its globe-encircling chain of fortified
bases and fuel stations, the British Navy enjoys a
degree of mobility and latitude of action denied to
all others. In a limited sense the length of its striking
arm has been extended by the development of the
naval air service,- which will soon be second to none
in ship-borne aircilaft strength.
The Navy’s tas\k in a future war would be very
considerably lightened by the new policy of defence
for merchant shipping. At the beginning of the last
war no scheme existed for co-ordinated action by the
fighting and merchant navies. With one or two excep-
tions merchantmen were neither armed nor prepared
for arming. „ , „
Nowadays guns and other defensive gear tor a
important merchant ships are held ready at certain
ports at home and overseas, and many o. these ship
are structurally fitted to carry guns; 8000 merch
Jibbed at Gib.
On the evening of February 15 General Sir
Charles Harington, recently Governor of
Gibraltar, addressed the Royal Empire Society
in London on “Gibraltar in the Crisis.”
Here was a first-class authority in a position
to know what he was talking about. The
“Times” gave, a column of its space to the
speech, and parts appeared in cables.
In cable versions, however, there was no
mention of Sir Charles’s remarks on British
and German sailors arm-in-arm in the streets
shortly after the September crisis, nor was
there any mention of his having reported to
the King on this “wonderful sight.”
Also, Australians will remember the alarmist
stories of Franco batteries of huge guns
threatening Gibraltar. These stories led to
more than one rumpus in the House of
Commons, and it is probably true that there
is not a single daily newspaper in Australia
which did not feature these recurrent furphies.
It is also true that Sir Charles’s references
to these guns, though partly given in some
cable versions, were omitted altogether from
others. They are included in the accompany-
ing article “Gibraltar Governor’s Report.”


navy officers have alreadv undergone defence training,
including convoy work, and similar courses of instruc-
tion for merchant seamen are about to be started.
A New Soviet Chief Gets Busy.
[Manchester “Guardian’s” Moscow correspondent
introduced this appreciation of the recently “deposed”
Yezhoff’s successor with the seriously-intended—or
it may have been safety-first —comment: “Recent
events appear to confirm the prediction that a more
liberal and rational policy would follow the change in
leadership of the Soviet secret police.” The truth, as
the article makes clear, is that the new chief of the
Soviet Secret Police is enjoying a jolly spring-
cleaning.]
The new chief, the Georgian Lavrenti Beria, who
for many years was head of the Communist party
organisation in the Caucasus, is a man of vast experi-
ence in dealing with people. Though equally staunch
in his loyalty to the Communist faith, he has a better
sense of proportion and a more human approach to
the individual than his fanatical predecessor, Nikolai
Yezhoff, to whom people were mere typewritten
names on dossiers and secret files.
The “Little Stalin of the Caucasus,” as Beria is
sometimes called, is as methodical as Stalin him-
self. His first act upon taking over the leadership of
the secret police was to tighten discipline and to put
his own men, many of them Georgians, in key posi-
tions, while ousting some of Yezhoff’s most con-
spicuous lieutenants. Having strengthened his con-
trol of the vast and cumbersome police apparatus,
Beria proceeded to establish special commissions to
sift the cases of people previously arrested and to free
those who had been unjustly convicted. In this task
he was assisted by the Courts, which were also
reorganised.
The investigations have aired many cases of
appalling injustice. Almost every day the press reports
instances of innocent people who were imprisoned on
the basis of irresponsible hearsay or malicious slander.
The Supreme Court recently freed a man who had
been given a 15-years sentence on a charge of
“counter-revolutionary propaganda” solely because of
what is characterised as a “second-hand report of a
slip of the tongue.” Another man, described as “an
old and honest revolutionary,” received a similar sen-
tence on the charge of “defaming the Soviet Govern-
ment” merely because he had ventured to criticise
local officials, who later turned out to be “enemies
of the people.”
The most striking indication of the changed
policy was the recent execution of five leading officials
of the secret police in Moldavia. They were con-
victed of conducting unwarranted arrests and of using
what are described as “illegal methods” for extracting
confessions. Ten school-teachers, it appeared, had
been arrested as members of an alleged “counter-
revolutionary Fascist youth organisation.” They were
held in gaol for many months in an effort to make
them admit crimes they had never committed. The
entire charge had been deliberately fabricated by the
police officials for the purpose of displaying their
vigilance. Other instances of these officials having
used their positions in order to settle personal grudges
came to light.
Almost anyone who has lived in Moscow for
some time has recently had the curious experience of
seeing acquaintances who had been spirited off in the
night restored to their homes and jobs.
But the purge continues, as is shown by the recent
disappearance of Mikhail Koltsoff, who, after the
arrest of Karl Radek, was considered Soviet Russia’s
leading journalist, and of Koltsoff’s brother, Boris
Yefimoff, the best Soviet political cartoonist.
Japan Seeks Security.
(Condensed from an article by London “limes” Tokio
correspondent.)
When, and if, the democratic Powers investigate
the means of economic pressure they" possess against
Japan, they will discover that they have powerful
weapons. If their unity and determination are equal
to the task, America, England and France, by economic
means alone, can force Japan back to the wall. It is
exactly this situation which drives the Japanese to
construct for themselves an economic bomb-proof
shelter in the Far East.
Unlike Italy and Germany, Japan is not faced
with a food problem every winter. She is, however,
faced with a foreign currency problem. Without
foreign currency Japan cannot buy the raw-material
she needs for her civil and military industries, and
she cannot obtain sufficient foreign currency unless
the democratic nations buy her products. Let one
example suffice. Her principal export is raw silk. Last
year the United States, the British Empire and France
bought 98 per cent, of it, the United States taking the
lion’s share. The anti-Comintern alliance—Japan, Ger-
many, Italy, Hungary, Manchukuo —is good for
nothing except sabre-rattling. The democratic
countries need not put an embargo on exports of oil,
rubber and iron to Japan. All they have to do is to
discriminate against Japanese goods as a reprisal for
Japanese discrimination against their trade in China.
This is a comfortable state of affairs for the
democratic countries, but in fairness it must be looked
at from the Japanese point of view. The driving
force that impels the Japanese to build a self-sustain-
ing bloc in East Asia is the realisation that, as the
world is organised, they are at the mercy of distant
countries. In an East Asian bloc Japan hopes to
acquire the security which the British Empire and the
United States enjoy. Economic sanctions have no
terrors for America, nor for Great Britain so long
as she commands the sea. Japan demands economic
security equal to theirs.
Her plan for China is not territorial conquest. It
is the creation of a “new order” which shall change
the face of East Asia and make Japan the overlord
of a vast self-sustaining confederation. No indemnities,
no annexations. But China is to be held down by a
permanent Japanese garrison. Inner Mongolia is to
be made “a special anti-Communist area.” The term
is new to diplomacy ; it appears to mean that Inner
Mongolia is to become a fortified and garrisoned
corridor from which Japan can outflank the Red
armies in Siberia and overawe Peking. The Power
that holds Mongolia dominates North China.
A bigger task has never been deliberately under-
taken by any nation. It is an attempt to telescope
into a few years a work larger than that which Britain
accomplished in India in a century and a half by a
mixture of military and commercial penetration. But
England was slowly advancing into a divided country
where the spirit of nationalism had not been born.
Japan is proposing to bring under her sway one-fifth
of the human race, a race-conscious people among
whom a strong national renaissance had begun.
But though the Japanese are indulging in the
grandiose vision with which all the totalitarian States
intoxicate themselves, their immediate aims are near
the earth. They want raw materials which can be
bought with their own currency at prices they can
afford to pay. They want markets which embargoes,
tariffs or sanctions cannot close to their trade. They
want to be sure that Russia shall never again have
China as an ally. A century ago those purposes
could have been attained by annexing China, but
annexation has become discredited since subtler
methods were discovered ; besides, the Chinese have
a singular capacity for absorbing their conquerors,
and the Japanese, prickly nationalists themselves, re-
volt from the possibility. They ask, therefore, for
Chinese Governments willing to accept Japanese
hegemony, courteously veiled as co-operation.
The Japanese believe that the outlook for China
is unhopeful; that this year’s history is likely to be the
logical sequel of the last. Guerrilla warfare will sputter
around the occupied area, but within it trains will
run, farmers will plough the good earth, and the
Chinese will continue to govern themselves in the
immemorial way. The Japanese will make a strenuous
and, on the whole, benevolent effort to increase wealth
by developing the production of raw material. If
their major wants are satisfied they will not interfere
in internal administration. Their garrisons will hold
the key positions ; fully motorised and commanding
the air, those garrisons need not be excessive in size.
They will make no undue drain on Japan’s man-
power, and China will pay for their maintenance. It
is difficult (so runs the Japanese argument) to see any
tangible reason why this policy should not be success-
ful enough for, say, the next 20 years.
No one who knows the atmosphere in which
Japan to-day lives would risk a prophecy that even
economic pressure will readily make her abandon the
great prize she sees before her. Neither army nor
people realise the overwhelming nature of the eco-
nomic pressure to which they may be exposed. Japan
has abundant food for all her people, and it would
be rash to predict that they will not tighten their
belts for a test of endurance.
It is certain that the democratic Powers do not
want to interfere with Japan’s security. They do not
object to Japan’s developing China’s resources to the
utmost and acquiring a lion’s share of China’s trade,
provided she does so by the method of fair competi-
tive trade ; a method in which Japan’s natural ad-
vantages are obvious. They agree that a prosperous
and secure Japan is the best guarantee for the peace
of the Pacific. Their policy, however, seeks more
than mere protection of their commercial rights in
China. It aims at preventing the construction of a
great totalitarian and militarist empire on the ruins of
China’s independence.
The task of the democratic Powers will test the
skill of their diplomacy as well as the firmness of
their policy. Too brusque a show of economic strength
will only confirm the insecurity complex from which
nationalist Japan is suffering.
Italy’s Mass-colonising Experiment.
[Further first-hand details of the Italian large-scale
colonisation scheme in Libya, condensed from an
article by Herbert Bailey in the “Fortnightly.”J
I recently had the opportunity of going to Libya
to see the transport, arrival and settlement at their
new farmsteads of 20,000 colonists, the first contingent
of 100,000 who during the next five years will embark
upon a new life far from the places where they were
born.
There was no compulsion for anybody to go.
Indeed the Italian authorities were overwhelmed with
applications from peasants who were attracted by the
scheme, and those who were chosen had to survive a
severe test to make sure that they were really capable
of ensuring success for Mussolini’s plan.
The basis of the scheme was family emigration.
All the families had to be of real peasant stock, and
each family had to consist of at least eight persons.
I discovered on the voyage when talking to these emi-
grants that the leaders of these families were in most
cases between twenty-one and thirty-five years of age.
These men collected their complete families —great-
grandmothers of nearly 90, sisters who had worked in
shops in industrial cities, fathers who had become too
old to be active Fascists or even belong to the party,
babies in arms, and even expectant mothers —so they
could qualify for a place in the colonisation scheme.
Every member of the family had to pass three
health tests. They had to be not only generally fit but
to be free of tubercular and trachoma infections. All
of them had to be of unimpeachable morality. They
had to be politically sound, i.e., they believed in the
Fascist regime, and most of them had to be members
of one or another of the various Fascist organisations.
The illiterate were excluded from any participation in
the scheme.
Clean new white buildings, with livestock and
ploughed fields, were ready for them. Not only were
the farmsteads completely new, but entire villages with
most modern facilities, including a church, school, hos-
pital, town hall, lecture and cinema room, stores and
telegraph and post office, had been built. All that the
colonist was asked to do was to work hard and believe
in Mussolini. The farmsteads were close enough to
banish loneliness and to give a sense of community.
The colonists were so distributed that neighbors came
from different parts of Italy. The Duce was deter-
mined that no clan feeling should persist in Libya.
The organisation for the transport, landing and
settlement of the colonists worked with a smoothness
of which I had thought the Italians were incapable.
The army and a regiment of officials took charge.
Where the journey from the coast took too long to be
completed in one day, camps were built of army tents,
and every care and attention was given to the welfare
and happiness of the emigrants.
Marshal Balbo made it his duty to visit every one
of the villages, and personally to greet as many colo-
nists as was possible. Mussolini could not have
selected a better man. The Marshal has an ease of
manner and a lack of any patronising sense which gave
him an identity of spirit with the emigrants. He looks
what he is, a bearded buccaneer, a product of the
modern aviation school. He is thorough, disdains any
flattery or subservience, flies his own aeroplane every-
where, has inexhaustible energy and a talent for giv-
ing and receiving friendship. He is not of the type
of which political intriguers are made.
He has imbued all his officials with something of
his own character. I was astonished when I saw the
colonial efficiency of the Italians in Libya, the vast
irrigation schemes, the miles of excellent roads, the
agricultural research work, and the energy and desire
for achievement.
Democracy in England.
o Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
William Brock.)
In an age when it may be necessary to defend
democracy, it is not less necessary to define it. In
recent weeks one after another of the hoary abuses of
democracy have been brought into public light: the
iron hand of the Central Office crushing all show of
spontaneous feeling among the electors ; the purchase
(it amounts to nothing less, and it is not confined to the
Conservative party) of Parliamentary seats ; domina-
tion of Parliament by big business and trade unions ;
failure to achieve a highest common factor represent-
ing a truly national policy: the list stretches out to the
crack of doom.
No democrat can hear such criticisms without a
blush of shame ; the only possible defence is for him
to admit the fault and to point out that such things
are not necessary concomitants of democracy. Should
he take the other line—that such things are not pleasant
but inevitable, and must be suffered in order to pre-
serve the whole —he lays himself open to the reply
that a system in which such things are accepted, a
system in which such things grow inevitably from the
roots, had better be discarded altogether, for it must
be rotten at the roots. Such an argument is being fol-
lowed in England to-day, and the feeling spreads far
beyond the narrow and noisy confines of the “Black-
shirt.”
The classic conception of a two- or three-party
system is already showing bad signs of wear. It will
be for democrats to decide whether it is right to bolster
up the party system, which, with its assumption that
every child is born either a Tory or a Socialist, forces
a somewhat unreal distinction upon the electors ; or
whether the recent appearance of “Independent” can-
didates at by-elections is a sign of political health, and
should accordingly be fostered.
Democracy is the means by which a man may
live the fullest possible life, playing the maximum part
in ordering his own life, receiving the maximum bene-
fit from the natural ties of society, and performing
the maximum of service for society. These are the
three fundamentals, but it is impossible to find a
logical formula governing the relationship of the three.
It would be unjust to make demands upon the indi-
vidual which would seriously impair his right of de-
termining his own life, it is equally unjust for the
individual to expect benefits from society without ac-
cepting some responsibilities and performing some
duties.
There is another kind of criticism which the re-
forming democrat must face. In a time of national
danger it will be urged that nothing should detract
from the outward strength of the Government, that
current abuses do form a convenient method of manag-
ing a democratic State, and that if reform is necessary
it should be in the interests of efficiency and at the
expense of liberty. Nothing is more plausible than
this argument, nothing is more dangerous. The demo-
crat’s case is not concerned merely with social theory,
it is also a question of patriotism and loyalty to Eng-
lish traditions. The democratic way of life is in-
digenous in English culture ; if England must become
Fascist in order to resist Fascism, England has already
lost half the battle.
England has grown out of the stage in which men
fight for territorial gains and national glory alone. If
Englishmen fight it must be for national glory ex-
pressed through a passionate devotion to the Eng-
lish way of life. It is hardly necessary to add that
democrats believe their way of life to be drawn from
the precepts of the Christian religion ; of all the ends
to which democracy is a means the most important is
to enable every man to render unto God the things
which are God’s, and this is an end which is specifi-
cally denied by totalitarian creeds.
When the democratic reformer is accused of caus-
ing unpatriotic embarrassment to a Government which
may have to face, at any moment, the threat of
foreign war, he must reply that he is attempting to
create something for which it will be worth fighting.
It is by such a renewal of national faith and national
confidence, far more than by any “efficiency” drives,
that a war will be won. In seeking to purify democ-
racy, the reformer must always remember that he is
laying bare the essentials of a system which is the
child of human idealism and of human good sense, a
system which, if it is allowed to grow undeformed,
will endure when Fascism, National Socialism and
Marxism are but names in textbooks.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
El Golea won the Newmarket Handi-
cap after one of the most interesting
tussles in the history of the race. Over
the concluding two furlongs it virtually
was a match between Harry Freedman’s
candidate and the Oakleigh Plate winner,
Aurie’s Star.
Considering that he had to carry 9st.
131 b., Aurie’s Star did wonderfully well
to hit the front so far from home and
sustain his run so courageously. Bob
Sinclair, his trainer, grumbled before the
start at his representative having been
penalised 51b. on top of 9st. 81b.; but
good horses must pay for brilliant vic-
tories. Had his original impost been
unaltered, Aurie’s Star would have won.
The Adelaide horse shaded El Golea
a furlong from the judge, but failed by
a neck to stall off the determined chal-
lenge of the 9-to-4 favorite. Aurie’s
Star was second favorite, together with
The Trump and Unishak, at sevens.
Kanuri, the Pakenham-owned outsider,
figured at 20 to 1. H£ ran an extra good
third, and would have been closer than
a length and a half away if Aurie’s Star
hadn’t shifted in.
The scratching of Early Bird and the
stablemates Stretto and Disdain helped
to bring El Golea to such a short price.
Early Bird and Disdain were taken out
because of being drawn near the outer
rails, where the going is supposed to be
slower than on the Flat side.
In years gone by the outside berth
in races over the straight six furlongs
was coveted and received the name of
the “Malua track,” because of J. O.
Inglis’s versatile galloper having won
there. Regrading created an alteration
of opinion. Place-getters this year started
from seven, three and five.
Adelaide visitors considered that Uni-
shak possessed a better Newmarket
chance than Aurie’s Star, but the latter
is a great favorite with Melbourne race
followers and he met with heavy sup-
port on the day.
Unishak may have suffered from
being drawn wide out. He showed up
at one stage, but finished only tenth in
a field of 15. This by no means repre-
sented the true form of a three-year-old
who, before he left Adelaide, set 59sec.
for five furlongs.
El Golea belongs to Archie Crofts,
chain-store proprietor and M.L.C. The
majority of Crofts’s horses have been
trained by F. W. Hoysted, who did par-
ticularly well with Valiant Chief. El
Golea’s original owner was Roger Hen-
derson. When that sportsman returned
to England he sent the Eastern Monarch
stallion up to auction. Crofts got him
for 1000 guineas, and left him in Freed-
man’s charge.
If El Golea was a bargain High Caste
is likely to prove a still better purchase.
His win on Futurity Stakes day was fol-
lowed by an equally easy victory in the
rich Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Backers of High Caste had to lay 2
to 1, but it was picking up money. High
Caste romped home 2\ lengths in ad-
vance of Zonda, with the Maribyrnong
Plate winner, Aurania, flying at the finish
into third place. Wilson, the second
favorite, gave an unaccountably poor
exhibition.
High Caste took lmin. 26|sec. for the
seven furlongs, as against Nuffield’s lmin.
26sec. last autumn. Record for the race
is lmin. 24|sec. Conditions were not
ideal for time-making on Saturday, and
in the circumstances El Golea’s lmin.
llisec. for the Newmarket spoke well
for his speed. St. Ardent (lmin. lOfsec.)
holds the Newmarket record.
Spear Chief (2 to 1) gave a disappoint-
ing display in the King’s Cup, but an-
other Sydney candidate, Respirator, went
within an ace of success. In fact, he
looked a “moral” until Marauder joined
issue at the furlong pole. Aided by
Young Crusader having set a fast pace,
Marauder, whose forte is stamina, got
up in time to win by three-quarters of
a length. This Page gave Ajax and
Manolive preference over Marauder, who
was its “next.” They did not start.
Marauder won the Australian Cup of
1938, but will not contest that event this
year, the owner, Paddock bookmaker
Wallace Mitchell, having decided to con-
centrate on the Sydney Cup. Marauder
ought to be at the top of his form by
Easter Monday.
Of the unplaced runners in the King’s
Cup none shaped better in an Australian
Cup connection than Bourbon, who made
a splendid effort near the home bend
and ended up fourth. Bourbon was
weakly supported, going out at 16 to 1,
twice the odds that were obtainable about
Marauder.
Spoils were widely distributed on New-
market Handicap day. The Pines Hurdle
went to Celtic Lad, owned in South Aus-
tralia ; the Sires’ Produce Stakes to High
Caste, now owned in Sydney ; and the
Brunswick Stakes to Tetreen, brought over
from Westralia by J. J. Kelly, who trained
Eurythmic before that celebrity went into
the hands of Jack Holt.
Tetreen led all the way in the Bruns-
wick Stakes and squeezed home by a
head from Tempest, with Micawber a
moderate third. Tempest comes from
Adelaide, while Micawber is a member
of Bailey Payten’s Randwick team.
Thoroughbreds on which their owners
set a high value had rough passages on
the first day at Flemington. In the Sires’
Produce Stakes Zonda, Royal Sceptre and
Limerick Lace were sufferers; in the
King’s Cup, Red Sails and Spear Chief —
each nearly came down. Yet there wers
only eight runners in the Stakes and only
12 in the Cup. Nobody was blamed for
the mishaps in the long race ; but Bartle,
on High C'aste, was reprimanded for
crowding Royal Sceptre and Zonda, and
Zonda’s rider, Brearley, got a month for
Intel ference with Limerick Lace.
A four-year-old won the Newmarket,
and very probably the Australian Cup
will go to a four-year-old. Horses of
that age likely to be among the accept-
ances are Spear Chief (9st. 21b.), Bourbon
(Bst. 131 b.), Ortelle’s Star (Bst. 21b.),
Pageant (7st. 81b.), Red Sails (7st. 51b.)
and Mac-O-Roni (7st.). Manolive (9st.
31b.) is still in at the time of writing, but
in view of his enforced withdrawal from
the King’s Cup he must be labelled an
unlikely starter. Grecian Princess (7st.
21b.) will represent S.A. She is a proved
stayer, though her Victorian form doesn’t
amount to much.
If Red Sails suffered no damage in
the King’s Cup race he will take beat-
ing on Saturday. He is a thoroughly
seasoned horse.
* * * *
The Moorefield people were unfortu-
nate in that rain fell in the city before
their fixture began on Saturday. It so
affected the attendance that Paddock
and Leger figures were down about 50
per cent, on the previous meeting. Not
much rain fell at Kogarah, the going
being pretty good.
Mosaic, The Bulletin’s tip for the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap,
opened at 15 to 1, then twenties were
called. When they found there was a
bit of money for him, bookmakers short-
ened the price to sixes, and some declined
to do business at all. The word went
round that a starting-price commission
had been worked.
Ezra Norton’s filly Tantalizer was
favorite at fours. For six furlongs of
the mile she chased Rathlin, who set up
a commanding lead, but at that point
she retired beaten. Rathlin also weak-
ened when tackled by Last Chance (7
to 1), who looked all over a winner till
Mosaic came on the scene, Ninth at the
six-furlong post and seventh, many
lengths from the leader, at the half-mile,
Mosaic had made up his ground rapidly
from that post; but in the straight O’Con-
nor, the apprentice, who rides him in
track gallops, had to take him wide. It
did not matter; Mosaic galloped so
swiftly and gamely that he caught Last
Chance and had a half-head advantage
at the post—it would have been much
more had there been another furlong to
go.
Mosaic is a brown colt by Posterity-
Inland, owned and trained by J. H. Abbs.
He is a slow beginner, and that will be
against him in a race like the Doncaster.
But he is fast and may stay.
Dr. Stuart Jones is finding his colt
Blue Baron more than useful, though the
grey is nothing much to look at. Eleven
to eight on for the colts and geldings’
division of the Juvenile, Blue Baron gave
Knox an easy ride, scoring (“four
lengths, two lengths”) from Veiltrim
and William Pitt. It was his third win
in succession; on each occasion Knox
has been up.
Dick Wootton’s Fly (Irish Prince-
Vanished) had a still easier time in the
fillies’ division. She looked the bet of
the day, but she had slightly injured her
knee, and this was exaggerated into “very
lame.” So from 2 to 1 on Fly went
to evens and 10 to 9 on. Melrose, though
she looked above herself, was backed at
fours. Melrose led for over a furlong ;
then Fly went past her like a flash, beat-
ing her by six lengths. The time, lmin.
3sec., equalled the race record for five
furlongs.
Now some people are pronouncing Fly
“better than Waireka,” but it may be
some time before they meet. Fly is not
engaged in the Sires’ Produce Stakes
or the Champagne Stakes at Rand-
wick, though she is in minor events.
She was bred by Wootton. Irish Prince
was a fair horse, but Vanished was a
failure. She ran five seconds in succes-
sion, and was retired to the stud with-
out winning once. Fly is her second foal.
Mandel is making Beau Ercil earn his
oats. His Ascot winnings on the Beau
Fils gelding were played up in the first
division of the Flying Welter, and the
price came from tens to fours. Ridden
by Jones this time, Beau Ercil cut down
the leaders, Forward and Trimercian, and
won by half a neck from Überous,
Trimercian being another half-head away.
Trimercian might have won with a strong
rider on top.
Flaring, a stablemate of Tantalizer,
owned and trained by W. Bourke, was
heavily backed, to fours, in the second
division. His backers were lucky. Brad-
ley missed the jump, was ridden hard
to get to the front, and led by three
lengths into the short straight. At that
juncture it looked any odds on him,
but at the Leger he began to shorten his
strides, and Flaring beat him by a length
and a half, the pony Conasau being two
lengths away third. Too much was ex-
pected of Bradley—a good thing beaten.
Jocular remains a boom horse. Be-
cause he had beaten a poor field at Rose-
bery the Ring asked 5 to 4 in the St.
George Handicap, though it graciously
lengthened the odds to 7to 4. Sidcup, a
winner at Warwick Farm, was supported
to 2 to 1 ; Let Slip was at fives and the
others (four) at any price. Jocular came
out bandaged on the hind legs, because
he gets down on his pasterns. He had
the run of the race, but was not good
enough. After having started slowly
Sidcup hit the front approaching the six
furlongs and the race was over. Let Slip
chased him after Jocular had had enough
at the top of the straight, but failed by
two lengths to reach him ; Jocular was
another three lengths back. Sidcup looks
so well that he should win again before
the class gallopers sport silk.
Sailmaker had things made to order for
him in the Moorefield Handicap, for
which he was backed from tens to sevens.
Stan Davidson drove him along from
barrier-rise and did not let him lose his
position in the lead. Masterpiece was
second, three lengths away; he was
squeezed passing the stand and was last
six furlongs from home. His good effort
suggests an early victory at Canterbury,
his favorite course. Magsman was third.
He cannot run ten furlongs, and Herarde
was another failure at the distance. Actu-
ally he was beaten at seven furlongs.
* * * *
Maikai, whom Westralians place in the
same class as Dyed Garments, lan ’Or,
Lilypond and The Dimmer, had his first
race in Sydney at Moorefield—he ran
in the St. George Handicap. He is not
yet in racing condition, and his showing
was just ordinary. The son of Pantheon
is rather on the light side. He was in
the vet.’s hands for over six months, a
seedy toe having put him out of action.
It was so bad that the near fore hoof had
to be cut away. The treatment was
successful, and the hoof has grown to
normal size. Maikai is doing an old-
time preparation for the Sydney Cup.
Frank McGrath has been giving him long
work for weeks past.
* * * *
Tetreen’s success in the Brunswick
Stakes at Flemington suggests that West-
ralian form is pretty good. Tetreen was
foaled at the Swan-valley stud established
by H. E. Vail, the Californian engineer,
who settled in the West and died last
year; he is by Treat-Thoreen. Treat,
an English horse, did a bit of racing in
Victoria, and Thoreen won many races
for P. A. Connolly, owner of Blue Spec,
Dyed Garments, Jolly Beggar, Lilyveii
(with a partner) and other good horses.
At Perth in December, Tetreen won the
Railway Stakes, the principal Westralian
mile handicap, and three days later he
carried off the Lee Steere Stakes, same
distance, at weight-for-age. One of the
field he beat on the latter occasion was
Gay Prince, the W.A.T.C. Derby winner,
now also racing in Melbourne.
* * * *
Sydney punters wouldn’t back Sidcup
at Warwick Farm because it was his first
race for months ; and for the same reason
they stood off Mosaic on Saturday. Why
shouldn’t a horse win “first up”? If a
trainer can’t get an animal ready for a
race without one or more gallops—or
airings—with the colors up, he is not fit
for his business. Trivalve was in the
pink of condition when he beat Winalot
after a gruelling finish in the 1927 A.J.C.
Derby, yet it was his first race as a
three-year-old. Nor did C. N. McDonald
require a preliminary race for Revenue
when he backed that nag for a fortune—
and landed it —in the 1901 Melbourne
Cup.
sfe * *
“T.”: When the late Bob Bailie had
David at Randwick he used to turn
Wakeful’s gigantic grandson out of a
night—rugged, of course. For this he
was laughed at, but David thrived so well
on the regimen that other trainers tried
it, with good results. Now, with
swimming added, it has been applied to
the previously puzzling case of Sidcup.
Here again it has answered; in his last
couple of races Sidcup has not “retired,
after leading, as was his habit previously.
In Westralia it is a tradition that horses
trained on the beach at Fremantle get
wonderfully well.
* * * *
El Golea is unlikely to come to Sydney
for the Easter meetings. He made the
trip last autumn for the All-aged Plate,
but, though he looked well enough, he
ran badly. Not only Ajax, but Mohican,
King’s Head and Evening Mist beat him
pointless.
* * * *
Silver Standard is back at Randwick
after a light season at the stud. The big
chestnut, who will again carry the colors
of solicitor W. A. Freeman, part-owner
of Sidcup, has important engagements at
Randwick. He looks all right, and there
may be another good race in him.
(Continued on page 32.)
“M.R.”: Mrs. Harding, of Ascot
Vale, captured the Victorian Minia-
ture Rifle championship with a score o
398 out of 400—the highest on record.
Although she had never handled a n
before joining her club two seasons ag ,
Mrs. Harding has set top scores m nearly
every competition to which she has
a party. At Williamstown, using a
at 500 yards, she knocked up 33 ou
a possible 35.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Australian Cup: Ortelle’s Star,
1 ; Pageant, 2 ; Red Sails, 3.
King’s Plate and C. M. Lloyd
Stakes: Ajax.
Elms Handicap: Carpentier;
next, Cassio.
River Handicap: Pageant; next,
Panax.
Leonard Stakes: Amiable ; next,
El Golea.
Farewell Handicap : Tetreen;
next, Micawber.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Farm Novice: The Blizzard;
next, Slanchivar.
Denham Court Handicap: Trim-
mer ; next, June.
March Handicap: Sidcup or
Jan Baz ; next, Last Chance.
Edensor Park Handicap: Sidcup
or Roi Sion ; next, Palarang.


VJt
A
m
m
U
walks away with it!
Only the very finest whiskies from Scotland’s most famous
distilleries are good enough for Johnnie Walker. Mellowed
and matured by years in the wood, they are blended with
traditional skill. No wonder Johnnie Walker is the favourite,
and walks away with it!
Born 1820 Still Going Strong'
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


fcR
And
STILL
ss
p
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallam, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 166 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett ft Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody ft Company, 16 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 9? Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
INVINCIBLK
since
1906. I
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
t
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3to 160 Horsepower. 1,.2, 4,
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. years’
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock, i ive
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in
tory daily use all over the world, many of f ° rd for
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a re
Economy, Durability and Reliability; th ey a J®’ . ' on
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced En e
the world’s market to-day. , Inves ti-
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, .
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD., .
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, v
Established vn 1906, ————
Under the Whip
The owners of Ajax are, of course, at
liberty to do what they please with their
valuable property ; but reserving him for
races that look easy won’t endear them
to the public. It was not the policy fol-
lowed by Rodney Dangar with Peter
Pan or, in remoter days, by Donald Wal-
lace with Carbine. That great horse —-
the greatest of all, veteran Randwick
trainers insist—used to take on every-
thing. Sometimes his programme was
two races a day. Judging by the vigor
which he imparted to his offspring, and
which his descendants have shown on
English, European and Australian
courses the last two seasons, it never did
him a particle of harm. Peter Pan raced
for the King’s Cup, the ordeal which
Ajax was spared, and the trophy and
two Melbourne Cups are prized Dangar
possessions. Peter was not himself when
he made one of his third Melbourne
Cup field, but he had been a favorite
for months, his lOst. 121 b. notwithstand-
ing, and the owner decided that he owed
it to the public tb give it a run for its
money.
* *
Mandel, the Sydney bookmaker, was
“news” again last week. After Beau
Ercil’s first win in his colors Mandel
growled about the price he had to take
from his brother-fielders. Beau Ercil
won again at Ascot on Wednesday, and
there was more growling; but this time
it came from punters. In his previous
start at Warwick Farm on February 18
Beau Ercil had finished thirteenth in a
field of 13. Punters left him out of their
calculations for the Flying Welter, and
the Ring offered eights and tens. Ridden
by Davidson, he never looked like losing,
and in the end he won easily from
Trimercian, a very consistent mare, and
the favorite, Rummage. “Put a monkey
on him at the Farm and a few measly
quid to-day! ” said Mandel; and there
was no inquiry. Davidson, by the way,
rode two winners and two seconds at
Ascot, but in the last race Constant, one
of the favorites, gave him a bad fall. He
was picked up bleeding from nose and
mouth. However, no serious damage was
done.
* * * *
Early Bird, on whom J. T. Jamieson
has made several successful plunges, won
the Newmarket Trial Stakes at Mentone
last Wednesday in very attractive style.
Always favorite, she was backed down
to 5 to 2.
Bartle roused Early Bird along in the
first few furlongs until she took up a
good striking position behind the leaders.
Having achieved that object, he allowed
the filly to rest. When Brazandt ran out
wide on the bend Early Bird shot to the
front and scored with a lot in hand from
Comic March.
When first established the Newmarket
Trial Stakes was run at weight-for-age,
with penalties and allowances; now it is
a 9st. 41b.-limit handicap. With that
exact impost Scotland (5 to 2 on) won
in 1909, but could finish only seventh up
the Flemington straight.
Scotland (Wallace-Key) had won the
Newmarket a year before. Dick O’Con-
nor trained him for Jim Brennan, who
became a vaudeville showman in Sydney.
Original owner of Scotland was Sam
Mackay, a pastoralist from Westralia.
Mackay brought a civil action against
O’Connor, alleging that, under the pur-
chase agreement, a substantial sum had
to be staked for him on Scotland in the
Newmarket. Judgment was against him.
As W. Booshand, his owner-trainer
feared would happen, Brazandt ruined his
chance at Mentone by hanging out; Mc-
Carten couldn’t hold him on the course.
When a young man Booshand rode at
the Melbourne “pony” meetings. He is
renewing acquaintance with old friends
in the Yarra River city.
Victory of Early Bird at Mentone de-
lighted W. Devon, the owner, who, how-
ever, bets modestly. Romance underlies
the entry of Devon into the racing game.
“An to think I've been playin' THAT for a solid hour!”
In 1936 he became entitled to £50,000
through drawing Wotan in a Melbourne
Cup sweep. News of this windfall
reached him in the wilds of Maoriland
some after the race was run.
When he piloted Desert King to vic-
tory in the Newbury Plate at Mentone
the Sydney jockey J. O’Sullivan had his
first winning mount at the autumn meet-
ings in Melbourne. Taking no risks after
entering the straight, O’Sullivan put as
much daylight as possible between his
mount and the minor place-getters,
Silver Reign (a coming winner) and Rain
Hazard.
Among the previous wins of Desert
King was a Novice Handicap at Rand-
wick. He met better-class rivals at Men-
tone, and deprived “Horrie” Leek of a
well-planned coup with Silver Reign, who
did good service for M- S. Cooper as a
juvenile, and is recovering form at five
years.
In view of heavy rain earlier in the
week it occasioned surprise when Manetis
set lmin. 38|sec. in the Berkshire Mile
at Mentone, lowering the course record
by a fourth of a second. Manetis, a 20-
to-1 chance, is owned by A. N. Colqu-
houn, vice-chairman of the Mentone Turf
Club.
Once trainer and part-owner of the
gelding, Jack Holt must regret having
parted with Manetis, who should develop
into a useful middle-distance performer.
Manetis is by Manfred (sire of The
Trump and Manolive) from Amantes,
half-sister to St. Spasa, an A.J.C. Metro-
politan and Adelaide Cup winner.
While competing at Caulfield on Futur-
ity Stakes day Cyclist (Manitoba-
Tricycle) displaced a bowel and con-
tracted peritonitis, from which she died
three days later. It was hard luck for
Lou Robertson to lose such a promising
filly, but he had a measure of compen-
sation at Mentone.
Robertson landed the Newbury Purse
with Harford (Devonshire-Glenlucian)
for B. and R. Grey-Smith. Colors car-
ried by Harford were those borne to
victory by Tactical in the V.R.C. Ascot
Vale Stakes last year. Dam of Harford
runs back to a sister to Marmont, winner
of the Grand National Hurdle and Aus-
tralian Cup many years ago.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Crowd Cheers
Once they settled down to fight, the
local lads Hockey Bennell (lOst. 31b.) and
Ron McLaughlin (lOst. 9ilb.) made a
thriller of their Sydney Stadium en-
counter. In the seventh, eighth, tenth
and eleventh rounds especially, they
fought hard and fiercely, though no way
rough-house. Coming after some recent
exhibitions, it was a splendidly clean
scrap, but tough and severe
It began badly. Hockey danced the
first four rounds, in which, being a
nicely-built lad, sun-tanned and wearing
unusually wide-legged shorts, he might
have been rehearsing for the Russian
ballet. With Ron, unspectacular, dour-
looking, wanting to make the fight, but
too slow comparatively to manage it,
the affair was beginning to look like one’
of those great naval engagements in
which each side has a famous victory
without their ever having caught sight
of each other.
Then in the fifth Ron indicated that,
pretty and all as Hockey’s dancing was,
he personally had had all the Pavlova he
could bear for’one evening. He leapt in
punching heavily for the body and lofting
an excellent left hook. Stung, Hockey
stopped capering and fought back with
surprising solidness. With a beautiful
right hand he damaged Ron’s left eye,
and they fought the round out good and
willing.
The sixth was not so hot, but the
seventh was a masterpiece. Ron still
looked slow against Hockey’s dandy
boxing, but when he scored he got home
heavily, mostly with true left hooks, one
of which cut the top corner of Hockey’s
right eye. In close—as they now mostly
were —Hockey was pretty to watch. His
punches had not the spectacular quality
of Ron’s smashing blows, but their speed
and variety in no time had the crowd
wild with excitement. *
From here on it was a tough and
rugged mill. They demonstrated that
head-bumping is a job for dirty fighters,
for most of the time they fought head-
to-head, with never the semblance of a
foul. In evident first-class nick, they
stood up finely to the rigors of what
became a continuous stirring battle at
close quarters, Ron taking most damage,
but Hockey feeling the wear and tear
enough to be mistiming and missing.
They were still fighting with great spirit
through the last round, and when it
ended they dropped their hands and
stood where they were, less than a foot
apart, while Joe Wallis crowned the pair
of them.
After the scrap with McLaughlin it
was given out that Bennell had fought
with a fractured right hand; his “face
muscles contorted in expressions of
pain” from the broken mit. If that’s
so, Hockey must be both a very foolish
and a very tough young man—foolish
because fighting with a damaged mit is
a mug’s game; tough because he not
only hit McLaughlin good and hard with
the same right hand, but fought two other
engagements in the same week, both in
the Les Darcy country and both dis-
pleasing to the onlookers.
On. Friday night he knocked out Sid
Sloane in the fourth round at Cessnock,
but up to the k.o. punch it had been
a tapping contest which riled the crowd
considerably. Even the count-out didn t
mollify the onlookers, who hooted the
scrappers heartily as they climbed out
of the ring. More than the crowd were
dissatisfied, for the bout was declared
no contest, with the intimation that
neither would get any coin.
Not to be stopped, either by that
experience or the broken mit, Bennell
was next night in Newcastle Stadium ring
with Alan Westbury, but Hockey gave
up in the fifth, when it was said that his
hand had at last turned it in. It was a
good go up till then, with Bennell,
who holds the welter title, a shade ahead
on points.
No Fight
After watching imported Red Farmer
(list. 91b.) and ditto Alabama Kid (list.


511
*4/
*>
'e
'N
t -6
BESTH
BRITISH
BLADE
ţ
JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SY ,TI ° F f CE 279 Street
r 72 and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
IMouks
fob
C.O Jl
it's UtiUS
mm
WO,
Sssras
i
HHHBS
CORcoPETROLS
There is a grade io suit your car
Super Plus
Super Plus is the only
full Ethyl petrol that
also contains benzol —
and offers you excep-
tionally high anti-
knock quality together
with amazing mileage.
Plus Benzol
Petrol-benzol blends
are sold in other mar-
kets at premium rates
but Plus Benzol is
made available in
Australia at the stan -
dard grade price.
pgR
su
m
ETH yL
C155.275P
LOOK FOR THE RED.WHiTE & BLUE PUMPS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD* (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
101 b.) for 10 rounds at Sydney Arena,
ref. Mick Lacey declared the proceedings
null and void, thereby plagiarising the
conclusion reached by the crowd many
rounds earlier. Mr. Lacey himself had
expressed his inner feelings previously,
stopping the curious display in the sixth
to tell the pair of them to do better or
else.
There were some punches—three, any-
way. In the third round a right with
which Red astonishingly connected closed
the Kid’s left eye, a repetition of which
remarkable occurrence in the seventh
made the eye bleed a little. Also, the
Kid’s left once meandered close enough
to Red’s dial to graze a little off that
tough pasture, and when either of ’em
got the other against the ropes there was
a great to do of slugging wallops.
Those were the best bits, and few and
far apart. Mostly they missed each other
altogether; and maybe it was the dis-
tance they missed by that exasperated
Mr. Lacey. Up to, say, two or three feet
might be considered a fair thing, but it
doesn’t look nice when misses have to
be measured in yards.
Reversal of Form
On form Irving Eldridge should have
disposed of Johnnie Hutchinson in a
few rounds, for the New Yorker was un-
beaten in Australia, having in his last
match outclassed Varner, conqueror of
Miller, whereas Hutchinson had been
licked by Miller and Hall. Moreover, at
West Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night the white “featherweight,” who
came in at 9st. 6|lb., was 21b. heavier.
But, to the surprise and disgust of the
crowd, it was Hutchinson who disposed
of Eldridge in a few rounds. The pale-
face never seemed keen on his contract.
Punched from pillar to post, he wanted
to stop in the sixth, and the referee
stopped it in the seventh.
Brisbane Sees Another
Brisbane Stadium was packed when
Jackie Wilson shaped up to Sammy
Garcia, who is a Jew from Boston. Very
early in the piece the crowd began count-
ing the combatants out, and this it con-
tinued to do until the 12-round farce had
played itself out, whereupon it hooted
both pugs to their dressing-rooms.
It was just another of those dreary
contests between Americans. Wilson was
taller, heavier, speedier and more skilful
than Garcia, who did not land one good
punch. His only assets were toughness
and gameness all the Jewish boxers
Australia has known have been game.
Wilson was introduced by Charlie
Lucas as the greatest featherweight that
ever came to Australia. Brisbane itself
has had better men at the weight—
Thorn and Russell.
“Jamwood”: “Starlight,” the old black
ship’s cook who was associated with
Melbourne boxing, as pug and spectator,
for quite 60 years, has witnessed his last
fight. His name was Rollins, and local
ring historians say he was born in British
Guiana in 1852. If so, he must have
been 36 when he fought Fitzsimmons and
kept Fitz busy for nine rounds —which
was more than much more distinguished
bruisers did afterwards in the U.S.A.
Twenty years later “Star” went 12 rounds
with Dave Smith when that subsequent
champion was breaking into the busi-
ness. In the meantime he had boxed all
the best middleweights of his long
period, among them Jim Hall and Bill
Doherty. Though he never had much
of a punch, he was a shifty boxer, very
clever with his cannon-ball head, nor
did he butt with it with the abandon
that characterises the modern coon. He
it was who delighted a Sydney Gaiety
crowd in the old days by protesting
against a remark of the manager, Charlie
Campbell. Charlie had matched him with
another black, Ike Stewart, and had in-
troduced the combatants to the multitude
as “these two colored alligators.” “Star”
earnestly protested that he was gladiator,
not an alligator?
Ins and Outs
The Sheffield Shield goes into S.A.’s
keeping for a twelvemonth; but the
central State was lucky. Its semi-
imported eleven was 114 behind Vic-
toria’s first innings score, with only three
wickets in hand, when rain prevented
play on the third and fourth days of
the match, so it wound up a point ahead
of Victoria.
For once Bradman failed to reach four
figures in Sheffield Shield matches ; but
his aggregate for seven knocks was 919
and his average 153.16 —his highest in
Australia. He also failed to excel
though he equalled—C. B. Fry’s record
of six successive centuries in first-class
cricket. After the sixth hundred Fry
cabled him wordy congratulations. The
missive is unlikely to be treasured among
the Bradman archives, for the 1938 Eleven
has not forgiven Fry for observations
penned by that rather clumsy spiller of
ink when he was reporting one of their
matches in England. A reference to
“Curator Waite,” implying that Waite
was no amateur, was particularly re-
sented. Apropos, in the match at Adel-
aide Waite once more proved himself a
good man in an emergency. He kept an
end up when things were going badly ;
in fact, his plucky 63 not out saved the
side.
“S.T.S.”: There were some dramatic
turns about that match in Adelaide.
Victoria had won the first game in Mel-
bourne by 11 runs, but had afterwards
lost in Brisbane, so S.A. had an appar-
ently useless lead of one point. Brad-
man won the toss after some showers,
and decided to put the other side in.
That is always a gamble, and this time
it didn’t come off. After two quiet days
Victoria had the game morally won ; then
rain came, and, although the players took
the field on Monday, not a ball was
bowled. There were now three chances:
(1) weather to clear up, which might
mean that S.A. would have to take an
unlikely chance on a bad wicket in the
second innings; (2) weather to clear up
for any odd half-hour and let the Vic-
torians complete a first-innings win; (3)
another day’s rain and a draw. This last,
unlikely as it seems in an Adelaide Feb-
ruary, is what happened. All parties sat
in the pavilion for two days, with Rigg
applying every hour of two to have the
wicket inspected. Hard luck for Vic-
toria ; but S.A. remembers that it was
similarly robbed by weather in Sydney.
And its plus-and-minus average per
wicket for the season is the best, anyway.
“M.H.”: Badcock (108), Brown (105.7)
and Hassett (84.20) followed Bradman in
Shield batting averages ; then came Baker
(59) and Whitington (56.60) —a serious
challenger for the dreary Fingleton’s
place as opening batsman in future Tests.
Bowlers who did well were Scott (15 at
19.26), Ellis (20 at 29.55), and Christ
(20 at 38.85). F.-Smith’s 29 wickets cost
1000 runs (34.47), and McCormick’s 18
were earned at 39.22. Christ bowled 273
overs, 51 of them maidens —evidence of
his ability to keep batsmen quiet.
Miscellaneous
Though the N.S.W. Rugby League is
at least 80 p.c. Labor in politics, the
Labor principle of one-man-one-job has
never ruled at headquarters. Miller, the
secretary, is also secretary of the Leagues
Club, which, having a license to vend
spirituous and fermented and a very big
members’ list, would seem to be enough
for one man. A proposal that the
offices should be separated was put to
the vote last week. Fourteen committee-
men were for it and 14 against, and
the veteran president, Flegg, declined to
give a casting vote ; but at a subsequent
club meeting he said, in effect, that he
was in favor of the separation, and would
support it when it was brought up again.
An Eastern Suburbs man asserts that
representatives of seven of the eight dis-
trict clubs were for separation, but on
the other side were representatives of
the Country League, which makes no
cash contribution to headquarters.
* * * *
Money enough to send the Queens-
landers Mrs. Westacott and Miss Hard-
castle to Wimbledon can be got, and the
council of the L.T.A. has graciously
sanctioned the venture. If the matron
strikes form she will drive some of the
fashion-plates off the centre court; and
in Miss Hardcastle she has a very useful
partner in doubles.


IA
ov
ť
AT THE.
iriW€»H.l
HE
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY/’
featuring
BUSTER WEST & LUCILLE PAGE
And 10 Other Acts.
“THE 810 FUN SHOW OF 1939.”
Ada Brown, Kadcliffe and Kodgers.
12 Star Variety Acts.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executive?
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickl}
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Vept.
U 255 a George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Suez,” History, Etc.
Loretta Young, Tyrone Power, Annabella.
At least one incontrovertible fact
emerges from “Suez,” the current offer-
ing at Sydney Regent- —in the mangling
of history Mr. Darryl F. Zanuck can
give Madame Tabouis a couple of fur-
longs and still win in a canter. In fact,
Madame might have learnt her history
from Darryl, who might have learnt his
from the authors of 1066 and All That.
Mr. Zanuck first reveals Ferdinand de
Lesseps as a very pretty and accom-
plished young French diplomat who
moved in high circles in Paris and was
badly smitten by Eugenie, Countess of
Montijo. President Louis Napoleon,
struck on the same lass, packed young
De Lesseps off to Consular duties in
Egypt, where he made the acquaintance
of Toni, larrikin daughter of French
sergeant. While the pair of them were
galloping over the desert sands they were
forced to take shelter from a storm in
some old ruins, and after emerging there-
Robert Taylor giving Wallace Beery a bit of advice in “Stand Up and Fight," at Sydney St. James.
canal in spite of everything and everyone
is n 0 < h !”« /'*, <° do except go
a^ea d and build the blasted thing,
All the foregoing is, of course, accoid-
ing to Mr. Zanuck, and as the film un-
folds it becomes increasingly difficult to
sort out his happy-go-lucky mixing of
dates. Scenes of Victor Hugo moving
among members of the Assembly just
prior to their arrest and carrying with
him the MS. of Les Miserables set the
period somewhere after 1859, when he
finished La Legende des sQcles, and
before 1863, when he finished Les Miser-
ables. That the Suez Canal had not been
actually started places the date before
1859 ; Said Pasha’s permission to build
it, at 1854 ; that Eugenie was still single,
before 1853 ; that L. Napoleon was Presi-
dent but not yet Emperor, between 1848
and 1852 ; and that the fallacy that there
was thirty feet difference between the
levels of the Red and Mediterranean seas
had not been disproved, before 1847.
Finally, the death of De Lesseps’s father
from Tyrone de Lesseps gazed wistfully
across the desert and straightway dreamed
the Suez Canal.
Properly bitten by the canal bug, young
De Lesseps hied himself to Mehemet Ali,
Viceroy of Egypt, and sought permission
to start digging, but was officially re-
fused lest the project insult the Sultan
of Turkey or something. Ali, however,
gave unofficial permission, so Tyrone,
complete with Toni, promptly lit out for
Paris to talk to Louis Napoleon about
it, but was turned down again on the
ground that there was a difference of
thirty feet in the levels of the Red and
Mediterranean seas.
Mr. Zanuck here casts into his pot of
historical inaccuracies and fishes out
some political intrigue, in which
L. Napoleon employs Eugenie to put a
dirty one over the smitten Tyrone de
Lesseps. This little scheme is such that
when Nap. then favors the canal project
everyone thinks Tyrone de Lesseps has
sold his cobbers for permission to dig
his ditch. At this juncture the gloomy
outlook is somewhat brightened when
old Mehemet Ali passes out and his son,
Said Pasha, with whom Tyrone was
rather matey, succeeds to the Viceroyalty
of Egypt and gives his official O.K. to
the canal. That is rather cheering, and
when Toni urges Tyrone to build his
sets the whole business back to before
and during 1832.
According to history it was in that
year (1832) that Ferdinand de Lesseps
first conceived the Suez Canal. Born in
1805, he was a cousin to the mother of
Eugenie, and filled various Consular posi-
tions at Lisbon (1825-27), at Tunis (1828)
and at Alexandria (1832). The ship which
carried him to Alexandria was quaran-
tined, and during his confinement in the
lazaretto De Lesseps read several books
which the French Consul had sent him.
Among them was a memoir on the Suez
Canal project prepared for Napoleon I.
by a French engineer, and it was this that
first inspired De Lesseps with thoughts
of building the canal. At this time
L. Napoleon whom Mr. Zanuck accuses of
chasing De Lesseps off to Egypt to leave
Eugdnie unattended, was only 24, and 16
years off being President of France.
Eugenie, the woman in the case, was
only about six years old.
Mr. Zanuck’s verskyi becomes all the
more remarkable in view of the historical
facts that after leaving Egypt De Lesseps
returned to France and married Agqthe
Delamelle in 1837 —when Eugenie was
about eleven —and became the father of
five sons. Later he went to Rotterdam,
thence to Malaga, to Barcelona, to Madrid
and thence to Rome, where the too-
faithful execution of his duties incurred
the displeasure of the French Govern-
ment. He was recalled to Paris, and
political hot water was poured about his
ears, after which he retired from poli-
tics. A few years later, in 1853, his wife
and daughter died, and he was only saved
from being engulfed by this tragedy when
Said Pasha succeeded his father and in-
vited De Lesseps to visit him. The
dreams of a Suez Canal were revived, and
Said Pasha signed the agreement.
About this point Mr. Zanuck plunges
into a fresh welter of historical discrep-
ancies to stretch the film out to a length
deemed fitting for a cahlahssal produc-
tion.
According to Mr. Zanuck’s version,
Tyrone de Lesseps went to work
in great style until marauding Turks
blew up his enterprise and helped
to send him bankrupt. Returning
to Paris to raise funds, he was told
by L. Napoleon that the whole project
was off lest it offend England at a time
when France valued that country’s good-
will as a counter against the growing
menace of Bismarck’s Germany. He then
hiked to England, where Disraeli, then
leading the Opposition and favoring the
canal, told him to go ahead on the chance
that he (Disraeli) would win the next
election. Following that advice Tyrone
de Lesseps returned to Egypt (taking
Toni with him), obtained financial back-
ing and continued with the canal until a
storm wrecked the undertaking, killing
Toni. About to give up again, Tyrone
de Lesseps received word that Disraeli
had won the elections, was Prime Min-
ister and would back him all the way.
At fadeout De Lesseps is receiving
medals from Empress Eugenie, and
the pair of them apparently still love each
other after all. In the final scenes Tyrone
de Lesseps is galloping across the desert
sands again to watch wistfully as the first
line of ships passes through his canal,
and to listen sadly while the ethereal
voice of Toni whispers sweet nothings
in his ear. Actual date of the opening
was November 16, 1869, and the line of
ships passed through between November
17 and 20. Sometime during 1869 Ferdi-
nand de Lesseps of history married
Autard de Bragard, which union was
blessed with twelve children.
Incidentally, the elections which Dis-
raeli is depicted as winning appear to
be those of 1874 —five years after the
opening of the canal —and, anyway, it
was in 1875 that he bought the Suez
Canal shares for England.
Had he produced a motion picture of
the first order Mr. Zanuck might have
atoned to some extent for his wholesale
corruption of history. He has, however,
turned out a disjointed and poorly-acted
film which takes about an hour and
three-quarters to unreel itself on the
screen.
The aim of the film seems to have been
a strong tragedy of one man striving to
accomplish a great ideal, being continu-
ally thwarted and, by sheer perseverance
and strength of will, continually over-
coming all obstacles to succeed at the
cost of his own personal happiness. Its
failure to achieve that object is due
mainly to the fact that it wanders too
much. It devotes about fifteen minutes
to the building of the canal, and spends
the rest of the time meandering between
France, Egypt and England, dallying
over a dozen petty situations and
incidents which break up the narra-
tive rather than strengthen it, and intro-
ducing dozens of characters which have
the same effect.
On one occasion only is the film in
any degree outstanding. The storm in
the desert; —a counterpart of an Aus-
tralian willy-willy—contributes a few
arresting moments. Buildings are lifted
bodily and hurled for yards, great dredges
are flung about like matchwood; two
tremendous water-tanks are overturned
and smashed to pieces, while human
beings take on that air of impotency
which they usually do in any such catas-
trophe. The blow, however, lasts only
a few minutes, and is not sufficient con-
solation for the rest of the proceedings.
“Stand Up and Fight ”
Robert Taylor, Wallace Beery.
Early in this rigmarole at Sydney St.
James Mr. Beery knocks Mr. Taylor
cold in a fight. It’s a pretty good fight,
for which the spare hands and strappers
of the coaching business Mr. Beery con-
ducts for a sweet young lady proprietor
form a ring, with a couple of dogs barg-
ing in fighting for the lick of their lives
and adding their yelps to the prevailing
din.
Mr. Beery isn’t a gentleman scrapper.
When he has outed Mr. Taylor he boots
that prostrate hero, and in his wondrous
beery voice commands him to “stand up
and fight.” But Mr. Taylor’s out to the
world, and even a bucketful of cold
water tossed over him doesn’t bring him
to.
When he does recover he’s as nice a
job as ever yet was made of a pretty
chap. All over the theatre can be heard
the tumultuous throbbing of female
bussoms. There looks to be a gash across
his forehead that would call for seven
stitches. There’s a trickle of blood from
his mouth, patches of gravel-rash on his
cheeks. And is he dirty ! Never before
was flappers’ idol served up in such a
state.
Courage and patience, ladies! There’s
another fight—admittedly it’s a long time
coming, but when it does come!
Attaboy! Left to the paunch, right to
the dewlap, uppercut to the gob, rip to
the gizzard. And he’s down —he’s down!
Twenty-eight times he’s down, at last
to stay down. “Stand up and fight!”
says Mr. Taylor, but devil a breath is
there left in that huge carcass.
Meanwhile —in the course of the fight
—they’ve covered two acres, three
perches of fir-clad hill country a foot
and a half under snow. They’ve knocked
down, as well as each other, 17 fir trees,
two blackbutts and a couple of iron-
barks, or shrubbery to that effect. A
bonser fight, out there in the hills on
their lonesome, everybody else having
been shot up in a beautiful patch of
bang-bang-bang.
Meanwhile—in the course of the film
—the audience has been through about
as crude a jumble of hooey, hokum,
boloney and blah as ever committed
homicide on an innocent and inoffensive
hour and a half.
It opens with a huntin’ scene in one
of the Southern States, with Mr. Taylor,
dashing member of the landed gentry,
on the verge of bankruptcy, making love
to Yankee visitor. The hunt gathering
develops into an auction sale of the
property, plus slaves and effects. The
heart business doesn’t flourish, and when
everything’s sold up both Mr. Taylor
and young lady head towards the Wild
West, he per primitive railway, she per
coach.
She owns the coach —in fact, the whole
line of ’em, now threatened by the rail-
way. Presently Mr. Taylor is in the
forced employ of her manager, Mr.
Beery. Mr. Taylor had been flung into
jug for starting a brawl in a gambling
joint, and Mr. Beery —boss of the place
by virtue of being quickest to the draw
and loudest in lung-power —has bought
him out of the boob on condition that
he has to work off the amount paid to
the sheriff.
In this employ Mr. Taylor and young
lady boss get close to a clinch on vari-
ous occasions, but this and Mr. Taylor’s
triumph over Mr. Beery are postponed


Legal Notice.
Re Jessy Wreford Dutton, Decased.
PURSUANT to directions given by Mr.
Justice Crossman in an action in the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice in the
matter of the estate of JESSY WREFORD
DUTTON deceased Hillier v. Hillier 1938 D.
No. 1870 George Frederick Dutton or if he
died on or after the 9th January 1938 his per-
sonal representatives is or are as the case may
be to send by cost prepaid so as to reach
KEITH EVERSLEIGH BURTON a partner in
the firm of MESSRS. BURTON & SON of
Bank Chambers Blackfriars Road London S.E.I
England on or before the Ist day of June
1939 his or their full Christian and Surnames
addresses and descriptions or in default thereof
he or they will be excluded from participating
in the distribution of the property the subject
of the above action. Wednesday the 7th day
of June 1939 at 12 noon is the time appointed
for adjudication upon the said Claims before
Master Newman at the Chambers of the Judge
Room No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London England.
Note. —The said George Frederick Dutton
who is stated to have been born at Birming-
ham in 1880 married the said Jessy Wreford
Dutton in 1901 at Swindon and is believed to
have left England for Sydney Australia about
1919.
DATED this 14th day of February 1939.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master.
BURTON & SON, Bank Chambers, Black-
friars Road, London, S.E.I, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 60 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORIS FINNEY Petitioner
And BENJAMIN FINNEY Respondent.
TO BENJAMIN FINNEY late of Cessnock.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS
FINNEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
citation at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of February,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. G. NICHOLAS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2265 of 1938.
BETWEEN MARION MARTHA MONROE
Petitioner
And SIDNEY VINCENT MONROE Re-
spondent.
TO SIDNEY VINCENT MONROE late of
Newcastle in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARION
MARTHA MONROE has commenced a suit
against you in this Cipurt and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse; and take notice that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Third day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tlo £A^ e *K Und *W ed free of charge
DATED this 6th day of March, a.d 1939
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
, BR/WE AND MALCOMSON R '£Kors
for the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL MR. SEVERIN PETER HANSEN,
Watchmaker, believed to be somewhere in
Queensland, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, kindly communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zea-
land?
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of MARY
ANN TUCKER, who was born at Awliscombe,
Honiton, Devon, or her descendants, please
communicate with H. S. W. LAWSON & CO.,
Solicitors, of 314 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MADE FOR EACH OTHER
*555
■
Aw
m
mmst
The accuracy with
blades fit Gillette
these two together ttfe finest]
shaving system in theMorld.]
All day long the Gillette factory concentrates upon
the scientific production of Gillette razors and
blades. Blade and razor are made side by side.
Both are made to the same fine limits of accuracy.
Both are made under the same strict supervision.
Obviously they should always be used together.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
«BtUE GILLETTES r ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR !>
pending the cleaning up of a spot of
slave-dealing that’s going on. At long
last Mr. Taylor unmasks the wicked
slave-dealers, Mr. Beery learns that he’s
been double-crossed by the darker-dyed
villains with whom he’s been in cahoots
in that business, young lady belatedly
realises what a decent bloke Mr. Taylor
is and everybody’s happy, with the insig-
nificant exception, perhaps, of audiences
above the mental age of nine.
“In Society ”
Mischa Auer, Edward Everett Horton.
Current offering at Sydney Capitol
and quite a bright turn of comedy,
though Mischa and Ed. Everett have
been seen in better trim.
E.E. is butler in a sassiety mansion
owned by Mary Boland, whose son re-
fuses to leave his bed for the logical
reason that it only means getting up,
dressing, going somewhere, coming back,
undressing, and going to bed again.
Mischa, psychiatrist, is called in and
prescribes as a cure the comradeship of
half a dozen youngsters from the slums.
Youngsters, “public enemies numbers
one to six inclusive,” arrive and set about
effecting a cure and wrecking the sur-
rounding scenery in so doing.
It all makes a fair stretch of slapstick,
pie-throwing, mud-slinging and broad
fallabout comedy. The youngsters are
extraordinarily good—half a dozen speci-
mens of humanity in the raw —and carry
the film along by sheer weight of num-
bers and forceful personalities. They’re
a first-class antidote to Breens and
Temples and others of that family. Jackie
Searl is the slothful one, and turns in
his customary nice performance as a
nasty young scion of the uppah stratah.
Mischa Auer provides a roar when
one or two opportunities permit, as does
Horton, particularly when giving a
dancing lesson to the disturbers of his
peace. Mary Boland also good in spots
and Harold Huber adding his touch of
easy villainy.
“Ambush.”
Gladys Swarthout, Lloyd Nolan.
Good casting, nice acting, a crisp,
closely-knit story logically carried out
and filled in with plenty of vigorous
action and kept on a sustained note of
suspense make entirely satisfactory enter-
tainment of this main offering at Sydney
State.
Plot deals with a bunch of bank-
busters and their attempts to break
through a cordon which the police have
flung around the city. Miss Swarthout
is dragged in as innocent sister of one
of them, and Nolan enters as a truck-
driver kidnapped to drive the crooks out
of the city and through the police
cordon. Old 1 stuff, of course, but it comes
out as fresh as the proverbial daisy.
Slick directing is one of its main
attributes. Film is kept running along
at a steady pace on the what’s-going-
to-happen next? line and doesn’t diverge
for a moment, not even to let Gladys
air her tunefulness —she doesn’t sing a
solitary note, and, to the credit of the
story, her warbling isn’t missed. Re-
straint lends to the excitement a certain
amount of realism which is further
strengthened by the sensible and feasible
sleuthing of the coppers.
Acting is good all round, with Nolan
adding to the conviction that he has
more ability than many players whose
names figure in six-foot letters. He turns
in a particularly natural stretch of act-
ing without once suggesting that he is
anything other than a tough and rather
likeable truck-driver. Miss Swarthout,
though perhaps a rather obvious actress,
also submits an intelligent piece of work,
and Ernest Truex, Broderick Crawford
and Hartley Tufts furnish three very keen
sketches as villains of the piece.
Australian writers and filmsmiths have
an excellent and, as yet, scarcely exploited
field in the trucking business in Aus-
tralia. Around the cities there are dozens
of fast transport units and all that goes
with them, from Government strangula-
tion to holdups. There should be yarns
and films galore in that field alone.
Outback there are still more and better
opportunities going begging. There great
five-, six- and seven-ton trucks punch
their way over some of the worst roads
in Australia up to distances of five and
six hundred miles through practically un-
inhabited country and under conditions
at which a bullock-team might well turn
up its collective nose. They keep their
schedules more regularly than some train
services, they carry goods and passengers
of every description, and at times the
food supplies of some towns depend on
them.
The men that drive the trucks are as
peculiar to their trade as a sailor is to
his. They are tough, resourceful chaps,
who work all hours, sleep and eat at any
time and anyhow, and some of whom
have built up tidy fortunes from prac-
tically nothing. What a film could be
built around them and their trucks!
“Thanks for the Memory”
Bob Hope, Shirley Ross.
At Sydney State, this is all about a
brace of newlyweds whose matrimonial
bliss is threatened when wife goes tc
work to support husband while he writes
his novel. Film patters along in a
pleasant inconsequential vein through the
usual tiffs and estrangements; wife and
husband alternatively snooty with each
other and reconciled just in time for
everything to wind up with clinch.
Main line of humor is derived from
the fact that the couple keep open house
for a bunch of amiable inebriates who
wander in at any time of day or night
and invariably leave well sozzled.
Miss Ross and Mr. Hope quite like-
able, and Charles Butterworth extra-good
as one of the alcoholic brethren.
“Squadron of Honor,” at Sydney
Capitol, has big bad armament baron
framing boss of American Legion on
moider charge. The whole Legion—ten
thousand or so of ’em—go to work and
finally round up the crooks by force of
numbers. Some heart interest and
clinch, but hardly any bang-bang-bang.
Artbursts.
Sydney
Noel Wood, the young man who
bought Bedarra Island from Ivan Men-
zies, and who settled down there, with
Hugo Brassey on Dunk as his nearest
neighbor, to do some serious painting,
has come to Sydney with his first harvest
—half a hundred studies of tropical light,
shade and vegetation.
These, spread on the walls of David
Jones’s gallery, make a bright and re-
freshing show. The style is bold, direct
and unaffected. Noel Wood has much
the same sort of eye as has Max Meldrum,
and manages to capture the essentials
of light and color in each scene he de-
picts. Whether in a straightforward ex-
position of a sunlit glade, such as “Jungle
Garden,” or in such a difficult experiment
as “Sun Shower, Dunk Island,” the effect
seen is recognisably depicted. More-
over, the artist has the picture-making
instinct. There are composition, balance
and a sense of design in all these can-
vases.
It is difficult to make a choice between
works of such uniform sincerity and
charm, but the two early-morning studies,
28 and 45, must be mentioned.
* * * *
When Wal Taylor was in France re-
cently he compiled a very interesting col-
lection of originals and prints by con-
temporary Gallic artists. These are now
on show at the Grosvenor Galleries.
Principally represented are Alix Ayme,
whose studies of children, particularly
Chinese children, are known the world
over, and Marie Laurencin, who man-
ages to combine naivete and sparkle in
the Parisian manner. Lucien Genin, who
delights in gay scenes where folk take
refreshment under bright umbrellas, is
represented by six originals, any one of
which would brighten any room.
Mariette Lydis’s “Music Hall” is a
very fine example of color printing, just
a trifle naughty. There’s a characteristic
Jean Dufy, “Fishing Boats,” all carmine
and ultramarine, two very pretty drawings
by Millie Possoz, and half a dozen prints
in the unmistakable style of Gran Sala.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
!«R«S«e v
n
• •
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids. Qualified matron and staff.
Every possible comfort and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surroundings an
delightful atmosphere. Terms on application. Telephone, 123 Springwood; or
particulars from Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney. 'Phone: t54//l.
With thousands
of fastidious people this is
a daily habit
Dental authorities agree that a dirty,
stained denture is a constant menace to
health as it provides ideal conditions for
dangerous bacteria. Why not clean your
false teeth, and keep them clean, by the
method dentists are now recommending?
This is the regular bath in ‘Steradent’
solution. ‘Steradent’ will make your
false teeth spotlessly clean, fresh and
natural-looking —and keep them that way.
Fill the cap of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to cover the dentures.
Stir well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress or overnight. Take them out
and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains disappear. Dull teeth gleam white
again. ‘Steradent’ penetrates into every crevice.
Your whole denture is purified. Your mouth
feels cool, smooth and refreshed. 'Steradent
is superior to anything I know of,
writes one dentist. ‘I wish every-
one wearing dentures knew about
it/ writes another.
‘Steradent’ is guaranteed harm-
less to dental materials, bold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double
size 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER. Send 2d. in
stamps for trial supply to Reckitts
(Over Sea ) Ltd., Box 2515 88,
G.P.0., Sydney, and mention the
name of this paper.
Cluw nr«
teradent
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
During the week-end Margaret Allen
became Lady Gifford. Lord Gifford flew
over from England—most of the courting
had been done on the long-distance tele-
phone—and the two met and married in
Brisbane. Mrs. John Bavin and Denis
Allen (sister and brother of the bride)
were at the wedding. Lord Gifford, fifth
baron of the line, came to Australia as
aide to Sir Philip Game. Later he was
organising secretary at R.P.A. Now he
is the manager for District Messengers,
London. Margaret needs no introduc-
tion. She’s the second daughter of
Arthur Allen, of Merioola, Edgecliff,
sculps, keeps Dalmatians, and is a keen
rider. There’s to be a grand celebration
given by her family when Lord and Lady
Gifford arrive in Sydney.
Straight from the tropics (Dunk Island,
to be exact) came painter Noel Wood
and Hugo Brassey for the former’s show
in David Jones’s. This is a show of
tropic palm and lagoon, and in each
picture there is something of the de-
ceiving languor, the persistent, almost
ruthless resolve of jungle growth. Noel
certainly knows his Barrier Reef, his own
isle which he bought from Ivan Menzies,
and the neighboring Dunk Island as in-
timately as a man knows his own soul.
Every mood, every phase of light and
shadow is pictured.
The blonde Hugo Brassey (one very
young thing called him “that Greek god
person”), who owns Dunk and has
turned it into an Eden replete with
luxurious plumbing, told this Letter that
almost all the work on the wall was
done in nine months. The artist, he
said, had three or four pictures going at
the one time. One would be an early-
morning scene, another midday, another
a glimpse of some glade in evening glow.
Noel, who is a S’Australian, Adelaide
his home town, hewed wood (or too-lush
growth) and drew water, and generally
worked like a navvy, for months after
taking over his island —he practically
built his own home. Then he found he’d
knocked his hands about for painting,
and had to get them right again for start-
ing in on this show. Both men la;igh
at the idea that Dunk Island is far from
Sydney. Mr. Brassey has his aerodrome
just about completed. Then he will fly
down to Sydney in a day. Incidentally,
over £30,000 has been spent on making
this bit of the Reef a de luxe tourist
resort.
This was a very, very fashionable
show, and, perhaps because anthropology
and the tropics are akin, Camilla Wedg-
wood, of the Women’s College, had been
asked to say the opening speech. This
she did in an accent learned from no
tribal chief unless his wigwam was at
Oxford or Cambridge. The Ernest Watts
came, and she bought a picture. Howard
Hinton hovered so persistently about the
middle wall that nobody would be sur-
prised if the Armidale Teachers’ College
bloomed with a Noel Wood.
Mrs. John Collins, whose portrait the
artist is painting was there ; so were Hera
Roberts, Jean Cheriton and Mrs. Craw-
ford Robertson.
Elioth Gruner, Brian Cannell and
Coralie Jagelman were three enthusiasts.
Mrs. Fred Payne came with Mrs.
Ernest Wilshire. Helen Campbell was
in this group, and was among the buyers.
Sydney Ure Smith, now busy with his
new publication, was there. Consul-
General for Czechoslovakia Kveton and
his wife, who have been Barrier Reef-
wards, and General Anderson, too, were
in the picture. Just as everyone was
seeking the downward lift Lady Gowrie
arrived with Mrs. A. T. Anderson and
Mrs. Richard Casey, wife of the Federal
Treasurer.
Captain the Hon. Patrick Hore-
Ruthven and his bride arrived last week
in the Strathallan. This is a honeymoon
trip, and Mrs. Patrick was, before her
marriage in London, Pamela Fletcher.
She bears an astonishing likeness to
her mother-in-law, Lady Gowrie.
There’s the same warmth tinged with
shyness in the smile. Mrs. Hore-
Ruthven says she admires Australian
girls for their smartness and their clothes
sense. She seems, to this Letter, to have
acquired that something that every
woman longs for, a style that suits her
own personality. Lady Gowrie and Mrs.
Fred Payne were down at the wharf to
greet the travellers. Captain Hore-
Ruthven is stationed in India. He will
be in Sydney till April. His bride will
probably stay on a month or two longer.
Saturday night’s “Let’s Go Native”
dance at the Pickwick Club brought out
the most exotic crop of leis. Every girl
wore one, and Irene Purcell, of “The
Women,” gave a prize. Particularly like-
able was the one woven of carnations
worn by Iris Brodziak. Hostess Mar-
garet Linsley Freeman also swung a neck
garland of flower loveliness. The ball-
room was transformed with the island
set from “The Admirable Crichton,” lent
by the J.C.W. firm. Two small island
boys met the guests, bowed, and waved
them to their tables among a jungle of
palms and hibiscus and such flowering.
There were also two flower girls in
island costumes. Virginia Coyle gave an
exhibition of “Tahitian Truckin’.” For
supper there were cobs of corn, paw-
paw, salads served in coconut shells,
grilled pineapple and cutlets. Quite a
night!
Mrs. Stevens, wife of this State’s
Premier, is just emerging from an ava-
lanche of congratulatory messages on her
husband’s achieving the longest run of
office on record. Hitherto the late W. A.
Holman held the test for endurance. The
Stevens family had a great day last Wed-
nesday, for in addition to father’s dis-
tinction daughter Lorna had her 21st
birthday. In celebration there was a
family dinner at the Croydon home.
Lorna is said to have an inclination to-
wards politics. Monte Luke made this
picture of the Premier’s wife.
Clever little Alethea Helsden, the
youngest professional violinist in the
State to play with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, gives her farewell recital to-
night in the Conservatorium. Alethea
will sail in the Orion on March 22 to
continue her studies with Carl Flesch.
This she does by the advice of Dr.
Malcolm Sargent, who heard her play
last year. In the last two years it is her
joy that she has played under the batons
of all the great visiting conductors. For
the past four years Alethea has held the
Dorothy Cauldery scholarship at the
Con.; she has also won numerous
Eisteddfod prizes, and has held both
City of Sydney and Railway and Tram-
way championships. Music-lovers includ-
ing Nancy Consett Stephen, the Bertie
Kellys, Professor and Mrs. Fawsitt,
Josephine Marks • and members of the
Queen Victoria Club are helping this
talented youngster to achieve hqr am-
bition of further study.
Singing teacher Roland Foster notches
up his quarter century as an instructor
this year. To celebrate this his pupils,
past and present, will hold reunion in
the Carlton Hotel on Monday, March
27. On the committee, of course, is
Hilda Mulligan, who with Roland is
behind the successful works presented
by the Consenvatorium Opera School.
Then there are Isolda Hill and Nora
Hill, Gladys Verona and a whole choir
of sweet singers who have been trained
in Roland’s studio. It was as concert
manager for Clara Butt that Mr. Foster
first came to Australia ; now there is not
a music movement in the city complete
without him. He is a Fellow of the
Guildhall School of Music and an
honorary member of the Society of
English Singers, London.
How opera singer Lul Gardo was five
times wounded when fighting with the
volunteer army of the White Russians
and how she was five times decorated are
told in her book Cossack Fury, published
by Hutchinson’s. Many of the scenes
in the book have been televised by Mrs.
Lul Gardo for the 8.8. C. She was tele-
vised in her Cossack uniform, and letters
poured in telling how spirited and re-
alistic the story looked and sounded.
As a girl she studied for grand opera,
and this Russian visitor to Sydney
is before all else a singer. She specialises
in folk songs, and has a repertoire of
five thousand in 26 languages and
dialects.
This singer’s recitals are given in cos-
tume. The dresses include a sixteenth-
century Russian princess’s dress, richly
embroidered. Another is the robe of
an Aztec Indian. This is woven in beads
and silks, and is sacred to the god of
flowers. There are vivid serapes that
are sometimes draped over the piano,
and there is an Indian costume of deep
red inset all over with tiny mirrors
which represent the eyes of good and
evil. Mrs. Lul Gardo has just arrived
from Perth, where she sang and lectured
for the A.B.C. When travelling, or in
spare moments between her other activi-
ties, this lady is a weaver of tapestries.
In a Watteau piece she has put two
million stitches—it is fine like petit point.
She is fond of doing little portrait
medallions of famous women. Among
her gallery are Mary Queen of Scots,
Good Queen Bess and Pavlova. Photo-
graph from Peter Pan.
Among the before-Easter crop of en-
gagement rings one is blooming on
Daisie Osborne’s finger. Peter Griffin
Tait put it there. Peter comes from a
real tongue-twister address —Gunnong
Jugrawah, Gobarralong and is the
younger son of the Peter Taits, of
Bowral. Daisie’s father was Oliver
Osborne, of Bundarbo, Jugiong.
Alice Prowse (she is Mrs. Jimmy
Brash) and her husband have decided
to spread their wings. Alice is a singer
with a dramatic soprano which has
been heard in all the A.B.C. opera
seasons, and in small parts five or six
years ago when the Fuller Opera Com-
pany was packing us into the Tivoli. She
has an addiction to lieder, and she goes
abroad seeking further instruction. Her
husband is music director at Cranbrook,
and has written many compositions. Be-
fore going to England they 11 seek some
engagements in the U.S.A.
The free Sunday-evening band recitals
in the city parks are quite a good way
of entertaining the masses. Recently m
Prince Alfred Park one band played
the “Wedding March” from “Lohengrin ”
The familiar strains urged one bright
little miss to rise suddenly, crying “Ooh,
I know that! That’s Zazu Pittss song
—and onlookers were then entertained
with a breezy burlesque of the doleful
star's singing “Here comes the bride:
all dressed in white, Fair, fat and forty,
and near twice as wide.”
Femininity is the note stressed in the
new autumn fashions at Anthony Hor-
derns’. The designers overseas started
it, and the Brickfield Hill store leaped to
the cue. So here are crinoline skirts in
soft seductive tones of taffeta, net or
marquisette. All in all, the spreading
black taffetas have a chic not to be
denied. A neat, though probably un-
intentional, compliment to the Vatican
is the prevalence of amethystine tones
in the new season’s materials. These
wine colors are only rivalled by the
soft blue-green known as teal. Em-
broideries of flowers and designs in
sequins and beads brighten afternoon and
evening wear, but there is no sense of
gipsyish freedom in their use. As usual,
the topcoats and suits at this address
combine charm and good line. The muff,
too, is staging a comeback. You can
have it in velvet or in fur.
Hockey girls are sharpening their
knives and polishing their forks against
the arrival on March 18 of Edith Thomp-
son. No, it’s not with the object of
torture —unless entertainment be a tor-
ture —but all must be in readiness for
the dinner the N.S.W. Hockey Assoc, is
serving in her honor. Edith is coming
out under the banner of the Society of
the Oversea Settlement of British
Women, and her task will be to see that
the migrant girls arriving in Australia
are comfortably placed. Edith was presi-
dent of the All-England Hockey Assoc
(Women’s). She brought out the 1927
team.
A new design in picture-framing, as
heady to the woman painter as a new
line in millinery is to me and you, is
being shown in Wal Taylor’s Grosvenor
Galleries. This is a band of mirror set
in the ivory woodwork. This was an idea
of Marie Laurencin, 17 of whose delicate
works are in this French art show. Wal
brought out two originals of mounts used
by this artist and one or two frames.
There is a sophistication about the
works shown, a delicacy of coloring
that draws the mind to pleasures and
palaces and away from the stridency
of, say, the Communist banner. Consul-
General for France Jean Tremoulet
opened this show, and there were 3
number of his fellow-countrymen to
listen.


t)uij ipurown
PENGUIN
Jumbo, I ujorit
qive ijou
anij of mine''
i
X
/
.'V -
Wj
i
*
6ft**;*
II
%
&
«
s?-
'■■T/
r
w
u
J)
58
8
r
a
itfi
uf*
HH
-
You know what an appetite
elephants have they want the
lion's share always,
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder he's greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream—it is a delicious, rich
food.
Penguin
ICE CREAM
A PRODUCT OF %e, N.S.W. FRESH FOOD E ICE CO LTD


LONDON
THACKERAY HOTEL
OPPOSITE THE BRITISH MUSEUM GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.I
Centrally situated for sight-seeing, entertainments and business. Hot and cold water,
telephones and free electric heating in all bedrooms. Numerous private bathrooms.
Spacious quiet public rooms.
Bedroom, Bath and Breakfast from 9/6 per night. Luncheon 2/6. Dinner 3/6.
Inclusive Terms and Illustrated Booklet, “LONDON OLD AND NEW,” on application.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2056 of 1938.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH AGNES CONATY
Petitioner .
And FRANCES JOSEPH CONATY Re-
spondent. „ „,
TO FRANCES JOSEPH CONATY late of 24
Blue’s Point Road North Sydney
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
AGNES CONATY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court, and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion during
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifteenth day of May next and in
the event or your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Febru-
ary ’ 1939 ' (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
NEIL HALLEY McINTYRE, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, of McINTYRE, CONLON &
CO., 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1228 of 1938.
BETWEEN ENA IRIS MARY FOGARTY
Petitioner
And MATTHEW JOSEPH FOGARTY
Respondent.
TO MATTHEW JOSEPH FOGARTY late
of 119 Military Road Neutral Bay New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ENA IRIS
MARY FOGARTY has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-first day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
And in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the said suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A' copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
Dated this First day of March, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ROY ELLIOTT TEBBUTT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT -OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 163 of 1939.
BETWEEN VALERIA ELLEN ELLIOTT Peti-
tioner
And JACK ELLIOTT Respondent.
TO JACK ELLIOTT late of Summer Hill in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VALERIA
ELLEN ELLIOTT has commenced a suit
against you in this Court, and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse and habitual drunkenness
and habitually leaving the Petitioner without
the means of support during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-sixth day 9f May 1939 and
in the event of your not doing so wita the
time limited or obtaining further time ! ta
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free ot
charge.
DATED this Third day of March, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HENRY N. REID, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2200 of 1938
BETWEEN JOSEPH RICHARDSON PRES-
TON Petitioner nT , rcTnlJ
And ELSIE CAROLINE PRESTON
(formerly Elsie Caroline Hodge) Re-
spondent.
TO ELSIE CAROLINE PRESTON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOSEPH
RICHARDSON PRESTON has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the saio
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-second day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-mine and m
the event of your not doing so within the tim
limited or obtaining further time the Pehtjone
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter
mined your absence notwithstanding. Ac p>
of the petition filed herein may be had
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this First day of March 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. HUL/i ,
Registrar.
S. D. RATNER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney. ___
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEV»
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 22 of 1939.
BETWEEN WILLIAM THOMAS Petitioner
And EDNA MARY THOMAS Respon-
TO EDNA MARY THOMAS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
THOMAS has commenced a suit against yo
in this honorable Court and is apphung or -
dissolution of marriage on the Srofrid thft* >,°
have without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted him and without any such cause
excuse left him continuously so deserted^
three years and upwards AND
that you are required to enter /” ffi^ P of this
to the said suit at the proper office ot tW-
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty
second day of May One thousand
and thirty-nine and in the event of y .
doing within the time limited or «
ine further time the Petitioner will proceed aßd
thl suit "ill. be heard and deter mmed year
absence notwithstanding. A i jcat j o n to
tion filed herein may be had on apphcatio
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 22nd day of February,^.
(L ' S ' ’ ‘ Registrar.
SHOLTO P- KEMP, Solicitor for Wgg'
242 Church Street, Parramatta Town Ag
C. J. Passmore, Solicitor, 160 Castiem-s
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
As crowded as a Cup-week meeting,
Flemington presented a gay and pros-
perous picture for the Newmarket. Those
in summer apparel were most comfort-
able, but a number of womenfolk, no
doubt weary of the clothes they have
worn throughout what has been for
Melbourne a longish summer, leapt into
autumn. Zelma Sprague backed the
wrong horse in the dress line, though
with a very attractive suit, for she has a
pile of brand-new lightweight trousseau
frocks made for Ipswich, in Queensland,
and the journey north to follow her wed-
ding in a couple of weeks to John Essing-
ton King. Her ’maid-to-be, Helen
Griffiths, wore a brown lightweight
woollen frock.
Leo Adler also wished for a cool
change to penetrate her chocolate-brown
suiting. A pair who had all the luck in
the wardrobe line were Dod Falkiner and
Thelma Halbert, both in silk frocks.
The former is the guest of the latter at
the Hamilton Sleighs’ house, which Miss
Halbert is looking after while the owners
are abroad. Mrs. Geoff Grimwade was
a summer-day picture all in white.
The opening of the season at the
Embassy on Saturday night was very
crowded, very social and alive with
press photographers, over whom the
waiters had to do sudden dexterous
lunges to right or left, with their dishes
held intact by will-power alone. Among
those who danced in the ballroom, much
more brightly lit than it has been in
other years, were the attendants from
the Ray-Mackay wedding of the after-
noon: Sue Broadhurst, Catherine Gordon
and Jocelyn Ray, who in their white
organza crinolines proved that swaying
hoops are possible in a ballroom. The
girls were with best-men Keith Taylor,
Dr. George Watson and Norman Atkins.
Among others present were lan Galbraith,
the Ken McDougalls (Mrs. McDougall
in very voluminous frock of figured
chiffon), Tom Farrell and Norman
Jeffries (official and efficient), and
“Casino Revue” leading lady Thelma
White, all in white, who arrived late with
a couple of escorts from the G.
Baragwanaths’ home-coming party.
The impossible has happened. The
Melbourne Club has issued invitations to
a cocktail party. To-day (March 8)
feminine guests will be admitted over the
sacred threshhold of the building and
into the garden with its thirty-foot wall
of solid brick, over which no curious eye
may gaze —and so for the first time in
48 eight years the traditions of Mt. Athos
will be broken. Although the club has
entertained its members’ wives at lun-
cheons, at the races and at dances in St.
Kilda Town Hall, it is as long ago as
the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh that
women guests were countenanced within
its domain. At the party for the Duke
there was excitement in plenty among the
ladies in their feathers and flounces and
the gentlemen with their throttle-necked
collars and waxed moustaches, for while
the reception was at its height the mar-
quee in the garden collapsed, and the
marines from the Duke’s ship had to be
summoned to put it up again this time
with real sailor’s knots.
At the moment, if a man sees a far-
away look in the eye of his wife, he is
fairly safe in diagnosing it as a visit to
the dress shows. If she is elated over his
golf score and follows him shot by shot
in the tale of his round, he can expect
the worst, a new coat with blue-bloodec.
foxes down the front from neck to hem.
But if he gets vague answers and a cold-
ness about the approbation that each
bogey deserves she is deep in thought, up
against the stern necessity of making last
year’s coat look as if it had been born
with neither collar nor lapels, and of
doing something clever to 1938’s waist
and shoulders.
At George’s show there were' lively
ideas in jacket suits. A town-blue three-
piece affair had a box-backed swingy coat
of blue and white checks worn over the
little suit of the plain material, with the
right note in the right place added by
black hat and black velvet scarf. A
very snappy black suit had Astrakhan
trimming around all edges. A militant
moment was introduced by quantities of
black silk braid around bodice and hips
of a black frock and around the edge of
its accessory, a short coat of the bolero
family. A roving eye at a cocktail party
would surely come back again to a black
velvet jacket with thickly-ruched sleeves
out to enjoy itself with a matching muff
and a bit of a black hat that gives its
wearer a view of things from the left
eye only. Some of the evening gowns
shown had double bustles, effective out
dancing but a nuisance in the taxis that
take one to the dance. As a contrast in
styles, some crinoline frocks were intro-
duced, and the type of long-lined Vic-
torian cape that is their partner in the
wrap department. The Queen inspired
the dress-designers to let themselves go
over the hoops of the crinoline, and as
a compliment to her Scottish ancestry
a fashion house has created a sporran
frock with tartan skirt,, a sporran (hand-
bag in disguise) and more cockades of
white horsehair emerging from the
pockets.
At last the presiding geniuses who sit
behind the scenes of the fashion shows
teasing their brains for new ideas of
presentation and adaptation have found
a cure for the blind spot in the corset
industry. Hitherto our mannequins wore
foundation garments in the difficult get-
up of bare shoulders and an elongation
of silk stockings. Now the corsets are
cleverly set into lace frocks. One firm
chose black lace, another deep burgundy
to its show. The full skirt is attached
to the lower edge of the garment; the
little blouse with its chaste neck and
demurely puffed sleeves is sewn to the
top of the brassiere. The lacy opiate
has whisked the set smiles from the
mannequins’ faces ; they can now meet
the eyes of any critic without a qualm
of embarrassment. Of course, everyone
is wondering why nobody thought of
the idea before.
One of Phillida Cooper’s photographer
friends, Hans Hasenflugg, made this
record of one of her moments of serious
concentration between rehearsals in her
sludio. This young ballerina of 18 is
working many hours a day for her recital
at the Comedy on March 21. On the
programme, interspersed with well-
known classical and romantic ballets,
are two pieces of Phillida’s own
choreography, “The Enchanted Forest”
and “The Three Bears.” In the latter,
which is danced to Eric Coates’s “Three
Bears” suite, Phillida will be Goldilocks.
About 30 young dancers people “The
Enchanted Forest,” which ballet was in-
spired by Ida Rentoul Outhwaite’s fairy
drawings. A. G. Outhwaite has herself
been assisting Phillida with the fairies’
dresses and some details of the story.
The music is Schumann’s Fourth Sym-
phony, which to some ballet fans sounds
ambitious, but Lichine, who coached this
young dancer, was particularly encour-
aging about her musical ability and sen-
sitive ear. Not only her pupils but many
of her friends from other dancing schools
are assisting at the recital. Phillida leaves
in April on the Viminale bound for
Paris, where a letter from Lichine has
secured her entrance to Madame Egor-
ova’s dancing school. She is the younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Cooper
and has a sister, Mrs. John Trahar,
living in England.
Barbara Dougharty’s cocktail party
was followed up by a burglar, but not
a burglary. The uninvited guest visited
the party after it was over; Barbara
found him in the middle of the night
in the kitchen and thought he was some-
thing left over from the party. She said
that she was sorry he’d been neglected
but that he’d better go now, and shut
the door quietly after him. Apparently
this unorthodox treatment undermined
his nerve, for the spoons were not miss-
ing in the morning.
A bunch of lads like Dick Doyle,
Kevin Crosbie, lan Carson and Bill
Murray were among guests at the
party, mingling in the glory of their
uniforms from the militia camp at
Broadmeadows. There’s nothing like
the set of a uniform for getting its
wearer over and across. The lads were
a great success, and had heaps of
listeners for their stories of their aquatic
life during a wet week-end, much sym-
pathy about the mud and general appro-
bation over the tale of extra tots of
rum, emergency issues to keep the chill
out of the army’s joints. The lads left
crackers on the Dougharty doorstep on
their arrival and fired them off on their
departure, that being, so they said, an
old Chinese custom of appreciation of
hospitality.
Those who attend the Furs and
Feathers parade at h'lo. 9 TDarling-street
next Tuesday (14th) will spend an enter-
taining afternoon, and will no doubt
gather some useful knowledge about
clothes-to-be. The mannequin parade, a
yearly function, is for the Lady Forster
Free Kindergarten. Mrs. Massy Burn-
side (Dickinson-Monteath photograph),
who always works on the committee for
this effort and has been among the man-
nequins on other occasions, will again
be among those who display clothes for
festive luncheons and formal evenings.
Madame Elizabeth Bankin comes from
Paris, and she certainly looks like it.
At a tea-party she gave last week she
expressed her individuality in a beauti-
fully cut black frock, upon the corsage
of which were motifs of black net that
on closer acquaintance turned out to
be reindeer. Three chromium daggers
filled the place of buttons. Madame’s
hat was black, and what there was of it
was balanced in the right direction. Her
work is the science of corsetry, and she
says she really enjoys making corsets to
measure for difficult figures.
Felicitations are being offered to Mrs.
J. P. Bryce and Charles John Brown, a
senior science master at Melbourne
Grammar School, who are to be married
in May. Since her return from the U.S.A.
three years ago Mrs. Bryce has been liv-
ing with her parents, the J. L. Menzies
couple. She has been twice married,
and her home for 25 years was in San
Francisco. Mr. Brown, whose son
Andrew is a barrister, and whose daugh-
ter Jocelyn recently was the centre of
twenty-first birthday congratulations, is
very fond of music, and seldom misses
a concert if he can help it. He and the
“children” have lived in a flat in South
Yarra since they left the Grammar School
precincts.


ICowwa
T-H€ -P£-Rf€CT
STOCK W-HI'P
s Atm*
KINGFIStfER
STATION
STOCK WHIPS
KANGAROO RIGHT■ THROO
AND
STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No - 8— 10-plait handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong: 19/6
No. Ba—-10-plait handle, Bft. x 10-
plait thong: 21/-
Postag;e 1/3 each.
IWALTHER & STEVENSON Crn
595 CEORCE ST. SYDMEY
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
. If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufllness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . , . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
VOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
AC
X
x
X
X
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI.HONOLULU
aGISEESSMS
3NII NVISVTVdISnV NVIQVNVD
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Strike in a Chapel
“J. Want”: Brisbane has been through
a new experience—a newspaper strike.
Though short-lived, it reduced the
“Courier-Mail” to hand-setting and
blocks of typewritten matter; the even-
ing “Telegraph” carried on.
Newspaper offices have been singularly
free from trouble in the northern capital.
The old “Courier” co. kept employees
for 50 years and upwards ; one, who died
recently, saw 70 years’ “Courier” and
“Courier-Mail” service. The “Courier”
worked well with the unions. In the new
Northcliffean age things have not been
so pleasant.
The only strike I remember that really
hampered the old “Courier” was the
tramway strike of 1912. Most of the men
were forced to go out, but the father of
the chapel said warmly to the editor,
shaking him by the hand, “You' 11 be
all right” ; and all right they were. In
those days about the only man who
couldn’t do something about the com-
posing room was myself, and as the only
typist in the writing section I -was soon
chained to a lino, doing my best.
With an editor (J. J. Knight) who was
a crack at the case, a Government
roundsman who could set a market re-
port without an error and other writing
men who had been proof boys, comps,
and what not, our only trouble was
power supply. Even that was managed,
and strikers used to sneak in at night and
get us food from officially-closed
bakeries. (As a chartered member of
the Scabs’ Union I usually had my supper
with the president of the strike committee
a: the Trades Hall, on night rounds.)
At one stage we didn’t go home for 72
hours. But we got through, though a
couple of us were beaten up on Black
Friday. Country policemen mistook us
for strikers.
We brought out an eight-page paper
throughout.
The only untoward incident involved
the managing director’s boots. They
were button boots. The m.d. —a rare
character, who had been a station man-
ager, wrote adventure stories and was
never seen out of a straw hat—used to
take them off in the office and leave them
in the composing room while he worked
in light shoes. Some sneaking dastard
filled them with boiling metal and made
two lovely door-stops.
Their owner always attributed their
disappearance to Trades Hall anarchists,
but among the cognoscenti one of the
brightest of office conservatives was
blamed.
“Aileron”: Central Australia has been
in a state of siege. Floods have shut
down travel on the southern railway
and Guinea Airways were forced to
cancel their schedules. The Red Centre
never does anything by halves. When it
is dry, it is dry for a long time —and
really dry: when it rains all nature gives
itself over to getting wet with an absorp-
tion which precludes any other activity.
“Mataranka”: The McEwen transport
plan for the N.T. will be all to the good
if it can give the service promised for
the rates promised; but it will remove a
number of ancient institutions. For 26
years Bert Drew’s donkey teams have
made the mornings hideous between Vic-
toria River depot and Bovril Estates
headquarters. No more will the locals
discuss Bert’s grand scheme for a com-
pany to breed soundless donks. The
road train is taking over the route;
freight drops from Is. 6d. to 6£d. a ton
mile. And the train will operate from
Katherine to Victoria River.
« * * *
“Dungeness”: Queenslanders seldom
get a chance to hand out straight
information to, and ask straight ques-
tions of, three Commonwealth Min-
“ I've run out of pigs. Will you take this as a deposit on your daughter ?”
isters at once, but pineapple-growers
at Woombye, 62 miles north of Bris-
bane, had it. They produce 600,000
cases of first-grade pines in a season,
and they wanted to know why their
pines returned only Is. 6d. a case to the
grower, but after canning at Brisbane
sold in London at from lOd. to Is. a
21b. tin. Mr. Cameron replied that he
was astonished at the size and flavor of
the fruit, and asked plaintively why they
couldn’t get something like it in Adelaide.
Dr. Page stated darkly that the locality
was specially vulnerable in the event of
an invasion, but did not explain whether
the pineapples formed the special attrac-
tion to a foreign foe. Mr. Foil hoped
that the application for a North Coast
infantry battalion would be soon re-
alised. So that’s that.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: One of the things which
P.M.G. Archie Cameron needs to give
some attention to is telephone costs in
sparsely-settled districts. Western Queens-
land settlements and stations are charged
for putting up their party lines. Then
the department charges them rent for
the ’phones and call fees. When they
complain, “heavy capital cost” is men-
tioned. But, as the Charleville Council
protests, “charges are raised as the size
of the exchange grows.” Charleville
councillors are not logical. When an
exchange grows it shows that the dis-
trict has more money. And for a grazing
district to be allowed to have more
money is contrary to all the ethics of
bureaucracies charged with providing
facilities “which will help settlement.”
« r * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s pride has
been outraged by P.M.G. Cameron’s ad-
mission that £50,000, supposed to have
been set aside for beginning a new
G.P.0., has gone amissing, and that the
venerable structure is to remain un-
changed. One indignant citizen asserted
that it was the biggest surprise since the
Great Flood, but it is understood that
he meant the 1893 one, not Noah’s. In-
sult was added to injury by a triumphant
statement from Sydney that tenders had
been called for a £1,000,000 addition to
the ornate structure which once housed
Dan O’Connor, but consolation arrived
later with news that it would probably be
deferred until the defence situation eases.
He H= * 4=
“Ring Four”: I can vouch for the
industry and energy of Harry Potter (B.
22/2/’39). Called in a few days ahead of
the last Ministerial jaunt through the
N.T. and found a stocky, energetic man,
more like a ship’s engineer than a miner.
The drive from the Diesel to the battery
had been giving trouble; the remedy in-
cluded sawing through four inches or
so of solid steel shafting, cutting through
the heavy spokes of a large driving wheel
and inserting a new boss, complete with
clutch, of Potter’s own design. All the
cutting, drilling and fitting had to be
done by hand, and it sometimes entailed
a couple of days on a hacksaw or hand-
drill under a sweltering N.T. sun. Inci-
dentally, the timbering in the shaft of
Potter’s mine is some of the finest I’ve
ever seen in any prospecting show, and
that includes a good slice of W.A.
Potter stuck up a notice on the main
road inviting the Ministerial party to
d.rop in. The member for the N.T. also
wrote advising them to call and see how
some men can work. They drove straight
past.
* * * *
“Scat”: Tennant Creek (N.T.) has
more than two pubs (B. 22/2/’39), and
I’ll nominate the third as the smallest in
Australia. Over towards the alluvial
fields and about 25 miles out of town,
it goes by the name of the Dolly Pot.
The complete galvanised-iron building
cannot be much more than 15ft. by 15ft.,
and only half that space is given to bar
and general store. There are 4ft. or sft.
of counter and about 30 square feet of
floor space for customers, who come
from the Government battery, from the
alluvial fields and shows in the neighbor-
hood. Harold Nelson, ex-M.H.R., was
licensee, but Vern
Thompson has the
pub now, and last
time I saw him he
assured me he was
about to instal all
mod. cons.
* *
“Spinifex Charlie”:
Are the boundaries
of the N.T. the last
frontiers for nick-
names that were the
delight of bush-
balladists? Where
else in Australia to-
day will you hear of
such as Paddy the
Bulltosser? Paddy,
a little bearded old-
timer who must be
fourscore, moves
around in a motor-
truck that must
spend more time in
dock than on the
road. Where else
will you hear of
such as the Brindle
Stage, the Spotted
Wonder, the Storm
Bird or Chundah
Loo? Then there are
Centre-cut Murphy,
Jarrah-board Mur-
ray and the Blazing Stump. And
could “Banjo” Paterson have sur-
passed the magnificent and truly Austra-
lian title of Speargrass Noble? Spear-
grass is a drover whose name and sayings
are almost proverbial throughout the
N.T.
* * * *
“X.T.”: One pleasant old custom
lingers in the North. In Sydney when
you are locked up on a jury it is now
a gloomy business —almost like being
locked up in a gaol. But Queensland
does everything to make the juryman’s
life happy. Twelve good men on a long
job have been quartered in their own
suite in a city hotel, and spent a week-
end fishing down the bay under the care
of sheriff’s officers.


\&*SGk!
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
ŧ
PROOF
BY FACT!
88% of the total licences in the
West are within 50 miles of —
6AM • Northam .. • 2000 watts
6PM • Metropolitan 500 watts
6KG • Kalgoorlie. . 500 watts
St. George’s House, St. George’s Terr.,
PERTH.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per JS
Australia, acceptable at The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues y
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July ana
Copied are mailed to subscribers direct
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of an
radio 0 magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
A.C.-OPERATED FREQUENCY METER.
This frequency meter covers all amateur bands from five to 160 metres
with an accuracy of better than one per cent. Calibration can be effected
from known standards, and from the regular frequency standard trans-
missions from A.R.R.L. and other stations.
An experimental radio station cannot
in these days be operated strictly accord-
ing to regulations unless some method
of accurately checking frequencies is
Fig. I.—Complete circuit diagram of the frequency meter.
Resistance R5 is for reduction of total H.T. voltage, and the
network of R3 and R4 is purposely of a low value in order
to stabilise voltage.
available. The use of quartz crystal
control with transmission equipment is
no guarantee that the radiated signals are
within prescribed limits. Where a station
is working very close to band edges
several factors may contribute to varia-
Fig. 2.—Panel view of the original frequency meter.
tion from the intended frequency. Over-
heating in a crystal oscillator circuit can
cause a drift of as much as 15kc.,
with the result that the transmission
overlaps into commercial territory. Fur-
ther, though self-excited oscillators of the
electron-coupled type may be stable in
action, the necessity for rigorous fre-
quency checks is obvious. Careless ad-
justment of such oscillators may lead to
“out-of-band” trouble. A frequency
meter then is a necessary accessory
for the experimenter, and the design de-
scribed here (from “Television and Short-
wave World,” England) is simple and
effective.
The original meter was calibrated on
the 160-metre band, this being the lowest
frequency likely tc be used, although
seldom applied in Australia. As most
receivers will pick up the second har-
monic of one of the national broadcast-
ing stations, these being very accurate
as regards frequency, such harmonics
make a reliable pointer. The circuit of
the meter is shown in Fig. 1. It consists
of an electron-coupled oscillator, which
because of its component values and a
steady voltage source is reasonably con-
stant in operation. A built-in power
pack is included and the voltage
stabilised by a low-resistance network
made up of R 3,
25,000 ohms 8 watts,
and R 4, 5000 ohms
8 watts. This net-
work also provides a
stable screen volt-
age, which is essen-
tial.
Almost any type
of R.F. pentode
valve may be used
as the oscillator. In
the 6.3-volt series
. the 6D6, 6C6, 77 or
78 is suitable, or, in
the metal types, 6K7
or 6J7. The 2.5-volt
57 or 58 types may
be used alternatively,
and there are several
of the Philips four-
volt types applicable.
The rectifier may
be the usual 80, or
similar type, and the power transformer
chosen with appropriate heater windings.
H.T. winding should be 300 volts at
around 60 milliamperes.
In order to obtain the wide band-
spreading, the inductance of the coil and
Fig. 3.-This plan view shows the layout. Note that the
tuning condenser is mounted on a particularly rigid bracket.
capacity of condensers in shunt have to
be carefully worked out. VCI is a
50mmfd. midget variable of the Eddy-
stone type, and VC2 a 40mmfd. Ray-
mart. It would be possible to tune over
the 160-metre band wfih almost any
value of parallel capacity, but unless
considerable care is taken coverage will
only be obtained with a fairly-large-
capacity condenser. This matters little
at 160 metres, but as the meter is of the
harmonic type the amount of coverage
decreases as frequency increases. With
the values recommended a bandspread
of no fewer than 500 degrees has been
obtained with a special dial, and that
allowed good coverage on even the five-
metre band.
The dial used in the original is of
English make, reading one part in 800,
with two pointers. One covers a scale
calibrated in hundreds, and the other,
on the outer edge, a scale calibrated in
tens. As this dial is not obtainable in
Australia the usual 0-to-100-degree type
must necessarily be employed, and there
are several of the large types which can
be adapted. The mechanical aspect of
a frequency meter is of primary import-
ance. The slightest trace of movement
in tuned circuits will completely destroy
accuracy. For this reason the chassis
and panel must be of very solid con-
struction with stout brackets.
An idea of the layout is obtainable
from Fig. 3. VC2 is the 50mmfd. band-
setting condenser, and this is arranged
underneath the main tuning drive. It
is connected in shunt with VCI, and
leads should be very tight and well insu-
lated from the metal chassis.
All earth returns are made to a com-
mon point on the chassis. Longest lead
is from the cathode of the oscillator
valve to the tap on the coil, and should
be arranged so that the connection drops
down through a hole underneath the
coil to the cathode pin. The socket
should be arranged s.o that the pin is as
close to this hole as possible. In the
plate circuit of the valve is the resistance
R 2, which is 100,000 ohms. This vaiue
is not particularly important, but nothing
less than 60,000 ohms should be used.
Voltage from the power unit is reduced
to 250 volts by R 5, a resistor of 7500
ohms at eight watts.
Several by-pass condensers are in-
cluded. C 2, on the screen-grid, is a
.Olmfd. tubular, and a most important
condenser is C 6 across the filament
supply. This is also .Olmfd. capacity,
but a mica condenser. It is there for
the purpose of suppressing a type of
modulation hum which may be very
noticeable if the condenser is omitted.
The filter choke is a small 30hy. unit
capable of passing 25 milliamperes, and
is used with a two-section Bmfd per
side electrolytic filter condenser. Two
separate wet electrolytics may be used
here if desired.
For stand-by operation a toggle switch
(SI) is included in the centre-tap of the
high-voltage winding of the power trans-
former, S 2 being tile mains switch in the
primary. The coil is close-wound with
turns tightly applied and subsequently
treated with clear duco or similar pro-
tective varnish. It is wound on a lin.
former having a total length of 3in., and
is made up of 76 turns of 30 gauge
enamelled copper wire with a tapping
point 23 turns up from the ground end.
This tap is taken directly to cathode of
the oscillator valve.
When the meter is completed it can
be tested with any sensitive amateur band
receiver such as the 2NO Superhet de-
scribed in B. 22/27*39, without aerial
and earth connections. Harmonics will
be received strongly on 80, 40, 20 and
10 metres. With any kind of an aerial
the five-metre harmonic will be heard in
a receiver covering that band.
The receiver beat oscillator should, of
course, be in use when checking the
meter. The grid condenser Cl is a
,0002mfd. mica, used with a 50,000-ohm
one-watt resistor as grid leak.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Sunday, 26/2/’39, was the occasion of
several 56mc. tests. As referred to else-
where, the circuit including Sydney,
Wentworth Falls and Newcastle was
worked with great success. An interest-
ing feature of the VK2LZ-2CI com-
munication was that VK2IQ, of Bur-
wood, recorded on disk some of the
speech transmission from VK2LZ.
Waverley Radio Club, N.S.W., also
staged a 56mc. field day, and VK2AFZ
with portable equipment at Narrabeen,
N.S.W., received VK2NO strongly. In
Victoria the planned tests with Tasmania
for this day were spoilt by heavy rain.
The stations planned for mountain-top
operation were not put into action.
VKSZU, of Prospect, S.A., was heard in
M L. on 56mc. by ZL4DQ on March 13,
1938. With the same weather period
round again and an inrush of cold air
sweeping over eastern Australia, the band
should be watched carefully for possible
DX results.
More stations are active with crystal
control on 56mc. in Sydney, latest to
appear being VK2ABC, of Maroubra.
Sundry noises heard at intervals indicate
that dejected 14mc. DX men in the
eastern suburbs are either trying to find
the band or are wrestling with trans-
mitter problems at the frequency.
• • • . * 1 -!~J
Peter Adams, once prominent in
Federal W.I.A. affairs as VK2JX, is now
on the air from M.L. as ZL2IX. Mainly
to be heard on 14mc. C.W., he puts a
powerful signal into Sydney during the
early evenings. Location is Wellington,
and the present site is not particularly
suited to 56mc. activity, being surrounded
by hills on all sides but the south. ZL2JX
has fears for his new 50ft. mast when
the “windy city” experiences gales, but
the structure has successfully withstood
one such blow. With a view to trans-
Tasman 56mc. co-operation, a move to
a high, unscreened elevation is planned.
Many VKs believe that they have only
to say the word and the army authori-
ties will approach them, cap in hand,
for their services as instructors in militia
signals units; some even expect com-
missioned rank. There is more to
military service than this. Although
amateurs may be valuable men by
reason of their knowledge of radio and
possible operating ability, they must, if
taking on army service, be prepared to
start from the bottom and learn to be
soldiers. Radio communication is only
one phase of signals work. There are
amateurs who served during the 1914-18
war to whom military training is a mere
matter of brushing up, but examinations
must be taken and passed in regulation
manner. Writer’s advice to amateurs
seriously prepared to offer their services
is to put aside the idea that one is a
budding Marconi with the world at one’s
feet, and to join up as the next man is
doing. Ability will not go long un-
noticed.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Judging by average reception on 19
metres during the mornings, conditions
which have prevailed during the sum-
mer months are changing. Stations
audible are GSO from 7.15 a.m. to noon
and DJR from 7.50 a.m. to noon. DJQ
is weak in the early hours but improves
by 1 p.m. W2XAD appears to close
down about 9 a.m., and is very good.
W3XAU, 19.64 metres (Philadelphia), is
excellent until 10 a.m., probably closing
time. By 5 p.m. the 19-metre stations
are all strong again, with DJR and DJQ
best. At 6 p.m. Daventry is very strong,
especially through GSO, but severe inter-
ference is caused by heterodyning from
RW96, a Russian station. XGOX is a
useful station from noon to 2 p.m., and
is very strong at night, giving news at
9.50 p.m. in English.
Probably the best find recently is
XGAP on about 25.33 metres, just above
GSE, with a very strong signal. The only
English spoken is the callsign at fre-
quent intervals.
The 31-metre band is holding on well
in the mornings, Rome being about the
best station at present. Night reception
is still best at 13 to 31 metres. With this
T.R.F. receiver (described B. 28/4/ 3 h


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
"RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
"RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to "RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/ per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
\
£h
* v'....
m
e/
Is
&
HI
Zt
&
m
c
«
V
mffi
That couldn’t be easier; along your nearest waterway—
harbour, river or lake—you 11 find new thrilling places to
go in a Chapman Launch. Exploring, picnicking, keen
fishing or just lazy cruising. There won’t be enough
week-ends in the year to enjoy all the outings a Chapman
Launch can bring you.
With a gay party of friends you can plan joyous days
afloat in a Chapman Launch that costs less than a motor-
cycle to run! There are Nine Models from which to
choose—Open, Cabin and Coach-house Types.
Easy Pay-as-you-go Plan enables you to enjoy all the
pleasures of a Chapman Launch after a few weekly
payments. Send now for interesting details.
CHAPMAN
ENGINE DISTRIBUTORS
PTY.LTD.
7 OR D STR E E T
SYDNEY
p,r '
Please sen ,
-EM'—
nch »^™ l> ,„.
[ ] Special I e
Name
Address. • ' 1 VMirMHßHfffffifl
any reasonably audible short-wave station
can be brought in with an aerial wire
about a foot in length. A short aerial is
often essential in the interests of selec-
tivity, the only disadvantage of the
T.R.F.-type receiver. A peculiar thing
is that TPA2 on 19.68 metres is always
stronger with a foot of aerial wire than
with lengthy aerials at 10 p.m., whereas
the other 19-metre stations are better
on long aerials.
K. B. G.
N.S.W. Ultra-Short-Wave
Successes.
During the last year or so the type of
equipment used on the 56mc. (five-metre)
band in Australia has improved out of
sight, and transmission and receiving
equipment now in use, in Sydney particu-
larly, opens up an entirely new era in
communication on this once-despised
band.
The history of amateur investigation
of the band in and around Sydney has
been fully recorded on these pages. In
Sydney previous to 1935 anything out-
side short-range communication was con-
sidered impossible, but on February 4
The actual receiver used by VK2CI at Merewether, N.S.W.,
for the tests between Sydney and that location on 56mc.
on 26/2/’39. The property of u.-s.-w. listener R. Ruther-
ford, of Sydney, this receiver was designed and constructed
by Don B. Knock. It is a superhet employing the 1851
television R.F. pentode as T.R.F. amplifier, with 6J8G
mixer-oscillator. One stage of I.F. with 6D6 is used at
1600 kc. Transformers are the new Tasma iron-core types.
Second detector is a 6A6, with regeneration and oscillation
control for C.W.
of that year the writer’s station, VK2NO,
opened up communication with VK2BP,
then at Hazelbrook, in the Blue Moun-
tains, 60 miles distant. Since then com-
munication on 56mc. between Sydney
and any portion of the Mountains dis-
trict has become a matter of routine. In
1937 VK2NO worked with VK2ZC at
The latest u.-h.-f. superheterodyne receiver designed by
the writer and now in use at station VK2NO. This is a
comprehensive design employing changeable coils, and
covering from 4.5 to 11 metres. Receivers of this type open
up a new era in high efficiency ultra-short-wave reception.
The rotatable mechanism driving the
56mc. rotary beam aerial at VK2NO is
made up from two old wooden-type
automobile wheels fastened to the vertical
shaft, with battens between. A rope
drive from the operating room controls
the direction of the aerial by a hand-
wheel.
Newcastle (N.S.W.). Signals were reliable
over a day-and-night test, but in this
case the Newcastle location was carefully
chosen with regard to
elevation. It was con-
sidered out of the ques-
tion to work with a
station situated on the
lower levels at New-
castle.
These pioneering tests
were made with what
is now regarded as anti-
quated equipment. Re-
ceivers were compara-
tively insensitive super-
regenerators, and trans-
mitters were quite un-
stable. New valves
have made possible the
modern ultra-short-
wave superhet, and
transmitters are now
used with crystal con-
trol as at lower fre-
quencies. Recently a
new design of superhet
receiver was tested, and
a special test with
VK2CI, operated by
Gordon Kempton at
Merewether, a low-
lying Newcastle suburb,
was arranged for Sun-
day, February 26.
The, receiver was made by the writer
for a keen u.-h.-f. listener, Ron Ruther-
ford, and taken to Merewether. Several
Sydney stations co-operated in the trans-
mitting schedules, occupying the first 15
minutes of each hour through the day
and portion of the night. VK2WJ, Mar-
oubra, VK2ABC, Maroubra, VK2EM,
Killara, VK2IQ,
Burwood, VK2AJH,
Epping, and
VK2NO, Waver-
ley, all took part,
and in the Blue
Mountains at Went-
worth Falls VK2LZ
was on the job. This
last station has a
constant full-strength
speech and tele-
graphy signal on
56mc. almost any-
where in Sydney and
suburbs. At VK2CI,
Kempton was as-
sisted by Ruther-
ford and Geoff Part-
ridge, VK2VU. As
no 56mc. transmis-
sion was arranged
for from Newcastle,
the 7mc. band was
used as a checking
medium after each
15-minute transmis-
sion.
After the first period, VK2CI reported
that 2LZ in the Mountains was audible
at full-speaker strength either on speech
or telegraphy. The distance from Went-
worth Falls to Merewether is about 95
miles airline, and the accompanying con-
tour map shows why an ultra-short-wave
signal, starting from a 3000 ft. elevation,
should be received strongly in Newcastle.
During the second test period VK2NO
was heard at R 5 on telegraphy. Because
of the non-optical path of the signal be-
tween Waverley and Merewether, over a
distance of 80-odd miles, this reception
is quite an achievement. No Sydney
station other than VK2NO was heard,
and the reason appears obvious. VK2NO
was the only Sydney station using a high-
gain beam aerial array, aimed in the
required direction, and a similar array
was used on the receiver at Merewether.
Both ends used the vertical two-section
BJK, described recently. This recep-
tion could not possibly have been due
to reflection, as in that case the other
Sydney stations would have been
heard. It means that the signal, being
mostly over water, was either passing
through the water or actually bending
over the curvature of the earth. Height
above sea-level at VK2NO is only 300 ft.
and at VK2CI 30ft. Furthermore, a large
hill blocks VK2CI from a direct optical
path to Sydney. During subsequent 15-
minute test periods between Sydney and
Newcastle VK2LZ and VK2NO were re-
ceived consistently.
Contour map of the country between the Blue Mountains, N.S.W., and Newcastle,
illustrating the reason why a 56mc. signal is received strongly at sea level, 95
miles distant.
Two important deductions can be made
from these successful tests. Firstly, that
consistent communication with New-
castle and probably as far afield as Single-
ton is possible with correct equipment
and aerial arrays at both ends. Secondly,
the Blue Mountains provide the most
suitable location for a television trans-
mitter when the time arrives. A high-
power television station located some-
where in those mountains would be able
to put a consistent signal over all the
districts between Sydney, Newcastle,
Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange. A station
situated in Sydney would serve only a
fraction of that audience. Only Sydney
and suburbs would benefit, and transmis-
sion beyond this would be wasted over the
ocean.
The suggestion that Bathurst and
Orange would be able to receive tele-
vision programmes from a transmitter in
the Blue Mountains is no mere conjec-
ture. Two weeks ago VK2LZ conducted
mobile 56mc. tests between Katoomba
and Bathurst, running a constantly-modu-
lated signal from his car. That signal
was received by VK2AFO in a screened
location in Katoomba, clear to Bathurst.
The power of the car installation is only
five watts.
More attention should be paid by ex-
perimenters to the development of the
ultra-high-frequency channels. They seem
destined to become of importance in
many ways, and the findings of experi-
menters are likely to be of considerable
value in the determination of suitable
locations for many u.-h.-f. purposes, par-
ticularly television.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
I am 22 and have a fair theoretical know-
ledge of radio, but no practical experience.
Do I stand any chance of obtaining an
apprenticeship or opening in the radio trade?
If so, what firms should I apply to ? —754.
Your age is rather advanced for appren-
ticeship. Apply to reputable manufacturers
List can be obtained from a trade directory.
* * * *
Is there a publication giving the electrical
constants of Australian-built radio receivers ?
755.
Australian Radio Service Manual, obtainable
from the Strand Press, T. and G. Building,
Queen-street, Brisbane. Price 12s. 6d. limp
covers, 15s. 6d. stiff covers.


OVER 30 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
i
mm
% AA '
v>. t. - f * IftwMil- '*■
■ii
" ■ ip
lltiillSl S tsl is
mmbm
mm
.
H
■■h
■
a m
■■■ :x : .
.
W I^
HHI
BEHIND "CATERPILLAR” TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS
Caterpillar Tractor Co; has been building track-type tractors for more than
thirty years. I
Beginning as Holt Manufacturing Co. —this long experience helps to account
for the leadership these tractors hold on the most successful farms and
stations, as well as on heavy-duty construction jobs, road-building and timber
operations throughout the world—the reason why more of them are sold than
all other makes of track-type tractors put together.
From this vast field laboratory of practical use, Caterpillar has developed
exclusive features of design and construction, such as double-action full-
pressure lubrication, automatic bellows-type dust seals, heat-treated wear-
resisting tracks—features which mean longer tractor life and more work done
at lowest operating cost; - j ■■
The “Caterpillar” Diesel D 2 shown above is pulling an lift, scarifier, covering
4 acres an hour on 1.2 gallons of Diesel fuel on a farm in New South Wales.
Ask yoiir “Caterpillar” Distributor for complete information on “Caterpillar”
Diesel Track-type Tractors.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTKIBUTOKS
Queensland
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
Victoria & Tasmania
William Adams & Company
Limited,
521-523 Collins Street
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
New South Wales
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Showroom: 311 Oastlereagh
Street.
South Australia
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia
Wigmores, Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.
See Caterpillar Tractors at Royal Easter Show, Commemorative Avenue, near Manufacturers’ Pavilion.
Your
German Cars—and an Australian Engine
IT is interesting to read that Germany
has had a motor show at which Hitler
denounced the hog-in-the-car. Before
the Nazi regime Germany was not
a country of cars. One of the striking
features of the smaller cities and towns
was absence of the smells of petrol and
oil, familiar elsewhere. After the inflation,
Germans could not afford cars, especially
the kind which Germany then built.
In the past five years, car companies,
with Government encouragement, have
changed all that. Auto-Union, which
builds a range of motors, from luxury
types to the “baby,” set out to design
something which could be built at a
minimum of cost.
Two-cylinder engines were almost the
first-born among practical cars, but they
had been discarded by a world obsessed
with the ideas of “silky power,” noise-
lessness and the opulence suggested by
six-, eight-, even twelve-cylinders, packed
into complicated and expensive power
units. Auto-Union went back to the two-
cylinder engine ; redesigned it till it was
as noiseless as the English small four-
cylinder engine and gave—of course-
double the power for R.A.C. rating.
Auto-Union discarded the old-
fashioned and cumbersome rear-axle
drive, cut out all the costly machinery
of the differential, kicked out the tradi-
tion —slavishly followed since the year
one in motordom —that the floor should
be cluttered up with a gear-lever—U.S.A.
has followed suit —and put the gear-
handle on the dashboard,, recognising
that .beam-suspension is something not
only for luxury cars.
The result was a car which, in out-
ward dimensions, is about the same size
as the English “babies” of medium type,
but which has abundance of room be-
cause the machinery occupies so small a
space and there are. no gear-levers in
the front compartment.
One saloon five-passenger model which
one of the biggest concerns in Australia
is handling has an engine in which
there are only four moving parts instead
of the 25 or so in the normal four-
cylinder car. It is as silent as a normal
small car. s Its gears are on the dash-
board ; its front-wheel drive enables it
to be pushed round corners safely at
45 miles per hour. Its frame is stout, its
springing almost foolproof. Its speed
is a maximum of 60 m.p.h., and would
be more if the engine were not governed
down for safety. It uses only a gallon
of petrol to 45 or 50 miles of travel, and
about half or less of the oil used by a
normal engine.
This means that five persons can travel
in comfort from Sydney to Melbourne
for an expenditure. on petrol and oil of
round about a pound. There is nothing
gimcrack about the vehicle—every-
thing in it is solid and splendid engineer-
ing practice.
Built in Australia, that machine, as. a
saloon, could certainly be sold under
£2OO if turned out in quantity.
Now, a further advance has been made.
A car is being manufactured which is
to be every man’s motor at a price which
will allow it to be sold in England for
under £9O; in Germany for consider-
ably less. _
A German who has no use tor the
Hitler regime has written the following
account of what he calls the People s
•
A German engineer, Karl Benz, constructed
in 1885 the first car to run on petrol. Hitler
must be accounted another pioneer in car-
building. He preached for years that Germany
needed a special type of car, so cheap. that
everybody could afford to buy it. He conferred
with engineers, gave his opinion on designs and
placed huge. sums, at the disposal of the men
who built the People’s Car.' . .
Dr. Porsche, the * engineer, known tor the
construction of. many racing cars and the
“rocket”'car, designed the People s Car. Ihe
factory (‘‘the biggest the world ever knew )
is to be capable of .turning out. 1,500,000 cars
a year. ■* ' * . •
In the course of 18 months 30 specimens of
the new car were tested again and again. They
ran more than 70,000 miles without any re-
pairs worth mentioning. They reached an
average speed of 70 m.p.h., and benzine con-
sumption was one gallon one quart an hour.
The engine has air-cooled cylinders. There
is space enough for a family of six, even seven.
The Government made the Labor Front re-
sponsible for production, sale, assurance and
provision of garages. Every German can become
a buyer on terms. The smallest instalment is
ss. a week, payable at the district office of the
Labor Front. Payments have been made since
August, and possession will, of course, be
given before the last instalment is paid. Staffs
of German firms are invited to place collec-
tive orders with the Labor Front offices. Pro-
duction on a large scale will begin this year.
“The hodies of cars of the future will
grow on the land,” said Henry Ford. He was
referring to the soy bean. According to infor-
mation from Germany coachwork of the
People’s Car will be of artificial resin.
Can cheap cars be built.in Australia?
C. C. Deland, of Adelaide, a city in
which many worth-while inventions have
been brought to light (the latest is “the
wooden lung”), declares that a South
Australian has invented “the cheapest
engine to build yet designed.” Let him
put the case for the Wege engine:
In 1920 an attempt was made to interest
Australians in the production of engines for
cars and other means of transport, particularly
the Wege engine. It was the invention of a
mechanic, W. F. Wege, of South Australia, and
a small private syndicate put up the funds
necessary to build a six-cylinder V-type en-
gine and apply for patents.
At that time in Adelaide precision work was
practically unknown. We had to rely on the
enthusiasm of the worker for the production
of parts and castings in foundries and heavy
process shops. When the body of the engine
and three .cylinders were complete a trial was
made which was so satisfactory that the re-
maining three cylinders were added.
A makeshift chassis was bought, and the
power plant was adapted to drive it, after
careful tests, over the most difficult roads" of
South Australia, and through the Coorong,
then almost undriveable. Tyres were the old
narrow high-pressure pattern. Discomfort and
difficulty on the trip of over 5000 miles were
anticipated, but the new power plant functioned
with extreme reliability, and with a silence
not then familiar.
A company was formed for the purpose of
sending the inventor and the writer to Eng-
land, there to consult with internal-combustion
engineers, and if they advised further expendi-
ture to produce engines for experimental pur-
poses and submit them to technical trials.
On the advice of. Major Tulloch, chairman
of the research committee at Woolwich
Arsenal, arrangements were made for the build-
ing of an engine at Altrincham, near Manches-
ter, in a workshop which specialised in this class
of engineering. The six-cylinder V engine made
in Adelaide was put on the test bed and read-
ings'taken of speed, horse-power and so forth.
Results were so convincing that it was de-
cided to build a 10-h.p. light car with a three-
cylinder engine.
But the motor trade was then in the dol-
drums. Factories were dosed; there were strikes
and lockouts. A chassis, incomplete as regards
engine, was bought from France. The mventoi
was determined that the bodywork should be
attractive and evidence the new ideas of
streamlining. It produced an effect which even
to-day is regarded as pleasant to look at
and ride in. Low-set seating, heart-shaped
radiator, sloping V-shaped windshield and
aluminium body—now common practice.
When the engine had been submitted to ex-
haustive bench tests, it was put into the chassis
and driven to motor-engineering centres. It
takes real confidence to drive into Coventry
and face the battery of keen men who have
spent their lives making engines. Among those
who visited the garage that morning in
Coventry were engineers from such firms as
Rover, Armstrong-Siddeley, Maudslay, Swift,
Coventry-Simplex, Alvis, Standard, Riley,
Crouch, Humber, Coventry and Singer. Many
went to London to make further inquiry.
Arrangements were made for design
and test work to be taken a step
further. Licenses were issued to firms
to make engines of various, types with a
view to. adoption for their particular ends.
William Beafdniores, of Glasgow, agreed to
make, at their own cost an, engine, of six
cylinders suitable for a, car,. with the right to
make a smaller one if results . warranted.
Chambers, of Belfast, also made a six-cylinder
car engine of - high ' class; Karriers, of . Hud-
dersfield, a . three-cylinder low-speed transport
engine. German engineers, after two trips to
London, built two motor-cycles incorporating
the engine.
But. in respect of contract conditions and
royalties, difficulties arose. In all cases the
prospective business lapsed.
Meanwhile the 10-h.p. car had been shipped
to Adelaide. It was driven by the writer
for about 80,000 miles in S. Aus., Victoria and
N. S. Wales, and by the ■ inventor for about
40,000 miles in Queensland and-N. S. Wales.
During the floods of June, 1925, it was the
first car to get through from Sydney to New-
castle. Again in July it was the first car to
open the flooded parts of Prince’s Highway
from the N.S.W. border to Melbourne.
But certain discontents led to the decease of
the company and the taking over of the re-
maining assets by the writer. The inventor
still co-operates.
Of experimental engines there still are a
three-cylinder car engine, now in Adelaide; a
feeder car e pgine, by Beardmore, now in
Adelaide; a six-cylinder car engine, by
Chambers, in Belfast, Ireland; a three-cylinder
lorry engine, by Karriers, in Huddersfield, Eng-
* j i • f three-cylinder marine engine, now in
Adelaide; a three-cylinder hydroplane engine in
Brisbane; and six three-cylinder farm engines
in S.A. - 'For the engines are not exclusively
lor use with petrol; the design covers the
whole range of internal-combustion engines.
The feature which has most interest at present
is that the : -design has eliminated trouble spots
of the internal-combustion engine. Improve-
ments based on present-day knowledge of
metals, alloys and the calibration of Diesel
oils - are under consideration in close co-opera-
tion with Prof: A. M. Low, of London.
Given certain factors, such as quality of
workmanship and material, power for power,
this engine could be produced in Australia at
a price which would not allow competition from
overseas to keep it from its market.
■ A, report of,, the technical committee of the
N.R.M.A., Sydney, on the Diesel design for
aero engines details the reasons why this Aus-
tralian ■. unit is preferred to that of the latest
Junkers machine. All experiments on the test-
bed showed power curves equal to, and in
some cases better than, engines of similar type.
Fuel consumption was found to be substantially
the same; in some cases the Australian was
slightly better.
Certified results produced under test by so
high an authority as Capt. J. Hammersley-
Heenan show that in 1921 this S.A. engine pro-
duced greater power at all speeds up to 2000
revs, than is claimed for a most modern
factory product. In the same year Prof. Loir
reported favorably on the drawings. “Theory
has been perfected in practice,” he said after
driving the car in London traffic. Now, in
1939, he is desirous of co-operating with me
and the inventor in the further developments
which we know are possible. In 1921 also Dr.
Ricardo used these words: “The most revolu-
tionary engine designed, and the simplest to
manufacture; it should be of special interest
to Australia because of its reliability.”
In other years when manufacture of cars
in Australia was proposed, the reply was that
it might be reasonable to make engines, but
it was impossible to make chassis and bodies
as well as was done abroad. Now that we are
making all the other things so well they tell
us we can’t expect to make engines.


LYS
.PROOF,
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
9BS
-s* s^
W.
-I:'
’■<: ?
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Marketing Export Beef.
“Mookau”: H. Burton, of Stott Park,
Ulverstone, Lancs, has well summarised
the British export-beef position in a pam-
phlet, “The Supply and Marketing of
Beef and Veal from Queensland Fat
Cattle Producers’ Point of View.”
Great Britain, he says, is producing
46 p.c. of the beef and veal she needs,
and can produce 50 p.c. if her markets
are not so glutted by imports as to lower
the price of the home-grown product.
He argues that the British grower must
have preference of supply—and every
Australian will agree—so imports must be
limited to 50-54 p.c. of total required.
“But,” he declares, “Queensland is por-
tion of the British Empire, the cattle-
breeders equal citizens with home-
growers of beef and entitled to the next
preference” ; but the Queensland output
is “only a small proportion of the quan-
tity required by Great Britain,” and it
faces the danger of foreign competition.
He does not believe it fair to give im-
ported meat a British home-consumption
price, since Australian and foreign pro-
duction costs are not nearly so heavy as
those of the British farmer. Upon that
question he might also have said that
until Australian producers are, prepared
to adopt British methods, thus heavily
increasing their costs, they will never, turn
off enough chillers to compete on a large
scale with foreign exporters.
The British subsidy of 9s. 4d. dead-
weight on home-grown produce comes
out of revenue, and the Government con-
siders that Dominion and foreign com-
petitors should bear it. That is perfectly
sound so long as there is adequate
preference to the Dominions. The
same interests now control the bulk
of Australian export work as con-
trol the Argentine. Most of the
Australian meatworks and much of
the best chilled shipping accommodation
are owned by Vesteys and their off-
shoots. But their S. American interests
dwarf their Australian interests, and,
working on a comparatively small margin
of profit, they naturally give preference
in export to the country in which their
interests are largest, their market 25 to
30 days nearer and their Smithfield price
Id. per pound higher. ;
Burton does not stress these facts, but
they are the factors in Australian com-
petition with foreign meat. It is not that
the Argentine competes with Australia
in the market, but at the point of sale
Vesteys (Australia) competes with Ves-
teys (Argentina). The position is further
controlled by the fact that Vesteys and
their subsidiaries, own some thousands
of British butchers’ shops.
If Australian meat could stand id.
a pound and foreign duty were fixed
at Id. or even 2d., Britain would still be
the most attractive market to foreigners.
U.S.A. is closed to the Argentine be-
cause of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth
disease; Germany will take only car-
casses whole and with organs attached.
Duties on meat from foreign countries
to European countries outside Britain
range from 15s. 9d. chilled in Belgium
(which has a monthly quota) to 89s. lid.
per 2001 b. in Italy, where imports are
restricted to 80 p.c. of the 1934 figure.
Burton suggests that the position might
be met by limiting imports of chilled
beef into the U.K., giving, the Dominions
a “decided preference to supply that
quantity, so. far as practicable, at a price
approximately equal to the average
wholesale price of chilled in Great
Britain obtained during the last ten years,
with no price restrictions on home-
grown.” But, as he further remarks, it
is useless to give a preference on
Dominion meat unless its benefits reach
the producer.
The type of unified export marketing
with which it has to deal places Aus-
tralian meat in a different position from
all other land products; and Burton,
“Grab the 'awk too, Ma — they're fetchin' arf-a-croWn!"
while he'attacks the “combines” —whose
attitude is perfectly logical, if not to our
interest —does not provide a solution
which is convincing. Preference without
insistence on quality stops half-way. It
is no use fixing an average wholesale
price for U.K. imports if the retail
market will not pay a figure consonant
with it.
It is difficult to get quality while
breeders and fatteners have no security
that their price will bear a relationship
to the London price or to their own
costs; and while they know that, if they
do produce large quantities of high-
quality beef and demand a price, the
meatworks are in a position to go into
the pastoral business themselves and be-
come competitors, or use their British
range of butchers’ shops to close a large
proportion of the market to Australian
beef.
The road to success seems to be marked
by fairly clear steps.
First, establish a coastal fattening in-
dustry. It should be easy to finance
farmers who' are willing to go into the
baby-beef game. Beef-fattening is profit-
earning, makes a quick turnover and
should put its developers in a sound posi-
tion in the right districts, besides adding
to the demand for fodder, grain and roots
in all seasons.
Second, insist that .meatworks prices
should bear a direct relation to London
price, to cost of production and to cost
of treatment and marketing. Any
foreign-owned meatworks which do not
like this should be told to get out. There
is enough capital in the cattle themselves,
if they are the right sort, to finance the
processing and export of them.
Rain and More Rain.
February, 1939, will be long remem-
bered in Eastern Australia for the break-
ing of the drought. The rain could
scarcely have come at a better time, been
better placed or arranged in quantity if
the farmers and graziers had done the
job themselves.
From the Gulf to the Queensland
border, from Arnhem Land to the S.
Australian border, there have been sub-
stantial falls. Through the driest parts
of western N. S. Wales and the lucerne
district round Inverell, there has been all
the rain needed to give the season a good
start.
The Riverina has been drenched, with
the lands behind, for the whole length
of the Murray. About 700 miles of the
Port Augusta to Alice Springs railway
was held up by flood in the last week of
February. W.A. had had grand rains
previously.
In Victoria some preliminary falls
brightened matters somewhat; but a
Bulletin contributor who traversed the
Mallee and most of south-western N. S.
Wales towards the end of the month re-
ported a general feeling of despair, as
he did in the Riverina. On February 26
and 27 the sky opened over the whole
of the southern State and Riverina —a
little early, perhaps, for sowing with
safety, since another heatwave is still a
possibility; but beyond price after one
of the worst droughts in history.
Even the Mallee had a record for Feb-
ruary, and if the weather remains equable
will be right for the winter with a few
small falls to help the farmers along.
Some coastal districts in N.S.W. are
still dry ; but on the coast “dry” is only
a comparative term.
There are whole districts in Queens-
land, N. S. Wales, Victoria and S. Aus-
tralia which in a few hours have been
rescued from possible bankruptcy.
The Summer in N.S.W.
“J.R.D.”: Although large stock are
worst off in the recently dry areas, sheep
are in better condition than might be
expected. Nevertheless, a big proportion
are wormy, and would have stood up
better had they been drenched early.
Only a small proportion of graziers
have troubled to feed their sheep. The
general feeling has been “what’s the
use?” Nevertheless, it is false economy
to let sheep die of starvation or
fall away to such an extent that
next year’s fleece will hardly be worth
shearing, and young sheep will be stunted
for life. Men complain about the low
prices they are getting for their wheat as
justification for their inability to feed ;
they would do better to feed the wheat
to their stock.
Another fairly general belief that needs
the axe is that sheep are not wormy in
a dry season. Provided they have been
thoroughly drenched and put on clean
pasture before the drought set in, they
should not have enough worms left in
them to worry them. Dry, hot weather
kills worm eggs on infested pastures
quicker, but it doesn’t kill the worms in-
side the sheep, and the animal stands a
much better chance of getting through if
it has no internal parasites to support on
the little bit of feed available.
Another common delusion is that green
feed following a drought acts as a pur-
gative and expels the worms from the
sheep. This belief results from the fact
that sheep improve rapidly in condition
on green feed, but that is only because
of its greater nutritional value—the
worms remain.
General rains over the dry areas should
be the signal for general drenching, par-
ticularly of ; two-tooths and under, to get
them strong and healthy to face the
winter.
N.S.W. Export Lamb.
“X-bred”: The well-timed references
of “K.Mc.” (B. 22/2/’39) to the weak-
nesses in our breeding of export lambs
give point to the fact that the specialised
fat-lamb breeders are as yet in the
minority, and shipments are filled with a
preponderance of merino type.
It is obvious from the Commonwealth
grading authorities’ criticism of N.S.W.
lamb quality in 1937-38 that many of
those submitted would better have been
passed out instead of being passed for
export by “applying the grading regula-
tions with discretion.” Approximately
20 p.c. of the lambs exported from
N.S.W. for the year were first grade,
30 p.c. second, and 50 p.c. third. If the
adverse comments on these results forced
stricter attention to grading and the
get-up of the meat, so much the better
for the industry.
Anyway, some of the credit for the
satisfactory improvement in the follow-
ing six months, July-December, when the
figures were 37.63 first grade, 43.76
second, and 18.61 third, must go to the
men on the farms.
Cows and Cotton.
“D.A.C.”: Although the Queensland
cotton crop promises to be the best for
many years, the industry is being rele-
gated to second place in the cotton belt.
Dairying is beating it on its own ground.
The Callide Valley and the Upper Bur-
nett produce the bulk of Queensland’s
cotton, and in each area established


3248.
fl
u
<k
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 47/6 in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
EVER WEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative:
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I |39p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ” 9ft
Sheep bought ”
Wire netting ” 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O'Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
* 252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
ffuTifexißelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
farmers are turning more and more to
the cows.
Biloela, the centre of the Valley sec-
tion, has one of the most up-to-date butter
factories in the State —erected in 1937 at
a cost of £32,000 by the Port Curtis Dairy
Co., which also operates half a dozen
other butter factories in C.Q.
Cotton of a good season may give a
better return than cream, but the good
cotton years are few. The plant is a
drought-resister, but a hot, dry spell late
in its growth plays havoc with the yield.
There is poor satisfaction in seeing the
plant keep green if it does not carry a
payable crop.
Biloela has a 29in. rainfall, and
summer is the wet season, but dry spells
of a month or so are apt to occur any
summer. They are much more easily
weathered by the dairyman than by the
man entirely dependent on cotton.
In 1927 seed cotton was s|d. per
pound. It is now 4d. Insect pests have
also become more numerous.
As a sideline to dairying, or as a crop
for new settlers, cotton has its points.
For two or three pounds a man may
buy an axe, a brush-hook and a walking-
stick planter, which are all the imple-
ments needed to put in a crop in a scrub
area.
The seed planted in this manner would
not cost more than a shilling an acre.
Cotton has a habit of storing nitrates m
the ground, which is said to cause the
plant, if sown more than three years in
the same place, to run too much to wood.
Dairymen turn this peculiarity to good
account by planting Rhodes grass after
cotton. The grass, up to the present the
chief cow pasturage in cotton districts,
does remarkably well on the nitrate-
enriched soil, and in turn leaves the
ground in good condition for cotton.
Lucerne for the Interior.
“J.W.”: Can’t understand why much
more isn’t done about acclimatising
lucerne to parts of the sheep districts
beyond the Dividing Range. It has taken
25 years to kill the prejudice against
lucerne in inland Queensland, but now the’
Agricultural Department reports that the
results on scrub and forest land round
Wallumbilla and Columboola during the
dry spells of 1936 are “encouraging”:
An adaptation of lucerne to a wide
range of soils and the capacity for giving
good results under adverse climatic con-
ditions were clearly demonstrated.
The Romans found that out 2000 years
and more ago.
It seems to me that the place to start
lucerne in the inland is along the water-
courses. A lot of the C.Q. river channels
are cluttered with burr and other rubbish,
and if that will grow lucerne will do even
better.
During the 1923 drought I helped to
trace the roots of a crop near Ashford
(N.S.W.) which formed the only green
in sight for miles. Some had worked
their way nearly 70ft. to the bottom of
an old well.
In planting, “westerners” must more
or less make their own technique—differ-
ent soils different culture. One necessary
rule is that fin. is about the greatest
depth for sowing, and seeding should not
be too heavy—mot more than 41b. to the
acre is needed.
Closer in, where wheat land is con-
verted, it is a good idea to put the
lucerne in with the last grain crop. The
wheat gives it protection and costs are
cut. The difficulty is to get the two
sets of seeds in at their proper depth,
but this can be got over by a double sow-
ing—wheat, which goes deep, first; then
lucerne, set in with a light harrow near
the surface.
For river-bank planting the new
Maranoa method practised in some parts
of U.S.A.’s Middle West and in spots
along the Mediterranean is to plant in
rows about 18in. apart. A bit of inter-
row cultivation is needed to begin with ;
but once started lucerne planted this
way takes a lot of drought to stop it.
The Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment is strongly advising the trial of
lucerne in mid-western pear country. If
successful it is going to revolutionise the
sheep industry out there.
Wheat as Stock Feed.
“Geedee”: With wheat cheap, the Vic-
torian Agricultural Department is focus-
ing attention on its advantages as valu-
able fodder. Wheat is now the cheapest
fodder on the market. But there is dis-
trust of wheat-feeding, possibly because
of deaths due to careless rationing. When
wheat is introduced into the rations the
changeover should be made gradually.
Horses, sheep, cattle and pigs can all
be fed wheat to partly replace more
costly rations. Except for sheep and
poultry, wheat should always be ground.
For horses 31b. of crushed wheat
should be allowed for every 51b. of chaff
displaced from the original ration. A
medium draught-horse’s ration would be
121 b. of chaff, 41b. oats and 81b. crushed
wheat, divided up in four feeds daily.
For dry sheep in a paddock in which
there is some roughage, 4oz. to soz. per
sheep per day is recommended. For the
first week lfoz. per sheep per day should
be fed, increasing by an ounce each two
days until 4foz. is reached in eight days.
The grain should be strewn thinly on
the ground —a hose makes a good
spreader—so that all the flock can get at
it at the same time. If the paddock be-
comes bare half a pound of hay per
sheep per day will take the place of
natural roughage.
“Hortus”: Australian Dorset Horn studs
should benefit from the M.L. breeders’
decision to produce fat lambs for the
London market when prices are at top.
The idea is to raise earlier-maturing
lambs from Romney Marsh-cross ewes
by using D.H. rams instead of South-
downs. If dropped at same time as the
S.-cross lamb, the D.H.-cross lamb would
be ready for service a fortnight or more
before the S.-cross. Two special stud
ewes in lamb to an imported ram
and 10 flock rams of good quality are
being consigned to M.L. from Wagga.
The D.H. is becoming more popular also
in W.A. All local men sold out of rams
last year. Ram lambs nearly all ran out,
too. Something like 1700 D.H. rams had
to be secured for the West in eastern Aus-
tralia.
“Merungle”: Yanco (N.S.W.) Re-
search Farm furnishes an outstanding
example of the carrying capacity of im--
proved irrigated pastures. A five-acre
experimental plot put down in mid-
winter, 1936, with phalaris, cocksfoot,
lucerne, white clover and natural grass,
carried at the rate of nine sheep per
acre in the first year. This increased to
K sheep per acre in the second year
and produced also a ton of hay ; in the
third year five sheep per acre and three
tons of hay. The cutting off of water
supplies in the last three months has
killed out the greater part of the M.I.A.
sown pastures, and any surviving appear
to be doomed.
“J. Want”: The N.S.W. Government
Statistician’s figures for 1937-38 showed
that sheep numbers had decreased in a
year by 1,603,000 to 51,563,000. There
are 4,500,000 sheep less in the State than
in 1927. The area harvested for wheat
increased by 482,000 acres over the pre-
vious year, but the average yield per acre
went down from 14 to 12.3 bushels. The
maize output was about steady—it has
little chance of increasing while its uses
are limited as at present, and while the
vogue of rubber tyres on tractors makes
for a steady increase in mechanical haul-
age plants which drink imported oil. How
much population the rural districts have
been robbed of through the advent of
the tractor and the truck is a matter of
guesswork. Eight years ago the U.S.A.
Department of Agriculture, surveying
ruined towns and mile upon mile of
equally-bankrupt crop-farms, estimated
that over 6,000,000 had been driven out
of farms and rural villages. Despite
drought, N. S. Wales added 3000 to its
army of tractors in 1938. And 17,000
horses were displaced. There were 34,000
fewer pigs.
“A.A.D.”: Milling and baking tests
reveal that the f.a.q. N.S.W. wheat
sample collected by the Chamber of
Commerce is of the highest standard yet
recorded. Average gluten content of
12.2 p.c. compares with 10.7 p.c. (high)
last year and 9.8 p.c. the season before.
The quick ripening of the last two har-
vests without weather damage is mainly
responsible for the improvement, but the
preponderance of Ford and Dundee and
increased proportions of strong wheats
are also material factors. The flour, of
medium-strong class, showed good water
absorption and produced a nice loaf, but
capable of improvement with the in-
clusion of a little more strong white
wheat in millers’ blends.
“Ek Dum”: Maize crops in N. S.
Wales have been in a bad way except
on the New England. Harvesting on the
coast shows both acreages and yields
to be down, and inland crops are de-
scribed as being in “a parlous state
The Richmond (N. Coast) and surround-
ing districts, however, should have some
fair late crops, but around the County
of Cumberland and on the S. Coast,
except at Bodalla and Bega, conditions
are not satisfactory. In the northern
part of the area crops are being cut tor
feed ; and nearer Victoria some districts
have had too much rain at the wrong
time, or not enough.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
“J. Want” (B. 8/2/’3B) advocates the »«j
oculation of sub. clover seed. (1) Ate
varieties improved m germination by arm
inoculation? (2) Where can bacteria be
obtained? (3) Best variety?— 2sls.
(1) Yes. (2) From either the Victorian or
South Australian Agricultural .Departments. W
Ask the department to advise for your
conditions.


A «i( «»
f.V-
-\
Vi
)/uimfj
UV
wtm
v»»*
IJ»
*v;
&
s /jfe
s r 'jmu&n. v>
&
>t,;
Pi
sss
SSf* i
I
:>SE^
r
5«
mmMM/
mi
*
t,»*v
I
-Tj. \ %. ---Pv=^®§W
S&& * - •• -- - '• - 'nii r^-^rl
*i
corns'i
p
< Kfi
i, "( • -
»v:/-, / / / .» i
(•’ . |
■'*J,"“.i'l. 11 > 1 V.' ▼
:;/*V U (V. 0 , -
'i'*’-'4»y l .'.V-' x .' . s-
\V-' cj|
w
5*
•*i
l ™
&
S;«sjs?
*
t
4^l
%
2
/7
i
L
m
■?
£
tm
§IS
6
5^
Tooheys
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
% •
\0
■*\
a
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAs
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin t<? hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, several years’
office exp., requires position, preferably in
advertising, publishing or newspaper office.—
2600.
Young lady wishing to go walking tour in
N S. Wales would like to hear of another
with similar idea. State religion and age.—
2603.
Young man (23), Sydney, boundary-rider,
bookkeeper, kill, fencing, can drive car, seeks
position.—2624.
Active, middle-aged man, Sydney, exp. in
kitchen- and housework, seeks position in
country; clean, steady. Refs. —2566.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid pensioner, cleri-
cal and organising ability, seeks part-time posi-
tion. —2567.
Customs clerk, Sydney, unemployed, seeks
position. Has had a little legal experience;
sober and trustworthy.—2s69.
Words of verse regarding American rough-
rider in Australia beginning:
Texas Jack, }'ou are amusing. By Lord Harry, how
1 laughed * <
When I saw your rig and saddle with its bulwarks
fore and aft.
—2571.
Information Sought.
(1) Is there evidence of any volcanic action
in the N. S. Wales artesian basin ? (2) How
are gilgais formed ? (3) How is pisolitic iron-
stone formed? (4) Are opals associated with
volcanoes ? —2492.
(1) No evidence of volcanic action within
the basin. The margins of the basin have
been disturbed by volcanic eruptions in the
Warrumbungle and Nandewar Ranges. (2) Not
definitely known. (3) It is a form of iron
oxide in which the material forms concretions
under certain conditions rather than crystals.
(4) Opals are found associated with volcanic
lavas in a lew localities, but the principal opal-
fields in western N.S.W. and Queensland have
no association with volcanic action.
* * * *
(1) What are the physical requirements for
enlistment in the Australian Militia Forces?
(2) Period of service? (3) Training require-
ments? (4) Are voluntary courses, classes and
training available? —2s9s.
(1) Age 18 to 40 years, height (minimum)
sft. 4in., chest (average) 33in. (2) Enlistment
is for three years, after which a soldier may
continue to serve for two or three years. After
12 years a soldier is eligible for the Australian
Efficiency Medal. (3) The total annual train-
ing comprises 20 days for officers and warrant
and non-commissioned officers and 18 days for
militia soldiers. The annual training is divided
into 12 days’ continuous training and six days’
home training, with two additional days for
officers and warrant and non-commissioned
officers. (4) Voluntary courses and classes of
instruction for those who desire promotion or
to specialise in any particular military subject
are held at convenient periods at local drill-
halls throughout the year. In the spring and
summer of the year voluntary week-end camps
and bivouacs are held in the country or at the
seaside where practical training in the field is
carried out.
* * * *
A few details concerning Richard Golds-
brough, founder of Goldsbrough and Co. ?
2572.
Richard Goldsbrough was born at Shipley
(Yorkshire) in 1821, and was apprenticed to a
wool-stapling firm .in Bradford. He started on
a small scale as a wool merchant in 1842, be-
came interested in Australia as a wool-producing
country, and in 1847 migrated to Adelaide and
then to Melbourne, commencing business at
the latter place in 1848. The remarkable wool
clips of 1850 and 1851 enabled him to improve
his position in spite of the excitement pro-
duced by the gold discoveries, and in 1853 he
established a stock and station business with
Row and Kirk as partners. He bought stations
in the Riverina, but, deciding after four years
to confine himself to woolbroking, he steadily
developed that business until in 1881, by amal-
gamation with another firm, he was able to
found the house of R. Goldsbrough and Co.
with a capital of £3,000,000. He died on April
8, 1886; after his death Goldsbrough and Co.
absorbed the famous firm of Mort and Co. and
eventually became, as Goldsbrough, Mort and
Co., one of the greatest wool businesses in
the world.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning Thomas
Alexander Browne (“Rolf Boldrewood”) .?
2534.
Son of Sylvester John Browne, of the East
India Company’s service, he was born in Lon-
don on August 6, 1826. He was brought to Aus-
tralia by his parents in 1830, and educated at
the Sydney College under W. T. Cope. At
the age of 17 he entered on station life in
western Victoria, and from 1844 to 1856 was the
owner of Squattlesea Mere in the Port Fairy
district; he then purchased stations on the
Murray (1858) and Murrumbidgee (1864), but
lost heavily in the droughts of 1866 and 1869.
He abandoned squatting in 1870, and a few
years later became police-magistrate and gold-
fields-warden at Gulgong (N.S.W.). In 1887
he was transferred to Albury, and retired from
the public service in 1895. He died in Mel-
bourne on March 11, 1915.
**. * *
Particulars about Henry Fulton, an Anglican
clergyman who was transported to Australia ? —•
2592.
Henry Fulton confessed “under pressure”
to having been implicated in the 1798 Irish
Rebellion, and being allowed to transport him-
self for life sailed with Joseph Holt, a Wex-
ford landholder who had led a detachment of
yeomanry during the rebellion, in the Minerva
on August 24, 1799. In 1800 he was given
a conditional pardon, and for seven years
served Norfolk Island as a chaplain. He was
fully pardoned in 1805, resumed his duties
in N.S.W. and was made a member of the
civil court. He loyally supported Bligh on the
deposition of that Governor and was favorably
regarded by Macquarie, who made him a
magistrate. He worked as a chaplain in the
Penrith district until his death in 1840.
* * # *
(1) What convict ships left England for Aus-
tralia between the departures of the First and
Second Fleets, and how many convicts did
they carry? (2) What ships comprised the
Second Fleet? —2s96.
(1) The first ship to leave England for N.S.W.
with convicts, after the departure of the First
Fleet, was the transport Lady Juliana, which
sailed from Plymouth on July 29, 1789, with a
load of Jemale convicts. Figures vary, but it
seems fairly safe to say that 226 women and
six children embarked and 221 women and 11
children arrived. The next vessel to leave was
the supply ship Guardian, which sailed in Sep-
tember, 1789, with 25 specially-selected convict
artificers. After calling at the Cape, she struck
an iceberg on December 23, but managed to
struggle back to port with 21 convicts still
aboard. One of these died later, and the
remaining 20 were sent on to the settlement
when the Second Fleet called at the Cape, 12
on the Neptune and eight on the Scarborough.
(2) The Neptune, Scarborough and the Sur-
prize.
* 4: * sfc
How long has Lithuania been an independent
democratic republic and what, briefly, is its
history ? —2599.
Lithuania become a Grand Duchy in the early
part of the thirteenth century. In 1386 the
Grand Duke Jogaila embraced Christianity and
married the Polish Queen Hedvig, thus becoming
King of Poland. During the reign of Vytautas
(Vitold) the Great (1392-1430) Lithuania reached
the zenith of her power and prosperity, her
frontiers extending from the Baltic to the Black
Sea. After the death of Vytautas the Great,
Polish influence gradually increased in Lithu-
ania, and in 1569 the Lithuanians were forced
to unite with the Poles at Lublin, the Lithu-
anians retaining their own Treasury laws,
courts of justice and army. Both countries
elected the same king and had a common Par-
liament. At the end of the eighteenth century
Lithuania fell under Russian rule. In 1917 a
Lithuanian conference of 214 representatives
elected a Lithuanian State Council and de-
manded the country’s complete independence,
which was eventually proclaimed on February
16, 1918.
* * * ■ #
When a book is said to have been published
under a commission agreement, what is meant ?
Is this form of agreement to be recommended ?
—2581.
Under this form of agreement an author agrees
to bear all the cost of producing the book
and to pay the publishers a commission on
sales. This method is not recommended to a
novice. Publishers are businessmen, and if there
is likely to be any profit in a book someone
will be willing to bring it out at his own risk.
Such agreements are, however, quite useful in
the case of a book on some learned but not
widely-popular theme, where the author is
not expecting any profit, but merely wishes to
give the result of his work to the world.
* * * *
United Kingdom’s wheat import figures for
1936 and 1937.?—2568.
Figures are for 1936 and 1937, and are:
From Canada 57,813,099 cwt. and 34,248,724 cwt.,
Australia 23,269,529 cwt. and 22,408,21 lcwt.,
British India 3,249,267 cwt. and 6,287,231 cwt.,
Rumania 4,422,427 cwt. and 2,271,830 cwt.,
Argentina 957,157 cwt. and 15,471,538 cwt.,
U.S.S.R. 167,306 cwt. and 8,130,138 cwt., U.S.A.
45,568 cwt. and 3,474,155 cwt., other foreign
countries 10,803,103 cwt. and 4,203,925 cwt.
Totals: 1936, 100,803,103 cwt.; 1937,
96,883,513 cwt.
* * * *
When and by whom was the last estimate of
Australia’s coal reserves made? What were
the figures? —2s76.
The latest available estimate of the actual
and probable coal reserves of Australia is
shown in the Report of the Royal Commission
on the Coal Industry, 1929-30, and is based
upon that prepared by the Coal and Lignites
Panel of the Power Survey Sectional Commit-
tee of the Standards Association of Australia.
The following figures (which represent mil-
lions of tons) show the actual and probable
coal reserves as determined by that committee:
N.S.W., 13,929 black coal; Vic., 40 black coal
and 37,000 sub-bituminous and brown coal;
Q’land, 2238 black coal and 67 sub-bituminous
and brown coal; South Aust., 57 sub-bituminous
and brown coal; W.A., 3500 sub-bituminous
and brown coal; and Tas., 244 black coal.
Totals, 16,451 black coal and 40,624 sub-bitu-
minous and brown coal.
* * * *
What officials are empowered to sit on the
National Health and Medical Research Council ?
—2580.
The constitution of the council consists of
the Commonwealth Director-General of Health
as chairman, two officers of his depart-
ment, the official heqd of the Health Depart-
ment in each State, and representatives of
the Federal Council of the British Medical
Association, the Royal Australasian College
of Surgeons, the Australian Association of
Physicians, and (jointly) the four Australian
universities having medical schools. A promi-
nent layman and laywoman, appointed by the
Commonwealth Government, also serve on the
council.
* * * *
Minimum scale of wages per week for appren-
tices in the process-engraving trade in Sydney ?
—2583.
First year 19s. 2d., second year £1 4s. Id.,
third year £1 10s., fourth year £2 25., fifth year
£3 6s. 3d.
* * * *
Is “to” or “with” the correct preposition to
use after the word parallel ? —2557.
“Parallel” has various meanings, as equi-
distant, a comparison, a conformity, an
equality. Webster (by approved examples of
usage) authorises not only “to” and “with,”
but “between” and “from.”
* * * r
What have authorities on the English lan-
guage to say regarding the difference in meaning
between the words “sprint” and “spurt” ?
2587.
Fowler’s Modern English Usage has the fol-
lowing to say: “The words are to a considerable
extent interchangeable; ‘sprint’ is, at least
apart from dialectal use, a nineteenth-century
word only, ‘spurt’ going further back, but the
newer word is displacing the older; a short
race or a run at high speed is now *a sprint,
while for a quickening of pace or a spasmodic
effort, bodily or mental, ‘spurt’ is still the more
usual term, but is tending to be displaced even
in these senses ; if that tendency could be
checked, the differentiation would be useful.”
# * * *
Can you quote reference by Edmund Burke,
the orator, in one of his speeches or books to
grasshoppers chirping in a field? —2565.
Text will be found in his Reflections on the
Revolution in France, and is as follows: “Be-
cause half a dozen grasshoppers under a fern
make the field ring with their importunate
chink, whilst thousands of great cattle, re-
posed beneath the shadow of the English oak,
chew the cud and are silent, pray do not
imagine that those who make the noise are the
only inhabitants of the field; that, of course,
they are many in number; or that, after all,
they are other than the little, shrivelled, meagre,
hopping, though loud and troublesome insects
of the hour.”
» * * *
Is it possible to circumnavigate the earth
while travelling in an easterly direction all the
way ? —2562.
The earth would be completely circumnavi-
gated on an easterly course if the traveller
started at, or near, the Equator. He would
then roughly follow a great circle route, and
the total distance travelled would be 24,860
miles, or slightly less, according to whether he
started on the Equator or a few degrees on
either side of it. If he travelled due east from,
say, London, the distance covered would be
only 15,500 miles and from Iceland less again.
This could not be considered as a complete
circumnavigation of the earth. Early circum-
navigators who started off from Europe crossed
the Equator several times, and they therefore
circumnavigated the earth in the true sense of
the word.
* * * V
(1) When and where was the first automobile
race held in the U.S.A. ? (2) Number of
starters ? (3) Length of course ? (4) How
many cars finished? (5) Any prize awarded?
—2602.
(1) The first attempt was made at Chicago
on Nov. 25, 1895. (2) Six. (3) Fifty-four miles,
from Jackson Park to Evanston and back
again. (4) Two; Charles E. Duryea being the
winner and taking 10 hours ajpd 23 minutes.
The course was covered under highly unfavor-
able conditions, the roads being heavy with
mud and slush. (5) Five hundred dollars was
offered by the Chicago “Times-Herald.”
* * * *
Meaning of the following terms, as applied
to motor engineering: (1) Lost motion; (2)
backlash ? —2609.
(1) In general, when two mechanical devices
are connected (as, for example, two gears when
the teeth are meshed), and the first moves a
certain distance before it imparts motion to
the second, this distance is called “lost motion.”
(2) The play between two gears which are en-
gaged. All contacting gears must have a cer-
tain amount of backlash; that is, the tooth of
one gear must never entirely fill the space
between the teeth of the mating gears. This
avoids excessive wear, breakage and noise; but
too much backlash is just as destructive as too
little.
* * * *
How to remove oil stains on a jarrah veran-
dah floor caused by oil from tinned fish ?
2538.
The oil has probably penetrated the wood
and will be impossible to remove; the mark
should fade with time and wear. If very
noticeable, scrub with hot soapy water contain-
ing a little cloudy ammonia, and scrape lightly
with a blunt knife. This will make a light-
colored patch if the verandah has been treated
with any polish or preservative, and will need
re-treatment. Oil stains are very penetrating
and obstinate, and there is no easy way of
removal.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the English surname Mosyer?—
2425.
Brief Answers.
J.F.0.5.: (1) “S. M. Herald.” (2) From
Angus and Robertson, Sydney ... .M.L. • (1)
Collector value of U.S.A. dime (1876) in mint
condition is 9d. (2) Write D. Raymond, 128
Bathurst-street; J. Tyrrell, 281 George-street;
or Lyster Ormsby and Co., 78 Hunter-street —
all Sydney. (3) A “Rare Coin Catalogue” pub-
lished in U.S.A. is obtainable from William
Hesslein, 101 Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A. (4) A hole in a rare coin would render
it valueless unless its rarity is extreme....
M.W.P.: Sirius crossed the meridian at long.
9deg. 33min. 37sec. east on the evening of Feb-
ruary 20, 1939, at 9hr. lOmin. 55.45ec. p.m. E.S.T.
. ...S.A.C.: (1) “1 Wonder Who’s Kissing Her
Now” (words only) is contained in an A.B.C-
Community Songster. (2) There are two songs
of this title. The popular one by Friml is from
“Firefly.” The other one is by Marshall, and
is available in keys D, E flat, F and G. (3)
Unable to locate words of the “Tail of the
Mail.” (4) “On the Road to Mandalay,”
music by Oley Speakes, is published in keys B
flat, C and E flat. (5) W. H. Paling and Co.,
338 George-street, Sydney, will furnish further
particulars... .D.L.: The fourth essay competition
in connection with the Laura Bogue Luffman
Memorial was won this year by Mrs. Elsie
Fedora Anderson, of Northcote (Vic.). The
subject set was “The Life and Work of Laura
Bogue Luffman,” or “The Life and Work of a
Pioneer Woman in Australia or N.Z.”
T.T.: You are wrong. Glebe with 715 points (330
in first-grade, 243 second-grade, 142 third-
grade) won the club championship in Sydney
cricket in 1937-38; Randwick was the success-
ful club in the first-grade premiership with 72
points, and finished third in the club cham-
pionship... .H.J.L.: The final syllable is pro-
nounced “tin”... .J.R.C.: (1) Public Library
of N.S.W., Macquarie-street, and Sydney Muni-
cipal Library, Q.V. Building, Market-street—
both Sydney. (2) No S.S.: Whitaker’s
Almanack (95.), obtainable all leading book-
sellers 8.M.R.: Particulars are available in
Whitaker’s Almanack and The Statesman’s
Year-Book C.N.: Entries close on June 6,
1939. The prize will be awarded for the prose
work —fiction, biography, autobiography, his-
tory, etc. —that is considered the most outstand-
ing contribution to Australian literature
C.W.J.: Write Angus and Robertson or
Dymock’s Book Arcade—both Sydney
W.F.C.: The Federal rate of 8.4393 d. on a
property taxable income of £5ll in respect
of the year ended June 30, 1938, is correct.
The Federal rates applicable to 1938 assess-
ments are 15 p.c. higher than those applicable
to 1937 assessments, and the average provisions
of the Act are not now applied, except in the
case of primary producers... .F.M.: There is
a compact account of his career on pages 548-9
of The Australian Encyclopcedia (vol. 2)
C.C.R.: (1) The British-India s.s. Quetta, while
on a voyage from Brisbane to London, struck
a submerged rock and sank in Adolphus Chan-
nel, near Torres Strait, on February 28, 1890,
with 134 lives lost. She ripped her bottom out
and sank in a few minutes. There were 150
survivors, including only two women. (2)
Unable to check statement in McLaren’s My
Crowded Solitude, and can trace no similar
statement in any other source J.R.: You
are now too old to obtain a position as a cadet
journalist, and chances of securing entry with-
out experience are remote. You might make
contact as a freelance. Papers often make
appointments from the ranks of contributors.
L.J.B.: Article “The Man from Gundagai”
appeared on page 50, Bulletin, May 5, 1938.
R.F.: You lose. The first baby was born
24 years after marriage, the mother being 38
at the time of the baby’s birth. Reference:
Bulletin No. 55 (issued by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics), “Australian
Demography,” page 46, Table 1 D.S.H.:
The oil of the lemon-scented gum ( Eucalyptus
citriodora ) is available in Sydney at 7s. 6d. per
pound. Sandalwood oil is not distilled in the
Eastern States, and can best be obtained in
W.A. Technological Museum, Sydney, will
advise if you state your problem N.M.:
Usual present-day system is that a contractor
undertakes to keep several sleeper-cutter groups
clear, taking all their sleepers to the depots and
backloading tucker and tools and mail, at the
rate of Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per sleeper. Distance
does not seem to be regarded as the important
factor unless the access is abnormally rough,
hilly, boggy or otherwise troublesome W.F.:
No comparative figures on the subject. A com-
plete survey would involve consulting musical
shops, dance-hall proprietors, orchestral and
music societies, musicians’ unions, music leaders
and conservatoriums also, trade figures and
the collection of the A.P.R.S. and other bodies
would need to be investigated. It would take
months to arrive at even approximate figures,
and they would prove very little W.H.C.:
(1) Under the old compulsory military training
system an exemption from training was granted
to men of military age who lived over five miles
from a prescribed training centre. (2) A lance-
corporal or sergeant in the senior cadets in
1926 is not eligible as a matter of right for the
same rank under the present voluntary system.
. ...P.K.: Translated into English the phrase
“Nature n’a cree I’homme que pour prester et
emprunter” reads: “Nature has only created man
to lend and to borrow.” It is from Rabelais.
C.H.F.: The Italian barque Ingeborg from
M.L. to Newcastle sank in collision with s.s.
Arawatta during the night of August 14, 1907,
off Port Stephens. Seven lives were lost. It
was said that the Ingeborg had no sidelights
burning G.C.: The set of eight volumes and
atlas published in 1773-85 as described is the
official account of Cook’s voyages. Could not
value the set without seeing the volumes
R.M.: The Communications Branch of the
R.A.N. consists of wireless telegraphists and
signal ratings who work in seagoing ships and
in shore wireless stations... .J.L.H.: £lB5,
according to M.T.A. valuation, in the case of
a sedan in fair average condition W.F.:
The simplest treatment is to paint the verandah
boards with two or three coats of ordinary-
house paint W.A.G.: Books, educational or
fiction, are admissible into the Commonwealth
free of duty from all countries.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTING. I
SB-
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 16/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit f and £ blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG h AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
PENSIONED OFF A FIT
MAN
Rigours of Police Life Did Not
Harm Him
At 50 years of age he was presumed to
be beyond the arduous demands of police
duties. But was he ? Read what he
says now—five years after he was
pensioned :
“I am a man of 55 years. It is
now five years since I was pensioned
off from the Police. I went
through thick and thin, day and night
in all weathers, while I was in the Force,
and am to-day as fit as any man still
serving in the Force. People often ask
me ‘Why are you remaining so young ?’
and my answer is ‘Kruschen Salts.’
I have used Kruschen now for the last
13 years, and I will certainly use these
Salts until I am leaving this world.” —W.J.
The six salts in Kruschen provide just
that gentle daily aid your internal organs
require to enable them to perform their
work properly. These vital salts keep
your liver and kidneys in a top-notch
of efficiency, so that they free your
system of all poisonous waste matter
and, consequently, cleanse and refresh
your blood. The result is a feeling of
youthful health and vigour—“that
Kruschen feeling!”
BRANDAUER3
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BRANDAUSB * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
CK.V
PENS
Sound
INVESTMENTS
that do not fluctuate
in value
®
INTEREST BEARING
DEPOSITS
An interest bearing deposit with the Bank of
New South Wales provides perfect safety and the
comfort of an assured income at regular intervals.
All the Bank’s branches in Australia accept de-
posits of £5 and upwards. The rates at present are.
3% per annum for 24 months
2%% per annum for 12 months
2 y 2 % per annum for 6 months
2% per annum for 3 months
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
E STAB LI SH ED
m
IN THE YEAR 1817
426 C. 1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped .
No notice (except T on the MS . No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.T.K.: Letter describing the editor as “a
slinking, hyena-minded creature, devoid of the
least sense of justice or decency, duly acknow-
ledged A.G.M.: Poor old Joe! 77:
Say “99” J. 8.: “Said he, ‘There are some
folks who write who have the poet s knack.
Few, alas!... .H.McL.: Deaf to ‘Complaints.^
C.S.: Ending good, but don’t like Bahs.
....A.8.E.: Thin... .T.1.P.: It’s not exactly
startling R.C.0’8.: Get someone to tell you
how the Maoris pronounce “Tane” G. 1.:
“I Love to See a Crisis in the Press regret-
fully declined... .J.A.K.: As you say, “it may
have no merit as verse but it’s a true descrip-
tion of a prospector camping out”... .J.M.:
That sort of personal attack is hopeless
F.C.: You poets have got it in for the P.M.!
... .L.J.: Strongly suspect that you mean to be
improper... .W.M.M.: Mulga Bill’s an opti-
mist if he really expects to get 136 lines of
“impressions of Sydney” into print G.J.W.:
Leave it to Rudyard H. 8.: Can’t consider
them if they’ve been published elsewhere
W.D.W.: Many happy returns P.A.: Just
misses 8.D.G.: No, but they’re pretty
enough C.D.T.: No dent made by “Sunday
Afternoon Impressions”... .L.G.D.: Your ver-
bosity doesn’t hide your shortcomings as a
yarn-spinner G.D.: Something there, but
you’ll have to say it in half that distance....
T. 5.8.: Some of it is good, but most of it
isn't L.G.8.: You take the whole business
too seriously G.8.D.: You’ll need more than
“Fluff” to feather your nest... .H.S.T.: Read
it right through to see if the second half could
possibly be worse than the first... .L.M.Y.:
“Express” right off the rails... .8.D.A.: Pretty,
but there’s nothing to it... .M.O’D.: Not worth
the trouble C.1.D.: Touched up, a daily
might consider it... .8.D.M.: Characters too
sketchy... .L.F.G.: A. C. Headley does it
better 8.C.E.: Nothing in any of them,
but don’t give up... .J.J.M.: You’ve polished
it away to a shadow... .G.M.: Purple dawns
and ice-green sunsets are right out of our ken.
... .K.M.8.: That con. man will never talk his
way into print... .A.A.A.: “Are your coffers
sealed?” Doubly so when that sort of sleuth
and murderer is around... .8.M.P.: “May I
remain anonymous?” You may W.X.C.:
Descriptive stuff all right, but the yarn holding
it together is dreadful T.S.: Does not lend
itself to humor... .C.G.P.: You’re stamping
your feet in a swamp D.M.: And you’re
trying to cut hardwood with a blunt axe....
8.L.: Story old and there’s nothing new in the
telling G.D.A.: Pay less attention to style
and more to p10t... .J.D.: We’re again contem-
plating an open season for persons who write
of prospectors kiboshing their cobbers and then
perishing of thirst in the Great Outback....
8.G.C.: “I feel that this is unique.” It is,
thank heavens... .8.M.: “Ship of Destiny’
needs a stamp to refloat it... .G.D.A.: “Pay
Dirt” very low-grade L.S.N.: “Steady,
There” not bad, but off our beat; “The
Man on the Beach” nearer our needs, but
not so well done... .J.8.H.: Humor doesn’t
seem to be in your line... .M.N.8.: It’s a very
dry “Milking Time”... .P.0.C.: Local settings,
please K.M.D.: “Country Doctor” still
seeking a practice D.N.K.: “Cost of
Living” very 10w... .P.H.P.: Cut it to a third
of that length and come again 8.L.L.:
Why the gloomy finish? ... .C.N.Y.: That’s the
17th Great Australian Short Story we’ve had
this year... .N.M.K.: We don’t believe in
fairies C.L.: Nor ghosts... .G.L.E.N. : But
you don’t even offer an excuse for writing it.
B.D.: Keep trying... .C.H.C.: “What do
you think of it?” All sorts of unprintable
things A.S.M.: Has some merit, but its
only a lightweight... .H.C.F.: Sentiment’s quite
sound, but that’s all.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.: Looks as if the supply of ink ran out
before you could finish the drawing E.M.A:
Humor is as inspiring as a week-old pancake.
G.R.: Yes, there are mistakes, a score or
more to a drawing.. . .P.N.: Is that fireman
still jumping from his lady’s window?....
N.S.: Bushfire drawing is a little behind the
times G.N.: Why didn’t you send a magni-
fying-glass with the drawing; also, the joke?
T.H.: It must be many years since you
last saw a horse H.L.: You managed the
sun, but you made a terrible hash of the
people on the beach... .F.T.: A few may be
able to get along without lessons, but you’re
not one of them... .8.C.: We applied first-
aid treatment to the gent, and hustled his irate
spouse off the premises... .W.H.T.: A totter-
ing and infirm drawing, and the joke is a
half-century 01d... .A.P.: Evidence of extensive
but unsuccessful patching up F.R.H.: You
need a few years at a life class... .J. 8.: The
basket swallowed the tramp and the scrawny
housewife in one gulp... .A.A.T.: Soldier-in-
kilts gag reaches back into the mist of obscu-
rity H. 8.: More like a page torn from a
surveyor’s field-book than a humorous drawing.
... .R.C.: Make drawings more tidy, and let us
have gags with more kick in them S.M.:
This week’s most depressing contribution
A.J.N.: You should find an opening soon
C.0’8.: Lass with broomsticks for legs and
her stunted boy-friend are waiting to be taken
away G. 5.8.: It might do for a children’s
comic paper M.W.: Stale gags and crude
drawing F.P.: Not one of the five passed
muster.
A MIXED GRILL.
A. D. M. Longden, the Melbourne
impresario, will conduct Marjorie
Lawrence on her coming concert tour
of Australia. The songbird, whom
America votes marvellous, got her first
chance by winning a prize offered by a
Sydney newspaper. It paved the way
to the boards of the Metropolitan Opera
House N’York. Longden has had a
long service as a courier of virtuosi, and
he has also done a bit of producing.
* * * *
E W P. Chinnery, who becomes Direc-
tor of Native Affairs in the N.T.', is 51.
A Victorian who had his education
rounded off at Cambridge, he was a
Papuan R.M. for 12 years, though for
some of that time he was away
with the A.I.F. as a Flying Corps
observer. Chinnery helped to explore
a lot of country in the region of the
Owen Stanley Range, received the
R.G.S.’s Cuthbert Peek award in 1920,
delivered a series of lectures at Cam-
bridge on ethnology, has been a dele-
gate to various scientific world confer-
ences and a League delegate at Geneva,
and was president of the Anthropological
section of the Australasian Science Con-
gress in 1932. He has been in the Man-
dated Territory service since expropria-
tion, and was a member or the firs..
Leg. Council,
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: Bulletin s Short Story
Competition results prompted me to turn
up my 38-year-old copy of The Bulletin
Story Book, now rare. In it are to be found
many of the most outstanding names in
Australian literature. James Edmond,
Henry Lawson, Ernest Favenc, Louis
Becke, Edward Dyson, Barbara Baynton,
Victor J. Daley, Steele Rudd, Louise
Mack and Alex Montgomery—all gone.
Out of its 62 contributors I can place
only seven as being on deck to-day—
Albert Dorrington, who is still writing in
England, and Frank Fox (“Frank
Renar”), who mingles commerce and
journalism in London ; E. S. Sorenson,
still a regular contributor; Roderic
Quinn, now living a quiet life at
Waverley (Sydney) with poet R. J.
Cassidy and his wife ; “Banjo” Paterson,
at present writing his reminiscences for
the “S. M. Herald”; poet Dr. C. H.
Souter (“Dr. Nil”), who is nearing his
75th milestone and who is residing at
North Adelaide; and Adam McCay, on
the staff of Sydney “Sunday Sun,” as
versatile as ever.
* * * *
“T”: The Great Daily report that
malaria got Minister Thorby when he
was in the North seems to have been just
“one of those.” Anyway, Thorby is in
trouble with the newspapers again for
having, it is alleged, turned on a reporter
who put questions to him in his office on
the seventh floor of the Sydney Common-
wealth Bank building and said, “A man
ought to bash your head against the wall
—I ought to throw you down all seven
stairs.” It is admitted that this was one
of the questions:
In view of the modifications made in
the Official Secrets Act by the British Gov-
ernment will any bill contemplated for
Australia be similarly modified?
Thorby had a right to feel hurt about
that; but if he felt like throwing the
scribe down “seven stairs” he can’t have
malaria.
* * * *
“Galvo”: The march of progress has
queer repercussions, one of the latest ol
which consists of ploughing in Atlantic
cables near the Irish coast. A plough
at work on the ocean bed, drawn by a
steamship! It cuts a furrow, feeds the
cable into the bed and throws the soil
back as it passes. The reason for the
move is the damage done by the heavy
“drags” attached to fishing-nets, costing
500,000 dollars annually for repairs.
Whether a cure has been effected remains
to be proved.
* # * *
Forgan Smith, who rarely growls with-
out cause, said the other day that he
couldn’t get replies to letters sent to
Canberra. Similar complaints have come
from other quarters. It is a sure sign
that the Administration is suffering from
dry rot.


A HEARTY WELCOME awaits you in
ITA LY
saaß3E&.
wm
&
NAPLES. As your
liner enters the
famous bay, passing
the sentinel islands
of Capri and Ischia,
you will see one of
the finest views in
all the world. To
starboard lies
Pompei; soon you
will wander amongst
the patrician villas
which are
Vesuvius.
revealed again after their 2000-year sleep beneath the ashes of
Dominating all is the volcano itself with its plume of white smoke.
VENICE. The most
surprising thing
about Venice is to
find that it is really
true. It comes as
a shock, on leaving
the station, to find
a canal and not a
busy street. Silence
—no screeching of
brakes, only the
soft warning call
w
Mm
tu
wasS'
of the gondolier as the boat turns a corner. Evening . . . the Grand Canal
by moonlight' ... or roulette at the Lido Casino; take your choice
romance or finance—and may you profit either way.
ITALY is one of the most economical countries in which to travel. The
special Tourist Rate of Exchange greatly enhances the buying power of
your currency; Hotel Coupons are available at 5 to 18 shillings (sterling)
per day absolutely inclusive; motorists benefit by rebates in the cost of
petrol, and rail fares are reduced by 50% to 70%.
For information and descriptive booklets apply to ANY
TRAVEL AGENCY or to:—
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY (Australia)
Sr
-V
4S
*r-
-pr
V-y
n
K
How shall I Invest?
WEALTHY people are not the only ones faced with
the problem of how to invest. The man or woman
of average means has equal or greater reason to invest
money wisely.
In choosing a sound investment, satisfy yourself that
the security is good and the interest rate reasonable.
Both these essentials are inherent in a Rural Bank Fixed
Deposit.
You can invest any amount from £5 upwards on Fixed
Deposit at the Rural Bank for periods of 3,6, 12 or 24
months and you will receive interest regularly at current
banking rates.
Investing on interest-bearing Fixed Deposit at the Rural
Bank is a simple matter which will take you only
a few moments. You will be personally assisted by
experienced, friendly Bank officers.
RuJuJßnnk
Head Office:
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Philistinism in Sydney
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THE writer of an enthusiastic article
about regattas on Port Jackson,
printed in a Sydney daily, described
how dancing at Fort Macquarie
added greatly to everybody’s enjoyment
at one of the earliest of them, in 1834.
He added chat Fort Macquarie was “un-
inhabited” last Anniversary Regatta day
“except for a solitary watchman, who
made a brave display of bunting from
the historic old landmark.”
The fact is that the building on Bene-
long Point used as a tramway depot is
in no sense historic, and on the public
holiday referred to was more “inhabited”
than usual because of extra traffic on
the trams.
Ignorance displayed in daily news-
papers is nothing out of the way, but it
is almost staggering to realise that a
Sydney newspaper knows so little about
the city’s story as to suppose that the
brick tramshed built about 1902 on the
site of the old fort is the original building
planned by F. H. Greenway and erected
by Macquarie in 1816.
Another daily once brought Captain
Cook up Port Jackson in H.M.S.
Endeavour.
Anything like that seems possible in
Sydney. There can hardly be any great
city in the world so careless of its own
story and so saturated with Philistinism
as the capital of N.S.W., which for size,
amongst urban centres of the British
Empire, ranks next after London.
Except by the Royal Australian His-
torical Society and one or two letter-
writers in the correspondence columns
of “S. M. Herald,” there is never a pro-
test made when any old building is ruth-
lessly sacrificed to make way for a Gov-
ernment office, * a cinema theatre or a
pub. The destruction of the Commis-
sariat Stores beside Sydney Cove, in spite
of more disapproval than usual, seems
to be imminent. That of the old Hyde
Park barracks at the top of King-street
has only been temporarily postponed.
Macquarie’s Supreme Court is sure to
go sooner or later, and after that the
pulling down of St. James’s Church
would be nothing out of the routine of
demolition that afflicts Sydney. And the
Stevens Government coolly proposes to
grab a piece of the Domain for nurses’
quarters.
Perhaps a convict barracks, a convict
supply depot, and a church designed by
a convict and built by others may not
have very inspiring associations, but they
have one at least that entitles them to
respect and preservation—they are the
only public relics left to us of the present
day of the people who founded our Aus-
tralia. When they are soundly and last-
ingly built, as is the case with each of
the structures mentioned, they should be
allowed and assisted to survive, as they
would be in any other place than Sydney,
or in any Australian State other than
N.S.W.
It may be futile and wearisome to
protest against the way in which Syd-
ney neglects the relics of its founders, but
it is a protest worth making and one that
should be made, even if it falls on the
deafest of deaf ears.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is steadily catering for
the thirst of Scotland —and the world.
This year, as last, a full cargo of barley,
about 7000 tons, has left Wallaroo for
the port of Edinburgh. Last season’s
export of 30,000 tons, expressly for the
making of “Scotch,” is expected to be
beaten.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“As Mr. Chamberlain said on Thurs-
day night, ‘Come three corners of the
world in arms and we shall shock them.’ ”
—Professor Roberts. “Intense resent-
ment was caused [in Germany] by
Mr. Chamberlain’s Shakspearean quota-
tion ‘Come three corners of the world in
arms and we shall shock them.’ ”
“D.T.” Shakspeare wrote a “the” after
“come.” Without it the line doesn’t scan.
Renowned as these foreign-affairs experts
are, or think they are, they really
shouldn’t try to improve Shakspeare.
* * * *
World’s gold output in 1938 is esti-
mated by the Union Corp. (London) at
36,700,000 fine ounces, which beats the
1937 record by over 5\ p.c. Upwards
of one-fifth of the increase of about
2,000,0000 z. in production came from
S. Africa. Union Corp. provisionally
estimates the 1938 Russian production at
5,000,0000 z.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: A guy has discovered
that “The Star-Spangled Banner” is the
air of an old drinking song “popular
about 1780.” Nobody ever discovered
it before - that is, only about
124,328,427,639 digesters of odd bits
of knowledge and I mention it now
only because I think the same tune
—“Anacreon in Heaven” —was also the
air to which Australia’s first officially
patronised song was sung —in 1810.
The poet was Mr. Michael Robinson,
Governor Macquarie’s laureate. He
had come here after he had received
a “certain celebrity” in London as a
writer of threatening letters. He showed
the Governor his gratitude for finding
him a suitable place in the Crown Law
Office by writing an ode every King’s
Birthday, Queen’s Birthday and on every
other occasion which warranted stately
verse. He was quite a good poet, too,
compared with Pye, who did George
11l ’s laureating, but I think our ancestors
who used his wares were the stronger
men. Any gent, who could stand up at
a dinner after four days’ early-
colonial racing and nine toasts in Gov-
ernment spirits and intone seven verses
Mr. Robinson to the air of “Ana-
creon ’ was worthy to be an ancestor of
Diggers:
The Smiles of the fair, like Spring’s fostering
Breath,
Shall rear the young Scion and teach him to
shoot.
Round the Temples of Beauty we’ll twine the
hrst Wreath,
And Love’s hallowed Altars shall teem with the
Fruit.
Then leave Cynics to rail,
Our Voice shall prevail
And the Sons of the Turf their fair Favorites
Hail.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: That old shellback who
gave young Captain Harold Ruegg such
good advice that he was able to win an
“Other Fellow’s Mind” competition
with it (B. 22/2/’39), must have made a
special effort with him in view of his
obvious early lack of opportunity to
become acquainted with the traditions
of the sea. Ruegg’s family have been
connected with the Admiralty, Dockyard
Service and Navy for a mere 179 years.
The pupil himself, a Maoriland marine
surveyor, is R.N.R., and was born in
Hong Kong while his father was on
Admiralty duty there.
* * * *
A note from Clermont (Q.).: —
Back in his native Queensland, J. Douglas
Henry, erstwhile major in the Tunnelling Corps.
After war broke out he volunteered, and was
followed by every man under him on the mine
he was then managing in N.Q. He commanded
the Tunnelling Company in France in 1916-17.
He it was who gave the order which silently
put 25001 b. of ammonite under the busy Ger-
mans of the Caterpillar Gallery at Hill 60.
The Official War History has much to say of
the operation. German picks shook down flakes
from the ceiling on the heads of the waiting
Aussies. The mine was fired on December 19,
1916. It destroyed the German workings; and
the German commander, after the war, said they
had been “outwitted and outworked.” In the
subsequent blow-up Henry played a big part.
The first time I saw him he was in his shirt
dragging a pre-war Ford out of the Leichhardt
River (N.Q.). The last time I saw him was in
1927 in the Savoy Grill in London, blushingly
submitting to a common delusion, bred of a
striking likeness, that he was the King of
Spain. Since then, he has been interested in
salt dredging in the Dead Sea and in mines in
Greece and Portugal. But a growing family
and a desire that it shall be Australian have
brought him to live at Herberton (N.Q.).


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice. •
' Every week a first prize of £3 3s. will be awarded, and everything published
will be paid for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
T. J. Palmer, of 46 Palmer-street, Balmain, N.S.W., wins the £3 3s. this week
for the essay printed first.
Government and Co-operation
Some weeks ago on the O.F.M.
pages eight books were mentioned by
a correspondent as suitable for forming
the basis of a sound education. I have
obtained five out of the eight, Ruskin’s
Unto This Last being my latest acquisi-
tion. On page 102 i noted the following,
given as a general, invariable principle:
“Government and co-operation are in all
things the laws of life; anarchy and
competition the laws of death.”
Applying that principle to the de-
mocracies, it is plain that we have, not
government and co-operation, but gov-
ernment and competition. That is, one
of the principles governing life working
inharmoniously with one of the principles
governing death —resulting in such con-
tx-asted combinations as increased special-
ised attention to social services side by
side with intensive Government atten-
tion to arms production. It is with regret
that I am compelled to admit that the
dictator nations give effect more com-
pletely to the principle of government
and co-operation—not unmixed, never-
theless, with that touch of anarchy to
be observed in the oppression of peoples
(Jews) and the obliteration of freedom of
opinion.
In a booklet issued by the World
Foundation I read, 50 years after
Ruskin:
We do not advocate any blotting-out o£
racial differences, any disturbance of
national or individual life. The differences
due to climate, race, traditions, spontaneous
inclinations are inherent elements of diver-
sity stronger than any deliberate purpose
of reformers or dictators. They can
neither be ignored nor repressed. All that
is claimed is that, diverse as they are, they
are not incompatible... .The need of the
times is that world problems may be con-
sidered, not from the point of view of
any one of these nations to the prejudice
of the others, but from the point of view
of their inherent harmony through an
integrating principle which will reconcile
them all.
Which, broadly, is reminiscent of many
points in the speeches made by a man
called Chamberlain.
Ruskin’s principle of government and
co-operation, if applied internationally,
would supply the most urgent of inter-
national needs. —T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
Dominion Monarch
When the 28,000-tonner Dominion
Monarch, fresh from a Tyne shipyard,
passes through Australian ports on her
35 days’ maiden voyage to Maoriland
this month, Britain will open a new ser-
vice on the Cape route which many had
considered out of date.
For years before and after the war we
had ships of every variety coming round
Good Hope to Australia. But gradually-
changing times drew most of them to
the seemingly more profitable Suez and
Pacific services, until only half a dozen
remained. Now the Monarch, largest
motorship in the world, is to be joined
by other luxury packets in fast services
covering the Atlantic, Southern, Indian
and Pacific Oceans.
The Cape route provides no more
avenues for new trade now than it did
20 years ago. Still, it is to be honored
with the biggest and fastest ships in the
Australasian trade. The fellow who
knows all about it will tell you that the
international situation is the simple ex-
planation, because the safe, short cut
through the Mediterranean and Suez to
the far-flung places of the Empire can
no longer be regarded as a certainty.
That, of course, does not explain why
the Empire coldly neglected its overseas
merchant shipping while the Dutch,
Americans, Japanese and others were
developing off the beaten seas and gain-
ing goodwill as well as freight money.
It was a spectacular move to build the
Queen Mary and to give Britain pride
of place in the short Atlantic trip, but
we must blush when reminded that the
Royal Mail shipping contracts between
England and the Commonwealth provide
for a speed of 14 knots —the same speed
mentioned in the shipping contracts of a
quarter of a century ago.
In fact, until air mails came to the
rescue, importers often had their affairs
held up, with costly results, because
freighters carrying cargo often arrived
days ahead of the mailboats carrying the
documents. Nothing of the kind has
ever occurred between Holland, France
and their colonies.
Most of the cargoes between Austra-
lian and Far Eastern ports in the last
15 years have been carried in foreign-
owned vessels.
The coming of the Dominion Monarch
and the other Bradmans of the sea which
are to join her is the most important
development in British merchant ship-
ping since the days of canvas and
chanties. — John Pip (Vic.).
“Bubble”?
I read with great interest where 2300
building-trades workers had applied to
go to Maoriland under the Dominion
Government’s scheme. In newspaper
interviews some of these applicants ad-
vanced different reasons for wishing to
leave Australia. Some were sentimental,
others economical, but, from my obser-
vation, none of them stated what all
building tradesmen know to be a fact —
that Australia’s building bubble is likely
to burst at the end of the current finan-
cial year.
For six years I have averaged over
£lO a week as a carpenter, and never
missed a pay. There are others of my
acquaintance who are earning even
higher wages; yet they, along with my-
self, have applied for employment in
the Dominion market.
The N.S.W. Government’s co-operative
building scheme was the answer to a
building tradesman’s prayer for about 12
months ; but suddenly, about six months
ago, most suburban trades found that
field just about played out. But even
now there is still abundant work for
building tradesmen in Australia.
Having saved a little money I was
anxious to invest in real estate, but on
three separate occasions I was advised
by responsible bank officers to wait
“until after the end of the financial
year,” when, I was assured, “property
values would be certain to experience a
setback.” This official information,
coupled with my own observations, has
led to my application for employment
in Enzed while the going’s good.—Car-
penter (N.S.W.).
It Comes Back to Compulsion
The young ma.n of to-day has been
war-educated; he needs something more
satisfying than posters (pretty or other-
wise) to make him don the uniform.
The 1914-18 conflict divested war of
all its ideals; the young man knows
that from his papers, his parents and
world events. Bands, parades, speeches,
empty saddles were effective and pardon-
able then, for there seemed to be a
definite right at stake and the war was
in progress.
Now recruiting meetings, brass bands,
recruits doing their stunts and all
(pardon, recruits, your ideals of national
service deserve worthier recognition)
savor of the blare and tinsel of the
circus.
Why all the fuss about compulsion,
anyway? We must wear clothes, must
send our children to school, must buy
a railway ticket if we wish to travel,
must stamp our letters, must keep to a
certain side of the road, etc. It is com-
pulsion ad infinitum.
We are assured if war does come every-
one —women included—will be called
on ; then why not be prepared? Every
returned soldier knows that one trained
man equals 20 untrained. If there be
no war, then these men will be the
better for the training. Physical culture
in our State schools seems dead (more’s
the pity), and, the curse of war apart,
would it not be worth while to rectify
this by compulsory training among our
young men? —G. E. J. (Vic.).
Wireless and Education
Some people consider that American
films are giving our boys the nasal accent
and “wisecracks” peculiar to that coun-
try. My grouch is against many of our
own speakers who are often heard over
the air for the use of slipshod English.
Take the word “particularly.” The
great majority call it “particuly,” omit-
ting the fourth syllable entirely.
I have heard the mistake made re-
peatedly by a Lord Mayor of a city, a
Premier of a State and —ye gods!—a
teacher in a university. Other words
somewhat similar are treated in the same
way “confently” for “confidently,”
“Febry” for “February,” and “nachully”
for “naturally.” My suggestion is to
hang on the microphone a card headed
“Some common mistakes in pronuncia-
tion.” Under this a list of words as
stated. Much easier than telling a uni-
versity lecturer of his faults. They would
not write these words as they speak
them. — Harker (S.A.).
Retort Courteous
“Smacker” (B. 22/2/’39) is near-
sighted when he claims that women
“squander” large sums yearly on “beauty
treatment.” Obviously he has never
stopped to think of the employment it
creates, the poise good grooming gives
a woman, and just how it improves her
appearance. Anyone with half an eye
knows that a woman well “made-up”
attracts more favorable attention than
her “natural” sister.
It’s absurd to suggest that the fall in
marriages and births during the past few
years has anything to do with “beauty
treatment.” This calamity is solely due
to woman’s acquired independence, un-
employment and modern education.
And as for a bit of make-up
making all women appear “Galarious
Gorba”
Finally, I suggest a little “beauty
treatment” for “Smacker” ; it might help
him get off the bachelor list! —A. M. Y.
(N.S.W.).
Wholesale and Retail
There is a tale told of the young busi-
ness Jew who one night whispered feel-
ingly into his fond one’s ear, “Darling,
I will buy you a ring, even if I have to
buy it retail.”
This joke has the added quality of
being an expression of the age in which
we live. May it be preserved for pos-
terity that our children will know that
this was the period when people who
bought a commodity either “knew some-
body” ,or “knew somebody who knew
somebody” in the business in question!
Indeed, there are attested cases of the
racket having been carried into the third
and fourth degrees.
I do not propose to say whether the
fault lies with the consumer or with the
producer. Perhaps a saner conception
of the “just price” idea (promulgated
first by medieval economists) by those
on both sides of the exchange problem
would give more than remedial effects.
The fact that goods can be bought
wholesale by retail consumers means
simply that prevailing retail prices are
not “just” ones. If the price of a thing
exchanged is above its value or below
it, justice is defeated. Price should
measure true worth. — Ligouri (Vic.).
“Voluntary Euthanasia”
Having had abundant opportunities of
studying incurable cases and having
attended many deathbeds, I venture to
disagree with “K. 0.” (B. 22/2/’39). I
have never yet met with a single case
■of an incurable who wished to be put
out of his or her misery. The desire for
euthanasia comes from the hale and
hearty who are inspired by a sort of
perverted sentiment of pity.
“Safeguards” provided in the bill
rejected by the Lords were calculated
to worry the unfortunate patient almost
as much as the disease. The numerous
palliatives now known to medical science
make the provision of a short ending
unnecessary. The mission of the doctor
is the preservation of life. Assuagement
of pain is part of his mission, but it is
secondary. It is as well not to tamper
with a sound principle. W. E. E.
(N.S.W.).
Books on Spain
Spain’s Ordeal, by R. Sencourt, is the
book I. N. C. Nicolson (B. 22/2/’39)
requires. It is an admirably documented
volume dealing with the Spanish war in
all its phases down to April, 1938. It
gives a connected and dispassionate
account of the war and of the events
leading up to it. The analysis of the
Spanish character has undoubtedly been
written by one with a thorough know-
ledge of Spain and its people. I doubt
whether a better book on the subject
is obtainable. —E. W. Mahon (Vic.).
* * * *
I. N. C. Nicolson had better read The
Spanish Arena, by William Foss and
Cecil Gerahty. If he can’t get a copy
he may have mine when it has done its
good work locally.—J. H. (N.S.W.).
Radio and Visitors
Agree with “G.S.” (B. 25/l/’39) that
the wireless is best silenced when visitors
arrive. Can’t bear the person who isn’t
interested in what one is listening to but
pretends to be. One of ’em came in
while I was listening to cricket and drove
me to distraction. Scarcely less obnoxious
is the lady who said “Some people do
have queer tastes” when I stayed away
from a teafight to hear Queensland knock
the Victorian bowlers about. —N. G. R.
(Q-).
The Wheat Bounty
My paternal grandfather selected land
in Victoria in 1846. This was held by
the family until a few years ago. My
maternal grandfather, after some years
on the land in Victoria, selected on Yanko
Creek in 1868. This property is still in
the family. I have been living below
Wagga on the same land for 50-odd
years, bar breaks as a Digger overseas,
and so am not a Pitt-street cocky.
Many farmers admit there is no justi-
fication for the bounty. Those who really
deserve it — e.g., the south-west settlers —
can’t get it as their crops failed totally.
These men should never have been settled
there, as, in the ’nineties, with far larger
areas for grazing, not one in 20 won
through. _
After the last bounty 80 p.c. of my
neighbors sported new cars or a good
holiday tour, and several bought out ad-
joining neighbors at prices above pre-
depression levels. This land boom still
continues.
If farmers are in the bad way their
organisations assert, why do so many
put on share-farmers? When they say
they are losing money farming their own
ground, getting the whole of the crop,
how can share-farmers make a do on
half the crop, losing a year in addition
by fallowing, working up land, etc.?
Some landholders are actually asking
the share-farmer to provide manure, odd
ones insisting as well on seed being found
by the s.-f. A strong Government would
put the share-farmers on as owners with
those who will not work their own land,
resuming it at average district valuation.
—Yarragundry (N.S.W.).
Dental Decay
“A.P.” (B. 15/ 2/ ’39) is rather
belated in his demand for research
into dental caries, commonly called
decay. For a number of years
since 1933 there has been a dental re-
search scholar at the University of Syd-
ney, said scholar being a graduate in
dentistry, giving his whole time to re-
search. Furthermore, dental research
has been world-wide for many years now.
The conclusion is that dental caries is
due to overindulgence in carbohydrate
foods. Also, it is time the public prac-
tised a little self-help instead of always
wanting to lean on the Government.
About 1933, when R. D. Weaver was
Minister for Public Health, under his
authority the Department of Public
Health issued a booklet, Food, and
Nutrition, primarily for the help of the
man on the basic wage. It is yours for
the asking. I have told dozens of it;
two people have bothered to get it, and
they do not make use of it. Stung
(N.S.W.).
National Intelligence
A fire-engine rocketed down the street,
and a woman near me said: “That’s a
dinkum fire this time.” There had, it
seems, been a number of false alarms
lately, but in this woman’s mind there
was no false alarm about this; the
roar of the engine and the clanging
of the bell all pointed to one thing
—“a dinkum fire.” Since it has yet
to be proved or even asserted that
fire-engines travel at a slower rate
when answering false alarms, I gave a
thought to what manner of mind that
woman had.
Nor was she an isolated example; an
undergraduate listening to a discussion
on Sir James Jeans’s analogy of the
probability of a monkey banging aim-
lessly on a typewriter ultimately typing
a Shakspeare sonnet inquired interestedly
whether the monkey had actually per-
formed the feat.
Even were the examples not forthcom-
ing, the causes are themselves too obvious
for us to doubt the danger to the brain-
power of the nation. Our youth to-day


is being mentally fed on tripe ; tripe on the
films and radio, tripe in books and maga-
zines, tripe in public affairs ; what chance
has youth against the odds? The result
as I see it is that we as a nation are los-
ing our power to think.
With an isolated exception here and
there, the films to-day are mass-produced
dope ; no mental effort is required, no
appreciation necessary ; one just reclines
in a semi-coma and drinks in the sump-
tuous glories of Marlene or the blatant
masculinity of Clark. The abundance of
“press (and radio) commentators” saves
us the trouble of unravelling the news of
the day and its implications ; we are told
what to believe, and it satisfies most of
us. The latest and worst menace which
goes under the impressive name of “visual
journalism” is but an excuse for serving
up pornographic pictures, “photo-crimes,”
backstage scenes, any nasty subject that
a camera-hound can fix his lens on.
Ignorance is bad enough, and there is
too much of that; a dictated apathy lean-
ing on the one-track- mind of the totali-
tarian State is nearly as bad ; but when
the rot sets in among a people whose
proudest (and nearly always parroted)
boast is their “democracy,” then one
might be excused for feeling a little sick.
—Taurus (Vic.).
Astrology and Self-reliance
Long ago the Greeks were a great
nation. In the realm of clear intelligence
they were probably superior to the pick
of the moderns.
The Greeks declined. By the begin-
ning of the Christian era Greece was no
more than a luxurious holiday resort
for wealthy Romans.
As big a factor as can be found in the
mental degeneration of so cultured a race
was the loss of that reliance which their
philosophers had taught them to place in
their own thought processes. They lost
this by allowing the decisions of the
oracles to supersede logic. Men con-
sidered it a waste of time figuring out
problems for themselves when they might
be answered —ambiguously and obscurely,
but answered by the mouthpiece of
gods.
The lesson, of course, is applicable to
the world of to-day. It is becoming
common to hear of businessmen con-
sulting astrologers. Otherwise intelligent
and clear-thinking people boast of their
sophistication and their favorite horo-
scope-monger in the same breath.
Loss of self-rdliance is inevitable in
such circumstances, and surely we have
enough trouble running this absurd
planet as we are, without allowing our
capabilities to be undermined in this
fashion. — Ichabod (N.S.W.),
Children, Mothers and Fathers
The picture drawn by “Eurydice” (B.
11/1/’39) is only too true to life. But
need it be so? If living conditions are
right, rearing three young is managed
placidly enough by most healthy mam-
mals. Perhaps the catch is in the italicised
word. So many modern mothers are not
healthy in the superlative degree that
motherhood calls for. It may be their
nerves, their muscular tone, their diet,
their habits, their mental outlook on life
—one or more may be wrong, and each
sets up its insidious vicious circle.
Often it is the non-essentials that make
life too strenuous. Some women wear
themselves into a state of jitters main-
taining impossible standards of house-
wifery or outside activities in addition
to the full-time one of child-rearing. It
takes a strong mind to trim one’s sails
to the simple essentials of happy child-
hood. Still, it is a 24-hour-a-day job,
and, failing help from relatives, a relief-
shift organised by some of the women’s
societies with energy oozing to waste
might help some mothers.
Some husbands are rather a snag. Even
with young children they expect wives
to keep their end up socially, to hold the
old allure, not to be back numbers. A
woman novelist suggests that husbands
should be cleared right out of the house
for 12 months after the coming of a
baby. About all the old dear can do to
help then is to shell out financially. Other-
wise he’s a darn nuisance, wanting to be
waited upon and fussed over like an-
other and rather jealous baby.— Alanah
(Vic.).
Aliens and Australians
Week after week we read of the arrival
of aliens, hot all of the refugee type,
and are told what excellent citizens they
will make. I am a Digger who went
through over four years’ hell in the last
scrap, and in quoting only a little of my
experience with these “excellent citizens”
I have a suggestion to make.
Very unfortunately for me, an alien
family decided over two years ago to
settle down right next door to me. The
male of the species and his wife are not
“Pinks” —they are “Reds” of the most
pronounced crimson, and their children
(some born in Australia) are taught
rigidly and brought up in the same un-
compromising hue. While my wife and
family were friendly with them the head
of the family spoke in this strain:
“You weara dat badge, whaffor? You
fight for your King and country? What
part of the country you own, huh? Which
piece dey gif for you? What do your
King do if you lose big war? He do
like Alfonso and ’Aile Silass’ —he grab all
the moneybags and run away. You go
fight for dese, yes?”—and so on.
I had Communism rammed down my
throat until I nearly broke out in Pink
spots myself. Such people come here,
settle down, rule the roost, say what they
like, do what they like—and get away
with it.
The most damnable anomaly in the
whole thing is that in the event of war
every Australian —in fact, every British
subject in this country —would have to
enlist or do his or her bit; but these
“excellent citizens” wouldn’t be asked to
do anything.
I say that every alien permanently
abiding in this country should be at
once compelled to naturalise. There
should be a scheme of compulsory train-
ing in the case of these foreigners. They
should be obliged to learn how to help to
defend —not offend—the country of their
adoption.—Pax (N.S.W.).
The Road to Safety
The local press reports that during
times of peace the French Foreign
Legion has constructed many thousands
of miles of roads across the African
desert, and that on such roads a travel-
ling speed of 80 m.p.h. is quite safe.
Quick and safe transport represents a
major problem in modern warfare, and
especially so in a country like Australia
with its long, uninhabited northern coast-
line.
If the Federal Government were to
earmark a portion of the £63,000,000 it
intends to spend on defence for the pur-
pose of connecting by roads the southern
capitals with the vulnerable North, the
labor could be supplied by a standing
army. I suggest:
(1) That all unemployed persons who
volunteer for military service be given
preference of employment on this work of
roadmaking.
(2) That hours of labor, wages and
general conditions be those embodied in the
appropriate Federal Arbitration Court
award.
(3) That hours of labor be divided
as thought fit between general military
instruction and roadmaking.
Such a policy would result in the
alleviation of unemployment (particularly
among adventurous youth) and an in-
crease in the buying power of the com-
munity, thereby stimulating some
languishing primary and secondary in-
dustries.
In addition, our weakest points would
be strengthened by the presence of an
army in the North and the moral effect
upon the hitherto unemployed youth
would be very great. —R. H. Miller
(W.A.).
N.S.W. Railway Fares
Rising costs is the reason given for
the increase in fares and freights by the
N.S.W. Railways, but this increase will
not put matters right; it will only
aggravate the position.
Consider what happens: The extra
fares will be added to the basic wage,
and this will affect the railways, directly.
It will also cause prices to rise twice—
through both the basic wage and the
increase in freight. This will again hit
the railway by raising prices of every-
thing they buy. Apart from this, the
movement of population to the outer
suburbs will be arrested, and the building
trade —which the Government itself de-
clares is the motive force of industry —
will stagnate, causing a loss of freight,
more unemployment, and thereby de-
creased passenger fares, too.
It is certain that, far from making up
the deficit, it will be substantially in-
creased ; the only result will be higher
costs, more unemployment, and over-
crowding of the inner suburbs.
It is only a few years ago that the
railways in this State and'in Maoriland
were facing much larger deficits; the
method they took then was to reduee
fares and freights, the result being an
immediate increase in revenue.
Seeing that one of the worst results
will be an increase in the cost of the
defence programme, it would surely be
worth while to try the same remedy
again, even if there were a loss. —J. N.
Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Making a “Good Story”
Why will contributors to newspapers
and periodicals sacrifice truth for the
sake of a good story? I discount 50
per cent, of all information I gather from
these sources. Why? Simply because I
have read so many untruths and half-
truths relative to New. Guinea prob-
lems, natives, life, etc. A dozen extra-
ordinary incidents are strung together and
made to read like a serial story of every-
day happenings, when actually they are
possibly the only extraordinary happen-
ings in a dozen years.
If N.G. contributors feed these half-
truths to the unsuspecting reading public,
am I not entitled to. suppose all contri-
butors on all informative topics are doing
the same? That’s the reason for my 50
per cent, discount. Alice Robinson
(New Guinea).
Are You Educated?
If you ask most people how many
educated men there are in Australia
they would possibly start doing addition
sums with the numbers of colleges and
universities in each State. But what
does one mean by “educated”? Have
academies the monoply? Do you know
any educated men? Are you one?
In my view, a man with a degree is
not educated unless he has much more
than that. His taste must be cultivated,
his mind trained and disciplined. He
may be learned in history, literature
or chemistry, but can he reason? Can
he think? Can he make clear, swift de-
cisions? Is he a good citizen? To or-
ganise for collective well-being is ad-
mirable, but to develop independent
thinking is necessary if all thought is not
to stifle. “Canned” thought never made
for progress. Man differs from the
animal because of his power to reason.
Do our schoolmasters teach v their
scholars how to think or do they simply
tell them what to think? Facts are so
much rubbish if education consists only
of them. A walking encyclopaedia is not
an educated man but a bore.—E. J. M.
(S.A.).
“During the Week-end”
Don’t know how it is in Australia, but
Maoriland newspapers persist in report-
ing Sunday games as having taken place
“during the week-end.” This is a silly
piece of humbug that deceives no one.
The papers want the Sunday sports news
to fill their columns, but make a stupid
pretence of not knowing exactly when
the games are played. If they disapprove
of Sunday recreations why mention them
at all? Or, better, why not express
honest disapproval?
The hypocrisy of using the phrase
“during the week-end” is akin to the
amusing antics of small children who
close their eyes in the hope that
they themselves cannot be seen!
Heretaunga (M.L.).
Fitness
Experts mouth platitudes at us on how
to keep fit, and all the while we have soup
kitchens, dosshouses and doles.
Imagine the feelings of an unemployed
man when he picks up a newspaper
and sees a full-page spread of a well-fed
politician’s utterances on the benefits of
vitamins and the virtues of vigorous out-
door sport!
Let the Government (and ourselves) get
down to causes. The prerequisite to good
health is economic security, which,
despite the familiarity of the term, means
what a lot of people are not familiar with
—good food and hygienic homes. We
don’t need appointed councils to tell us
that milk, butter, eggs, meat, vegetables
and fruits are the best foods. That know-
ledge was established by science and pub-
lished for our edification long before the
Federal Government conceived its im-
becilic plan to make the nation body-
conscious.
Australians are naturally an outdoor,
sport-loving people —climate sees to that
—and, provided food, clothing and hous-
ing are assured, waste no time in setting
about making themselves fit. The finest
body of athletes we have are the life-
savers, and their organisation sprang
into, being without the assistance of
speeches and newspaper blab on how
to keep fit. Give people the oppor-
tunity to work, eat and sleep in
healthful surroundings and they will
find fitness. It did not require a “keep-
fit” campaign to make the physically per-
fect Arizacs in 1914, nor does it require
one to make us a healthy race of people
now.— Michael Barry (Q.).
Foul Public Telephones
Only yesterday I had occasion to use
a public telephone. On entering the
booth I had to contend with a potpourri
of scents unknown to Cologne —stale
tobacco, stale bodies, dust and other
things a nasal cocktail superb. How-
ever, being of the stuff that Diggers are
made of, I persisted, but when I lifted
the receiver and addressed the mouth-
piece I gave up. The mouthpiece had
been, among other things, a receptacle
for shreds of tobacco and a condenser of
human breath, and when spoken into re-
vealed pronounced halitosis.
Surely in the interests of public health
and convenience the P.M.G. Department
could, from its surplus of ill-gotten wealth,
provide a regular disinfection service for
public telephone booths. — Twenty-two
(Vic.).
An International High Court
Although writers and novelists are
generally very chary of infringing the
libel laws, it seems extraordinary that
some newspapers are allowed to publish
misleading statements about prominent
people with impunity.
I suggest that an International High
Court be instituted where world griev-
ances could be aired, and newspapers and
magazines sued for libel if they are in-
capable of substantiating their statements.
This would mean the end of Madame
Tabouis and her tribe, and perhaps we
would discover who or what “an unim-
peachable authority” or “a reliable
source” really is.
• Any: unpleasant “incidents” causing
friction between nations examined by
the Court and an indemnity paid by
the guilty party, instead of resorting
.perhaps to war. I think it would do far
more to promote peace than the League
of Nations.— PeTer Piper (N.S.W.).
Helping the Farmer
, Articles written by those who are evi-
dently. not primary producers, such as
“All or None” and “T.A.M.,” who con-
tributed to. B. 18/1/’39 on how to over-
come farmers’ problems, have at last
driven me to take up a pen in defence
of the backbone of the country.
Take “A. or N.’s” paragraph first. He
says the Government shows a preference
in assisting the man on the land over our
industrialist friends ; but when one views
the ever-increasing tariff barriers which
are formed solely to protect the secondary
industries one has misgivings as to the
accuracy of his statement. With the
absurd duty on imported shovels we
could retire all the shovel-manufacturers
on £lOOO a year and then have shovels
at half present prices. Again, the country
against whom such tariffs are imposed
takes counter-measures by putting high
embargoes on the primary produce which
we export.
Now consider “T.A.M.’s” opinion. He
asks if, when the city-dwellers are assist-
ing us, are we helping ourselves? What
better proof do we need than to observe
farmers all over Australia working 16
hours a day for a mere existence and
many of whose sons have to leave school
immediately they turn 14 to help keep the
family in sustenance? And do we not
assist those in the cities by enduring the
high tariffs imposed for their benefit and
counter-barriers as a result of the former?
—A. S. Holmes (W.A.).
“Encouraging Recruits”
There were at least 30 other men at
the recruiting office when I entered it
at 7 p.m. Matters proceeded as follows:
7 p.m.—Stood about the hall with as
soldierly a bearing as is possible in
civilian clothes —chest out and that sort
of thing.
7.3o.—Chests subsiding slightly, as
no one seemed. to think much of them.
General tendency to sidle towards and
lean against the walls and relax.
8 p.m. —Were called into line and
again forgotten to all intents and pur-
poses. Meanwhile, lots of salutes were
swapped, and chatty little groups of uni-
formed men strolled about. One or two
unofficial and polite inquiries were made
as to whether it was our intention to
join up. My back was this time aching,
and I, felt very unsoldierly.
8.30 p.m. —Our names were taken on
sundry scraps of paper by the recruiting
sergeant in a very noncommittal and dis-
couraging manner. # ~
9 p.m.—We were told that it would
be advisable to come again next Monday
night, and that would be all for that
night.
On Monday I again made my ap-
pearance, and found things much the
same, although some marching was done
by the uniformed men, while the would-
be recruits watched in awe —perhaps with
envy.
Now I am told that I need not again
turn up for another fortnight. Should 1
be finally informed that the army is lull,
at least it can be told to my B ral
children with pride that way back in
grandpa tried to take up the colors o
the King!— C. Howards (N.S.W.).


•• V • . ••••
»:::m
m
■
c* >
-' ' ' ><.
’
Above is depicted an actual Tested Tool Chest. You see ONLY
the top layer of tools in their special section. UNDERNEATH
this is yet another section of specially tested and guaranteed tools.
HUNDREDS OF DELIGHTED AND SATISFIED
USERS OF "T.T." CHESTS.
' j ’HE splendid results that greeted the Tested Tool Chest when
announced so extensively in the Press last year were abso-
lutely phenomenal. Orders from every part of Australia teemed
in. The reception of this compact and useful chest' was really
amazing.
Thousands of letters from grateful customers gave written testi-
mony praising the high-grade quality and money-making oppor-
tunities presented by the “T.T.” Chest.
A FREE BOOK OF PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION is included with
each order, so that even the man who has never used a tool in
his life before can make a certain success of this wonderful
investment.
THERE'S SPLENDID PROFITS IN THIS
IDEAL HOBBY.
\/OU start saving money right from the word “Go” through
the medium of the “T.T.” Chest. There are literally
hundreds of household jobs that' previously you have had to pay to
have done that can now be accomplished right away, quickly and
easily. The possession of a “T.T.” Chest opens up wonderful
opportunities for you, whether you use it for household repairs,
etc., or as a hobby that can bring you in good £ s. d.—and these
high-grade tools will last you a lifetime! Take advantage of this
opportunity. Post the coupon alongside TO-DAY!
A TOOL FOR EVERY PURPOSE IS INCLUDED.
A TOOL for every purpose is included in this outfit. There is
* practically nothing that you cannot' make to aid the beauty
and value of your home and garden—for your loved ones and
close friends. The moment a T.T. Chest is installed in your
home you will have made an investment you will never regret.
MAKE EXTRA MONEY
IN YOUR SPARE TIME WITH THIS
WONDERFUL TESTED
TOOL CHEST!
'T’O-DAY, as never before, in Australia there is a
demand for high-grade quality tools. Both the man
who has a general knowledge of tools and the man who
has no knowledge at all have convinced us that there is
a ready and willing market for the Tested Tool Chest
and Home Repairing Outfit.
The “T.T.” Chest was devised many years ago, and
has been improved and added to from year to year,
until to-day it comprises every necessary article that
the handy man could possibly require—-and each
tool guaranteeed to be of the highest quality.
Each tool is neatly placed i:
and, together with the extra
its own section,
combines t o
give a lasting
asset that any
man would be
proud of for
many years to
come.
Combine
Pleasure
with
Profits.
7 Days'
Free
Approval
I
4
a/
ir>
-rrrmt*
i
Li
What a "T.T." Chest Can Do for You.
Just check up and see if any
of these aggravating little
(and sometimes b i g)
repairs have been wanted in
your home at some time: —
—Doors and windows that
won’t close and lock
properly.
—Drawers which are hard
to open and just as diffi-
cult' to shut.
—Faulty door handles.
—Rickety furniture.
Numerous examples of
broken woodwork.
—Cracked window-panes,
etc., etc.
No doubt you have found it
far from easy, and sometimes
extremely difficult, to fix up
towel racks, hooks, shelves,
lattice work, etc., without
proper tools and instruction.
Your garden also probably
requires attention how
about repairs to fences,
sheds, trellis work, seats and
similar things?
The Tested Tool Outfit is
something you cannot afford
to be without.
o
Q
o
o
H
o
h
m
u
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(
A
m/k
oj
L
m
€ZZ777&i
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
COUPON—POST NOW!
TESTED TOOLS CO., Dept. 19,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —
Please send me by return, free of all cost, full particulars
and literature of your 7 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL OFFER of the
“T.T.” Chest and Home Repairing Outfit.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Enclose stamp for postage.)
8/3/*39
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
it
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
5$
*****
i
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours”
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
16
Post Free
4-'
cfi
-© I&)
x.o'f'
j 4 e
s' - s>t V
s'
,'S O^
*VfV\’3 9
i&S.tffr »\»'
\s s
# S ‘
•* .••’*
01
>' v° \& S'rV
O 0
' o\V v u v*


c VKduxtcU\
FILL- RIISTRRLIRN PRODUCTS
* "WAR ATAfI
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
WARATAW
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT M
"WARATAM
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
* WARATAH"
StMt
f
* WARATAH"
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
* WAR AT AH"
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
/ -S
■
STEEV
*' 4
s’ *. :■:■ : : -: ; : : ;^v :: ': : 'iBs«|§|s§&B
\' • :
•> «&:•••■•.•■:•:;• >,-•■: .■: ?:•. •^:^Ss>^&K*?^>SsiSsstS4s3S:sgs3BsSBBBSS
m
.' A ' ■
. ■ :
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
m
•Hfe?
3538
n''
SR
SSsS
« A
£
«s»
I
SSfi
II *
YL
T
I
fe WORKS • NEWCRSTLE N.5.W.
HEAD OFFICE • 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST..MELBOURNE.
