

A Suggestion for Summer
\ / X
*:
I
/s
M
ALL
HV
(/fPMw.
9
OLFES
ESPRODUCT OF HOLLAND.
r-l
===tr- THIS
gRSMATIC AL6OHOLIC
BBBaSSlactured Exclusively In
I l
_Coidi.il, exiibos^ti)*ftp
s■ 4
Sttt-aadeiTty iritmnpt at Infrini
<■..xMn.Tywa-iitiniwJ.nid Uioinfi
1 PINT 8 ft.
Always keep a bottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps in your
home. As well as a general
tonic, it is a safe, pure stimulant
for emergencies. Obtainable
at all hotels.
Wolfe’s Schnapps with iced water or cordials, as pre-
ferred, makes a distinctively delightful summer stimulant.
Cool and cooling, possessing all the flavor and aroma of
genuine Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s Schnapps is un-
doubtedly a most pleasing drink on a hot day. Yet at the
same time, it is in character and constituents essentially
a Health Drink, unequalled as a tonic, diuretic and
appetiser.
■H
SCHNAPPS
WOLFE
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
-
The Bulletin
For One Parliament
Vol. 60.—N0. 3119.
Wednesday, November 22, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
faiWJ.umatem
HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGF
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please sendj without obligation, your Ne.m
Booklet explaining how to Write for Prom
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' ’
My Name ■
My Address
S.B. 23? • •
The Red Page
BOOKS AND THE WAR.
When the 1914 war broke out Aus-
tralian booksellers cabled to London can-
celling their orders, with the result that
there was a temporary shortage of books
in this country. That hasn’t happened
this time ; supplies, though they’re liable
to be held up in transit, are arriving
freely.
Nor are the English publishers drawing
in their horns, either from fear of air
raids or because of the possibility of
stocks of paper. running low. Even if
London is bombed, production won’t
stop. Most of the leading firms have
withdrawn to the country and have
announced that they will carry on from
their retreats. Many of the presses used
by London publishers have been estab-
lished for years in provincial centres. The
increased cost of paper will cause the
use of cheaper grades ; possibly, as in
the last war, popular fiction will be
printed on newsprint—of which the result
will be more books and cheaper books.
One thing the publishers have no need
to fear is that there will be any, decline
in the demand for reading matter. The
troops (witness the appeals for second-
hand books in Australian papers) must
have books, and the civil population
probably reads more eagerly in war-time
than in peace, both for escape and for
information. Catering for the war-time
reader has started already: two English
houses are issuing histories of the war in
monthly instalments, on the lines of the
history John Buchan turned out during
the last shindy; one of them is being
written by Stephen King-Hall, the man
who had the dogfight with Goebbels be-
fore Poland was invaded. Cape has
brought out The Second World War,
by Major Duff Cooper, in which the
author draws on his past speeches
and articles to show how right he has
been all along and how wrong others
have been. Another publisher is starting
a series of sixpenny novels advertised as
‘ suitable for sending to the front”; and
there’s a cheap edition of Kipling coming
along for the same purpose.
All the publishers made a feature of
the cheap pocket edition in the last war.
An Australian bookseller’s catalogue for
1916 lists 12 pages of them, besides a
couple of pages of “popular novels at
Is. 6d., suitable for sending to soldiers
at the front,” The pocket Kipling was
there; the pocket Stevenson; A Little
Book of Toasts and Maxims at Is. 6d.,
or The Maxims of La Rochefoucauld for
two bob. If your taste ran to Homer and
Dante they were available; so were The
Book, of the Kiss, Darlings and Angels
and Heart to Heart, all with dainty illus-
trations. There was a special edition for
Australia of Backbone, “a Splendid
Booklet of Optimism and Good Cheer.”
For sixpence there was “Tennyson, Sweet
and Low," or the anonymous Joyous
Jottings.
It took ID years for the pent-up
emotion of the world to break out into
the “war books”—meaning the anti-war
books. The Case of Sergeant Grischa
was a best-seller in 1928. All Quiet came
six months later. Graves, Blunden,
Aldington, Hemingway, with the auto-
biographies or semi-autobiographies that
were the best writing produced by the
war, were all about the same period.
There had been a time when nobody
would read about the war; but while
it was in progress there were dozens
of war histories, soldiers’ experiences, war
poems. Brooke’s 1914 and Other Poems
sold by the thousand; and in the later
years there was a market for Sassoon’s
poems of disillusion.
The 1916 catalogue says, “After two
years there has come a real literature
dealing with the war, its causes and
effects; many are actual stories of big
men writing from the trenches.” The
list five pages opens with On the
Anzac Trail; there is Because I Am a
German; Soldier Songs; Vive La
France; and Battery Flashes by a gentle-
man who preferred to be known as
“Wagger.” One or two are still remem-
bered: The Soul of the War, by Philip
Gibbs, The First Hundred Thousand, by
lan Hay, Hilaire Belloc's War Book, and
J Accuse. It’s safe enough to prophesy
that a book or two from the airmen
should appear before long ;
one of them (the book had
a bad press in England) has
recently written his experi-
ences while learning to
fly.
On literature generally—though it’s a
hard way of effecting an improvement—
the war is quite likely to have a beneficial
effect. Creative writing has been in the
doldrums ever since the fear of war
began to grow urgent; poetry has been
crisis poetry” ; the sensational journalist,
cashing-in on fear, has ousted the novelist
tiom the bookshops; novelists from
Priestley to Huxley have turned to
politics ; Hemingway seemed quite con-
tent to be a reporter. There won’t be
any more crisis poptry. The Soviet’s
twist should settle the hash of the Left
Book Club. The outbreak of the war,
not only because of censorship and the’
difficulty of travel, but because the pre-
war jitters are over, will keep the
journalists at home. (Though anyone
who can do a good one on India or
Russia there s a study of Stalin due
shortly—should make money.)
The official Blue Book is the best-
seller of the moment. Australians are
said to be reading Liddell Hart. But
the next bestseller is just as likely to be
another Anthony Adverse as an Insanity
Fair , and that is certainly an improve-
ment, for Anthony’s still worth reading,
but Insanity Fair went into the waste-
paper basket the day war was declared.
Dinning's Australians.
Hector Dinning, in Australian Scene
(Angus and Robertson), adds a thought-
ful volume to the recent outbreak of
writing on Australia and Australian
national character: he is most concerned
with the latter. His purpose and earnest-
ness lead him into some exaggeration.
He speaks of
the not uncommon boast that Australia’s
artistic standards, both of performance
and appreciation, are as high as the best
abroad—especially in music and creative
literature.
It is true that, in a desperate effort
to bring some work they think good
to as big a public as they feel it deserves,
reviewers may speak of some book being
as good as anything of its kind pub-
lished abroad, which might be said of
Dinning’s book. Such comparison,
though, seems to be generally used in
a current application. If criticism were
based on a wholly embracing retrospec-
tive standard what a savage time would
be had by all! But surely no one has
so far suggested that Australian literature
or music is “as high as the best abroad”
by this sort of standard. Dinning says
it is comic “to say that our literary pro-
duction can hold its own, on equal terms,
outside this country.” It would be, if
anyone said it.
Criticism can examine a book by tem-
porary current standards, show the kind
of book it is and give a finding on it by
that comparison; or it can employ abid-
ing standards. By tlie former kind, a
lot of good work has been done and is
being done here; by the other, only a thun-
dering ass would assert that anything has
yet been done. In time, maybe, the freak-
ish accident of birth which produces
genius will give abiding standards appli-
cation here ; till then, current standards
should be exacting enough.
By these, Dinning has written a most
interesting book. He recognises the Aus-
tralian as a positive national type, not
merely in a state of evolution, but already
arrived, distinctly developed; as much a
national race type, it may be inferred, as
a Japanese, German, or Frenchman.
Dinning shows up his Australians in com-
parison with the English. The develop-
ment he traces out through climatic,
geographic and environmental influences.
His line of comparison makes his book
interesting as an examination of both
English and Australian character.
He examines the Americanisation of
Australia, especially Sydney; the de-
terioration of sporting values; the gam-
bling spirit; the cramming that goes on
education because the examination
fetish is an obsession not only of educa-
tionists but of employers. He is very
fond of Brisbane, and says so with en-
thusiasm ; indeed, in many of his pages
he is writing of Queensland when he
imagines himself to be writing of Aus-
tralia at large. Altogether, he mixes
praise and censure very nicely, and
adduces much lively evidence in support
of his main theme, that in this now
clearly defined Australian nation we have
“an offshoot so different from its parent
stock that a common origin is almost
unthinkable;. § new nation, in short.”
A White Australia Scheme.
If the Fedrists have their way they
will populate the country with good
Australians, open up unoccupied country,
and bring into being thriving settlements
whose members will all be Fedrists, each
“theoretically” capitalised according to
his ability.
If that sounds like a cross between
Major Douglas and Socialism, inquire
further of Walter S. Bromhead, who
wrote Shall White Australia Fail? (pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson).
Mr. Bromhead, who was here in the
’nineties and is now back again, likes
Australia as a country, but isn’t too
enamored of Australians. They must
plead guilty to the many offences with
which he charges them, but he hasn’t
sought to understand their reasons.
He is at his best when telling of his
many efforts to aid migration from the
crowded British Isles to Canada, Aus-
tralia and Africa, when bitingly attacking
bureaucracy, when analysing the causes
of what he believes to be the retrogres-
sion of the white race, and when urging
the planting of millions of trees in Aus-
tralia.
But readers of Shall White Australia
Fail? face the irritating task of having
to wade through a verbose jungle
before they can suck the not-very-attrac-
tive fruit of his message. Heavy sub-
editing might have enhanced the taste of
the fruit.
Still, he has a better geographical
knowledge of Australia than 80 p.c. of
its inhabitants, and he frequently comes
out with things like this:
The State of Kansas converts 40 per
cent, of its grain into pork. Australia can
go one better and convert 60 per cent, of
her grain and meat into population.
And this :
There is yet another direction in which
Fedrity, adequately backed and organised,
may give distinguished service to Australia.
With the sublimest effrontery, and in
almost childish confidence in the might
of the British Navy, the Commonwealth
has annexed an area in Antarctica. Yet
she has not a single citizen even spasmodi-
cally exploiting this territory, although
other countries are securing millions of
pounds’ worth of whale oil annually. One
cannot help feeling that the Australian is
too soft to do any more pioneering,
though their fathers dared all.
Or this:
My deal [to sell the W.A. Kimberleys
to the Jews] may easily prove to be of car-
dinal value to Australia in the stormy era
directly ahead.
They suggest that the effort of wading
through the book may not be altogether
wasted.
"Gallipoli Adventure."
The hero of John Gillam’s Gallipoli
Adventure (Muller) goes to Gallip. for
the second time in a tub that took its
share of Diggers to the same lively
address. “Seang-Bee’s ’er name,” says
David’s batman, Dobbs. “Fancy going
to war in a Chinese junk!”
God rest her aged bones somewhere
at the bottom of the sea; but, these
respectful sentiments uttered, it must be
said that Mr. Gillam is too kind to her.
“The Seang-Bee,” he says, “was a
small, uninviting-looking steamer which
in normal life tramped the Far Eastern
seas and smelt of engine-oil, tar and-
hemp.” That is a flattering meiosis. The
sentence would have been better to have
stopped at smelt. She had traded round
India, and the tang of coolies’ feet was
with her yet. She was a slattern, if she
could be thought of at all as female;
she looked, and behaved, more like a
coolie scavenger. R.I.P.
Anyway, she took David and others to
Gallip., so no doubt she was a brave ship
and did her duty. So did David, though
nothing out of the box as warriors go.
Too dreamy like; too much of a pattern
of chivalry for that coarse business.
Moreover, there was something on his
conscience after his lawyer had told him
the worst about his parentage and past —
of such a nature that,
“Good God!” David exclaimed bit-
terly—“ German and illegitimate!”
Worse is to befall. The unhappy
young man is strolling along by Picca-
dilly when a young woman says “Good
night” to him and makes a certain pro-
posal. David declines, saying he is going
somewhere to eat, but they’re still in
each other’s company when David’s girl
friend heaves in sight.
It must have been David’s hard luck
with the ladies that eventually landed
him with the Seang-Bee, for there are
more complications over another young
woman, ending with his having to go off
to the wars without being able to get
leave to marry her, thus visiting on ms
daughter what, as his remark _ _
lawyer clearly indicated, rega
a serious stigma.
The truth is that tender passages are
not the author’s long suit. He himself
fought on Gallip., and he writes best
of men and action. He writes well of
the Australians on Gallip., and ox the
Gallipoli scene generally. He also wrote
A Gallipoli Diary.
“To the obvious embarrassment of one
or two newspapers,” says London
“Times,” “the Nazi Youth leader, Baldur
von Schirach, has composed a poem on
the Hitler Youth leaders who died in the
Polish campaign.” The poem —a free
verse effort—is rendered in this trans-
lation : —•
Day after day you fell there. They pro-
claim to me your sacred names, O silent
ones! Brothers! Never did I hear you
more clearly when you lived and laughed,
when I ordered you, chorus of faithful
ones, to the roll-call.
Your voices are dumb, your bodies stiff.
Yet the sacred names are like mighty bells
sounding to the land.
Leaders of youth, fallen ones; you lie
fallen like early dew on a spotless shield.
Arise, eternal ones! arise! Hear your
names and live eternal like God.
No personal description of Baldur is
given, but the effort recalls the author of
the “Hymn of Hate,” Ernest Lissauer,
a better poet if that fairly represents
Baldur at his best. Lissauer, who died
10 years ago in lonely and abject poverty
in Vienna, was the antithesis of the
romantic notion of poets. He ran to three
chins and a moonlike face and the body
bulk that goes with them. He would
have been preposterous in uniform, and
his offer to don one was declined. He
called then on his Muse to help him
strafe England, and his “Hymn of Hate”
was the seventh of his many war efforts.
Stefan Zweig wrote of it that it “was
not by a long way the most bloodthirsty
of the German war poems; it was only
poetically the best.”
The “Times” also reports that a corre-
spondent in the “Deutsche Allgemeine
Zeitung,” inquiring into the type of book
now being bought in Germany, notes a
striking increase in the demand for all
kinds of serious literature, particularly
among the troops. In Berlin shops the
demand was for the novelists of the nine-
teenth century, notably for Balzac and
the Russians. Nowhere did the investi-
gator find any eagerness to read “dyna-
mic literature” such as “Faust” and
Nietzsche’s “Zarathustra,” which “were
popular among soldiers in the Great
War.” Instead a wide demand for popu-
lar expositions of various branches of
science. Also, “a new preference for
quiet reading matter, for the aphorism,
for reflection, together with a distaste for
biography and an obvious reaction
against sentimentalism and cheap
humor.” The “Times” doesn’t suggest
that this means a falling off in the sales
of Mein Kampf.
You’re the Doctor: Victor Heiser
(Cape). Medico-author, suffering from
acute “commonsense,” explains that
everything we eat is probably wrong, but
all the diet experts are probably wrong
also. Similar chatty platitudes about
colds, fat, golf, etc., under such playful
chapter-headings as “The All-devouring
Gut” and “How Now, Brown Cow?”
“Dhas”: “Sound prose” in My Aus-
tralia yes but it’s marred by inefficient
punctuation, the reviewer who quoted
from it on the Red Page last week had
to punctuate the quotations himself to
make them intelligible, M. Barnard Elder-
shaw puts a comma where a full-point
is needed and puts nothing where a
comma is needed, the result is bad (1)
because it’s an affectation that could well
be left to Gertie Stein (2) because it inter-
feres with the sense and (3) because far
from helping the prose as prose it ruins
the cadences, an author can read his own
work without punctuation marks because
he knows in his mind where the pauses
come but as far as the reader is con-
cerned the absence of the traditional
signs is merely bewildering.


■
mm l
n
.
MS
m ' mmm m
1$A C
! :
Mi
mm
: S:V
«
rv
0
'M '
■
f Tl**-
■
H
v>e^ vvi sv^ ct
«*>* rvA
O/S . »*n VbVA
I
«
»
l—
iSiSI
mm hi ■
ns
n
Mi
in
\
mm
■
II
-vrN* S ~ \tO . N v© , 0
° XX'* o '' f vt®** '
c°<«s< o ; •#>*
• s>*
*e°* e , so o<
IVve'" 0 !..^ o'’ 0 '’
v>n n<JS ° 4'l ' 1
rt>°
,x\e s
'° e
W
\YeX,
’ v ot\'
"Ao°
on
A \ e
>\Y' eS
>' cV
on<-
tf\e ot
er "'
vi on
v. on c
Y * el ' , \Q W
i*
D bo s
Ase s
\.\\e
cW°n
*a9 eS
exo
V\on-
o*
<onn
\n<3
< *. **
. °” e
- e <** °'w, toVe ° '* °0 <e '" <3 t'>< eV °
***» V'" 9 T"°« e ' *****
V t o<i v
\ns
oY
»V<>.
s
fw. „
t. *•’ •"
sYz- e
*ox c ob'^ e
-\ee\
> uvne . r. rt \sbeA
h <- on d ■*
USe - '*
teo^'' 0 "’ v t»' eV ° f a «4 se ' f<e<=-
V> ? pe-^ 0 ' \aM °Lo °' e °
* e 9 „ w e4.'" „ tlo p°'' V °
<£**•’"*
xnon^ s
fee 1
3^-
A
\
■m.
m*
m
i
3K
1
J
bov> se
vaxn?*
w>
OJ®
M*
1
-n
A»
*»*«
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd., Sydney.
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ICE NEAR THE LINE
“Are you there, Miss Sanders? Take down
a letter .”
BY STEVE BENNETT.
WHEN he shuffled into the fo’c’sle o’ the Glen-
holme in Melbourne I summed him up as the
most ancient, God-forsaken, whisky-logged
derelict ever salvaged by an easygoin’
skipper; but we hadn’t been a week out before he
proved that at seventy-odd he could still climb aloft
with the younger fellers in a gale or give a song at
the head o’ the tops’l halyards. He wasn’t much of
a talker, an’, although he must have had some lively
experiences stowed away behind his weak-lookin’ eyes,
the only yarns we could kid him to tell durin’ the first
few weeks were about his prentice days in a forgotten
tea clipper, Athella.
Runnin’ the eastin’ down put new life into his
old joints, an’ roundin’ the Horn in a screamin’, sleety
westerly he done less growlin’ than a skylark in
spring. In the sou’-east trades he was quiet an’
dreamy, an’ when he did talk his voice an’ smile were
so soft I reckoned he had a screw loose. But it wasn t
till we edged right up to the Line, an’ lay swelterin’
in what must have been the longest an’ hottest spell
even this old-timer had ever known, that we all
tumbled he had a very queer kink.
“Away in the Baltic to-day there’s ice an’ snow,”
he’d say whenever he heard someone cursin’ the dol-
drums. At first we only laughed at him, but after a
while, when I’d pull his leg to keep him yarnin’, and
he’d rave about the failin’ snowflakes coatin’ masts
an’ yards, the keen breeze tinglin’ the ears, bluein’
the nose an’ clearin’ the cobwebs from the brain, I
got to wonderin’ if Johnno an’ the doldrums were
doin’ for me what booze an’ the Baltic had done
for Johnno himself !
I relieved the wheel at ten o’clock one mornin’ in
a hellish glare, feelin’ tired an’ peevish after two hours
lazin’ aloft with a marline-spike, an’ I just leaned
against the wheelbox, my arms hangin’ loose between
the spokes, ready to put up for another two hours
with the craziest officer I’d ever had the bad luck to
ship with.
There was less doubt about this mate than about
Johnno. He was starin’, as usual, at a limp little
strip o’ rag he’d tied to the mizzen-to’gallant back-
stay a couple o’ weeks before. From that he stared
at the horizon ahead, follered it round the semi-
circle to a point dead astern, started ahead again an’
follered it round the opposite semicircle to the same
point. Shovin’ his hands hard into his trouser
pockets he then stared aloft at the ripplin’, flappin’,
aggravatin’ canvas, an’ came back to his strip o’ rag
with his mouth wide open, an’ me knowin’ exactly
what was cornin’ out. He’d done it all so often that
I’d have been doin’ it too if I hadn’t taken a grip on
myself.
“There’s a little air now, sir—a little air, I
believe!” he says very confident, an’ he might have
been answered if the comfort of a deck-chair under
an awnin’, with a pipe an’ a book, hadn’t put Captain
Brown to sleep!
I tried to hide my amusement by turnin’ to the
binnacle, wonderin’ why this fool couldn’t take things
as easy as me an’ the skipper.
“Don’t lie there like a grinnin’ corpse, Brough!”
he snaps very sudden. “Stand up to your wheel!”
I shifted one foot, then the other, an’ drew my
ribs an inch from their prop. The mate glared, bit
his lip an’ turned back to his mesmerisin’ weather-
vane. Then I flopped back to the wheelbox.
I began to wonder how this mug would have
stood up in that little barque Johnno had been tellin’
me about. She’d been a mass of icicles in all kinds
o’ funny shapes—trees, animals, men’s faces an’ so
on—aloft an’ along the pinrails. Ice on the shrouds,
ice in every link o’ the chain-sheets, an’ two o’ the
crew sufferin’ frost-bitten toes.
The ship, with its useless turnin’ an’ turnin’ in
a never-endin’ calm, seemed to me about as crazy as
the mate. But everythin’ now was turnin’ round in
tantalisin’ circles, an’ I remembered I’d been doin’
the same thing all my life: round the circle o’ years
through the sea to success, failure, misery ashore an'
back to the sea —like this mate’s empty head, round
the horizon an’ back to his blasted rag!
I wondered if I could ram that rag down his
throat an’ choke the life out o’ the insignificant weed
without wakin’ the skipper. Then I found myself
drippin’ sweat an’ all ashiver just with thinkin’! So
I damned the mate again an’ started dreamin’ o’
that little barque o’ Johnno’s. No pampered
weaklin’s aboard that packet, thinks I, thrashin’
down the Baltic in a race with the winter ice ; an’ I
was picturin’ the bloke at the wheel, freezin’ in all
the clobber he might have had, when the mate set
my heart skippin’ with a sudden bark. “Strike eight
bells there, Brough!”
Very lazy an’ deliberate I tinkled the little bell
behind me, an’ the heavy one for’ard clanged loud an’
dreary. The second mate popped out o’ the com-
panionway, the skipper stretched an’ stood up, an’ I
thought I was in for brain fever an’ a buryin’-bag
when I spotted a string o’ black letters dancin’ round
the blisterin’ deck like a signpost in an earthquake.
But they settled down as I fanned my eyes, droppin’
back to the cover of the skipper’s book.
“So,” says I to the waltzin’ lubber’s-point, “while
the mate mumbles to that maddenin’ scrap o’ rag like
a heathen to his joss, an’ the rest of us are rockin’
on our keels or groggy in the head, the chief lunatic
o’ the floatin’ asylum gives himself beriberi with
Polar Explorations ! ”
A feller nudged me an’ took the wheel, an’ feelin’
a bit less grumpy I slouched for’ard.
A few sailors were climbin’ aloft, a few were
climbin’ down—Johnno amongst ’em —red as
lobsters an’ oozin’ sweat. Close by the fo’c’sle a few
were paintin’ the bulwarks, but makin’ darned little
headway ; an’, as me an’ Johnno came along, Foxy,
sittin’ on an upturned deck-bucket, waved his brush.
“Wot cheer, Johnno, ole cock! ” he shouts.
“ ’Ow’s the snowstorms aloft?”
Johnno halted, stared aloft with his mouth open,
then says with a grin: “There’s a little air now, sir—
a little air, I believe!”
The lads were amused, but Foxy wasn’t satisfied.
“Ain’t ’e gettin’ witty!” he says very sarcastic. “But
strike me blind if I know why the skipper shipped sich
an ole barnacle!”
Johnno turned with his fists swingin’. “To teach
the ropes to ignorant greenhorns like you!” he
snarled.
Foxy twisted his mouth to show how funny he
was. “Well, if you ain’t a bleedin’ ole skite! ” he
shouted; but as he toppled off his perch dodgin’
Johnno’s wild right he changed his tune. “Git for’ard
an’ cool y’r ’ead, blast yer! Bad-tempered ole
blighter!”
The laugh against Foxy was loud enough to bring
the mate struttin’ for’ard; so I shoved Johnno ahead.
IN the hot, stinkin’ fo’c’sle we ladled out our
hot, stinkin’ pea-soup. Johnno helpe 1
self to a little, then started pushin’ a biscuit
round in it. While the rest of us grumbled at
the heat, the grub, the ship, the mates an the
Old Man, Johnno kept nibblin’ his hard-tacie
an’ steerin’ it on figure-eight courses.
“Any o’ you blokes know the Baltic,
he asked sudden ; an’ just as sudden the Baltic
was cursed an’ condemned in different ways
an’ dialects by those who did know it!
1 tried to be more friendly after that, men-
tionin’ a pretty girl I’d met one summer up
in Sundsval.
“Sundsval!” cries Johnno. ‘I was in Sundsval
forty-odd years ago, Scotty, before the winter had
properly set in. Record falls o’ snow, lad it was
great! I’d like to see Sundsval again.”
“Yer barmy ole jay,” sneers Joe, while the others
just sniggered. “Wot in ’ell d yer wanter see it again
for?”
Johnno turned his leathery, sweaty face to the
open door, an’ I looked out to see what was attractin’
him. The main-deck was a patchwork o’ slow-movin’
shadders an’ bright splashes, an’ a bloke with a pot o’
tar was makin’ for the fore-riggin’, hoppin’ an’
squirmin’ to dodge scorchin’ his bare feet. The empty
sails coughed an’ slapped at the swayin’ masts, a
loose bolt inside the mainyard rolled an’ rattled from
yardarm to yardarm, chain-sheets clanked, swingin’
blocks clattered an’ banged, everythin’ aboard moved,
but nothin’ made headway, an’ the sea heaved smooth
an’ sullen.
“Johnno,” says I quite serious, “suppose you an’
me take a ship up the Baltic when we’ve spent our
pay.”
His eyes fairly sparkled in his creased old dial.
“Scotty, lad, I’ll go with you,” he says. “I want to
see the ice an’ feel the bite in those gales again.” An’
he went on smilin’ an’ chattin’ as he cut a pipe o’
tobaccer an’ joined the rest of us in further thickenin’
the thick air. Then he ruffled his straw mattress an’
slipped his dungarees. “Sundsval, eh,” he says,
chucklin’ as he climbed into his bunk. “We’ll have
some fun together, Scotty, in freezin’ Sundsval!”
Joe worked through the watch below on a piece
o’ fancy mattin’ for his mother. Most of us dozed,
smoked, swore an’ spat. Johnno rested when he
wasn’t rollin’, an’ although the cold breezes o’ the
Baltic might have been blowin’ through his dreams I
knew the suffocatin’ air o’ the fo’c’sle was cloggin’
his snout.
At eight bells we were all pretty sour, but the
mate was savage. When a light shadder zigzagged
from the skyline an’ set his pet rag strugglin’ hori-
zontal from the backstay he danced down from the
poop like a berserk doll in a Punch-and-Judy show.
“Lee fore brace! Lee fore brace!” he yelled.
“Spring to it, all hands! Starboard watch, take the
main!”
He sprang to it himself, chuckin’ the weather-
braces off the pins an’ stumblin’ over ’em. “Haul
away! Haul away—damn your eyes!” he bawled.
“Take the tops’l braces too, you bunch o’ wooden-
headed stiffs! Can’t someone sing? Shout, then,
shout —blast you! —an’ get in that slack!”
No one sang, no one shouted ; but with the braces
droopin’ from the yardarms like backyard clothes-
lines the crowd hauled them in slow an’ sulky ; which
was a deadly insult to Mister Mate!
Then the sails hung loose as ever. The cat’s-paw
had passed, an’ was stragglin’ away to the horizon
like a big sick spider. I thought the mate was whistlin’
it back ; but when he turned round an’ caught Johnno
grinnin’ I could hear his teeth grind. “Coil the braces
down for runnin’!” he snarled. “Coil the braces
down —d’you hear? —you blamed old imbecile!”
The crowd were mutterin’ an’ lookin’ dangerous.
“ ’E’s gettin’ too flamin’ saucy,” growls Foxy as the
mate bustled aft. “All swank, I reckon.”
“He’ll be crackin’ you, old ’un,” I told Johnno,
“if you don’t watch out.”
“If ’e does,” says Joe very hot, “we’ll lay the
swine up for a month!”
Johnno smiled, bendin’ over a coil he was layin
down careful an’ neat. “He’s right enough with a
breeze blowin’,” he says, “but here in the doldrums
he’s not fit to sail a nigger’s canoe. I remember a
young feller like him, many years ago, up in the
Baltic just after the ice had broken”
“Blimey!” gasps Joe. “Wot are you talkin’
about? This bloomin’ ’eat ’as got you as crazy as
the mate! You shouldn’t be ’umbuggin’ about in
windjammers, either! You ought to ave a cushy job
in a pub cellar!”
Johnno stood as straight as his bent shoulders
would let him, an’ came at Joe all ruffled. “I’ll hold
my own here with any of you milk-lappin puppies!
he piped in a voice that came squeaky instead o’ loud.
“Before you were thought of I was chasin better men
round better ships than this. Oh, to hell with the lot
o’ you—mate, skipper an’ all! I’m goin’ for’ard for
a smoke!” An’ he went, his eyes blurred an’ his
brain spinnin’.
AT our evenin’ banquet o’ black tea an’ hard-tack
Johnno scraped a little thin margarine on half a
biscuit an’ turned to me. “Did you see much o’ the
country around Sundsval, Scotty?” he asks.
“For about five miles,” I told him. “It’s pretty
enough in the summer.”
“It’s glorious in the winter,” he went on, very
pleased. “Just you imagine, laddie, a five-mile walk
in the snow!”


“Ah, fer Gord’s sake put a whippin’ on it, yer
barmy ole goat!” shouts Joe; “you’ll never git past
the rat-’ouse in Lunnon!”
“Well,” says Johnno very calm, “I was in Lon-
don one time in a record fall o’ snow for fifty years.
I was wire-splicin’ for a rigger, an’ could hardly hold
the spike in my numbed hands.” He turned again to
me, an’ he had me yarnin’ about winters in London,
Vancouver, Hobart an’ the Baltic, with plenty inter-
ruptions from naggin’ shipmates, till near eight
o’clock.
Durin’ the next four hours the old tub carried
on her rollin’ an’ rattlin’, clatterin’ an’ clankin’,
joltin’ her trucks across the stars with the monoto-
nous, tirin’ motion that makes a sailors’ hell. Every
half-hour the mate wanted the yards squared, braced
for’ard or squared again. Sometimes we worked like
dummies, sometimes we shrieked long an’ mockin’
Ho-ho’s” an’ cursed the dry pulls with everything we
knew. Johnno on lookout handled the bell-lanyard
so soft at eleven o’clock that the mate bawled from
aft to ask if he’d gone to sleep. So he struck six bells
again, just loud enough for the mate to hear, an’
drawled his dreamy “All-ll’s well-11.”
We dozed the middle watch through, restless an’
irritable on the fore-hatch, an’ mustered for duty again
at four o’clock. At six Johnno set the pace o’ the
brooms in washin’ down decks. Swingin’ slow, it
suited the feller at the pump an’ us passin’ the buckets,
but it didn’t suit Mister Mate’s ravelled nerves.
“Think you’ll finish this week,” he yapped,
crawlin’ like lice?” Then he hopped smart to the
fore-hatch from a flood shot rather suspicious at his
shoes. “Put a bit o’ life into it, you crowd o’ stupid
mutes!” he bullied, wavin’ his arms. “Swing that
broom lively, you, or I’ll swing it myself across your
thick skull! Swing it —damn your grinnin’, idiotic
insolence —swing it!”
He flew from the hatch like a mad dog. Johnno
swung the broom lively enough then, but back over
his shoulder as he lurched aside to strike, champin’
his jaws an’ slobberin’. The mate stopped short,
tremblin’ an’ bitin’ his lip, strugglin’ to hold himself
in hand ; an’ as the watch closed in he spun round an’
tore away aft. Up the poop steps he bounced,
bumpin’ into the skipper as he came stretchin’ an’
yawnin’ from below.
“The whole watch threatenin’ mutiny, sir!” he
shouts. “The whole watch, led by that murderous old
lunatic! ”
The skipper looked past the mate’s ugly mug to
us quiet fellers slowly washin’ down. He could hear
the pump-handle rattlin’ in easy, regular time; an’ it
satisfied him. He spoke to the mate very soothin’, an
kept him on the poop for the rest o’ the watch.
\X/HEN we lounged into the boilin’ sun at midday
the ship reeked o’ bubblin’ tar an’ rubbish tips;
the air was deadly still an’ the mate was as moody as
a smokin’ volcano. His bloodshot eyes blinked sore
at the scrubbed decks, gleamin’ brasswork an’ white
paint. His frown was painful an’ his voice croaky as
he talked with the second mate.
The other watch had opened the hatches, an’ were
scoopin’ up an’ dumpin’ overboard masses o’ rotten
wheat an’ bags. The cargo had got wet in patches
earlier on the voyage, an’ the carpenter had reported
that the heat of the packed, decayin’ stuff might cause
fire. AH hands were to stay on deck till the job was
finished.
The second mate took his men to the main hatch,
our bloke began pushin’ things at the fore.
“Don’t stand about like obstinate mules,” he says.
“Jump in, a few of you, an’ get the stuff chucked out
on deck. You others fill some o’ the good bags an’
empty ’em over the side. An’ you shift yourself, you
sneakin’ old wharf-rat! What the hell are you gapin’
at?”
Leanin’ on a deck-broom, Johnno was gazin’ out
across the rail to his eyesight’s limit. Slowly turnin’
inboard, he gazed just as steady into the mate’s fiery
face.
“Ice,” says he.
We were all helpless, an’ the mate’s nervy
splutters simply made us laugh louder. Johnno
started very careful to sweep a heap o’ moulderin’
muck into the mouth of a bag held by a titterin’ ship-
mate. His tired moves fanned the smoulderin’ fire
in the mate’s brain. Jumpin’ forward, he made a
vicious punch at the old feller’s head. Johnno
staggered, recovered his balance an’ stood very
shaky. The mate charged, an’ under his clouts
Johnno’s head rocked. He dropped to his knees, the
liftin’ deck toppled him right over, an’ our laughin’
veered as sudden as a cyclone to the madness that
had been simmerin’ aboard for days. We yelled an’
cursed, our fists all shootin’ for the one mark. The
mate’s arms worked for a minute like a boltin’ sema-
phore, then down he went sprawlin’, clawin’ at the
deck, chewin’ hard on his tongue.
The .crowd grouped round lookin’ silly; but
Johnno, as we stood him on his pins, brushed a hand
across his eyes an’ took charge.
“Bear a hand, Scotty,” he says. “We’ll get him
aft. Joe, hold his arms. Now keep his, head low an’
steady does it!”
We laid him in the shade o’ the awnin’; an’ while
I was kiddin’ to the skipper Johnno was makin’ the
sick man’s head comfortable on a coil o’ rope. Some-
one brought cold water an’ Johnno started bathin’
his head. Joe looked useless, an’ went creepin’ down
to the main-deck to whisper to Foxy. The others just
shuffled about, waitin’ for news.
While I was watchin’ pretty anxious a sudden
draught brushed the mate’s hair over his face. The
skipper sniffed in the breeze, told me an’ Johnno to
stay with the mate, an’ then roused the crowd to work
with half a dozen orders in one breath.
I’ve never heard such wonderful music as the
patterin’ o’ those feet, the rattle o’ that runnin’ tackle
an’ the cheery haulin’ songs fore an’ aft. It was no
wonder the mate opened his eyes an’ smiled as though
life was just a good joke. “The trades at last!” he
says very weak. “God —what a relief!” An’ as
Johnno again wrung the towel an’ laid it across his
head, “Thanks, old chap! An old trouble of mine,
you know ; picked it up in West Africa. Will you get
me a drink?”
Johnno went below, an’ the skipper came over
to see the patient.
“I still argue, Mister,” he says a bit annoyed,
“that the advice given me in my prentice days aboard
the wool clipper Bonita was feasible. If you could
keep your mind on cool latitudes —think an’ talk
about ’em when you feel this hell-stuff beatin’ you—
but you’re too darned impatient!”
Johnno came back then, lifted the mate’s head
an let him sip some water. “I’d have gone down my-
self days ago, Mister,” he says very kind ; “but in
these hot calms I find it a good idea to keep my mind
on cold latitudes all I can. It helps a man
through”
what?” chips in the skipper pretty sharp.
Where the devil did you hear that?”
Aboard the old tea clipper Athella, before your
time, sir, answers Johnno. “As a cheeky kid I
laughed at that skipper’s queer notion, but when I
grew older I used to pass it on to others.”
Captain Brown quizzed the broken-down shell-
back very close for a minute, an’ although he done
his damnedest then to speak pleasant he sounded
sorrerful.
Yes, of course you passed it on,” he says, takin’
from his deck-chair the book he’d been stewin’
an sleepin’ over. “You passed it on, you may recol-
lect—h’m—Captain Johnstone—to Billy Brown, the
cheekiest kid aboard your old wool wagon Bonita!”
AFTER THE BRAWL
BY G.C.B.
‘ ‘ OU ain’t serious, Emma,” I ses, ’orrified, when
\ J Mrs. Raggles tells me wot the Good ’Ealth
y Club ’ad decided.
C “Ain’t I?” she ses, smilin’. “We’ll see
on Christmas Eve.”
“But, Emma,” I ses, “we’ve been lookin’ forward
to our smoke-oh for months. We’ve paid for the
School of Arts ’All, and for ten gallons from McNeil,
as well as for cheese and onions”
“We ’ave decided, Ernest,” she ses final. “If it’s
good enough for the men to ’ave a Christmas night
it’s good enough for the wimmen to go with ’em. We’re
goin’ to make a fancy-dress ball of it, and Miss Pil-
kington is givin’ a prize to the lady wot ’as the best
fancy dress. And wot’s more,” she ses cold, “we
’ave ordered milk for refreshments, so you can cancel
any other orders. We don’t want no drunken brawls
and beer thrown about.”
It was no use pointin’ out that it wasn’t fair to
leave McNeil with ten gallons on ’is ’ands ; but when
we breaks it to ’im that evenin’ in the bar of the
Shelterin’ Palm he tells us he won’t ’ave nothin’ of
the sort on ’is ’ands.
“Business is business,” he ses very firm. “The
beer’s been ordered and there ain’t no more to be said.”
’Owever, there was quite a lot said, very loud.
“The beer was ordered for the smoke-oh,” shouts
Joe Russel. “And if there ain’t no smoke-oh we wants
our money back.”
“ ’Ear, ’ear,” ses Paddy Ryan between ’iccups.
“And if we don’t get it we’ll boycott the pub.”
Of course, Paddy was only talkin’ wild, not bein’
thirsty just then, but McNeil looks worried, and at
last he ’its on the idea of deliverin’ the beer at the
side door of the ’all, very quiet, so that we can all
slip down between dances and ’ave a drop from time
to time.
He seemed terrible pleased with the idea, but
sneakin’ down and drinkin’ like a thief in the night
didn’t suit me and I says so, addin’ that Miss Pilking-
ton, wot ’ad a terrible nose for beer, would smell it
out sooner or later and tip it all out.
Everyone shudders very strong at the thought of
ten gallons bein’ tipped out; but after I ’ad argued a
bit McNeil agrees to share the risk and pay for ’arf
of it if that ’appened.
We breaks up quite friendly and full of ’appy
Christmas spirit then, everyone ’opin’ for the best. The
wimmen was ’opin’ for the best, too, all bein’ anxious
to win Miss Pilkington’s prize, but there wasn’t much
’appy Christmas spirit among them.
They all acted pretty cool to each other because
no one wouldn’t tell wot sort of a dress they was
goin’ in; but when it leaked out that both Charlie
Carter’s missus and Mrs. Buxton ’ad decided to go as
Shirley Temple there was a terrible row, each accusin’
the other of imitatin’. ’Owever, Mrs. Raggles, wot
was makin’ a little-Dutch-girl dress for ’erself, says
she ain’t a bit keen on winnin’ the prize, as long as
that upstart, Mrs. Russel, didn’t get it.
DUT they all seemed to ’ave forgot their jealous-
ness once the ball starts, about the only bit of
unpleasantness bein’ a few complaints about Mrs.
Barkum insistin’ on carryin’ ’er fairy wand, wot ’ad a
sharp tin star on it, while she was dancin’. Wot with
watchin’ them wot comes in contact with it and
admirin’ the dresses, it wasn’t till Miss Pilkington comes
around with jugs of milk and glasses that I remembers
the beer, and I gets Paddy Ryan to ’elp me get it off
the truck wot was waftin’ patient at the side door.
It was ’ot and ’eavy work on account of ’avin’
to juggle them two fives around the big milk cans
wot Miss Pilkington’s idea of refreshments ’ad come
in, and when we gets ’em safe under the stairs Paddy
says that if anything ’appens to them twins he won’t
never get over it.
“Nothin’ ain’t goin’ to ’appen to ’em,” I ses, lookin’
at the kegs and the milk cans. “That is, if you does
wot I tell you.”
At first Paddy didn’t understand, but after I ’ad
explained very patient wot I wants ’im to do he goes
off grinnin’, leavin’ me to get to work with the beer
and the milk cans.
I ’ad to work pretty quick, and I’d ’ardly got
back into the ’all again when some of the wimmen
starts driftin’ careless towards the back stairs ; and
when some more follered to see wot it was all about,
and even young Florrie Russel ’ops down from the
piano, curious, and goes out, the men starts gettin’
anxious and askin’ me if them kegs is quite safe.
But before I ’ad time to explain back comes them
wimmen, lookin’ terrible pleased with themselves,
especially Miss Pilkington.
“It might interest you to know, gentlemen,” she
ses very polite, “that we ’ave just finished the ’appy
task of tippin’ about ten gallons of beer down the
drain! ”
“Thought you was clever, Raggles,” shoves in
Joe Russel’s missus, “ ’avin’ that beer brought in the
side door and hidin’ it in the milk cans!”
“Wot!” I gasps.
“I ’appens to know, Mrs. Russel,” snaps Mrs.
Raggles, “that it was your own precious ’usband’s
idea.”
“Nothin’ of the sort, me little Dutch girl,” sneers
Joe’s missus.
“At least,” ses Mrs. Raggles in a shakin’ voice,
lookin’ ’er up and down very slow, “I didn’t make
the mistake of thinkin’ there was a prize for the most
’umorous costume, me good woman.”
Mrs. Buxton tries to smooth things over by sayin’
it was Charlie Carter wot was to blame, and when
Charlie’s missus, wot was still sore about Shirley
Temple, turns on ’er like a tiger the unpleasantness
becomes general.
Wot with them wimmen’s jealousness and bad
temper breakin’ loose, and Mrs. Barkum tryin’ to keep
order with ’er fairy wand and forgettin’ about the
points on the star, and everyone slippin’ and slidin’
about in milk puddles, the ’ole thing was disgustin’;
and long before they ’ad finished there wasn’t ’ardly a
fancy dress worth givin’ a prize to.
Not that there was no prizes given,, that bein’
the end of the ball, and by the time the wimmen ’ad
gone off, screamin’ insults, the ’all was in such a state
that I suggests the men stays back and cleans up the
smashed glasses and jugs and spilt milk.
There was pretty near another row then between
the men when Paddy starts swankin’ ’ow he ’ad got
rid of the wimmen by tellin’ ’em he ’ad give up booze
and confessin’ wot was in the milk cans.
“Wot! ” ses Charlie Carter. “Is that wot you was
talkin’ about while you was dancin’?”
“And wot’s more,” ses Paddy, laughin’ ’earty, “I
tells every wife I could that someone else’s ’usband
was responsible. It got rid of ’em all right.”
“Wot about the beer you got rid of?” ’owls Joe
Russel.
“Paddy was only carryin’ out me instructions,”
I ses. “I’m the one wot’s to blame for wastin’ that
beer and I apologises ’umble. I admits it’s a ’orrible
waste, but we ’ad to get rid of them wimmen ; and
you can’t ’ave your cake without smashin’ eggs, as the
sayin’ is.”
“Very clever,” ses Joe, breathin’ ’eavy. “And
now wot are we supposed to do—’ave a glass of milk?”
“Please yourself, Joe,” I ses agreeable. “But
there’s still a bit over eight gallons of beer in them
kegs not disturbed. I ’ad to draw off pretty near two
gallons before the water wot I’d put in the milk cans
smelt strong enough to put Miss Pilkington on the
scent. I thought it was worth it.”
There was a sort of ’ushed silence for a bit, then
Joe ’olds out ’is ’and.
“Raggles,” he ses, “I congratulates you. Worth
it! It’s worth every drop of two gallons to be able
to drink the other eight in comfort.”
“And for another reason wot I ’ope you ain’t
overlooked, Joe,” I ses thoughtful. “’Owever, we’ll
make a start on our smoke-oh now, by drinkin’ ’earty
to the ’ealth of the wimmen.”
“The wimmen!” snorts Joe.
“Our witnesses,” I ses quietly. “Because if they
talks and we don’t McNeil’s goin’ to pay for pretty
near ’arf of wot we’re drinkin’.”


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
jf c Mhe<cf f iahe meilmme'Umdkmq/uei
While Henley-on-Thames is situated
some 35 miles west of London, and
cannot strictly speaking be said to be a
part of the Great Empire’s Capital, yet
paradoxically, particularly in connection
with sport, it may for all intents and
purposes be regarded as within the boun-
daries of that mighty centre. Few places
in the world are better known than this
now large township, with a municipal
charter dating from the days of Queen
Bess, located on one of the loveliest
stretches of the Thames. Wherever
rowing men and women congregate,
“Henley” is a household word which,
in association with rowing and sculling
meetings, has been adopted in far-away
lands. Thus in Australia, “Henley-on-
Yarra” signifies the greatest “aquatic
meeting” in the Southern Hemisphere.
Not without reason has Henley-on-
Thames been designated “the Mecca of
rowing men.” Hence no visitor to Lon-
don regards his or her visit complete
without seeing this historic Apart
from its site amid scenes, land and
river, of surpassing loveliness, it pos-
sesses literary fame rivalling its sporting
reputation. Here, depicted in the 1939
illustration, is the renowned Red Lion
Hotel, altered in certain particulars
architecturally, where Shenstone wrote
his well-known “Lines on an Inn,”
arising from incidents set out in Recol-
lections of Some Particulars in the Life
of the Late William Shenstone, Esq.”
published by Dodsley in London (1788).
The last verse is the best known:
’‘Whoe'er has travell'd life’s dull round,
Where’er his stages may have been,
May sigh to think he still has found
The warmest welcome at an Inn.”
Our great English sage Dr. Johnson
also was at the Red Lion, and accord-
ing to his Scottish disciple added a
commentary to the verse, containing such
sentences as: “There is no private house
in which people can enjoy themselves
so well as at a capital tavern at a
tavern there is general freedom from
anxiety No, sir, there is nothing
which has yet been contrived by man by
which so much happiness is produced as
by a good tavern or inn.”
Henley-on- THAMES.


THE NEW FLAG TO THE MASTHEAD!
“An abolition-of-State-Parliaments resolution was carried by an overwhelming majority at the N.S.W. Local Government Association conference, and Mr. Lang admits in
his ‘Century’ that the movement is making ‘tremendous progress.’ Even ‘S. M. Herald’ demands ‘a sweeping realignment of authority, with a cession to the Commonwealth
of complete power over trade and commerce, industrial arbitration, transport, and health as a minimum basis of change.’”


bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
"WAR AIMS."
Such is the name of the happy hunting ground, and
now is the open season, inviting cranks and all sorts
of people with bugs and bees in their bonnets to get
out after a bag of wild cats, white elephants and other
fabulous monsters. All those joining in—cranks and
sane persons alike —are characterised by one thing.
They are all in deadly earnest. They range from the
simple, soul panting out that the hunt is on to “stop
Hitler” to people who insist that the aim is to revive
the League of Nations, others chipping in with schemes
even more great and wonderful.
Thus Sir Nevile Henderson, lately British Ambas-
sador to Germany, insisting that “we must regard the
war as a crusade.” This should fetch men out by the
million to suffer and die in a glorious reunion of
mutual slaughter. Sir Nevile is not the only one in
the hunting chorus to use that fatal word “crusade.”
Directly and implicitly, J. Bull and all his lusty sons
have been urged to get into just that sort of war for
years past —against Italy, in Spain, for China, over
Austria, over Czechoslovakia. Having no foolish
commitments in any of those places, J.B. and co. de-
clined ; but the “crusade” slogan lives. Sir Nevile adds:
The British Government has undertaken to vindicate the
highest principles of humanity to ensure that brute force
should not be the supreme arbiter in international affairs.
That is still vague, but better. Much better than
the cry put up by Dr. Hewlett Johnson, Dean of
Canterbury. This very rev. gentleman insists that
“our immediate war aims” are no less than “the restitu-
tion of sovereign rights violated by aggression, and
these should include not only Poland and Czecho-
slovakia, but Abyssinia, Austria and Albania.” He
has forgotten about booting Franco out of Spain and
Nippon out of China, and forgotten about the Balts
gobbled up by his hero, Stalin. But his open invita-
tion to national suicide —to say naught of its con-
demning to death of millions —would mean fighting
three, if not four, Great Powers, including Russia, so
it should satisfy the most bloodthirsty.
On the opposite flank of the hunt from these are
joined for the present Communists and Blackshirts. The
acrobatic Communists are there because Moscow for
the moment orders it so ; Blackshirts are there because
war against a high priest of Fascism finds no favor
with them. Both sets are going great guns, bawling
for peace without any conditions and bawling at each
other. Between flanks, daily spreading out in a widen-
ing arc, assorted huntsmen —some of them sane ; all
of them earnest —-join in the hunt.
What some people have described as a war, Mr.
Lloyd George calls “a sort of truce during which
reason may be listened to and may prevail.” He is for
a conference, all the more so because the invitation
thereto “did not come from us but from the enemy,
with the support of at least two very powerful neutral
countries.” He explains that this is no retreat from his
“policy of standing up firmly to dictators. You can be
firm at a conference as well as on the battlefield.”
And if as the discussion went on it became clear
to us that Hitler had no intention of doing justice, and
that he meant to cling with greedy tenacity to his
conquests, we could quit the conference and resume the
struggle with a clear conscience that we had done our
best to secure an honorable peace.
A better programme, anyway, than the Dean of
Canterbury’s ; a great deal better, also, than the silly
notion propagated by Our Glorious Press that every
definite move for peace must be considered as rejected
in advance. As for fighting the war to abolish Hitler
—for what; Communism? —Mr. Lloyd George insists
that “we cannot dictate to another country what kind
of Government it is to be allowed to have. That would
be only destroying Hitler and carrying on his business
ourselves by his dictatorial methods of interfering
with the liberties of other nations.” Using adjectives
carefully, Mr. Lloyd George assumes
that we will insist on the restoration of the freedom
of the true Poland and the true Czechoslovakia. But
we will not force back under Polish or Czech rule other
races who prefer a different regime.
When we come to the colonial question we must
be prepared ourselves to make sacrifices for peace as well
as in war. No peace can last long that does not end
in general disarmament to the lowest minimum com-
patible with order and security. And then we must
make another effort to set up a fraternity of nations
that will bind the world to a covenant to enforce the
rule of law and justice between nations. Such a fra-
ternity could devote its attention to such an economic
besf^fThl* 011 ? S , enable mankind to make the
of tbp r-h'M° PU en f resources of the earth for the benefit
ot the children of men as a whole.
hoe Mr - George is no solitary huntsman. He
s established a Council of Action, with branches
1 over the country,” to draw up war aims and peace
That alone would indicate, if nothing else did,
at there is a vast amount of clamor in this hunt,
ere can be scarcely a newspaper published in Eng-
ana in which the correspondence columns are not
daily dominated by people rushing in with views,
ranging from peace at all cost to its opposite. The bulk
ot this correspondence reveals a clear desire that falls
under two heads: (1) stop Hitler; (2) stop the war.
Some of them hunt in great packs. Seventeen
writers combine to insist with one voice that “the
only question which the war will immediately settle is
whether the Allies or the Germans are militarily (and
economically) the stronger Power.”
If that question is settled in our favor and we proceed
to impose our terms on Germany we shall be practising
precisely the doctrine against which we are in arms,
ihe only escape, and the only insurance against a
repetition of the last 20 years, is the resolution that we
shall do nothing of the sort; but that, if and when we
have won the war, by every practicable means we shall
invoke in the peace-making the co-operation of all parties
concerned, German and neutral, as well as ourselves.
Fifty-seven British men of science combine to call for
an immediate, explicit and official statement of our inten-
tion of inviting all nations prepared to put away war
between themselves to unite under a federal Government
with supreme and single authority.
Mr. Bernard Shaw—it might be in retort —sug-
gests that “we stop shouting foredamned nonsense”
and accept a conference. “Why put ourselves in the
wrong, and Herr Hitler in the right, by refusing to
get together and see whether this permanent ideo-
logical Trotskyan war is really unavoidable. If it is,
we can fight as easily after a conference as before it.”
So they are going it, hammer and tongs. The
amount of dust they kick up indicates the amount of
feeling. People want to know, explicitly and exactly,
what it is that Britain and co. are fighting for. “Ten
weeks ago,” Lord Eldon has said, “it was for Poland
and against aggression; later it was for Czecho-
slovakia also ; now it seems” (and he quoted the French
President Lebrun) “we are fighting for Austria as well.”
So far, Mr. Chamberlain has got closest to a
practical definition:
Our general purpose in this struggle is to redeem
the nations of Europe from the perpetual and recurring
fear of German aggression and to preserve their inde-
pendence and liberties. We seek no material advan-
tage for ourselves. We desire nothing from the German
people that should offend their self-respect. We are not
aiming only at victory, but rather looking beyond it to
the laying of a foundation of a better international
system which will mean that war is not to be the
inevitable lot of every succeeding generation.
Last week Mr. Menzies spoke to much the same
purpose. He insisted that “no patched-up peace, no
mere formula of compromise, can give to the world
any assurance of a peace that will endure.”
Our people have a hatred of war, but they have a
greater hatred of the evil spirit which has animated
German policy and which has racked the world. I
do not believe that you can compromise about the vital
things in civilisation, about peace and justice and
freedom and the sane settlement of disputes. Either you
have them or you do not have them. And there are
no people more interested in securing them than the
people of small and weak nations and the small and
weak people of every nation.
That would be every bit as good as it sounds, were
it not for the fact that two of the smallest and weak-
est of the nations, both bordered on Germany, have
made the most positive of moves for a conference to
arrange peace, and declare that they mean to keep on
working to that end.
What is now called for is a simple, clear, precise
statement, covering disarmament and other guarantees
of peace and security, agreed to by Britain, France
and the Dominions, and issued simultaneously
now by all their leaders. It might conceivably
be the first sure step towards averting sickening
slaughter and terrible destruction. Failing that, it
would at least clear the issue, which certainly needs
to be made clearer than it is if the effort is to be as
strong and united as it will need to be.
Churchill's Last and Worst.
Short of defeat in the present war—and that is incon-
ceivable —the worst misfortune that could befall the
Empire would be the advent of Mr. Winston Churchill
as Prime Minister. And it is quite a possibility, for
the strain is obviously telling on Mr. Chamberlain—
who is rising 71 and has had a fearfully exacting time
—and the ambitions of his restless lieutenant have
been known for many years. In 1915 and for more
than 20 years afterwards they were dismissed with
contempt, but circumstances have suddenly become
favorable, and it is now or never.
Reappointed to his 1914-1919 post as a daring
pilot in extremity, Mr. Churchill has what he never
had before, the support of a powerful press, Dominion
as well as British. Everything that goes right in the
direction of the naval campaign is attributed by his
newspaper friends to what they call his “dynamic
force” and his “unsleeping vigilance.” Anything that
goes wrong, such as the loss of the Royal Oak in
Scapa Flow, is set down as “one of those unfortunate
incidents inseparable from war at sea.”
As in 1914, Mr. Winston Churchill has taken to
running over to France and seeing that the field com-
manders do their business properly. He has taken
also to reviewing the progress of events and hurling
defiance at the enemy from 8.8. C., a method of letting
himself go which he finds congenial, having the gift
of the gab and a talent for invective that any Famous
American Correspondent might envy. He is half-
American himself, and has soaked himself in the
traditions of the New York “Rowdy Journal.”
Last week, however, the First Lord of the
Admiralty drove even the “News-Chronicle” to com-
plain that he had overdone it. “He can go too far,”
said the organ that wanted to fight the Italians, the
Spaniards and the Japanese, as well as the Germans;
“and go too far he did when he spoke of the Germans
as Huns.” a kind since
I did not expect the first abuse thl Qf a British
the war began to come from the np , t is to
Cabinet Minister. To use language like tnat
descend to the Nazis’ own level.
The National Peace Council executive, for. its pan
felt “obliged to protest in the strongest possible terms
against the temper and content of the speec • .
It is in the highest degree deplorable that a leaning
Cabinet Minister, in a statement capable anc j
possible publicity, should descend to bombast
vituperation. The committee cannot phrases
desirable purpose can be achieved by offensiv P
and by provocative invitations to unlimited wa •
speech raises a matter of public policy of th
seriousness, which calls for the_ attention of 5
and especially of the Prime Minister.
In manner and matter the outburst was certainly
different from the Great War utterances of Mr. Asquith
and Mr. Lloyd George. Even that Prime Minister s
“knock-out speech,” for which he was bitterly assailed,
was mild compared with Mr. Winston Churchill s mix-
ture of brag and mud.
Trying to match Goebbels at his own foul game,
the orator counselled “millions” of Germans who
stand aloof from the seething mass of criminality and
corruption constituted by the Nazi party machine
to “take courage” and await “the final extinction of
the baleful Nazi domination.” But they—in fact,
“everybody” —should understand that “Britain will
persevere in making war until the other side has had
enough: either all that Britain and France stand for
will go down or Hitler, the Nazi regime and the re-
curring German or Prussian menace to Europe will
be broken and destroyed.”
“The boastful and bullying Nazi personages”
looked “with hungry ey@s at the smaller countries in
the West —Holland and Belgium. I dare not prophesy
whether the frenzy of a cornered maniac will drive
Hitler into the worst of all his crimes.” The mantle
of prophecy thus rejected, the speaker went on to
pronounce Britain “far stronger than in September
to combat the malice of Hitler and his Huns.”
To attempt to divide a hostile nation by heaping
abuse on its rulers is the delirium of folly. It was
tried during the “sanctions” period, though in that
case the abuse was left to rags like the “Daily Mirror.”
The only result was to stiffen the will-to-resistance of
the Italian nation.
Even Mr. Churchill should have remembered that.
He should have remembered also, in view of his own
record and that of his colleague, Mr. Eden, that the
less said about Italy, Turkey and Japan the better. He
chose instead to include all those countries in one
sinfully tactless sentence: “Italy has averted her gaze
from the Nazi rulers ; Japan is puzzled ; Turkey and
all Islam are on the side of progress.” A deplorable
invitation to the Italians to join in “a fruitful partner-
ship with Britain and France in the Mediterranean”
followed. The altogether deplorable result was an
inspired statement from Rome to the effect that the
Allies should keep out of the Mediterranean; that
“the foreign policy of Italy is unchanged,” and that
“we do not intend to engage in polemics on Mr.
Churchill’s statement —we remember ‘sanctions’ and
the ‘encirclement policy.’ ” The last a reference to
the British guarantee to Turkey, the country with
which a Government of which Mr. Churchill was a
member nearly dragged us into war by backing the
Greeks against the Turks.
References to the Red Republic were equally
unfortunate:
The Soviet Government, embodied in the formidable
figure of Stalin, has barred off for ever all Nazi
dreams of an advance to the East.
Twenty years ago Mr. Churchill wanted to fight “the
Soviet Government,” then “embodied in the for-
midable figure of” Lenin, though Stalin was hanging
round. He was so hot for war then that he was will-
ing to lead Germans, as well as Britons and French,
against Lenin’s armed mobs. Four months ago he
was one of the loudest advocates of a Moscow alli-
ance, and all his press supporters swelled the chorus.
Stalin was then a prop and pillar of the Democratic
front. Though with unparalleled effrontery he be-
trayed it, and, even while the French and British
negotiators were in Moscow, signed the agreement
which let loose the dogs of war on Poland, these, it
seems, were really blessings in disguise—mixed bless-
ings, anyway.
The Russian Bear with one paw has barred Ger-
many’s path to the Black Sea. With the other the Bear
is disputing German control of the Baltic. Hence
Germany has now to conquer Britain and France or
perish in the attempt.
And that “came from the lips,” not of a Bolshevist
ruffian, but of a British Conservative Minister! The
Reds get spoils without war; we get war without even
the possibility of spoils, and we are expected to rejoice!
The Moscow manoeuvres were not a crowning humilia-
tion for Britain and an irretrievable disaster to Poland,
but an unforeseen triumph, since they placed Germany
in the position of a cornered rat that must conquer or
perish. And if conquest it is to be, the Dominions
will be among the trophies: “either the British Empire
and France or Nazism and the recurring Prussian
menace to Europe will be broken and destroyed.”
That 8.8. C. speech ought to be the end of Mr.
Churchill as a Front Bench man. Long ago, Admiral
Fisher said of him that “he changes his opinions as he
changes his shirt” ; and if, by any chance, the war
with Germany could be settled without the sacrifice
of the flower of the races of Western Europe—a pros-
pect which doesn’t make him shudder —he would soon
be campaigning for an alliance with Germany against
Russia—a “Grand” Alliance, of course, like the other
Churchill’s. The fate of the Empire cannot be placed
in the hands of a wild old aristo. who is everything by
turns and nothing long. He “planned Gallipoli,” and
Gallipoli should have been his political grave, as
quite unjustly, and to the disservice of the Empire—it
was the grave of the career of the great seaman who
found it impossible to work with him. It is a calamity
that the vogue of wireless and the syndicated article
should have restored an exploded politician to power
when he can do more mischief than ever.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
For One Parliament.
In the Sydney suburb of Manly on November 15,
motions in favor of the abolition of State Parliaments
were considered at the annual conference of the N.S.W.
Local Government Association. They came from
Cootamundra, Bourke, Armidale, Bulli, Shellharbor,
Dungog, Central Illawarra, Sutherland and Mascot.
There were present 260 delegates, representative of 160
municipal councils. The Cootamundra motion, which
proposed “a suitable division of the powers now
exercised” by the State excrescences “between the
Commonwealth Parliament and local-government
authorities,” was carried.
According to “S. M. Herald,” “less than half a
dozen of the delegates voted against the motion and
criticism of it was mainly on the ground that there
was little likelihood of such a motion being put into
effect.” The “Herald” dismissed the matter in a few
inches of type, but it did publish the central fact. Not
a line appeared in the “Daily Telegraph,” which “gives
Australia leadership” —American leadership, with a
profusion of colored comics, syndicated articles and
demands for alliance with Moscow, “positive action”
and other perilous forms of interventionism dear to
the hearts of New Yorkers of the breed that would
do anything to the “Axis Powers” except fight them,
the privilege of fighting being reserved for the British
Commonwealth.
By way of showing that they were willing to
accept greater responsibilities, the delegates “decided
to seek the extension of local-government powers so as
to enable the councils in any district to work together
in any direction which might be of benefit to the dis-
trict.” Hitherto Big-City Governments have hogged all
the powers that they could discharge in their clumsy
fashion or delegate to boards and commissions, as well
as meddling in national functions.
The conference had before it a report prepared
by its president, Mayor Griffin, of Bathurst, and its
secretary, A. R. Bluett, which stressed the fact that
Sydney contains 47 p.c. of the population of N.S.W.
and is yearly becoming more bloated, while the popu-
lation of nearly all the country towns is at best sta-
tionary, and many of them are stagnant. The same
trends are seen in all the mainland States, and even in
Tasmania, though redistribution of population is not
so urgent there or in Queensland. The Official Year-
Book of the Commonwealth gives figures for 20 years:
Percentage
of Total
Big City. Year. Population. of State.
Sydney 1913 725,400 39.60
„ 1921 899,059 42.80
„ 1933 1,235,267 47.50
Melbourne .. .. 1913 651,000 46.10
„ 1921 766,465 50.05
1933 991,934 54.49
Brisbane 1913 151,300 22.92
„ 1921 209,946 27.77
„ 1933 299,748 31.63
Adelaide 1913 201,000 45.68
„ 1921 255,375 51.57
„ 1933 312,619 53.81
Perth 1913 121,700 37.95
„ 1921 154,873 46.55
„ 1933 207,440 47.27
Hobart 1913 40,000 19.83
„ 1921 52,361 24.49
„ .. .. .. 1933 60,406 26.15
“A feature of the metropolitan population,” the
Commonwealth Statistician notes, “is its high femi-
ninity. In 1933 the proportion had risen to 52.5 p.c.” ;
and there has assuredly been a greater rise since the
census was taken. In fact, depression and war find the
Big Cities with masses of people who have to be
cared for by the rest of the people. And the over-
population of the cities has very obviously become a
military danger. Fortunately this war has so far
spared us the frightful scenes that bombing or bom-
bardment would produce or the frantic large-scale pro-
tective and evacuation measures that one or both
would necessitate.
The cityward movements of people in the States
with small populations (in area Westralia is far and
away the largest of the six) are especially significant.
These States are supposed to present the greatest
obstacles to the establishment of one Parliament for
Australia. They have fallen into the fashion of blam-
ing the Commonwealth for their “disabilities.” They
should rather blame their benighted Big-City Govern-
ments and two-Chamber Parliaments. It cannot be the
fault of the Commonwealth that the Huge Wens grow
huger while provinces, country towns and outports
decay.
New World for Sale.
“Old-timer” doesn’t like the look of it:
Repeatedly during the 1914-18 war we were told that we
were fighting for a new world. Now we are being told the
same thing.
After 1914-18, in the new world forced on the Russians
there was an end to free speech, personal liberty, religious
tolerance, the family, political freedom and individual inde-
pendence. A clique ruled irrespective of the ordinary rights
of man, and anybody who opened his mouth was shot. If
he fled from Russia and sought freedom elsewhere, ten
chances to one he was followed and shot just the same.
Italy’s new world had the merit of being competent.
Fascist Italy was far more efficient than pre-1914 Italy.
But free speech and political freedom were washed out with
castor oil, and no Briton or Frenchman envied the Italians
their new world.
Germany’s new world was as bad as Russia’s in many
ways, though there were some aspects of it cleaner and more
attractive. Still, Germans found the club and the bullet to
be the final arbiter in political disputes.
Americans got a new world altogether different from the
others. Having collected most of the gold in the world,
they decided to do without liquor, and bands of criminals
sprang up all over the place. These inheritors of the new
world made millions out of blackmail, graft and murder.
Within a decade of the end of the war they were exacting
tribute from every American city of any size, and they used
the machine-gun as readily as the dictators of Russia.
By 1936 there were more than 10,000,000 people on the
dole in the new American world, private enterprise was being
bled white and was being hampered by crippling industrial
laws. Great railroads almost went out of business. The
internal debt reached astronomical figures, and is still growing.
Printing presses and picture studios poured into the world
the lowest kinds of rubbish. The worst influences got control
of press and propaganda agencies and used them to incite
other countries to murder. No sane Briton envies the Yanks
their new world.
All those who try to tell us we are fighting for a new
world have the bull by the tail. We fight to preserve our
old world.
Our old world has its faults, but they are our own
faults. We fight so that we might deal with them ourselves.
We want to be able to work as we wish, to think as we wish,
to live as we wish. We want the certainty that if any new-
world-builder tries to force his will on us the police will run
him in. We want to call each other names, stage bitter
battles at the ballot boxes, get heated about controversial
things, and then buy each other a drink when the argument
is over. .
The old world is good enough for us. Given time, and
freedom from outside threats, we shall eventually shape it into
something better, knock off its rough edges, polish it up.
We are fighting for the right to do that in our own way.
Same Old Gang ; Same OSd Cry.
“On May 16 [1918],” the historian wrote, “the Sydney
Labor Council resolved, after protracted debate, that
‘the greatest service we can render to the men at the
front and to the loved ones at home and humanity in
general is to stop the war.’ ” The enemy had then
knocked out Russia and Rumania, was in possession
of nearly all Belgium and Serbia, had inflicted a ter-
rible defeat on Italy, had laid waste northern France
and, after nearly four years, was again almost in
sight of Paris.
Now, the same enemy having defeated Poland
and thrown part of it to the scared Russians, the
same stop-the-war cry has gone up from the same
quarter. So far there has been no “protracted
debate” or hands-up resolution, but Reds and Pinks
who infest the Trades Hall, where the Labor Council
hangs out, are vocal and busy.
Prominent on the programme was a Trades Hall
meeting at which the subject of discussion was “The
Latest Peace Move by the Soviet.” Among the
speakers, as advertised in a Communist paper, was
“Charlie Nelson, President of the Miners’ Federation.”
“Charlie Nelson” had the previous week put up as a
“Labor” candidate for the Legislative Council, and the
coalmining members in both Houses had been ordered
to vote for him. Nevertheless, “Charlie Nelson” lost.
The Sydney Labor Council resolution of May 16,
1918, was followed in June of that year by the Labor
party resolutions arrived at in Perth. One, “carried
unanimously,” according to the “West Australian” and
preserved in Ernest Scott’s volume of the Official
History of Australia in the War, reads in Scott’s
account:
“We are of the opinion that a complete victory by
the Allies over the Central Powers, if possible, can only
be accomplished by the further sacrifice of millions of
human lives”; and it was therefore urged that immediate
negotiations be initiated for an international conference
for the purpose of arranging equitable terms of peace.
Another was the famous or infamous recruiting
resolution:
Further participation in recruiting shall be subject
to the following conditions: (a) that a clear and authori-
tative statement be made on behalf of the Allies assert-
ing their readiness to enter into peace negotiations upon
the basis of no annexations and no penal indemnities;
(f>) that Australia’s requirements in man-power be ascer-
tained and met with respect to (1) home defence, (2)
industrial requirements; an immediate inquiry....
[and] a referendum of members of all branches and
affiliated organisations, to close not later than
November 1.
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Scullin were delegates to that
Perth conference. One result of its precious resolu-
tions was that their party remained out of Federal
office for upwards of 11 years.
The agitation the Red boys are working up—and
they claim to have enlisted union support in Victoria
and Queensland as well as N.S.W.—is dangerous to
Federal Labor and to the nation. Evidently Mr. Forgan
Smith recognises the danger: his remarks on holdups
of foodships and on “the subversive propaganda of
people who, before Russia lined up with Germany,
were anxious to drag Britain and Australia into a
war ‘to destroy Fascism’ ” were timely and to the
point. But repudiation of Communism is a matter,
not for the able leader of a State Labor party, but
for the leaders of Federal Labor.
Australian Trade and Foreign Funds.
Since the war began Australia’s industries have carried
on much the same as usual, with the exception that
control by Governments has been extended, to the
exasperation of some producers and exporters. Appar-
ently official control is unavoidable where Govern-
ment arranges sales with another Government, as has
been the case with our surplus wool, butter, meat,
sugar, eggs, etc., all or most of which are being taken
by Britain. But officialdom will need to smarten up its
business methods if slowing-down of industry is not
to be one result of its control.
On present estimates about £100,000,000 Austra-
lian a year will come in from contracts with Britain.
Wool has been disposed of at 3d. a pound higher than
in 1938-39, and most other prices are up. Costs may
also rise. In 1938-39 our sales to Britain were worth
£65,000,000, but while the existing wool scheme lasts
all our export wool is nominally sold to Britain,
which disposes of the surplus. Thus actual exports to
Britain may be well short of £100,000,000 for 1939-40.
Our exports to the world last year were worth
£140,000,000 Australian. This year Britain will be
primarily entitled to the foreign currency received
from wool sold to neutral countries. We are entitled to
British money.
Some people are talking about the chances of
war strain in Britain reducing the value of sterling to
the level of Australian money ; oth’ers, including the
Federal Government, are concerned about possible
difficulties of financing purchases from neutral coun-
tries such as the U.S.A. and the Netherlands East
Indies. We may perhaps see a banking-up of Aus-
tralian money in London as a result of our increased
exports and reduced imports, which would tend to
make exchange on London more favorable to Aus-
tralia. But this need not become an embarrassment
to us. We owe a lot of money in Britain.
So far as foreign funds are concerned, the whole
Empire may become short if the war drags on. For
that reason it is encouraging to see Britain ordering
Australian steel and munitions, which can be paid
for in sterling, right at the outset. “Trade within the
Empire” has a special meaning in times like the present.
Back to the Old Game.
For years before the war foreign correspondents of
the robustious sort rarely failed to serve up a week-
end “sensation.” Now that they have got their war
and don’t know what to make of it, they are return-
ing to their old habit or vomit.
Some bright lad saw an opportunity in the Dutch-
Belgian offer of mediation. Something lay behind
it: something more than the concern of decent little
neutrals, themselves suffering acutely and with worse
suffering in store ; both peaceful by nature and tradi-
tion and with troops of friends in both camps. What
was that something? It must be “a Nazi ultimatum.”
Then fountain-pens moved swiftly and type-
writers tapped out terrible tales. “German troop
concentrations on the Dutch border” were already
“ominous” and “more divisions” were “massing.”
Obviously “a lightning attack through the Low
Countries,” designed to seize suitable bases for a light-
ning aerial war on Britain, was in preparation, and
the Low Countries would not yield. Holland in parti-
cular was “now prepared to defend herself to the
bitter end.”
“The flooding of the water-defence line between
the southern point of the Zuyder Zee and the Maas
began on the night of November 9.” Armed sentries
had “taken up positions, ready to blow up the dykes
instantly.” “Evacuation” of civilians was in pro-
gress ; among the civilians was the ex-Kaiser.
With the situation “becoming graver as each
hour passes,” the Dutch “decided to flood their main
defence line.” “One narrow winding road,” and
one only, was “left open in case the Dutch troops
on the frontier” were “forced to fall back.”
“Belgium,” for its part, had “sent troops to the
Dutch frontier in the area nearest to Germany,” and
“the military” had “taken over the district along the
Albert Canal.”
On Sunday, the 12th, Berlin repeated its assur-
ance that “Belgian and Dutch neutrality” would be
“respected,” and both Holland and Belgium denied
that any “threatening demands” had “been made by
Germany.” But Famous American Correspondents
knew better:
American press correspondents support the report
that Germany verbally demanded Dutch sea and air
bases unless Holland took more stringent measures
against the allied blockade.
Finally the Dutch Prime Minister broadcast a speech
to his nation and to all others concerned.
There is not the least ground for the wild rumors
about an acute menace to Holland.
There is no more danger than there was in the first
days of September. During the last war similar
measures were taken.
The Dutch Government trusts the word given by
both warring sides that our neutrality will be respected.
His speech took 15 minutes to deliver, it seems, but
the palladium of our liberties disposed of him in a
hundred words or so. It handsomely admitted, how-
ever, that the Dutch Queen and the Belgian King
were “believed to be preparing another peace appeal.”
The Wheat Position.
Last season’s poor yield and poorer prices followed
a long period of difficulty during which the debt
burden of the industry became of first-rate national
importance. Each of the four wheatgrowing States
is struggling hopelessly with the problem of farmers’
debts. Grants, subsidies, debt-relief failed to remedy
the position.
Returns, even in seasons when crops have been
heavy, have failed to meet farming costs, interest and
commitments for the succeeding season. It has been
impossible to scale down costs to meet low prices.
Now, with a war on and the Commonwealth
Government acquiring a harvest likely to touch
180,000,000 bushels (more than 10,000,000 bushels
above the average of the past 10 years), growers are
offered a price which, in N. S. Wales, represents
around 2s. 4d. at sidings. Proceeds of the flour tax
and a Commonwealth subsidy of £2,000,000 may bring
it to 3s. 4d. at ports. It is not enough. Production
costs vary, but at least 3s. is recognised as being near
the mark.
A first advance is promised on delivery, with
another payment in February. Mr. Menzies has
“hopes” that the export price will improve and aggre-
gate payments be higher, but hopes are cheap among
the farmers themselves, who have been trying to live
on them too long.
The Commonwealth Cabinet is composed mainly
of men who, however well-meaning, have the city point
of view. It does not fully realise the true position
of growers who find themselves facing increased costs
because of war conditions, and are desperately in need
of cash to carry on.
There seems to be plenty of money for State
“works” of no importance. If, as Mr. Menzies says,
the Commonwealth’s £20,000,000 bank advance, the
£2,000,000 subsidy and the proceeds of the flour tax
represent the limit of its financial help for wheat,
why not seek the co-operation of the British Gov-
ernment? Britain will want a lot of grain ; it may
be ready to pay partly in advance.
The States could help by reducing freight and
storage charges.
Wheat may go to a price that will get the grower
out of trouble. But he wants something better than
has been offered, and he has a right to it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Spokeshave”: The present generation
isn’t as reverential as that of my young
days. Two Melbourne matrons visiting
the exhibition of antiques at the Town
Hall were talking, to a male friend about
their matrimonial misfortunes. The
daughter of the more verbose was stand-
ing by, listening idly. Reaching the
crescendo of her narrative, one of the
matrons said: “And look at us! When
we went to Europe we had all the offers
in the world and we came back and
married two awful Australians.” “Yes,
and they did the same!” chirped up the
dutiful daughter.
Ht * * *
“C. 8.”: When the press makes a
business of turning art into a fashion
strange things are bound to happen. At
the “Herald’s” modern exhibition in
Melbourne I watched an anxious-eyed
schoolmaster shepherding a long queue
of boys through the portals of the Town
Hall. As the procession passed him he
kept whispering: “It is now 2.45. You’re
not to leave till 3.30. It is now 2.45.
You’re not to leave till 3.30.” Five
minutes later most of the compulsory
art-lovers were standing about bored to
distraction.
* H® * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Strange thing
about pubs is that many people who
drink there for years don’t know the real
names of the hostelries they patronise.
A former lessee of Young and Jackson’s
in Melbourne used to bet customers that
they didn’t know the actual name of the
pub. Of course they juggled with
Young’s and Jackson’s and similar varia-
tions of the accepted description; but
“The Bridge Hotel” stands on the
masonry. I’ve known scores of regular
drinkers who were puzzled about appoint-
ments made at the Liverpool Arms, Syd-
ney—it has been Mayman’s, Cording-
ley’s, Birrell’s or the possessive of one or
other of the other licensees to all of
them. Yet other pubs have kept their
identity to the exclusion from memory
of the Bung’s name. Sydney’s First and
Last, now the Cutty Sark, is one of
them.
* $ * *
“Cauboy”: The sect, well established
in Melbourne, which has been confidently
predicting the end of the world for the
last half century has got going again,
Hitler having given it justification for
hoping for the worst and fixing a fresh
date for the destruction of the cosmos.
The last time these prophets perceived
convincing evidence of the approaching
cataclysm was during the police strike in
1925, when most citizens were a bit in-
clined to agree. There was one man,
however, who was too busy to concern
himself with millennial forebodings. He
had been an officer in the 1914-18 war,
and was put in charge of a squad of
special police deputed to clear Bourke-
street of rioters. Despite his pacific tem-
perament he found himself obliged to
order violent methods, but was the first
to be wounded, being hit on the head
with a bottle. Half an hour later he
woke up in the public hospital to find
himself surrounded by men his police
had batoned. He was patched up and
resumed his command, and his next job
was to guard the State Parliament, which
was then conducting its deliberations in
the Exhibition Building. So sure were
the politicians that their citadel would be
assaulted that there were 300 police
standing ready and 300 doctors rolled
up in their motor-cars to attend to the
wounded. The only disturbance was a
little fracas in Little Lonsdale-street, and
the end of the world was postponed
sine die.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The wave of modernism which
has swept Melbourne art since the
“Herald” exhibition is manifesting itself
along the lines made familiar in Paris.
A painter of the old school was painting
in a park when a fellow brush-wielder
stopped him. “Don’t put another stroke
on,” he cried. “That’s perfect.” “But
I’ve only just started,” expostulated the
realist. “That doesn’t matter,” said the
other. “If you go on you’re sure to
spoil it. Now it looks like nothing on
God’s earth!”
•1’ H® H®
“M 8”: Two seemingly well-mannered
youths on a city-bound tram from Wat-
son’s Bay (Sydney) developed signs of
mirth. The lady of fashion sitting oppo-
site endeavored not to be aware of the
"You must get a new uniform, Warder. That thing you're Wearing's
too small."
obvious fact that it had something to do
with her left hip. She held her icy reserve
well, but at last sent a surreptitious look
downward. Nestling up to her on the
seat, and returning her glare unmoved,
was a well-fed sausage, naked and un-
ashamed. She gave a tiny shriek, jerked
the bell-cord and vanished. Propelled by
one of the youths, the sausage sailed out
of the tram, alighted on the roof of a
cruising taxi and was carried to who-
knows-what adventures in the wilds of
King’s Cross.
H= * *
“Hamer”: Not all the joys of our
beaches are surf-bathing. Bondi was pro-
vided with an extra thrill when a stern
elderly gent, strode down the sands with
purposeful strides. At his approach a
scantily-dressed lass who had been lying
in the sun rose like a startled pheasant—
a golden one at that—and, ignoring his
command to stop, made for the surf.
Indomitably Dad (for it turned out soon
that he was Dad, who had commanded
that the apology for a costume should
not be worn) followed her, ignoring the
waves which splashed on his good
clothes pursued her until he was
dragging her shorewards. Men who
moved to interfere fell back when the
determined elder explained himself, and
remained inactive as the incensed parent,
drawing the girl across his legs, lambasted
her with a strip of wood. A shamed,
tearful flapper, with her bathing-wrap
drawn tightly about her, followed her
parent from the beach.
“Oran”: There are strong possibilities
in bathing-suit advertising. Some years
ago in a M.L. seaside town a dyer made
good use of the beach crowds. Each
week-end his flapper daughter might be
seen upon the sands attired in a white
bathing-suit which had printed across the
back in scarlet letters “Use Blank’s fade-
less dyes. This notice is made with
them.” The damsel attracted a lot of
attention, her boon companion still more.
This was the family white poodle, who
paraded with green ears, a red stripe
down the backbone and a tail of
heavenly blue.
s|c Jfc sj< H*
“Bob Punter”: Dealing with Aus-
tralians’ fondness for gambling, Hector
Dinning, in his just-published Australian
Scene, lists a number of the stock things
we’re prepared to punt on —“a coming
storm, the sex of an expected child, the
punctuality of a train, the issue of a
cricket match, the alighting of a butterfly,
an election result.” In Melbourne I met
a sour exile from Sydney who was ex-
tracting such consolation as he could get
from betting a staunch Yarrasider a
couple of bob a day that it would rain.
After 49 days the sour gent, was ahead
of it. A current bet in Sydney at time
of writing is an even quid Hitler will
invade Holland or Belgium. Dinning
credits this propensity to the climate.
* * * *
“Main Brace”: Royal Naval House,
Grosvenor-street, Sydney, known affec-
tionately to the lower-deck confraternity
as “Johnnies,” is due for a jubilee this
year, for it was in 1889 that Lady Car-
rington laid the foundation stone.
Amongst the guests at that foundation-
stone laying was Capt. Kane, of H.M.S.
Calliope, who in the previous March
had safely brought his ship through the
great hurricane at Samoa. Eight mid-
shipmen had been lent to Capt. Kane
for that island trip, amongst whom was
John Glossop, who in November, 1914,
as captain of H.M.A.S. Sydney, presided
at the Australian baptism of fire.
The roots of “Johnnies” go back to a
period about 60 years ago, when Lady
Hoskins, wife of the commodore of the
Australian station, rented a house in
Princes-street (called Goodenough House)
for the use of men of the squadron. John
Shearston had been running a hostel for
naval men on his own account (Trafalgar
House, also in Princes-street). Shearston
became superintendent of Naval House
when it was opened by Lord Carrington
i n 1890, and remained in the job for 30
years. He was succeeded by John Part-
ridge, who had served in the R.N. for
30 years. These are the two “Johnnies”
from whom Royal Naval House derived
nickname.
* * * *
“pitt-street” • Pondering pessimistically
oyer the cost of this war to Australia and
t in „ fo imagine how much higher it
would g 0 than t h e £60,000,000-odd Mr.
Menz j es j s a f ter , my spirits were revived
Qn Sydney ’ s Circular Quay by the fol-
lowin„ no fice: “Follow the Allies to
Ber fi n f or i s » why is it that private
enterpr j se can always get these things
done more c fi e aply?
* * * *
“M 8” • A big man plunged out of
W. m „ ar< i ctotirm fSvdnev) and found
Wynyaid station (ay y)
trams, cars and people tmmobile. He
peered this way and that, trying
what had happened, hurried uvelv
Hunter-street, could see nothing
to cause such public stillness,
back a few yards, looked rol V, rfv
puzzlement, then decided every
must have gone mad. He h
towards Lower George-street in 3 g
hurry until, suddenly conscious or
approving eyes, he stopped dead,
public spectacle of embarrassment, *
fumbled with his hat, helped cel ebrate
the Armistice silence, then called a ta
and fled.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: That most elusive of crimi-
nals the firebug is infesting Sydney
again. Fires have started in pillar-boxes
and been set in department stores
while business was going on, the
bug evidently dropping inflammable
stuff without being observed. These dan-
gerous pests are not confined to cities,
many a country town having periodic
outbreaks of mysterious blazes. Though
police do their darnedest, few firebugs
face trial, and seldom is any motive dis-
covered.
“Ex-M.L.”: Warrnambool (Vic.) has
something new in mysteries—a fellow who
goes round blowing up crushing plants
in quarries. Since 1921 no fewer than
five plants have gone aloft, and the per-
petrator is still at large. Psychologists
can now set about explaining the phobia
that causes a man to get a derry on
stone-manglers.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Called for my pound of
steak in Sydney on November 13 —a
Monday. It was
raining dismally,
the kind of night a
bloke wants a good
hot meal off a juicy
“T” bone. The
butcheries all
looked like the
Siegfried Lin e—
dead silence and
complete blackout.
It was the day of
the butchers’ picnic,
so customers were
left to go without
fresh meat from
Saturday till Tues-
day. Not alto-
gether, though. In
King’s Cross re-
fugees in the ham-
anbif business were
perspiring with the
exertion of passing
good Australian
steaks out of their
refrigerators at
about 25 per cent,
more than the
butchers charge. I
have an uneasy
feeling that the
idea may get into
some pf these
foreign heads that
the fr e s h-meat
business is almost as good a lurk as deli-
catessen. Soon it may be necessary to
speak Italian, Viennese, Greek, Hun-
garian and German to buy a day’s
provender in King’s Cross and Bondi.
Even now it has come to the point where
I can practise my Sinhalese on the man
who delivers the “S. M. Herald.”
* * * *
“Retired Sergeant”: As far as I’m con-
cerned they can have their Second A.1.F.;
I’m finished with them and their purple
damnfoolery. I’ve never objected to
working fat off human jellyfish or trying
to knock a little sense through thick
wooden skulls; but some things are too
much. “Form threes”! What in thunder
do they expect a man to do with
an order like that? “Form fours” was
all right—best order of the lot, in fact.
A man could pump up his chest and snap
out the “Fum” and then bellow out that
“foaoaoars” so that it did his soul good.
But “Form threes”! Damme, I tried to
put some wind behind it on parade yester-
day and finished up squealing the
“threes” like a blasted pigtailed flapper.
Whole damn’ army laughed at me.
“Form threes”! Bah!
* * * *
“Uramao”: The editors of the
“Gazette” and “Independent,” of Eatan-
swill, could teach Public Works Minister
Bob Semple (M.L.) nothing about invec-
tive. Somebody in Westland wrote to
a newspaper accusing Bob of having
invaded a town to influence a Mayoral
election. Semple in reply stigmatised his
assailant as “a human reptile lying in the
columns of a newspaper,” and went on:
“Fancy some humbug that does not pos-
sess the gizzard of a whitebait trying to
tell me my duty! Ido not want to be
advised by an empty-headed coward and
the quintessence of an unmitigated liar.
He is a cringing cur.”
HATEFUL NECESSITIES.
“We have to do things that we hate.” —Bishop
Stevenson, of Grafton {TS.S.W.f, on the war.
“We have to do things that we hate” —
An incontrovertible truth
That can’t be denied or decried or defied
In age any more than in youth.
From the first of our life to the last,
From the start to the end of the straight,
Till the struggle is past you may safely fore-
cast
We have to do things that we hate.
Just think what a staggering blow
At order and law it would strike,
What a mess would ensue if we’d only to do
The things that we love or we like!
In “Fay ce que voudras” their creed
The monks of Thelema might state,
But for us it’s decreed, whenever the need,
We’ve got to do things that we hate.
It applies to both nations and men,
Of that you may fairly be sure
And safely allow, for otherwise how
Would civilisation endure?
Can you see it retracing its track
To some antediluvian date
With naught at the back but the law of the
pack?
We’re bound to do things that we hate.
True, war is admittedly hell,
A saving that none may dispute.
But the’ time isn’t yet when the fist won’t be
met
With the fist, and the boot with the boot.
Scant hope for us children of men
There’ll be till we’re climbing the gate
And into the ken of Utopia. Till then
We have to do things that we hate.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


You're right, sir—it IS a dud!'
“S.T.S.”: These Red Cross appeals
recall another war, our first, of just 40
years ago. Kipling and Sullivan between
them had concocted a jolly begging song,
“The Absent-minded Beggar,” and won-
derfully effective it was —though Kipling
did not include it in his published works.
At an open-air “patriotic” concert in
Adelaide, the girls were singing the usual
“Pay, pay, pay!” and small coins had
rained into a sheet displayed on the stage
till the fund of benevolence was drying
up, when it started again—and in flood.
Shillings and even half-crowns (we used
them then) came raining over the heads
of the audience. It was too good to be
quite true. Some bright young spirits at
the back had commandeered—a word we
learned from Kruger a year or two later
—all the gatemoney, and were adding it
to the collection by the air route.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: One of the clearest
manifestations of a feeling of inferiority
that I have seen is a new Yankee dic-
tionary of nicknames which runs to 599
octavo pages. One Hoffman is labelled
“the Erskine of the American Bar” ;
William Cullen Bryant is “the American
Wordsworth” ; Vice-President Garner is
“Cactus Jack,” alias “Mohair Jack,”
alias “The Owl,” alias “Poker Face,”
alias “the Sage of Uvalde,” alias “Uvalde
Jack.” There is a “Havelock of the
American Army,” and a Spanish
war hero’s osculatory prowess earned
him the proud title of “Kissing
Bug Hobson.” Even cities and States
are affected. Nebraska has an Act which
declares that it shall “hereafter be known
as the Treeplanters’ State.” N. S. Wales
might follow suit. It might declare itself
“The Mair’s Nest.”
* * *
“Mac Hoots”: The editorial columns
of the Sydney “Morning Herald” aren’t
the only place where the wish that Hitler
might be blown sky-high finds simple and
fervent expression. The children of Eng-
land, recalling that G. Fawkes was
English, substituted Adolf for him in the
bonfires of the fifth of November; and
now Maoriland’s enterprising showmen
are using Adolf and Hermann in place of
Aunt Sally in the coconut shies at the
centennial exhibition. “It may portend
events or it may not,” said Wellington
“Dominion” hopefully, “but last night the
head was knocked clean off one of the
Hitlers.” What an international storm
this stunt would have provoked if any-
one had tried it on at the Paris Exposi-
tion a couple of years ago! There’s an
ancient Highland method of black magic
I can recommend to anyone suffering
from suppressed wishes and unable to
gratify them by heaving a coconut at the
Ftihrer: you make a small effigy of the
victim and stick pins in it, which will
cause him excruciating pains in the exact
localities punctured in the mannikin;
then you burn it in a slow fire, and the
enemy will wither away. The wise-women
of the Mac Hoots clan have practised this
for centuries with unfailing success.
* * * *
“X.S.”: One of the most flourishing
professions in Melbourne is that of “prac-
tical psychology”—incidentally, an un-
practical psychologist is more than I can
imagine. Melbourne’s suburban Freuds
for "the main part give vocational guid-
ance, but some indulge in the sideline of
advising on domestic problems, such as
occur when wives lose affection for their
husbands. As a rule, savants succeed in
making a satisfactory diagnosis after a
ten-minute interview, and the fee is a
mere 10s. Like Freud, however, they
don’t always have their advice followed.
One practical psychologist advised a
woman whose husband had been unfaith-
ful to wait for him to come home, then
point a revolver at him and pull the
trigger, but only after she had lifted the
barrel towards the ceiling. His client was
horrified and threatened to lay an in-
formation against her adviser, but she
had to pay for the advice. Practical
psychologists insist on payment in
advance.
“Oxmead”: The pro-
nunciation of that oft-
heard word “deficit”
bothers me. Years ago
I attended a series of
election meetings and
noted that four out of
every five speakers who
used the word —and
there were few who
didn’t —made it deff-isit;
the minority were for
defiss-it. I held with
the majority until I
recently read in “John
o’ London’s Weekly,”
a paper with some
authority on such mat-
ters, that defiss-it was
correct and deff-isit a
vulgar error. But who
fixes these things? We
are often told that when
a Latin or Greek word
is incorporated in the
English language it may
acquire an entirely new
pronunciation, as in the
case of “cinema.” Yet
when the original voicing of it is just as
easy, why should it be abandoned? The
Roman citizen doubtless made it
“deefikit”; Virgil in one of his lines
shortens it to “defit.” Their “c,” of
course, has been softened in our tongue,
but the shifting of the accent from the
first to the second syllable seems unduly
arbitrary. I suggest that popular usage
is against the dictionaries and the pre-
cisians.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There is some advantage in
having a State “border” and living close
to it, or so Js.P. find. At Bordertown
(S.A.) a man from Mildura (Vic.) was
adjudged a “rogue and vagabond.” Three
months, but “sentence suspended, and
defendant was given an hour to leave the
State”—which he could easily manage if
he moved eastward.
* * * *
“J. Ketch”: The seemingly impossible
feat of hanging oneself after death
has been accomplished by a Casino
(N.S.W.) man. A retired farmer, he
was found hanging by his neck in a
bathroom. On post-mortem examination
the body showed none of the usual signs
of death by hanging ; there was no pro-
trusion of the tongue or eyes, the blood
vessels in the face and neck were not
distended, and the vertebrae of the neck
were not injured or displaced in any way.
Medical evidence showed that death was
due to cardiac shock following the action
of placing a rope round his neck and
allowing himself to fall. The coroner
found accordingly.
“M 8”: It happened in the reporters’
room of a city daily. Two of the boys
got into verbal holts, and the others
listened in awe to the flow of sulphurous
language. When the storm was at its
height the young woman on the switch-
board poked her head out. Shame stilled
the tongues of the disputants and they
gazed at her abashed. “You shouldn’t
use such language,” she chided severely ;
“people might hear it over the tele-
phone ! ”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There are almost no limits
at all to the way the surgeons can
manipulate the human body nowadays,
but a Victorian case has unusual points
about it. A doctor, his throat tem-
porarily out of action, had to be
fed through the stomach. This is a
commonplace of medical practice, but
what makes it different is that the in-
jured medico likes his glass of beer. He
got over the difficulty by having his suit
specially built so as to give easy access
to the short cut to his interior which the
surgeons had provided him with. An
electroplated funnel completed his
equipment.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: My great contemporary A 1
Capone is out. He’s lost a bit of weight
and a lot of hair, but authors of gang-
ster strips will get inspiration from his
career, which closed eight years ago. A 1
never gave up hope. When Elmer L.
Irey, head of the Intelligence Unit of
U.S. Revenue Department, finally closed
in on him, Capone offered him what
must be a record bribe —1,500,000
dahlars. It was declined. Irey sat in the
court throughout the trial. By special
permission Capone had beside him his
bodyguard, D’Andrea. As the days
passed and the mountain of evidence
began to loom crushingly over him,
Capone’s eyes fixed themselves more
and more thoughtfully on the man re-
sponsible. One morning Irey signalled,
three men closed on D’Andrea, he and
his shoulder holster were removed from
the path of temptation, and his boss got
ten years. Free again, A 1 has retired into
a fortresslike Florida estate, there to
meditate, like former kings, on the fickle-
ness of fortune.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. motorists have to
consider and digest several decisions, suc-
cessive and in different courts, on the
nice question of what constitutes careless
driving. As thus laid down, the law seems
to be —at the moment —that eating a pie
while at the steering-wheel is punishable
negligence if a collision occurs during the
meal; but that going to sleep while there
is not necessarily so —provided always
that a different J.P. may think it is.
* * * *
“C.B”: Two leading Melbourne
members of the Prohibition party
on Cup day took a taxi to go
to a meeting, and it was halted
at an intersection. They were warmly
debating some point of doctrine, and the
driver, thinking that they would like
musical accompaniment, switched on the
radio. A rollicking drinking song inter-
spersed with unmistakable hiccups
was wafted through the window. Seeing
their mouths opening and shutting and
their hands waving, a woman who hap-
pened to be passing on the pavement
stopped and eyed them with intense ad-
miration. “Good for you, boysh,” she
said, sticking her head in at the window.
“I see you backed the winner.”
“ You'd think they'd put a door in, wouldn't you?"
CHURCHILL.
When Churchill hitches up his pants
And rolls his shirt-sleeves higher,
Whate’er his theme, he still descants
With fluency and ire.
No diplomatic platitudes
For Winston! Sissing-hot,
Forthright convictions he exudes —
He changes them a lot.
His sentiments he might express—
One’s apt to hear complaint—
With somewhat less assertiveness
And rather more restraint.
But one suspects those Nazi birds —
Goebbels, at least —are there,
Aflame with anger at the words,
When Churchill’s on the air.
It matters nothing where he stands
In faction brawls and broils;
We know the gloves are off the hands,
The buttons off the foils,
And it’s a pretty certain spec.
That someone will deplore
The day, and get it in the neck,
When Churchill takes the floor.
N.S.W.
p.


o
1;
More and more people are smoking |
CRAVENA
every day I
quality always tells! g
20 lor 1/6
10 for 9d
3014
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Cameron has got Fadden, Badman,
Corser and Collins back in his party, and,
with the concurrence of his followers, has
asked Senator Gibson to join it again.
An open invitation has also been ex-
tended to Rankin and Wilson to come
in. Hitherto they have been forbidden
to do so by the central council of the
Victorian organisation, but the central
council is not the almighty concern it was.
Advertised to speak against conscrip-
tion at a Pyrmont (Sydney) meeting, Lang
was ordered by the new “United” State
A.L.P. executive to keep his mouth shut.
Treating the injunction as lese-majeste
or something, he sped to the meeting and
spoke in the 1917 strain, Beasley and one
of the four-A Senators (Armstrong) sit-
ting beside him. When last heard from
the new “United” A.L.P. executive was
assembling the old expulsion machinery.
Norman Nock has made good as Lord
Mayor of Sydney, and if the matter were
put to the vote of ratepayers he would
be sure of a third term. But because he
gave a promise to Alderman Crick at
some remote period, he is to stand down
and Alderman Crick is expected to be
Lord Mayor. And then perhaps the
ratepayers, like those of Eatanswill, will
drink “suc-cess to the Mayor, and may
he never desert the nail and sarspan”
—no, American-film —“business as he
made his money by.” Popular election
of Mayors has worked well in Perth, and
might work as well in Sydney.
National training of young men in the
21-26 age-group was demanded last week
by the Commonwealth Returned Soldiers
and Sailors. On the same day the
Queensland Trades Union Congress de-
nounced national training of any young
men. A few hours later, the P.M.’s an-
nouncement at Canberra that national
training had been reintroduced was
“greeted from the Labor benches with
cries of ‘Shame.’ ” These stalwarts
should be challenged to show how Aus-
tralia can be assured of an army in being
without national training. Enlistments of
militiamen in the special-service force
have been far below expectations and
applications for exemption from further
militia service far above them.
“Follow Britain” should be the sub-
ject of a debate at Canberra before
members rush away from the place again.
In matters of finance and government —
there is only one Government —Britain is
no bad country to follow. But follow-
ing any set of British politicians tem-
porarily in the ascendant —Churchill and
Eden perhaps—is another pair of sleeves.
Sydney “D.T.” and its Famous Ameri-
can Correspondents are making the ex-
Kaiser’s life a burden to him. On
November 12 they had him hitting the
breeze from Doom to escape being
drowned in the floods our Dutch friends
were preparing for the Invader. Four
days later they connected him with the
Munich bombing, the Gestapo having
told “a New York ‘Daily News’ corre-
spondent in Holland” that Old Bill had
Dun it. With a little encouragement
Famous American Correspondents will
have all the Hohenzollerns in quod or
coffins.
According to the “Argus,” Premier
Dunstan hates Canberra, so much so
that when he has to go there he hurries
away from the place by car as soon as
he can. Other State Premiers and Min-
isters have the same aversion and habit.
They all have free passes over bankrupt
Government railways, and, though car
travelling adds something to their deficits,
the deficits are so huge that these little
additions are never noticed.
At the beginning of the war it was
reported that the six Agents-General and
as many of their staffs as could be accom-
modated in one place had shifted to a
country house for the duration. Per-
haps the gentlemen have grown tired of
seeing one another about so much ; any-
way, Hay, the Sydney man, is coming
home. It is only 17 months since he
travelled to London, and it cost the State
£lOOO to send him there and bring the
other man back. But what’s £lOOO or
£2OOO to the Sydney Government when
Canberra has a large thick ear and the
taxpayers can be looted by measures
which satisfy legal requirements?
The Japan “Advertiser Annual” gives
some staggering figures of what the China
“Incident” has cost Japan. It puts the
combined cost of the war with China in
1894-95, of the war with Russia in 1904-
05 and of military operations in Man-
chukuo since 1931 at “far less than
“A committee of experts has been appointed at Washington to determine what ‘cash and
carry’ actually means.”
“It’s perfectly simple, gentlemen. You must do what I’ve been doing for years
—pay your money and carry the goods.”
a year’s expenditure on the present
operations in China.” Computing per-
capita expenses “in terms of the 1900
yen” it reckons them as under: —
Chino-Japanese War 6.08, Russo-
Japanese War 30.3, Manchuria 5.13, present
hostilities 48.7.
So the astronomical expenditure that
scientific war entails may yet put it
beyond the reach of the nations
The Corns, are still quoting “the lead-
ing article in the conservative Sydney
‘Morning Herald’ of August 23” as
evidence that Stalin and his pals are
brimful of League sentiment.
Russia has shown time and again that
she believes her ultimate interests lie in
the preservation of peace through collec-
tive action against aggression.
In September Russia took “collective
action" with Germany against the
aggression Poland. Now it wumci
take “unilateral” action against Finland,
wi|h the odds forty to one in its favor,
if it were sure the Finns wouldn t fight.
Though it is still quiet on the Western
Front the war of words is proceeding
with unabated vigor. The principal com-
batants are “the Editor-in-Chief of the
Nazi broadcasting services” and Mr.
Winston Churchill. To the Editor-in-
Chief, as translated by the “Age,” Mr.
Winston Churchill is “that dirty gangster,
that filthy liar, that bloated swine spout-
ing through dirty teeth, that infamous
profiteer and specialist in stinking lying.”
To Mr. Winston Churchill, “that evil man
Hitler and his cluster of adventurers”
are “a seething mass of criminality and
corruption, bellowing blood-curdling
threats round the world by their leather-
lunged propaganda apparatus.” Mr.
Winston Churchill defies them all, though
he will not “attempt to prophesy whether
the frenzy of a cornered maniac will
drive Hitler into the worst of all his
crimes.”
Butler’s two gifts to South Australia
were five-year Parliaments and betting
shops. The betting shops still lurk be-
hind frosted windows, but the Assembly
has for the second time carried a Labor
Constitution Act Amendment Bill re-
ducing the Parliamentary term to three
years. All the available Ministers were
among the 12 noes (there were 24 ayes),
but Premier Playford was absent —he had
gone to Canberra in search of easy
money.
Mair, one of the Premiers without port-
folio, is talking of yet another income
tax—for hospitals this time. Westralia
has one, and it pains Mair to think that
any place is one up on him in the
taxation game. Mair’s Government runs
lotteries allegedly for the benefit of
hospitals, but hospitals get so little of
the money that some of them have long
waiting lists of tradesmen with unpaid
bills
Four plans for removal of the
Town Hall to another position are pullu-
lating in the heads of Melbourne’s City
Fathers. One is for a new (and no doubt
ugly) building to be erected on the site
where Wirth’s lions and tigers are roar-
ing. The present building is architec-
turally finer than any recent erection in
the city, and it is where it ought to be,
a t the civic centre. If more elbowroom
j s ne eded for auill-drivers they could be
accommodated eisewhere.
Some of the N.S.W. municipal councils
Hplpratpc voted for ahnlitinn of
S rfrtSnts^ £ocal Govern-
ment Associat ion conference are shining
examples to those incurable spendthrifts,
In “fixed loans outstanding” at the end
of 1937 (the Statistical Register takes
the tale no further) Strathfield (popula-
tion, 12,900) owed only £1328, St. P e^^. s
(12,560) £1345, Ashfield (40,450) £2»4b,
Lidcombe (17,700) £2512, Ballina (318UJ
£2481, Gunnedah (4020) £4641 and Last
Maitland (4380) a mere £3OO. And they
and others almost equally worthy nav
been incorporated for many years Las
Maitland as far back as 1862.
If all the kind-hearted people have
their way, there will be another
Melting Pot in a few years —in Westralia.
The Perth Government is given no rest
by gentlemen who want to establish
Jewish colonies in the Kimberleys, and
now its Agent-General, Troy, has been
asked to bless a plan for a Czecho-
slovakian colony. The projectors hope-
fully mentioned that they could draw on
£5,000,000 placed at their disposal by
the British Government. Troy, himself
a farmer who has seen many farmers
starved off the land, suggested, apparently
without enthusiasm, a “trial group,” to
see what it could do with “a Govern-
ment land grant in the south-west.”
“After a stormy voyage,” the “Daily
News” (Sydney) says, “the Stamp Duties
(Amendment) Act is now in operation,
with the assistance of the Opposition” ;
and the “Daily News” supports the
Opposition, which calls itself Labor. And
on “policies of insurance (except
life) a uniform rate of 6d. for
each £lOO or part thereof has
been provided,” and “renewals
are chargeable at the same rate.”
Which means that a worker
with, say, a £lOO interest in a
brick cottage which, as mort-
gagor, he insures for £550 has
to pay a 3s. tax on an annual
premium of 9s. or 10s. Far
worse than the tax on the basic
wage.
The Government chalet at
Buffalo (Vic.) cost £126,000.
Last year, as J. P. Jones has
remarked indignantly, £15,900
was lost in running the show.
How much was frittered away
at Kosciusko (N.S.W.) in put-
ting up trippers who were
charged less than cost has not
been revealed. The N.S.W.
Auditor-General used to be
quite peppery on that subject,
but Kosciusko accounts, like the
overseas bills of globetrotting
transport bureaucrats, have been
kept from the taxpayers since
the Railway Department took
control.
After 25 years, Baxter, the
first C.P. member elected in
Westralia (he is an M.L.C.) still has
his punch. He aimed it recently
t L a^or Government’s financial
record, pointing out that, with a
v ? r y small increase in population, expen-
°* tax-money and Common-
wealth grants had increased from
£9,196,000 in 1932-33 to ±.11,170,000 in
1938-39, and loan expenditure to such
an extent that the State debt has reached
£95,113,000—£204 a head. “We can’t go
on like this,' s Baxter added,
We will find the Commonwealth Govern-
men. saying, JJYou warn
have them, provided we have control over
ever y penny of expenditure.” It may come
to . t^ aL
H wl “ come to that,
From “0.T.”:
When W. B Ward, of Cootamundra pro-
n!s!w.' LoadGovernmentAaStion^con-
ference, the rush to second him caused a jam
in the amplifiers. The Cootamundra man rather
B ri mly remarked that one State Parliament was
A torn‘N^E^and^MrmS,
“Well, we’ve taken that on; why not this?”
The Cootamundra motion was virtually carried
SHKE SoTV’a
“straw” vote, taken among about 10,000 people
representing all sections. You couldn’t get
b “ an td“,'o buy die^Lm? O Sel he M®
the asso ciation will invite the Menzies Govern-
ment to take a referendum on the question.


THE CAT THAT CAME BACK.
“A plan for the use of cats to steer torpedoes has been sent to the U.S. Navy Department.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
k
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INVESTMENT IN WAR-TIME
THE ECONOMIC FRONT
MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS REVIEWED
MINES AND METALS
November Issue Now on Sale.
ppicf ?l- PFR COPY or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
* /v/C'L/ Zj l v-'C/ 9 * T , , oro pporirp Street Sydney, and all States.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George btieet, bjaney.j^
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEM!
Retired from the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench, Justice R. H. Long Innes,
the tallest member of the Bench and
scion of an old legal family. His father,
Joseph George Long Innes, born in Syd-
ney, was the son of a captain in the 39th
Regiment, an early pupil of The King’s
School, Parramatta, a Queensland Dis-
trict Court Judge and a N. S. Wales
Solicitor-General and Attorney-General.
He was knighted for his services with
Hercules Robinson’s mission to Fiji in
the ’seventies. The son was sent to Mal-
vern School in England, took his B.C.L.
at Lincoln College, Oxford, and followed
his father to Lincoln’s Inn, where he was
called to the Bar. He became a K.C.
in Sydney during the war, and has been
Chief Judge in Equity for 14 years. He
was a keen athlete in his younger days.
Major-General R. E. Jackson is one
of the ablest of C.M.F. staff men. Born
at Mt. Lawley, Perth (W.A.), and edu-
cated at Brisbane Grammar School,
where he saw his first soldiering in the
MAJOR-GEN. R. E. JACKSON.
Cadet Corps, he was commissioned on
the staff three years before the war, rose
to be A.A. and Q.M.G. of the Ist Divi-
sion before the Armistice, and was
A.A.G. to Administrative Headquarters
of the A.I.F. till 1920. He won the
D.S.O. and C.M.G. and the Legion of
Honor, and has held several divisional
commands since. He was given the com-
mand of the Ist Division last August, and
has since been promoted major-general.
He is a sound soldier of great organising
ability, respected and liked by both offi-
cers and men under him.
Dead at 73, William Caldwell Hill,
Minister for Works and Railways in the
Bruce-Page Ministry from 1924-29. He
was originally a railway employee who
acquired Glenlea, near Coolbinabbin, and
made it a show place among Vic. farms.
He was initial president of the State
Farmers’ Union and used it as material
from which to fashion the C.P. Hill
held the Echuca Federal seat from 1919
till five years ago. He was an authority
on wheat. His first big Commonwealth
job was on W. M. Hughes’s war-time
Compulsory Wheat Board, and he was
the first chairman of the Vic. Wheat-
growers’ Corporation. As a Minister he
was unspectacular, but businesslike and
approachable.
Made his last aerial flight in Mel-
bourne, Adolphus Holden, known to a
previous generation of Australian circus-
goers as one of the Flying Gordons. He
lost a leg as a youth, but this did not
prevent his making himself one of the
most daring acrobats who ever taunted
death above the sawdust. Thirty years
ago he founded Holden’s Circus. He was
69 at the finish.
Frank Ellis, who is being sent by the
Commonwealth Government on a mis-
sion to investigate matters of technical
training and equipment in America, has
a wide experience. Born in S.A., he was
educated at the School of Mines in Ben-
digo. In 1918 he was given the job of
organising technical training in the Speck,
and 12 years ago he started in as prin-
cipal of the then Melbourne Working
Men’s College, now the Technical Col-
lege, in Latrobe-street. Since he has
been on the job the number of young
men and girls seeking instruction in a
hundred different departments has
doubled, and the evening exodus from
the big block of old and new buildings
looks like six o’clock at the Myer store.
Almost everything is taught at the Tech.,
which encroaches on the site of the old
Melbourne Gaol and has nearly en-
gulfed it.
Norman Charles Harris, who has been
Acting Commissioner for the Victorian
Railways since Clapp was taken over by
Canberra, and is the most likely ap-
pointee to the permanent post, saw a lot
of military service in the last war. He
had four years of it as an engineer in
Egypt and France, was mentioned in dis-
patches and ended up a lieut.-col. In
his civil position he has an equally high
record. He reorganised the huge New-
port workshops, and established the test
system which enabled Clapp to make the
quip, based on statistics, that the safest
place for a motor-car in Victoria was
on a railway level crossing.
Harris served his apprentice-
ship in Canada, is 52, and was
born at Moonee Ponds, Mel-
bourne.
Johnny Douglass, one of the
brighter spots in N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture, had
his tour of the world’s vege-
table gardens cut short by the
war. Production problems in
Russia are simple, he says.
They multiply the population
by the number of potatoes re-
quired by one person for the
year, then set out to produce
that amount. He felt that the
Russian Communists were
loyal to Stalin. They have to
be, or get shot.
Robert Chapman, who suc-
ceeds as a matter of course to
the presidentship of Adelaide
School of Mines on Langdon
Bonython’s death, was edu-
cated at Melbourne Uni.,
where he acquired all sorts of
medals and initials. But he
soon became lecturer in Engi-
neering at Adelaide and prof,
when a “chair” in the subject
was established. He has two
sons nearly as erudite as him-
self. Incidentally, it is dis-
closed that Bonython, during
his half-century as president,
never had, nor needed, a vice-
president.
Any improvement in the diction of
the new A.I.F. will be assisted by
Frank Wickham, who gave up being an
elocutionist at Leeton (N.S.W.) to don
khaki. He can trace his ancestry back
to the days of Henry IV. of England.
Phelp’s history of Somerset mentions the
Siloers Estate, held by Wickhams since
1583, the family being descended from
the Wykehams, who flourished under
the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Henrys.
Frank, a son of M.I.A. pioneers, is a
grandson of Rev. J. Douglas Wickham,
Lord of the Manor of Holcombe, Somer-
setshire.
S.A. has given a State funeral to a fine
old citizen, F. S. Wallis, just on 82. He
was secretary and president of the Trades
and Labor Council, Chief Secretary in
a Price-Peake Ministry and again under
John Verran. Compositor and proof-
reader for “Register” and “Advertiser ’
in turn, he filled every possible office con-
nected with the printer’s trade, and he
was the last surviving foundation mem-
ber of the Geographical Society (1885).
lon Idriess, small, picturesque, battered
with 49 years of adventure, might well
be nicknamed the W. M. Hughes of Aus-
tralian writers for his virility and per-
sonal appeal to the crowd. Sydney-born,
he snatched an education at Broken Hill
Public School, with a little while at the
School of Mines. Opals began his career,
and he opened up Deadman’s Claim at
Lightning Ridge, got the wanderlust, was
seen, a small and bright-eyed figure, at a
hundred wild spots in the North and
round Torres Strait and the Papuan coast,
spent seven months on deserted Howich
(“Madman’s”) Island with a mate, living
on speared fish till rescued by a Jap
lugger, continued his wanderings in Cape
York, and went further afield to Gal-
lipoli and Palestine with the Light Horse.
His writing began before the war with
The Bulletin, which he deluged with
short stories and Aboriginalities, mainly
signed “Gouger.” In 1926 he published
Madman’s Island, but it was about as
successful as most first books. A pros-
pectors’ handbook, published by Angus
and Robertson, led to a suggestion that
he should collate Lasseter’s material.
Lasseter’s Last Ride followed. In the
welter of speculation after the rise in
the price of gold and the New Guinea de-
ION IDRIESS.
(Modelled by Frith.)
velopments, it struck the right note and
the right market. To date 33 editions
have been sold, and the book has been
translated into several languages. Many
other books followed, and today Idriess
has reason for the broad smile with which
Frith decorates him in his model. It
always appears when you mention royal-
ties.
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures’ new
president, F. T. Perry, is as busy a
man as Adelaide possesses. In addition
to being managing director of his own
engineering company at Mile End, he is
on the Commonwealth Advisory Panel on
Industrial Organisation, member of the
State Advisory Board on defence works
in S.A., vice-president of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures and of the
F. T. PERRY .
Employers’ Federation, and president of
the Iron Trades Employers’ Federation.
He finds time for membership of Prince
Alfred College council and the Memorial
Hospital Board. Mayor of St. Peters in
1933, he was elected to the Assembly
that year for East Torrens, and held the
seat until last year.
New Moderator of the Presbyterian
Assembly in Victoria is the Rev. J. Noble
Mackenzie. He began his church service
as a missionary in the ’nineties, tended
lepers in Korea and salved souls at Santo
in the New Hebrides. Mackenzie is 75
and was living in retirement when he got
his new appointment.
E. A. Southee, who has held the job of
principal of Hawkesbury Ag. Coll.
(N.S.W.) longer than any other incum-
bent, was born at Cootamundra just on
50 years ago. He passed through Sydney
High and was a Rhodes scholar when
the 1914-18 war broke out. With the
British army, he saw service in France
and Italy, and was twice mentioned in
dispatches. A double-blue (Rugger and
athletics) at Oxford, he won the 100-
metre championship of the allied forces
in Italy. He can tack 0.8. E., M.A.,
B.Sc., B.Sc.Agr. and F.L.S. to his name,
and has been at Hawkesbury since 1921.
An easy-mannered chap, he is remem-
bered warmly by agricultural experts,
farmers and graziers, and thousands of
others who have had the privilege of
meeting him.
Kingsford Smith (N.S.W.) aerodrome
saw its worst accident when two aero-
planes, a Gipsy Moth and a passenger
machine with a pilot and three passengers,
collided. The Gipsy Moth, piloted by
Remo Cicutto, with F. R. M. Davidson, of
Bronte (N.S.W.), as a passenger, crashed
on Bonnie Doon golf course. The pas-
senger machine fell into Cook’s River
with Jack Harris Jones, the 26-year-old
pilot, formerly head of a well-known
Lithgow (N.S.W.) brewery, his fiance,
Edith Richardson, only 19 years old, and
Mrs. Hartswell, of Goulburn (N.S.W.),
and William Silvertsen, who had booked
a flight on impulse as they drove past
Mascot. Silvertsen had never been in a
’plane before. Both pilots and the four
passengers were killed instantly and the
machines reduced to matchwood.


Happy Christmas Gifts
that always “click”
0i isSra
KM
1
*GO CANDID’
with a Modern
MINIATURE
KODAK
35
mm. range includes the famous Retina I. Kodaks from
£lO/10/- and Retina 11. with automatic coupled
focussing, £27/10/-. See also the precision-made 36-exp.
35mm. Kodaks 35. Prices from £5/10/-.
mm. Bantam Kodaks are specially designed to place
modern miniature photography within the reach of
all. They feature automatic film centring and spacing.
Prices from £4/19/6.
XMAS SUGGESTS KODAK HOME MOVIES
Nothing adds gaiety to the season's festivities
like Kodak Home Movies. They capture the
colour and action of any scene, ready to
spring to life again whenever you wish.
Prices from £ll/19/6. Let us demonstrate.
ķ
FROM "^ he * a * es *' and fines*
box cameras
BROWNIE SPECIALS
I All - metal construc-
tion, simple two-posi-
tion focussing, "spy.
glass" viewfinder, body shutter
release for eye-level operation.
Pictures 2-\- x 3-J- inches .... 22/6
Pictures 2J- x 4-1- inches .... 25/-
11'
ONLY
This trim
efficient
moulded
Baby
Brownie.
Better than a toy for
girl or boy. Price 6/-.
m
m
1
9 1 LI
isnl
This handsome, stream-
lined Six-20 Bull’s Eye
with convenient carry-
ing strap and popular
“spy-glass” view-finder
which brilliantly shows
your picture-to-be.
Pictures 21 x 31 inches. Price 17/6
1
From £S/2/6 a magnificent
series of Kodak Seniors and
Kodak Specials, featuring body
release for shutter, action-front
opening and thumb-pressure
closing, optical eye-level view-
finders, aluminium case with
genuine leather, chromium
finish. New convenience in
photography!
FREE ! Post Coupon for
[ ] KODAK FILM SNAPSHOT GUIDE.
[ ] KODAK GIFT BOOKLET.
Name
Address
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK (A/ asia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.
M
m
un
fi


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: The stranger accosted Dad,
busy at the pigsties. “Good mornin’,”
he said. “You’re Mr. Greybox, ain’t
yer?” Dad admitted it. “Well, I’m yer
new neighbor Jinks,” said the other.
“I’ve just bought Larkin’s farm.” “Glad
t’ meet yer, Mr. Jinks,” said Dad cor-
dially. “I hope you’ll like livin’ here."
“Oh,” I dunno,” said Jinks offhandedly.
“Ain’t too much impressed with the dis-
trict so far.” Dad’s whiskers bristled.
He was a shire councillor, and had a
jealous concern for the good name of
his part of the country. “Oh, ain’t yer?”
he snapped. “Well, I reckon it can hold
its own with any other place yer likely
t’ find,” and, turning his back on the
visitor, resumed his labors. Several times
during the next few weeks Dan met his
new neighbor, each time liking him less.
Jinks, according to himself, had travelled
the world and seen everything worth
seeing. Dad staunchly boosted Grasstree
Gully, each time to be met by scoffing
comparisons with other places the much-
travelled one alleged he had been in.
“The damn’ skite gets on me nerves,”
he said to Mum one day, “with his
blather about where he’s been. Can’t
mention a blarsted place without him
sayin’ he knows all about it.” One blaz-
ing hot day a bushfire broke out in the
Gully, and all the man-power turned out
to fight it. Dad was belting manfully
away with a wet bag when Jinks came
puffing up, about all in. “Cripes!” he
said, mopping his forehead. “This is
worse than hell! ” Dad stopped his
flailing. “Spare me days! ” he barked in
wonderment, “y’ ain’t goin’ t’ tell me
ver’ve been there, too?”
“F.U.F.”: Know one W.A. settler
who, despairing of ever getting the shire
council to do anything about the tangled
scrub that chokes the space between his
virgin-bush selection and the nearest
road, resorted to ingenuity. At the turn-
off he nailed up a board bearing the mag-
netic word “hotel.” In no time he had
a well-beaten track to his door.
Jfc * * *
“Flight”: If the symposium on birds
finding water isn’t closed, allow me to
weigh in with this: The zebra-finch
(chestnut-eared finch to the learned ones)
is never found more than a mile from
water in W.Q., a fact which has been
appreciated by many a thirsty traveller
with a knowledge of their ways. Also,
if a camp is made up to 10 miles from
any water, and if a bucketful is left near
by, the next day there’ll be a couple of
waxbills at it; soon there will be a
colony, and in no time nests will appear
and the business of life will be progress-
ing—all based on the supply of the elixir
of life made available by their human
friends.
* * * *
“Col. B.”: The season has opened for
dinner-table entomology, an interesting
and diverting pursuit in almost any part
of rural Australia. On fine evenings we
dine on the verandah, and the carbide
lamp attracts a wealth of specimens.
Mrs. Murgatroyd, our largest orb-web
‘No, that Wont do. It goes like this!”
spider, spins her nightly trap net from
the roof-gutter outside and dines with
U s on light-attracted insects. Herbert,
the hunting-spider, lurks in shadows on
the sill, his 3in. leg-spread poised ready
for a lightning spring on any plump moth
which may pause there for a rest before
plunging recklessly into the flame. The
smaller lepidoptera appear to nourish a
perfect passion for soup, particularly the
thicker kinds. Herbert, too—offer him a
moth fished out of a plate of pea-soup
and all his shy suspicion disappears,
Mrs. M. prefers hers with beer dressing,
and indeed is a lady of distinctly alco-
holic tendency when given the oppor-
tunity.
,*,„*•* ~*
“Jesmond : During my residence in
various parts of Victoria, I have expen-
enced 15 earth tremors, and without
exception each one occurred at night in
very calm weather. One would expect
that the slipping of a “fault” would occur
during or following heavy weather. Is
there some connection between subter-
ranean and atmospheric conditions?
* * * *
“Horace Horseface”: “Dogs! ” snorted
Joe Staggers. “You blokes wouldn’t
know an intelligent dog if y’ met one.
Old Spot would ’ave my cows in the
yard at sunup an’ then start tearin’ round
the shanty with a bucket in ’is mouth to
wake me up. As soon as ’e saw the
milkin’ properly started, orf ’e’d go up
the paddock and bring in the plough-
’orses. I ’ad ’im trained to go an’ pick
up the mail at the stoyre. One day ’e
comes back with the mail like a streak of
greased lightnin’ an’ fair done in. I
couldn’t make it out until I found ’e
’ad an urgent telegram. And there was
always one day in the year ’e refused
point-blank to do a tap. If y’ started
any bounce or whip-crackin’ ’e’d simply
trot inter the kitchen an’ sit lookin’ up
at the almanac on the wall. Yair, ’e
could remember ’is birthday better’n I
could!”
* * * *
“Dip”: Insectivorous flowers aren’t
the only ones which use the smell of rot-
ting meat to lure “blowies” (B. 8/11/ ’39).
Some South American jungle flowers use
the stench to attract flies, but only for
pollination purposes. One I saw, a giant
lily with a purple-lined sheath, green on
the outside, was brought into a W.A.
biology lab., and within half an hour
girls and mistress in a domestic-science
class across the corridor were almost
frantic searching for what they thought
was a piece of meat bad enough to drive
them from their quarters.
* * * *
“Gee Willie”: Touching on “Horse-
face’s” reference (B. 1/11/ ’39) to the
warts on the inside of a foal’s forelegs,
how many know why they are on every
horse’s legs? Before birth the foal’s
legs are joined together, Nature leaving
the tush out of the mother’s mouth
between the front and back teeth so that
she can bite over one leg to sever the
connection. The “wart-corn” —or, as the
British cavalry has it, “chestnut” —is built
up of many layers of pungent, soft, skin-
like material which has a great attraction
for dogs, which might account for the
great companionship between the equine
and canine species. To prove this, peel
a piece off a steed and observe the
pleased excitement of any dog you
present it to.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Sydney found itself
infested with Bogong moths last
week. The grubs of these creatures pro-
vided the piece de resistance of abo.
picnics in the Bogongs and adjoining
ranges, when Binghi and the family ex-
plored the caves and crevices and dined
royally on the delicacy. The moths’ habit
of making for dark places to pupate has
been the cause of several holdups of
train services, the rails becoming greasy
with the myriads killed in tunnels.
Farmers know the grubs too well —they
play havoc with grass and.cereal crops
in plague years.
* * * *
“Kurrawang”: The bush holds some
strange traps for the unwary. In the
casualty ward of a W.A. hospital I struck
a bushman with his eyes bandaged.
“Likely to lose the sight of one,” was his
plaint. “Caterpillars! Them processional
blokes. Spread the rugs late one night
under some scrub. Woke up next morn-
ing with dust in my eyes. Rubbed them
and they nearly drove me mad. Those
caterpillars make a big cocoon and the
whole tribe lives in it. When they leave
it to go on the march it’s just full of
shed skins, hairs and other muck. Deadly
stuff. There was one hanging right over
my head ; I didn’t see it in the dark.
Wind shook some of the stuff down on
to my face. Inflammation set in all over
the eyes, and now it’s taking the quack
all he knows to save even one optic.
“Well, I’m nearly as bad,” remarked the
bloke on the other side. “I was out
firewood-getting. Was falling a dead
tree when a greenish sort of cocoon
came down and stuck on the axe-handle.
Tried to brush it off, and my fingers goi
full of fine prickles. Put them to my
mouth to try to pull them out with my
teeth, and my lips and tongue got full.
Now fingers and lips and tongue are
festering, and the nurse pulls the fine
prickles out with the tweezers and a mag-
nifying-glass.”
* * * *
“Gamma”: During my 16 years as
owner of a station in the N.T. I have
had at least 15 grey horses, male and
female; their peculiarity was that not
one animal fell into the f.a.q. class. A
grey always turned out to be either a
crackajack or a complete dud. Any
Aboliar ever struck anything similar?
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Meet Tom Salisbury, of
Launceston (Tas.). Now 74, he has been
coming across to the mainland for 52
consecutive years to follow the round
of the shearing-sheds. In his day he has
shorn in every State and M.L., and in
his prime he could barber up to 180
sheep per day with the blades ; he can
still do his hundred. The largest shed
he ever worked in was Big Willandra,
on the Lachlan, where 50 blade shearers
were on the board. The only malady
that has ever troubled him is wool
eczema, which begins to plague him as
soon as he starts to shear and does not
leave him until the season is over. In
between shearing seasons he keeps fit by
doing a spot of pick-and-shovel work in
his home town. No doubt Tom’s case
is not a record ; I’m waiting to hear from
someone who knows a bloke who is over
100 and can knock over 200 with the
blades.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Our share-farmer is
a fine bush worker, but the rural lore of
his native Sussex sticks to him as strongly
as does the dialect. Discussing a bit of
new fencing, he wound up, “Well, then,
I’ll get oot they posteses come the first
young moon.” I asked why not now,
work and weather being both favorable.
He looked quite shocked. “If a job’s
to last i’ the groond,” he explained, “ye’ll
get no good from timber cut i’ a wanin’
moon. ’Tis the waxin’ moon gives it
long life. We be doin’ it from old days
in Sussex, and why shouldn’t it be same
’ere?” I didn’t argue. His first-rate
vegetable garden is planted on the prin-
ciple that all above-ground crops should
go in with a new moon and all root
crops after the full. Fve heard the same
thing about timber from old bushmen,
and knew a Chinese cook who did won-
ders in the veg. line with a similar lunar-
influence planting method.
* * * *
“Philp”: I pulled up beside the bore
at the Nine-mile and found an ancient
padflogger scrubbing his whiskers in the
sheep-trough. I noted the vigor with
which he was rubbing his ears and the
noise he was making about it. “You
seem to be enjoying that,” I remarked.
He wiped the water from his eyes and
looked up at me. “My oath!” he said.
“There’s nothin’ like a good bath. No*
thin’ like it. Always ’ave one every two
months, whether I need it or not.”
JOLLY JOE.
There came to Wilson’s Bore from school a
young and lovely maid;
The boss’s only daughter, she was Beauty’s
self portrayed.
The station-hands were at her feet, the cook
shed twenty years,
And toothless hatters in the bend stood up and
gave her cheers.
Thenceforth on Sunday afternoons the town
knew us no more
As, bold or shy, we hovered nigh fair Jean
of Wilson’s Bore.
But one there was who stood aloof, no beauty-
stricken beau;
Alone in all that lovesick mob was sneering
Jolly Joe.
A loud and violent sort of bloke, he toiled at
Wilson’s Bore;
He often gambled, often drank, extremely often
swore.
While others in their hours of ease sought
pictures, dance or rink,
He’d swill till tight, or buy a fight and finish
in the clink.
He jeered at lovelorn country lads who talked
of getting wed;
Declared that women .all were narks and should
be fed with lead.
But, still, no better bushman lived, from Cue to
Billyho,
And in our queer inverted way we called him
Jolly Joe.
One evening just before the night had hung
her lamps on high,
The boss came gravely to the hut, disquiet in
his eye.
“I think,” he said —his voice was low —“we’ll
have to look for Jean.
She rode away this afternoon and hasn’t since
been seen! ”
And quickly then the mounted men went riding
from the Bore,
While east and south the word was sent to
muster searchers more;
And each man thought how strange it was that
in the brigalow,
Ahead of all, like one gone mad, was riding
Jolly Joe.
We combed the scrub until the dawn came
burning up again,
Then changed our mounts and tried again, but
still we rode in vain.
As anxious hours went slowly by we hunted
near and far,
But bonnie Jean was missing when we saw the
evening star.
And though each one had more than done,
that day, his toilsome share,
There still was one had outdone all—had worn
out horse and mare.
Though others were compelled to rest, he sought
her high and low —
We marvelled that the lost had won the heart
of Jolly Joe.
And when the moon shed pallid beams upon
the tragic scene,
A sweat-stained horse came limping in with
Jolly Joe and Jean!
The boss reached out and, trembling, took his
daughter to his heart,
Then turned to thank her rescuer, who, scowl-
ing, stood apart:
“You’ve saved my Jean, my little queen, now
clasp her to your breast!”
“You’d better give,” the hero said, “them cow-
boy books a rest;
Me kelpie bitch had followed her, and so I
had to go.
No better bitch was ever whelped,” said hard-
case Jolly Joe.
N.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


“Dungeness”: Droughty Dan drifted
from nowhere into the W.Q. township
one Saturday and hung round the pub
to await free booze from the shearers
due to cut-out at the last district shed.
In the yard the cook killed a fine turkey
for dinner, and Dan had a brainwave.
Collecting the head, he pinched a sugar-
bag from the backyard of the store, filled
it with straw from a packing-case, gath-
ered some lengths of string, and sought
the privacy of the creek-bank under the
bridge. With a stone inside to make the
weight, he fashioned a straw body of
turkeylike shape, lashed on the head and
tied his handiwork in the bag, the head
poking out in full wattled glory. That
night Dan raffled the “bird” in the
crowded bar at a bob a time, and ex-
plained that he would put it in the
kitchen for safety while the dice were
being thrown. When the winner was
announced Dan went to get it. He has
not yet returned —nor has the £2 12s.
contributed by the assembled sportsmen.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare asked me if
I could let him have an old coat and
pants to clothe a scarecrow. Knowing
that the native had no orchard or garden,
I inquired why he wanted it. “I want to
put him in the woolshed,” Henare replied.
“Prurry birds keep carrying in straw for
nests what ruin my wool, so I like to sit
a dummy man on te shearing board to
stop them.”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Melbourne seems to
be waking up to the fact that there are
alternatives to its long-accepted popular
choice between snapper and just fish —
sometimes gummy shark. A Townsville
(N.Q.) fisherman tried an experimental
shipment of 1501 b. of Spanish mackerel
to the Melbourne market out of a
30001 b. load brought in from Barrier
Reef waters. On returning from his next
trip he found an order for another
10001 b. at 6d. per lb. loaded at Towns-
ville ; also an inquiry as to how much
more he could supply weekly. Other
markets are also realising the potentiali-
ties of northern waters in the fish line.
Fifty-five tons of October-caught cased
fish went south from Townsville to vari-
ous destinations as far, in one experi-
mental consignment, as Adelaide.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: In his utilisation of a
gift from the sea Binghi in at least one
direction can put the bulge over the
superior white. Earlier in the century a
big humpback came ashore near Point
Cloates, W.A. A couple of days, and
the abos. from miles around were there,
summoned by some sort of carrying of
the Fiery Cross. Tribal feuds were for-
gotten and everyone sat down to eat.
Stark naked, male and female sank
tunnels into the mountain of meat;
wolfish at first, then, with appetites
sated, they sat at fires of driftwood
daintily toasting blubbery titbits.
Swamped in grease, both within and
without, even the most ancient of the
tribal fathers and mothers stood (when
they could stand) as veritable defiances
of all theories of indigestion and blood-
pressure. Whole families grew visibly
fatter. For weeks they feasted, nearly
devouring the 90-ton carcass. Not even
when the aroma of dead whale rose to
high heavens did they desist. Only when
the progeny of ten million blowflies took
“Py korry, I got to fill in my spare time some' ow."
complete charge did they seek a change
in the menu, and departed satisfied that
a good time had been had by all. Years
later a similar gift came ashore north
from Bunbury. And how did the white
inheritors of that part of W.A. utilise
it? From miles around they came —to
stare and wonder, the while the carcass
rotted, pouring gallons of rich oil into
the sands. “Well, you can’t handle a
whale unless you’ve got plenty of barrels
to put the blubber in,” one resident ex-
plained. That’s where Binghi scored —
his troubles about barrels!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Portugee” Mat, who
was pretty handy with his dooks, opened
up as a boxing instructor in a quiet
Riverina town. The place livened up at
once, the psychological effect on the
young bloods being to start them looking
for stoush. Some of the more cocky
began to think themselves better than
their teacher, and Mat found himself
being picked far too frequently. He
announced a programme of fights, star
item of which was to be his own appear-
ance against the best three local lads, one
round apiece, Mat to knock his opponent
out or lose, side bets accepted. He won
without much trouble, collected his
dough, packed his traps and left —before
anyone found out that the padding of his
gloves that night had been soaked with
No. 6 shot.
* ■* * *
“Solitude”: Whilst it is true that sheep
are stupid in the mass, usually they have
sufficient nous to seek the aid of man
when they are in distress. I know one old
sheep which, when in trouble, invariably
comes to the pens in search of its owner,
and will follow him around helplessly
until it receives the necessary attention,
after which it contentedly returns and
feeds with the flock. Again, a young
ewe at lambing time trotted the length
of the paddock to meet her owner, and
led him back to where her dead lamb
was lying. He took a twin lamb from
another paddock, tied the skin from the
dead one round it, and gave it to the ewe.
She was perfectly satisfied, and there-
after ignored his presence each morning.
This happened during two consecutive
lambing seasons, the ewe running to seek
his aid on each occasion. The third
season her lamb was alive and healthy,
and she steadily refused to allow the
same man near her lively young offspring.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Although Australia’s
flightless birds are limited to the emu
and cassowary, there are several that
won’t rise from grass or water till the
hawks have gone to roost, and thus lead
many casual observers to believe that
they are unable to fly. One that is never
seen on the wing in daytime, though it
can fly well enough and is partly
migratory, is the little crake, a handsome
and elusive bird that frequents sheltered
swamps and the creek- and river-sides
where there are thick margins of reeds
and mangroves. It fnoves about in a
crouching fashion, always watchful, and
if alarmed runs for cover or dives.
Like the musk duck and the grebe, it
travels from place to place at night;
and, like the bittern, it is silent during
the day, but is heard all through the
night calling to its mates, its note being
a sharp “krek” or a grating “crake.”
Another that is not easily forced to take
wing is the quaint little emu wren, one
of the curiosities of birdland. It has a
body only lfin. long and of tail,
and that tail, consisting of six emu-like
feathers sticking straight up and all
separated from one another, is the strange
part of it.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: “Cattle on the road can
make you laugh as well as swear,” said
the horsetailer. “Remember once we
were dodgin’ over droughty Queensland
country with poor cattle when we hears
a station rouseabout choppin’ wood over
on a sandhill. Them bullocks ’ad been
creepin’ along half asleep an’ the picture
of misery; but on a sudden every head
was lifted and eager cries rose from lead
to tail. ’Fore we knew what was stirrin’
’em up they were off—full pelt for the
sandhill. The woodcutter saw the
avalanche o’ beef cornin’ at him an’
scrambled up a tree. They didn’t go past
the cart, ’cept to ring round it, an’ there
they all stopped, lookin’ up at the scared
bloke an’ lickin’ their chops. At first
we thought they’d smelt water in the
woodchopper’s bag ; but they’d not long
had a drink.” “Well, what did they rush
for?” asked the cook as the horsetailer
paused. “Why,” said he, “ ’fore we lifted
them bullocks, back o’ Boulia, they’d
been three months on scrub feed. So,
you see, the chop o’ the axe was the
dinner-bell to the poor brutes.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: For sheer impudent, aggres-
sive courage I hand it to Willie Wagtail.
The one who owns this section of country
has within the last fortnight driven crows,
butcher-birds, magpies and kookaburras
off his property, all of them several times
his size and well capable of looking after
themselves in a scrap. A mob of black
cockatoos who visit occasionally fly for
their lives as soon as they see the aggres-
sive midget making for them. Our cat
regards him with active dislike, but
doesn’t seem able to do a thing about it
when he pecks her ears and calls her
names. Last week a wedge-tailed eagle
sailed across the sky. Willie rushed up
at him like a fighter ’plane at a bomber,
the eager dodged, did an Immelmann turn
and immediately thereafter an unqualified
bunk. But I admit that when the slender,
sinister, dark wings of a peregrine falcon
sometimes glide over, heralded by alarm
calls from scores of tiny throats, William
dashes for cover with the rest. After all
he’s only 7|in. long and you simply can’t
bluff a peregrine.
“ Don't stand there gapin! Get yer pick under it!”
YE ARK.
“Ye Ark, a Chinese, aged 105, died at Gregadoo
station, Wagga (N.S.W.), where he had been gar-
dener for 17 years. For 48 years before that he
had been a scrub-cutter and -clearer in the Wodonga
and Wagga districts.”
A long farewell, Ye Ark! While there was
needed
Some quarter-century before the reign
Of Queen Victoria closed, you heard and
heeded .
A southern call, and crossed the heaving
main.
For five and sixty years you hoed and weeded
And juggled axe on alien soil. It’s plain
You liked our sunny land —and us —much more
Than Eastern strand and fellow-Chink.
Whaffor?
While many a mug of certain other races
Let dreams of easy gold possess his soul,
The Riverina bush, the open spaces,
Your philosophic spirit made its goal.
Your exile’s lot the sight of cheerful faces
You found had power to comfort and con-
sole :
In short, this continent we occupy
Became, to you, “O welly goo’, by cli!’”
Eschewing jobs such as preparing fodder
(Which with your countrymen is such an art)
You hit the mulga and —here’s something
odder —
At felling scrub you proved exceeding smart.
Then, at an age when most Caucasians dodder,
At gardening you made another start;
And Wagga, that the Tichborne Claimant knew,
Extolled the “beetloot, lettucee” you grew.
“Toil is the law of life,” or so hath reckoned
Some ancient bard (although he failed to say
Whether it was the first one or the second).
At least you did your darnedest to obey!
And now the Higher Gardener has beckoned,
Celestial pak-a-pu ye yet may play.
Here’s Charon with his venerable bark.
Peace to your honorable bones, Ye Ark!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.in.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
P.m.).
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Hr. F. E. Wall AT Tr* •
Win. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager’ '' ' ’
’Phone (three lines): 873G1. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street Svdnev
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Insurance Cos.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 66,862 10 p.c. = 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lßl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 7* „ „ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 36,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 51,067 8 „ „ 36,000 15,007 487,971
1938.. 57,609 'B4 „ „ 38,250 1
To staff fund, £SOOO . . j 14,359 00 - J,33 °
1939.. 57.071 9' p.c. = 40,500 ) 19 17l r 1 , rni
To staff fund, £SOOO . . f 12,171 514,501
The business of this 77-year-old fire
and marine underwriter, whose activities
are confined to Australia and Maoriland,
with a branch in London and another in
New Caledonia, keeps on expanding.
Last term the spring in gross premiums
(£612,851) was £15,372. But reinsurances
(£225,493) were £13,796 heavier, leaving
net premium income only £1576 better,
as the following comparison of under-
writing performances shows:
Net Pre— Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate Rate.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 p.c. 44.0 p.c.
1920.. 287.193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1930.. *498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5+„ 33.7+„
1931. .*509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0 f „ 32.7 t „
1932.. *357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6+,, 31.7 t „
1933.. *344,654 198,341 119,390 57.5+„ 34.6+„
1934.. *325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3+„ 40.6+,,
1935.. *330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1+,, 38.1+,,
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126,620 52.3+„ 34.5+„
1937.. 360,520 211,899 132,352 58.8 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 385,782 217,975 142,764 56.5 „ 37.0 „
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 „ 40.7 „
*lncludes interest, etc.
tßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
Despite disastrous bushfires, the loss
rate was £3 2s. p.c. lighter, but stinging
increases in taxation, fire brigade charges
and wage lifts bumped up the cost rate
by £3 14s. p.c. So what the co. gained
on the swings it lost on the roundabouts,
the underwriting surplus being £2326
lighter at £22,717, equal to 5 p.c. on
capital. Investments turned in £35,214
(up £1070), or 7.8 p.c. on capital. Allow-
ing for an unexplained reduction of £260
(£1574 in the previous term) in reserves,
the net result from all sources (£57,671,
up £62) was 12.8 p.c. on capital, as
against 12.8, 11.3, 10.7, 8.5, 10.9, 6, a
loss, 9.3 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1930. The
div., which was lifted from 8 p.c. to
9 p.c. for the last half of the 1938 term,
was maintained at the higher rate.
Policy-holders and shareholders are
well protected, as this table shows:
1933. 1937. 1938. 1939
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 103,466 132,584 152,647 148,922
Government
securities .. 444,970 460,730 463,723 468,723
Cash, book
debts, etc. 284,755 342,205 393,315 393,584
Debentures .. 39,875 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 123,444 126,860 109,494 109,745
Premises . . 118,759' 118,759 123,696 126,622
Assets are well worth their book value
—premises in particular appear to be in
at a very conservative figure. When the
books closed policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 249 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
During the Great War of 1914-18, the
experience of this and other marine
underwriters was a very heartening one,
thanks largely to the success of the
British Navy in dealing with the sub-
marine menace, which did not become
serious until that campaign was nearly
half-way through. How the United
will fare during the present European
conflict remains to be seen. Much will
depend upon the extent of the co.’s
marine risks, especially in the Atlantic,
and again upon the success of the Navy
in protecting Allied shipping. Another
factor to be considered is Government
bleeding, which promises to be a lot
more severe than during the Great War.
Since the beginning of 1939, the £lO
shares paid to £5 have fluctuated be-
tween £lO 10s. and £9 15s. on the market,
which doesn’t expect the 9 p.c. div. to
be interfered with. At £lO present return
is 4.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is £lO 14s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Adelaide Electric Supply (S. Aus.).
/ —Dividends— N Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- ml Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 306,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 . . . . 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
84 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, )
£40,000 j- 100,747 817,569
1932.. 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant, £205,042 .. .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000
1933.. 374,917 172,500 42,500 j 119,917 ' 32,444
Written off plant, £22,731 .. .. 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
10 p.c.
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520 . . .. 931,858
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
Written off plant, £90,990 . . . . 1,001,687
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 .. 991,255
1938. . 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,763
Written off plant, etc., £105,377 . . 1,012,386
New capital exes., £3887 . . .. 1,008,499
1939.. 388,889 185,000 62,500 141,389 1,149,888
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
Mains from this co.’s big generating
plant at Osborne, near Adelaide, cover
the whole of the s.-e. portion of the
State ; and the demand for juice keeps
on growing. Last term the number of
consumers increased by 3752:
Kilowatts.
r" A \
Power.
Number - A - N
Aug., Consumers. Lighting. Domestic. Industrial.
1929 . . 82,495 47,492 34,660 65,917
1934 . . 85,753 46,676 48,418 79,865
1936 . . 91,652 47,042 97,361 86,753
1937 . . 94,798 48,196 117,363 95,131
1938 . . 98,263 49,340 134,478 98,724
1939 . . 102,015 50,790 153,070 104,350
Outstanding feature there is the rapid
increase in consumption of power for
domestic and industrial purposes over the
last five years. This is due to the board’s
policy of hiring cookers and heaters, etc.,
to consumers, and to the rapid growth
of industrial activity, which still con-
tinues, in S. Aus., where there are no
natural coal deposits.
The spring in the year’s gross takings
was £78,287:
19'34. 1936. 1938. 1939
Gross revenue £787,729 £878,910 £986,618 £1,064,905
Operating exes.
and taxes. . 355,309 456,198 531,516 591,854
Net revenue £432,420 £422,712 £455,102 £473,051
The growth of £60,388 in exes, was
mainly on account of consumption of
greater quantities of coal and other
materials at higher prices, and increases
in the wage and tax bills. After deduct-
ing debenture interest and allowing for
minor reserve adjustments, the net result
was £14,881 stronger at £388,889. This
was £141,389 more than the pref. divs.
and 10 p.c. to the ords. called for. But
it leaves out of the reckoning £93,867
struck off on account of plant scrapped,
£11,510 written off as extra cost of Eng-
lish coal bought in the previous term
(both items were charged direct to re-
serves), and £3887 spent on raising new
capital. Reserves are labelled nominal in
the table because no annual allowance is
specifically made for depreciation.
Charges to consumers (last reduced
early in 1938) are governed mainly by
the cost of generation and distribution,
etc., and by interest and divs. paid on
the debenture and share capital, which
was made up as follows on Aug. 31: —
Stock— N | , —Debenture Stock—
Adelaide. London. I Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £ | p.c. £ £
Pref. 6 . . 176,633 73,367 I 6 D 250.000 —
„ 5 A . . • — 250,000 4 E 198,000 —
,. 8 B . . 249,950 50 44 F 200,000 —
„ 0.1 C.. 741,932 258,068 | 44 G 200 850,914
,. 5 1) . . 250.000 — | 44' H 250,000 —
P. Ord. 8 . . 743,348 6,652 I
Old. . . 616,729 8,271 |
Total £2,778,592 596,408 | £898,200 850,914
A further 250,000 5 p.c. prefs. have been
put out since the close of accounts.
Last term £14,233 of capital stock was
transferred from the London to the
Adelaide register. Debenture stock on
the Adelaide register increased by
£250,000, owing to a par issue at 44- p.c.,
and on the London register the total de-
creased by £72,160 net, owing to redemp-
tion of 5| p.c. stock. The debenture
stock is secured by a floating charge over
the whole of the undertaking, and is
redeemable at par at maturity dates in
Australian currency or sterling, accord-
ing to the register. With the exception
of the 6 per cents., which are entitled
to a capital bonus of 10 p.c. in the event
of a wind-up, all pref. shares rank pari
passu for both capital and dividends.
The preferreds stand in front of the ords.
for divs., but rank equally with them for
return of capital, except that £125,000
of ord. stock issued as fully paid in 1935
is to be regarded as unissued.
The amount spent on the undertaking
during the year was £396,311, raising the
written-down book value to £6,191,694
when the books closed. Debtors figured
at £139,985, stores, etc., £220,911, and
cash £69,473. The amount coming to
outsiders was £184,458.
At 21s. 6d., 26s. 6d. and 32s. 9d., the
5, 6| and 8 p.c. prefs. yield 4.6, 4.9 and
4.9 p.c. respectively. The ords. at 42s. 6d.
yield 4.7 p.c. and the preferreds at 31s.
return 4.6 p.c. The debentures are priced
to yield approximately 4\ p.c.
Peters’ American Delicacy (Vic.)
Towards
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc. .. 58,578
1930.. 7,634 Nil — 66,215
1931.. 16,475 Nil — 82,690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Intangibles written off, £38,795 .. 40.000
1933.. 8,668 6 p.c. = 7350 1318 38,682
Reserve for depreciation, etc.
( £19,198, up £8403), taken in. . 19,484
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9799 4426 15,058
Added to depreciation reserve, £8101.. 6,957
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7347 2285 4,672
Reserves.
Added sundry reserves, £7017 . . 2,345
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9800 364 2,709
Added sundry reserves, £15,379 . . 18,088
1937.. 20,023 9 p.c. = 13,675 6348 24,436
Added sundry reserves, £15,614 . . 40,050
1938. . 21,793 9 p.c. = 15,078 6715 46,765
Deficit.
Reserves reduced, £65,311 .. .. 18,546
1939.. 22,524 9 p.c. = 15,077 7447 11,099
The misadventure at the start (the co.
was formed in 1929) was out of the way
in 1932, when £82,825 (8s. in the £) was
lopped off capital, reducing it to £122,505.
After that the business continued to
expand, and soon developed into a satis-
factory dividend-payer, and, subject to
seasonal and other developments, it
looks like remaining one.
During the 1936 term a new factory
(the old one, taken over with the IXL
business, had become too small) was
put up at Richmond, and since most of
the co.’s trade is on that side of Mel-
bourne net earnings benefited from sav-
ings in operating and delivery costs. A
couple of years later business was ex-
tended to Tasmania, where a depot was
erected at Launceston. Meanwhile
£44,910 of fresh capital was gathered to
help finance the additions to freehold
an Ea?i“gs have moved in accordance
with seasons and economic conditions
and extension of the co.’s
term expanding turnover more man-
- the rise in wage and other cos ’
including higher prices for milK pr -
ducts. The net result (up £731) was 13.4
p.c. on capital, compared with 13, m.z,
8.2, 7.9, 11.6, 7.1 and 2.1 p.c. back to
1932. The div. was kept at 9 p.c. Ihat
was after setting aside £17,500 for de-
preciation and allowing something tor
taxation. During the 1938 term £15,614
net was added to the reserve for depre-
ciation, taxation, etc., making it £71,810.
Now the reserve for depreciation
(£77,540 at June 30) is deducted from
fixed assets in the accounts, and £6OOO
(not included with reserves in the table)
is specifically earmarked for taxation.
The net result of these adjustments is
that £11,099 of share capital was un-
represented by tangible assets in the
books at June 30. Goodwill (£15,000)
and patent rights (£25,000) are not
treated as assets herein.
The financial position improved:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £122,505 £167,080 £167,415 £167,453
Sundry creditors 25,703 10,227 33,437 21,206
Freeholds . . 58,746 102,394 121,445 ) 180 829
Plant . . 65,215 102,577 126,687 S ’
Stocks . . 2,859 6,607 5,912 10,614
Book debts . . 2.087 2.203 6,934 6,018
Cash, etc. . . 18,302 1,636 1,714 1,173
The deduction of £67,303 net in the
book value of fixed assets reflects the
adjustments already referred to. The
outside debt was reduced by £12,230,
and stocks were £4702 heavier. When
the books closed outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £3401,
an improvement of £15,476 during the
twelvemonth.
The £167,453 of capital is in 371,572
12s. shares, of which 94,500 are fully paid.
On the balance another 2s. (£27,707) has
been called since the close of accounts,
making them paid to 10s. each, and
raising paid capital to £195,160, on which
9 p.c. would call for £4960 less than was
netted last term.
At 18s. 6d. (21s. a year ago) the fully-
paids return 5.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the contribs.
at 14s. 6d. yield 6.2 p.c. The net tangible
cover is 18s. lOd. per pound of paid
capital.
Marcus Clark and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7£ p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
£>£/£, £ £ £
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves.!
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 . . .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 . . 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
6h p.c. 3 p.c.
1938.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 12.148 7,771 36.934
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
+ Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
A disappointing result. Hopes were
that with the deadwood pruned out of
the accounts and the prefs.’ slate cleaned
the way would be open for moderate
distributions to the ords. as well as
regular payments to the prefs. But, so
far as earnings are concerned, all the
ground gained since 1936 was lost last
term.
The co. runs a large department
store business, mainly on a t.-p. basis,
with headquarters in Railway Square and
extensive connections in the country.
Concerning the latest showing, the board
says:—•
Sales were not quite so good as in the
previous year, owing principally to generally
unsettled conditions due to the uncer-
tain international situation, the serious
drought which prevailed at the beginning
of the year and to extensive strikes affecting


yOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL...
But even with approx, £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . * .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, SYDNEY
. TELEPHONE: 85294 '
the Newcastle and Wollongong districts,
Expenses on the other hand increased
considerably, owing to heavy increases m
wages and the scale of taxation.
The co.’s experience was well below the
average for purely city retailers. Alter
allowing something for contingencies in-
cluding taxation, and striking oft £7530
(down £241) for depreciation—shown as
written off in the table —the amount
available for distribution was £17,0/3
lighter at £43,163, or sufficient to pay
the first and second prefs. their 6 p.c.
and 6i p.c. respectively and show 1.4
p.c. on ord. capital as against 5.6 p.c.
for the preceding 12 months. The ords.
were passed by; they received 3 p.c.
for the previous term, the only distri-
bution since 1930. The £5803 put on
the shelf lifted the lay-by to £42,737,
which is subject to £72,378 of goodwill.
So at balancing date there was £29,641
of ord. capital unrepresented by tangibles
in the books.
The jettisoning of £219,790 of ord.
capital (10s. per share) and £23,558 of
reserves a couple of years ago was largely
on account of the failure of Craig, Wil-
liamson (Melbourne), which ceased trad-
ing in March, 1937 —this Sydney co. was
interested through Marcus Clark (Vic.),
which also owns the ords. in Miller,
Anderson (Adelaide). At the same time
the prefs.’ slate was cleaned by a cash
payment of £7500 to the firsts and £8622
to the seconds, together with a distribu-
tion of 135,000 f.-p. 10s. ords. to the
firsts and 235,296 similar shares to the
seconds. The firsts’ div. remained un-
altered at 6 p.c., but the seconds’ was
lowered from 7\ p.c., subject to the
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act, to p.c.
—the new rates in each case are not
subject to the restrictions of the Act.
The £1,002,786 of capital now to be fed
is in 300,000 first and 297,848 second
prefs. of £1 each and 809,876 10s. ords.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,035,401 1,035,895 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages.. 480.831 530,360 517,639 507,769
Other debts 128,782 114,094 101,771 109,800
Freeholds .. 599,194 656,687 661,809 671,860
Leaseholds. . 28,853 4,426 4,226 4,026
Plant, etc. 74,272 68,540 67,163 67,071
Stocks . . 161,035 191,117 183,532 181,360
Book debts 573,339 556,368 569,967 559,774
Shares, etc. 312,900 125.947 122,456 118,913
Cash, etc... 7,689 12,916 8,426 6,388
Last term £10,051 was added to the book
value of freeholds and £9870 was snipped
off mortgages. Debtors’ balances, per-
haps the most vulnerable point in the co.’s
armor, were reduced by £10,193, stocks
by £2171, shareholdings, etc., by £3543,
cash, etc., by £2038, and £8029 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Excluding shareholdings, the more or
less liquid surplus (£129,953) was £12,562
lighter than at the previous balance.
Shareholdings are mainly the ords. in Bon
Marche (Syd.) and Marcus Clark (Vic.),
neither of which paid a div. last year, and
it is difficult to say exactly when they
are likely to.
Before publication of the accounts, the
firsts, seconds and ords. sold at 155., 13s.
and 3s. 9d. respectively in the market.
Last week-end the figures were 14s. 6d.,
12s. 3d. and 3s. respectively. At the
lower figures the return on the firsts and
seconds is 8.3 p.c. and 10.6 p.c. respec-
tively. The net tangible cover (book
value) is £3 4s. lOd. firsts, £2 ss. 2d.
seconds and 9s. 3d. ords.
Clifford Love and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £
1929.. 32,958 124 p.c.= 26,423 6,535 80,511
1931.. 25,539 10 „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 23,125 10 „ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ „ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688- 10 ~ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
Insurance reserve taken in, £12,120 .. 127,019
1938.. 27,911 10 p.c. 22,188 5,723 132,742
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 .. 160,242
1939.. 29,733 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,545 167,787
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., now £72,500.
A glance at the table explains why the
market has always had a high opinion
of this co.’s scrip. But war has brought
price control, thumping increases in taxa-
tion and lifts in costs generally, which
have caused the market to revise its antici-
pation of benefits. Since the beginning
of 1939, the pound shares have fluctuated
between 51s. and 445. 6d. At 465. 9d.,
the quote last week-end, the return is
a satisfactory 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the depreciation
and contingency, etc., reserve (£121,247,
equal to 11s. per share), the net tangible
cover is 465.
The co. is in the dry-goods trade, and
turns out some well-established pro-
prietary lines, including oatmeal, corn-
flour, starch and rice, and it handles tea
and other Asiatic lines as well. Ever
since the public became interested in
1922, when Brown and Poison’s was ab-
sorbed, shareholders have had a steady
10 p.c., sweetened with a 2\ p.c. bonus
for the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1930, plus some new share
issues at par, which were in the nature
of bonuses to shareholders, because of
the premium at which the scrip has
always stood in the market.
After setting aside £12,500 (up £3500)
for the taxgatherer, providing £8752 (up
£2752) for depreciation and openly strik-
ing off the usual £SOO for doubtful debts,
the net result for the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts was £1822 better
at 13.4 p.c. on capital as against 12.5 for
the preceding term and 11.8, 11.9, 12.1,
11.8, 11.9 and 10.9 p.c. back to 1932.
That was after reducing the provision for
contingencies, depreciation, etc., by
£12,827 net and creating a dividend equali-
sation reserve, which appears for the
first time at £27,500. So the co. may
have done better than the figures in the
table show. 'lncluding the equalisation
but not the contingency reserve, the year’s
growth in the lay-by was £35,045, raising
the visibly free support and assistance for
capital to £167,787.
As for the current term, selling prices
for many of the co.’s lines have been
fixed by the Federal Prices Commis-
sioner, while costs continue to climb.
Still, the co. has strong connections, there
was a satisfactory margin between last
year’s earnings and distribution, and
appearances are that the board has not
put every penny on the table when de-
ciding how much of the takings it would
call profit. The chairman says “the
present outlook is so disturbed that it is
difficult to calculate the future, but your
directors have every reason to be hopeful
of the results for the coming year.”
Movements in balance-sheet figures
are encouraging:
1935, 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. . . £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages and overdraft 4,451
Trading debts .. .. 24,663 29,195 33,877
Properties .. .. 163,123 176,049 179,214
Machinery, plant, etc... 143,913 151,093 152,956
Stocks 76,752 72,912 9'9,622
Book debts . . . . 32,305 42,960 46,113
Cash and sundries . . 3,98.4 16,926 12,434
Chief movement last term was the
growth of £26,710 in stocks, which sug-
gests that the management has a keen
eye on the future. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£124,292) was £20,689. Plant is modern
and efficient, and that ought to mean
much so far as manufacturing costs are
concerned.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (Q.)
A 40 p.c. expansion in ore-treatment
was accompanied by a slash of Bs. Id. a
ton in the all-in cost figure last term ;
but the combined effects failed to offset
fully a decline of 3.37dwt. in recovered
ore values, and the net result slipped
£7734:
f Profit r - ' —Divs. \
June, Revenue. Exes. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 253,975 58,467 195,508 4/8 4/6 189,000
1937.. 228,109 72,446 155,663 3/8J 3/- 126,000
1938. . 225,949 90,013 135,936 3/2f 3/- 126,000
1939.. 212,783 84,581 128,202 3/04 3/- 126,000
The £128,202 of profit claimed covered
the unchanged 3s. a share handout with
£2202 to spare ; that was after capitalis-
ing £9478 of the year’s development
outgo (£27,480, or 6s. lOd. per ton of
ore milled) and passing by any allow-
ance for depreciation—“repairs and re-
placements have been substantial, and
equipment is in first-class condition.”
Owing to the call on power for de-
velopment, 63 p.c. of last term’s mill-
feed was drawn from above No. 1 level;
it partly explains the big cut in costs:
1936. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Treated, tons . . 45,075 48,453 56,912 80,010
Gold, oz 29,212 25,834 25,729 22,698
Dwt 12.96 10.66 9.04 5.67
Recovery, p.c... 97.01 95.76 94.65 94.05
Silver, oz. . . 11,471 20,353 18,008
Dwt 4.7 7.1 4.5
All-in costs, ton . . 26/- 29/10 31/7 23/6
With the mill now handling 2\ times the
quantity of four years ago, capital ex-
penditure (£9588 last year) is said to
have come to an end for a while. Not-
withstanding the increased extraction
and treatment costs looming up with
more of the mill-feed coming from the
harder ore at depth, the board considers
there will be no “encroaching on divi-
dends.” Current earnings, however, may
not cover last term’s rate; though
throughput is now running at the rate of
85,000 tons p.a., there has been further
slip in recoveries to 5.37dwt.
A shilling div. in respect of the current
term is to go out on Dec. 7 ; it will bring
total distributions up to £851,000.
With downward persistence of the
lode-carriers indicated, shareholders
appear to have a much better mine than
they did 12 months ago. Ore reserves
(up 8300 tons net at 222,600 tons) are
now three years ahead of the mill —
proved 174,300 tons, probable 48,300
tons, overall grade of the lot being a
shade under sdwt. as against s.7dwt.
and 6.sdwt. at the two preceding esti-
mates. That includes little of the stuff
below No. 3 horizon, where prospects
have considerably brightened. In the
western section a drive has been in 6dwt.
ore, 12ft. wide, for 255 ft. from a point
800 ft. from the shaft, with the face still
showing a solid, payable reef. Hopes
are that it is an entirely new ore-body,
no work having been done in this
section of the mine. In the limited work
done on the bottom (544 ft.) level a make
of ore assaying 7dwt. over 7ft. has been
struck. Immediate intention is to sink
the shaft another lift of 100 ft., and then
possibly to 744 ft.
Golden Plateau has 840,000 3s. 4d.
shares issued, 210,000 fully paid, the
balance to 2s. 6d. Since the beginning
of November the scrip has spurted from
9s. 9d. to 11s.; the year’s “low” was
6s. lid. With gold at £9 15s. an ounce
and costs and recoveries at last year’s
level, known ore in the Cracow mine
should be worth £246,000 net to the co.
Current market is thus paying approx.
£216,000 for prospects and surplus
liquids—£7s,367 at June 30. As indi-
cated before, costs will be something
(<Continued on next page.')
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
RECORD PROFIT
SPEECH OF CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS (SIR WALTER MASSY-GREENE, K.C.M.G.)
to SHAREHOLDERS at the 19th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING held at FELTEX HOUSE,
SYDNEY, NOVEMBER 17th, 1939.
, A perusal of the Report and Bal-
ance Sheet shows that the net profit
of the Company and its subsidiaries
for the year is £94,184 against £60,376
for the preceding year after making
provision for a total amount of de-
preciation over all the companies’
plant and premises of £29,647.
j The industries carried on by the
Company and its subsidiaries in Aus-
tralia cover a wide field. In general,
while each industry carries on as a
self-supporting unit, it is com-
plementary to some other industry
within the organisation. Conse-
quently the organisation as a whole
is in a strong position. The main
industries may be sub-divided into
three main divisions, in the first of
which we have the felt piece goods
manufactories and the carpet factory
in both of which sales have been
satisfactory. I
The second division comprises the
wool subsidiaries, Botany Wools
(Aust.), Pty., Ltd., Pacific Wools
Pty., Ltd., and James Seymour &
Co., Pty. Ltd. Any review of the
affairs of our group of Companies
would be incomplete without special
reference to the increasingly import-
ant place which the wool sections
occupy in our organisation; and let
me emphasise that, owing to the
basis upon which they operate, the
speculative element usually insepar-
able from this class of business is
virtually eliminated from the ex-
tensive activities of our own
Companies.
The acquisition of the whole of
the Australian wool clip by the Brit-
ish Government, will not interfere
with the operations of the wool
companies. We will be able to con-
tinue treating the wool and supply-
ing our own manufacturing plants
whilst our operations as wool scour-
ers, carbonisers and top makers will
continue. In these lines your Com-
pany has established a reputation
for its products as the equal of
the world’s best and I, as Chairman,
am proud to know that in these
troublous times your Company is
playing no insignificant part in the
treatment of the product of Aus-
tralia’s greatest primary industry—an
industry which at this time is of
supreme importance to the Em-
pire.
LARGEST CONSUMERS OF WOOL
We are now the largest con-
sumers of wool in Australia and our
purchases represent an important
proportion of the total Australian pur-
chases of the Australian wool clip.
As shareholders and Australians I
feel sure you will share my pride and
gratification in possession of this
plant.
It is of interest here to record
that Australia is now the third best
customer of its own wool trade, and
during the twelve months ended 30th
June, 1939, consumed 378,694 bales
out of a total output of 2,962,399
bales. Development in local indus-
tries such as our own, should stead-
ily increase this consumption. It is
essential, in discussing this matter,
to bear in mind the incidence of
three important factors, and their
close co-relation, which, I fear, some-
times escapes the attention of other-
wise intelligent people, viz.: prices
of our primary products, costs and
taxation. With abnormal war-
time conditions there is more than
usual tendency for their effects to
be disregarded, but it is very clear
that with rising costs and inevitable
increased taxation for war purposes,
the maintenance of the prices of our
exports at a fairly high level is es-
sential to our economy.
The third division comprises the
Australian Footwear subsidiaries in
which the parent Company holds a
100 per cent, interest. These com-
panies have shown very satisfactory
progress and their profitable de-
velopment has been possible through
close co-operation between the ex-
perienced and able executives con-
trolling the footwear section and
the parent Company, which is the
supplier of their principal raw ma-
terials. The agreement with an
English firm, which I mentioned
in my last report, has functioned
satisfactorily during the year. The
English Company has entered into the
spirit of the arrangement, and has
given a lot of helpful assistance and
advice which often exceeded the
strict requirement of the agreement
and which has been of great value
t« our Companies.
OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES
And now I pass on to overseas sub-
sidiaries. During the year under
review, important developments took
place in New Zealand as a result of
which further opportunities arose
for the expansion of our industries
already established in that Dominion
and also for the introduction of
•branches of our business which here-
tofore has not been exploited in New
Zealand. As you no doubt remember,
the present New Zealand Government
introduced the policy of controlling
imports and encouraging local manu-
facturers. After a thorough
personal investigation into the
position by our Managing Director,
the Board was satisfied that
a unique opportunity presented it-
self for the establishment of factories
in New Zealand to make all types
of felt which the Company had
formerly sent to New Zealand, and
to make plain and stippled body car-
pets. After satisfactory assurances
that the new industries would be
protected had been obtained from
the Government, your Directors made
arrangements for the purchase of
the necessary plant and the erection
of suitable factory buildings for this
expansion of our business.
The South African subsidiaries did
very well during the year, and your
Directors believe that good progress
will be maintained this year.
Enquiries have shown that South
Africa in proportion to its popula-
tion offers an even better market
for absorbent cotton wool than
Australia. Arrangements which are
well advanced, have been made to
start manufacture in this Dominion.
Your Directors feel that the South
African subsidiaries are a source of
strength to the Company, particu-
larly as the rate of exchange between
South Africa and Australia is sd
much in the parent Company’s
favor.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
In common with all other commer-
cial organisations we are naturally
very concerned by the disturbing con-
ditions inevitably associated with the
troubled times of war; most of us
have memories sufficiently clear of
the world war as to enable us, 'I
hope, to avoid some of the pitfalls
and difficulties which then beset us.
It would be idle to attempt to look
far into the future for we are, as a
community, subject to many circum-
stances over which we can have no
control. It should be sufficient for
me to assure you, that in our own
chain of companies every care is
being exercised to conserve their in-
dividual and collective security. As
I have already indicated to you on
this and on previous occasions, our
interests are well spread, yet dove-
tailed; our plant is productive of a
diversity of goods mostly coming
within the category of necessities, and
not likely to be affected by sudden
changes of fashion.
Looking back over the last twenty-
five years, and bearing in mind the
financial ups and downs of that
period, the growth of industrial
enterprise in the Commonwealth has
been amazing; in no class of manu-
facturing I think, has this expansion
been more marked than in the wool-
len textile trade, an expansion to
which this Company has been no
mean contributor.


w' TE
AN s
•If
* , V
I
J:.I: Si
- : ■
|®jj|
II H
Ilil '1 il i:l
to SO^ 1 oBV .tW
# The army's problem was HUTS . . . efficient, weather-resisting, hygienic
huts. The answer came in terms of 3/16" Masonite Tempered Presdwood.
The picture shows how this grainless, steel-strong easily-worked board is
being used, unpainted, for the construction of demountable huts . . . huts
measuring 60' x IB‘ with interchangeable panels for roofs, walls and
windows . . . fastened with nuts and bolts only.
YOU will find that Masonite can solve your building problems. For
easily-erected and inexpensive "week-enders" and garages, for modernisation
work around your home, and for building furniture, etc., Masonite boards
are ideal.
[For increased comfort both in Summer and Winter —for increased quietness — for l
increased re-sale and rental values, insulate with CANE-ITE structural insulation .J
Afllfll T
PRESDWOOD : TEMPERED PRESDWOOD : TEMPRTILE : QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
'‘IE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney . • Melbourne . . . Brisbane .. . Adelaide . Perth MAS 3-9
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
-v.
' r i
"A.-ft
The sooner you
plan your future
the better that
future will be!
MOST couples face two great
hazards:
(1) That the husband will die
too soon, leaving his wife
and children to fend for
themselves.
(2) That the husband will live
beyond his earning years,
and will spend his old age
in want.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send an experienced man to talk
over your hazards: your financial
problems. Give him your con-
fidence. He will be able to help you
with a sound plan for laughing at
the hazards, and building up your
financial strength.
Send to-day. Even to-morrow
may be too late.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
a! E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
"QUALCAST" MOTOR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
ķ
Hundreds
ha-ve now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODER “H”: lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL READING HARDWARE STORES
above last year’s experience, however,
particularly as there have been further
wage lifts; against this may be offset
the better grade of ore now being de-
veloped at depth.
Wallis’s Day Dawn, Charters Towers
(N.Q.), has dewatered to a depth of over
700 ft. and drained over 1000 ft. of old
workings. Reconditioning of old stopes
and sampling of faces will take up to
the end of the year at least. W. H.
Clark is banking on the vein-intersection
theory working out here as conclusively
as it has done at the Black Jack.
* * * *
Batavia goldfield, the northern out-
post in Queensland for the yellow metal,
has been experiencing a boom of activity.
The best and earliest wet season for years
on the Cape York Peninsula has resulted
in the sluicing of the granite wash for
the first time in its history. Results have
been variable, but these mean the weed-
ing-out of the poorer areas, though pay-
able results have been obtained in the
locality of the deep lead. Something
like 100 miners and prospectors are on
the field, and two mills are operating.
* * * *
The old alluvial field of Clermont
(C.Q.) reports good finds in some of the
deep-sinking at present going on. The
wash is now 200 ft. deep, but one party
of four cleaned up close to lOOoz. in
three months. Worked out on a frac-
tional basis, this means a handsome rise
for each man in the party. The luck
of alluvial mining manages to dodge
some of the old hands there, however,
and there are more than enough parties
on the fields at present to man all likely-
looking ground.
* * * *
The oil-shale deposits on Plevna, in
the Mackay (Q.) hinterland, are proving
to be more extensive than was apparent
when the Commonwealth Oil Advisory
Committee reported on them last year.
A geological survey has since been made
and lower shale beds located. Drilling
has followed this, and one hole proved
over 30ft. of oil shale which was re-
ported to show a crude-oil content of
20 to 44 gallons per ton. On these
data the Mackay syndicate has em-
powered G. Tremble to go south and in-
vestigate the possibilities of larger finan-
cial backing for developing the deposit.
Kanieri, the Sydney Prattens’ venture
at Tucker Flat, Kanieri (M.L.), has de-
clared a maiden div. —Is. a share
(£15,000), payable December 15. Produc-
tion began just 11 months ago, with
these results:
Treated, Gold, Yield, Costs,
Period. C.y. Oz. Gr. C.y.
4m. Mar. . . 542,000 4131 3.66 4.72 and.
7m. Oct. . . 1,653,000 8519 2.43 3.55 and.
After sending £1036 to renewals account,
net profit of £21,171 resulted from the
four months’ dredging to March 31,
when the net debt, deducting liquids,
amounted to £23,483. The £21,171 was
utilised to wipe out intangibles (£11,564)
and provide £SOOO for depletion, etc.,
leaving £4607 to carry forward. In the
seven months since a surplus on working
account of £45,600 has been earned. Bull
points for the market are the improve-
ment in costs —boulders are now giving
less trouble—and the fact that recoveries
to date (2.8 gr.), though slightly below the
average for the property, have been 33
p.c. above values indicated in the wash
actually dug. Only 25 p.c. of the in-
creased gold price above £NZ9 ss. Bd.
now goes to the mining cos., the
Dominion Government collaring the rest.
Handling, say, 250,000 c.y. monthly, a
life of 18 years for Kanieri is indicated
by wash so far proved.
* * * *
Though recoveries at I.4gr. are still
less than half prospectus estimates, Ara-
hura Dredging (M.L.) shows a surplus
on working account of £14,160 for the
past two months. The dredge is simply
eating up the Arahura Valley, October
yardage tallying 403,000; costs were
around 2d. a yard. At present rate of
treatment there is at least 10 years’ work
ahead ; and a lot of low-grade stuff exists
outside the measured area. When the
dredge set in in August, the debt stood
at £43,000, to which outlay on neces-
sary spares, etc., since has added £9OOO ;
but this should be quickly accounted for.
Improvement in recoveries later is also
a reasonable expectation, as the plant
has so far been in wash bored to go less
than the overall average of the property.
Market for the scrip is at present strong.
*i» H*
Norseman Associated, an offshoot of
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.), has re-
solved to dig for scheelite as well as
gold. A deposit of £SOO has been paid
on one block, and another has been
bought outright. Both are at Higgins-
ville, on the road from Coolgardie to
Norseman. Existing workings are stated
to extend over a length of 400 ft. and
a depth of 70ft. Seventy samples are
reported to have averaged 3 p.c. tungstic
oxide. Old workings of the Sons and
Daughters of Erin mines are on part of
the property, from which Government
records show that about 62,000 tons was
treated for an average return of 12dvvt.
gold. But in a district like Higgins-
ville it is what is left in and not what
has been taken out of the cupboard that
must be taken into account. Norseman
Associated was launched by Norseman
Gold Mines at the beginning of this year
to take over the Mt. Barker line of reef
and an option over the Norseman Ex-
tended leases of 156 acres. Norseman
Gold Mines got 50,000 paid 2s. 6d.
shares in the float. A public issue of
240,000 shares was quickly taken.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) pays its
annual dividend in December, this time
25 p.c. (9d. a share sterling). Share-
holders on the Adelaide register are paid
in Australian currency, plus exchange.
Previous year’s distribution was 16 2-3 p.c.
(6d.) and the year before 2d. Cos. com-
pleted re-treatment of old residues on
the Horse Shoe mine some time ago,
and then started gold extraction on an
equal profit-sharing basis with Gt.
Boulder from old dumps on the latter’s
property. About 1,850,000 tons has
been handled and about 1,300,000 re-
mains. Joint profit averages from
£14,000 to £15,000 Australian a month.
Twelve months ago the Horse Shoe made
a similar arrangement with Lake View
and Star in regard to half a million tons
of residues on the Ivanhoe lease.
sH * *
Latest half-yearly estimate puts
“actual” ore reserves in South Kalgurli
(W.A.) at 162,900 tons averaging
5.24dwt., and probable at 95,200 tons
averaging s.osdwt. A year ago they
were 175,000 tons, 5.23dwt., and
96,000 tons, s.lldwt. In 12 months
there has thus been a reduction
of 12,100 tons in actual and 800
tons in probable, grade much the same
all round. The ore treated in the interim
approximated 120,000 tons, but about a
fourth of this was bought from other
leaseholders and prospectors. Principal
development is now being done in the
Hainault section, in which the “main
hope” of the future is considered to lie.
Some months ago diamond-drilling at
depth in this part of the property cut
4ft. of high-grade ore, and it was later
said that the workings were being ex-
pended to open up the find.
* * * *
Western Mining Corporation’s latest
Westralian gold option is stated to be
on the Rose Marie mine, near Field’s
Find, on the Yalgoo field. A large ore
deposit is spoken of, but presence of
copper and distance from the nearest
battery have weighed against the vendor
working it at a profit.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.W.F.: First two fair investments; leave
3 alone... .R.A.L.: First co. best of the bunch.
Queensland Brewery, Queensland Insurance and
Morris Hedstrom also worth consideration....
Anxious (Vic.): Hold for the present....
Anxious (Syd.).: Nothing to be gained by not
converting. Prospects still very uncertain, and
divs. nowhere in sight. The ords. have a
vestibule market around 4s. 6d J. 8.: (1)
Plans for No. 2 dredge have been prepared, and
tenders for construction are about to be callea.
(2) Necessary finance has been arranged, but
balance of share-money will also be needed
probably in six months or so. (3) Ords. 9s. 6a.,
deferreds 7s. 6d Manly: Though No. 1 has
unusual speculative attractions, competition is
very keen in its business, and No. 2 looks the
solider. No. 3 may do very well, but engineer-
ing and similar concerns are subject to unusual
trading risks... .R.A.: Recent figures not avail-
able, but the co. hasn’t much in reserve, and
the sharemarket doesn’t like cash-order cos.
particularly. No open market for the scrip
H.8.M.: The grazing-property idea, in the cir-
cumstances, sounds attractive, provided one
can be bought well. But should a setback occur
in the present buoyant sharemarket, investment
in sound stocks such as you mention should
give a well-protected income. If war con-
tinues, cash and similar liquid assets may lose
part of their value, already illustrated in the
rising cost of many things.


SMOKE-OH!
“It is a crying shame to think that others
are developing the whaling industry right at
our very door.” — Sydney paper.
No use blubbering about it now.
q, q. q. q.
“Age is no disability in the film world to-
day.”—“Sunday Sun.”
No, they’re still using the same old
gags.
q, q, q, q.
“Constant yawning is a sign of acute indi-
gestion.”—Medical journal.
This should be very reassuring to after-
dinner speakers.
q. q. q. q.
“What is to be done with a servant who lies
in bed until all hours?” — Women’s paper.
She’ll have to be made to sit up and
take notice.
q. q. q. q.
“The German submarine campaign is proving
very costly to Hitler, and many of the sub-
marines were built with borrowed money.”
—Cable item.
lOU-boats.
q. q, q< q.
“What happens when a man flies high?”
—Scientific journal.
The neighbors tell his wife about it.
q. q. q. q>
“Millinery styles come in cycles.”
—Fashion note.
But it’s useless for a husband to try
to put his spoke in.
q. q. q. q.
“Margarine is given to ratings in the Aus-
tralian Navy.”— Article.
Perhaps butter wouldn’t melt in their
mouths.
q. q. q. q.
“On one occasion my husband threw the
parrot and cage at me.” — Divorce evidence.
“According to statistics supplied by leading
furriers, 35,000 animals are killed every hour
to make women’s fur coats.” —“ World’s News.”
And unluckier brutes are continually
being fleeced for them.
■s*
“Many women regard a man simply as a
meal-ticket for life.” — Women’s paper.
And then they complain when they
get fed-up.
q. q. q.
“It’s unlucky to see your prospective husband
on the morning of your wedding day.”
— Women’s paper.
And unluckier not to see him in the
afternoon.
“One hammer-toe doesn’t disqualify a man
from joining the new A.1.F.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
After all, it should help to put an-
other nail in Hitler’s coffin.
q> q. q. q«
These days most women seem to satisfy
their maternal instinct by nursing
arudses.
“Wish I hadn't made you enlist after all. You ain't a bit like Wot I
pictured you'd be."
“It was stifling in the cheap little restaurant.
Everything was so unbearably hot.”
—Extract from short story.
Surely not the coffee!
•f* •b *i* *f*
“The average person changes his position 60
times during a night’s rest.” — Medical article.
Boarders of course can improve on
these figures.
•!• * * *
“This present war may be known to future
generations as the ‘Confetti War.’ ”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
Made, no doubt, out of the treaties
Hitler has torn up.
•J* *f> 4*
“Some of the riveters complained that they
do not get sufficient time off for their meals.”
— “S.M.H.”
They have to bolt their food.
4* 4 1
“The Argentine red ant is said in America
to have presented a more serious problem than
the notorious bell-weevil.” — Melb. “Argus.”
Aftermath.
“True to poetic precedent, spring is in-
citing Sydney’s young men’s fancies to thoughts
of love, and they are saying it with flowers.
— “Telegraph.’
No pansy, he set out to try
With blooms to make fair Rose say aye;
Forget-me-nots made their appeal,
And orange-blossoms clinched the deal.
But now she’s rarely home to cook,
Plays bridge and golf by hook or crook;
And he attributes all his woes
To having wed a rambling Rose !
D. McM.
His way of giving her the bird
Struck her as being most absurd;
But he, no doubt, set out to boost
Himself as ruler of the roost!
D. Me.
Fiction for the Feeble-brained.
Are you mentally aged seven? Do
you naturally fall within the category of
the quarter-witted? Does your alleged
grey matter soak up syndicated muck
with delight? If you are, and/or do,
"An I don't mind y' chuckin' wild parties as long as y' spar up for any
damage done."
you simply can’t afford to miss our great
supplement, the Kolored Komic Kuts for
Elderly Kids, given gratis with the Sun-
day “Ballyguff.”
Here are a few of the marvellous
features that will hold your vivid interest.
First is Sandstone Sudds, the Boy
Wonder, and his soul-stirring adventures
in the House of Horrors. You will also
thrill to the marrow at the impossible
exploits of Alice the Amazon as she
battles lone-handed against the terrible
Mastodon Men. Clarice, the Cute Co-
Ed, who yoops for the wow
guys of the Phi Beta Kappa
when they forsake the cam-
pus for the grid, will have
you in fits. Adventure, too,
with Gahagan the G-man as
he gets the low-down on the
ace racketeer-murderers who
burn up the Bowery with
their sub-machine-guns. In
the Children’s Section there
are Rattlesnake Pete in the
Death Pit, the Blood-drinkers
of Bozoland, Fifi the Flap-
perette, and “Butch” Bigstiff,
the Downtown Commuter —
all packed with high-powered,
top-gear adventure.
Nothing but the sturdy
Australianism of the “Bally-
guff” could have brought this
veritable feast of fun and
frenzy to you. And, remem-
ber, every inch of these
famous syndicated strip
stories was thought up, writ-
ten, drawn and printed in
color in America! Doesn’t that give
you a thrill? It gave us one, especially
when we worked out what we’d saved
by not having to pay for local talent.
Order your copy to-day. Order two
copies, for once the kids get hold of it
you’ll never have a hope of getting an
eyeful. And just think how you would
feel if your boss were to ask you how
you reacted to the adventures of Alice
the Amazon and you couldn’t tell him!
Bo.
Threatening.
“Cloudburst at the races.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The horses raced just like the wind,
With thund’ring hooves they all per-
formed ;
The favorite won with lightning dash,
And then of course the bookies
stormed.
ELM.
Admirable Crichton.
“A handyman usually makes an ideal hus-
band.” — Women’s paper.
I’ll fix a leaking gutter
And stop a dripping tap,
Repair a broken shutter
And stitch a leather strap.
No odd job gets me beaten;
My vigor never flags.
I wash up when we’ve eaten
And dry up when she nags!
P.O.M.C.
We hope you cotton on to this,
And clapper bale along it;
When such a weevil comes your way
You must arise and dong it!
Around the Army.
11.
Colonels, Majors and Smaller Fry.
In contradistinction to the general, who
invariably barks his orders, the colonel
merely snaps his. Australian colonels
differ from the Poona variety in that
when they fly off the handle their faces
go only a medium puce color instead of
a deep violet.
Colonels are of two kinds —lieutenant-
colonels and full colonels. Full colonels
are rarely seen, except immediately after
successful reunions. A lieutenant-
colonel, who may roar up either a bat-
talion or a battery, sports a crown and a
“pip.” The claim often made by his sub-
ordinates that he “gives them the pip” is
a gross exaggeration, for by doing so he
would automatically be reducing himself
to a major.
Old-time colonels could always be in-
stantly recognised from quite considerable
distances by the enormous moustaches
they affected. Any Digger of the old
A.I.F. who happened to be on guard duty
always had ample time to ash his cig-
arette, do his tunic up at the neck, plant
the half-finished bottle of beer, grab his
rifle and warn his mates in the guard-
room when he spotted, afar off, what
looked like a small hedge being pushed
along by an indistinguishable face sur-
mounted by a cap.
The popularity of this vogue suffered
an eclipse following a regrettable incident
at Tel-el-Kebir when Colonel Blastemall,
of the Umpteenth Light Horse, got a
parcel from the Comforts Fund and
avidly tore into a packet of sweets. In
no time his long, thick walrus mo. was
inextricably mixed up with several yards
of chewing gum. Since then the waxed
moustache has been adopted as the
standard hirsute equipment for colonels.
In the interests of safety-first in confer-
ences or at mess, King’s Regs, forbid the
projection of the pointed ends beyond
the ears.
Majors are too high in rank to com-
mand a company, and not high enough
to command a battalion. They are the
“tweenies” of the infantry. They can,
and do, however, sling their weight
around, gravitating aimlessly from one
company to another to fill in the time,
inspired by nothing more than a morbid
desire to pick out some unhappy swaddie
who hasn’t shaved, isn’t holding his chin
up or chest out, whose thumbs aren’t
touching the seams of his trousers, or
whose feet aren’t placed at the requisite
angle of 45deg.
The monotony of this work and the
necessity of continually saying “Yes” to
his colonel’s suggestions eventually
make any fed-up major see red. This
has one significance ; the next thing you
hear about him he is on the staff, sport-
ing the red collar tabs of a brigade-
major.
Here his authority rises considerably.
He says “Yes” now to a general, and one
of his chief duties is to exercise his power
of veto over the mess secretary’s choice
of whisky. When the brigade is to be
billeted in some inhabited village his
genius is given full scope. It is signi-
ficant that military history has yet to
record the case of a brigade-major lead-
ing an advance party to arrange for bil-
lets and picking on one for the staff
where thick-ankled, uninteresting women
resided. If ever any b.-m. made that fatal
mistake he’d find himself bundled back
to a battalion again p.d.q.
The captain is the Cinderella among
officers. He has to put up with the
dunderheaded major over him, the
dunderheaded lieutenants under him and
the herds of dunderheads all round him
who cannot keep in a straight line,
keep quiet, shoot straight, fall in
promptly, dress properly or carry out
correctly any orders he gives them. He
has to do everything himself, from tast-
ing the stew to leading the hopovers.
Captains all go either grey or gay early,
according to temperament.
Lieutenants —“loots” to their charges—
may be either one- or two-pip artists.
From their valiant efforts to lick their
platoons into shape they are also referred
to as “spittoon polishers.” The one-pipper
—especially if he is an. acting-temporary
lieut. —is distinguished by a perpetually
nervous look, due to the constant thought
that his lone pip gives him barely a pre-
carious toehold, as it were, on the bottom
of the rickety ladder that leads to the
sublime heights of field-marshaldom.
S.W.K.


r
Prince
mbuie
s Edwards Liqueur
m
“A link with the ’45.”
Nearly 200 years have elapsed since Drambuie was
first distilled in the Isle of Skye. The recipe was
presented by Prince Charlie to Mackinnon of
Strathaird as a reward for his ser-
vices in enabling the Prince to
evade his pursuers. The secret
recipe has been jealously guarded
and the liqueur has been made by
successive generations of the
same family to this day.
Agents:
McLaughlin & co. pty. ltd.,
185 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
%
m
Although delicately sweet-
ened with heather honey,
Drambuie leaves a delight-
fully dry, aromatic flavour
on the tongue. It is much
used in fashionable circles
of London, New York and
elsewhere in the making of
cocktails.
w-
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
'‘Grancentral,” Sydney.
: Tf
rj
-tl?
<5S9f?
MS
1
, ; • - •’ ?' ? ■’
=a
Business, Rollery, Etc.
War and Empire Industry
War stimulates consumption of muni-
tions, equipment, steel, metals, etc., and
so long as this extra consumption is not
offset by the effects of rationing on
domestic necessities and luxuries, a high
level of production would seem to be
indicated for Britain and the Empire for
the duration of this war.
Increased consumption and production
mean greater employment. To carry on
the war as economically as possible we
should endeavor to use Empire labor,
materials and resources to the fullest
possible extent. It may not be necessary
on this occasion to have such a great
proportion of our man-power in the
fighting lines, and therefore efficient
manufacturing of equipment for mechan-
ised warfare may be of great national
service. A military, naval and aerial
stalemate may give greater importance
to the economic front.
There are some articles that the Empire
doesn’t produce economically, and these
are the first things that are likely to be
ordered from foreign countries for pur-
suing this war. Other items we may pro-
duce on a scale inadequate for our
present requirements. Though it may not
be possible for Britain or other
Dominions to turn and see to it that
adequate production is started imme-
diately, we should not be satisfied to
continue importing such items while we
have unemployed in our midst.
True, war is too uncertain a thing for
many people to invest in new or extended
industries depending on war-time orders,
and where overseas countries, by reason
of unusual economic advantages, can
supply us at exceptionally cheap prices,
projected new industries competing with
such countries should be looked at very
closely. We should first of all see to it
that industries in which we are deficient
mainly from our own casualness are
started or expanded. If Capital and Labor
stay on good terms, and if our economics
keep on a reasonably even keel —in other
words, if costs don’t start to inflate
quickly Empire resources may be
put to their fullest use, and the economic
burden of war minimised.
A rapid changeover of labor from one
industry to another isn’t possible. But
much can be done if a clear-cut policy
is adopted. In any case, we should try
not to make a present of the advantages
arising from the war-time development
of industry to countries that are not help-
ing us in fighting this war. Australia itself
has great potentialities as a manufactur-
ing nation, and it is mainly bad Govern-
ment financial policy that has prevented
our making strides greater than those
already in evidence. But developments
are taking place quickly now, and more
will take place provided we wage war
on two things other than Germany —
costs inflation and wasteful spending.
Choicest butter has been sold to
Britain at 1375. 2d. f.o.b. a cwt., Australian
currency, first-grade at 1355. lid. and
second-grade at 131 s. 2d. Cheese has
been sold at from 745. 4d. down to 695.
6d. When some negotiations now in
progress are completed, a return of about
£100,000,000 a year is expected from
our wool, wheat, butter, meat, egg, etc.,
contracts with Britain.
* * * *
Last week’s sharemarket maintained a
steady level at slightly under the high
“But where does the fifty per cent, labor-saving come in, Captain?"
“Man don't 'ave t' Work 'alf so 'ard."
prices established the preceding week.
A peak (131.04) .in the Sydney industrial
share index was reached on Nov. 10 ;
there was a slackening during the week-
end, in which an invasion of Holland
was prophesied by some, but a mild
firming followed, and 130.5 was about
the average of. industrial shares in the
index for last week.
John McGrath, the Sydney co. that
handles the Hillman and Humber car
agencies and which has investments in
some manufacturing concerns, had a
market for its shares at 355., as against
sales at 255. 6d. in October. This is a
case of one of the most remarkable
slumps and recoveries since fears of im-
porting difficulties affected many stocks.
Castlemaine Perkins, another (Brisbane
brewery) stock that has been unduly de-
pressed, recovered from 18s. to
20s. 9d., with an active market for rights
to the new issue. Tooth shares were un-
changed on the announcement of a final
div. that made 12 p.c. for the year (up
\ p.c.). Kandos and Australian Cement
recovered almost all their pre-war equa-
nimity. Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland issues were still bought freely at
their recent top prices. F.R.S. Ideal
Springs sold in Melbourne at the firm
price of 255., but the market was shaken
by the fall in the profits and div. of
Die Casters, and after sales at 435. 6d.
in September 355. 6d. was accepted for
the shares last week.
Bank shares have been more in
demand, in spite of the new regulations
restricting advance rates to those in
force on Aug. 31. Textile issues remain
remarkably strong, especially Bradford
Cotton (495., cum rights to the ap-
proved new issue) and Yarra Falls (415.).
Amalgamated Textiles has bravely recov-
ered to 6s. 6d. in hopes of defence orders,
Felt and Textiles ords. are steady at 355.
(they were down to 275. 3d. a short while
ago), Valley Worsted ords. have been
run up to 275. (against 255. in September)
and Davies Coop and Stirling Henry, in
the cotton section, have been steady.
Sydney Cotton Mills, started by former
members of the Bradford Cotton staff
but not old enough yet to have earned
a profit, has a market for its shares at
245. 3d. The co.’s future is promising.
Carpet Manufacturers is another new
enterprise the outlook of which has
changed since war started. Its employees
have been pressing for better pay and
working conditions. The market pays
245. for its scrip, though divs. have yet
to appear.
Henry Jones shares maintained a record
price of 58s. J. Fielding was firmer at
83s. following publication of accounts.
Drug Houses shares were exceptionally
strong at 265. 3d.
* * * *
Davies, Coop, the cotton-spinning and
-weaving chain that has its headquarters
in Victoria, proposes to issue £lOO,OOO
of ord. capital to shareholders at par, one
for four. The probability of a new issue
was suggested in B. 1/11/ ’39. Also,
an extra £50,000 of 6 p.c. pref. capital is
wanted to help the Sydney offshoot along,
into which some of the parent’s new
capital will also be diverted. The cotton-
spinning industry is flat-out at the present
time. Because of the small proportion
of woven cotton goods turned out in the
Commonwealth now there is a reason-
ably sound basis for expansion in the
industry, though some dangers also exist
—the high cost of buying plant from
overseas, the hurry in which expansions
are being made, and the setback that may
occur should hostilities overseas sud-
denly cease. But the situation is good
enough to gamble on, and defence orders
alone should do much toward establish-
ing the new factories.
* * * *
On the treatment of 5.2 p.c. more ore
(1,085,933 tons) last year (to Sept. 30)
Mt. Lyell produced 4.9, p.c. mo*e raw
copper (13,298 tons), though the increase
in the amount passed through the refinery
(12,779 tons of electrolytic was produced)
was only 3 p.c. The price of electrolytic
copper overseas during the co.’s financial
year was approximately £49 Bs. 6d. (the
period included a month of war, which
brought “maximum prices”), as against
£44 17s. sd. sterling in the preceding year.
Mt. Lyell, whose entire output is sold in
Australia, charges London rates, plus
exchange, for its metal, with a minimum
of £45 (Aust.); in the event of a heavy
fall in the price of
the metal the co. can
avail itself of the
protective duty of £4
a ton. But though
last year average
London prices were
£4 11s. stg. a ton
better than in 1937-
38, and output was
greater, as described,
net earnings for
1938-39 have been
disclosed at only
£10,359 better. For
the third successive
year shareholders
have been dis-
appointed in results,
and they have par-
ticular reason to be
on this occasion, be-
cause for some time
up to the beginning
of 1937-38 the grade
of ore milled was
declining with higher
throughput, whereas
over the past two
financial periods it
has remained relatively stable, and com-
parisons would therefore seem more reli-
able. Apart from any fluctuations that
may have occurred in income from out-
side the mine, and in wages paid, etc., the
smallness of the rise in earnings last year
looks to be due mainly to the larger
provision for prospecting, development,
depreciation and taxation —altogether
£35,948 higher at £128,787. Allowance
for depreciation alone last term was
£65,009, against £48,603 in 1936-37, when
net earnings were disclosed at £343,852.
* H= * *
The increase of 8 p.c. in the price of
window glass (B. 15/11/’39) made by
Australian Consolidated Industries on
Nov. 3 has been cancelled.
* * * vi
Colonial Sugar has lifted its div. again,
the rate now being 8| p.c. p.a. Following
the 1934 bonus issue of one for one
the rate had been reduced to 61 p.c.
Over the past four years it has
averaged nearly p.c. with bonuses.
The general outlook of the co., tak-
ing cognisance of the improved position
of the Fiji pineapple venture and the
Cane-ite factory, warrants the present
increase, the board reports. In existing
circumstances it thinks such increased
distributions will do good where they are
possible.
* * * *
The possibility of stepping up the out-
put of the Glen Davis (Capertee, N.S.W.)
shale-oil works from the originally
planned 10,000,000 gallons a year to
30,000,000 gallons a year is being con-
sidered. National Oil Pty., in which
George Davis, of the gelatine concern, is
largely interested, is running the venture.
*


Auction Sale.
Under Instructions from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.),
Executor of the Will of the late William
Macleod.
CITY,
Nos. 212 and 214 GEORGE STREET.
On the east side, a few doors north of Bridge
Street, adjoining the George Parking Station,
and formerly the Home of the “Bulletin”
Newspaper.
The Building is of brick, with iron roof, and
comprises:
BASEMENT, GROUND and 5 UPPER
FLOORS.
The Property is Let to the Bulletin News-
paper Co., Ltd., on Lease, expiring Ist
December, 1939.
THE LAND has a frontage of about
30 FEET 2i INCHES TO GEORGE STREET,
by depth of 75 feet 6 inches and 73 feet 11
inches, with a rear measurement of 25 feet 9
inches.
NOTE: —Included in the sale is all the
Estate’s .Torrens Title, Rights, and Interests in
the right-of-way which runs at the back of the
property, and opens into Underwood Street.
Full Particulars on Application.
TORRENS TITLE.
Terms: Cash, or one-third cash, the balance
on Mortgage for 3 years at 5 per cent, per
annum.
Solicitor: J. G. O’Brien, Esq., 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
HARDIE & GORMAN PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
in conjunction with A. E. GRAY, 665 Old
South Head Road, Rose Bay, will offer the
above at Auction, in the Sale Rooms, Ocean
House, 36 Martin Place, at 11 a.m. on
WEDNESDAY, 29th NOVEMBER, 1939.
Position Wanted.
MALE Tas. teacher, ’varsity education, would
like position in mainland State (town or
country), Dec. 27-Feb. 1. No wages asked.
References if necessary.—No. 294 Advt. Dept.,
Bulletin Newspaper, Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Public Notice.
THE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
THE ANNUAL MEETING of The United In-
surance Company, Limited, was held at the
Company’s Office, corner of George and Hunter
Streets, Sydney, on Friday afternoon, 10th
instant.
The Chairman, Sir Thomas Buckland, be-
fore moving the adoption of the Report and
Balance Sheet, gave a brief survey of the
operations and progress of the Company during
the past year. He pointed out that the Gross
Revenue had increased from £631,619 to
£648,065; the Net Revenue from £419,921 to
£422,571. Losses were considerably added to
by the results of the unfortunate bushfires
early in the year. Expenditure had shown a
considerable increase, due largely to Income
Tax, Fire Brigade Charges and higher Staff
Salaries as a result of Awards in the Industrial
Courts. Despite these factors a Net Profit of
£57,930 was shown.
The Dividend declared was at the rate of
9 p.c. per annum.
Mr. E. R. Knox and Mr. G. F. Hughes,
Directors, and Mr. F. N. Yarwood and Sir
George Mason Allard, Auditors, were re-
elected.
“My VAUXKALL
is livelier—
has more
power on
Insulated
Oil , 99 says
■resmßE® w
Mr. H. Cotterell
32 Edward Street, Brisbane
who drove his ’3B Vauxhall in the
SECRET OILTEST
“Easier starting and a more lively,
sweeter-running engine were notice-
able as soon as I filled the crank-
ease with the Insulated Oil,” said
Mr. Cotterell, who tested the new
Texaco Insulated Oil before it was
announced to the public.
“I was most impressed and pleased
with the improved performance of
my car. I proved that Insulated
Oil is ideal for the Vauxhall
engine, and I recommend it.”
Mr. Cotterell proved that Insulated
Oil protects the engine against heat
and improves its performance.
IS YOUR CAR A NEW MODEL? The
tighter, hotter-running engines of
late models need this new kind of
motor oil that stands up under
greater heat. Texaco Insulated Oil
stops the formation of Varnish that
clogs up the engine and may even
cause pistons to seize. You can’t
get top performance unless you
use Insulated Oil.
IS YOUR CAR AN OLDER MODEL? These
tests prove that the new Texaco
Insulated Oil gives new life and
sparkle to old engines and reduces
running costs.
NEW INSULATED OIL WAS TESTED IN
131 CARS —Read what the drivers say:
m
m
1936 FORD 10
“I noticed a vast im-
provement in general
running after changing
to Texaco. Starting was
instant even on the
coldest mornings.”
Mr. r. H. Procter, 50b Mur-
riverie Rd., NORTH BONDI,
N.S.W.
ķ
1939 PLYMOUTH
“My car started from
cold easier than ever.
There was no sugges-
tion of drag. The motor
ran cool and smoothly
on the New Texaco In-
sulated Oil.”
Mr. J. J. Cronin, 23 Queen
St., HABERFIELD, N.S.lf.
ĸ
1939 HILLMAN MINX
“Texaco Insulated Oil
improved the perform-
<ance of my Hillman
'remarkably. During the
1,000 mile test my
engine ran cooler and
smoother.”
Miss /. Goleby , c/o Q’ld.
Cement Co., DARRA, Q .
M
m
1938 MORRIS
“My Morris used much
less oil than usual. I
toured Mount Lofty in
top gear for the first
time. I am sure this
was due to Texaco
Insulated Oil.”
Mr. L. C. Cohen, 11
Esplanade, GLENELG, S.A.
Drain and refill with
m
1938 CHEVROLET
“My Chev. Panel Van
worked 8 hours per
day through the test.
She used less oil.
Without hesitation I
recommend Insulated
Oil to Chev. owners.”
Mr. A. F. Moy, ST.
LEONARDS, TAS.
mam
1935 STANDARD
“My Standard gave all
round better perform-
ance during the 1,000
mile test on Texaco
Motor Oil. Oil con-
sumption was less.”
Mr. H. R. Hopper, 21 Oak-,
wood Ave., BRIGHTON, VIC.
mi
m
1938 OLDSMOBILE
“I am confident that my
motor has never pulled
more rhythmically or
remained . more free
from cylinder deposits
than during the 1,000
mile test on Texaco.”
Mr. B. Adcock , Greenwich
Road , GREENWICHN.S.W.
k
1929 FORD A
“Texaco Oil undoubt-
edly insulated the eng-
ine against heat —my
running was under
tough country condi-
tions— the engine ran
smoother and cooler
than ever.”
Mr. H. V. Hall, 4 C’mercial
Rd., SHENTON PK., W.A.
NEW
ķ
INSULATED
MOTOR OIL
The Federal Government’s behavior in
connection with the export of hides is
driving the trade into strong protest.
The N.S.W. Hides Merchants’ Asocia-
tion declares that on Sept. 20 the export
of hides was banned “for one month,”
and that the relaxations made on Nov. 3
were useless to 90 p.c. of the export trade.
Ordinarily about 50 p.c. of Australian
hides and calfskins are tanned in Aus-
. tralia, and some of this 50 p.c., plus most
of the untanned hides, is exported. The
reason for the ban, war or no war, is
a mystery outside of Canberra. But
tanners, until last Thursday, could buy
from the accumulating stocks of hides at
fixed maximum prices, turn them into
leather and export freely to the world’s
rising market. Tanners were thus at
liberty, should prices continue to rise, to
make profits at the expense of landmen
and hide merchants who are trying to
maintain their buying connections. Last
Thursday the export of leather was re-
stricted to quantities not in excess of
average exports for the last quarter of
1938. A Hide and Leather Industries
Board, promised, hasn’t yet been formed.
Apart from what hides-merchants or tan-
ners may have to say on the matter, Gov-
ernment interference in this case seems to
be particularly clumsy. Hides ordinarily
are not one of our “equalised” or
“regulated” products, and why pro-
ducers should be denied 'the benefit of
rises in world prices, seeing that they
bear the brunt of all the falls, is harder
to justify than in the case of products
with a fixed home-consumption price.
If maximum prices for home consump-
tion are to be insisted on now, then mini-
mum prices for the duration and a year
after would be a reasonable quid pro
quo.
* * * *
It is very difficult to forecast how
our London funds will stand a year
hence. Better prices for exports are
likely to help the position, we are told ;
also, the difficulty of obtaining imports
from Britain is calculated to have the
same effect. There were fears a little
while ago that the accumulation of our
funds in Britain would cause a drop in
the sterling-Australia exchange rate, our
pound coming nearer to sterling than
£125 Aust. to £lOO stg., and the in-
flationary effect of Britain’s war effort
on sterling was considered to be a factor
almost as potent as the establishment of
larger Australian funds in London. A
drop in the exchange rate will be believed
in this country when it is seen. Last
week there was talk that petrol might be
rationed in 1940 “to conserve overseas
funds.” There was also mention of a
London loan to pay for some of our own
war effort. All highly confusing and seem-
ingly conflicting. Up to the outbreak of
war and some time afterwards our
London credits had been drawn on
steadily for two years or so in order
to pay for excessive imports and the
cost of servicing our external debt, and
nothing has happened since to warrant
expectations of a drop in the exchange
rate. Our high living costs have been
going higher and higher since the Redda-
way award came into force two years
ago, whereas, until war occurred, the cost
of living in Britain had been declining
fairly steadily since a post-depression
peak was reached at the end of 1937.
After all, it is the buying-power of money
in different countries that governs the
long-term outlook for exchange rates.
Unless it increases its tariff barriers the
higher-costs country gets swamped with
the products of the lower-costs country.
Though Britain is in no position at the
moment to swamp anyone with exports,
and though it may have a very large
bill to pay for imports later on, it has
a habit of managing these things better
than we have. And, of course, Aus-
tralia isn’t going to escape scot-free from
the financial burdens of this war. On a
per capita basis our outlay threatens to
be very substantial. So, on the question
of the exchange rate, it will be wise not
to consider the mote in Britain’s eye
without having a glance at the beam in
our own.
♦ •••*♦
It hasn’t been overlooked that trade
within the Empire, such as the sale of
our wool to Britain, doesn’t add to the
Empire’s store of foreign exchange. But
with Britain as the seller of such wool
as is taken by foreign countries, Britain
will control the dollars, yen, francs, etc.,
that usually come to us ; we shall be
paid in sterling, without the option of
using the foreign exchange for our own
purposes. On the other hand, Britain
will undoubtedly have more dollar com-
mitments than we shall, though our
potential custom with the U.S.A. is grow-
ing already. It can be seen that, although
Australia may possibly become entitled
to a surplus of sterling funds, it may
be unable to convert them freely into
any neutral currency because of a pos-
sible shortage of foreign credits on the
part of Britain. A position could thus
arise where we might have plenty of
money in Britain but no means of spend-
ing it unless Britain was able to supply
us with the particular things we re-
quired. But the idea of Australia pos-
sessing an excess of money anywhere
will probably be too much for this
generation to visualise.
A lower rate of exchange between
Australia and London would either in-
flict a penalty on the Australian exporter
or on the British importer—at present
principally the British Government. If
the agreed-on price of 10|d. sterling
(13id. Australian) for wool was not
revised following a return of the rate
to par the woolgrower would suffer be-
cause he would get only lOfd. Australian
instead of 13id.; and if the rate was
revised, making the British Government
pay 13|d. sterling for wool, then Britain
is obviously feeling the weight of the
inflation in sterling. So the status of
our currencies isn’t likely to be altered
without some very hard thinking on
both sides. Empire trading has to take
reasonable account of Empire relation-
ships.
* * * *
Mr. Menzies announced last week that
with the flour tax, a subsidy of
£2,000,000 and a Commonwealth Bank
loan of £20,000,000 he hoped to finance
an average return of about 3s. a bushel
f.o.b. for wheatgrowers. Wheatbelt mem-
bers promptly stated that the money from
the flour tax should be added to the
£2,000,000 subsidy and passed on to
growers as additional to the guaranteed
price, which is 2s. ?d. for bagged and
2s. 7d. for bulk at ports. Less Is., the
money is to be advanced to growers the
moment their grain is taken by agents
of the Wheat Board, the Is. to be paid in
February. Actually, the advance will be
reduced by freight charges and bag costs
to about 2s. Id. for bagged and 2s. 3d.
for bulk. Cost of production is generally
reckoned around 3s.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
J. BULL AND JAPAN.
(From a “National Review” article by J. O. P. Bland.)
Three recent events have changed the situation in
the Far East and among them provided a hopeful
opportunity for revising British policy in that region
and making a judicious readjustment of our relations
with Japan. Taken in the order of their importance,
these events are: the Non-Aggression Pact concluded
between Hitler and Stalin ; the abrogation notice of
the Treaty of Commerce of 1911, given by the United
States to Japan ; and the “formula” arrived at in July
between the Japanese Foreign Minister and the British
Ambassador at Tokio on the Tientsin dispute.
The unholy alliance between Nazism and Bol-
shevism has severely wounded Japan’s national pride
and compelled her rulers to reconsider their whole
position in relation to the Western Powers. They
realise that the Anti-Comintern Pact, now a dead
letter, was never intended to be anything more than
a booby-trap for Japan, and that Russia is now free
to resume her adventurous career in China.
The Japanese military party, better informed
with regard to Russia’s internal affairs and political
objectives than most of those who initiate foreign
policy and expound foreign affairs in Britain, is not
likely to regard Stalin’s latest coup as indicating an
intention on his part to risk a major war in, or about,
China. It knows full well that his role will continue
to be that of international agent-provocateur, with
world-revolution as its ultimate object. For the rest,
Japan’s rulers adhere to their determination to estab-
lish and maintain their “New Order” in East Asia.
As a subordinate partner in an East Asian bloc
presided over by Japan, China must inevitably remain
one of the world’s storm-centres, a land of treasons,
strategems and spoils, and, so long as the menace of
Russia threatens her flank, a source of
unrest and danger to Japan. To meet
this danger, the necessity for a practical
scheme of effective co-operation with the
Chinese is beginning to be appreciated,
even in military circles, at Tokio ; the
urgency of the matter has been empha-
sised by Mr. Cordell Hull’s prediction
that, during the six months which must
elapse before the denounced treaty be-
comes invalid, there would probably be
developments which would indicate
clearly whether a new treaty with Japan
would serve any useful purpose. If, from
the beginning of next year, Japan were
cbmpelled to look elsewhere for the raw
materials which are the lifeblood of her
industries, and of which about 60 per-
cent. now comes from America, even
the most obstinate of her militarists
would be confronted with an exceedingly
difficult problem. Everything points
therefore to the probability of a new
order of increasing reasonableness in
East Asia.
Remains to be considered the part
which British policy is playing, and that
which it should play. The most hopeful
feature of the agreement negotiated at
Tokio between Sir Robert Craigie and
the Japanese Foreign Minister is the ex-
planation of it given by the Prime
Minister when he declared that its for-
mula was “a statement of fact.” If recog-
nition of unpleasant facts had been sub-
stituted some years ago for the specious
make-believe which has characterised our
Far-Eastern policy at Geneva (notably in
connection with Manchuria), the British communities
in China would not have been placed in their present
hazardous and humiliating position.
For 10 years after Britain had abandoned the sub-
stance of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance for the empty
phrases of the Nine-Power pact, British policy con-
tinued to be led astray by the earnest theorists of the
League and other doctrinaire bodies ; had it not been
so, commonsense would long since have realised that,
in practical politics, the shibboleth of the Open Door
possessed no more significance than the slogan of
“collective security.” It would also have admitted
the uncomfortable truth that the extra-territorial privi-
leges of foreigners became definitely relegated to the
category of anachronisms from the day when, in pur-
suance of the policy of “patient conciliation,” we sur-
rendered the Hankow Concession to the violence of
a mob instigated by Kuomintang and Bolshevik
agitators.
Since Germany’s recovery of her military pre-
dominance in Europe, no powers of divination have
been needed to recognise the unpleasant fact that, so
long as America’s interest in China remains aloofly
economic, China must inevitably be dominated by
Japan or by Russia, if not by both. And that being
so, our Settlements and Concessions, with their curi-
ously successful experiments in international co-opera-
tion, their princely hongs, compradores’ and Capuan
fleshpots, become relics of an age that is past beyond
recall.
If, as the Craigie-Arita agreement would seem
to indicate, the British Government is now disposed
to face unpleasant facts in the Fast East, it may
shortly be led to perceive the pathetic futility of a
policy which persists in giving moral and financial
support to Chiang Kai-shek and the “Soong dynasty,”
while the Cantonese and other political groups, insti-
gated by Japan, are making the position of British
traders and missionaries increasingly unpleasant
throughout the invaded provinces. Mr. Chamberlain’s
statement of fact suggests a hope that the Govern-
ment may, for the future, devote our diminishing re-
J
sources t 0 urgen t natlonal nee ds and cease from
throwing good money after bad m support of the
much-advertised “New China” of the South-western
Provinces, where Chiang Kai-shek, with Russia in the
background, is working to establish himself in an
impregnable stronghold. For if Japan’s scheme of
economic exploitation by means of co-operation with
Chiang’s political opponents should end in failure —
which may well happen if America decides next year
to app iy sanctions—China lies henceforth at Russia’s
m
A Kuomintang regime, in partnership with
m OSCOWj could only mean a ruthless “liquidation” of
the fore j gn trader and tbe sw ift despoiling of his goods.
But if, as the result of a firm and reasonable policy
on our part and that of the United States, Japan’s
ffieff
time and opportunity for the adminis ration o e
Foreign Settlements, and the position of forejgn
traders, to adjust themselves to their changed and
changing environment.
If 5 recognising the essential facts of the Far-
Eastern situation, we can now come to terms with
Japan, on a reasonably reciprocal basis, and if, in the
near future, Japan can establish some measure of
genuine co-operation with the Chinese, without
attempting to reduce them to the condition of a
vassal State, then the Craigie-Arita agreement may
prove to have been a welcome straw, borne on a wind
of good hope.
"Gringoire," Paris.
ILLUSTRATION OF A TEXT BY ADOLF HITLER.
"Germany is the next battlefield for Russian Bolshevism. It would be folly to
ally ourselves with a country whose master is the mortal enerny of our future.
How can we release our people of this poisonous grip if we accept the same
grip ourselves? How can we teach the German worker that Bolshevism is an
infamous crime against humanity if we ally ourselves with this infernal abortion
and recognise its existence as legitimate? We cannot cast out the Devil through
Beelzebub.” —"Mein Kampf."
Stalin's Communist Plans.
(As seen by the diplomatic correspondent of London
“Sunday Dispatch.”)
Josef Stalin, Dictator of Soviet Russia, is planning
to (1) re-create in Europe a Soviet Republic even larger
than the old Russian Empire ; (2) Bolshevise Germany,
Eastern and Central Europe. This grandiose plan has
been made possible by the partitioning of Poland.
To carry out his plan he is reviving the dormant
propaganda machine, Third International. His first
move towards Bolshevising Central Europe will be to
create in his new Polish territory three “autonomous”
Soviet republics on the model of those already exist-
ing in Russia. These will be (1) a Polish Soviet
(created out of the territory with a predominantly
Polish population); (2) a Ukrainian Soviet (possibly
joined to the existing Russian Ukrainian Soviet);
(3) a White Russian Soviet.
These republics will be used as centres for spread-
ing Bolshevist propaganda in Polish territories taken by
Germany, in Germany proper, and in the Baltic States.
Dmitrov, Communist “hero” of the Reichstag
fire trial, has already been sent as Political Com-
missar to Russia’s new Polish areas. Maps showing
the “restoration” of all the one-time Bolshevist Re-
publics in Europe are appearing in Moscow and the
principal Soviet cities. These include Hungary,
Bavaria and Austria. Soon after the last war there
were short-lived Soviet Republics in Bavaria and Hun-
gary. Austria was never Bolshevist, but at one time
was very Left-wing.
Stalin, in finding excuses for his Nazi pact, is
telling Soviet Nationalists that his aim is the creation
of a great Russian Empire, and Communists that his
aim is Europe’s Bolshevisation.
(From an article by F. O. Lindley in the “National
Review.”)
The main policy of the Soviets has never varied.
It has always been to bring about bloody World
Revolution.
This fact, proclaimed repeatedly at Moscow, has
never been taken seriously in Britain in spite of the
evidence which is and has been plain for all who a
willing to see. In almost every country sedition ana
social unrest have been lavishly financed and sup-
ported by agitators of many nationalities trained by
the thousand in special seminaries in Russia ana
Central Asia. Other countries have been alive to the
danger; and such sound democracies as Hollana,
Belgium and Switzerland have never permitted any
official Soviet agents within their frontiers. Of al
the South American republics, Uruguay alone tried
the experiment, and, after bitter experience, handed
the Soviet officials their passports.
In order to bring about World Revolution, Mos-
cow has never made any secret that a world war, with
the Soviets sitting back and strong enough to make
an attack on themselves improbable, offered the best
chances of success.
In the light of these facts any agreement to help
Great Britain, whose policy was clearly directed
towards avoiding war, was highly improbable. The
idea that the Soviets “sympathised” with the great
democracies is laughable to those who have honestly
tried to understand their mentality. To such it was
always clear that the Soviets regarded the British
Empire as the stoutest bulwark against bloody revolu-
tion, and in consequence the organisation which,
above all others, it wished to bring down. From the
point of view of Moscow an agreement with Ger-
many was a thing to be desired above everything.
It practically assured the outbreak of a world war.
Nazi All-or-nothing Policy.
(From an article in “Foreign Affairs,” U.S.A.)
Some people believed that Hitler could be induced
by certain limited concessions, made dependent on
his fulfilment of certain specified conditions, to change
his methods of procedure and limit his aims. Ger-
many would then cease to figure as a trouble-maker
and would fit into a new international
equilibrium.
But such are the ideas of National
Socialism that the fundamental thing
which emerges is the impossibility that
olive branches and concessions in this or
that particular could ever serve any
purpose. Either it is “full sovereignty”
for Germany or it is nothing.
Hitler’s particular aims all stood in
relation to his comprehensive aim: “full
sovereignty” for Germany as a “world
people.” There were but two alterna-
tives: Germany’s renunciation of all
hope of becoming a “world people” ; or
an uncompromising struggle to attain the
complete goal. The goal can be attained
only by German control over all Europe.
Only when European hegemony has been
won can National Socialism accept a
system of international exchange of com-
modities as not any longer disturbing to
German sovereignty.
Other facts fortified the National
Socialist determination never to abandon
their full aims in the foreign field. Of
great importance was the conviction that
Germany’s eagerness for world dominion
corresponded to a real change in the
power relationships of the nations. In
Nazi eyes England is a paper Power,
whose strategic position is in full disin-
tegration. France is a dying nation,
biologically unable any longer to play
the part of a world Power, much less a
“world people.” The United States is
no longer a young nation. It is, more-
over, a hodgepodge of peoples, and so
can never attain a stable political form. It is not
ambitious—hence, by definition, not a “world people.”
The proper sort of touch from the outside at the right
moment would send it reeling into revolution.
The complacency of National Socialists who thus
interpreted the realities of the world scene was not
upset by the reorganisation in France and rearma-
ment in Great Britain, which were regarded as mere
show, specious bustle. The National Socialists con-
sidered that the democracies lacked one thing which
is basic and essential—namely, the unshakable resolve
to assert themselves in terms of power.
In his tactics, Hitler carries over into the general
field of politics, and especially into the fields of
foreign policy and military strategy, certain modern
doctrines of the coup d’etat and of civil war. His
policy is one of permanent conspiracy. It is warfare
by psychological pressure in accordance with methods
of conspiracy and revolutionary disintegration. Com-
bining threats and promises, his strategy aims to pro-
cure the voluntary submission of his opponent. He
hopes to make the surrender easier by parcelling out
his demands and encroachments in small doses, so
that no one of them will seem important enough by
itself to fight over rather than to compromise. He
thinks the Western democracies are in the position of
the old regimes and former elites which have capitu-
lated and abdicated in the lesser revolutions of the past.
Actual experience convinced Hitler of the sound-
ness of his judgment and of the practicability of his
revolutionary system. And from that experience he
drew the conclusion that his personal significance in
history lies in his having perceived how hollow was
the strength of the old States and that his personal
mission was to liquidate them from their antiquated
positions in the hierarchy of power. His confidence
naturally was in no wise shaken by the fact that the
risks which he supposedly had been running in his
many foolhardy adventures proved in the result to
have been no real risks at all. The seemingly impos-
sible turned out unfailingly to be quite feasible. The
old regimes, with all their enormously superior


Trade at Stake.
Britain’s trade with some of the neutrals
—the Scandinavian countries and, Holland and
Belgium—now affected by the war is indicated
by these “News of the World” figures for 1938 :
British British
Imports. Exports.
Sweden .. .. £24,552,000 £11,725,000
Norway .. .. 11,032,000 7,566,000
Denmark . . . . 37,859,000 15,783,000
Holland . . 29,341,000 13,142,000
Dutch dependencies 21,062,000 4,295,000
Belgium . . . . 18,591,000 8,232,000
Belgian dependencies 187,000 418,000
Denmark was seventh, Holland ninth, and
Sweden tenth among
sources of imports in
customers Denmark was
twelfth.
Britain’s twelve leading
1938. Of Britain’s best'
tenth and Holland
resources, time and again capitulated before the
revolutionary squads of National Socialist Germany.
From this standpoint could concessions and offers
of peace from an antagonist seem anything but symp-
toms of his readiness to capitulate? They merely
sharpened the eagerness for attack! A mistaken
psychology on the part of the Powers of Western
Europe proved to be what brought on the very war
which they had tried to prevent by being reasonable
and conciliatory. In essence the war was being fought
all along.
It must be realised that, according to Hitler’s doc-
trine of strategy, war in the old-fashioned military
sense is secondary. In his conception of war, the
bloody military action in the field has merely the
function that pursuit after a victory has in ordinary
military strategy. The really decisive action is sup-
posed to take place before the outbreak of war. It
consists in a demoralisation of the enemy. In his
plan, the resort to weapons merely completes, by a
last extreme act of force, the defeat which has already
been determined by the methods of diplomatic con-
spiracy. He was convinced that the total mobilisation
of the German people could be indefinitely endured,
for National Socialist discipline had deliberately
trained them to withstand hardships; whereas the
democracies would find a state of continuous mobilisa-
tion for war utterly foreign and inevitably provoca-
tive of fatal social unrest.
Hitler began with motives of patriotism. But
whether forced by the inner logic of his policies, or
perhaps guided from the start by his doctrine of the
psychological war, he went on and on, until he had
become the leader of a world revolution at the end of
which loomed “a new partitioning of the earth.”
National Socialism was also compelled to go for-
ward by conditions at home. Its one chance of keep-
ing in power in Germany was to continue the revolu-
tionary movement and to intensify it. It could not
give up any of its instruments of control. It could
not dismantle the economic structure which was one
of its main sources of power. It could not go back to
freer social and legal forms of organisation without
surrendering all along the line. It might for a time
agree to limit its armaments, for what it needed, it had
decided, was psychological superiority no less than
military preponderance. In any case, though, there
were specific things which clearly it could not do:
It could not establish a state of law. It could not
grant a constitution universally applicable to all indi-
viduals and classes. It could not relax its terroristic rule.
Under these conditions, any real political or eco-
nomic co-operation with other countries was unthink-
able, i.e., there was no possibility of a return to normal
commercial intercourse, a normal credit policy or
a free exchange. While all the elements of a system
of law and even the barest outlines of a system of
public audit were completely lacking, could anyone
seriously imagine that new billions of credit would ever
be made available for Germany?
Any regime that has limited aims can compromise,
can dispense with the complete attainment of every
one of its objectives. Not so National Socialism.
Compromise, for National Socialism, is death. The
alternatives facing it were and are total success or
total capitulation. One or the other. Any retreat
abroad would at once create difficulties at home that
would lead to the regime’s collapse.
South Africa at War.
(Condensed from an article by a London '‘Times”
correspondent.)
The common estimate of South Africa’s attitude
is based merely on the fact that on the outbreak of
war all the Dominions except South Africa cabled Mr.
Chamberlain their fullest expressions of support; that
the South African Prime Minister, General Hertzog,
wanted South Africa, while assuring the British Gov-
ernment of its friendliness, to remain neutral; that he
was beaten only by a majority of 13 ; and, finally, that
the new Premier, General Smuts, has said that South
Africa’s immediate task is to guard its own shores
with no intention at the present time of sending an
Expeditionary Force to France.
Broadly all this is correct, but it does the loyal
feelings of the country scant justice. South Africa had
been preparing to resist Nazism with a thoroughness
that bears favorable comparison with that of any
member of the British Commonwealth. A graver view
of the European situation seemed to be taken in the
Union than elsewhere, and efforts were being made
to improve South African defence plans. South Africa
also had the advantage of a system of conscription,
and had started a national register.
To-day, though there is a feeling against war
represented —perhaps overrepresented —by the neu-
trality debate in the House of Assembly, and though
there is the inevitable anti-British feeling of a smaller
section led by Dr. Malan, General Kemp and others,
the loudness of whose cry gives a fictitious impression
of their numbers, there is a deep loyalty to Britain
that has exemplified itself in numerous ways. It is
recognised that if the neutrality advocates had had
their way internal strife would have been inevitable.
Natal would have seceded, breaking the Union after
29 years of progress.
Pro-British and anti-Nazi feeling, in addition to
more admirable exemplifications, has found expression
in rioting by an emotional element, particularly on the
Rand. There the same element that was responsible
for wrecking and burning shops of German and sus-
pected German ownership after the sinking of the
Lusitania in 1915 has again been showing its violent
antipathy to Germany by demonstrations. Shops have
been damaged, police have had to disperse with tear
gas ugly crowds threatening the German Club in
Johannesburg, and the windows of the largest cold
storage works in the city, owned by relatives of Mrs.
Oswald Pirow, wife of the resigned Minister of
Defence, have been shattered by angry crowds.
This misguided form of patriotism has been
checked, and Johannesburg is leading the Union in
efforts to send material evidences of loyalty. The
Mayor, Mr. J. J. Page, sponsored a plan to send the
Allied troops “£1,000,000 worth or more” of food and
commodities, and this scheme has since been con-
siderably enlarged.
Many who are not bound by their duties to the
South African Permanent Force, the Active Citizen
Force or any of the district rifle associations have
already joined the British Forces in England. The
R.A.F., in particular, contains a good proportion of
South Africans. So many South African applications
—New York “Post.”
PEACE OFFER.
to join Rhodesian Forces have been received that the
Southern Rhodesian defence authorities have had to
issue a notice stating that no persons outside the
colony are being accepted because at present there
are far more Rhodesians applying than can be enrolled.
Present efforts in the Union itself are being con-
centrated on tightening defences and giving Britain
the fullest economic and material assistance. South
Africa produced 12,161,352 ounces of gold last year.
There are many reasons why it will be able to give
Britain much more substantial aid than in 1914. Then,
a mere 11,472 rebel Boers, aided by the difficulties of
the terrain, compelled the Government to concentrate
against them a force of 30,000 troops (20,000 of them,
it should be emphasised, of Dutch descent). This
time, although there has been some small expenditure
on extra police guards for South-West Africa because
of subversive Nazi activities, there is no likelihood of
disorders. Moreover, the Government will not have
to involve itself in protracted campaigns; like
those necessary for the mastery of South-West Africa
and German East Africa, where the problem of dis-
lodging an enemy from difficult country in which
he had all the advantages took two years of costly
struggle.
South Africa, besides, is more prosperous to-day.
Seven years’ extra wealth from the goldmines has
put the Government in a strong position and has led
to a development of industry far beyond the 1914
stage.
German Public Opinion.
[As deduced by the diplomatic correspondent of
Manchester “Guardian” from letters received from
Germany.]
Writers of recent letters from Germany agree
that the “confetti war” (as neutrals call the release
of leaflets by British aeroplanes) is useless, or even
harmful from the Allied point of view so far as it
spreads the impression that Great Britain is not seri-
ously at war. In some parts of Germany the leaflets
have been seen whitening the fields in large quantities,
though hardly anyone dare pick one up. In Berlin
there seems to have been no knowledge that leaflets
had ever been dropped until they were mentioned by
Field-Marshal Goring in a speech. One writer reports
that opponents of the regime are disappointed with the
contents of the leaflets.
There are queues of women in front of food
shops. Eggs are almost unobtainable. The butter
ration is 80 grams, the margarine ration is 125 grams
per week ; the price of the cheapest margarine rose
from 63 pfennigs to 98 pfennigs in September. Not all
foodstuffs are rationed—fish and fruit, for example,
are not, though both are generally sold out by noon.
Nor is poultry rationed, but it is so expensive that
only the rich can buy it. One writer says that as far
as food and rationing are concerned Germany is about
where she was in 1916.
Generally speaking, the atmosphere is one of ten-
sion and anxiety. Great Britain is the chief object
of speculation. “Why does she not fight, and, if she
does not mean to fight, why does she not make
peace? Such are the questions that are being asked
about her. The German-Russian alliance and the
German-Russian peace proposals have, according to
several writers, brought some slight relief and hope.
Many Germans feel that the Russian alliance is more
“natural” than the Italian.
Among the Nazis hatred of Great Britain out-
weighs every other sentiment. They regard her as
responsible for the war. They approve heartily of
the Russian alliance. On the whole, they seem to be
more optimistic now than they were at first.
Among the opposition who desire the defeat of
the regime there is a good deal of pessimism. They,
too, believe that Great Britain is not seriously at war.
They are mystified by the Russian alliance. One of
them writes, “What is truth and what is fiction? It
is quite impossible to reproduce all the things people
are saying and all the theories and opinions that are
put forward.”
One thing is certain. The army is well looked
after. There is no evidence of any complaints by the
troops with regard to food. The German soldier has
money to spend, and often sends money home. He
certainly has more money than he had in the last
war, and probably more than the French or the
British soldier.
According to one writer, men who have returned
from Poland say that the losses were fearful on both
sides. One writer —evidently a man of education and
sober judgment—believes that the Nazis are more
popular now than they were before the Polish cam-
paign, but he is convinced that the regime will be
unable to stand one big defeat. There is great hatred
of the S.S., especially among the women who queue
up in front of the butchers and greengrocers, where
the S.S. are often in attendance in case of disorders.
Not all men of military age have been called up.
Few recruits are drawn from Berlin and the big cities
now. Most of them are from the country.
All letters show that the war is regarded as a
war with Great Britain. France is rarely mentioned.
Great Britain’s part in the war is imperfectly under-
stood by the Germans because it is still imperfectly
felt. The possibly decisive function of the British
Fleet and the unsensational work done by the R.A.F.
are but simply apprehended. There is a widespread
belief in German victory among the middle class,
though many manufacturers who realise the signifi-
cance of economic warfare are convinced that Ger-
many will be defeated.
The poorer classes are for the most part nervous
and apprehensive and seem to have no definite view
as to the outcome. The Nazis are confident of victory.
There appears to be no evidence that British propa-
ganda has had any effect at all.
Air Warfare.
{From a London “Star” article by Air-Commodore
L. E. O. Charlton.)
Air warfare on the Western Front is still being
fought politely. As with the operations on the ground,
it is preparatory. But out of Poland comes a lesson
of the war that is fraught with vital meaning. The
Polish Air Force was largely smashed on its aero-
dromes in the original attack, and thereafter it was
completely overborne by outnumbering aircraft. The
quickly-moving tide of battle further hampered its
activities, for an air force cannot function when it
continually changes station or when it is under a
constant threat of bombardment from the air.
As a result of this disintegration of its air power,
never very strong, Poland’s military commanders were
rendered eyeless, while the vision of the enemy was
universally extended, and the Polish people were sub-
jected widely to a terror from the air that sapped the
spirit of resistance and undermined the morale of the
armies.
It stands out clearly that the conquest of the coun-
try in almost record time was effected more by an
unsparing use of air power, on independent missions
and in close co-operation with the German forces on
the ground, than by any other direct means of combat.
It is unmistakable, therefore, that air supremacy, in
a new connotation of the term, provides a short cut
to victory in modern.wars, and that is the writing on
the wall for all of us to read.
Air force, as never before, is a delicate instru-
ment to handle. If lavishly employed, as on the last
occasion, it will suffer loss which may be irreparable ;
not alone in material and equipment, but in pilot and
other personnel that cannot be delivered sausage-wise
at the end of a moving belt.
In the last war our system of perpetual offensive
in the air brought us losses four times greater than
those of Germany. To fill these ever-widening gaps
recourse was had to undertrained replacements who,
too often, were sent up merely to swell the list.
A wastage such as that is unthinkable in these
days when the far higher technique required of the
pilots and their crews in turn demands a longer period
of training. We have accumulated a large reserve of
flying personnel, and intensive training proceeds apace
in various centres of instruction ; but a satisfactory
balance sheet is no excuse for squandermania. The
side which husbands its resources in the air, com-
patibly with efficient conduct of the war above, will
gradually assume a mastery which may have final
consequences.
At time of writing both parties await the other’s
first decided bomb attack which shall be independent
of the operations on the ground. Whichever side first
breaks this unpremeditated air truce, as it might be
called, will at the same time release a real intensity
of warfare from the air, and it is only natural that
each should be reluctant to introduce a phase in war
which shall not only take the lid off everything, but
must, as well, be reciprocal in its effect. It will happen
some day soon.


SPORTING
NOTIONS V
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A. LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
While tributes are still being paid to
Harry Bamber for his training feat in
racing Rivette through the winter months
and keeping her fit enough to win the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, many
people are unaware that Frank Godby
did likewise with Maikai, runner-up to
Rivette in both those races. Maikai actu-
ally resumed racing a fortnight before
Rivette in June, and it says something
for his toughness and the ability of his
trainer that at the end of a strenuous
campaign he was able to win the Wil-
liamstown Cup last Saturday.
Maikai had been dubbed “the Silver
Standard of 1939” because of his
wretched luck in important races this
spring. Three years ago Silver Standard
finished second in the Metropolitan and
both Cups, and it seemed that Maikai was
fated to keep on playing second fiddle
also. Four successive seconds preceded
his Williamstown Cup success, and
although those minor placings yielded
£3300 in prize-money, which, after all,
was very nice consolation, victory in the
four would have returned £13,400, inclu-
sive of trophies. Williamstown Cup suc-
cess, however, was worth £1750 in added
money and a trophy valued at £lOO, and
not even the backers of beaten horses
begrudged W. J. Winterbottom, vice-
chairman of the W.A.T.C., his change
of luck.
Racing crowds appreciate a trier. Win-
ners and losers alike combined to cheer
Maikai when he hit the front soon after
beginning the last furlong, and went on
to win comfortably from Catalogue and
the 100-to-l chance Fort Belvedere.
Henry Mornement, who had the mount
on Maikai in both Cups, but was re-
placed by A. Breasley in the V.R.C. Han-
dicap, in which Maikai was beaten by
Respirator, was in the saddle again. He
handled his mount perfectly, saving every
inch of ground possible and not leaving
the rails until about three furlongs from
home. He had to go round only two
horses at that stage, and it was obvious
that he had the race in keeping when he
moved up third at the turn into the
straight.
A six-year-old by Pantheon from
Ornum, Maikai is a much-travelled geld-
ing. Sold as a yearling in Sydney, he
began racing in Westralia, where his
seven wins included the Perth Cup as a
four-year-old. After his Perth Cup
win his owner decided to have him
trained for the Sydney Cup, and accord-
ingly sent him back to Sydney to be
trained by Frank McGrath. Develop-
ing a seedy toe soon after his arrival,
Maikai’s programme had to be scrapped.
He was under veterinary care for months,
and it was not until the following autumn
that he resumed racing. Several un-
placed runs in Sydney preceded his de-
parture for Melbourne to be trained by
Frank Godby, and the latter deserved
the congratulations that were showered
on him after Saturday’s win. Before be-
ginning a summer holiday Maikai will
contest the Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield.
A penalty of 41b. for his Williamstown
win makes his weight 9st.
Paradoxically, when Maikai’s previous
misfortunes are considered, hard-luck
stories were associated with the Williams-
town Cup minor place-getters, Catalogue
and Fort Belvedere. Catalogue was favor-
ing one of his legs when he returned to
the enclosure, his rider, Harold Badger,
stating that he had been kicked while at
the barrier. Further, he was not lucky
in running, for he had to be checked and
taken round three horses when making
a forward move on the inside soon after
rounding the turn. Fort Belvedere’s mis-
fortune was of a different character. Ac-
cording to owner F. A. Kiernan, Fort Bel-
vedere’s stirrup leathers and saddle broke
during the race, and apprentice rider T.
Griffiths was naturally at a great disad-
vantage. In the circumstances, Fort Bel-
vedere recorded a remarkable perform-
ance to finish third, four lengths behind
the winner, his form being a big improve-
ment on his sixth in the Woodend Cup
three days earlier. Whether Fort Belve-
dere would have won but for the mis-
hap to his gear can only be conjectured,
but his owner consoled himself with £250
for third money and a £1 place tote
ticket which showed a profit of £95 10s.
Turnover of £2126 10s. by the doubles
totalisator, used for the first time in Vic-
toria at Williamstown on Saturday, was
considerably below expectations. After
deductions had been made, a pool of
only £1913 17s. was available for distri-
bution, little more than half the amount
anticipated by officials.
Hundreds of pounds, however, were
lost to the machine by the inability of
would-be patrons to reach the selling
clerks before the running of the first leg.
Seven selling windows in the paddock
and three in the flat were considered suf-
ficient to cope with the rush of business
from the time the tote opened at one
o’clock until the first leg of the double,
the Williamstown Cup, was run at three
o’clock, but inexperience caused conges-
tion and delay. Selling clerks themselves
became confused at times, and were ham-
pered by backers who, instead of ac-
quainting themselves with the rules be-
forehand, waited until reaching the
windows before asking their unnecessary
questions. Information had been pub-
lished in every newspaper, as well as oc-
cupying a prominent position in the offi-
cial racebook, but apparently some
backers preferred to be told personally.
Result was that the issuing of tickets
was so slow that the demand became
greater than the rate of supply. A record
crowd attended the meeting, and that,
combined with general inexperience,
tended to make smooth working im-
possible. Experience teaches, and the
doubles tote will be a greater success
when all concerned are more educated
to it.
Its drawbacks on Saturday notwith-
standing, the machine received a fine ad-
vertisement when it paid a dividend of
£76 11s. for 55., odds of slightly better
than 305 to 1, about the winning com-
bination, Maikai and Chaldean. An all-
up bet on Maikai, who started at 4 to 1,
and Chaldean, 25 to 1, would have re-
turned odds of only 124 to 1. In the
tote’s favor also was the fact that backers
of Chaldean in the second leg would
have received a nice dividend had he been
beaten into second place. Eighty per
cent, of the pool is set apart for selectors
of the winning double, and 20 per cent,
for backers of the winner of the first leg
and the second horse in the second leg.
Of the total pool, 1475 units of ss. were
issued for Maikai, but only 20 people
exchanged their tickets for Chaldean.
The 455 tickets exchanged for Creditor,
who finished second to Chaldean, re-
turned a dividend of 16s. 6d. each.
Form said so little for Chaldean’s
chance in the Ozone Highweight that
even his owners, H. A. and E. A. Under-
wood, were reported as having benefited
by not a penny apart from the stake of
£2lO. Chaldean, however, has always
been a good galloper when in the right
mood, and evidently he reserves his best
efforts for the occasions on which Syd-
ney horses are in opposition. He beat the
Sydney-trained Royal Sceptre up the
straight six in a two-year-old race at
Flemington last autumn, and on Satur-
day he defeated another Sydneysider,
Creditor. Creditor was always a clear-
cut favorite, but he was inclined to hang
most of the way, and, veering further
out after leading into the straight, he
appeared to carry Chaldean into the
centre of the track. Darby Munro made
every effort to straighten him, but seem-
ingly there would have been grounds for
a protest had Creditor won, instead of
being beaten a long neck. It was not a
lucky day for Creditor’s trainer, Stan
Lamond, jun. He expected to land an
alliterative double with Cooranga and
Creditor, but Cooranga, after being
squeezed out at the start of the Williams-
town Cup, was not suited by the track
and was never dangerous.
Feature of a farcical race for the Cup
Steeplechase at Williamstown, in which
four of the six runners fell, was the initia-
tive and determination displayed by
jockey K. Parris, who, after crashing
with Pambo early in the piece, re-
mounted, remained in the straight until
he saw only Frenchy and Musical David
finish, and then completed more than a
round to gain third money of £3O for
owner Osmond Smith.
Four horses remained standing after
Pambo crashed. Parris saw Wall Street
fall, and then Gay Beer. Sending a
message to the judge, requesting the
latter to remain in the box, Parris com-
menced his solo trip to the accompani-
ment of loud encouragement from the
crowd. Pambo made several faulty
jumps, but cheers went up for rider and
horse when they landed safely after each.
Workmen had replaced the running rails
round the course proper. Seeing Pambo
coming they hastily pulled down a panel
of the fencing, and enabled him to com-
plete a star turn. The judge declared
that Frenchy had beaten Musical David
by a neck, but naturally he did not
attempt to state the distance between
second and third. It was over a mile!
The Steeplechase was an entertainment
in itself, but perhaps Williamstown com-
mitteemen will be dubious about includ-
ing a steeplechase in its programme for
the corresponding meeting next year. Evi-
dently the V.R.C. has arrived at the con-
clusion that it is not getting proper sup-
port from owners of jumpers. Dissatis-
fied with the response from owners at its
New Year’s meeting this year, the V.R.C.
committee has reduced the stake for both
the 1940 New Year’s Day Hurdle and
Steeple from £7OO to £6OO. The outstand-
ing £2OO has been added to the prize for
the Bagot Handicap, which will be £l2OO.
Lucrative, a colt by Gay Lothario from
Balkan Star, cut a second and a quarter
off the Williamstown record for five fur-
longs when he won the Rawdon Stakes
in 59isec. Two failures subsequent to
his success in a division of the Maribyr-
nong Trial Stakes at Flemington resulted
in his being a 10-to-l chance, but he re-
covered form with a vengeance. Always
well placed, he won decisively from Neu-
tron (Manitoba-Golden Warbler), who
cost 700 guineas as a yearling, and Earl
Marshal, the latter of whom has had
three starts for two seconds and a third.
Lucrative, who is trained by Harry Freed-
man, has been a splendid proposition at
the 450 guineas he cost R. W. McLean
as a yearling. Two wins from four starts
have yielded £595 in prize-money alone.
Just when most backers had decided
that Glowing had had enough racing and
was in need of a spell, the David horse
unexpectedly won the Williamstown Cup
Hurdle. He went kindly for Johnson,
was always within striking distance of the
leaders, hit the front with a tremendous
leap at the last hurdle, and won easily
from Coster Lad and Whernside. Three of
the nine runners fell on the flat. Orange
Bitters went for a narrow opening on
the inside of Laveur near the seven fur-
longs, struck that horse’s heels and fell.
Nevizes and Cosgard toppled over him,
riders and horses being fortunate to
escape serious injury.
Bill McKay, trainer of Glowing, is
better known as one of Victoria’s leading
trainers and drivers of trotters. He has
had outstanding success in the light-
harness sport, and, like many other trot-
ting men, knows how to prepare gallopers
also. Getting Glowing as a yearling, he
schooled the youngster over jumps before
even putting a saddle on his back, and
has concentrated on making a hurdler of
him. He has succeeded.
* * * *
When a horse runs second in races
like the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
and is similarly placed in another good
handicap, it is not often it ends its
lucky sequence by winning something
the importance of the Williamstown P-
Apart from the fact of being favorite,
Maikai’s consistent form made his w -
liamstown Cup win popular. He must
be quite as tough as any of those hor -
beloved by old-timers. In winning tne
Williamstown Cup after running second
in the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
Maikai was luckier than Devon, who was
second in each of the three in
Richmond Main, Second Wind and Yai-
ramba each won a Williamstown Cup
the same year they ran second in a Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * * * ,
L’Aiglon did not repay D. Munros
trip to Melbourne to ride him in the
Williamstown Cup. of the
race point to its being L’Aiglon’s worse
effort on the other side. His solitary
win since the 1938 Sydney Cup can
scarcely have covered what his owner
must have dropped on him if he bets
at all heavily. On that score I have no
knowledge, but, on the other hand,
L’Aiglon has earned sufficient in seconds
and thirds to go a long way towards
covering the expense of training and
racing him, even though trips to Mel-
bourne and Brisbane are somewhat
costly. L’Aiglon is actually only a little
over five, and may improve, but, in view
of his many failures, his owner may
be justified in looking forward to more
lenient treatment in important races in
the autumn.
* * * *
The attendance at the Warwick Farm
meeting on Saturday at Randwick seemed
somewhat on the light side, the flat
appearing to suffer most. Still, a tote
turnover of £26,593 ss. was satisfactory,
and the members of the Ring, going
upon the “big bets” reported, did not
find there was any shortage of money.
Possibly some of the heavy wagering was
a trifle exaggerated for advertising pur-
poses.
John Peel and High Rank had the
finish of the Maiden Handicap to them-
selves. There was nothing between High
Rank and Brunswick Joy turning for
home, and the former looked a winner
when he drew clear at the leger. How-
ever, he was unequal to stalling off John
Peel’s sharp run, though it was by only
a head the latter won. John Peel is a
half-brother by Foxbridge (Foxlaw-
Bridgemount) to Ammon Ra, and, raced
by knight Sydney Snow and A. C. Lewis,
was bought as a yearling for lOOOgns.
He started five times last season without
getting a place.
Gundagai, though third, never looked
a likely winner, and there was really more
merit in Poly Pan’s fourth. She was
badly placed shortly after barrier-rise.
Cronus again showed pace, but dropped
out at the finish, and Brunswick Joy
would also have been better served by
a shorter distance. Mineral and Brave
Bird shaped fairly, while the disappoint-
ments included Sunstreak, Bronze Flight
and Grace Woods.
Notwithstanding that Kurrawid had
won middle-distance races at his two
previous starts, the belief that he would
be outclassed in the Warwick November
Handicap caused him to start at a long
price. Pen Name went to the front early
with the idea of making an all-the-way
win of it, but she was settled soon after
entering the straight. When Bristol took
charge a furlong from home, it was
thought the race was as good as
over, but Kurrawid upset calculations
by outstaying him. Perhaps Coutts did
come a trifle early, considering Bristol
had 9.4. Kurrawid, who is now one of
the “aged” division, is heavier and more
solid-looking than at any previous time.
When Red Sails went up third to Pen
Name and Enatic nearing the half-mile
his backers had reason to be on good
terms with themselves, but he stopped
in the run home, After Six cutting him
out of third money. It was reported that
(Continued on page 28.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
{By “SENTRY.”)
Ormond Stakes: Tuhitarata, 1 ;
Bankshaw, 2 ; Lady Montague, 3.
Stansmore Two-year-old: Gold-
smith, 1 ; Mormon, 2; Earl Mar-
shal, 3.
Tara Steeplechase: Keewong, 1 ;
Lome, 2 ; Inazuma, 3.
Eclipse Stakes: Buzalong, 1 ;
Landlaw, 2 ; Maikai, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old: Neutron,
1 ; Clarify, 2; Much to Say, 3.
Rosstown Plate: Tetreen, 1 ;
Parodier, 2 ; Rex Felt, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By "PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Harley, 1 ; Ber-
rirna, 2 ; Belvoir, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Rylstone,
1 ; All Agog, 2 ; Phalaran, 3.
Novice Handicap: The French-
man, 1 ; High Rank, 2; Busy
Biddy, 3.
Clyde Handicap: Sigh, 1 ; June,
2 ; Benburb, 3.
November Handicap: Highborn,
1 ; Gold Spark, 2 ; Masterpiece, 3.
Maiden Highweight: Gretchen,
1 ; Gundagai, 2 ; Aldabra, 3.


• •
It’s our job
Only an organisation with wo rid-wide correspondents, with
long years of experience in all phases of insurance business,
with the reputation of painstaking attention to the smallest
as well as the biggest policy-holders, with a tradition of
prompt and equitable adjustment of all claims—
Only such an organisation as ours could offer You, as a
potential purchaser of insurance cover, full Personal Service.
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) PTY., LTD. '
INSURANCE HOUSE
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
’Phones: 8W2131 (14 lines)
The duty of a Broker is to ensure that his client receives the Best Policy at the
world’s Best Rates—this is what WE do—always!
A
Ol
.
ONCE only a business man's phrase,
but now on the lips of people in all
walks of life, who have found that it is
more convenient to pay by cheque—and
more economical too.
You can transact your business safely
and speedily by cheque . . . and remem-
ber, it's a simple matter to open a cheque
account at the Head Office or any
branch of this bank.
Interest-bearing fixed deposits from £5
and upwards are also accepted.
a
&
O *J T H
® V
W E y/w
W A *, «3 S
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you--Serving the State
NOCK & KIRBY LTD
Give the Whole Family
This Xmas Present!!
Dependable Electricity at Extemely Low Cost with
mm
mm
man
i
Johnson Iron Horse
GENERATOR
You can Bum 3 Lights for 3j Hours Every Night
for approx. 1/- per week.
300 Watts 12 Volts
(Double the usual Capacity)
Lights 12-25-watt Globes.
You could have no better
Xmas present than Electric
Light—the boon of to-day’s
civilisation which is now
available quickly and econo-
mically with the Johnson Iron
Horse Generator.
Power for your Radio Power
for charging batteries, and
the extra comfort and con-
venience of Electric Light for
your home, costs you less
IS
than the messy, dangerous, old-fashioned lamps. For approximately 1/- you
can burn three lights for 3\ hours every night of the week.
Here Are a Few of the More Important Features
300 WATTS ... 12 VOLTS . . . Lights 12-25-watt Globes . . . ELECTRIC
STARTING just push a button . . . FULL RANGE CONTROL . . . Special
Built-in Generator Powered by a Johnson Iron Horse 4-Cycle Petrol Engine
. . . AUTOMATIC CUT-OUT disconnects when not
running . . . Quiet Operation . . . Minimum Vibration.
CASH PRICE
£34/10/-
(Batteries extra.)
Special Terms From £lO Deposit
Approved Country Residents may obtain immediate
possession by paying a deposit of £lO, and if
the balance is paid within 12
months there is no extra V* »■ V.
charge for interest.
TJoCK &
rr; a get, G - P t -u w " p
a ° 10% *«&«>* so '‘ l
„a to©
toV' va vx-tlots®
p\ease ; v -
easy V u ‘ . . . • •*
>iatn e *’ ' ~ .
Ad^tes 8
Ge» et<
NOCK C KIRBY LTD
Postal Address... BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY


BRANDAUER’S
m
\V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKJJJDAOSB * CO, Ltd, BIMUSOHAM, BUG
6<T.V
SAVE MONEY
IT'S
-^THRIFTY"
Kj) TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIONS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Throughout your car’s life,
Champions will keep the engine
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably—because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fuller
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor , Can.
Red Sails’s collapse was due to having
slightly wrenched himself. Braidwood
Boy did not run nearly as well as at his
previous start, and Salazar s effort sug-
gested that for the time being he has
had enough of it.
Tyrannus failed to run on as well as Met-
tara at the finish of the second division
of the Farm Novice. When he took:
charge from Lucky Lyn in the straight
a win for him appeared certain, but Met-
tara settled him in short order. There
was so little in the protest entered on
behalf of Tyrranus for interference in the
straight that the books did not even offer
to bet on it. Aldabra was more promi-
nent at the winning-post than at any
other part of the race, and may not be
long in making amends for her defeat.
She is a fine-looking filly, and as she is
by Madagascar from Gloriole she should
be a galloper. Mettara is by Metallurgy
from Whakatara (Romeo-Saucy Lass),
who on the maternal side runs back to
a family that gave Maoriland many
good stayers. Metallurgy, who is by Ros-
sendale, could get a distance.
(Curiosity was too solid for the unlucky
Pen at the finish of the Leumeah Handi-
cap. The latter succeeded in shaking off
Young Crusader before reaching the
straight, but had no chance when Curio-
sity ranged alongside him inside the last
furlong. Binnia Hero had a nice run
throughout, but was not good enough
at the weights. Breeze, though fourth,
was well beaten, as were Lockray, Tar-
tanus and Fakenham, the last-named
horse’s slowness in finding his legs after
barrier-rise quickly disposing of his
chance. As he is again looking well, per-
haps he may fare better before long.
Dark Elegance was the winner of the
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes from the
first furlong. She led into the straight
from Patrician and All Agog, and,
though the former finished gamely, he
had no chance against the filly, notwith-
standing she was unbalanced for a few
strides after blundering at the tan cross-
ing opposite the leger reserve. Haran,
a Harinero colt, ran on well in third
place, and will improve. Of the re-
mainder All Agog and Shem shaped best.
This was Dark Elegance’s third succes-
sive win, but she has not incurred a
penalty for the December Stakes. If she
should win the Kirkham Stakes it will
mean only 51b. extra for the December
Stakes, and, with Broadcaster and True-
ness out of the way, that will still leave
her with an excellent chance of success
in that race.
In the first division of the Farm Novice
Handicap Diogenes had such a useful
lead after going three furlongs that it
did not seem as if he could be over-
hauled. Entering the straight he was still
well clear of Gretchen, but, weakening
in the last half-furlong, he was beaten
almost on the post by Jacaranda, who
ran as if a mile, at least, will not trouble
him. It was in the last couple of strides
that Busy Biddy beat Gretchen for third,
and both are probable winners in the
near future. Woolooga gave his backers
a poor run. Markos and Playmate were
always prominent, while Prospector and
Trumpeter did their best work towards
the finish.
I must admit that prior to Vergure’s
win in the Horsley Handicap I thought it
probable he was slightly overrated by his
admirers, but the manner of his success
proved they were correct. June was with
him entering t-he straight in the Horsley
Handicap, but he shook her off at the
leger, and then went on to score easily
from Aureus, who is looking so well
that, despite this defeat, he should not
be long in adding to his winning account.
June hung on well to run third. In
height Vergure is ponyish, but is strongly
built.
Benburb and Delmestor were nearest
the place-getters. The latter’s big weight
pulled her up, but as the former finished
well he is worth following. The Kaiser
was prominent for a few furlongs, but
from the top of the straight there seemed
no possibility of the winner coming from
anything outside the three that filled the
“Why didn’t you run when I called you?"
“’Cause I don’t take no orders from nobody excep' the skipper ."
places. Denis commenced smartly, but
was outpaced as soon as the field fairly
settled down.
The way in which Vergure cleared out
from his opponents at the finish of the
Horsley Handicap at Randwick was im-
pressive, and justified his owner’s opti-
mism as to the future. While it was sports-
manlike on his part to announce what
the imported horse was likely to do, it
was a complete departure from the “busi-
ness principles” associated with racing.
And racing is a business. It was an
intimation to the handicappers not to
make the mistake of being at all lenient
with Vergure, and if the Irish horse
does get a little more than actually war-
ranted by his win of last week there
should be no room for fault-finding on
the part of his owner. Not that he is
likely to indulge in it.
After Vergure won I heard the remark
“Why, he does not even look ready yet,”
but the way he was backed left no doubt
as to his trainer being satisfied that his
condition was right. English and Irish
horses, as a rule, do best on what may
seem the big side. When in England I
saw many races won by horses that in
Australia would have been regarded as
above themselves, but though they
sweated freely after their runs they did
not blow. Some imported horses have
also run so well in Australia on light
work that they surprised their trainers
and caused them to gleefully anticipate
what would happen when they had done
the solid preparation favored in Aus-
tralia. Some, however, fell far short of
expectations when they were treated to
the work that was expected to greatly
improve them.
* * * *
Royal Chief was favorite for the New
Zealand Cup, but was ahead of only two
horses when half the distance was
covered. He was subsequently hampered
when trying to get through, so he did
well to finish as far forward as fourth
with 9.6. There were 22 starters. His
trainer, F. D. Jones, had a win in the
Spring Plate, of £350, on the opening day
of the meeting, with Moorsotis, of whom
he is part-owner. As mentioned in last
week’s issue, Royal Chief won the Can-
terbury Cup, so Jones had a fair meet-
ing. Beaupartir was a better favorite than
Royal Chief for the Canterbury Cup,
but was completely outstayed.
New Zealand Cup was not without
mishaps. Arctic King, winner of last
year’s Auckland Cup, broke down early,
and Lowenberg, breaking a fetlock, had
to be destroyed. Lowenberg’s mishap
occurred a quarter-mile from home when
he was one of the leading division. He
was going so well at the time that it is
said his chance appeared a winning one.
Lowenberg’s wins included a New
Zealand Derby.
It is unusual for a trainer who is going
on for 83 to prepare the winner of an
important race, but that is the age of
J Lowe, who captured the New
Zealand Cup with Yours Truly for J. S.
McLeod. Yours Truly was Lowe’s
second New Zealand Cup winner, his
previous one being Menelaus, in 1917.
Other Cups to Lowe’s credit are the
Auckland Cup with Mascot, and Welling-
ton Cup with Insurrection. Yours Truly
was on offer at £1225 for India some
time before the New Zealand Cup, and
even as late as the day prior to that race
there was a possibility of his being sold
to a Wellington owner. Yours Truly
was second favorite for the Cup.
Many years ago Lowe trained in Syd-
ney for some time, but later returned
to Maoriland. In 1906 Lowe brought
Solution to Sydney, and won the Metro-
politan with her. That mare won other
races in Australia, but missed a place in
the Melbourne Cup, for which she started
favorite. Lowe is the oldest trainer still
following that calling in Maoriland.
* * * *
During the recent N.Z. Cup meeting
a time record for Maoriland was equalled.
In winning the Avon Handicap Dark
Flight (7.10) easily ran the six furlongs
in 1.9 2-5, which was the time put up by
Silver Scorn on the same track six years
ago. A strong breeze helped the horses
down the straight in Dark Flight’s race.
On the first day of the meeting, when
carrying 7.0, Dark Flight ran third in
the Stewards’ Handicap, but as the
winner, Beaulivre, finished six lengths
ahead of him in 1.11, Dark Flight must
have received the assistance of some-
thing approaching a gale when he subse-
quently did 1.9 2-5. Perhaps similar con-
ditions prevailed when the two-year-old
Enrich, on the concluding day of the
same fixture, ran five furlongs in 58
with 8.7.
* * * *
Prior to the A.J.C. spring meeting J. T.
Jamieson remarked: “High Caste will
stay just as well as any of the other three-
year-olds.” After High Caste’s two de-
feats in Derbies by Reading, it seemed as
if at least one was his master over a
distance. Now there is again doubt as
to the position, as, while Reading was
too good for High Caste in the Derby,
he made an indifferent showing in the
Melbourne Cup, and the latter won the
C. B. Fisher Plate in fast time. He was
at the advantage of waiting on the pace-
makers most of the trip, but finished
strongly. Anyhow his win sustains the
interest of a meeting between him and
Reading in the St. Leger. Although
High Caste looks up to any weight it is
worth noting that his two best races of
this season —the Craven Plate and C. B.
Fisher Plate —were at a lighter scale than
that for the classics. Although Jamieson
won the A.J.C. Derby with Prince
Humphrey and Ammon Ra, he missed
that race with High Caste, who is
better than either.
sj? * * *
Ajax has resumed track work at Caul-
field, and it is pleasing to read that he
moves freely. It is to be hoped there
is no recurrence of the trouble that kept
him out of his spring engagements, but
it has happened with more than one
horse of note that, while everything
seemed right when it was restricted to
strong work, the extra pressure attached
to fast work has shown the weak spot
is still there. I sincerely hope it will not
be so with Ajax, and that in the autumn
we shall see him opposing High Caste,
Spear Chief, Reading and Beaulivre,
among others, in races up to a mile and
a half. I have not read anything con-
cerning the progress made by Defaulter
since he returned home, but it is doubtful
whether there is any likelihood of his


A SACRIFICE OF DEUTZ FULL-DIESEL TRACTORS
We have for sale two only 25-28 h.p. and one 45-50
h.p. Deutz tractors complete with pneumatic tyres.
Will accept £525 and £685 each respectively.
The smaller tractors fitted with electric generators and glow plug
starting equipment; larger tractor with compressed-air starter in
conjunction with glow plugs.
Wire inquiry to:
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
172-174 PULTENEY STREET. ADELAIDE.
Tel. C 6696 (6 lines). Est. 27 years. Tel. address: “Parob, Adelaide.”
NOTE: TRACTORS ARE ABSOLUTELY NEW.
Yon can’t go wrong
if you give him
GILLETTE
«S 5
9WS
m
A
3®
&
K>
S- :
£s}
£• '•:■••
xS: ' ; 3
mm
»>
m
O
n
S? S i?
*ss
ijiS»S
What a grand gift for a man! . . . the most luxurious,
comfortable shaves that money can buy Gillette.
Renew his shaving equipment this Christmas. There are
Gillette razor sets at prices from 1/9 to 45/- . . . and
for Christmas they’re packed in gaily coloured cartons
that add a festive air to an eminently practical gift.
No. 15 SET. In handsome
nickel-plated case, contains
Gillette Aristocrat "One-
Piece” razor and ten Gillette
blades in specially designed
blade holder.
Complete for 22/6.
Ik?
e ‘He*
iSfeaa m
SS2&
; ;
mm
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY
(PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MEN OF SELF-RESPECT SHAVE WITH GILLETTE
revisiting Australia before next spring.
He is too good for his owner or trainer
to be desirous of hurrying him in the
least.
* * * *
J. Abbs has no excuse to make for
Mosaic’s failures at Flemington apart
from the fact that the going was not to
his liking in a couple of races. “In the
Cup,” said Abbs in discussing that race,
“Munro said the heavy going caused
Mosaic to lift his legs as if he had a ton
on each. So far as the C. B. Fisher
Plate was concerned that was not run
to suit him.” Nevertheless there is no
getting away from the fact that Mosaic
fell below expectations in his races
at Flemington, and up to the present we
are even shorter than usual in Australia
of good four-year-olds. Respirator is
just below weight-for-age form, though
he may improve. It is on the cards that
imported Landlaw will be one of the best
of Australian-trained horses of his age
in the autumn. Bred to French time, he
has been racing as a four-year-old,
though some months short of that age.
The 31b. north of the Line will be useful
to him next autumn, when he is actually
four years old.
* * * *
Last week I wrote that the penalty
Broadcaster and Trueness had each in-
curred for the December Stakes should
not prevent them from starting for that
race. Neither, however, will run. Not
so much because of the extra weight, but
that, with the autumn meetings in Mel-
bourne so closely following those at
Randwick at Christmas, there would
scarcely be time to give them a little
necessary rest. As Broadcaster is a big
fellow, I suppose it would be for his ulti-
mate good to miss Randwick, and True-
ness had some hard races down south.
* * * *
Ronsard had another Cup winner in
Victoria last week. This was Ronwin,
a five-year-old mare from Windear. She
started at 7 to 1 in a big field for the
Woodend Cup, and though she had only
6.13 her mile and a quarter in 2.5 was
smart galloping. It seems as if Ron-
sard’s daughters will eventually be in
strong demand for stud purposes.
* * * *
Buzalong ran so well in the Caulfield
Cup with 9.0 that he should stand an
excellent chance of winning the Eclipse
Stakes with 51b. less at Caulfield next
Saturday. Eleven furlongs should suit
him to a nicety. It was at that distance
he won the Bond Cup at Caulfield last
autumn, and he then carried 9.3 to
Respirator’s 8.1. When he won last
year’s Caulfield Cup he had 8.6. Land-
law is another that, on his C. B. Fisher
Plate form, must be included among the
possibilities, but, as he has had some
hard racing for a horse that is still short
of being four years, though he rates as
of that age, perhaps he may be put by
until the autumn. Lower in the weights,
Historian and Donor’s Hill are among
those likely to be in demand.
* * * *
St. Legers, either at Randwick'or Flem-
ington, are rarely worth the prize-money
they carry. Though the distance is a
mile and three-quarters they have often
been won by horses possessing little
chance of getting that distance in a handi-
cap. Mosaic, last season’s winner, proved
he could by accounting for the Sydney
Cup, but John Wilkes and Cathartes, who
dead-heated the previous year, subse-
quently did nothing to enhance the value
of form shown in a St. Leger. The 1937
winner, Gold Rod, is another that has no
pretensions to be classed a stayer. This
season another small A.J.C. St. Leger
field is certain, the principal interest
attaching to the result being whether
Reading can again prove himself a better
stayer than High Caste. Queenslander
Spear Vale may assist to make things
interesting, but, though Beau Vite is
also engaged, he is to be kept going
for the Auckland Cup meeting at the
end of the year, and after that a spell
may be considered advisable in prefer-
ence to racing in Australia in the autumn.
A handicap for three-year-olds, with a
certain maximum and minimum, would
give much more entertainment than the
average St. Leger.
* * * *
True Flight, winner of the W.A.
Guineas in Perth last week, was bred at
the Lyndhurst stud in Queensland, and
adds to The Buzzard’s many good win-
ners. He was the first foal thrown by
Even Keel (Highfield-Syconelle), who is
a sister to High Brae and half-sister to
Old Rowley. True Flight was sold in
Sydney as a yearling for 500 guineas.
* * *
Spear Chief and Gold Rod have re-
turned to Randwick, and will be pre-
pared for autumn racing. It was thought
that Gold Rod might figure at some of
the summer meetings, but he is not to
make an early reappearance. Spear Chief,
who was the only horse to beat Ajax last
season, has not raced during the current,
one, but his trainer is very hopeful there
will not be a recurrence of the leg trouble
that put him out of action early in the
spring. Spear Chief has done well in
the joint ownership of J. B. Charlton and
J. Harris, his placings last season being
as under:
First, Hotham Handicap .. .. £5OO
First, Rosehill Flying Handicap .. 190
Third, St. George Stakes .. .. 100
First, Woodcliff Handicap .. .. 525
First, Rawson Stakes.. .. .. 500
Second, Chipping Norton Plate .. 100
First, Cumberland Plate .. .. 900
Dead-heat second, A.J.C. Plate . . 150
First, Q.T.C. King’s Plate .. .. 400
First, Brisbane Cup (including trophy) 2100
Total £5465
* * *
Weight-for-age racing in Sydney this
spring was far from uninteresting. De-
faulter, at odds on, led off with two wins,
but squeezed home by a bare head from
his fellow-Maorilander Beau Vite in the
Chelmsford Stakes. Beau Vite had previ-
ously beaten Gold Rod in the Canterbury
Stakes, but the latter got even with the
visiting division when he downed the
odds-on favorite, Royal Chief, in the
Hill Stakes at Rosehill.
Then Beau Vite had another turn, de-
feating Reading and High Caste in the
Clarendon Stakes at the Hawkesbury
meeting at Rosehill. Although in receipt
of 81b. from the last-mentioned two, it
was probably the best race he ran here,
and justified his strong favoritism for the
Derby, in which, however, he did not
run nearly as well as in his previous
races. At the A.J.C. meeting Maoriland
was again in evidence, Royal Chief dead-
heating Mosaic for the Colin Stephen
Stakes and beating him in the Randwick
Plate. With five and a half wins, our
visitors certainly made their mark in
Sydney’s spring w.f.a. races, and if Beau-
livre acts up to his home form a win or
two for him in the autumn should be
probable.
* * * *
Few horses have deteriorated to a
greater extent in a short period than
Young Crusader. It is not much more
than a year ago that, with 8.4, he made
the Australian record of 2.55 for a mile
and three-quarters, and last December
he was second with 8.11 in the A.J.C.
Summer Cup. Lately he has been low
in the weights in middle-distance races
without being able to make a good bid
for a win. At Randwick on Saturday,
when only 141 b. from the minimum, he
paced it with Pen for a long way in the
mile Leumeah Handicap, but at the finish
was about the middle of the field.
Although it would now be difficult to
regard Young Crusader as other than a
“has been,” it is possible that, with Pen
out of the way, he might have made a
fair bid for last week’s race. He likes
to be out by himself, and, though his
winning days at Randwick may be over,
he displayed enough of his old speed to
suggest that in a mile and a quarter race
at a suburban track he is still likely to
take a lot of running down if he gets
the lead at an early stage. He looks well
enough to show some of his old form.
It is remarkable, though, that Young
Crusader, with records at a mile and five
furlongs and a mile and three-quarters
at Randwick, should have made such a
rapid descent in the racing scale.
* * * *
The only cause for regret E. McMena-
min can have in connection with his
marked success this season is that he will
be hit up by increased income tax. Still,
it is better to pay heavily on a big in-
come than next to nothing on a small
one. The money made by some of our
jockeys is sufficient to make even legal
and medical lights envious, but with
jockeys, as with the professions, there
are many mediocrities who are lucky to
make a bare living.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A picture of splendid fighting condi-
tion, Jack McNamee (list. 51b.) leapt
into Leichhardt ring to meet George Wil-
son (list. 6|lb.), described as “undefeated
middleweight champion of Queensland.”
Jack exuded confidence in a degree that
boded no good for George, and it wasn’t
misplaced. In the first round George
got home a few fairly good body punches,
but Jack felled him with a left rip to the
solar. Jack enjoyed a polka at the
Bananalander’s expense in the second,
and next round, after floundering all
over the ring like a professional wrestler,
George fell to a couple of lefts to the
head, and ref. Lacey declared the affair
over.
At time of writing Jack’s down to meet
Ron Richards to-morrow (Thursday)
night at Rushcutter Bay for the Austra-
lian title. The betting in his encounter
with Wilson was 6 to 1 on Jack, with no
takers. It should now be possible to get
juicy odds against Jack.
* * * *
“T.”: A Mr. Duff, of Sydney, has
had a great deal to say about the way
Sheedy runs the affairs of the Austra-
lian Swimming Union from his “village,”
Perth. A few remarks from Sheedy on
Duff’s direction of the affairs of the
N.S.W. amateur boxing organisation,
with pointed reference to the death of a
boxer, Rex Ellem, at the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium, would be in order. The young-
ster, a Digger’s son, collapsed after out-
pointing his opponent in the flyweight
division and received such treatment
as laymen could give in a dressing-
room. It was “twenty minutes” before a
doctor arrived. And when the unfortu-
nate lad was taken to a hospital, there
to die, the show went on.
* * * *
Low punches robbed Fred Henne-
berry of a points win over George
Abrams in New York. Fred was fight-
ing an eight-round prelim, to a light-
heavy title scrap in which Billy Conn
beat Gus Lesnevich, who had been well
and truly lathered at Sydney Sports
Ground by Ron Richards. N’Yark
critics were reported “unimpressed” by
Fred ; they might change their tune if
he’s given a go over a bit of distance.


PETROL RATIONING
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in an “emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia.
WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can now make his own effi-
cient gas plant to operate Tractors, Trucks,
Cars or any kind of spark plug stationary
engine—from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design.
A good gas plant can be made out of odds
and ends for a few shillings so simple is
the principle. Our set of easily understood
drawings and complete instructions, which
cost £l, shows you how to do the job in a
practical way, and the engine is not altered.
You can drive on petrol or eiharooal at will, and
SAVE 90% IN FUEL COSTS.
Send now.
F. MAHER
178 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
0
handsome appearance
sturdy and durable construc-
tion, these Hardy "Service" watches
are the ideal for everyday use, yet
their modern style makes them suit-
able for any occasion. The beauti-
fully fashioned, imported cases are
highly finished, dustproof, and un-
tarnishable. Fitted with a fully
jewelled Swiss Lever movement from
a famous maker, each watch is a
meticulous timekeeper and will give
the enduring service for which Hardy
Watches are famed. Prices are sur-
prisingly moderate and each watch
carries Hardy Bros'. 12 months'
guarantee.
Men's Metal Case,
Stainless Steel Back,
£4/4/-.
Ladies' Stainless Steel
Case, with Silk Cord,
£5/10/-.
■fa Write for fully
illustrated FREE
Catalogue
IN( lAU RIMS GlOlCi l
HARDY BROS. LTD.
338 Collins Street. MELBOURNE
TELEPHONE M 3461
A natural 20-round scrapper, he’s a slow
beginner, usually fighting at his top after
about nine rounds. As it was, he held
Abrams, described as a tough battler,
to a draw, in spite of losing three rounds
for blows on the belt-line or lower.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
While most golfers possess some idea
as to playing the various shots in golf
under ideal conditions, few can enter the
rough with any feeling of confidence.
Some courses in particular have very
heavy rough in the shape of long grass
just off the fairway, while others have
tree-lined fairways and a golf-ball
seems to delight in getting on the wrong
side of a tree.
In my earlier days, when I was
far from being an accurate player and
the rough at Manly was famous for its
bad lies, I had numerous experiences in
escaping from my tee and fairway errors.
It is due to this early training that I am
not unduly perturbed when my ball fails
to find the fairway or finishes in the
sand. The main thing to remember
when faced with a shot from the rough
is to study the problem quietly. Many
■a bad shot has been the cause of a major
downfall, the golfer rushing in and
playing the shot before attempting to
think his way out.
A little calmness may be the means
of saving many shots. At times it pays
to sacrifice a stroke and play back to
the fairway instead of going for a big
hit and too risky a shot. An experienced
player knows this and hopes to make up
for his mistake later in the round. An
unthinking player will often throw
caution to the winds, with the result that
he has a seven or eight on his card.
There is no doubt that, when a ball
is in the rough, unless the state of the
game warrants going for the shot, “safety
first” is the best thought to have in mind.
Naturally the same length cannot be
obtained from a shot lying in long
grass, so in order to pick the ball up
a more lofted club is advisable. I have
found the pursuit of these methods
during the last few years the soundest
in the long run. By treating such shots
with every respect, and surveying the
shot to be played calmly, very often
the par is still obtained.
While the grip is the same as for
other shots, the stance alters slightly, de-
pending upon the type of stroke re-
quired, but it is much more open than
that used for ordinary shots. By using
an open stance —that is, with the left
foot pointing more towards the line of
flight, and the right foot turned in
slightly—it is possible to swing more into
the shot, hitting the ball a more power-
ful, scooping blow. By using a fairly
full swing and keeping it upright, the
ball should gain altitude quicker. For
shots when the ball is not lying too
heavily a No. 4 iron can give reasonable
distance, for in the playing of the shot
the face is invariably closed a little by
the grass, resulting in a good-length
stroke.
Around the green I use my dynamiter,
as the heavier club cuts through the grass
much more easily, while the broad sole
prevents it slipping under the ball. From
bracken or scrub the same club can be
used. Care should be taken when study-
ing the lie to see that there is nothing
to obstruct the passage of the club-head
before it comes into contact with the
ball. A tuft of grass can easily turn the
club, so it is not always advisable to
play for the green. In softer lies the
No. 8 iron can be used, while on hard
ground or bare patches this club is most
suited for accurate play.
In all these shots firmness in hitting is
essential. A downward blow backed by
a powerful swing is needed when the
ball is lying unfavorably. Some golfers
can quickly adapt their play to over-
come these difficulties, while others have
to struggle to recover from their errors.
Imagination plays a big part in re-
covery shots, for every stroke is different,
and one may play a dozen rounds before
he has a similar lie. Experience and a
full knowledge of what clubs are capable
of are needed to become outstanding in
recovering from bad lies. One of the
trickiest lies to be found is when the
ball is on bare sand. An accurate hit
is called for, and curtailed swing and
timing are more essential than a strong
hit. The shot has to be picked off the
top of the sand, and the ball is pushed
rather than punched away.
Very often around the green I have
used my sand-iron, with the bump on
its sole preventing the club digging in
under the ball and regulating the
strength of the shot by the way the
clubhead enters the sand. It is not an
easy shot, for it is necessary to spend
time in learning how much sand should
be taken. However, in all shots from
the rough and any awkward lies caution
and patience can often turn the prospec-
tive loss of a stroke into a clean re-
covery, for a little thought frequently
shows a way out.
* * * *
It was a pity to see the N.S.W. pro-
fessionals competing for their foursomes
championship at Bonnie Doon last week
with no prize-money offering only
a sweepstake to give the winners some
small financial token. There’s no doubt
that lack of support is keeping the stand-
ard of Australian golf down. Some effort
should be made to assist the pros., for
there should never be any professional
competitions without prize-money.
Sporting-goods manufacturers are not so
generous here as overseas, where many
rich purses are provided.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT”
(Formerly of the "Referee.”)
For N.S.W. at Brisbane A. G. Cheetham
took 4 for 75 and top-scored with 85.
Last season he played three outstanding
century innings for Balmain, and finished
with three sterling bowling feats. But
for one who has fine abilities Cheetham
has been far too slow to correct tenden-
cies that may lead to habitual weakness
in either batting or bowling. We may
now see a change.
When his side was in a bad position
Pepper came to light with 81 in 61
minutes. He hit seven sixes, mostly
mighty hits off slow-bowler W- Tallon,
one ball bouncing off a far-away roof into
the street, there to lose itself. It recalled
a tremendous hit by Victor Trumper
clean over the outer fence in 1900. Victor’s
team had just toured North Queensland.
It played two matches in Brisbane, one
side of considerable strength being led
by Roger Hartigan. In two hours three
minutes Trumper made 203 not out, hit-
ting four sixes and 25 fours. Charters
Towers, Townsville, Rockhampton, Bun-
daberg and other northern towns saw
Trumper hit up 1044 runs on that tour
to average 104.
Pepper is no mere slogger. He may
and does hit bloomin’ high and bloomin’
hard, but with it he is a real batsman.
His club consistency last season, for in-
stance, is shown by the scores he then
made: 54, 54, 28, 64, 47, 93, 21, 15, 23,
5, 39, 8 not out and 27. This season
his best is 99 for Petersham v. Northern
District. In the club premiership he has
had an early harvest —31 wickets at an
average cost of about 12 runs.
A few years ago Bill Brown became a
stonewaller, and the Hill gave him up
as a bad job. Change of air and scenery
worked wonders, and the responsibility
of captaincy seems to agree with the
young man, as it did in the case of Joe
Darling. For Queensland last season
Brown notched 215 against Victoria, 168
against N.S.W. and 174 not out against
South Australia. On the first two days
of this season he scored 87 (out of 290)
and 90 n.o. (out of 156 for four wickets).
Don Tallon startled the Brisbane
crowd by catching McCabe and Fingle-
ton in the first two overs. Neither had
scored. Sismey, the Sydney stumper, had
his little bag of five at the end of two
days. As he also scored 15, in last, and
missed by only three runs saving a
first-innings reverse, he could look back
pleased with the effort.
The Queenslanders made 263 at their
second visit to the wickets ; with that
three-run lead giving N.S.W. 267 to win.
Brown carried his 90 from the second day
to 137, the first century of the season,
before Pepper claimed another victim.
Rogers made 45. Don Tallon’s 24 was
next-best. O’Reilly took three for 53.
McCabe didn’t go so quickly this time:
on Monday afternoon he was still there,
though Fingleton and Barnes had fallen.
* * * *
New batsmen at Adelaide showed the
grit so helpful along the high road in
cricket. Victoria’s G. Tamblyn success-
fully opened in both innings against the
new ball, and fast-bowler Cotton, con-
tributing 67 (out of 207) and 29, seasoned
batsmen lan Lee and Lindsay Hassett
having failed early on the first day.
Four South Australians, Whitington,
K. Ridings, Badcock and Hamence, fell
early to Barry-Scott and Fleetwood-
Smith, and four were down for 35
when Klose joined Bradman. That Klose
should have the nerve, poise and ability
to top-score in face of that early break-
down means that South Australia has
found another good one.
Klose, a product of junior cricket,
visited Sydney four years ago for the
inter-State junior tourney, in which he
batted soundly for 65 n.o. Like most
South Australians in cricket, Klose has
made a hobby of playing Australian foot-
ball in winter.
M. G. Waite has been a stumbling-
block to Victorian bowlers in the last
two Adelaide Shield engagements. Last
season a stubborn 63 not out, after the
big guns had been dismissed for a few,
saved the side, and, with the aid of
rain, won the Sheffield Shield for South
Australia. Now he runs into the sixties
in support of Bradman (76) and Klose
(80) after other run-getting dons had
made no scoring-book impressions.
Waite, a useful all-rounder, would be
more useful still were he master of a
little more bowling subtlety and sting on
good wickets.
A friend with a strong bent for the
statistical says Bradman has scored
21,446 runs in first-class cricket at an
average of 94. “Over 5000 of these runs
were made in Tests, and the average is
a fraction under 98 per innings,” says the
statistician.
Clarrie Grimmett is sure to bag 500
wickets in the Sheffield before closing
the bowling chapter for South Australia.
He started the new campaign with 464
wickets, and keeping the old steady length
added three more on Friday. In S.A.
matches Grimmett has taken a greater
number of wickets than the great George
Gifi'en; the annual programme, how-
ever, was formerly far less extensive
than in the Grimmett days. “Giff”
finished Avith 419 wickets, exclusive of
tours abroad and other than South Aus-
tralian engagements. Like George, Grim -
mett bowls a deceptive hanging ball that
spells deceit and disaster to youth. “Giff”
was a pastmaster of this little art.
* * * *
Sydney R. Walford, who captained
N.S.W. in the first eleven-a-side match
with Queensland, reached 80 years on
Sunday. That pioneer match was fought
out on a bowler’s wicket on the Exhibi-
tion Ground in Brisbane in 1893, and
the home team won by 14 runs.
Joe Darling, M.L.C., captain of three
Australian elevens in England, reached
his seventieth year yesterday.
Miscellaneous
The tennis heads lost no time in put-
ting the newly-returned Davis Cup team
into service. Particularly Bromwich.
The young man —just turned 21 —showed
with the cup in Brisbane the week of his
arrival. He collected three State titles —
singles, doubles (with Hancock) and
mixed doubles (with Miss Hardcastle) —
all without the loss of a set. Miss Hard-
castle did nearly as well; she defeated
Miss Coyne 6-3, 6-0 in the women’s final.
That over, Bromwich hastened back to
Sydney for the N.S.W. championships,
which kicked off with games against Vic-
toria (men and women) as a pipe-opener.
The form, Crawford’s excepted (he was
amazingly consistent), was in-and-out.
Bromwich beat Hopman and lost to
Quist. In the doubles, with Gilchrist, he
accounted for Ewin and Tonkin, but went
down to the Hopman-Quist combination.
Crawford defeated Quist and Hopman
and paired well with McGrath —not for
the first time certainly, though the com-
bination hasn’t been seen for very many
moons. In one set against Harper and
Long they had to go to 23-21. N.S.W.
won the men’s events 12 to 6, but the
Victorian girls beat their Sydney
opponents 8 to 4.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The more or less go-as-
you-please method of rowing invented by
Steve Fairbairn will be adopted in t e
Head-of-the-River race in Melbourne
next year by Xavier, leaving only Wesley
rooted to the old orthodox style. A
the other schools follow Fairbairn or
Jesus,” though their individual coaches
have introduced variations. Fairbairn
was always emphatic about the virtues or
his method, but all the various styles have
successively brought different crews to
victory. Orthodoxy has won the last
three Head-of-the-River races in Sydney.
Premier Forgan Smith writes:
“The Bulletin,” which is usually accu-
rate, errs badly on page 14 (15/11/’39)
when it refers to the “£3,000,000 Story
Bridge across the Brisbane River.” The
contractors’ tender for the bridge itself
was £1,154,000, and in 1933 1 stated in
Parliament that the total cost would be
about £1,700,000. The job will be finished
well within that estimate.
A hit; but the offending paragraphist
was writing appreciatively of the bridge-
builder, not railing at the cost of the
bridge.
C. J. A. Moses, general manager of
A.8.C., in reply to a correspondent,
“Garetlod” (B. 8/11/’39):
The Commission desires to point out that
there is no broadcasting organisation in the
world that does not take a considerable portion
of its news from the newspapers or the news-
agencies that gather news for the papers. The
A.B.C. has, however, its own independent
cable service, and since the outbreak of the
war it has received an average of four special
cables each day. In the early days of the
war these cables came at hourly intervals.
It was also stated by your correspondent that
the Commission is “under the delusion that
war communiques are copyright.” This is not
the case. These sources are used regularly in
the national news sessions without acknowledg-
ment to any service. The Commission does,
however, recognise its legal obligation to
acknowledge the part of the news used in com-
piling the 8.8. C. bulletins that is supplied by
independent news-gathering agencies, and it
knows that the Australian Associated Press
Pty., Ltd., owns the Australian rights of this
particular news.
Although the full 8.8. C. bulletins are of
more than 10 minutes’ duration, fresh and im-
portant news is always broadcast first, and
this is then followed by a repetition of items
given in earlier bulletins. It has been found
in practice that the fresh news available usually
does not occupy more than the first 10 minutes
of each 8.8. C. broadcast. You may therefore
be assured that the section of the 8.8. C. bulle-
tins not rebroadcast by the A.B.C. contains
news that has, for the most part, already been
heard in Australia. In any case, no important
fresh news is ever refused to listeners, for on its
receipt in Australia it is immediately put on
the air.


k
rr
TBWlllil
yWi]
SALICI’S PARISIAN PUPPETS.
Amazing:—Unbelievable.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILLS BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
GEO. WALLACE & NEW VARIETY
STARS.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Theatre in Sydney
If “Elizabeth the Queen” doesn’t fill
Sydney Minerva for as long as the man-
agement cares to keep it running, the
Ghost should make a meal of the gold-
fish in the foyer and skedaddle. The
play is so good that it’s a touchstone as
to whether the city wants serious drama
or the flimsy comedies and mysteries that
have been offered during the past few
months, or no plays at all.
The Minerva made a promising start
in May with Sherwood’s war item,
“Idiot’s Delight”; it wasn’t a master-
piece, but it was amusing, and then mov-
ing, and then powerful; it had quality.
For six months, from “Idiot’s Delight”
to the present show, there hasn’t been
a play in Sydney with any pretensions
to strength.
There was “Black Limelight,” a bit of
a murder mystery which this Page
summed up as “Who Killed Flossie Few-
clothes?” ; then “Good Morning, Bill,”
a Wodehouse comedy so light that it’s
a wonder the cast didn’t float to the ceil-
ing ; “The Women,” on a return season,
called for a few days; lan Keith’s com-
pany arrived with “I Killed the Count,”
a good time-killer; then there was
“Dinner at Eight,” a satire or something
about something or other. The Royal’s
plays during the same period included
‘Leaning on Letty,” “The Women,” Doris
Fitton’s amateurs briefly with “1066 and
All That.” The Royal has also had the
skating show “Switzerland,” which has
had the best run of all.
Melbourne, over the same six months,
has tackled very much more solid fare.
The list begins with Hugh Ross William-
son’s “Seven Deadly Virtues,” put on by
the Little Theatre, which The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic described as “a bitter,
witty play” ; Gregan McMahon put on
Shaw’s “Geneva” and then Oscar Wilde’s
“The Importance of Being Earnest”;
there were three lightweights—“ Yes, My
Darling Daughter,” “Libel” and “I Killed
the Count” —and then McMahon weighed
in again with “Mesmer,” a solid play in
spite of the fact that it comes from the
fairy pen of Beverley Nichols; next he
put on Steinbeck’s grim “Of Mice and
Men” ; and he promises a new Bernard
Shaw next month —“In Good King
Charles’s Golden Days.”
This article isn’t a quest for highbrow
ceremonies ; it’s an examination of shows
that were worth remembering the morn-
ing after. Comedies as funny as “Lean-
ing on Letty” and “The Women” were
well worth putting on. But the talkies
have licked the legit, shows hollow in
Sydney over the last six months. Among
them, with claims to quality, there have
been “Idiot’s Delight,” “The Mikado,”
“Dark Victory,” “Jamaica Inn,” “One
Third of a Nation,” “Wuthering Heights,”
“Young Mr. Lincoln,” “The Man in the
Iron Mask,” “Four Feathers,” “On Bor-
rowed Time,” “Stanley and Livingstone,”
“The Beachcomber,” “Beau Geste,” “The
Women,” “Nurse Edith Cavell.”
“Pygmalion’s” marathon run proved
that there’s a taste for Shaw; and the
success of the Savoy with its excellent
Continental films shows that the city can
enjoy better fare than Wodehouse’s pastry.
“The Cheat,” “Beggar Student,” “Grand
Illusion,” “Maternity” and “Abus de Con-
fiance” have all been memorable films.
The legit, theatre should be able to
beat the talkies. It may be possible to
do it with light comedies, and it may
have been necessary to try them. But
Sydney gave Sybil Thorndike a good
hearing a few years ago, and a play such
as “Elizabeth the Queen” should go over.
It has everything to recommend it —an
excellent cast, a powerful story relieved
with comedy, settings as rich as oil-
paintings. It beats the talkies on their
own ground of satisfying entertainment.
If it’s a success, the goldfish will be
spared, and it may set a new standard for
plays in Sydney.
*** ■ *
Sydney Con.’s eighth orchestral con-
cert of the 1939 season, departed almost
entirely from its four-item scheduled pro-
gramme, which included Beethoven’s
Fourth, and consisted instead of three
items. First of these was “Les Deux
Mendiants,” a ballet suite made up by
Sir Thomas Beecham by judicious selec-
tion of dance measures from some of
Handel’s innumerable operas. In this
the orchestra enjoyed itself.
A performance of the Schumann
pianoforte concerto, soloist Clifford
Huntsman, was disappointing. The magi-
cal atmosphere was never captured.
Vaughan Williams’s “Job” ballet suite
concluded the proceedings—a chaotic,
dreary work.
* * * *
Sydney Town Hall roared and rever-
berated on Friday night under the lively
influence of another patriotic concert —
it raked in £l5OO for the Red Cross.
Marie Burke commandeered the per-
formers and arranged the programme.
There was two-piano playing by
Hutchens and Evans, Lionel Lawson
Good Queen Bess (Doris Packer) offers her lips to Essex (lan Keith ) to the
amusement of Jester (Clifford Cowley) and chagrin of Raleigh (Lloyd Lamble)
fiddled, two choirs sang, Stanley Clark-
son gave a ballad, the Sydney Pipe Band
and Scots Dancers piped and pranced,
and Marie Burke declaimed a ditty from
“The Show Boat.” But most of the
items were intended to make the crowd
laugh, and succeeded admirably. The
Weintraubs, the Comedy Harmonists,
Marie Le Varre and Wyn Richmond
had great successes, and the monologue
with which Max Lawson preluded his
efforts as an auctioneer brought down
the house. Jim Davidson’s band pre-
sented the latest in swing.
* * * *
Having covered a fair stretch of N. S.
Wales and Queensland and picked up
a decent sun-tan on the way, the Comedy
Harmonists last week took down their
sign after their sixth season in Sydney.
Their popularity hasn’t waned a scrap,
and with their final appearances they
seemed, if possible, better entertainers
than ever. Though they crowded four
concerts into one week they landed full
houses and ovations equal to those given
them when they first arrived in these
parts. They have returned the compli-
ment by applying for naturalisation in
Australia, where they intend to settle
after a walkabout in U.S.A. and South
America.
* * * *
Star item on Melbourne Tiv.’s new bill
is Salici’s Parisian puppets. They evoked
as much exasperation as admiration in
present observer because they look extra-
ordinarily lifelike and at the same time
utterly inhuman, and if they were met
on a dark night in a lonely suburb they
would give the average citizen a fit of
the horrors. Best of the outfit is Paderew-
ski, who plays sonatas like a master, and
a two-foot-six prima donna who warbles
like an angel. After the performance the
curtain shoots upwards and reveals a
sight which restores faith in human
nature —namely, three sturdy men and
one sturdy woman who manipulate the
strings with all the skill of virtuosi.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Shipyard Sally”
Last week, to the amazement of
Frenchmen who saw her, Gracie Fields
stood in the rain for 20 minues and sang
to a crowd of Tommies in France; the
Froggies would probably be no less
amazed if they witnessed Gracie in this
Sydney Mayfair item, singing and con-
torting herself after the manner of Holly-
wood’s “jitterbugs.” The spasm passes,
and she’s then authentic Gracie —aye,
laad, a right fine lass at thaat. She’s pro-
prietress of the Pig and Whistle on Clyde-
bank, and, when the trade falls on hard
times, lights out for Lunnon to induce
some lordly magnate to change his mind
about stopping shipbuilding.
* * * *
“Full Confession,” at Sydney Cameo,
is a faint echo of “The Informer,” but
without the psychological force, dialogue
or essentials of tragedy of the earlier
film. Victor McLaglen murders a cop
and is prepared to let someone else go to
the electric chair for it, but under a
priest’s persuasion finds confession to
the police the easiest way out. Well-
presented and with some good moments ;
McLaglen typical, Joseph Calleia excel-
lent as the priest and Barry Fitzgerald
ditto as a chip of Ireland.
* * * *
“They Shall Have Music,” now going
the rounds, is a simple stretch of senti-
mentalism, quite gracefully told at times,
anent the struggles and vicissitudes of a
small music-school where slum young-
sters receive free tuition and the use of
whatever instruments they choose. The
yarn is beautifully illuminated at inter-
vals by Jascha Heifetz’s playing of
“Estrellita” and Dinicu’s “Hora-Stac-
cato” to please himself, Tschaikowsky’s
“Melodie,” the Finale of the Mendels-
sohn Violin Concerto and Saint-Saens’s
“Rondo-Capriccioso.”
* * * *
“We of the A.1.F.,” the film record of
the last war now having a run at Mel-
bourne Princess, holds well by compari-
son with modern film performances.
Much of it was taken under fire, and
there are scenes at Bapaume, Messines,
the Menin Road and Bullecourt. The
Light Horse in Palestine make a specta-
cular appearance in the Jordan Valley,
and there are views of the enemy at work
which were lent by the Turkish War
Office. Captain G. D. Mitchell accom-
panies the unrolling with an individual
narrative.
Arthur sts.
The first annual show of Joe Hollo-
way’s Sketch Club is at Sue’s Galleries,
Sydney. It looks like work based on
sound foundations.
Good items are P. J. Donald’s “Spanish
Dancer,” a very vigorous piece of brush-
work, a suavely-painted still-life by J. L.
Curtis, Joe Holloway’s portrait study,
“Lamplight,” a Sydney street scene by
Alan Moore, a trio of gracefully painted
portraits by Walter Rayment, Joyce
Campbell’s figure studies, A. V. Sim-
mons’s “The Queensland Border,” Alan
D. Baker’s “Chinese Girl” and
Garrett Kingsley’s old-masterish “Sleep-
ing Nymph.”
In water-colors D. M. Barrie’s “Lennox
Bridge, Parramatta,” and “Laneway,
Kent-street,” have charm, and there is
promise in the “Bondi, Noon,” of R. M.
Thompson. Many excellent chalk, pencil
and monochrome wash studies round off
an interesting show.
* * * *
The large chamber at Melb. Town
Hall has been given over to the horde
of young and old Victorians who express
themselves in making miniatures of the
world around them, and they range from
precise representations of gas manufac-
tories to railway systems, complete with
stationmasters and puff-puffs.
In the model-ship department a gun
frigate of 1780 sails along beside a
modern cruiser, and in the aeroplane sec-
tion, which is the most popular, there’s
an extraordinary assortment of aircraft
reproduced down to
the last strut. Victoria
has an international
reputation in this de-
partment, and models
go regularly from Mel-
bourne to London.
Airports on the route
of Imperial Airways
are shown in meticu-
lous detail.
* *
William Frater is
hanging a show of
paintings at his studio
in Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. They com-
prise landscape, por-
traits and still-life, and
they are all of the
modernist persuasion.
In fact, they resemble
the show of works
hung at the Town Hall
recently by the
“Herald.” In what are
Frater’s street scenes,
37 and 41, for instance,
in any way inferior to
the Cezannes brought
out by the “Herald”
people, either techni-
cally or expressionalis-
tically?
There is no saying how much beauty
is buried in Melbourne’s suburbia. The
759 items at the Antique Exhibition
opened last week at the Town Hall were
only a tithe of the material offered. Pots,
pans, chairs, tables and all sorts of
exquisite objects over which dead Euro-
pean and Asiatic craftsmen once lingered
with loving fingers were packed together,
and there were a couple of old muskets-
on which more artistry has been lavished
than over the recent alterations to the
front of the Nat. Gallery. Most antique
of the antiquities was Mrs. D. G. Saber’s
Assyrian bull, dating from 800 b.c., but
a tear-bottle from ancient Egypt ran it
a good second.
* sic ♦ **
The collection of pictures representa-
tive of “modern” French and British
painting brought to Australia by the
Melb. “Herald” is now on view in Syd-
ney at David Jones’s George-street store.
It will be reviewed here next week.
* * * *
Grace Cossington Smith, whose land-
scapes in oils deck the walls of the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has changed her
style again. Light and color are still
paramount considerations, and form is
still more or less negligible, but the color
has been subdued and refined. “River
Bank” and “Trees in Bush” are good ex-
amples of the new manner. But it is a
mistake to put figures into these polarisa-
tions of color. The grotesque person in
“Sea Shore” recalls Vassillieff’s con-
temptuous attitude towards such irrele-
vances.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
'
m
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Nothing but liveliness could be ex-
pected from a concert that started with
the Highland Fling and ended with “Land
of Hope and Glory.” It was Sydney’s
second big effort for the Red Cross, and
Sam Walder’s lady, who was president of
the committee, and Marie Burke, who
arranged the programme, must have felt
happy at its success. The flowers on the
stage were patriotic in their colorings,
and the huge Red Cross above the plat-
form was outlined in electrics.
Lady Gowrie had entertained all the
principals to dinner before the concert.
Her marine-blue crepe frock was worn
with a bolero made of rows and rows of
narrow silver fringe. In the Admiralty
House party were such well-known Red
Crossers as Miss Kate Egan and the
Owen lady, the Trade Commissioner for
Canada, Colonel L. Moore Cosgrave, and
his wife, and the Consul-General for the
United States, T. M. Wilson. Lord
Gowrie made his entrance at nine o’clock
—which meant that he hadn’t wasted any
time between his arrival back from Mait-
land and his appearance at the concert.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst came and
brought a party, mostly of young people.
Lady Wakehurst’s frock of green, blue
and red floral sheer was gay and grace-
ful. The Hon. Henrietta Loder, who is
doing her bit as one of the “voluntaries”
at the Mayoral Nocks’ patriotic fund head-
quarters, wore ivory chiffon with a clover
taffeta bolero.
The mauve orchid worn by the
Mayoress was a gift of the committee.
White was the Walder lady’s choice, its
neck outlined in gold leaves. Ruby
Adams’s black velvet skirt had a silver
lame top. Rose and silver lame made
Mrs. F. J. Davy’s frock, pink and gold
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s. Norman
Lindsay’s pretty daughter Jane wore a
mist-blue frock with a white taffeta
jacket. Treasurer Mrs. E. J. Watt wore
black lace, and secretary Susan Spencer-
white marquisette. Mrs. John Human
and June Chamberlain were among the
programme-sellers. Marie Burke wore
red roses at the waist of her white chif-
fons. Throughout the evening crowds of
white-clad V.A.Ds. stood in the door-
ways and applauded.
Color took a holiday on Saturday when
the Farm came to town. All the blues
of violet, of delphinium and hydrangea,
the greens of flannel-flowers and lucerne,
the yellow of poppy and of orange, even
the red of waratah flaunted their radi-
ance at the Warwick Farm races at Rand-
wick, But most of all there were blue
and white, blue with white, white with
blue ; they streamed past everywhere, the
true banneret of summer.
In the sunshine veils kept their crisp-
ness and added another summer touch to
the scene. White shoes were popular, both
toe-peepers and sandals. Shirley Poynter
was all white from the crown of her
smart hat to the toes of her shoes. Phyllis
Goodwin also wore white in frock and
beret. Mrs. Reg Bettington’s cornflower-
blue coat was worn over a floral sheer
frock. Her small white hat was bunched
up with blue veiling. Cornflower-blue
was also Mrs. Oliver Osborne’s choice.
Betty McCoy’s white crepe frock was
patterned in huge navy spots. A red
ribbon threaded through collar and waist-
band gave a patriotic note. Her tiny
white hat wore a cluster of white flowers
in front; so did Claudia Beazley’s white
chip sailor. Her frock was flannel-
flower-green patterned in white.
Mrs. Colin Galbraith was smart in her
Assam suit and large white summer felf hat.
Barbara Dare’s large black hat looked
as though it had just come from Wales.
Her black frock had a frilled bustle effect.
Mrs. W. H. K. Miller’s burgundy and
white printed crepes were worn with a
burgundy hat. Leaves from a rosebush
might have made Barbara Salenger’s green
sailor. A red and a pink rose nestled on
its crown. With her was Joan Rial. The
five small white birds on the front of
Mrs. Jim See’s navy hat looked as though
they were just about to try their wings.
Philippa Stephen’s turquoise-blue crepes
were topped with a shady white panama.
Princess Radziwill was sky-blue from the
ostrich feather in her hat to the hem of
her skirt.
Have you ever bought a gift for some-
one and then got so attached to it you
felt you couldn’t bear to be parted from
it? Some of the women who went to
the American tea at the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron were like that. They
handed their gifts in at the gate and then
went round to the flag-draped verandahs
and bought them back. From 2 until
9 the squadron was like a cash-and-
carry on a Friday night. Hundreds of
women and a few dozen men came to
help the squadron’s women’s auxiliary in
its first effort to raise money for the
men of the Navy. Among the buyers
were Moira Pope, Admiral Feakes’s wife,
Commander and Mrs. Hutcheson, Mrs.
Oscar Meyer, Mrs. Ivo Clarke, Mrs. Leo
Quick and the Frank Alberts. The
squadron’s vice-commodore J. L. Mil-
son’s wife was an important of the after-
noon, as were Mrs. Don Taylor and
Mrs. Toby Browne.
This is poet Harry Green’s daughter
Nora. Mr. Green is a poet all the time
because he was created so, but erudition
has superimposed the career of librarian
of the Uni.’s Fisher Library on him. His
daughter, equally learned in her own line,
took a double first in classics at her
graduation, just being beaten for a
travelling scholarship. But she did her
travelling, a whole year of it, in Italy,
France, Germany and England. She
paid for most of it herself with money
she had earned teaching here and in
France, plus £5O for translating a life of
King Louis XV. from French into Eng-
lish. Incidentally, Nora’s much prettier
even than this picture.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
was 11 years old on the 16th of this
month. So that they could drink its
health first thing on its birthday morn-
ing, members started the party the night
before. This party also served as a
housewarming, because the Fellowship
now has its own roof tree at 38 Clarence-
street, near Margaret-street. There was
a cake with 11 candles ; there was a pipe
for Rod Quinn, who made the opening
speech. Baritone Jim McSullea sang, and
Brunton Gibb gave O Brien s Hanra-
han” and Dennis’s “The Duchess,” much
to the delight of everybody. Later, when
the crowd thinned out, there was danc-
ing. Flora Eldershaw acted as unofficial
hostess. Marjorie Quinn and Mrs. Cas-
sidy blushed at references to the work
they had done in forming the Fellow-
ship, made by Arthur Crocker. Adam
McCay was one of the genial souls
present; Bartlett Adamson and his wife
were others. Josephine Majks sat among
the elect, and Dora Moore and Mrs.
Lawson were among the night’s honored,
while secretary Bill Fitz Henry and his
wife, the Hardie couple, Mrs. Cassidy
and Mrs. Berry were others who helped
to make the night hum along.
In his speech Rod took his listeners
back a long way to the days of Tom
Butler, of J. O’Brien, Fred Broomfield and
P. E. Quinn, and of J. F. Archibald, such
a dandy, always in his Assam suit and
white linen hat; when the only place
writers had to meet in was a “friendly
hotel ” How good they thought it when
they discovered an old wine cellar (a
bodega, in those days) to meet in, but
how not so good was the smell of the
tallow and the hides that were stored
upstairs. He told of the book he wrote
that was to have brought him fame and
fortune —100,000 words. How deter-
mined he was that it should be full of
adjectives, and the difficulty he had not
to repeat himself. It dealt with the
drought and the rain, and he told how,
when he was writing it, the drought got
such a hold on him that he found it im-
possible to stop talking about it —the
same way with the rain. Agnes Storey’s
husband sent the book to England. He
told of the months of waiting. How at
the beginning of each month he would
assure himself he would hear something
of the sensation it had made. Then
came the first doubt that the book
might not be so good, then the con-
viction that it wasn’t, then the determi-
nation to get it back unpublished at all
costs. He didn’t want it to ruin the repu-
tation he was just creating for himself.
At his demand Agnes Storey’s husband
got it sent back. He added: “I had no
need to worry about the impression it
would make on England—the book
arrived with its original seal unbroken!”
His advice to young writers is “don’t
use too many adjectives in your book ;
keep some of the more lurid ones for
the publishers who treat it badly.”
Here’s one of the New South Wales
west’s pretty girls. She is fair-haired
Lucy Harbutt, nearly as well known
in Sydney as in Orange. Lucy
has just become engaged to Lieut.
Brian Primrose, and she drove down
to Sydney last Sunday with father to see
him." With her she brought a beautifully
knitted pair of socks. This is her latest
accomplishment. As becomes a country
girl, Lucy plays good golf and tennis, and,
what’s even more, she is a good house-
keeper and a clever hostess. Photograph
from Falk.
Everybody came early, but no one
was in a hurry to take his or her seat at
the Savoy for the screening of “Abus de
Confiance” and “Laburnum Grove.” This
was the French-Australian League’s first
effort to raise funds, and sons and daugh-
ters of France and the friends of France
in Sydney rallied round. They stood in
the foyer and on the pavement in friendly
laughing groups until “The Marseillaise”
galvanised them to attention. On the
last note there was a great fumbling in
bag and pocket for the ticket of admis-
sion.
Mrs. Jacques Playoust, wearing a black
satin frock and a silver fox cape, had a
greeting for everyone. Mrs. Alice
Brenac’s frock was of black taffeta, very
spreading as to skirt. She was in charge
of the lucky number competition. Ginette
Scamps and Jacqueline Van Den
Driessche were two attractive helpers.
Mrs. Auffray’s turban in two shades of
blue was noteworthy. Mrs. Marr
Thompson was there; so were Mrs. Ivy
Moore and the T. H. Kellys, very shim-
mering the silver-sequinned front panel
of Mrs. Kelly’s black velvet frock. The
young Pierre Scamps couple (he sails this
week for an unnamed destination) and
Lieut.-Commander Urquhart and his wife
were among the audience ; so were Com-
modore Phillips and daughter Susanne
and the Frank Wright couple. Mrs.
Henri Segaert, daughter Mrs. Andre
Brenac and son Paul and his wife made
a family group. Friends will be glad to
hear that, although still in hospital, Syd-
ney’s old friend and former Consul-
General for Belgium Henri Segaert is
fast recovering, and if all goes well he
and Mrs. Segaert hope to start back for
their home in Siam this week.
The auctioneering in the interval by
Mrs. Kelly of a box for the Ballet
Matinee was a hilarious affair. As the
bids were made these were repeated by
a young man at the door to let those who
were enjoying a smoke in the foyer know
how the bidding was going. Finally it
was knocked down to Geoffrey Lem-
priere for £5 ss.
Silver and ivory under her Brussels lace
veil gleamed the wedding frock of Nea
Arnott as she walked up the aisle
St. Stephen’s in Macquarie-stree
exchange vows with Bill Dawson,
coronet of orange-blossom and an a
ful of cream roses were fragrant "
sories. Sister Shirley ’maided, sky-o
the color-note in her frock and hat an
in her armful of rhododendrons. t
bride is a daughter of the Percy •
Arnotts, of Strathfield, the ’groom t e
son of Mrs. Dudley Hardy, of Edgecli ■
Later there was a reception at Eliza be
Bay House, where Mrs. Arnott welcomed
the guests in a hyacinth-blue crepe frock.
A recent arrival in Sydney is Mrs,.
Marianne Mathy. Mrs. Mathy comes
with a Continental and New York repu-
tation as a singer. Her soprano voice
will be heard at 2.45 on November 29 at
the Australia Hotel in one of those inti-
mate recitals that Charles Benson has
made so popular. The proceeds will
benefit the Polish Relief Fund. Some
of Sydney’s well-known professional
women are working for the success of
the afternoon, among them Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy and Dr. Marie Hamilton.
Others interested are Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax and Earle Page’s lady. Bertha
Vickery is the treasurer and Dr. Leon
Slater the secretary.
Last week the Royal Empire Society’s
women war workers sent their second
shipment of half a ton of garments (about
800) and half a ton of jam to England.
The first went three weeks earlier, and
they hope to get another away early in
December. This group is concentrating
on the poor women and children of Eng-
land. Every Wednesday and Friday any-
thing from 20 to 40 women gather in
the society’s rooms, some to knit, others
to sort the garments into bundles accord-
ing to size. These bundles are then
marked with the size of garment and the
number contained in it. In addition each
garment has its own size tag, so that
there is nothing haphazard about the
fitting out of any small child when the
parcels reach the society’s rooms in
London.
The knitted work is beautiful. There
are woollen dresses, pullovers, scarves
and caps. In addition, there are flannel
skirts and trousers. The skirts have
two tucks near the waistline, so that
they may be lengthened if necessary.
Socks and pullovers have cuffs that may
be worn turned back or straight, depend-
ing on length of arm or leg. The sizes
have all been carefully worked out; they
range from three to eleven, and will fit
children up to 14 years. Even the color
scheme has had attention, and on the
hue of skirt and trousers depends the
shade in the other garments. When
brown skirts went, pullovers were in
shades of blue, grey, pale green, bright
red, blue with white flecks, or red with
white flecks. Fawn trousers were accom-
panied by green, dark brown and navy
pullovers. The society will be glad to
send patterns of and instructions for
making any garment.
Marie Ryan will play lead in “The
Merry Widow,” the Mosman Musical
Society’s before-Christmas offering. Franz
Lehar’s melodious work will swing into
action at the Cremorne Orpheum Theatre
on November 29, and Marie should make
a glittering success. She came first in
the operatic section at the recent Eistedd-
fod, and has had much experience in
amateur operatics.
Sydney’s old friend Isabel Crowdy is
busy, despite war by sea and land and
blackouts, at her job in the Orient Co.’s
London office. A letter received the
other day reported all well with her.
Hats have never been in greater
variety. There are little bonnet effects
with a rose or clump of petunias
bobbing on the crown. They’d just be
the right crown for the little girl you
know in your heart you still are. But
pass on to a mirror before you make
your decision. Perhaps this nice, wide,
sombrero-sophisticated Breton in the
shade they call toast, with its dash of
night-blue grosgrain across the crown,
will better help you dissolve the other-
woman problem.
You feel reckless. You’ve had a heart
wound, and only a five-and-a-half-guinea
hat will heal it. Here’s a straight-
brimmed little sailor, about adult doll
size. It is in that fancy straw that looks
like torchon lace. It is the color of a
golden plum. It has a black patent band
around it, and two black patent quills
athwart its flattish crown. Given
away for five and a half guineas. Heaven
help the rooster! Quills are almost as
popular as posies. They are crossed
above the crowns of hats in a manner
reminiscent of the F.A.W. notepaper
heading. One black Baku has its crown
razzle-dazzled with quills lacquered al-
ternately apricot and black.


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than S pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Notice.
SEARCH is being made for a Will alleged to
have been made in either Hobart, Melbourne or
Canberra between February and April, On;
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight hv
ELIOTH GRUNER, formerly of Sydney,’ de-
ceased. Any bank,, solicitor or other person
knowing of or having custody of such Will
is requested to communicate with JOSEPH J
JAGELMAN & SON, Solicitors, of 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION.
TO LEONARD ARTHUR PENDLEBURY
whose address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the 29th day of June 1939 has been issued out
of the Divorce Registry of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia citing you to appear and
answer the petition of IRENE ALMA PEN-
DLEBURY of 42 Blencowe Street Leeder-
ville in the State of Western Australia praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
AND in default of your appearing the Court
will proceed to hear and determine the said
charge and you will not be allowed to address
the Court THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within forty-
five days from the date of this advertisement
to attend in person or by your Solicitor or
Proctor at the Divorce Registry of our said
Court and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose.
(1.5.) I. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
To be inserted in one issue of “The Bulletin”
newspaper published in Sydney.
GREIF & HARTREY, of Warwick House,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Arts and Crafts Society, which, as
a matter of old custom, holds its annual
exhibition in the Town Hall, had to
betake itself to 9 Darling-street, for the
Antique Exhibition fills the Lower Town
Hall with the veneer of age and in the
main hall the Models Exhibition holds
the floor. The antiques are very valuable,
particularly so in the eyes of their owners
and of the insurance assessors, but the
ships and power boats, aeroplanes, sys-
tem of railways, etc., also have their
price; £75,000 might buy them all.
The Antique Exhibition (for the Red
Cross and St. Mary’s Mission) was de-
clared open at an evening preview by
knight Frederick Mann, who was intro-
duced by J. D. G. Medley. The speeches
caught the assemblage on its feet. Those
who could do so without obviously climb-
ing the ropes rested themselves on
ancestral chairs. Mrs. Pomeroy Greene’s
dower chest was a gift from the gods,
even though it defended itself with two
Moorish guns of silver and ivory lent by
Miss G. Sedgwick.
Members of the exhibition committee
were present and took on a new lease of
life with the actual opening. The
arrangement of the antiques was achieved
with great skill and patience, but not
without friction. Like mother-love in
full blast was the possessiveness of some
of the owners. If some of them had been
mown down with the silver-mounted
duelling pistols from the collection of
baronet Edward MacKenzie MacKenzie
no one would have been very surprised.
Mrs. R. A. Staughton, who was convenor
of the collection committee, had need
of a sense of humor when at the end of
a half-hour of informatory inspection
with two unknown visitors they handed
her a two-shilling tip.
The opening was at 9.30, on a warm
night, with boiled shirts and chastely
informal dinner gowns as general wear.
Mrs. John Pitt’s ivory chiffon frock with
its long, full sleeves and embroidered
panels and Mrs. Albert Faul’s cloud-grey
gown with a touch of rainbow colors
upon the corsage and in diagonal stripes
upon the skirt were perfect for the occa-
sion. Mrs. Villeneuve Smith chose deep-
cream brocaded satin. Mrs. James Bur-
ston was a worthy representative of the
older generation which wore feathers
with an air. The supper annexe was
popular, and Mrs. J. R. Murphy, Mrs.
Ethel Young and Miss B. Cuscaden and
the rest of the refreshments committee
saw that no one went short of an oyster
savory and a second cup of coffee.
The R.A.A.F. Locker Fund is not just
a lone body of women knitting black
socks and khaki stockings (to wear with
shorts). Its husbands, sons and adopted
uncles are helping also. To the last
meeting, held in the Government Her-
barium, came Wing-Commander F. F.
Knight, who had drawn up the rules and
constitution, and “uncles” Ted Tronson,
who is hon. treasurer (not every infant
movement has a retired bank manager to
do its arithmetic), and John Wallace, who
has been putting the hard word on his
pals for bales of wool and other dona-
tions. Captain Ivan Holyman sent along
a fetching brunette, Marjorie Roberts,
and her shorthand notebook. He has lent
her also a telephone and office space in
Holyman House for the duration.
Punctually at the hour expected there
arrived something special in the manner
of gallant airmen, Flight-Lieut. D. A.
Cameron (son of well-known Donald
Cameron, of the Victorian Railways). As
adjutant, he was invited to the meeting
to tell those present what his men wanted
in the way of God-speed parcels. Gym-
nasium apparatus for use on shipboard
was their choice, and immediately a vote
was passed for £2O worth of punching-
balls, boxing-gloves, etc., and a further
£2O for cash emergencies.
The Tyros’ bridge party was a success-
ful afternoon for the Red Cross at the
Palais. Members of the committee were
pleased to find the lucky-dip so popular
that it sold out by 2.30 ; they liked also
the hunger of the players for chocolates,
at least before tea arrived (and after tea
it didn’t matter, for the chocs., too, were
then sold out). The Tyros, who invented
their synthetic name from the capital
letters of Toorak, South Yarra, Richmond
and others (and then discovered from a
dictionary that a tyro means a beginner),
started off on their bit for war charities
at poker parties, when Mrs. G. St. J.
Curwen, Mrs. Standish Falkiner, Dorothy
Walsh, Marjorie Morrow, Sheila Coates,
Mrs. Keith Halley, Jean Parrett and Mrs.
Ashley Cohen used to drop 6d. out of
each ace-pot. Bridge tables at their party
at the Palais were arranged over the
dance floor, and the solo and poker
players, who were expected to make more
noise than the bridge players, had the
side annexes to themselves. Each table
had its tea-table set alongside, so there
was no risk of spilling the cream cake
over somebody’s newest pack of cards.
Fifty young hostesses are organising
a Christmas dance to be held at Ormond
Hall on December 6. One of the fifty
is Mollie Adamson (Ronald Esler photo-
graph), who is also an organising sec-
retary. The dance is an effort by the
Gloucester branch of Prince Henry’s
Hospital Younger Circle. Mollie is an
Old Collegian of P.L.C. Her original
intention regarding a career was to be-
come a biochemist, but she compromised
with one year at the University and a
course of dietetics, and now assists
several days a week in the pathological
lab. at Prince Henry’s —so she has
watched (and heard) the new building
grow higher storey by storey during the
last few months.
Throwing a penny into a meatdish
was one of the money-making novelty
suggestions put forward at a meeting at
Mrs. Ernest Poolman’s house regarding
the Children’s Hospital Christmas Fair,
to be held at the hospital on December
7 and 8. Mrs. Poolman visited the
Theatrical Fair in London three years
ago and saw the meatdish act in several
grades. While the stars not yet risen to
high fame ran their meatdishes for penny
throws, Ivor Novello and the big shots
charged Is., or 2s. for those who
imagined they could do better with a
heavier coin. Only coins that stayed in
the dishes won prizes for the hands that
threw them.
This year P.L.C. Old Collegians’
garden party lived up to its name, for it
really was an outside function upon the
school lawns, with guests moving about
in the sunshine in their floweriest frocks
to the tune of a fray upon the tennis
court (a match between college girls past
and present), to say nothing of the pipers
piping merry Scottish tunes. Tea came
to light in the cloisters and was handed
around by the prefects. There were no
speeches. Lined up to receive the guests
were Mrs. Lex Rentoul, in grey skirt
and grey-and-white-striped bolero with
white shoes and white hat fussed up with
much veiling ; Dorothy Anderson, in sap-
phire-blue ; Miss Neilson, in navy-blue ;
and Miss H. Hailes, in polka-dotted
crepe—each with her presentation bou-
quet of flowers. Burneice Swaine’s light-
weight oatmeal coat and Mrs. J. L.
Wyatt’s Pacific-blue frock and saucer hat
were seen in the vicinity of the ticket
table just within the gates.
The Old Melburnians’ Theatrical
Society has been an established and
flourishing fact for some time. Now the
Old Grammarians’ Dramatic Society has
come into being. Terence Crisp produces
for both. The former belongs to
“Grammar” old boys, the latter to
“Grammar” old girls. The Grammarians
staged their first production, “Time and
the Conways,” for a two nights’ season
in the school hall, and sought the col-
laboration for the male parts of their
kindred spirits the Old Melburnian
theatricals. Among creditable perform-
ances were those of Elden de Steiger as
Alan, Jeannette Caldwell as Madge,
Dorothy Sholl as Kay (Dorothy is the
hon. sec. of the O.G.D. Society), Phyllis
Connor as Mrs. Conway and Fred Pem-
berton as Ernest, the cold-shouldered
outsider.
Newly engaged are Jean Rigby and
Max Armstrong. Jean, whose photo-
graph is by Spencer Shier, is the younger
daughter of the Edward J. Rigbys, of
Brighton, and her fiance, who has
joined the artillery and already acquired
the rank of lieutenant, is the elder son
of the Leslie Armstrongs, of Hawthorn.
For the marriage, which will take place
soon, Jean has decided to wear the white
satin wedding gown belonging to her
sister, Mrs. Ken Degenhardt.
The Lady Mayoress gets less and less
time for leisure. She took her place at
the council chamber table last week to
preside at the meeting for the Zooie Ball,
having first spoken a word backstage
which produced iced fruit drinks and
biscuits. December 9 is the date that
will give the animals at the Zoo cause
for amazement in aid of the Comforts
Fund and the Collingwood Creche. The
creche is Mrs. Hector Kendall’s pet
charity, and when there was talk of some-
thing doing in her husband’s wild-animal
preserve she spoke up in the cause that
has been near her heart for many years.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell is joint organiser
with Mrs. Kendall, and Essie Fraser is
the competent secretary.
Among those present at the meeting
was H. H. Olney, who is Lord High
Executioner of the Zoological Council.
Never a man for a joke, he persists in
calling the Zooie the Zoological Ball. Mrs.
lan Macdonald, who went to the Zooie
Ball in London during the coronation
year, had some suggestions to offer,
whereupon she and Mrs. Tom Slaney
committed themselves to drive a “hot-
dog” donkey-cart around the grounds
on Zooie night. How far they will get
depends upon the donkey.
A dance floor sheltered by a marquee
will be part of the picture. Among the
young girls who are helping are Valda
Treadwell, who came to the meeting in
organdie blouse and navy blue pinafore
dirndl, and Joan Clark, petite and
brunette. Among dissimilar things
offered “for disposal” were a string of
culture pearls, the skin of a tiger guaran-
teed to have once roamed a jungle, and
an elephant brooch, trunk and all, of
diamonds.
A movement which has sprung up
overnight is the Originality Branch of
the Comforts Fund, the seed for which
was scattered when Mrs. Jack Kernel-
field rang up a couple of her friends
one morning to talk over a way of be-
coming individually war-minded. The
Ongmality Branch can now produce
omce-bearers, and it has on its travels
caught up Mrs. Harold Clapp’s inventive
mind for the Gaiety Night at the Aus-
tiaha on December 7. The committee
tor this function discussed progress
made over a. morning glass of sherry and
nibble of biscuit all under the penetrat-
d g I az "° f a Van Dyck portrait in Mrs.
K P. Messenger’s flat in South Yarra.
P ar ty promises to be as colorful
as the rainbow on the tickets and as
much fun as a circus—for there is to
be a circus ring complete with animals
* l/^ ector Kendall's, but some members
or Homo sapiens in disguise).
Those people who are addicted to art-
show openings took their choice one hot
afternoon of William Frater and J. D G
Medley or of Wilfred McCulloch and
Gengoult Smith ; then, after missing out
on one speech, for the opening hours
coincided, they made tracks for the other
show a few blocks away. Running the
respective exhibitions were two friends
who have sat next to one another at
many art classes—Guelda Pyke, who
superintended the Frater collection, and
Mary Lundquist, who handed around
catalogues at McCulloch’s display.
Fraier s pictures were attained by way
of a hundred steps at No. 9 Queen-street
to his studio, which contains a divan or
two for those who pass out during the
ascent. Also at the opening there were
provided a decanter of wine, a jug of
water, a bottle of milk on the window-
sill and a couple of loaves of fresh crusty
bread, so placed that they looked like
models for a still-life. Frater’s pictures
overflowed into the adjoining studio ten-
anted by Mrs. Lena Bryans, who achieved
a successful Bohemian effect with colored
cushions, hessian blinds and a white-
washed fireplace where well scrubbed
pots and pans were carefully spaced. Just
as original was Mrs. Bryans’s ensemble
of crepe frock and coat patterned all over
in two shades of lilac with road maps of
Pans.
Opening Wilfred McCulloch’s show
Gengoult Smith produced a rattling good
speech, making everybody laugh in spite
of the fact they were dying of suffocation
and the smell of paint blowing in the
window from housepainters’ activities.
There was a mention in the speech of
Wilfred s penchant for drawing cock-
loaches at the age of eight, a prelimi-
H^ ry . to , his success as a young man, and
it he looks older than he is it’s the
vicious life he has led,” which remark
obviously delighted Wilfred, his friends
and his brother Alan.
Mrs. Frank Lukis, who is the wife of
Group-Captain Lukis, the officer com-
manding at Point Cook, has several
talents, among them the writing of poems
(she has had verse published in The Bul-
letot and the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror ) and the inventing of crossword
puzzles. Now she reveals herself as an
expert on knitting patterns. When
Squadron-Leader E. C. Bates arrived
from England several months ago he
brought with him his treasured pilot’s
neckmuff, without which he never flies
When war broke out he sang its praises
so loudly to knitters that Mrs. Lukis bor-
rowed the garment, then alleged to be
the only one in existence in the R.A.A.F.
diagnosed its anatomy and knitted a
similar neckmuff as a check upon her
study. The pilot’s muff is a protection
for chest and back as well as neck, and
it can be pulled off over the head with-
out the removal of the coat. Patterns of
this pilot’s neckmuff (plus a back-of-the-
leaflet pattern for an airman’s neckmuff,
which is Mrs. Lukis’s interpretation of
a somewhat smaller woolly warmer) mav
be obtained for 3d., plus stamped ad-
dressed envelope for postage, from the
Locker Fund Depot at the Herbarium.


ft
ft
»//,
Ay
°fi,
*o%
%
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
raossible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Humbug of Conventions.
“Nobby”: The rules of submarine war-
fare were revised in the London naval
treaty in 1930 and confirmed by proces
verbal signed in London in 1935 by the
British Empire, France, Germany, Poland
and other nations. It was explicitly
agreed that, except in case of persistent
refusal to stop or of active resistance
to visit or search by a warship or sub-
marine, no merchant ship should be either
sunk or rendered incapable of navigation
unless passengers, crew and ship’s papers
had first been put in a place of safety.
The bones of many a ship show how
Germany has carried out this agreement.
Then, too, mines. A British fisherman
has been noticed for his gallantry in
swimming out and staving off a live mine
which threatened to bump against the
sea-wall of an English fishing town. But
at The Hague Convention in 1907 Ger-
many, Britain and France agreed that
unanchored mines must not be laid unless
they were so constructed as to become
harmless one hour afterwards, while an-
chored mines must automatically become
harmless so soon as they broke loose.
That provision is about as dead as
the ancient one under which notifica-
tion of war was needed to be given before
hostilities commenced.
“Ek Dum”: The Western Front
continues a place of gloom—not a
shot fired save by the press, which
shot Prince Frederick of Prussia and
then discovered him alive and well
on parole in England. It has since
shot General Oberst von Blomberg,
former Chief of the German General
Staff, and when last heard from it
was firing on Goring himself.
A destroyer, unnamed, was added last
week to the British naval losses in the
war —previous losses included an aircraft-
carrier, a battleship and a submarine,
also unnamed. The destroyer was mined
in the North Sea ; the dead numbered
seven, the wounded 15. Of late mines
seem to have done more damage in the
North Sea than submarines.
* * * *
On Monday of last week the Diggers
at their Federal conference in Melbourne
unanimously carried a resolution in favor
of wet canteens. Two days later Minister
Jones announced that wet canteens would
be established in Maoriland “immedi-
ately.” This should mean that they will
arrive in Australia in a fortnight or three
weeks. Since September 3, the Maori-
land Government has generally been at
least a fortnight ahead of the one at
Canberra.
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: John Fisher, newly-
appointed secretary and manager of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. sub-branch at Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), runs Gilbert Dyett a close
second in the office-holding marathon.
He’s just brought up 21 years in office —
president for seven years, vice-president
for eight years and State-councillor for
six years. A tactful chap is Jack. A new
committeeman was appointed to go into
the financial position. Fisher, as presi-
dent, confessed that the sub-branch was
six years behind in rent for a room at the
Palace Hotel. “I knew it,” shouted the
reformer. “I knew I’d find something
wrong. Where are we to raise six years’
rent? How much is it, anyhow?” “Six
bob,” said Jack sorrowfully. The re-
former wasn’t heard from afterwards.
* * * *
“Hood”: The R.N. is rapidly expand-
ing to limits far beyond anything seen
since the last war. This year’s estimates
provided for 133,000 personnel, and it
is expected that numbers will be up to
229,000 early in 1940. But in 1917-18
there were 450,000 men in the R.N. and
the Marines, including the Naval Divi-
sion, and about 45,000 men in the
R.N.A.S. Reserves climbed between 1914
and 1918 from 19,000 to 52,000. In
those days there were 46 battleships and
battle-cruisers of the Dreadnought era,
21 pre-Dreadnought heavy ships, 123
cruisers and 147 submarines, with 340
destroyers and a multiplicity of small
craft.
* . * • * *, ~,
Zed ° : A Maoriland woman who laid
a Auckland Cenotaph on
Armistice Day lost eight brothers in the
' ast , war—five killed in action and three
died wounds. * *
“Bo”: As one who was once accounted
by an ou t ra g e d herd of sappers the worst
co J ok (hat eyk infested the Western Front
j the horselaugh to the suggestion
th J t scran for mem bers of the 2nd A.1.F.,
whi|e , h are in should be
d ’ women cooks what wou|d be
J
“I started as an admiral and worked my Way up!"
the effect? They would get ’em used to
fancy fodder. On active service the
troops would expect the customary steak-
and-kidney pie with four vegetables on
the side, followed by apple tart and
custard. Instead, some fellow who in
civvy life had been a wharf-lumper or
bookie’s clerk, and had never before
boiled an egg, would be detailed off to
rustle up a stew out of bully beef, a few
blight-stricken spuds and a lot of water.
Then the ructions would start. And an-
other thing. What a race of pansies in
uniform would be evolved! In camp
you’d see some big gawk simper to the
bab.: “My word, miss, that braised rabbit
was positively delicious! ” And if it was
badly cooked he’d never get any practice
at letting go with a burst of that pic-
turesque invective which fell with such
refreshing frankness from the lips of an
earlier generation of defenders and made
army babs. feel that their existence was
justified. No censor would ever pass
the mildest of the phrases I have had
hurled at me by consumers of some of
my choicest dishes.
* * * *
“T.”: In Britain and Australia there
has been much press talk of cutting
dykes in the Low Countries. A hundred
and thirty years ago Low Country dykes
were actually cut, at Napoleon’s orders,
to dish the Walcheren expedition, against
which French and Dutch were fighting.
Boney issued the order himself, and on
October 16, 1809, being at Vienna, where
he was negotiating a peace with the
beaten Austrians, he wrote in a prophetic
strain:
Before six weeks, of the 15,000 English
who are on the Isle of Walcheren, not
1500 will be left. The rest will be in
hospitals.
On July 28 the expedition, far and away
the greatest ever attempted by England
up to then (the land force numbered
39,143 men, and the naval force con-
sisted of 35 sail of the line, five ships
of 40 and 44 guns, 18 frigates, 160 sloops,
gun-brigs, bomb-vessels and gunboats),
sailed from The Downs. By the end
of the year all that was left of the army
was back in England, so sick that in
August, 1810, Wellington was informed
by Lord Liverpool that “the effects of the
fever contracted in Walcheren are still
of that nature that we have not a single
battalion of infantry fit for service in
the field.” In short, Walcheren was a
death-trap “covered with a sheet of ex-
halation, blue, dense and foetid.” Little
is now remembered of the appalling
fiasco, save four witty lines: —
Lord Chatham, with his sword undrawn,
Stood waiting for Sir Richard Strachan.
Sir Richard, longing to be at ’em,
Stood waiting for the Earl of Chatham.
*„ * . * * attl-
X.T. : Men offering tor the A.l.r.
in the N.T. have greatly exceeded the
quota. Some have come 1000 miles or
more to enlist. There is plenty of work
m Darwin, and the permanent force is
taking a number of men. However, hav-
mg regard to the type of the men and
their adaptability to hard living, it would
have been a solid scheme to increase the
quota and gather in similar types from
northern W.A. and more remote North
Queensland in a special North Australian
battalion.
* * * *
“N.M.”: There has been erected in
M.L. at Papakura a military camp that
must surely be a model. Covering 166
acres, it has been built in eight weeks,
Permanent huts with wooden beds re-
place tents. There are racks for gear,
mirrors, electric lights everywhere, even
boot-scrapers. Smooth tar-sealed thor-
oughfares wind among the huts. Showers
are plentiful, with hot and cold water.
The kitchens would be adequate to a big
hotel.
* * *
“Bangalow Joe”: As in 1914, the
Salvation Army is with the troops from
the start. One of the first buildings to be
completed at Redbank (Q.) was i* s
spacious hut, which has writing tables
with free writing materials, reading tables
and reading matter, all sorts of games
and a piano. The Army has the happy
knack of doing the right thing without
undue publicity.
* * * *
“Buck P.”: It’s a sore point with the
new A.I.F. that those on leave are ex-
pected to pay railway fares to and from
their homes. They point out that poli-
ticians, who earn a lot more than a dollar
a day and do mighty little for it, get free
passes. And they are still liable to wages
tax.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Andre Maginot, 6ft. 2in.
of bull-voiced French political genius,
during 21 years successively Under-Sec-
retary for War, private, sergeant, Minister
for Colonies, Pensions and, finally, War,
may prove in history the most dangerous
enemy Germany ever made. The Franco-
Prussian war drove his parents from their
Lorraine farm to Paris, where the young
Maginot was born in 1877. France
desolated by war for four years from
1914, himself wounded and with, a per-
manent limp to keep him reminded of
the Germans across the border, convinced
him of the need for an unbreakable
barrier against another invasion. When
Premier Tardieu named him War Minis-
ter in 1929 he threw his whole force into
making it a reality. Six years later it
was effected at a cost of £60,000,000,
and another £10,000,000 has been spent
on it since. There will always be
additions while France and Germany
both exist. Maginot did not live to see it.
Typhoid-infected oysters killed him in
January, 1932, aged 54.
» * * *
“Nobby II”: Naval ratings have now-
been placed on the same basis as t e
military in respect of dependants allow-
ances —3s. a day for wives and Is. a day
for children. But there are some curious
anomalies in the higher ranks of the
fighting forces. The estimates provide tor
a vice-admiral at £3OOO p.a., a rear-
admiral at £5 per day maximum and a
commodore at £4 ss. per day all
R. men whereas provision for the
senior military heads is now at £l5OO
p.a., including the Chief of the General
Staff, who is on the same basis as the
District Commandants of equal rank. Six
colonels average £B2O p.a., whereas naval
captains—equivalent in rank to military
colonels —rate at £3 15s. per day. R.A.N.
commanders gets £2 12s. per day and
lieutenant-colonels on the staff an aver-
age of £760 p.a. In highly technical
modern armies there is little sound reason
for the distinction.
# * * *
The Fighting Soldier, by Major W. A.
S. Dunlop (Angus and Robertson ; 25.),
contains a heap of advice to officers and
men based on practical experience. It
deals with all aspects of training and
actual warfare, with special hints to
platoon and company commanders. The
tips for going into battle should be mem-
orised by every soldier. Development of
bushcraft for night work is insisted upon.
Handy for the tunic pocket, the book
has a foreword by Major-General Gelli-
brand. At least there should be a couple
to every platoon or section.
* * * *
This comes from the backblocks of
W.A.:
Can you tell me whether there is any
dominion or colony where a volunteer of 34
is able to enlist? lam prepared to pay my
fare and put up a landing bond. Shortly after
the outbreak of war I sent in my name as a
volunteer, and weeks later received an enlist-
ment form for the 6th Division, which I
filled in and returned to Geraldton (W.A.).
That was a fortnight ago, and so far I have
npt had any instructions, though the W.A. con-
tingent went into camp on November 11. I
gave my occupation as station overseer. Other
men in the same district have been treated
in the same way. Requests to reply by collect
wire at the volunteer’s expense have been
ignored.
The Bulletin is hearing a lot of this
sort of thing. One caller, who from his
numerous mercantile marine discharges
and other references possessed qualifica-
tions ranging from a knowledge of
foreign languages and commercial art to
experience as a ship’s steward and clerk,
averred that he had come from Mackay
(N.Q.) to Brisbane to enlist in the ground
complement of the R.A.A.F. He was
then sent to Richmond (N.S.W.), where,
after he had been medically examined, it
was found that he was over age.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Prize-money for captured
enemy ships was abolished in the British
Navy during the last war on the ground
that it was unfair to officers and men
serving away from trade routes. A
gratuity system based on the aggregate
value of all captures took its place. Prize-
bounty for capture or destruction of an
enemy ship is still fixed at £5 per head
of the persons on board her. Although
nothing like the £300,000 which Gambier
and Cathcart divided in 1807 for taking
Copenhagen or the £70,465 that Rear-
Admiral Gell collected as prize-money in
1793 for capturing the French privateer
Dumourier with £500,000 worth of
plunder from a Spanish treasure-ship, the
£4OOO that admirals of active war-squad-
rons received as gratuity at the close of
the last war was well worth waiting for.
The record prize-bounty in the 1914-18
affray was £3500 shared by the two
officers and 14 men of the British sub-
marine 81l for sinking the Turkish
battleship Messudiah in the Dardanelles.
But a lieutenant’s share of prize-bounty
in the Jutland fight was only £1 os. 6d.,
and that not paid until nearly eight years
after the close of hostilities.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin’’
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
THE FLYING COLUMN
Possibilities of the Air War.
“Aileron”: “Let us not underrate our
adversary!” were the concluding words
of a Bulletin leader (4/10/’39). What-
ever its other sins of commission or
omission, the Menzies Government is
not among the many who are doing this.
“Germany,” Mr. Gullett said on Nov.
16, “has at the moment substantial
superiority in the number of her army
divisions and aircraft.”
So it would be a mistake to under-
rate the German Air Force.
It has been developed under one of the
most experienced aces of the last war,
Goring, who won the Pour la merite —
the German V.C. —and who has seen as
much air fighting as anybody in the
world. When Bill Bishop, the Canadian
V.C. who accounted for 72 German
machines in under two years, visited
Berlin in 1926, it was Goring whom his
colleagues of the Luftwaffe chose to lead
the reception committee, despite his asso-
ciation with the then unpopular cause
of Nazism.
Germany for years led Europe in civil
aviation. It was developed with one eye
to the future production of fighting
’planes, and Hitler did not begin his
building of an air force from a standing
start. Not only had there been a con-
tinuous policy guided by fighting experts,
but there were splendid engine-builders
—Daimler-Benz in particular—and great
industrial concerns which, though they
had never made aeroplanes, had a superb
range of new metals and splendid techni-
cal staffs to start with.
The Messerschmitt fighter is only one
of many formidable German fighting
machines. Arado turns out the Ar9s,
a successful bomber-torpedo-reconnais-
sance - catapult - seaplane. Bayerische
Fleugzeugwerk’s range includes the
Bflo9, a single-seater fighter powered
with a 950-h.p. Daimler-Benz, its speed
about 310 m.p.h. and range 600 miles.
Blohm and Voss make the HAI4O, a
naval edition of the big transatlantic pas-
senger boat.
There is the Dornier Do 17, which
weighs 10,5001 b. empty, carries a crew
of three, 22001 b. of bombs and has a
speed round 300 m.p.h. at 13,300 ft. It
has a range of 1500 miles and can cruise
on 62 p.c. power at 240 m.p.h. The
larger Do 18 has a loaded weight of 10
tons. The D 022 has three cockpits in
tandem, a fixed gun firing through its
single air screw, twin machine-guns in a
Scarff mounting in the rear cockpit and
a tunnel machine-gun below the fuselage.
There is also a large Dornier reconnais-
sance machine fitted with three Wright
Cyclones, loaded weight 30,0001 b. and a
range of 2200 miles.
Focke-Wulf, who have two factories,
were last year building one of the most
modern low-wing cantilever fighters, the
FwsB Weihe. Also, the 26-passenger
Condor, which has a cruising speed of
270 m.p.h. and is easily adaptable as a
bomber or troop-carrier.
Heinkel makes several types. One is
the He 112, a single-seater fighter with
two fixed machine-guns firing through
the screw, two automatic wing guns
firing outside the disk of the propeller
guns, and racks for six 221 b. bombs.
Range is 2110 miles, speed around 300
m.p.h. and climb 3280 ft. in 1.2 minutes.
Then there is HellB, a dive bomber
and attack machine with a 1070-h.p.
Daimler-Benz motor, tandem cockpits, a
bomber’s seat adjustable to swing 180 deg.
sideways, four machine-guns, racks for
one 11001 b. bomb and 20 221 b. bombs.
Also, He27ok, a light bomber carrying
six 1101 b. bombs, machine-guns and a
Zeiss aerial camera fitted with remote
control. Its range is about 1000 miles,
and it can climb 13,000 feet in under 12
minutes.
Henschels, old - time locomotive
builders, now ma,ke a dive bomber which
carries four machine-guns and two 4-sin.
shell quickfirers, plus a bomb load of
nearly a ton. Their Hsl26 is one of the
best German reconnaissance machines.
Junkers have several heavily-armed
bombers, and there are a number of sub-
sidiary builders. There is a 40-passenger
machine convertible for troop-carrying
or bombing.
All German machines have doubtless
been considerably improved since data
were available, but there is evidence that
the improvement in British machines has
been even greater. Geodetic construction
has given the R.A.F. squadrons decided
superiority of range and carrying power,
Also, Britain has 100-octane fuel, which
Germany cannot have in abundance. By
its use the engines of the Bristol
Blenheim were stepped up a few months
ago from 725 h.p. at take-off to 920 h.p.
British genius has produced the two-
“It makes a man feel like an invoice."
speed supercharger, which allows engines
to use full output over a great range of
heights —it was adopted first for the
Rolls-Royce Merlin 10 last year. Bristol
developed the sleeve-valve engine into
something never dreamed of three or
four years ago. It is knocking power-to-
weight ideas flat. The Hercules 14-
cylinder gives up to 1375 h.p.; the
Taurus, with a diameter of less than 47in.,
produces 1075 h.p.
Other engines—particularly of the H
type, which develops high speed with
little frontal resistance through a mul-
tiplicity of small cylinders—have shown
remarkable improvement. The Napier
Dagger VIII, 24 cylinder, gets 1000 h.p.
out of 16y-litres capacity! Output of
the Rolls-Royce Kestrel from 21 litres is
now 860 h.p.
Britain, as the war progresses, will
have the further advantage of Austra-
lian and Canadian contributions to the
flying arm. In men and machines those
contributions are likely to comprise the
finest aerial fighting force the world has
seen.
New R.A.A.F. Commands.
“Ek Dum”: The R.A.A.F. is to be
reorganised into two Group Commands
with headquarters in Melbourne and
Sydney. Melbourne authority runs as
far north as Wagga (N.S.W.) training
school and takes in Parafield (S.A.). Syd-
ney will administer Archerfield (Q.) and
Rathmines (N.S.W.) as well as Rich-
mond. Nothing is said about W.A. and
outlying defence stations.
The Melbourne command goes to
Group-Captain H. N. Wrigley and Syd-
ney to Group-Captain A. P. Cole, both
of whom had inspiring records in the last
war. Wrigley, a Victorian school-teacher
before 1914, was with No. 3 Squadron,
was mentioned in dispatches, and won
the D.F.C. Since the war he has been
with the R.A.A.F. He mapped the Aus-
tralian section of the London-Sydney
route, snaring the Air Force Cross for a
good job.
A. P. Cole left Melbourne Grammar at
18 to join the A.I.F. An M.C., D.F.C.,
A.F.C. and frequent mentions in dis-
patches tell his story of the war. In the
desert fighting of the Palestine campaign
in early 1917, Cole was one of the illus-
trious group which included Williams,
Ross Smith and Roy Drummond, of
W.A., last heard of as C.O.S. in the
R.A.F.’s Middle Eastern Command.
Once when a squadron member was
forced to land during a raid on the
Turkish Fourth Army Headquarters at
the Mount of Olives, Cole landed his
machine and burnt the disabled ’plane,
while another pilot picked up the
grounded airman. Afterwards Cole went
to France, and was through all the great
battles of the latter part of the war. Few
men have seen more actual air combat.
“Caudron”: Air-raiding and -fighting
have continued spasmodically. On Nov.
13 Germans raided the Shetlands, and,
before they were driven off by A.A. fire,
dropped heavy bombs which blasted out
craters 20ft. wide and 10ft. deep, and
sprayed stones and earth for 150 ft. in the
air. They came back next day but
dropped no bombs, and got nobody on
either day. Meanwhile, there were minor
encounters on the Western Front.
German wireless and news bulletins
declared on Nov. 14 that Britain and
France had thus far lost 80 machines
against 17 German losses. The R.A.F.
thinks the announcement was made
merely to draw statistics from the Allies.
Its comment was that 17 German
machines had been brought down around
the British coast alone —15 by aircraft,
two by A.A. guns.
* * * 4!
“T.”: Yes, this war is unlike all pre-
vious wars. Witness the story, vouched
for from London, that a Royal Air Force
’plane, photographing military objectives
in Germany, “flew so low that it passed
beneath two Heinkel machines as they
were about to land.” After that The
Bulletin drawing of two R.A.F. lads
making a house-to-house delivery of
propaganda leaflets in a German street
doesn’t seem so fantastic.
» * * #
“Mascot”: The Sydney Airflite Co. has
become agent for a range of American
Cessna ’planes. Light machines for
private use, they have four-place cabins,
high wings, full cantilever, with single
145 or 165 Warner engines. The speed
of the 145-h.p. model is 151 m.p.h. at
8200 ft. They land at 49 m.p.h. with flaps
extended. Service ceiling is 18,000 ft.
They use 9} gallons of fuel per hour, and
have a range of 675 miles. The Cessna
seems eminently suitable for station,
commercial and photographic use, and
there should be little difficulty in build-
ing it in Australia.
The American co. also makes a two-
engined military training ’plane (T-50),
with side-by-side seats in the pilot’s dual
control cockpit. It is a low-wing canti-
lever job, built of steel tubing and rein-
forced for high localised loads. It can
be fitted as a bomber-trainer by the addi-
tion of a gun turret above the rear seat
and of a bomb compartment between
pilot and observer. There are arrange-
ments for three machine-gun positions—
side to side beneath the fuselage, above
through revolving turret and through the
nose. Normal cruising speed is round
193 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Jachris”: It has been ruled that the
pilot of the British flying-boat forced
down in Iceland on September 29 “un-
wittingly broke parole” when, next day,
he took off with the crew and lit out for
England. So he’s to go back for intern-
ment, mitigated by the society of his
wife and by pleasant Icelandic customs,
one of which permits the few criminals
in the gaols free week-ends in the capi-
tal. There is at least one other “victim
of the war” in Iceland —a German engi-
neer, landed sick from a U-boat.
* * Jfs
“Propeller”: Lester Brain, flying
operations manager for Qantas, has
served for 15 years as a Qantas pilot,
and has logged over 8000 hours in that
company’s aircraft. Besides, he’s had
6500 hours in single-engined, open-
cockpit machines Moths, D.H.4’s,
D.H.9’s, D.H.9c’s, D.H.so’s, D.H.6l’s,
and similar crates. Lester completed his
early training in 1923 with the R.A.A.F.,
and commenced route flying the follow-
ing year on the Charleville-Cloncurry
service. His flights in 1929 in search of
the Kookaburra over Central Australia
and the Vickers Vellore at Cape Don,
North Australia, won him the Air Force
Cross. Incidentally, he and the nine
flying-boat commanders on his staff to-
gether have logged 80,000 flying hours.
* * * *
“Ndo”: Further information about
the first air-raids on Britain shows that
the machines used by the Germans at
Edinburgh and Scapa Flow were Dornier
18K’s and Junker 88’s. They were easily
distinguishable by their engine
notes from our own, and our
fighters seemed to be about 100
m.p.h. faster than the Junkers.
The Germans encountered not
the R.A.F. but the Auxiliary Air
Force. Bullets found in the
streets proved that the Germans
were armed with some guns
round .sin. calibre as well as
their standard small arms, which
are 7.9 mm. or .311 in. Appar-
ently explosive-bullet types were
not used.
“Ek Dum”: The chief explosives of
the last war were trinitrotoluene (T.N.T.)
and melinite. The latter is a picric acid
derivative, the former a coal product.
It takes a lot of coal to make it —about
400 tons of coal to one ton of explosive,
though the explosive is only one of a
thousand by-products. Modern methods
have, however, developed many new ex-
plosives. Carbon monoxide is the mother
of some of the choicest specimens. It is
hydrogenated, and a secondary product
is formaldehyde, which is the basis of
two nasty bits of expansion—pentrite and
trimethylene trinitrotroamine (T 4). There
are others which are not suitable for
aerial bombing. Both the main blasters
make a stable mixture with some other
materials, and are about 50 p.c. more
powerful than T.N.T., thus reducing the
weight of projectiles. Probably dozens
of new explosives will see the light before
the carnage is over. The Germans were
supposed to be using one in Spain in
which the detonation was produced by
something derived from air. Quite
feasible. It is dead easy to make ex-
plosives with the fine range of materials
now available. But don’t try to prove
it by stirring Condy’s crystals into
glycerine.


ķ
THE PERFECT
XMAS GIFT
Start paying 5/- week now
Take Delivery for Xmas
Pay balance in 1940
ENGLISH PORTABLE Typewriters
are still available from . . .
£l2/12/-
WHY PAY MORE TO BUY A FOREIGN TYPEWRITER?
Telephone or write your nearest BRITISH TYPEWRITER DISTRIBUTOR
L Dobell & Co Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street, BRISBANE; Jackson & O’Sullivan, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Roneo Co., Ltd., 21 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Johnson and
Hey 37 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt & Co., Ltd., 467 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
John Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE. Holdsworth & Co., Ltd., 51 Grenfell Street.
ADELAIDE. Burridge & Warren, Ltd , 69 King Street, PERTH. J. Walch & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie
Street, HOBART; J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street, HOBART.
TO-DAY—Buy the Typewriter made in England.
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
Detaining the Peanut.
“El V.”: If a large cloud of dust is
noticed this summer crossing the Queens-
land border it may be recognised as all
the carping journalists who have asked
what State Parliaments do for their
salaries, and who are on a pilgrimage of
penance to Brisbane after having read
the new Queensland Peanut Industry
Protection and Preservation Bill.
Two pages of definitions turn the
world upside down to suit Mr. Forgan
Smith and Mr. Bulcock. The natural
laws of entomology say, for instance,
that a “mite” is an “arachne” —a spider
—and, having eight legs, is not an insect.
“Foosh to entomology! ” say Mr. Forgan
Smith and his Parliament. “For purposes
of this Act the term ‘insect’ also includes
‘mites,’ and an ‘insect’ is not an insect
unless the Governor in Council issues a
proclamation declaring it as such.”
Again, Webster says that “sell” means
“transfer property for a consideration or
price.” But Queensland Parliament says
that it “includes barter, exchange, agree
to sell, barter or exchange, offer or ex-
pose for sale, have in possession for sale,
receive, send, forward, deliver for or on
sale, and cause, suffer or attempt any
such acts or things ; and words derived
therefrom having a corresponding inclu-
sive meaning.”
And a place includes
any building, structure, ship, barge, boat,
vehicle, car, aeroplane, station, wharf,
shed or any land or premises whatsoever
and wheresoever situated.
And section 9 authorises an inspector
to “seize and detain any peanuts sus-
pected to be diseased which are being
... .removed from or out of any place
or from or out of one portion of any
place to any other portion of the same
place.”
And don’t let anyone imagine that the
bailed-up possessor of a suspected pea-
nut can get out of it by contending that
Parliament has forgotten to define a
peanut, because the Act empowers the
Minister to “make orders and proclama-
tions which... .shall have the same effect
as if they were enacted in this Act.”
Even if a suspected peanut proves to be
a goanna the Minister can alter that in
five words and two ticks.
Moreover, as the Act so clearly puts it:
The inspector may. ...(c) without notice,
and with or without such assistants as he
may think fit, enter at all reasonable times
into or upon any place, and there search
for and examine any peanuts, insects,
fungus, or any peanut product, and at
any place whatsoever examine and in-
spect any package or any other material
that harbors or is likely to harbor any
insect or fungus, and may remain on such
place so long as may be reasonably neces-
sary for such purpose: and further take
away specimens in respect of any peanuts,
nut products, packages, materials or any
other matter or thing for examination, or
as may be otherwise directed by the
Minister.
And when they are taken away, “the
marking with a broad arrow of any
peanuts or other material shall be
sufficient notification to all persons con-
cerned that the inspector has so seized
and detained such peanuts.”
In effect, you can’t do anything con-
nected with a peanut, a declared insect, a
mite or a place in Queensland now with-
out the permission of a Minister, peanut
board and inspectors. And if there is
anything which the Act has missed pre-
venting your doing, they will catch you
under some other long-winded, all-
embracing piece of legislation.
There is no escape or loophole for the
enemy of bureaucracy in a State in which
they once used the Sugar Acquisition
Act to seize the electric lighting outfit
of Woolloongabba racecourse —to prevent
some sports obnoxious to the Govern-
ment from holding a night pony meeting.
“X.T.”: The movement for the aboli-
tion of State Parliaments has reached
North Queensland cities, where long-
established Labor Ministers have been
frantically handing out harbors and build-
ings and forming semi-independent de-
partments. “North Queensland Register”
in an editorial:
If the abolition of State Parliaments
were put to the vote,, there is not the
slightest doubt it would be carried. When
the question was asked shall the Com-
monwealth control State debts, the elec-
tors approved of it by nearly three to one.
What Australia requires just now is a
super-accountant who will tell the world
how much of our £28,000,000 loan
money and loan debt per annum was
expended in “reproductive works”.... It
will be interesting to see whether the
Governments which raised and dispersed
the loan money will survive the blow of
their inability to carry on on the same
magnificent scale.
If the more prosperous North feels like
that, there isn’t much doubt about how
the pastoral districts will feel. Every
year the crushing burden of taxation
bends the heads of the graziers a few
more inches toward the ground.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Misfortune continues to
dog Mackay’s new harbor. Ships load-
ing there need half the 400 men which
lightering to Flat Top calls for, since the
harbor is fitted with latest mechanical
conveyors. ' The Watersiders’ Federation
decided that, to even out the work, no
man should earn more than £6 in a
week or work more than 12 hours in a
day. One man who infringed the rule
has been taken to hospital with a frac-
tured jaw ; another had a thermos broken
on his head. Then wharfies refused to
work more than 10 hours to get a ship
away, and canegrowers threatened to
come out themselves and finish the job.
“ You’ll ’ave to chuck ’er back, Ma—it ain't Dais, after all."
To add to the discord, Mackay has been
full of Norwegian sailors who went
ashore after demanding £25 bonuses for
the voyage to Europe. The Mackay
waterfront just now is a good place for
a man of peace to keep away from.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Darwin Gaol lost one of its
oldest identities when Attawomba Joe dis-
appeared. Justice Mallam sentenced him
to death for the murder of Paddy Sink
Eye during a domestic dust-up seven
years ago. The sentence was commuted
to life imprisonment, and, after the
quaint penal method of Darwin, Joe
presently became an outside goatherd,
without guard, and with all the bush
before him. During the excitement of
strike week Joe failed to answer the roll-
call. He made for Daly River and there,
on the twelfth day, Constable McNab
gathered him up.
* * * *
“Snapper Bill”: Fishing round Towns-
ville this year is something to make the
heroes of Sydney Heads and Catalina
Island (Cal.) dribble with envy. On one
day recently 14 boats in the Inner Har-
bor had 36,0001 b. of Spanish mackerel,
valued at about £9OO, on ice. It
sented about a week’s fishing. The cnam-
pion boat had nearly two tons aboard.
* * * *
“Melisle”: According to Minister
Hanlon the white man’s food is Paying
old Harry with the teeth of abos. Lnere
was a time, he complained, when tor
two bob abo. kids on northern islands
would demonstrate the strength of their
ivories by using them to rip off the toug
husks of coconuts. Now Authority has
to pay dentists to repair and replace the
teeth of abo. adults.
* * * *
“Philp”: With a growing population,
particularly of young fellows in the army
and the civil service, Darwin needs a
welfare club, and the A.I.M. is provid-
ing one, complete with lounge, libraiy
and games-rooms. Rev. C. Goy, who
knows the Territory and its people, will
be in charge of the job, which is to cost
£3OOO. A good addition to the A.I.M. s
record of fine work in the N.T.
* * * *
“East Point”: I tremble to think what
will happen in Darwin when the rams
come to their full strength unless some-
thing is done to provide better housing
for immigrants arriving. In one week
Guinea Airways carted five full loads
of workers from the south. Flying-boats
and other methods have brought more.
There is not a room, bed or spare mos-
quito net in the place, and the newcomers
are being forced into bush huts and any
kind of cover they can find. It shouldn’t
take much organisation to introduce the
Indian cantonment system. A shipload
of sectionalised, ready-to-erect, half-
walled huts would accommodate a lot of
men. Freight is high, but it is cheaper
than fever and death.
* * * *
“Motu”: Moresby householders have
been suffering many headaches over the
labor question. Till not long ago, 10s.
a month was the regular wage for an
ordinary novice houseboy. A big oil
company with United States backing
came along and in its inexperience paid
up to £3 per month to lads for the lightest
of personal service. Sinabadas soon found
themselves without domestic staff. With
the coming of other companies, the wage
was stabilised again at £1 per month,
but before long naval, military and
R.A.A.F. men began to arrive and ex-
perienced natives started to capitalise the
labor scarcity. Boys have been known
to refuse to re-sign £1 contracts and
demand the old oil company rate —£3,
plus food and other perquisites—and
there is little re-employment without bar-
gaining. It would be a good thing for
everybody if the Administration deter-
mined fair wages and made it illegal to
pay more or less, except in special cases.
* * * *
“Daru”: November 1 was a red-letter
day for the Anglican Missions of Papua
when their cathedral was officially opened
by Lieut.-Governor Hubert Murray. The
work was begun years ago by Bishop
Newton ; but the bishop was not able
to stay to finish it. A serious breakdown
called for his resignation, thus breaking
a friendly partnership with Murray which
had begun half a century before on the
football fields of Sydney. Bishop War-
rington Strong took up the running two
years ago. The building is an almost
wholly local product, and is a monument
to the energy of the architect —Jones of
the Mission. Jones of the Mission began
without materials and with little labor in
sight. Four indentured native workers
were his regular staff, and they soon
became expert in mixing and laying the
cement of which the edifice consists. The
rest of the staff were volunteers from sur-
rounding villages who were asked to
work for three months for rations, and
another month, if it suited them, for 10s.
There were plenty of offers. A few hal-
lowed relics from British cathedrals have
been incorporated in the walls—stones
from Peterborough, Wells, Derry and
others, with an old magic stone from a
near-by village which has been inverted
to indicate that its magic has been exor-
cised. The job has been finished 911
time, and is one of the most substantial
and decorative buildings in the Australian
Territories.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: I’ll back up “Shamu-
seen” (B. 25/10/’39) in his claim that
abos. possess occult powers. One day
in my buffalo camp near the Adelaide
River plains, N.T., my head boy Ned
came up and said, “Boss, Long Jimmy at
Umpty Doo been ’urt by buffalo bull
just now.” Two dgys later I
the 20-mile siding with a load of hides,
and while putting it into a truck the
wagon from Umpty Doo station came
up on a similar mission. Umpty Doo is
about 25 miles from my camp. Bui
Lawrie, the owner, was with the vehicle,
and he said, “My boy, Long Jimmy, was
nearly killed by a buffalo bull on Tues-
day.” Inquiry revealed that the attack
had taken place at approximately the
time Ned told me of the mishap.
“Segnalpa”: “Shamuseen calls to
mind another Maino-of-Yama incident.
On one occasion, while I was resident
on this island, all the villagers ran short
of “white-fella tucker,” and I myself
was almost down to bedrock. In those
days there was no regular service by
Government boat, and we were depen-
dent on the haphazard movements of
native-manned craft for supplies. The
island cutter had been away after trochus
for several weeks, and there seemed no
chance of any other boat arriving. Maino
arrived at my house and inquired
whether he should call the cutter back
He then retired to the bush, and later
informed me that the boat would arrive
within two days. Sure enough it did.
I asked Apiota, the captain, how he knew
he was wanted. “We sit down kaikai.
In my mind come words, Maybe no
kaikai for people at home. More better
we go see,’” was his answer. The time
and date when he got his message was
that of Maino’s seance in the bush.


gjgglgg
HONGKONG < '
Wonderful holiday tour to this
port of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong'—return-
ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
91
M 2
;: m
wb
»1
5rS
•••
&
m ;■
m
BUMS.PHILP
& CO. ITD
'•"V *
—am
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z.
A
Greatest Exhibition in
the Southern Hemisphere
Be there ! Be there ! From the farthest
corners of the earth visitors have come to
Wellington, N.Z., and have been amazed
and thrilled with the colossal New Zealand
Centennial Exhibition. Days and nights
of fun and magnificent spectacles . . . the
pageantry of a nation celebrating its 100th
birthday . . . stupendous exhibits from all
parts of the world . . . delightful music . . .
breath-taking excitements of Playland with
the world’s most diverting devices ... a
thousand attractions! Only a short sail
from Sydney ! This feast of fun
continues until May, 1940
Send for the colourful, illustrated folder—free—to
the N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau, Sydney,
Melbourne or Brisbane, or to any travel agency.
To assist those who cannot make their own plans,
accommodation can be arranged through the official
Accommodation Bureau, P.O. Box 544, Wellington,
New Zealand.
7jT)j r /<>»fe NOW
pt the mitdaif of a lifetime, to the
CENTENNIAL
EXHIBITION
WELLINGTON « NEW ZEALAND
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.W.: Chopped-up prose... .H.C.: An idea;
but your humor’s patchy W.H.R.: “Written
in Sorrow” was read with sorrow J.D.:
Conversations with poppies are rarely success-
ful T.E.McC.: We haven’t a brass band
on the premises A.G.A.: “So the mighty
tree smiled and waved his arms.” Really?....
F.L.H.: Full of cliches... .H.G.H.: “How
awful, Nature, thou in these dost seem.” That’s
Wordsworth’s corner J.H.J.: We never en-
courage the stars to wink... .K.C.: Pedestrian.
—A.L.S.: In the considered opinion of the
Religious Editor the third stanza is not quite
nice EJ.F.: Heavy sarcasm... .H.D.: A
weakling J J.:
I’m getting impatient for the fate of my wondrous
verse
Concerning the Valuation for the whole of the uni-
verse.
Try a Martian paper C.M.R.: Should click
elsewhere John H.: The feeling’s there; but
the technique’s lacking A.McD.: We don’t
reprint V. 8.: There’s a laugh in it
R.T.: Howling doggerel R.D.: Try else-
where C.M.: All right for its occasion;
but not for general reading C.W.: Very
thin J.H.: Well said. It’s too long for
publication M.S.: “Ah, woman!” Ah, yes.
L.W.: Sometimes it’s pretty, sometimes it’s
prosy 1.M.G.: It might make a par
E.W.G.: What on earth is “concordant in-
genuity”? E.R.M.: Just a jingle M.J.S.:
Jogging along home.... J.O’C.: Not a nibble.
E.M.: “Reverse Gear” is going back
J.O’N.: No place here for “Jungle Law”
T.D.L.: Fled for cover at first sight of those
“thoughts on the futility of war, the betrayal
of womankind and kindred subjects”
L.Y.N.: Can’t stand “Hash” F.8.R.: Used
the office fire-extinguisher on “Flames of Pas-
sion” G.R.S.: We’re not in the bidding.
B.T.D.: Don’t worry, “Idylls” are a
common spring complaint C.D.S.: Can see
nothing humorous in physical deformities
L.P.: It made auntie blush 15 years ago
G.T.S.: “Soft Soap” won’t loosen our purse-
strings... .D.H.S.: The office boy solved it
at the second page L.P.1.: Your “wrath-
ful explosions” run more to tearful sighs
8.G.C.: “Light o’ Destiny” went 0ut....
V.G.W.: No E.T.F.: They’re the least
promising we’ve seen P.R.: This isn’t the
track for “Mr. Banning’s Bicycle” R.W.:
Old stuff E. 0.5.: Just a par Z.V.W.:
Might interest the literary supplement of a
daily... .M.A.: Has been done much better....
S.W.: Not for U5....F.D.: “The One That
Got Away” is still unhooked... .T.L.: An
idea in the finish, but that’s all 8.R.K.:
Lengthy and slight S.P.: Off our beat
C. 8.: Hardly a yarn, and too stiff M.F.E.:
Conventional... .F.D.J.: You forgot to send
salt with it... .N.C.R.: An improvement; pay
more attention to character... .G.8.R.:
“Ships” sunk... .F.F.A.: “I can supply as
many as you like of these.” You’ve sent one
too many already H.F.H.: There’s merit in
the typing D.S.: A better finish might put
it across... .C.F.L.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. 8.: No good trying to draw with a crossed
nib....W.H.5.: It’s a stray from London
“Punch”... .N.N.: The cove in the diving suit
is awaiting removal 0.F.: That jest has
more barnacles to the square yard than any
we know... .T.A.: You’re still plodding along
as stodgily as ever A.E.: Phil May first
thought of it over 50 years ago... .A.N.J.:
You’ve neither artistic ability nor a sense of
humor... .P.W.: Can’t tell from copies; ask
him to send us something original... .H.G.:
Subject not suitable for illustration... .R.M.F.:
All six ended on the scrapheap... .M.G.C.:
Caricatures need to be of notabilities ; they should
also be immediately recognisable... .W.T.:
Same old station-hand, same old dog and
same old reply to the barman T.C.: They
all did honorable service during the last Great
War....H.V.: What is little Tommy doing
floating around the top of the dresser?
0.H.: Neat and tidy, but devoid of humor
N.E.: The joke must have got lost on the
journey across the continent 8.5.: Didn’t
even nibble at that bait W.S.: We prefer to
wait and see how your 101st effort turns out.
. ...N.L.: You bear the same initials as a
famous artist, but you’re many miles below
him K.W.: Gags merely filled us with
g100m... .E.J.: They look like the work of a
pavement artist after a week’s rain N.S.:
You might be a cow-cocky’s son, but you can’t
draw a cow... .H.D.D.: Take more care and
pay attention to hands and the posing of the
figures.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
In September the Commonwealth
acquired another 1067 permanent
immigrants net —of whom 462 were
“British,” 290 Czechs, 224 “Germans,”
139 Italians and the remainder represen-
tative of nearly 30 races. For the year
to September 30 the gain was 881
“British,” including 197 Maltese and
Cypriotes, and 12,784 assorted foreigners.
If we don’t introduce the right types
of Europeans it won’t be for lack of a
wide range of samples.
* * * j»
“B.”: M.L.’s Centenary celebration is
bringing to mind some picturesque min-
ing pioneers, foremost among them that
doughty Scot Jimmy Mackay, who over-
came Maori opposition to the opening up
of the Thames and Ohinemuri goldfields.
Jimmy’s main assets were an encyclo-
paedic knowledge of the Maori tongue and
the Maori character and a copper-lined
stomach. An 18-stone chief who, with
an army of followers, was obstructing
P ros pectors was challenged by
“Timi” to a drinking duel. Whoever
got drunk first had to give way. The
chief gladly assented. The combatants
drank glass for glass, but before one
bottle had been emptied the dusky giant
surrendered, crying to his followers:
“Go home! Go home! Timi win! This
pakeha drinks waipiro like mother’s
milk. Go home! Go home!” The
Government rewarded Mackay, though
William Fox, then Premier, an inveterate
wowser, looked coldly down his nose at
the Scot’s diplomatic methods.
* * * *
Trevor Ross, the Maorilander who has
been selected to renresent the Empire
press with the Royal Navy, did a lot of
reporting in Wellington, Auckland and
Christchurch before crossing the Tasman
to a job with Melbourne “Argus.” The
annual prize for good journalistic work
awarded by the N.Z. Journalists’ Asso-
ciation was won by Ross in 1928 with
a report on an oil fire in Auckland. He
joined the London office of the Australian
Associated Press in 1937 and has had
extensive European experience. He mar-
ried a daughter of Capt. Rushworth, a
former M.P. for Bay of Islands.
* * * *
Umtali”: Most successful dodger of
a medical death sentence I know has a
link with Australia. He’s Rys Seymour
Fairbridge, now of Umtali, Rhodesia,
and father of Kingsley Fairbridge, of
Farm Schools fame. When he was in
Cape Colony in 1892 medicoes told him
his lungs were gone. Undaunted, Fair-
bridge went to S. Rhodesia as a Govern-
ment surveyor, and occupied that posi-
tion for many years before retiring not
long ago. He laid out and surveyed the
town of Umtali, as well as many other
townships, often assisted by his son
Kingsley. Known to the natives as Chik-
wira Makoma (Climber of Hills), the old
lad is still going strong. He lives at his
home Utopia, Umtali, S.R., with a mar-
ried daughter and several grandchildren.
* * * *
R. D. Huish, president of the Queens-
land R.5.5.1.L.A., who arrived in
London to attend a B.E.S.L. conference
just before the outbreak of war, to the
State body:
It is not until the touring Australian sees
the tremendous work carried out here that he
realises how well off we are in the Common-
wealth. Some figures from the A.R.P. Hand-
book: £70,000,000 spent this year, including
air-raid shelters, gas masks, supplies and equip-
ment. Special fire appliances and equipment
cost £4,700,000, grants to local councils for
maintaining the A.R.P. £6,600,000, precautions
for utility undertakings £7,000,000, shelters
for workers in factories £7,ooo,ooo—this in
addition to huge sums spent by the councils
themselves. A million shelters giving protec-
tion for 6,000,000 people had been delivered by
the end of July, and 2,500,000 were ready
by the end of September. The casualty ser-
vice provides 20,000 additional ambulance vans
3000 first-aid posts. And 300,000 beds are avail-
able in London hospitals to meet a rush of
casualties through air-raids. It rouses one’s
pride in and admiration for England.
* * * *
Whitaker’s Almanack gives a list of
Parliamentary salaries paid in various
countries:
Britain £6OO, Canada (Federal) £BOO,
Canada (Provincial) £lOO to £4OO, South
Africa £4OO, France £550, Netherlands £420
Northern Ireland £2lO, U.S.A. (Federal)
£l5OO, U.S.A. (States) £lOO to £2O0 —all
p.a.; Switzerland £1 ss. a day, Eire
£3O a month, Sweden £l4O a session.
The Australian figures are £4OO to £875
State and £lOOO Federal. Members of
the Westralian “Parliament” actually get
£5O a year more than members of the
French Chamber of Deputies and heaps
more privileges.
* * * *
From London :
People interested in South African mines
are trying to induce the new Government to
modify the proposal that the Treasury should
appropriate whatever may be received above
£7 10s. an ounce for Rand gold. Ex-Minister
ot Finance Havenga recommended it. General
Smuts is billed as a statesman of vastly wider
vision, and it is thought that he will recognise
clearly that the true interests of S’Africa lie
in doing everything possible to encourage the
expansion of the Rand.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
thev have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
o-lorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble—no mess—r.o pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask vour chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M, J. Ryan, s( h >
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also S
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Woild tm
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial banking butanes.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married man with wife and two children
wants position as working manager Queensland
sheep station. 12 years in last position. Refs.
—5355.
To buy copy of Mt. Abundance, or The Ex-
periences of a Pioneer Squatter in Australia,
by Allan Macpherson. —5288.
To buy Cine-camera 16 m/m; also projector,
reasonable. —5375.
Meanings of the following names, said to be
of aboriginal origin, which occur in the Tumut
(N.S.W.) district: Argalong, Brungle, Goobra-
gandra, Gubaralong, Killimacat, Lacmalac,
Michalong and Wyangle?—5302.
Copies of Australian short stories “Never
Trust Women” and “Old Jim’s Boy.”—5319.
Words of old recitation about two frogs, one
a pessimist and the other an optimist.—5283.
Words and music of song entitled “Trees.”
—5377.
Information Sought.
(1) Full title of the Neutrality Act passed in
the U.S.A. in 1935 ? (2) Date of 1937 amend-
ment? (3) Where can the text of the Act of
1935 and 1937 and debates in the U.S. House
of Reps, on the Act be inspected in Sydney? —•
5217. , .
(1) The first joint resolution approved by
President Roosevelt on August 31, 1935, was
entitled: “Joint resolution providing for the
prohibition of the export of arms, ammunition
and implements of war to belligerent countries;
the prohibition of the transportation of arms,
ammunition and implements of war by vessels
of the United States for the use of belligerent
States; for the registration and licensing of
persons engaged in the business of manufac-
turing, exporting or importing arms, ammuni-
tion or implements of war; and restricting travel
by American citizens on belligerent ships during
war.” (2) This was amended by Public Resolu-
tion No. 27, 75th Congress, approved by
President Roosevelt on May 1, 1937. The
1935 legislation as amended in 1937 is com-
monly known as the Neutrality Act. (3)
Copies of the Resolution mentioned and a copy
of hearings before the House of Representa-
tives Committee on Foreign Affairs in which
the American neutrality policy was discussed
may be examined at the American Consulate-
General, Sydney.
* * * *
In a Sydney newspaper I read recently that
among the ladies M’ith whom it was rumored
Hitler had had flirtations was Madame Wagner,
widow of the composer. Wouldn’t she be a bit
old for love affairs? —5312.
Cosima Wagner has been dead these many
years. Wagner married her in 1870. She was
the divorced wife of Von Billow, a noted con-
ductor and pianist, and an illegitimate daughter
of Liszt and the Countess d’Agoult, best known
as an authoress whose pen-name was Daniel
Stern. Cosima was in her thirties at the time of
her second marriage, and, had she survived that
long, would have been about 100 years old when
Hitler first became a figure in European poli-
tics.
Sfc * * *
What goods does England buy from Hol-
land?— 5380. t TT . ,
In 1937 principal imports into the United
Kingdom from Netherlands were: Bacon
£2,071,447, butter £3,293,755, cheese £434,271,
eggs £1,945,849, condensed milk £1,350,770,
tinned peas £416,954, onions £562,963, tomatoes
£323,357, linseed oil £687,871, bulbs, etc.,
£1,707,412, yeast £207,397, paper and straw-
board £1,446,079, starch £1,061,102, leather
£140,527 and electrical goods £827,958.
* * * *
Names of the 12 largest towns in Soviet
Russia, and their populations ?— 5381. _
Moscow 3,663,300, Leningrad 2,776,400,
Baku 709,500, Kharkov 654,300, Kiev 538,600,
Rostov-on-Don 520,700, Odessa 497,000, Tash-
kent 491,000, Gorky 451,500, Tiflis 405,900,
Sverdlovsk 400,800 and Stalingrad 388,000.
* * * *
Names of Australian State Premiers from
1913 to 1919 ? —5193. _
N. S. Wales: W. A. Holman (1913-20). Vic.:
Alexander Peacock (1914-17), John Bowser
(1917-18), H. S. W. Lawson (1918-24). South
Aust.: A. H. Peake (1912-15), Crawford
Vaughan (1915-17), A. H. Peake (1917-20).
Q’land: D. F. Denham (1911-15), T. J. Ryan
(1915-19), E. G. Theodore (1919-25). West
Aust.: John Scaddan (1911-16), Frank Wil-
son (1916-17), H. B. = Lefroy (1917-19), Hal
Colebatch (1919), James Mitchell (1919-24).
Tas.: A. E. Solomon (1912-14), John Earle
(1914-16), W. H. Lee (1916-22).
* * * *
A few details concerning Lewis Carroll,
author of “Alice in Wonderland” 3—5282.
His real name was Charles Lutwidge Dodg-
son, and he was the son of a clergyman. He
was born in Cheshire in 1832, was educated at
Rugby and Oxford, and became a mathemati-
cal lecturer at Christ College, Oxford. Ordained
a deacon, he never took priest’s orders. His
earliest publications were exclusively mathe-
matical, but in 1865 he published, under the
pseudonym of “Lewis Carroll,” Alice’s Adven-
Hires in Wonderland, followed in 1869 by Phan-
tasmagoria, in 1871 by Through the Looking
Glass, and in 1876 by The Hunting of the
Snark. He died at Guildford (England) on
January 14, 1898.
* * * *
Some details about Georgia Rivers, Australian
authoress ? —5367.
Her real name is Marjorie Clark. She is
the daughter of the late George A. Clark, was
born in Melbourne, and educated at Milverton
Girls’ Grammar School, Camberwell (Vic.).
She has written short stories, articles, serials
and novels. Her published books include
Jacqueline. Tantalego, The Difficult Art and
She Dresses for Dinner.
* * * #
A few details concerning Bret Harte ?— 5388.
Son of a professor of Greek, Francis Bret
Harte was born at Albany (N.Y.) in 1839,
and after a common-school education went
with his mother to California at the age of
17. He afterwards worked in that State as a
teacher, miner, printer, express-messenger, secre-
tary of the San Francisco Mint, and editor.
His first literary venture was a series of
travesties of well-known works of fiction, pub-
lished weekly in the “Californian,” of which
he was editor. He also edited the “Overland
Monthly,” the earliest considerable literary
magazine on the Pacific coast. His Californian
tales were regarded as introducing anew genre
into fiction. Forty-four volumes were pub-
lished by him between 1867 and 1898. He
died in England on May 5, 1902.
* * * *
Are there Australian timbers suitable for
making (1) cricket bats, (2) hockey sticks, (3)
golf clubs, (4) tennis racquets, (5) polo sticks
and (6) billiard cues ? —5239.
(1) Most suitable timber is willow, usually
imported, though Australian-grown wood has
been used. (2) Saffron-heart ( Halfordia
scleroxyla), yellowwood (Flindersia oxleyana),
white handlewood ( Pseudomorus brunoniana),
grey handlewood ( Aphananthe philippinensis )
and spotted gum ( Eucalyptus maculata ). (3)
Heads —brush box ( Tristania conferta), water
gum ( Tristania laurina), grey persimmon
(Diospyros pentamera), ironwood ( Backhousia
myrtifolia) and tea-tree ( Melaleuca leucaden-
dron); shafts —same as hockey sticks. (4)
Silver ash ( Flindersia pubescens and Flindersia
bourjotiana ) and wattle ( Acacia sp.). (5).
Heads —same as golf clubs ; shafts —same as
hockey sticks. (6) Silver ash ( Flindersia
pubescens and Flindersia bourjotiana), southern
silver ash ( Flindersia schottiana ) and yellow-
wood ( Flindersia oxleyana).
* * * *
(1) What is the penalty in N.S.W. for in-
serting a bogus advertisement ? (2) What con-
stitutes a bogus advertisement? —5372.
(1) The N.S.W. Crimes Act provides that
any person who tenders for insertion or causes
to be inserted in any newspaper any bogus
advertisement, knowing the same to be bogus,
shall, on conviction before two Justices, be
liable to imprisonment for three months or to
pay a fine of £2O. (2) The N.S.W. Crimes
Act states that “a bogus advertisement shall'
mean any advertisement or notice containing
any material false statement or representation
with respect to any birth, death, engagement,
marriage or employment, or with respect to any
matter concerning any person other than the
person who tenders the advertisement or causes
it to be inserted, or concerning the property
of such other person.”
* * * *
(1) Names of schools where I could learn
photography in Sydney and fees payable? (2)
Failing classes, can you recommend a good
general textbook on the subject? (3) Are there
any photographic societies that admit beginners
to their ranks? —5233.
(1) No schools in Sydney. The Tech, has
abandoned its course. (2) How to Make Good
Pictures (available from all photographic
dealers) covers every phase of the work. (3)
The Photographic Society of N.S.W. invites
membership. Write to the secretary, H. V.
Leckie, Box No. 829 G, G.P.0., Sydney.
* * * *
How to improve the acoustics of a hall,
galvanised-iron and unceiled, by stretching wires
the length of the hall ? Kind of wire to be
used, tension, distance apart,. height from the
floor 2—4971.
There is no evidence or scientific opinion
in support of the fact that the acoustics of a
hall can be improved by the use of stretched
wires. Such wires scarcely affect the sound
waves, since they present too small a surface to
the waves to have any disturbing effect, and
in addition wires vibrating by themselves pro-
duce little sound effects without resonance
boards of some kind.
* * * *
What wages tax should be deducted in
N.S.W. from a wage of £lO per week earned
by a man with a wife and four children aged
21, 18, 15 and eight years? —5256.
Tax payable in respect of a salary of £lO
per week is Bs. Bd. per week. In the case of
a married taxpayer a deduction of 6d. per week
is allowable in respect of a wife and each
child under the age of 16 years. The Act de-
fines “dependant” as “a person who resides
in Australia and who is wholly maintained
by the taxpayer and who is the spouse of the
taxpayer or is a child under the age of 16
years. A spouse shall be deemed to be
wholly maintained if the net amount of in-
come derived by such spouse from all sources
during the year ending on the 30th day of June,
1939, did not exceed £100.” On the assumption
that the definition of “dependant” applies to
your wife and two children under the age of 16
.years, the tax payable would be 7s. 2d. per
week.
* * * *
(1) Definition of “pistol” in the N.S.W.
Pistol Licenses Act, and cost of license ? (2)
What credentials must a person produce
before being granted such a license? (3)
How and where to obtain a license in Sydney ?
—5243. •
(1) A pistol is described in the Act as “any
lethal weapon of any length of barrel from
which any shot, bullet or other missile can be
discharged, designed for aiming and firing
from one hand, and which is reasonably cap-
able of being carried concealed about the
person, but does not include a toy pistol or
an antique pistol which is kept or sold as a
curiosity or ornament.” The cost of a license
is 10s. (2) The officer-in-charge of a police
station may, if he is satisfied that the appli-
cant is a person who has a good reason for
requiring the license applied for, and can te
permitted to have in his possession, use and
carry a pistol without any danger to the public
safety or to the peace, issue a license. “No
pistol license shall be issued to a person under
the age of 18 years or to a person who has been
convicted upon indictment of any crime and
sentenced to penal servitude or imprisonment
for 12 months or more and who has been re-
leased from such penal servitude or imprison-
ment less than five years or to any person who
is subject to any recognisance to be of good
behavior or to keep the peace.” (3) Applica-
tions for licenses under the Pistol License Act
or the renewal of such license should be made
to the officer of police in charge of the police
station in or nearest to the place where the
applicant usually resides.
* * * *
(1) At what age are motor-omnibus drivers
employed by the N.S.W. Government engaged?
(2) Educational, physical and practical qualifi-
cations? (3) Wages paid to drivers? (4) What
hours per week do they work? (5) Do they
receive annual holidays on full pay ? (6) Are
they entitled to free railway passes during
their holidays? (7) How are they engaged?—
5203.
(1) No fixed age. Drivers are promoted
from the grades of omnibus conductor and
tram driver. (2) Applicants for employment as
omnibus conductors must pass an exam, in
simple arithmetic (British standard money) and
dictation and a general mental-ability test, as
well as a physical examination by the de-
partment’s medical officer. Age must be be-
tween 21 and .35, and height between sft. sin.
and sft. lOin. (3) Drivers .are paid at the
rate of 19s. per day for a six-day working week.
The first-year rate for an omnibus conductor
is 14s. 6d. per day, with annual increases of
6d. per day for three years. (4) 44. (5) Yes.
(6) Free railway passes are allowed only in the
cases of men who were employed in the de-
partment prior to August 5, 1930, and who
have been continuously employed since that
time. New appointees are not entitled to this
privilege. (7) As stated, vacancies for drivers
are filled by promotion. Conductors are
called up for examination in the order in which
their original applications are received, 50 p.c.
being married men, 25 p.c. single men and 25
p.c. men registered as unemployed at State
Labor Exchanges. These percentages exclude
any junior ■ employees of the department who
may be promoted to the position of con-
ductor upon their attaining adult age.
* * * *
How to go about securing a diploma in Edu-
cation in Sydney? —s24l.
Candidates for the diploma in Education of
Sydney Uni. must first have qualified for a
degree in Arts, Science, Engineering, Eco-
nomics or; Agriculture. They are then re-
quired to attend courses and pass examina-
tions at the Uni. for one year.
* # * *
I wish to prospect for gold on a freehold
property in Queensland? What is the correct
way to go about getting a claim, and what
would I have to pay in rent, etc. ? —5236.
Apply to the nearest Warden for a permit
to enter under the Mining on Private Lands
Acts. During the currency of the permit, the
limit of which is 30 days, the holder thereof,
if he is also the holder of a miner’s right,
is entitled to peg out and apply to the Warden
for a claim to the extent allowed under the
Mining Acts and Regulations. No rent is pay-
able on a claim. The holder of the permit
to enter could apply for a goldmining lease
(rental £1 per acre per annum) instead of a
claim. In neither case is the miner entitled
to carry on active mining operations on the
private land until the matter of compensation
for surface area and right of way (if any) has
been arranged between the miner and the owner
of the land or determined in the Warden’s
Court.
* * * *
Where a woman has obtained a divorce and
the Court has made an order for alimony and
afterwards she marries again, has the alimony
still to be paid? —5336.
No; the Court may, on application to it by
the former husband and proof of the subsequent
remarriage being' produced to' it, discharge the
order for alimony.
* > * ■ * *
I am thinking of adopting a child and should
like to know, if I do so, whether the father
(the mother is dead) could in any way exer-
cise control over the child after adoption?—
5345. . ■„ .. t
No; an order of adoption ends all rights
and liabilities between the child and its natural
parents save the right of the child to inherit
property by reason of kinship.
* * * *
What is meant by a caveat and what is its
effect? —5363.
It is an entry in the form of a warning or
caution, literally “that he take heed,” made in
the books of the office of a registrar or court
to prevent a certain step being taken without
previous notice to the person who enters the
caveat and who is called the caveator.
Brief Answers.
G.L.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of De-
fence, Melbourne....E.S.H.: Mick Simmons,
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney, supplies 21b. steel
quoits at 14s. 9d. the pair, and 2£lb. at 17s. 9d.
(2) The firm is unable to supply pins, but these
can be made of any metal. (3) The pitch is
usually 48ft. long, and the clay pit at each end
is usually 3ft. square. (4) Pins are placed in
the centre of the clay pit, and are not less than
3ft. long. They should not project more than
3in E.L.: Interview the Inspector of Ex-
cise, Customs House, Circular Quay, Sydney.
....E.G.A.: Write Consul-General for United
States, United States Consular Service, 7 Wyn-
yard-street, Sydney... .S.W.M.: The great
thing is to exercise self-control, and to realise
that no serious damage is likely to have been
done to the nerves. Healthy interests of some
sort will occupy your mind and prevent you
from becoming increasingly neurotic. A good
general tonic is that known as Fellows’ Syrup,
taken three times daily... .G.G.: With engine
hot the inlet and exhaust valve clearances of
a 1934 Chevrolet should be .008in. and .015in.
respectively... .R.W.: Know of no details
other than those published. Author himself
may care to supply additional particulars. A
letter to him, care of this office, will be for-
warded .... P.R.: Down Under, by Thompson
(11s. 3d.) N.P.: Although a large number
of writers have issued their Bulletin verse in
book form, the only volumes in the nature of
anthologies of Bulletin verse which have
appeared are the Southern Garland, now out
of print, and The Bulletin Reciter and The
Bulletin Book of Humorous Recitations, both
obtainable from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney V.H.P.: (1) No Australian agents.
If you require English or American agents a list
will be sent on application... .H.C.H.: Write
Inquiry Office, Victoria Barracks, Sydney....
J.R.W.: Apply to your unit for the informa-
tion required C.C.: Correct pronunciation
is Fosh, the “o” being pronounced as in obey.
R.E.P. and M.W.G.: Write David Moore,
16 Bridge-street, Sydney... .G.H.W.W.: It was
named after William Pitt (1759-1806), Prime
Minister of England at the time of the found-
ing of the settlement.. . .Argument: (1) No, the
sum total of goods bought by all the South
American countries from U.S.A. greatly exceeds
the amount of goods bought by Australia from
U.S.A. (2) A vote against conscription was
recorded on both occasions K.R.: (1) No.
(2) Method of election, too lengthy to print on
this page, will be found in The Statesman’s
Year-Book, 1939 R.W.W.: Write C. J. V.
Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt (N.S.W.).
... .F.A.Q.: The “a” is pronounced as in arm,
and the “e” as in the first “e” of event....
P.S.: Translated it reads “Wales for Ever” and
“The Red Dragon Sets the Pace”....R.C.L.:
George Robey’s recent visit to Australia was his
first R.A.B.: Write to New Guinea Gold-
fields, 67 York-strcet, Sydney, or to Emperor
Gold Mines (Fiji), care of W. H. Smith and
Co., Collins-street, Melbourne... .H.M.: (1)
Inadvisable to try it unless you have experi-
ence. (2) A suitable launch and gear could
be bought for the money A.E.B.: Write
Under-Secretary, the Treasury, Canberra, A.C.T,.
K.A.: Write Special Press, 32 Jamiesofi-
street, Sydney F.W.B.: It is worth from
two to three guineas... .F.M.: Not obtainable
from ordinary sources of reference. It may
possibly be obtained by advertising, though
method would be costly and lengthy
V.N.: Edward Carson was Attorney-General in
the Asquith Ministry from June to October,
1915, was First Lord of the Admiralty under
Lloyd George from December, 1916, until July,
1917, when he quitted the Admiralty to be-
come a member of the War Cabinet without
portfolio, a position which he resigned at the
beginning of 1918... .E.B.: “The Great Aus-
tralian Adjective” will be found in The Bulle-
tin Reciter, obtainable from the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney W.C.: A letter addressed
to him care of the Australian Broadcasting
Commission, Russell-street, Melbourne, would
find him R.S.: (1) Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for pamphlet en-
titled “Soybeans.” (2) Seeds can be secured
from Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney, at 45s. per bushel S.C.: Write Mari-
time Services Board, Circular Quay, Sydney.
. ...A.T.W.: Henniker Heaton’s Australian
Dictionary of Dates and Men of the Time
was published in 1879 and has never been re-
vised. It is worth buying at the price you
mention M.S.: A naval lieutenant receives
18s. 6d. per day active pay and 3s. per day
deferred pay upon appointment; after four
years he receives 20s. per day active pay and
3s. 9d. deferred pay. He receives an allowance
for rations, unless they are provided in kind.
Marriage allowance is not payable I.R.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence Dept.,
Melbourne, Vic C.W.K.: See A Policy for
the Commonwealth, by James Edmond....
E.W.R.: Apply Conservatorium of Music,
Macquarie-street, Sydney E.N. and R.H.A. :
Write W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-
street, Sydney J.B.: Write to Principal
Librarian, Public Library of N.S.W., Macquarie-
street, Sydney. Minimum educational qualifi-
cation is a first-rate leaving certificate pass.
Salary varies according to age, university de-
gree, sex, etc J.McD.: A talent for mental
arithmetic, while it might prove valuable on
occasion, is no basis for a career, save pos-
sibly on the music-hall stage. There are
machines that can perform all the arithmetical
operations you mention with a few turns of a
handle J.M.: Write Thom and Smith, 29
Botany-road, Mascot (N.S.W.). . . .J.M.C.: The
probable price of a ton of flax straw would
be £5 P.J.: The realisation charge in re-
spect of gold in ores supplied to the Chillagoe
State smelters is 6s. per ounce W.M.C.:
If the employee is engaged in a rural industry
the terms of his employment will not be covered
by any N.S.W. State industrial award. There
is a possibility, however, that a Federal award
may apply. Address an inquiry to the Deputy
Industrial Registrar, Commonwealth Court of
Conciliation and Arbitration, Court House,
*Darlinghurst, Sydney. Inquiry in regard to the
operation of wages tax should be addressed to
the Commissioner for Taxation, 14 Castlereaghr
street, Sydney C.F.M.: The Elizabeth Kirbj
Bequest makes provision, subject to certain con-
ditions, for the establishing of returned soldiers
on the land. It is understood that legal matters
in respect to the terms of the will have not
yet been completed. Further information may
be obtained from the executors, Perpetual
Trustee Co., Sydney, to whom application for
assistance should be made direct.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
o
*
%po^
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Remedy the shortage of phosphorus in feed with
BONE FLOUR
Growing stock suffer sooner than mature animals from
calcium-phosphorus shortage in the feed; so do animals carry-
ing young or producing heavy milk yields. Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour remedies the deficiency and supplies the actual calcium
and phosphorus requirements of the animal in the best and
most reliable form. Tri-cal-os maintains good health, ensures
early maturity, increases production. It costs the farmer less
and goes further.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beating the Blowfly.
“Bungaree”: Don’t wait to cure sheep
after the fly has struck: attack the prob-
lem before any damage can be done. Fly
dressings alone aren’t sufficient; it’s neces-
sary to keep the britch and crutch area
as unattractive as possible to the fly.
Dipping with a reliable arsenical
powder dip, a month to six weeks off
shears, gives a certain protection. Two
mobs of sheep inspected recently, one
dipped, the other not, showed a large per-
centage of crutch strikes in the undipped.
Of those dipped only one sheep in 1400
was seriously blown; other strikes were
confined to small patches of very young
maggots. The arsenic in the wool checked
spreading and killed the maggots.
In many districts, however, dipping
gives only temporary protection. Jetting
is proving increasingly efficient. It is not
an alternative to crutching ; the two must
go together. One crutching, approxi-
mately six months after shearing, should
be enough, and jetting should be carried
out in the intervening periods, at intervals
regulated according to flystrike. Keep
an arsenic deposit as close to the sheep’s
skin as possible while flies are bad. Jet-
ting won’t keep flies from striking, but
it kills maggots as soon as they start to
feed.
Get rid of wrinkles in the breech area.
(Those graziers who have tried it all
favor the Mules operation.) Plain-bodied
sheep are not so much affected. Breeding
out the wrinkles takes generations to
accomplish and will not save present
flocks. The operation must be carried
out while the wool is short —soon after
shearing or crutching. It must be drasti-
cally done. The weather must be suit-
able, cool for preference, with an absence
of blowflies and little black flies.
Haphazard trapping of flies is of little
avail. Carried out on every property,
some results might be obtained after years
of systematic work, but there will always
be blowflies.
Lamb-killing Methods.
“Ghanam”: B. J. Stocks has had
some caustic things to say about lamb-
killing methods at the N.S.W. metropoli-
tan abattoirs. Lambs sent to Newcastle,
he said, were killed before 10 o’clock on
the morning of arrival. They averaged
99 p.c. first grade for export, the
slaughtering was faultless, and he esti-
mated that he was saved 21b. per carcass
through prompt and skilful handling. At
Homebush he watched the killing of 500
lambs. Slaughtering methods were
“dilatory” and carcasses were disfigured
by novice handling. Consignments aver-
aged only 71 p.c. first grade for export.
The superintendent of the abattoirs
replied that the mutton section was at
that time handling about 100,000
sheep and lambs per week, and lambs
might have been held two or three days,
in which case they would naturally lose
weight.
Also, he said, in a staff of 350
slaughterers, “some bad work was apt
to creep in despite the fact that there
was more supervision per hundred sheep
at Homebush than at any other works
in Australia and that the supervisors
were all competent men.” It would be
interesting to know what officialdom
would say to a private firm which
jeopardised the quality of available ex-
port i am b s by holding lambs and allow-
bacj “to creep in.”
Vanishing Horse.
. , . „ 1f ■
“Clyde : Unburdening himself in
, fe y E . L owe, of Dalhousie
. ’ d M , Dare (N TJ sa i d he
| 2 000 remounts, but as the
was me chanised he’d have to shoot
V market now ... he com .
b increasi ng”
°
He may be comforted by the rema
of a member of the Military Purchasi g
“Old Joe found Charlie kissing his missus."
Board after a buying tour in N.S.W.
Only in the north-west of the State could
he find a few Walers suitable for Light
Horse work. As for the rest: —• .
Generally 15 out of every 20 inspected
proved weedy and undersized, with light
bone, under or over age, infirm, with un-
sound legs, quartered hooves, ringbone,
spavin, signs of stringhalt, defective sight,
lumps and swellings, bad teeth, curbed
hocks, unbroken, badly broken or plain
outlaws.
A shocking indictment.
The little group discovered up Moree
way pleased the old Light Horseman’s
heart:
Excellent quality, of the splendid Waler
type of years ago, good heads and bodies,
exceptionally sound legs, standing well.
They would have graced any Light Horse
or cavalry squadron in the world. Alas,
they were a decided minority.
The district where these were found
is one of the few in Australia that go
in largely for the type of event at local
shows that encourages the breeder of
good stock horses (Walers).
Much better was said of the draughts.
Apparently there are plenty of good,
heavy horses on the farms, both light
and heavy.
The buyer refuses to accept the trotter
as a military horse:
I am not deriding their stamina and
courage. But as mounts for army pur-
poses—no!
The position is bad. Should there
come a shortage of petrol the mechan-
ised Light Horse regiments will want to
get back in the saddle. And if Australia
has to defend itself on land the horse
will be invaluable. Tractors and motor-
lorries would be immobilised after an
inch of rain in most of the country off
the main roads.
Profitable Pig Feeding.
“Pappamosca”: Spinaze Bros., of Tul-
lera, have interested the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department in pig-feeding experi-
ments.
Two Berkshire-Poland China sows were
mated to Tamworth boars. Before and
after farrowing, the pair were placed in
farrowing pens, each with a grass run.
The first was given 81b. of special
brood sow mixture the day after farrow-
ing (Dec. 28); this was maintained till
Feb. 1, when the amount was increased
to 121 b. So as to judge the milk value
of the food, the farrowing of seven was
not creep fed. The litter averaged
2.2141 b. at birth. By Jan. 20 the aver-
age was 13.281 b. On Feb. 28, when they
were weaned, the average was 38.141 b.
To weaning date, the sow had received
5561 b. of special meal and 112 gallons of
separated milk—cost £3 4s. 10d., or 3.08 d.
per pound liveweight gain. Each pig at
weaning point had cost 9s. 3d.
From that point onward, piglets were
given No. 2 special pigmeal, 3ilb. per
day, increasing to 71b., with 3igals. per
day skim. From three months old until
they reached bacon weight, the ration was
No. 3 special pigmeal, 121 b. per day,
gradually increased to 351 b., with five
gallons of milk per day between the
seven. The cost of bringing the animals
to bacon weight totalled £1 Bs. 5Jd. per
pig. At sale, they averaged £2 13s.
showing a surplus over food cost of
16s. lfd. per pig.
The second sow was given three daily
feeds each of 3gals. of milk with 21b.
bran at the evening meal. Her pigs aver-
aged 2.1421 b. at birth and 321 b. at wean-
ing age. From then onward to baconer
condition at seven months and five days,
the ration began at 41b. wheat and sgals.
separated milk per day and was eased up
gradually to 281 b. wheat and lOgals.
separated milk for the litter. The wheat
was at first fed dry, but in midwinter it
was boiled. The cost per pig worked out
finally at £1 13s. 3|d. The animals were
sold for £2 10s. lid. average, showing
profit of 16s. lOd. per pig, but leg length
and conformation were not so good as
were produced in the special-meal-fed
pigs.
For the farm where the milk supply
is limited, the first method is obviously
the better. With 20,000 gallons of skim
per annum available, each pig requiring
102 gallons, 196 pigs could be raised at
an actual profit of £ 157-odd. Under the
second system, which calls for 236 gallons
per pig, only 85 animals could be fed at
a total profit of £7l 10s.
More About Pig Weights.
“Dennis”: Queensland Agricultural
Department has recently set out the cor-
rect weights at which pigs should be
marketed.
Bacon pigs for local sale should turn
the scale at from 1401 b. to 1801 b. live-
weight, giving a dressed
carcass of between 901 b.
and 1201 b. Heavier
baconers are saleable up
to 2201 b. liveweight, but
they will bring a smaller
price. For export, the
liveweight range should
be from 1751 b. to
2201b—1201b. to 1601 b.
dressed. Both for local
and export sale, flesh and
not fat should make up
the weight. No buyer
likes the overfat pig.
Porkers should be
prime at from 951 b. to
1391 b. liveweight. Car-
casses must be free from
marks and damage, and
fatting in porkers must
be medium.
Pigs should not be fed
immediately before they
are sent for sale, and
great care should be
taken in transit to avoid
bruising. Feeding before
loading leads to interior
disorders while the
animals are in the trucks,
and also helps weight
shrinkage. Sows which
are intended for small-
goodsmen should not be
in pig more than a
month preferably not at all and
should have weaned litters at least two
months before being sold.
Northern N.S.W. Wheat.
“Corona”: According to silo authori-
ties the northern N.S.W. wheat harvest
will total about half that of last year’s
record: farmers say two-thirds. Falling
off is due to two factors, dry weather
from early August to mid-October and
severe frosts.
Frost damage, though the worst re-
corded in the north, was very patchy.
On some farms crops are heavy in some
paddocks and complete failures in others.
Even in the best crops there were badly-
damaged patches.
The prolific, highly rust-resistant Ford
was again the most popular variety
among R.A.S. competitors. Bencubbin
had its first success.
Plant-breeders believe the Westralian
wheat will become the most important
variety in the Commonwealth.
Geeralying, discarded from the recom-
mended lists (B. 8/11/’39), gave further
evidence of its suitability for late sowing
in earlier districts. Highly resistant to


BE COOLTHIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
IBn
SK*
PER PAIR
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They re serviceable and comfortable;
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long-time wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
53 Castlereagh Street,
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED DY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write tor Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
k
...
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fane}, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
m
nfitw
.‘tm*
m
m
(P*
PM
|}Wi
U 9
5*3!
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling co'st—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, a'nd one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
.xipflfp
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
0/ \O
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
jTuT&xzllefztfL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St.. Sydney
flag smut and stem rust, it is liable in dry
districts to shedding, but is regarded as a
bag-filler.
The new rustproof wheats have yet to
figure in a competition crop. Some
farmers had small acreages of Fedweb 1,
Hofed and Eureka, as well as the Tuni-
sian wheat Cailloux. Mostly, moderate
yields are anticipated. More experience
of their usefulness is needed before they
are widely adopted. A heavy crop of
Bordan (Bearded Reiti x Ford x Dan), a
variety which last year won the southern
championship, is reported at Inverell.
According to R.A.S. standards, Waddell
Bros., of Oakwood, near Inverell, grew
the 1939 champion crop. It was Ford,
likely to yield 15 bags an acre. This is
their fourth title. J. G. Hotchkiss, Bara-
dine (Bencubbin), was second, and Ryder
and Rees, Boggabri (Geeralying), were
third.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: A Grenfell (N.S.W.)
wheatgrower has evolved a satisfactory
method of feeding his pigs according to
their size. He built four feeding yards,
each half a chain square, side by side,
with one end adjoining a 50-acre pad-
dock in which the pigs are grazed. There
is a feeding-trough in each yard, with
a gate leading from the yard into the
50-acre paddock. Those between the first
and second yards are set at such a size
that the largest pigs can pass through.
The gates in each of the other two divid-
ing fences are progressively smaller, so
that only the smallest pigs can enter the
farthest yard. The trough in the farthest
yard is filled first, and the smallest pigs
go through to get to it. The trough in
the next yard is then filled, and so
on. Pigs sort themselves out at feeding
time, get their fair share of food and
have ample range for exercise in the big
paddock at other times. Dennis soon
gets used to the system.
“Bundalinga”: When young pigs
reach the weaning stage, give them a
daily ration of 61b. of pollard, 101 b. of
ground chaff, 41b. of lucerne chaff, soaked
in 4gal. of skim-milk, this mixture being
sufficient for about 10 pigs. The lucerne
chaff can be replaced by about 141 b.
fresh-cut green lucerne, or separated
milk, barley-meal and bran or pollard.
“Mulyan”: A hardy, dry-country grass
with much to commend it is satin top.
Horses, sheep and cattle relish it and
fatten quickly. Its deep roots enable it
to withstand drought and make it a valu-
able soil-binder. In its native state it
grows to about 3ft. high ; under culti-
vation it reaches. sft. to 6ft., with a
greater density of soft leafage, and makes
excellent hay. Being a free-seeder, easy
to harvest, and germinating quickly after
rain, it is a good grass to propagate from
the hotter eastern districts to the far-
mland.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Some eucalypts, par-
ticularly when cut in spring and early
summer, give a lot of trouble gumming
up saws. Even hand-saws and crosscuts
suffer. With circular saws there is risk
of serious accidents from heating or
binding. The deposit collects in the gul-
lets and on the sides of the teeth where
protected by the set. If not removed
before gulleting it will clog the wheel
or file, and it often needs removing be-
tween sharpenings. The remedy is weak
caustic-soda solution, loz. to one gallon
of water, applied on rag or waste to all
affected parts. This soon softens the
deposit, which can be rubbed or scraped
off. Be careful to keep the solution away
from the eyes. If hands are irritated by
it, a little vinegar or boracic acid will
neutralise the caustic effects.
“Valerin”: Rain has brought on an
outbreak of mycotic dermatitis among
Riverina sheep. Have heard it said that
recent research discounts the theory that
m.d. is highly infectious. Is there anything
definite on this point? When sheep were
valuable, we used a weak solution of
bluestone with varying results. Other-
wise the animal was slaughtered and the
carcass burnt. Another assertion is that
the meat of an affected sheep is whole-
some and fit for human consumption.
Any information?
“Murphy”: N. S. Wales Department
of Agriculture complains that potato-
grading regulations are often disregarded.
There are five grades. No. 1 is the per-
fect mature over 3oz. potato ; it should
not worry coastal growers, with whom
the department is most concerned. No.
2 is the immature skin, between Hoz.
and 3|oz., reasonably free from second
growth, mechanical injury, decay, dirt,
disease and insect injury. Chat grade
conforms roughly to the same conditions,
but is less than 2oz. New potatoes
must not be less than 2oz. from October
to January, and for the remainder of the
year must not b£ under 3oz. The greatest
error into which growers fall is to grade
immature-skinned spuds less than 3oz. in
weight as No. 1. Fertiliser bags must
not be used for potatoes, and all bags
containing lcwt. or more must be
branded in plain letters 2in. or more high
with the name and address of the grower
and the grade mark.
“Hume”: On his 620-acre farm in
Boorowa (N.S.W.) district, F. C. Clark
has had notable success in combating
erosion by sowing sub. clover. This
addition to native grasses formed a thick
sward on 510 acres, effectively holding
the surface soil and increasing its fer-
tility. Gullying, which was serious when
the problem was tackled first, has been
overcome by putting in concrete dams.
“Mt. Boppy”: Three miles of contour
banks, with a fall of a \ p.c., have been
constructed to control soil erosion by
W. I. Nixon, Redwin, Temora (N.S.W.).
No stubble is burned on the wheat
paddocks as a further effort to control
erosion. Pastures are topdressed with
601 b. of superphosphate per acre
annually, the result being a heavy growth
that holds the soil.
“Yeno Ham”: Conditions in all
N.S.W. dairying districts are sound. Pro-
duction of butter is expected to reach
new records in many areas. Rain in
October hastened the growth of crops
and pastures in both coastal and inland
districts. Stock made quick recovery
from the setbacks of the short dry spell
following the winter. Production in-
creased rapidly on the coast, especially
where pastures had been improved and
topdressed. After the experience of last
season inland dairy-farmers have taken
the precaution of building up fodder re-
serves by pitting cereal crops, most of
which were heavy. Pasture growth was
phenomenal, especially in the central
west, where surplus herbage was con-
served in large quantities. Britain is to
pay 1365. 4|d. per cwt. for Australian
butter during the next 12 months.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
I store pumpkins in a dry place, as winter
pig feed, with and without layers of straw.
Some seasons they keep splendidly; other
seasons, a fair percentage of them go rotten.
Why?—s\M.
Pumpkins and squashes matured on the vine
keep better than if harvested and stored im-
mature. Scratching and bruising caused by
careless handling during harvest and transport
must be avoided. In harvesting cut the stem
about 2in. from the shell. Storage on shelves
in a well-ventilated shed is most satisfactory.
Avoid piling the pumpkins on top of one
another, and for preference place them on a
layer of straw, wood shavings or pine needles.
* * * *
Best treatment for lampas in horses? Is it
necessary to have lampas cut or burnt to re-
move it entirely? —s26B.
Lampas is not a disease but an ulcerated
condition of the hard palate, thought to be due
to the eruption of the permanent teeth. Feed
soft foods and allow ample cold water. The
irritated tissues of the mouth may be washed
with loz. alum in a pint of water. If the
trouble persists, lightly scarify with a sharp
knife. In no circumstances should any
attempt be made to burn out the affected area.
Harsh foods, irritating medicines and strong
antiseptics will cause the lampas mouth to
become very painful.
* * * *
I want to attach a small blower to a sepa-
rator to act as a cream cooler. What device is
most suitable to suck the air through to obtain
a cold stream and not taint the cream. Would
a sponge soaked in water do ? —5273.
It’s difficult. Trouble would be experienced
in obtaining air low enough in temperature to
be effective; also it would not necessarily be
sterile. An ice-box would be the only effective
method of obtaining the cool air, a sponge
being unsatisfactory as it would require fre-
quent dipping in cold water. The pipe itself
would have to be kept thoroughly clean —
any bends in "it would render sterilisation more
difficult. It would be necessary for the pipe
to be of stainless steel or of metal well tinned
internally. Even then it would be of little
practical use as a cooling medium, though of
some value as an aerator if the air was pure.
The chances are that, in most cases, it would
do more harm than good. The ordinary cream
cooler, through which cold water is run, is
much more efficient, provided the cream flows
over the cooler slowly.


THE OTHER
FELLOE'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2£d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
For challenging our national complacency in a pointed little article a man
who writes from Reefton (N.S.W.) is awarded double rates.
The “They” Complex
Australians seem to be developing a
mentality favorable to dictatorship. If
not, why is it that in referring to our
Government we almost invariably say
“they,” and say it as if “they” were a
secret and awful divinity of infinite
power and capacity?
“I wonder if ‘they’ will introduce con-
scription,” “I wonder if ‘they’ will extend
the life of Parliament,” or “I wonder if
‘they’ will give us so-and-so,” we timidly
whisper to each other. As if these
matters were beyond our comprehension
or control.
What an abject and inferior attitude
for democrats! If it were a question of
“Shall ‘we’ give ourselves so-and-so?”
the folly of expecting Government
handouts for everybody would become
apparent to all. But that attitude would
require thought and intense study of
political and economic questions, and such
things are a weariness to the flesh. It is
much easier to go to the “tin hares” and
leave all the perplexities to “them.” And
“they” cannot really be blamed for tak-
ing advantage of our apathy.—E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
“E. O. S.” is E. O. Schlunke, of Reef-
ton, N.S.W.
Youth and the War
The attitude of modern youth to this
war may be puzzling to many of an
older and bolder generation, but it is not
surprising to us —for almost a decade
now the press has been filled with vivid
word-pictures of the horrors of war,
robbing it of all its horsefeathers.
The depression, too, has done its part.
Dole queues do not breed patriotism,
and it is useless to promise men who
have never had jobs that they will return
(if they return) to a better and brighter
world. Politicians have for so long
blamed the last war for the depression
that modern youth can think of this war
only in terms of the depression it will
bring.
The sooner those responsible for man-
ning our fighting forces realise that they
are dealing, not with patriots, but with
disillusioned men, the sooner their efforts
will meet with the success that is neces-
sary to keep our end up.
The only remedy I can suggest is to
use the old method—roll out the big
drum, start the parades going, start the
gals off on the old white-feather and
preference-for-soldiers’ campaigns (cruel,
no doubt, but effective), and get hold of
a couple of experienced publicity men to
run the show. Billy Hughes might do
some good, but many of us who heard
him speaking during the recent militia
recruiting campaign wondered if the
much-vaunted Hughes rhetoric was only
a myth.
They will need all that and more if
they are to impress such case-hardened
cynics as the one on our mess-deck
(“joined ’cause he had to eat”) who re-
marked as he opened his pay envelope,
“What price patriotism at four and seven-
pence ha’penny a day!”— Matalon
(N.S.W.).
On the Other Side
It must be a sense of inferiority that
afflicts Anzacs in general, or else both
M.L. and Australia have the capacity for
muddling through. Here in M.L. we hear
constant reports of how well things are
run across the other side. Thousands of
recruits flock to the A.1.F., everything is
in readiness, no delay, no red-tape.
There’s no doubt about it those Aussies
can run a war.
On the other hand we read papers from
every State showing what a mess is being
made of things. The Bulletin shows
how General Muddle is in complete
charge. M.L. is held up as a shining
example—better pay, better food, uni-
forms ready and ready response. Yet
here we have witnessed lack of uniforms,
bad food, dissatisfaction.
Well, surely both Dominions can’t be
right. Is one better than the other, or is
this a method of increasing the glorious
bond of Anzac? —N. M. (M.L.).
Militia Leave
My daily paper informs me that
Barnett “will have no difficulty in obtain-
ing leave to lead the Vic. XI against
S.A.” Also that Quist will play in the
N.S.W. championships, “although it was
at first feared he might not be able
to get leave.”
Meanwhile I am four weeks late start-
ing shearing, as my contractor had 26
men called up (for the militia) in one
week. Wet weather has been a con-
tributing factor, certainly.
It all means I will be a month late
selling my off-shears sheep, and will be
dipping and harvesting at the same time.
Evidently the Defence authorities in-
tend to have a sporting contest with
Germany to see who will have New
Guinea.—P. E. C. (Vic.).
Babbling Brooks
If James Henry’s assertions re army
cooks (B. 1/11/’39) are correct, I can
only be thankful that I chose the navy
for my early war training.
Those babblers could cook, not fancy
dishes —though I daresay they could have
risen to the occasion but the good,
clean, wholesome food that expands
tummies, chests and shoulders and sinks
Emdens.
But “J.H.” errs when he calls on the
ladies to take over the army’s galleys.
Good cooks in a small way I grant, but
when it comes to turning on real food
for a big team of fussy chaps shearers’
cooks can leave ’em standing.
Muster up the shearers’ babb Was
that the sea roaring or the beginnings
of a mighty “greasies”’ wail? Cripes!
Better enlist the women after all.— Nap
(N.S.W.).
Second A.LF.
In days gone by I saw the first mob
of Aussies arrive in France. Prices
rose all round within a few days of their
arrival, but the Aussies took the eye be-
cause their splendid physique was en-
hanced by the dashing cut of the most
attractive uniform to grace the (last)
Great War. Allied to which, their inde-
pendence and individuality, not to men-
tion their cussedness, made of them the
most popular soldiers ever seen in Great
Britain.
That was more than 20 years ago. Now,
my work takes me each day and all day
in and through Liverpool (N.S.W.) camp.
There I have watched daily duds of raw
recruits being drilled into soldiers. Natu-
rally, we old hands, with memories of
the first A.I.F. and its unrivalled quali-
ties, watched this new generation of sol-
diers with kindly tolerance, knowing, of
course, that the first A.I.F. had set a
standard to which no other could ever
attain.
I apologise for my kindly tolerance. A
day or two ago I was a spectator of a
full parade of the new troops (Second
A.1.F.) being inspected by one of the
powers that be. Suddenly I woke up.
Here was the equal in the making of the
magnificent force that back-chatted death
in 1915-16-17-18. Soldierly bearing,
magnificent physique, drilled to an almost
incredible pitch of efficiency in such a
short time, and officered by the typical
Australian officer (by which I mean they
appear to be less class-conscious than
the more straitlaced British Army
officers).
Take my tip, the Second A.I.F. will, in
the not distant future, prove to be the
equal of the first A.I.F.
Muddle there may be in this war, but
in the training of raw recruits this
country is pretty slick. —T. J. Palmer
(N.S.W.).
Censorship
In peace the whole truth is hard to
find. During war it is hidden at the
bottom of a well of printer’s ink, and it
is part of the censor’s job to keep it
there.
During the 1914-18 scrap “Stead’s
Review” tried to tell some of the facts,
but the script was so curtailed by the
censor that it was like a dog with its
tail amputated close behind the ears. In
desperation the editor used The Bulletin
to slap the face of the executioner.
Typing out three long articles that had
already appeared in The Bully, he sub-
mitted them to the authorities as if they
were his own work. They were returned
about 90 p.c. blue-pencilled. Then he
published that story without the official
sanction.
To fill his empty columns he attempted
to publish Rex Beach’s Winds of Chance
in serial form, but was prevented from
doing so. Uncle Sam was nootral just
then, and anything neutral was suspect.
Yet the novel was on sale at all book-
stalls a few weeks later, and contained
not a single reference to any war, past,
present or future.
Is it possible to be truthful and
patriotic at the same time? — Free Press
(S.A.).
For Peace
Great Britain is the only nation in the
world in a position to make peace —with
her there is the invincible combination
of might and right. Being the greatest
nation in every sense she should call a
peace conference as soon as possible. She
has no claims against any nation, and
wants nothing more than to see justice
done; she fears no nation and hates no
nation.
A peace conference called by Britain
might achieve great results to the lasting
benefit of Europe and for nations far
beyond. It is well worth while, and no
highmightiness should stand in the way,
for war means nothing but carnage and
waste and ruin, and the only element
which will profit by it is Communism.
Disaster of such magnitude should be
avoided if at all possible, and the world
can look only to Great Britain to take
the lead.
History shows that war does not solve
half as many problems as it creates. Sus-
tained by its own strength, the British
Empire can launch a big movement for
peace which could hardly fail. In any
case, it would be a glorious manifestation
of Britain’s supremacy amongst the
nations.— Fitzjay (M.L.).
War Aims and Causes
Wide and varied as are the views on
war aims (Uncabled Additions 1/11/’39),
there is one curious omission that seems
to be general. Most of the writers agree
that the peace terms must ensure a last-
ing peace, that the mistakes of Versailles
must not be repeated, and that the Ger-
man people must be free to work out
their own political destiny unhampered,
and to all of that one can readily sub-
scribe. It does not, however, lead any-
where. We are making war to prevent
war, and therefore no statement of war
aims is of any value unless it is made in
full understanding of war causes. In no
case is there any recognition of the simple
fact that these must be removed if peace
is to be lasting.
To us, German aggression is the cause
of war. The German people, on the
other hand, believe that territorial ex-
pansion, particularly in south-eastern
Europe, is necessary to their very exist-
ence. It is not the land they want, but
the raw materials —oil, grain, minerals
and the rest. They have tried, they will
tell you, to trade them for their manu-
factured goods, but even raw-material
countries are developing their own
secondary industries, and everywhere
tariff walls are raised against them. They
have the alternative, they believe, of slow
economic starvation or that of conquest
by force of arms.
Their bankruptcy may be largely due
to mismanagement and a colossal arma-
ment bill, but the German point of view
is not entirely wrong. It is only her eco-
nomic insufficiency that has driven her
to Russia against her political convic-
tions.
Similarly placed we, too, would be
tempted to fight our way out, so let us
hear less about the moral issues and more
about the real causes of war when war
aims are discussed. Of course, if there is
not enough to go round and the Germans
or ourselves must starve, let us get on
with the business of carnage, but exter-
minating 80 million Germans will not be
easy. I believe that there is enough
to go round, and that the sooner we
tackle the job of some fairer distribution
of raw materials the better. It might go
further than platitudes towards eliminat-
ing future wars. —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Latent Ability
I live in a country town where before
the war all social functions were run by
the same set which is now running the
Red Cross, the comforts fund, auxiliary
nursing, etc,, and all social functions con-
nected therewith. The members of the
set are glorying in the change from ordi-
nary routine social affairs, and their en-
thusiasm is, I think, deserving of some
praise.
But here’s the point. A glimpse
through the town’s register of women,
wherein every woman is asked to state
how best she can serve her country and
her qualifications, revealed that women
who do not move in social circles, who
have no gadabout propensities, indeed,
whose names are seldom if ever heard,
have most enviable qualifications and
records. The Mayor of the town was so
much impressed by the record of one
woman of whom he had never heard, and
who had served in the last war as an
ambulance driver overseas and had
received a decoration equivalent to the
V.C., that he made haste to visit her.
Social monopoly is prevalent in many
Australian towns to-day, and the lime-
lighters are not altogether to blame.
Someone has to keep society and the
social swing going, and they are ever the
willing ones, and so it becomes a habit.
Much of the fault of social monopoly
lies with those persons of real ability who
are satisfied to let the other fellow run the
show, although they know they could
do the job ten times as well.—S. C. W.
(Q-).
No Inflation
It’s to be hoped that the prices which
Britain pays for Australia’s surplus
primary products during the war do not
go to excessively high levels, because
readjustments necessary after the war
will cause enough trouble, even on the
moderate levels disclosed in the initial
contracts.
We don’t want skyrocket prices, such
as were paid for butter in the last war.
Land values were inflated as a result, and
land prices, in many instances, jumped
from £6O to £l2O per acre in a few
months. The sellers may have cheered
the rise, but the buyers have had mill-
stones round their necks ever since.—
E. Kib (N.S.W.).
Progress
Shortly before the war broke out I read
in O.F.M. that mankind had improved
and progressed morally as well as materi-
ally. The theory was immediately
attacked and apparently disproved by an-
other contributor who based his argu-
ment on the piling-up of armaments by
the Powers and near-Powers.
I maintain that there has been moral
progress. That there is a war going on
at present doesn’t bear very heavily on
the question, for the universal convic-
tion is that war, and particularly war of
aggression, is wrong. Yet no long jour-
ney back into history would be required
to find a time when war of any descrip-
tion was considered legitimate and justi-
fiable.
Moral progress does not show itself in
improvement in the relations between
one man and another, but rather in the
development of a mass conscience which
condemns widespread abuses. It has
generally depended on the efforts of high-
souled men and women for its advances,
and has always had to meet the opposi-
tion of the majority who dislike change
of any kind —slavery and child labor are
good examples. Pogroms at one time
were common enough to escape notice
or even adverse comment, but the recent
ill-treatment of Jews in Germany has
caused a storm of indignation all over
the world.
Moral standards keep on changing, and
what we now consider right and proper
may be regarded by our grandchildren as
unjust and immoral. Perhaps our present
wage system, which keeps many poor so
that the few may be wealthy, may be a
future example of this. There are already
indications that it will — Anither (Q.).
Are Times Hard?
The truth about hard times is that
times have never been easy except on
odd patches of the earth’s surface. Some-
where, every now and then, some folks
have always been getting it in the neck.
The Sultan of Turkey used to have
Armenians, tied up in bundles and thrown
into the sea, and that was all right so
long as you weren’t an Armenian. At
about the same time the Tsar of Russia
used to have periodical massacres of his
Jewish subjects, and when he wasn’t
doing that he was herding a lot of his
Christian subjects off to exile in Siberia.
And that was all right by everybody who
was neither Jew nor Nihilist. Then a
little later old Leopold 11. of Belgium
had his recalcitrant Congo subjects nailed
to trees, where they had various parts
of their anatomy chopped off. And that
was all right so long as you weren’t a
Congoite.
It’s been the same right through his-
tory. Times were hard for the early
Christians when they were fed to the


lions, but those who looked on found
the times not so bad. Every few years
thousands of our Indian cousins in Hin-
dustan have perished from famine, but
no one objected very much except those
who were doing the perish.
It’s only when the wolf begins nosing
about our own doorstep that we begin to
squeal and say the world is going to pot.
It will recover. Better To-morrow
(N.S.W.).
Basic Wage Substitute
I am convinced that much of Aus-
tralia’s economic trouble can be blamed
on the basic-wage fallacy.
The wage is determined, not on what
a man can do or the value of his produc-
tion, but on the existing cost of keeping
himself, wife and one or more children.
This conflicts with the law of supply and
demand.
From this bad start Government went
on to a worse blunder by fixing the wages
to be paid to boys and girls of varying
ages. How can the human effort have
varying values for the same class of
work, which is what the basic wage
suggests when it makes one rate for (say)
a female typist and another for a male
typist?
Actually, the most important man in
the community (the husband and father)
is told that a certain wage is his for a
certain class of work, but he is not told
how or where he might obtain that work.
Obviously, since the machine now plays
so big a part in production, there is no
demand for his efforts at the wage fixed
when the same effort can be bought
cheaper from youths and girls.
Moreover, once a system of basic wage
fixation was established, political parties
set out to snare votes by promising to
increase the wage, and in no time friends
of the successful party were clamoring
for rewards. Governments became big
employers, more and more departments
were created. Every State Government
was forced into borrowing to maintain its
workers. Thus it was no longer able
to stand aside and exercise that clarity
of vision of a third party between em-
ployer and employee which is so neces-
sary to good government.
The only reason why the whole system
has not proven more economically disas-
trous is because most of us have learned
to live by taking in one another’s wash-
ing.
My suggestion is a sales tax of 33 1-3
p.c. to establish a fund for the support
of women and children. Taking the
present basic wage at £4, my idea is that
the man should be paid £2 10s. by his
employer and £1 10s. from sales tax,
this latter payment to continue if the
man was unemployed. Unemployment
relief and insurance taxes would become
unnecessary, and the fact that the man
was on a lower actual wage unit would
give him an equal chance with the youth
or the girl.
The working man, knowing that one-
third of the value of his production was
making security for his family, would not
be open to agitation and stop-work
tactics.
This should reduce cost of gov-
ernment and general taxation, and private
enterprise could get on its feet again,
employing more and possibly paying
more as the labor supply was reduced.
I do not claim that the suggestion is
without weaknesses. It is offered in the
hope of stimulating discussion. —D. S.
(Q.).
Envy the Farmer
It isn’t altogether the man on the
land’s more scientific running of his
business that is responsible for his “com-
prehensive knowledge and judgment, sur-
passed by few in any walk of life” (B.
l/11/’39). There are certain circum-
stances inseparable from life on the land
that gave him that distinction long before
he began taking notice of soil-analysis,
herd-testing and breeding-charts.
Running his place develops his faculty
of self-reliance and habit of finding
things out for himself; he has fewer
newspapers to read, but more oppor-
tunities for digesting what he does read ;
and putting these reflections and experi-
ments into words, as he does in con-
versation with his neighbors, he develops
the capacity for efficient thinking.
A man in any other job, by developing
his powers of self-reliance and original
inquiry, reflecting more on what he reads,
sees and hears, and making expression
balance impression, can achieve a like
efficiency. Unfortunately the circum-
stances of most other jobs aren’t
conducive to such symmetrical self-
development, and that’s why, compared
with the townsman, the man on the land
is not only so efficient, but also in more
than one sense much more his own boss.
—Timothy Tywire (Q.),
Now’s the Time
Faced with participation in a war, Aus-
tralians should give earnest consideration
to the simplification of government by
the abolition of State Parliaments. War-
time measures will mean that the Federal
Government will be supreme, and on all
important questions the State Parliaments
will have no say. They will deal with
purely domestic affairs.
Although their field will be curbed
there will be no reduction in the cost of
maintaining State Parliaments, and they
will not vacate the field of taxation. The
logical thing is for the Federal Govern-
ment to take over the whole job of run-
ning the Commonwealth. A small com-
mission, appointed from the best brains
of the present State Houses, would be
sufficient to look after affairs of govern-
ment in specified areas, acting on the
instructions of the Federal Parliament.
Taxation, transport, police, education,
health, legal matters, agriculture and war-
time precautions can be administered
better by one Government, as it is vital
that anomalies, overlapping and policies
of strangulation should be eliminated.
Cost of government would be immedi-
ately reduced by the elimination of
salaries to State Governors, members and
their useless trappings and hangers-on.
With Federal departments taking over
State organisations all national work will
be co-ordinated and administered by a
central body, which would avoid delay
and make for greater efficiency.
It is essential more than ever that all
weaknesses in our system should be eradi-
cated, and that the nation should be
united under one control. Measures
taken already indicate that supreme
power will be vested in the Federal Gov-
ernment, so there is no argument against
scrapping the expensive State excres-
cences. — James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Railway Losses
“Eulo” (B. 4/10/’39), discussing the
Queensland Public Works Committee’s
recommendation that the Charleville-
Blackall line should be built at a cost of
£1,170,000, with an expected annual loss
of £20,000, says “Public Works Com-
mittees are like that.” And all too many
par.-writers are like that, too. Not long
back when the subject was under discus-
sion, a graziers’ organisation from the
district, quoted in The Bulletin, put the
saving in drought losses which the line
would have effected as about ten million
in the last 10 years, at which rate the line
would have paid for itself inside two
years.
Of course, the department would lose
—graziers whose starving stock is carried
at the taxpayers’ expense make full use
of aviation and road transport —but what
odds if the State benefits?
My own opinion, for what it is worth,
is that an annual loss of £20,000, repre-
senting local fuel and wages, is not a great
deal to set against a saving of a million
every dry spell.
There’s a sight too much muddled
thinking about these so-called rail
“losses” —my worst grouse against The
Bulletin, incidentally—and the sooner
it is realised that a transport industry
whose rates are fixed solely by the ability
or willingness of its clients to pay can-
not possibly operate on an economic
basis, the better for all concerned. —Ex-
Loco (India).
Something Dramatic
Drama Week came and went and the
majority of ordinary folk were ignorant
that it had even occurred. Among cer-
tain highbrow circles there has been a
prolonged wail to the effect that Aus-
tralians are not dramatically minded.
Perhaps they are right. Certainly we
hear a deal of grumbling about the need
for a State opera house —to be built,
of course, at the expense of the ordinary
taxpayer for the “best people” to swank
it to the full. But that is not national
drama.
The sentimental vaporising of centuries
has robbed British peoples of their
national theatre. What the Puritans did
not do the politicians, their direct de-
scendants, accomplished perfectly, and
the theatre is still a prim and respectable
form of entertainment instead of a cul-
tural inheritance.
If we scrapped the whole mechanism
of foreign artists and repertory sentimen-
talising, and substituted a wider scheme
for producing plays out of doors, we
would accomplish two things. We would
take drama back to the people and open
up a big field for writers and we would
remind our leaders that there is, in the
great body of Australian people, some-
thing that can express itself in art.—N. B.
(N.S.W.).
Payment for Copy
Have just been shown a small cheque
obtained by a friend from a Melbourne
paper. Amount is under £1 and on our
calculations about two shillings shy at
correct linage rates.
If he puts it through his bank my
friend has to wait 10 days for his money
and has to suffer a further reduction of
8d., being exchange and stamp duty. In
all he loses about one-quarter of the true
value of the copy he sold.
Seems to me that small amounts should
be paid (as The Bulletin pays them)
in postal notes, which are readily cashed.
—Reporter (Q.).
Photo. Competitions
If Selma Whittaker (B. l/ll/’39) reads
carefully conditions of photographic and
kindred competitions she will find poked
away in some corner in fine print “all
photographs, slogans (or as the case may
be) will remain the property of the pro-
moters of the competition.”
It is far preferable to submit the
photos, as you would a manuscript, and
I feel sure that the advertising depart-
ment of any worth-while business would
think twice before “knocking back” a
really suitable and snappy slogan. —
F.A.B. (N.S.W.).
An Australian Poet Laureate
It is sad but true that although Aus-
tralia has had her share of talented poets
she still offers them little encouragement.
To revive public interest in their native
verse why not institute the office of Poet
Laureate or its Australian equivalent? We
have several good poets who would
eagerly compete for the coveted title, and
excellent material and talent should be
unearthed. — Petermac (N.S.W.).
‘‘Bulletin” Stories
If Austin McCallum (B. 1/11 /’39) has
read stuff dished up by journals which
deal in syndicated matter he shouldn’t
object to a uniformity of style in The
Bulletin’s short stories. I’ve always
found variety as well as quality in the
fiction pages of that paper. There are
types of stories I can’t be bothered with,
but they must suit the tastes of some
readers or they wouldn’t be printed.
These points I always bear in mind
when looking over The Bulletin stories.
They are published purely on their
merits, they are original, they are pro-
ducts of local industry and are not
bought at so much a dozen from over-
seas markets. Whether they tell of rat-
catchers or bearded ladies doesn’t seem
to matter so long as the yarns are well
presented, — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
“Refined Foods”
If it costs so much to bleach g°°
sugar (B. l/ll/’39), why do 1, wflo
do all I can to feed my family ° n
Nature’s simple foods, have to pay 4 2 a.
a pound for raw sugar? Why is unpol-
ished rice dearer than the polished pro-
duct? And why is white flour cheaper
than wholemeal?
A mother of six told me recently that
it is impossible for her to give her family
“health foods” because of the cost. An-
other mother said, “My children prefer
honey to sugar on their breakfast cereal,
but I had to cut it out because honey
costs more than sugar.”
Why not encourage the use of the more
nourishing foods by bringing them within
reach of all, and let those who want
“refined” foods pay for the luxury?
M. G. (N.S.W.).
“Noo”
We often adopt novel Yankee slang
expressions in our speech, but fortunately
the craze gradually fades out.
I am astonished, however, by the large
number of Aussies who carelessly say
“noo” for new, “dooty” for duty, and
(without sarcasm) an increasing number
now say “nootral” instead of neutral.
Words like “institution” and “constitu-
tion” are similarly abused.
This practice is slovenly, offends the
ear of any lover of good oral English,
and is considered by many to be a
definite sign of ignorance. — Crusader
(N.S.W.).
The Roley-poley Boys
One item that should be put on the pro-
hibited-import list is the alleged wrestler
from the Nootral Republic.
Real wrestling, except to its most de-
voted adherents, is painfully boring to
watch. The stuff these beefy Yanks
serve up wouldn’t deceive a child.
I watched one start to howl over an
alleged kick in the stomach before the
other fellow’s hoof left the floor. They
give each other short-arm jolts, rabbit-
killers and kicks, and though they make
out they’re badly hurt and the mob howls
delightedly, few of the blows and kicks
would knock a chop off a gridiron.
Seen once, their absurd antics with
the referee are amusing ; after that they’re
sickening.
One of the reasons they get by is that
women fill the place at their every
appearance. Another is that listeners to
a well-put-over radio description of the
foolery become carried away by what
they believe to be authentic savagery,
and make up their minds to go to see the
next grapple.— Give-us-fight (N.S.W.).
Slum Children
Children being reared in the slum areas
of our big cities are not getting a fair
deal. Their parents are not to blame, for
it is not their fault that they are forced
to live in such uninviting suburbs. Cost
of housing-improvement schemes to re-
place the slums would be prohibitive, and
it is certain that as fast as one slum was
cleaned up another would appear some-
where else.
More could be done to provide the
children with playgrounds, however,
which would get them into the open air
and reduce the risk of accidents which is
present when they play in the streets. As
backyards are small in slum areas, the
only playing areas are the streets.
By resuming areas in the hearts of the
slums, pulling down the buildings, and
making playing areas the Government
and/or municipal councils would be help-
ing to develop a healthier race. If the
hearts were pulled out of slums for play-
grounds, the people who own the houses
might be shamed into making them more
comfortable. Playgrounds would let a
little sunshine into areas badly in need
of it, and the purifying powers of sun-
shine are well known. — Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
A Rule for Footpaths
Why not a rule for city footpaths?
At present all seems to be chaos, and
a man in a hurry has a bad time of it
trying to negotiate a busy street, par-
ticularly on a Friday.
If slow-moving traffic must keep to
the left on the roads, why not the same
rule for slow-moving pedestrians? And
why don’t traffic officials move on those
menaces to convenience and temper the
loungers who choose the middle of the
footpath in which to go into a huddle
or hold reunions?
It’s bad enough getting through the
crowds that swarm round every hawker’s
barrow and at most of the big store
entrances, without having to practise a
serpentine, gymnastic technique in every
citv street within half a mile of the
G.P.O.—E. P. M. (N.S.W.).
Sulliver Suddles and Nerts
have just read the alleged poems of Messrs
Walt Whitman, Gerald Manley Hopkins and
other poetic giants stop
and if , . ..
that’s what poetry has come to why waste time
writing
it
at all query. . .
this philistine got nothing out of it
excepting
a headache comma
trying to get what it was about and this line
would go across two columns if there were
room
rhyming isn’t popular any more it seems which
is a pity
because I’m sure
that if poets got their noses out of the ethereal
% regions
and wrote
in a manner that people could
understand
like T the R comma Iford comma and co
more people would buy poetry
and poets would not have to accuse the
public
of being uncultured stop
the poets and booksellers say that people
don’t
read
poetry
any
more stop
they can’t
And that goes for prose. To the next
man who annoys me I’ll give a copy
of Finnegan’s Wake, by James Joyce.
“It was a night, late, lang time agone,
in an aulstane eld when Adam was delvin
and his madameen spinning watersilts.”
The book is said to have taken 16 years
to write, and it will take 16 years to
read.
A great literary critic said of Finnegan’s
Wake that it has qualities of flowing
stream, sound and rhythm. “So one
grandsumer evening, after a great morn-
ing, and his good supper of gammon and
spittish, having flabelled his eyes, pilleoled
his nostrils, vaticanated his ears and
palliumed his throats, he put on his im-
permeable, seized his impugnable harped
on his crown and stepped out of his
immobile,” says Mr. Joyce in a terrible
moment of simplicity.
I may be a Philistine and old-fashioned,
but I confess I still prefer my literature
to be entertaining and enlightening, or
both. But if I am paid twopence
farthing a line for this it will be the
only thing I ever got out of the modern
literary giants.-
WM LYNCH
(N.S.W.).


are
you
iveris
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. The feelings of “No energy’"
and “Not too well” are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach —thus bracing
up the system generally.
Oft
<sl
>*Sps
ras
ad
niiuiiiiitiiiiiii-wtHwiimiiii
They Make You Fee/ Brighter
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windbum and Sunburn.-— When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Cpmstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1 /6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“J HE .. A D NIMAI r S NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson. ,
anjo Paterson s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
EA< ? EA NT>” B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania's early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian O’.
Penton. # a%)
The author faithfully depicts
the budding up of the r o‘ V *
Australian National jf t* •**
i,i » (S> 6 ..•■
-«u*iuuau iNatlC
Character. 500
(postage .
k‘fc v ,# 5S
•**
4#
.• * ’ .• * * otf IP S^V‘


ĸ
pUJ yourself of catarrh at once. This
I'" is your great chance to test this treat-
ment —without risking one penny!
fte/ie i/6 Woof
TtiaflouCanStop'loor
k
2500 TREATMENTS to be DIS-
TRIBUTED To All “Bulletin”
readers who send Coupon below
AT ONCE!
Great Distribution of CATARRH
TREATMENTS—Limited Offer!
Unique Discovery
About Catarrh
M OTHING interferes more with
the pleasures and necessities of
life than catarrh. Who can enjoy
themselves when unable to breathe
properly and under the constant
necessity of using a handkerchief?
Who likes to associate with those
who frequently cough, sneeze or
blow the nose, and whose breath
odour becomes so disagreeable?
Nothing hides the beauty of a face
more than a red and swollen nose,
chapped lips and congested eyes,
and what man or woman can hope
to impress others when continually
hawking phlegm and clearing the
throat or nose, arid either swallow-
ing or expectorating mucus?
Snuffs & Douches
are not sufficient
Most treatments merely
give temporary relief to
certain local symptoms.
They clear the head maybe,
they may give relief, but
they cannot possibly give
lasting benefit, because they
only attack SYMPTOMS
and not CAUSES! Creams,
snuffs, douches and laxatives
have never remedied, and
never will remedy, catarrh.
If you have tried all these,
as thousands of others have,
you know this to be true!
The New Lysocath Method
ĸ
Herbert J. Matthews, Desk 37,
Lombard Chambers,
Fitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Name . . •
Address
2 2 /11 /’ 39
(Enclose Stamp for Postage.)
is something entirely apart from any-
thing else you have ever tried. It has
given, and is giving, happiness and
complete health to thousands of
sufferers from all forms of catarrh
—and what is more, it is the ONLY
radical treatment whereby you can
rid yourself of this terrible afflic-
tion.
Warning to Catarrh
Sufferers!
Never neglect Catarrh, it often
leads to Deafness and serious Lung
Troubles. It saps Vitality, shortens
Life, spreads illness and misery
everywhere. For your own sake
for the sake of your family and
friends, send for the New Lysocath
Treatment this very moment.
andHEAD NOISES
within 12 hours/
Test the New Lysoeath
Treatment on a Trial Basis
IT is now possible for you to try this
A famous Catarrh Treatment in your
own home. It does not matter what,
you have tried. If the New Lysoeath
Treatment does not banish your
catarrh, rid you. of head noises, hawk-
ins, coughing, etc., quickly and easily,
IT COSTS YOU NOT ONE PENNY—
but I must urge you to act now. This
splendid offer may never be repeated.
Post the coupon NOW!
READ THIS CONVINCING
PROOF!
CATARRH ALL GONE!
"Up till using your treatment for
catarrh I had previously used every
known cure, but with only waste of
time and money. Right from the first,
1 am pleased to say, I noticed a won-
derful relief, and now my catarrh has
all gone. I shall certainly recommend
it."—H. Hewitt, 8., N.S.W.
A SPLENDID CURE!
"Your treatment has done everything
you said it would, and you can put me
down as a highly-delighted patient, I
never thought that it would be possible
to get such a splendid cure. I don’t
think anybody had suffered with
catarrh as I had. You may use this
letter as you think fit.’’—W. Baldick,
S., N.S.W
PM
HERBERT I. MA
Desk 37, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
-
c v
AT REST
k
PNEUMONIA
GERMS
©
ENGULFING GERMS
GERMS BEING
DESTROYED.
0
DIGESTING GERMS
The above diagrammatic
sketch shows very clearly
how a White Blood Cor-
puscle destroys unfriendly
germs that have gained
entrance to the Blood
Stream. Here you see the
four stages of a Phagocyte
(meaning eating ceil) in
action. At first you see the
cell at. rest, then suddenly
it shoots out what is known
as a Pseudo Podia (or false
foot) towards some germs
which happen to be in the
vicinity. It then proceeds
.to literally pour itself over
them; having done this, it
digests the engulfed germs,
and so destroys them for
ever.
In the Lysocath Treat-
ment wc pay great attention
to the Blood and its im-
portant cells in its treat-
ment of insidious catarrh.
Secret Art of Voice Throwing
Exposed for the First Time
NEVER before have the secrets of ven-
triloquism been offered to the public.
Now for the first time YOU can learn to
throw your voice. You can get endless
fun from ventriloquism, you. can amaze
the “wise ones.” Send for this startling
FREE literature and within 24 hours you
will know many of the secrets of ventrilo-
quism.
NOW YOU CAN LEARN
VENTRILOQUISM
Throw Your Voice —— Amuse Your
Friends! Make Money!
COR the first time the rage of America
t reaches Australia and New Zealand.
Now you can learn at home this most
amusing and entertaining art. Startle and
amuse your friends—throw your voice-
give entertainments; —make money in your
spare time. Send for FREE literature
telling you EVERYTHING about Ven-
triloquism. Send this coupon TO-DAY!
WHAT THIS FREE
LITERATURE WILL
TELL YOU !
• How to throw your voice.
• How to make a doll speak.
• How to entertain with ven-
triloquism.
6 How to make money in your spare
time.
• How to get roars of laughter.
• How to be popular and admired.
• The inner secrets of ventriloquism.
4 V,
-rvr«>*
BE A VENTRILOQUIST.'
MWB “y"
BSSi
Get Greater
Popularity —
Win Friends !
POST
COUPON
NOW!
SEND NO MONEY/
VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86,
Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—-Send me by return post your
FREE LITERATURE all about ven-
triloquism.
NAME
ADDRESS ....
TUrW’39.
(Enclose stamp p ‘ '
frw
m
t
■ '
m
m
m
am
mm
9
SPSK?
_..... J
m
YOU’LL get fun throwing your
r voice. Hundreds have learnt
this easy way secretly at home. Give
entertainments, amuse your friends.
I don’t care who you are or where
you live. I GUARANTEE 1 can
teach you ventriloquism if you send
the coupon TO-DAY!
THIS GREAT OFFER
DEFINITELY EXPIRES
JAN. 10 RUSH COUPON
VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86,
BOX 3573 RR,
4 P. 0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'
NOW
DEPOSIT
«i
20/-,
ONLY
GUARANTEE
or
MONEY BACK 3\
IF NOT iP 1
SATISFIED
sjjwnwwi
ijtkbuuw
0
x/wc
II#
\5.Lv-
VS
\5= 1
:,vTuo t •
bO
j&oJ* £ ' ;■
r 1 IBS®
W
H
HERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big
muscles ami obtain great strength by taking
advantage of this astounding bargain. Now on.j'
30/-, or 2/6 deposit, for this famous £3 'aloe.
Complete Home Gymnasium. Watch, your
muscles grow! Surprise your friends! Kwry
thing GUARANTEED. The big chest ex-
pander alone is worth more than you pay tor
the entire outfit,
HERE'S WHAT YOU GET
1.—-Complete set of Wall Apparatus
attachment.
2. Two high-tension Grip Apparatus builds strong
wrists and forearms.
3.—Book on Jiu-Jitsu.
4.—Foot Stirrups: for legs, thighs,
stomach.
5.—Complete Muscle Building Course.
6. —Complete Boxing Course.
7.—Rowing Machine Attachment.
8.—3 - Strand
Pro g r e s -
sive Chest
Expander. faBk A'
Money Back
Guarantee
LET us send you this whole
wonderful Muscle Building
Outfit, Courses, etc., to try at our
risk for only 20/-. If you’re not
satisfied within 10 days just re-
turn the outfit and your money
will he refunded* We Will send
it C.O.D. if you like. Just pay
the postman a few pence extra
for postage, or pay by instalments
of 2/6 per week until 25/- is paid
in full.
GYM. SUPPLIES,
Sales Dept. 24,
107 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
LIMITED OFFER — RUSH COUPON!
GYM. SUPPLIES, SALES DEPT. 24,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I enclose 20/- or 2/6 Deposit for your
complete Muscle Building Outfit and
Courses, and in accordance with your
GUARANTEE if I am not satisfied you
will refund my money in full.
Name .
Address
22/1 1 /’ 39
