

RUWOLT^
ONE OF AUSTRALIA’S KEY INDUSTRIAL ORGANISATIONS
THE LEADING AND MOST MODERN ENGINEERING WORKS IN AUSTRALASIA
■MM
am
m:
4$
£
48in. X 20in. SLOW SPEED WET CRUSHING ROLLS
SUPPLIED TO NORTH BROKEN HILL, LTD.
CHARLES RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Largest Contractors to the Mining Industry in Australia.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS—RUWOLT, MELBOURNE. CODES—BENTLEYS AND BROOMHALLS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 60. —No. 3122.
Wednesday, December 13, 1939.
Stories by Palmer, Davison, Casey, Dorter
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
—Packed with the best books of the day.
Also gift stationery. Post free anywhere.
Write for one now!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George St., Sydney.
item
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
THE WORD.
An extract from “The Fire on the Snow,”
a verse play for radio, based on Scott’s journey
to the South Pole. The “Announcer,” corre-
sponding to the Chorus in the Greek plays,
comments on the final stage of the journey:
In the beginning was the Word,
Before the word there was silence.
Man was born of a word
And he dies back to silence:
It is quiet in the far South.
Life is a word, a shout ;
The aeroplane roars in the sky,
Factories crash and clang,
The traffic thunders by :
It is quiet in the white South.
Radio hides the boards'
Creaking and the clock’s ticking,
And our words fall upon words;
There is always someone speaking:
But here words fall on the snow.
In the loneliest green place
Bird calls to bird,
The cricket chirps in the grass,
The rustling leaf is a word:
It is quiet in the white South.
The living thing is the word
And the thing dead is silence:
These men of their own accord
Move away into silence,
Their skis quiet on the snow.
N.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Prayers and the War.
Back in the last war James Edmond
drew attention to the use of the Books
of Maccabees in the Anglican lectionary
and found some striking analogies be-
tween the campaigns of Judas Maccabeus
and the struggles of the Allies. If he could
return he would have something to say
on the subject of the flood of “Special
forms of service in time of War” issuing
just now.
Doubtless their compilers are actuated
by the best intentions, but they lack
Cranmer’s facility for expressing those
intentions in Elizabethan English and
they overlook two facts: (1) that the
Book of Common Prayer was put to-
gether when war was the normal con-
dition of the nation and that it teems
with references to war and peace, some
of which are so familiar as to pass
unnoticed whilst others have fallen into
desuetude; (2) contrary to the usual
impression, those intercessions, so far
from breathing a self-righteous justifica-
tion for war, embody in themselves the
most perfect definition of that perilous
and thorny subject—the Christian’s atti-
tude to war.
Underlying all its prayers for peace, all
its intercessions for the forces of the
King, all its prayers for victory, is a
humble desire that a just engagement in
such operations shall be a necessary
qualification for that intercession. They
ask not so much for a sanguinary vic-
tory over the enemies of the nation as
for the ultimate triumph of right over
wrong.
The first prayer for peace at Matins
is in the Prdces and Responses:
Give peace in our time, O Lord,
Because there is none other' that fighteth
for us, but only Thou, O God.
This is .a very ancient prayer, somewhat
adapted, which came from the old pre-
Reformation service books. Among the
alterations which were suggested in 1928
and which nobody heeded was the sug-
gestion that this should read:
Because there is none other that ruleth
the world, but only Thou, O God.
But the old familiar form is best, it is
the prayer of David again: “Vain is the
help of man” and of the confidence of
Hezekiah, after prayerfully putting his
case before God, “With us is the Lord
our God to help us and to fight our
battles.”
Then comes the second collect “for
Peace,” again a translation from the
old Latin service. There are some lovely
phrases in that prayer, “The Author of
Peace” ; “Lover of concord” ; “Whose
service is perfect freedom.” There is no
arrogant boasting in that prayer, rather
a mixture of humility and confidence.
The next reference is in the “Prayer
for the King’s Majesty,” written probably
in 1547, “Strengthen him
that he may vanquish and
overcome all his enemies.”
All this is one of the
grandest prayers in the book
and again is in line with
St. Paul’s Epistle to Timothy: “Suppli-
cations, prayers, intercessions and giving
of thanks, be made for all men ; for
kings, and for all that are in authority;
that we may lead a quiet and peaceable
life.” There is another collect for peace
at Evensong which is 1500 years old.
Again there are unforgettable phrases in
it: “The peace which the world cannot
give”; “we, being defended from our
enemies, may pass our time in rest and
quietness.” There is no boasting here,
it is the prayer of the Christian who looks
to his Lord God alone as his defence
and shield.
The Litany is one long intercession
for peace and was designed as such.
Here are some of its petitions: “From
battle and murder and from sudden
death”; “from all sedition, privy con-
spiracy and rebellion” ; “in all time of
our tribulation”; “to be his defender
and keeper, giving him the victory over
all his enemies” ; “to give to all nations
unity, peace and concord”; “all that
travel by land or by water”; “to shew
Thy pity upon all prisoners and cap-
tives” ; “to forgive our enemies” ; “Grant
us Thy peace” ; “that those evils which
the craft and subtility of the devil or man
worketh against us be brought to
naught”; “being hurt by no persecu-
tions” ; “from our enemies, defend us,
O Christ” ; “that in all our troubles we
may put our whole trust and confidence
in Thy mercy.” The whole of that sec-
tion, “From our enemies, defend us,
O Christ,” was anciently sung in pro-
cession ; “if it was necessary, in time of
war,” was the quaint rubric.
Passing on to the occasional “Prayers
and Thanksgivings,” there is a prayer
“In the time of War and Tumults” com-
posed in 1552. It is admittedly open to
the same objection as one verse of the
National Anthem. “Abate their pride,
assuage their malice and confound their
devices” is certainly lacking in Christian
charity, but then so is war itself. The
prayer goes on, however, to suggest that
preservation may be: “To glorify Thee,
Who art the only giver of all victory.”
The prayer for “The High Court of
Parliament” asks for “the safety, honor
and welfare of our sovereign and his
dominions” and that “peace and hap-
piness, truth and justice, religion and
piety, may be established among us for
all generations.”
In the thanksgivings there is one “for
peace and deliverance from our enemies”
which again makes no boast but ascribes
that victory to the goodness of God.
There are beautiful collects for peace
set for Epiphany II (“Grant us Thy peace
all the days of our life”); Sexagesima
(“against all adversity”); Easter IV (“the
unruly wills and affections of sinful
men”; and “the sundry and manifold
changes of the world”); Trinity 111 (“may
by Thy mighty aid be defended and
comforted in all dangers and ad-
versities”) ; and Trinity XXI (“to Thy
faithful people pardon and peace” ; “and
serve Thee with a quiet mind”).
In the Holy Communion there is a
prayer for the King that he “may study
to preserve Thy people committed to his
charge in wealth, peace and godliness,”
and again in the prayer for the Church
Militant, “that we may be godly and
quietly governed,” and live “in unity and
godly love.”
In the Commination Service, that
“godly discipline” no longer administered,
there is a denunciation:
Cursed is he that putteth his trust in
man, and taketh man for his defence and
in his heart goeth from the Lord
and the people are called upon to say
“Amen” to that. In the “Forms of
Prayers to be used at Sea” there is a
prayer “to be also used in His Majesty’s
Navy every day,” written in 1661:
Preserve us from the dangers of the sea,
and from the violence of the enemy; that
we may be a safeguard unto our most
gracious Sovereign Lord, King George,
and his Dominions, and a security for such
as pass upon their lawful occasions.
Perhaps the most perfect definition of
the functions of the British Navy that
was ever devised. There is a prayer “to
be said before a Fight at Sea against
any enemy”: “Thou givest not alway
the battle to the strong, but canst save
by many or by few.” It acknowledges
national faults and leaves the issue:' —
That Thou wouldest take the cause into
Thine Own hand and judge between us
and our enemies.
There follows a composite canticle
formed of verses of the Psalms, an in-
genious invention of Caroline divines.
Again there is a note of humility in its
prayer for deliverance:
Suffer us not to sink under the weight
of our sins or the violence of the enemy.
A similarly constructed psalm or
canticle is designed for use as “a Hymn
of Praise or Thanksgiving after Victory”:
“We gat not this by our own sword” is
its theme.
The only hymn in the Prayer Book
is the “Veni Creator” and it is associated
nowadays almost exclusively with ordina-
tions. But it bears internal evidence of
a former use when troops were dedicated
to service:
Keep far our foes, give peace at home
Where Thou art guide, no ill can come.
Finally, in the Accession Service there
is a prayer that the King and the Royal
Family “may long'continue before Thee
in peace and safety, joy and honor” ;
that “peace and charity” may “abound
in his days” ; whilst the prayer for unity
is as applicable to the political sphere
as it is to the ecclesiastical in which
restricted use it is the more often heard:
“United in one holy bond of truth and
peace, of faith and charity.”
There is all the difference in the world
between Cranmer’s “In all time of our
tribulation” and “In the perplexities of
our modern social and economic life,”
and I prefer Cranmer.
RANSOME T. WYATT.
Susan Writes to Byron „
They all wrote to Byron: Elizabeth
Pigot, Mrs. Spencer Smith, Lady Falk-
land, Susan Vaughan, Caroline Lamb,
Lady Frances Webster, Henrietta d’Uss-
feres, Harriette Wilson, Mary Chaworth,
Susan Boyce, Miss Mercer Elphinstone,
Claire Clairemont, and Isabella Harvey
alias Zorina Stanley; but none of them,
unless it was Harriette Wilson, the most
famous courtesan of her day, who re-
proached the poet for his profligacy,
wrote so naturally or so movingly as the
simple Susan Vaughan.
A country girl, number one wife of the
second harem he established at Newstead,
she describes how the menage honored
his birthday when Byron was away in
London:—
The walls of the stone parlour where
scarsely to be seen for green branches hang-
ing over them, and the piller, which stands
in the middle, was dress’d exactly like
Jack in the Green, with every green leaf
and sprig I could find. All the pure
virgins was in white, two in particular
shining out, to see which cut the dash in
gold chains [tokens from Byron]. Now
laugh again when I tell you how spitefully
I look’d at Lucy’s and she at mine. Mr.
Murry sang a pretty song. Then, Mrs. F.
done the same pretty well; Bessy, being
next was under the necessity of singing
something... .My part ended, and three
virgins had a reel. Then it was supper-
time: a spare rib of pork at the top, an
apple pie at the bottom, a pork pie in the
middle, potatoes at one comer, scellery at
the other, mince pies and custards at the
other two corners... .We had more sing-
ing, and dancing ended this grandure.
God bless you ray dear Lord Byron the
clock is now striking five Thursday morn-
ing. No sleep tonight. Never mind. I
love you my dearest....
Harriette, who never met Byron, wrote
with equal simplicity and honesty. When
she read Don Juan she told him not to
make a “coarse old libertine” of him-
self. There was none of the swooning
affectation of his aristocratic admirers:
I have made a new conquest lately—
Lord Francis Cunningham. But I hate
boys so I have been setting him to hunt
and pull out my grey hairs to destroy his
Illusions. What a fool he must be! When
you and I meet, I shall set you to work
at the brown ones, for I mean to attack
them as soon as the grey predominates.
It is more dignified to keep to the one
colour, n’est-ce pas?
George Paston and Peter Quennell
have compiled an entertaining book, To
Lord Byron (Murray), from previously un-
published letters of the women who wrote
to Byron, and in those by Susan and
Harriette and Susan Boyce, an unimpor-
tant actress at Drury Lane, they supply
portraits of women vastly different from
the usual “Byronic heroine” —the violent
Caroline, the elegant Miss Mercer
Elphinstone, the desperate Claire and
the youthful, hero-worshipping Isabella.
Shackleton in the Antarctic.
The bulk of Frank Worsley’s Endur-
ance (Bles ; Angus and Robertson) has
to do with the almost incredible ad-
ventures and hardships which the
author, as commander of the Discovery,
shared with Shackleton in the Antarctic.
Shackleton was on his way to the
Antarctic, intending to march across the
continent, when the 1914 war broke
out. He was ordered by the Admiralty
to proceed. Worsley’s story opens in
1915 when the ship is fast in the pack
and Shackleton tells him it is certain to
be destroyed by the grinding floes. They
were 400 miles from land.
They camp on the frozen sea, take
what stores they can from the Discovery
while it is still held up by the spikes
of ice that have pierced its sides, watch
the ship break up and sink, and then,
after a futile attempt to haul the ship’s
boats to open water, settle down to their
five months’ drifting. There are ad-
ventures by the dozen, the most dramatic
occurring when the floe splits beneath
one of the tents and Shackleton snatches
a man from the water a moment before
the ice crashes together again. On one
occasion, huge icebergs charging among
the floes like a fleet of battleships
missed them by a miracle.
After a hazardous boat journey they
reached Elephant Island, camping on a
beach beneath “the black, sea-battered
cliffs and the sheet of ice that towered
above.” Shackleton realised that he
would not be able to feed his men
through the winter, and he, Worsley
and three others set out for the whaling
stations of South Georgia, about 700
miles away. Fighting gales the whole
distance, drenched “on an average every
three or four minutes,” they made the
island in 16 days, but on the far side
from the whaling stations. Rather than
trust their boat to the stormy seas again
they decided to tramp across the
mountains.
Leaving two of the party camped in
a cave, Shackleton, Worsley and another
man tackled the unknown territory:
We stood between two gigantic black
crags that seemed to have forced their
way upwards through their icy covering-
dark and forbidding masses of bleak and
barren rock. Before us was the Allardyce
Range, peak beyond peak, snow-clad and
majestic, glittering in the sunshine. Sweep-
ing down from their flanks were magnifi-
cent glaciers, noble to look upon, but, as
we realised, threatening to our advance.
And we were in a solitude never before
broken by man. A way had to be found.
This was the journey of which Eliot
made use in The Waste Land: the three
men were persistently haunted by the
notion that a fourth man was marching
with them. It was successfully accom-
plished, and so after three failures was
the rescue of the men left on Elephant
Island.
Various Australians.
Three new books of verse and an illus-
trated book for children, all by Aus-
tralians, indicate as plainly as the glitter
of the shop-windows and the mournful
voice of the turkey what season is
approaching. Though there’s good work
in each of the others, the holly leaf goes
to E. V. Barton’s poems, The Hidden
Face (Beacon Press, Ltd., Sydney).
Mrs. Barton doesn’t very often sound
like the full choir, but neither are her
verses pretty-pretty. They are delicate
lyrics, making an original statement
about the Australian landscape.
Occasionally the music becomes clogged
among compound adjectives, occasionally
it stretches out into thinness, but the
standard over the 64 pages is high.
From “Ricochet”:
It is no visible traveller, who
Shows me through
The swinging blind
Of the first few beads of sleet,
Red berries thickly strewn
Round a frozen lorikeet,
Over its eye the filmed half-moon,
The dumb beak open, a blood-clot, see!
Berries under the pepper-tree,
Red bullets from a bitter noon.
C. R. Jury has a 240-page collection
published by F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adelaide
— Galahad, Selenemia and. Other Poems.
He has imported a whole host of nota-
bilities, from Bors to Bacchus. The style:
Then Zephyrus and Auster joined their feet
And dropped like terns upon the marble sea;
The foam was hot with bubbling must that
stains
Sweet-ankled youth in brown-leafed Thessaly.
The children’s book, The Garden of
Edens, is a most elaborate production,
written by Judy Brown, illustrated by
Roderick Shaw, hand-set and hand-
bound by “The Barn on the Hill Press,”
Sydney. Type, paper and illustrations are
all attractive. It’s written in a sort of
rhythmic babble, not ineffective, as if it
were spoken by Christopher Robin pre-
tending to be James Joyce. It’s probably
designed for parents as much as young-
sters, and it is, in effect, a good portrait
of a very young girl.
James Devaney is another who trans-
lates landscapes into lyrics. His Where
the Wind Goes, very handsomely pro-
duced by Angus and Robertson, deals
with
Things on rivers at eve
I have almost seen,
Tilings half-heard in the slow
Dark music of pines.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —in all sincerity
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ij-
-108D547
108D547—Enamelled Cane Matting
Pram. Lined throughout, rubber
tyred wheels. Cream lined, Pink
or Blue. At Anthony Horderns'
Price 38/6
Gondola-shaped Doll's Pram. sin.
rdbber tyred wheels, lined body.
Anthony Horderns' Price .. 23/6
108D818
Stroller for the lit-
tle ones. Sturdy
construction. An-
thony Horderns'
108D542
108D542—Doll's Pram, plain wicker. At
Anthony Horderns', Prices .... 3/6, 3/9
Also enamelled' 5/3, 5/9, 6/3, 9/6
IQBDll6—Enamelled Cane Matting Pram, in
shape.. Rubber tyred wheels. Lined throughout im* inn
or Blue; hody enamelled Cream. Bm. wheels. Anthony
Horderns' Price, each - ■ •
With hood only lined. ; Price, each
n
108D539 ~~ "Cyclops" Stroller,
All steel collapsible frame.
Enamelled Blue, Gie e n or
Oianoe with stuped deck chair
canvas to: tone. Tin. back
wheel?,; 6irx/dto wheefe/'rub- -
ber tyred, Brice, each .. 18/3
Without hood. .Price ... 14/1!
fm
BPS
®ill»
4, '
zj
%
108D539
108D617
108 D 617 "Cy-
clops" Pram de
Luxe. 7in. rubber
tyred wheels. Sky,
Blue or Cream.
Anthony Horderns'
Price 56/3
108D112 "Cy-
clops" Pram. In
Sky Blue, Fawn
or Pink, all'with
Cream "panel.
No. 1, with 6in.
wheels . 23/11
No. 2/with 7in.
wheels*" f 29/11
3
IOBDII2
108D117—Doll's Pram. Enamelled cane matting, move-
able hood, rubber tyred wheels. Enamelled Pink- or
Blue. In two sizes. At Anthony Horderns'. 19/6. 21/
Also in seagrass with all seagrass hood 18/6
Also larger size, unlined body. Price, each .... ‘24/9
• Toy Department—Second Floor.
mm
1 m m
m
108D551
10815551 The acme of perfection!
Doll's Pram, hand-woven Pith Cane,
Gondola, shape, lined throughout,
Bin. balloon tyred wheels, coil spring
chassis. Enamelled Cream with Pink
or Blue lining. Anthony Horderns'
Price 65/ -
108D528 Doll's
Stroller. Frarne
enamelled Pink,
Blue, Green or;
Cream; canvas 1o
tone. Sin. rubber
tyred back wheels,
3in. cast fron t
wheels. Anthony
Horderns' Price,
each 7/S
108D528
1080545
1Q8D545 Cane Doll's Pram, movable
hood. Enamelled Pink or Blue; with
cast iron wheels. Anthony Horderns'
Price 11/9
With rubber tyred wheels 15/-
tm
108D546
108D546—Cane Doll's Pram, moveable hood.
Enamelled Pink or Blue. With cast wheels.
Anthony Horderns' Price 13/6
With rubber tyred wheels. Price .... 16/8
Cane Doll's Pram, not enamelled, with heed
and cast wheels.: Pride. 7/5
BRING THE CHILDREN TO RIDE IN THE COVERED WAGCON
Santa Claus has asked us to be sure to tell his thousands of little friends to see him just as soon as they can. He will
be so disappointed unless he greets each one of them before he returns to his Iceland home, and he also wants to know
what to bring them on Christmas Eve. The Magic Covered Waggon takes the children to Santa s Magic Castle. It is
such a thrilling journey and when they arrive there Santa will be waiting to greet them, and he has such a delightful
? —Second Floor.
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0.. Sydney.
surprise for each one of them.
ANTHONY
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


Youth on the ’Fields
A MAN NOW
by Phillip Dorter
I SAW my brother pushing through the crowd at
the bar towards me and I had a pretty fair idea
of what was wrong. He’d been hurrying and he
spoke between breaths. “The hospital just rang
through to say the Old Man can’t last much longer.”
I said “I’ll come up right away,” and left my
drink on the counter and hurried out with him.
The hospital was about half a mile out of town,
and Joe and I struck off through the mulga. We
didn’t talk much because we were both thinking about
the Old Man. He’d been in the mines since he was
a kid, and the dust and foul air got him in the end.
When the laboratory told him he couldn’t go under-
ground again he dropped his
bundle altogether and didn’t last
very long. He mucked about on
an easy surface job for a while,
but after a few months he
couldn’t breathe fast enough to
give the remains of his lungs
enough air to keep him going.
We all thought it was hard
on him, but when you see the
same thing all over the place and
when you half expect it to
happen to you some day you get used to it. One day
he collapsed in the street and the next morning he
couldn’t get up, so we put him in hospital and waited
for him to die.
Joe held the wire of the hospital fence apart
for me to climb through, and we walked over to the
buildings. The matron saw us coming and hurried
to meet us.
“I’m glad you got here straight away,” she said.
“Your father had a bad turn this morning; he’s
very low.”
She took us into the ward, and we tiptoed behind
her feeling clumsy and awkward. They had put a
screen around the old man’s bed, and we went behind
it and stood beside him. Even though we’d been
seeing him every day, we were a bit shocked. His
bones had drawn the pasty flesh between them until
he was just a hot panting breath with white skin and
black hair.
They should let people die in private. In the
last few weeks when he was coughing and wheezing
and spitting brown phlegm we were uncomfortable
every time we visited him, and he probably felt the
same —though I doubt if he really felt anything in
the last couple of hours. He didn’t seem to know
or want to know or see anyone ; he just lay on his
back gasping down air as though there wasn’t enough
of it in the world for him and gazing straight at the
ceiling, looking dumb and helpless.
Joe moved closer to me. He had never seen a
man die before. He’s only a kid and he was
frightened.
“Christ,” he muttered. “I hope it’s soon.”
We stood around awkwardly until the doctor
pulled a sheet over his face, and then I took Joe’s
arm and led him out of the ward. Joe didn’t look
too good, and I felt pretty crook myself. I was uneasy
and scared that what I’d just seen would happen
to me some day, and 1 made up my mind to get
out of the mines and get a job near the coast. But
walking back from the hospital to the town in the
sun I got over it, and when a few brandies had
washed the hospital smell down my throat I felt
better again.
J ’D have been lying to myself if my father’s death
* had made me feel any great sorrow or loss —we
were never close enough for that. But I couldn't
help thinking about him and wondering what purpose
he’d served by living and dying. I hadn’t given him
much thought while he was alive, and I think he
gave me even less. He didn’t have much time to
worry about his kids —what spare time he had apart
from eating, sleeping and working, and what money
he had left after he’d given Ma insufficient to feed
us all, he spent at the pub. and two-up schools.
• I think I was about seventeen when I first realised
that he could have any effect on the way I was
growing. I’d been born and brought up in the same
little mining town, and I’d never been out of it. I
left school when I was fourteen, and for a couple of
years I knocked around with a mob of kids like
myself. We had our gangs and our fights, and every
Friday night we went along to the little tin picture
hall to kick up a row or put stink bombs under the
seats. We smoked around corners and behind the
mulga at the edge of the town, and we whistled the
scrawny, long-legged flappers and then sneaked into
shop doorways and watched to see if they turned
round.
It was all right while it lasted, I suppose, but
after running wild for a couple of years I started to
think a bit; at least, I didn’t have to think so much
as just use my eyes and let the things I saw going
on around me put ideas into my head. A couple
of chaps from our gang had started work and for-
gotten about the rest of us. They were taking girls
out and buying themselves decent clothes and spend-
ing as much money in one night as the rest of us
could raise in a fortnight. At first we used to sling
off at them, but we soon saw they were better off
than we were, and we started talking about what sort
of jobs we’d be getting.
We were sitting on a street corner in the sun
and most of the mob reckoned they’d go underground
—there was plenty of work for boggers, and kids of
sixteen and seventeen could easily put their age up
a bit and get five and six quid a week for shovelling
dirt. I wasn’t too sure what I wanted ; I’d never
thought much about a job for myself, but when I
did I was pretty certain that I didn’t want to go
underground.
I said I wanted a staff job, and the mob looked
at me as though I was mad. Stew, the kid who led
our mob, stopped cutting up a stick with his knife
and said, “What in hell do you want that for?
Isn’t underground good enough for you?”
“It’s not that,” I said, and I tried to explain what
I was thinking about—how all the staff men wore
decent khaki clothes, and drank in the saloon bar
and went home looking as though the drink had done
them good. They talked quietly and seriously, and
they all seemed to have something that mattered to
talk about. It all sounded pretty silly, I suppose, and
I wound up lamely with, “And I’d rather be called
Mister; half the underground blokes don’t answer if
you call ’em by their surnames.” ,
The mob had moved away from me and were all
standing with Stew and looking as though I’d bitten
them. Stew put his head on one side and sneered,
“So you want to be a bloody silvertail. I never
thought one of my mob’d get them ideas in his head.”
I suppose it sounded like that, but I wasn’t
thinking that way at all. I could just see that there
were two sides to the fence, and I knew which side
I wanted to be on. But Stew had made me look
a fool in front of the mob, and I wanted to make my
point. “Well, look at the men on the staff jobs,”
I said. “The company builds them decent homes, and
they’ve got their own cars and they’re getting some-
where.”
“Well?” said Stew.
“And look at your miners. They come down
to the pub. and stay there until they’re drunk, and
they go home looking as though they’ve been rolled
in the dirt. And they’ll spend the rest of their life
livin’ in bag huts or tin shanties.”
The more I said the more it sounded as though
Stew was right, and I reckoned the underground mob
weren’t good enough for me, so I shut up. One
of the kids asked me how I thought I’d get a staff
job, but I didn’t know that myself, so I was glad
when Stew swaggered out and said “You’ve been
looking at your Old Man too much. Miners aren’t
all like him; my Dad gives Ma enough cash to
feed us, an’ he don’t spend his time sittin’ on the
pub. step with his head between his knees.”
Stew was right again, but I wasn’t going to let
him stand there and say that in front of the mob.
“You mind your own bloody business,” I yelled,
and punched him in the throat. It was a lucky punch,
and he folded up. I jumped on him and rubbed his
face in the dirt, and when I was sure he didn’t want
any more I got up and asked the mob if any of
them wanted the same. They didn’t, but they were
all on Stew’s side, so I wandered off on my' own.
J KEPT away from the mob after that. I didn’t
* know what sort of staff job I wanted, and I didn’t
know how I was going to get one. But since I’d
told the mob that I would, I reckoned I’d have to.
I hung around the mine offices for a few weeks,
hoping that someone’d see me and ask me what I
wanted, but I wasn’t even noticed. I wasn’t game to
go into any of the buildings, and every time anyone
came out they were either in two much of a hurry
or they were talking to someone else. Then, when I
was feeling fed up with the whole business, I got
my chance.
I’d been hanging round the main office for a
couple of hours and was walking back home to get
something to eat when I saw a chap looking down
an old opencut. He was chewing a cigar and wearing
a sun helmet and khaki shirt and breeches with
leather leggings, so I reckoned he was one of the
bosses. I walked up behind him and scraped my feet
on the stone so that he’d hear me coming. He
didn’t, so I stood beside him and said “Er” .
He turned round quickly, looking as though I’d
annoyed him.
“Yes, what is it?”
All the things I’d been saying to mysyelf for
the past fortnight about how I didn’t know much but
was anxious and willing to learn went right out of
my head, and all I could say was “I’m trying to get
a job.”
He switched his cigar to the other side of his
mouth and seemed to be trying to come down to
my level of thinking. “What sort of job?”
I wanted to disappear into the ground and my
stomach seemed to move up into my chest. I fumbled
around for words. “I don’t know,” I said. “A staff
job of some sort; I don’t want to go underground.”
He seemed to get the gist of what 1 was thinking,
and I felt better when I knew he was listening to
what I was saying.
“What can you do?” he asked.
“Nothing,” I said. “I mean, I don’t know. 1
haven’t had a job yet, and I thought if I could get
a start here somewhere”
I suppose he was as decent as he could be about
it. He pulled one hand out of his pocket and rested
it on my arm. “Youngster,” he said, “you can’t pick
good jobs off trees; you’ve got to earn them. All
the men working over there” —he waved towards the
offices —“spent fifteen years and more fitting them-
* selves for their work. They
went to universities and the
school of mines and they’re still
studying. You see what I
mean?”
I saw what he meant all
right and a lot more besides. I
saw I’d never have a job in those
offices. University! School of
Mines! Fifteen years’ study!
It was like talking about Tibet.
He knew what I was thinking
and said, “You don’t have to go underground, y’know.
Try for a job on the surface or see if you can get
something in the town somewhere.”
I said “Thanks,” and wandered off through the
workings. I turned round once to look at him but
he had both hands back in his pockets and was
staring down the opencut again.
I felt pretty miserable and hopeless, and I wasn’t
game to think what my old mob would say if they
ever heard what had happened. I kept on walking
past the crusher and the storage bins and past the
filters until I came to the power-house. Then, be-
cause I was thinking about getting out of town, I
stopped to watch a coal train unloading. Seeing the
men working and the trucks tipping and sending
black coal tumbling down the chute took my mind
off things, and presently I moved closer to see where
the coal was going.
I’d never really paid much attention to the
power-house before, but when I was close enough to
see inside I found myself wondering how hot the
great silvered furnaces were and how fast the big
humming turbines and generators were spinning
round. I moved in closer still, and was puzzling over
a small machine that was sending about a spoonful
of powdered coal into a flue every second or so
when someone spoke behind me, “What in blazes
do you think you’re doing in here?”
I jumped around as though I’d been shot and
saw Andy Mclntyre peering at me through his wire-
rimmed glasses. I knew him by sight about the town,
and I’d never really thought that he amounted to
much. He was a wizened up little coot with a mop
of short grey curls and thick heavy eyebrows over
black eyes. I’d been used to seeing him in a tight
grey suit that was too short in the legs and made
his stubby black shoes seem too big for him. Now,
in clean khaki overalls with a pencil stuck over one
ear, he was different; he seemed to belong in the
power-house.
“I’m sorry, Mr. Mclntyre,” I said. “I was just
wondering where that coal dust went to.”
He looked at me as though I was trying to put
something over him and then he peered out into the
open. He probably thought the rest of my mob
were out there and we were making trouble for
someone. Then he seemed satisfied that I was really
interested.
“Come over here,” he said, and took me over
to where the trucks tipped their coal down the chute.
“We tip the coal into there and it’s fed into that
ball mill.”
The way he explained it made it easy to under-
stand. He took me up a narrow iron stairway to
the furnaces. I looked through a grill in the small
door and saw the orange and red flames leaping about
like live things. I was fascinated and almost
frightened by the bigness of the place and its throb-
bing machinery. It struck me as being alive and ready
to reach down and crush me. I said, “It kind of
makes you scared, doesn’t it?”
Andy grinned and said, “Nothing scares you
if you’re the boss of it; you’ve only got to know
what it is and how it works. Come through here
and I’ll show you the turbines and generators.”
He took me between two of the furnaces and
I saw the turbines that drove the generators. They
were higher than I was, and green, and they looked
like the humped back of some large animal. Stand-
ing beside them I had a chance to look around the
building. From outside you couldn’t realise the
size of it. Great steel girders reached up for sixty
feet or more, and there seemed to be humming
machinery, silver pipes and shiny, glass-faced gauges
everywhere. I wondered how anyone could ever get
to know all about the place in a lifetime.
I couldn’t understand everything Andy was say-
ing, but I was grateful for the easy natural way he
spoke to me, and I was interested enough to want
to learn more. We went through into a room where
there were rows upon rows of copper and porcelain
switches on one side and a mass of gauges and
intricate machinery in quivering glass cases on the
other.
Then I asked a silly question. “How many motors
would this place drive?”


Andy grinned from
ear to ear and said,
“Here, come with me,”
and we climbed an-
other narrow stairway
that took us right up
through the roof on to
a small landing outside.
From where we stood I
could see all the mine
laid out like a map and
the tin roofs of the
town gleaming in the
sun about a quarter of
a mile away.
Andy pointed to
the poppet-legs over
the mainshaft. “You see
that hoist,” he said. “It
pulls 390 tons of ore
per trip at 1000 feet
per minute for 24
hours a day. It needs
1500 horsepower to do
that, and it gets it
from here. There’s ten
miles of electric railway
underground with trains •
pulling 50 tons a trip ;
there’s miners using
8000 cubic feet of com-
pressed air every
minute to drive their
jackhammers; they
want 150,000 cubic feet
of fresh air pumped
down to them every
minute to keep them
alive, and they want
100,000 cubic feet of stale air pumped out every
minute. There’s a thousand gallons of water pumped
out of the mine every minute to stop it from flooding ;
on the surface there’s your crackers, your crushers
and your ball mills ; then there’s the conveyor belts,
the filters and the tables. Every moving part of
this mine needs power, and it gets it from here. On
top of all that there’s lights for the town.”
Andy sucked his pipe while I drank in everything
he’d said. It all seemed pretty wonderful, and I
burst out like a kid, “Gosh, it’s marvellous.”
Andy smiled. “Yes,” he said. “It is that.”
We climbed in through the roof and down the
stairway again. I could see all the plant laid out
beneath me and I felt as though I’d known it for
years. We steered through the machinery, and Andy
took me into a small glass-fronted office with
“Superintendent” printed on the door. I’d never
dreamed that he was boss of the place, and I asked
him, just to make sure.
He said “Yes,” and I suddenly realised that it
didn’t need size and brawn and a lot of noise to
make a man. I reckoned I’d be satisfied to be like
Andy some day, and I asked him how I could get a
job in the power-house.
“What sort of job d’you want?” he asked me,
and I told him how I didn’t want to go underground
and how I wanted a job that’d get me somewhere
before I was through. “A job in here’d do me,”
I said. “I’d like to learn all about this place and all
those switches and gadgets in the control room.”
Andy scratched behind his ear and said, “It’d
take you years to get anywhere, and you’d have to
start in here using a bit of cotton waste for a polishing
rag. But if you’ve got any guts you might get some-
where some day.”
I told him I’d work my head off if I got the
chance.
“Well, listen now,” he said, “and I’ll tell you
where to start. First of all, keep away from under-
ground and the underground mob. They won’t do
you any good, and once you start swinging a banjo
you’ll be swinging one all your life. Go up to the
library and get these books”—he wrote the names
of a couple of physics textbooks on a piece of note-
paper —“and don’t just read them—study them.”
Andy talked a lot more, and listening to him I
couldn’t even hear the hum of the machinery and the
roar of the furnaces outside. “It’s going to take you
a few years,” he said, “but don’t rush it; make sure
of each step before you go on to the next.”
“And can I come up here sometimes?” I asked
him.
“Yes, as often as you like,” he said. “Later I’ll
try to find you a job here if you earn it.”
WALKING back to town I wanted to yell loud
enough for the whole world to hear me. I didn’t
want a job there because of what I’d said to the
mob or because I reckoned staff jobs were better
than underground—l wanted it because I liked the
warm oily smell and the humming of the machinery,
and because I wanted to know all about the turbines
and generators and the wires and shiny gauges.
I went straight to the library and showed Andy’s
note to the girl who looked after the books. The
library was fresh and clean, and the girl was the
same. Her name was Miss Saunders, and she looked
cool and soft and walked without making any noise.
She unlocked a glass cupboard and handed me down
two thick green books. “You can read them at that
table, if you like,” she said. “There’s some paper
and a pencil there if you want to make notes.”
I sat down at the table in the corner, and after
I’d got used to being in the library I looked through
one of the books. I w&s disappointed at first because
“Those in favor of dry canteens, say aye.”
there was nothing about electricity or machinery in
it, but I remembered what Andy had said about
starting at the beginnnig, and I turned to the first page.
During the next six months I was either up at
the power-house or reading in the library. I managed
to pick up a few bob here and there by chopping
wood and helping the mailman unload his truck
twice a week, and I spent most of what I earned
on books and magazines. I hadn’t learned anything
about electricity yet, but I had half a dozen books
on maths., chemistry and physics, and I knew I was
getting somewhere.
I was learning about machinery, too. I followed
Andy and the other engineers like a dog, and Andy
gave me an old half-horsepower electric motor, which
I had down so often that I could have taken it to
pieces and put it together again in my sleep.
He taught me more than I’d ever have learned
at school, and when he couldn’t help me Miss Saunders
did. She’d had a pretty good education, and she
went out of her way to give me a hand. She was
engaged to a chap at the bank, but she was four or
five years older than I was so I . don’t suppose either
of them minded me hanging around like a silly young
calf. Whenever I had a couple of bob to spare I
used to take her some fruit or chocolate and spend
half an hour making up my mind to give it to her.
She took me home to tea or to the pictures once or
twice a week, and Andy used to do the same. I
suppose they were trying to keep me away from the
other kids and the underground mob and my own
home.
months after Andy had given me a start
* I reckoned I’d made up for the two years I’d
wasted knocking about with the mob. I hadn’t any
other interests except my books and the power-house,
and I didn’t have enough money to hang around the
town. I was hardly ever home, and when I was the
Old Man was either out or drunk or asleep, and Ma
was working too hard to take much notice of me.
Sometimes she’d ask me when I reckoned to get a
job and pay for my keep, and I’d tell her that Andy
was going to fit me in at the power-house as soon
as there was room.
One night I came home from the library and saw
Ma and the Old Man sitting by the kitchen stove
talking. He was sober for once, and she was looking
pretty tired and worried. I was going straight in to
bed, but the Old Man called me, so I went into the
kitchen and stood by the table, waiting for him to
speak. He asked me how old I was.
“Seventeen,” I said.
“I thought so,” he said. “I told the shift boss
y’ was eighteen, an’ he says y’ c’n start underground
tomorrow night.”
I felt sick and trembly and blurted out, “But
I don’t want to go underground. Andy Mclntyre’s
going to give me a start in the power-house as soon
as he can.”
The Old Man wasn’t even interested in the
power-house or how I felt. “You’ve been muckin’
about up there long enough without gettin’ any-
where,” he said. “An’ if y’ do get a start there it’ll
only be worth a couple of quid a week. It’s time
y’ kept yourself. Y’ Ma’s goin’ to have another kid,
an’ I can’t go on keepin’ y’ for ever.”
I think Ma knew how I felt, but slaving her
insides out to look after eight kids and the Old Man
hadn’t left much spirit in her. “Your dad’s right,
Jimmy,” she said. “We’ve gotta have more money.
You can go on with your studies, an’ you’ll have
more money for your books an’ things.”
If there’d only been the Old Man there I’d have
said “Go to hell,” and got out, but with Ma it was
different. She looked old and worn out, like a dog
that’s hungry and lost and scared of the world.
Her voice was tired and sick, and I felt pretty mean
because I hadn’t tried to help her more than I had.
I made myself say “All right, I’ll start tomorrow
night.”
The Old Man got out of his chair. “That’s the
stuff, son,” he said. “Y’ c’n use my spare flannel
an’ dungarees an’ boots ’til y’ get some -y’self. I told
Tom Hill y’d be startin’ an’ he said he’ll get you as
his bogger. If y’ go down to his place tomorrow night
he’ll take y’ up with him.”
I undressed and climbed into bed and lay awake
for a long time trying to convince myself that, since
I’d only have to work eight hours a day and sleep
for eight, I’d be able to spend the rest of my time
reading or up at the power-house.
Next morning I hurried up to the power-house
to tell Andy what had happened. “There’s nothing
else I can do,” I told him. “Ma’s going to have
another baby, and even if you did give me a job
here it wouldn’t be enough.”
The way I spoke made it sound as though I was
making excuses to go underground and I didn’t want
Andy to think that. “But it’ll be all right,” I went
on. “I’ll still have plenty of time for study.”
Andy knew what I only felt, but he didn’t say it.
“All right, Jim,” he said. “I suppose there’s nothing
else for it. All we c’n do is wait and see.”
For the first time since I’d known Andy I couldn’t
think of anything to say except “I’ll come up and
see you as soon as I can.” I went down to the library
then to tell Miss Sanders. All she could say was,
“Isn’t there anything else you could do, Jimmy?”
and all I could answer was “No,” so I asked her
for my books and went over to the table. But I
read without paying any attention to what I was
reading because I had too much to think about, and
after a while I closed the book and went out in the
sun.
I was thinking about everything—the power-house,
underground, Miss Saunders, Ma and the Old Man —
and I couldn’t think of anything in particular. I
couldn’t make up my mind about anything because
there wasn’t anything solid to make it up about. As
Andy had said, all I could do was wait and see, so I
walked home for some lunch and then went to sleep
on my bed.
I WAS glad when the whistle blew at eleven o’clock
' and ended all the waiting and thinking. I tied my
boots and dungarees and flannel together with twine
and put my crib and thermos flask into the waterproof
bag Ma had made for me. Tom Hill was waiting for
me when I reached his place, and we took a short
cut through the mulga towards the change-rooms by
the mainshaft. He was a big, friendly, talkative chap,
and when I called him Mr. Hill he said, “Call me
Tom ; I don’t answer to anything else.”
He asked me if I’d ever been underground before,
and when I said I hadn’t he told me not to worry. “Y*
{Continued on page 45.)


HERE COMES
THE BRIDE
“Twenty years at sea! Well I wouldn't marry a sailor”
“Manners to Wait till yer ast, mum.”
By Frank Dalby Davison
WITH his axe, straining-fork and a couple of
loops of wire over his shoulder, Pa Pettingell,
who had been mending a fence at the back
of his selection, was stumping home through
the drenching rain. He plodded through a rain-
striped gloom in which wet tree-trunks glistened darkly.
A sheath of moving water covered the ground His
old felt hat was sodden, and the water trickling down
his face carried the taste of the sweat-soaked band to
his lips. Water squelched and bubbled from his boots
at every step. His shirt and trousers clung to him like
a half-sloughed skin. But Pa’s heart was light. The
thrash of the rain on earth and bough was music to
his ears ; the smell of it and of wet soil and leaf was
joy to his nostrils. He welcomed the wetness of his
skin and the beat of the rain against his body as it
swept past.
Times had gone rather hard with Pa of late. It
began when he handed his wife what amounted prac-
tically to an open cheque for Rose’s wedding ex-
penses. The district was in the middle of a prolonged
dry spell, but he didn’t know that—how could he?
He had been moved by the recollection of the wed-
dings of his other daughters in Gippsland. Violet
and Myrtle had each been given a spanking send-off;
trousseaus lacking nothing, generous presents, wed-
ding parties that were, still talked of in the district,
Pa was very fond of his girls. There was an occasional
conflict of ideas, natural between the generations, but
parental pride and affection overlooked these differ-
ence<s
~,•• . . • 1
Rose and her mother, in view of its being only
their second year on the Western Queensland selection,
had been a little diffident about drawing too heavily
on his resources ; but here another factor had entered
into the matter. His optimism in persuading them
to upsticks and leave their old home had not yet been
fully vindicated. He had a thought, as well, of the
mob of yearlings he had recently bought on spec from
one of his neighbors. To hedge on wedding expenses
after the expansive attitude shown in that outlay would
indicate a poor spirit. “Rose can have whatever her
sisters had,” he said.
His wife had made no comment, but had glanced
at him as much as to say “That’s very handsome of
you, Pa!” Rose, usually chary of display, had rubbed
the side of his head with her cheek when she caught
him sitting alone.
Sq p& was launched upon a sea of troubles that
nQt (Q end until he had experience d, for the first
. his life dragg j ng bogged and drought-struck
beasts frQm a s h runken waterhole , and ski „ni„g a £lO
cqw {o sa , a ten . shim „ g hide .
PREPARATIONS for the wedding deve ope apace.
1 Rose and her mother sent to Brisbane and Sydney
f° r mail-order catalogues and s P ent ours ic mg ei
thumbs over them. Occasiona y t e y ca e a in o
consultation. “Look, Pa. Do you think this.....
Pa > Phased at having his opinion asked, assisted
to the best of his ability. His was t e on ° r an
privilege of paying. He remembered how t e c eques
he had had to sign for the other we mgs a ma e
him wince a little ; but somehow the wince had been
the gauge of his importance and pleasure. Now, when
his views were sought, he intimated by opinions into
which considerations of price had obviously not
entered very much, that he was standing by his
promise. He was rewarded and flattered by the un-
spoken yet clearly indicated approval of his women-
His first intimation that things were not well with
him came one morning when he went out to the road
to intercent Snooker Hall driving oast on his way to
intercept snooxer nail, anving pa n y
the railhead. He wanted Snoo er o uy lm some
roofing nails at the store. ..... ~ ,
Pa had not yet had time to subdivide, and it hap-
pened that his cattle were all gathered grazing near
the front fence. They were a goodly band. It was
September, and they had come through the winter
well. Pa noticed Snooker running his eye over them
and, although he pointedly ignored them himself, he
had them pridefully in mind. He was a little taken
aback when Snooker said: “A bit overstocked for
this time of the year, aren’t you, Pettingell?”
“There’s a good stand ot feed at the back of the
paddock,” answered Pa offhandedly.
Snooker nodded without taking his eyes off the
stock, as much as to say “I knew you’d say that!”
His protracted survey of the cattle was pointed, and
said as plainly as words, “You’ve been overreaching
yourself, old man!”
The incident troubled Pa during the course of the
day, and in late afternoon, when he rode old Spring
to the back of the selection to bring in the milkers, he
took careful note of the amount of feed remaining.
His paddock didn’t look so very much different from
those adjoining. The tall grass, dry and bright yellow,
from last growing season still stretched away under
the box and ironbark trees like a paddock of thin
wheat. He noticed that the soft underfeed was well
bitten away, but still It was hard to feel pessi-
mistic, sitting comfortably in the saddle after a heavy
but satisfactory day, with the sun slanting serenely
down through the ragged boughs and the cattle trail-
ing comfortably home in front of him.
“One day you think you’ve got some feed left,
and a couple of days later it’s all gone!” That was
the voice of an old hand with whom he had discussed
the character of the country. The words came back
to him ominously ; but Pa had a heart not readily
given to dread. He looked at the fine condition of
his stock, at the feed still standing ; he thought of the
advantageous price at which he had bought that mob
of yearlings, and thrust misgiving into the back of
his mind.
That night Bart came on his weekly visit. His
selection was three miles across country, at the back
of Pettingell’s. He’d have come oftener only that
now he had dropped temporarily into second place.
It was the wedding that held the centre of the stage.
Bart had to do his love-making when Rose went with
him as far as the creek-crossing on his way home; a
proceeding that usually took as long as it would have
taken Bart, alone, to go home and back a couple of
times.
This night the women were stitching. Bart sat
on the other side of the lamp from Pa, taking his part
in the general yarning, being polite to Pa and Ma,
and taking a frequent eyeful of Rose. Pa was caught
up in the mood of the occasion. With his stockinged
feet stretched before him he even rehearsed in his
mind a little of the wedding speech that had gone
down so well on previous occasions: “Ladies and
gentlemen, it gives me and my wife very great pleasure
to see the faces of so many good friends and
neighbors....”
OCTOBER passed and brought no rain with it. Pa
spent the month putting up a fence to make a
night paddock for the milkers. He was anxious now.
From where he worked he could see into one of his
neighbor’s paddocks, the one from whom he had
bought the yearlings. You could see the difference;
in his the underfeed was used up, and the cattle were
starting on the top feed. The stalky tufts were bitten
off here and there, square, like brushes. Freshness
was noticeably departing from the earth. Except at
early morning and late afternoon there was a searching
glare, as if the year was withering away.
“You generally get rain when the weather warms
up?” That was Pa, talking to one of the old hands,
seeking verification of his observations of the pre-
vious season.
“Yes, if it happens to be a good year.”
“And what if it’s only middling?”
“Well, we mostly get rain here in Western
Queensland —general rains, that is some time after
Christmas. We might get a thunderstorm or two
before then—-if you’re lucky and happen to be in
the track of it.”
The casualness of the old hands, as against his
fast-increasing need, brought stabs of panic to Pa as
he went about his work.
He said nothing of his anxiety to the womenfolk.
Going indoors he would see a newly-opened parcel,
the paper still hanging loosely about it. Pa wondered
where the contents of all the brown-paper parcels dis-
appeared to. When Violet and Myrtle married there
had been dressmakers’ bills to pay, but this time—-he
had been told —out of consideration for their being
on a new selection, it had been decided to save money
by doing all the needlework at home. It seemed to
him, however, that economies effected by home manu-
facture were more than made up for by liberal pur
chases of material.. Still, he let no sign be seen. o
had given his word. His prestige abroad as well as a
home was involved. Word of the forthcoming ne
wedding was passing around among the neig ors.
He was glad when the new fence was finished.
The cows would soon bite to the dust, and the sig °
bare earth around the homestead would be a. c oni
monplace. That would be just the night paddock; m
the big paddock, extending to the back of the se
tion, peace and plenty would still presumab y reig •
The milch cows were going off in their yieh,
a fact that could not but be noticed by Rose, wno
helped with the milking. However, nothing ese
a fall in the yield could be expected, according t •
They had been milking a long time now on d y •
He remarked, with some truth, that everyb y
complaining of the same thing.
Pa relieved Rose of her customary job of tax s
the cream to the railway in the
her more time for getting ready lor n , th^.- W ° rn i n g eye
said. He was aware of Snooker Hall s dlscern 8 d \ G
directed at his selection whenever he passed an
wanted to come between Rose and " ha,e ff eve S n the
might be circulating on train days. To blutt eve


• u full freight on a half-empty
itationmaster, he paid ful If g himsel£i lest some
cieam-can —and put it in u should
too-obliging neighbor, helping load the van, should
stumble on an interesting fact.
The women gave Pa no rest. To keep his mind
off his anxieties he was building a new pig-pen of
straight brigalow logs, to replace the cockatoo struc-
ture he had thrown together the first year. Rose came
to him while he was notching the logs Pa, do you
think we ought to get a good suite for the parlor
while we’re at it? There’s one at fifteen pounds and
another at twenty-two pounds ten.” Pa recalled t a
his wedding present to Violet and Myrtle had been to
furnish the parlor-where they could entertain callers
in bang-up style. He hadn’t counted on it this time
somehow; but Bart had been building his house ; he
had put everything else aside, no doubt on Rose s
suggestion. Rose would want to have a good tale to
tell in her letters to her sisters.
Pa examined the log under his hands a long while
before looking up to meet his daughter’s eyes. I
think it would be best to get the good one, he said.
“Better to have something that will last.”
She stood awhile and admired the new pig-pen
before going back, with quickening steps, to the house.
After she had gone Pa’s hands fell idle for some
time. Against a momentary flash of resentment at the
way women lost themselves in a wedding, he recalled
that Rose had been very good in the early camping
days on the selection, shovelling dirt out of the post-
holes when they were fencing ; bending in the hot sun,
paying out from the coil, when he was running the
wires through the posts ; handing up planks, tools and
sheet-iron when he was building ; interested, rarely
complaining, making light of grimed and scarred
hands. Pa blew a deep sigh and turned again to his
work.
BART brought cheering news one night. I hear
they’ve had storms down the line, Mr. Pettingell.
Nogganilla copped three inches!”
In imagination Pa saw one of these beneficent
storms sweep across his selection.
“You’ll be all right, Pa?” This from Ma, looking
up from matching buttons, referring to his affairs in
general, and perfunctorily, for her mind was on other
things.
“Yes, I can’t complain,” from Pa. At the same
time he caught a look in Bart’s eye, and knew what
he had suspected for some time; that Bart fully
realised the parlous state of his affairs. In coming
visiting Bart crossed a back corner of Pettingell’s
selection ; at night, admittedly, but these lads had eyes
in their feet.
It was humiliating that Bart should know his posi-
tion. He shouldn’t have bought that mob of yearlings ;
forty youngsters, busy eating and growing, had made
the difference between security and desperation. That
was why Bart had made no comment, but had been
eager with hopeful news. Bart was not overstocked.
Pa had a feeling that he had only to say the word
and Bart would relieve him by taking some of his
stock. But was he, the man of a lifetime’s experience,
to make a start by falling on the shoulders of his
prospective son-in-law? No, by the hokey-pokey!
The look he returned Bart revealed nothing.
“Funny how stock make a dead set on an iron-
bark ridge,” he said. “They must find em sweet. It
was an ironbark ridge over which Bart came.
ONLY dry storms came to Pettingell’s selection.
Twice Pa was driven by them to seek shelter.
Overpowering heat, a smell of rain somewhere about,
a clouding up, thunder rolling, darkness, a rushing of
wind, a wild thrashing of boughs, a scattering of large,
ineffectual raindrops, like florins, pitting the dust;
then the sun again, hotter than ever, mocking the
aching earth, and seeming to jeer.
Pa had a brief nostalgia for the snug little prop-
erty he had left in the Gippsland ranges. Green maize
ten feet high on the tiny creek flat; cocksfoot and
clover like a green mantle on the spurs ; water gurgling
under musky leafage down every gully. He was led
from consideration of his present plight to wonder why
he had uprooted himself and come north. Bigger
acreage. Change. A stirring in the blood. A belief,
vaguely founded, that by leaving the old stand he could
outwit Nature—shake off the gathering weight of years.
In some measure he had. Here on the new settlement
he had shared in the day of beginnings. He had held
his own, too, as regards work, stepped into the job
with younger men and kept up with them, pace for
pace, stroke for stroke—but he wished he hadn’t
bought those yearlings!
“Once the stock start to die they go quicker and
quicker. It’s one to-day, two or three more by the
end of the week, five or six next week, ten or a dozen
the following week.” The grim old hands were talking
again.
Pa saw little to comfort him, riding over hill, flat
and gully. The best country, the ironbark ridges, was
completely eaten out, black. On the box sidings the
tufts were bitten back to about three inches, and the
stock were still at it, except a few that he noticed
making an experimental attack on a clump of wilga
bushes. It was pretty much the same on the best of
the flats. There-was one small stretch, swampy in
wet weather, covered with long, tough blady- and wire-
grass. Stock wouldn’t look at it ordinarily, but a lot
of them were in it now, nosing after a bite at tn
bottom.
How long could he last? He hadn’t the money
to buy agistment. He couldn t raise money , e a
borrowed to build. Could he last unti a er
wedding? Another fortnight? He might be com-
pelled to fall back on Bart. That thought galled him.
And then there was the thought that perhaps the dis-
trict was in for a real drought. What right had he to
ask the younger man to shoulder some of his risks in
the face of that possibility?
He rode home heavily. His stock would be on
their feet for two or three weeks yet, but after that
they would begin to go down like scrub falling , a
was one of the penalties of having almost all good
country —and overstocking.
The thought of the wedding turned his insides
to lead. The guests would know. The story had got
around. He had a neighbor on each side and one at
the back, as well as Hall, going by. At the railway he
had met Adam Stuart, from over on Bluey Creek, ten
miles away. Adam had asked how he was getting on,
and, on being told that he was doing fine, had ex-
pressed surprise. “Oh, I’m glad to hear that. I heard
you were in deep water! ”
Pa could imagine the swarm of guests, jovial,
friendly, congratulatory ; and silently critical, quietly
observant of the difference between his ostentatious
board and his hungry paddocks.
DINNER, on the day the rain came, had been a
scratch meal eaten in an atmosphere of dress
manufacture. There was the uncovered sewing-
machine, loose heaps of material piled on chairs,
smelling like a draper’s shop— snippings on the floor.
The women were talking of the wedding. Pa was
thinking about his cattle.
During the week he had had to pull three beasts
out of the bog at the top end of the waterhole in the
creek. He had had the satisfaction of seeing them
go tottering off on their muddied legs , but one o
them had died, a cow. He had spent the morning
skinning her. Pa wasn’t much accustomed to skinning.
He had made a laborious and bloody job of it. He
had washed the blood off his hands and arms at the
waterhole and flung the hide over a log to avoid
bringing it home.
He wished they’d stop talking of the wedding.
Rose and her mother everlastingly yabber-yabbering
about it, their heads together over this and that.
“D’you mind, Pa, if we just have leftovers to-day.
And always cocking an eye at him to see if they were
reaching the danger limit of expenses. He went out,
gathered up the axe and straining-fork and loops of
wire over his shoulder, and plodded off through the
timber in the heat.
"T HERE were puddles ankle deep and fifty yards
1 long on the flat when Pa emerged from the timber.
He didn’t care. He sloshed right through them. The
rain was coming straight down now ; a steady beat,
it looked like general rains, all over the State. He
couldn’t see to the front fence through the downpour.
“The stock'don’t move in Western Queensland
once the rains come” —the old hands were talking
again, this time with grinning faces—“they just stand
in one place and bite the grass off as it jumps up!
Pa flung his tools under the cart shed —its earthen
floor miraculously dusty as against the lovely sodden
world without—and headed for the homestead. He d
do well out of these yearlings now! As he climbed
the steps he could hear, above the splash of the over-
flowing tank and the roar of the rain on the iron roof,
another sound; a long purr and a pause, a long purr
and a pause. Ma was still at the sewing-machine.
Forgetting that they who had been shielded from
sharing in his anxieties could hardly be expected to
realise the measure of his relief, Pa stepped to the
threshold. With a hand on each side of the door and
leaning so as not to drip water on the lino., he looked
into the room, soaked but beaming. Ma had dragged
the machine over to the window for better light, and
was bent above it, her feet on the flying treadle. Rose,
near the door, bare-armed, her mouth full of pins,
was making adjustments to the hem of a slip that she
had on.
“Hey, Ma,” Pa shouted. “It’s rainin’!”
Ma, startled at the sound of his voice, looked
around. It was a moment before she took in his words
properly, then she smiled and nodded vigorously, a
pleasant and dutiful spouse. She glanced out the
window, up at the roof and back to Pa. “Yes, we’ve
been looking at it,” she screamed. “Very nice, isn’t
it?” She nodded again and then turned back to the
machine. Rose took the pins out of her mouth and
spared him a few words of daughterly advice, kindly
intended. “Hadn’t you better get your wet things
off, Pa?”
"No soda, thanks
The Flames.
When the east reddens my burning begins
And it feels in me as if autumn had turned crimson
The dark-green needles of the unalterable pines.
The flames crack and break me, I cry out for water,
The streams of my childhood plunging their snow over stones
And the ferns that sprang like fountains in the black bush.
In the blue smoke of midday waters and flowers
Whirl up like sparks, and dust whirls up in the desert.
Broken with heat and color I cry out for water,
The hands of the women who rippled about my youth.
The dew falls: but the sun, oh the sun, sets the
Solid pines and the clouds and rivers on fire.
Have mercy on my great joy, cool me with your hand,
For I know that heaven like hell is flame without end.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Harvest.
October takes the sickle of the sun
And reaps the rippling harvest of the spring;
The burdened wattle wagons one by one
Creak through each paddock place, or sway and swing
Across the hills; their loads of tremulous gold
Are drawn by centaurs, team by satiny team.
Whose sweeping chestnut tails caress the mould,
High hoofs aglisten and red flanks agleam!
Deep tussocks, saffron in the sun’s maize glow.
Are sheaves the satyrs fashioned into stooks
When dawn was passing, arrogant and slow,
And dew flashed like a thousand reaping hooks.
Each little gamin breeze has quit the roads
Where, grimed with dust, they romped or grimly fought,
And now perched high on fragrant wagon loads
They ride through days that seem unduly short.
The singing gale
Now wields the beauty of its whispering flail,
That, dripping honey, leaps to fall again
Among the tawny tassels of the gram.
No meagre harvest this, when headlands burn
With crocus gold of gorse like burnished rye,
Where bees, brown, thrifty gleaners, oft return
To garner sweets which, left, would waste and lie.
No frugal harvest this, when white box trees
Are snowed with drifting dust of pounded meal;
While corn of wild grass fingers the soft knees
Of new-born lambs, whose reed-thin voices peal
Forlorn and lonely on the silver air.
’Twas well the centaurs’ hoofs were shod with gold
At that forge in the forest where the flare
Of broom tongued out in many a fiery lold
From the long bellows-beak of soughing wind—
For still the wagons roll aslant, asway.
Across the hills; while following close behind
Gay blackbirds come, all piping the one lay
Of mellow rapture, sweet as blossom foam,
To bless October’s harvest coming home.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


THE SILKY OAK
By Vance Palmer
THE silky oak, with its guard of broken palings,
reminded people of the Slaters.
That was the worst thing about it —no one
wanted to be reminded of the Slaters. For years
their camp on the other side of the saltwater creek
had been an ugly blot on the life of the Bay, with
its bark chimney showing through the lantana, rusted
tins and mangy dogs sneaking through the under-
growth to bark at cars passing along the road. The
first sign of settlement people driving from the rail-
way saw was this ragged collection of hovels in the
scrubby triangle formed by the bay and the mouth
of the saltwater creek.
“What! Blacks here still?” they said. And it
was somehow humiliating to admit that the Slaters
were not blacks, but half-castes —mere brindles.
Slater himself was harmless, a nondescript ghost
of a man, always with a greasy felt pulled down low
over his eyes, heavy, unlaced boots and patched
trousers sagging round his spare flanks. He did odd
jobs at the hotel and the store, or hawked the bream
and flathead he caught at night, fishing from a leaky
punt. A soft-spoken, self-effacing old waster. No
one had anything particular against Slater.
But his wife —his gin, the women called her—
was a tougher proposition. You rarely saw her except,
now and again, scrubbing clothes, pipe in mouth, on
the bank of the creek, her eyes looking up with smoky
resentment through the mat of hair that fell over her
thin, mahogany face ; but no one passing along the
road could fail to hear her shrill voice. It was con-
tinually at work; sometimes on the children but
oftener on the dogs, and it was sharp enough to take
the hair off their hides. They said she crossed the
creek on dark nights and prowled among the cot-
tages, snavelling things from people’s clotheslines.
And if a fowl was missing from anyone’s roost it was
put down to her.
No one knew the full extent of the Slater family.
Indeed it was less a family than a tribe. Sometimes
a girl appeared from nowhere, hung about the camp
a few months and disappeared again, usually leaving
a youngster behind her. Then there were a couple of
boys, lean, stringy youths who turned up at the camp
in the weeks before Christmas and vanished with
the wet season as mysteriously as they had come.
They were unnoticed in the crowd of summer visitors.
Occasionally they wandered across the creek and
mooched about the Front, watching the pageant of
gaily-colored bathers on the sands ; but more often
they kept to themselves, shooting duck in the upper
reaches or hunting in the back-country with their dogs.
The Slaters tried to efface themselves as completely
as possible at holiday-time, to keep to the shelter of
the tea-tree.
All except Rosie.
'T HERE was no feeling of the outcast about Rosie.
1 The holiday season was the peak-point of the year
for her, for the Caffertys found her useful at the store,
“It Was falling into the Water, sir, so I grabbed it.”
and she was busy from daylight to dark keeping the
stove going in the kitchen or racing round the head-
land for orders. A dashing scapegrace of a young-
ster, with her honey-colored skin, tinkling laugh and
plum-dark eyes. Hard to believe she had come from
that warren across the creek! She rode bareback,
and to the visitors she seemed like a wild young sea-
bird as she raced from one cottage to another, digging
her heels into the pony’s sides, and flinging herself
off before it stopped to dash in at someone’s gate.
“Where does that child come from?” they asked.
No one liked to point to the unpleasant camp
across the creek. Better, for Rosie’s sake, to skim
over the question of origins, and tell the story of the
silky oak. That story brought credit, not only to
Rosie but to the whole place.
It happened when she was about seven, dawdling
home from school with the other youngsters and
stopping at the ramshackle jetty to watch for the store-
boat. Here, in the shelter of the estuary, there was
smooth water, the banks shelving quickly to a depth
of ten or twelve feet. From the end of the jetty you
could see patches of mullet-weed far below, rusted bits
of anchor-chain, and whiting moving like- shadows
over the clear sand. And sometimes there were
sharks, waiting like watchdogs for the mullet coming
down the creek with the tide.
“But when young Bob Cafferty fell in, Rosie didn’t
wait to think about sharks. Not even for a second.
Dived right in with her clothes on and struggled ashore
with him, though he was a couple of years older than
she was. Half-drowned both of them were.”
That was only part of the story, for it omitted the
arguments that had taken place about a suitable reward
for Rosie. Some people wanted to hand over to her
mother the few pounds that had been collected for
her, but the schoolmistress was against that. She
believed the old woman would spend it on tobacco
and drink ; the unspeakable elder girls might even
be encouraged to come back and loaf on the pro-
ceeds. Besides, it was vulgar to commemorate a deed
with a money-gift. What could be more fitting than
to plant a tree in the clear space between the store
and the jetty? A tree, with a tidy guard around it,
and perhaps some sort of metal inscription. It would
be something that Rosie could always look upon with
pride.
And so the silky oak was planted, with palings
around it to keep off the cows.
It did not thrive very well in spite of its protec-
tion. No tree did on the flat. There were the south-
east trades all winter ; there were the days when a fine
spray blew inland, giving all the vegetation a salty,
bitten look. When the silky oak first flowered the
bloom was scanty, and all on one side. But still it
was a secret support for Rosie, giving her a standing
in the place.
All her young life was based on that tree, rooted
so securely there in the open. Where else could she
have got the confidence that allowed her to dash off
to school without lunch, tell-
ing the other girls some tale
of having left it on the
dresser? She knew they
would be only too ready to
share their sandwiches with
her—beef with mustard,
and occasionally salmon.
And how otherwise would
she have had the assurance,
later on, to ask Mrs. Caf-
ferty to let her ride round
with the orders? “Bob
don’t like doing it, Mrs.
Cafferty—he wants to go
swimming. And I won’t use
his saddle if he’s scared I’ll
knock it about.”
U/HEN Bob Cafferty, a
** thick, heavy-witted
youth, went off to a job in
a town warehouse, Rosie
was taken on regularly at
the store. Already she knew
a good deal about the run-
ning of it. She could make
up the orders as well as race
round taking them down in
her notebook; she could
tell, to the last tin of her-
rings, what was coming in
the storeboat. While she
was in charge Cafferty could
potter about without com-
punction among his beans in
the back garden and his
wife, an amiable, slatternly
woman, drowse peacefully
in the room upstairs.
But the big change in
Rosie’s life came when
Gleason, the local councillor, decided it was time to
clear the Slaters out of the camp across the creek. He
was a pushing, progressive man, and owned a good
deal of land he wanted to sell.
“They’ve had a good spin,” he said. “Years with-
out rent or rates to pay. And it’ll come to be a
breeding-ground for hookworm and other diseases,
that camp. Ought to have been cut up into allotments
and sold long ago.”
And in spite of the passive resistance of the
Slaters he pushed the matter through. The Slaters, he
said, could go back inland where they belonged.
But what about Rosie, people asked?
“Rosie don’t need to go,” declared Mrs. Cafferty.
“I can put her up in a back room. This has come to
be home to her now. Isn’t that so, Rosie?”
Rosie was at first dark and mutinous, refusing to
be drawn. “What right has ol’ Gleason to hunt ’em
out?” she asked sulkily.
“It’s the Shire Council,” she was told. “They
want the land.”
“If they go, I’m going, too,” she announced.
She went back to the camp among the lantana
and helped the family gather their few things together.
They were going off to a sawmill inland, where one
of the boys, Joe, had a regular job. Rosie told the
other girls of a five-roomed house with an orange-
orchard and a creek running through the bottom
paddock. But after a few days she was hanging round
the store again. The blue bay shimmering in the
light of early spring, the pony on which she raced
round the headland, the silky oak that was her secret
pride—she could not give them up so easily.
“Mum says I better stay,” was all she said.
From then on some of the happy-go-lucky care-
lessness went out of her, and she developed a sharper
sense of her own rights. There was the question of
wages ; she was no longer content with the few shil-
lings Cafferty fished from his trouser-pocket and
handed her with a benevolent gesture when he felt
flush. There were things she wanted —bathing-togs, a
tennis-racquet, sandshoes for the beach. She pored
over catalogues and sent her own orders to town.
Thrust back on herself, she accumulated resources
of dignity and inner poise. A new attractiveness was
descending on her with her budding womanhood. She
looked a fine figure of a girl as she came shooting in
on the breakers, or sat squatting on the rocks with
her chin on her knees watching the boats fishing on
the dead reef. She insisted on having her Sundays
off, for on that day there was always a shimmer of
excitement over the place, with motorists driving
down from the hills and picnic-parties boiling billies
among the tea-tree. In the crowd of bronzed youths
and flappers on the beach her color was less con-
spicuous than her streamlined grace and vitality.
“Rosie —she’s beginning to feel her oats,” said
Cafferty with a chuckle.
He was content that she should, for it meant she
was taking on more responsibility in the store and
leaving him leisure for his beans and tomatoes. But
his wife, sloppy and casual though she was, did not
feel so easy in mind. She had counted on Rosie being
soft and pliable, but now she detected a hard core in
her, something that would prevent her from being
easily shaped. And there was this impulse to run
free. She remembered the other Slater girls, trailing
around the camp in Mother Hubbards, looking with
dark, resentful eyes at any women who came near,
and with a warmer curiosity at the men.
What a peck of trouble you let yourself in for
when you tried to mother a young girl! Especially
one who had a touch of the warrigal in her blood.
But luckily Rosie did not seem to have much of an
eye for the boys. She used up all her spare energy in
swimming, in helping the men cart up the goods from
the storeboat, in racing about the headland on the
pony that was already too light for her.
r T' HOSE were days of quick growth at the Bay, with
* a new road being built from the railway, red-
roofed cottages going up among the tea-tree and sur-
veyors dragging their chains about the hill fronting
the water, cutting up every piece of spare land into
small allotments. Each summer Gleason had some
idea of a fresh improvement that would impress the
Christmas visitors. Now it was organising a lifesaving-
squad, now putting a coat of fresh paint on the hall,
now tidying up the lantana by the estuary. He cast a
baleful eye on the silky oak, which was becoming
wind-writhen and tilted to one side. But since local
sentiment was involved, there was nothing to be done
about that.
Nothing? It was nearly ten years old now, and
of those who were present when it was planted few
remained. The Caffertys, of course. And Rosie!
Rosie had become definitely popular. She was
accepted as the person chiefly responsible for run-
ning the store, and she pleased everyone who had
dealings there, from the campers by the estuary to
the most exacting visitors in the headland cottages. If
there was anything missing from the orders the man
brought around in the cart she was always to be
found, brisk and responsible, at the end of the
telephone.
“All right, Mrs. Winton. Yes, you can count on
getting it right away. I’ll come round myself on the
pony.”
Bob Cafferty, coming home as to a backwater
from his lost job in town, was spellbound by the
change in her. Lounging about the store in his flannels,
a cigarette hanging to his lower lip, he watched her
with a loose grin ; watched the quick swing of her
{Continued on page 47.)


A GAME
WITH THE KID
By Gavin S. Casey
, T was a sunny afternoon, and it was calm and
quiet by the river as I stood watching my kid
I frolicking over the grass on the Esplanade The
1 nipper gurgled with joy, tripped over himself, dis-
covered that rolling was good fun, and went twisting
and turning toward the water’s edge. The contentment
that had been soaking into me along with the sunshine
was suddenly frightened out.
“Tom!” I yelled. “Come back from the water.
Keep up on the grass.”
“Why can’t Igo in, dad? asked the kid, sitting
up. “Why can’t I paddle? I want to go in the water.”
“It’s winter,” I explained patiently. “The water is
too cold, and, anyway, there’s plenty of other things to
do this weather. All the men we used to see out on
the yachts and in swimming are playing football and
hockey. See their boats, all tied up out there?”
A cluster of yachts and launches were tugging
softly at their buoys, the city behind us was quiet,
and Sunday-afternoon strollers speckled the Esplanade.
It was cold in the shadows of the tall buildings
that stood behind the lawns, but it was warm
and cheerful in the sunshine. There were dogs
running, and plunging, and shaking themselves, and
there were some schoolboys playing on the stone
retaining wall, and yelling in their clear, high voices.
I stood pointing, and trying to explain to the kid
all the pleasures that a man or a boy could enjoy
when the weather was cold. The little chap stood
beside me, and all the time I talked I was thinking
regretfully of all the pleasure I’d had a few years
earlier just through feeling the sweat burst out of my
pores in a cold wind. I was wondering why it was
that expensive and not very satisfactory fun had taken
the place of the things that had been so good, and I
was a bit jealous of the kid, who had all that sort of
thing ahead of him.
Ruth was sitting with her back against a tree,
knitting, apparently not thinking at all, or only think-
ing about the knitting. She was glad to leave the
nipper to me for half a day, I thought, and I was glad
enough to have him. But I felt disappointed with the
job I was making of explaining things to him. The
pictures that were in my mind were getting badly bent
between it and my tongue, though he was listening
pretty eagerly.
Then there was a wonder in my head if the kid,
or any kid, could enjoy all we’d enjoyed when we
were nippers. There’d not been so many ready-made
pleasures, like the talkies, then, but there’d been good
days spent at all sorts of things that youngsters didn’t
seem to worry about any more. I grew pretty anxious
that young Tom should not miss anything that was
going, that when his limbs lost their pink and sprouted
hair he should not waste a moment of the years that
would go so fast. I could remember some pretty
murky and miserable spots in my own life, about the
time my voice was breaking, but I could remember
a lot of bright, good, satisfying times, too, and I
wanted my kid to have as big a balance as possible in
favor of the latter.
The nipper was watching the bigger kids, full of
curiosity and bashfulness. He didn’t usually see me
except for an hour or two each evening, and on some
Sunday afternoons, I realised, and it suddenly seemed
urgent that the youngster and I should make the most
of this one. He’d grown into his fourth year while
I’d been busy with other things, and it shocked me a
bit to think that he’d double and treble that age before
I was aware of it, if I wasn’t careful.
I wanted him to spend the afternoon running and
jumping and climbing and throwing, and yelling with
excitement the way he does at times, and I wanted
to be in it, too. I didn’t know how to set it going, but
by the time I’d taken a cautious look up and down the
river beach, and satisfied myself that there was no
one close, I’d had an inspiration.
“Look, Tom!” I said. “Watch this stone.”
I scrambled down the low wall, grabbed up a
heavy flat shell, and let fly. I felt the tightness of
the cloth of my coat across my back as I stooped,
and my arm didn’t swing as freely as it had done in
the times when I was used to throwing, but the shell
skimmed and danced over the flat, sheltered water
that lay near the shore. The nipper howled with glee,
and I was pretty tickled with the effort myself. A
rollicking, shaggy, dripping dog galloped along to in-
vestigate, and the kids further along were quiet, watch-
ing. I’m the right sort of a dad, I thought, bending
again. I could imagine the fathers of the older boys
at home with pipe and paper, while the lads envied
my little chap. This did a man more good than a
loaf, and I’d have to do it often in future I resolved.
The second shell made only three hops, and I
unbuttoned my coat, pretty determined to do better.
I could feel my face flushing, and I caught a glimpse
of Ruth looking up from her knitting with a queer
smile. “Damn her,” I thought hotly ; “if she thinks
it’s a joke, let her laugh.” Then I forgot her.
“Come on, young ’un,” I said. “Let’s see what
you can do.”
I lifted the kid down on to the sand, and he
scooped up some shells, but they were the wrong sort
and he didn’t have the judgment, so most of them just
plopped dismally in the water, and others never
skipped more than a couple of times. I tried to
show him how to go about it, but he was too young
and impatient. He was enjoying it anyway, dancing
and rushing about, throwing anything from bits of
driftwood to stray leaves that were caught up by the
wind and never reached the water. I almost forgot
him, too, trying to beat that first shot of mine, but
never quite managing it. My face was wet with sweat,
and I felt the weight of my coat, so I took it off and
threw it on the grass. My warmth in the chilly air
made my spectacles mist over, but I just dabbed at
the lenses impatiently and scooped up more shells.
“See if you can reach that boat, dad,” shrieked
the kid, hopping with excitement. “See if you can
send one that far, an’ make it jump two, five, ’leven
times.”
“Right!” I said, laughing and sweating. “ ’Leven
jumps is a tall order, but I’ll reach the boat.”
The boat was a long way off, though. I never
got near it making the shells skim the water, and even
when I started straight-out throwing I couldn’t do it.
I got a bit annoyed —with the boat for being so far
away, and with myself because I felt sure I could
have reached it easily a few years earlier. Then I
noticed that the youngster was missing and looked
around.
The kid had scrambled up the wall, and was
standing on the grass watching me, not excited any
more, but thoughtful, lonely and neglected looking.
Behind him, Ruth had dropped her knitting and was
studying the pair of us with her queer, superior smile.
The kids downstream were sitting in a row, critical
and supercilious, watching me and talking to each
other. On the grass, a young man and a girl were
passing, and they were both grinning. I felt sick and
ashamed, hating them all and myself.
Ruth’s smile, which I was used to and had thought
nothing of, became important and offensive when it
was mirrored on half a dozen faces. I hated them all,
and most of all I felt resentment against the kid, who
had scrambled up the rock wall and turned my good
intentions into a funny picture of a man playing and
a little boy watching him. I felt things I hadn’t
noticed before, the sweat running down my jowls, the
weight of my horn-rimmed glasses on my nose, the
uncomfortable tightness into which the swinging and
striding had twisted my underclothes, the dull ache in
the arm I had been throwing with, and most of all I
felt the weight of my paunch and, in some queer way,
the softness and office-pinkness of my flesh and skin.
I saw my neat coat and ridiculous bowler on the
grass and hated them, too. I climbed up the low
wall with my pleasure all gone.
“Y’ couldn’t reach the boat, dad?” said the kid
disappointedly.
“No,” I said. “Bring me my hat and coat, Tom.”
The shadows of the buildings had grown longer,
and were reaching right out on to the water. An icy
breeze shattered the surface of the river, and I noticed
that the Esplanade was almost deserted. As I climbed
into my coat, my anger transferred itself from the
nipper to Ruth. She could have called out to Tommy,
told him to keep on throwing, come to the water’s
edge herself, done something to save me from look-
ing such a fool, I thought. But she hadn’t even
acknowledged any connection with the sweating,
middle-aged- man throwing stones at the water; had
just sat smiling, smiling her superior, secret smile and
watching it happen. Shivering in the chilly breeze,
I put on my hat, took the kid’s hand and started to
walk off, scowling and not speaking to her.
“What’s the matter, dad? What’ve I done, dad?”
asked the kid unhappily. “Why can’t we stay here a
bit longer? Why wouldn’t you throw any more shells,
dad?”
But I still couldn’t say anything. I picked the
little chap up, hoping that might explain something,
and tramped on across the grass toward the car. The
kid was heavy, and my own body was heavy and
useless, and my mind was more or less out of control.
I was excusing myself for having been a fool, excus-
ing it on the ground of the good intentions I’d begun
with. I was trying to get back to a commonsense
view of things, but there was so much rage and pain
in me that I knew I wouldn’t manage it, and that
night Ruth and I would quarrel, and that I’d bellow
at the kid, too, if he said a word out of place
or made a noise or ran to his mother when I thought
he ought to run to me.
Old Man and Child.
é
w
ARNOLD WALL.
“Better 'ang on to your ’ at , Jim; ’ere comes a willy-willy.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j 4 ffbtt ‘Wme-cf'ia/ie mellcum&f£xmddcumiei>
Almost seventy years have passed since
the man —Charles Dickens—who, it is
claimed, prevented Christmas “passing to
the limbo of the forgotten” ceased from
his labours. A century ago, and even
less, a fear was entertained by many that
this fate awaited what is pre-eminently
the National festival of English-speaking
peoples. It was in 1842 Dickens gave to
the world that “wonderful creation” “A
Christmas Carol,” a book the late
Clement Shorter held made the Christmas
British people have known ever since.
Before Dickens’s time, Christmas books
had been written, it is true, but they pic-
tured festivals at stately mansions. The
Christmas of the poor clerk, of the
homely men and women who form the
bulk of the population, had passed
unrecorded. Three centuries prior to “A
Christmas Carol” being written, Thomas
Tusser urged:
“At Christmas play and make good cheer
For Christmas comes but once a year,”
but man’s responsibility to man for that
good cheer, and even more his responsi-
bility to the children, had never before
been emphasised in England as it was in
this “incomparable sermon.” By the
creation of Tiny Tim, Dickens revolu-
tionised the sense of responsibility to
children, alike on the part of the indi-
vidual and on the part of the State.
Scrooge is all of us, more or less. None
may disclaim a small part of him. The
spirits, it has been rightly maintained,
that came to Scrooge had but one object
—to change a life of selfish egotism into
an instrument of altruism. These spirits
which, as it were, “reincarnated” Scrooge
are still performing their noble work
among all who speak the tongue that
Shakespeare spoke and Milton sang.
Christmas today largely centres around
the desire to make others happy, or where
burdens of poverty, sickness or misfor-
tune sorely press, ease them of some of
their weight. This Christmas, once more,
unfortunately, finds the world involved
in a mighty war, arising from which are
demands for a fuller exemplification of
cardinal Yuletide virtues, those of kind-
ness and true fellowship in particular.
Independent of external happenings
dividing nations, hope for a better time
may be found in the knowledge that
Christmas still proclaims, despite human
frailties and misunderstandings, that the
spirit of goodwill hovers over the stormy
sea of life, anxious to bestow its bless-
ings of “peace and goodwill among men.”
That this season shall witness a happy
change, bringing contentment and true
prosperity to all, is the earnest desire of
the House of Seppelts.
Where Christmas Carol ” Was Written.
DICKENS'S HOUSE, NO, 1 DEVONSHIRE TERRACE, MARYLEBONE, LONDON.


JUST SOVIET FUN.
“The Soviet Foreign Minister, M. Molotov, informed the League of Nations that Russia is not at war with Finland.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. • G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
SIX PARLIAMENTS SURVEYED.
As the year draws to a close, the seven-Parliament
system looks more outrageous than ever.
The Sydney Parliament’s first contribution to the
national war effort was to slug taxpayers for another
£3,900,000 in an effort to keep its annual provincial
deficit down to £1,512,300. In introducing this rob-
bery-by-statute programme, the Treasurer, a new
hand, said “Last year a surplus of £7785 was forecast;
the actual result was a deficit of £2,448,674.” Mr.
Spooner, an old hand, declares that the surplus of
£53,875 claimed in 1937-38 was as mythical as the
surplus for 1938-39, having been manufactured by
treating proceeds of the sales of Government brick-
works, pipeworks and quarries as revenue, and that
the deficit for two years to June 30, 1939, was
£4,350,785. Be that as it may, the people find them-
selves loaded with sweeping additions to two income
taxes, motor taxes, stamp duties, probate and death
duties, all imposed in a hurry, and with new burden
some obligations, such as having to make and deposit
copies of all wills in which life interests in estates are
bequeathed. Meanwhile the “Parliament” is resting
from its disastrous exertions.
The Queensland Legislature is also resting after
having been engaged on legislative duties for a whole
three months. During that period, the Labor Govern-
ment had to do something about the financial chaos
in which the Labor-ruled Brisbane City Council has
landed the affairs of the capital; and as a first result
the city rate has shot up from 9fd. to l/l|d. in the £.
It also set up a Taxation Inquiry Commission which
called its Commissioner of Taxation as a witness.
The commissioner blithely admitted that taxes on
companies are “too high all round” ; instead of Is. 9d.
to ss. 3d. in the £, plus 20 p.c. super tax, they should
be Is. to 4s. in the £.
Half the Queensland income-tax revenue is
extracted from companies. Terrific taxation en-
abled the Government to claim a surplus of £14,000
last year (all the other State Governments admitted
deficits), but the effect is to deprive Queensland of
manufacturing enterprise which every other circum-
stance favors.
The other State Parliaments, when last heard of,
were still in action. The Tasmanian show has a Pre-
mier “without portfolio” who is rising 70, and by
virtue of a pleasant little arrangement at a party
meeting (no dogs or electors admitted) is about to be
succeeded by one of his colleagues. It has been
brightly suggested that the old gentleman should be
transferred to Government House when the present
British occupant of that imitation of Buckingham
Palace completes his term; but public opinion seems
unfavorable.
The Victorian Parliament is busy with questions
affecting its dignity and importance, and the like. A
Royal Commissioner is inquiring into newspaper
allegations to the effect that a fund was raised to
block a Milk Bill; and last week there was a bedside
examination, as a witness, of the elderly Speaker, who
produced his bankbook —a spectacle without prece-
dent in a State whose politics have always been a
blend of staidness and small beer. There has also
been some bother about the qualifications of State
Savings Bank Commissioners. The Dunstan Govern-
ment introduced a bill declaring the seat of Mr. A. E.
Hocking vacant. Mr. Hocking was formerly Mr.
Dunstan’s most influential supporter, but the old pals,
it seems, have fallen out; anyway, an Opposition mem-
ber described the bill as “the culmination of a private
fight between the Premier and Mr. Hocking,” and
objected to “this House” being “asked to take part in
a common political brawl.”
On the same day, “this House,” at the instance
of the Chief Secretary, agreed to provide a special
allowance for “the leader of the third substantial
party” (Labor), on the ground that the gentleman has
“duties which are onerous and responsible.” The
leader of the U.A.P. already receives a special allow-
ance, and the leader of “the third substantial party,”
whose duties are so “onerous and responsible,” could
get it if he took his party into opposition, but for
nearly five years he has kept a minority Country party
in office. So with unblushing impudence a political
debt of gratitude is to be charged up to the taxpayers.
Commonwealth grants, loans, railway losses and
revenue-accounts shortages have been the main pre-
occupations of the South Australian and Westralian
Parliaments. All the State Governments have huge
annual railway losses, and, camouflage them as some
do, it is improbable that their railway departments
will ever struggle out of actual insolvency. In fact,
if the supply of Commonwealth loans and grants were
suddenly cut off the Adelaide and Perth Governments,
which admitted deficits of £397,000 and £220,000 re-
spectively last year, would be broke to the wide.
In his retirement, Isaac Isaacs has been consider-
ing the position brought about by an outmoded Con-
stitution which thrusts seven Parliaments on “essen-
tially one nation of 7,000,000 souls,” and plagues it with
“diversities of policy, multiplication of Government
agencies, duplication of taxation and discordant regu-
lations.” In a series of articles written for the “Age”
he declares it “a reproach and a danger” that we
should be “far less qualified for our national and
international obligations than Britain, New Zealand,
South Africa and even Canada, because we have six
States. .. .constituted on the basis that they are six
mutually separate peoples, together with a Com-
monwealth constituted on the basis that they are not,
and rigidly denied that amplitude of power that is
absolutely necessary.”
It is a political superstructure that no sane person
would dream at this hour of erecting... .Still the fact
exists and....it is a heavy first charge on the industry
of the nation. Why all this enormous burden? Why
all this confusing regulation?
The veteran constitutionalist is aware of the feel-
ing for “the abolition of State Parliaments” and the
setting up of “regional subordinate legislative and
administrative bodies,” and allows that “it is daily
winning adherents: ultimately it will probably pre-
vail.” Because of “the double majority of people and
of States” required by Section 128 and “in view of our-
instant necessities,” he would prefer to strive for liberal
amendments of Sections 92 and 51. Section 92 (“Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States, whether
by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall
be absolutely free”) he would alter to “(1) Inter-State
trade and commerce and intercourse to be absolutely
free from State interference ; (2) inter-State trade and
commerce to be left as by Section 51 in the Common-
wealth Parliament throughout Australia.” Under Sec-
tion 51 he would add to the legislative powers of the
Parliament, intra-State trade; health; control over
the publication and distribution of statements in
foreign languages ; “clear power to regulate and con-
trol all foreign corporations, all Australian trading
and financial corporations and friendly societies,” and,
in respect of conciliation and arbitration, “complete
legislative power with respect to industry.” And if
three States were clearly in favor of Commonwealth
exercise of powers now vested in the States, the
national Parliament being willing, he would place it
beyond the power of the other three States to veto the
arrangement.
Nobody imagines that abolition of State Parlia-
ments can be brought about in a day, or that the
vested interests which have grown up about them will
surrender without a bitter struggle. As steps towards
the institution of the system that works best alike in
peace and in war, as Britain, Maoriland and South
Africa have shown, the Isaacs amendments are desir-
able ; but many months will elapse before they can
be submitted, and meanwhile there is a war on.
From the beginning of the war Australia has had
to put up with lamentable examples of inaction and
provincial meddling, even in simple matters like sol-
diers’ pay. It took three months to settle that ques-
tion, and for a moment it looked as if a general elec-
tion would be fought on it; Maoriland, which is not
bothered with Mairs, Willcocks or Dwyer-Greys and
has never suffered from the Premiers’-Conference
spirit, disposed of it in a day. For the effective prose-
cution of the war the Australian Government requires
all the powers which are at the Maoriland Govern-
ment’s command. It should certainly take immediate
control of taxation and transport—ports and harbors
might be added for good measure. Any State incubus
objecting could be swiftly reduced to acquiescence by
financial pressure.
Another Surrender at Canberra.
In Britain the advent of war brought unity of thought
and action. Mr. Chamberlain finds himself supported
by a Parliament in which minor differences are sub-
ordinated to allow him to exercise the almost absolute
powers which have been deeded by statute to the
Ministry.
Mr. Mackenzie King in Canada is in much the
same position, and his handling of the situation has
been characterised by broad thinking and resourceful
planning, of which the birth of the aerial-training
scheme was a fine example. Maoriland, even though
it has a sick Prime Minister, is governed by a Labor
Administration whose outlook is in striking contrast
to that of Mr. Curtin’s following, and whose war
measures have been prompt and energetic. And in
exceptionally difficult political circumstances South
Africa is getting action from the Smuts Ministry,
which has shown itself able to take its own course,
irrespective of anybody’s opinion.
At Canberra —or rather Melbourne, which has
become the de facto capital except during a few occa-
sional weeks of Parliamentary rostioation-the position
has been unstable from the beginning. The meetings
of the national Parliament—or what would be a
national Parliament if the country’s legislative ability
was not diffused over seven—have the air rather of a
debating society than of a council of action an atmo-
sphere in which dissension seems to be an object in
itself, and in which private wars seem to have more
importance than the world war. _
Mr. Menzies was not the only Richmond in the
field when he became Prime Minister, but no Prime
Minister has ever achieved office with better backing.
The personal attack made upon him by Dr. Earle
Page and his dignified response to it earned him
general sympathy and respect and smashed the unity
of the Country party, resulting in a change in its
leadership and the defection of four of its members.
The Prime Minister’s chance was thrown away.
His Government has carried on precariously without
a majority. The one measure which would make it
secure till the end of the term —the inclusion of the
Country party in proportion to its merits —has hitherto
been found impossible, mainly because the parties
have been unable to vision a Ministry without Dr.
Page, and because Mr. Menzies has been unable to
vision a Ministry in which Dr. Page could be included.
The C.P. has moved towards unity within itself
under the influence of its new leadership, but the
U.A.P. is rent from end to end: in N. S. Wales the
old leader-destroying game is in full swing. The dis-
rupters are assisted by a Government which
never seems to make up its mind about anything except
under pressure. Its troubles would be greater were
it not for a general distrust of Labor, whose pacifist and
Left Wing elements have led it away from the “last-
man-and-last-shilling” attitude of Fisher to a sorry
determination, expressed by Mr. Curtin in his Sydney
Town Hall speech, to “do nothing that might help
to defeat Britain.”
Mr. Menzies at the outbreak of war laid down the
programme:
We are engaged in the greatest struggle of our
history, and I am resolutely determined that every effort
shall be concentrated on the job in hand, and that we
shall achieve real results rather than unreal noise and
excitement.
He has failed in execution rather than in aspiration.
He faces bitter criticism from every quarter.
The whole of Australia’s wool has been sold to
the British Government at a fixed price of lOfd. stg.,
plus half the profit on resales, for the period of the war ;
so, for an indefinite period, the Australian grower is
at the mercy of exchange and deprived of his seasonal
right to bargain. Meat has been sold on an f.o.b.
basis and will not be paid for until it reaches the
ship’s side under what Mr. J. B. Cramsie, a former
chairman of the Australian Meat Council, terms “ a
rotten contract,” the Australian exporter paying all
storage and insurance, losing the interest on idle
money and waiting for payment until it suits the British
Government to take his product. Wheatgrowers
are bitterly dissatisfied ; the Tasmanian Minister for
Agriculture insists that the arrangements for dealing
with Tasmania’s apple crop will spell “disaster” to
growers and involve the destruction of 1,200,000 cases
of sound fruit. None of these things tends to endear
the Government to supporters of the C.P.
There have been various other points of attack:
about muddle in the provision of uniforms and mili-
tary equipment; about wet canteens; about some •
appointments —Mr. Menzies holds that there are “very
few positions in Australia to which Mr. George Pearce
could not be admitted with great advantage to the
Commonwealth.” Mr. Stewart, the Acting Minister
for Supply, has said emphatic things about profiteering
in military boots but has taken no punitive action. Mr.
Gullett’s new Department of Information has been
scarified by members on both sides of the House.
And there was the debate on soldiers’ pay. It
indicates the atmosphere and spirit in which Parlia-
ment is conducted that the identity of the main critic
seemed to matter more than the subject matter of the
criticism. The Government has frequently revised its
measures and given way under weight of criticism, but
to make further revision at the behest of Dr. Page,
even though his attack on the pay rates was couched
in moderate language and was legitimate, seemed likely
to prove too much to ask the Prime Minister to do.
Yet there was scarcely a member on the Government
side who did not agree openly that the pay was too
low.
The Government found itself faced with defeat
and, perhaps, a general election on an issue on which
it would have been swept into oblivion. Eventually it
had a second thought. Members of the militia would
be paid the originally offered Bs. per day until replaced
by compulsory trainees at ss. per day. The Second
A.I.F. would get 7s. a day overseas, including 2s.
deferred pay, against the original ss. with Is. deferred
pay; allowances for wives to be 3s. per week, and
for children Is. 6d. per week. And this at the begin-
ning of the fourth month of the war.
The atmosphere has scarcely been helped by the
Prime Minister’s exposition of his views:
The Government considers that the payments to the
militia are not in the nature of wages, but should have
regard for defence commitments and the general circum-
stances of the country. The call for military service is
a call to patriotism. It is not a business deal, and I
do not believe that any Australian expects it to be a
business deal.
That is all very well so long as there is equality of
sacrifice. Mr. Menzies would modify his viewpoint if
he were a basic-wage earner spending three months
in camp and supporting a family.
An early move for a composite Government is
now expected. The way should be cleared for it by
a general burying of hatchets and sinking of personal
prejudices. The fresh Cabinet should be formed as
early as possible, and on a basis which places ability
before all other considerations.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Agony of Finland.
The spectacle of a big bully pitching into a small
fellow who never harmed him outrages the feelings
of every observer with a spark of manhood in him.
Presented on a tragic scale in remote and little-known
Finland, it has excited almost universal abhorrence of
and contempt for the criminal —so recently the Mighty
Soviet to a credulous horde of politicians, editors,
novelists, radio commentators and even bishops and
deans —and pity and admiration for the victim. These
sentiments have united people of many races, separated
in some cases by vast distances and in others sundered
by unhappy political quarrels. Except in two quarters,
one touch of chivalry has made the whole world kin.
The second week of wanton invasion found the
Finns still struggling gallantly against tremendous
odds. In one form and another help was reaching
them from Scandinavia, Britain, Italy—that country
was sending bombers by way of Germany!—and the
United States, but naturally it was limited by the
necessities imposed by politics, geography and time.
In its agony Finland appealed to the League for such
moral assistance as that faded institution might afford.
From South America came a demand for the expulsion
of Red Russia, and, although this was an obvious em-
barrassment to European countries which have good
reason for not wanting to be involved in a war in
which the Americas do not propose to take part, the
indications were that expulsion or “sanctions” would
be put to the vote. ,
It has been a German boast for upwards of 20
years that German soldiers helped the Finns to effect
their deliverance from the Red terror. Is Bolshevist
extinction of the Finnish Republic now part of
German policy? Has the invasion of 1918 been re-
peated in 1939 with the approval of the new rulers of
Germany or in spite of them? Will the Russians,
having conquered Finland (if they can), proceed to
fresh outrages against Sweden, Norway, Rumania,
Turkey, Iran —any or all of those countries —with or
without German assistance or connivance? And will
the British Empire have to fight Russia as well as
Germany? These are questions that puzzled men are
asking, and the radio and editorial oracles are mute.
Two things are clfar: (1) Russia has a great
nuisance-value which Germany is exploiting for all it
is worth. (2) The bubble of Red Army and Red Air
Force invincibility has been pricked already. Nobly
as the Finns have fought, it is impossible to imagine
them standing up to Germans posted between Mur-
mansk and Leningrad in numbers such as the Russkis
have had at their disposal, even in a winter campaign.
Because victory is necessary to the Moscow regime—
dictators must be successful or they are lost —Stalin
will make every effort to finish off the Finns, and he
will perhaps tackle Sweden and Rumania. It may be
part of the German game to let him go on until Hitler
can say to the Allies “Come to terms with me and I
will rid you and the neutrals of these barbarians ; drop
all your talk of ‘No truce with Nazis’ and of your ‘new
Europe,’ in which you won’t know what to do with
Russia, and my Germans will drive the Reds back to
the steppes.”
We should know more after the secret session of
the British Parliament arranged for today. There
are sentences in Lord Halifax’s latest speech on war
aims which suggest that something is going on behind
the scenes. _
A Little Emigration Needed.
“El V.”: The “Railroad,” official journal of the N. S.
Wales branch of the Australian Railways Union,
sports the clenched fist and star of the Communistic
Red Front on its title page, and has achieved the dis-
tinction of being probably the only newspaper in a
civilised country not owned by the Communist party
which is heartily in sympathy with Russia in the Fin-
nish business.
The “Railroad’s” stand is that “the fundamental
clash in the world” is between Imperialism and Soviet
Russia ; that British Imperialism, “by its refusal to
participate in a system of collective security, is respon-
sible for the present war—a war which Russia sees
being turned into an attack on socialism.” Finland
(the journal continues) has been “used as a basis for
imperialist intrigues” and “there is every reason to
believe that British Imperialism is continuing to
intrigue from Finland.” “The basic manoeuvre of
British Imperialism is to direct the energies of German
Fascism against the U.S.S.R.”
That (says the editor) remains the aim of Britain,
the hope behind the intrigues for peace between Mr.
Chamberlain and the German militarists. So Russia
has decided that it “must have guarantees,” and
We [i.e., apparently the A.R.U.] are as concerned
with the preservation of socialism in Russia as we are
with the defence of Australia.
It seems, further, that the excuse for bombings
of women and children in Helsinki during the inva-
sion of a small and peaceful nation is that “we are
living in an Imperialist world,” and
Until Imperialism is overthrown —by us —we are
compelled to take steps that will be unnecessary when
we have changed the world. If such measures are not
taken, capitalism will never be overthrown, and Im-
perialism will end civilisation.
All this in the official organ of 40,309 Australian
public servants. The wonder is that “Railroad” does
not start a recruiting campaign to provide an expedi-
tionary force for the protection of the threatened
Soviet Union. But it won’t. Not a single Australian
Communist or Parlor Pink has shown any sign of
volunteering for service in the Red Army.
If anybody tried to export Corns, to the “only
land of freedom, the workers’ only fatherland,” they
would have to be taken aboard the steamer as Mr.
Trotsky was when he was deported from Canada,
“biting and kicking and cursing his guards.”
Better Outlook for Wheat.
Announcing that the Commonwealth would acquire
the whole of the present wheat harvest, the Menzies
Government at first fixed a price representing about
2s. 4d. at country sidings, plus flour tax proceeds and
a subsidy of £2,000,000.
That was subsequently raised to an average of
2 S> 6d—2s. 10|d. at ports—in one payment instead of
in two as at first proposed. To this will be added
proceeds from the flour tax. Should the price then
fail to reach the equivalent of 3s. 4d. at ports the
£2,000,000 subsidy will be drawn on. There will be
no subsidy if the price at ports reaches 3s. 4d.
Mr. Forde, deputising for Mr. Curtin, demanded
that growers should be guaranteed at least 3s. 6d. He
did not mention where the money was to come from.
In the past few years something like £15,000,000
has gone out of the public purse to subsidise the wheat
industry. The money has maintained men on the land
and in production, but finding of millions without
restriction of acreage cannot go on. To add possibly
another £10,000,000 is the risk the Menzies Govern-
ment —in other words, the taxpayer—has taken. The
sensible grower, doing a bit of solid thinking as he
sits on the header, realises that talk of refusing
deliveries is the sheerest folly.
As this is written the price in Sydney has jumped
3|d. a bushel for bulk, making silo 3s. ljd. and bagged
3s. 4}d. Previous highest price was 3s. on Sept. 7,
before the Federal decision to acquire grain was
announced. Overseas rates were quoted as firmer last
week, and options in Winnipeg and London rose by
6 cents and 3d. a bushel respectively.
That is better, and the position may grow better
still. You never know with wheat in war-time.
No Age-limit for Commissioners.
A fortnight ago N.S.W. taxpayers were staggered to
read that two sexagenarian commissioners had been
reappointed for seven years from the end of
December: Mr. Hartigan, of the Railways, at £5OOO
a year, and Mr. Newell, of the Main Roads, at £2500
a year. They have waited for some comment on
these impertinences of a stopgap Ministry from the
parties infesting State politics ; and waited in vain.
Yet during the same month of November the
Labor party (or one of the Labor parties) was voluble
enough in referring to the case of Mr. Stening, of the
Milk Board. Mr. Stening was transferred from the
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Soc. to the Milk Board
in April, 1937, the salary being £l2OO a year and the
term five years. “Later,” as the Attorney-General en-
gagingly put it, “it was discovered that he was 63 at
the time, and that the Principal Act provides that
members of the board shall retire on attaining the
age of 65.” So special legislation was introduced to
enable the slipshod Government to keep Mr. Stening
on.
The Labor party —or one of them —objected. Mr.
Concannon, M.L.C., quoted a Public Service Act
regulation which compels an officer to retire at 64 “if
at that age he has 12 months’ extended leave due to
him” —as nearly every veteran has. Mr. Concannon
and others pointed out also that many Government
railwaymen have been sacked at 60, “in accordance
with the provisions of the Railways Act.” Said Mr.
Tannock, M.L.C.:
The Commissioner of Railways has taken that action
to save money in view of the deficit in railway finances.
“The deficit in railway finances” has been accumulat-
ing since 1925-26. To June 30, 1937, according to the
Auditor-General’s reckoning, expenditure exceeded
earnings by £23,215,600; and he pointed out that
“operating expenses” had been (1) “understated to the
extent that insufficient provision has been made for
depreciation,” and (2) “temporarily relieved by loan
expenditure on reconditioning of tracks.” For the
twelvemonth to June 30, 1939, another £2,000,000 was
added, for Mr. Hartigan admitted a “shortage” of
£1,171,000, after counting in “contribution from the
Government* £800,000,” which the A.-G. refuses to do.
Mr. Hartigan, who has retired so many subordi-
nates at 60, turned 62 on December 8. His reappoint-
ment for seven years, if sanctioned by the alleged Par-
liament, means that he will be entitled to hold office
until he has entered upon his seventieth year, although
he may graciously elect to retire two years earlier
with an honorarium of £lO,OOO. Mr. Newell was born
on April 29, 1878. Thus he will be entitled to hold
office until he is nearly 69, though he also may elect
to take “extended leave,” plus salary, earlier.
In effect, N.S.W. commissioners have become
privileged characters. They have been set up as dic-
tators, and within their dictatorships the Commis-
sioners of Railways and of Trams and Buses virtually
make laws and levy and collect taxes. And when
their terms expire commissioners are reappointed re-
gardless of precedent and of the law and practice
applied to ordinary departments.
Where commissioners are concerned, N.S.W. Gov-
ernments have ceased to govern, and N.S.W. Parlia-
mentarians have abandoned their prescriptive right to
review their actions and control the public purse.
Government, Parliaments and Commissions should
alike be abolished.
Making Motor Engines.
The Commonwealth Government has produced
another plan for encouraging the manufacture of
motor engines. With freight space for motor imports
limited, this is a good time to begin.
The proposal is to grant £3O for every engine
made up to 20,000, thereafter £25 per unit on the
next 20,000 and £2O on a last 20,000. Not more than
£600,000 will be paid in a single year, and it is
expected to spread the total £1,500,000 over four
years.
The money will be almost entirely provided by
the existing tax of 0.7 d. per pound on imported chassis.
No payment will be made until the Government is
satisfied that there is a factory in existence capable
of making 8000 units per annum.
As the subsidy will apply only to engines of
15 h.p. or more, Australian competition will chiefly
affect Uncle Sam’s manufactures. There will be few
pickings for outsiders, since it is a stipulation that
all bounty engines must be 90 p.c. Australian material.
Importers will have two possible methods of
competition with the new factories open to them—
either to start works in the Commonwealth them-
selves or to reduce their retail prices below a figure
which Australian manufacturers can afford to take.
The latter course might be easy for big mass-
production concerns in U.S.A., if exchange and freights
do not climb too high.
In the establishment of factories, preference
should be given to purely Australian or British con-
cerns over companies with foreign capital or ties.
<*--
American Loans.
Overseas borrowing, practised by politicians of all
parties and feeding an annual surplus of imports,
brought Australia to the verge of disaster in 1930-31.
There had been times when the British investor
became alarmed or resentful. During one of those
periods Mr. Theodore, of Queensland, discovered that
his Government could be accommodated in New
York, and announced it as if it were akin to the dis-
covery of a new planet. In later years, Mr. Lang, of
N. S. Wales, followed Mr. Theodore’s example.
In their reports for 1938-1939 the Auditors-
General of the two States briefly summarise the results.
On June 30, reckoned in pounds Australian, Queens-
land owed £7,075,835 in New York—£l,Bo4,B9o at
7 p.c., £2,054,865 at 6 p.c., £2,190,972 at 5 p.c. and
£1,025,106 at 44 p.c. —shillings and pence omitted.
Interest paid for the year amounted to £405,312, aver-
aging £5 14s. 6|d. p.c. On £38,320,983 of State debt
held in Australia, £1,430,307, averaging £3 14s. 7jd.
p.c., was paid; on £62,816,520 borrowed in London,
£2,786,206, averaging £4 Bs. p.c.
“The 7 p.c. American loan,” the Auditor-
General said, “matures on October 1, 1941, when
$8,783,500 (£1,804,890) is repayable in New York. The
second American loan of $10,000,000 (£2,054,865),
with interest at 6 p.c., matures on Feb. 15, 1947.”
That was the position on June 30, but it is not
the position now, nor is it likely to be the position
on the due dates. At the current rate of exchange the
Australian equivalent of $8,783,500 is £2,700,000 and
the Australian equivalent of $10,000,000 is £3,100,000.
What a lot Queensland and the Australian taxpayer
have to thank Mr. Theodore for!
New South Wales, for its part, owed at June 30
£12,712,627 sterling in New Y0rk—£8,819,993 at £5
p.c. and £3,892,633 at £4 10s. p.c. Interest amounting
to £616,000 sterling (dollars at 4.86) was paid in
1938-39. Actually Australia pays more like £930,000
in its own money.
The £3,892,633 loan nominally matures on May
1, 1956, but the Commonwealth Government, which
now controls loans and contributes to interest and
sinking-fund payments, has the option of converting
it. Unfortunately, the equivalent of £3,892,633, “loan
liability at June 30, 1939,” is now £4,480,000.
About the only subject on which those two Great
Statesmen ever agreed was that borrowing in the
United States was a thing fraught with blessings mani-
fold. The blessings can now be counted.
Mixed Reporting.
Reporting as mixed as pickles converted the recent
sea warfare into a new sort of word-puzzle. The popu-
lar Mesopotamian word was “magnetic.” One Sydney
Sunday sheet donned a diving suit and omniscience
to announce that a bag of 22 ships had been sunk by
“Nazi magnetic mines, left below water by German
submarines.”
To get that sort of result the “authority” relies
on his guess being as good as the next man’s.
Guesswork is always interesting, provided the
reader keeps in mind that it is guesswork. It isn’t
served up as such ; but “it is believed” is sometimes
there as sufficient indication.
German troops who attempted to raid French posi-
tions east of the Moselle are believed to have been
ordered to advance as a punishment for a previous
failure.
Thus Sydney “Sun.” “S. M. Herald” had a dif-
ferent interpretation. Its version was that the repulsed
attack provided a “significant indication that there is
a lack of fully-trained officers in the German army.”
It is pointed out that the planning of this attack'
was so faulty that it was doomed to failure. No
German officer in the Great War would have been
capable of such an elementary blunder. The moral
drawn is that the German Army is patchy, and that the
officer ranks have been filled up with insufficiently-
trained men.
Comforting conclusion. Still, sheer guesswork ;
and by right all such stuff ought to be so labelled. It
would have been better if that had been done with
the plentiful reports that Hitler’s magnum opus had
been withdrawn from circulation. Then it would
not be news that
Mein Kampf, Herr Hitler’s book, which is the Nazi
testament, is to be published in a pocket edition from
Berlin.
The cable added that “it is thought that the
chapters relating to Bolshevism will be deleted.”
Naturally. Anyone might guess as much. But “it is
thought” brands it as no better than a guess. The
probability is that Hitler is still going to issue his book
without the benefit of sub-editing, though it would
have been a ton better book for a bit of sub-editing
in the first place.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“That oughter fix the cows."
“Spokeshave”: This is a quaint war.
The other afternoon I was passing one
of the leading stores in Melbourne when
I saw a crowd of average citizens, hard-
working women, children with patches in
their pants and horny-handed workers,
gaping with astonishment and admira-
tion at a window. Behind the plate-glass
were half a dozen elegant young ladies
from Toorak, one with an ermine cloak
—at least, it looked like ermine—and all
with manicured hands, vermilion finger-
nails, marcelle waves, Bali-bronze lips
and pencilled eyebrows industriously
knitting socks for soldiers as an example
to the others. Most of the audience
had been rendered speechless by the
spectacle, but a stout middle-aged woman
with a basket of groceries and a queue
of children, one in a perambulator,
ejaculated: “Lord love us! I didn’t
know they could do it.”
* * * *
“Perry”: The steady mounting up of
the Sydney Patriotic Fund recalls a
dramatic happening when at the begin-
ning of the last war Auckland, M.L.,
was struggling with a similar appeal. In
one night the fund jumped £lOO,OOO. It
gave matters a tremendous impetus.
Wilson and Canham, a Canadian firm
with a branch in Auckland, gave the
staggeringly generous donation.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne is experiencing the
phenomenon of a collection of pictures
having roused the most passionate con-
troversy in Victorian history, in which
correspondents of one “great” daily
hurl mud at the correspondents of an-
other. It all started when J. S. Mac-
Donald, Director of the Nat. Gallery,
made allusions to the private lives of
painters in a criticism of the work hung
in the “Herald’s” exhibition. The mighty
“Argus” had hitherto been strangely
silent about the enterprise of the mighty
“Herald,” but as soon as this glove was
thrown into the arena it sprang to atten-
tion and opened its columns to very out-
spoken remarks. Said one correspondent
of the exhibition: “Wonder it certainly
was, but only in the same sense as would
be experienced by normal folks who
found sewage issuing from the tap of
the bathroom instead of clear water.”
MacDonald concludes that the authors
of some of the works were either (a)
diseased, ( b ) paranoiacs or (c) drug
addicts.
* * * *
“Chev.”: Some years ago The Bulletin
printed a fantasy of mine on the
“smellies.” The Swiss have just fulfilled
my prophetic dream of the cinema of
the future. The more elegantly named
“odorous” film has now made its appear-
ance at Berne, where colored views of
gardens, forests, vineyards and hayfields
are accompanied with the olfactory sen-
sations appropriate to the visual situa-
tion. The device is sufficiently refined
to convey simultaneously the picture of
a man drinking coffee and the aroma of
the beverage ; and the inventor claims to
be able to reproduce 4000 different
odors. When the smellies get into their
stride there will be a fresh problem for
Chief Censor Cresswell O’Reilly. He puts
severe restrictions on what the public
eye shall see of love, but gives Holly-
wood extensive scope with regard to
murder, assault and battery, garotting
and similar horrors. Scents have dif-
ferent associations for every individual,
and I have a friend who sneezes if he
is sitting at the same table as a person
eating garlic and another who vomits at
the perfume of apple-blossom.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne surgeon had
a call from a young and pretty patient
who exposed a well-formed calf and
asked him to examine it. To his surprise,
he found a couple of false teeth firmly
embedded in the fleshiest part of it.
The damsel explained that the arti-
ficial molars belonged to her boy
friend. The boy friend had been
somewhat the worse for liquor, the
dance palay floor had been exceptionally
highly polished, he had stumbled and
fallen, and accidentally buried his teeth
where the surgeon had found them. A
local anaesthetic was all that was neces-
sary, but after it was over the young lady
showed reluctance to leave. “Could I
have the teeth back?” she remarked.
“The boy friend is waiting outside for
them.”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Though Frenchmen and
others regard it as a matter of course —
no pun intended —there is something in
the makeup of the Australian which
horrifies him at the thought of eating
horse. Consequently, the humble sausage
is now looked at askance in Victoria since
it was revealed in Parliament that 2501 b.
of horseflesh was found hanging in a
sausage - manufacturing room of a
butchery. At other places were found
sundry parts of prads, including six whole
ones waiting the slaughterer in a killing
yard. What will astonish many Aussies
even more than the thought of butchers
selling horseflesh is that members of their
race can actually contemplate killing
horses for meat.
* * * *
“Verri”: A nautical writer in one of
the dailies remarks on the frivolous
naming of modern craft, instancing the
Excuse Me and Hurry Up type of name.
They are not as modern as might seem.
As long ago as 1852 the schooner
I Know You Don’t was wrecked in a
gale at Auckland, M.L. She belonged
to Tohu, a Maori chief.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The archives department of
the Public Library of Adelaide has been
given the original MS. music, by Carl
Linger, which won a “Song of Australia”
competition just 80 years back, to the
words of Mrs. Carleton. This was a
local literary venture by Gawler, a brainy
town a few miles north of Adelaide. But
it is a tuneful song, easily picked up, and
with a great “Australi-a! ” three times at
the end of each verse for an audience
to join in. The whole State took kindly
to the new anthem, and has never
dropped it, and in S.A. it is as well
known as “Advance, Australia Fair.”
* * * *
“Penner”: The conviction long held
by newspapermen that the law on libel
in Australia is “a ass” seems to be
spreading. Chief Justice Jordan (N. S.
Wales) in a Full Court judgment points
out that even policemen could quite inno-
cently let themselves in for heavy damages.
A cop is directed by his superior officers
to investigate a charge against a person.
The officer obtains information from
various sources and submits it to his
superiors. If the accused person can
get access to that report and if any one
of the informants chooses to withdraw
his evidence, there’s a ground for an
action for slander or libel. Similarly,
if a John Hop receives a confession from
a suspect and reports it, and the accused
afterwards withdraws his confession, he
can then sue the policeman. And as
’Sonah didn’t say, there is many a jury
before which neither a cop nor a news-
paper has much chance. The motto in
such cases seems to be “Rock it into the
cow.”
“Nakh”: There is a story of Chekov’s
about a Russian couple whose lives
were completely upset by the dis-
covery that they had won a fortune in
a lottery. An East Malvern (Vic.)
citizen, E. Cohen, was different.
He was listening to a lecture in
the city on how to attain to health
through nature when he was interrupted
by a touch on the shoulder. He was
taken outside and informed that he had
won £50,000 in “a certain consultation.”
He returned to his place, listened to the
remainder of the health talk, took the
train home and walked his usual mile
from the station. When asked by a re-
porter if he felt the conventional
emotions appropriate to the occasion, he
retorted: “Certainly not! lam not the
kind to become lost in my fortune. Ex-
citement is bad for the blood. The prize
will not change my outlook.” But then
he is a middle-aged bachelor, lives with
his sister-in-law, and his hobbies are
gardening and curios.
* * * *
“Boreas”: The Finns have an Eng-
lishman, Henryk the Martyr, as their
patron saint. As Bishop of Uppsala, he
accompanied King Erik the Holy of
Sweden on the first of three Christianis-
ing crusades that brought Finland under
the Cross in 1157.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I see that Dr. Sigmund
Freud left a mere £23,000. It is a small
amount for a man to accumulate who
founded a new school of thinking on
sexual problems, was the author of some
of the best-selling books of his genera-
tion and founded a profession which has
practitioners in every country, not to
mention the quacks who make fortunes
by telling young ladies they have oedipus
complexes when all they are suffering
from is laziness and boredom. Besides
his daughter Anna, who is interested in
the psychology of children, and a host
of others, he produced two famous pupils
who seceded frdm him. One was Adler,
who popularised Individual Psychology
in America and made it an elaborate cult
with practitioners in every city; the
other, prof. Jung, who was the author of
the intravert-extrovert theory, and em-
phasised the importance of racial factors
in the mental makeup. Jung is resident
and highly respected in Germany. Adler
is dead.
H*
“X.S.”: Quick thinking nearly got a
prisoner his liberty in Melbourne when
the Black Maria collided with a fruiterer’s
van. The prisoner complained of hay-
ing been severely injured, and soli-
citous policemen lifted him to the road-
way. He broke and ran, but was col-
lared in a schoolyard before the delighted
eyes of hundreds of kids.
* * * #
“Wester”: A Perth (W.A.) policeman
was strolling along his beat in Murray-
street about 3 at morn when he observed
a well-set-up, golden-haired lass in a blue
coat making for an all-night cafe. He
was about to pass on when a twirl of
the coat revealed bare legs and a bare
and lovely torso. Gasping, the shocked
cop dashed gamely into the cafe and
lumbered the lass, who had on shorts
and brassiere under the coat. Indignantly
she said, “If it’s good enough for Sydney
it’s good enough for Perth.” But it
wasn’t; a scandalised Beak gave her 14
days, during which she may realise that
picture weeklies don’t always tell the
truth.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: One who practises the gentle
art of extracting from the public by
specious tales and false the monetary
munitions necessary for maintaining the
campaign of life must ever be prepared
for the traps a sardonic Fate sets. In
my youth in the gutters of Melbourne
one of the many ways of touching the
sympathetic was to plead the promise of
a job which wanted but the price of a
bricky’s hod for consummation. Ancient
as it it, the spiel looked like emulating
Tennyson’s brook until the other day
when a practitioner so impressed a pros-'
pect that she promised the money and
indignantly telephoned her friend, Min- \
ister for Labor Mackrell, to ask why his
department couldn’t supply tools for
honest and willing men. Recognising
the hoary yarn Mackrell dispatched an
official to collect the beggar, but he, as
sensitive to danger as most of our craft,
had vanished.
* * * *
“El V.”: The flapper press has
unearthed a nine-year-old Maorilander
“in standard 2 at Hastings School”
who “has invented a formula for
a horpb which, he claims, possesses
extremely destructive qualities.” He has
“handed the formula to the authorities.”
The chances of anybody, nine years old
or ninety years old, inventing a new for-
mula for a bomb is, in these days, about
one in half a million. About the only
new one possible would involve the dis-
integration of the atom.
LUCKY DAYS.
“A publican’s business could be summarised as
very poor on Monday and Tuesday, a little better
on Wednesday, fair on Thursday, very good on
Friday and Saturday.” —Hotel broker’s evidence in
N.JS.W. Supreme Court.
You may count it strange but it’s doubtless
true
That days of the week have more to do
Than anything else with the bunce that’s slung
Into the coffers of patient Bung.
For his biz grows brisker at every turn
The further Sunday is left astern,
And there’s never a time when elbows bend
So merrily as the sennight’s end.
He starts the week, does our Boniface,
At what might pass for a snail-like pace.
He’s a slow beginner, like many a horse
That’s trained and able to stay the course;
But with every furlong he mends his gait
Till he’s going great guns as they reach the
straight,
And he’s home hard-held, as the sports would
say,
Upon the Friday and Saturday.
Monday and Tuesday are dies non,
One learns, in the vintner’s lexicon,
Or little better—drab days and bleak
When all too seldom the beer-pumps creak.
But Wednesday heralds an upward move,
And ever o’ Thursdays things improve
Till the glad week-ends with their surging shoals
From morn to even of thirsty souls.
Ah, most of us, in our different ways
Have a sort of hunch about lucky days;
But you needn’t bother if you were born
Under Uranus or Capricorn
If you sell strong waters cum counter-grub,
In other words, if you keep a pub.
You’ll find two days that are worth all four
Of the rest of the working week—and more!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“M 8”: The sheer naturalness of small
children is one of their most delightful
characteristics, though Wickham (N.S.W.)
police have another name for it after
a recent experience. Apprised of the
disappearance of a small girl, and the
fact that her footprints led down into a
creek, the force spent a weary couple
of hours dragging the water, eagerly
watched by the usual happy crowd from
the bank. Then somebody found the kid
sleeping under a bed in the house next
door, and a profane constabulary gath-
ered up its grappling iron and, trying
hard to join in the general laugh, de-
parted.
5|C * * *
“S.T.S.”: The eternal strange-man
story has taken a fresh turn in Adelaide.
A boy of 16 appeared before his mates
with a string round his neck and a razor-
blade scratch on his chest, and told them
of the mysterious man who had said, “I
am going to kill you. This is the way
I always do it,” and then had run away.
The romancer meant only to “impress
the boys,” as he now admits. But he im-
pressed them so thoroughly that they
insisted on ringing up the police, who
had heard this kind of thing before and
soon got at the truth. However, he is
(otherwise) “a good lad,” they said in
court, and he got off by paying police
expenses, plus a ten-shilling fine.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Hitler’s war is booming the
horse trade in Britain. Extensive com-
mandeering of motor-lorries —80 in a
week from one big delivery firm alone —
rationing of petrol and heavily increased
taxation have created a sudden demand
for everything from Clydesdales to Shet-
land ponies. Carts and traps of pre- and
last-war vintage are emerging from retire-
ment, and the almost-lost trades of car-
riage-builder, wheelwright and harness-
maker have revived. Old ostlers, too
proud or too lazy to abide they stinkin’
motors, can pick and choose between
offered jobs. And from an airmail letter
comes the joyous news that there is a
real cab-rank in the Haymarket—’ansom
or growler, sir?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: There is a movement
afoot in Melbourne to refuse to license
old cars and aged drivers, based on the
assumption that they are a greater danger
to the public than new cars and young
drivers. In my experience the case is
exactly the reverse. If the elderly genr.
in a dilapidated Lizzie drives his car
at more than 30 miles an hour it is
liable to shake to pieces. If he gets into
trouble the cost usually comes out of
his own pocket. With the youth in a high-
powered modern-wheeled torpedo, in-
sured to the hilt, or with his father’s
bank account to draw on, it is only
human nature to indulge himself to
the limit, and he has his justifica-
tion in the modern notion that speed is
the essence of civilisation. A youth of
18 who had just got his license and had
a motor-bike of the latest model pre-
sented to him told me that it was no-
thing to him to do the 100 miles between
Bendigo and Melbourne in the hour on
his lethal weapon. Two weeks later I
heard that he had hit a gum-tree and
had been gathered to his fathers, youth
of driver and machine notwithstanding.
* * * *
“K.P.”: A recent patent for over-
coming deafness includes a small
amplifier mounted in a pipe- or cigarette-
holder to transmit the sound-vibrations
by way of the teeth. The U.S.A., as
usual, has gone one better. A worker
in a carborundum factory who lived
near a powerful wireless station com-
plained that he could get no rest
by reason of continually hearing the
broadcasts. Neither he nor any near
neighbor had a receiver. Investigation
of telephone wires and other possible
causes proved resultless. Finally he was
interviewed in a soundproof room at the
“Youd think he'd stop drinking on his Wedding day."
station and asked if he could still hear
the broadcasts. He correctly described
several successive items. Then one of
the technicians had a brainwave. Send-
ing out for a new toothbrush and tube
of paste, he asked the complainant to
clean his teeth—not a usual practice
with him. It settled the trouble at once
—tiny fragments of carborundum col-
lected at his work and resting on
amalgam teeth-fillings had acted as a
crystal receiver.
% # * *
“Dick Tafone”: There really does
seem to be a spot or two of poetic
justice left in this hard, unromantic
world. Giving evidence before the long-
awaited Taxation Inquiry Commission in
Queensland, the State Commissioner of
Taxes denounced as most unfair the
averaging of incomes over a period
of years to fix the rate of tax.
“Why,” he said disgustedly, “at one
stage, lasting over six years, I my-
self was paying tax on £2OO more than
I was receiving.” He argued that the
averaging system is beneficial to the
average taxpayer while wages are on the
increase but disastrous for him once
they begin to fall.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see that the committee of
the Commonwealth Literary Fund has
awarded fellowships to four writers, who
are to get a sum of money, and
within six months or a year are to
produce works of literature. I don't
think literature can be produced in this
way. When Michelangelo was given un-
limited funds to build the fagade of a
“I've gotter Warn y that anythin' y' say may be used as evidence
agin y.”
church in Rome the cardinals expected
he would get to work on it immediately.
To their disgust he spent seven years in
the quarries of Carrara, working like a
laborer. The cardinals thought he had
gone mad or something, but out of his
strange behavior came a magnificent
piece of architecture. All he was doing
at Carrara was dreaming his dream of
the completed work. It did not auto-
matically come to him because the cardi-
nals wanted it. If he had done what
the cardinals expected him to do he
wouldn’t have produced the facade which
is now one of the glories of Mussolini’s
capital.
* * * *
“V.D.”: The suggestion of “Toeclip”
(B. 29 /11 / ’39) for licensing bicycles is
already in force in Jersey, where it works
well. The yearly fee is 25., each of the
12 parishes into which the island is sub-
divided is represented by a letter, and
numbers range from 1 to over 12,000,
so anyone can see at a glance just where
a bicycle belongs. The right to with-
draw the license causes even the most
reckless cyclist to think again.
* & * *
“Kwakprak”: A worried wife came
in to ask me to get the police or some-
one to feed her elderly husband forcibly
because he had eaten nothing for eight
days and intended to keep fasting for a
fortnight. Between ourselves, he, a bit
of a health faddist, had discussed the
matter with me beforehand, saying that
she fed him too well and that his diges-
tive outfit needed a rest. He is physically
sound, and I told him that it would
probably do him no harm provided that
he drank plenty of water and kept off
muscular work. A few years ago fasts
up to 30 days were a popular fad in Eng-
land, and “fasting hospitals” were run at
considerable profit. The record fast
under closely-observed conditions was
the “hunger strike” of Terence Mc-
Swiney in Brixton Prison in 1920. He
survived for 74 days completely without
food, but his life was extended by
warmth, complete rest and constant
skilled nursing for at least the last three
weeks.
“K.P.”: A curious position has arisen
in Queensland regarding compensation
for accidents to workmen resulting in
loss or permanent disability of hands or
fingers. The scale laid down under the
Workers’ Compensation Acts for whole
or partial loss of a right hand is
substantially higher than that for corres-
ponding injury to a left one. A left-
handed man is therefore actually
penalised if his normal working hand
is lost or mutilated in the course of his
occupation. The question was brought
up by a deputation to the Treasurer
from the Carpenters’ Union, and a re-
quest for amending legislation was
promised consideration.
**_ * *
“Pawang”: Psychiatrists in Melbourne
recently tried to cure a neurotic left-
handed child by educating him to use his
right hand, on the theory that left-
handedness is unnatural and gave the
child a feeling of inferiority. Why should
it? Left-handedness, in my experience,
does not come about unnaturally. A
child tries first this hand and that hand,
and, if he succeeds in doing something
well with the left, he will use it. But to
say that he will necessarily feel inferior
to other children is nonsense. If Brad-
man were a left-hander would he feel
inferior to any other cricketer because
his centuries were knocked up with his
left hand?
*i* ■ ■ •
“Lao-dah”: Some of the censorship
regulations of our French allies make
ours look like license, according to a Mel-
bourne research student now in Europe,
Engaged on a thesis concerning a famous
French statesman he put up at the
chateau of the family. He found that no
access was permitted to documents later
than the seventeenth century, for fear
that they might contain information that
would be of service to an enemy. The
famous statesman died round about 1790.
* * * *
“Shaym(hic)gain”: Lorrer flam(hic)in’
rot thesheyere wowshersh talksh. Heresh
one shilly cow shkitin’ ’bout Noo
Shouth’s drink bill. Saysh if yer was ter
lay down shillinsh all ’long the railway
line from Shydney ter M(hic)elbourne it
wouldn’t cosht ash much ash us blokesh
paid for booze lasht year. ’Oo in ’ell
wantsh put shillinsh on railway linesh?
Trainsh’d run over ’em. Shtoopid
cootsh’d get lumbered fer defashin’ cur-
renshy. An’ ’ow ’bout when the shilly
goannas shtarted layin’ them after
Albury? Wot short ’er shense is there
layin’ down Noo Shouth shillinsh in Vic-
(hic)toria? Blokesh in Mel(hic)bourne’d
pinch the flamin’ lot quick an’ lively.
An’ shposhin’ yer was fool enough ter
washte all them shillinsh over shilly
tricksh like that ’ow’d yer exshpecter get
any change outer a half-dollar? Berrer
lay yer shillinsh on the counter an’ gerrer
coupla potsh, shtedder gerrin’ ’em all bent
an’ pinched orf railway linesh. Shtoopid
goa(hic)annash!
A DANGEROUS JOB.
On the Turf you’ll sometimes find that the
decision
Of the gentleman who judges an event
Provokes a noisy outburst of derision,
A tempest of vociferous dissent.
The football umpire’s very often hooted
By fans with his awards who disagree.
But it’s only in the tussles
Where the wrestlers match their muscles
That a risk of stoush confronts the referee.
The cricket umpire’s dicta can’t be semper
Acceptable. He gets his jolts and jars;
And all-too-frequent gusts of naughty temper
Disgrace our male (and female) tennis stars
When strokes they reckon as O.K. are faulted
By those who sit aloft and oversee,
But, whatever sours they savor,
You must hold it in their favor
That at least they never dong the referee.
When our modern Sayerses and Heenans mix it
And hail on rival carcasses their blows,
The practised arbitrator’s ipse dixit
Holds good, whichever way the contest goes.
They may pound each other with the force and
fierceness
That fascinates the ringside devotee,
But it’s certain sure the bruiser
Who has been adjudged the loser
Will aim no punches at the referee.
Let me be judge at any rough-and-tumble
Where gladiators sock their vis-d-vis
And those who lose the verdict merely grumble
Thereat, but may the gods preserve “your
humble”
From ever being a wrestlers’ referee!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


(/to CRAVEN A
3190
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Pitt the Second was “the pilot that
weathered the storm.” Menzies the
First has become an adept at weather-
ing storms —the latest was over soldiers’
pay—but not in the Pitt fashion. His
way of dealing with storms is to bend
to them. No riding the whirlwind or
anything like that for Bob.
It is just over 12 months since wharfies
at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) refused to load
a British ship on the ground that the
cargo was pig iron for Japan. “We are
putting into operation article 16 of the
League Covenant, which declares
sanctions , on belligerent nations,” the
union secretary explained. Nothing has
been heard of the gentleman or the article
since the belligerent bully of Moscow in-
vaded Finland.
The tax-dodging achievements of the
Abrahams brothers, of Melbourne, have
been rivalled by the Nathans, also
of Melbourne. The Commonwealth
Taxation Department tells the sorry
tale:
Benjamin Nathan (deceased), warehouse-
man, omitted income (1915-33) £411,496,
additional tax charged, £77,673; Joseph
Nathan, warehouseman, £205,421 and
£38,872; Robert Nathan, warehouseman,
£274,914 and £40,527; Lauri J. Nathan,
warehouseman (1923-33), £19,704 and
£1367; Lionel Nathan, warehouseman,
£19,662 and £1395.
There is also a certain Frederick C. H.
Thomas, warehouseman, “omitted in-
come (1915-33) £137,821, additional tax
charged £30,157.” He must be a Chris-
tian warehouseman.
Isaac Isaacs, returning to a subject on
which he is an acknowledged authority,
after unfortunate ventures into the field
of foreign politics, reports that “the
abolition of State Parliaments” and the
substitution of “regional subordinate
legislative and administrative bodies....
is daily winning adherents.”
Patriotism, reason, economy are among
its powerful advocates. Ultimately it will
probably prevail.
“Probably” excepted, it is a true bill.
Reappointed for seven years at 62,
though 60 is the sacking age for sub-
ordinates, Hartigan, the £5OOO-p.a. Com-
missioner of N.S.W.’s insolvent Govern-
ment railways, let himself go again on
the subject of air-conditioning of pas-
senger trains. He insinuated that it had
been a failure in Victoria, though Vic-
torians don’t think so, and said he
wouldn’t permit it in his principality.
“S. M. Herald” scolded him severely,
and could have driven him out of court
by quoting his own words. Three years
ago the gentleman wrote that “Railway
House, with its striking fa?ade of green
and old gold,” was up at last, and was
a bobby-dazzler of a building;
The Commissioner’s suite is on the fifth
f100r....An air-conditioning plant ensures
an equable temperature under all climatic
conditions.
“The history of Russia is an uninter-
rupted procession of defeats... .We were
beaten by the Mongol khans, by the
Turkish beys, by the feudal Swedes, by
the Poles and Lithuanians, by the Anglo-
French capitalists, by the Japanese
barons.” Biased detractor Comrade J.
Stalin speaking. Too bad if he has to
add the Finns to the list; but it’s a beau-
tiful record in any case.
With the money lavished on it by
Canberra the alleged National Travel
Association has maintained a manager
in India for two years. The gentleman
has now been appointed Australian Trade
Commissioner, with an office at Calcutta
and an assistant “to cover British India
and Ceylon.” The money being good,
the “National” Travel Association will
presumably send another man to India,
and taxpayers will be invited to believe
that exports to India and Ceylon will go
up with a rush. This is always going
to happen when Australian Trade Com-
missioners are planted in foreign parts,
but somehow it never does.
“The Communist party of Australia”
handsomely admits that the “manifesto”
it issued when the dogs of war were let
loose “contained a number of mistakes.”
The mistakes are not particularised, but
Nazis were described as “thugs and
hangmen,” Goring as a “drug addict”
and a “Fascist beast of prey,” and the
Poles as a nation rightly struggling to
be free for which Australians must fight.
The “comrades,” it seems, were basely
BRITANNIA: DECEMBER, 1939.
“U-boats are being disposed of at the rate of three a week, and three were got
in one day.”
deceived by “the British and French im-
perialists.” And the invasion of Fin-
land is not a war —merely a move against
a “former plutocratic power,” lagging a
little behind schedule because of “the
humanitarian principles of the Red Army
and the Red Air Force.”
An arresting fact came to light during
an argument between N.S.W. Education
Minister Drummond and the Teachers’
Federation. Stung by a demand for the
summoning of the alleged Parliament,
now loafing, to increase the education
vote, Drummond declared that the esti-
mate for this year £5,592,269 was a
record and that 420 more teachers had
been added.
This increase is more noteworthy because
the school enrolment has fallen from
352,182 in 1936 to 341,283 in 1939.
A falling-off of nearly 11,000 children in
three years! That is what is “note-
worthy.”
After all, the Sydney Government is
not sending German Jewish doctors to
country districts on guarantees of £6OO a
year. A few well-chosen remarks by
the president of the 8.M.A., with special
reference to Australian doctors who have
enlisted for war service and whose pro-
fessional brethren have combined to carry
on their practices, plus the ever-present
fear of alienating votes, precipitated the
alteration of plans. Australian doctors
are now to have preference, and guar-
antees are to be raised to £lOOO p.a.
“S M. Herald” is furious with the
Sydney Government for offering Aus-
tralian-born doctors £lOOO a year “when
it can admittedly secure competent
refugee doctors for £600.” It referred
darkly to “B.M.A. pressure.” The
B.M.A. president tartly replied that
his association had “never exerted
or endeavored to exert pressure on
the Government,” and that it had
“no objection to alien graduates being
appointed to sparsely-populated areas
should no local graduates be available
and should the conditions of service be
satisfactory.” He wound up by saying
that the “Herald” had been so informed
but had struck this statement of policy
out of a letter sent to it for publication.
Granny thereupon had a fit of hysterics,
and the doctor gave up the case.
Curtin will get nowhere obstinately
upholding his bad case for defending
Australia only from inside Australia.
A little military nous would inform him
that wars have a way of going to the
side that takes the initiative and carries
the fighting to the other fellow. As
well as that, Australia is part of the
British Empire, which is at war, so some-
body is defending Australia outside Aus-
tralia, whether Curtin likes it or not.
Australians will not shirk an issue like
that, and Curtin and co. show themselves
out of touch with Australian sentiment
in thinking they ever would.
Friends and admirers of and sympa-
thisers with Stevens have given him
a twenty-five-bob dinner. Among the
millions not present was Garry Bray
Rayjnond Kidd Gordon. Garry is
the Gordon who nominated against
Stevens at the last Assembly elec-
tion (the A.L.P. put u{s his de-
posit, and he says he got £5O from
the Pharmaceutical Association) and
pulled out mysteriously before polling-
day. He alleges that Playfair, M.L.C.,
one of the U.A.P. bosses, gave him £2OO
to get out of the country, and promised
him a Government job in London which
he didn’t get. Last week Gordon sued
Playfair for damages in lieu of non-
performance of the alleged contract. The
defence was a general denial of his alle-
gations, and he was non-suited. A very
proper judgment, no doubt; all the same
the electors will expect a specific denial
from Playfair or the U.A.P. or both.
The “United Australia Review” points
out, regretfully perhaps, that there is no
provision in the Commonwealth Con-
stitution for prolonging the life of Par-
liament ; in fact, Section 28 expressly
forbids it.
Every House of Representatives shall
continue for three years from the first
meeting of the House and no longer.
State Constitutions are much more er
flexible. The S.A. and Tasmanian Par-
liaments have tossed their Triennial Acts
into the dustbin. The statutory term in
each State is now five years. Whether
the people will stand either infliction for
five years is another matter.
Tasmania’s frugal political traditions
have been abandoned since the Govern-
ment came into money, the same being
supplied with astonishing liberality by
Canberra. The Government has been
known to hold Cabinet meet-
ings in Sydney, a very pleasant
place to hold Cabinet meet-
ings in ; and in addition to a
staff of tourist officers it main-
tains a “Public . Relations
Officer” or “Publicity Agent”
there. “Publicity Agent” he
was called in the Gordon v.
Playfair case, Gordon assert-
ing that the gentleman, “my
friend, Mr. George Fitz Pa-
trick,” put him in touch with
the Pharmaceutical Associa-
tion, which “gave me £50.” As
“Public Relations Officer” Mr.
George Fitz Patrick imparted
the thrilling news that Premier
Dwyer-Grey might consent to
become Governor. What the
Public Relations Officer gets
and what public relations he
promotes are among the minor
mysteries.
“T.”: If the U.A.P. and the
Agrarians come together again
Harrison, the P.M.G., should
be the first Minister dropped.
Harrison’s central idea is that
a Minister should be a meek
apologist for the permanent
head or the commissioner.
Tackled about the unwanted
A.B.C. “weekly” on the score
of its competing for advertise-
ments with publications that
have to pay taxes, he whined that
“the Government does not intend
to rob the commission of the power to
publish a journal.” Said “power” was
given by Parliament in peace-time and
can be taken away in war-time, when, as
McLeay, the Minister of Commerce,
admits, “the shortage of shipping space”
is such that “it will be extremely diffi-
cult for Australia to get its normal sup-
plies of newsprint.” “Rob the commis-
sion.” That’s Harrison all over.
From Molongloside:—
Not even war can cure the Commonwealth
Government and Parliament of their bad habit
of rushing their work at the end of a session
so as to get it done somehow “before Christmas.”
Their latest stampede was the worst to date.
While it was on both Houses gave up the
pretence of being deliberative assemblies. The
one that is supposed to control the public
purse let a £100,000,000 Budget go through at
an all-night sitting. Bill after bill imposing
charges on taxpayers was passed with a mini-
mum of debate; others were adopted or
scrapped amidst grunts and groans. With
adjournments only for meals and an occasional
wash and brush-up, the House sat for 36
hours. Often the Chamber was three-parts
empty, and those who remained snored on
the benches or reclined in utter weariness, look-
ing half-dead. By Friday afternoon it was all over,
and, after learning from the P.M. that they
might go about their private concerns till April,
red-eyed members scampered thankfully for
their trains. Why they couldn’t have stayed
on for another week and done the job prop-
erly is one of the political mysteries no elector
can ever fathom. The ways of Australian
Parliaments pass his understanding.


THE BUNYIP.
“The discovery of strange footprints is held to be another proof of the existence of the crocodile—known as ‘the Yamba bunyip’—said to be haunting the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) district.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. •' £ H-ft’ooo
Capital Issued •• •• 1 . 2a0 » 000
Capital Paid Up 1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. ;• •• **
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Reserve 11 Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
RRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE st - Georges Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, L.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
=S5\
- A INCOME
cheque
THE NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Zealand).
Established 1859.
Capital £1,500,000.
Funds invested in Australia,
£1,620,976.
All Classes of FIRE, MARINE
and
ACCIDENT INSURANCES
effected at Lowest Current
Rates.
Head Office for New South Wales:
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J. HARRISON, Manager.
Tel: 8W1931.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Donald Cameron, K.C.M.G., who has
been appointed to the board of the Com-
mercial Bank of Sydney, was a legendary
figure in the A.L.H. history of the Great
War. He and his Queenslanders were
the spearhead in some of the main opera-
tions east of Jordan in Sept., 1918, when
he and Ryrie were the main instruments
—with a few hundred Australians in
capturing 10,300 Turks. Before that he
is given credit for having inspired the
grand charge at Beersheba against the
inclinations of British cavalry leaders
who did not believe that mounted rifle-
men could dislodge entrenched Turks.
The Australian War History describes
the result as “a shining precedent to
every divisional, brigade and regimental
leader.”
A historian passes:
Ernest Scott, dead at 71, was one Australian
university professor whose signature was
never seen on syndicated diatribes against
Hitlerism; he had no love of Russia, and
the gift of prophecy had no charms for him.
His training was achieved by realistic contact
with life and politics. Having served on
the old London “Globe” staff, one of the
best schooling-grounds for London journal-
ists, he came to Victoria at 23 and joined
the’ “Herald,” just in time to help report the
financial disasters of ’93 and the rise of the
Federation movement from a ringside seat.
Australian history fascinated him from the
first, and he made a hobby of it and helped
to develop the epoch of interest which brought
about the printing of most of our basic his-
torical documents. When he joined Vic. ‘ Han-
sard” staff he had more time for his hobby
and became a well-known lecturer. A friend
of Deakin and his son-in-law, Herbert Brookes,
he was suggested by them as Professor of His-
tory at Melbourne Uni. when there was a
vacancy in 1914. He had no University degree
or higher academic training, but the University
never had reason to regret its choice. The
schools and universities of the Common-
wealth are well salted with his men, and two
of his several books, The Life of Matthew
Flinders and his volume of the official War
History dealing with Australian conditions
1914-19, are so complete in material that they
must always remain basic source books. For
five years after the war he was Dean of Mel-
bourne’s faculty of Arts. A simple, straight-
forward man, Scott had no pedantic dogmatism
in his makeup.
A mighty worker for patriotic causes
during the 1914-18 war and still going
strong is George Mason Allard, of Syd-
ney, doyen of Australian chartered
accountants and president of their Insti-
tute. London-born and educated, he was
GEORGE MASON ALLARD.
lecturer on banking at Sydney from 1907
to 1920, and Public Service Royal
Commissioner. In 1922 he was appointed
the Commonwealth Government’s repre-
sentative on the board of Amalgamated
Wireless, and was chairman till 1931. A
knighthood came his way in 1926. He’ll
be 73 on December 28.
An old Duntroon boy, Dr. Alex.
Scholes, is to organise the National Fit-
ness Campaign in Victoria. From Dun-
troon Dr. Scholes went to Melbourne
Uni., where he graduated B.A. and got
the Dip. Ed., then to Edinburgh Uni.,
where he picked up a doctorate of philo-
sophy for a thesis on Empire migration,
winning a Royal Empire Society prize
for the same thing. Maths, and Science
master at Scotch College, he commanded
the cadet corps, and was Scoutmaster. He
was on censorship work when the new
appointment came.
N. C. HARRIS, Acting-Commissioner of
Victorian Railways.
The latest art sensation in Melbourne
is National Gallery director J. S. Mac-
Donald’s report to the trustees on a pro-
posal by the Contemporary Art Society
that nine pictures should be acquired
from the Melbourne “Herald’s” ex-
hibition. One trustee remarked that the
director had been carried away by pre-
judices, and that it was improper to rake
up the private lives of artists when com-
menting on their pictures, and president
Keith Murdoch, who was MacDonald s
employer when he was “Herald” critic,
also came down heavily on the report.
MacDonald has a capacity for caustic
writing which he hasn’t had much oppor-
tunity to exercise since his journalistic
days. But Sydney Gallery Trustees re-
member with a shudder an article Jimmy
wrote for The Bulletin when he was
director of the N.S.W. National Gallery.
Melbourne chairman of the Common-
wealth search for a substitute for petrol
is P. C. Holmes Hunt, a Warwickshire
(Eng.) man, who came to Australia in
1903 from a Birmingham gasworks to
join the staff of Metropolitan Gas Co.
in Melbourne. Since then he has ranged
pretty well through the whole gamut ot
Australian industrial activity, from mines
and railways to crankless engines and
fertilisers. He is a director of Johns and
Waygoods, was founder and first chair-
man of the Australian Gas Institute and
a fellow of the Institute of Chemistry.
Had an 80th birthday in Adelaide,
chaplain G. W. Kendrew. The R.S.L.
lunched him to celebrate it, and he was
toasted by its acting-president, Ross
Jacob, as well as by Commandant Martyn
and Mayor Barrett.
After a spell of two years, Bill Fitz
Henry is back again as secretary of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers. An
energetic little fellow, Fitz Henry has
been with The Bulletin since he left
school 22 years ago. He probably knows
more writers and black-and-white artists
than anyone else - in Australia. In 1928
he founded and edited The Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook ; he was
secretary and one of the judges of Aus-
tralia’s 150th Anniversary literary com-
petitions, and has been secretary of the
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize since its in-
ception. When not untangling a problem
for some inquirer he spends his spate
time barracking for the Australian
author.
A problem of validation has arisen
by an error in the “Commonwealth
Gazette.” J. Gatehouse, of Melbourne,
was recently appointed to the Federal
Wheat Board and sat at a meeting. It
turned out that some bright lad at
Canberra, in gazetting Mr. Gatehouse’s
appointment, went to the ’phone book
for confirmation and used the initials ot
his son, who also resides in Melbourne.
Hence the father sat where the son should
legally have squatted. The department
has decided to forget the matter, hoping
that the son won’t upset the decisions of
the meeting.
The lucky number for some young
Digger at Redbank camp (Q.) is his regi-
mental number, 894. The ex-Digger who
had that number in the original 9th
Battalion, and served with the unit from
the Landing till the Armistice, plans to
take a Big Brotherly interest in the lad
who has taken his place. He is George
Garven, superintendent of Townsville (Q.)
Fire Brigade, and he proposes to send
894 the. Second a letter and parcel once
a month. That’s a lead it wouldn’t do
any harm to follow.
There’s not much money in Art with
a capital A. The will of Elioth Griiner
has been proved at a net value of under
£2OOO. Griiner, a bachelor, divided his
modest estate between a nephew, a
sister in Maoriland, St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, Sydney, and the Trustees of the
National Gallery of N.S.W. The Gallery
bequest provides for an annual “Griiner
Prize” for a landscape in oils by a
N. S. Wales student. The Gallery also
gets a J. J. Hilder water-color, “White
Bridge, Dora Creek.”
Succeeding the late Geoff Duffield, of
Adelaide, Dr. Richard van der Riet
Woolley goes to Canberra as Director of
the Mount Stromlo Solar Observatory.
The new stargazer was first assistant at
Greenwich, and first assistant at the Cam-
bridge Solar Physics Observatory and his
astronomical observations have an exten-
sive circulation in scientific circles. He
comes with the recommendation of the
Astronomer Royal of England.
There is already a returned soldier ot
the Second A.I.F. in Melbourne. He is
Major B. E. Klein, attached to the 6th
Division Headquarters. He has been
serving with an Anti-tank Regiment of
the British Army.
Col. H. C. Bundock moves to S.A. as
Base Commandant in succession to Brig.-
Gen. Martyn ; which means that he will
have served in every mainland State. He
was a crack rifle shot when at St. Paul s
and Sydney Uni., and did fine work in
the war, in which he was twice wounded.
The last two years he has been in Perth ;
and in his spare time he has been A.D.C.
to the Governor-General.
Dr. J. McFadyn Rossell, of Sydney,
who is hon. sec. of the N.S.W. section ol
Australian Aerial Medical Services, 1
civil servant—M.O. of the Department
of Road Transport. Though born in •
he’s a graduate of Sydney Uni. n
DR. J. McF. ROSS ELL.
1914-18 war he served as a medical officer
with the 2nd Battalion A.I.F. After the
war he became a g.p. at Orange, N. S.
Wales, where he remained till Flynn of
the Inland got hold of him in 1934 and
induced him to become one of the
flying medicos, with a base at Cloncurry
(Q.). His work for the A.A.M.S. is
now chiefly administrative. He’s 46.
“F.S.”: Underneath the floor where
the “modern” art exhibition was held
at Melbourne Town Hall, the Victorian
Mental Hygiene Department has been
showing some of the art and craft pro-
duced by inmates of its institutions. Some
of the rugs, tapestries and lace work are
on the level of the work of the Arts and
Crafts Society, and a picture by a woman
at Mont Park is an Australian landscape
seen through her window which any
artist could have been proud to lay claim
to. Lucy Symes, who has been develop-
ing these propensities in the patients,
uses nothing but persuasion and example,
and the results she obtains are quite re-
markable. She was born in Queensland
and trained at the Brisbane General.
Going to England during the last war,
she fell in with the well-known neurolo-
gist, Lieut.-Col. Mott, and it was from
his methods of treating shell shock that
she gained her experience. She was two
years in the neurological section at Rand-
wick Hospital, Sydney, and for the last
five years been organising therapist
in charge of the Cabbage State s occu-
pational therapy centres.
Admitted to a private hospital after
collapsing in a doctor’s waiting-room,
Frank Anstey, who, at 74, is one of the
remaining veterans of early Federal poli-
tics. He was Labor member for Bourke
in the House of Reps, from 1902 to 1904,
and for Brunswick —both Victoria later.
In 1922 he became Assistant-Leader to
Labor at Canberra; and he was one
of Scullin’s Ministers for 16 months,
1929-31. He has been living in retire-
ment for some years.
Dr. James Davidson, whose major in-
terest in life is insects, has just returned
from a world tour made possible by a
grant from the Carnegie Institute. Born
54 years ago in Cheshire, he was edu-
cated at Birkenhead and Liverpool Uni-
versity. The right to tack D.Sc. to his
name came in 1915 after advanced study
in Berlin, Florence and Paris. He had
nine years at Rothamsted Experimental
Station before becoming chief entomolo-
gist at the Waite Research Institute (S.A.)
in 1928.


Here's (Sn
Christmas Gift
no ones
d before
ever
*i ft
G
Cln
ARB
*
:
'Jk
C§=
■v*
mi
m
m
m
m
m
&
" Three Sevens”
—the cigarettes that
have been the hit of the
year, will make even a
bigger hit at Christmas.
415 D-11 9
PICTORIAL GIFT
CARTONS of 50 "777"
Cork Tipped Cigarettes
PICTORIAL GIFT
CARTONS of 100 "777"
Cork Tipped Cigarettes
PRODUCT


ABORIGINALITIES
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Now that the
mango season is in again permit me to
enter seemly protest against the barbaric
and insanitary ignorance which proclaims
the bathroom or the verandah-rail as
the only places at which th« best of all
fruit may be eaten. As a former Tutor
in Mango-Management to Vice-Royalty
permit me also to explain how it is done
at civilised dinner tables. Tools re-
quired are a sharp thin-bladed knife,
two forks and a dessertspoon. Holding
the fruit with one fork inserted in a flat
side near the stem end, cut off each side
in succession, keeping close to the stone.
If it is a really stringless mango the pulp
can then be scooped out of the skin of
each piece with the spoon. If not, criss-
cross the pulp to cut the strings— not the
skin—and with a fork at each end turn
them down until the inner side is convex.
Then the spoon will get the pulp off
easily. If too stringy for that it isn’t
a properly eatable mango. Keep it for
a week and then throw it at your
fruiterer.
* V * i?
“The 0.D.”: W. S. Gilbert’s dictum
that the punishment should fit the crime
can be applied in more ways than one,
as demonstrated by a bagman up New-
castle (N.S.W.) way. He had dropped
his swag at the front gate of a house he
intended to prospect, and entered, to be
attacked and bitten on the leg by a dog.
Distinctly annoyed, the pad-floggei
grabbed the mong and bit half of one of
its ears off. “There, y’ so-and-so,” he
said, “that’ll show y’ I can bite, too!”
•-.= * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe is worried
over the gross carelessness of the Defence
authorities regarding the safety of Bris-
bane against attack from the sea. “Ain’t
even got a boom acrost the river, the
goats!” he complained. “ Ow can yer
expect ter keep them pocket battleships
out if there ain’t a boom? When them
Russians wus about —1885, it was, ’cos
that’s the year I got married —I gotter
job cuttin’ pine logs for the noo one
they ’ad ter make after some silly coot
uv a captain run ’is steamer over the
first one. No steamer run over that one
—some uv them logs wus five foot
through. Them Russian blokes on the
ships must ’ave ’eard of it from their
spies, ’cos none of ’em never come after
it wus laid. Now that there ’ltler’s gone
mates with the Russians an’ we ain’t got
no flamin’ boom laid. Next thing there’ll
be a Russian ship lettin’ orf cannons up
Queen-street, an’ where’ll we be then?
You better write ter the boss Defence
bloke an’ tell ’im, Bill.” Which I now
do, Mr. Street being a reputed Bulletin
addict.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Among the many sug-
gestions put forward to explain the
crocodile that astonished a Grafton
(N.S.W.) engine-driver by popping out
of the Clarence River was one that it was
brought to the coast in ill-health by a
travelling circus some years ago for salt-
water treatment and escaped. That
was soon exploded; but old hands
will remember a scare on the Clarence
about 30 years back, when some imagina-
tive bloke swore he had seen a polar
bear disporting itself on the beach at
Yamba. Mothers locked the kids up
and got the washing in hurriedly while
Dad and the boys grabbed the old
fowling-piece and went big-game hunt-
ing. But the hunt was vain, nor was the
original author of the scare ever satis-
factorily traced.
*
“Nor Mor”: “What are those tin
coverings over the car tyres?” I asked
my pub-verandah stoolmate. “Oh, them’s
to stop our champeen stinker from eatin’
'em. The cove wot owns that car blew
in last year, an’ w’en ’e comes out of
the bar Ryan’s goat ’ad et ’is tyres down
to the canvas. But ’e needn’t hev
bothered with them tin protectors, ’cos
Ryan’s stinker —’oo ’ad a sort of intes-
tinal cravin’ fer rubber —got killed last
week. ’E bit too deep into one of them
high-pressure tyres of Grogan’s wool
truck. The explosion made everyone
in the bar spill their beer, an’ we rushed
out, to see the goat do three bounces
before ’e finally lobbed down there in
front of the Q.N. Bank.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: My cobber Bert has
always held very definite views on
man’s mastery over animals, and when
he saw Barney, the Illawarra bull, chase
me out of the paddock he became scorn-
ful. “Why didn’t yer face ’im and show
’im who was boss?” he demanded.
“Show him!” I panted. “Did he look
as if he didn’t know?” “Any bull can
be bluffed,” Bert declared, and, calmly
getting through the barbed wires, he
walked towards the Red Terror, pelting
sticks as he went. To my amazement
the animal began to walk away. “There
y’are,” shouted Bert, and to rub the
moral well in, followed Barney some
50 yards from the fence. Suddenly the
beast stopped, looked at the master, then
the fence, smiled a bovine smile and
charged. Twenty years of theory
vanished in two seconds. Bert broke
evens for the distance, finishing the last
“’E oughter be up any time now!”
few yards with a beautiful swallow dive
to safety. “Well, what about your
theory?” I asked. “ ’Struth,” he gasped.
“I never thought I could be persuaded
to change me views so easy!”
H* ifc
“Shamuseen”: A terrestrial variant of
the Marie Celeste mystery exists on the
now uninhabited Torres Strait island of
Aureed Here a Frenchman named
Garcia lived with his wife and children,
conducting a flourishing copra show, to
which chance visitors from pearling and
trochus luggers received cordial welcome.
Such a crew called one day to find
only the charred remains of the house
and some fresh mounds, under which
were buried Garcia’s wife and children.
The only craft on which Garcia could
have left the island lay still beached, and
the absence of his own body remains
an unsolved riddle of the Strait.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: In this S.Q. locality it has
been an unhealthy season for the big
orb-web spiders. Dead bodies, shrunk
and withered from their usual portliness,
bear silent testimony to the work of some
deadly enemy. A week ago I gave a
sickly spider-lady board and lodging in
a glass jar. Today she is dead, and a
little bloated fly is hovering about in the
jar. It is a bladder-fly, avenger of its
race’s wrongs by deadly ingenuity. Its
eggs are laid near spider haunts and
hatch to tiny active grubs which at once
seek a spider. Attaching itself unnoticed
to the bulky body, each burrows in until
it can get its breathing spiracles into the
spider’s lungs. An air supply thus en-
sured, it feeds ravenously on the living
tissues of its involuntary host until it is
ready for its final change into the adult
fly form. By then the spider is dead or
moribund, the little killer emerges from
its pupa case, and after a brief rest to
dry its wings in the air flies off to take its
part in the never-ending race-war.
* * * *
“C.W.H.”: First-class vaudeville turns
are rare events in the back country, but
here at Rosedale (Q.) there are uproari-
ous performances daily. The station
wireless aerial pole is supported by four
guy-wires. Some feathered genius dis-
covered that if he clung loosely to a guy-
wire he would have a perfect “slippery
slide.” The news spread, and soon a
whole flock of galahs were rolling up
for their daily slide. Once a thing is
invented others improve on it. Enthusi-
asts of the sport were soon putting varia-
tions of their own into it. One sedate
old lad with earnest mien begins his trip
down in the upright position, turns over
half-way down, and does the rest of the
trip upside down. Then some of the
wild youths go speeding down, spiralling
round and round, expressing their ecstasy
with loud screeches and a great flapping
of wings. The pink-and-grey stream is
continuous as these delightful idiots keep
us amused with their antics.
* * * ,
“Flat-Foot Floogey”: Few figures in
history could have qualified more easily
for presidency of the Aboliars’ Council,
had one existed two centuries ago, than
Benjamin Franklin. As a counterblast
to the glaring inaccuracies which the
London papers of his time were publish-
ing about his country, he wrote to the
“Times” of American sheep whose tails
were so heavy with wool that it was
necessary to have little carts trundling
behind them, and of cod in the Great
Lakes having been driven by hungry
whales from the briny into fresh water,
The following is the conclusion of his
letter: “I’ll have you know, sir, that the
sight of the grand leap of a whale in
the chase up the falls of Niagara is
esteemed by all those who have seen it
as one of the finest spectacles in Nature.”
* * * *
“Moiya”: After doing 200 miles in the
heat and dust a motorist pulled up oppo-
site the leading hotel in a western N.S.W.
town, strolled into the bar, had a couple
of drinks and returned to the car. He
then took a cigarette paper, wet the
gummed portion and pasted it along his
upper lip. Leaning back on the seat he
was sound asleep in a few moments. I
noticed he was a mouth-breather, and
the action of his breathing caused an
upward and downward movement of the
paper, thus keeping the flies away from
his mouth.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Paddy Houlihan
’ad a 80-acre selection on Dawgwood
Crick,” said Bill-the-splitter, “an’ a nice
slab-an’-bark ’ouse, sheds an’ fences ; but
one day along comes a bushfire with a
’owlin’ gale be’ind it. W’en Paddy crawled
outa the crick three hours later all ’e
’ad wus the seleckshun, about a acre o’
spuds on the crick bottom, an’ a £2O bill
at Jack Reid’s store. Paddy didn’t waste
no time ’owling about ’is ’ard luck ; ’e
just rigs up a mia-tnia o’ boughs, roots
’is splittin’ tools outa the ashes, puts noo
’andles in ’em an’ starts jammin’ out
timber fer a noo ’ut. Meantime, the
spuds is doin’ well ; ’e reckons there 11
be a 10-ton crop. But ’e didn’t make no
’lowance fer the wombats, bandicoots an’
kangaroo rats wot started rootin the
toobers left an’ right. But Paddy ain’t
no man’s goat, so after a bit o’ thinkin’
’e gits a roll o’ wire, ties the end round
a saplin’ at one corner o’ the spud patch,
an’ stretches it round another at each
corner, an’ strains up at the startin’ p’int.
Then ’e ’itches one of ’is kangaroo dawgs
on to the wire at each side, givin’ the
chain a free run fer the len’th o’ the
wire—an’ the kangaroo-dawg fence is in-
vented an’ the wombats an’ ’coots is
stonkered. Things is goin’ all sirgarney,
an’ Paddy is as busy as a settin’ ’en, w’en
one night along comes a ’ell o’ a thunder-
storm, an’ nex’ mornin’ the noo fence is
abserlutely rooined ; all four panels lyin’
on their backs stone dead, with all the
air roasted orf their ’ides. Paddy looks
at the rooins fer a minit or two, then ’e
ses •' ‘Well, it moight of been meself
shtruck instead of the misforchunate
ounds.’ 1 hen ’e starts orf down the crick
ter borrer some more dawgs ter repair
the damage.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: No, that 471 ft. Eucalyptus
re Snans wasn’t measured by bottle con-
tents, as “Toolangi” (B. 22/11/ 39)
fondly imagines. One G. W. Robinson,
a licensed surveyor, did the job with
accurate instruments, and repeated the
effort with one of 415 ft. in the Cape
Otway Ranges. Baron von Mueller in
1888 described the species as “probably
the loftiest trees on the globe.” W. G.
Guilfoyle, another famous Australian
botanist, writing in 1879, states that.
“Trees of 396 ft. in height can be pointed
out by settlers at Fernshaw and Dande-
nong.” “T.’s” 285 ft. karri is a degen-
erate stick compared with the stems of
300 ft. long without a branch and 36ft.
butt-girth measured and recorded by
Muir, the W.A. botanist. Still, when
one recalls the insensate stupidity with
which axe and fire have been used
against Australian forests, it is surpris-
ing that anything over 100 ft. is still
standing.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: I’d like to introduce those
bush wiseacres (B. 29 /11 / ’39) who think
ferrets thrive best in captivity to the
variety Maoriland, to its everlasting
regret, imported to deal with the rabbit
pest. Did they hanker after domesticity
or feel grateful for an unlimited supply
of rabbit? They did not. They made
straight for the bush, where they hopped
into the kiwi, the wingless bird being
easy prey for the vicious little immi-
grants, Then they turned their attention
to native birds, eggs and fledglings, and
soon created a shortage there. Next
they came to the farms, ate eggs, chickens
and anything else they could find, bit
babies, attacked small children, and gen-
erally aroused the populace to fury. All
this time the pests were protected by law,
but it became the fashion to demolish
them on sight, and the Protection Act,
which covered also stoats and weasels,
fell speedily into abeyance. The only
communities that didn’t object to them
were the rabbit federations. Those the
ferrets left entirely unprovoked.
THE DROVERS’ SONG.
Farewell, old Cattle Town,
’Tis time to go;
Farewell, Murrumbidgee,
On-rolling, slow;
For now the long roads call
And the campfires are made,
Since the last cheque is busted
And the last card played.
Farewell, Murrumbidgee,
Roll on, great river, roll on !
For us it’s saddle up and off in the morning,
But for you it’s roll, old river, roll on!
Some to the Gulf will turn,
Their guide the crow;
Some strike the “Cotton Track,”
Some ride through Ivanhoe;
Then, as the herds string out,
To.ssed horn and clicking hoof,
The stars will be our lamps
And the sky our roof.
Good-bye, the Cattle Towns !
So-long! We go.
Soon ours the dusty flag,
As the mobs move slow;
Strap up the water-bag,
The fiddle and the bow,
The drovers’ road is calling,
And it’s up, for us, and go !
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


“Simon Scrawler”: “Many ’roos in
the bush around Jim Brown’s place?’’
inquired the policeman. “Not many,
promptly replied Jim’s cobber, thinking
of the half-dozen illegally-gained hides
hidden in Jim’s shed. “Thanks,” said the
Law. “He applied for a permit to shoot
half a dozen or so. Reckoned they were
getting at his crop, but if there’s not
many there I won’t give him one.”
* V * ?
“H.W.M.”: “If you want to see real
mosquitoes,” said old Tom, “just put in
a few nights in the nor’-west Victorian
mallee. I stayed at Ouyen one time and
I got no sleep for two nights, so I made
up me mind I’d beat the mozzies. The
third night I tears into the Red Ned and
they wheels me off to by-bye dead shot.
An hour later I was up looking for a
drink. Yair, I’d bin ■ sucked dry and
sober.”
“Sherwood”: On early Australian
maps the Gwydir River (N.S.W.) is
shown as junctioning with the Barwon
at a spot above Collarenebri, and when
those maps were prepared it did. Today
the Gwydir ends at The Raft, about 14
miles downstream from Moree. Beyond
that point its waters spread over a fan-
shaped area of several hundred-thousand
acres, and forms what is known as the
Watercourse, the home and breeding-
ground of countless waterfowl, a verit-
able ornithologist’s paradise. Wild pig
abound there, raid settlers’ lambing
paddocks, play havoc with bore-drains
and provide the hunter with zestful sport.
Snipe and duck in season do likewise for
the 12-g. gun shooter. A huge gum-tree
which fell across the Gwydir about 70
years ago brought about this vast change.
Debris brought down by floods piled up
against the fallen log until The Raft was
formed. Silt did the rest, and the Gwydir
beyond lost its identity.
HS
“Tosh”: The big blowfly was buzzing
about the room, and every few seconds
a loud bang on the window-pane would
disturb me —it was the champion nuis-
ance hurling itself against the glass in a
vain hope of passing right through it.
Which set me thinking. Taking the
weight of the blowie and the terrific
force with which it smacked against the
window, is it armor-plated somewhere
to take the shocks? And, if it isn’t, how
is it that the female of the species doesn’t
kill all the embryo life within it when
she belts a solid object when doing about
60 m.p.h.?
* * * *
“Lespy”: “There’s quite a crowd out-
side Jim’s shop when I comes up with me
dorg,” said old Ben, “and Jim tosses a
dorg-biscuit on the ground and Skip
pounces for it. Just when ’is nose is
about six inches from it I ses, ‘No, yer
can’t ’ave it.’ Skip stops, ’is eyes fixed
on the biscuit, and the saliva runnin’ out
of ’is mouth. I keeps ’im there for a
coupla minutes and then tells ’im to ’ave
it. The boys is quite taken up with ’im,
so I puts ’im through some more of ’is
tricks and Skip’s the ’ero of the hour
Then I remembers it’s Wensdee, so I
tells Skip to go and get The Bulletin.
Away goes Skip, and after erbout five
minutes ’e comes back without it. So I
sends ’im back ergain, and ergain ’e
comes back empty-mouthed, so to speak.
By this time the mob’s giggin’ me, and
I’m in a bit of a panic. So I tells the
boys somethin’s wrong, and we’ll foller
the dorg and see what it is. I sends ’im
orf ergain and we after ’im. We sees the
paper bloke offerin’ The Bully orl right,
but Skip won’t take it. I can’t make it
out, so I ’ops and takes it meself. I just
glance at it an’, strike me pink, it’s last
week’s! ”
« * * *
“Trevdee”: The stillness of the night
was shattered by a terrific din in the
fowlyard. Thinking
it might be a fox
I sneaked out with
the gun. When I
got closer I could
see the local drunk
—and he was very
drunk —standing in
front of the duck-
house poking the
sleeping birds with
a stick. “Come on,
you loafersh —let’sh
hear yer quack! ”
he ordered. “Here, here, George!” I in-
terrupted. “Stop tormenting those birds
and get home to bed.” “Bloomin’ (hie)
loafersh, thash wash they are,” he in-
sisted beerily. “Why don’t they quack
when they’re arshked?” “Well, how would
you like to be poked with a stick when
you were asleep?” I asked him. “I’d be
deli’ted,” replied George. “An’ wash
more, I wouldn’t be too proud to quack
at a cobber, even if I wash drunk.” He
swayed towards me, tripped over a feed-
box and fell right in amongst the ducks.
There was a dickens of a noise. Neigh-
boring dogs barked, roosters crowed, and
in the midst of it all a catfight started
on the roof of the house. The ducks,
with wings flapping and feathers flying,
sent an ear-grating crescendo of quack-
ing into the night air. George could
hear only one sound in all that bedlam.
“Good ole ducksh,” he burbled ; “I knew
yoush oblige ole cobber!”
* * * *
“Riga”: When a cat tugs at the bark
of a tree someone is apt to say it is
sharpening its claws. Actually the feline
is hasteiyng the process of new claws
that are always growing under the old
wornout ones which they are to replace.
* * * *
“Wang”: “This ’ere poetic justice y’
read about,” remarked Dan, “is jist a
flash way of sayin’ a bloke gets what he
deserves fer doin’ somethin’ damfoolish.
Me an’ a coupla mates had jist finished
a contrack job where we’d been 50 miles
from the nearest pub fer months. We got
our cheques, piled inter our ole bus,
an’ set sail fer the place we’d dreamt
about ev’ry night. Lizzie’s chuggin’ as
fast as she can go when we sees a bloke
standin’ at a cross-roads wavin’ his arms
at us, an’ singin’ out somethin’. But
we’ve got no time fer doin’ any Good
Samaritin act, an’ continue on. The
bloke makes a leap, an’ gets on the run-
nin’ board, yellin’ at us. One of me
mates gives him a shove on the brisket,
an’ orf he goes. We drove on, an’ a couple
of hours later struck a pub. We tumbles
outa the car an’ rushes inside, bellerin’
fer beer —quick. The bloke behind the
bar shakes his head, sad-like, when he
sees us each wavin’ a cheque in front
of him. ‘Sorry, boys,’ he ses, ‘there ain’t
a drop in the place. The brew’ry bloke
oughter been here four hours ago. Some-
“ Cripes , that Was a narrow shave!”
“What odds! It ain't our boat.”
“Are you genuine , or are you doing this for a bet?"
thin’ must’ve happened t’ him/ A woman
comes rushin’ inter the bar an’ yells, ‘Joe,
the p’liceman from Bogbogabog has jist
rung up t’ say the brew’ry bloke is in
the hospital there. Said he wus attacked
be some blokes in a car when he tried
t’ stop them t’ ask fer the loan of a
spanner, somethin’ havin’ gone wrong
with his truck half a mile up the road.
We won’t get no beer fer another two
days at earliest.’ Cripes! What me an
me mates said to each other as we got
outside that pub couldn’t be called
poetic.”
sf*
“Booraby”: Though many people are
prejudiced against bloodwood (Eucalyp-
tus corymbosa ) on account of the num-
erous veins in the timber and the sticky
red sap that oozes therefrom, the tree,
which grows to 4ft. or more in diameter,
is one of the most valuable in the bush.
The wood is very durable and easy to
split, and for palings, shingles and rough
buildings it has few equals ; for fence-
nosts it is unrivalled, as it is practically
fireproof. The sap, which is obtained in
both dry and liquid form, makes a good
dye and varnish, and is used as a cure
for various ills by both whites and
blacks. It is a quick cure for horses’
sore backs. From some of the bigger
veins, when tapped with an axe, the
liquid gushes out in a claret-like stream.
The thick, brittle bark, which can be
broken into small bits by the hands, is
also rich in sap, and is the best of all
tanning barks for light leathers; the
leather comes out beautifully soft,
whereas wattle, or the tannin extract,
leaves it hard. When in bloom the tree
is a honeyed glory, and is highly valu-
able to apiarists.
* # * *
“Tom Willie”: Apparently fish also
suffer from defective eyesight with ad-
vancing years. I have seen decrepit carp
gasping along just under the surface of
the water, scooping in minute particles
of food as they swam. And they have
invariably been fat, despite the guess-
work nature of their feeding. With age
they become tame too, and will lumber
up to the bank of a river to accept scraps
from a human cobber. One blotchy red-
and-livid carp took a small, hard soda
biscuit which I had thrown in. It “stood”
upright in the water and chewed it up,
not spilling a crumb —a knock-out to the
notion that fish always swallow their
food at a gulp.
* * * *
“B.O.”: In the islands when eggs
are scarce residents do some lurid curs-
ing of their native staff who have been
given strict instructions to bring in any
eggs found. The house-boy has a crafty
habit of never discovering a nest till it
has a dozen half-incubated eggs. These
he proudly brings in as a valuable find,
and he hangs expectantly around till the
housekeeper breaks one into a cup ; then,
informed by the look of disgust on her
face that things are as he he
appears heartbroken that they are “no
good b’long whiteman,” but hopefully
volunteers the information that “me
fella savvy kai-kai time ’e all same.”
* * * *
“Kooragi”: The
only time I have
known blacks to
hunt at night, in
defiance of the
spirits that are sup-
posed to be about
then, was when
they wanted a feast
of flock pigeons.
These birds, which
are also called har-
lequin bronze-
wings, frequent
the Mitchell-grass
plains of the in-
terior, and are late
drinkers. They usu-
ally begin to arrive
at their watering-places about sunset and
continue in streams for a couple of hours.
The abos. hid at night near the most
frequented spots, and as the processions
of pigeons passed to and fro they made
sudden sallies and knocked down scores
of them with waddies. Until a few years
ago flock pigeons were on the W.Q.
plains in countless numbers, a single flock
covering many acres of ground. In the
late afternoon the pigeons indulge in
sportive flights like galahs and corellas,
and as they are usually low and in dense
formation boomerangs take heavy toll.
THE HARBINGER.
There are universal portents, clear for all to
of goodwill and cheer is
Whence Idds, & no longer cheeky, volunteer
And astonish Dad by finding jobs to do about
When the 5 geese are daily felt to see if they are
tomahawk gets sharpened. But, up
here at Mulga Flat, ,
Christmas fever, as we know it, never real y
starts to soar ,
Till the branches from a gum-tree deck the
posts outside the store.
It’s admittedly significant, when, groaning
through the scrub, , . , ~
Come lorries filled with barrels, destined all
for Healey’s pub; ~ . ,
When the mailman, seeing double loads,
delivers up a curse,
And shamefaced sires, as Santa Claus, in
flannel gowns rehearse,
And the flor de cabbage-leaf cigars are bought
up by the gross;
But here at Mulga Flat we know its getting
pretty close
To Christmas when —it’s something, this, that
no one would ignore—
The branches from a gum-tree deck the posts
outside the store.
Without exception, every year, the leaves get
blown about
When dry, to lodge in tank and trough, and
foul up every spout. . ,
And irate citizens declare, with emphasis and
zest
The leafy decorations are an adjectival pest.
They wonder why the so-and-so old Jenkins
cannot get
A newer decoration stunt. But, all the same,
I’ll bet
They’d think that there was something wrong,
they’d feel it to the core
If gum-tree branches didn’t deck the posts
outside the store.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
uncertain conditions
JNEVITABLE fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions ex-
pressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that
you consult your Solicitor and have your Will
revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment
gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a Company with more
than 61 years’ practical experience in the adminis-
tration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon appli-
cation.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £961,115.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: . . J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. senes. Reserves.
1929.. 994,825 10 p.c. = 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930. . 734,699 9J „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6,262.963
1932.. 462,967 5i „ „ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5£,, „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543.242 6 „ „ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ ~ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 ~ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341,052
War against Germany was declared
less than a month before the close of
last accounts. The figures therefore
reflect little of the effects of the changes
in the economic structure now taking
shape owing to the shift from a peace
to a war economy.
Among the influences affecting last
year’s figures were low prices for exports
and drought in many areas, which, to-
gether with growing expenditure on
rearmament and the high level of
production in secondary industries,
strengthened the demand for accom-
modation. The ’Wales met it by increas-
ing its advances by £4,337,225 net:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. £81,416 £81,326 £81.159
Bills, etc... 8,322,177 8,154,482 \ , 71 „
Deposits .. 95,958,164 100,257,842 j ’' y ’' 12
Liquids ._ 35,636.614 31,449,702 30,193,019
Advances . . 80,577,457 88,740,010 93,077,235
Premises . . 2,900,000 3,150.000 3,300,000
Deposit* .. 373,911 382,015 452,211
* Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
To meet these extra advances, add
£150,000 net to the book value of
premises and increase the statutory
deposit with the Reserve Bank in Maori-
land by £69,596, liquids were drawn upon
for £1,256,683. Within liquids them-
selves, cash (£13,016,180) was reduced by
£1,359,897 and Government and muni-
cipal securities (£2,665,200) were
£3,161,897 lower, while the holding of
short-dated Treasury bills (£5,205,000)
increased by £4,050,000. The ’Wales has
thus made plain its intention to co-
operate with the Government and the
Central Bank in a national emergency.
Excluding the statutory deposit with the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand, liquids
amounted to 27 p.c. of liabilities to the
public when the books closed, as against
over 34 p.c. a couple of years earlier.
Still, with the turn of the season, and
as the money for exports bought by
Britain at satisfactory prices begins to
come in, the liquid position can soon
be expected to strengthen. However,
the co. was holding £7 Bs. of the pub-
lic’s money for every pound of its own
at the end of September ; so if the busi-
ness continues to expand at the same rate
as it did last term it won’t be long
before the board begins to think about
getting in more capital.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the board figured net earnings for the
12 months to Sept. 30 £3041 better at
6.2 p.c. on the £8,780,000 of capital, or
3.6 p.c. on capital and reserves combined.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c. For 80 years
to the close of accounts in 1930 the
lowest annual rate paid was 9 p.c. in
1894.
As for the current term, Government
“planning” is becoming the order of the
day. This has been made easier by
Britain’s purchase of our chief exports,
already referred to, f.o.b. Australian
ports, by a bright seasonal outlook, and
by expanding Government war and other
expenditure. Last year all the Australian
Governments together spent about
£11,000,000 more from consolidated
revenue than during the preceding 12
months. The money came partly from
Budget surpluses brought forward, partly
from increased rates of taxation and
partly from the issue of Treasury bills
to meet newly-created deficits. Appear-
ances are that the growth in national
income during the current financial year,
and more besides, will be mopped up by
further Government borrowing and in-
creased taxation, while rising costs
threaten to make heavy inroads into the
earnings of traders. One of the greatest
dangers to trade and industry will be loss
of flexibility through Government con-
trol.
Increased export income should mean
a stronger demand for agricultural equip-
ment, and heavy defence expenditure will
stimulate production in many secondary
industries. In this connection investors
are faced with the complex problem of
discriminating between expansion due
to purely war needs and growth likely to
be sustained after the war.
The problem of London funds, the
exchange rate and imports is partly
wrapped up with the question of war
finance, especially the financing of the
Second A.I.F. after it is sent overseas.
Nothing definite has yet been announced
in this respect. During the Great War
the cost of the A.I.F. while overseas was
met largely by borrowing in London.
Maybe this time London will not be
called upon to meet quite such a large
part of the bill.
The market, doubtful of what the
future holds for private banking in Aus-
tralia, has varied its bid for the ’Wales’s
£4O shares paid to £2o—the other £2O
is a reserve liability callable only in the
event of liquidation—from £3O 10s. to
£24 14s. since the beginning of 1939. At
the current market of £26 18s., the
return is 4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is £34 Bs. 1 Id. in net tangibles.
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
' Dividends To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932 .32,773 9 „ 20 „ 14.338 1 * 7r7 91in
Estab. a/c written off, £10,667 } 7,107
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 . . .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.* 19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560.. .. 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 224 p.c. 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 .. 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 .. .. 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015.. .. 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 .. .. 95,514
1936.. 72,787 9 p.c. 174 p.c. 59.630 13,157 108,671
1937.. 111,461 9 „ 15 „ 64,245 47,216 155,887
Staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 150,857
Reserves capitalised, £56,601 .. .. 94,286
1938.. 125,212 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 21,095 115,381
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. .. 112,881
1939.. 116,866 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 12,749' 125,630
Staff fund, £l5OO .. .. .. 124,130
* Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
t Subject to goodwill ( £304,229 at October 1, 1939),
and excluding- depreciation reserve (now £108,262).
Local politics and the state of the public
finances indicate that the Dominion has
been not only living beyond its means,
but that the Government proposes to
keep on doing so as long as it can. The
war has provided the Administration with
fresh opportunities to restrict economic
freedom further and expand public
“credit,” and action has been taken in
both fields. From the investor’s point
of view, the results include a fillip to
local manufacture, especially of essen-
tial goods, restriction of trade in luxuries,
particularly of imported lines, with the
probability of a steadily rising costs
factor, which would become a very ugly
feature if any marked inflation of the
currency occurs.
In these circumstances, well-handled
chain-stores like Woolworths can be
expected to do as well as, if not better
than, most other retailers. The basis of
the chain system is quick turnover for
cash. Most lines are cleared, the bill
paid and profit pocketed all within the
time allowed for ordinary trade credit,
thus keeping capital investment in the
chief earning asset (stock) relatively low.
Also, small personal service—-salesman-
ship is reduced to a minimum, there are
no deliveries and few book debts—keeps
overhead down. Chief adverse factors
would be a possible slowing up of turn-
over from competition and other causes,
together with rising costs, including taxa-
tion.
Partly because of these and other
things, and their possible influence upon
the issue of bonus shares, the market
has revised its estimate of the future pos-
sibilities of this co.’s scrip. It now prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 16s. 6d. as against
19s. 3d. a year ago. At the lower figure
the return is 4.5 p.c. on a 16 p.c. div.
basis. The pound 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
at 335. (buyer’s offer) yield 5.4 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £9 17s. prefs.
and 3s. 7d. ords. After deducting pref.
capital, the market thus values the good-
will of the undertaking at over
£1,500,000 —the intangible, not treated as
an asset herein, figures in the books at
£304,229.
The co., which is an offshoot of Wool-
worths, Sydney, set up in the Dominion
10 years ago with a capital of £50,000-
odd ; the figure is now £672,608 (50,000
£1 prefs. and 2,490,432 ords. of ss. each),
of which £345,186, or 11s. Id. per pound
of ord. capital, is bonus scrip, distributed
during the last half-dozen years. The
last gift, one for ten (£56,610), was in
December, 1937. So ord. divs. are worth
more than double the declared rate on
cash-paid capital.
There are 21 stores in the chain, all
reported to be operating successfully.
The contraction of £8346 in last year's
net earnings was due entirely to extra
Government bleeding. In addition to
setting aside £150,500 for taxation (now
over 10s. in the pound), an extra £lB,OOO
had to be provided to cover the previous
term’s bill, and £15,284 net was added
to the depreciation reserve (£108,262).
The £116,866 netted was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 18 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 19.3, 26.7 and 21 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The div.
was kept at 16 p.c., and £l5OO was sent
to the staff fund.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a sound
financial structure and all-round expan-
sion of the business:
1934. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £148,010 £615,982 £672,608 £672,608
Mortgage . . 39,531 113,500 110,500 137,900
Sundry creditors 33,697 102,240 99,113 125,402
Tax provision 43,817 129,541 172,340 258,842
Freehold . . 53,108 246,574 294,991 361,838
Leasehold . . 8,950 - 14.044
Plant . . 75,084 143,960 161,454 181,583
Shares other cos. 15,000 - 7
Stocks . . 139,898 384.913 405,422 437,411
Debtors, etc.. . 24,488 59,486 73,274 20,616
Cash, etc. . . 6,482 95,138 99,287 187,153
To add £66,847 to freeholds, £14,044 to
leaseholds, £20,129 to plant, £31,989 to
stocks and strengthen the cash holding,
etc., by £87,866 the board raised an
extra £27,400 on mortgage, increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£26,289 and reduced debtors’ balances,
etc., by £52,658. Excluding provision for
taxation, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£381,878)
was £13,508.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£* £* £/£> £>
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
1930 . 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931. . 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4,347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 „ „ 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. - 21,000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 ~ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 42,266196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 39,217235,'230
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..215,230
This is Adelaide’s biggest department
store, and a very energetic and enter-
prising organisation it is, too. The con-
traction of £3409 in last term’s net
earnings was due entirely to extra
Government slugs; £30,000 (up £9000)
was set aside for the taxgatherer.
There was a spring of £10,046 in the
year’s gross earnings (£466,071). The
effects upon sales of low prices for
primary produce were more than offset
by what look like shrewd buying and
vigorous merchandising methods, and by
expanding industrial activity—a new
steel-tube mill is going up at Islington,
B.H.P. has its new blast furnace at
Whyalla well under way, while Imperial
Chemical Industries has put up works
at Osborne and Die Casters has com-
menced production. Exes. (£342,064)
were up £4o9s—a moderate increase
considering the lift in wages and other
costs. After handing the prefs. their
£27,790, enough remained to show a
juicy 22 p.c. on ord. capital as against
23, 20, 16.8, 13.1, 8.4, 6.4, 5.7 and 3.4
p.c. back to 1931. The div. and bonus
were together kept at 9 p.c., and of the
£39,217 that remained £20,000 was struck
off the book value of premises, leaving
visible reserves £19,217 stronger than at
the previous balance at £215,230.
The £697,000 of capital is in 100,000
A and 297,000 B prefs., both 7 p.c.
cumulative, and 300,000 ords. Public
interest is confined to the prefs., the
ords. being held by Myer Emporium,
Melbourne, which bought control from
the Marshalls in 1928, paying 30s. each
for two-thirds of the holding, the balance
being taken at par later. The trading
policy has been moulded on lines similar
to the parent’s, and many lines pre-
viously imported have been replaced by
products from the co.’s own workrooms,
which means much in these days of
restricted imports and high tariff charges.
Finances are healthy and balance-sheet
movements encouraging:
1 931. 1935. 1938. 1939'.
Capital . . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 166,047 243,283 262,317 182,919
Freeholds, etc. 491,852 553,614 598,169 591,892
Furniture,
plant, etc... 112,907 105,666 88,492 79,450
Stocks .. 241.722 284,454 340,406 346,950
Book debts .. 102,924 117,110 132,065 129,255
Cash . . . . 10,351 10,414 46,092 26,497
Last term £79,398 was lopped off out-
side liabilities. To do this and carry an
extra £6544 of stocks, cash was drawn
upon for £19,595 and book debts were
reduced by £2BlO. Surplus earnings, in-
cluding the allowance for depreciation,
etc., provided the balance. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£319,783) was £63,537. Altera-
tions to the store are reported to have
further improved shopping facilities.
The A and B shares at 28s. and 275.
respectively (295. and 28s. a year ago)
return 5 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £9 2s. sd. As and
o Continued on page 24.)


A RECORD
OF
PROGRESS
HEAD OFFICE:
CR. COLLINS & RUSSELL STREETS,
MELBOURNE.
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1939, SHOWS THE
FOLLOWING REMARKABLE PROGRESS:
V
NEW BUSINESS
(EXCLUDING ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT)
1919 £4,812,930
1929.
1939
£12,219,710
£14,055,357
PAYMENTS to POLICYHOLDERS
1919
1929
£305,976
£1,329,081
£2,476,694
1939
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
(EXCLUDING ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT)
ASSETS
(HELD AGAINST POLICYHOLDERS' CONTRACTS AND
OTHER LIABILITIES)
1919.
£3,482,054
1929.
£14,567,530
£32,416,132
1939
mjF
A
HAMI
w


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET .)
sac
itVlj
-i
W(«
‘J^yr
-
YEARS IST TAMWORTH
Tamworth, a prosperous Northern centre on the Peel River,
was a very small township when the first bank, a branch of the
Bank of New South Wales, was opened in 1856. The popula-
tion was then under 300, but Sir John Robertson's Land Act
of 1861, providing for the free selection of land, gave a great
impetus to the district which developed rapidly. Now, the
town has a population of 11,000, while the wealthy district
produces a wide range of primary products.
The support which the Bank of New South Wales has
extended to the .Tamworth district for eighty-three years is
typical of the part the Bank has played in the development
of New South Wales.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * .1:
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.); — Advt.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in.
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire
Distrct, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an
insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the amount
of such premiums paid by them in respect of
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1939.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1940, sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
e
w
ENDURA
Pens Pencils-Sets
Modern—Yet Possessed
of All Essential Virtues
A few years ago Fountain-
pens were unobtrusive in
colour —they clung shyly to
one’s pocket as if afraid.
To-day, they no longer
“hide their light under a
bushel.” They demand
recognition, and in order
to gain that have ar-
rayed themselves in won-
derful colours. The Conklin
“Endura,” while intensely
modern in this respect,
has not sacrificed to showi-
ness any of its essential
virtues. Its purpose, to-day
more than ever, is to
write and to keep on
writing, not spasmodically
and haltingly, but evenly
and continuously to the
last drop of its generous
ink sac. More, every
“Endura” is uncondition-
ally guaranteed against any
accident which might be-
fall it.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/Pencils
to match, 25/-. Com-
plete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 55/- and 65/-.
Always use Conklin Foun-
tain-pen Ink. It does not cor-
rode, and will not become
gummy, no matter what
type of pen you may use.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores everywhere.
k
• ■I
II
r n
&
•'S
Kv\i&
W/
Established 1808
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1939, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1940, subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
£2 14s. 9d. Bs, and their combined
annual requirements were more than
three times covered by last year’s net
earnings.
Victorian State Insurance Office
For its silver-jubilee year, Victoria’s
State Accident Insurance Office registers
another impressive performance. The
fact that business-writing is confined to
workers’ compensation risks, out of
which few private underwriters have been
able to squeeze much, if anything, in the
way of profit, renders the result the
more meritorious. Here are actual under-
writing figures:
Net Expense Loss
June, Premiums. Exes. Claims. Rate. Rate.
1938. . £200,780 £19,651 £121,330 9.7 p.c. 60.0 p.c.
1939.. 213,143 20,361 138,175 9.5 „ 64.8 „
The expense rate is the eye-catching
feature. Last year saw a further reduc-
tion of 4s. per cent. ; but the benefit here
and a gain of £12,363 in net premiums
was more than offset by a lift of £4 16s.
p.c. in the loss rate, for which Victoria’s
bushfire tragedy, the worst in the State’s
history, was largely responsible. Owing
to the purchase of new office premises,
interest was also down £lOO4 at £3872,
leaving the surplus of income over actual
outgoings £6196 lower at £58,479 —
27.4 p.c. of the year’s retained premiums.
After making provision for unearned
premiums and unadjusted claims, the
accounts, however, claim a surplus of
only £42,478 (up £7476). Of that £22,478
is earmarked for bonuses, £15,000 is
transferred to reserve and £5OOO is written
off the £50,000 taken by the Treasury in
1931 and to be returned only in an emer-
gency, a contingency nowhere in sight
at the moment. So far Commissioner
W. H. Holmes can point to £161,370 dis-
tributed in cash bonuses, in addition to
£286,269 granted in special discounts.
Certainly the office pays nothing to the
taxgatherer ; on the other hand, at June
30 the Treasury had use of £188,809 of
the £331,743 of funds. It isn’t an indul-
gent custodian, either ; on the £188,809
and £58,060 invested in Consols at
balance date last year’s interest return
was less than If p.c. Other assets com-
prise freehold, etc., £49,637, the £50,000
(less £35,000 written off) transferred to
consolidated revenue, and debtors and
cash £20,237. On the other side, reserve
funds stand at £144,039, unearned pre-
miums at £104,686 and sundry creditors,
etc., at £83,019.
Formed Nov., 1938, Building Guar-
antee and Discount has got on a 12i
p.c. p.a. div. basis in just on 12 months,
which slightly betters prospectus profit
expectations. The co. is in the flat-
building, etc., business in Melbourne,
and is considering extending to Sydney ;
general financing guaranteeing of
traders’ overdrafts and motor finance
chiefly—is also undertaken. A recent
£20,000 ord. offer, one-for-one at par,
was quickly subscribed, the old pound
ords. standing at a premium of Bs. a
share on their paid-up value (10s.) at
the time. Ex rights, the lOs.-paids now
fetch 15s.
* * * *
Wiluna Corp.’s accounts registered a
loss of £12,141, and the deduction of this
from £20,213 brought in leaves £8072 to
carry forward. In a bleak report to the
board, Binns, the co.’s consulting engineer
in London, considers that the Happy
Jack deposit, a mile or so north of the
main workings, is not of the im-
portance originally believed, and that
although it will probably supply a sub-
stantial tonnage it will be far from suffi-
cient to save the mine. Binns estimates
the life of the show with reasonable
safety at 30 months from March 31 last.
He adds there is no alternative but to
cut expenditure to the bone and concen-
trate on treating the existing reserves,
roughly 1,200,000 tons, at the greatest
possible profit. According to a West-
ralian observer, things are not quite as
bad as all this. Since Binns inspected
the mine at the beginning of 1939
it has been officially announced that
ore_exposed in the Happy Jack workings
averaged s.3dwt. for a good length and
over a width of Bft. A further announce-
ment that the face of the drive was still
in similar-grade stuff, and that a cross-
cut not far away had intersected 16ft. of
ore averaging 4.3dwt., also helped the
market at the time. A later report issued
in October indicated that, while assay
values during the September quarter were
unpayable in some parts of the mine,
they were payable in others. The best
section was one of B.ldwt. over 21ft.,
exposed by a crosscut at the 600 ft. level
of the Happy Jack.
* * * *
Coincident with declaration of the
latest div. by Black Jack, Charters Towers
(N.Q.), the faces below perhaps never
looked better since Morgan Lewis took
control underground. The south level
is now out over 900 ft. from the shaft
with a face of quartz that often touches
3ft. wide. Lenses of heavy mineralised
ore sweeten up the bulk of the light
mineral stone, and crushings from these
stopes can look the battery in the face
with confidence. In the No. 5 South,
driving recently disclosed up to 2ft. of
white quartz, but as compensation there
is a streak of ore on the footwall face
showing galena amongst the other
minerals. In all, it is the most promis-
ing reappearance on the old Towers field
since the days of the New Brilliant Free-
hold, the last of the older brigade.
* * * *
Government interest in the quicksilver
mine at Kilkivan, near Gympie (Q.),
increases, and Q.S. Mines, N.L., has lately
been carrying out certain exploratory
work for a detailed examination by the
geological staff. Retorting operations,
and consequently mercury production,
have been on the light side recently as
a result. Quicksilver manifestations in
the district have not been confined to this
particular mine, and a thorough survey
of the region and its quicksilver poten-
tialities might be in the national interest
when every item cut out of our imports
means more power to us in the present
conflict.
* * * *
The Mountain Maid at Thanes Creek,
one of the old Warwick (Q.) goldfields,
crops up again with a fresh attempt at
working. A new shaft has been sunk
120 ft., and driving for the lost shoot
is intended. In the shaft a 3ft. to 4ft.
reef of quartz showed over the last 70ft.
of sinking, but prospected only a few
’weights. The short shoots of rich ore that
ran through the old workings and pro-
vided ounces per ton have not yet re-
curred. The order of the Warwick gold
occurrences seems to have been much
“buck” quartz shot with rich dabs of
coarse gold or heavy mineral values. It
has all been against deep sinking by the
prospector.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.R.: No. 1 may be affected by possible
slackening in building activity, but No. 2 should
benefit by the difficulty of importing cutlery
either in the Commonwealth or Maoriland.
The position of Arthur Cocks scrip has been
made rather uncertain by the importing re-
strictions just imposed, but the state of the
co.’s finances suggests that if the shares can
be got at 21s. (the market is not active) they
should be worth while. Goninan scrip has
risen appreciably since mentioned and is not
now so attractive. Holeproof ords. (now at
235.) may improve as time goes on. In the
case of No. 3, holding and hoping seem the
only course... .Wager: (1) The Commonwealth
Bank’s £4,000,000 capital represents accumu-
' fated profits capitalised in 1924. (2) The
bank started off with no capital, but it had
the blessing of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Savings Bank business only was trans-
acted from July, 1912, until Jan. 20, 1913;
then general banking was carried on. There
were early operating deficits, wiped out en-
tirely by June 30, 1915... .N.1.M.: Holeproof
Ist prefs. should be sound for income pur-
poses... .S.A.M.: Very risky to buy “small
businesses” without expert knowledge of the
game. It is often cheaper to establish an en-
tirely new shop and build up a goodwill one-
self.


da
m
MARIE BRIZARD
(1714-1801)
The founder of French
Liqueurs.
FOR XMAS—FROM FRANCE
(Importation now restricted by Law.)
CREME DE CACAO, 10/11 large bot.
(Marie Brizard’s.) (Usually 18j 6.)
GREEN KERMANN, 6/11 17oz. bot.
(Marie Brizard’s.) (Usually 12/-.)
YELLOW KERMANN - - - 12/- litre
(Reverend Father Kermann’s.) (Usually 25/-.)
CHERRY WHISKY ------ 10/11
(Marie Brizard’s Special Liqueur.) (Usually 1816.)
EMILE SEGUIN COGNAC, 10/6 large bottle
G4s supplied to H.M. War Office.)
(i Usually 1716.)
HEIDSIECK CHAMPAGNE (A basket of 6 small
bottles—as illustrated on right!) .... 34/-
Large bottles 15/11, j bottles 8/9.
RHUM ST. JAMES - - - - 13/6 large bottle
(The Genuine Les Plantations St. James.)
(Usually 22/6.)
VIEILLE CURE 13/6 large bottle
(From the Old Priory of the Abbey of Cenon.)
(Usually 22/6.)
Obtainable ONLY from
HOTEL PLAZA
THE HOTEL FOR THE CONNOISSEUR.
291 GEORGE STREET, WYNYARD STATION, SYDNEY.
The
Ideal
Gift
CHAMPAGNE
Address 'Mail Orders to
No. 3 Bottle Dept.
( F.O.R. or F. 0.8. Sydney .)
SMOKE-OH!
“If you aren’t a first-rate knitter, then try
your hand at making scarves for soldiers.”
— Women’s paper.
One more instance of the soldiers get-
ting it in the neck.
“An exciting visit from a
Cameron officer in beautiful
Scotch trousers.”
— Women’s page.
What does that mean —
none at all?
•I* •£■ -v
“Racehorse trained on milk.”
—Sporting note.
For nursery handicaps?
►b ►!-
The modern beach girl
never puts off until tomorrow
what she can put off today.
4* 4* 4*
“Defendant gave up his job as
truck-driver and commenced in
business as a tyre salesman.”
From treading on the gas he changed
to gassing on the tread.
•I* *!* *l*
“She was as pretty as a picture.”
— Extract, short story.
“A bachelor very often has wide know-
ledge of married life.” — “D.T.” correspondent.
That’s why he’s a bachelor!
•i* ‘i’ *i* M
“Women have better memories than men.”
— Article.
That all depends on their past.
*l* „
“Man fined for emptying teapot over father.’
—News item.
Got himself into hot water after warm-
ing the old pot.
*J<* •J 4
“About half the tailoring business to-day
is done on the ‘pa-y-as-you-wear’ principle.
—Trade journal.
THE HUNDRED PER CENT. POLICE DOG.
•{• 4* 4* +
“Women don’t dress to please men.
— Women’s mag.
At least, not their husbands.
»£•
“Soon there will be no first-class travel on
the N.S.W. railways.” — News item.
But there never has been.
“ ‘Boshter’ Bill Squires lhurkled near his
sorner. They lame down together from the
Newhastle coalfields yesterray afternoon—
‘Boshter’ Bill mith a lump of gols on his
tiepinl ike a miniature Welcome Nugget.
— “Sun.
Obviously the celebration was worthy
of the occasion.
•!* 4* •!*
“Do you know your own language?”
— Advt.
We thought we did till we bought a
radio.
•'< -I*
“Are you run down?” — Advt.
No, we’re still driving a car ourselves.
•j* ■l*
“A motor-car steering wheel invented by an
American controls the brakes of a car as well
as the steering.” — “World’s News.”
Now let him really test his ingenuity
by devising a gadget that will refold a
roadmap into its proper creases.
d* "i*
“In time of peace very few people had any
worries at all at Christmas.”
— Correspondent, Women’s paper.
No? What about the nudist who
wanted to wear a sprig of holly but
couldn’t decide where to pin it?
Dinky Dainties.
“Girls in Melbourne are less bitty and piecey
than those of Sydney,” says a fashion writer.
Though frippy and frilly
And lissom and lacy
Are Judy and Jilly
And Gertie and Grade
In Sydney, alacky !
They’re spicy and sweetie
{To Jimmy and Jacky)
And nicey and neaty.
But, cripes ! it’s a pity
That scribes of our city
So wordie absurdie
Aren’t given the birdie!
P. C.
This sounds a pretty compliment,
Bu. actually it ain’t.
It means her skin’s like canvas,
And covered up with paint.
E.
Keeping Pace.
The editor of the “Police Gazette”
catches up with the New Australian jour-
nalism. His outline of future issues,
given hereunder, arrests attention:
“Don’t miss the thrilling adventures
and capture of Sly-grog Sal. Our Flying
Squad runs true to label. It’s a corker.
“A heart-throb in every line of the
Safe-blower’s Romance. Tells how his
weakness for locks was the key to his
downfall. His wife discovered that the
locks were both blonde and brunette.
A gripping story.
“Our readers can bank on that popular
author, Sergeant S. P. Eadsem, giving
them a run for their money in his new
serial ‘Gamblers’ Gold.’ He always does.
It’s a fine story. s
“Don’t miss our competitions. They’re
great fun. Join the man-hunt for ‘The
Fox,’ notorious cat-burglar. Reward of
£lOO must be won. All entries to be
accompanied by finger-prints. Our
judges are noted for quick decisions.
“Thumb-nail sketches of the light-
fingered ; household hint on how to start
an old copper boiling; Constable Sparks
is in charge of the cooking page and
can tell you when your cake is dough,
your goose is cooked, how to treat a
tough joint or tell a bad egg.
“Beautiful camera studies of people
who are not in the public eye for various
reasons.
“We are noted for our ‘Wanted ads.
“Order your copy early from the
nearest police station.”
D. McM.
I’m finicky to a degree;
I’m as spick and as span as a sailor.
My suits are a credit to me,
But a debit, alas! to my tailor.
P. O. M. C.
The Expressatorium.
«j n Serbia there is a caf6 where the cus-
tomers are permitted to smashjaU the crockery-
I once catered for a similar urge with
the Expressatorium.
Working on the theory that every man
appreciates an opportunity to give vent
to violence in times of extreme emotion,
I designed a three-compartmented, walk-
through affair, consisting of a Slam-
mery,” a “Breakery and a Smashery.
The first was a series of stout doors
which awoke thunderous reverberations
on being slammed, the second was pro-
vided with cheap crockery and the third
had smashable furniture. My price was
a pound a go.
I got my wealthy and influential cousin
to start it going. He recommended
to his friends and that was how I got
m y distinguished patron Mr. Pomfret, a
Cabinet Minister. He was a man o
dictatorial tendencies, much harassed y
the restriction of his conservative col-
leagues. Finding my institution made-
quate, I arranged the “Assassinatory,”
which consisted of a gallery o p oto-
graphs of his political enemies and a
pistol.
For my lesser patrons I continued to
add attractions. In my “Collisionary”
I provided thrills for those normally
harassed by back-seat driving; patrons
drove an armored car into old wrecks
from the breakmg-up yards. My
“Domestic Blissary” gave hen-pecked
husbands an opportunity to work off
on my hired universal hen-pecker all
the smart rejoinders they had thought of
after their wives had slammed the door.
But I had built too much on Mr.
Pomfret. When his party was defeated
at the election he came to me in a fine
fury and worked himself through all the
departments twice, but I could see that
he was still far from being “expressed.”
He glared at me, then shouted in
triumph:
“Now I’ll invent one for you, the
‘Assault and Battery.’ ” And he did. Next
day while I was still in hospital he
assaulted a member of the new Govern-
ment in the House. At the subsequent
inquiry he blamed my institution for
having a brutalising effect on him.
The new Chief Secretary sent the police
to close my doors.
E. O. S.
Crime of Fashion.
“She valued human life so lightly that she
committed a murder to secure a new dress.
—Crime magazine.
A double crime it was, no less,
She planned to fill the bill,
For after she had killed to dress,
She straightway dressed to kill.
T. W. N.
Around the Army.
V.
The Sarge, the Corp and the
Lance Jack.
The names (official) applied to ser-
geants vary greatly. When the army dis-
covers a new specialist he is straightway
given three stripes. Thus we have farrier-
sergeants, remount-sergeants, postal-
sergeants, harness-sergeants, baker-ser-
geants and so on.
In very small units where nearly every
man is a specialist, queer situations often
arise because of this custom. Take, for
instance, the corps bakery. The O.C.
bakehouse asks the baker-sergeant how
the bread’s getting along. Naturally the
senior non-com. goes to consult the full
corporal. He makes inquiries and finds
that all the dough-bangers have been pro-
moted to lance-jacks, and that they’re sit-
ting around awaiting the arrival of some
new privates to order to make the bread.
That’s how the troops only get one loaf
to eight men. It’s the baker-sergeant who
has the full loaf.
The common or garden sergeant —that
is, the non-specialist—is called upon for
divers duties, mostly of superintendence.
Of these that of orderly-sergeant, which
comes to him in rotation, is the most
important. It doesn’t necessarily follow
that because he is the only orderly-ser-
geant in camp that all the other sergeants
are disorderly—at least, not until between
Last Post and Lights Out, when, if the
mess is in particularly joyous mood, the
orderly-sergeant may even himself be-
come disorderly.
One of the main duties of the orderly-
sergeant is to parade recalcitrants at the
orderly-room. When the orderly officer,
after reading the crime sheet, asks: “Who
made these allegations?” the sergeant has
to say, “I’m the alligator, sir!” Every
orderly-sergeant in every unit of the old
A.I.F. said this, and the tradi-
tion must undoubtedly be
handed on to the new A.I.F.
No sergeant can ever hope
to attain perfection as an
instructor unless he jettisons
all his preconceived notions
of the King’s English. Were
he to commence his homily
on the fixing of a bayonet
with, say, “Now, observe how
simply this is performed,”
both officer and troops would
think he’d gone batty. He
must start off with “First y’
gits a ’olt of yer rifle between
the knobs on your Dutch
pegs —so —then with y’r right
’and y’ grabs the yilt of yer
baynet —so —an’ then y’ wips it out an’ y’
wops it on!”
Although the corporal has only two
stripes to the sergeant’s three, he’s not
anywhere near two-thirds as important.
He is merely his sergeant’s very faint
echo. It is when his turn for orderly duty
comes round that he suffers a slight rise
in importance. Then, he is allowed to
take charge of the sick parade.
A corporal of the guard has one of the
most nerve-racking jobs in the entire
army. He may be just in the middle of
a run of heads, or the school may have
got to kings on the down second time
during a big jackpot, when there will
come an urgent cry of “Here comes old
Bugwhiskers!” from the man on guard,
who is busily ashing his bumper. Then
the corporal has to smother things up,
turn out the guard and give the “Present
arms!” as the O.C. or some other brass-
hat goes past —all in the space of a few
seconds.
Occasionally there will be seen march-
ing around a camp a man who every
few seconds keeps glancing down at the
upper portion of his right arm. He will
have just been raised to acting-temporary
lance-corporal. If his military career
suffers no serious setback he will in time
reach the eminence of acting lance-
corporal ; his next promotion will be to
full-blown lance-corporal. Far more
modest than higher non-coms., he issues
his very occasional orders in only a
bellow. His secret ambition is to work
up to the vocal output of the R.S.M.
S. W. K.


Liqueur
h
Nearly 200 years have elapsed since Drambuie was
first distilled in the Isle of Skye. The recipe was
presented by Prince Charlie to Mackinnon of
Strathaird as a reward for his ser-
vices in enabling the Prince to
evade his pursuers. The secret
recipe has been jealously guarded
and the liqueur has been made by
successive generations of the
same family to this day.
Agents:
McLaughlin & co. pty. ltd.,
185 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Although delicately sweet-
ened with heather honey,
Drambuie leaves a delight-
fully dry, aromatic flavour
on the tongue. It is much
used in fashionable circles
of London, New York and
elsewhere in the making of
cocktails.
D; AM Bill*-
y
MANLY
Queen of Pleasure
Resorts
O'
r
“JUST ACROSS SYDNEY’S FAMOUS HEADS”
SIXTY MILES OF SCENIC WONDER
The Dress Circle view of Sydney Harbour, embracing over sixty
miles of magnificent harbour views, is obtained from a Manly
Beach Steamer—the finest and cheapest of all harbour trips.
MANLY’S FREE WONDER POOL
The largest enclosed Free Bathing Pool in Australia affords endless
fun and enjoyment—Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving
Towers, Springboards, Crazy Floats, Rolling Logs and Horses—
and many other aquatic novelties are in the WONDER POOL.
The Pool is floodlit at night both over and under the water with
3,000,000 candlepower lamps, and remember ... it is FREE!
WHY NOT STAY AT MANLY?
Travel by Steamer—lt’s Safer—Quicker —Cheaper
Daily Fares: Adults, 6d.; Children (up to 14 years), 1 d.; 5 years
and under, free.
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY STEAMSHIP
CO. LTD.
No. 2 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY. ’Phone: 83221, 83783
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Mount Morgan
Out of the conglomeration of figures,
mining technicalities and changeable form
of accounts that represent Mt. Morgan s
none-too-lucid annual report —it isn’t a
very lucid mine—close analysis of last
year’s figures reveals that a fall in the
grade of the oxide mill’s feed, a higher
ratio of overburden to ore, heavy initial
smelting charges and poorer recoveries
almost olfset the benefit of greater mill-
ings, lower oxide costs, slightly better
metal prices and a somewhat higher
grade of ore in the sulphide section.
During the 1938-39 year, millings by
the sulphide mill increased by 97,950 tons
(26 p.c.) to 473,450 tons, and by the
oxide mill by 255,175 tons (83 p.c.) to
560,633 tons. Grade of the sulphide ore
lifted from 3.lsdwt. gold to 3.31dwt.,
while that of the oxide mill fell sharply
from I.B3dwt. to I.ssdwt. Gold recovery
in both sections was slightly lower (on a
percentage basis) owing to various causes.
In the sulphide section milling results
are here compared more fully with the
1937-38 term: —•
_ 1938. 1939.
Ore treated, tons .. 375,500 473,450
Grade: Gold, dwt. .. 3.15 3.31
Copper, p.c. 0.71 0.73
Concentrate, tons .. 13,685 20,818
Grade: Gold, dwt. .. 53.7 46.3
Copper, p.c. 16.4 13.7
Gold produced, oz. .. 37,422 48,503
Copper produced, tons 2,252 2’,865
Recovery: Gold, p.c. .. 63.3 61.9
Copper, p.c. 84.1 82.7
Ratio concentration .. 27.4 22.7
For every ton of mined material treated
in both sections last year, 2.69 tons of
overburden was removed, compared with
1.44 tons in the preceding term. This
increased ratio of waste material handled
prevented the mine’s benefiting from the
lower costs which would have otherwise
resulted from larger throughput; mining
and treatment of sulphide ore ran to
17s. 2d. a ton, against 17s. Id. Gold
recovery in the sulphide section was
61.9 p.c., against 63.3 p.c.
Here are comparisons of the oxide
mill’s performance:
1938. 1939.
Tons. Dwt. Tons. Dwt.
Ore treated —
Mine ore and
dumps .. 305,458 1.83 395,800 1.69
Sulphide tails .. 164,833 1.20
Composite feed 305,458 1.83 560,633 1.55
Gold produced—
Mine ore and
dumps, oz. .. 19,088 21,129
Sulphide tails, oz. 4,110
Total .. .. 19,088 25,239
Silver produced, oz. 19,661 26,285
Recovery gold—
Mine ore and
dumps .. 68.2 p.c. 63.2 p.c.
Sulphide tails .. 41.5 p.c.
In addition to low-grade ore, overburden,
dumps, etc., milled, the oxide plant last
year handled 164,833 tons of sulphide
tailings assaying I.2dwt. This had most
to do with a fall of nearly o.3dwt. in
overall grade, which had a big influence
on Mt. Morgan’s total profit. The effect
shows up clearly in the foregoing table ;
though millings increased 83 p.c., gold
recoveries rose only 61510 z., or 32 p.c.
Gold recovery from mined ore and
dumps was 63.2 p.c., against 68.2 p.c. Re-
treatment of some old chlorinated tail-
ings affected the recovery figures. Mining
costs in this section were 9.9 d. a ton,
compared with 4.1 d., and milling costs
4s. 3. Id., compared with ss. 8.5 d. Total
of these costs was ss. Id., against
6s. 0.6 d.
From the treatment of 473,450 tons of
sulphide ore the mill recovered 48,5030 z.
gold, an average of 2.05dwt., against
I.99dwt. It also turned out 2865 tons of
copper (up 613 tons). The oxide mill
handled 560,633 tons for 25,2390 z. gold
and 26,2850 z. silver. The precipitation
plant turned out 110 tons of copper.
Production altogether was 17,20 loz.
greater in gold (73,7420 z.), 622 tons
greater in copper (2975 tons) and 66230 z.
higher in silver (26,2850 z.).
Valuing 30,1350 z. of gold on hand at
balance day at £9 Australian an ounce,
99780 z. silver at 25., and 1891 tons of
copper at £55 a ton, less realisation
charges, the co. puts its mine income
for the 12 months at £874,388 —up
£250,845. Sundry income was £1192
lower at £3831. But expenditure all
round was heavier than the analysis of
costs compiled by the management (and
quoted in the foregoing) indicates. Allow-
ing for a rearrangement of the figures in
p. and 1. account, mining and concentra-
tion costs per ton of sulphide ore were
only slightly higher in a total of £421,010,
but realisation and smelting charges were
6d. a ton higher at 6s. 4d., and up £40,945
in a total of £150,001. Oxide-ore mining
and treatment, including sulphide tail-
ings, cost £146,660 altogether.
Administration items were £8468 lower
at £36,139. Thus the rise in total income
of £249,653 was almost offset by an in-
crease of £241,308 in outgo, and net
profit rose only £8345 in spite of the
year’s greatly increased effort:
June, Income. Surplus. Dividends
1935 .. £347,900 £110,433 40 p.c. = £BO,OOO
1936 .. 390,821 104,961 55 „ „ 127,600
1937 .. 515,056 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
1938 .. 628,566 116,064 30 „ „ 88 049
1939 .. 878,219 124,409 10 „ „ *40,882
* Includes 8 p.c. (£11,533) to prefs.
Out of the 1938-39 profit £29,757 has
been provided for depreciation, £2OOO
(unchanged) written off intangibles, and
£2201 (down £4403) earmarked for
staff welfare. Hitherto depreciation
and other such charges have been
mostly debited to share premiums reserve,
now non-existent. In the past year
£25,000 of earnings has been appropriated
for redemption of pref. capital (£200,000),
and £40,882 was paid out in divs., in-
cluding a 10 p.c. distribution to the ords.
The retention of £81,326 of the year’s
profit in the shape of depreciation, capital
redemption and other reserves assisted
the co. to finance its heavy outlay on
the new smelters and other equipment:
1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £460,941 £493,500
Reserves .. .. 72,742 136,419
P. and 1. balance .. 109,470 130,207
Cash, etc 104,090 1,258
Debtors .. .. 4,973 3,085
Unsold products .. 134,386 183,606
Stocks and stores .. 77,243 153,594
£320,692 £341,543
Liabilities .. .. 116,640 149,933
Surplus liquids .. £204,052 £192,610
Mine, etc 53,420 53,420
Plant 368,430 509,096
Suspense .. .. 9,249
Intangibles .. .. 8,000 6,000
Outlay last year on fixed assets totalled
£140,666. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£192,610) was drawn on for £11,442,
and there was assistance from £32,559 of
new capital.
Last year 2,036,510 tons was mined
from the opencut, compared with
1,088,715 tons in 1937-38. Of the total,
1,099,614 tons (355,336 tons in ’37-38) was
discarded as waste. Ore outside reserves
comprised 62 p.c. of the mill-feed, com-
pared with 54.2 p.c. Ore reserves at June
30 were principally 6,993,443 tons sul-
phides assaying 4.22dwt. gold and
1.81 p.c. copper. There is probably at
least another 2,200,000 tons assaying 2dwt.
gold and 0.5 p.c. copper outside the
known reserves.
Though the annual report issued in
September said that “overburden removal
during the period has been abnormal in
an effort to bring opencut operations into
shape,” and that “during the next period
waste discarded per ton of ore milled
should be considerably reduced” (a ratio
of 1.5 tons, against 2.69 tons last year,
was indicated), results up to Nov. 15 had
shown little or no benefit. Last year’s
work on the opencut was essential, and
the smelter, though it gave trouble to
start with, was a necessary addition to the
co.’s equipment—it would be difficult to
ship concentrates to Tacoma (U.S.A.)
now. But shareholders will be naturally
anxious until all Mt. Morgan’s elaborate
equipment is in a position to have a
clear go at the 4.2dwt. sulphide ore with-
out having to cope with dilution by over-
burden, which has largely frustrated the
management’s efforts so far.
There are 200,000 £lB p.c. redeemable
prefs. issued in addition to 2,348,000 ords.
of 2s. 6d. each. At 21s. 6d. for the prefs.
and 9s. for the ords. the undertaking is
valued by the sharemarket at £1,272,000.
The market for Broken Hill Prop,
shares continued on a boisterously specu-
lative upward way until the announce-
ment of a proposed increase in the
nominal capital from £15,000,000 to
£25,000,000 was made last Wednesday.
Highest price reached was 795. 6d., repre-
senting a rise of 7s. in less than a month.
Shareholders will be asked to authorise
the increase in nominal capital on Janu-
ary 5, and, since the 64-for-100 bonus
issue will carry paid capital from
£6,951,078 to no more than £11,399,770,
the sharemarket anticipates that the pro-
posed increase in the nominal capital
beyond £15,000,000 presages a new cash
issue of £3,000,000 or more. The last
annual accounts indicated that, if expan-
sion of the huge undertaking was to
continue, fresh capital of some kind
would be needed before long.
At the time of last week’s capital
announcement it was interesting to make
a few calculations. On the basis of 80s.
a share for scrip already issued the
B.H.P. undertaking was valued at
£27,800,000. Last year’s disclosed earn-
ings of £1,431,513 represent slightly un-
der 5.2 p.c. on that capitalisation. In the
absence of further increases in profits
(bonus and cash issues don’t necessarily
mean larger immediate profit-earning)
the price of 80s. a share seems high, par-
ticularly as the whole of the co.’s earn-
ings would not be distributed each year,
and the actual div. yield would be per-
haps under 4 p.c. (at the present rate
of distribution it is 3.1 p.c.). Actually,
expansion in profits is not only possible
but probable ; the Newcastle steelworks
are working at full pressure, and new
subsidiaries should “come good” later
on, though Aust. Iron and Steel has a lot
of pref. arrears to work off before it
can hand B.H.P. anything. Still, taking
into consideration the fact that B.H.P.
has had a run of particularly good years,
and that the great demand for steel at
the moment is somewhat abnormal, also
that before war broke out we were facing
a return of depression, the buyer of
B.H.P. scrip last week at near 80s. seemed
to be letting his fancy run a long way
ahead. It is worth remembering also
that in a different atmosphere not so
long ago The Bulletin found it difficult
to convince people that B.H.P. scrip was
worth buying at between 50s. and 60s.
The sharemarket is in one of its gay
moods just now.
\
4* SH ■
Among shares to fall heavily (to 265.
at one period) during the war scares
earlier in 1939, Meggitt scrip, at 31s. 9d.
last week, has made substantial recovery.
Felt and Textiles ords., which sank to
275. 3d., are now at 36s. —the highest
price of the year. Associated Pulp at
265. 6d. compares with a “low” of
18s. 6d., and Australasian Paper at
355. 6d. with 265. 7d. Tooth shares, now
535. 6d., were 465. 9d. 8.H.P., of course,
is outstanding, with a rise from 525. 6d.
to 795. 6d. Goldsbrough Mort scrip,
which was one of the first stocks to show
recovery following announcement of Aus-
tralia’s war-time contracts with Britain,
moved up from 235. 9d. to above 285.,
but has since slackened a few pence.
Most other pastoral stocks have behaved
similarly. Their possibility of expansion
is limited to the growth of the wool in-
dustry, which is more or less static at
present.
* * * *
Brewery shares took a strong upward
turn last week. Tooth scrip, previously
stale at 505., lifted to 535. 6d., Tooheys
rose to 28s. 7|d., Carlton sold at 665. in
Melbourne, while Castlemaine Perkins
(Brisbane) went to 225. after recently sink-
ing below 19s. Apparently it is thought
now that a large A.I.F. will not be sent
overseas, and that military activity within
the Commonwealth will not be likely to
result in a lower consumption of beer.


NATIONAL AND INDIVIDUAL
PREPAREDNESS
TO BE PREPARED IS
NOT ONLY A NATIONAL
NECESSITY BUT A
PRIVATE ONE AS WELL.
BE GUIDED BY YOUR
SOLICITOR; MAKE A
WILL, AND APPOINT
AS YOUR EXECUTOR:
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C. 1.
’Phone: MU63I 1.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman;
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-Chairman ;
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C. ; E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C. ;
Allan Spowers, Esq.; W. K. Fullagar, Esq., K.C.
Manager, F. R. WOOD.
Assistant Manager, ROBERT MONEY.
e
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m
Mm
m
c
H
Make this a red-letter Christmas for him and for you! By
giving him a VALET SAFETY RAZOR SET you give him a
daily present the means of a comfortable, perfect shave
every day of the year. It is the best gift that any man could
wish for. It combines utility and simplicity with attractive-
ness. No bits and pieces to fiddle with: just a few brisk
strokes across the strop and the blade is keen for a perfect
shave. After use, a quick rinse under the tap and the razor
is all set for use again.
I fit
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
No. 99 Utility Set.
(illustrated here). Con-
tains the essentials of a
perfect "Valet” Shave,
self-stropping razor,
three "Valet” blades
and leather strop . . .
all in a hinged Mould-
rite case coloured wal-
nut or dark red.
Price . . .. 4/6.
★
For Christinas, Valet
Razor Sets are packed in
an attractive seasonably
decorated Gift Box.
Prices from 4/6 to 65/-.
V
Va
OF ALL DEALERS BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
... /A/asia) Lid.
Litchfields (A/a ),
The Bulletin drew attention to the
acnvities of the Perth concern t
Litchfields (A/asia), Ltd., and its
satile managing director, Mr C u
Barker,” in the issue ol 7/4/ 37 also at
other times both before Mr. Barker was
elected to the Irwin-Moore seat in
Westralian Assembly m March this year
and since he resigned his seat in AugUi
Mr. Barker had claims to royal blood
On the Jameson side of his family-tree
the ancestry goes back to Bruce the King
of Scotland” ; but, despite this, he con-
descended to “personally compile and
deliver Advice to Investors” every Sun-
day morning at 11.5 over station 6AM.
On November 30 a Select Com-
mittee of W.A. legislators, which in-
cluded the Leader of the Opposition
(C. J. Latham), delivered a report on
the affairs of Litchfields as a result of
investigations that had taken place a
little over a month previously. The
mmmittf'f* rornmmended the nassinc
committee recommended tne passing
of control of Litchfields over to the
Public Trustee, giving him power to wind
up, if necessary. Last week a Bill, spon-
sored by Mr. Latham, to put these recom-
mendations into effect was held up by
the Speaker on the technical ground that
as it involved a charge on the public
revenue it could not be introduced by a
private member.
During the committee’s investigations
it was found that subscribed capital of
the co. at 30/ 6 / ’39 was £14,990, includ-
ing 1000 fully-paid £1 shares allotted to
C. O. Barker as promoter. Up to the
date mentioned 761 “selective security
certificates”—the co. held itself out to
be a soft of investment trust—had been
sold, of a nominal value of £36,410, and
on them £12,358 had been paid up. At
Oct. 2 shares in other cos. had been
bought at a cost of £7910, worth about
£7114 on Oct. 31. The whole of the
£15,000 or thereabouts of share capital
in Litchfields has been lost.
Since July 29, 1937, no shares in Litch-
fields were sold direct to the public at
par, but sales were made to Barker, who
had “ in the great majority of cases resold
them at premiums of 2s. 6d., ss. and
6s. 6d.” No profits were made by the
co., nor has it declared a dividend, but
Barker paid sums of money from his own
funds “to create and preserve in the
minds of shareholders the fiction that the
co. was paying dividends.”
The report goes on to say that “in
certain cases written statements that were
false in material particulars, and which
were directed t 0 inducing persons to be-
members of the co., were made by
aj managing direc tor,” and
adds tbat “the confidence apparently
in M r. C . O. Barker by a substan-
p Dropor tion of those investing in this
hal Proportion * by the
facts” The prospectus “contained the
opt imi s tic forecasts of the co.’s
rjossibilities which in no circumstances
P b 1 s ’ id to have been founded on
data and which most definitely
1 ’ realised by the co.’s
naa never dccu x ,/
operations over y
Touching on Mr. Barker s agreem
with the co., the committee reported
that, while it was no doubt quite within
the law,” the terms were somewhat ex-
traordinary.” Figures token out by
J. G. Jeffery, of the Westralian Au i
Department, showed that Barker had
received £BOBO, as follows. -
Salary, £2637 ; commission, £1099 ;
director’s fees, £375 ; travelling exes, £403 ;
brokera g e , £560; disposal of 1000 pro-
moter’s shares, less 150 now held, £850;
premiums on 9200 shares disposed of,
£2156. During the period Barker had
™ de^ b %^ o ents l ° shareholders total "
a ', d •
The committee came to
that the proposition was doomed J)
failure, principally because («)
holders and certificate-holders had to
hve on the one source o income,
the 10 P- c - selling commis
allowed on certificates, plus a pro-
portion of other exes., absor e a su <-
stantial proportion of the capi a wi
each sale, (c) income from judicious in-
vestment would not be adequa e o
recoup such expenses, (a) judicious in-
vestment didn’t take place in any case,
(e) the share capital was expended too
rapidly for investment, (/) managemui
and directors’ exes, were fai too hig ,
(g and h) the average rate of return on
the invested funds was 6 p.c., and fu y-
Paid certificate-holders were entitle o
54- p.c. on tbeir f ub /'P aic f certificates,
whereas at 30/6/ 39 £6500 of the mves-
ment funds were lying idle, and (0 as
divs. to shareholders must be paid only
out of profits, prospects of such dividen s
were remote.
Referring to other members of Litch-
fields’ management, the committee was
of opinion that “Mr. C. Greif, who re-
signed his directorship last July, did not
pay that care and attention to the affairs
of the co. which his position and his
knowledge warranted.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHEN GERMANY SURRENDERED.
[The last war was won by the defeat £>i the German
army in the field. H. C. Bailey, in this article from
London “Daily Telegraph,” recalls the plain facts of
history and the drama of the surrender.]
At the beginning of October, 21 years ago, the
German High Command confessed defeat. “A peace
offer to our enemies must be issued at once,” Hinden-
burg told the Government in Berlin. “I want to
save my army,” Ludendorff said.
Negotiations for an armistice went on for a month
while the Allied forces, attacking without respite,
drove the German armies back upon their own frontier.
The Siegfried Line of those days was shattered.
Further withdrawal meant the invasion of Germany.
The German troops at the front could neither stand
fast nor retreat in order. The Navy, called upon to
fight, replied by mutiny. The All-Highest sought
safety from his own people on neutral soil.
The terms of the armistice drawn up by the Allies
required unconditional surrender.
In the first hour of the morning of November 7,
1918, Foch received a wireless message giving the
names of German envoys who would meet him. Not
for a moment was the vigor of the Allied offensive re-
laxed. From Lorraine to Ghent the guns still thun-
dered and the infantry pressed on.
“In a death-dumb, autumn-dripping mist” the
German delegates motored from Spa to the front.
Only at the point to which they had been ordered
was there no firing. The convoy of five motors brought
Erzberger, the President of the Mission ; Count Obern-
dorff, General von Winterfeldt, Post-Captain von
Selow and their companions had to explain that they
had been delayed by roads almost destroyed and the
disorder of retiring troops.
Then a long motor drive brought them to the
railway junction of Tergnier. They complained after-
wards that the journey was prolonged to show them
the devastation made by their own armies. In the grey
dawn of November 8 their train stopped in a forest
by the black outline of another, in which Foch and
Admiral Wemyss, the British First Sea Lord and pleni-
potentiary, had arrived the night before. Both trains
were on sidings built for heavy railway guns, which
“one of the densest corners of the Compiegne forest”
screened from aircraft.
“On a chilly and cloudy morning,” Foch related
afterwards, “Weygand came to my carriage and an-
nounced, ‘Here they are.’ It had rained for several
days and the ground was a mere lake of mud. Although
the German train was only 60 yards distant a sort of
gangway had been thrown on the soil and four men
were striding along it. I looked at them and said to
myself, ‘So this is the German Empire. At last it is
beaten and begs for peace. I am going to treat it as
it deserves, without hate or brutality, but with firm-
ness.’ ”
He received them in a coach still preserved, a
restaurant-car of the familiar old wagon-lit type. They
were standing “pale and stiff” when Foch and Wemyss
appeared, and salutes were exchanged. Marshal and
Admiral and the German officers were in uniform.
Erzberger and Oberndorff wore civilian clothes.
Erzberger, “a little man of impulsive ways,” pre-
sented his colleagues and their credentials. Foch was
coldly courteous. He sat down on one side of the
table between Wemyss and Weygand ; from the other
side the Germans confronted them.
Foch laid down the conditions of the meeting.
“What do you want of me?” he asked Erzberger.
There was to be no pretence of disguise: Germany
had sent an embassy to admit defeat and sue for peace.
But though the whole structure of German aggres-
sive power was collapsing the delegacy still quibbled
over acknowledging defeat. They had come, said Erz-
berger, to receive the proposals for an armistice from
the Allies.
Four years of war against frightfulness had not
been fought to allow evasion of surrender. “I have
no proposal to make,” said Foch sternly.
Erzberger was dumb ; the Germans sat puzzling
over their next move till the diplomatist Oberndorff
smoothly suggested that they were quite ready to say
they had come to “ask the conditions for an armistice.”
“I have no conditions to give you,” Foch retorted.
Erzberger found his voice again to recite the mes-
sage from President Wilson that Foch had “authority
to state the conditions of armistice.”
“Do you wish for an armistice?” Foch demanded,
and Erzberger and Oberndorff cried out, “Yes.”
Defeat had been acknowledged, surrender had
been offered. Foch was ready to give them his con-
ditions. He instructed Weygand to read out the prin-
cipal clauses of the armistice, each of which was
translated at its close. The complete text was handed
to the Germans.
At the end of the recital, on the announcement
that Germany had a time limit of 72 hours to refuse
or accept, Erzberger made a vehement appeal for the
instant cessation of hostilities. “For God’s sake, M.
le Marechal, do not wait those 72 hours. Stop the
hostilities this very day. Our armies are a prey to
anarchy. Bolshevism threatens them, and may spread
over the whole of Germany and threaten France itself.”
Von Winterfeldt then put the same plea in another
way: “for technical reasons” the Allies should cease
firing.
Foch would have none of it, and the Germans
retired. During the three days given their Govern-
ment for consideration they were able to obtain one
or two modifications.
Towards eight o’clock on Nov. 10 it was learnt
that the Government accepted the conditions, and
Foch urged the delegates to sign “if they truly desired
to avoid useless bloodshed.” But they preferred to
decode and debate a telegram from Hindenburg. It
cannot have comforted them.
At eleven o’clock that evening Foch lay down to
sleep. At a quarter past two the Germans came to his
coach and argued for nearly three hours. Then they
signed, and the order went forth that “hostilities will
cease along the entire front on Nov. 11 at 11 a.m.”
Deliverance had been achieved.
The Army That Was Beaten
(From a ‘‘Picture Post” article by Tom Wintringham.)
When Kaiser Wilhelm began his war in 1914 the
German army was the most powerful fighting instru-
ment that any State had ever sent to battle. For two
whole generations its methods of training, its discipline
and even its uniforms had been imitated by a score of
other armies. It was the first army to train its com-
manders in large-scale peace-time manoeuvres; the
first to have a staff college ; the first to adopt the
divisional organisation that is the basis of all modern
armies ; the first to institute a permanent intelligence
section and thus lay the basis for a modern General
Staff.
When the Germans marched westward in August,
1914, the French reckoned that they would have 45
divisions opposed to the French armies. There were
83. A surprise of such magnitude is rare in war.
Beside the “active divisions,” both French and
Germans had “reserve divisions.” The German train-
ing was good enough for these formations, made up
of men who were civilians in July, to be fit for battle
by the third week of August. The German boldness
was in using such men without further polishing-up.
The French could not believe that this was possible.
The Germans scored a second surprise by the per-
fection of their railway organisation. It was known
that they might sweep through Belgium. The French
plans for meeting this sweep now look ridiculous.
“Empire News,” London.
ROMEOW!
Failure of these plans led to the long retreat in which
the French left wing (the British expeditionary force)
had to fall back for 130 miles or more, from Mons
to beyond the Marne.
But how could the French have realised that the
Germans would be able to bring one and a half mil-
lion men over their railways to the frontier? How
could they have realised that a million of these men,
54 divisions out of 83, would be concentrated in the
armies sweeping through Belgium and Luxemburg?
Such a concentration seemed impossible. But it was
carried out.
Over the Rhine bridges poured 550 trains a day.
A train every ten minutes crossed the bridge at
Cologne for a whole fortnight. This masterpiece of
organisation, as much as any fighting, came near to
giving Germany victory in the first three months of
the war.
A third surprise the German armies “pulled off.”
They brought immense howitzers into line against
men in shallow trenches or behind flimsy breastworks.
Their huge shells —the shell of a 17in. “mortar” weighs
almost as much as a small motor-car —hammered the
guns and gun-crews of our field artillery. These guns,
known abroad, were classified outside Germany as
“siege artillery.” They were not thought to be useful
in the field.
The Germans had a better theory of discipline of
command than their opponents, which gave them
more flexible tactics: the “initiative of the subordinate
leaders.” There was too much “goose-stepping” ; there
were attempts at “mass attacks” that revealed subordi-
nate leaders blindly obeying their superiors’ orders.
But the German army, as a whole, was usually better
in these respects than its opponents.
In 1915 the Germans adopted poison gas before
their opponents. Later they produced and used
“mustard gas,” keeping a year ahead of the British
and French. They were also ahead in artillery work,
until Germany ran short of materials. In 1916, at the
battle of Verdun, the German armies flung over a mil-
lion shells a week, for 20 weeks on end, on to the
French lines. In 1917 the Germans adopted a new
defensive tactic, “elastic defence in depth,” that baffled
all attempts to break through it. In 1918 they adopted
a new tactic for the attack, that of “infiltration,” and
with it broke the British Fifth Army and came near
to separating the British and French forces.
That was the army that we held up. Only if he
is half-mad, and wholly deceived as to the strength of
his army, will Adolf attempt the conquest of the Wes ,
where Wilhelm and his magnificent soldiers naa t
admit defeat.
Krivitsky on the Comintern.
[Krivitsky’s theme in the latest of his excellent
“Saturday Evening Post” articles shows the relationship
between the Third International and the Soviet Mima y
Intelligence. Written, as usual, at great length, it is
here very much condensed. the complete artic
will be found in the “Post” of Nov. 4.]
The Third International was founded by the
Bolshevik party 20 years ago, in the belief that Europe
was on the eve of world revolution. It established
Communist parties everywhere, and made them
obedient to the general staff in Moscow.
It planned insurrections in Europe, in the Tar
East and in the Western Hemisphere. When all these
efforts failed, it embarked, in 1935, upon the Popular
Front. With new weapons of camouflage and com-
promise it made its greatest drive, penetrating into
the Governmental institutions and organs of public
opinion in the leading democratic nations.
I first worked with the Comintern in 1920, during
the Russo-Polish war. I was attached to the Soviet
Military Intelligence.
The Polish Communist party aided us in organ-
ising sabotage, in creating diversion and in impeding
ihe arrival of munitions from France. The Russo-
Polish war was a serious attempt by Moscow to carry
Bolshevism into Western Europe on the bayonets ol
the Red Army. It failed. Lenin’s hope of joining
hands, through Poland, with the workers of Germany
was lost. . ,
The idea of hastening Bolshevist revolution
through military invasion had been entertained earlier,
in 1919, during the existence of the shortlived Hun-
garian and Bavarian Soviet republics. Detachments
of Red Guards were only about 100 miles from Hun-
garian territory, but the Bolsheviks were then too
weak and were fighting against the Whites for their
very existence.
In 1921 the situation in Russia was threatening
to the regime. Hunger, peasant uprisings, revolt by
the sailors of Kronstadt and a general strike of the
Leningrad workers brought the Government to the
brink of disaster. The Comintern decided that the
only way of saving Bolshevism in Russia was through
a revolution in Germany. Zinoviev sent Bela Kun,
former head of the Hungarian Soviet Republic, to Berlin.
Bela Kun arrived with an order declaring: “There
is a revolutionary situation in Germany. The Com-
munist party must seize power.” A general strike
was declared in the industrial districts of Mansfeld
and Merseburg in Central Germany. Communists
seized the Administration buildings at Hamburg. In
Leipzig, Dresden, Chemnitz and other cities the Com-
munists directed their attack upon courthouses, city
halls, banks and police headquarters.
In the Mansfeld copper-mining district Max
Hoelz, the Communist Robin Hood, took charge. A
series of bombing outrages took place. The Govern-
ment recognised Hoelz’s fine hand.
But the great mass of workers did not respond
to the call for a general strike. The rising was put down.
Hoelz was imprisoned for life. Although I
worked for his escape I met him for the first time
in 1932 in Moscow, at the apartment of Kisch, the
German Communist writer.
Russia settled down to internal reconstruction;
world revolution went into the background.
When news reached our department of the French
occupation of the Ruhr, a group of five or six officers,
including myself, were ordered to leave for Germany.
Moscow again hoped that, with the repercussions
following French occupation, the way would be open
for a renewed. Comintern drive in Germany.
We Soviet officers organised German Commu-
nist military formations, the foundation of the Ger-
man Red Army that was never to be.
The French began to encourage the Separatist
movement which desired to detach the entire Rhine-
land from Germany and form an independent State.
The Communists opposed it.
Negotiations went on between Radek and Nazi
leaders. The basis was that German Nationalism’s sole
chance of success was in joining hands with Russia
against France and Britain. But this union was not
consummated until 1939, under conditions vastly dif-
ferent from those contemplated by Moscow when Ger-
many was the underdog.
In the meantime, the German Communist party
was awaiting instructions from the Comintern which
seemed incredibly slow in coming. Zinoviev set the
day for the revolution and then cancelled it. Once
more this happened and again Comintern couriers
sped through Germany with orders changing the date
of the revolution.
The courier to Hamburg arrived too late and
revolution broke out there, lasting three days. The
masses remained indifferent. Saxony and Thuringia
did not come to the aid of the Communists.
The Reichswehr entered Dresden and threw the
Communist Left Socialist Cabinet of Saxony out of
office. The Thuringian Cabinet suffered the same fate.
The Communist revolution had fizzled out.
For one branch of the Soviet the costly experi-
ment was not entirely wasted. That was our Military
Intelligence Service. Out of the ruins of the Com-
munist revolution we built the most effective intelli-
gence service in Germany.
Shaken by the defeat in Germany, Moscow began
looking for other fields of conquest. The Communist
International, after nearly six years, had not a single
victory with which to justify its enormous squandering
of money and lives. Zinoviev’s position was becoming
wobbly. A victory somewhere was necessary at any cost.
Estonia was in the throes of a crisis. About 60
Red-army officers entered the country by different


For Your Christmas Dinner
a
GOLD MEDAL
PORT AND SHERRY
routes. Awaiting them were scattered Communist units
totalling about 200 men.
The Communists struck at Reval, the capital, me
country remained completely calm. In about tour
hours the “revolution” had been crushed. About mu
Communists were shot on the spot.
In Bulgaria the Comintern enjoyed a period ol
prosperity while Stambuliski, the leader of the Peasant
party, was in power. He was overthrown by Tsankov s
military revolt.
Two years passed and the Comintern believed the
time appropriate for a Communist putsch against the
Tsankov Government. A conspiracy was organised by
the leaders of the Bulgarian Communist party in Mos-
cow with the assistance of Red-army officers. One of
these Bulgarian leaders was George Dmitrov. The
rising, immediately quelled, began with a bombing in
a cathedral in Sofia when 150 people were killed.
Dmitrov continued to work for the Comintern in
Moscow and became its representative in Germany.
He was arrested in connection with the Reichstag fire,
and his clever behavior before the Nazi court made
him the Communist hero of the day.
It is one of those inimitable Comintern ironies
that Dmitrov, one of those responsible for the Sofia
bombing, later became, as president of the Comintern,
the official spokesman of “democracy,” “peace" and
the Popular Front.
Although the Communist International never
accomplished its primary aim, the establishment of a
Communist dictatorship, it became, especially after
it turned to the stratagem of the Popular Front, one
of the most important political agencies in the world.
The world knows that the headquarters of the Comin-
tern is in Moscow. But it knows almost nothing of the
real apparatus and its intimate connection with the
Ogpu and Soviet Military Intelligence.
Sweden’s Iron.
(From a London ‘‘Daily Telegraph” article by David
Brownlee.)
The war has cut off Germany from at least 45
per cent, of her essential iron-ore imports, and so she
is almost entirely dependent on Swedish ore.
Deposits of ore at Dalcarlia, in Central Sweden,
the area known as the Jarnbarareland (iron-bearing
land), have been famous for at least 1500 years. There
is one Swedish iron and steel firm that has been con-
tinuously in business since 1288. There is another
very large iron-ore deposit, in the far north, at Nor-
botten (Lapland), including the Kirunavaara iron
mountain, started in commercial working in 1903.
Sweden adopts the policy of selling large amounts
of iron ore and concentrating upon a relatively small
production of the very highest-grade steel, with
specialised machined products, such as knives, saws,
files, axes and ball- and roller-bearings. She uses her
own pig iron, made in charcoal blast-furnaces, since
she has abundant forests and no coal.
Sweden’s total exports of ore in 1936 were
11,021,000 tons, of which Germany took 8,003,000
tons. Much the greater part, therefore, is taken by
Germany—77 per cent, in 1913, with up to 85 per
cent, towards the end of the Great War and 73 per
cent, in 1936. Sweden’s next best customer is Britain.
Now suddenly, and in almost incredible fashion,
Germany has lost control of the Baltic after cen-
turies of struggling to prevent Russia having unre-
stricted access to the ice-free ports and planting her-
self on those strategic islands which are almost as im-
portant as are Gibraltar and Malta in the Mediter-
ranean. Russia, if she wished, could now challenge
the security of Germany’s supply from Sweden.
Russia itself has huge deposits of high-grade iron
ore, such as, for example, in the Ukraine and the
Crimea, in the Urals and in Siberia. In 1936 Russia’s
production of iron ore had increased to 27,476,000
tons, but her exports have always been of negligible
importance, generally less than 500,000 tons per
annum.
Vital factors in the present situation, therefore,
are whether Russia is willing to sell iron ore to Ger-
many and if so how much, in view of the extremely
formidable transport difficulties.
Scandinavian Trade Struggle
(As summarised by Negley Farson in London “Daily
Mail.”)
In Scandinavia, England was fast developing one
of the most important markets in the world. These
northern countries were taking 14 per cent, of Eng-
land’s exports “outside the Empire,” compared with 6.3
per cent, to the United States, 5.5 per cent, to Ger-
many, 4.9 per cent, to France.
Annually the Scandinavian bloc was buying from
the outside world more than the markets of India,
Australia and the Argentine put together. British
traders quite possibly realised the importance of pro-
tecting Scandinavia’s neutrality.
Germany is using her attempted Continental
blockade of England, and the exigencies of war which
prevent the steady supply of British goods from reach-
ing Scandinavian consumers, to “break the thread” of
British trade. Germany would like to give the Scan-
dinavians the habit of buying German goods.
The Scandinavian character is against chop and
change. But the Soviet’s westward expansion will
make Sweden at least look more thoughtfully towards
Berlin.
In October, Berlin announced that a German trade
body had been formed to absorb all Scandinavian ex-
ports —and arrange transport for the rest to Medi-
terranean markets. The scheme was said to have
been evolved by Dr. Schacht. It has not been applied
yet.
Following this came the announcement that the
Germans had established a contraband control station
in the Kiel Canal, advising all Scandinavians to route
their ships via the canal where, added the Hamburg
radio announcer, “you may fuel with good German
coal.” (The Germans are now offering Polish coal
to Scandinavian ships from Gdynia and Danzig).
Then came the candid German announcement to
Scandinavians that all neutral ships accepting allied
convoy would be sunk at sight. The stage is set, and
the screws are ready, for the great squeeze to cut off
Scandinavian trade with Britain.
Two things seem imperative: (1) positive British
propaganda should inform the Scandinavian public
daily not only of Britain’s ability, but her intentions
to supply ; (2) the graphic illustration of the fact that
England takes about 40 per cent, of these countries’
goods —which in time of peace they cannot sell else-
where.
The Panama Defences.
(From a survey by Don Wharton in “American Legion
Magazine.”)
The Panama Canal cost half a billion dollars to
build. The U.S.A. army and navy already have spent
that much on its defences, and, when present projects
are finished, the Government will have spent
$600,000,000 more. For every dollar it cost to create
the Canal it has cost two to protect it. At the Canal,
one man might win a war in an hour: if the fleet
were in the wrong ocean, a single mine or bomb could
do it.
As soon as the die was cast for war in Europe,
orders were given to close one of the two parallel sets
of locks, to place soldiers on every ship that traversed
the Canal, to rush bombproofing projects. Orders
moved to the zone more ’planes, troops and anti-
aircraft batteries.
Presidential orders followed, authorising search
of vessels entering the Canal, militarising the entire
zone. The Canal zone commander now has 18,000
troops guarding 361 square miles of land and the 50-
mile stretch of Canal. As soon as new barracks are
built, this force will be increased to 25,000. Three
hundred additional ’planes are being added to the air
defences.
For construction alone, the army is spending
more than $48,000,000, including a new $13,000,000
airfield near the Pacific and an expansion of Albrook
Field, to complement France Field at the Atlantic
entrance. The coast artillery, tripled in strength, will
build a $6,000,000 post in what is now jungle, a
$7,000,000 anti-aircraft post on the shores of Gatun
Lake.
The passive defences are even more costly. Some •
of the operating machinery is being placed under-
ground, and a single appropriation last summer ear-
marked $22,000,000 for bombproofing locks, spill-
ways and dams.
Other millions are being spent to insure against
sabotage. Item, $4,000,000 for a mechanical system
to protect the locks against a time-bomb dropped
from a passing ship. The ingenious device instantly
brings such a bomb to the surface —while alarm bells
ring and lights flash.
Of course, this device is no defence against an
enemy determined to explode a ship inside the locks.
This possibility brings the largest item of all:
$277,000,000 for a third set of locks, to be completed
between 1946 and 1948. These locks will be located
far enough from the existing double set to prevent
sabotage or air raids on one from damaging the other,
and will be specially designed to withstand bombing.
The Canal zone can do more than shuttle the
fleet from sea to sea ; it is a naval base, equipped to
repair and refuel warships of all types. The navy has
a vast ammunition depot and storage tanks for huge
quantities of petrol and fuel oil.
The army’s facilities in the zone would be of tre-
mendous importance if the States had to send an ex-
peditionary force to Latin America. Already estab-
lished are air bases, repair shops for ’planes and trucks,
barracks, hospitals for men and horses.
Experts believe that if ever the Canal is attacked
it will be from the air. No naval officer would chal-
lenge the big guns guarding the Canal entrances: 16in.,
Min. and 12in. guns.
But the Canal is out of range of potential enemy
airfields. The primary defence is long-distance: to pre-
vent the enemy from setting up a land base in the
Western Hemisphere or bringing a ’plane carrier into
the Caribbean or the eastern Pacific.
Carriers are not yet common. Japan has six,
Germany laid down two in 1936, Italy has one. And
it would be extremely difficult for a carrier to approach
undetected through the screen of reconnaissance, both
surface and air, thrown out from the Canal into the
two oceans.
The war has in one respect given the Canal added
safety. Britain has a tremendous stake in keeping it
open. Her freighters carry 65 per cent, as much cargo
through the Canal as do American ships. By bottling
up the German navy and by driving German merchant-
men from the seas, Britain’s navy has eliminated a
possible source of danger.
Censorship in Four Countries.
( From ■ an article by Frederick T. Birchall in New
York “Times.”)
Germany has abstained from any direct censorship
of outgoing press dispatches. There is a careful cen-
sorship over all radio broadcasts, including those of
foreign companies. Scripts must be submitted in ad-
vance and frequent deletions accepted. There is a rigid
censorship of the German press, of course, and there is
censorship over all incoming telegrams marked “press.”
Incoming and outgoing letters reach their destina-
tion marked “Opened for foreign exchange control”
or “Opened in the interest of the State.” Objectionable
printed matter is confiscated.
But there is no requirement to submit press dis-
patches to the censor, and as far as is ascertainable
all press dispatches sent out of Germany have arriyed
at their destinations without being tampered with.
Even dispatches from the German war front have been
uncensored. They were frequently sent out by tele-
phone, the only request made being not to mention
the number of the Army units or the names of com-
manders.
In so far as censorship exists in Germany now, it
is a censorship at the source —because the Government
seeks to control all news sources —and a post-censor-
ship, which puts correspondents “on the carpet” for
dispatches already irt print which are found to be
objectionable.
In France all newspaper. dispatches have to be
submitted to the censorship before transmission. A
dispatch submitted to the censorship goes through
four hands: those of a representative of the Foreign
Affairs Ministry, who checks the foreign information
it contains ; a representative of the Finance Ministry,
who checks the financial information in it; a represen-
tative of the Ministry of the Interior, who checks the
national political information ; and, finally, a repre-
sentative of the Ministry of National Defence, who
checks it for information which might be valuable to
the enemy. The entire operation may take anywhere
from 15 minutes to more than an hour and a half.
Most of the censors are retired military officers or
retired diplomatists.
Censorship of all news leaving England is com-
pulsory. The work is done by a staff of censors at the
cable offices and wireless stations. They read and
censor all matter and have the right to refer it to the
Ministry of Information if there is any doubt in their
minds about it. They are supposed to get in touch
with the correspondent before making any change.
In case of messages which are not “press” and of
all private letters, War Office censors do the work.
There is no consultation with them. Press mail copy
is censored at the Ministry of Information and mailed
from there. Foreign correspondents wishing to use the
telephone must submit in advance a copy of what they
are going to say, and if they depart from this copy in
dictating it the censor will cut off their communication.
There is no Soviet censorship of dispatches ; it
is unnecessary because all news there is cut off at the
source. The official press bureau has instructions to
reveal nothing. Inquirers are told that the news is
published in the two official newspapers, “Pravda”
and “Izvestia.” Departmental officials and private
citizens alike decline contact with foreigners lest they
be accused of espionage. Communiques are sent direct
by the official news agency to the countries which it
is desired shall publish them, thus giving the Moscow
correspondents no chance to interpret them before
they have been revealed abroad. There is therefore
in Russia the most effective kind of censorship, while
nominally there is none.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Warwick Farm’s two meetings at
Randwick provided some interesting rac-
ing and threw a little light on the more
important races to be run at the summer
meetings. An attendance of 11,000 and
a tote turnover of £15,634 on Wednesday
left something to be desired, but 19,000,
with machine investments of £22,492 10s.,
on Saturday was excellent. Well-backed
horses were to the fore in a fair propor-
tion of races, and it is alleged by some
of the books that their recent losses are
due to a band of punters “doing some-
thing.” I have heard the same thing
alleged against the bookmakers when
favorites failed with unpleasant regu-
larity. Anyhow, if the ring has had
heavy losses, the public furnished the
money in the first place.
Dark Elegance was the outstanding
two-year-old. She outclassed her Kirk-
ham Stakes opponents. Over the last
furlong it was not a question of whether
she would win but by what distance. She
scored by five lengths from Shem, with
Sobersides a close third, and then Fear-
less Fox, who lost ground through dwell-
ing at barrier-rise and was not after a
winning possibility. The only one to
pace it with Dark Elegance was the
Truculent (son of Teddy) colt, Two Ton
Tony, who hung on to the filly to the turn,
but, running greenly, tired in the straight.
He is sure to improve, and may justify
his purchase at 750 gns. by W. J. Smith.
Fearless Fox, who finished close to the
place-getters, was running on, but, as
previously mentioned, his chance was
spoilt early in the race. He seems sure
to stay and may still be one of the few
likely to trouble Dark Elegance in the
December Stakes, though, as she has in-
curred a penalty of only 51b., I doubt
whether he will beat her. Pan Pipe, win-
ner of a division on Wednesday, may
stand a better chance of doing so. He
will have further racing experience before
running in the December Stakes, and that
should do a lot for him.
There was nothing in the form of the
other two-year-old runners at the meet-
ing to suggest they were likely to be out
of the ordinary, though credit must be
given Rosy Morn (Melfort-Emily Rose),
seeing she beat Many Ways on the first
day and the latter won the Nursery Han-
dicap on the second, staying a little better
than Haran, who looked like catching her
half-way down the straight. Many Ways
is by Spearhead from Lady Jane, and is
a first foal.
Good-looking Spun Wool (Waikare-
Spun Silk) ran well enough in Pan Pipe’s
race to cause him to be backed for the
Nursery Handicap on Saturday, but did
not even equal his previous effort. It was
the same with Martheus, who was second
to Our Barney on Saturday. The latter
finished gamely to win his race, but there
is now the chance of his getting a little
more weight than he can manage in open
company.
The form of Bradford, Diamond Wed-
ding and Marengo in the Flying Handi-
cap was superior to that of the Camden
Handicap place-getters —Anne, Denis
and Disalto. So far as the Carrington is
concerned, I think, apart from the first-
mentioned three, it is safe to pass over
the sprinters we saw on the two days.
Denis could not go the pace set in the
Flying Handicap, but may have been un-
lucky to lose the Camden Handicap. His
jockey, D. Munro, was struck in the eye
by a clod at the home turn. However,
I doubt whether Denis will commence
smartly enough for the Carrington.
Reception and Postman disappointed,
and perhaps are better suited by suburban
tracks than Randwick. There is no
doubt as to Anne’s gameness, and she will
be among Waireka’s Adrian Knox Stakes
opponents at the Anniversary meeting.
Last season Anne raced consistently, her
record being two firsts, three seconds and
two thirds in 10 starts.
The trainer of Malagigi was somewhat
disappointed with him in the Milperra
Handicap. He did not finish as strongly
as he expected. However, the run bene-
fited Malagigi, as in the December Handi-
cap he did better than Bristol over the
last half-furlong. Before the race W.
Kelso remarked: “Bristol is probably a
little more forward than Malagigi, and
should beat him in this to have any
chance of doing so in either of the Cups.”
Bristol was meeting Malagigi 21b. better
than Summer Cup terms, had every
chance from the turn, and was not good
enough. Bristol struck me as moving a
little shorter than usual in the early part
of the race, and is unlikely to improve
more than Malagigi.
Malagigi’s win emphasised Binnia
Hero’s Tatt.’s Cup prospects, as the
latter beat the Maorilander easily in the
Milperra Handicap and again meets him
on the same terms. Bringa missed a place
in the December Handicap, but he was
going so strongly just behind the place-
getters that he may be worth the atten-
tion of those backers who like longer
prices than they will get about either John
Peel or Malagigi. Last season Bringa was
third in the Summer Cup and second in
Tatt.’s Cup, being close up in each, and
he promises to be at least as good this
time. He can get the Summer Cup dis-
tance, and has next to nothing to carry.
Others may come into the limelight
during the next fortnight, but, on most
recent form, I am not inclined to go
beyond John Peel, Malagigi and Bringa
in attempting to select the Summer Cup
winner.
Bel Oiseau put in good work in the
straight to snatch the Warwick Welter
almost in the last stride on behalf of
newspapermen Packer and Yaffa, but
Rodborough’s Villiers Stakes chance was
not lessened by his failure to do better
than run third. Always prominent, he
was one of the leaders half a furlong
from home, and was beaten only a little
over half a length. In the Villiers he will
meet Bel Oiseau 101 b., Talkalot 131 b. and
Fakenham 51b. better, and the difference
should give him bright prospects of
finishing ahead of that trio. Excuses
were made for Fakenham on the score
that his stable-companion, Bel Oiseau,
accidentally interfered with him, but,
making full allowance for that, his run
did not impress me as much in a Villiers
connection as that of Rodborough.
Though Talkalot ran well, I still look
to Korimako to be the stable-elect. Pre-
sumably the latter will have a run before
the Villiers, and it does not take much
racing to bring her to her best.
Klimop, who is a good stamp of horse
by Heroic, may have been a trifle lucky
to win the Farm Progressive Handicap
from Overbold, whose rider lost his whip,
in the straight, but the fact of his start-
ing from near the outside gave merit to
the winner’s performance. He is now a
probable runner for the Villiers, but
though he has only 6.7 that is a much
stiffer proposition. Still, as showing how
difficult it is at times to gauge racing
form, it can be recalled that Queen
Alwyne was unplaced in a Farm Stakes
at Warwick Farm and won the Villiers
a fortnight later. With his progeny still
winning races, and likely to continue
doing so, it is regrettable that Heroic
became impotent as a sire at a compara-
tively early age.
It is a long time since a three-year-old
won the A.J.C. Summer Cup, the last
being Poitrel, 7.3, in 1917. He did not
finish first, but got the race on protest
against Chantemerle for boring. Poitrel
then won Tattersall’s Cup with 7.11, in-
clusive of a penalty. This year a win
is possible for another three-year-old,
John Peel, 6.10, though if Lappin again
rides him he will have overweight. How-
ever, John Peel has shown himself up
to weight, and Lappin’s services may be
worth the extra poundage. Before engag-
ing the jockey in question, the colt's
owners may be inclined to look round
for a rider who can go closer to doing
the allotted weight.
John Peel has won three times at a
mile at Randwick, and his performance
last Wednesday was specially meritori-
ous, even though he got a clear run
through at a critical period. Squeezed
out at the start, he was four or five
lengths behind the second last horse when
the field settled down, and when he was
still whipping in at the six furlongs one
of his joint owners —he is raced by knight
Sydney Snow and A. C. Lewis —remarked
to the other: “He’ll have to be a Phar
Lap to win now.”
John Peel may not be a Phar Lap,
but, finishing brilliantly, he was going
away from his opponents at the winning
post, and as the distance covered was
27 yards over a mile the time, 1.381, was
good. On Saturday he was always well
placed in the Three-year-old Handicap,
and won comfortably from High Rank,
who got into such serious trouble that
many spectators loudly expressed the
opinion that his rider, Darke, looked
for it. The stewards held an inquiry
and decided all that occurred to militate
against High Rank’s chance was due to
sheer bad luck. Without being asked for
an explanation, the owner of High Rank
proved to the stewards he had put £BOO
on him.
Should John Peel win the Summer Cup
he can be rehandicapped up to 7.6 for
Tattersall’s Cup, and that will take him
to within a pound of another solid three-
year-old, Binnia Hero, who, going upon
the way he won the Milperra Handicap,
will have no difficulty in getting a mile
and a half. Reverting to John Peel, who
has won £620 in stakes against the
lOOOgns. he cost as a yearling, he is a
half-brother by Foxbridge (Foxlaw-
Bridgemount) to Ammon Ra, whose im-
portant wins included the A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
There are no material alterations in the
A.J.C. fixtures for next year, and for a
long time Parliament will be too busy
with other matters to bother about the
conversion of proprietary clubs to non-
proprietary. Canterbury is to resume at
its own track in April, and debenture-
holders must genuinely have the good
of owners and trainers at heart when it
is proposed to spread £5OOO over the first
two days’ racing. Canterbury has always
been popular, but it must have been
doing even better than generally sup-
posed when, on top of its heavy expen-
diture in improvements, it can afford
to be so liberal in prize-money. It is
setting a standard for various other clubs,
and it is to be hoped they do not lag
too far behind.
* * * *
It is a grievance with some trainers
that, though big bettors have often spoilt
their market by punting substantially
on their horses, they have not come to
light with “a present.” Well, they can
scarcely expect it from those who bet
without asking questions, and the up-to-
date trainer who conveys information to
a punter generally avoids being left out.
I have heard some trainers say of others
that they had lists of possible punters
from Melbourne to Port Darwin. I do
not think things are that bad, but there
are trainers who would not be exactly
insulted if they were offered a “bit to
nothing” by someone in no way con-
nected with their stables.
* * * *
A Sydney owner who believes a horse
in which he is interested might have won
an important race but for being ham-
pered by a no-account performer advo-
cates entrants for all big handicaps hav-
ing certain qualifications in respect of
winnings. Not many racing men will
agree with that idea, seeing that nomi-
nations for the spring handicaps close
from four to five months before they are
decided, and in that time horses can
make wonderful improvement.
Many three-year-olds would be shut
out. Peter Pan had started only once
prior to the closing of Melbourne Cup
entries, and a small win at Rosehill was
all that Phar Lap had to his credit before
his nomination for the Melbourne Cup,
for which, as a three-year-old, he was
favorite and ran third. Turning to older
horses, L’Aiglon was a maiden when he
was entered for the Sydney Cup he won,
and a minor race each was all that Wotan
and Marabou had to their credit when
nominations closed for the Melbourne
Cups in which they were successful. It
is all very well to quote the conditions
of the Wellington Centennial Cup, which
provide that entries will not be accepted
of horses that have not won one race
of £350 or an aggregate of £5OO, but
entries for that close only a few weeks
before it is run, which is very different
from four or five months. The suggestion
is not one likely to get consideration
from the A.J.C. or V.R.C.
* * * *
Like new fashions, anything unusual
on a racecourse is certain to. create some
sarcastic comment. Many backers pre-
dicted a fine for frivolity when appren-
tice W. Williamson, rider of Magic
Circle, protested against the first and
second horses after his mount had been
beaten into third place by Harmonic
Law and Chatsbury in the Tanti Handi-
cap at Mentone on Saturday. Stewards,
however, gave the youngster a 50 p.c.
verdict. They dismissed his protest
against Harmonic Law, but upheld his
objection against Chatsbury, and
amended the placings to Harmonic Law
1, Magic Circle 2, Chatsbury 3.
Bookmakers showed what they thought
of the protest by offering 12 to 1 against
Magic Circle being awarded the race.
Williamson complained that Harmonic
Law veered slightly from the rails about
20 yards from the post and forced Chats-
bury on to Magic Circle. Chatsbury’s
rider, Harold Badger, who, incidentally,
thought that his mount had just won,
admitted that Chatsbury might have
touched Magic Circle, but the fact re-
mains that had Harmonic Law been re-
sponsible Badger himself would have
been justified in protesting against the
winner. His failure to do so was proof
that he did not think the winner had
interfered with his mount. The stewards
declared Chatsbury was responsible for
what interference occurred. He was in-
clined to hang in the straight, and in
leaving the rails left room for Harmonic
Law to go through to success. The
favorite, Lord Windburra, who was dis-
appointed in going for an inside run in
the straight, and had to be pulled to the
outside, finished only half a head behind
the third horse.
Harmonic Law is a three-yearsi-old
geld;ing half-brother, by 'Chatham, to
John Wilkes, and as an early two-years-
old he gave the impression that he would
develop into a really good galloper. He
went amiss, however, and it was not
until September this year that he had
his first race.
Relatives of champion gallopers
seldom uphold the family reputation,
and Otford has not produced anything
that compares with her famous son Man-
fred, winner of the A.J.C. and Victoria
Derbies and the Caulfield Cup. Distinct
possibilities, however, are associated with
Manfred’s 14-years-younger half-brother
Chatsbury, who was foaled when his
dam was 21 years old, and has raced
only three times for a win and a third.
Chatsbury is a three years old by High
Syce, and cost 260 guineas as a yearling,
but, unfortunately for owner F. Carr and
trainer L. J. McCann, he is a difficult
horse to train.
Imported Keelie, a winner over a mile
and a quarter in England, showed his
best form in Australia when he grabbed
a half-head win from Lady Montague
in the Epsom Cup, run at Mentone.
Although he had won three previous
races since his arrival in Australia, Keelie
had been a big disappointment. A bril-
liant track galloper, though at times dif-
ficult to train, he requires very careful
handling during a race, and will not
always consent to put his best leg for-
ward. Many punters had tired of him,
but owner Victor Plumb persevered.
Keelie, though fourth, was more than 10
lengths behind the tearaway Lady
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By “PILOT .")
Maiden Hurdle Race: Glaucus,
1 ; Jester’s Lady, 2; King Otho, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Columbus,
1 ; Dawn Mary, 2 ; Beauregard, 3.
Corinthian Handicap: Levraut,
1 ; Spear Arrow, 2 ; Cloudy, 3.
Dundas Handicap: Korimako, 1 ;
Jocular, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
December Handicap: Bringa, 1 ;
Highborn, 2 ; Perimond, 3.
Carlingford Mile: Talkalot, 1 ;
Flaring, 2 ; Gambier, 3.
FOR ASCOT.
(By “SENTRY.")
Delamere Trial Hurdle: lalair,
1 ; King Arthur or Good Boy, 2.
Mallacoota Handicap: Earl Mar-
shall or Florin, 1 ; San Jose, 2.
Pembroke Trial Handicap: Owen
Roe, 1 ; Pine Peak, 2 ; Nadbuck, 3.
Lincolnshire Handicap: Har-
monic Law, 1 ; Lord Windburra, 2 ;
Kanuri, 3.
Ascot Cup: Morven, 1 ; Keeping
Watch, 2.
Berkeley Welter Handicap: Con-
siderate, 1 ; Strymon, 2; Burne
Vale, 3.


Look for
The RED STAR
It’s your lucky star every time
you order Daniel Crawford s Red
Star Scotch Whisky, because the
Red Star ensures that you get
only the very finest of genuine
“Scotch."
CRAWFORDS
RED STAR
SCOTCH WHISKY
l>
J
Give a Turn to the Wheels
of AUSTRALIAN Industry
Australia can make a most import-
ant contribution to the successful
conduct of the Empire’s war by
keeping the wheels of industry
turning. Encourage the use of
Australian products. By buying
Olympic Tyres you get the finest
tyre value obtainable and you do
a real service to Australia. Olympic
Tyres are made by
an all-Australian
Co mpa n y, em-
ploying Australian
men and Aus-
tralian money.
r
v.
OLYMPIC Tyres ore
made by Australians
in Australia, and not
one penny of wages
or dividends goes
overseas
Choose
j
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
No Flies
in the ,
Soup!
Or
Anywhere
else
«
For Fleas on Dogs, Lice on Poultry, Thrips on Roses, Flies
in the Rooms; IN FACT, for killing all Insects, use
1.N.5.E.C.T.1.8.A.N.E
Knm-ineal near the half-mile in the
Epsom § Cup, but he responded gamely
when de Valle moved on him, and out-
stayed Lady Montague after the latter
had looked all over a winner 100 yards
from home. Keelie is a particularly
well-bred horse, being a six years old
bv the English Derby winner Camei-
onian, from Lovely Peg, his year-younger
brother being sold as a yearling in Eng-
land for 5000 guineas..
Saturday at Mentone was a day of
course records, three going by the board.
On a lightning track Harmonic Law ran
six furlongs in 1.121, clipping a quarter
of a second off the previous best, stand-
ing to the credit of Manrico and Heros ;
.Keelie’s 2.31 for the Epsom Cup was a
second better than the mile and a. quarter
record hung up by Gladiolius last
season ; and Mac Rob ran the mile ot
the Manumbar Handicap in 1.381, a
quarter of a second better than the pre-
vious best.
Mac Rob performed the seemingly
impossible to wio the Manumbar Handi-
cap. He appeared hopelessly placed
when last of a fairly strung-out field be-
tween the four and three furlongs, and
even at the home turn his supporters
would willingly have accepted any offer
at all for their betting briefs. Mac Rob,
however, requires time to become wound
up fully, and when he did begin to
stretch out in earnest in the long straight,
he mowed the opposition down one after
another. Sir Romeo, favorite, looked
to have the race in his keeping when he
hit the front more than a furlong from
home, but Mac Rob continued his
amazing run and won a head and half-
head finish from Sir Romeo and Lord
Walla.
George Sholl was engaged for Miss
Parkwood in the Parkdale Welter, riding
in which was restricted to hurdle and
steeplechase jockeys, but the owner of
that mare released -him when Sholl was
offered the mount on Rosado. Rosado
was the better mount, but, after having
every chance, she was beaten into third
place by Slam and Bliskawica. Slam, a
six-year-old gelding by Denacre-Orcades,
has good Adelaide form to his credit,
and was purchased in that city after he
had won a race at Cheltenham last April.
His form in four races in Melbourne
did not point to his possessing much
chance on Saturday, but, starting at 15
to 1, he led throughout and won in a
style suggestive of further success before
he is much older.
Three wins during more than 20 years
as an owner would test the patience and
pockets of most men, but that is the
record of Rupert Hart, who won the
second division of the Murray Handicap
at Mentone with General Havelock. Lord
Myram gave him his first win in a small
race at Kyneton about 20 years ago, and
it was not until earlier this year at Gee-
long that further success came his way
through the agency of Merridale, a half-
brother to General Havelock. Prize-
money for those country wins was small,
and the £lOO which went to the winner of
Saturday’s race was the first stake won
by Hart at a metropolitan meeting.
General Havelock, a two-year-old colt
by Portofino-Merrileas, was bred by his
owner, who refused 160 guineas for him
as a yearling, and, although he had
nothing of much account to beat at Men-
tone, he might improve.
Memories of the A.J.C. and Victoria
Derbies winner Salitros were revived when
Sun Valley won the first division of the
Murray Handicap. Salitros was raced by
W. V. Manton, and Sun Valley, who car-
ries the same colors, is raced in partner-
ship by that owner and his son, J. O.
Manton. They paid 525 guineas for Sun
Valley (Manitoba-Golden Gondola) as a
yearling, and the colt led most of the way
to beat All Veil and Nocturne in time
only half a second outside the course
record for five furlongs.
Thrilling incidents at the last jump in
the Cheltenham Hurdle at Mentone were
expected to have formed the subject of
a stewards’ inquiry, but officials appar-
ently were of opinion that none was war-
ranted. Their only report to the press
concerned interference which occurred
approaching the second-last jump. Three
horses, Whernside (rails), Laveur (centre)
and Little Slam, took off for the last
practically on terms, Little Slam having
a slight advantage. Little Slam screwed
while in the air, and, on landing,
appeared to chop across Laveur and
cannon into Whernside, the lastnamed of
whom crashed into the running rail,
smashed a panel and left his rider, C.
Oakey, with a fractured collarbone. Little
Slam herself almost fell, Alec Fullarton
making a remarkable recovery on her, •
and it was a miracle that Laveur kept his
feet. His rider, R. Watts, was jolted into
the air, but landed back in the saddle,
and somehow or other managed to pull
his mount together. Fullarton was first
to extricate himself from the mix up, and
Little Slam went on to win easily from
Kent and Laveur.
Little Slam will need to improve in the
jumping department before she can be
described as a “hurdling find.” She made
several slovenly jumps on Saturday. At
least one man was impressed by her per-
formance. After the race he offered 600
guineas for her ; no business resulted.
Favorite for the Port Adelaide Cup,
to be run on December 28, Desert Chief
left Melbourne by train on Saturday. In
the past, Desert Chief has not been an
easy horse to follow, consenting to do
his best only when he felt in the mood,
but he would not need to improve much,
if at all, on his close second to Maikai
in the Eclipse Stakes in order to win the
rich Adelaide race. He has 61b. more to
carry, but is “up” to 8.10. Lusson, win-
ner of the South Australian Derby, \V4S
booked to leave for Adelaide today
(Wednesday), while Prince Sion and Son
of Aurous (Adelaide Cup winner) are
other Melbourne horses likely to make
the trip. Queen Esther, Melbourne-
owned, but now Adelaide-trained, will be
piloted in the Cup by Rivette’s rider, E.
Preston.
* * * *
Villiers and Summer Cup doubles in
demand on Monday were Bradford,
Marengo and Korimako with John Peel,
Malagigi and Own Folk. Although Brad-
ford is definite favorite for the Villiers
a dozen others are finding support in
that race for doubles, but for the second
leg only John Peel and Malagigi are
strongly favored. I credit Rodborough
and Korimako with good Villiers chances.
* * * *
It is not unusual to hear the comment
when some horse is being discussed:
“Oh, So-and-so owns it,” notwithstand-
ing that it appears in other ownership
in the racebook, and does not figure in
the list of leased horses. It would be
difficult for the stewards or anyone else
to prove the alleged ownership was not
bona fide, though it makes you smile,
and gives a fair idea of the position
when you hear the query whether some-
one who is not the “racebook owner”
of the horse is backing it. Some trainers
could say quite a lot concerning the
real ownership of horses in the stables
of other trainers, as well as their own,
if they were so inclined, but there is
little likelihood of tales being told.
* * * *
Pavilion, owned by R. C. Allen, was
the last winner of the Villiers Stakes and
Carrington Stakes the same season. She
carried 7.10 in the former and 8.5 in
the latter. Two seasons later Pavilion
was second in the Villiers Stakes, being
beaten by Magnetic. In 1916 Pavilion’s
owner, in partnership with trainer M.
Thompson, won the Villiers Stakes with
Wedding Day, and in 1919 the Summer
Cup with the same mare.
June has won at Randwick, but she is
not comparatively as good there as at
Moorefield. In last Wednesday’s Flying
Handicap she had 8.6, but gave no
trouble, and, though she is down 61b. in
the Carrington Stakes, and Bradford only
lib. and Diamond Wedding 41b., she does
not read like beating either. Of the trio
Diamond Wedding looked most likely to
improve in condition, which, as it was
her first race since last June, was to be
expected. As Diamond Wedding is only
four, the odds favor her being better than
last year, when she ran well at Rand-
wick on several occasions.
* * * *
Several time records for Randwick
have been made at summer meetings.
There will not be any at those fixtures
this season. The false rail, which is again
in use, compels horses to cover extra
ground in all races. The starting-posts
have not been moved from their old
positions, and consequently in its condi-
tions of a race the A.J.C. uses the word
“about” when setting forth the distance.
The difference at each distance is as
follows: —-Five furlongs, add 14f yards;
five and a half and six furlongs, 17
yards ; seven furlongs, 22\ yards; mile,
nine furlongs and mile and a quarter,
27 yards; 11 furlongs, 12 furlongs and
13 furlongs, 30 yards; mile and three-
quarters, 40y yards. Pavilion, Closing
Time, Dame Moab and The Marne each
won at six furlongs in l.lOj at Randwick
in December or January. Ramdindid 1.35 i
in winning the 1937 Villiers Stakes, and
Young Crusader 2.42 J in the Summer
Cup the same season. It is certain none
of the times mentioned will be equalled
this month or next.
* * * *
Last season Binnia Hero ran five times
but was unsuccessful, his best effort being
second to Tel Asur in a race in which
the latter conceded him 51b. This season
he started off with three unplaced runs,
but with four wins, a second and two
thirds in his last eight runs he has more
than compensated for his failures. His
season’s earnings total £945. The Stud
Book gives three people as jointly con-
cerned in the breeding of Binnia Hero,
who is by Heroic from Coolpa, by Cool-
trim from Strypa, by Martian. On breed-
ing there is nothing against the possibility
of Binnia Hero being a good distance
horse, and it is somewhat surprising he
was not entered for the Summer Cup.
Allowing for the additional distance cov-
ered, owing to the false rail, his time
in the Milperra Handicap was equal to
about 2.5 for a mile and a quarter.
* * * *
The most capable jockeys have their
run of “outs.” In Sydney there have
been instances where, after marked suc-
cess over a long period, nothing went
right with some jockeys, and we heard
the old story of “Never could ride.” Then,
when their luck took a turn for the better,
their keenest followers included some of
those who decried them when things
were going against them. Touching on
jockey’s luck, Gordon Richards did not
come in for Fortune’s smiles when racing
was resumed at Newmarket (Eng.) in
October. Fourteen mounts on the two
days of the Cambridgeshire meeting
returned only two seconds, and his un-
placed runners included a couple of first
favorites.
* * * *
Wellington (Maoriland) is a small city
by comparison with Sydney, and it is
therefore interesting to note that £350 is
the smallest amount attached to any of


Commonwealth
Gov’ment Action
“BETTER-THAN-EVER”
Empire Tobacco, devel-
oped by tbe Common-
wealth and State Gov-
ernments, makes our
Tobacco BETTER
THAN EVER.
Empire grown Tobacco is better
than ever because of the new
agricultural and scientific methods
developed by our Governments,
which have helped the F armers
grow finer, better Tobacco.
WE ARE THE
MANUFACTURERS
Order your Tobacco
DIRECT FROM US
at practically half the price you pay
elsewhere.
With orders over £ 1 in all lines a
Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder
is included.
PIPE TOBACCO AND FINE CUT.
Per lb.
Zig Zag Papers. 5 Packets for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per 11*. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
Combined Growers’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co., Ltd.,
COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, JBIUSBAME.
A THOUGHT /
I’ll get GEO. ADAMS, HOBART, to post a
Xmas present to my pal.
Ell get him to post one to me, too.
You never know!
It may mean so much!
NOTE: These Xmas Presents cost 5/4 (including postage).
Forward your card or a note for inclusion.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1945 of 1939.
BETWEEN MYRA AILEEN NISBET Peti-
tioner
And JOHN NISBET Respondent.
TO JOHN NISBET formerly of 27 Joyners
Street Westmead Sydney but now of parts
unknown Naval Rating.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MYRA
AILEEN NISBET has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards witm
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court before the First day of
March- 1940 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of December,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. MORRIS DUNKLEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1799 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELLEN CAMERON Petitioner
And ALEXANDER WALLACE
CAMERON Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER WALLACE CAMERON
formerly of “Koahale” Princes Avenue
Vaucluse Sydney but now of parts un-
known Overseer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
CAMERON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion during three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court before the First day of March 1940 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of December,
1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. MORRIS DUNKLEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
the 24 races to be run at the Wellington
R.C.’s three days’ meeting in January.
The Wellington Centennial Cup carries
£3OOO, and a £2OOO gold cup, while there
are three other races of £lOOO each. The
meeting is worth the consideration of
Sydney owners, as the trip is not now a
serious matter —little more than to Mel-
bourne. In nomination and acceptance
fees the cost of running for the Cup is £25.
* * * *
It was fitting that F. McGrath should
train Peter Pan’s first two-year-old win-
ner, Pan Pipe, for whom Hunter White
gave 475gns. at last season’s yearling
sales at Randwick. He is the first foal
thrown by Rosalynde, who is by Rossen-
dale from imported Beedivine, a winner
in England. Rosalynde won several
races up Newcastle way. Pan Pipe,
drawn wide at the starting post, outstayed
the more experienced The Elf over the
last half-furlong, and the latter was at
the advantage of starting from the inside.
As it was Pan Pipe’s first run it was a
good performance. In color —he is brown
*—and conformation he throws to his
dam’s side, and is of the necessary class
and size to make a really good colt. Pan
Pipe has made a better beginning than
Peter Pan, who ran once at two years,
and was unplaced.
* * * *
Early Bird has furnished into a fine
mare, but as she looked big it was not
a surprise when she failed to figure at
all prominently in the Warwick Farm
Flying Handicap with 9.4. The three
weeks intervening between the two races
should do a lot for Early Bird in the
Carrington, but, as she has 8.12, it may
trouble her to improve upon her last
year’s second with 8.2. It must be added
that she looks up to almost any weight,
and when she easily won the Northcote
Handicap, one mile, for fillies, at Flem-
ington last season, she had 9.7. Possibly
she may not again reach her top until
next autumn.
* * * *
Horses filling minor places in the
Summer Cup have repeatedly repaid
backing for Tattersall’s Cup. Over the
last 15 years Player, Tibbie and Jeypore
each followed up a Summer Cup second
with a win in Tatt.’s race, while in the
same period Spearman, Spear Prince and
Auto Buz were third in the Summer Cup
before winning Tatt’s Cup. Miss Nottava
dead-heated Pretzel for the former, and
then, with a penalty, won the
latter. Last year Bristol, a 9-to-4
favorite for the Summer Cup,
missed a place, but atoned in
Tatt.’s Cup, for which he started
at 8 to 1. In the Summer Cup
he • carried 8.5, inclusive of a
pound overweight, and in Tatt.’s
Cup he had 8.4.
* * *
If Vergure is all his owner
genuinely believes, he is not
weighted out of the Carrington
Stakes with 8.9. At his last stare
at Randwick he won brilliantly
with 8.5, and though, as he was
foaled to English time, he will
actually be just short of four
when the Carrington is run, win-
ners of that race include several
three-year-olds. Glenacre, one
of the number, won with 8.4,
and a few weeks later was sec-
ond with 9.4 to Maltgilla in the
Challenge Stakes. Valicare was
a three-year-old winner of the
Carrington Stakes, but she had
only 7.4, and a little over three
months later won the Doncaster
Handicap with 8.9. Vergure will
be thoroughly tested if he runs
in the Carrington, as the field Is
bound to include a fair percen-
tage of the State’s best sprinters.
For heavy weight successfully
carried in the Carrington, Green-
line holds the record with 10.5
in 1931. Three years earlier he won with
9.13, and in 1929 was third with 10.6.
Nineteenth Hole
(By JIM FERRIER .)
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
In previous articles I have used the
word “concentration” a lot in describing
the playing of various shots. Many
golfers can pick up the physical features
of different strokes, but it may not be
so easy to concentrate on them and carry
them out in practice. Although a player
can be carefully instructed on how to
play, he ultimately reaches a point where
it rests with him whether he will make
further progress. There is much more
in golf than the actual making of shots.
Most of the other aspects, however, can
be grouped under the heading of con-
centration.
Some players display intense concentra-
tion, others appear to play in a more
carefree manner. The ability to concen-
trate is not naturally possessed by all;
it is a sought-after asset, and one
that is most vital if a player seeks im-
provement. Concentration is a minute
study of the finer points of the
game, and the mental ability to shut out
anything not connected with the actuai
play. Without the power of concen-
tration, which after all comes from a
determination to succeed, I am convinced
that a player will never show to advantage.
Even an ordinary player can improve
by calmly studying the various situations
as they arise, and then, having come to
a decision, playing the shot with deter-
mination and with no feeling of concern
about the actual result. Every golfer has
as his aim the best round he has ever
played, and no doubt he wonders at
times how he achieved his record. He
may not realise that once a good score
has been achieved he has proved himself
capable of reproducing similar scores,
and concentration upon his game must
improve it considerably.
Some years ago when I was struggling
to break 80 at Manly I woke up to the
fact that mishit shots weren’t worrying
me, with the result that slackness crept
into my game and kept me from im-
proving. But, once having seen the light,
I decided to pay more attention to stroke-
making in all its forms. Added thought
and a little extra patience worked won-
ders. If I had to play a shot from 50
yards away over a bunker I trained my-
self to walk up to the green and examine
the situation thoroughly. Similarly, on
pitch-and-run shots I tried to gauge the
pace of the green by studying the texture
of the grass on the path to the flag.
Small things, but aids to better golf.
Then, by concentrating upon each in-
dividual shot, forgetting everything else
“ Couldn't do anything wrong today. Went round in 146."
and bearing in mind that the head
was not to be lifted until the divot had
been taken, I began to reduce my scores
from then on. An old fault of mine, and
one very common among all players, is
the urge to “chase” your opponent’s
drive, especially if he is a longer hitter.
I found it a good plan not to follow the
flight of the other ball, but simply to
watch my partner complete his swing.
The ability to concentrate is most
valuable in championship play, when gal-
leries can often upset a player. It may
seem strange, but one can feel the pulse
and wishes of a gallery after a few holes.
While it is pleasant to have the crowd
with you, in many of my matches I found
them against me. This has always had
the effect of making me more determined
to win; I concentrated harder, and I
really think it has improved my game.
In inter-State matches, where one meets
the local players, there is always a gallery
feeling towards the home player; but
there should be a happy medium in all
things. One has to be ruthless in match
golf, not so much in regard to your
opponent but against the feeling of com-
placency which often steals over one
when a fairly commanding lead has been
secured. They say that Walter Hagen
was always a better player in Great
Britain than he was in America. That
was because the galleries were often
anxious to see him beaten ; but Hagen
loved battle, and was always at his best
when stimulated by the crowd’s enthu-
siasm for the other man.
My advice to golfers is to concentrate
upon all shots keenly while they are
being made ; never worry about what has
passed or what is coming; the shot to
be played is all-important, and needs all
you have if it is to be a success. In
championship games I frequently chat to
friends while walking between shots, and
by doing this get a certain amount of
relaxation. But when the job is at hand
—well, I forget the crowd, forget every-
thing but the shot to be played. I am
convinced that a player’s powers of con-
centration are developed by his will-to-
win spirit. For it is this indescribable
urge that carries a player on to produce
his best when it is needed most.
* * * *
It was interesting to read in a letter
received from England this week that
nearly all the big clubhouses have been
taken over for the billeting of troops
and officers. Some are ideally situated
near aerodromes on the Scottish coast,
and serve a double purpose. The golf
trade has come to a standstill; leading
professionals used to earning large in-
comes are now doing their own club-
cleaning and repairs, the business avail-
n II mFA
able not warranting the services of their
assistants. Henry Cotton has arranged
a long programme of exhibition matches
for charitable purposes, and that will be
about the full extent of British golf for
this year.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
In Sheffield Shield cricket in Adelaide
and Melbourne this week team-builders,
amateur and official, will be eager to
note form and feats of new bowlers.
There is no certainty that England will
not have a team out here a year hence.
If one does come Australia will require
a tougher attack than it had in 1938.
Queensland has never won two
matches in succession against Victoria,
so if it succeeds in Melbourne after its
innings victory in Brisbane last season it
may claim a new record. Victoria’s
team of youth, which did so well at
Adelaide, is hardly changed. Beames’s
226 n.o. and 169 n.o. against Tasmania
entitle him to a trial and to a good posi-
tion on the batting order.
Hassett has always presented a broad
bat to Queensland bowling. Two cen-


ip
»
fWfffftfl
Clilil
X llz
I (
By Appt. to the late
King George V.
The traditional craftsmanship of the
English hatmaker is maintained in
every Woodrow. In style, colouring
and finish they are outstanding as
the finest value obtainable.
'Woodfoy?
'' Hats
AT ALL GOOD CLASS HATTERS
AND STORES.
AJAX” PUMPS
“AJAX”
Double-acting
Ball-bearing
PISTON
PUMPS
w
“Ajax” Pumps for every job on the farm or in the
factory. Make sure you get the right pump .. .
to ensure economical working and long life; our
pump experts will gladly advise
you in your pumping problems,
and help you to select the pump
best suited to your requirements.
Send for our illustrated pump
catalogue, and keep it handy for
reference.
(Right)
“AJAX”
Double-acting
HAND PUMPS
Splendid pumps for
general pumping, filling
tanks, fire-fighting, etc.
The long handle and
cog gear give great
power with ease of
operation.
Available in two sizes.
2in. Pipe Size
(as illustrated),
£4/7/6.
1 Pipe Size,
£4/5/-
FIRE FIGHTING.
Are you prepared for
an emergency?
We stock a variety of
fire-fighting units to
give you good protec-
tion against fires.
Get yours in time. Write
for particulars or send
for a catalogue.
c
arsons
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
II
I
“AJAX” Ball - bearing
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
For a large volume of water at low pressure.
Larger Sizes on Application.
546 Collins St., Melbourne.
61 Bathurst St., Sydney.
116 Way mouth Street,
Adelaide.
532 Murray St., Perth.
m m
tsfl] 1
L _jll *
gjffa :I SiSML •»■
I
■Mil
furies two nineties, a 70 and 50 were
contributed by him in the last five
matches A year ago in the correspond-
ina fixture he went close to the two
centuries, with 104 and 73. Though less
addicted to the century habit, Hassett is
now playing the Ponsford role for Vic-
t •
• • *
Australia has an opening for a com-
bination top-notch left-hand batsman and
fielding wizard. Victoria’s lan Lee once
promised to develop into the man. He
mav do so yet if he overcomes a tendency
to flash at the wind-and-water ball just
outside the off-stump. Clem Hill, Warren
Bardsley, Vernon Ransford and Joe
Darling,’ stars of the left hand, tempered
their cutting on fast wickets with dis-
cretion. Lee’s best against Queensland
are ip 108 95 and 64
are iz_, JU6, ana w. _ _
T. Allen has shown partiality for the
Melbourne ground. There he has made
three hundreds against Victoria, 106, 101
and 136, all three in second innings.
His best first effort was 79 in Brisbane
in the last match.
. . . . . .
Stan McCabe did not appear against
S.A. last season. His Adelaide scores for
N.S.W. are 69, 70, 67, 19, 106 and 10.
McCabe’s club form is now so good that
it is drawing big crowds to Mosman
matches. In five of these he brought up
three centuries at speed ; the latest, 182
v. Gordon, took only an hour and three-
quarters (four sixes and 27 fours). An
even hundred on the first day was sup-
plemented by 86 in 35 minutes last Satur-
day; as a result, Mosman beat Gordon
by nine wickets.
Adelaide' Oval must be about the
longest and narrowest Test ground in the
,nni d : m ngth priiKf ne S
® ei , a >itH y , ic varrk
grounds; width is 140 yards-28 yards
less than Melbourne and 22 less than
Sydney ; * *
The effect of Sydney competition rules,
setting high values on forceful and enter-
prising batting, continues to be shown at
the turnstiles. Hundred-pound gates are
being gathered in by some home clubs ;
Petersham had £52 and £7l at the first
and second days of its match with
Waverley. Hitting of sixes was an irre-
sistible bait-21 on the two days.
. . . • • •
The breakdown of a healthy batting
side like Waverley when facing 412 was
mainly the work of new fast bowler,
Arthur Roper, and Pepper, whom Adel-
aide will see in action this week. Waver-
ley fell for 160 ; Roper took 3 for 39 and
Pepper 3 for 33 The crowd was sur-
prised to see Fingleton go in seventh and
then bat like one fated to fall cheaply.
Having made five he tried to pull a short-
ish one and heard the rattle. Eight bats-
men wen t in for the second time (6-279);
Fi n gi e ton was not one of them.
• • * * * ’
When Waverley had lost 3 for 38
Solomon and Human started to hit. In
Solomon’s 128 in 80 minutes were three
glorious sixes, straight behind the bowler,
that Bonnor could not have surpassed.
The balls cleared the trees, crossed the
street in the air: two pitched near the
cottages there, one landing on a roof.
Solomon was twice missed off Walsh,
whi|e whir , wind was raging Roper
looked on. His bag for the day was
5 for 70.
Miscellaneous
.., ~ „
, Plaln / Bromwich and Quist are m a
class of their own among Australian
tennis-players. And Bromwich has the
edge on his rival. The pair met again
in the Victorian singles final, and again
the Sydney youth triumphed: 6-1, 4-6,
6-2, 6-3. Best of the rest of them was
South Australian Max Newcombe, who,
though downed by Bromwich in their
semi-final (6-2, 6-0, 6-4), had mastered
Crawford (3-6, 6-4, 7-5, 6-4). The
youngster has a particularly good back
hand. At doubles it was Bromwich-Quist
in a canter.
Miss Wynne and Miss Coyne repeated
their Sydney displays; in the singles final
Miss Wynne beat Miss Coyne, 6--, 6-2.
The Davis Cup team should now get.
a rest f rom tennis. Hopman cracked up
though he and Mrs. H. col-
lected doub]es
*
f Walt f Lindrum cast up in Melbourne
01 a charity match against 10 ama eurs,
°. ne a <^ a l /- The amateurs had quite a
1:1 me. They received a start of -4,000
anb ran up to 27,988. Walter made
a bre f of 5 (65 u te T r than Davis s
ieco l d under the baulk-line rule) and
an °ther of 2466, and finished with 36,35-
~ 96 P 0 "* 8 better than his 1930 record
for a 14-day match in London. There
has never been a billiardist like this
Kalgoorlie-born Australian.


w
\\
X
*\
XX
6
r
N
PN
1
x
\
"X-
V
ft I
If
X?
n
x
n
-f
<0
X
m
lUw
Q*
i
&
u
"D
H
wm
m
\
V»
Sk
m
?5k
X
)VS
>
i m
_/ x -
»
rn
*
<
U'
\
ORDER YOUR
J/V.-y
OATMEAL
STOUT
pDldtUtZ
FLAG
■OK:.?, La Hi
UfSE&
6o*
LAO**
PI LSI !-11
11 L«9 Swl* K* IV
. ♦
CLUB
LAGER
STANDARD BREWERY
S Y D N E Y
AGENTS:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


3HSE
m
iiil
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER. GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitted with Secure Lock.
lOin. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Station ).
Tel.: 8W7133.
Missing Friend.
WHITE, Ronald Henry, son of Mrs. Ada
Isabelle White, of Mosman, who died on 19th
October, 1939, please communicate at once
with her Trustees, c/o MESSRS. McINTYRE,
CONLON & CO., Solicitors, 250 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
otu-rv^
w
AT THE
TIVOLI
T
§Bi
Commencing, Monday, December 18,
WIDE MAHONEY,
and World’s Best in Variety.
Last Days
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILES BROS.,
GEO. WALLACE & NEW VARIETY
STARS.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Intermezzo”
The skilful touch of Leslie Howard
illuminates the somewhat worn pattern
of this Sydney Regent item. He is a
violinist touring extensively abroad and
returning occasionally to Sweden for a
holiday with his wife and children.
Howard’s building-up of a sensitive char-
acter with a detached but genuine in-
terest in his family is a delicate and
authentic portrayal, and Edna Best dis-
plays her mature talents most capably as
his wife.
Their comfortable middle-age is inter-
rupted by their daughter’s music-teacher.
Howard at first is practically unaware of
the girl, but after hearing her play is
tremendously attracted by her talent. The
interest is mutual, and an idyllic friend-
ship develops and then gives way to fur-
tive meetings in back-street cafes, and
eventually to the disintegration of
Howard’s home.
To this stage the film is excellent.
Howard never faults, Miss Best plays to
him admirably, and Ingrid Bergman as
the music-teacher establishes herself per-
fectly. Miss Bergman is a newcomer to
the American screen and the most pro-
mising actress it has offered for several
years. She has beauty, intelligence and
depth, and the living naturalness that is
generally displayed only by actors and
actresses in Continental films. To that
she adds the highly expressive vitality
which, so far, has seemed peculiar to
Garbo, Bergner and, perhaps, Hepburn.
After Howard leaves his wife, how-
ever. and goes off with the music-teacher
the film rapidly degenerates. It’s the
fault of the author and not of the
players. The two escapees have a few
months with each other and then break
up, Howard returning home and the girl
to a musical career. It winds up with
Howard standing wistfully at the bottom
of a staircase while his wife clings to
the bannister at the top and sobs out
“Welcome” or some similar doormat in-
scription.
* * * *
“Dust Be My Destiny”
The bones of this current Sydney May-
fair offering served in Victor Hugo’s
Les Miserables and before that, and
Hollywood has camouflaged them ump-
teen times for fresh duty. This latest
arrangement concerns a young chap who,
after serving a year or so on false con-
viction and developing a grudge against
the social system, knocks down the super-
intendent of a prison farm, who subse-
quently dies of heart failure. Youth is
wanted for moider, of course, but lights
out with the super.’s daughter, marries
her and spends the ensuing months keep-
ing one jump ahead of the law. Eventu-
ally, under wife’s influence, he corrects
his derry on the world in general and
gives himself up to the mercies of justice.
There’s nothing original about John
Garfield’s acting, but he has a kind of
sullen forcefulness that a fresh
measure of urgency to an old role. Pris-
cilla Lane, not a great dramatic actress
on this showing, compensates with a
simple and direct approach. Alan Hale
brings a newspaperman somewhere close
to the bounds of credibility, and Henry
Armetta injects a note of comedy with
disastrous ventures into the English lan-
guage.
* * * *
Support at Sydney Mayfair, “The Day
the Bookies Wept,” has Joe Penner, an
almost irritatingly nasal comedian, as a
cab-driver-cum-pigeon-trainer-CMm-horse-
trainer. The neddie in the piece has a
predilection for hops and only runs true
to form after broaching a cask or two.
A laugh here and there.
George Formby needs no invitation to
“Come On, George,” at Sydney State.
He’s an ice-cream vendor appointed
trainer of a refractory neddie appropri-
ately called Maneater. George thinks the
beast is a docile nag called The Lamb,
and shows no fear of it, and the horse,
therefore, feels much the same way about
George. Before the pair of them recog-
nise each other there’s a good measure
of George’s inimitable clowning and
singing, and, of course, the sergeant’s
daughter.
* * * *
The yarn contained in “Irish Luck”
at Sydney Lyceum is fair enough, but
it’s detracted from considerably by act-
ing limitations and loose directing. There
are a couple of moiders and two more
attempted in a large pub and any num-
ber of suspects floating around. Bell-
hop and negro porter do the police’s job
for them.
* * * •
“Mutiny on the Blackhawk,” at Sydney
Lyceum, claims to be a slice of Amurri
Duo for banjo and violin, arranged by Frith. George Formby twangs in “Come
On, George,” at Sydney State; Leslie Howard scrapes in “Intermezzo” at
Sydney Regent.
can history when Captain Somebody,
shipped aboard a slave ship, put the cap-
tain and mate in irons and took the ship
to California. He landed at a small
colony just in time to use the 200 slaves
in a grand stoush against invading Mexi-
cans. Richard Arlen gives little life to
the part. Andy Devine provides a
laugh or two in avoiding the clutches of
a widow.
* * * *
“Fast and Furious,” at Sydney St.
James, is a compact and well-planned
moider mystery. Manager of a seaside
leg show, about to abscond with the
doings, is done in and his wad pinched.
Suspects include swindled partner, re-
porter, gunman creditor, jilted mistress
and chorus goil. Franchot Tone at ease
and Anne Sothern as feline as ever are
the bookseller and wife whnn^i^
w
Quakers, and Godfrey Kneller, the court
painter, together ; but there was no neces-
sity to present them as such a pack of
idiots.
There were flashes of interest in the
dialogues between the scientist who holds
to the belief that the universe is recti-
linear and the artist who allegedly
anticipates Einstein in believing that the
line of beauty is a curve, which sets
everybody thinking about the hips of the
Duchess of Cleveland. There are flashes
of wisdom from Fox, the Quaker; the
Duchess of Portsmouth snaps at Nell
Gwynne, and the Merry Monarch throws
one of his mistresses down the stairs and
then has a discussion on kingcraft with
his wife, Catherine of Braganza. But
none of the characters even remotely
resembles a human being, and their re-
actions to one another fail to make a
living picture. The audience was left with
Shaw’s ideas, but his ideas now are
almost common gossip, and if the light
of his intellect played as brightly as
ever it was on the old familiar places.
Lance Carlson, by a remarkable effort,
gave dignity to Sir Isaac, but Dereyck
e


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
“3*3*
m
mt-
A
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
(grammar
i’rijnal Ifousr
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMANS
LETTER
Princess Louise is dead, and another
link with the great Victorians is broken.
As a girl she would have known Welling-
ton, the poet Tennyson, probably Swin-
burne. Rossetti and the Burne Jones
movement in painting would have stirred
her interest. Painting and music were
lifelong joys to her. She was an honor-
ary Fellow of the Royal Society of
Painter-Etchers. This eldest surviving
child of Queen Victoria was born in
1848, and when she was 23 she married
the Marquess of Lome, afterwards the
Duke of Argyll and Governor-General
of Canada (a very successful Scots alli-
ance). One of her many distinctions,
and perhaps her proudest, was that she
was Colonel-in-Chief of the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders. Full of years
and memories, she was 91 when she died
last week. Kensington Palace saw her
passing. The royal lady lived through
three wars (Crimean, S’African, Great)
and saw the beginning of the present one.
Mark Antony orating over Qesar
could not have done it more subtly
and provocatively than did Colonel
Maguire rouse the enthusiasm of his
listeners for the cause of the Red
Cross. If up to the time you heard that
many-toned and stirring voice you had
been a bound-by-duty worker, your
brain flashed wonder that you had not
been more enthralled in working" the
gallant, the heroic pattern of this design.
The meeting which launched the Lady
Gowrie Australian Red Cross Appeal
brought hundreds to the Theatre Royal.
On the stage Lady Wakehurst first read
a message from the Governor-General’s
wife, and then, with her own brand of
mingled sense and sensibility, made the
opening speech.
From the dress circle, a semicircle
of white uniformed V.A.Ds. gazed down
on the speakers, applauding at the right
moments, and laughing gleefully when
Colonel Maguire (he’s Dr. Maguire when
he’s in civvies), talking of the books and
magazines needed for the men in camp
and in hospital, told the assembly to
keep the 1870 literature for home con-
sumption. Dame Enid Lyons spoke,
also Mrs. John Moore, A. L. Blythe
and Mackay Sim. An ever-mounting
tidal wave of silver is expected from
the sale of stickers for windows of shop,
office or home, also the windscreens
of cars. The design will be a pretty girl.
Lady Wakehurst’s signature will be on
every sticker. Amongst the crowds in
the vestibule Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones
drew the gaze. Noted also were Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, Mrs. E. J. Watt, Mrs.
Cavaye, Dame Mary Cook, Mrs. Pen-
fold Hyland, Mrs. Walter Swinson, Mrs.
A. T. Anderson, Mrs. J. L. Ruthven,
the Jordan and Julius ladies and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly.
Having been bidden to the end-of-the-
year concert of her friends the children
of St. Joseph’s Poor School, this writer
found her way into Francis-street, City,
the other afternoon. Francis-street is
tucked away behind the Museum. A
taxi will take you from the city for a
little more than a shilling, but when
you know the way of it the Bellevue
Hill tram will drop you quite close to
the school gate. A small company of
the Sisters of Mercy are in charge, and
all through the year they provide a mid-
day dinner for their pupils. There is
a sewing guild, too, whose members
work for the children. There are cup-
boards in a downstairs room, crowded
with shining silky tunics for the girls
to wear to church, or with brighter and
more carnival attire for festivities such
as concerts.
Handsome Rhodes Hambridge, only
son of the Frank Hambridges, of Wah-
roonga, now at St. George’s Hospital in
London, has written home of his engage-
ment to Patsy Baker. Rhodes is a Cam-
bridge man, and Patsy is a graduate of
the same university. Though they were
ooth at Cambridge at the same time their
meeting took place on the ship which
was taking Rhodes back after he had
rowed for England on the Nepean in the
Empire Games. Patsy and her parents,
the Allen F. Bakers, were returning to
their homeland after a visit to Australia.
Easton-on-the-Hill, near Stamford, Lin-
colnshire, is Patsy’s home address.
Rhodes, it will be remembered, acted as
Robert Taylor’s stand-in in the row-
ing part of “A Yank at Oxford.”
Lady Wakehurst opened the afternoon
fair at the Forum Club last Thursday.
But before she got there most of the
goods had been snapped up by club
members with an eye to the useful and
the ornamental. There were some really
fine embroideries and stitchery on the
tables. Cushions, baskets, especially those
for garden use, and the stockinet dolls
were popular. The reception-room was
gay with color, and music of just the
right softness. Margaret Salenger pre-
sented a basket of flowers to Lady Wake-
hurst. Sisters Barbara and Patricia
Salenger were among the day’s toilers ;
so were Barbara Cary, Barbara Dare,
Mrs. Lightoller and Miss E. Iceton.
The club’s good-looking president Rose
Merivale, with vice-presidents Mrs.
Salenger and Mrs. King, received the
guests. Tea in the dining-room was set
about with the Forum’s best cakes.
Among the pleasant sights of the after-
noon were the small Christmas-trees
ablaze with gold and red and blue lights.
The Comforts Fund, which benefits, has
sent in a small mountain of socks and
pyjamas for soldier use. About £2OO
has already been raised by these workers.
Lesley Curtis was the pretty Chrissie
of C. T. Lorenz’s play “Follow the
Major,” which filled the Minerva Theatre
yesterday afternoon. “Follow the Major”
is a three-act farce, and its fun will help
fill the Christmas stocking of Scarba
Welfare Home for Children. Dayne
photograph.
Louis Pasteur, earnest and magnetic,
represented by Nona Lloyd in pink
taffetas, addressing the students of his
Institute in 1890, was awarded the
Orations prize in the Hopewood House
contests. Australia’s Chief Justice, who
is also Chancellor of Melbourne Univer-
sity, was the judge. Aloof from the vast
roomful of listeners, and alone at his
little table, he concentrated eye, ear and
brain on the nine speakers. Mr. and
Mrs. Lloyd, parents of the eloquent
Nona, were up from Melbourne to see
their daughter’s triumph.
Joy Carse, who was John Macarthur
speaking on the wool bounty, was effec-
tive in her discourse. Her taffetas were
brightly patterned in pinks and reds.
There were Mary Tudor, Caroline Chis-
holm, Emmeline Pankhurst and Florence
Nightingale, each proving that she was
never more woman than when she ceased
to be feminine. No room for foibles,
for timid flutterings in these women
whose hearts were strong in the cause
they championed.
From Bathurst came the A. O. Mac-
Phillamys to hear daughter Bettina, as
William Friese-Greene, review the his-
tory of the moving picture. Dorothy
McLeod, who spoke as Lajpat Rai, the
Indian Nationalist, had among her ap-
plauders her mother, Mrs. Scott Mc-
Leod, who had come from Queensland.
The John Carses were there from Jeril-
derie, and the Fitz Evans couple had
come from Rylstone. Penny postage,
too, had its advocate in a girl with a
straight, dark bob. She was Rowland
Hill. There was a good sprinkling of
the Law in the company. Justice Long
Innes and his wife were there ; so were
the David Maughans and Aubrey Hal-
loran. Old rose and silver were Mrs.
F. J Davy’s brocades.
This Letter’s friend, Mrs. A. B.
Crowther, had a one-acter produced by
the Thelma Rowe group last week. It
was named “While the Potatoes Boil,”
and struck a very sincere and human
note.
Woolbuyers of many nations gathered
in the Great Public Schools’ Clubroom
to farewell five young Frenchmen who
have been called to the colors. There
were cocktails and beer, and beer was
consumed in great quantities. Perhaps
that was the reason the guests pooled
their silver to be given to the captain of
whichever boat will take this small com-
pany of our allies away. The cash is to
provide beer for the thirsty on the
journey. Each of the five departing ones,
Andre Flipo, Pierre Scamps, Rene
Dumortier, Robert Mortelier and Jean
Paroissien, was given a pair of under-
pants. Everybody present insisted on put-
ting their signatures and a message on the
garments. Later on friends arriving at an
evening party in the home of one of the
cocktail party’s guests of honor found his
autographed underpants arranged grace-
fully as an electric-light shade. This time
some of the girls (there wasn’t a woman
at the other do) added their initials.
The sea hath its pearls, as Pamela
Gregory, of Darwin, well knows. The
name of Captain Gregory, her father, is
as synonymous with pearling in Aus-
tralia as Morris is with motor-cars in
England. Recently Pamela flew down
from North Queensland to Sydney with
her father, and has managed to tuck in
a visit to friend Pamela Parbury’s home
at Murrurundi. But Darwin calls, and
father and daughter will soon wing north
again. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Christmas bells, Christmas bush and
flannel flowers will bloom in the Went-
worth ballroom on Friday when the
Fellowship of Australian Writers will
hold its Christmas party. The Fellow-
ship is making this an All-Australian
Night; the Christmas tree will be a
young and graceful gum from whose
branches the furry and gentle-eyed koala
will look down on the merrymakers.
Australian songs will be sung. If you
want to carry away a prize from any of
the competitions take a tip and brush
up your knowledge of Australian writers
and their works.
The Leo Quicks left for Melbourne last
week. He will take up duties there
as Director of the Naval Reserve. Their
first address will be the Botanical Hotel.
Later on they hope to find a home in
Toorak.
Sydney, which has always been looked
upon by Maoriland as a sort of Paris of
the Pacific, is proving herself just a good
practical British matron. Of course,
we’re a nation of shopkeepers; that’s
proved by the absolute fascination which
the bazaar holds for the charity worker.
Fairs are flourishing even more than
affairs in our city these days. Every
woman fancies herself as an amateur
trader, and it must be owned the money
has been good. Last Friday the Theatri-
cal Fair (to aid the Food for Babies
Fund) pitched its tent in the ballroom of
the Australia. It was as gay and giddy as
some Oriental bazaar, and there was even
a sheik.
All the funmakers from “Under Your
Hat” were there, and attractive girls
buzzed about snaring sixpences and shil-
lings for everything from a hamper to an
Alsatian pup, from hoop-la rings to a
platinum watch. Marie Burke, Doris
Packer and Marjorie Gordon were
glimpsed in the whirl, also Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, Deidre Dalton and Beatrice
McGirr. American goodies were posi-
tively snapped up from the cake stall run
by the American Women’s Circle. The
roses and delphinium on the flower stall
were of noble proportions. There were
Christmas-trees and enough bunting and
sun umbrellas to raise the spirits of the
most downhearted.
Harald Bowden was seen in company
with a giant jar of pickles ; and contem-
plating her new, almost-cut-glass butter-
dish won by sleight of hand, this writer
decides that hoop-la is her favorite indoor
sport. Appropriately to the season, Mrs.
Christmas was president of the fair.
Clara Butter, the tall and fair, man-
aged to keep her wedding at St. Mark’s
to herself and a handful of relations and
friends. The bridegroom was Gustav
Von Mauthner, of Vienna, and Canon
Barder officiated in a church that was a
snowdrift of November lilies. Clara’s
mother, Mrs. W. Butter, and aunt Miss
Muriel Lee were there to see the pretty
bride in her dove-grey dress and small
white hat with its waist-length cloud of
veil given away by her brother John. The
Robert Dixsons gave a late-afternoon
party to celebrate the nuptials. The Aus-
tralia saw the cutting of the glittering
white cake, which, with champagne, put
a sort of wedding-march dash in what
had started out as a cocktail party.
Thursday was blue-ribbon day among
the Golden Fleecers. It was thrilling to
the six-year-olds, the fives and even the
threes to peep into the new playground
which was to be opened in the afternoon.
Even the eighteen-monthers of the
nursery worked up an extra gurgle or
two. The playground is next door to the
Golden Fleece Kindergarten, and Aider-
man E. S. Marks deserves a cheer for his
efforts in helping to get this splendid
Christmas present for the children of
Chippendale.
Mayor Nock’s wife opened the nursery
school and the playground. The chair-
man of the Kindergarten Union, and
Golden Fleece’s principal, Miss E. Lake-
man, were there among others enviously
eyeing the round jungle gym. There
could be a lot less fun than dodging in
and out its mazes. There are concrete
and tan covered areas for the children
with their toys ; there are grassy slopes
and swings and all the other delights.
Fathers and mothers were there in great
numbers. They have as much joy in
these happiness centres as the babies
themselves.
You could hardly club your way into
Gladys Moncrieff’s party at the Australia.
This was an evening affair, and was a
citizens’ testimony of affection to
Gladys’s big heart and radiant voice. The
singer, not quite recovered yet from her
motor-car accident, wore a graceful frock
of ivory cloque and smiled at hundreds
of admirers. The Ben Fuller lady, Mrs.
Hugh Ward and Mrs. Florence Taylor,
of the Arts Club, were the evening’s host-
esses. In contrast to the guest of honor’s
white, they wore black frocks. But there
was no hint of sombreness. Flowers,
brilliant and fragrant, were piled about
Miss Moncrieff. Every second woman
guest seemed to bear an armful.
Lady Gowrie and Lady Wakehurst
sent messages. Prime Minister Menzies
and his wife and State Premier Mair
and Mrs. Mair were others who sent
letters. Hugh Ward, who was chairman
of the committee which organised the
reception, made a grand speech. Com-
missioner of Police Mackay also wove
words of congratulation and appreciation.


PEtn
HOPEWOOD HOUSE
HOMECRAFT AND FINISHING SCHOOL . . .
. . . Darling Point, SYDNEY
Hopewood House, in beautiful surroundings overlooking the Harbour,
is the only school of its kind in Australasia. It offers expert tuition
and training in all cultural subjects and accomplishments, under
ideal conditions, on the lines of the leading finishing schools abroad.
There are three complete Special Courses:
FINISHING—HOMECRAFT (with special
fully-equipped Practice Flat) —and SECRE-
TARIAL.
All subjects are taught by specialists, and
foreign languages by experts in their own
tongue.
A special course <?f general education on
non-examination lines has been arranged
for pupils of fourteen years or over.
School reopens FEBRUARY 14, 1940.
Illustrated brochure and full particulars
may be obtained from the Principal . . .
MISS NANCY JOBSON, M.A. (Melb.).
u *** m
ADVANTAGES
APPEALED
TO ME!
s .’i§s ;)
*
AND O MORE
£ ADVANTAGES
DECIDED ME!
These advantages
appeal to ALL women!
CONVENIENCE. Hot plates are
* always hot, ovens always ready, even
for overnight cooking, because the
fire burns continuously. Meals can
be kept hot almost indefinitely with-
out spoiling.
MORE LEISURE. AGA makes
cooking a pleasure—no basting or
turning of joints—no watching—a
whole dinner can be left to cook by
itself.
PERFECT SAFETY. No explosions
—no shocks—no risk of fire —even
young children are safe in an AGA
kitchen.
★
LEVIN & CO. LTD. (Inc. in N.Z.)
Established 1852
45 King Street, Sydney, and 432 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston,
Ltd., Adelaide. Tasmanian Agents:
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
These to ALL menl
AGA shows a tremendous saving in
fuel costs. Model illustrated cannot
burn more than £3 worth of coke
(at 30/- per ton) in a whole year.
O It is said that “where there’s an
* AGA there’s a happy housewife”, to
which may be added “and a happy
husband, too”, for meals cooked by
the AGA are meals cooked to per-
fection.
If you cannot call to see the AGA Cooker
in operation at our showrooms, write for
interesting literature. Ash for booklet R. 12.
Jk&nQMoWkatStoKm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
Melbourne
Chatter
Animals excepted, everybody had a
good time at the Zoo-ie Ball, for the wild
life was either asleep in its dens for the
night and so missed everything, or it
did its overtime at its favorite tricks for
the good of the charities concerned. The
monkeys went through their paces in the
arena used for their d&ily programme,
and Queepie the elephant, 46 but still
young and frivolous as elephants go,
padded around with full passenger lists
of human freight. Among the “good
sailors” who chanced the swaying jour-
ney were Mrs. Albert Hallenstein, never
a girl to miss a spot of adventure ; Alison
Rickards, who appeared to like being on
top of the world, and Bruce Dureau, not
at all blase about elephants although he
has just returned from Siam.
The dance floor under canvas was
packed all night; so were Zoo-Loo Inn
(where one could buy a Wild Animal
Cocktail and something called Make a
Giraffe Jealous) and Snake Inn, where
the snakes were mostly spots before the
eyes. Owing to the 1700-odd present, for
the night turned up trumps regarding
warmth, more supplies had to be sent
for and arrived in Zoo lorries. All mem-
bers of the Zoo staff gave their services
free. As well as making history, the
party, the cleverest idea heard of for a
long time, looks like making a record
financially for any one evening’s enter-
tainment for charity.
Lucky dips roared their way to empty
stalls, with a lot of luck for Max Man-
prize, who is at liberty to travel to Syd-
ney in an Ansett ’plane, Mrs. Jack Clem-
enger and Peggy Tronson, who each won
two bottles of champagne. Theo Scales,
who did better still with a magnum, Lou
Sallmann, who collected a chicken and
a duck, and his wife, who won a doll.
Win and Hope Kellow advertised “a new
nose or face if you prefer it” with a case
of beer. Colonel Tom Slaney was a good
strategist on the hot-dog stall, doing any-
thing from collecting the saveloys in the
afternoon to lighting the campfire and
saving the firewood from the appetite of
the elephant. May Downes’s little pupils
did their turns in the open air with much
ingenuous handing around of their minia-
ture sombreros. Running the fruit-
machines for six hours at a stretch and
looking as bright at the end as when
they started, Jean Wallace Mitchell,
Muriel Johnson, Pauline McNamara and
Diane Laid showed how well the young
can work. They wore colored shirts and
mechanics’ overalls. Some of the other
young helpers were in dirndls, otherwise
evening dress was general wear.
Fifty hostesses plus six young men ran
a successful dance at the Ormond Hall
in connection with Prince Henry’s
Hospital Gloucester Branch. The Fifty
were a goodly bunch of youth and
beauty, and Graeme Skinner, Jack Birch,
lan Lloyd, Jim Thomas and Mervyn
Thomas were effective as co-operators
regarding organising. Arthur Pearce,
wearing a pink carnation, also found
himself doing a job of work at the ticket
secretary’s table. Audrey Cambell did
justice to the occasion with a gown of
cornflower-blue attached to burgundy
velvet shoulder straps. Joan Perdue, also
in blue, piled flowers on top of her head,
and Joan Barwood wore white a-twinkle
with silver beads.
Nancy St. John Mitchell brought her
parents with her and they enjoyed the
party as much as the younger generation,
even to getting through “Boomps-a-
Daisy.” Kathleen Wilson’s misty-grey
frock went with a pink feather cape. Rona
Thistlewaite wore a cross-over bodice
to her blue satin gown, and her dark
head was unadorned. Louise Barr was
another young dancer with sleekly-
brushed coiffure. Alison Wellman was
an organdie ingenue in her fluffy white
frock scattered with flowerettes. Grace
Warren wore all white, and Nan Wilson’s
figured gown emphasised the horizontal
with wide bands of blue taffeta.
The brunette in the Dickinson-Mon-
teath picture is Pat Henry, who celebrated
her twenty-first birthday with cocktails
at home for a hundred guests late on
Saturday afternoon. Pat also assisted the
party accessories by cooking 24 chickens,
which isn’t such a tremendous task for
a young woman who spent three years at
the Emily McPherson College. Her
course also covered dressmaking and
millinery, and most of her frocks and
hats are her own handwork. Pat also
has dramatic talent, and is getting a
chance to develop it at the Little Theatre.
She’s an old girl of St. Margaret’s. Her
birthday presents were a diamond watch
from father P. A. Henry, and a diamond
ring from her mother.
Mrs. Ted Forrest and an American,
Gene Garand, had to be practically
pushed on to the floor by Mrs. Harold
Clapp for the jitterbug competition at
the “Night of Gaiety,” for, although
masks black and shiny as the faces of
Harlem sold easily, purchasers were bash-
ful about getting into action only partly
disguised. Mrs. Forrest and her partner
had never before “jittered” together, but
they improvised with such success
that they were unanimously acclaimed
the champion jitterbuggists of Mel-
bourne. It may be a crazy dance,
but it calls for good wind, the
agility of an eel and more than
a spot of histrionics. Mrs. Forrest, who
learnt jazz in all its forms when she was
Betty Erswell, wore a frock particularly
suited to the occasion, smock-necked,
short-sleeved and ankle-length in mul-
merry crepe. Another couple who let
themselves go sufficiently to be runners-
up in the nigger dancing were Johnnie
Walker and Mrs. lan McEacharn, Mr.
McEacharn missing the masterpiece
altogether, being then embroiled in the
lucky dip.
The 6.12 party at the Australia was
run by the Originality Branch of the
Comforts Fund around the idea of a
burlesque circus. A buffet meal and a
later layer of food in hot-dogs were
handed out from a lion’s cage. A tiger
glared upon the proceedings from another
cage shared temporarily by an unknown
carnivore in the form of Bill Manson.
Mil Napthine in ballet skirts did his best
to bare-back-ride a protesting horse with
Ralph Guthrie and John Erswell under
its skin. Fay Stoddart, Vernon Pett and
John Griffin became acrobats draped in
skins and padded with muscles. There
were also a cow and a matador, some
can-can girls and young child dancers in
zebra-striped tights.
Mrs. Vic Cornego had the sort of
night that people dream about. She
broke the bank at the fruit machine, and
her luck was so good on the chocolate
wheel that she shared boxes of stockings
with Mrs. F. W. Thring and Mrs. Herbert
Benton. Mrs. Benton assisted her share
of luck by wearing for the time being a
cocktail hat, a trifle in feathers belonging
to Mrs. Wallie Moore, who was also in
winning vein. Just as frivolous was
the bouquet of flowers worn aloft by
Olive Thompson. As an example of
something more substantial in headwear
there was the chou of black ribbon
frontispiece to Mrs. Jack Edgar’s black
hat. Mrs. John Roberts’s little white
sailor was meshed over with white veil
and worn with white shoes and mist-grey.
frock. Among those who chose evening
gowns for the party was Betty Walker
in a classic garment of white crepe.
Occupational therapy carried out by
patients at Mont Park, Kew, Ballarat and
Sunbury provided the material of a two
days’ exhibition in the Lower Town Hall.
Sister Lucy Symes, who has charge of
this side of the work at Mont Park, has
reason to be pleased with her pupils’ pro-
gress in five years, for this department of
the institution is not subsidised and is
self-supporting. Goods for sale included
beautiful needlework, weaving in all its
branches, dolls (boys, girls and babies all
hand-made but their heads), basketry,
cane and other furniture.
Of topical interest in view of the war
raging on the art-world front were what
Miss Symes calls her psychology pictures
done by a patient who at one time
studied art and who was seriously un-
balanced mentally before she was re-
cently given crayons. The first picture, a
weird piece of surrealism, seemed to act
as a safety valve. After she finished it
she was much improved, and it was in a
more tranquil state of mind that she drew
a landscape in pastels and a bowl of
flowers. Her improvement continued,
and she produced some modelled heads
of particular interest. Sister Symes also
drew attention to a Queen Anne fire-
screen, beautifully worked by a patient
in petit point. The patient is now cured
and the screen is considered to be part of
her cure, so much did she enjoy making it.
The nursing staff of the Children’s
Hospital gave much of their hard-earned
time off to work for their opportunity
stall at the hospital’s Christmas Fair. They
enlisted the aid of their mothers and
other ladies of recognised talent in
handcraft and cookery. Popular sales on
the sweets stall were achieved through
chocolates packed in cups and saucers of
fireproof glass, attractively wrapped up
in transparent paper. A colorful display
of toys made by the small patients from
matchboxes was interesting, particularly
to those people who have been saving
“empties” in matches to give to the hos-
pital with tinfoil, newspapers, etc. On
the first day the Armitage lady declared
the fair open in an address that was a
plea for home charities in this time of
war. Most persuasive was she on the
point of asking everybody to spend as
much as they could afford, even if it
meant sending a cheque afterwards.
Even though it may only be with bully
beef and tea there will be some sort of
send-off under canvas at Seymour for
Lieut. M. T. Armstrong next week when
he takes a few days’ leave to fulfil an
important appointment at St. Andrew’s,
Brighton, on Saturday 23rd. His young
bride-to-be, Jean Rigby, cherishes senti-
ments about St. Andrew’s, for she was
both christened and confirmed within its
precincts. Archdeacon Hewett will be
the officiating padre, and the reception
will be at the Windsor. Peggy Hender-
son and Kathleen Hillier will attend the
bride. Kathleen is giving a party for
Jean this week in the shape of a red-
white-and-blue kitchen tea.
The Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
of Valerie Downes, whose marriage to
John Brooke Howse will take place at
St. John’s, Toorak, on the afternoon of
December 21, after which Major-General
and Mrs. Rupert Downes will give a
reception at No. 9 Darling-street. Lynette
Walkley and Diana Lang will be brides-
maids, and Everard Baillieu will be the
’groom’s principal supporter. Valerie
brought her white wedding gown with
her from England.


the driving test was conclusive
“I decided that now was the far-sighted
moment to buy a car, the only remaining ques-
tion being, ivhich car . . . and only the car
itself could finally answer that question. I gave
the Oldsmobile a chance to tell me the truth.
I was determined to be merciless —on a route
of my choosing, at my speeds, to satisfy my
mind. So far as beauty and comfort were con-
cerned, my wife was enthusiastic, so was I.
But I was more interested in sterner stuff.
“I tested the acceleration (more than 0.K.)
braking (definitely more than O.K.)—vision at
front, sides and rear (in every possible respect
0.K.) and gear changing tried to slam
through the changes too fast, but couldn’t get
a whisper of a clash.
“You soon start liking this car !
“But I was determined to withhold a binding
opinion until I'd tested Oldsmobile on a certain
extremely rough patch of road. At last we reached it,
and I put the Oldsmobile at it fairly slowly. Then,
pulled, I turned round and took it fairly fast. Then
/ threw caution to the winds and took it once more
really fast.
“It was incredible ! I would never have
believed a car could take that road at that
speed with such a feeling of being under control
every inch of the way, such absence of anxiety
on the score of overstrain.
“We decided then and there on Oldsmobile.
I’d already checked that Oldsmobile has con-
spicuous, important and valuable differences,
and I said, if this car’s new Steering, Quadricoil
Springing, 4-Way Stabilization, and improved
Double-Acting Hydraulic Shock Absorbers can
make light of a merciless test like that, they
will make light of years of travel. And that's
the sort of car we want , now above all."
You too are invited to put Oldsmobile through
a merciless test. Your nearest Oldsmobile
dealer is ready to arrange it. See him at once.
Olds.’ OCTANE SELECTOR is instantly
adjustable for standard grades of petrol.
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO brings maximum enjoyment
to motoring. There’s a special model for Oldsmobile.
Prices range from Fifteen Guineas.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
* Your money goes further in a GAI-H car."
THE CAR THAT IS
DIFFERENT is
OLDSMOBILE
PRICES STILL UNCHANGED
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
0C39-2
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2008 of 1939.
BETWEEN IVY KATHLEEN WELSH Peti-
tioner
And JACK WILLIAM WELSH Re-
spondent.
TO JACK WILLIAM WELSH late of Coon-
amble.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY KATH-
LEEN WELSH has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three (3) years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fourth day of
March One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St. James Buildings, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
THE FLYING COLUMN
'Planes on the Western Front.
“Aileron”: Peter Masefield, who is
representing “Aeroplane” with the B.E.F.
in France, says that the “lack of techni-
cal knowledge among correspondents
accounts for the poor aeronautical quality
of the reports.”
His own reports are the best which
have come out of France. The towns
round the front, he says, show less signs
of war than towns in England. Out in
the country, where silver birches stand
up like lanky cabbage stalks from country
mangled by four years of heavy gunfire
in the last war, scores of allied aerial
fighters are to be found in the stubble
fields —particularly Fairey Battles, the
maids of all work in the allied forces.
French and British have friendly mock
combats to determine relative efficiency.
The French have found that their Curtiss
Hawk (317 m.p.h.) can outmanoeuvre the
Morane 406 (310 m.p.h.). But the Hawker
Hurricane (335 m.p.h.) puts it over both.
Its wing loading is lower than that of
the others.
Relative gun power is another subject
which is being anxiously watched. Our
leading fighters carry eight Browning
machine-guns, all wing-mounted outboard
of the screws. The French Curtiss car-
ries four Brownings— two on the cowl-
ing top and two in the wings—but the
number is being increased. The Morane
carries a 2.omm. cannon firing through
the screw. The German Messerschmitt
has a screw cannon and two cannons in
the wings and two machine-guns. It
sounds a devastating rig, but, while the
French cannon fires bursting shells, it has
been noticed that the Germans are firing
solid ammunition from their bigger guns.
Masefield says that our eight-gun fitment
has proved very effective and capable of
delivering fatal blows in one well-aimed
burst.
One of the difficulties being met with
is the matter of identification, especially
with camouflage. Some British squad-
rons are going back to the old tail
stripes.
It has been found that the fighter is
superior to the bomber in contest, but
between fighter and fighter a dogfight is
still a dogfight. And a dogfight in the
air is about the only thing left in the war
of giants in which an individual retains
the freedom of action of a medueval
warrior.
New Air Plans.
“Caudron”: To bring it into line with
the needs of the new air scheme, the
R.A.A.F. has now been put on virtually
the same footing as the C.M.F. and the
Navy. A compulsory trainee can only
be allotted to the Air Force with his own
consent, and all overseas service in the
air will be voluntary.
In introducing the Bill, Mr. Menzies
gave further details of the air scheme.
It is to cost £50,000,000 —probably much
more, if it is carried out in full. Large
numbers of military aircraft are to be
brought from overseas with many in-
structors, and the construction pro-
gramme in Australia is to be greatly
accelerated. It is intended throughout
the war to keep in Australia “an un-
usually large air force, unusually well
equipped with machines.”
Mr. Fairbairn in London added that
Britain had decided to send here a large
number of the latest type of training
bombers, and that the absorption of these
machines would double the striking
power aimed at by the pre-war R.A.A.F.
programme. That means about 600
first-line machines.
The plans for training include the use
of flying club facilities. Elementary
teaching will be by N. S. Wales and
Newcastle Aero Clubs, Airflite, Ltd., and
Kingsford Smith’s in N.S.W.; A.N.A.,
Vic. and Inter-State Airways and Vic.
Aero Club in Victoria; Queensland
Aero Club and Airworks, Ltd., S.A.
Aero Club and W.A. Aero Club. Recruits
will be given 25 hours’ dual and 25
hours’ solo flight, spread over eight to
ten weeks, before they are drafted to the
R.A.A.F. for advanced training.
“Aren-as”: The anti-Nazi short-wave
broadcasting station somewhere in Ger-
many says that on all his flights at the
front Hitler uses a Focke-Wulf Condor
four-engined transport ’plane, and his
staff accompanies him in four similar
machines. The lot is escorted by 15 two-
engine fighters, probably Messerschmitt
MellO’s, 18 single-seat, single-engine
fighters, a refuelling ’plane and another
carrying a powerful radio transmitter
and printing plant.
* * * *
“Querex”: British and French aircraft
orders placed in America in anticipation
of the repeal of the U.S. arms embargo
were valued at £20,000,000. Manufac-
turers are rushing through 290 machines
for Britain and 465 for France. The
British contracts were for Lockheed-
Hudson general reconnaisance machines
and North American Harvard trainers.
France ordered Curtiss P. 36 fighters,
Douglas B-7 light bombers and Glenn
Martin 166 medium bombers.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The air war, like the land
war, had almost ceased in Europe when
this par. was being written. Eight
German machines raided Scotland on
December 7 without throwing a bomb,
and the Germans claim to have driven
off five attempts by British machines on
the Kiel Canal region. Weather decides
things. Most of the time at this period
of year the upper air around the North
Sea is dense with the smoke from a
myriad towns and cities and millions of
farm homes all trying to keep warm.
* * * *
“Aileron”: One of the most widely
experienced flying men in Australia is
Commodore W. S. Boucher, Second
Member of the Naval Board, and
formerly Director of Air Material to
the R.N. He has flown over 100 types
of modern British military and naval
machines. Speaking of speeds, he re-
marked the other day that few people
could realise what it was like to fly a
Spitfire at 350 m.p.h., though it can be
managed “with ease and safety.” “When
you try to close the glass cover over the
cockpit you have to be careful to keep
your elbows inside, or the pressure of
the wind will dislocate both your arms.”
H= * * *
“D.8.K.”: In 1914-18 Australian
squadrons served with the R.A.F. and
good service was given by pilots from
Canada, M.L, and S. Africa. This
time, also, pilots will flow from the
Dominions ; but there will not be under-
trained pilots sent into dogfights in
machines they have scarcely got to know ;
rather there is likely to be a glut of
highly-trained pilots if the war in the
air doesn’t accelerate its present tempo.
As the enemy’s power of resistance de-
creases, the British power to push on
with the war will be greatly strength-
ened by men and machines from the
Dominions. Unlike the Canadian train-
ing field, the enemy’s training fields can
never be immune from attack by inde-
pendent Allied air action. Much the
same applies to German factories.
* * * *
“Mulva”: Before the Soviet-Finnish
clash Sweden had already decided to in-
crease her defence forces: £2,500,000
was wanted to buy 102 reserve ’planes.
Sweden’s general policy in aero equip-
ment has been to acquire foreign licenses
for building aircraft, engines and air-
screws. There are two Government air-
craft factories and three independent
ones. Among the aeroplanes built under
license are the Hawker Hart, D.H. Tiger
Moth, Focke-Wulf Stieglitz and Fokker
C-V-E. Licenses are also held for Bristol
engines.
* * * #
“Don”: The Graviner fire-fighting
device now being fitted to R.A.F. ’planes
automatically prevents fire breaking out
in the air or on the ground. It consists
of a copper bottle containing methyl
bromide under pressure, and an arrange-
ment of distributing piping. The bottle
houses an electric fuse which may be
ignited manually by a button, automati-
cally by impact, by gravity or high tem-
perature. The head then opens instan-
taneously, and the methyl bromide is dis-
charged through the piping over the
engine of the machine. It instantly
evaporates, produces an intense cooling
effect and dense extinguishing fumes.
The equipment came through rigorous
tests.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1145 of 1939.
BETWEEN MURIEL ELLEN MESCHKE
And 10 WILLIAM ALFRED MESCHKE
TO WILLIAM'ALFRED MESCHKE late of
Broken Hill New South Wales Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MURIEL
ELLEN MESCHKE of 664 Lane Lane Broken
Hill aforesaid has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the First day
of March One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of December, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CECIL F. HURLEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1750 of 1938.
BETWEEN FREDERICK GEORGE WEBB
Petitioner
And RUBY HARRIET WEBB (formerly
Ruby Harriet Keller) Respondent.
TO RUBY HARRIET WEBB also known as
Ruby Harris late of Sandgate Brisbane
TjMCE NOTICE that the said FREDERICK
GEORGE WEBB has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
mst cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the first day ot
March One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
Ch DATED this Fifth day of December, 1939.
(L.S.) c. k. body,
Registrar.
EDWIN J. JACKA, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner Corowa; or his Agents SALWEY &
PRIMROSE, Solicitors, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1792 of 1939.
BETWEEN KENNETH WALTER POLLARD
Petitioner
And IRIS VIVIENNE POLLARD for-
merly Iris Vivienne Finch Respondent.
TO IRIS VIVIENNE POLLARD late of
Coolabah.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KENNETH
WALTER POLLARD has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of November,
1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. G. TRUMAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Challis House, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
4, %«•
n aim
0
W TH
Complete harmony and the
utmost enjoyment from radio
entertainment during the
Christmas season ... is yours
when worn valves are replaced
WITH
z
THE W 0 R L O'S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
the SERVICE MAN
A Diggers' Newspaper.
“Macann”: No doubt the new crop
of Diggers will produce “newspapers
on their wanderings: the last lot did,
ranging in kind and circulation from
one produced on the Nizam off Gallipoli
by writing its entire contents and past-
ing the sheets up on a square-shaped post
with alleged fig jam to a rather elaborate
production turned out with some sort
of a press later in France.
There must have been dozens alto-
gether, their life mostly as brief as Paris
leave. One of the best was one of the
first—the “Kan-Karoo Kronikle,” pro-
duced between Australia and Egypt by
Digs, of the Ist Div. Signals aboard the
Karoo, one of the Ist Div. transports.
Its first number saw the light on Wed-
nesday, October 28, 1914, and its editorial
note mentioned that “as far as is known
this boat is the only one of the fleet
issuing a paper of any description.” That
had to be amended in the second issue,
news having come of a rival, the
“Kangaroo,” produced on the Afric.
The “Kronikle’s” editor was Sapper
N. Neal; eventually Captain, M.C., etc.;
an utterly fearless cove on Gallip.
and, later, plodding about the ridges
near Passchendaele. Later still he
hunted oil and gold in Papua, found
some of the glitter, and is still up that
way. He once sent a poem called
“Flotsam” to The Bulletin, and
“Answers” told him it had “gone out
on the ebb tide ; for God’s sake don’t
call the lifesavers.”
The “Kan-Karoo Kronikle” was,
nevertheless, based somewhat on The
Bulletin. In the fifth number —Novem-
ber 11, 1914; War Number—there was
an account of the sinking of the Emden,
and the paper’s tame poet viewed “the
battle through poetical eyes,” and “with
apologies to ‘Bellerive.’ ”
The “Kronikle” ran to a serial, in the
form of a regular letter to one Penelope,
describing in the first number the sad
parting at Port Melbourne, where “as
the clothesliner moved away from the
water’s edge there was much wailing and
gnashing of false teeth by mothers and
friends.” As the ship moved out “occa-
sional bursts of cheering from small
groups of old dames, collected at dif-
ferent points, floated across the mud.”
After their first meal on the Karoo “the
men arose feeling as fit as fiddles and
as empty.” “Numerous sharks were
passed, and it must have caused them
great joy to recognise a few of their
fellow-creatures on board.” The ship
anchored to await the assembling of the
rest of the transports, and Penelope was
informed of it: “This vessel is now at
anchor awaiting the arrival of the Furphy
fleet, when all will set sail and
too —well, probably the bottom.”
There was a report of “an outburst
by the Actg. Company S.M. last Sunday
morning”:
A-ten-shun! Now then pay attention.
A Church parade will be held at 10 ack
emma for Roman Catholics.
The WET CANTEEN will be open at
1 pip emma till one thirty. Don’t forget.
A Protestant Church parade will be
held at 10.30 ack emma.
Don’t forget the wet canteen will be open
from one pip emma till one thirty.
Don’t forget.
It is recorded that they didn’t forget;
but the next item is a heart-rending story
of one of the troops stealing dismally
to the side of the ship to throw “half
his beer overboard. It was too watery,
even for him.” The horses were re-
ported to be “standing” the journey well
—poor cows, they had no option. Some
on board were reported to “require a
larger size in hats than when on shore” ;
“something dainty in the boxing line”
was announced as forthcoming ; the ship
was described to Penelope as “this float-
ing Pentridge” ; “To Puss, the ship’s cat,
four kittens on 31st ult.” ; “food” was
defined as “anything a man can digest,”
"No sense in getting Wet!”
a crime « mjght be anything __it depends
Jo a large extent on the orderly officer’s
hver.
Puss having given birth to her family
in Lieut. Tindall’s portmanteau while the
s hj p was still in Australian waters, “the
aforesaid Lieutenant scribbled a hasty
ncde Andy Fisher requesting the usual
recogn jtions of the mother’s effort.” The
beer a u owance G f two pints a day having
be£n cut in half> a str j ke was rep orted ;
“Scouts were posted at every approach
najled each strag gier carrying a
~ f boor ” Rut the
vessel capable of holding beer. Hut me
strike was a flop. The Major explained
to a deputation of strike leaders that it
was to be one pint a day , ey cou
take it or go dry. In the face of that
dread alternative they took it.
A concert was repo rted, items includ-
realistic” imitation of bells
in § a J a “doctor’s insoection
a " d bagpipes. A doctor s !, nspec ™
proved the necessity for same It was
recorded as dashed hard luck to call
nap with seven cards in hand, and then
get beaten.” Penelope was informed that
«- t won derful what an influence the
. , „ 1 „ q ctrono man’s
mighty ocean has on a strong man s
conscience.” “It came as a thunderbolt
to the men last Monday when a plug of
Havelock was handed to eacn.
j t was repo rted that “officers have to
cultivate as luxurious a mop as possible
on their top lips” and that “strange and
uncanny mixtures are being prepared to
promote the rapid growth of the neces-
sary bristles.” Sympathy was “extended
to those who have been compelled to
retire to the sick bay.” The promised
boxing got going; of a bout between a
major and a loot, it was reported that
“The major showed good form but lack
of wind.”
On these outspoken lines the “Kron-
ikle” continues through its 11 issues.
Will the present A.I.F. produce anything
as outspoken? Personally, I doubt it.
The idea that the printed word is so
potent that it has to be handcuffed has
grown enormously since those days. Wit-
ness the years of strict censorship in
Germany and the Soviet and general
censorship now. Witness also attempts to
win wars by “confetti” bombing. The
1914 Diggers were given a fairly free
hand in letters home as well as in their
publications for about the first six
months. Then the censor came down on
all writing heavily.
“T”: By accident
or design, the Nazis
do their nastiest
work after Churchill
makes a speech.
His “m a d dog”
effort {vide Senator
Collings) was imme-
diately followed by
the sowing of mag-
netic mines. His
latest (comparatively
mild) was succeeded
by the torpedoing of
a Dutch liner in the
English Channel.
That same week the
King had crossed
the Channel to visit
the 8.E.F., and his
Majesty was still in
France!
* *
“Nobby II.”: Moscow cables deny the
report that the Kirov was badly battered
by the Finns at Hangoe. “The cruisers
of the Kirov class are armed with long-
range guns throwing shells a distance
exceeding 21 miles. The Kirov could
easily shell Hangoe from a position out-
side the range of Finnish artillery, which
missed the Kirov by two or three miles,
causing merriment and jeers among the
crews of Soviet warships.” The Kirov’s
guns are 7.1-inchers. They fire a shell
round 1701 b. But perhaps it is wrong
to call them guns. Any naval weapon
which can effectually hurl a 1701 b. shell
21 miles is not a gun—it’s a miracle only
possible on an 8500-ton cruiser in the
imagination of an enthusiastic propa-
gandist.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: By now a good many
members of the new A.I.F. have gath-
ered that much that they had understood
about the old A.I.F. was so much bun-
kum. Nothing has been more overdone
than the notion of slack discipline in the
old crowd. It was “slack” only by com-
parison with the heel-clicking British dis-
cipline, since much modified. Otherwise
the first lot of Diggers learnt—some of
them painfully —what discipline means.
Orders were obeyed—at the double, too,
when so commanded. Contrary to popu-
lar belief, there was plenty of saluting.
Unless the several units that I person-
ally served in were peculiar, the Digger
sprang to it on parades, and punishments
meted out were sometimes severe. On
Gallipoli, of course, things were free, if
not easy; and officers of infantry units
in France, in the face of what the in-
fantry went through while in the line,
weren’t strict when out of the line. But
for ceremonial purposes the Digger
could be induced to turn out almost in
Guards’ style. I recall a Lord Mayor’s
show in London in ’l5 or ’l6 for which
a bunch of us were put through our
paces at Monte Video camp, Weymouth,
on a few days’ notice. We figured in the
London show as Light Horse. Few of
us were L.H.; our only qualifications
were lithe build and length, plus typical
Aussie dials. That little troop was as
brisk and well-conducted as they make
’em ; and I notice on film shorts of the
new Diggers that already some have
gathered something about discipline and
can turn on as pretty a parade and
marching show as anyone would wish
to see.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The worst piece of news
from the war fronts is that a dead woman
pilot was found in a Russian ’plane which
had been spreading Soviet justice in Fin-
land by machine-gunning fleeing women
and children. If true, it is a presage of
what may happen as a result of the
Soviet’s insistence on sexual equality.
The female is deadlier than the male. If,
as a result of the Russian example, it
becomes customary to train women in
the use of lethal weapons, past wars will
be regarded as tame affairs compared
to the wars of the future.
* * * *
“Pip II.”: I know a youngster, 18f,
keen to serve his country. He has just
completed, with credit, 18 months in a
cadet unit, and wishes to transfer to his
associated militia unit. When he applied
he was told that he must get a reference
of character. A bit bewildered, he asked
what sort of a reference. “Oh, a Judge,”
said the high command with the lofty
air of those who call Judges by their
nicknames. The volunteer suggested that
his C.O. for the past 1| years or the
parish priest would be able to give guar-
antees that he was unlikely to steal the
sergeant’s breeches or indulge in illicit
cribbage, but the army had set its mind
on the Judge. The youngster doesn’t
know any Judges. He is travelling a few
miles tonight to see if a town clerk will
serve, but declares that he is getting a
bit tired of army methods. Some people
are easily discouraged


m
m
m
Newington
College
for Boys Stanmore, N.S.W.
Recognised for three-quarters of a century as one of the leading educational
institutions of New South Wales,
A Great Public School with a distinguished record in the realm of education
and the field of sport.
Newington aims to produce Citizens —to inspire boys with ideals of public
service and to equip them to realise those ideals. The careers of old boys,
eminent in the community, attest the soundness of this educational objective.
Newington is ideal for situation and possesses unexampled recreational
facilities in its own grounds. Its domestic equipment is complete and takes
care of boys of all ages, from preparatory school to university.
Wyvern House, the most modern Preparatory School in Australia (opened
in 1938), offers home comforts to young boys, with fullest opportunity for
entrance to the senior classes.
New Term commences 6th February, 1940.
All particulars may be had from P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. ( Melb . et Oxonl).
Telephone: LM5355.
Hke IBank
of Australasia
IB3S
mtttett + ttffrrmmr
For over 104 years The Bank of Australasia has combined
these two essentials with a sound banking policy.
Special banking facilities for the convenience of women
customers are provided at the Melbourne Head Office of The
Bank of Australasia, 394-396 Collins Street, and at Eastern
Branch, 75-77 Collins Street, Melbourne, where lounges and
writing tables contribute to an air of pleasant privacy.
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
BY
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Clarence Crocodile
“Old-timer”: Apparently after a south
of North of 28 record, the beastie was
sighted by a railway engine-driver near
Angourie, Clarence River (N.S.W.). City
newspapers, probably a bit tired of the
cabled variety, seized on this local sen-
sation with avidity. Within a few hours
witnesses had been dug up all along the
Clarence who testified to seeing strange
shapes in the gloom, mysterious tracks
in the sand, and hearing awful bellow-
ings at night. Others swore to the dis-
appearance of calves, cows and goats.
Nobody missed a dog, the croc.’s favorite
food, though a tearful schoolboy com-
plained that someone had used his pet
tyke as bait.
Armed parties of police and civilians
scoured the swamps and bays about
Yamba, and there was great destruction
of snakes and goannas. A man turned
up in Sydney to swear he’d heard
crocs, bellowing in the Clarence for 30
years or more. Somebody recalled a sick
croc, being brought there by a circus for
salt-water treatment years ago, and police
promptly dug up its skeleton from be-
neath a bridge, probably to kill any
repetition of the Pyjama Girl hysteria.
Even politicians appeared—and busi-
ness thrived at Yamba. One bold hunter,
hearing a rustling, fired into some
scrub and then dragged forth the
carcass of an unfortunate go.,
which, appropriately labelled, later
decorated the floor of the local bar.
A plaster cast of an alleged croc, foot-
print was taken and sent to Sydney. Its
photograph in a city daily looked like
anything except what it was supposed to
be. About this time doubts were begin-
ning to be cast on the engine-driver’s
story. He swore that what he had seen
was 18ft. long. Residents of Angourie,
a small place, offered £5O for the croc.,
dead or alive. Mothers, white and black,
locked their children up at night and
fathers slept with a gun beside the bed.
Meantime the hunt went on, and one
Sunday the armed forces were set for
action when police arrived and reminded
them that discharge of firearms was not
allowed to desecrate the Sabbath —in-
tending invaders of Australia should
make special note of this. Shark hooks
attached to wire fences and heavily baited
so infested the river, its swamps and
creeks that bathing became a risky busi-
ness, apart from fear of the croc. One
genius invented a sort of sliding trap
worthy of W. Heath Robinson —no re-
lation whatsoever to Bill Robinson or
any other Robinsons of the river. Every-
thing short of throwing salt on the croc.'s
tail was tried without avail.
Then a wild-eyed truck-driver raced
into town with a story of a giant kan-
garoo with a brushy tail that it used to
kick up dust for a smoke-screen. Graf-
ton and the Clarence grinned some more,
“Go aWay! You’ve been eating onions!”
but Sydney dailies solemnly printed the
item. A quick-thinking Yamba resident
dug up the local astrologer, one Tim
Healy—there’s always a Tim Healy about
at such times —aged 75, who read the
planets and delivered himself of the fol-
lowing : —•
There is not a crocodile within 1000
miles [the planets must be a bit mixed, for
there are plenty nearer the Clarence than
that]; Hitler will suicide, Goring will be
assassinated and Joe Stalin will die of
ptomaine before next March.
Unmoved by their high ambitions, a
constable threatened to confiscate the
firearms of sundry hunters, who shot at
every sound they heard in the swamps.
Finally an expert, Geo. Bardell, a Roper
River (N.T.) man, was shown the claw-
prints in the mud.
“H’m,” he said, “that’s the first time
I’ve come across a croc, with pigeon-toes.
Looks more like a ’roo’s track t’ me.”
J. R. Kinghorn, reptile expert of Aus-
tralian Museum, wanted to know why
there were no tail-marks.
Somewhere in the Limbo of that past
peopled by Tantanoola Tigers, Guyra
Ghosts and Gippsland Lions, the Yamba
Polar Bear will be joined by the Pigeon-
toed Crocodile, and the pair of them
will hold celebration while city news
editors go back to the humdrum of war
cables and political heresy hunts.
Lasseter’s Latest Last Ride
“E.V.”: Mr. Morley Cutlack was con-
vinced that he had discovered Possum
Lasseter’s Golconda, and had specimens,
so the N.T. Administration, under in-
structions from Canberra, sent the Direc-
tor of Mines, W. A. Hughes, to have a
look at the find.
By ’plane the party made Ayer’s Rock
and there loaded up camels and set a
compass course over quartzite ridges.
From the first night’s camp a cave was
noticed in a ridge and there were found
two cairns of stones built by some
person unknown and for some purpose
which was not clear. There also was
a lone camel pad. According to Mr.
Hughes’s report, Mr. Cutlack found
“some relation between the pad and the
cairns and cave, Lasseter’s name being
mentioned as a likely person.” Mr.
Hughes, however, “will admit no such
conjecture.”
“Eventually,” reports Mr. Hughes,
“Mr. Cutlack appeared at a loss to locate
definitely the whereabouts of the
quartz reefs claimed to have been dis-
covered by him three years ago, but
unless proper observations are taken in
the desert, difficulty in relocating any
outcrop not a landmark might be ex-
pected by even the most experienced
bushman.”
They, however, found a slate and schist
belt which Mr. Hughes describes as
“highly interesting,” and says “warrants
some further examination before it can
be proclaimed worthless.” He writes:
I have to report, however, that I saw
no evidence of quartz reefs during the
whole of the journey undertaken by camel.
In the absence of authentic samples, there-
fore, it would be presumptuous to de-
clare the area auriferous, but, if the claims
supported by Mr. Cutlack are correct,
then it may safely be regarded as poten-
tially auriferous. It is deeply to be re-
gretted that Mr. Cutlack was unable to
guide the party to the location of his
discovery, for then the question of
these uncertain ore bodies could be
elucidated for all time.
He mentions that it was a rush
trip. He adds that he “does not wish
to associate the likely belt of schist
country discovered with the mythical
Lasseter’s Reef,” and he concludes
that he is “not in a position to ex-
press an opinion whether any such ore-
body exists and prefers to leave the
matter to authors and others to discuss.”
“D.E.”: If the admirable lady men-
tioned by “X.T.” was “at Coolgardie
when it was still Hannan’s find” (B.
6/12/’39). the Hannan memorial at Kal-
goorlie must be in the wrong place. It
used to be thought that Coolgardie was
prospected by Bayley and Ford. And
“she helped her husband build the rabbit
fence.” Presumably the one (there are
three) that zigzags from north to south
for about 1200 miles. What energy!
* * * *
“Scat”: After the N.T. Industrial
Board of Reference had recommended
an increase in their wage from
£4 13s. 9d. to £5 3s. 9d. Darwin rail-
men struck for £5 10s. After several
days, during which Darwin almost
ran out of tucker, the secretary of the
N.A.W.U. flew to Melbourne, talked with
the Minister for the Interior and the
Commonwealth Railways Commissioner
and advised the men to return to work
while the Arbitration Court considered
their case. The Court’s decision tallied
with that of the N.T. Board of Refer-
ence, and now the railwaymen are
“working under protest.” Aren’t we all?


GIFT SUGGESTIONS
e
THE No. 134
CHILD’S
SADDLE
LOW PADS
£3/16/-
(MOUNTED)
Ho. 1 32, same as
No. 1 34, but with high
pads, £3/16/- (mounted).
Children’s Riding Pads from
£2/7/6.
Safety Stirrups from 11/6 pair.
Pony Saddle Cloths, Bridles, etc.
Send for Saddlery Catalog.
fALTHER fc STEVEKSOH
rrrg
I a‘-S
:H*w:
YDMEY
wrn'ETTM
FROM LOSS BY THESE
CAR SMASHES
Such Policies as the Pull Comprehensive
“Special” Comprehensive cover “damage to
cars,” also legal costs and Third Party-
Claims if incurred. Liberal adjustment is
a “Transport and General” feature.
FIRE
Also Explosion, Lightning, Thunderbolt,
Earthquakes. Should any of these cause
loss of or damage to your home, “Trans-
port and General” Eire Insurance can save
you money and worry.
BURGLARY
A Householders’ and Houseowners’ Com-
bined Insurance protects against Burglary,
Housebreaking on any attempt, also
larceny, theft of contents, etc. Sound.
Practical. Reasonable.
Investigation of these Policies invited.
Trustees Chambers*
401-3 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone: M 3851 (3 lines). N. McLeod Johnston, Manager.
You can’t go wrong
if you give him GILLETTE
■£*'s
■ S#
'm
m
%
me.
s>s£»
% n m
•••'- '$ mm
yf:
>0
mm
<&■■ >: •:
■#% u t
$1 .4
%.3
•«
■::M
if
m
\
f;f »
m
If
smz
m
m
m
¥4
•*vx&
Gillette not only gives a better shave, but it does it at less cost than any other shaving system.
That’s why a Gillette shaving set makes such a thoroughly acceptable gift for any one of your
friends. Give a man Gillette and you’re giving him something he will be really grateful for . . .
luxurious, efficient, economical shaving every day of his life!
Bring his shaving up to date with a "one piece” razor this Christmas. The Gillette "one piece”
razor (no bits and pieces to unscrew twist to open twist to close) brings shaving down to its
simplest terms. Gillette, for Christmas, is packed in gaily-coloured cartons. Prices from 1/9 to 45/-.
fzsm
6>".S
I &
No. 45 SET. Contains the new
Gillette 'one-piece’ Razor (Popular
Model) —no separate pieces to
assemble complete in blue
hygienic moulded case with three
Blue Gillette Blades 8/6
No. 15 SET. In handsome nickel-
plated case contains Gillette
Aristocrat 'one-piece’ razor and
ten Gillette blades in specially
designed blade holder . . . . 22/6
MEN OF SELF-RESPECT SHAVE WITH
GILLETTE
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Me
"C 3«
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unL-ss stamps accompany.
R.A.: No meat in “The Pie”... .R.C.8.:
The end’s clumsy... .J.H.: Two poems on the
birthrate are too prosy for so lyrical a sub-
ject S.C.: Don’t use phrases such as “re-
duced unto the status” H.W.: “Sooth” and
“uncouth” would never have been there if you
hadn’t adopted that involved rhyme scheme.
R.D.: Grim W.J.W.: “One day, when
success in the business world had made me a
wealthy man.” That’s not a line of verse
D.S.: “A Ballade of Utter Ineffectiveness”
isn’t as bad as all that... .T.E.McC.: The girl
with the bright blue eyes and golden hair is
coming back to you... .F. 5.8.: Dry canteens
seem to be an uninspiring subject... .J.G.M.:
Leave it to Poe C.C.: Cheerful, anyhow.
D.T.: For a back-to-the-bush poem it’s
a good one; but Eros was out of place among
the dingoes P.V.M.: Should score else-
where J.J.: Sorry; can’t trace them
C. : Can’t see what makes it a parody
G.8.Y.: “Hero of the Turf” turfed out
L.R.8.: A weakling... .F.T.8.: That plot
sprouted whiskers 20 years ago G.T.N.:
“ ‘No, no, no,’ she screamed.” And we
echoed her cry... .N.R.L.: The office boy
solved it at the second page... .H.T.N.: Our
most dismal encounter since the outbreak of
war 8.R.E.: Come again when the gulls
aren’t “chittering and gambolling with the
carefree, gold-backed dolphins”... .D.C.R.:
“The Fish are Nibbling.” But we’re not biting.
. ...G.L.P.: Get a new ribbon for your type-
writer H.F.R.: Thanks, anyway F.8.R.:
Some day you’ll thank us for not publishing
those under your name... .J.R.A.: At least
the green paper caught our eye... .C.F.W.:
Well, we’re always here, but, at least, be merci-
ful. .. .D.G.1.: Do heat-waves always do that
to you? C.N.E.: You’re slipping
D. : Nicely written, but there’s no yarn
in it F.V.A.: “I thought it was very funny
when it happened.” That’s quite possible....
C.F.A.: “A Great Man’s Footsteps”
passed us by... .G.8.E.: When you “dipped
into the future” you drew out much more than
you could handle... .C.S.H.: If we did publish
anything like that we apologise on the spot....
F.C.E.: There’s certainly enough wind in it
to “Keep the Old Flag Flying” H.F.V.,
F.S., L.T.8., L.R. and G.8.W.: Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.D.: No room for your octopus in these
pages... .E.L,: Try one of the women’s papers.
A.C.: When did you last see a cow?
F.M.: We’ve turned that gag from our door
a dozen times this month... .M.N.: Curiosity
in violet ink with obsolete gag attached ended
in the w.p.b N.C.: It w<puld earn the
kindergarten pupil a spell behind the black-
board. .. .JJ.: We have suspended that de-
formed pugilist for life.... A.C.T.: You have
a brisk line, but little sense of humor... .B.B.:
Among its 97 faults are misplaced shadows.
. ...E.M.: Jokes lack spontaneity, and the
drawings are limp ... .P.T.: Lower half of the
golfer has mysteriously vanished... .R.G.: No
market for your lamp-clinging drunk DJ.:
When we knew a few of them, chorus girls
were not so ungainly... .A.R.8.: You would
be better employed designing tombstones....
A.T.: Among the week’s casualties G.8.A.:
Your request that we should forward cheque
by return post was the only thing that made
us laugh W.M.A.: Very nearly, but there’s
a bit too much of the slapstick about it
H.M.: The world is overcrowded with tame
little sketches of that nature... .N.N.: Pay
more attention to the drawing and less to the
lettering of the joke... .W.C.C.: You’re one
of the rare birds who make the mistake of
drawing on both sides of the paper.
War isn’t all destruction. One result
of Hitler’s outburst is that Melbourne
municipalities have lost interest in their
grandiose scheme of “beautification” for
the Yarra from the mouth of that stream
to Heidelberg, and the disastrous pro-
posal is likely to remain in cold storage.
* * * *
Melbourne’s new General Hospital is
expected to be ready in March, 1942.
Cost is reckoned at £850,000, equipment
accounting for £120,000. The 11-storey
building will contain 506 beds, and a
tunnel 850 ft. in length will convey traffic
and mechanical services from the boiler
house to the main building and the
nurses’ home. There will be 17 lifts,
designed to carry 2000 persons every
hour. Yet it will be only one of half
a dozen extensive sickbays which Mel-
bourne supports.
* # * *
One thing the war may do is to revive
charcoal-burning, almost as old an Aus-
tralian calling as there is. Departmental
vehicles are running on charcoal fuel, and
if tables of costs printed are even half
right a lot of unemployed could be use-
fully taken from “works,” useless or
worse, and formed into charcoal-burning
parties. The N.S.W. Minister of Forests,
who is rarely heard of, having very little
to do, has bobbed up with the announce-
ment that ironbark yields a charcoal
weighing about 521 b. per cubic foot,
whereas 201 b. is reckoned a good weight
in other countries. At least, he says so.
* * * *
Frank Clancy, author of They Built a
Nation, is a third generation Australian.
His ancestors include the sister of
Wolfe Tone, the Irish leader executed
for complicity in the 1798 rebellion. His
first job was in the composing-room of
The Bulletin in 1917. Later he was a
clerk in the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, a seaman, a journalist and a film
publicity man. Last August he married
Elizabeth Durack, of W.A., who, with
her sister Mary, wrote All-About and
Chunuma, published by Endeavour Press.
Clancy is now living at Avalon Beach,
where he is working on a novel, Haunted
Tenement, dealing with the contemporary
Sydney scene.
* ¥ * *
Captain L. McKay Johnson, appointed
superintendent of operations for Aus-
tralian National Airways and Air Lines
of Australia, which nowadays crisscross
the continent from Perth to Townsville,
has had five months in the U.S.A., where
he did a course at the Boeing School.
He was one of the first pilots employed
by Tasmanian Aerial Services, and after-
wards became chief instructor to the
Royal Victorian Aero Club at Essendon.
He joined A.N.A. two years ago, and is
one of the concern’s senior pilots, having
logged 5000 hours.


w
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 114 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in fifing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “lo Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, 25, good appearance and social
manner, wants job as stenographer, plain cook,
needlewoman, companion or shop w0rk.—5534.
Country man, farmer, recovering foot injury,
would do light work or caretaking for keep.
Bank and legal refs.—ssl4.
Exp. .governess,: slight nursing exp., desires
position as governess ,(to grade VI■ or scholar-
ship), nurse, companion or-help; good'reader,
pleasant personality. Q’land preferred. Refs.
—5546.
Elderly man, N.S.W., has been subsidised
teacher for two years, seeks position as tutor
after Christmas holidays. Piano, Latin and
French taught.—ssos.
Words of poem “The Muse’s Sunday Out.”
—5435.
Words of verse, “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.”
Words of bush poem entitled “The Last of
the Irish Lords.” —5571.
Information Sought.
May a N.S.W. publican sell liquor on
credit ? Does the law ■ make any provision
where, say, a man runs up a bill for liquor at
a public house, for the publican to recover the
amount in court ? —5550.
No N.S.W. licensee can maintain an action
to recover payment for any liquor sold or dis-
posed of by him in any less quantity at one and
the same time than two gallons unless it has
been lawfully sold or supplied by the licensee
to bona fide lodgers or travellers. If he puts
a drink down on the slate he may whistle for
payment.
*' # * sjc
If a lodger fails to pay up can his landlord
seize his belongings and dispose of them to
cover the rent overdue? —5536.
The landlord has a lien over any possessions
the lodger may have left on the premises. A
lien is the right of a person to retain pos-
session of a chattel from the owner until a
claim upon it is satisfied. So if Jones departs
some morning without disclosing his address
and leaves behind him some article or articles
he has not found easily portable the landlord
may lay hands on them and dispose of them to
cover the overdue rent or portion of it.
* * s}: *
Number of Roman Catholics in the different
provinces of Canada at the last census? —-5543.
Prince Edward Island 39,105, Nova Scotia
162,754. New Brunswick 188,098, Quebec
2,463,160, Ontario 744,740, Manitoba 189,693,
Saskatchewan 233,879, Alberta 168,408, British
Columbia 90,852, Yukon 667 and N.W. Terri-
tories 3932.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning (1)
Dr. A. J. Cronin, author of “The Stars Looked
Down,” etc., and (2) H. V. Morton, author
of “In the Steps of the Master”? —ssl2.
(1) Born in Scotland in 1896, he was edu-
cated at Glasgow University and served in
the Great War as a surgeon in the navy.
Later he was a general practitioner in
South Wales. In 1924 he became Medical
Inspector of Mines for Great Britain, and pub-
lished reports on first-aid conditions in British
coalmines and dust inhalation in hematite
mines. He practised medicine in London from
1926 to 1930, when he decided to give up his
profession and devote himself to writing. His
first novel, Hatter’s Castle, published in 1931,
was an instantaneous success. Other publica-
tions include Three Loves, Grand Canary, The
Stars Look Down and The Citadel. (2) H. V.
Morton entered journalism on the staff of the
Birmingham “Gazette and Express” in 1910,
joined the “Empire Magazine” in 1913 and
was sub-editor of the “Daily Mail,” 1913-14.
He served with the Warwickshire Yeomanry
during the war; joined the editorial staff of the
“Evening Standard” in 1919 and the “Daily
Express” in 1921 and became a special writer
for the “Daily Herald” in 1931. He has
written about 15 travel books.
* * * *
Is there any advantage in taking out a pro-
visional patent ? —5557. ,
Decidedly. It allows the holder to use and
publish a patent without prejudice to his later
claim for a patent. Without the provisional
patent, the inventor might not succeed in patent-
ing his idea if it has already been published
to the world.
% sU % # “
Was there any form of conscription in Aus-
tralia in 1914-18? —5545.
All men between 18 and 45 were liable to
be called up for home defence, and compulsory
military training of young men was in vogue.
Just before the second conscription referen-
dum, which was defeated, the citizen forces
were sent into training at many country and
city centres, but the defeat of the referendum
caused a reversion to the system of drilling at
night and on Saturday afternoons.
How can I test the accuracy of a .22 repeat-
ing rifle? —5564.
Grip the rifle firmly in a bench vyce, sight
to a board or other surface about 50 yards
away and get a friend to mark on the board
the spot upon which the sights align. Bullet
should hit spot. Fire several shots in order
to obtain a check.
* ¥ ‘ ♦
(1) Materials used in making xylonite? (2)
Can it be set to shape in moulds? (3) How
is it colored? (4) How polished? (5) Where
can further information be obtained? —5339.
(1) Xylonite consists of nitro-cellulose in
which is incorporated a plasticiser, generally
camphor, coloring agents which may be dyes
or mineral pigments, and more or less of a
filler such as wood meal, paper pulp or
mineral powders. (2) The material is thermo-
plastic and may be moulded when warm. The
products are generally fabricated from sheet or
rod stock. (3) Colors may be produced by in-
corporating dyes in a solvent such as alcohol
or acetone, which is subsequently evaporated,
or by incorporating mineral pigments /or by
printing on or dyeing the finished product.
(4) The smooth surface is obtained by the use
of polished moulds or embossing plates. (5)
See Celluloid: Its Raw Material, Manufac-
ture, Properties and Uses, by Dr. Bockmann,
and The Technology of Plastics, by H. W.
Rowell.
*** * ,
Where to enter for training as an obstetric
nurse in Melbourne ? Conditions and fees
payable ? —5228.
Following is a list of institutions recognised
by the Vic. Nlirses’ Board as midwifery train-
ing schools. For information as to training
write to the matron of the hospital selected:
Women’s Hospital, Gratton-street, Carlton;
Queen Victoria Hospital, Mint-place, Mel-
bourne ; St. George’s Hospital, Cotham-road,
Kew; Bethesda Hospital, Erin-street, Rich-
mond ; Epworth Hospital, Erin-street, Rich-
mond; The Haven Hospital, 75 Alfred-crescent,
North Fitzroy; Bendigo Base Hospital, Ben-
digo ; Ballarat Base Hospital, Ballarat;
Warrnambool Base Hospital, Warrnambool;
Mildura Base Hospital, Mildura; Maryborough
District Hospital, Maryborough; and St. Vin-
cent’s Maternity Hospital, Victoria-parade, East
Melbourne.
* * * *
I wish to do photo micrography with a Leitz
400 x microscope. Would a \pt. double-exten-
sion camera with F 4.5 lens be suitable for use ?
Stopped down to small aperture, would this in
strong reflected daylight on slide stop move-
ment of rotifer at slow “snap” speeds, sav,
l-ssec. ? —5443.
Consult reference books on that branch of
photography which can be found in the Public
Library of N. S. Wales, Sydney, and in the
library of the Microscopical Society of
N. S. Wales, which meets monthly in the
Australian Museum, Sydney. Some of the
members of this society will be able to per-
sonally help you over your difficulties. In
making a photo micrograph of 400 diameters,
the lens of the microscope is used as the
camera lens. The bellows of the, ordinary
i-plate camera would not be sufficiently long
to obtain the degree of magnification indicated.
One-fifth second would not be nearly fast
enough to secure a sharp picture of the cilia
of the rotifer. To make such pictures in a
satisfactory way requires a thorough know-
ledge of the microscope and its adjustments
and can only be done after a great deal of
practical experience.
*.* * *
How did the following Q’land towns derive
their names: (1) Babinda, (2) Warwick, (3)
Townsville, (4) Hiighenden, (5) Jericho, (6)
Richmond, (7) Cairns, (8) Charters Towers, (9)
Bundaberg, (10) Cloncurry, (11) Blackall and
(12) Toowoomba ? —5419.
(1) From abo. Bunda, “a mountain” refer-
ring to Bartle Frere, on whose eastern side the
town is situated. (2) After Warwick, in Eng-
land, with which Sir Arthur Hodgson had been
associated as a boy. (2) After Captain Robert
Towns, a merchant, shipper and grazier, who
opened a branch of his firm at Townsville
shortly after a settlement had been formed
there in 1864. (4) Named by Ernest Henry (an
early pastoralist and discoverer of Cloncurry)
after Hughenden in England, the home of
Ernest Henry’s mother. (5) Named after
Jericho in Palestine. (6) Said to be named
after the Richmond River in N.S.W (7)
Named in 1876 after William Wellington
Cairns, fourth Governor of Q’land. (8) Named
by Hugh Mosman, a pioneer prospector in
North Queensland, after Mr. Charters, Gold
Commisioner and Police Magistrate in North
Queensland. The name “Towers” was
prompted by the similarity of- the country to
“the tors” of Dartmoor, England. (9) From
abo. Bunda, “a tribe”. (or leader of a tribe)
in that district, and berg, a town. (10)
Named by Burke and Wills in 1861, after
Lord Cloncurry. (11) Named after Sir
Samuel Wensley Blackall, second Governor
of Queensland. (12) This town was origi-
nally called “The Swamp,,” and some say
that the abo. name, for “The Swamp” was
Toowoomba (“water .sit down”). - It has also
been said that the blacks’ pronunciation of
“The Swamp” was “Tchwampa,” which by
easy transition became “Twamba” and “Too-
woomba.” Another authority states that the
abo. name for “The Swamp” was “Toogoom,”
and J. C. Burnett (the surveyor) probably
named it Toogoomba.
I live in N.S.W. and wish to store 1000
gallons of petrol. Are there any regulations
with which l must comply? —s444
Any person wishing to keep 1000 gallons of
petrol in N. S. Wales is required to obtain a
license under the inflammable Liquid Act,
1915-1931, and provide a depot, or depots, in
which to keep such petrol. Apply to the Ex-
plosives Department, Department of Mines,
Bridge-street, Sydney, when all necessary in-
formation will be forwarded..
* * * *
There is a window-glass - that can be seen
through as ordinary glass on one side yet the
other is obscure vision. Is it obtainable here,
and, if so, where? —s3s3. .
The glass is a semi-silvered or transparent
silvered glass, i.e., a mirror with a very light
silver coating. This glass may be used as a
partition between two rooms one more
brightly lit than the other. A person in the
darker room can see into the second room
without hindrance, while to anyone in this
lighted room the partition looks like a mirror.
This glass is used in Australia for shop-window
display purposes and may be obtained from
any manufacturer of mirrors.
* * * *
(1) / have an old book of excerpts from
Handel’s operas, each item being annotated
by a quotation from Dr. Burney. Are 1 these
likely to be from Burney’s “History of Music”?
(2) Who was Burney, and was he personally
acquainted with Handel? —5538.
(1) No. It is a defect of the History that it
gives little space to Handel and Bach. But
Burney wrote a very full appreciation of
Handel’s works in 1784, in connection with the
“Handel Commemoration,” and it is from this,
probably, that the quotations are taken. (2)
Born .1726, died 1814, composer and a doctor
of music, and above all a voluminous and
lively writer on musical subjects. In his young
manhood in .London he knew Handel well.
* * * *
/ have read that the classical composer
Dussek, in addition to being a virtuoso of the
piano, played the harmonica at his recitals.
Was this the modern mouthorgan ?— 5547.
No. The harmonica of Dussek’s day was a
development of the “musical glasses”—a set of
wineglasses containing water at various levels,
which when stroked with a wet finger gave
forth musical notes. The harmonica consisted
of a set of glass discs set on an axle above
a trough of water .so that they were wetted as
they revolved. An assistant turned the handle
while the performer drew sounds from the discs,
the varying diameters of which gave the notes
of the scale. ‘ Mozart wrote a quintet with a
harmonica part, and Beethoven composed a har-
monica solo, mostly in three-note harmonies.
* . * * #
/ am the tenant of a cottage in N.S.W. and
my neighbor’s dog persistently jumps 'over the
low dividing fence between ' the properties and
runs through our house and dirties it. What
can 1 do to prevent him ?— 5543.
You should call ■■ the attention of the dog’s
owner to the practice and ask him to restrain
the animal from trespassing on your premises
and so carrying dust through the house. The
N.S.W. Dog and Goat Act provides that “the
owner of every dog shall be liable in damages
for the injury done to any person, property or
animal by his dog.”
* ' * * *
Where and what was the Sumerian Empire ?
—5552.
The Sumerians scarcely attained to empire
dimensions. They were primitive •, inhabi-
tants of the Tigris and Euphrates valleys
(Mesopotamia) somewhere about 6500 b.c.
An agricultural people, they used irrigation,
and were rather skilful hydraulic engineers.
They built with sun-dried clay, worked
in pottery, and drew and wrote on clay tablets.
Their communities developed into city states,
which warred between themselves. They became
militarily strong Generally regarded as the
most outstanding people of the time, they de-
clined before the growth of the Semitic peoples.
Traces of their occupation * have been found
in the area mentioned.
* * * *
Best bait for Murray c0d? —5570.
They’ll bite at almost anything when hungry.
River shrimps are good, so are rabbit-meat,
bardee grubs, baked mussels, yabbie, grass-
hoppers. Choose likely spots such as deep
holes, creek entrances, mussel banks. Some-
times a handful of crushed shrimps scattered
over the water will bring the fish around. Suc-
cessful cod fishing is largely a matter of know-
ing your river.
* * * *
(1) How many goldfish can be accommo-
dated in an aquarium holding about 30 gallons
of water? (2) How often should water be
changed? (3) Best weeds to use and where
obtainable ? (4) Best feed and where obtain-
able ? (5) What is meant.-by “lack of aeration”
in an aquarium? (6) Titles of-some books on
goldfish culture?— s2ol.
(1) Under suitable conditions an aquarium
will maintain 1 in. of goldfish to each gallon of
water. An aquarium containing 30 gallons
should therefore maintain, say, 15 fish 2in. lonlg
or 10 fish 3in. long. (2) If the aquarium is
well stocked with aquatic plants,'a? it should
be, the water ' should . never require to be
changed. (3) Vallisneria, Ariacharis- and Sagit-
taria. Obtainable at all aquarium dealers.
(4) Best food is chopped-up earthworms or
mosquito larva:. Good prepared foods may be
obtained from dealers in aquarium supplies.
(5) If an aquarium is overstocked with fish
the amount of oxygen necessary for their
breathing requirements will be insufficient.
Oxygen is absorbed from the air at the sur-
face of the water and it is given off from
aquatic plants. (6) Innes’s Goldfish Varieties
and Tropical Aquarium Fishes, Hodge and
Derham’s Goldfish Culture for Amateurs and
Roughley’s Cult of the Goldfish. The last-
named is out of print, but it may be con-
sulted in the Public Library.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. place-name “Cargo”?—
5487.
Brief Answers.
R.L.0.: For a clear finish, on a horse float
a hard-drying carriage varnish , cut with tur-
pentine (proportion 10 p.c.) is recommended.
This should be overfinished with two coats of
a first-class carriage varnish. .Instructions
covering priming, undercoating and, finishing
have been posted... .M.A.K. : Steam trams
ceased to operate regular services in Elizabeth-
.street, Sydney, on August, 7, 1905.. Steam
trams, however, were used' to supplement the
electric tram services to Randwick racecourse
and sports grounds up till. September TO, 1910.
, .... J.H.H.: Sydney Technical College states
that the value given by Hiscox for the velocity
of air at 60F. flowing into a vacuum is theo-
retically correct, being based on Bernoulli’s
theorem for the flow of fluids. Actual values
of the velocity depend upon the temperature,
the obstruction presented to the flow by.visco-
sity and the nature of the orifice....
S.W.: :Write R.5.5.1.L.A., Anzac Memorial,
Hyde Park, Sydney....E.M.: Suggest that you
• communicate with ■ the various shipping cos.
in Melbourne... .W.C.: • (1) Any ‘reader can
forward paragraphs' to the “Aboriginalities”
page. (2) To the Editor K.V.G.: Cellulose
acetate is'an ester of' cellulose and acetic acid,
used widely in the manufacture, of safety cine
.film, rayon, lacquers and safety glass. Special
home recording discs, are made by moulding
this material under a pressure of approximately
half a ton per square inch. Such records are
obtainable from most gramophone and radio
dealers and they are, manufactured in Vic. by
the Universal " Recording Co.' of 74 King-
street, Melbourne... iS.H.D.: Diet seems to be
quite suitable. If you are near a doctor, an
injection of morphine or of adrenalin will relieve
the attacks. A useful mixture is iodide of
potash 10 grains, potassium bromide 5 grains,
tincture of lobelia 10 minims, spirits of chloro-
form 5 minims, infusion of senega Toz. One
tablespoon in water every four hours C.S.:
Clean the internal walls of the tank and apply
a cement render Tin. thick, consisting of
cement mortar comprising three parts sand, one
part cement. The render should cover the
floor, as well as the walls, and should be
filleted where the walls join the floor, to give
a greater thickness at this point... .A.A.: (1)
The leading newspapers in Java.are: “Batavia-
asch Nieuwsblad,” “Java Bode” and “Nieuws
van den Dag,” all three in Batavia; “Loco-
motief,” Semarang; “Algemeen Indisch Dag-
blad,” Bandoeng; and “Soerabaiaasch Handels-
blad," Soerabaya. (2) The name of a statistical
handbook concerning the produce and produc-
tion of Java is: De Landbouw Export Gewas-
sen van Ned. Indie and is obtainable from the
Central Bureau of Statistics, Batavia J.T.:
From the description given it appears that too
much pressure is being put into the stove, thus
causing the flame "to rise above the burner.
If "you will lessen the pressure, you should
have no further difficulty W.T.: The Red
Cross Society is asking for donations of warm
clothing, men’s, women’s or children’s (new),
for distribution to Polish refugees and interned
Polish soldiers. Donations should be addressed
to the Hon. Director, Red Cross Store, Martin-
place and Phillip-street, Sydney G.R.S.: No
statistics bearing on this point have been
collected, but the deathrate has not increased
of recent years L.A.D.: The preparation
known as Ingram’s Shaving Cream, manufac-
tured by the Bristol-Myers Co., Sydney, •is
stated to have a very soothing effect....
K.T.R.: Wholemeal bread, because of the
relatively large woody cellulose in the husk, is
more difficult of absorption; the cellulose pre-
vents the access of the digestive juices to the
nutritive ingredients. The indigestible residues
are also said to undergo fermentation, with the
production of acids. It also interferes some-
what with the absorption of other foods; milk,
for example. It is often : stated that wholemeal
■is preferable to white bread because of its
greater content of protein and mineral matter;
but its lesser absorption tends to annul this
advantage. Wholemeal bread is richer in
vitamins A, B 1 and 82, but in the case of
persons living on a good mixed diet these
advantages are not of much importance....
M.8.G.: (1) No instantaneous cure for a cold.
(2) Such a method would be impracticable, as
the whole of the upper part of the respiratory
tract is affected. (3) Various sedative drugs
(barbitone, veramon and others) are given with
benefit, but must be prescribed by a doctor.
(4) The only drugs which seem to have any
effect in cutting short these infections are those
of the sulphanilamide group, given under medi-
cal supervision. Routine use of catarrhal vac-
.cines seems also to decrease the frequency of
attacks. Inhalations relieve the congestion of
, the inflamed mucous membranes, but are not
‘ curative F.J.W.: There is an agency in the
town mentioned which is giving satisfactory
service to the newspaper offices. There would
be no possibility of obtaining an agency in the
town unless you purchased the existing agency.
-The paper offices generally recognise the block
system,, and for this.'reason none would care
to break away from the; main agency, par-
ticularly in view of the. fact that goodwill value
is I attached to it.. . .A.8.L.: Yes, they were
.presumably-cut-out of some paper and pasted
on.. Modernists call this .form of artistic ex-
pression .“right feeling”.. . .D.P.: The next
edition of Who’s ■ Who in Australia will be
published at the-end of next year at 215., with
a special subscription rate of 17s. 6d. for
orders placed prior to publication L.C.D.:
Any music publisher will be pleased to re-
view the manuscripts and pass an opinion as
to their merits. There is little likelihood, how-
ever, of them being published at present....
A.H.H.: You would have to pay for the
damage done. If your trees are a source of
danger to the property of the adjoining owner
you should cut them down to a non-danger
point if you wish to avoid an action for trespass
and consequent damages M.R.: Communi- .
cate with the Avicultural Section of the Royal
Zoological Society of N.S.W., Bull’s Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney... .J.M.C.: There is no
provision in the Australian Soldiers’ Repatria-
tion Act for payment of war pensions or
service pensions to ex-soldiers whose war service
was confined to the South African (Boer) War.
A.J.O.: Approach either the Australian In-
stitute of Industrial Psychology, 12 O’Connell-
street, Sydney, or the Child Guidance Clinic
of the Child Welfare Department, Education
Building, Bridge-street, Sydney. Both of these
institutions have psychologists in charge who
are competent to give advice. Send a full and
clear statement of the facts, since such cases
are usually dealt with after investigation of
the child, the parents and the general situation.


HTS
LYS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
5/3'
wp? u *• v< -V \
.:**
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool at Half a Crown!
“Ghanam”: From now till the end
of the war Britain has the right to
buy the whole of our wool at 13.4375 d.
Australian —or less if exchange flops
the right to take half the profit on resales,
and the right to keep all the profit till
the end of the war.
Britain is negotiating the sale of Aus-
tralian and M.L. wool to Canada, U.S.A.
and Japan, as well as friendly Continen-
tal countries. It is not being done very
successfully, and muddle and delay are
provoking severe criticism in London.
Canada’s Government has fixed the
price of wool at 45 cents equal to
2s. 6d. a pound Australian, so that
Britain’s commission on sales to Canada
of Australian wool would be 8.3 d. per
pound, less Britain’s half of the expenses.
Britain gets its price at once ; the Aus-
tralian grower will wait till the war is
over.
In regard to U.S.A. sales the position
is worse. The price there is 54 cents —
equal to 3s. 4id. Australian. On that
lot Britain will make 13fd. profit less
its share of expenses.
Australia has all facilities for selling
the wool highly developed. South
Africa would appear to have shown
sense in staying out of the plan.
Classing for Appraisement.
“Murrawong”: To obtain the full
benefit of the appraisement scheme wool
should be “sorted” rather than “classed.”
When classing for market a few growers,
eager for fancy prices, do not mind their
clip being cut up in small, even parcels;
the majority, however, want as much
AAA as possible—and not too much in
pieces. Under the appraisement scheme
over 1500 different types have been
catered for, and there is no competition
because there is only one buyer.
The appraiser’s job is to mark in his
catalogue the type to which he considers
each lot belongs and its yield. With so
many types the difficulty is evident where
a line of wool has been broadly or badly
classed or where widely-separated types
are included in one bale. The appraiser
will always tend to understate his price
on any lines that cannot easily be defined.
To get the best average for a clip, it
must be prepared in more even lines.
The demand is just as great for a four-
bale lot as for one of 40 bales. The first
difficulty the classer is up against is lack
of bins. At least six extra bins should be
provided in every shearing shed before
next season. Length and spinning quality
must be kept to strictly even standards
within each line. Variation in the per-
centage of burr, dust and yield will each
and all raise doubt in the appraiser’s
mind.
The wool committee should prepare a
series of standard types for the informa-
tion of woolclassers and graziers. Classers
should be shown the margins between
types and how a slight difference in
length, style or percentage of burr may
put a lot of wool into another type which
may mean a difference of id. to Id.
per lb.
Keepit and Wyangala.
“O.T.’V N. S. Wales Premier Mair
told a Gunnedah crowd that work would
begin on the Keepit dam, estimated to
cost £1,500,000, in a month’s time. He
drew an entrancing picture of water
supply for 10,000,000 acres, and men-
tioned establishment of a paper-pulp in-
dustry in the Pilliga.
It is nearly 11 years since a former
Premier (Bavin) blew out the side of a
mountain in the Abercrombies and
launched the construction of Wyangala, a
dam that was going to do much more for
the State than is planned for Keepit.
Wyangala cost £1,215,000.
There was a migration agreement with
Britain in which £34,000,000 was in-
volved. Under this N.S.W. got the
“ Cripes, sergeant, e must've melted .”
money for Wyangala, and in return for
every £75 was to settle in the State an
assisted British immigrant. This was to
be done within ten years of 1925. Cost
of Wyangala represents, on that basis,
over 18,000 migrants. Where are they?
Wyangala was to provide water for
1,357,000 acres, and with the subsidiary
Hillstori-Roto railway, which cost about
£650,000, was to open up vast tracts to
eager settlers. It was to put mixed
farmers on 850,000 acres along the Con-
dobolin-Broken Hill railway alone. It
was to supply hydro-electric power for
the surrounding district and link up with
the Burrenjuck scheme. A great vision
of thriving farms and growing towns
along the Lachlan Valley was dangled
before the eyes of the public.
Today Wyangala stands as a lonely
monument to ineptitude. The country it
was to serve is little different from that
of 10 years ago. Cowra, Forbes, Con-
dobolin and Hillston have remained in
a state of stagnation. Wyangala is for-
gotten, the site even lonelier than when
Bavin fired the dynamite.
It is time State Governments learned
to finish one job before starting another.
The land along the western Lachlan is
practically uninhabited. There has been
no closer settlement. It is nearly five
years since Wyangala was completed, and
it has not added a bushel of wheat, an
export lamb, a bale of wool or a truss
of lucerne to the production of the cen-
tral-west. Nor is it likely to, unless a
miracle happens.
Congested Silos.
“8.C.”: Except in the south, the
N.S.W. wheat harvest this year is above
normal—it is all coming in together.
This, along with the absence of ship-
ping to lift early cargoes and relieve
congestion in terminal silos, has resulted
in serious hold-ups at country centres as
silo after silo was filled. A shortage of
bags—since somewhat corrected by the
arrival of shipments from India, whose
jute industry was hard pressed by de-
mands for sandbags from Europe —made
it difficult to hold wheat on farms, and
the ban on stacking sites at country sid-
ings added further to the hold-up.
Stacking sites are to be supplied in
certain areas, and sheds hitherto used
for bags will be converted into bulk
containers. A score of bulk-handling
sheds are to be run up. Nobody can
produce ships out of a hat, and the pro-
vision of more bulk trucks will not re-
lieve the congestion. At the same time
the Minister for Agriculture might ex-
plain why, in view of the known harvest
and shortage of both bags and shipping,
arrangements to handle the wheat were
left to the last minute. There was plenty
of time to make preparations. Nobody
wants a- repetition of the 1914-18 wheat
muddle, when huge stacks of bags in
various parts of the State suffered from
mice and weather, and millions of bushels
were lost.
A Large-scale Piggery.
“Yeno Ham”: On a 58-acre farm at
Penrith (N.S.W.) G. F. Shirley runs 140
Canadian Berkshire breeding sows, half
a dozen boars (most of them imported),
23 A.I.S. cattle and a flock of poultry.
He employs four men, providing a cot-
tage and half-acre of land for the per-
sonal use of each.
The first man to breed Canadian Berk-
shires in N.S.W., Shirley established the
herd four years ago. Early maturity has
been achieved mainly by selection of
breeding sows with good udder develop-
ment, capacity for high milk yields and
at least 14 teats. After a couple of
generations, with 16-teated sows, Shirley
found that he was breeding pigs with
16 ribs per side. The extra ribs give an
additional 3iin. in the length of middles,
which means more profit to the producer.
Until a sow is on the point of farrow-
ing, when she goes into a special “mater-
nity section” of the piggery, she spends
most of her life in the open. Portable
houses, mounted on skids to facilitate
transport, are used in the 46 grazing pad-
docks, where pastures (mainly Kikuyu
grass), wheat, oats, millet, barley, corn,
tares, grey field peas and lucerne are
grown for grazing, green feed and hay.
Last winter 11 acres of artichokes
maintained 45 sows for five months, and
they came off the crop in excellent con-
dition. The pigs do their own harvest-
ing, and leave enough artichoke tubers
for the following season’s crop.
Feed troughs are concrete (with a plug
in the bottom for easy cleansing) set on
concrete platforms, with a water tap
above each.
Strangles,
«j Rankine”: Strangles in horses is
widespread. The gathering of prads in
military camps may have had something
to do with the spreading. Strangles
attacks young horses chiefly; older
horses appear to develop immunity, or
suffer only mild attacks.
Early symptoms are a tendency to
sluggishness and fever, and the animal
goes off its feed. There is a discharge
from the nostrils and eyes, thin at first,
but soon becoming thick and yellowish.
Swellings in the glands under the jaws
grow until they burst,
Isolate affected horses immediately in
a small paddock. Strangles is highly
contagious and if precautions are not
taken at once it will spread through all
the young horses on the place.
sick animals may be kept in “ stable
but on no account should they be tied
up with a halter. All gear, feeding and
watering utensils should be thoroughly


BE COOLTHIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
18 m
PER PAIR
e
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They’re serviceable and comfortable;
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long-time wear.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
I SL
/ /
«S
//
m
0 The army's problem was HUTS ... efficient, weather-resisting, hygienic
huts. The answer came in terms of 3/16" Masonite Tempered Presdwood.
The picture shows how this grainless, steel-strong easily-worked board is
being used, unpainted, for the construction of demountable huts . . . huts
measuring 60' x 18' with interchangeable panels for roofs, walls and
windows . . . fastened with nuts and bolts only.
yOU will find that Masonite can solve your building problems. For
easily-erected and inexpensive "week-enders" and garages, for modernisation
work around your home, and for building furniture, etc., Masonite boards
are ideal.
[For increased comfort both in Summer and Winter—for increased quiet ness— fori
increased re-sale and rental values, insulate with CANE-ITE structural insulation. J
ZTMH
w
PRESDWOOD : TEMPERED PRESDWDQD : TEMPRTILE : QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
f*IE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney . . • Melbourne . . . Brisbane . . . Adelaide . . . Perth MAS 3-9.
ffurfy'allefzM'
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed
SOLD E y
M. A. Rose & Co. pi
Eyes and Eyelids
rERYWHERE
yjJLtdjjJKm^^StjSydney
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 21 /_
Superfine steel, ivory handle ..•••_•
ALL POST FREE
Guard to convert the Plum into
3/6 extra. Fits # and £ blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
12/6
15/6
a safety razor,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
disinfected and the stable should be well
cleaned out and disinfected before other
horses use it again. The discharge from
nostrils and abscesses is the chief medium
of infection. Horses with strangles
should not be watered at a place that
other horses use.
Treatment is chiefly aimed at bringing
the swellings to a head, as after the
abscesses burst the pain subsides and
the horse begins to pick up. Hot
fomentations are good, and when the
swelling shows signs of coming to a
head a blister may be applied. Rub .in
a little turps gently but confine its appli-
cation to a spot no larger than a two-
shilling piece. On no account should
an abscess be opened surgically until it
is ripe.
Relief may be afforded by making the
animal inhale from a nosebag containing
a hot bran mash laced with eucalyptus
or other strong inhalant. When the
abscesses open, squeeze out the pus and
syringe the cavity with lysol or dettol
broken down with warm water. Don’t
let wounds close until drainage is com-
plete.
In some cases the abscesses may burst
inwards and cause complications if the
horse draws the seepage back into the
lungs. Sometimes swellings compress
the windpipe and almost suffocate the
animal. Even a mild attack of strangles
will pull a horse down in condition. Put
the horse on soft green feed while sick
or recovering. Above all, don’t work
a horse suspected of strangles.
Fairly good results are being obtained
with strangles vaccine. The Cost is reason-
able and the vaccine can be administered
by anyone who can use a hypodermic.
It should be given under the horse’s skin
—the neck is handiest. The same vaccine
serves for treatment and prevention.
Several doses are necessary, and if treat-
ment is begun in time will minimise
the severity of the attack in affected
animals. Preventive treatment will stop
the spread of the disease among other
horses on the property.
Give Sub. Clover a Chance.
“R. Ney”: Many who try sub. clover
blame the land or the plant when it fails
to come up to expectations. Frequently
the real cause is bad management in
early stages of growth.
Given a chance to spread, sub. clover
will take heavy grazing well, but if
grazed severely soon after its appearance
it cannot develop runners. Where sub.
is introduced into a paddock without
other clover association, stock will con-
centrate on it, thus retarding spread.
It is a mistake, too, to broadcast sub.
clover seed in only one or two sections
of the paddock and then expect it to
spread over the whole within a year or
two. It should be scattered over the
whole area, with the necessary super, to
help it along. In successive years further
applications of super, will do wonders,
provided the stock is not allowed to
flog the clover to death.
Burning Off.
“B.”: Where the short-fallow system
is followed, stubble should be burnt as
soon as the wheat is off; then put the
plough into the ground. These areas
generally get good summer rains, and
ground must be in a condition to receive
and hold them so that, with one or two
more workings, the seedbed is right when
sowing time comes in March or April.
Stubble-burning at this time of year is
dangerous unless care is taken. There
should be a firebreak around the crop
paddock, and it will be widened by the
reaper-and-binder cutting close to the
ground for header tracks. A quick run
round the binder track with a disc will
help.
Choose a still evening when there is
no sign of storm or rising wind. Burn-
ing by night has the advantage of allow-
ing you quickly to mark sparks and small
flames. The air is fresher and smoke
thus rises higher; fire burns much more
rapidly in the night and the burn is soon
over. If large areas are to be burned
it is best to get your neighbors to form
a small working bee, burning off each
man’s paddocks in turn.
See that ample beaters are available,
the water-cart is handy and preparations
and weather conditions leave no loop-
hole for the fire to escape. If you must
burn in a breeze, light your fire so it
will burn against the wind.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nip”: When turnips have been grazed
down to below ground level by sheep,
cultivate the land so as to turn up the
uneaten portions.
“R. Ney”: A dugout well away from
any buildings and roofed with galvanised-
iron is the best place to store fuel oil
or other inflammable stuff. If it does go
up it can’t do much damage.
“Tracechain”: For that abrasion slow
to heal on horses make up a mixture of
two tablespoons of olive oil, a teaspoon
of iodine, 10 drops of lysol and enough
Stockholm tar, about a teaspoon, to bind
the other ingredients together. Paint with
a clean feather.
“Mullengah”: Give cows dry fodder
before they are put into paddocks
where clover growth is heavy: it helps
to prevent bloat or hoven. Keep them
from water for an hour or so after they
are taken out of the clover. Graze the
herd on clovers immediately after milk-
ing to avoid feed flavors in milk and
cream.
“Gumeracha”: Try this for scouring
in calves. Mix two heaped tablespoons of
ordinary flour into a thick paste with
cold water. Gradually add boiling water,
stirring briskly all the time until paste
resembles a thin starch solution. If calf
is not too bad, the paste can be diluted
with boiling milk instead of water.
Administer while still warm. One or two
doses usually clean up the trouble.
“Bundalinga”: Cattle are subject to
foul in the foot when claw toes are ex-
cessively long. Clip the toes to prevent
formation of pus caused by overlapping.
Remove dead tissue by pulling a piece of
rough rope gently backwards and for-
wards through the cleft. Wash the feet
thoroughly, preferably with a hose. Apply
equal parts of tincture of iodine and
spirit of tar with a piece of frayed rope.
If the trouble is very bad, stand the feet
in a trough or bath containing a fluid of
lib. of bluestone and lib. of sulphate of
zinc in 6gal. of water for three or four
hours daily, two days running. Then
keep the parts dressed with Stockholm
tar.
“Yeno Ham”: Animal droppings pro-
vide the best manure for improving soil
fertility on second-class coastal country.
Use of lOcwt. of ground carbonate of
lime per acre every three years will give
good results. When sowing pastures use
lcwt. to 2cwt. of super., plus 601 b. of
sulphate of ammonia per acre. Apply
the same amount of super, each autumn
following. Use 601 b. of sulphate of am-
monia per acre in July or August each
year until a strong sward of clovers is
built up to provide a natural supply of
nitrogen ; it will provide feed when it is
urgently required—in late winter and
early spring.
“Tryana”: Fat-lamb trucking in lower
south-east S.A. will shortly reach its peak.
In four days recently 15,660 lambs left
Mt. Gambier by rail for Victorian freez-
ing works, and in the first 17 days of
November the total number trucked was
38,730. Seasonal conditions have been
particularly favorable for lamb produc-
tion. Ewes have been well provided for
since last summer, and lambs received no
setbacks since marking. Some of the
best drafts are averaging 31b. a head
heavier than last year, and skin values
are higher. Growers are obtaining about
20s. a head, an increase of Is. 6d. on
1938 prices. Returns should aggregate
about £lOO,OOO this season. The railways
are handling 90 per cent, of all consign-
ments.
“Roana”: A. G. Nitschke, of Millicent
(S.A.), lost a yearling colt. A post-
mortem examination revealed all the
symptoms of pulpy kidney. The kidneys
were greatly enlarged and inflamed and
a small quantity of yellow fluid was
present. For some days before death
there was stiffness, first in the hind legs,
then in all four legs. During the final
three days the animal was very
“dopey” and in great pain. A yearling
draught colt was lost by Nitschke in
a similar manner last year. No other
farmers in the district have had any
losses. Previous foals, raised on less
luscious pastures, are quite healthy.
“C. Ess”: J. J. Mazzocchi, of Culcairn
(N.S.W.), who is working a lease of 1710
acres, gives his actual cost of wheat pro-
duction at 2s. Id. a bushel, and is satis-
fied with a return of 3s. He keeps com-
plete costing accounts, and bases his
figures on an average annual return of
10 bags an acre —high when compared
with the State average of slightly over
four bags. Mazzacchi grows lambs for
export, turns off vealers from a herd of
30 cows —they averaged £9 a head last
year —and latterly introduced pigs.


e
£
Q
V
m
m
mm m
Wmmm
m
w
m
\0
ce
v>t°
a 0
eQ v
S*>
tYve
CD>
fci*
i
\e^
t£V e
0&
££V
CP
6
m
<iw
&
m
\A
\>
cP
JpV e
<\ev*
rtp
v*
vO*
■yjP
tt*
9l 6
ito^
Ov
there
ah
no
Se n c
e *eu s
Off.
fo
amil
odak
the
71 n
°We 5
f «ar
Qn
t/je
«30v
reach
Ptctur,
r^aker
°t all
Pull
Rod
the
a cht
c oIo Ur
o me.
to 0
with
rices
011 3
c#|/|p
«
j //V’ & •*
VVv «*
c *«"
V
M
M *°3*
rt \o^P
?^ e v*. ■
t>V^oiO
FREE!
Post Coupon for
( ) Kodak Film
Snapshot Guide
( ) Kodak Gift Booklet
Name
Address
Give a
KODAK
the
Christmas Gift
that always
€€
clicks
99
Folding-style Kodaks, from .... 12'6, 28'6
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville, Rockhampton,
Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.
get used to it in a week,” he said. “An’
nowadays it’s safer than houses and as
healthy as it is on top. Your old man
an’ me ’ve been in the mines since we
were kids, an’ we’re as fit as we ever
were.”
“I won’t be there for good,” I said.
“I’m studying to be an electrical
engineer.”
I wish I’d never said that. It made
me feel I was better than Tom, and
afterwards I found out that it was the
same with all the other chaps I knew
underground. I suppose a man likes to
feel that he knows more than the next
chap, and when he finds he can do it
by saying a few words he gets into the
habit and convinces himself that he’s
getting somewhere without doing any-
thing about it.
There were a lot of chaps in the
change-room when we arrived, and I kept
close to Tom as he took me along to an
empty hanger. “Sling your duds over
that an’ pull ’em up out of the way,”
he said. He told me to put my boots
under the shower to make them soft and
then took me out to the office and told
the shift-boss who I was. The shift-
boss gave me a lamp and a plod and
said that if I was half as good as my
old man I’d do. That set me thinking,
and I asked Tom if my father was a
good miner. He said “Best machine-
man on the fields.” I couldn’t imagine
the Old Man being much good at any-
thing except drinking, but I found out
afterwards that the biggest ratbag and
least respected man on the surface can
be the best miner and most respected
man underground.
We walked over to the shaft mouth
where the men were sitting around
smoking and talking and fiddling with
their lamps. Tom told some of them
I was old Bill Westlake’s youngster and
I didn’t feel too bad. I squatted on my
haunches like the rest of them, trying
to appear as though I knew what they
were talking about and t waiting for a
chance to say something for myself.
The whistle blew before I had a chance
to say anything, and Tom said, “Here
we go.” The cage rattled to the surface
and four miners covered with mud and
oil stepped out and hurried over to the
change-room. They yelled “Hullo” to
us nightshift as they went, and Tom
shouted back as he steered me into
the cage. “Put your arm over the rail
in the middle and stand up straight,”
he said. “Keep your elbows in.” The
cage only took four men at a time and
it had no sides; if any part of you
stuck out and hit the timbering as you
went down—well, there’d be a shambles
in the cage.
We packed in close enough to feel
each other’s breath, and the shift-boss
closed the gates and pulled the signal
cord. A bell rang in the winding-house
and the motors whined and the cage fell
away. I was scared stiff, and my stomach
had tied itself into a knot. It seemed
that the cage was just falling right
through the earth without any control.
I saw the lights of the different levels
flash upwards, and heard the cage in the
other shaft rattle past on its way to the
surface and the men in it yell to us.
Tom yelled back again, but I was too
scared to open my mouth, and when our
cage stoped at nine hundred feet I was
shaking so much I could hardly step out
on to the plat.
It was warm on the level, and there
was a smell of sweat and fracteur fumes.
Some of the afternoon shift were wait-
ing to go up, and we pushed through
them to the mouth of the drive. It slid
away into blackness with the air pipes
and truck rails gleaming in the light
from the plat until they, too, were swal-
lowed up in the shadows. Tom showed
me how to light my lamp and how to
hold it so that it wouldn’t swing round
and burn my wrist, and then he led the
way along the drive. Our feet slipped
and squelched in the slush, and we
twisted and turned and doubled back on
our tracks. At last Tom stopped, and
when I came up with him he said: “Up
this way,” and disappeared up a man-
hole.
I followed, and clambered up the
ladder into the stope, and as soon as I
was in there I wanted to get out again.
My shadow was big and frightening on
the wall, and the end of the stope that
showed by my lamp seemed to be lean-
ing and hanging and likely to fall and
crush me at any moment. I could see
a maze of timber holding up the back,
and the other end of the stope yawned
away into blackness.
Tom walked over to sort drills and
parts of a machine, and because I was
scared that the darkness would suddenly
reach in and cut him off from me I kept
close to him.
He seemed surprised until he realised
that I’d never been down before. “Grab
a banjo,” he said. “And clear a space
for me to rig a machine in that corner.”
I picked up a shovel and started scrap-
ing and digging at the pile of ore, but I
didn’t do much good until Tom came
over and said: “The first thing you’d
better learn is how to swing a banjo.”
He showed me how to hold the shovel
with the blade flat at the foot of the
heap of earth and then push in with my
knee. I tried again. I moved more earth,
but it made my shoulders ache, and
scraped the back of my hand where it
rubbed against my knee. When I’d
cleared enough earth away I sweated
and grunted, helping Tom rig his
machine, and then I went back to sling-
ing ore down a chute.
In an hour I could feel every bone in
my body and my hands were raw. I
wanted to get away from the clatter of
Tom’s machine and lie down to sleep, but
the truckers were at the chute, and every
time I stopped for a spell they’d be yell-
ing out for more dirt.
At crib time I went down to the level
with Tom and the truckers and ate my
crib. My flannel and pants were soaked
with sweat and filled with grit, and they
got cold and rough while I was sitting
down. My hands were too sore to touch
anything, and I was feeling pretty sorry
for myself.
Tom saw how I felt and left the other
chaps to talk to me. “Keep your pecker
up,” he said. “It’s always tough going
for the first week.” And then he told
me how one bogger he’d had had gone
up the shaft after the first couple of
hours, and how another had slung his
shovel down a chute and bawled like a
kid. “But you’re doing all right,” he
said. “You stick with me an’ I’ll get
you on a machine in six months. You’ll
be as good as your old man some day.”
That made me feel a bit better, and
I went back up the stope to my shovel,
thinking that at least I’d pull my weight
until I was able to get away from under-
ground to a decent job on top. But when
knock-off time came I was worse than
ever. I stumbled down behind Tom to
the plat and went to the surface and
then dragged myself across to the change-
room.
The change-room was steamy and
warm, and the men were running about
stripped and singing and shouting and
acting the goat. I was tired and miser-
able, and I was glad to get away from
the men and their noise. Walking home
all I could think of was how soon I’d


cJLc ©| SuAp/uses
(rteucfs \<JMA Str
It is such fun to find something quite out-of-the-ordinary and at the
same time so suitable for the purpose for which you require it.
Originality gives an added charm to a Gift and among the host of
Xmas Novelties at PROUDS you may be certain of finding just
the very thing. Country readers please write for catalogue.
■in
—»
ilSElal
55
;& !H tB
mm
■
m
m&
' /•' . ••■vl .v.vi*
mm
Mobile wine cabinet in choice burr
walnut . . . highest quality crafts-
manship . . . Top and front when
opened expose a generous cellar-
ette space for li doz. glasses i . .
33in. wide, 29in. high, lSiin. deep.
£26/5/-. Glasses: Cocktail 5/-,
Whisky 4/6 each.
Below: Beautifully made spirit
cask Memel Oak with copper
hoops on stand with 4 copper ball
feet. 9i inches high 65/-
“A world of light.” This highly ornamental
Library Lamp glowing with soft radiance pro-
vides at the same time a veritable fountain of
information. The globe has a diameter of 12
inches —complete with fittings 99/6
Plain Globes on stands from 12/6 each.
Enquiries invited.
At right: “La Danse.” This bronze and ivory
figure is a splendid example of the work of
Menneville the French sculptor and exhibitor at
the Paris Salon. The draperies are in Greek
green picked out in gold, the face and hands in
natural ivory finish, eyes, lips, fingers in life-
like colours. The figure standing on base of
green granite stands 17ins. high .. £lO/10/-
Other fine bronze figures: £6/6/-, £lO/10/-,
£l5/15/- and £l3/13/-.
Air conditioned for your comfort
PBOUDS&Ti
CORNER OF KING £ PITT V STREETS, SYDNEY
LTD.
0?
Table Lamp . . . Nautical design
. . . steering wheel switches light
on or off. Finished in highly
polished brass on a heavy block
clinth. The shade is hand painted.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE.
THE
Company Limited
Established 1849
( Incorporated in Victoria.)
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
HEAD OFFICE:
44-46 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
reach my bed, and as soon as I got there
I fell into it and forgot everything until
tea-time.
I WAS big for my age, and I’d always
1 thought I was pretty solid and hard,
but after a few days underground every
part of me was stiff, and the hair and
skin had gone from the back of my hand
where it rubbed against my knee when I
was shovelling. The blisters on my hands
broke and came again, and then broke
again and bled when I gripped the handle
of a shovel.
I didn’t go up to the power-house or
to the library for the first fortnight. When
I told myself that I should go, I’d sit
down to make up my mind, and then
I’d go to sleep or feel too tired and stiff
to get up again. Once or twice I opened
my books, but it wasn’t any use trying
to study when some part of me ached
every time I moved. But when pay-
day came round I was beginning to
feel better. The soreness was wearing
off, and my hands were harder, and the
two five-pound notes I had in my pocket
were more than I’d ever thought of. I
gave Ma a fiver and walked up town.
I bought a soft silk shirt, and it was
good to push money across the counter
and know I had plenty more in my
pocket. Then I had a glass of lemonade
and sat on a stool in the tearooms think-
ing about some new clothes and a silver
pencil and fountain-pen I’d always
wanted. I’d be able to get them after a
few pay-days, and some other things, too.
It’d be easier to go to work on a push-
bike, like most of the chaps did, and it’d
be useful for getting up to the power-
house now that I had less spare time. 1
reckoned if I had the things I needed it’d
be easier to study.
The world didn’t seem too bad, and
I wanted company. I could’ve gone to
the library, but I didn’t feel like talking
to Miss Saunders —I wanted to be with
chaps who had money to spend and
show them that I could do the same, so
I was pleased when Stew came in. He
was looking for someone, but when he
saw me he stayed and sat down beside
me. “They tell me y’re workin’ below
now,” he said.
I didn’t want him to think that I’d had
to go underground. “Yair,” I said easily.
“Thought I might as well earn a bit of
cash while I’m studying.”
“Still after that staff job?” Stew asked.
“Sure,” I said. “Underground’s all
right, but there’s no sense sticking there
all your life.”
“Good idea,” said Stew. “No use
sloggin’ your guts out. I’m thinkin’ of
gettin’ out myself.”
We had another drink and talked about
miners and mining, though neither of us
knew much about either of them. I just
repeated what I’d heard Tom or the Old
Man say, and I suppose Stew did the
same. Presently he said, “I’m sorry about
that row we had a while back. When y’
get a bit more sense y’ laugh at the silly
damn’ things y’ did when y’ were a
kid.”
I agreed with him and said I’d for-
gotten all about it, and we went out and
stood on the corner for a while. We
smoked and yarned and kidded ourselves
we’d grown old in twelve months.
T DIDN’T feel too bad about going to
1 work when I knew a few of the chaps,
Some I’d met up with again were on my
shift, and we walked up to the change-
room together and fooled about with
each other’s clothes while we were chang-
ing. We went down in the same cage,
and we came up together arv talked
about what we’d do after work. You
can have a lot of fun with a mob be-
cause you haven’t much time to think
or worry about what other people are
thinking.
I kept talking as though I was still
studying, but I wasn’t. Sometimes when
I wanted to convince the mob and my-
self that I was, and sometimes when I
was broke I’d go up to the power-house
or to the library and stay there for a few
hours. But I generally found myself
wondering what the mob were doing,
and if I did learn anything it would only
be something that’d help me show off
in front of them.
Since she’d seen me running about
with the mob Miss Saunders had cooled
oft’, and Andy didn’t seem so anxious to
help me. At first he used to ask me
what I was doing with my spare time
and I’d avoid answering or tell him I’d
been working at home. After a while
he didn’t even ask questions, and was
generally busy somewhere else when l
was looking for him.
Sometimes I told myself that I’d show
them all before I was through, but I
knew that I wouldn’t. I’d make up my
mind to drop the mob and give all my
time to studying, and then I’d think that
one more night at the pool-room wouldn’t
do any harm, and after a while I gave
up worrying about it.
| MIGHT have dropped the mob and
i me back to Andy and the power-
..juse if Number Five stope hadn’t
caved in.
Some of us young chaps had
started drinking. At first we’d take a
couple of bottles to some out-of-the-way
place and kid ourselves that we met there
because it was comfortable or convenient.
Then we started sneaking into the pub
when there weren’t many people about,
and soon it didn’t matter who saw us.
At first we just drank to show off, but
we soon got used to beer, and found it
was the best thing to take the taste of
underground out of our throats.
Coming out of the pub one night I
almost fell over Andy. A couple of
cobbers were with me, and I’d talked
about Andy so much in front of them
that I had to say something to him.
“Hullo there, Andy,” I said. “I’ll be up
at the power-house tomorrow to see how
things are going.”
It was the first time I’d ever called
him “Andy” to his face, and he was
blazing wild. He could see I was a bit
drank, and he didn’t like booze a
didn’t like the underground mob.
be there,” he said loud enough for ey er 3£
one to hear. “And I keep all drunks oft
the premises. And if you stlU , want a joo
there you 11 quit boozing an P
mob you’re with.”
Andy turned and walked on down e
street, and I laughed as easily as I could,
“He gets like that sometimes, I said,
“But he’s all right when you know him.
But I knew Andy was all right at any
time, and I left my cobbers at the corner
and walked home on my own. I could
see I was slipping, and felt that I’d made
a mess of things, so I reckoned I’d go up
to the power-house tomorrow and tell
Andy I was sorry, and ask him to give
me another chance.
When I got up next morning I d made
up my mind to see Andy after work, but
that was the day Number Five came in.
it was a bad stope, and there were two
timbermen working there besides Tom
Hill and myself. A rain of rubble patter-
j ng down beside me made me look up,
and I saw two great slabs of quartz slip-
ping and grinding on each other. I
yelled “Fall” and bolted for the other
end of the stope. As I ran I bumped
one of the timbermen, and when I turned
round he was half on his feet staring up-
wards. He mouthed a scream, but I never
heard it because fifty tons of earth falling
on him made more noise,
The other timberman was beside me,
and j wondered if he’d seen what hap-
pened, but he had his face pressed against
the wa ]i 5 S q I looked "for Tom. I was
glad I’d managed to keep my lamp alight
or j wouldn’t have found him. He had
come down the other side of the stope
aru j t he timbers of a bulk had caught
bim across t he legs. He was shouting,
and though I couldn’t hear him above the
roaring and groaning of falling earth I
could see that he was looking at me. I ran
to him, grabbing a six-foot steel to use
as a lever. He was lucky there wasn’t
much weight on the timber that was hold-
ing him down, and when I levered it up
he pulled himself free. I grabbed him
under the arms and dragged him to the
end of the stope.
it all happened in a few seconds, and
the ground was still falling. It creaked
an d cracked and screeched like trees
snapping, and then rumbled down. The
small stones fell and tumbled about, but
the large rocks and great boulders just
slid an d settled gently into place. The
noise beat on my eardrums until I
thought they would break, and then it
was over as quickly as it began, and there
was only a haze of dust and a few
pebbles rattling down, and the timber-
man sobbing beside me.
During the fall I hadn’t felt anything,
but now I was sick and weak. Tom’s
legs were badly crushed, and his eyes
were closed and his face screwed up with
pain. All I could do was roll him a
smoke and tell him they’d soon get us


NEW STARS
in tke Skij of
Tomorrow
Beneath the shifting surface
of world affairs, Industry—
Primary and Secondary—
must carry on . . . must not
become static. The need
for developmental works is
greater than ever before.
Products that are in the de-
velopmental stage to-day will
be New Stars in the industrial
sky of to-morrow. In these
undertakings, the co-operation
of all interests is needed.
Realising this, the National
Bank will gladly make its wide
experience and helpful facili-
ties available to the Business
World.
m
‘•Mi
m
mm
f & *■- "* •■♦
*:*i
■vv;
i-**
•O.SSS
si
*\y ■+
?§/f r
as
ilii
m
>v,v:<
■\vv-'V : S : :
,'o'..
s v \iO.'
LLJ
i
w
>V'
M.
,'r
Trpyjrpy
New observatory on top of Palomar
Mountain, Southern California.
w
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
VICTORIA: ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued for all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
TO OUR CLIENTS:
Sincere Wishes for
A Happy Christmas and
A Prosperous New Year
FROM
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET
MELBOURNE
out because the fall had missed one of
the chutes. I’d hardly finished speaking
when I heard the chute door rattle, and
a couple of seconds later a miner scram-
bled into the stope. Then I went out
cold.
When I came round we were on the
surface, and there were fifty or more
people standing around while the doctor
and a couple of nurses attended to us.
Tom was lying on a stretcher smoking
another cigarette and telling my old man
and everyone else that I’d saved his life.
The timberman was still gasping in
breath in long raking sobs. I sat up
feeling a bit shaky, but when I’d had
a nip of brandy from the first-aid kit I
was able to stand up and walk about in
the sun. I waited until Tom and the
timberman were taken off to the hospital
and then the Old Man and myself were
driven home in a mine truck.
T STAYED in bed for a couple of days
‘ and then got up to take a walk up
town. The Old Man came with me, and
kept telling me I’d done a good job and
he was proud of me. But I couldn’.t help
thinking of the other timberman, and
every time someone stopped us to con-
gratulate me I found myself saying “I
wish I could’ve got the other chap.”
I was pretty popular around town after
that, and I liked the way my own mob
hung around when the older miners spoke
or nodded to me or bought me a drink.
The Old Man didn’t seem to mind me
drinking with him now, and one night
when we were in the pub "together I saw
the timberman who’d come through star-
ing at me from the other side of the
counter. He was drunk, and so was I,
but we each knew what the other was
thinking. Presently he put down his
glass and lurched over to me. “So you’re
the bloody hero they’re talking about,”
he said.
I told him he shouldn’t be out of hos-
pital yet, and pretended I didn’t know
what he was talking about, but he poked
his face into mine and asked again,
“Well, aren’t you?”
“Aren’t I what?” I said.
“Aren’t you the young pup who pulled
Tom Hill out of Number Five?”
“Yes,” I said. “But”
“But you didn’t get my mate out. Did
you?’’ He spoke loudly enough for the
whole bar to hear him, and some of the
chaps had stopped talking. The Old
Man stepped in and said, “Break it down,
old chap. It’s not the youngster’s fault
that your mate got his.”
But the timberman knew what he was
talking about. “Well, whose fault is it
that the young pup knocked me mate
over and stopped him getting clear? Eh?
Whose fault is that?”
I felt the blood rushing to my face
and ears and yelled, “You’re a bloody
liar! I couldn’t help it if your mate
couldn’t get away fast enough.”
“You couldn’t help it!” he yelled back
at me. “You couldn’t help it, eh? You
couldn’t help knocking him down to save
your own skin. You’re a bloody mur-
derer —that’s what you are —a bloody
murderer.”
There was only one thing I could do
and I did it. I drove my fist straight into
his mouth and felt his lips split and his
teeth cut my knuckles. He swung at me,
but he was drunker than I was, and I
smacked him up against the counter, and
kept belting him in the face as hard as
1 could. I was afraid of what he’d said,
and I wanted to shut him up for good,
but the barman and the Old Man pulled
me off. The timberman slid down to
the floor and stayed there, with the blood
trickling from his mouth into a little
pool on the floor.
I went back to the counter to have
another drink with the Old Man and
then another one ; and presently we were
both drunk enough not to worry about
anything except the way home. We rolled
out of the bar and set off down the
street.
The pictures had just come out, and
people in cream flannels and silk shirts
were passing us. I saw Miss Saunders
and the chap she was engaged to walk-
ing home together and talking and laugh-
ing quietly. The night was warm and the
stars big and bright, and I wanted to say
something, but I was dirty and drunk,
and my head seemed to be floating and
my stomach was too full with beer.
The Old Man was staggering and talk-
ing thickly, “ . . . . great fight, son.
Great fight for a kid.” He lurched, and
I grabbed him to stop him falling, and
he put an arm across my shoulders. “But
you’re not a kid any more, are you,
son?” he said. “You’re a man now,
aren’t you? A man now.”
unemphatic hips as she hurried out to
the service car for the mail, the gleam
of her silken legs as she sprang up the
ladder to the top shelf, the easy com-
petence with which she ran the place.
Once he had refused to sit on the same
seat with her at school. Now the very
movement of her shoulders beneath their
light covering stirred something in his
blood.
“My God, Rosie, you’ve pulled your
socks up! Forgotten all about the days
when you used to go swimming in your
skin with the rest of the camp young-
sters, eh?”
He could not help pawing her. Flushed
to the hair roots she slapped his pudgy
face. There was the natural sensitiveness
of a wild young animal in the way she
hated being touched.
It was only when Mrs. Cafferty, fat
now and a little querulous, saw her
fumbling with a screwdriver at the end
of the passage that she scented something
wrong, “What’re you fiddling with that
door for?” she asked.
Rosie did pot look up. “Just putting
a lock on it,”
“A lock?" echoed Mrs. Cafferty. “You
don’t want to trouble about that. Got
nothing you’re scared of losing, have
you?”
There could be no answer to that.
And then came the night when she
and Cafferty were awakened by a scuffle
in the passage, heated voices, finally a
thumping like furniture being pushed
against a door, The woman was the first
out of bed' she told Cafferty to lie still
while she snatched at her dressing-gown
and lit the storm-lantern. He was asleep
again by the time she came back, and
when his eyes opened in the morning he
half-believed it was all a dream.
But there was a queer sense of past
thunder in the air, silence even in the
kitchen, and when the service car came
around Rosie was dressed and had her
things packed. She had the look of a
fierce young eagle ready to take the air.
Cafferty was afraid to question her:
there were times when his only method
of approach, a clumsy banter, was quite
inadequate, and this, he felt, was one
of them. He did not even like to make
inquiries from his wife, who remained
tight-lipped and busy in the kitchen, a
shellfish burrowing zealously into the
sand. As for Bob, he had gone off early
on a fishing trip to the island. The ser-
vice car, with Rosie as the only pas-
senger, swung off past the old camp,
across the bridge and away to the town-
ship on the other side of the sandy flower
plain.
It had hardly vanished when Cafferty,
standing stupidly on the store verandah
looking down at the water, saw Gleason
waddling up from the beach with his
towel over his shoulder, his eyes bright
as berries in his red, hearty face.
“What’s this I hear about Rosie?” he
asked. “Been dipping her hands into
the till, has she?”
Already the rumors were spreading
apparently. Cafferty was embarrassed.
“I’m not talking,” he said. “Rosie —she
was all right. All the years she’s been
here—nothing to complain of till now.
Bit of the warrigal in her; that’s all.”
That seemed a generous way of putting
it. Gleason, tingling with the glow of
his morning dip, felt he could be
generous, too. Leave any gossip to the
women! They stood staring down
through the blinding light at the water-
front, sniffing in the smells of mullet-
weed and brewing coffee, and then the
councillor’s eye came to rest on the silky
oak like a bird settling.
“That tree,” he said. “Becoming a
bit of an eyesore, isn’t it?”
“That’s so,” admitted Cafferty. “Dead
wood all up one side.”
“Better grub it out, eh?”
“Well, yes; I guess so. Better grub
it out.” There could be no excuse for
sparing it now.


v X’vns Xm
mt
m
V
N
m
mmm
%
\
■ 's.
ys/ir* *tz: ®r“
B
.. i i
&
n
■
■
wm
m
mm
m
wm
...
SOS
:::
:
S»
•
■a
: >: •
mm
* m
;Jt
m.
I
H
H
■
■ i
BSi
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
£ Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
(H out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
& fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
REGD.
CLOTH
&
at Hu
BORN
SHORN
WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO., j
CHEMISTS. I
319 George St., Sydney.
e
VICTORIA STATE ACCIDENT INSURANCE OFFICE
Revenue Account for the Year ending 30th June, 1939.
Claims £138,175 18 2
Add Provision for Un-
adjusted Claims .. 78,246 0 0
£216,421 18 2
Less Provision for Unadjusted Claims,
1938 67,802 0 0
£148,619 18 2
Net Revenue carried down 58,968 1 7
£207,587 19 9
Premiums for year .. £220,392 1 6
Less Re-insurances and
Rebates .. .. 7,249 1 1
£213,143 0 5
Add Provision for Unearned
Premiums, 1938 .. .. 99,131 4 1
£312,274 4 6
Less Provision for Unearned
Premiums, 1939 104,686 4 9
£207,587 19 9
£207,587 19 _9
Profit and Loss Account for Year ending 30th June, 1939.
Administration Expenses, Act 3806 £2OO 0 0
Agents’ Expenses and Commission 9,710 17 2
Expenses of Management (including Salaries) .. .. 10,450 6 11
Net profit 42,478 10 6
£62,839 14 7
Net Revenue brought down .. .. .. .. £58,968 1 7
Interest on Investments and Funds at Treasury .. 3,871 13 0
£62,839 14 7
Appropriation Account for Year ending 30th June, 1939.
30/6/’39 To General Reserve Fund £15,000 0 0
„ Bonus Reserve Fund 22,478 10 6
~ “Transfer to Consolidated Revenue, Act
3936” Account .. .. .. 5,000 0 0
£42,478 10 6
30/6/ ’39 By Profit and Loss Account .. .. .. £42,478 10 6
£42,478 10 6
Balance-sheet as at 30th June, 1939.
Liabilities.
Unearned Premiums £104,686 4 9
Outstanding Claims 78,246 0 0
Sundry Creditors 3,215 18 3
General Reserve Fund .. .. £106,560 0 0
Plus Appropriated, 1938-39 .. .. 15,000 0 0
£121,560 0 0
Bonus Reserve Fund .. .. .. Nil
Plus Appropriated, 1938-39 .. .. 22,478 10 6
22,478 10 6
Bonus Distribution Fund, 1938 (Amounts unclaimed) 1,556 13 11
, £331,743 7 5
State Accident Insurance Fund—Cash at Treasury . .£188,809 6 5
Premiums due and Agents’ Balances £lB,lBO 1 6
Less Bad Debt Reserve .. .. 363 10 2
17,816 11 4
Treasury Interest Accrued .. .. .. .. .. 784 4 5
Stamps on Hand .. .. .. .. .. .. 79 2 6
Furniture, Office Machines, and Motor Car (at cost,
less depreciation) .. .. .. .. .. 1,137 8 10
General Reserve Investment —
Land and Building .. .. £48,500 0 0
Australian Consolidated In-
scribed Stock .. .. 58,060 0 0
106,560 0 0
Bonus Distribution Account, 1938
Balance at Bank .. .. .. £1,546 13 11
Cash on Hand .. .. .. 10 0 0
1,556 13 11
Transfer to Consolidated Revenue,
Act 3936 .. .. .. £50,000 0 0
Less Amount Written Off .. .. 30,000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
Less Appropriated, 1938-39 .. 5,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
£331,743 7 5
In accordance with the provisions of Section 36 of the Workers’ Compensation Act 1928, the accounts have been audited for the period ended 30th June,
1939. In my opinion the balance-sheet and statements present a true and correct view of the accounts of the State Accident Insurance Office.
(Signed)
E. A. PEVERILL
Auditor-General. 11th September, 1939.
(Signed) .W. H. HOLMES, Insurance Commissioner. sth September, 1939.
SYDNEY'S HARBOR NAMES.
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
OF all the place-names in Port
Jackson that of Manly—bestowed
by Governor Phillip to mark his
approval of the bearing of the local
abos. —is almost the oldest. He had, how-
ever, already bestowed the title of “Camp
Cove” on the little bay under South Head
where he had landed to eat the midday
meal. Soon afterwards he sent Captain
Hunter, Lieut. Bradley, Mr. Keltie, the
master, and a midshipman, all of H.M.S.
Sirius, to survey the harbor; the map they
made is in the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
The story of this pioneer chart is a
little puzzling, so far as the names it
carries are concerned. It bore originally
only five —Port Jackson, North Head,
Inner North Head, South Head and
Inner South Head. In Phillip’s hand-
writing three others were added later —
Farm Cove, Garden Cove and Sydney,
together with a memorandum referring
to the settlement. In Governor Mac-
quarie’s hand six names are written in
pencil —Rose Bay, Point Piper, Point
Campbell, Anson’s Point, Bennelong
Point and Garden Island. Other names
have also subsequently been added in
pencil, though who wrote them is not
known and some of them are quite illegible.
The following, however, can be made out
—Blackwattle Bay, Five Dock Bay, Cocka-
too Island and Hen and Chickens Bay.
Written in ink are Hunter’s Hill, Tarban
Creek, Lane Cove and Dawes’ Point.
Watson’s Bay is named after Robert
Watson, appointed Harbor Master in
1813. Parsley Bay probably commemor-
ates a man of that name who had a
hut in the neighborhood, and Vaucluse
Bay was christened by Sir Henry Browne
Hayes in 1803. Rose Bay was called
after George Rose, Under-Secretary to
the Treasury, and Point Piper after Cap-
tain Piper, of the N.S.W. Corps. Double
Bay was originally Keltie’s Cove, and
Darling Point was “Mrs. Darling’s
Point.” Rushcutters’ Bay was so entitled
because in May, 1788, the blacks mur-
dered some convicts there who were
cutting rushes for thatch in the swamps
at its head. Potts’ Point is called after
J. H. Potts, accountant of the Bank of
N.S.W. in the eighteen-thirties. Woolloo-
mooloo Bay was at first Garden Island
Cove and then Palmer’s Cove, after John
Palmer, Commissary-General, who was
granted 100 acres there in 1793. For
many years his estate was known as
“Wulamulla” —sometimes “Walamoula”
—and it was after his time that the
present spelling came into vogue.
On the north side Middle Cape became
Middle Head. George’s Head was armed
with a battery in 1801, and Bradley’s
Head is called after the first lieutenant
of the Sirius its native name was
Buroggy. Mosman’s Bay properly
Mossman’s —is still marked in the charts
as Great Sirius Cove. Cremorne Point
was long known as Robertson’s Point,
after the father of Sir John Robertson,
and Neutral Bay was so named by
Phillip when he appointed it an anchor-
age for foreign shipping. Milson’s Point
—really Kirribilli was named after
James Milson, who built a house there
in 1825. Lavender Bay is called after
the boatswain of the convict hulk
Phoenix, moored in the inlet for some
years, and Blue’s Point after Billy Blue,
better known as “The Old Commodore,”
to whom Macquarie gave a grant there-
about of 30 acres. Berry’s Bay was
named after Alexander Berry, Ball’s
Head after Lieutenant Ball, command-
ing H.M.S. Supply in the First Fleet,
and Gore Bay after William Gore, Pro-
vost-Marshal in Bligh’s time.
The origin of the name of the Lane
Cove River is uncertain, though nobody
with the name of Lane can be connected
with it directly or indirectly. The name
has been in use from the earliest days
of settlement, when timber and shells
for lime-burning were brought down to
Sydney from the district in boats. “A
possible explanation,” says an authority,
“is that the long string of boats which
daily rowed up the narrow inlet which
is now called a river, manned by their
convict crews, suggested to some of the
rowers or the coxswains the idea of a
procession through a lane.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2£d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
“G.A.8.” earns this week’s issue of double rates for his little piece o goo
advice on breaking-down jazzed-up news before swallowing.
Exaggerated News
Since the war began we have been
waiting to see Germany collapse from in-
ternal disruption. Every whisper of unrest
has been amplified to a thunderous roar
of revolt, every hitch in the industrial
organisation has been broadcast as a
rebellion, every shortage of commodities
as a famine, and every murmur of com-
plaint as a rumble of coming revolution.
One wonders what our local news
looks like when it has come through a
similar amplifying process and appears
in the German press. Probably some-
thing like this: “Largest Australian Abat-
toirs Idle. Britain’s Chief Meat Sup-
plies Affected”... “Growing Political
Party in a Leading British Dominion
Issues Leaflet Demanding Peace”...
“Crews on British Ships in Dominion
Waters Refuse to Man Ships for British
Isles. Shipping Paralysed”... “Industrial
Dislocation in Australian Coalfields.
Supplies of Munitions to Britain Certain
to be Affected.”
A little reflection on the way these
spots on our own social system can be
distorted and exaggerated should make
us very cautious in our estimation of
other countries.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
The winner is G. A. Baily, 32 Elder
Street, Lambton, N.S.W.
Is It a Phoney War?
When Senator Bill Borah, America’s
leading Yurropophobe, sounded off lately
to the effect that “this was a phoney
war” he had something.
Two Yank-trained specialists, one
American, the other Australian, at the
outbreak of the war offered to toss up
their practices by offering their services to
the Royal Army Medical Corps in Lon-
don. Both had excellent training and
qualifications, yet both were told by the
R.A.M.C. that they might be gazetted
lieutenants in the R.A.M.C. if they would
proceed to London for physical exami-
nation and interview, and if their medical
degrees were “registrable” in England.
No American medical degree is regis-
trable in Great Britain, although those
of Canadian universities are.
Who is running this war? The London
Medical Council or the British Army, or,
as Bill Borah says, is it just a phoney?
The British colony in California, for
example, have been told that their ser-
vices are not wanted, and that unless
they proceed to England at their own
expense they can cool off and sit it out
in the bleachers.
Maybe this is the ’39 way to fight a
war ; and maybe Bill Borah is right. At
least two of us over here intend to sit
this one out. — Medicus (California).
“Dear Mr.”
I have been singled out for the honor
of a letter in stereotype, but directed in
real typing by an official underling, who
presumably gleaned my name from a
directory. “Dear Mr. O’C.,” it begins,
and ends with a real signature of the
head of the Ministry of Information,
H. S. Gullett.
I am not pernicketty, but it used to
be a rule of polite correspondence to
reserve that “Dear Mr.” for one’s per-
sonal friends. Officials of all sorts were
addressed, and addressed others, as “sir.”
In these times I get letters with this
Uriah-Heepish touch from Prime Min-
isters, Federal Treasurers and such, whom
I have never seen, urging me to sub-
scribe to loan flotations, and sometimes
conveying a hint of vaguely unpleasant
consequences if I remain aloof.
Lesser potentates, Commissioners of
Taxation and Registrars of everything
from bulls to beehives show a dis-
position to follow suit, and I am fed-up
with their friendship. I don’t know H. S.
Gullett from an oesophagus and I have
no intention of joining what his letter
describes as “a honorary Council.” — Bill
O’C. (S.A.).
Empire Decentralisation
Despite pious hopes, the racial an-
tagonisms and economic rivalries of
Europe will see to it that lasting peace
on the Continent is only an illu-
sion. Science has annihilated space, and
the English Channel is no longer a bul-
wark against the rest of Europe. Isola-
tion, which served so well in the past, is
apparently no longer practical politics,
and Britain with the rest of her Empire
is destined to be dragged into every dog-
fight that starts.
It is time, therefore, that British popu-
lation, industry and interests began to
shift from European England to other
parts of the Empire. A start has already
been made by establishing aircraft and
munition factories in Canada and Aus-
tralia, but peace-time industries must
follow to a greater extent.
U.S.A. manufacturers have started
branch plants at Buenos Aires to turn
out motor-cars, farming machinery, elec-
tric equipment and even dental products.
What U.S.A. can do in Argentina, Eng-
lish manufacturers can do in the
Dominions, particularly when so much
is at stake. And as industry is decen-
tralised population will follow. We
could do with another 10 millions in
Australia, and England with 10 millions
less.
Empire decentralisation may not be too
palatable to some English industrialists,
but the better balanced the Empire is
the greater its chance of survival.
T.E. P. (N.S.W.).
A Fighting Chance
In ye olde days “Letters of Marque”
were issued to merchant ships, enabling
them to legally engage the enemy —with
great success to us.
During the 1914-18 war our merchant
ships, if armed at all, were supplied with
a gun on the poop, this method of arma-
ment being the English conception of
“arming for defence only” as laid down
by International Law. The German sub-
marines, as is well known, sunk ships on
sight without warning.
When the U.S.A. entered the war she
immediately armed her merchant ships
on the forecastle head, thus giving them
the opportunity of turning towards the
sub. and compelling her to fight or to
dive to avoid being rammed. There
would also have been a good chance of
her being destroyed by depth charges
had these weapons been carried.
In this war we are again arming our
ships aft only, thus forcing them to turn
away instead of towards the submarine.
It is time that “Letters of Marque” were
again issued, a 4in. gun placed on the
forecastle head and a dozen depth
charges at the stern. — Merchant Jack
(W.A.).
Federal Powers
Despite the growing demand to vest
complete power in the Federal Parlia-
ment, the same Parliament has not yet
attempted to legislate to the full of its
admitted powers. It is only a decade
since the Commonwealth exercised its
power in respect of bankruptcy, and it
is still fighting shy of legislation on
divorce and matrimonial causes.
The troubles arising out of six sets
of divorce laws for one country are
legion. As an extreme example, Smith
is married in Victoria, later he lives in
Queensland long enough to be divorced
in that State, but on grounds not recog-
nised in Victoria. (This could occur in
different States on such questions as in-
sanity, cruelty, period of desertion, etc.)
He then returns to Victoria, reacquires
a Victorian domicile and remarries.
Then he is prosecuted for bigamy. The
position is quite possible, and is typical
of the farcical situation in which an Aus-
tralian can be placed under the miscel-
laneous collection of State laws.
This non-exercise of power by the
Commonwealth is by no means a weak
argument by State-righters, and one of
the first steps in a campaign for a
united Australia should be to push for
Federal legislation on all matters on
which the Commonwealth now has power
to legislate. It would be much easier to
influence Federal members on individual
subjects than to carry a referendum, and
each field into which the Commonwealth
is forced makes the ultimate erasure of
State Parliaments a much easier job.—
Nisio (N.S.W.).
Apples
Apples at sd. and 6d. per pound are
no less a luxury in Victoria than in
N.S.W. (B. 29/11 / ’39). And, notwith-
standing a troublesome surplus in the
offing, fruit is being withheld in hope of
a still higher price.
In a short-sighted anxiety for top
prices, orchardists (not to mention other
producers) lose sight of the fact that a
thing once done without can often be
done without always.
Apples could be a staple article of diet
at, say, 3s. 6d. a case. At 7s. 6d. and
10s. they have no place in the budget.
The housewife wastes no time in lament-
ing their lack. She finds a substitute.
Instead of bemoaning or dumping that
surplus, growers might well consider dis-
tributing it at rock-bottom prices for the
encouragement or perpetuation of the
apple-eating habit. Shrewd merchants
look on the free distribution of samples
as necessary outlay. Producers have a
lot to learn in the marketing of goods.
—Pip (Vic.).
Oil in Australia
The Commonwealth Government is
about to embark on a new oil discovery
policy and even “fight the major oil com-
panies if necessary.”
Why this show of belligerency? Surely
the Government of a country need not
descend to fighting with private business
concerns. It is unnecessary and a waste
of effort on both sides.
A better policy would be to make the
major oil companies financially interested
in discovering oil in this country. Make
their right to sell oil in Australia tem-
porary and conditional on their dis-
covering oil here. They have the organi-
sation and the experience necessary for
discovering oil, so .why not have them
working for us instead of threatening to
“fight them if necessary”? —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Slums
Not all who live in slums do so
because they have no alternative (B.
22 /11 / ’39). Some, who could afford
to live elsewhere, prefer' slum areas
partly because the cheaper rents allow
them more spare cash and partly be-
cause such areas are, as a rule, contigu-
ous to big cities.
Some time ago a Sunday paper, smitten
by a sudden zeal for social reform, pub-
lished pictures of one of the worst slum
districts in Sydney. My father told me
that three men working in the same firm
as himself, all with good positions, were
numbered among its residents. They
chose it because it was close to their
place of employment, and the attractions
of Sydney.
Recently, an acquaintance of mine
married. Previously, he had lived with
his parents in Concord, but his address
is now a street in the ’Loo. He earns
over five pounds a week and has no
family responsibilities, so I asked him
why he had gone there.
“The wife prefers the ’Loo and I don’t
mind it,” was his answer. “A house to
both of us is merely a place to sleep and
eat in, and we can do that as well in the
’Loo as in a garden suburb. We can
walk from there into Sydney in less time
than it takes to get there by train or bus
from any of the outer suburbs. — Tom
(N.S.W.).
Press Hysterics
Why doesn’t our daily press make up
its mind about Germany, its military
strength and the power of its rulers?
One day we are told that Germany
possesses the world’s most formidable
war-machine, and that Nazism is em-
braced with enthusiasm by an over-
whelming majority of Germans; the
next, that the command of the German
Army is in violent disagreement, and its
conscripts ill-trained and ill-fed ; that the
Siegfried Line is hastily and carelessly
constructed, the German ’planes faulty
and the U-boats scared off the seas. And,
of course, Germany is groaning under
the Nazi yoke, her resources are de-
pleted, dissension is rife and Hitler hys-
terical.
The intelligent reader is likely to judge
German military ability and the strength
of Nazism by past performance.
It is poor testimony to the quality
of daily newspapers that, at a time
like this, stunt journalism should reign
while facts and even intelligent approxi-
mations to them are in greater disregard
than ever.—C. A. B. (Q.).
Churchill
A.B.C.’s “Watchman,” commenting
on Mr. Churchill’s broadcast speech,
said that Winnie “reflected the spirit of
the whole nation,” or words to that effect.
I am certain it is not a service to the
Empire to insult the German people
through their leaders. The majority
of Germans regard Hitler, not as
a “cornered maniac,” but as their
inspired leader, and Churchill’s re-
marks only stiffen their resistance. Why
he was permitted to do it is “a conun-
drum, wrapped in an enigma, inside a
mystery” (or whatever that fancy phrase
was).
On the British side there has been no
abuse of individuals except by Churchill.
Mr. Chamberlain’s calm and almost
passionless statements are a better in-
dication of the British point of view.—
Anither (Q.).
Film License
“Margaret’s” moan at Hollywood and
the classics (B. 15/11 /’39) is a little dated
—Hollywood is only too faithful in de-
pictions these days. Take for instance
the screen version of Emily Bronte’s
Wuthering Heights. Apart from a little
glamor infused into the deathbed scene,
not even Emily herself could have found
fault with the handling of her yarn. In-
deed, the biggest fault to be found with
the opus is its air of unrelieved gloom—
and Emily herself is to blame for that.
As for Jane Eyre, compared with
Wuthering Heights, it is a very second-
rate classic, meriting no more than a
second-rate film. If Charlotte had fol-
lowed the yarn out to its logical conclu-
sion in tragedy instead of compromising
with a happy ending, she may have
written a masterpiece to compare with
that of her stormy sister. As it is Emily
wears the family laurels.
The only quarrel I have with filmed
classics is with those who print new edi-
tions, shorn to fit the “story of the film.”
It’s robbing literature —whether English
or American, and America has some fine,
virile stuff —of a lot of its polish.— Bun-
GARRER (N.S.W.).
Treatment of Writers
“Reporter” (B. 22/11 / ’39) only
scratched the surface when he dealt with
payments to freelance writers.
One point most annoying to the writer
is unnecessary delay in deciding on MSS.
Another is the mutilated MSS. that
return. One of mine was smeared with
boiled egg; a quarto-page poem had a
long and narrow “v” snipped out of it
and pinned to the top of the page ; dozens
have been stained with tobacco and dirt;
one was even scorched. One monthly
trimmed my contributed photograph into
the shape of a half-moon, decided against
it and sent the remains back without the
accompanying MS., which was never
recovered.
When I first began writing I bought a
copy of the Writers and Artists’ Year-
Book (English) for advice and markets.
Under the heading of “Overseas News-
papers” I found this:
From personal experience and numerous
complaints, with regret we must say that
the editors of some Australasian journals
are far behind most American editors in
courtesy and goodwill. Often valued MSS.
are lost, and letters remain unanswered.
Recently a crumpled and dusty MS.
came back to me. I recognised it as one
I had queried a well-known monthly
about —a letter that was never answered.
Yet the MS. had turned up again—after
three years ! — Freelance (Q.).
Featuring the Snobocracy
Now, particularly, it is high time that
all society twaddle and “doings” should
be cut out of the papers. Who wants
to hear about a few half-baked snobs
who are trying to create class distinction
when more than twenty thousand men
have volunteered for the Second A.I.F.
and are to be sent abroad?
While a lot of space is being wasted
on class snobs and loafers, these A.I.F.
men are training for grim war in the
same spirit as did their 1914 predecessors.
The society rubbish section of the
press should be replaced with reports
of the human side of A.I.F. and militia
activities in all spheres. As well as being
entertaining it would be, at least, some
sort of recognition that these men are
important enough to make news and
are appreciated as men. R. E. C.
(N.S.W.).
Not In Vain
I recall Dean Inge saying of the sol-
diers killed in the last war that he hoped
that, in the paradise of brave men, the
knowledge might be mercifully withheld
from them that they died in vain.
That’s a very well-turned phrase, but
the fact is that each war brings us, slowly


maybe, one step nearer to the millennium
when there will be peace on earth.
If we have enough wars, or war of
sufficient length, wars will ultimately
abolish themselves. And the more ex-
perience we have of war the greater will
become our experience in making peace
at the end. One of these days, at the
end of one of these wars, the peace-fixers
will really fix up an enduring peace, and
then we shall all live happily ever after.
—Ferocious O’Flaherty (N.S.W.).
Back to the Horse?
Why not, adopt “S.C.W.’s” suggestion
(B. 29/11 / ’39) and give motor vehicles
a rest for a while, except where they are
essential? In the horse and buggy there
are potential industries which would
bring others in their train, including a
market for wheat as horse feed, for iron
as horseshoes, tyres, springs* bolts, etc.,
for hides as harness, for the breeding of
horses and all that it means in fence-wire,
post-cutting, ploughing, blacksmithing
and so on.
Farmers now run into town for the
evening or to seaside or city in the week-
end in cars or trucks. They could have
mares reproducing (which cars and
tractors cannot do), and ploughing the
land to produce their own meals (in-
stead of buying petrol from foreigners).
One of the causes of failure on an
important wheat belt was that every time
the crop failed the tractor-farmer was
in debt for every item of cost connected
with tractor, petrol, oil bought on time-
payment. ' The horse farmers in a neigh-
boring district lost their crops in a
drought, but they used horses they bred
themselves instead of buying tractors at
several hundreds of pounds each.
There are many of our industries that
would be better for the horse instead of
the motor, and still leave room for a
brisk trade in Australian-made cars,
trucks, tractors, etc. — Father’s Voice
(N.S.W.). '
This “Fertile” Land
“Mallyree” (B. 29/11/’39) finds many
barren tracks in Australia in his search-
ing analysis of our physiography. It
might interest him, however, to know
that the Queensland coast plain carries
the largest white tropical population in
the world.
It is quite true, as “Celt” and others
have pointed out, that there are thou-
sands of miles of fertile but unexploited
country in Australia. I have tramped
through a goodly portion of it. Nearly
everywhere I went in eastern Australia
1 have found myself asking, “Why are
there no people here?”
The horrid fear of Australian Labor
that an increased working population will
mean more to share the same amount of
cake with a consequent increase in
poverty is one cause of the lack of
development.
There is, too, to some extent, a sur-
vival of the early land-grabbing tactics of
the squatters of last century. Thousands
of square miles fell into the hands of
one man who roamed his cattle over it
to the exclusion of more intensive de-
velopment of small-holding settlement,,
with greater population, bigger markets,
a higher birthrate.
Our history is steeped in the struggle
between the aristos who held all the,
land in large blocks and the working
settlers who tried to find small holdings
suitable for close settlement and heavy
cropping. The big men won, with the
result that thousands upon thousands of
acres are now averaged over from the
point of view of productivity, since the
best is getting the same treatment as the
worst.
Early German settlers proved that
there is land for development. They
usually followed the other European
settlers into the districts, found the best
land taken and worked up the creeks
and gullies, settling narrow valleys that
others had scorned but which were ex-
tremely fertile and profitable to till.—
Cocky (Q.).
“Wasted Fodder”
In the farming country anywhere
within 100 miles of Melbourne one can
see many thousands of acres of
land covered with grasses of various
types and ranging from one to three feet;
a lot of these grass paddocks contain
English rye and different clovers which
would make excellent stock fodder if
cut and stacked in an odd corner, and
would be of enormous value to the
cockies in a dry period.
This surplus grass could be cut with a
mower and gathered up with a horse-
rake at a trifling expense. An odd
farmer is, in fact, doing this, but the
great majority is allowing all this pros-
pective stock-feed to go to waste, and to
help the spread of bushfires should the
approaching summer be hot and dry.
—J. Grills (Vic.).
German Goods
A word of warning to those whose
excessive patriotism causes them to refuse
to buy German articles. To refuse Ger-
man goods can serve no good purpose
now, as the goods that are offered today
were bought months ago and have been
paid for.
As trade with the enemy is strictly
forbidden, it is obvious that any German-
made articles on sale in Australia today
are pre-war purchases. We can do our-
selves more harm than good by letting
our Germanophobia run away with us in
this direction. —J. B. (Q.).
Reap Western Grasses
Truly we are a thriftless, improvident
people. Generally the wide, flat, and
almost treeless western districts of N.S.W.
are hard put to find sustenance for the
thin sprinkle of sheep and cattle grazing
over them. Then comes the flush period,
when rain falls in abundance and the
great area responds—as it is doing at
this very moment —and from skyline to
skyline there is a veritable paradise of
growth and lush abundance.
It is safe to say that just now there is,
from the Murray to the Queensland
border, a greater quantity of fodder than
could be grown on the narrow coastal
strip, with all its rain, fertility and culti-
vation, in 20 years.
What is to become of it all?
The hitherto hard-pressed grazier now
rides around his holding telling himself
that drought and starvation are to be
no more, and thus, in complacency, he
is going to watch it all vanish like a
“My mind's on higher things, Chenoweth.”
beautiful mirage, and millions of pounds’
worth of fodder is going to rot back
into the earth.
Why is it not harvested? The Swiss
peasant can climb the mountainsides and
pluck by hand sufficient summer-grass
to nourish his housed stock through the
long winter, but the good Lord, when
he fashioned our West, was never more
indulgent towards human laziness. He
did not give us Swiss Alps to climb, but
laid down a quarter of a million square
miles of country, the bulk of it as acces-
sible to the reaping machine as the
lucerne flats of the coast.
There is a solution, but the initiative
must come from the Government, since
the individual grazier is too casual for
the task.
Let the Government provide a few
dozen reaping machines (this will be a
start) and gather up, from among the
unemployed, harvest-hands to do the
work; then call for applications (which
would come immediately from the more
wide-awake landholders) for permission
to harvest on their holdings. The crop
could be stacked where cut, and the land-
holder required to pay, by easy instal-
ments, the cost of the work, plus interest,
and the harvest would be his.
One successful grazier known to
writer, who has moved for himself, cal-
culates the cost at 255. per ton, and he
values the hay on a par with the best
lucerne. And when and where was
lucerne ever bought and landed on the
property even at four times that figure?
For heaven’s sake, let us make a start!
—A. B.W. (N.S.W.).
Mechanical Music
That happy soul the amateur musician,
who has brightened our parties with
accordion, fiddle or even mouth-organ,
seems to have given way completely to
the blare of radio.
I like good wireless programmes, but
I reckon there is too little genuine music-
making among ourselves. Even singing
(or making some sort of din) around the
piano has gone out of fashion.
When one goes to a friend’s house
nowadays, one sits and endures an end-
less drone of canned melody mixed up
with commercial announcements, and
yearns for the personal touch in enter-
tainment.
Have we lost for ever the art of enter-
taining one another in an original and
cordial way?— Arthur Falk (Vic.).
These Critics
Because a literary critic cannot com-
pete in the same field of literature with
authors whose work he criticises, it does
not follow that he is incompetent to pass
judgment on their efforts (B. 11/10/’39).
Criticism is a special department of litera-
ture, and some writers have a particular
flair for it, just as others have for poetry,
novel-writing, history, etc. Gifford,
Saint-Beuve, Saintsbury and our own
A. G. Stephens are cases in point. The
reputations of all these men —and they
each hold a high place in the literatures
of their respective countries —largely rest
on their critical writings.
One finds the same thing in sport. Some
of the greatest of sporting coaches and
many of the ablest writers on sport have,
as exponents of their branch of sport,
been only moderate performers.
Criticism may be “only one man’s
point of view,” but in everything there is
a right and a wrong point of view. Suc-
cess as a critic depends on ability to
choose the right one. Men great in per-
formance often lack this gift, their
achievements being the result of natural
aptitude for the vocation in which they
excel.—D. Ait. (N.S.W.).
Cheese from Waste
Suggestions have been made that Syd-
ney Milk Board should establish cheese
factories to absorb surplus milk produced
within the area under its control. At
present milk produced on block days is
fed to pigs, or wasted entirely, and the
farmer would certainly get a better return
if the surplus were converted into
cheese ; but why let the board do it?
With their butter factories dairy-
farmers have shown that they can man-
age big industries on a co-operative basis.
Those within the milk zone should realise
that the cheese market is profitable, and
with an assured demand in Britain they
should have no difficulty in financing
co-operative cheese factories.
Even without the British market there
is a good sale for cheese, quantities of
which have to be bought from Other-
States at certain times of the year. By
making it on a co-operative basis the
farmers would retain control themselves,
they would get all the profits and they
would not be making a bureaucratic
board any stronger. Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
Something Wrong
I’m no Bolshie, but isn’t there some-
thing wrong here?
From successive pages of the same
issue of a Melbourne daily paper I read
of the thousands an insolvent Railways
Department has spent in providing
luxurious air-conditioned quarters for
the Tourist Bureau, and then an appeal
for Government funds to give free milk
to underfed school-children. The latter
appeal contains the statement that in one
industrial district 43 per cent, of the
school-children were not receiving suffi-
cient food. — Fed-up (Vic.).
Garage Hold-ups
In the possible war-time rationing of
petrol it has been proposed to prohibit
Sunday-selling, thus limiting the purely
pleasure-seeking public first. To carry
the idea further why not limit night-
sellers to those filling-stations that are
properly guarded?
I’ve heard young fellows discussing
these garage hold-ups. They look dead
easy and they are dead easy. Often
there’s only an overworked youth to
stick up for ready cash.
Many garages are just flagrant tempta-
tions to those weakening towards a career
of crime.— Darken (N.S.W.).
“How to Vote”
If ever there was an insult to the in-
telligence of the Australian elector, it
is the stupid “how-to-vote” system. No
one has any objection to canvassing and
other forms of decent publicity on behalf
of candidates during an election cam-
paign, but the setting up of tables and
handing out of cards adjacent to polling
booths on the day that the vote is taken
is one of the silliest practices that have
crept into our system of elections.
No voter wants to be told a few
minutes before he casts his vote how he
should do it—he has already made up
his mind to whom he is going to give
first preference, and all the cards and
posters that have ever been printed will
not make him change it. Many of those
who congregate around the tables or
stands to “assist” the candidates of their
choice are inclined to be insulting if
views which differ from their own are
expressed. These people hand out cards
urging the recipient to vote “No. 1” for
one of the runners, and, on occasions,
abuse is likely if the card is refused.
That, however, is a natural result of
the fact that supporters of the candidates
are allowed to press the claims of their
men within the vicinity of the polling
booth. Nothing of the kind should be
allowed. With the exception of old
ladies who may be a bit doubtful re-
garding what it is all about, and flappers
who have only a vague idea of what vot-
ing means, the “how-to-vote” cards and
attendant system of tables, banners and
urgers would not sway one per cent of
the total vote. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
This Progress!
People are inclined to judge modern
inventions and .their various industrial
applications as the last word in our
flaunted civilisation. Such is a common
fallacy. The rapid advances in aero-
nautics, medical science, wireless and in
many other spheres are indeed wonderful.
But we are not in any way superior to
our predecessors. There are at least
as much mental and physical suffering
nowadays, as much graft in high places,
envy in the hearts of the poor, avarice
among the rich, distrust between coun-
tries. The most progressive nation is not
necessarily the one with the greatest in-
ventive geniuses, but that which has
the greatest amount of individual con-
tentment.
More than just mere material develop-
ment is required. What is the real, in-
trinsic value of any powerful invention
if it is but an improved potential de-
stroyer, ready to hurl destruction in the
form of gas, cannon, torpedo or of some
other dread agency? Or of what national
value are the luxurious homes and their
multiplicity of labor-saving gadgets, the
powerful motor-cars and other ostenta-
tious, expensive devices? The world
would be better if, supplementary to the
material progress, there were discoveries
of a different nature, worth-while dis-
coveries in philosophy and the uplifting
of man’s mind beyond the continual con-
flicts and quarrels at home and abroad.
We have not yet learnt to live happily
together. We may never learn, but
nothing can be lost by endeavors in that
direction.
Modern life is certainly a more com-
fortable one physically. It possesses a
greater variety of entertainment and occu-
pation, owing principally to our mechani-
cal achievements, but is it as happy and
as contented as that of our forefathers?
It is the fault or characteristic of our age
that we are so dissatisfied, so restless men-
tally ; we strive relentlessly for more
fame, more power, more money, more
and more pleasure. It is this mad frenzy
that nullifies, in a sense, our real pro-
gress. Even with the atmosphere of
luxury, scientific knowledge and compara-
tive enlightenment that surrounds us,
notable men have recently succumbed to
the arduous strain of modern high-
pressure living. A significant announce-
ment in this year’s annual report of a
leading life-assurance society was that
the largest contributing factor in death
claims was organic diseases of the heart.
Is our advanced stage of “civilisation” a
bit ahead of itself? — Ronaldo (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
The Ideal SOLDIER’S WATCH
w
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
Ideal for Out-
doors. Essentially
a man’s watch.
Not affected by
tropical climes.
and
12 months’ free
service.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.
67/6
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
e
112 MARKET ST
l SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTUSREAGII STREET. SYDNEY
DEAF
w
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 60TB, City Mutual
Bldg., cnr. Hunter and
Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Here’s a Novel
Xmas Gift
n
A Flower Secateur which cut*
and holds stem of any flower,
13/6 each
Posted Free for Cash.
Post one to your friend.
W.JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
m.
LTD.
.vr
MM
tkmm*
r»i
sS|>:, , piSST ' r
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
.n ad e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AN IDEAL
XMAS GIFT
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
i'or 5/6. Honest Value., 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “Levysown” 0}\ aU ,V y
Tobacco at 7/- lb.—worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe contained m its
own case for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
Tobacconist, Est. 39 Vrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
SOL LEVY
GLOBES - 15/6
Stands 9 Inches
high.
Latest positions
of European
countries
shown.
Mounted on
metal figured
base.
Send cheque or
money order direct to
Reg Rose & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
58 Margaret Street,
Sydney.
’Phone: 8W2114.
■ ■ ;
..A"' ?•'
-
PAGE
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in PAGF
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata
loeue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street. Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
STOPvour
comfort.
Worries?
One leading Doctor on 3/11/ 38
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.” _
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
e
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OIL HEAT
BATH HEATER
Burning Fuel
Oil, the Cheapest
Fuel known.
A Hot Bath for
a third of a
penny.
Catalogue Free.,
Sands’ “Handi”
Pumpless Iron.
Lamps of All
Kinds.
2L
T. W. SANDS,
387 LONSDALE ST., MELBOURNE.
memorise, itH eaS £
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write —
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
w
Winchester
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range -
35 1-
3-cell, 350 ft. or /
Range
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
THE BEST ACCORDEON
fitted with special
hand-tuned reeds.
Single and double
row lnodels front
Post free for cash
with order. Terms
can be arranged
if so desired.
Write for illus-
trated catalogue.
1
NAYLOR, Musical Instruments,
137 and 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
a
m,
(CORK INSULATED)
ideal for picnics, motor
tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes.
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 39/6.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 29/6.
Senior Model ' AU stores or direct from
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150-152 Brighton Street, Richmond, El, Vic.
G=sSl
7^
r 9
U
fe)
This MODERN DESIGN 15-jewel Swiss
TITUS Gent’s (or Lady’s) Wristlet Watch.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY-pay
only 50/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
SO/-). Write for particulars of other models.
LENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY.
TILLEY LAMPS
e
300 Candle Power, isritisn
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 14 pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. AVill not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 55/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., RtcL,
378 Kent Street, Sydney.
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
è
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
i permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
é
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
V?
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Fencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back ‘if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
188 GEORGE STREET.,SYDNEY. N.S.W.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t Judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
JTrom all Agents or —
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Fitt-st., Sydney
ê
UL
w
Crushes ice, fine,
medium and coarse.
Working parts of
Stainless Steel.
Ideal for Hotels,
Hospitals, Cafes,
Modern Homes.
Price
49/6 A
AMPL/ON(A'S/A) PTY. LTD. ,
SB2 KENT 'STREET SYDNEY
DEAF t
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
MAKE YOUR OWN SOFT DRINKS
Much better and far cheaper
than any you dan buy. A
full gallon of the nicest and
most refreshing cordial for
the price of one “deep
sinker;” Just delicious for
the hot days. It sparkles
like champagne. Better for
your health than any bottled
drink. Splendid for the
family and highly appreci-
ated by your visitors. Less trouble than
making a pot of tea. A trial will surely
please. Obtainable in various nice . flavors:
lime, raspberry, lemon, orange. Nine Pence
per Packet, or Three Packets for 2/-, carriage
paid, with full directions.
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ŵ
BOYS' BATS FOR XMAS
all Personally Selected by
BERT OLDFIELD.
Selected Willow, Treble
Spring: Handle.
Size 4 9/6 and 12/6
Size 6 10/6 to 19/6
Size 6 ...... 11/6 to 25/
Harrow 13/6 to 32/6
SPECIAL!
BOYS’ CRICKET SETS
comprising Bat, Stumps, Bails,
Ball, Score Book 16/11
ẁ
BERT OLDFIELD’S SPORTS STORE,
54 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bargains in
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
FIREMAN’S BOOTS. N.S.W. Fireman’s best quality
Leather Wellington Boots. Genuine issue. Fart
RIFLE™' 7 lemirfe liS'a, MILITARY 310 Met,
issest.
Distance Gauge. 600 yards. A Genuine Bargain.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand
new, made of the best English leather l size 27i "•
x l7in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR, ONLY
£2/5/- per pair. , ,
200 Military ROPE TRACES, leather-bound. Also
suitable Car Tow Ropes, Bft. 6in. long, 5/6 each;
10/- per pair, NEW.
300 Military TORCH LAMPS, can also be used foi
Morse signalling, 3/6 each.
Harry Mitchell ~ 468 SYDNEY.* 6
/Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never he without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
13/12/’39 (See Page 42)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


ill
. • : 1 ; ■■
mm
m
m. mm
M.
,
111
: m
n
m
\
m
s'
W
s
■x
■
i
S:i
/Vi...
M
II
t
gS8;(
Mmmm
m
■
V
, m
;
mm
:
ifi
f
I
m
V
a
The Great Xmas conspirator is Santa Claus. He
conspires to cut the kitchen session right in halves
and give every person, young and old, a jolly time
and an easy one. He brings Xmas trees and toys,
also delicious cakes and puddings which are light,
lich and ready to serve.
Amott's new Xmas cake tin used for the first time
this year has a simple paper strip label, which is
easily detached. With this removed you have a
beautiful, colourful cake container in perfect taste,
which very fittingly reflects the quality of its rich con-
tents and is a most graceful and desirable Xmas gift.
ẃ
