

Famous 01 d English Inns
"The Trout”
Godstow,
Oxfordshire.
SiSig--
An old established fishing
inn on the Thames, above
Oxford, wherein generations
of anglers have exchanged
stories of the catch.
5^23!
m
m
m ..
; - i
Vk
K ?
s 1!
\ 7^.
MT"'®J-TX-LA rr 1
0
■' rr
v,
fif
, S
Host Holbrook says:
<-
• aA'
4*
%•
'The fisherman knows that a
few drops of my Worcestershire
Sauce will add a greater zest
for the fish than for the fishing.’
k
ft' "
*« *
x/i
mi
Jx* Mor/c/s Aj^D&As&r
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
a
ar^Sv
«?x
£
rff\
agfeAi****.
Holbrook*G>
Ef
.2
it. 1 i
, ,iii. J
The Bulletin
Read “The Other Fellows Mind": pages 49, 50
Vol. 60.—N0. 3078.
Wednesday, February 8, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS.
Though W. B. Yeats, dead in France, at 73, popu-
larly derived from the Celtic revival of the late-
nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, in literary
reality he stood quite apart from this background. He
worked terrifically hard in writing and editing scripts,
teaching raw material to act, rehearsing and producing,
while the power of his enthusiasm and Lady Gregory’s
kept the renaissance alive.
The Abbey Theatre and Synge, Lady Gregory,
Hyde, the heroic chant in Sara Allgood’s voice and
the dark, soft shadows in Moira O’Neill’s, the cost of
theatrical sets and railway journeys, the recurrent
troubles of the Irish Literary Society—these and a
thousand similar things filled his mind for years. But
only as an activity—part of the rebirth so dear to him
—and in effect a background for the true Yeats who
thought and made his music alone, and who takes his
place with the major poets of his time.
As the son of John Butler Yeats, the Dublin
artist, he studied painting to begin with, but aban-
doned it in 1888 for literature, settling in London.
Here almost from the first he had his definite place in
contemporary letters as a Blake critic and enthusiast
and an authority on ancient Irish literature and legend.
He published The Wanderings of Oisin in 1889, a
wild, haunting balladry of this ancient lore, sumptuous
in music (and sometimes oversumptuous in formless
pictorial effectiveness), beautiful with a sorrowing
cadence that was the voice of Ireland and yet Yeats’s
own voice. This early verse has the faults of its quali-
ties, but it has also their great effulgent beauties in
phrasing and lustrous richness of imagining. These
beauties reached their poetic summit in The Countess
Kathleen (1892) and the volumes of poems published
in 1895.
For a space a somewhat conscious simplicity took
the place of this richness —the sort of consciousness
exemplified in “At the moth-hour of eve” and, two
stanzas later, “And the moth-hour went from the
fields.” The true simplicity that rose from this is at its
triumphant best in “Innisfree” and “When You Are
Old”—though the scenes in The Countess Kathleen
which have been criticised as “extravagant” (however
that word may enter verse-criticism) have their equally
high place in poetry.
In Deirdre he returned, for that one work, to the
wild glories of Oisin and Kathleen, but thereafter the
luminous simplicity was the pattern of all his work,
verse and prose. In both the glories and the pungent
simplicities he has the wide, creative vision of the
major poet. Posterity will give him no lower place,
in or out of Ireland.
He was a Senator in the Parliament of the Irish
Free State in 1922; and he was awarded the Nobel
Prize for literature in 1923.
It was the writer’s privilege to meet him once or
twice when the Irish Players were at the Court Theatre
in London. He was a busy, important personage in
that environment at the Court; but quite unassuming.
All his life he must have been a kind as well as a
great man.
Hilary Lofting.
Poets and War.
When W. B. Yeats was asked for a war poem
and refused on the ground that
He has had enough of meddling who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth
Or an old man upon a winter’s night,
he retreated to an “ivory tower” which the Georgian
poets, who bore the full impact of the Great War,
could not possibly ascend. Graves, Sassoon, Blunden,
Gibson and the rest were in the thick of it, tormented
into writing about it. Since a new type of war poem
is fashionable at the moment, the experience of
Georgian poets and Georgian poetry in the war
period is not without significance.
Kipling’s confident jingoism with its glorification
of battle was for all its crudity fairly representative
both of the popular and the poetic attitude towards
war. Lip-service, as always, was paid to peace, but
it was not so long since Tennyson had honored the
Duke of Wellington, nor since Byron had gone off
to fight for the Greeks. Very few—Kipling most cer-
tainly not —thought of war in the modern sense of the
word.
When war came, its poet was Rupert Brooke.
Kipling’s noisy drum-banging was transmuted into
the high and noble music of Brooke’s sonnets:
Now, God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honor could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
It was true for that moment, and it was very
beautiful. But Brooke died. Sassoon saw such horrors
that he publicly protested against the war and refused
to take any further part in it. He has been writing
anti-war satires, savage and bitter, ever since. Blunden
was tortured into war poems that are like a scar across
the face of his quiet verses about the English country-
side.
The critics, from a moral impulse rather than a
literary, turned on Brooke. His nobility was called
naivete ; the poets who had seen the war through
knew that, with whatever high impulse his “swimmers”
leapt, they landed not in cleanness but in the mud and
filth of the trenches. “And we have come into our
heritage,” Brooke greeted the war; Sassoon and
Blunden had learnt that, unless “our heritage” was
horror, Brooke’s idealism had proved merely to be
childish and silly. World war had called for a com-
plete revision of the Byronic notions of the splendor
of warfare.
Remembering that that was a commonplace of
politico-literary criticism, that Brooke among the in-
tellectuals and pacifists was utterly discredited, one
can turn to the newest of poets, Cecil Day Lewis,
and find him another Rupert Brooke in every essen-
tial. As in Brooke’s case, if he could be considered
apart from his politics, he is a good poet. There are
fine lyrics in his new book, Overtures to Death (Cape);
there is an exciting narrative poem reminiscent in
style of the one he wrote about Parer and Mclntosh
flying to Australia; the title poem is a remarkably
sensitive piece of work.
But just as Brooke must be remembered as the
man who thought the Great War was “cleanness,”
Day Lewis must be known as the man who says
Freedom is more than a word, more than the base coinage
Of statesman, the tyrant’s dishonored cheque, or the dreamer’s
mad
Inflated currency. She is mortal, we know, and made
In the image of simple men who have no taste for carnage
But sooner kill and are killed than see that image betrayed.
Innocent is her touch as the dawn’s.
The sentiments, like Brooke’s when first written,
are irreproachable. If Brooke were alive to-day, and
were Day Lewis’s age, he might be writing exactly
the same sort of thing. Brooke was an idealist and a
patriot; Lewis is imbued with the same admirable
sentiments:
Here in a parched and stranger place
We fight for England free,
The good our fathers won for her,
The land they hoped to see.
It is not the sentiments one can object to ; it is the
application of such a facile simplification to the com-
plexity of human passions, the belief that war is a
simple matter of right and wrong, the readiness to
plunge “simple men who have no taste for carnage”
into the bloody chaos of modern war to defend a
principle which a poet believes to be involved.
Rupert Brooke’s idealism carried him as far as
the Great War, in which eight million “simple people”
died. Day Lewis’s idealism, unfortunately for the
“simple people,” asks for considerably more casual-
ties. Believing that
Nothing is innocent now but to act for life’s sake,
he wants intervention in Spain, war against the dic-
tators and Communist revolution in England. Not
counting the women and children, that little programme
should account for considerably more than a mere
eight million men.
The evidence that he would like to see British
people mixed up in the Spanish inferno is his tribute
to “The Volunteer”:
There was no other way to keep
Man’s flickering truth alight,
and in a long poem glorifying the achievements of a
Government trawler in a battle with the Canarias.
For war with the dictators:
Your politicians pray silence
For the ribald trumpeter,
The falsetto crook, the twitching
Unappeasable dictator.
For any else you should be pleased
To hold your tongue: but Satan
Himself would disown his teaching
And turn to spit on these.
When madmen play the piper
And knaves call the tune,
Honesty’s a right passion—
She must call to her own.
Let yours be the start and stir
Of a flooding indignation
That channels the dry heart deeper
And sings through the dry bone.
For revolution:
Towns there are choked with desperate men,
Scrap-iron gluts the sidings here:
Iron and men they mould for war,
But in their death that war will end.
In the poem quoted earlier, Yeats said he believed
the poet had no gift to guide the people on politics.
Though there is no accepted canon of criticism to
stop a man such as Day Lewis submerging a fine
lyrical talent in a species of political journalism, it is
rather a pity; and it is certain that it will be said of
him as it still is of Brooke that he never faced reality.
To talk of a love for “simple men” when he is eager
to plunge them into war for an abstract principle is
as silly as to profess a love for England when he is
willing to see that green and pleasant land made foul
with violence and murder for the very uncertain
benefits of revolution.
Topical Novels.
War Lord, by Leonard Mosley (Michael Joseph),
The Professor, by Rex Warner (Boriswood) and Story
of a Lake, by Negley Farson (Gollancz), are three
novels that the reader who likes a dash of topicality
in his fiction will find reasonably good.
War Lord deals with China, and the burden of
the tale is that China would have been in a better
position to meet invasion had there been less graft and
corruption among her generals in time of peace. In
Mosley’s picture of them they look more like bandit
leaders than soldiers. The tragedy of Tsang, with
whom the book deals specifically, is that he experi-
ences a change of heart when it is just too late. Know-
ing the true position he exhorts the people to be for-
bearing in the face of foreign aggression, but his
wife, believing his change of attitude to arise from
personal motives, comes forward on the opposite side.
The people believe her, and Tsang is finally killed
by an enraged mob that believes him guilty of
treachery. There are some good pictures of life in
the backblocks of China. The author works the
“General’s” multitudinous love affairs for a little more
than they are worth to the main theme.
The Professor is a social allegory and a solemn
warning to democrats. The Professor in question is
called to the helm of his country in a time of crisis.
He has a plan which he believes will achieve social
justice and will be acceptable on sight to all men of
reason. He overlooks that reason is only one of many
human attributes, and that not all men are as disinter-
ested and high-minded as himself. He neglects to
arm his ideas, with the result that more forceful if
less worthy persons seize the State. The Professor, in
deference to his learning and his humanism, is treated
with a great show of courtesy and respect, but in the
end he is shot “while trying to escape.”
This book is well-written and the allegory is per-
fectly sustained. There are some amusing touches of
irony, as when the Professor disarms a would-be
assassin on the day of his being called to the head of
Government, only to learn that the supposed attempt
on his life was a piece of theatre arranged by his sup-
porters to ensure his popularity.
Story of a Lake comes as something of a dis-
appointment after The Way of a Transgressor, by the
same author. He has made a novel out of what
appear to be scraps left over from the first book, com-
bined with the matrimonial difficulties and love affairs
of an American foreign correspondent. The moral
decadence of post-war Europe is the main theme, and
the romanticism and puritanism of the leading charac-
ter provide an admirable lens with which to bring it
all into focus.
One difficulty the writer meets is that the same
thing has already been done by more practised novel-
ists —Huxley, for instance—and a momentarily
shocked public has sunk back into the reflection that
a few spots of decadence are not necessarily to be
taken as indicative of European life as a whole. Even
granting the author the value of his theme his treat-
ment is rather superficial. The political content of
the book is not very large.
Hazardous Living.
Anyone who laments that the world has become
tame and effete and the fibre of mankind flabby should
be cheered up by John D. Craig’s Danger Is My Busi-
ness (Barker). In the last 10 years Craig has lived
as dangerous and exciting a life as could have been
experienced when the world was wild and men ad-
venturous, and that without barging into any of the
sundry wars that have been going on.
A shrewd deal provided the money to enable him
to start out very young from his native U.S.A. The
Shell Oil people took up land on one side of a hill,
and he knew they should have taken it up.on the
other. Going into partnership with the holder of a
block on the good side, he and his partner were
shortly drawing a steady income from Shell royal-
ties. So long as the oil lasted he was right for travel-
ling and living expenses, and, with no particular design
except to get out and sample what adventure might
be going, he headed for Europe.
There he met an Australian girl who figures in
the background of his story as Sunny. Somewhere in
sunny Australia Sunny is apparently still going strong,
and a girl of some character by this account. She has,
however, lost her man, though not his admiration.
There was too great a difference in their ages; but, as
well as that, Sunny evidently wanted to reform him.
With her strong feminine logic, she saw that he was
heading to become a worthless drifter; she wanted
him to set himself an objective and go after it. As it
turned out, he was already straight-headed for a career
well out of the rut, though neither of them could know
this at the time.
Peeved with Sunny, he took the hackneyed resort
of getting drunk. This was in Paris, and led to his
meeting with two fellow-spirits from Gahd’s Own;
remittance men, U.S.A. pattern. Sent abroad by their
families, they had signed up as engineers for the Rus-
sian Government, and had left Russia after blowing
up their own work because they were not paid, and
had been threatened with death if they kicked about
it. So some, at least, of the “wrecking” in Russia
may be just a matter of the ghost failing to walk!
Evading the fate of the untold thousands in
Russia’s sickening record, here they were in Paris in-
tent on next looking in on Algiers and the Riffs. Craig,
who had taken up movie-photography for amusement,
subsequently joined them again at Algiers, and a mad-
cap car adventure into the desert with a couple of
Frenchmen saw them all bagged as Riff prisoners. Sus-
pected of being Foreign Legion spies, their position
wasn’t helped by the presence of the Frenchmen, one
drunk and the other frightened, and, whether it was a
fact or not, they all believed they were held in immi-
nent peril of their lives.
The Riffs let them go at last. On Craig’s own
showing not the least subtle of practical jokers, the
desert humorists may have got tired of the joke. Craig,
however, in this, as in subsequent adventures, has a
very lively sense of the danger he was in ; it goes a
long way towards making his book always interesting
reading.
Next he is in Egypt getting the same sort of ex-
citement out of climbing the pyramids. Graphic de-
scription, at which he’s an adept, gives to one ot
these climbs an authentic flavor of danger. The pyra-
mid climbed was not the big easy one up in front ot
Mena House, but the much more hazardous smaller
one, the last 20 or 30 feet at the top of which is
smooth-faced and slippery, with a fall of 300 feet or
so if the climber misses his footing. Craig, with two
C Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” the salt of business.
'THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
dtaitf 'lfjiaJihj. 3/ enuim
m
TOOLS FOR THE TRADESMAN
or/
20/- STEEL MEASURING TAPES
Steel Tape Measure in leather case.
66ft. long, f ins. wide. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 20/-
SALE PRICE , 18/6
186
26/6 LEATHER TOOL BAGS
Well made Tool Bags of Solid
Leather for plumbers and carpen-
ters. Complete with handles or
straps. Sizes 16x11x6 inches or
18x8x5 inches. Regular Price 26/6
SALE PRICE
24
24/-
21/- BREAST DRILLS
Millers' Falls Breast Drills. No. 19A.
Two speed, two jaw chuck for
square shank drills. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 217-
SALE PRICE 18/9
18 s
ANTHONY HORDERN
& SONS, LTD.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
5/6 FARRIERS' PINCERS
A genuine saving on Farriers' Pincers.
Size 12 inches.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 5/6
SALE PRICE 3/6
36
2/9 HACK SAWS NOW
Nickel plated adjustable Hack Saw Frames
to take blades 8 to 12 inches. Supplied
with one blade. Anthony Horderns' Reg-
ular Price 2/9
SALE PRICE 2/3
23
5/9 NAIL HAMMERS AT
"Hordura" Adze Eye Nail Hammers.
No. Hxl6oz. No. Ix2ooz.
5/9 6/3
4/6 4/9
Regular Prices
SALE PRICES
46
5/6 JACK PLANES AT
Wm. Marples' 8.8. English Horn Peg Jack
Planes with 1£ ins. round nose irons.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 5/6
SALE PRICE 5/“
5
/
T1/6 BENCH VICES
Dawn Engineers' Parallel Jaw Bench
Vices. Sizes: 2? 3
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices —
11/6 12/6 15/-
10/6 11/6 13/6
SALE PRICES
106
Sizes:
Regular
SALE
3£ 4L 4S 5 6
Prices 20/6 22/- 27/- 33/6 43/6 54/-
PRICES 18/6 20/- 24/6 30/- 40/- 50/-
7/6 SET OF SPAN
N ERS
Set 6-piece Auto Kit Spanners. No. 100,
6 flat spanners, actual sizes, x 7 e, j, iV,
f, |, 6 ring sizes, -fk, r 7 o, ?, ib; 1;
| ins Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 7/6. SALE PRICE, set 6/9
69
£ll 3| Centre Screw Cutting
BENCH LATHES
Ideal Screw Cutting Bench
JA/-,
Lathes, take 13in. between
centres. Hollow spindle complete with nine
machine-cut change wheels, face plate, 1 pair
centres. Plain lathe, ordinary rest. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £ll
SALE PRICE £lO/5/-
Plain Lathe, compound rest. Regular Price, £l2/10/-
SALE PRICE £ll/15/-
Back geared Lathe, plain rest. Regular Price, £l5
SALE PRICE - £l4
Back geared Lathe, compound rest.
Regular Price £l6/10/-
SALE PRICE - - £l5/15/-
• Tools—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free
only within our delivery area.


Skinny in Beard and Petticoat Again
By A.C. Headley
DRAWING BY LOCK.
I HAD been tinkering with the idea of putting Bill
in the wrestling game for a long time. The way
I looked at it he had the size and strength, and
not a brain in his body, and you couldn’t want
nothing better. But Skinny turned it flat. “Listen,
Scut,” he said. “I ain’t growin’ no beard for no one,
and as far as Madame Thora is concerned I don’t
want to see hei again in my life.
In a way I suppose you could look at it Skinny s
™ y - T? ’T’ d u bee " b£arded lady S ° me '
thing had happened that had knocked us cockeyed,
and, besides, there was the matter of Bill making love
to 6
’. „ T
.. „ Skl ™ y ’ T, ’ ,ta the wr ° n S a “ ltUde ’ and irs
selfish. Were broke, ain’t we? All right, all you’ve
.-o „ , , , ~ . , ,
got to do is grow a beard and stick on a dress and we
„„ n ]a0 ,, 0 r. , , , . .
can nave our hands on a first-class business proposi-
t - »
« A , ~ ... „ ~ . u . ~ .
A better proposition, said Skinny, is cold tea
in bottles, branded Dr. Soake’s Elixir of Life, and
... . , . „
selling at seven and six.
« T ., ... , „ ~ T „ , .
Its dishonest,” said I, “and liable to a penalty
, .. „
not exceeding
« t . . „ . <t
Any penalty, said Skinny, couldn t exceed
_. . , ’ , .
Bill. Give me time and 111 think of a better idea to
.
ring in t e coin.
But three weeks later we were down at Ihe station
to meet Bill. The first thing he did when he saw
Skinny was dive out of the train and throw his arms
' . . „ , . . ..v . ,
round him. Thora, he said, I come in haste to
.. ’ ~ , _ ,
your call. Me eart trembled when I read your
.
„. . . , , ,
Skinny was trying to look as though he was
... r r
waiting for a tram. Bill, he said, I think of you
. ... . ’ ;
constant, and that was why I sent the telegram when
this wonderful opportunity came along.”
“You made me ’eart very ’appy,” said Bill.
“It fair sings with joy that you remembered
me.”
“Thora could never forget you, Bill,”
said I.
Bill noticed me for the first time. “ Lo, Scut,”
he said.
“Listen,” I said. “I don’t want to be a wet
blanket, but there’s better places than Central to talk
about love and life and laughter.”
“It’s me ’appiness bubblin’ over,” said Bill,
‘There’s other things that can bubble over,” said
I, so we went down to the Royal, and over a couple
0 f m ugs I told Bill about the wrestling proposition.
“It's a “P> BiH.” I “id, “and you’ve got the
appearance I( , s what you get paid for __ a pp earance
„„„ , T . , ■ , . , . „ ,
money. There s nothing else to do except roll round
the floor. It’s easier than fighting; you don’t have to
s,and “P a " d make yourself tired. You’ll be famous.”
t<Tt , , T J . ■ . . „ ,
It s what I dreamed about, said Skinny; and,
„
besides, look at the money we can make.
„ , ... .
bven then Bui did not seem to be showing much
enthusiasm. “Thora,” he said, “it ain’t that I would
, ’
d T yoU '' °f s ’ b “‘ wby WOn / m , arry me a " 1
could look after y ? You could end the ceaseless
. , , , ._
struggle an be appy as me wife. I oughter git a good
~ „ 6
price for the wool clip this year.
r J
Skinny gave a little shiver. “Bill,” he said, “my
, . . , ..
heart is in the city. I could never leave it, and that s
,l T .f * j . ,
why I sent for you to come down and make good.
Bill’s ears jumped back about three inches. “Aw,”
he .. tha ,, s difiPreil ,.„
i * . . , . Dll . , . , ,
\a/E started in on Bill next day. We could have
VV , , , ... . ,
filled a stadium with what we didn t know about
... , . ~ , . . . . . , .
wrestling, but we d bought a book for one and six
that’ showed pictures of all the holds, and we went
. , . . . , . „. .
to work training him. Skinny would sit back, holding
, t , . ... „... °
the book and telling Bill the most scientific ways of
Skinny would sit back, hold-
ing the book and telling Bill
the most scientific ways of
tearing me to bits. I’m not
small, but the way Bill lifted
me up and tossed me around
the room made me feel like
a babe in arms except that
people don’t dash babes in
arms on the floor.
tearing me to bits, so that I was beginning to be pretty
sorry that I’d ever mentioned Bill and wrestling I’m
not small, but the way Bill lifted me up and tossed
me around the room made me feel like a babe in
arms except that people don’t dash babes in arms on
the floor.
But Bill was coming on all right, and in a couple
of weeks he could clap a hold on me in less than five
minutes if I held my arms right. Mostly, though, his
idea of wrestling was to pick me up and fall on'me.
I was getting pretty sick of it.
“Listen, Skinny,” I said. “I’m tired of being a
weighing-machine for Bill. Maybe it would be better
if we just made him into a professional strong man.”
“I could shave off me beard,” said Skinny.
“Besides, this dress don’t suit me.”
The way things looked, even after all our train-
ing, Bill couldn’t have wrestled a good meal.
“Skinny,” I said, “there must be other ways of
making money.”
But Skinny was diving into the trunk for his
clothes. In less than five minutes he was trying to do
up his collar and getting it tangled in his beard. There
wasn’t any real hurry because Bill had taken the
afternoon off to go to the races.
“Scut,” said Skinny, “I’m going to leave the
undergrowth down at the barber’s. If Bill comes in
you can tell him I’ve gone away to nurse me sick
aunt.”
“I’ll come with you,” said I.
It was just as well I did because we were hardly
out of the house when up came a taxi and out of it
jumped Bill.
“Scut,” he yelled at the top of his voice, “look
what I got.” He dived his hand into his pocket and
pulled out a fistful of notes. “I backed the first
winner a thing called The Flea. I got an omen
about it. Twenty to one. So I come ’ome.”
Then he noticed Skinny, and he nearly broke his
collarbone the way his mouth fell open, “thora,”
he said, “I can ’ardly believe me eyes. Wot are you
doing all dressed up like a man?”
I looked at Skinny, and underneath his beard he
was dead white. He was staring at Bill as though
to-morrow had come. Something had to be done.
“Bill,” I said, “you’re making a terrible mistake.
That ain’t Thora, it’s her twin brother. He’s come
down from the bush with a message for his sister,
who he hasn’t seen for ten years.”
“Ho,” said Bill.
“Yeah,” said I, “this is her brother Bert.”
Bill scratched his ear with a quid note. “Ain’t
if marvellous?” he said. “Ain’t they terrible alike?”
Skinny found his voice, "»“We was always alike,”
he said. “No one could tell us apart except by our
clothes. We even talk the same.”
“Now I come to look at you close,” said Bill, “I
can see you ain’t exact alike. Thora’s more delicate-
lookin’. She’s a lovely girl, y’r sister. She’s got a fine
character.”
“I’m proud to shake y’ be the ’and,” said Skinny,
“for saying them things about me dear sister. I can
see she’s got a true friend.”
“ ’Ave y’ seen ’er yet?” said Bill.
Skinny shook his head.
“Orright,” said Bill, “I’ll come an’ ’elp y’ find
’er an’ we can celebrate me win.”
“Bill,” I said, pretty smart, “where’s your tact?
Don’t you know that there’s things a brother and
sister that ain’t met for ten years have got to talk over?
We’d only be in the way.”
“That’s if y’ wouldn’t mind,” said Skinny. “I
got a sacred trust to perform.”
“That’s orright,” said Bill, “we can 'ave the party
to-night. I’ll come round early.”
Skinny and I left him then, and off he wobbled
down the street.
“I don’t want my fate to be no closer,” said I,
remembering what it felt like to breathe. “Now you
can get your beard shaved off and I’ll tell him you’ve
gone away with your brother.”
Skinny was staring after Bill with a faraway look
in his eyes.
“Scut,” he said, “did you see how much dough
Bill had? It didn’t look much less’n a coupla hun-
dred. It wouldn’t be safe to let him go round on his
own.”
“As safe,” said I, “as you being your own brother
and sister. Let’s go to the barber’s and look back on
it as a happy memory.”
“Ideas,” said Skinny, “are beginning to happen.
I can shave off the beard any time, but this looks
like the knock of opportunity. Bill’s gonna keep on
with his wrestlin’.”
“Listen, Skinny,” I said, “can’t you see that my
spirit is broken?”
“You needn’t worry,” said Skinny; “there ain’t
gonna be no more trainin’.”
o Continued on page 6.)


A Feeling Sketch
QUEENSLAND DAISIES
BY
D.A. Camplell
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
THE country around the hut was very wild. The
hills were rough and stony, rising steeply from
the creek, and when the wire-grass flattened out
suddenly and shivered in the wind it seemed that
the hills were on fire. The wind would leap up the hills,
so that the grass in the hard perpendicular sun would
burn wildly and the red earth and blackened stumps
and logs seen through the grass added to the illusion
that there was a bushfire.
As I rode up the creek it was very hot. I kept
looking at the grassfire on the hills, and the heat flow-
ing in thick transparent waves above it, and I could
almost smell the fire. Then as I rounded a rocky turn
in the creek, I saw the hut in front of me and the
smoke from the corrugated-iron chimney being .blown
down. The hut was made of bark, except for the
built-out chimney, and, standing as it did among a
clump of ironbark trees beside the creek, it was as
much part of the place as the burnt logs and wire-grass
on the hillsides.
Mrs. Wilkins was standing outside the door of the
hut, her legs planted well apart, her white apron ex-
panding in the sunlight. There were some scrub mag-
pies fighting in the ironbark trees as I rode along the
creek towards the hut. Their notes were high-pitched
and harsh, like the sound of a file being drawn across
a sheet of galvanised iron. And then I heard Mrs.
Wilkins’s voice rising above the noise of the magpies,
and her voice had the same shrill quality. I was still
about a quarter of a mile from the hut, but I could
hear her voice plainly in the wind, raised to a high-
pitched scream. “Haveh’t forgotten the mail this week,
have you, Jim? Not dropped it in the crick again like
you did last time? Not dropped it in the crick so as
I can’t read a word?” Then a torrent of high-pitched
laughter, more than ever like the squabbling of the
magpies. “I’ll bring the gun out if you’ve dropped ’em
this time, I will.”
As I rode closer I could see her more plainly
as she stood in front of the hut, screaming and laugh-
ing at the top of her corrugated-iron voice. She stood
with her feet apart, her legs rising from her old shear-
ing-boots like two fence posts. She had her hands on
her hips, and her hips swelled to a tremendous size
under her white apron. Then she dwindled away to
almost nothing ; to a little dark weather-tanned head,
the hair lank and straggly, tied in a bun behind, the
face very dark and thin, with long, thin lines down
the cheeks and tight crow’s-feet around the eyes, the
eyes themselves so dark that they were almost black.
She looked like an old Queensland bottle-tree ; or
even more like a fierce, weather-tattered scrub magpie.
As I tied my horse to a hook in one of the iron-
bark trees and fished in the saddle-bag for the mail,
she was still laughing and talking.
“Any mail from Queensland, Jim? Any mail
from Queensland? ’Bout time they wrote, them loaf-
ing sons of mine. ’Bout time they wrote. Not as I
writes meself often ; but they should write to a poor
old woman stuck up in the hills here with nothing to
see all day but possums and goannas—and an occa-
sional coot like you.” And her laughter crackled like
the fire in the built-out chimney.
In the yard there were old tins and bits of net-
ting and iron lying about among the sticks and leaves
from the trees. And then, surprisingly, by the wall of
the hut, a large wattle-tree, as golden as the notes of
the magpies that had stopped fighting and were yodel-
ling further down the creek.
“Any mail from Queensland, Jim? Bring it
inside. We’ll have a bite of lunch and you can read
it to me. Bring it inside, Jim.”
J NSIDE it was quite cool. The bark roof seemed to
absorb all the heat. I sat down on an old kerosene-
case and put the mail on the table planted in the
earthen floor. Mrs. Wilkins, still talking, went to the
large chimney fire and lifted the top off the camp-oven.
A cloud of steam rose up the chimney, mingling with
the smoke and the steam from the kerosene bucket
hanging from a wire over the fire. The room was full
of the smell of Irish stew.
“Smells good, eh? Makes you hungry? Never
known a young bloke like you not hungry. Always
“Every, man jack! And me stuck away
up here in the scrub and never seein’ a
body from one week’s end to another’’
eatin’ and rollin’ cigarettes. Ever ask ’em to do any-
thing and it’s always” She held her hands up to
her mouth as if rolling and licking an imaginary cig-
arette, and laughed her high-pitched magpie scream.
As she fished in the Cooper’s-dip cupboard,
bringing out knives and forks, laying them on the
table, taking tin plates from the mantelpiece and
the white, chipped cups with shamrocks printed on the
sides, I read out her mail. There were two letters,
both from her sons, and as I read she laughed at the
top of her fiendish voice and shouted comments.
“Gawd, he’s a critter. He’s a critter, all right!
Just like his old man. He’s a critter. Takes after his
old man, all right. Never a hand’s turn.” And her
laughter crackled up the chimney.
She shuffled to the door, suddenly serious, still
gripping the stew-ladle in her hand. “ ’Bout time the
old boy was back. Ain’t like him to miss his tucker.
’Bout time he was back.” Then her laughter screamed
out again. “There ’e comes. See the old critter?
Nose like a fox, he has.”
I walked to the door and looked up the hillside.
The grass licked up to the top of the hill, where a spur
of white box-trees ran over the ridge. The white trunks
of the box-trees and the red earth made the sky very
blue. And down the hillside through the trees rode
Mr. Wilkins, his horse kicking up the red dust and
rolling stones down in front of him.
He was a small man, and he rode a roan horse
the size of a racehorse. His legs seemed only just to
straddle the horse. His stomach protruded in front
and rested on the pommel of the saddle so that he
looked at a distance like a fat little jockey. But as he
came closer, straddling his large horse, he looked
less like a jockey and more like an old knight, the
stockwhip held in his hand like a lance, his heavy
white moustache flopping seriously down on each side
of his mouth.
“Gawd spare me days, woman! ” he shouted as he
came sliding down the hillside, “aren’t you gettin’
somethin’ ter eat for a workin’ man? Nothin’ but
flirtin’ around with that young feller there, and no
lunch ready.”
“Workin’ man! ” Mrs. Wilkins was standing with
her hands on her hips, her little black head going back-
wards and forwards fiercely like a magpie’s. “Workin’
man! ’Struth! Never done a day’s work in his life!”
Her laughter shrilled out, drowning his reply. “Never
a day’s work! See how fat he’s gettin’? Just look
at ’im!”
Mr. Wilkins was getting off his horse, sliding
off on his stomach, holding on to the saddle almost
like a child. He turned to us, his face red with ex-
ertion.
“Fat! Wonder I ain’t skin and bone! With me
wife standin’ gossipin’ with every man jack what passes
and never gettin’ any tucker ready. Wonder I ain’t
skin and bone.” His laughter was effervescent, explo-
sive, rippling his moustache as he spoke. His moustache
seemed to cover all the lower part of his face so that
his fierce, twinkling little eyes peered over the top as
over an ambush. His trousers, as he walked towards
us, came down very low in front, strapped with a
leather belt under his stomach. His words and his
laughter came together. “Wonder I ain’t skin and
bone!”
“Every man jack! Do you hear ’.im? And me
stuck away up here in the scrub and never seein’ a
body from one week’s end to another. Every man
jack!” And then her shrill laughter.
“Much better I’d be without you, woman. Give
me a dog for company any day. A dog can’t talk! ”
Talking at the tops of their voices, laughing in
quick bursting gusts and in shrill magpie screams,
both appealing to me to bear witness, they walked into
the hut.
Between mouthfuls of Irish stew, Mrs. Wilkins
looked across the table at me. “I’ll be pushin’ up the
daisies afore next spring,” she said. “Pushin’ up the
daisies.” She seemed to relish the idea. She filled
her mouth with stew, and her laughter was more
fiendish than ever.
“Pushin’ up the daisies!” Mr. Wilkins’s laughter
was bubbling. “Pushin’ up the daisies! You’d kill the
lot! Kill the lot!”
“Humph! New South Wales daisies perhaps, but
not Queensland daisies. They know what’s good for
’em, Queensland daisies do.”
“Queensland!” Mr. Wilkins almost exploded.
“Queensland!”
Mrs. Wilkins just looked at him. “Yes, I’ll be
pushin’ up Queensland daisies.” Her laughter was
drowned by Mr. Wilkins’s effervescent bubble.
“Yes, and you’ll be doin’ more good than you do
here. It’s a wonder to me you don’t go back to your
Queensland. I’d be quite ’appy here with me dog.”
“Make no mistake, I’m goin’ back. I’ll be buried
there all right. In the cemetery in Toowoomba. And
I’ll have a fine funeral, too. A really fine funeral,
with four Queenslanders carryin’ me.” Her dark,
lined face seemed to soften for a moment, and then
she laughed her fiendish laugh.
“Now there’s women' fqr you. No sense! What’ll
it matter to you where you’re buried? You’ll be dead!”
He lay back and rocked with laughter, his moustache


Hr HAT night when Bill turned up with a few bottles
* Thora was there to meet him.
“Bill,” said Skinny, “I got bad news. I got a
message from me brother Bert to nurse me aunt out
of a sickness. I gotter go away to-night. But Bert
’as promised to stay an’ look after the wrestlin’. I
want you to leave everything in his hands. He’ll be
back in the morning. He used to be in the wrestlin’
game once, so he’ll know ’ow to look after you proper.
I know you’ll be a success for my sake.”
“Them words of yours about goin’ away ’as fair
broke me ’eart,” said Bill. “But I’ll do me best.”
Brother Bert was on the scene first thing in the
morning.
“Scut,” he said, “I’m gonna give Bill a tryout.
I’ve got a boy from one of the gyms, to come down
and give Bill a test.”
“Skinny,” I said, “you’re wastin’ your time. I
think I could beat Bill.”
“I ain’t so sure,” said Skinny.
Neither was I after the test. I’d seen this feller
round the local stadium a few times, and he was a
fair kind of wrestler, but Bill treated him just as he
treated me. All he did was pick him up and fall on
him.
“What d’yer think of him?” said brother Bert
when it was over.
“Cripes,” said the wrestler, “ ’e’s bonser. ’E’s
a natural wrestler, that’s wot ’e is.”
Bill just stood there and swelled up with pride.
“I’ll make y’ sister proud o’ me,” he said.
“Scut,” said brother Bert, “we gotter git ’im a
match.”
We got Bill a match all right. Skinny fixed it
up. He’d christened Bill “The Tearing Terror,” and
he arranged a match with Headlock Smith. The match
wasn’t for a couple of weeks, and he managed to get
in a good bit of publicity. Every day we’d get the
wrestlin’ feller in, and Bill would do some training.
“ ’E’s a marvel, that’s wot ’e is,” the wrestler
used to spend his time telling us, and every time he
said it Bill would look as happy as a fish.
The night before the match brother Bert went to
work in earnest.
“Bill,” he said, “this is the opportunity of a life-
time. If on’y we ’ad some money we could make a
packet. No one knows nothin’ about you, an’ we
oughter git a good price. I got a letter from me sister
Thora, an’ she sent me down a pound to bet on you.”
Bill’s eyes fell open. “She did that?”
“She said she feels certain you’ll win,” said
brother Bert. “She said she dreamt it.”
“I believe in dreams,” said Bill.
“If on’y we ’ad some money,” said Bert. “ ’Ow
much you got, Scut?”
I told him and he looked unhappy.
“I got money,” said Bill. “I got about a ’undred
’n’ seventy quid wot I won on the ’orses.”
“Bill,” said Bert, “Thora will be proud of you.
We’ll bet the lot on you.”
Bill fished in his pocket and brought out the
dough.
J NEVER want to see another wrestling match. Skinny
* had fixed up the betting, and there we were, parked
at the ringside, when the bell went for the first round.
First of all, they moved around the ring for about
five minutes without touching one another. Then
Headlock Smith, by accident, got hold of Bill’s arm
and threw him over his shoulder. Bill got up and
picked up Smith and dropped him on the mat, and
then they spent another few minutes not touching
each other until the bell rang.
It wasn’t till the third round that there was a fall.
Headlock Smith got his legs twisted around Bill and
his arm fucked up the middle of his back. Bill
struggled for a bit, and then he looked at the referee.
“I give in,” he said.
You could have knocked me over with a piano.
One fall against us already. I looked at brother Bert
and wondered what was wrong with him. He had
a grin all spread through the middle of his beard.
“If you can tell me what at,” said I, “I wouldn’t
mind a smile right now.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “you oughter been a Sunday-
school teacher. All Bill’s dough is on Headlock
Smith.”
It made me feel a little better.
“Yeah,” I said, “an’ what if Bill wins?”
Skinny grinned. “Miracles don’t ’appen. Bill
couldn’t wrestle a piece of cheese.”
“What about that bloke saying he was good?”
“ ’E only said it,” said Skinny, “because I told
him to. And he only said it when Bill was round.
We ’ad to build up his confidence. I took six to four
about Smith. We should clean up about three
hundred.”
“Skinny,” said I, “forgive me for the things I
sometimes think about you.”
But in the fifth round Bill got a fall, and I got
a sick feeling in the stomach. “Skinny,” I said,
“miracles have happened before.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “it’s all part of the game.
Smith’s just kiddin’ Bill along. They always do it to
make the match stretch out. If ’e’d wanted to, Smith
could’ve had it all over in two rounds. They gotter
stage a show for the customers. ”
“I hope you’re right,” I said.
But he wasn’t! About half-way through the last
round it happened. Bill picked up Smith and fell on
him. Smith didn’t move ; neither did Skinny nor I.
The referee stuck his nose on the floor and slapped
the mat three times. It was over, and Bill was striding
round the ring like a happy bloodhound. I looked
at Skinny and I saw how white he was under the
beard.
“That’s about three hundred we owe Bill,” I said.
But before Skinny could answer Bill gave me a
yell from the ring. “Scut,” he said, “I want to talk
to you private.”
I got up and climbed up to his corner.
“Listen,” said Bill, “could you git me twenty quid
of me money without sayin’ nothin’ to Bert? I don’t
want ’im to know.”
“Why don’t you want him to know?” I asked.
Bill looked sheepish. “Scut,” he said, “it’s on
account of me bein’ dishonest. I promised this ’ere
’Eadlock Smith twenty quid if ’e let me win.”
I tried to speak, but nothing would come. Bill’s
mouth started to drop. “You ain’t sore at me, are y’,
Scut? I only did it f’r Thora’s sake. It’ll make ’er
’appy.”
“Yeah,” said I, “it’ll make Thora very happy.”
Bill brightened. “You can bring the money to
the dressin’-room, but don’t tell Bert.”
But all I was thinking of was telling Bert where
the nearest razor was.
drawn in and then blown out in great gusts. But Mrs.
Wilkins became suddenly serious. Her little black
head went backwards and forwards, and her eyes were
sharp and worried. “Now, Bill, you promised me,
you know. I’ll be buried in Queensland. You
promised.”
Mr. Wilkins sat back chewing at a bit of stew,
and looking at me with mock pity in his eyes.
“There’s women for you,” he said. “No sense. Never
marry a woman. Anybody but a woman.” Then sud-
denly he became serious, too. He clapped his hand to
his jaw. “’Struth, woman! You ain’t chopped this
meat up. Lumps the size of a hand-saw.”
And so it went on till I had to be on my way.
0 0 when I heard last week that Mrs. Wilkins had
died, I rode into town to be there at the funeral.
The road was hard and cold under my horse’s feet,
stretching out very white between the gum-trees. The
ground showed red through the short green grass, and
there was the smell in the air of spring coming. But
it was very cold, and the yodelling of the magpies was
the only warmth in the sharp air. As I rode into the
town, the plane-trees, growing down both sides of
the street in front of the low-built pubs and shops,
were showing their first spring green.
The funeral procession had already started. It
was coming down the street, so I tied my horse to one
of the trees and stood on the pavement watching it
go by. The hearse came first, the coffin covered with
flowers. Behind it came the car of the chief mourner.
Mr. Wilkins was sitting up in the front seat looking
very strange in his black suit and hat. His moustache
drooped a little more than usual, but as he passed he
looked over at me with an attempt at his old humorous
independence—“ Give me a dog any day, it can’t talk.”
Behind the cars stretched in a long thin line down the
whole length of the street. I knew the people in one
of the cars and they motioned me to get in. I sat in
the back seat between the two men.
One of them was the publican from the Commer-
cial. He was a great florid man, his face as red as a
tomato, his body protruding flamboyantly from his
navy suit. His collar was too tight, and he kept rub-
bing his finger round the back. Presently he leaned
over and whispered to me: “If only the old girl was
here, eh? If only she could see. Gawd, she’d die of
excitement.”
The procession crawled on up the street. Then I
saw that something had gone wrong. We were turn-
ing right to the railway station instead of left to the
cemetery.
“What’s wrong?” I whispered. “We’re going the
wrong way.”
The publican leaned towards me. “ ’Aven’t you
’eard?” he said. “Bill’s givin’ ’er two funerals. One
here ; then he’s railin’ ’er to Queensland, and she’s
’avin’ another one there. Spent ’arf ’is life’s savin’s on
it, ’e ’as.”
After that I lay back and watched the green
spring shoots coming out on the plane-trees.
THE BULLOCK TEAM
BY WILL LAWSON.
“7* HE bullock-dray was Australia’s first vehicle of
f transport, and, though speed and greater carry-
ing power are found everywhere to-day, the
man with his team still manages to earn a living
in a few places.
The first type of bullock-dray was called the
“frying-pan.” It had two wheels and a pole, and was
drawn by two bullocks. Its virtue lay in its ability
to turn sharply in and out among the trees before
there were any proper roads. Up till comparatively
recent times these drays were used in the Monaro
(N.S.W.) foothills, where the roads wind round steep
gorges, but eventually they were pushed out of this,
their last stronghold, by short-coupled wagons with
very small front wheels.
The two-bullock team was a necessity because
of the shortage of cattle. When bullocks became
more plentiful and cheaper, teams of eight and even
ten were to be seen hauling the old “frying-pans” ;
but the big teams did not become common till the
four-wheeled wagon came into general use.
As settlement spread into the lands of big dis-
tances, the size of the four-wheel wagon and their
teams increased. On a long trip, quite naturally it
was desired to carry as much as possible. But the
increasing size of the loads raised a problem which
was never quite solved—the width of the tyres on
the heavily-loaded wheels. The old narrow ones sank
into the ground too deeply. Wagons were built with
3|-inch tyres, then four inches, then 4^in.; finally
a five-inch tyre was used. To-day in the timberlands
this is the standard tyre, though a number of wagons
have been fitted with six-inch tyres to meet conditions
of a local nature. <
Naturally there was competition between the
horse-teams and the bullock-teams. On the long
roads across the blacksoil plains the horses had the
advantage of greater pace, while the bullocks had
greater steadiness when the going was heavy. On
long waterless stages through grass country the horses
with their greater daily mileage had the advantage,
but on the roads through scrub country, with little
or no grass, the bullocks held their own. They could
live on the scrub where the horses would starve. When
the stages were too long for bullocks and the feed
too scarce for horses, camel teams were used.
Wheat-farming on a large scale gave the bullock-
teams a new lease of life for a time. The 50-acre and
100-acre wheat crops gave way to areas measured in
thousands of acres, and the bullockies came in from
the outback, where they had been engaged in carrying
fencing and building materials and excavating dams
for new settlers, to cart the grain.
For years carrying wheat and chaff in the Central
Division provided more work for bullock teams than
any other industry, with the possible exception of
sawmilling and carrying railway sleepers. But soon
only the timber-getting and sleeper-cutting remained
for the bullocky. Metal roads, which were too hard
for the bullocks’ feet, were one cause of their retire-
ment. The demand for speed was another, also the
shrinkage of good grazing as lands once open to
the teamsters were taken up.
Until a few years ago the sawmilling and sleeper-
cutting industries in the inland cypress-pine and iron-
bark forests employed many bullock teams. It was
thought that here the bullocky was safe ; the sandy
creeks would offer serious obstacles to any lorry.
For the teams the crossings were covered with cordu-
roy roads, formed by laying light logs across the
tracks.
Then the traction engines came, but only ripped
the logs out of the corduroy, ruining the crossing.
The bullockies laughed as their teams hauled the
stranded engines out. Then somebody thought of
laying the logs lengthwise, the engines ran over them
smoothly and the bullockies moved on again.
To-day the teams are fighting a losing battle in
the coastal scrubs, where they can haul logs out of
the most tortuous gullies by reason of their handiness
and tractability. But here, too, the tractor is on their
heels —and the lorry. The tractors, using cables, can
juggle the logs out of inaccessible places, the lorries
go right into the forest and load, carrying their loads
straight from the tree to the ship.
In the years when they were supreme on the
roads of the continent the bullock-teams built up a
tradition of service. When horses stuck and lorries
floundered in quagmires, the bullocks came through—
slowly, painfully, but surely.


THE APPETITE
EXCHANGE
BY H.C. McKAY.
DRAWING BY CHRISTENSEN.
WHEN the friends and relatives of the patients
streamed into the ward Arthur Rintrell stirred
restlessly on his bed. Two days after his
appendix operation, the bustle and noise of
the visitors worried him. He had no friends or rela-
tions in the State, no one to welcome, and in his
weakened condition visitors’ hour became an ordeal.
He closed his eyes and tried to doze. It was
futile. He opened his eyes and found a hard-faced
middle-aged woman seated beside his bed. As he
stared at her in astonishment her face cracked into an
unsightly smile.
“Well, Rintrell! ” she said. “How do you find
yourself to-day?”
“There’s some mistake,” replied Rintrell feebly.
“I have no friends or relatives in Sydney.”
“No? Then perhaps you might have an enemy.”
“I haven’t” gasped Rintrell, but as he opened
his mouth to speak the woman swiftly bent forward
and crammed a pellet into his mouth, savagely whis-
pering, “Swallow this! ” It was practically forced
down his throat; he gulped it automatically. He tried
to yell for help, but a sudden dizziness and faintness
seized him. He gave a faint cry and began to lose
consciousness. His last recollection was of a voice
insistently whispering in his ear “Thirty-seven West-
street ! ”
At 4 a.m., “washing hour” in hospitals, he was
still asleep. “Queer about that ‘appendix,’ ” said one
nurse to another. “He won’t wake. Must have been
raising a row and got a ‘shot’ on Dixon’s night round.”
She gave perfunctory dabs to his face and hands and
passed on.
“Thirty-seven West-street!” shouted Rintrell, sud-
denly waking three hours later.
“Break it down, boy,” said his neighbor on his
right. “You’re safe in hospital. Let the others doze.”
Recollection came swiftly to Rintrell; the acute
pain, the ambulance, the operation. Also there was
something else, something that happened last night.
But this memory eluded him. He turned to his neigh-
bor and discovered that his face seemed familiar. Of
course—Bill Blake.
Blake and he had first palled-up on the breadline ;
they had been on relief-work together. But Blake, a
big, hefty country chap, had been set on getting into the
police, and at their last meeting had a fighting chance.
“Yes, I pulled it,” said Blake, after recognitions
were over. “I’m a recruit; the only bar was that
little vein in my leg ; they yanked it out last week.
By the way, I hope you took that tip I gave you.”
“That’s all right,” replied Rintrell automatically.
For the life of him he couldn’t remember what this
“tip” was; his mind was still confused. But his
recovery from the operation was rapid, and he was
out of hospital within the fortnight.
F NSISTENTLY throughout his hospital stay and
afterwards at his home —a small shed in a backyard
at Newtown —there kept recurring to his mind the
words “Thirty-seven West-street.” They grew so
urgent that he looked up a street directory, deter-
mined to follow up this queer subconscious drive. He
was rather dashed on finding the number of West-
streets in Sydney suburbs. He set to and traced the
“thirty-sevens” one by one. The first two were blanks
—a factory and a smallgoods shop that suggested no-
thing to his mind. But the third —West-street, Harbor-
vale —provided the missing clue.
It was a modern bungalow, white, Spanish style,
green-tiled, set in well-kept lawns and garden. At
Rintrell’s ring the door was opened. He saw a hard-
faced middle-aged woman, who at sight of him broke
into an ugly smile. At once a. flood of recollection
surged upon him: that night in hospital ; the woman
by his bed ; the pellet he had been forced to swallow ;
the words whispered in his ear.
“Come in; they’re expecting you,” said the
woman. In a maze Rintrell followed her into a front
room. Two men were standing there ; one, florid,
middle-aged, wearing horn-rimmed glasses ; the other,
old, decrepit, face furrowed with lines of age.
“This is the man, Mr. Gilbert,” said the woman,
addressing the older man. “You remember, the man
you saw that day in the cafe at Newtown.”
“Ah, yes, my friend,” said the old man, address-
ing Rintrell. “The way you ate —the amount you
ate —the speed of your eating. That impressed me ;
so much that I want something of you. You will be
handsomely paid for it. I happen to know your present
position”
“Arthur Rintrell, age 22, formerly engineering
apprentice ; now on the dole,” glibly interposed the
other man.
“Thanks, doctor. You have practically no pros-
pects, Rintrell; but if you will make a certain physical
sacrifice, I will see that you get a handsome annuity
for the rest of your life.”
“But what do you want”
“The coating of your stomach.”
As Rintrell stood amazed, the middle-aged man
put in, “Let me explain. lam Doctor Haskell; this
is Mr. Ward Gilbert, one of the wealthiest men in
Australia. You have, of course, heard of him ; he
made his money from plastic-moulded musical instru-
ments, one-sixth the cost of metal. Unfortunately,
Mr. Gilbert cannot enjoy his fortune ; he is a chronic
dyspeptic; the lining of his stomach is destroyed.
Now I, Doctor Haskell, have perfected a new opera-
tion for grafting the lining of a young, healthy stomach
over that of a worn-out old one. I propose to do this
for Mr. Gilbert, if I can secure a suitable young
healthy donor. We chanced to come across you. I
said at once to Mr. Gilbert, ‘This is the man!’”
“But I don’t”
One moment, please. For surrendering your
stomach-coat you will be paid ten pounds per week
for life. The sequel for you will simply mean that
for the rest of your life you must eat only light foods,
principally liquids. Weigh that against what you gain
personal comfort, ease, cash to spend, whereas
otherwise you will starve on the dole for life, possess-
ing an appetite for food which your poverty will
never allow you to satisfy.
The way I got you here,” added the doctor, “was
through the drug scopolamine and suggestion. Our
friend Martha popped a big-dose tab in your mouth,
and whispered the address in your ear. Hearing,
under scopolamine-drugging, is the last sense to go.
It’s an old mental-hospital trick. We could have
omitted it, and put this proposition to you at the hos-
pital or your hovel in Newtown. But we wanted you
here for —well, for a certain reason.” He glanced at
Gilbert and smiled.
Rintrell had listened to this strange story in a
maze. “What guarantee have I got that you’ll pay me
this cash if I agree?” he asked at last.
Haskell put before him a legal document, embody-
ing the gift of a “stomach-graft” for the terms
arranged. It was already signed by Gilbert —that
well-known signature that flares from hoardings and
newspaper ads.—and only awaited his own. Rintrell
came to a sudden decision. The irksome memory of
his days on roadwork, in the breadlines and soup hand-
outs, and in his dreary Newtown shed recurred to
him. After all, to escape a lifetime of such misery
it seemed a small thing to surrender what was at
present a torture to him—a gross, unsatisfied appetite.
He seized the pen and signed.
He missed Haskell a moment; then he was aware
that he was advancing from a corner of the room
with a bottle and mask. Gilbert and the woman seized
him each by an arm, forced him to a couch, the mask
snapped over his face and he inhaled the biting pun-
gency of ether.
An operation without antiseptic preparation of
the patient! Dimly he realised this was all wrong;
he fought, struggled—and lost consciousness as he
did so.
\X/HEN Rintrell came to he was lying in bed in
another room of the house. An enormous swathe
of bandages encompassed his body ; so tightly and
so voluminously wound that it was impossible for
him to rise or lie except upon his back. The woman
Martha sat beside his bed. As he opened his eyes
she smiled her ugly smile.
The operation was a success, she told him. Gil-
bert was in another room, but was to be removed to
his North Shore home at the earliest opportunity. Dr.
Haskell would look in on him (Rintrell) from time to
time. Meanwhile he was to lie still. For the first few
days he would get nothing but water; afterwards,
merely milk and water.
Haskell did not turn up that day ; nor the next.
This struck Rintrell as strange ; but his enforced fast,
following on his appendix operation and the more
recent one, weakened him and threw him into a kind
of stupor. The woman Martha paddled in and out,
performing the usual sick-room tasks, and at intervals
administered draughts of milk-and-water. To all
Rintrell’s queries and demands for Haskell, she replied
monotonously, “To-morrow.”
How long Rintrell would have remained in the
house, an enfeebled patient minus a stomach-lining, is
conjectural; but at eight o’clock on the fifth night
the noise of motor-car brakes screaming as they pulled
up at the house was heard, and feet pounding up the
crazy-path to the front door.
Martha gave a masculine yell and curse, ripped off
her skirt, revealing blue serge trousers, and made a
bolt for the window. Police burst in the door ; the
foremost, whom Rintrell in amazement recognised as
Bill Blake, grabbed the masculine Martha half-way
through the window, hauled him back and panted:
“One of them, at any rate!”
“Who the devil’s this?” shouted the sergeant,
pausing by the patient’s bed.
“Arthur Rintrell!” cried Blake, passing Martha
over to an offsider. “Bedded, bandaged—in the name
of all crazy lunatics, what are you doing here?”
“Doctor Haskell operated on my stomach”
began Rintrell feebly, but at that the whole company,
Martha included, burst into shouts of laughter.
“Of all the mugs!” yelled Blake. He produced
a knife and quickly slashed off Rintrell’s bandages.
“Look there—where’s your operation?”
Rintrell looked, and saw his chest and abdomen
minus a mark, save low down on the right the small
scar of his appendix removal.
“Get up ; you’ve got your stomach still,” said
Blake. “But you’ve only yourself to blame ; I gave
you the tip the day that fellow passed you the crook
two-bob when you were doing a spot of house-to-
house hawking; watch the place, and inform the
police.”
“I did watch the house ; but my appendicitis”
“Yes, you got them suspicious. They traced you
to the hospital, then got you out here, keeping you
quiet with a mug’s yarn—fake operation and drinking
slush —while they made a good getaway to another
State. A coining gang. There was a reward out
for them—two hundred of the best.”
“Bill,” said Rintrell solemnly, “the joke’s on
me. All the same I’ve got to borrow some cash from
you right away. Two bob —no, make it four.”
“Why, whatever for?”
The voice of the appetite he had never lost spoke
for five-days-fasting Rintrell. “The biggest plate of
steak and oysters in Sydney! ”
Dimly he realised this was all wrong;
he fought, struggled—and lost con-
sciousness as he did so.


guides, got to the top and there found the names of
previous climbers. Three of a group of four of these
names had crosses after them, and the guides told
Craig they were Australians who had climbed up
there during the war. On the way down three of the
four had slipped on the treacherous going and tumbled
over 300 feet to their death.
Craig was now beginning to see possibilities in his
movie-camera, and he shortly began to realise them
photographing tigers in India. His sense of danger
makes the chapters dealing with this part of his ad-
ventures highly exciting, and he greatly enhances the
effectiveness of his account by dealing with the tigers
as personalities. They are the heroic characters of
the drama —man-killers, but exonerated in his view
by their terrible nobility. He sees and films them kill-
ing and crippling resident whites and natives. He
himself goes within an inch of being killed. One of
them —the noblest beast of all —leaps up into the
swung scaffold where he has his camera, and he, net,
gear, tiger and all crash to the ground in a tangle.
The tiger is then shot by others of the party, their
bullets narrowly missing Craig where he lies stunned.
It had been a long and dangerous hunt to get that
tiger, Craig being concerned all through only with
making a film record of the savage beast’s doings. “It
seemed a hell of a way for it all to end.”
He next dropped in on Australia, but did nothing
much here except sit in sunny parks with Sunny, tak-
ing away with him an ambition to come back and
make a great underwater film of the Barrier Reef.
Maoriland and its people won him completely. “If I
were obliged to choose someone country and remain
there for the rest of my life, I think New Zealand
would receive serious consideration.”
All this had been in the nature of an apprentice-
ship. Back in U.S.A. the oil cheques ceased, and he
had to face up to making a living as he went along.
Thus he came to tackle underwater photography, in
his opinion the most dangerous living of all. Here,
as he puts it, he has his chin out to Death all the time.
He does the naturalistic part of under-the-sea film
dramas. Hollywood adds, with the aid of tanks and
faking, the feminine-appeal and suchlike touches, but
on Craig’s evidence a great deal of these films is real
enough, hazardously photographed by himself and
others who go down under the sea, set up their
cameras, stage their underwater fights, treasure-finding
and so forth, and risk, and sometimes lose, their lives
on the job.
His own story of these undersea adventures would
make a first-rate action film, with his wife —a lively
piece of Spanish—providing exotic feminine interest.
This young lady has so far stopped two bullets, one
accidentally self-inflicted ; the other shot at her by
some scoundrel who tried to molest her in the dark
of a lane as she was making home from church. Also,
her name is Gloria and she throws a knife with deadly
accuracy. Certainly she would interest any film audi-
ence, as would every foot of a complete screening of
Craig’s hazardous living.
War and Peace.
Sisley Huddleston’s In My Time (Cape), a record
of European events between 1914 and 1938, is divided
into three parts, “The World Makes War,” “The
World Talks Peace” and “The World Prepares War,”
and is virtually a history of war and peace in the last
quarter of a century.
Huddleston is, or was, Paris correspondent for
the London “Times,” and has worked for leading
newspapers and journals in England and America. In
an introductory note he offers his credentials. “Such
reputation as I enjoyed for two decades was certainly
due to my independence, my complete objectivity in
ascertaining the facts, and my refusal to be led astray
by a preconceived purpose. Brought up on John
Stuart Mill, I cultivated tolerance, compromise and
liberalism.”
He then embarks on a series of sometimes start-
ling revelations of secret history and a general—and
quite impartial—debunking of European statesmen.
It is impossible not to recognise the genuine passion
that underlies the book and its essential sincerity. It
is his farewell in disgust to the world of affairs which
he served so wholeheartedly for 25 years.
The war —says Huddleston —was a gigantic fiasco.
It was fought from beginning to end without any
clear definition of aims. America was willing to enter
the lists long before she actually did, but was dis-
couraged by the Allies as her entry would have forced
them to define their aims. Germany made repeated
efforts to negotiate before her collapse, and was refused
a hearing.
The peace was made in the same heat with which
the war had been prosecuted. Wilson alone had an
hour of opportunity, but he let it slip through his
fingers. The League of Nations became the hope of
those who regretted and suspected the terms of the
Treaty of Versailles, but America’s withdrawal and
the diversity of aims among the other Powers reduced
it to futility and worse, a semblance of the old Con-
cert of Europe, whose sole aim was to maintain the
status quo. It cemented instead of alleviating the mis-
takes of the peace.
Huddleston next traces the ruinous path of the
conferences, each intended to patch the peace:
I cannot recall the slightest good that ever came out
of a conference as such; but I can recall much harm.
From San Remo and Spa, where we discussed repara-
tions, to the London Conference, which ended in
fiasco, the Disarmament Conference, which petered out
when every nation rearmed, and the Brussels Confer-
ence on the Far East, which passed only piteous resolu-
tions, all conferences were futile when they were not
mischievous.
On the subject of the conflicting “ideologies”
Huddleston declares himself unequivocally:
To me, State Socialism or State Fascism is all
one; except that the Socialists have hitherto proved to
be singularly incompetent in their imposition of "dis-
cipline.” For my part, I am against all unnecessary
State interference with our lives. 1 am an old-fashioned
and impenitent Liberal, believing in the largest measure
of personal liberty, which the Socialists and Fascists
alike are bent on subordinating to their inhuman ideal,
the State. Socialism and Fascism are two faces of the
same monster.
In My Time is a serious and important book. Its
seriousness is leavened with some good stories and
some striking character sketches. The famous of the
world, from Gertrude Stein to Mussolini, pass by in
its pages, generally off their guard. Huddleston has
some interesting things to say about them —and es-
pecially about Anthony Eden, whom he blames for
16 major disasters. An English review of the book,
quoting its attack on belligerent pacifists and war-
mongering newspapers, has previously been published
in The Bulletin’s “Uncabled Additions.”
A Scholar's Wife.
Paul Ramus, a noted scholar and headmaster of
a big public school, married a wife twenty years his
junior, apparently to train her as the super amanuensis
and later as his collaborator in a twelve-volume work
on St. Augustine. Children did not enter into his
scheme; scholarship was to be their immortality.
Mildred endured for 20 years and then discovered that
she was a disappointed woman, her life barren.
When her husband tried to bind her down to con-
tinue his work after his death she refused. This led
to a painful rift in their life together, and Mildred
was glad of the excuse of ill-health to go to the south
of France. While she was away Dr. Ramus
discovered in the grandniece of an old friend the
chance of another perfect secretary. Vera, flattered
by the interest of a great scholar, responded with a
gush of schoolgirl affection. A foolish but very
irritating scandal arose in which neighbors, colleagues
and relatives all involved themselves with varying
degrees of gusto. Mildred returned only when Paul
was dying to repossess his trust and affection, and “to
assume her widowhood in the odor of sanctity.”
That, in outline, is the story of Robert Liddell’s
novel, The Almond Tree (Cape). On the face of it it
is just the trite old triangle with a conventional end-
ing, but Liddell brings something more to it. He
has a shrewd knowledge of human nature, a fas-
tidious wit, a polished prose style. He gets all there
is to get out of his theme and makes a very readable
book. It falls short of greatness only by reason of its
cleverness. He is a little too anxious to score a point,
a little too ready to head sympathy off with irony.
The real tragedy in his eyes —the reader feels —is in
the sacrifice of dignity and the humiliating breach of
the conventions rather than the pitiful spectacle of
an old man and a middle-aged woman making a last
feverish effort to repair the barrenness of their lives,
involving—with the casual cruelty of nature —a raw
and commonplace girl.
Liddell uses the device of writing his novel in
three voices. Mildred, Paul and Vera each tell the
same story from their own points of view. Each is
convinced of his or her essential rightness. It has the
weakness of artificiality, but it serves the author’s
rather bitter purpose —to force his characters to give
themselves away in the very act of pleading their
causes.
The almond-tree is the symbol of death, and this is
a book about death, the death of ambition, the death
of love, Paul’s physical death ; but it ends on a note
of resurrection when Mildred rediscovers in herself
the creative vitality so long eclipsed by her husband.
SHORT STORY
COMPETITION.
There were 1200-odd entries for “The
Bulletin’s” £lOO Short Story Competition.
There are about 200 of them yet to be read.
When that has been done the judges will
consider all entries selected, including those
already published, and give their decision. It
should be out in three weeks.
Greek Against Greek.
In his Exiles in the vEgean : a Personal Narrative
of Greek Politics and Travel (Gollancz), the Austra-
lian Bert Birtles gives a detailed account of recent
events in Greece. It is a lucid narrative touched with
personal fire, not a piece of literature perhaps, but
excellent reporting.
In the rush and swirl of major events in Europe
the story of Greece has come through only in cabled
fragments ; Birtles pieces it together for the crucial
years 1936-37 and presents it as a dramatic whole.
He arrived in Greece at a time of crisis. A deputy
had been shot in Parliament as he was leaving a
Cabinet meeting. “It was nothing,” a friend told
Birtles. “It often happens like that in Greece.” It
was part of the general ferment.
Greece, a republic at the moment, was to decide
by plebiscite whether it was to recall King
George and become again a “crowned democracy.”
Before the vote could be taken General Kondylis
seized power by a coup d’etat and brought the king
back. A farcical plebiscite was held after the event
to confirm the restoration. Kondylis was for the
moment in the position of a dictator, but the real
power behind the king was the exiled Venizelos, re-
membered in history as the Anglophile Premier who
brought Greece into the Great War on the side of
the Allies. Exiled though he was he remained a
heroic figure in the people’s imagination, and it
was he who restored King George to his throne in
exchange for a general amnesty and the king’s promise
to adhere to a liberal programme.
The king immediately ordered a general election.
Kondylis and his party were defeated at the polls, and
after the elections the two big popular parties', the
Venizelists and the Tsaldarists, found themselves
almost equally balanced, with the casting vote in the
hands of the 15 Communist deputies. Neither party
would treat with the Communists, and the king, re-
garding them as a national danger, appointed Metaxas
as Premier with the powers of a dictator.
The immediate result was a general strike. In
Salonika troops sent to quell disturbances fraternised
with the strikers, but the police opened fire on the
crowd, killing 16 and wounding many others. This
ended the strike but not popular resentment. Events
moved quickly, and a Security of the Realm Act gave
the police power to arrest any suspects, who could
then be sent into exile without trial.
Metaxas attacked and attempted to dissolve the
trade unions. Striking was declared illegal, the entire
press was muzzled, the police were armed with castor
oil as well as revolvers and batons, the promised
amnesty became a dead letter until the prisoners forced
public opinion by a 14-day hunger strike. Even then
most of those released were rearrested at once. Kon-
dylis died “while cleaning his teeth,” and a few weeks
later was followed by Venizelos. The story breaks
off short with Metaxas in the role of dictator subject
to widespread popular disapproval.
Inset in the main narrative are many interesting
little pictures of personal contacts ; of daily life in
Athens and the provinces ; of the funeral of Venizelos
in Crete with its mournful pomp and display of exag-
gerated grief; of concentration camps for refugees
and unemployed, with their ingrained misery ; of Left-
ist organisations driven underground. But the back-
ground of the whole recital is the life of the political
exiles.
Thousands of these unfortunates were landed on
the barren islands of the Cyclades and virtually left
to fend for themselves. They suffer the bitterest hard-
ships, and many die directly or indirectly of want.
Birtles visited two of the islands, Anaphi and Gauthos,
called the Island of Death. He saw how the exiles
organised themselves into communities with the most
rigid discipline and complete equality in order to sur-
vive ; how they filled their time by sharing knowledge
as well as duties, and kept their spirit alive to continue
the fight for freedom.
The thought of the exiles and martyrs colors the
whole story ; they are the solid reality behind the
opera bouffe politics. Exiles in the Aegean makes no
pretence at impartiality. It is nevertheless a very
competent and readable piece of work.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
The Road to El Dorado : John Armour (Windsor
Publishing Co., Melb.). Adventures of a young Aus-
tralian born a few years before the discovery of gold.
Should appeal particularly to the youthful. Armour
wrote The Spell of the Inland.
Richard Ullmann’s new novel, The Property of a
Gentleman (Faber and Faber), is artificial and melo-
dramatic in story essentials, but the manner of telling
is natural and restrained. It is a well-groomed book,
essentially English in tone. The story of Cressy’s
struggle with her father-in-law is subject enough for
a whole book ; the rest of the story only labors the
point and disappoints the promise of the first half.
Earthquake in England: John Thomas (Black-
wood). “Believe it or not” stories of flood, earth-
quake, erosion, etc. Mainly for English consumption,
but it’s interesting enough.
Australian Reprints . . .
The New Century Press, Sydney, is out to exploit
the Australian market for cheap reprints, starting with
Timber Wolves, by Bernard Cronin, Turkish Spy, by
Charles Cooper, and Here’s Another, by L. W. Lower.
The first is a romance of the Tasmanian timber coun-
try, dealing with a big fight between conflicting milling
interests ; the second is a secret-service yarn with a
young Australian among the leading characters and
the Gallipoli campaign for background; the third
is a collection of about a hundred humorous news-
paper articles by a man who has raised many laughs.
This enterprise, putting local books within reach of
those whose pockets don’t run to standard prices, put-
ting an additional source of income in the way of the
writer and work in the way of Australian tradesmen,
is deserving of all success. Further volumes are in
preparation. The price is half a crown.
General . . .
Education for Complete Living (Melbourne Uni.
Press). Reprint of papers read and addresses delivered
at last year’s New Education Fellowship Conference.
The “new” educators take themselves very seriously,
and most of the speakers seem to have considered
that the principal mission of the pedagogue is the sal-
vation of democracy. They all express themselves very
clearly, and in beautiful English, and an American
gentleman, Prof. Hart, enlivens the proceedings by
solving the whole problem of unemployment in 11
pages.
Fire Over Australia: T. Ranken .(Angus and
Robertson). Criticism of Australian land policy and
banking systems mingled with a complaint about the
inadequacy of this continent’s defences. The author,
in his mind’s eye, sees Australia flooded with refugees
from Europe and conquered England. “In such an
event the only course would be to seek, not merely
alliance, but national union with the U.S.A. and
Canada.”


ĵ
j
THE NEW HUDSON 6 CYLIN-
DER “ONE-TWELVE” for six
passengers. The lowest priced
Hudson in history now brings
Hudson ownership within the
reach of all.
Available in Standard and De
Luxe Sedan, Coupes, Roadster,
Coupe Utility and Roadster
Utility. 86 H.P. 112
Wheelbase.
A COMBINATION OF
GREAT FEATURES NO
OTHER CAR CAN SHOW
YOU
NEW AUTO-POISE CONTROL
. . . one of the greatest forward
steps ever taken to give the
driver complete control of his
car under all conditions.
NEW HANDY GEAR SHIFT at
the steering wheel. The same
familiar gear positions, hut an
easier and safer way to shift
gears. Front floor all clear.
Available with Hudson’s ex-
clusive Automatic Clutch
Never push the clutch pedal!
NEW CARRY-ALL LUGGAGE
COMPARTMENT . . . more
than 20 cu. ft. capacity. Spare
tire mounted upright at the
side; comes out with minimum
disturbance of baggage.
DOUBLE-SAFE BRAKES . . .
Two braking systems —hydrau-
lic and mechanical—from one
brake pedal. Exclusive to
Hudson!
NEW DASH-LOCKING
SAFETY BONNET. Hinged at
the front; wind only closes it
tighter. And when, you lock the
car, you lock the bonnet!
uiimsny
FI U wM 31 (J mm
ONE TWELVE * uritk Ctutofxri&e ttele
HERE’S a really new driving ex-
* perience awaiting you in the bril-
liant new Hudson “One-Twelve” for
1939. New sureness and ease of
control. New steadiness in cornering.
Freedom from sway in heavy side
winds. No car ever gave you such a
smooth, steady ride before.
Along with the Auto-Poise Ride, in
this new 86-Horse Power Hudson, you
find new features that increase driving
and riding ease, baggage space, in-
terior luxury, safety. And, as in all
Hudsons, you get performance that’s
unmatched for smoothness and eco-
nomy . . . ruggedness that means extra
years and extra miles.
Drive a 1939 Hudson “One-Twelve”
and see! This new lowest priced
Hudson is economical in outlay and
running costs, and is a roomy, full-
sized car, with seating capacity for six
adult persons.
In design and construction it is ideally
suited for Australian conditions. The
rugged construction of the chassis—
stronger than most truck chassis—
means years and years of useful
trouble-free service. All-Steel bodies—
with safety glass in wind-shield and all
side windows—spell safety for your
family as well as freedom from body
rattles and squeaks.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Sir John Young Cres., Woolloomooloo, Sydney
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LTD.
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, Perth
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND LTD.
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Streets,
Brisbane
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart
Brisbane Street, Launceston


ĵ
ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
litmeofWie melleumeJSmidJx>tumet
Piccadilly Circus
PICCADILLY CIRCUS, “the navel of
London,” as a French commentator not
inaptly termed it, is among the foremost
'tractive points for visitors from all parts
of the world, no less than Londoners and
“Provincials." Six great thoroughfares
converge upon it, under which has been
built a railway station, ranking, in an
engineering sense, as one of the modern
wonders of the world, and from which
all parts of the compass can be conveni-
ently and expeditiously reached. Picca-
dilly Circus symbolises, in particular, that
night life of London more directly perhaps
appealing to adolescence than graver and
settled middle age. The name Piccadilly
is derived from the ruffs called “piccadilis”
or “piccadilloes” worn by the gallants of
the reigns of James 1. (1603-1625) and
Charles I. (1625-1649), then alone pro-
curable at Piccadilly Hall, the sole house
at that period adjacent to the now Circus.
By common consent Piccadilly Circus is
regarded, not nevertheless with strict
accuracy, as the entrance to the fashion-
able residential West End. It certainly,
however, is a sort of gateway to the most
splendid retail shopping area in the world,
and likewise is on the border of London's
wonderful "club-land. Piccadilly Circus
must be seen at night. Surrounded, or
bouquetted, with multicolored electric
signs, its presentment of “life”—ultra gay,
sombre and even tragic—coupled with the
bewildering and unceasing swirl of
vehicular traffic, presents the Circus in its
true and, what may to-day be almost
regarded, historic element.


“CAPTIVE” BALLOON?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. Lonaon,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months. 11s.
ANOTHER FAKE CRISIS.
The world to-day is waiting with great anxiety to hear
what Herr Hitler will say. Does not the fact show to what
the world has stepped down?”
—W. M. Hughes, 30 Ilf 39.
It does show something of the kind, but not what Mr.
Hughes meant. That “the world” should show
interest in a well-advertised speech by the leader of
a great nation could indicate a real achievement for
popular education. The interest in Herr Hitler’s speech
did not mean quite that. It was a result of about
two months of wild speculation by false prophets.
These tipsters had built the speech in advance
into yet another of the crises with which they torment
the world. As sha'remarket slumps indicate, they still
take in a lot of people with their scaremongering (they
even make teetering scaremongers of responsible
statesmen); and, worked up for two months by wild
prophecies and direful warnings, such people awaited
the Hitler broadcast with great anxiety. Among the
listeners Were a good many more who were fed up
. to the teeth with all the false scaring; unable any
longer to believe what they see in print; distrustful
of even their highest statesmen as alarmists.
Most reckless of the guessers, it goes without
saying, was Madame Tabouis. This discredited oracle
had “ascertained from secret German military reports”
that “Franco must not yet completely conquer Repub-
lican Spain.” He must go just far enough to be ready
to play his part in the devilish plot. (He appears to
have been overdoing it.) Then,
In his speech to the Reichstag on January 30, if not
before, Hitler will make a spectacular revelation of the
Italian claims. He will declare that Germany’s forces
are at Italy’s disposition. Von Mackensen told Ciano
that Mussolini would have three days to warn the
world of the legitimacy of his claims, and of his
intention to resort to arms to secure them. On
February 4 Italy would have to send a first ultimatum
to France.
After February 4, apparently, all bets off.
This furious nonsense, or the gist of it, was cabled
to Australia, and it appeared in many newspapers on
January 16. It was the star item, but still only a part
of the reckless guesswork. Even the cables shied at
other parts of Madame’s twaddle.
The secret German reports state that more than
30,000 Italian and German civilians have been sent to
Spain, to be ready.
The German leader no doubt had Madame in
mind, as well as the Churchills and Edens, in his refer-
ence to “certain world-savers and governesses, who
behave as though the world were waiting only to
rescue the German people from their present plight.”
Nobody who could bring an unbiased mind to the
speech would contend that this and other like refer-
ences were unjustified. Herr Hitler spoke also, very
bitterly, of predictions of financial catastrophe, of a
crisis of production and consumption, of aggression
against Holland, of attacks on German churches. He
was making no false charges. These predictions, too,
were repeatedly published—all part of the stoking to
heat people up for the major crisis, his speech.
The speech was typically blunt and uncompromis-
ing. Herr Hitler is apparently unaware of the ready
acceptance there would be for a true open-handed ges-
ture. In parts his speech had a fury that would
antagonise many who might easily have their sym-
pathies touched by a little conciliation, an appeal to
friendly sentiment. Otherwise it was welcome —for
nothing so much as an upsetting of frenzied predic-
tions. It was considerably less alarming than speeches
heard in Australia from recruiting platforms. Herr
Hitler said that if Italy were involved in war Germany
would be in on the same side ; but that was no more
than a quid pro quo for Signor Mussolini’s stand last
September. He said also that Germany did not want
to export its system of government to other countries,
naming Australia among them. Nobody has yet pro-
duced any convincing evidence to the contrary, which
is more than can be said for Communism. He dwelt on
the colonies question, and insisted on Germany’s claim
to colonies on economic grounds, but reiterated his
standing assurance that “this question alone would
not justify war.”
His most conciliatory remarks were addressed to
Britain. He did not believe that there was “any con-
flict of interest between Britain and Germany” ; there
was “not a German who even nurses a thought of in-
tending to bring difficulties to the British Empire” ;
Germany “nurses no hatred against Britain or
America.” He was bitter about the Jews, applying to
them terms which perhaps only a German could fully
understand. Awareness of prevailing conditions in
other European countries, which he knows well, gave
something more than a force of hatred to his outburst :
If international financial Jewry starts another war,
it will end not in the destruction of Germany, but
in the annihilation of the Jewish race throughout
Europe.
One other statement loaded with threat:
Germany will not take anti-German press attacks
lying down. If the anti-German press agitation does
not cease, Germany will retaliate in a way that will
surprise the world.
The muzzling or even the censoring of the press,
as accepted in Germany and Italy, is not in the least
likely in non-authoritarian countries this side of a
world catastrophe. It seems also not in the least likely
that daily newspapers as a whole will recover their
former sense of responsibility, imposing on them-
selves the same decent rule of ethical conduct in
foreign affairs that the law imposes on them in regard
to citizens of their own countries. Lying and scare-
mongering will go on. There is one hope. Increasing
distrust of it may bring the press back to its senses in
time. It is a slender hope, but Mr. Chamberlain, for
one, has well proved that the slenderest hope is worth
clinging to.
The most important item in the German leader’s
speech was his expressed belief in “a long period of
peace.” It is incredible that it can be broken for any
of the reasons advanced, but it would be wild optimism
to expect it to be an untroubled peace. Herr Hitler
having made his speech, this latest of the false crises
has passed. Now the crisis-makers will advance
crisis-time to the spring, then to the summer, then to
the autumn. Then they will hibernate.
Who Wants the Prime Minister?
Mr. Lyons’s reiterated pronouncements on the menac-
ing state of world affairs, with shuddersome reference
to Australia, are by now notorious. They have not
been approached in sensationalism by the most
frenzied alarmist. Nor can Mr. Lyons evade, in
quibbles with Mr. Curtin, the issue he himself has
raised. If the position is as he represents it Parliament
should be assembled already.
The position as he represents it is desperately
worse than statements by .Mr. Chamberlain and re-
sponsible Ministers in Britain would suggest. The very
opposite would be inferred from Mr. Chamberlain’s
comments in advance of Herr Hitler’s speech:
To-day the air is full of rumors and suspicions which
ought not to be allowed to persist. For peace can only
be endangered by such a challenge as was envisaged
by the President of the United States —a demand to
dominate the world by force.
The same holds good of Mr. Chamberlain’s comments
after the speech:
The exaggerated fears and prophecies published in
sections of the press have been belied in the event.
It seemed to me that there were many passages in the
speech which indicated the necessity of peace for Ger-
many, as well as for other countries.
Mr. Chamberlain also accused the House of Commons
Opposition of “frightening themselves by feeding their
imaginations on improbable hypotheses.”
But Mr. Lyons insists that the position is as he
represents it. The position as Mr. Lyons represents
it is that Australia is now threatened with invasion.
“Would that you knew while there is yet time....”
If Australia’s Prime Minister is wrong, he is
either expediently exaggerating on information which
Maoriland’s Prime Minister must possess—and Mr.
Savage has not uttered a frightening word—or he has
made a hopelessly muddled or panic-stricken inter-
pretation. If, as he insists, the desperately menacing
circumstances prevail, they demand not only clear-
headed, courageous and emphatic leadership, but also
the instant assembling of Parliament, so that the
Prime Minister might have its full assistance, and so
that the full significance of the situation might be
driven home to every man and woman.
Mr. Lyons’s reply, when this was urged on him by
Mr. Curtin, staggers credulity:
Mr. Curtin said that Mr. .Lyons had informed him
that if Parliament were summoned undue anxiety would
be created in the minds of the Australian people,
and that this would lead to economic and other upsets.
This paternal solicitude is both pathetic and ridi-
culous. It is pathetic in being characteristic of Mr.
Lyons’s conception of Australia as a nervous kinder-
garten. It is ridiculous because no anxiety could pos-
sibly be created in the minds of the Australian people
not already put there by Mr. Lyons himself. If Aus-
tralians were liable to panic, their Prime Minister’s
alarming statements —on top of years of shrieking
press and radio “tension” and “crisis” sensationalism
—would by now have had them in a blue funk. They
certainly are not going to make for hollow logs at
the agreeable sight of Parliament cutting short a
fourth months’ loaf.
Mr. Lyons not only refuses to bring Parliament
together, to avoid causing “undue anxiety” ; he even
muffles his responsible Ministers, telling Mr. Hughes
and Mr. Menzies to keep mum on Hitler. This is
preposterous. An absurd extension of the idea that
Australia must be censor-ridden and kept in the dark
at all cost, it reveals the Prime Minister as hopelessly
out of touch with Australian thought and character.
Mr. Hughes could be spared; he is working his
throat overtime on the halting recruiting campaign ;
in any case, he took no notice. Mr. Menzies —the one
man in the Government, if not in the Parliament, with
a real grasp of world affairs and a balanced indepen-
dence of outlook —Australia wanted to hear. Instead,
it had a few stumbling sentences from its Prime
Minister, among them, coming from him, the very last
straw:
Id these times we must keep cool heads.
It is pitiful. Mr. Lyons will go out of office, and likely
enough take his Government with him.
The last Commonwealth election was decided on
the defence issue. Mr. Curtin lost it for his party by
being completely out of touch with realities. His pro-
posal to throw up a few extra squadrons of ’planes
and leave Australia’s defence at that received the
answer it merited ; but at least he gave some indication
to Britain’s- war-seekers that Australia was anything
but unanimously in favor of crusading wars. All he
has said on the present situation is so patently right,
while Mr. Lyons has been so hopelessly wrong, that
he seems to have learned something in the meantime.
If he has he will become the next Prime Minister.
Mr. Lyons’s successor will have the job of re-
covering Australia from the colony status into which
negative leadership has relegated it. At the moment
Britain has as wise and steady a leadership as any in
its history, but it has, too, an acknowledged war-party
striving for office. It will be among the urgent jobs of
Mr. Lyons’s successor to recover Australia from the
position of being prepared blindly to follow any set
of politicians that may be temporarily in control of
British foreign policy. If the Empjre has to fight for
its existence —and the envisaged menace might amount
to nothing less than that —it will be as an alliance of
the nations within the Empire. In Canada this posi-
tion has already been made clear ; in South Africa
there has never been any doubt about it. Australia,
in its own peculiar interests and the interests of this
alliance as a whole, will have to contribute something
much more to the point than Mr. Lyons’s utterly
futile “Tune-in with Britain.” The word that will save
the Empire might well one day come from Australia,
as it would have to come to be of any use, in advance
of some reckless plunge into catastrophe.
Mr. Lyons has never had the will to utter it, and
has abdicated the right. He has such credit as belongs
to giving an impetus to rearmament in Australia at a
time when the whole world is furiously rearming. In
the circumstances this is no more than political expedi-
ency must have dictated. For the rest, Mr. Lyons has
blundered beyond hope of recovery. In his panic-
stricken pronouncements —calculated, if anything could
do it, to create panic—and his refusal to call Parlia-
ment together lest such interruption of its costly loaf
should cause “undue anxiety” he has floundered
pathetically to his end.
The election answer to “Who wants the Prime
Minister?” will be “Nobody.”
Monro and His "Works."
Spreading himself in a Sydney “Sun” interview, a Mr.
C. O. J. Monro claimed credit for the Sutherland-
Cronulla railway, the Sydney Government’s unfin-
ished addition to its herd of white elephants:
Since bringing about the construction of the Suther-
land-Cronulla railway, I have had the great satisfaction
of seeing it grow rapidly.
A community threatened with more State taxes because
the Sydney Government was five millions to the bad
at the end of its first financial half-year, and doomed
to pay 10 per cent, more in fares and most freight-
rates because the pretence that the Railway Depart-
ment is prospering has been abandoned, does not
share this member’s “satisfaction.” However, it would
let him have all the credit if he came to light with a
solid guarantee against the losses.
Losses there will certainly be. It was admitted
when the bill was introduced that on a capital outlay
of £297,000, “estimated cost of construction, exclusive
of earthworks, resumption and compensation,” expen-
diture in the first year would exceed revenue by
£22,000, and capital outlay (all borrowed, of course)
may be twice £297,000. Moreover, since the bill was
passed the Transport Department has introduced com-
paratively cheap bus services to beaches much nearer
the city than Cronulla ; and there is a continuous in-
crease in the number of private transport vehicles, cars,
motor-cycles and pushbikes, on the roads.
In his speech on the railway bill, Mr. Monro said
that “for over 25 years” he had been “a councillor of
the Sutherland Shire,” and “for many years” he
“operated in the [Cronulla] district as an auctioneer
and estate agent, which business I sold in 1925.”
Immediately after my election to the Sutherland
Shire Council I commenced agitating for the construc-
tion of a bridge over the George’s River, and also for
a railway line.
“The bridge,” he went on to say, “has rendered
magnificent service; it has fully justified the expendi-
ture incurred on it.”
The Auditor-General does not echo these trans-
ports. In his report for 1935-36, he mentioned that
£55,746 of State funds had been remitted to London
“to meet interest and other charges on loans to finance
the cost of George’s River Bridge.”
Two loans were raised in London for the Shire
Council, £225,000 and £BO,OOO, at an issue price of
981, bearing interest at 5£ p.c. The bridge was open
for traffic in 1929, and from the outset did not pay its
way. The Treasury came to the assistance, and the
Treasury account shows a balance due by the council of
£55,746.
The A.-G.’s report for 1937-38 says “the amount out-
standing increased by £3165 for the year” —to £56,888.
Cronulla used to be served by private buses,
which charged less than the through buses the Gov-
ernment has put on, since they carried shoppers and
workers to intermediate sections. These services were
killed, chiefly in the interests of the Government rail-
ways, which, according to the Auditor-General’s calcu-
lation —he admits it is below the mark —managed to
lose £23,215,600 in 13 years to June 30, 1937, and which
are expected to lose upwards of a million and a half this
year. Private bus services, restored and modernised,
would give the district all it can reasonably expect and
provide the Government with much-needed tax-
revenue. As it is, the community may resign itself to
the waste of at least a million in capital expenditure
and annual losses on a political railway which, within
10 years, may be pulled up, as was the Westmead-
Rogan’s Hill line —built in 1924 and “dismantled” in
1932, leaving annual interest, £5OOO-odd, to be met.
For nearly seven years and a half, 1927-35, a Mr.
C. O. J. Monro was licensee of a Cronulla pub, the
Cecil. As for the “business I sold in 1925” (said in
Parliament on July 1, 1936), the current telephone
directory contains this entry:
MONRO & BUIST Est Agnts .. .. ] Crnula 184
Connecting with — [ Crnula 459
C O J Monro MLA | J A Graham j
Do Res C O J Monro MLA .. .. Crnula 452
Parliament should certainly call for an explanation.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Branded as Liars.
Newspapermen have made a hero of the second
Roosevelt; and friendlier hero they have never had.
Everyone has heard of his morning conferences with
them, at which he addresses every questioner by his
Christian name or a familiar abbreviation, “Ed,”
perhaps —“Waal, boys, it’s Ed’s birthday, and don’t
tell me he’s a day over 30. Ed, here’s a little keep-
sake from the White House.” Now, dishonest mem-
bers of the brotherhood of the pen have let this good-
natured President down. Portion of what he said
“in secret” to a Senate committee came out, and it
was twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools. It
was alleged that he had promised Britain and France
assistance against aggressors, and declared that, if war
came, France would be America’s frontier.
At once there was an outcry in the U.S.A.
Matters became so awkward for the Democrats that Mr.
Secretary Ickes —who had been bracketed with Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Duff Cooper in the Hitler speech
as a bitter enemy of Germany—was put up to say
that there was “no danger of the United States be-
coming involved in war while Mr. Roosevelt is Presi-
dent.” In its passage to Europe and Australia —
especially Australia —the yarn was expanded. Angry
things were written in Berlin and Rome. “S. M.
Herald” and the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” exulted,
each in its fashion, the “Telegraph” quoting “a highly-
placed diplomat” to the effect that “Roosevelt has
saved Europe from war.”
The justly-indignant President broke in on these
transports with the statement that what had been
served up to the public regarding the aims and inten-
tions of his Administration was “pure unadulterated
bunk,” and that the reference to his shifting the Ameri-
can frontier to the Rhine was “a deliberate lie.” Then
he “restated” the foreign policy of his Republic in
these terms:
No entangling alliances [the policy and phrase of
Washington],
Encouragement of the world trade of all nations.
Sympathy with any and every effort to bring about
reduction of armaments.
National sympathy with the peaceful maintenance of
the political, economic and social independence of all
nations.
Hitherto perpetrators of provocative fiction dis-
guised as foreign news have had things all their
own way. When a national leader so universally re-
spected as Mr. Roosevelt brands American specimens
of the breed as liars there is some ground for believing
that what Herr Hitler called “the irresponsible inter-
national press, which insists on agitating and racking
the nerves of mankind,” may at length be shamed
into returning to sanity and decency.
Between Wind and Water.
“D.E.” has a holiday:
Sydney Harbor on Anniversary Day. White wings dip
to white horses. Jolly yachtsmen carol and shout, and shout,
too, do jolly jack tars and jolly old commodores. Everyone
shouts, or is shouted for. Even a morning-paper reporter
forgets for the moment that The Crisis has come again,
and quotes Shelley to the effect that the waves are dancing
fast and bright, and that blue isles and snowy mountains
wear the purple moon’s transparent might—or would certainly
do so if there were any about.
Lunch aboard the “flagship.” A hundred guests settle
themselves in their seats. Most of them have been there
before, and they come prepared for a feast of reason and
of cold roast birds and veges. and ices, and for a flow of soul
and good Australian wine such as H. G. Wells polished off
(he sipped it doubtfully at first, then smacked his lips and
said he could do another) and the excellent bottled beer that
Germans praise. Through open portholes yachtsmen and
boatmen can be seen recruiting their flagging powers. The
reporter informs his next-door neighbor that about them and
beyond, from the Heads to Lane Cove, there are “five
hundred small craft, from stately white-sailed yachts to
rowboats and paddle canoes,” and in all but the very
smallest of the canoes there are sturdy fellows absorbing beer.
Course after course disappears, and the speeches begin.
The chairman mentions a name; there is a burst of applause,
and the smallest man in the saloon rises. His face is the
color of old—very old—ivory. He looks so little and frail
that a puff of wind might blow him into Port Jackson. The
fiery particle has nearly burnt itself out. But the fires of
political passion which he once kindled are extinguished quite.
For many of those present that little old man is a link
with great days and high achievements. They talk in low
tones about him as he repeats in shrill accents, reinforced by
restless arm-movements, what they have heard a hundred
times. Good Old Billy!
But for England Napoleon would have bestrode the
world.” When did Billy say that before? Was it 1916 or
1917? There is being hatched a policy which may shake
Australia to its very foundations.” Remember that time in
Queensland when Billy stopped “the egg that'hatched out
the Commonwealth police”? Billy was arguing for con-
scription then. One of his colleagues said “Any man or
woman who votes No is either ignorant or disloyal.” Now
his colleagues are all for the voluntary system, or some of
them are. As if it wasn’t enough to be eating all his old con-
scription words, they are making Billy do all the bullocking—
lazy lot of beggars!
Billy speaks his piece and sits down, much applauded.
A dark, heavy-featured, stoutish man with bushy eyebrows
succeeds. Of middle height, he looks prosperous, and, as
the racing men say, in good nick. A panegyrist has written
that there is no healthier fifty-year old in N.S.W. On more
ceremonial occasions he sports two medals—Jubilee (1935)
and Coronation (1937).
. The stoutish man smiles somewhat self-consciously, and
begins with the comforting remark that Australia enters upon
the hundred and fifty-second year of its national history amid
the direst of forebodings.
Yes, the direst of forebodings!
.pnJ^w be /L ring f f U other he goes on, “is the
and complete 1 ” future may hold calamity— calamity terrible
Th S °“ nds °j revelry are heard from a neighboring yacht.
Wfdk rvi an n v heir *2 d ? friends are Doing the Lambeth
proceed? Q e undisturbed ’ the hearer of evil tidings
unknown of l h , e p H°P Ie is the terror of the
certain th a /- nd le H* 1 / oreseea hle • The average citizen is almost
certain that war will come, and that it will be a world war
affecting him and his; but whence it will come, and how,
and when he is at a loss to tell. He knows, however, and
the orator knows, that danger exists, and that it is great
and, perhaps, imminent. We must prepare with all our
might and with the utmost speed to meet the worst eventu-
alities.
Here a listener is reminded of the orator’s October
broadcast in which he demanded a Drive for National Effi-
ciency, an Advance on All Fronts. Within a fortnight, and
with all his might, he had given birth to a bill increasing the
salaries of his Administration, and of private members and
officers of Parliament, by £14,000 p.a., and (because of “a
promise made to my colleagues”) dating the increases back to
the first of July. In the House of which he is leader the
measure was passed through all its stages “with the utmost
speed”—in 16 minutes by the clock.
More strings of alarming words. In the hour of peril
the alternative to preparation with all our might and with
the utmost speed is panic and self-sought defeat. Appease-
ment contains the sole remaining hope of avoiding war.
Without strength, organised and attuned to the needful
pitch of effectiveness, it would be regarded by the aggressors
as a sham to disguise submission. To set a mere nerveless
bulk against the remorseless drive of the forces that threaten
peace is to write the doom of civilisation in advance.
The click of a camera is heard. A newspaper photo-
grapher has “snapped” the "regatta's G.O.M. His fine old
face has a startled look, and the thoughts that course through
his brain can be imagined.
For 70 years this day, to him, has been the most delight-
ful of the year. The regatta lads of his youth are all gone—
•gone with Trickett and Beach and Searle and George Seale.
The Boer War took many; the Great War many more —per-
haps ten times the number. Can the same fate or worse-
defeat, conquest be reserved for the thousands of young
fellows he has seen on the old harbor that day? Does the
spirit of prophecy informed by knowledge reside in the breast
of a rather commonplace-looking provincial politician? Is he
really a seer or just a dismal ass?
It would take more than a State Premier’s jeremiad to
spoil the old Anniversary Day water picnic. But the next time
the regatta coincides with Reichstag fireworks and Mr. Stevens
differs from Mr. Hitler, the regatta people should try to
arrange for Mr. Hitler to speak first.
A Case for Co-operation.
Bradford wool-traders were “surprised” when Dr.
Earle Page hinted at the possibility of legislation to
secure Bradford’s co-operation in financing Australian
wool publicity if other methods fail.
The Bradford gentlemen are “wondering why the
issue has been raised when the world is readily buying
Australian wool.” They do not believe that “Australia
will risk antagonising Bradford, its biggest customer,
on an issue involving a possible transfer of Bradford
buying elsewhere.” So says the Yorkshire “Observer.”
When Bradford states the location of the pos-
sible “elsewhere,” it will be time enough for teeth to
chatter. Bradford knows a good thing when it sees it.
Its buyers made a holy row because German competi-
tion in South Africa forced up the price of wool there.
They tried to scare the Afrikanders by threatening to
“transfer” buying to Australia, “where similar, if not
identical, material is obtainable pence per pound
cheaper.” It did not work. Then Bradford expressed
itself as satisfied to buy in Australia ; and tops prices
have sagged another halfpenny.
They seem to be bad prophets in Yorkshire or
to speak a language whose nuances are not always
understood by Australians, or else they are becoming
unduly timid.
The “wear-more-wool” type of publicity on the
scale on which it is conceived by Australian Govern-
ments and associations is scarcely worth a dump.
Against the background of normal retail trade adver-
tising, it bulks about as large as a raindrop against a
billabong.
And the only thing funnier than Dr. Earle Page
threatening to squeeze a contribution out of Bradford
is Bradford threatening to withdraw from the Aus-
tralian market, without which that city might have to
get its living out of football.
Bradford can afford to pay more for our wool
than it is paying. Australian woolgrowers cannot
afford to continue on the same level. It would be
better if, instead of threatening each other, Dr. Earle
Page and the Bradford buyers got together for mutual
explanation and understanding of the necessity for
giving the woolgrower a payable price, so that both
Australian grazing and Bradford manufacturing in-
dustries may continue to exist. It is a clear case for
co-operation.
Farce Ending ?
Next session the Victorian Parliament will consider
a bill for the abolition of the prohibition polls, held
every eight years, which have cost such a mint of
money.
If it becomes law there will still be plenty
of weapons in the hands of the authorities for keeping
the bad Bung in order and encouraging the good Bung.
The Licensing Court, under whose regime drunken-
ness has decreased remarkably and the quality of
hotel accommodation has improved out of all know-
ledge, especially in country districts, will continue
to reduce the number of licenses wherever necessary.
The Cold Tea party may get some solace out of
the American situation. Prohibition was repealed five
years ago, after a fantastic orgy of crime, violence,
dissipation, dishonesty, hypocrisy, bribery and corrup-
tion in high places which staggered civilisation. The
money that used to go to the A 1 Capones now goes
into the public coffers, and the people are saved the
enormous cost of law enforcement which didn’t
enforce worth tuppence. Pubs are open from 8 a.m.
to 4 a.m. on week-days and from 1 p.m. on Sundays,
so the Americans have gone the whole hog for
restoration.
On the other hand, fashions in drink have been
modified, and there is about one-third more fruit juice
than hard stuff drunk since the repeal of Repression.
But it was a roundabout way of achieving a result
which is being steadily attained to in Victoria without
the application of any Great Experiment.
Wanted, a National Trust.
“El V.”: Britain lost a host of historic buildings and
features before legislative power was given to a
continuing authority to declare anything of educa-
tional interest or historical significance a national
monument which must not be destroyed.
In Australia places in which our forefathers lived
a century and a quarter ago have been swept away
in dozens in the last few years. „ There still remain
Macarthur’s Elizabeth Farm, home of the wool in-
dustry, built in 1793 ; a few Sydney cottages of the
period before the Bligh rebellion; the Macquarie
Convict Barracks, now a court; four of the first half-
dozen churches ; some mansions in N.S.W. and Tas-
mania—-Cox’s Hobartville at Richmond (N.S.W.) is
almost intact to the last convict outhouse—the Com-
missariat stores in which much history was made ;
the first lighthouse and later specimens of early Aus-
traliana on station properties and about the cities.
Among Sydney buildings threatened with destruc-
tion are the Macquarie Hospital wings, which housed
the first civilian Courts in Australasia and gave a roof
to the first Parliament of the Southern Hemisphere.
Their walls have heard the voices of every great Aus-
tralian from Wentworth and Macquarie onwards. They
are to make way for some of Mr. Stevens’s new
palaces.
It might «not be possible to preserve every build-
ing on its own original site. But what is wrong with
Henry Ford’s idea of a village of history in some con-
venient spot? Thither historic buildings, in Sydney at
any rate, could be moved.
If somebody had pulled down the White Tower the
modern tourist traffic of London would have been
poorer by millions. As a building, it is less significant
to England than are those to Australia in which our
Constitution, our freedom and systems of justice were
born.
A National Trust is badly needed in Australia.
Mud That Didn't Stick.
It was mentioned in the cables that Hitler’s speech to
the Reichstag was preceded by “a broadcast address
to children throughout Germany.” The address to
children was delivered by “the Minister for Propa-
ganda, Dr. Goebbels.” The account goes on to say
that “after Goebbels addressed the school-children in
the morning, Hitler presented national-service prizes.”
Obviously, this was the Nazis’ way of replying
to the story that Goebbels was mixed up in a scan-
dalous affair with an actress, and was to be pun-
ished with the loss of his job and relegation to
obscurity.
Very probably an American reporter fired the shot
which, thanks to London and Moscow correspondents,
was heard round the world. A full and particular
account, embellished with portraits of the “parties,”
appeared in “Pitch,” an alleged Australian paper which
began its career by publishing Peeping Tom portraits
of lovers embracing on a beach and in a car at
night, and which fills up with American syndicated
stuff.
“Love Intrigue of Nazi Leader” was the “Pitch”
headline, and to the substance of “recent cables,”
which found Goebbels guilty of “a domestic scandal,
the repercussions of which may lead to his political
eclipse,” there were added a pen-portrait of Goebbels
taken from the book in which Professor Roberts pre-
dicted that Czecho would knock Fritz silly (“dwarfish
deformed body; lame; warped and embittered ; con-
cerned with hate and revenge”). Also a synopsis of
the scandal,” written in a happy blend of the styles
of a Hollywood Jew scenario-writer and Madame
Tabouis:
In 1934, Herr Gustav Froehlich and his Jewish wife,
beautiful Gitta Alpar, were two of the most famous of
German screen artists. The anti-Semitic law placed
Froehlich in the position of leaving Germany or divorc-
ing his wife. He kept his career and divorced his wife,
although it is said he never forgave Goebbels, as chief
Jew-baiter. He later married the Czech actress Lida
Baarova. It is said that Goebbels’s attention to this
woman caused her husband to challenge Goebbels to a
duel. The duel did not take place.
Goebbels sent Froehlich to a concentration camp.
The next move in this strange drama was the reported
illness of Goebbels, said to have been caused by Froeh-
lich’s friends administering a sound thrashing to the
man in whose hands lies the future of any actress or
actor. Frau Goebbels is said to have moved to institute
divorce proceedings, but the personal intervention of
Hitler has averted this.
“It is said” (twice), “reported illness said to have
been caused” —such is “Pitch” reporting. And under
the pictures (nearly two pages) “Goebbels is said to be
waging a war with Gdring” and Froehlich is “now
alleged to be in a concentration camp.” And the
quotation from the exploded political professor is
styled “a vivid pen-picture of the man who has not
dispelled the charges of the moral abuse of power
broadcast by cable services to the world.”
The truth about Nazi Germany is that it has a
strong Puritan bent. Judged by the standards of
people who buy papers like “Pitch” and the American
rags they imitate, the principal Nazis are a lot of
wowsers. Vamping up lies about their private lives —
and Hitler has been the target for lies as venomous
as those hurled at Goebbels —only increases their in-
fluence over their nation, and may inspire in that nation
a dangerous contempt for people who support papers
like “Pitch” and believe the concoctions of American
reporters, Hollywood Jews and Red or Pink corre-
spondents, the most infamous of which are repeated
over the air.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Guy W.”: The most fervent of our
evangelical sects decided to further the
good work of saving souls by erecting a
neon sign in the main street of our
Sydney subbub, and by some mischance
chose a position next to a County
Council electricity ad. Two flashing red
signs now exhort the passer-by to “Pre-
pare for Eternity—Use Electricity—No
Waste, No Fumes.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A sad little drama occurred in
a Gippsland township during the bushfire
. epidemic. A leading citizen offered a
fire-bell to the community, and the Pro-
gress Association commenced an argu-
ment as to the best situation for the
tocsin. This, developing into a feud be-
tween rival factions, lasted so long that
the offer was withdrawn. A couple of
weeks later the fires came, no bell was
sounded and the township was reduced
to smoking ruins.
* * * *
“McSporran”: A big Sydney store, its
building erected not much more than
12 months ago, is equipped lavishly
with the latest in escalators and electric
lifts. I used to waste a lot of time wait-
ing for lifts, cursing the architect who
left out stairs. But he didn’t leave them
out. They were locked away out of
sight behind big iron doors, along with
the bundies and the staff cloakrooms.
When I went into that store the other
morning—oh, joyful sight!—the iron
doors stood open, the stairs were plain
to see, and, to cap all, on every floor was
a big card with an arrow saying “Save
time. Take the stairs.”
$ * $ *
“F.S.”: For some reason or other Vic.
National Gallery authorities are hesi-
tating over the request of the New York
World’s Fair for a loan of the celebrated
“Madonna and Child” of Van Eyck.
They ought to accede to the request with
the utmost promptness. The Van Eyck
cost £31,000 and is regarded as one of
the world’s great art treasures, inasmuch
as it was painted by the man who, with
his brother, first used oil instead of tem-
pera in painting, and thus brought about
a jump in the development of art com-
parable to the advance made in music
by the perfecting of the piano. Artisti-
cally, however, it is not of such moment.
From that point of view, the Rembrandt
self-portrait is vastly more instructive.
If the Nat. Gallery officials reject this
opportunity of ingratiating themselves
with New York they can’t very well
expect ever to get the loan of immensely
more artistically important pictures in
American collections —some of the finest
Corots, Millets, Monets, Claudes, Rem-
brandts, etc., in existence. The objection
that the work might get lost or damaged
is irrelevant. With modern methods of
transportation the painting will be just
as safe abroad as it is in the National
Gallery.
* • * * *
“T.”: The faking of foreign news
didn’t come in with the nineteen-thirties.
It is an old and evil story in South Africa,
and it accounts in part for the bitterness
that lingers among the Boers. Even
before Majuba atrocity-mongers were at
work, and the ill-fated Colley wrote a
noble condemnation of their lying. In
1899 the Empire was assured by a plague
of foreign correspondents that the Boers
“Misht the last boat, sir!"
were ignorant, treacherous, cruel,
Cowardly and, of course, dirty. They
had spat on female refugees from the
Rand ; they had blown up a train full
of women and children. “Banjo” Pater-
son, writing in the Sydney daily he repre-
sented during part of the campaign, was
considered to have outraged the prevail-
ing patriotic spirit by denying that the
Boers were savages. Twenty years pass
and two leaders of those Boers are sum-
moned to the Peace Conference table.
What does the British Prime Minister of
the period say about them in his Truth
About the Treaties: —
Smuts: An exceptional intellect, per-
fectly trained. The ablest man that came
to help us from the outside Empire.
Botha: Truly great 1 never met a
man who seemed to be more of an em-
bodiment of wisdom in speech and action.
A man of genius.
Lloyd George mentions that when Presi-
dent Wilson fell out with Hughes over the
question of whether New Guinea should
be Australian or mandated territory, it
was Botha who “soothed him down” by
making a simple and moving speech, the
text of which can be found in the book
in question. “The President told me im-
mediately afterwards that it was the most
impressive speech to which he had ever
listened.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “The human brain works
best at 60 degrees Fahrenheit; efficiency
falls off sharply above 80” (B. 18/1 /’39).
Prof. Huntington should limit his glitter-
ing generality to the regions where 60 is
about normal and 80 something to com-
plain of. In his scale, 100 degrees would
logically mean prostration of body and
intellect alike. Whereas —one can but
speak for one’s self. In that really awful
January week we had in Adelaide, rang-
ing from 100 to an all-time record of
117, my own brain was on top gear, and
I even finished three bits of imaginative
work which in cooler weather had stuck
and looked like never being finished at
all.
* * * *
“Justinian”: “X.S.’s” comment on a
Manchester case (B. 25/1/’39) in which
damages were claimed for vicarious
shock referred to the older case of Vic.
Railway Commissioners v. Coultas (not
Poultas). But the Coultas case received
the judicial k.o. as far back as 1897 when
the English Queen’s Bench refused to
follow it in Wilkinson v. Downton. In
the latter case a wit informed a woman
that her husband had met with an acci-
dent ; it was his idea of a practical joke,
but the woman missed the humor of it
and was laid up for some time after
suffering nervous shock and suchlike. The
defence tried to bring in the Coultas case
on the plea of remoteness of damage,
but Wright, J., tactfully “distinguished”
(an old legal custom) the cases, and the
wit had to part up with substantial dam-
ages. The law is fairly clear to-day that
mental shock either for fear of oneself
or for someone near to one afforas a
good ground of action; Hambrook v.
Stokes in 1925 rounded the law off, while
in 1933 the Vic. Wrongs Act nailed up
the Coultas case in its coffin.
“C.R.”: Some people learn slowly. A
stout Melbourne citizen drove a hand-
some limousine full of women and chil-
dren on to the park belonging to a
flourishing Vic. country township, got out,
lit a fire and started to boil a billy. The
water was scarcely lukewarm when he
was pounced on by 20 indignant villagers,
and was saved from violence only by
the local policeman. A northerly nearly
as hot and strong as on that fatal Fri-
day was blowing, and the conditions
were exactly similar to the day when
160 houses in the neighborhood had been
destroyed and two people lost their lives.
The Melbourne citizen was so insulted
that he hustled his family back into the
car and shook the dust of the township
off his Dunlops.
* * * *
“O’Fipp”: I can answer some of the
questions raised by “Hamer” (B. 25 /1 / ’39)
about old Bulletin contributors.
Leonard Henslow returned to London,
where until fairly recent years he was
producing health and physical culture
magazines and books. “Phil Fairleigh”
was Philip Moses, a landscape painter
of some merit. Under the pen-name of
“Joseph Ruskins” he wrote a lot about
Art for the Red Page.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: The. broadcast
from Melbourne of Hitler’s speech was
one of the most elaborate feats the A.B.C.
has ever put over. J. C. R. Proud, who
directs local talks, was charged with the
job of doing his best with the Fiihrer’s
oration, which sundry envious neighbor-
ing countries were apparently doing their
best to jam. A news-editor, an announcer,
two German translators who took notes
in shorthand, a staff of mechanics, three
powerful short-wave receivers with
special aerials, and machines to take an
electro-magnetic record on steel tape, plus
a gramophone, were amongst the equip-
ment considered requisite. For two hours
and 15 minutes the operator switched
from one wave-length to another, picked
up bits of the address broadcast from
Prague, then from America and at times
from Moscow. By dint of plucking these
odds and ends out of the ether and
piecing them together on the electrical
recorders, the German transcribers were
able to make a connected record. Only
10 per cent, of Hitler’s oratory was
missing at the finish.
* * * *
“Automovil”: The remedy for the
car-stealing and other abuses in the
handling of second-hand cars about
which motor traders are concerned is
simple. It is the adoption of the British
system by which every car has to have a
book setting out its life history. This
shows its previous owner or owners, place
of registration and other details. The
seller of any car has to produce his
book, and the buyer is thus protected. He
also has details of the car’s rise or fall
in the world thrown in for his instruc-
tion. When I lived in England my car’s
history showed it belonged first to a
German baron living in Gloucester and
then to an Honorable. When we had
finished with it a sweep had it.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Eyewitness evidence is curi-
ously uncertain stuff, even amongst
honest and intelligent people. A historic
example is the execution of Mary, Queen
of Scots. Several of the witnesses, all
exceptionally intelligent men, have left
written accounts of the beheading, mostly
in minute detail. All make it clear that
her head was struck off immedately she
placed her neck on the block. Yet when
her coffin was opened 250 years later it
was found that she had received two
strokes of the axe before the neck was
cut through. An Australian professor of
law used to stage tests of the evidence
values of his students. One was the
snatching of a bag from him by two men
in full view of a whole class. On most
points their individual evidence was
entirely contradictory. Given an incident
with an element of surprise, and concern-
ing several people or things, the account
of the average eyewitness will be 40 p.c.
inaccurate and 30 p.c. incomplete.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The Bulletin’s Jack Higgin-
son tempered modest pride in a fine mili-
tary career with a dash of philosophy.
He used to tell how, entering a Cairo
restaurant, he saw a couple of his men
at another table enjoying themselves
heartily ; naturally he felt flattered when
he heard one of them, extending an arm
in his direction, say: “The best blanky
officer in the Light Horse.” He nodded
tolerantly and turned away, ending, as
he thought, an encounter that might have
been embarrassing. But after the revellers
had departed, pausing by his table to give
a parting salute which he took to be a
further tribute to his popularity, Higgin-
son was shocked by the enormous bill
which the waiter presented. “But dey
say you pay, sare! Dey point to you
an’ you nodded eet ees right!” insisted
the waiter. Higginson paid. He reckoned
that men who could work a trick like
that on anyone as old in the nut as him-
self deserved to get away with it.
* * * *
“Miro”: A Bulletin par (B. l/2/’39)
telling of the swift flight, in response to
an SOS call, of a medico to Great Barrier
Island, near Auckland, M.L., and his
prompt return flight with a newly-born
infant, stresses vividly the march of time.
On that same island the Wairarapa, carry-
ing passengers from Sydney, went ashore
in a fog in October, 1894, and piled up
on a tiny beach at the foot of the 700 ft.
cliffs on the north of the island. A
tremendous swell pounded the vessel as
she lay on her frail support of rock, and
when she finally broke up and slipped
into deep water over a hundred lives had
been lost. The survivors huddled on
the small beach until a couple of men
scaled the cliffs and walked overland to
Port Fitzroy, the chief settlement. Rescue
work was immediately begun by land and
sea by the residents, who came from the
few scattered farms the island then con-
tained. Big seas prevented news of the
tragedy being sent to Auckland by the
small craft available, and it was not until
the weekly island steamer made her call
and hurried back to Auckland, four days
after the wreck, that the city knew what
had happened to the overdue Wairarapa.
To-day wireless would probably save the
lives of a whole ship’s complement in
such a plight, as the Wairarapa hung for
some hours on the ledge of rock that
she struck.
“THE WOMEN.”
‘ ‘The Women,’ the world’s most discussed play
has not been censored by the N.S.W. authorities.”
— “S. H. Herald” ad.
The cherubs who sit up aloft and decree
What things are improper for you and for me
To read or to gaze at, in novels or plays,
Are used to receiving more bricks than bou-
quets.
Still, it’s only fair dinkum for me and for you
To give them, whenever they earn it, their due
For aught they have done—or omitted to do.
And, whatever respects they are prudish or
prim in,
Take note that they haven’t blue-pencilled “The
Women.’.’
They run in all shapes, these Olympian gods
Commissioned to tell us what’s over the odds
In speech or in print— to determine, in fact,
What’s lawful to write or to say or to act.
A glib politician who’s won to the top
fn the battle of parties may call on a cop
To wise him where “double-intenders” should
stop.
But they found there were no muddy waters
to swim in,
The chaps who decided the fate of “The
Women.”
The feminine wisecracks that flitter and flow
Unchecked when there’s never a male in the
show,
And that wowsers might reckon too “close to
the knuckle,”
They heard with a grin and dismissed with a
chuckle.
The persiflage bandied, the badinage hurled,
From lips that are reddened to manes that are
curled,
They took it unwinking—like men of the world.
The appro, they’ve oft been so grudgingly grim
in a
Extending they didn’t apply to
“The Women.”
Did they reason that anything
women may say
Can never occasion distaste or
dismay
Or call for the use of censorious
powers
To screen from their sex —or pre-
serve it from ours?
Who knows? But when next you
may hear the demand
To have this infringement on
liberty banned
And the popular prejudice suit-
ably fanned,
Recall that, whatever good motives
they brim in,
Our censors stopped short of in-
dicting “The Women.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: In spite of remonstrances,
Sydney dailies persist in referring to a
lady who has lost her husband as “the
widow of the late.” I fail to see how she
could be a widow unless her lord had
gone to glory ; but nearly always she is
so described in the journals for which
you pay three-ha’pence and may have to
pay tuppence. In the principal morning
paper I notice a pleasant change:
It is alleged that Japanese warships
fired on the Delia. The Delia’s passengers
were Mr. Alan Tully, of Melbourne, hus-
band of the late Sir Charles Kingsford-
Smith’s widow....
* * * *
“T.D.”: Next time a Great Daily refers
to “the prisoner of the Vatican” one
can take it as true. Mario Politi, for-
merly cashier in the manager’s depart-
ment of the Vatican Library, has just
been sentenced to four years in the
Vatican gaol for theft. Mario had for a
long time been leading the gay night life
in Rome and spending far beyond his
income. There are six cells for his accom-
modation and fellow-prisoners are un-
likely. There has been only one before.
He was caught robbing the collecting
boxes in St. Peter’s.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Jarrahwood” goes much
too far in his condemnation (B. 18/l/’39)
of what he calls the “no-hat fashion.”
(Just in the same way do Americans call
anyone who wants a window open a
“fresh-air fiend.”) Simply, the younger
men have rebelled at last against the
foolish old convention that every male
must wear a hat when in the open air.
It is still worn for protection when heat
or cold demands it, but riot for custom
on the other days—which in Australia
are the great majority. As for nights,
was there anything even in feminine
fashions more absurd than the rush to
jetties and beaches after a sweltering day
with every man wearing in the cool and
welcome darkness a heavy felt hat,
because convention demanded it? This
—and it was a sight of only yesterday —
really was the “damfoolishness” that
“Jarrahwood” imagines to-day. But
total abstinence is just as bad as excess.
“El V.”: I’m getting tired of this
death-ray business. The latest one
to turn up comes from that fertile
city of invention Moscow, on the
Moskva, which has caused the usual
excited reporter to trudge out in
search of the usual weary Australian
scientist, who in this case happens
to be Melbourne’s Prof. Laby. A
radio physicist, he remarked that the
“Sorry, sir, We cant serve you unless you're dressed
“’ Struth , don't tell me I'm siltin' 'ere in the nood."
“whole electro-magnetic spectrum, from
the longest long wireless waves to the
shortest short waves —which, incidentally,
go down to lengths measurable only in
fractions of units which themselves repre-
sent one-hundred-millionth of a centi-
metre —have been examined by physicists.
None of them could be used as death
rays, because they could not be projected
any distance at sufficient intensity.” If
Ivan can catch his foe firmly by the scruff,
seat him neatly over a deep X-ray therapy
tube and then subject him to 50 milliamps
with 400,000 volts behind it and with no
screening except the wollstra represented
by his pants, the foe will die, if he is left
long enough ; but scarcely before he has
succeeded in donging Ivan over the topski
with an ionisation chamber or something.
* * * *
“Dhas”: The winner of the sesqui.
play competition could hardly have had
Daisy Bates in mind when she called
the heroine of “Men Without Wives”
Ma Bates, but it’s a coincidence all the
same. Ma, in the play, was in the rough
Dad and Dave tradition, whereas Daisy,
as witness The Passing of the
Aborigines (R.P. 18/1 /’39), is the essence
of gentility. Both the fictitious Ma and
the real Daisy, however, were women of
the outback noted for their charity.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: It really looks as if man
is about to defeat the three species of
tiny blood parasite which cause
700,000,000 of him to get ill each year
and over 5,000,000 to die of malaria.
They lead a bachelor life in his red blood
corpuscles, developing to the primary sex
forms by methods which destroy large
numbers of the corpuscles. If a suitable
species of mosquito sucks in some of the
sex-form-infected corpuscles, their pas-
sengers have a complicated honeymoon
inside the insect —without, unfortunately,
causing it any damage —resulting in a
family of minute zygotes which adopt its
salivary glands as a nursery. The next
human being bitten by it gets a consign-
ment of the little dears when the insect
spits in the wound to make the corpuscles
slip easier up the sucking tube, and they
continue the good lifework after making
themselves comfortable in corpuscles.
Quinine destroys them only at early spore
stage, plasmoquin only after they have
damaged the corpuscles and caused the
fever. A new acridine-group derivative
seems able to kill the spores at all stages
without damage to the patient. If so,
the malaria problem is solved.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The health authorities
advise us to eat wholemeal bread instead
of white, but they don’t seem to be doing
anything much in the way of making
bakers produce and sell the real article.
Most “brown bread” is brown all right,
but the browning' is done by mixing
cocoa with the white flour of which it is
made. Average alleged wholemeal bread
contains only a proportion of the un-
treated ground wheat grain, often a very
small one. Full wholemeal bread is not
as attractive-looking as the usual com-
mercial article which masquerades under
its name - ; it is heavier, and makes a
smaller loaf for the weight. But, if even
a fraction of the good results claimed
for it by the nutrition-mongers are
correct, bakers should be made to con-
form to a definite standard of wholemeal
content in any bread sold under that
name, and fined smartly for any de-
parture.
“ Fat'ead — er, not "im."
“Tommy”: “Ente Marid’s” telegraph
messenger who kept his hat on in a lift
was quite correct by any standard. He
was in uniform. Anyway, why should
anyone doff the lid in a lift and not on
a stairway or on any other public
thoroughfare?
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: These professors have
some quaint ideas about human nature.
Just returned from Nazi Germany, Prof.
C. S. King, who teaches history at the
University of Tasmania, complained that
his task of cocking an eye over the Reich
was rendered difficult by the reticence of
the people, who were afraid to speak to
strangers, their system being based, not
on love for Hitler but fear of the police.
Dostoieffsky, Chekhov, Tolstoy and the
other Slav writers who depicted Russia
under the Tsardom would turn in their
graves at the notion that you cannot learn
about how people are thinking unless
they vouchsafe the information. There
is 10 times as severe a taboo on the sub-
jects in which Freud is interested as any-
thing Hitler has thought of, but that has
not prevented him and his school from
finding out quite a lot about how people
think about those matters.
* * *
“Den”: The answer to old Bill’s chal-
lenge, “What naked or half-naked race
ever mattered, and for how long?” is:
“Any amount of them.” The ancient
Greeks didn’t favor a superfluity of
clothing, but what other people has a
better record in any field? Unless paint-
ings lie, the old Egyptians were content
with nothing more than a large loin-
cloth, yet no society has been more stable
(theirs lasted something like 4000 years),
and not many have done better in the
arts and engineering. They were also
far from negligible in war. The peoples
of the great military monarchies of
Assyria and Persia, which between them
• dominated the Near and Middle East for
centuries, were others who did not dress
profusely. Neither did the ancient
Hebrews nor the Phoenicians, both of
which races made very important con-
tributions to civilisation.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane is claiming
an Australian record for youthful grand-
mothers. The lady married at 17, and
acquired a daughter before she was 19.
The daughter repeated history by marry-
ing at 17 and also achieving maternity
before her 19th birthday. It is a credit-
able performance in these days, but
would not have been noticed amongst the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.) dwellers of
the mid-1800’s. Fifteen was quite a usual
age for girls to marry lads of 20 or so,
and there were lots of grandmothers
under 35, not to speak of whiskered
grandads under 40. It was nothing for
a great-grandmother to acquire the honor
while still on the sunny side of 50. There
are a few enterprising lads and lasses
still. In 1937 the youngest Australian
mother was 12, the youngest married
mother 13, the youngest married parents
16 and 14. At the other end of the scale
two wives of 50 and seven husbands of
75 or over achieved parenthood. One
wife of 38 produced her first infant '24
years after marriage.
WOUNDED VANITY.
“There always has been, and always will be,
criticism of the Archibald Prize decision. It arises
irom wounded vanity.”— One of the judges.
When Venus won ’neath Phrygian skies
The first recorded beauty prize,
What made great Juno’s oxlike eyes
Grow grim and cold and granity?
What was it got Minerva’s goat
When to a rival went the vote
Her who was fairest to denote?
The smart of wounded vanity.
It’s older palpably than clothes.
The arbiter at baby shows, '
I’ll say, unquestionably knows,
However he may pbn it, he
Is bound to leave in some distressed
And fluttering maternal breast,
Uncomfortably manifest,
The sting of wounded vanity.
Whenever poets lilt their lays
In competition for the bays,
The boodle and the lavish praise
Of generous humanity,
The victor’s face may glow with pric
To see his merit certified,
But many another one will hide
The pangs of wounded vanity.
And oh! the artist’s temp’rament
Of all is touchiest. Not content
From umpires’ rulings to dissent
He’ll even doubt the sanity
Of every and any man
Who ranks him with the “also ran” —
For no more cogent reason than
The nip of wounded vanity.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


CRAVENA
..Me so
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Great Thoughts of the Prime Minister:
At any time during the next few years
we Australians may have; to resist an
attack. '
Would that you knew while there is yet
time on what a slender thread peace in
Australia depends!
Events have moved in a direction which
may precipitate a world conflict with tragic
suddenness. The peace which Australia
has enjoyed for a hundred and fifty years
is threatened.
In these times we must keep cool heads
and not be swayed by passion or prejudice.
Closing with the Greatest Thought of
all:
Were I to summon Parliament undue
anxiety would be created in the minds of
the people.
Quoting Lyons’s own utterances
against his Government’s “policy” of
beating up a few thousand volunteers
by means of windbaggery and band
music, a meeting that packed the Mel-
bourne Town Hall demanded universal
training of the youth of the nation and
no more ignoble temporising. The
speakers were Diggers (their leader was
Vinton Smith, sometime M.L.A. for
Caulfield), most of the men in the hall
were of military age, and objectors were
few and feeble. These Melbourne men
have lighted a fire that will spread round
the continent, though Joe’s idea is that
he can put it out with butter.
“On January 30 Hitler will announce
his support for Italy’s territorial claims.
On February 4 Mussolini will s?-nd an
ultimatum to France.” Madame
Tabouis, reported in all our Great
Dailies. She missed with both barrels.
Neither Hitler nor Mussolini mentioned
the “claims.”
Professor Roberts, who wrote the
leading article for' the Sydney “Mail”
(deceased), has returned to journalism as
a Granny “Herald” employee. The
“Herald” bills him as “the author of ‘The
House that Hitler Built,’ ” the master-
piece in which he presented Germany as
“a country without friends,” and Czecho-
slovakia as “enormously wealthy and
strong,” so strong that if it came to war
Czecho would “hold the ridges from Eger
to the Oder.” For the “Herald” he made
a profound arithmetical calculation about
Hitler’s speech.
A marathon effort of nearly 2\ hours,
during which he must have uttered at least
150,000 words, the length cf at least two
full-sized books.
Hitler spoke for two hours and 40
minutes at the rate of, at most, 100
words a minute, making a very liberal
allowance for pauses and applause.
That’s 16,000 words. Another dunce’s
cap for the professor!
“It has been revealed” that Roosevelt
“said to the Senate military committee
at a secret meeting that the U.S.A. would
back the democracies against the dic-
tatorships in every way short of war” ;
and if he did say this it is very kind of
him. The “revelation” was amplified by
the New Journalism, a paraphrase of
Baldwin’s “Our frontier is on the Rhine”
being attributed to the President as an
expression of American policy. “A
deliberate lie!” he said. But the affair
started an old-man row, and the only
result may be that the Democrats will
lorte the next Presidential election.
Clumsiest lie of a week in which liars
on both sides of the Atlantic let them-
selves go:
A highly-placed official in Berlin, clari-
fying Hitler’s pledge to Italy, declared that,
whether Italy attacks or is attacked, Ger-
many will give it full military support
without inquiry.
No “highly-placed official” would dare
to “clarify” any speech of Hitler’s to
oblige a hostile foreign press; if he did,
he would be consigned to a lowly place
in jig time. And neither Germany nor
any other Power would ever undertake
“to give full military support without
inquiry” to any country. It would mean
placing its fate in the hands of a group
of foreigners without having a say in
the time and place of the war or the
choice of enemies.
Did Hepburn, the Premier of Ontario,
“thank God for Chamberlain” in a vale-
dictory speech in Sydney? The “Sun,”
now heartily for the Chamberlain policy,
reported the prayer, but it didn’t appear
in the other dailies. In any case, no one
is permitted to thank God for Cham-
berlain on those premises.
Breaking its mysterious post-Munich
silence again, Moscow announces that
“‘Bunk’ and ‘deliberate lie’ were Mr. Roosevelt’s words for newspaper accounts of
his attitude to Europe.”
“Boys, there’s truth in that thar well. You got to stay at the bottom till you
lam it.”
it has severed diplomatic relations with
Hungary, “because Hungary has joined
the anti-Comintern Pact.” Hungary was
one of the ten countries chosen by
Churchill for the encircling of Germany,
and a Sydney daily was‘positive that it
would pitch into Fritz side by side with
Professor Roberts’s “enormously strong
and wealthy” Czecho.
With typical Communist faithlessness,
last-minute efforts were made to dish
the Port Kembla settlement, the means
employed being the secret and midnight
removal of British seamen and Lascars
from the Dalfram. The vacancies were
soon filled by other British seamen, and
the Dalfram steamed away at last. But
the authorities who attend to prohibited
immigrants have two colored “comrades”
on their hands. To Communists, colored
men who can be induced to kneel to
Moscow are “comrades” and brudders ;
and, because of Communist “policy,”
there are always white seamen on the
beach.
In a timely reminder to the world
that there is an idealistic and chivalrous
strain in the American nation, Hoover
said that the bombing of British and
French cities would probably “bring the
U.S.A. into a war in which such horrors
were practised.” But he went on to
issue a blunt warning to positive-
actionists, League cranks, Red novelists
and Feminist Leaders:
Any form of direct or indirect coercion
of nations is force, and is a straight path
to war. No husky nation will stand such
pressures without bloody resistance. Those
who think in terms of economic sanctions
should also think in terms of war.
Well said, old Westralian mining man!
Bushfire-relief claims amounting to
half a million have been lodged in Vic-
toria. Cabinet is sending committees to
investigate. That was done after the
1926 disaster, and there is a very real
danger that the same things will happen.
When winter came most of the burnt-
out settlers were still living in tents on
the sites of their ruined holdings.
More Ministerial changes in Britain
and no place found for Churchill or
Eden! Those worthies’ press pals, whose
prophecies of high positions for both are
sent to Australia every few weeks, can’t
understand it. They are more than ever
convinced that Chamberlain is a Cow.
Sir Thomas Inskip has moved to the
Dominions Office, and Admiral of the
Fleet Lord Cha'tfield becomes Minister
for Co-ordination of Defence. Sir
Reginald Dorman-Smith, who led the
British delegation at the Producers’ Con-
ference in Sydney, has been named
Minister for Agriculture, W. S. Morrison
stepping down to the Chancellorship of
the Duchy of Lancaster. Morrison is a
close friend of our Mr. Menzies, who
predicted that he would become Prime
Minister; but the revolt of the British
farmer against his administration has
broken him.
Stevens’s offer to let Dunstan construct
a railway over the border to Rand
started a private inquiry into the finances
of his own Henty-Rand line. Length is
32 miles 35-|- chains; capital cost was
£198,000 (N.S.W. politicians do these
things magnificently); interest and a trifle
of sinking fund take about £BBOO p.a. In
1936 earnings totalled £4893 and work-
ing expenses £7550; in 1937 earnings
were £4146 and working expenses £7610:
losses ip each year, £11,267 and £11,770.
The 1938 figures have not been published,
but Stevens must have seen them before
philanthropy rushed to his head.
Hitler mentioned Australia in his Reich-
stag speech:—
We do not desire to export our system.
We certainly have no intention of attack-
ing anyone or imposing our regime on
China, South America, Holland or Aus-
tralia.
He must have been listening to Joe’s
speeches and reading “S. M. Herald”
leaders.
Pursuant to the grand old provincial-
politician practice of solving problems by
getting lawyers to report on them, Dun-
stan has given Judge Stretton a royal
commission “to investigate the bushfires.”
All the same, the bushfires have shaken
Victoria’s faith in the repeated assurances
of Dunstan and his journalistic friends
that his Administration is one of the
wonders of the age.
Having made a wilderness of Sydney’s
Circular Quay area, the Government has,
after 13 months, accepted the Butters
plan of “improvements” ; the City Coun-
cil concurs. It is part of the plan that
the two fine old Government buildings
in George-street North, the oldest in New
South Wales —one was raised by Mac-
quarie shall go, the idea being to
convert the sites into a tiny park or a
parking place or something. It is taken
for granted that Sydney people will suffer
this outrage.
Before Lang was thrown out in 1932
he appointed F. W. Kitching Gas and
Electricity Commissioner at a massive
salary. Stevens cancelled the Gas and
Electricity Commission, but had to go
on paying Kitching the massive salary,
so he made him Industrial Registrar—he
had been Under-Secretary of Labor.
Now the rounds of this Kitching have
whirled him into a place on the com-
mission which is to do something or
other about films. “The Secretary and
Executive Officer” of this commission is
to be brought from London, and another
of Stevens’s young men is to take his
place as “Secretary of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Offices” there. Presumably this
is all part of Stevens’s Drive for National
Efficiency and Advance on All Fronts.
The Premier of Quebec has “chal-
lenged the Dominion Government to
explain why it issued passports to 1200
Canadians who went to fight for the
Communists in Spain,” and to Buck,
their leader, so that he might visit them
on the Red front and glorify them and
Communism when he returned. Our
U.A.P. Government, which was going
to do such savage things to Communists,
not only issued passports to Red volun-
teers, but is repatriating them at the
taxpayer’s expense.
“Who believes the Prime Minister?”
Nobody would accuse Harry Murray’s
native State of being unpatriotic, but
nine weeks of the recruiting campaign
brought only 371 Tasmanian volunteers;
and the Tasmanian quota is 1550.
Relatively, as well as actually, it is far
and away the worst showing made by
any State. Which recalls that the last
State and Commonwealth elections saw
Lyons’s party —that is to say, the new
one—beaten out of sight. Out of eight
Federal seats contested it won two.


NOT ONLY REVENGE IS SWEET.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m Ctfj
Hr
Australia's Leading Financial Journal
DRIFT IN AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FINANCE
WILL LIFT IN GOLD PRICE AFFECT
COMMODITIES?
TRADE CREDITS (A’SIA) AND HAMILTONS
WHAT TO BUY AND SELL
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
THE NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Zealand).
Established 1859.
Capital £1,500,000.
Funds invested in Australia,
£1,620,976.
All Classes of FIRE, MARINE
and
ACCIDENT INSURANCES
effected at Lowest Current
Rates.
Head Office for New South Wales:
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J. HARRISON, Manager.
Tel: 8W1931.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Roderick Julius, who, with his pas-
senger, C. E. Stumbles, of Sydney, met
his death when his ’plane crashed in the
Blue Mountains last week, was the son
of knight George Julius, of Sydney, and
was managing director of the Australian
agency for Cub Aircraft. A pioneer of
small aeroplanes in Australia, he recently
made a round-the-continent flight in a
Taylor Cub. He was born in Westralia
33 years ago, when his father was in the
W.A. railway service. His mother was a
daughter of C. Y. O’Connor, the engineer
responsible for the Fremantle harbor
works and for the goldfields water
supply, which has never failed for a
single day. The mechanical genius pos-
sessed by his paternal grandfather, Arch-
bishop Julius, of Christchurch, M.L., and
by his father, inventor of the totalisator,
passed to this young man, who was a
pilot and aircraftsman of many years’
experience.
Just retired from the job of Registrar
at Melb. University, A. W. Greig was a
founder of the Historical Society of
Vic., and was the official historian for
the Vic. Centenary. At 66 he retires in
favor of J. F. Foster, the youngest Regis-
trar the University has had. Foster
helped Dr. Priestley to prepare the cele-
brated report which he tossed at the in-
stitution just before leaving it, and which
the council has yet to consider.
James P. Mahoney is g.m. of the City
Mutual Life, and as such holds sway
over that remarkable building on the
corner of Sydney’s Hunter and Bligh
streets with concertina windows, four
poplars at the front door and a
penthouse and roof garden up near the
stars. Mahoney, who has just attained
his half-century, was born at Hamilton
JAMES P. MAHONEY.
(Vic.), and joined the C.M.L. staff in his
native State 30 years ago. Five years ago
he punctuated a steady upward climb by
becoming manager of the new business in
Sydney, and his elevation to the g.m.’s
chair came in due course. He played
cricket in his youth, and captained a
C.M.L. team in Vic. for some years.
Nowadays he’s more interested in field
shooting and golf, and enjoys a day at
the races.
Dr. Jean White, lost for. a time in
the Queensland Gulf country, is the
daughter of a Victorian schoolmaster and
began her career at Melb. University.
Being keen on post-graduate work she
joined the flying-doctor service, the first
Australian woman and possibly the first
woman of any nation to do it. She started
flying to patients in 1937, with head-
quarters at Normanton. Her pilot,
Douglas Tennant, was trained by the
Queensland Aero
Club, and at 21 is
one of the youngest
fliers in the service.
Dr. James O’Neil
Mayne, passed on at
78, made scholastic
history in Brisbane
when in 1926 he
donated at a cost of
over £50,000 the
beautiful 200 - acre
riverside site of the
new University, now
being erected. Son
of wealthy parents,
he was a born phil-
anthropist, and was
generous all his
life. In 1923 he
presented to the Uni-
versity 693 acres at
Moggill, near Bris-
bane, for agricul-
tural purposes. Dur-
ing the 13 years he
was superintendent
of the Brisbane
General Hospital he
spent the whole of
his salary on the
institution.
Dr. (of Science) A.
L. Reimann, just
arrived from Britain
to become Physics
Lecturer at Brisbane
University, is the son
of a leading music-
teacher of the past at
Adelaide Conservatorium. Dr. Reimann
lectured under Kerr Grant at Adelaide,
and has moved up by the stages of British
General Electric Co.’s research lab., a
Leverhulme fellowship, Cavendish lab. at
Cambridge and lecturer at Hull Uni.
The lads who take part in dirt-track
motor-cycling are a tough lot, and Ernest
J. Buck, chief instructor of the Newcastle
Aero’ Club, who did a lot of racing be-
tween 1925 and 1930 on Newcastle and
Sydney tracks, was no exception to the
breed. He was giving a bombing
demonstration at an air pageant at
Orange, N. S. Wales, when a bomb ex-
ploded in his hand. With his right hand
blown off he nevertheless retained con-
sciousness and was able to bring his
badly-damaged ’plane to earth in a spot
where there was no danger to the crowd
of onlookers. He was rushed to hos-
pital in a motor-ambulance, but was dead
on arrival. He was 34, had been flying
for three years, and had been for a while
instructor of the Clarence River Aero
Club at Grafton.
James Carter, a farmer of Werribee,
has created an extraordinary position in
Melbourne. He is one of two brothers
who run the largest poultry farm in the
Southern Hemisphere. Its production is
so huge that when the Egg Board brought
an action against him and his brother,
alleging a breach of regulations, they
counter-claimed for £lOO,OOO damages for
alleged loss of trade, and alleged that
the board was illegally constituted. Action
is still pending. By the time it comes
off the Egg Board may be non-existent.
Carter has just been elected metropolitan
member, and he is pledged to abolition.
Julian Rossi Ashton, artist and father
and grandfather of artists, is the oldest of
Australian art instructors. Born in Eng-
land 88 years ago, he had his training at
South Kensington and at Julien’s, in
Paris. He exhibited at the R.A. before
he came to Australia, over 60 years ago,
and was represented in all the principal
Australian art galleries before all save a
very tiny handful of the country’s most
successful painters of to-day were heard
of. He has done notable-work in oils,
in water-color, in landscape, portraiture,
figure composition and still-life, and his
touch has grown ever suaver and more
JULIAN ASHTON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
certain with the advancing years. It is
only in the last year or two that failing
sight has curtailed his creative urge.
George Lambert paid the veteran the
tribute of a splendid portrait. Julian
Ashton has been a Sydneysider for de-
cades, and lives at Bondi.
An appointment popular in the legal
profession in Melbourne was the eleva-
tion of Norman O’Bryan to an acting
Judgeship. A former soldier (he was
in France with the A.F.A.), he has built
up one of the biggest practices as a
barrister in Melbourne, has served on
a crowd of royal commissions, and
was made a K.C. in 1937. He was edu-
cated at the C.8.C., South Melbourne,
and was dux in 1910. A meteoric pas-
sage through the University ended with
the Supreme Court Judges’ Prize in 1915.
He is 44.
Just returned from a visit to Palestine,
Prof. Samuel Angus, the theologian who,
a few years ago, agitated a succession of
Australian Presbyterian synods. Angus
was born in Ireland, educated at Univer-
sity College, Galway, carried his theo-
logical studies through the Princeton
University, U.S.A., Marburg, Berlin and
other distinguished seminaries ; was chap-
lain at the Scots Church in Algiers, and
since 1914 has mainly stirred the hot
broth of discussion at St. Andrew’s, Syd-
ney. Author of a dozen works on church
history and dogma, He has been visiting
lecturer in half a dozen places. He found
Palestine more interested in politics than
theology, with telegraph lines cut, bridges
mined and Arabs and Jews potting at one
another under the noses of Christian
tro°p s from England. His chief memory
or the Holy City was of shots being ex-
changed on the Mount of Olives.
Eire 5 ; Australia’s only personal link
with W. B. Yeats, who died recently in
France, lies through Mrs. Lane-Poole, of
Canberra, who was the poet’s cousin.
Mrs. Lane-Poole’s husband is Common-
wealth Inspector-General of Forests, and
m their house near the Forestry School
there are many mementoes of the gifted
Yeats family.
J. A. Norris, helping along Melbourne’s
Lord Mayor’s Bushfire Relief Fund, hails
from County Derry, and after a 90 days’
voyage under sail arrived in Melbourne
in 1880 as a lad of nine. At 13 he
started as a telegraph messenger at Wil-
liamstown, and after 52i years in the
State public service retired as Auditor-
General in 1937.
The A.M.P. has a new manager in
Adelaide—H. R. McLarty, formerly of
Perth, and still earlier an officer with the
Bth Battalion in France.
“Tas”: Mrs. Anna Hayward, of Glen-
huntly (Vic.), now in her ninety-fourth
year, is a grandniece of Sir John Franklin,
the explorer, who was Governor of Van
Diemen’s Land from 1837 to 1843. While
at school in Switzerland, Mrs. Hayward’s
mother was a constant visitor to the
Alpine home of the La Trobes, where
she met the two sisters of Charles La
Trobe, afterwards first Governor of Vic-
toria. Mrs. Hayward {nee Price) is an
aunt of Sir Geoffrey Knox (of Saar
fame), now British Minister at Budapest.
G. A. McMillan, whose useful life has
ended, at 81, in Adelaide, was a Tas-
manian who, after Cambridge, was teach-
ing in Melbourne about 1890, and then
was in at the start of the Officer College
in Hobart. For the last 40 years he was
on the staff of St. Peter’s College in Adel-
aide. His strong point was classics, his
hobby cricket.
Thomas Erskine Cleland, recently
appointed chairman of S.A.’s reorganised
Betting Board, is neither a racegoer nor
a punter. A barrister by profession, he
is the only son of Judge Cleland, of the
S.A. Supreme Court, stands 6ft. 2in., and
T.E. CLELAND.
wound up extensive war service as a
major in the R.F.A., with Military Cross.
Now 45, he has been practising law for
close on 20 years. Took his LL.B. at
Adelaide Uni., and plays a good game of
tennis or squash racquets.


THE SAFEST TYRE
EVER BURT/
j
131 More Mileage
New Streamlined Beauty
More Complete Silence
To provide the greater safety
demanded by to-day's driving
conditions, the famous All-
Weather Centre Traction tread
which has never been
bettered for traction, for fast
starts and quick stops, for resist-
ance to skidding has been
improved in the G-100. It's
flatter for more road contact;
it's deeper; and it'c tougher;
while the new cord ply con-
struction prevents bruises,
blowouts, and premature tyre
failure.
By nesting the diamond tread
blocks closer together and
adding extra riding ribs, the
G-100 achieves a new degree
of smooth-rolling silence.
The diagrams at the right show
the new principle of tyre con-
struction, which compresses
the tread rubber, makes it
tougher to cut—more resistant
to bruising—giving 33% more
mileage.
The G-100 is the most beautiful
tyre ever built. Its "sculptured"
grace and streamlined side-
walls enhance the flowing
lines of to-day's motor cars.
Have your Goodyear Dealer fit
a full set of G-100's. They cost
no more than you're accus-
tomed to paying for good tyres.
Available in
both BLACK
and WHITE
Sidewalls in
ij," 16 " and
17" Si^es.
NEW PRINCIPLE OF TYRE CONSTRUCTION
Conventional Tyre
vVhen inflated all portions
of the tyre expand the
tread stretches, which makes
it easier to cut.
G-100 Uninflated
Note that this tyre when
uninflated is flat-sided,
higher than it is wide.
G-100 Inflated
Sidewalls expand treao
contracts. "Compressed'
rubber wears longer, is
tougher to cut or bruise
Result—33% longer life
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: A face I’d never ex-
pected to see again loomed up from the
shadow of a pub in Pitt-street on one
of Sydney’s hottest days, and Moulamein
Monty and me disappeared. “I just been
watch in’ them fellers out there on that
new building,” he said. “Cripes, they’re
good workers.” He took me outside and
indicated the toilers on the new Water
Board offices. “Phew, it must be hot up
there,” he gasped ; “let’s go an’ ’ave
another.” Every few minutes he’d pop
out, gaze at the workers, and return to
the bar. “Nothin’ like a hard day’s work
to give y’ a thirst,” he assured me. Later,
as I helped him home, his blissful voice
crooned gently, “Strike me, what a day’s
work we’ve done ; what a day’s work! ”
* * * •
“Salmon Gums”: Bill was new to the
country east of Laverton, so he tied his
horse to the sturdy little shrub and came
in for a yarn. Later he swore someone
had shifted his mount and hitched it
to an old leaf- and branchless stump.
It took some time to convince him that
his horse had eaten his “tree,” but after
watching it devour another of the same
type, stems and all, he reckoned he was
lucky to get back before it polished off
the stump too. That was Bill’s first
experience of “horse” mulga.
jjc * *
“Stunar”: A pair of magpies have
nested annually near the house. When
the youngsters appear to encroach on
Dad Magpie’s prerogative (we take him
to be Dad because of his glossy plumage)
the outraged parent seems to give the
offending youngster a lecture, during
which the guilty party lies on its back
and squawks with every appearance of
contrition. Any Aboliar explain this
performance?
* * * *
“Jazz King”: Bush musical instru-
ments, is it? Forty years ago, before the
saxophone came to torment humanity,
we produced similar sounds by simply
rolling up a fresh gumleaf, creasing over
about an inch at the tip and following
with the rest in folds. And what about
the old comb wrapped in tissue paper,
or, failing a comb, a piece of perforated
zinc? Placed flat to the lips and blown
on, such an instrument produced sounds
weird enough for a blacks’ corroboree.
But performances were appreciated. I
recollect an enterprising Salvarmy captain
who trained a comb and mouth-organ
band and went on tour through Victoria.
Then there was another instrument made
simply by laying a half-inch strip of
calico on a similar strip of tin and fold-
ing both up after the manner of the
gumleaf. A combined calico-and-tin,
comb-and-paper and gumleaf band took
a bit of beating, especially with such
lively pieces as “Rock of Ages” and
“Onward, Christian Soldiers.”
* . afe * #
“Colbun”: Some sporting genius has
been suggesting the importation of
elephants, lions, tigers and other big
game into Australia for the attraction of
tourists. They would certainly liven up
our great open spaces, but the average
tourist would probably prefer them as
they are. Anyone who has seen what a
herd of elephants can do to a standing
crop will anticipate strong opposition
from agriculturists. Pastoral interests,
also, would be liable to become fractious
over the ways of leopards with sheep and
of tigers with cattle. Certainly, the
leopards might clean up the dingoes, dog
being a favorite item on their menu, but
then so is goat, and jumbuck would pro-
bably attract them yet more. Who, by
the way, deserves the infamous memory
of having first introduced foxes success-
fully? I have heard it credited to the
Melbourne Hunt Club of the 1860’s. In
addition to being the greatest of all
enemies to indigenous fauna, they killed
over 200,000 sheep and lambs in N.S.W.
alone within three years.
* * * *
“Atrax”: What was the real origin
and meaning of Billy Bluegum’s accepted
family moniker of koala? Gould used
it first in a London lecture in 1845, but
gave it as a variant of a South Aus-
tralian abo. name for kangaroo. Morris’s
Austral-English Dictionary traces it back
“I on'y borrered it, missus . ’Arry wont drink nothin ’cept out of a saucer."
to 1813 as “koola,” or “kool-la.” An-
other alleged derivation is from
“ghoala,” supposed to be some form of
abo. for “sit down.” Still another effort
of etymological imagination describes
koala as an abo. word for “Don’t want
water,” in .allusion to William’s alleged
abstinence from all forms of obvious
liquid refreshment. One wild flight of
fancy has suggested that it is an imitation
of Billy’s call, but I’ve never been able
to distinguish anything like it in years
of hearing his discordant grumbling
grunts. What has the Council to offer
as the dinkum Aussie oil on the subject?
# * * *
“Carlo”: “Remember once, up on the
nor’-west coast,” said old Ted, “we’d
been expectin’ a big blow for days. One
afternodn ’bout sundown everythin’
grows dull and overcast, and we all hur-
ries about battenin’ up windows and tyin’
down outhouses and tanks. Along ’bout
seven she starts to rain—and does she
come down! Not in drops like ordinary
rain, but in one huge, solid, continuous
sheet. What makes it more uncanny is
that there ain’t no wind, though we’d
been told to expect the biggest blow
fer years! We can’t make it out at all.
Then suddenly we wakes up why: that
rain was droppin’ so thick the flamin’
wind couldn’t blow through it!”
£ * ♦ *
“Seafoodster”: The student of Nature
can understand an epidemic whereby a
whole species (the lower on the evo-
lutionary scale it is the more subject
thereto) will be almost wiped out, but it
is puzzling why, almost as if by a whim,
the universal mother suddenly produces
a superabundance. For years the Swan
River crab, possibly the most toothsome
of its kind in Australian waters, has been
vanishing last season’s catch was
negligible. But this present season of
plenty began with the deep-sea crays.
Never before was such a harvest known
in Westralian waters. In the markets
fine 21b. crays sold at Is. 6d. to 2s. per
dozen: retailed cooked at 4|d. and 6d.
each. Then the prawns came swarming
in. Now the Swan River crabs are back
again, full-sized bluemanners going up to
2ft. from claw-tip to claw-tip. Hundreds
of dozens lifted daily from waters where
for the past five years one grew weary
waiting to catch half a dozen. Long
seine nets strung along the edge of
deep water trap them. But the riddle
remains: Why should Nature after so
many lean years so oddly favor these
crustaceans?
“Woodki”: One effect of an ab-
normally dry spell on the N.S.W. coasi
is a plague of blue swimming-crabs in
the estuaries. The floor of the big lower
expanse of.Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.), is
alive with the brutes, and flathead, whit-
ing, bream, etc., all “ground” fish seek-
ing a more or less quiet life, go else-
where to escape the crabs’ questing claws.
So curses of amateur and licensed fisher-
men mingle. The crabs, though edible,
are too common to be worth sending to
market, and tear to pieces the meshing
of the nets. Relief will come only with
a heavy fall of rain up the valleys, caus-
ing a “fresh” that will make the lake
waters less salty and drive the crabs out
to sea.
* * * *
“263”: In addition to the tractor-bird
described by “Carlo” (B. 11/l/’39)
Queensland avifauna boasts a distinct
species, the inigo-bird. Instead of seeking
cool and leafy bowers, this bird has the
habit of perching out in the open and fre-
quently squinting at the sun. A squawk-
ing sound from it is an almost certain
sign of rain, either in the Gulf country,
Tasmania or the coastal belt of Queens-
land, this week or next. The inigo-bird’s
principal call —“insufficientdata, insuf-
ficientdata!” —is sometimes varied w'ith
a cry that sounds like “slightlydelayed.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Stranger than the arrival of
the smoke from the Victorian bushfires
in Maoriland was the advent of an
extraordinary-looking animal in the gar-
den of a houseowner who lives in the
middle of one of Melbourne’s most
densely populated suburbs. Before he
could identify the creature, its shape was
lost in a terrific battle between it and the
houseowner’s champion fox-terrier. After
20 minutes the combatants fell apart ex-
hausted and the challenger was recog-
nised as a large wombat. The refugee
is now enjoying the hospitality of the
Zoo authorities.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: I am surprised
that “Hard Hat” (B. 18/1/’39) doesn’t
know the rule defining an axeman’s or
shoveller’s hand. It depends on the side
of the body from which a man swings a
tool, and this is governed by the hand
held nearest the axe- or shovel-head.
Curiously, though the majority of men
are right-handed, it seems to have no
bearing on the axe or shovel hand, the
proportion in these cases being about
fifty-fifty.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Members of the Yadi-
kan tribe, N.Q., never kill or harm the
goanna. In their legendary lore a couple
of huge goannas, in the process of evo-
lution, lost their tails and walked up-
right, and in the course of centuries
became the first black man and woman
—the Adam and Eve in the Garden of
Yadikan. From this couple and their
descendants all the territory of the
North was peopled. This notion goes a
long way back beyond the monkey idea
of Darwin. As all life came originally
from the water, and the goanna links up
with a good many water and land
creatures, the theory at least reflects
some credit on Binghi’s reasoning.
* * * *
“Jackey”: “Notaden” (B. 18/1 /’39)
asks what are the Australian record
measurements of the horns of a N.T.
buffalo. In 1921, when in Darwin, writer
saw a pair of buffalo horns hanging on
the front verandah of one Holmes, a
butcher ; they measured 10ft. 6in. from
tip to tip. Measured around the curves
they would go fairly close to the 12ft.
llin. pair in the British Museum. But
there is no need to go to the N.T. to
see a big pair. In a rest-room of Myer’s,
Melbourne, is a pair measuring Bft. 9in.
from tip to tip.
“Tired Tim”: “R.W.V.’s” list of N.Q.
abo. foods—fish, turkey, scrub-hen, wal-
laby, pigeon, oysters and shellfish (B.
18/1 / ’39) —doesn’t throw any light on a
little problem which has been perturbing
me for some time. If there are still any
really wild aborigines in N.Q., where do
they get their starches, sugars, fats and
oils? It would take a lot of wild honey,
fruits, roots and goanna fat to balance
the purely protein diet listed above.
Travellers report that the black porters
of equatorial Africa cannot work when
the mealies, sago, rice, bananas, plantains
and yams give out, and get weak and list-
less on unlimited fresh meat. Australia,
when you come to thing of it, was in its
natural state singularly devoid of
farinaceous foods, and Binghi, in adapt-
ing himself to flesh, fowl and good red
Burnett salmon, just jolly well had to. I
stand to be corrected.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Ever keep a pet ant-lion?
Find one of the little sandpits which
they make in any sandy soil near a tree
or house. Drop in a smallish ant. It
tries to climb the sliding walls for a
while, then a jet or two of sand shoots
up from the pit bottom, the victim rolls
down, a pair of long pincers emerges,
and it is dragged under the surface.
Shove a trowel well under the trap and
lift it out on to a sheet of paper. The
ant-lion is the same color as the sand,
and will probably sham dead, so go over
it carefully till you find a pudgy, bug-
like creature with long pincer jaws. Take
him home, put him in a jar of loose
sand, watch him dig his new pit, and
feed him with ants. After a while he
will refuse his tucker, spin a cocoon, and
sleep. Put a bit of mosquito net over
the jar, and one day you will find there
a beautiful fly with exquisitely delicate
lace wings and no trace whatever of its
bloodthirsty youth.
LINKED.
All quiet is the weather,
As quiet as could be,
Wherefore, with naught to tether
My feet, I seek the sea.
Moonlight the foreland steeping,
Moonlight upon the deep.
No night is this for sleeping,
Though bird and blossom sleep.
Like one on wings up-carried,
Enthralled I wander here,
As Music, sweetly married
To Beauty, greets my ear.
For while the moon, down-flinging
Wide glory, lights the sea,
The sea repays her, singing
An ancient rhapsody.
Afar, by some coast golden
With light, some wanderer
Heard first the measure olden
The sea here lifts to her.
Ere yet took birth the story
Of man, his ways, his woes,
Acclaiming her, her glory,
Unaudienced it rose.
As from far spaces roaming
Wave close on wave draws near —
A-combing and a-foaming—
That rhapsody I hear.
Not all Earth’s sweet-voiced daughters
Or sons who, singing, stir
Men’s souls, than yon lit waters
Are burthened deeplier.
Here quiet is the weather
Beneath the moon’s full orb,
As Music, linked together
With Beauty, I absorb.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“Dion”: Larry, the big laborer on the
new dam, had been in trouble with his
wife again, and this time had come off
best, to judge by the black eye that the
lady was wearing. He explained it all
at crib-time. “She wouldn’t patch me
pants,” he said. “Cripes, did you dong
her for that?” “Aw, no, I fixed ’em up
myself, and then she wouldn’t wash my
shirt for Sunday. I didn’t do nothing
then, either. I washed it myself, and she
called a couple of her cobbers in to poke
borak while I was doing it.” A low
whistle came from several parts of the
shed as the collective imagination took
in the scene. “Even then I kept me wool,
but as I was layin’ it out on the grass
to dry she nips up and rips the patch
off that I’d just put on me strides. So I
swung round then and dominoed her.
She couldn’t expect anything else, could
she?” The shift agreed that no man
could or should have done less.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: If “Marsh” (B. 25/1/’39)
had been with me last spring when my
beagle sniffed out a lair of fox pups he
would have had convincing evidence
that, at least, Mrs. Reynard prefers
lambs. Although a nest of kitten rabbits
snuggled in a shallow burrow 40yds.
away, Mrs. R. carried three-weeks-old
lambs over half a mile to her cubs.
Scattered around the lair were five fresh
skeletons. The vixen and her seven
youngsters have returned to dust and
ashes.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: Thousands of sheep trapped
by recent bushfires jumped through the
blazing inferno little the worse for the
experience. Some suffered scorched ears
and burnt hooves, but their non-inflam-
mable woolly coats protected their bodies.
Buyers may find a few tip-scorched
fleeces next year, but the number of
sheep burnt to death was considerably
less than the sensational press would lead
us to believe.
* * * ♦
“Puffinus”: Listening to the silly up-
roar that the mickies are making about a
snake that they have (or, probably, only
think they have) seen, it seems rather a
pity to have to accept, them as members
of the most characteristic bird family of
the whole Australian region. But a near
relative is the regent honeyeater, whose
colored portrait is often shown in natural-
history books as one of the world’s most
beautifully garbed birds. The helmeted
honeyeater is another. So is the blood-
bird. There is a musical branch, the
bellbirds of whom Henry Kendall sang.
He might, too, have immortalised the
bloodbird had he been more of a
naturalist, for it, also, has a lovely, mel-
low voice. The gillbirds are the fighting
branch of the family, and if one happens
to be driven to murder by their infernal
"Andbag's all abroad agen, Mawther. Tha’s the Way to get robbed."
"It must've been 'igh-tide when we came ashore last night."
voices they make an excellent stew. Aus-
tralia has nearly 70 kinds of honey-
eaters, and one species has got as far
afield as Bali.
* * * *
“Battler”: Where are the old-time gun
drovers of years gone by? Odd ones
have selections ; a few have pubs ; some
have left the bush ; many are dead. Guns
of other days who could handle ’em
big, handle ’em often, take ’em as they
came, either sheep or cattle, were Ainslie
Templeton, George Bedell, Bert Tucker,
the brothers Maeonochie —the first to
introduce brumby calico for brakes and
make complete yards, eliminating watch-
ing—and the Stewart brothers. Gun
counters all of them, who thought
nothing of shifting 45,000 at a time. I
recall also the brothers Mac Master, one-
time tank-sinkers, with the senior
member, A.J.8., ptaying the double role
of boss and camp-cook; Piguenet,
Winterbottom, Sandy Coleman. A great
sheepman Sandy,' a fellow who could
read the thoughts of a mob and have
his reply ready for them ere they knew
what the question was themselves. Sandy
and thousands like him worked the roads
when the runs were wide. What a
romance it would be could their lives be
written, and how flat the book would fall
on a public more interested in Clarke
Gable than in the daddy of all drovers!
* * * *
“Calypso”: I don’t know about run-
ning down hares on foot, but I’ve often
run down rabbits with a bicycle. One
needs level, practically treeless country
for it, the saltbush plains of the Centre
being ideal. Pedalling slowly through the
scrubby growth one never failed
to raise a cottontail, and then
the hunt was on. Good while
it lasted, which was generally
only for a couple of hundred
yards, bunny, on being over-
taken, at once dropping its
bundle, crouching and squealing
in sheer terror. That pathetic
squeal often beat me, and
though I just had to have
something for the pot I could seldom
bring myself to killing a second one
the same day. There’s a difference
between bringing down game with a gun
and picking up a wretchedly-screaming
creature with the bare hands. The reason
for the rabbit’s poor showing of speed on
level ground is because of the dispropor-
tion in length between its front and hind
legs. Actually Nature designed it for
sprinting uphill, its long hind legs
enabling it to bound upwards with ease.
Just the reverse on the level, where its
short front legs, really the pace-making
legs of the average quadruped, put it
at a great disadvantage.
9 “Rousie”: Even in our democratic
bush class-distinctions occasionally crop
up. Have seen abo. stockmen excluded
from the kitchen, receiving their scran
through a window into a lean-to, though
they had shared the day’s work and
laughed falsetto with the whites. As a
contrast I am reminded of a shearing-
shed meal table where I sat between an
abo. and a Chinaman. Amongst other
diners were two Swedes, an Englishman,
a Scot and a squat, broad-faced, yel-
iowish-complexioned chap whose an-
cestry baffled solution.
» * * *
“Hanko”: Let me tell “Heresone”
(B. 18/1/’39) that the frogmouth owl
was dubbed mopoke by lax observers
who mistook it for the bird that gave
the “mopoke” call. Moreover, far from
being a distant relative of the kooka-
burra, as “H.” supposes it, that dumpy
chook and all the owl tribe are closely
kin with the streamlined, blithesome
swallows.
“Suffolk Punch”:
The list of vanished
vehicles (B. 25 /1 / ’39)
is incomplete without
the tented wagon,
which is not, as most
people think, peculiar
to the U.S.A. As a
boy in Victoria I used
to see the whole of
the commercial trans-
port for Walhalla,
then a boom reef-
mining town, carried
from Moe, the near-
est railway point, to
the little mountain
community in great wagons
drawn by up to 16 of the finest
horses or up to 24 mighty oxen
over mountain roads that were
a reminder of Dante’s dream
of hell. All had “tents” — i.e.,
movable tarpaulins suspended
on hoops of wood or iron—to
protect the load from the
weather. There were no driv-
ing reins on the horses, but
the driver had a string of curses
and a whip that were better
than reins, and to see them
tackle the corduroy over the
swamps or round the hairpin
bends above precipices, where
there was only a matter of
inches between the tyre and
the edge, was an education. To
hear a string of them coming
down the main street was like
listening to a machine-gun
section in action, and for a small boy
to climb over the back and make his way
along the floor of an empty wagon to
the driver’s seat was like an exercise
stroll, so long did it seem.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A pair of white egrets have
selected the lower waters of this S.Q.
creek for recuperating from family cares,
and it is well worth the two-mile walk
to watch them. They have lost the gor-
geous plumes on breast and back which
they wear during the courting season,
but their tall, slim, snow-white shapes,
with brilliant orange bills, make of them
the most distinguished of bird aristocrats.
Standing motionless, reflected in the still
water, they cause the herons, graceful as
they are, to look positive frumps. They
are good hunters. When the long bill
flashes down in a lightning stab it never
misses whatever frog, small fish, or water
insect has had the ill fortune to attract
attention. Largest of all egrets, they do
not migrate, but are a very widely dis-
tributed species, occurring in China,
Japan, Maoriland, and all of coastal Aus-
tralia—often, too, far inland.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A blazing hot day
in the Westralian wheatbelt, and Dad and
Choom, following a scrub roller “nick-
ing” the big stuff, unearthed a bottle that
the tractor-driver had planted. With a
whoop Dad was about to knock the top
off, when Choom snatched it from him.
“It’s warm,” he pointed out, and ignoring
Dad’s protest that, warm or not, it was
beer, he whipped off his shirt and soaked
it from the water-bag. At his request
Dad did likewise, and the two soaked
shirts were wound tightly around the
bottle. Next the two pairs of trousers,
tied together to form a rope (Dad bucked
a bit, but obliged), were attached to the
bundle, and, selecting an open space,
Choom whirled it around his head. After
about 10 minutes he passed it to Dad,
who followed suit. It was hard work,
but the icy-cold beer was sufficient recom-
pense. Dad treats Choom with respect
now. Reckons if wheat touches five bob
he’ll give him that rise.
OLD MAN SPEAKS.
Burdens brought from here and there
Now I cast upon the heap;
Let me —for I’ve worked my share —
Sleep.
Bafflement, to you I bow;
Long good-bye to you, Delight;
Daily do I welcome now
Night.
Saints and Judases I’ve known;
Others of the worst and best;
All I leave, to seek alone
Rest.
VICTORIA.
NORLEY.


While you are
Overseas
nj
■VOU will be relieved of all anxiety regarding the supervision
and management of your business affairs and investments
if you appoint The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Ltd. your Attorney or Agent.
The Company actively superintends businesses, collects divi-
dends, interest and rents, remits income regularly to any part
of the world, prepares land and income tax returns, and
attends to the investment of monies, the payment of rates, taxes,
insurance, and all similar services at a moderate cost. It has
over 60 years' specialised experience in these matters and
offers ample security for the proper fulfilment of all such
obligations.
An interview can be arranged to suit your convenience, or
particulars will be forwarded upon application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810
mS
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS, 401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
FAI-16-39
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31.516 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500.. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil _ 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
1932.. 283 Nil 283 45,038
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31,815 48,180 93,218
1934.. 90,953 5| ~ „ 34,997 55,956 149,174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129,174
1935.. 75,670 5$ p.c. = 34,997 1
Written off fixed assecs, ) 20,673 149,847
£20,000 .. ..j
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131,197
1936.. 68,055 5i p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164,255
Written off fixed assets, £6891 . . 157,364
1937.. 67,928 5£ p.c. = 34,997 32,931 190,295
Written off fixed assets, £29,830 . . 160,465
1938.. 48,191 5i p.c. = 34,997 13,194 173,659
It was a bad year for Maoriland freezers,
who buy in the crowded local markets
and sell at Smithfield (Eng.), the time
factor thus making earnings very vulner-
able to price fluctuations. For the 10
months to the end of October, 1938, the
Dominion exported 2,569,474 cwt. of
lamb (down 81,614 cwt.), which fetched
£8,656,790 (up £59,499), and 912,844 cwt.
of mutton (up 84,589 cwt.), which brought
in £1,839,878 (up £298,012). Still, prices
fluctuated, with a tendency to ease as the
year advanced, which means that
growers, not freezers, mostly got the
gains. Also, returns from wool, hides,
tallow and other by-products were much
lighter, owing to the fall in prices, while
the Government’s policy of vigorous
spending on public works, increased
social services, guaranteed prices (not for
lamb), higher wages, shorter hours and
heavier taxes has bumped up costs,
which are now a pestilence in the land.
So, from one cause and another, and
after making an unspecified provision for
contingencies, there was a contraction of
£19,737 in this co.’s declared net earnings
for the 12 months to the close of last
accounts. The £48,191 of profit claimed
was 7.5 p.c. on capital as against 10.6,
10.6, 11.1, 14.2 and 12.2 p.c. for the five
preceding years. That leaves out of
the figuring an expenditure of £29,830
on renewals and extensions which was
written off from reserves. This expen-
diture (it amounts to £95,371 over the
last five years) was over and above the
ordinary allowance for the purpose
which was charged against the year’s
earnings. The div. was kept at 5| p.c.,
the policy being to strengthen the co.’s
shock-absorbers, visible and otherwise.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures . . 150,000 150.0(H) 150,000 150,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 498,850 456,778 529,497 439,338
Premises and
plant . . 774,184 708,762 640,610 618,399
Stocks, etc. ] f 318,239 396,905 313,415
Debtors [ . ftl , j H 8,840 173,508 214,736
Cash andf 456 ’ 014 ]
investments J ( 202,090 230,076 187,754
Pukcuri deben-
tures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
The movements in stocks (down £83,490)
and sundry creditors (down £90,159) are
interrelated. Debtors’ balances were up
£41,228 and cash, etc., down £42,322.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£276,567, excluding
the Pukeuri debentures) was £5575. On
fixed assets £22,211 more was written off
than was spent, making the net reduction
in the book value of this item £155,785
over the last half-dozen years. Before
that no specific allowance was made for
depreciation, but substantial additions
have since been made to the chief earn-
ing asset (plant) and paid for out of
earnings, thus strengthening the co.’s
position in a keenly competitive market
and, under favorable conditions, its divi-
dend-paying capacity, too.
What the future holds for this and
other export industries in the Dominion
depends largely upon what the Govern-
ment does. What it has done is to bring
about overimporting and a flow of capi-
tal overseas ; this largely as a result of
its public works and social benefits
policies. These policies have diverted
labor from more or less permanent re-
productive private enterprise into tem-
porary Government channels, as well as
bumped up wage and other costs to levels
which are handicapping the export in-
dustries more severely than local manu-
facturers. To relieve the position—for
the time being, at any rate—the Govern-
ment has introduced exchange control
through a licensing system for exports
and imports. As the export season ad-
vances the Dominion’s overseas funds
can be expected to increase, too, and,
with imports restricted, these funds
should be sufficient to finance service of
the overseas debt, plus essential imports.
Incidentally, many importing houses in
the Dominion are believed to have built
up substantial London balances in antici-
pation of difficulties. What the Govern-
ment has to do is remove the causes of
last year’s overimporting and flight of
capital. The crux of the problem lies
in financing public works and social
benefit schemes. If expenditure on these
schemes is pushed beyond the point
where they can be financed out of sav-
ings from trade and industry, inflationary
financial methods will have to be
adopted. In these circumstances, exporters
particularly can be expected to have a
thin time, owing to rising costs, and they
could also be expected to voice a strong
demand for further depreciation of the
currency as expressed in the exchange
rate.
The market prices the co.’s fully-paid
pound shares at 17s. as against 18s. 3d.
a year ago, which suggests that investors
have not lost confidence in the Govern-
ment’s ability to keep on balancing its
Budget and preserve the value of the
currency. The return at 17s. is 6.5 p.c.
on a 5} p.c. div. basis. The cover (book
value) is 255. sd. in net tangibles.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1928.. 16,145 10 p.c. = 6QOO 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ „ 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9 „ „ 6300 278 52,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7.952 6 „ „ 4200 3,753 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ ~ 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 ~ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9' ~ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 ~ ~ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
This is an offshoot of the well-estab-
lished Mercantile Mutual, and the busi-
ness, spread throughout the Common-
wealth, continues to expand steadily. A
run of 10 p.c. divs. was interrupted by
slump, and then troublesome London
marine business and the unsatisfactory
nature of motor-car risks affected earn-
ings. However, the figures responded to
the improvement in conditions generally,
and the div. has been at 10 p.c. again
for each of the last two years, and looks
like remaining there —for a while, at any
rate. For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, interest (mainly from
Government securities, mortgages and
fixed deposits) turned in £7283 (up £409),
equal to 10.4 p.c. on capital, thus leaving
the whole of the underwriting surplus
available to swell investments and re-
turn therefrom. On the basis of last
year’s figures, the return from invest-
ments is expanding at the rate of 0.58
p.c. p.a.
Since the management pulled out of
the London marine market —results there
were responsible for the mishap in 1931
—the loss rate has been lighter than
at any time after the co. began to
w r rite policies direct with the public
about 13 years ago. Here is a compari-
son of underwriting performances:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59,8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*3.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 .60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1937.. 91,388 43,278 41,336 47.3 45.2
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
The spring in last year’s net premiums
was £6418. The improvement of £2361
in the surplus (£9135) was mainly on
account of a more favorable loss experi-
ence. Of each £lOO of net premiums
losses took 345. p.c. less, and the expense
rate was got back 10s. p.c. The £9135
that remained after paying claims and
exes, was equal to 13 p.c. on capital,
making total net return on capital from
all.sources 23.4 p.c. as against 19.4, 17.6,
18.3, 17.1, 13.3, 11.6, a loss, 9.3 and 25.3
p.c. back to 1929.
Assets appear to be a solid lot:
D .. . 1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities.. .. 15,528 14,903 21,635 26,692
Freeholds . . . . 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . . . 40,902 42,648 44,543 41,408
Debentures . . 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities. . 61,912 68,397 76,542 88,024
Book debts .. 7,246 3,509 8,687 8.754
Cash > etc 22,772 34,598 40,705 47,267
Public securities (up £11,482) account for
44.7 p.c. of the balance-sheet total, mort-
gages (down £3135) for 21 p.c. and cash,
etc. (up £6562), for 24 p.c. When the
books closed, policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 163 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. In addition there
was £130,000 of uncalled capital.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 7s. at 17s. as against 16s. 3d. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with
what look like good long-term prospects.
The cover is 15s. lid. in net tangibles.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serve*.
1928.. 11,376 121 p.c. = 9,375 2,001. 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £6O . . 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7,710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4,000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „ „ 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 ~ ~ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 ~ ~ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4ooo' . . . . 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
It is a well-handled concern, financially
and otherwise, and the business keeps on
expanding. The factories at Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth (the last-
mentioned operated by a subsidiary) turn
out commercial stationery and office
requisites, and close association is main-
tained with the Lamson organisation in
Europe and America. For the dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1929
shareholders averaged 11 p.c. Slump
brought the 1930 profit down to 3.1 p.c.
on capital, and, for the first time since
the public became interested in 1910,
those on the register were passed by. They
got 4 p.c. in 1931, and for each of the
next half-dozen years a point was added
to the distribution, making it 10 p.c. in
1937. Nearly half-way through the 1937
term £25,000 of fresh capital was gathered
(it brought with it £6250 of share pre-
miums, which were added to reserves),
and the lot went chiefly into stocks and a
new factory and plant at Richmond
(Vic.).
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, net earnings improved
£2071. But, owing to the new share
issue just referred to, last year’s £15,162
of profit was 12.1 p.c. on capital as
against 12.7, 11.5, 10.2, 9.3, 7.1, 6.7, 3.6
and 3.1 back to 1930. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., and a 2 p.c. bonus was again
added, making 10 p.c. for the year. That
leaves out of the figuring a loss of £4OOO
on sale of an old factory site at Rich-
mond (Vic.), which was charged direct
to reserves, leaving them at £59,358, after
payment of the div.
Last term new products were added to
the list of manufactures, and extensions
and additions to the Sydney and Bris-
bane factories were begun. To meet the
outlay involved, the board went to its
bankers for an extra £29,527 (£30,241 in
all); £5790 was clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£12,917):
1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities* . . 9,746 13,287 19,421 43,158
Premises . . 41,875 42,233 62.649' 67,344
Plant, etc. . . 39,656 44,447 50,004 55,567
Stock.. .. 31,861 39,202 55,548 64,935
Book debts . . 19,861 24,687 28,910 32,872
Cash & sundries 12.184 4.423 1,221 897
Shares, etc. . . 17,500 21,125 23,785 25,401
* Including unspecified provision for taxation and
insurance.
Including stocks and shares, etc. (the last
item represents the co.’s interest in the
W.A. subsidiary, which sent along £l4OO
last year), the contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£80,947) was £9096.
To lighten the debt and provide funds
for further expansion, those on the regis-
ter at February 21 will be offered 25,000
new £1 ords. at 255. each. Last week-
end the market priced the ords. at 385.,
equal to 355. lOd. after exercising the
rights. At 355. lOd. the return is 5.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including the
new issue, the net tangible cover is
28s. 9d.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


A WORD TO ALL GOOD AUSTRALIANS
YOU SHOULD BUY
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN BONDS
A
★
BECAUSE there is no better investment than an
investment in the future of your own country
Australia —and the interest rate of £3:17:6 per cent,
per annum provides, an attractive return on your
money.
BECAUSE Loan Bonds are easily convertible into
cash at any time. They are a liquid asset of the
safest kind.
A
BECAUSE you can in this way assist in the develop-
ment of a great continent —rydur own. We cannot
stand still. We must progress.
A
BECAUSE investment in this Loan will help to ensure
the continuance of essential public works and the
maintenance of employment.
C OM MONWEALTH
★
Full particulars and Application
Forms from Any Bank, Savings
Bank, Money Order Post Office,
or Stockbroker.
Treasurer.
Issued under the authority of the Australian Loan
Council.


Are You About to Travel?
TF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
1 absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
m T , DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAP OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
.Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B, Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS ...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust ;
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SyONEV
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Amalgamated Textiles (A/sia), Ltd.
Shareholders in this co., which special-
ises in the production of medium-grade
worsteds from mills at Albury, Orange
and Goulburn, got a shock when they
received the accounts and directors’ re-
port covering the 14 months to the end
of November last. These disclosed a loss
of £125,652 for the period in question,
compared with a profit of £7183 for the
preceding 12 months. Only £16,200 of
the £125,652 is attributed to last year’s
operations. The loss, which was dis-
closed following an independent valua-
tion of stocks after the recent death of
J, T. Sutcliffe, who had been general man-
ager of the co. for many years, arose
chiefly from inflation of stock quantities
and partly from failure to reduce stock
values in all cases to the ruling market
value at past balancing dates. Stock
sheets prepared by the late Mr. Sutcliffe
as at Sept. 30' last totalled £234,226. An
independent valuation two months later
put the figure at £117,620.
The board also decided to write down
the book value of freehold by £11,116,
reducing the figure to £72,235, rub out
goodwill (£10,517) and write up the book
value of plant, etc., by £64,042, raising
the figure to £135,627. During the year
£10,751 was added to the overdraft
(£61,894) and £40,460 to the amount com-
ing to trade creditors (£55,100). When
the books closed, more or less liquids,
including stocks, exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £28,428, a contraction of £135,468
over the twelvemonth, owing mainly to
stock adjustments.
It is now plain that the aggregate net
profit of £76,761 shown by the accounts
for the nine years to Sept. 30, 1937, was
not profit at all. The aggregate net result
of the last 10 years’ trading has been a
loss averaging £4,800-odd p.a. The
board intends to take stock again at the
end of March, and shareholders are to
be informed of the financial and trading
position as soon as possible thereafter.
Appearances are that it will be a struggle
to make ends meet.
After sales at 3s. 6d., buyers offer 2s.
Bd. and sellers ask 3s. for the f.-p. 13s. 4d.
shares.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd.
This holding co., registered in Sydney
in January, 1939, owns all the shares in
York Motors Pty. and little else. Nominal
capital is £500,000 in 80,000 61 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 360,000 A and 60,000 B ords.,
all of £1 each. Of the ords. 252,000 As
and 60,000 Bs have been issued and are
fully paid. All the prefs. are now offered,
the money being wanted to help the
operating co. put up a new assembly and
service department on a freehold at
Rushcutter Bay, Sydney, and to provide
more working capital. Of the present
issue 50,000 shares have been under-
written by F. E. Headlam, a member of
the Sydney Stock Exchange, at 9d. per
share, and the other 30,000 shares
have been taken at par for cash by
holders of the ords. Pref. rights are
limited to a fixed cumulative 6} p.c.,
whether earned, declared or not, with
priority as to capital, and a vote on any
proposal to reduce capital, wind up or
sell the business, or any question directly
affecting the rights of the prefs., or should
their div. remain unpaid six months after
the close of any financial period. The
intention is to advance the £60,000, less
preliminary exes., etc. (estimated at
£4220), to the operating co. at 6| p.c.,
which means that the holding co. will
figure as a creditor, and therefore rank
in front of shareholders for that amount.
The operating co., York Motors Pty.,
formed in October, 1932, holds the N. S.
Wales franchise, excepting the Northern
Rivers, Broken Hill and Southern River-
ina districts, for the Chrysler Corp.
(U.S.A.) and, through Morris Industries
Exports, Ltd., for Morris Motors, Ltd.
(Eng.). Turnover advanced from
£220,180 for its first 13 months to
£1,383,076 for the year to November 30,
1938. For the three years to that date
the auditors, Smith, Johnson and Co.,’
certify to net profits of £96,299, £113,174
and £85,738 ; an average of £98,404 p.a.,
or over 19 times the annual pref. div.
requirements.
The operating co.’s tangible assets at
Nov. 30 last were freehold, £69,254;
plant, £9197 ; shares other cos., £15,502 ;
stock, etc., £227,215 ; debtors’ balances,
£45,881 ; cash, £196. The amount coming
to outsiders was £154,028, which, with
the year’s final div., left net tangibles with
a book value of £174,216. On this basis,
and when all the pref. money is in, the
net tangible cover per pref. share will
be £3 3s. 6d.
The directorates of the two cos. are
identical: R. Cobden (chairman), Maurice
Smith (vice-chairman), W. G. Hiscock
and T. G. Jones.
Katu Tin Dredging, Ltd.
A nominal assessment small in relation
to productive capacity has handicapped
this Burma-Malay producer since output
control began. Permissible outturn is
based on initial 1929 digging capacity
of 100,000 c.y. monthly, whereas the
dredge, a self-contained Diesel-electric
unit, can now turn over 160,000 c.y. a
month.
The property is near Tongkah Harbor,
West Siam. A tough, clayey overburden
and water shortages, since largely over-
come, provided early difficulties. Still,
yields to date have averaged 12.5 p.c.
above bore indications, while yardage
calculations have also proved 19 p.c.
underestimated. It is anticipated that the
354 acres remaining at June 30 will con-
tain some 22,000,000 c.y. of an average
recoverable value of 0.751 b. to., giving
the co. a life of from 15 to 20 years.
Last term permissible output was in-
creased to 67 p.c. of the co.’s 480-ton
assessment, as against 59.6 p.c. for the
previous year, and a 25 p.c. bonus was
added. The net result (up £9478 stg.) was
the best yet, and divs. were doubled:
r —Profit v- Div. 1
Mar., Revenue. Exes. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935.1 £37,790 £20,508 £17,282 2/3 2/-£15,000
1936*. 38,441 24,266 14,175 1/10 2/6 18,750
1937.. 44,850 25,107 19,743 2/7 2/- 15,000
1938.. 59,248 30,027 29.221 3/10 4/- 30',000
* 15 months.
No specific provision was charged for
depreciation of the dredge, reported “in
good condition throughout.” A new top
tumbler and bucket-line were installed,
cost being met from reserves.
Recent dredging performances com-
pare this way:
1936.* 1937. 1938.
Cubic yds. dug .. 1,343,500 1,654,000 1,747,000
T. 0., tons .. .. 265.3 331.6 511.5
Assay. p.C. .. •• 74.6 73.5 73.4
Recovery per c.y., lb. 0.44 0.45 0.65
Mine costs, c.y., pence 3.25 2.95 3.20
Av. price metallic tin,
ton .. .. £209/4/-£226/17/10 £204/8/7
Oxide real’n, ton ..£122/16/- £l3l/2/- £ll2/8/-
* 15 months.
As for the current term, the co. has
already, with carryover, produced its
quota (240 tons t. 0.), and the dredge
closed down on Nov. 20. For the 4 \
months to that date a working surplus
of £15,026 is shown ; 569,000 c.y. was
turned over for 213 tons t. 0., an average
per c.y. of 0.831 b. No bonus has yet been
allotted. Last term’s was largely the out-
come of Siam’s underproduction of some
3000 tons in 1937, which was carried for-
ward into 1938.
Katu’s £1 shares, of which 150,000 are
issued, fetch around 30s. in the share-
market. At June 30 more or less liquids
amounted to £23,936, and outside in-
debtedness to £7499. Since, a first quar-
terly div. of Is. a share (£7500) has gone
out, but the second interim was passed.
At present world tin consumption is
running at the rate of 135,000 tons yearly,
and production, including buffer stock
allotment, 120,000 tons. To date, how-
ever, invisible supplies have prevented the
lightening in stocks that should normally
follow. A bright spot in the outlook is
the renewed activity in the tin-plate and
motor-car industries in America, though
the U.S.A.’s imports of metal continue at
a low ebb. With tin prices more or less
stabilised, consumers appear to be eating
into reserve stocks for current purposes
and leaving the buffer pool to carry their
reserve requirements at no cost to them-
selves.
“Portroads”: Jack Gordon’s mine at
Iron Range, Claudie River (N.Q.), is
again producing after a. long spell re-
erecting machinery. For October, 1938,
tons ore yielded 186 oz. gold; in
November 896 tons returned 411 oz. Gold
occurrence at Iron Range is of two types:
(a) Free gold in quartz, in some cases
accompanied by pyrite, and ( b ) gold in
quartz-limonite formations. The quartz
reefs, of which Gordon’s, which is being
developed by three tunnels, is the, most
important, are the best gold-carriers.
The country generally is schist, with
irregular hematite replacements which
are in places quartz-veined. Two bat-
teries are on the field, Gordon’s Empire
and Densley’s, at the Golden Gate, which
is south of Gordon’s claim. To the end
of June last total production was 43140 z.
gold from 3694 tons, Gordon’s mine pro-
ducing all but 830 oz. A road has been
put through from Portland Roads, and
most of the active mines now have
motor access. Little work is being done
at Scrubby and Packer’s creeks.
* * * *
Transvaal gold production continues to
grow. For the first time for over half a
century an average of more than a mil-
lion ounces a month was maintained in
1938. Yet increased production has not
meant expansion of dividends. The policy
of Transvaal mineowners is to treat
more low-grade ore as the price of gold
rises, thus lengthening the working lives
of the mines instead of extracting maxi-
mum profits in the minimum period.
Estimated aggregate divs. for 1938
approximate £17,000,000, about the
same as in 1937. In 1936 a record
total of nearly £17,500,000 was distri-
buted. Provisional estimates indicate that
Transvaal mines treated some 54,000,000
tons of ore last year, compared with
51,000,000 in 1937. Working profits for
1938 are roughly reckoned at £32,000,000,
of which (are you listening, Australian
goldmine owners?) not far short of half
will be swallowed by taxes and royal-
ties payable to the Union Treasury. Mil-
lions of additional capital have been guar-
anteed for extension of workings on the
old Rand field and for development of
new producers on the eastern and western
extensions of the belt. During the year
ended June 30 last over £12,500,000 of
fresh money was subscribed for gold-
mining ventures on the Rand, and there
have been several important issues since.
According to a recent calculation, ex-
ploitation of the Far East Rand alone
will involve some £25,000,000 of new
capital, an addition of some 30,000 to
40,000 to the present total number of
natives in mine employ, the treatment
annually of about 12,000,000 tons more
ore than at present, and production there-
from of some 2,000,000 extra ounces of
gold.
* * * *
Big Bell has added another to its list
of Westralian gold options. This time
it has taken the old Kinsella mine, near
Cue, on approval. A good but limited
shoot was once worked on this property.
Like a number of other old shows in the
Cue district, the change that occurred in
values at comparatively shallow depths
was like going from champagne to flat
beer. However, gold is now worth more
than twice what it was in those days, and
production has been quickened and
extraction improved, to the benefit of unit
costs. Also, there might be a chance
of discovering fresh makes on the prop-
erty.
* * * *
Some favorite tricks of mine-salters
are set out by a Philippines university
professor in a Manila magazine. Among
other things, he mentions the use of a
cigarette in which gold has been inserted,
the ash flicked into the sample ; chewing
tobacco loaded with gold particles which
an accurate spitter could adroitly place in
the sample; pipe tobacco salted and then
spilled carelessly over the samples;
particles of gold in the beard or
moustache and a few shakes or scratches
at proper intervals ; gold dust under the
fingernails to be dusted over samples
when the sampler wasn’t looking ; high-
grade stuff concealed in the clothes for
judicious distribution ; gold dust in sand-
wiches or other food to be added to the
sample box during the lunch hour, when
quartering of samples is unfinished.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.), in a hip-hip-
hooray broadcast, says it has (1) the
largest and most promising structure of
its kind in the Commonwealth, (2) an
ahead-of-date rotary drilling plant, and
(3) supervising experts that can’t be beat.
Extraction of the core is to be continu-
ous in order to avoid “the possibility of
passing through an oil horizon.”
* * * *
Profits of Northern Rhodesia’s mam-
moth young copper mines—Rhokana,
Roan Antelope and Mufulira —continue
to overshadow those of producers of the
red metal elsewhere in the Empire. In
1937-38 Rhokana earned over £2,000,000
sterling, including an increased div. from
its one-third holding in Mufulira. Roan
Antelope netted £1,800,000, and Mufu-
lira, whose shares have not yet been in-
troduced in the market, £1,126,000. The
other two-thirds interest in Mufulira is
held by Rhodesian Selection Trust.
* * * *
The rate of bonus paid by the National
Mutual on its whole-life policies for
1937 was stated by the “Wild Cat” (B.
25/l/’39) to range from 38s. p.c. on
policies five years in force to 60s. p.c.
on those 30 years old or more. Actually
the rates allotted turn out to be better
than those stated, being 445. p.c. and 625.
p.c. respectively.


SMOKE-OH!
“The report of his serious illness kept his
creditors quiet. The next they heard was that
he had left Australia and was in San Fran-
cisco.” — “D.T.”
Over the ills and far away.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The wurlitzer organ is gaining popularity.”
—Musical mag.
Probably because it can’t be practised
on in flats.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Correct exposure will prevent much
trouble.” — Camera corner.
Especially in the presence of beach
inspectors.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Is it bad manners to walk between the lady
one is escorting and the shop windows?”
—Correspondent in flapper daily.
Yes, but it’s ’ very clever if you can
get away with it.
»|# aj*
“This is the day of the radio play.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
It is comforting to know that the days
will soon be getting shorter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The old phrase ‘There’s nothing like leather’
remains true.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Then what is it that the steaks at our
boardinghouse are like?
4’ 4* 4* 4*
“In a gust of temper she seized the clock,
intending to throw it; but she put it down and
disdainfully turned away.” — “World’s News.”
That should have shown the beast that
she had no time for him.
4* 4“ 4* 4*
“What would the average man do if an
enemy bomb tore up a city street?”
—Recruiting speech.
He’d tear up another street.
Reversal.
“Before they left, the housebreakers enjoyed
a good meal on viands found in the ice-chest.”
— “D.T.”
“They came to scoff, remained to pray” —
That text is rather off
Regarding men who came to prey
And then remained to scoff.
Hamer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can pullets be prevented from laying
too early?”— “S.M.H.”
Fry ’em when they’re chickens.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Cost of Footpaths. Ratepayer’s Protest.”
—“S.M.H."
He wants the paths paved but the cost
kerbed.
“Visiting boxer hopes to obtain Government
position on return home.” — Sporting note.
Swapping adhesive tape for red-tape.
4* 4* 4*. 4*
“The wife of the missionary was killed and
eaten, too, because, it seems, whilst the savages
had eaten white men before, they wanted to
know what a white woman tasted like.”
—“Wide World Magazine.”
It’s not unusual for a woman to be
consumed by curiosity.
•j*
Emergency Landing.
“A Royal Vic. Aero Club paddock about
eight miles from a Tiger Moth crashed at
Mornington.”— Sydney “Sun.”
Speaking as an air-reminded squatter
with an extremely uncomfortable half-
flying hour to his credit, I think it was
stupid to take a paddock up at all;
utterly absurd when there were moths
about, tiger, codlin or otherwise.
Whereas one might reasonably try a
few tricks with a suburban cottage site,
you can’t possibly put a ploughed pad-
dock down on a country ’drome after a
dogfight with a moth without getting it
badly bent. Paddocks, like sheep sta-
tions or dairy farms, have considerable
wingspread and, when pancaked hur-
riedly, frequently merge themselves into
the geography.
Anyway, a chap who’d fly a strip of
countryside minus retractable landing-
gear must be ga-ga. And if the purr of
a moth eight miles away would jitter
him into cracking up his property, you
can guess what would have happened
if he’d bumped a Lockheed creek side-on
over Melbourne.
P. O. M. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The busy housewife handling her daily tools
of trade seldom has time to pause and think
of their original meanings.”— “S.M.H.”
“Saucepan,” for instance, was derived
from an American wife picking one up
and saying to her spouse: “Now, any
sauce from you, m’lad, and I’ll soon hit
the grin off your pan.”
4* 4 4 4*
“She used to nag me so much when I got
home that 1 could not eat my dinner.”
—Divorce Court report.
Whene’er he got home late for tea
There was a row, of course;
Mary had a little lamb
But all he got was sauce.
4 4 4 4
“Music is popular with the majority of
prisoners.”— News item.
Not swing, surely.
Epitaph.
“Nobody knows who was the first man to
distil whisky.”— Lecturer.
Peace to your bones where’er they lie,
All honor to your shade.
Down here your fame shall never die,
Nor shall your genius fade.
Sleep on, Man’s Friend —no words of
ours
Do justice to your skill.
Long gone your flesh, but, praise the
powers,
Your spirit is with us still.
LEON.
Talking It Over.
“If, when they have a disagreement, husband
and wife talked the matter over quietly to see
who was wrong, most serious quarrels would
be avoided.” — “S. M. Herald”
“Now, that is what I call a really
sensible idea!” said Maria. “Look at
the quarrel we had yesterday. It needn’t
have occurred at all if we had both been
reasonable. But, when a man comes
home to dinner two hours late and gets
into a temper just because his wife asks
him where he has been, it’s enough to
make a woman angry.”
“You” I began.
I wanted to say it wasn’t two hours
later, only 10 minutes. There were other
things I wanted to say, but I could only
get in that “You” .
“Now, we’re not going to make
another argument of it,” Maria went on.
“We’ll just talk it over quietly, like this
professor says we should. I’m sure if
I was to blame I’d only be too glad to
admit it. Of course, I know you were
in a mood to quarrel simply because I
had mentioned those new hats I’d bought
in”
“Why”—— I commenced.
“That’s right, start an argument again!
The trouble with you, Aitchem, is that
you’ve got a mean strain in you. But
I don’t blame you. You get it from your
people.”
“Don’t you”-
“Now don’t get in a temper just be-
cause we are trying to sort out facts.
That is always your way. You can’t
discuss a matter quietly. I’m willing to
admit any faults on my side, if they
exist; but you must be prepared to” ——
“Dammit, woman!”-- —
“Don’t swear at me, you quarrelsome
wretch, or I’ll swipe you one with this
toaster” . . .
When this row peters out I’m swearing
off any more of these “quiet talks”—
unless I’m pooled into one again.
H.M.
“Bridge.”
“Of course, no one believes a
word Alice says, but she said she had
that from a most reliable source, and I
must say that I’m not surprised if it’s
true. My dear, I’ve always said there
was something too good to be true about
our prim and proper Jane Wells, and
now I know.
“Do tell me, Betty, is this the ace of
shamrocks or spades—l never can re-
member the difference. I saw poor little
Mrs. Bates this morning looking so pale.
I believe her husband treats her most
brutally. Oh, was that your trick, Judy?
I’m frightfully sorry, darling; nobody
minds if I take that back, do they?
“What is trumps this hand? Do tell
me, someone. No trumps? Bother, I
did so want to trump that too. My
dears, what do you think? I saw Marge
—Marge, mind you—in a pale pink frock
on Saturday. It was too gorgeous for
words. She looks immense at any time,
but in pale pink ! I nearly died.
“Must you go already, darling? And
we’ve only played one rubber. Well,
don’t forget next Wednesday at three.
There’s nothing like the weekly game of
bridge. The concentration is so good
for one’s brain !’’
ME-OW.
This Espionage Business.
III.
Whilst the purloining of blueprints is
the usual method adopted to obtain the
secret details of a potential enemy’s new
“Perhaps a man'd better put his boots on again.”
armaments, it sometimes happens that
other, and bolder, means have to be em-
ployed. Sometimes the weapon itself has
to be obtained.
For this a disguise is necessary, Rnd
many a spy’s life has depended on his
mastery of this phase of his work. He
might have to impersonate any well-
known figure, from Prof. Einstein to the
Dalai Lama at a moment’s notice.
There was the case of the spy who
fastened what looked like a couple of
miniature black hedges on to his eye-
brows and, carrying an umbrella, walked
into a British military depot and an-
nounced himself as the Prime Minister,
come to inspect a pom-pom then on the
secret list.
The colonel in charge was so flustered
at having such a distinguished visitor that
he excused himself for a few minutes
while he dashed out to consult with the
major as to whether it would be best
to offer the old boy a cup of tea or a
glass of port before he left.
When he got back his visitor had
vanished, and so had the gun. The
watchman said later that he wondered
why the P.M. should have to drag his
brolly through the gate after him, but
that, blimey, it was none of his blinkin’
business what the nobs did. At the sub-
sequent military inquiry the colonel was
severely reprimanded and, following
British army tradition, was shortly after-
wards promoted to brigadier-general.
Similarly, one of the most daring coups
in recent years was the work of a spy
who, disguised as Stalin, penetrated the
great armament works at Nijni- Nov-
gorod. He even came with a chauffeur
and bodyguard in similar disguise, and,
to create the right atmosphere, he started
off with a purge of all the high officials.
Then he sent for the next comrade-
in-charge, and made a few noises in his
throat as if he had chronic catarrh. The
comrade, who was a Ukrainian, took it
to be either a political speech or a re-
quest in Georgian, and, playing safe, took
him around and showed him everything.
It was a simple matter for the bogus
Stalin to secrete a sample of the new
anti-aircraft shell he was after behind the
dense face-undergrowth he wore.
Greater difficulty is experienced when
the spy has to get away with big objects
such as naval guns and tanks, though
it is marvellous what patience and per-
sistence will do.
To secrete himself inside a newly-
invented tank just before it goes out on
its trials and then to press a gun against
the driver’s backbone and order him to
take it to a suburban garage is not
beyond a good spy’s ability. The only
trifling thing likely to militate against
the success of this is the possibility that
neighbors will either hear or see the tank
being driven in.
The social aspect of a secret service
agent’s work—spying on other spies—is
also important.
Certain Continental Powers employ
women spies. These are all beautiful,
exotic ex-dancers, and only occasionally
is one met with who is not a ci-devant
Russian aristocrat. All are easily dis-
tinguished by their invariable habit of
wearing Russian pyjamas at midday in
their hotel lounges, smoking perfumed
cigarettes held in 12in.-long holders, and
looking voluptuous. They also sidle up
with seductive glances
to men of upright
bearing who wear
small military mous-
taches and hold im-
portant secrets.
The technique of
wresting from women
spies the secrets that
they have in turn
wrested from their
military victims (it is
axiomatic, of course,
that none of these
latter is able to with-
stand the women
spies’ allurements) is
included in the cur-
riculum of all spy
schools.
The masculine spy,
who must be dressed
in immaculate even-
ing clothes with a
foreign order blazing
on his boiled shirt,
saunters over to the
beautiful, exotic spy as
she sits sipping cham-
pagne and indulging in a hidden smile of
triumph. He immediately starts up a
conversation around the art of Nijinski.
This proves so irresistible to the ex-
dancer that she allows herself to be
filled up with champagne and flattery.
Then, when he deems the time ripe, he
commences to make ardent love to her.
Under the benign and collective in-
fluence of Nijinski, Cupid and Veuve
Clicquot the wheedling from her of the
secrets she has just learned is like shelling
peas.
In the interests of economy Govern-
ment men spies are allowed three bottles
of champagne to get the lady in the right
degree of volubility. As most of them
can do it on one bottle they make a
good thing by pocketing the difference.
That is why spies always have a terrace
of houses after only five years in the
service.
Sometimes a spy will strike an ob-
stinate case. On becoming aware that
she is drinking him under the table he
has to adopt drastic measures, which are
laid down in the Spies’ Regulations.
Making an excuse that it is getting
close indoors, he takes her into the con-
servatory. There, adopting a sinister
look, he whispers in her ear a cryptic
message such as “The weasel will burrow
when the moon wanes!”
Instantly terrified, she will cry: “My
God! Who are you?”
For reply, he will whip out his gun,
press it against her ribs and hiss: “This
has a silencer on it. Spill what you
know or to-morrow a bargeman will find
a beautiful corpse floating down the
Seine” (or the Thames, the Volga or the
Spree, as the case may be). After that
it’s just plain sailing.
So long as the supply of beautiful,
exotic ex-dancers lasts men spies will be
on velvet.' The time when they will really
have to use their brains will be when some
War Office hits on the idea of using
women spies who are middle-aged, 14-
stone man-haters with faces like pushed-
in gargoyles.
S.W.K.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTOBS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Adelaide Steam, 31s. 6d.
From a long- or short-term point
of view the shares in Adelaide
Steam at 31s. 6d. appear to offer
chances of improvement.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
New Occidental
This page as far back as three years
ago found grounds for criticising the
way the atfairs of New Occidental, N.L.,
were being conducted. To date the
amount of dividends that have come
out of the co.’s mines at Cobar (N.S.W.)
is a mere nothing compared with the
hot-air, Pitt-street blather and share-
market behavior that have been asso-
ciated with the project since the flotation
of the mine on a prospectus that blushed
under the tag of “For Private Circulation
Only” about the beginning of 1934.
Latest development is a row on the
board—knight Harry Moxham sent out
a circular on Dec. 29 asking for proxies
in his favor, “to safeguard shareholders’
interests in case of need” ; and a month
later Arthur Vickery, whom Moxham
succeeded as chairman of the co., dis-
patched another, asking for, among
other things, an investigation by a com-
mittee to be appointed by the opposing
camps of directors and the co.’s solici-
tor (he is also Mr. Vickery’s solicitor,
other members of the board claim). In
between these two epistles E. D. Aboud,
an “original member” of the co., sent
out another circular criticising the
board’s management of the mine’s
finances and affairs. A fourth circular
came out on Monday, and a fifth is
promised. The whole thing is enough
to wring quarts of sweat out of the
brows of dissatisfied shareholders.
In the five-year period of its existence
ended on Nov. 30, 1938, New Occidental
Gold Mines, N.L., has used £303,700 of
capital (1,012,500 ords. of ss. each and
202,200 ss. 10 p.c. redeemable prefs.)
in developing and equipping its mine and
buying and developing the New Cobar
mine. It has produced 105,9450 z. of
gold from 319,112 tons of ore since mill-
ing commenced in earnest, worth over
£900,000. “Net profits” have totalled
£313,963 (less than 20s. per ton of ore),
and only about a third of them have
been available for divs., the rest being
“absorbed” in the mine, etc.
Mr. Vickery’s estimate (12/2/’37) of
working profits of 30s. a ton are so far
about 30 p.c. out.
Sharemarket valuation of the two
mines and all that goes with them is
around £560,000. New Occidental’s
positive and probable ore reserves a
year ago were estimated at 488,386 tons
averaging B.2dwt. New Cobar’s positive
and probable stuff totalled 295,000 tons,
the positive stuff going 7.3dwt. and 1.75
p.c. copper.
The New Cobar mine was bought for
200,000 ss. shares in Occidental. The
deal was put through in Sept., 1936, and
at the same time the directors were
authorised to raise their remuneration
from £750 to £l5OO a year, and their
number from five to seven. Mr. Vickery
mentioned that the fixed charges at the
Occidental mine were about 35-40 p.c.
of the actual treatment costs, and that
this would “practically take care of the
whole of the extra tonnage from New
Cobar.” Occidental’s mine manager at
this stage estimated extractable values
from Cobar ore at 635., costs at 425.,
and net profit 21s. a ton. Extra plant,
etc., was reckoned to cost £70,000. Mr.
Aboud on Jan. 14 this year said that to
date £102,000 had in fact been laid out
on New Cobar, and that profits had
shrunk to under 10s. a ton from this
property.
Between June 20 and Sept. 3, 1938,
the sharemarket was intrigued with an
announcement that discussions were
“taking place with other interests con-
cerning the future of the co.” Prices of
the shares fluttered up to 135., after being
as low as 7s. 9d. A sale was contem-
plated, punters said, and Zinc Corp. was
named. But although Zinc Corp. has its
mine and mining staff in Australia,
Occidental’s “negotiator” (C. H. Smith,
a Sydney sharebroker) went to London.
Jn the end it was “no sale,” and
optimists were caught. Just what the
negotiations were all about has never
been satisfactorily explained.
In the hullabaloo now taking place on
the board it is admitted by Mr. Vickery
that there have been “troubles,” “exces-
sive capital expenditure,” and “failure
in every respect to realise estimates made
regarding New Cobar.”
You will be told no doubt that I am
responsible for the past troubles, but I
charge most of them to the attitude of
these members of the board who were
apparently indifferent to the position which
I so frequently pointed out.
The appointment of- a new chairman
just before the annual meeting is an attempt .
to escape their responsibilities by foisting
them on me.
But Mr. Vickery, though he charges other
members of the board with the respon-
“ Here's the very thing you fellows Want —a jack."
sibility for “past troubles,” isn’t kicking
the mine (or mines, if you include New
Cobar) or himself:
Your co. has two most valuable proper-
ties, and given a board who will energeti-
cally direct its affairs, together with efficient
management, you will receive excellent re-
turns from your investment.
Mr. Vickery then mentions something
about proxies in his favor. But why is it
that he, the ex-chairman, has left it thus
late in the day to “blow the gaff” about
the mistakes he believes to have been
made in the conduct of the co.’s affairs?
New Occidental will disclose a net pro-
fit of £129,195 for 1938—185. 4d. per ton
of ore. A large part of this is locked up
in mine plant and stocks, and won’t be
available for divs.
The annual meeting will be held on
Feb. 28. The co.’s ancient history is
such that a shareholders’ committee —
not a directors’ committee, as recom-
mended by Mr. Vickery—might do
something for shareholders, even if only
to give them an independent view of the
affairs and prospects of these “valuable”
mines which in 3j years of actual pro-
duction (Occidental’s case) haven’t re-
turned a third of the paid-up capital,
let alone market value, in dividends.
Pages of criticism from a shareholder’s
viewpoint might be written about the
promises, predictions and mistakes made
in the administration of New Occidental’s
affairs from the beginning right up to the
present. It would be particularly interest-
ing to look back over reports of Mr.
Vickery’s annual addresses. But the main
interests to be considered now are those
of shareholders and the mine manager.
Blackett’s job has never been easy, and
rows on the board must make it extremely
hard.
G. J. Coles ords. took the count for
a longer period than most shares during
the latest scare. They slumped from
80s. to 745. 9d., and looked weaker than
ever when recovery became evident in
most other stocks. At 755., ex div., the
return is £4 13s. 4d. per cent. The co.
will need to disclose wider profit-margins
over its distributions in order to justify
a price much higher. Following the
uproar about directors’ bonuses (running
to about £60,000 a year) it was thought
by some shareholders that a substantial
increase in profits and divs. might fol-
low the promised readjustments. Allow-
ing for one-for-10 bonus issue after the
1937 accounts closed, the div. of \l\
p.c. p.a. is a fraction higher than that
paid in respect of 1937. Profits on the
new capital account dropped to 21.4
p.c. for 1937-38, compared with 24.9
p.c. in the preceding term.
* * * • *
The advice offered here last Wednes-
day—that depressed front-line stocks
should be bought—came too late as re-
gards British Tobacco and 8.H.P., but
in Mt. Lyell there was still a rise of
6d. coming, Is. 3d. in Electro. Zinc and
Is. 9d. in Australasian Paper. This last-
named stock still looked cheap at 28s. 3d.
A div., probably the usual 9.6 d. a share,
is payable next month, and allowing for
this the yield is 5.8 p.c.—an excellent one
from such a high-class stock. No damage
to the new pulp mill of A.P.M. at Mary-
vale (Vic.) has been reported following
the Gippsland bushfires.
* * * *
North Kalgurli is reported to have in
mind the erection of a new 6000-tons-a-
-month treatment plant on its Croesus
block ; a sale of the co.’s interest in the
plant now treating ore from the North
Kalgurli, Genevieve, Union Jack and
Kalgurli leases seems also to be con-
templated. This existing plant, which
puts through 11,000 tons a month for
North Kal. and a similar tonnage for
Boulder Perseverance, is jointly owned by
the two concerns through the Kalgurli
Ore Treatment Co. Kalgoorlie Enterprise
G.M. is said to be the prospective buyer
of North Kal.’s interest. The move on
North Kal.’s part seems to suggest ex-
pansion in the long run, because the
Croesus mine and the projected plant
have always been regarded as a proposi-
tion separate from the leases providing
ore at present, which will probably be
provided with a new or enlarged mill
eventually, owned entirely by North Kal.
The Croesus block until 1937 was held on
tribute by South Kalgurli, and is half a
mile north of the Union Jack. Between
the Croesus and Hannan’s Hill is an area
two miles wide through which extends
the main north and south shear. Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, one of the De Ber-
nales concerns, has been drilling in this
area for two or three years, and it re-
cently exercised options over several
leases, including some held by the Mt
Charlotte co.
* * * *
Factory employment throughout Aus-
tralia during the month of November,
1938, was 1.1 p.c. lower than in that
month of 1937. It is indicative of the
slight slackening in general industrial
activity. •
* * * *
A group of Sydney men who have
their fingers well in some of the State’s
biggest industrial pies are at the moment
interested in fish, a new project being
on the stocks for the purse-seining of
non-edible surface fish off the N. S.
Wales coast and turning the catches into
fish-oil and fish-meal. Later on the
canning of edible shoal fish, such as
pilchards, may be taken on. Immedi-
ate plans contemplate the bringing-out
of an expert crew, with full equipment,
from the U.S.A., where the fish-meal
business is reputed to have developed
into an important and profitable in-
dustry. Supporters of the Australian
scheme are enthusiastic.
* * * *
The return of Kanieri (M.L.) for Janu-
ary (1041 oz. smelted gold from 152,000
c.y.) represented 3.28 gr. per yard—above
prospectus estimates. Yardage was only
about half dredge capacity owing to
heavy ground, but this difficulty is being
countered.
* * * *
The increased interim div. of William
Adams, Sydney—it is B|d. per ord.
share, against 7d. this time last year—
has created speculation as to whether it
indicates an increase in rate for the year
that will end on April 30. A final of
lOd. a share in 1937-38 made 17d. for
the full year, exactly twice the present
interim. The question now is, Will the
1938-39 div. be in two equal distribu-
tions of Byd., representing an unchanged
total distribution, or will the final due
in September again carry a bonus of
3d., making 20d. for the year, represent-
ing approximately 12 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal? In 1937-38 earnings were disclosed
at 20.7 p.c. on ord. capital, after paying
the prefs, so there are some grounds
for conjecture. The sharemarket takes
into account the long-term risks of an
engineering and agency business by pay-
ing 15s. for the 14s. ords., cum div.
* * * *
Tableland Tin’s No. 1 dredge at Mt.
Garnet (Q.) is now working three shifts,
and everything is running smoothly.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Adelaide Steam shares sold at 31s. 6d. fol-
lowing weakness in the co.’s home State; it
was the lowest quote for over a year, and
returned £4 9s. per cent, on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
An interim div. is due next month.
Edments (B. 28/12/’3B) maintained its in-
terim div. at 10 p.c. p.a. It runs a chain of
six stores, including one in Perth.
George Farmer ords. were sought after at
145., no sellers (previous sale 14s. 6d.);
United Provisions ords. were comparatively
weak again at 7s. 2d.


This abridged Prospectus does not comply
not to be regarded as a
n^'invitatlo^+Tl^'+hp'^nl'hr^ 6 / eqU k em^k tS ct Ct ' 0n °f Companies Act of the State of New'South Wales, and accordingly is*]
friAd ’ aS * ,z cts & fc'sss^w.isAisyssi]
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
pf an Issue at Par of 80,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each by
d Ytjotord (^Jdoldinc^J cjCimited
(Registered under the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales)
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL £500,000
consisting of
360,000 "A" Ordinary Shares of £1 each
60,000 "B" Ordinary Shares of £1 each ....
80,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1
ach
£360,000
60,000
80,000
500,000
£500,000
Directors:
RICHARD COBDEN (Chairman),
1 01 -111 William Street, Sydney,
MAURICE SHMITH (Vice-Chairman),
"Byfleet 11 , Eildon Street, St. Kilda.
WALTER GEORGE HISCOCK,
70 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. Chart. Accountant (Aust.).
TIMOTHY GEORGE JONES,
462 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Barrister-at-Law.
Bankers:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED.
Solicitor:
MORTON BREWSTER, 1
206 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., Public Accountants,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, and Capel Court,
375 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Consulting Accountants to the Issue:
SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., Public Accountants,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Secretary and Registered Office:
ERIC CHARLES WEBB,
101 -111 William Street, Sydney.
Underwriting Broker:
F.; E. HEADLAM (Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange), 117, Pitt Street, Sydney
(who has • underwritten 50,000 of the above issue of
per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares, the re-
maining 30,000 of the issue having been taken firm at
par by the Ordinary Shareholders of this Company).
Introduction
York Motors (Holding) Limited has been formed
as a holding Company with a nominal capital of
£500,000 for the purpose, inter alia, of-acquiring the
whole (less four shares) of the issued Shares in York
Motors Proprietary Limited, which latter Company holds
the Franchises for Chrysler, Chrysler Plymouth and
Morris Cars, Morris Commercial Vehicles and Fargo
Trucks for substantially the whole of the State of New
South Wales.
Rights Attaching to the Preference Shares
The Company's Articles provide that:—
"The holders of preference shares shall be entitled
to be paid out of the profits which the Directors shall
determine to distribute by way of dividend a fixed
cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of £6/10/-
per centum per annum and to a right in a winding up
to be paid in priority to all other shares al.l arrears of
the preferential dividend whether declared or unde-
clared up to the commencement of the winding up and
also to be repaid the amount of capital paid up or
credited as paid up on the preference shares held by
them respectively but shall not be entitled to any other
rights to participate in the profits or assets of the
Company."
"The holders of preference shares shall have the same
rights as the holders of ordinary shares as regards- re-
ceiving notices of general meetings, reports and bal-
ance sheets and as regards attending general meetings
but they shall have no right to vote either in person or
by proxy at any meeting by virtue or in respect of their
holdings of preference shares unless the meeting be
convened for the purpose of reducing the capital of
the Company or winding up the same or sanctioning a
sale of the undertaking of the Company or unless a
resolution is proposed directly affecting the rights and
privileges of the holders of the preference shares or
unless the dividend on the preference shares shall be in
arrears more than six months after the close of the
Company's financial period."
Dividends on the Preference Shares will be payable
half-yearly, the first of such payments being due on the,
Ist August, 1939, and thereafter on the Ist February
and August in each and every year.
Short History of York Motors Proprietary Limited
_ Since the establishment of York Motors Proprietary
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Operating
Company) on the 31st October, 1932, the business has
made most substantial progress until it is now one of
the largest Motor Vehicle Distributing Organisations
in Australia. It holds what is customarily referred to in
the Motor business as the "New South Wales Franchise"
tor two of the leading Automobile Manufacturers in
the world, namely, the Chrysler Corporation of the
United States of America and (through Morris Indus-
tnes Exports Limited) Morris Motors Limited of Eng-
land. These Franchises cover the whole of New South
Wales, with the exception of a small portion of the
Northern Rivers District, the Broken Hill area, and the
onires comprising the Southern Riverina.
Purpose for which the £BO,OOO Preference Capital
(Forming the Subject of this Issue) is Being Raised
The purpose for which the Preference Capital form-
ing the subject of this Prospectus is being raised is to
provide additional working capital for the Operating
Company, and the contemplated erection of new
premises for the Operating Company. The proceeds
arising from this issue (after payment of Brokerage,
Underwriting and Preliminary Expenses) will be ad-
vanced to the Operating Company, such advance
carrying interest at the rate of b\% per. annum.
It will, therefore, be seen that by charging the
Operating Company interest on the monies advanced
to it at a rate equivalent to the dividend rate on'fhe
Preference Shares now being issued, such" dividends
will be practically wholly assured-from this interest
source alone, disregarding altogether the substanial
net profits of the Operating • Company,. and which
should flow for the benefit of the Shareholders of the
Holding Company.
Report by the Consulting Accountants as to the Net
Profits'and Financial, Position of York Motors
Proprietary Limited
With the consent of the Directors of York Motors
Proprietary Limited, the services of Messrs. Smith,
Johnson &_ Co., Public Accountants, of .Sydney and
Melbourne, were engaged to report on the net. profits
and financial position of the above-named Company,
and their, certificate is as follows:
The Directors, 28th January, 1939.
York Motors (Holding) Limited,
J 101-1 I I William. Street, SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,
We have pleasures advising that we have had sub-
mitted to us, and have carefully considered, the Bal-
ance. Sheets and Accounts of York Motors Proprietary
Limited for each of the three years ended 30th
November, 1936, 1937 and 1938. These Accounts hav-
ing been duly certified by the Company's Auditor, Mr.
L. B. Wallace, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), we have
not considered it necessary to conduct a detailed
examination of the Accounts, but have confined our
duties to the making of such adjustments to the dis-
closed net profits as are,‘in our opinion, fair and proper.
We should mention that these adjustments partake
purely of the nature of adjustments of actual Income
Tax payments made as against provisions'contained in
the Accounts of each particular year, together with the
deduction from the disclosed net profits of certain in-
come of a non-recurring nature.
The net profits of the Company as so adjusted were
as follow:
Year ended 30th November:—
We have also considered the latest Balance Sheet
of York Motors Proprietary Limited as a’t 30th Novem-
ber, 1938, and have adjusted the Balance Sheet values
of certain Assets to accord with valuations recently
made, and which are supported by certificates from
expert valuers, and which certificates have been in-
spected by us. _.
After making the foregoing adjustments, we now
certify that the net tangible Assets—excluding any
valuation for Goodwill—of York Motors Proprietary
Limited as at 30th November last were £213,215/15/1,
comprising:—
ASSETS—
Freehold Land and Buildings 69,253 II II
Plant, Fixtures and Fittings 9,196 17 8
Shares in Other Companies 15,501 15 0
Stocks on hand and Work in Progress 227,214 18 2
Sundry Debtors (less Provision for
Doubtful Debts), Prepaid Expendi-
ture and Deposits 45,880 15 3
Cash in hand 196 6 0
LIABILITIES— £367,244 4 0
Sundry Creditors and
Accrued Expenditure
(including Provision
for Income Taxes) .. 151,185 II I
Bank Overdraft 2,842 17 10
154,028 8 II
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS £213,215 15 1
From this figure, however, must be de-
ducted the dividend paid on 23rd
December last (being subsequent to the
date of the Balance Sheet dealt with
above) and which totalled 39,000 0 0
leaving tangible Assets to a value of .... £174,215 15 I
The above figures would be increased by profits
earned since 30th November last.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) SMITH. JOHNSON & CO.
From the foregoing figures it will be seen that the
average annual profits are sufficient to cover the annual
dividend requirements on the Preference Shares almost
19 times over, whilst if the figures of the latest year's
trading to 30th November last are taken, the cover is
still equal to approximately I6£ times the annual divi-
dend requirement. Apart, however, from the earnings
of the Operating Company the dividend charge (as
has already been shown) will be almost wholly covered
by the interest payable by York Motors Proprietary
Limited on the money advanced to it out of the pro-
ceeds of this issue.
As regards Assets cover for the Preference Shares
this (on the basis of the Consulting Accountants'
Certificate, and after receipt of the Preference Capital)
will (irrespective of any profits accrued since 30th
■November last) be equal to £3/3/6 per £1 Preference
Share, exclusive of any value for the Goodwill of York
Motors Proprietary Limited, but which it is considered
possesses considerable value.
Future Policy as to the Distribution of Profits of York
Motors Proprietary Limited
In , view of the fact that York Motors (Holding)
.Limited owns all but the statutory requirement of four
£1 Shares' in ■ the issued capital of York Motors Pro-
prietary Limited, it is a matter of importance to Prefer-
ence Shareholders in the Holding Company to know
the future dividend policy of the Operating Company.
In the 'first place, it should be mentioned that the
Directors of both Companies are identical, and hold
substantially, the whole of the Ordinary Capital in
York Motors (Holding) Limited. It is accordingly in
their interests to.see that substantial yet prudent dis-
tributions of the profits of the Operating Company
should be made at least half-yearly. To give further
effect to this policy, the necessary Meetings of Share-
holders have been called to alter the of
Association of York Motors Proprietary Limited by in-
serting the following new Article:—
'Unless prohibited or prevented by law, or unless
the stability or resources of the Company would
be prejudiced or jeopardised to the extent that to
.do so would be inexpedient and imprudent, the
Directors shall recommend a yearly dividend at no
lesser rate than would require for the payment of
such dividend a sum not less than 75% of the net
profits earned as disclosed by the Auditors' Balance
Sheet for the relative annual period."
In addition to this Article general powers relating to
the payment of interim dividends are conferred upon -
the Directors, and it will be their policy to declare
interim dividends from time to time.
Brokerage
The Company's Broker has underwritten 50,000 of
the Shares comprising this issue, as consideration for
which he will receive a commission of 3d. per Share on
that number of Shares. In addition, the Underwriter
will be paid a Brokerage of 6d. per Share on 50,000
only of the 80,000 Shares, out of which he will pay a
Brokerage of 3d. per Share on all Shares applied for
and allotted on applications identified as coming
through any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Listing of Shares on the Stock Exchange
Application will be made in due course for the list-
ing of the Preference Shares upon the Official List of
the Sydney Stock Exchange, and the Articles of Associa-
tion of the Company have been drawn accordingly.
The Directors may from time to time decide to apply
to have the shares listed on the Official List of such
other Stock Exchanges as they shall deem fit.
Inspection of Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion of the Company may be inspected at the office of
the Company or its Solicitor or Broker, the respective
names and addresses of whom are given in this adver-
tisement.
Statutory Information
In accordance with the requirements of the Com-
panies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales, the
following information is embodied in this advertise-
ment:
Minimum Subscription
The minimum subscription on which the Directors
may proceed to allotment is 80,000 Shares comprising
this issue, on which the sum of 20/- per Share shall
have been paid to and received by the Company.
Applications
Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of applica-
tion for Shares may be obtained from the Company's
Broker, the name and address of whom is set out
herein.
Applications for Shares will be received only on one
of the forms of application referred to and endorsed
upon the printed copy of the Prospectus.
Applications for these Shares must be in the hands
of the Company's Broker not later than noon on Mon-
day, the 20th day of February, 1939, on w-hich date the
lists will definitely close. The Directors reserve the
right to close the lists at any time prior to 20th
February, 1939, should they deem it advisable.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
France Missing the Stork.
[Of interest in showing the dangerous weakening of
France by birth-control, this condensed article by
London “Times” Paris representative discusses also
related problems not restricted to the French.]
It has been calculated that, if the birth- and death-
rates remain as they were in 1935, the population of
France in 1980 will have fallen by 7,000,000 from its
present 42,000,000. In the first six months of 1938 it
fell by over 43,000.
The problem is made especially difficult because,
owing to the flight from the land, the decline is con-
centrated almost entirely upon rural France, with the
result that the national centre of gravity is shifting from
the villages to the towns. In the past 80 years the
proportion of rural inhabitants has fallen from 76
per cent, to 49 per cent.'
Farms can no longer be worked because farm
labor is disappearing ; young men seek other occupa-
tions where the pay is higher and where, if possible,
old age is safeguarded by a State pension. When the
railways were adding to their payrolls owing to the
sudden introduction of the 40-hour week, no fewer
than 500,000 villagers applied for jobs. But it is the
land rather than their native village that young men
are deserting ; the poverty of the peasant repels them,
not the boredom of rural life.
For the better part of a century very little money
has been invested in agricultural improvements ; there-
fore, though the State has done much to improve rural
life—for example, by carrying electrical power into
remote villages—conditions remain very primitive. A
second reason for French agricultural distress is
Socialist legislation (not necessarily the work of pro-
fessing Socialists), with its emphasis on urban life and
the glittering privileges of that life. Thirdly, there is
the extreme subdivision of French land ; only about
2 per cent, of agricultural properties are more than
16 acres in extent.
But the most important reason is the fall in the
birthrate. Fewer children and more old people mean
fewer heavy eaters and more people with small appe-
tites. The manufacturer may well enjoy an expanding
market in spite of a falling population ; after all, people
may use up a pair of boots or a suit of clothes in a
shorter time than they did before. But the market
for farm produce is, inelastic, and when numbers fall
or fail to increase the farmer sees no prospect of
improving his lot. If his output per acre increases, it
merely means that he must let more land lie fallow.
In happier circumstances export markets might have
been available, but high tariffs and quotas have closed.
almost all doors. At this point the agricultural crisis
becomes a spiritual- catastrophe. Faith in material
progress, the conviction that if only a man will work
hard he is bound to give his children a better start in
life than he had himself, is so inherent in modern
man’s mentality that its collapse opens wide the door
to disillusion and despair.
In the towns and cities other forces are at work.
The selfishness and cowardice of the well-to-do and
the fears of the poor keep the urban birthrate low.
To the lowest-paid members of the working-class
children and destitution are practically synonymous
terms. An investigation made into the circumstances
of 22,810 married working-class men living in one of
the larger provincial towns showed that 64 per cent,
had no children at all, 20 per cent, had only one
child, 10 per cent, had two, and only 6 per cent, had
three or over.
What is happening, then, is this: peasants are
limiting their families because rural conditions are
bad ; and rural .conditions are bad because people are
limiting their families. At this point it becomes diffi-
cult to distinguish between cause and effect. Never-
theless, it must be pointed out that the small family
is more than a century old in France ; that the idea of
a small family was born in the Revolution when many
Christian values, like the aristocrats, perished under
the guillotine ; and that the average Frenchman thinks
it more honorable (and more sensible) to leave some
money to one child than none at all to several. It is
difficult to see how this position can be remedied, how
any increase in the birthrate can be brought about,
by purely material means such as marriage subsidies,
family allowances, tax privileges, and the like. Rather
does it seem that everything depends upon a revival of
faith in the destiny of man, and upon the restoration
of spiritual values.
In the absence of this revival there is only one
thing to be' done, and that is to encourage immigra-
tion in order to remedy a labor shortage which is
already apparent and which is bound to grow more
acute as trade and industry recover from the depres-
sion. Last year there was a net increase of 40,000 in
the number of foreign manual laborers established in
France, in spite of there being already about 2,500,000
aliens living in the country. If the number of natural-
ised aliens of the first generation be added, the total
does not fall far short of 3,000,000, or about 7 per cent,
of the present population. Aliens are filling France’s
empty cradles ; aliens are providing recruits to fill some
of the gaps in the French army ; aliens are taking up
some of the land abandoned by Frenchmen.
Of unrestricted immigration there can, of course,
be no question. White-collar workers and professional
men and women are not wanted. Already the flow
of political refugees has caused some xenophobia. As
they are often content with a lower margin of profit
than a Frenchman their competition is severe. Checks
upon a further entry of this class of alien are obviously
desirable.
Essentially, however, the problem is one of sifting
and canalising immigration, not of checking it; therein
lies the only immediate means of redressing a balance
that has been badly upset by the small-family system.
A Labor Peer on Labor Jingoes.
[This condensed London “Daily Herald” article was
written by Lord Ponsonby, leader of the Labor party
in the House of Lords until last year, to explain why,
though opposing British Labor’s present bellicose
foreign policy, he remains in the party. Unimpeachable
in its Labor sentiments, it suggests that there is still in
British Labor at least a little steadying sanity, the
presence of which many—seeing Mr. Attlee and his
colleagues eager to wreck the Empire in wars in Central
Europe, Spain and China —have come to doubt.]
Clearly, it was right that I should withdraw from
the leadership of the Opposition in the Lords, but
this did not involve leaving the party. If my decision
is to continue as a humble member in the Labor
movement, it is because I believe the Labor party
is the only existing instrument for furthering Socialism.
Socialism, 1 am convinced, can only be advanced
in peace-time. If there be war or rumors of war the
public mind, not to mention the national resources,
must be concentrated on measures of so-called defence
and on preparations for conscripting in one way
or another the whole population. In these conditions
Socialist projects fall on deaf ears.
The Government does not believe in collective
security, a discredited policy to which the Labor
party still adheres, nor does it want to “fight Fas-
cism,” a fantastic idea warmly advocated by the
powerful Jingo element in the Labor party. It is
merely pursuing the Imperialist policy of British
supremacy for which everyone knows it stands.
As a knight in shining armor, Britain cannot go
forth to destroy all the dragons in the world. More-
over, we have discovered at last that attempts at
destroying dragons have a curious way of strengthen-
ing them and increasing their brood. But by accept-
ing the dectrine of force and lining up in its acceptance
of large armaments, the Labor party has laid itself
open to the gibes of Government spokesmen that its
policy of “bold initiative” and intervention makes it
present itself as a bellicose party.
But, far worse, it has spread among its own fol-
lowers a despairing feeling that its amateurish and ill-
conceived intervention in foreign affairs greatly
weakens any hope of inaugurating a new and better
social order and of redressing the wrongs and
grievances of which we are fully aware in our own
country. Speeches and, indeed, the attention of our
leaders are confined to the advocacy of constant inter-
ference in foreign affairs.
The foolish cry of “fighting Fascism” carries the
day, urged by Labor Jingoes to audiences whose
truculent spirit can be roused but many of whom are
waiting for a very different message.
Of course, I am not asking the Labor party to
espouse the cause of absolute pacifism. But to see
so many of my friends duped by the old cries, only
20 years after the most complete failure of force and
violence the world has ever seen, is terribly disap-
pointing.
The disturbances abroad have made Labor leaders,
with few exceptions, completely lose their balance.
They strain at the gnat of diplomatic negotiations and
swallow the camel of rearmament, denouncing un-
tiringly foreign Governments, foreign methods and
foreign combats, and neglecting the invidious enemy
in our midst which inflicts heavy casualties for which
we are directly and immediately responsible.
To build up in Britain a society as an example
which others, having failed in their gruesome experi-
ments, will want to follow, to lead the world to
enlightened action through just thought, is the inspir-
ing policy which the Labor party is neglecting, so
absorbed is it in trying to correct the foreigner.
We cannot detach ourselves from other nations in
a world which inter-communication and rapid transit
have made so much smaller. But we should help even
an Imperialist Government to pursue the path of
peace, which is the only foundation on which we can
build in the future, and not urge it, so as just to
oppose it, to give definite assistance to those with
whom we happen to be in sympathy and so start a
world conflagration.
Conquest in Catalonia.
o Condensed from an article by a London “Times"
correspondent lately in Spain.)
General Franco’s fateful offensive against Cata-
lonia began after five weeks of preparation. Gradually
the men, the guns, and the aeroplanes were moved into
position. Frontiers were closed, mail was held up and
all communication with the outer world was inter-
rupted. A state of expectancy reigned, wherein rumor
ran riot. A popular prediction, which grew daily in
confidence, put zero hour at dawn on December 18.
But in the middle of the month heavy snowfalls,
accompanied by mist and rain, brought unforeseen
difficulties.
To impatient listeners in hotels and cafes the
official communique continued to proclaim, through
the metallic voice of the loudspeaker, “Sin novedad’’
—all quiet. Then, just before Christmas, an icy wind
came from the north. It blew for two days, drying
the sodden soil and leaving firm ground in its wake.
The hour had struck ; and at dawn on December 23
the roar of artillery carried its challenge to Barcelona,
the distant capital.
A surprise offensive on a large scale is very diffi-
cult to achieve in modern warfare. Aerial reconnais-
sance carries to the enemy news of any large concen-
tration ; and, in the special conditions of civil war,
where both combatants are of one race and speak the
same language, it is particularly hard to guard against
the leakage of information. But, in so far as surprise
was still possible, General Franco achieved it.
The Nationalists had established three bridgeheads
on the left bank of the Segre and Noguera Pallaresa
—at Tremp and Balaguer in the north, at Seros in the
south. These were obviously conceived as points of
departure for a further advance into Catalonia; yet
only one of them, Seros, was exploited as such. While
General Solchaga and Italians pushed straight on from
Seros, found the weak link in the Republican defences
and broke it, General Garcia Valino unexpectedly
struck across the Noguera Pallaresa and Segre between
the bridgeheads at Tremp and Balaguer.
In the north, the First Division of Navarre crossed
the Noguera Pallaresa near Fontllonga and plunged
into pathless and uninhabited mountain country, pro-
tected on its left by a division belonging to the Army
Corps of Urgel. After a few days’ savage fighting, dur-
ing which the troops slept in the open and carried all
their supplies on muleback, the tireless Navarrese, who
had justified comparison with Wellington’s army in
Spain which could “go anywhere and do anything,”
occupied Alos de Balaguer and Alentorn, facing Artesa
from the opposite bank of the Segre.
Meanwhile two divisions of the line, which are
incorporated with the First Division of Navarre in
the Army Corps of the Maestrazgo, crossed the Segre
near Camarasa, protected by two divisions of the Army
Corps of Aragon which moved north-eastwards from
the Balaguer bridgehead. After overcoming stubborn
resistance near Cubells, they pressed on towards
Artesa from the south over the rolling, thyme-covered
hills of the Segre valley. They joined hands with the
Navarrese, who had crossed the river from the north,
on both sides of the town on January 3. Artesa fell
next day.
A hitch occurred in the general advance when
the Republicans concentrated their best forces against
the Italians at Albages and brought them to a stand-
still. For four days the Italian artillery roared inces-
santly in the plain below Lerida ; the bulk of the
Nationalist air force wheeled in the skies above it. Not
an inch of ground could be gained. General Solchaga,
who had pushed forward to the foot of the Sierra de
Monsant, was brought to a halt by the increasing
danger to his left flank.
The situation called for special remedies. Units
were detached from General Solchaga’s Army Corps
of Navarre and sent to the aid of the Italians, who had
been losing heavily—a total of 300 killed in four days.
Stiffened on left and right by Spanish troops, the Lit-
torio began to make headway. On January 4 the Re-
publicans were once more in retreat.
Within a fortnight the Nationalist Army had
attained all its first objectives in Catalonia. Over 700
Spotlight on Spain.
The accompanying article “Conquest in Catalonia”
represents one of the rarest finds to be discovered
in newspapers these days—an informative piece of
purely descriptive writing. At one time such writing
was common in journalism; it has been replaced in
the New Journalism by one-sided “views,” speculation
and propaganda.
The writer—a “Times” correspondent who was
present at what he describes—opened his account
of the fighting for Catalonia with a listing of the
Franco forces taking part. The full battle array
was part of the “Times” account (17/l/’39), which
was published in full in Sydney “Sun” (2/2/’3D).
The condensation on this page is restricted to the
narrative description.
The article shows up how poor has been the
reporting on what has actually been going on in
Spain. The writer gives the full credit to Franco
and his Spanish troops, particularly the- Navarrese
force originally formed during the stubborn fighting
in the mountains of Biscay. Yet on January 1
“S. M. Herald” was serving up this sort of thing:—
It is stated that General Franco and his
assistants were against the offensive. It is evert
claimed that Mussolini’s own military advisers
tried to dissuade him from trying to force a
decision in the heart of the winter. The Duce
refused to listen to them. The Italian people
have had more than enough of the Spanish adven-
ture, which has cost almost as much material as
the conquest of Abyssinia, and even more
b100d....1n order to force fate into obeying
him, Signor Mussolini obliged General Franco to
start the untimely offensive, and accepted all
responsibility. By doing so he endangered the
unity of Franco’s camp, and caused the anti-
Italian group to gain strength by this.
One of the most interesting revelations of the
“Times” writer is that the Barcelona side (like
editors of Great Dailies, and, perhaps, some of their
readers) came in time to swallow its own anti-
Italian propaganda, and lost the battle very largely
on that account.


square miles of Catalan territory had been occupied,
and nearly 30,000 prisoners and much material cap-
tured. Just as the hard-fought battle for Teruel last
year was succeeded by General Franco’s sweeping
victories in Aragon, so the bitter struggle on the banks
of the Ebro was followed by a triumphant advance.
The extent to which propaganda can affect mili-
tary judgment is a factor which has proved to be of
some importance in determining the course of the offen-
sive. Barcelona believed that the Italians represented
the greatest danger to the Republican defences of Cata-
lonia. No voice was raised in Rome to correct this im-
pression ; the Italians, according to their press, were
to form the spearhead of General Franco’s attack.
While Barcelona was claiming to have captured Italian
troops in sectors where there are none, Italian journal-
ists were ordered to suppress the names of the units
engaged in the offensive—presumably to conceal the
fact that the Italians’ part was a minor one, or to
avert invidious comparison between the progress of
General Solchaga’s Navarrese and that of the Littorio
on his left. Barcelona, believing what it wanted to
believe, threw the flower of the Republican Army
against the unfortunate Italians.
The greatest sufferer was the Republican Army.
While it was fighting desperately, and not without suc-
cess, to stem the advance of the dreaded Littorio, the
Spanish troops of Aragon and Navarre broke the de-
fences of Catalonia, and carried the war right down
into the coastal plain, and so on to Barcelona.
In Italy To-day.
[Personal impressions of Italy to-day gathered by the
English M.P. and journalist Beverley Baxter on a recent
visit to Italy 'at the time Mr. Chamberlain was there;
condensed from London “Sunday Graphic.”]
Although Mussolini uses the machinery of tyranny
to uphold his rule, his actual popularity is fantastic.
There is no use in anyone imagining that a wedge can
be driven between Mussolini and the Italian people. *
Abyssinia and sanctions established him like a rock.
His tremendous blue chin and portentous frown con-
vince them that he could take on the whole world. His
beaming smile and flashing eyes equally convince
them that he would never do anything so foolish.
I stress this personal equation because, especially
among British Socialists, there is a strong tendency
to believe that Mussolini has got hold of a new poli-
tical creed called. Fascism, which is steadily changing
all Italians into creatures different from ourselves. It
is not true. No Italian would die for Fascism. No
Italian knows really what it means. To him Fascism
is faith in Mussolini.
However, not everything he does is popular. There
are probably not a thousand people in all Italy who
are pro-Hitler or pro-German. Equally there are not
a thousand Italians to-day who do not rejoice at the
restoration of the old friendship between Britain and
Italy. Both these facts are important and must influ-
ence II Duce very strongly. But if in the end he says:
“Britain has turned against us because she prefers
France, and therefore Germany is our only friend,”
do not imagine that Italians would rebel. They would
say: “II Duce knows best, but it is very sad.”
Let us face the facts. While the Italian public
feeling must influence his tactics, the fate of Italy
is in the hands of one man alone. The enemies and
detractors of Mussolini in Britain should recognise
that fact clearly.
It. may then be asked if true friendship is possible
between democratic Britain and Fascist Italy. Of
course. To allow political differences or ideological
quarrels to stand between the peoples of two coun-
tries is mere midsummer madness. And do not forget
that the Italians understand friendship. They are
warm-hearted, easily pleased and instinctively cour-
teous. They are by no means without cunning, and
are shrewd bargainers, but their emotions are simple
and genuine.
I have said the Italians adore II Duce. Then why
did they throng the streets and acclaim the civilian
clothes and umbrella of Neville Chamberlain? Because
instinctively they know that Chamberlain represents a
nation which is so wise, so mature and so free that
the people are their own masters. One has only to
stand in the midst of innumerable uniforms in streets
crowded with soldiers and Blackshirts to realise the
supreme and unapproachable dignity of a Prime
Minister who embodies not merely the obedience of
the enthusiasm but the actual will of the people.
Personally I would regard it as a tragedy to have
to live under Fascism, Nazism or Communism. Never-
theless, Fascism or Mussolini, or both, have done won-
derful things to Italy and the Italians. By contrast we
in Britain must seem a muddling and doddering civili-
sation in many ways. But even a genius like Musso-
lini has found no method of dominating the people
without enslaving their minds.
That in essence is the arraignment of this Gov-
ernment here in Rome. My friends the Italian jour-
nalists argue that discipline does not crush the mind,
but stimulates it. But when the intellect is ordered
to march in line, then may the gods indeed weep.
State expression, racial expression, Fascist expression
are in full flower, but self-expression is dead or dying
in Italy. The sculptor turns back to 2000 years ago
for his inspiration, and so does the Government. The
thinker, the dreamer, the poet is silent. His genius
cannot march to order.
Gladly I admit that democracy can learn much
from Fascism. Whatever the economic situation in
u iT and 1 suspect it is anything but healthy despite
the brave appearance on the surface—there are no
beggars on the street, no Labor Exchanges where young
men are told that there is nothing for them but corrupt-
ing idleness.. Elderly employees are not snapped off
with a week s pay because their usefulness is supposed
to be ended The crude efficiency of Fascism has much
to commend it, curiously enough, for its humanity.
But man is not merely a stomach. That is why this
form of government is essentially temporary, a device
created, or rather re-created from the past, to meet a
situation. When the necessity for it no longer exists
the remedy will be discarded.
This, however, we must remember. Beyond
Chamberlain and the National Government there is
Britain, beyond Mussolini and Fascism there is Italy.
Italy and Britain have a historic friendship to pre-
serve and it should be our endeavor to be patient and
sympathetic with the existing form of government
for the sake of the greater issues that rise above mere
forms of administration.
Rumania’s Crowned Dictatorship.
('Condensed from an article by Noel Panter, London
“Daily Telegraph’’ Bucharest correspondent.)
The new regime in Rumania aims at a kind of
corporative State in which all citizens will work for
the national weal. Political meetings and discussions
are banned. The newspapers, greatly diminished in
number, are subjected to strict censorship. Individual
and mass enlistment in the National Front proceeds
apace. State and municipal officials, members of
trade unions and other syndicates find that there are
solid advantages in joining, and but little attraction in
remaining outside.
Even the Cabinet Ministers are now arrayed in
uniforms. They, and citizens of the new movement,
are expected to salute with the right arm upraised
and to greet with the word “Sanatate,” meaning
“Health!” A people’s militia apparently resembling
the Nazi S.A. or S.S. formations is in process of organi-
sation. Finally, Jews are being subjected to dis-
abilities.
There are, however, strong contrasts between the
new Rumania and the totalitarian States. King Carol’s
prerogatives have been increased to a point at which
he may be said both to rule and to govern, whereas,
by the old Constitution, though having wide powers as
a ruler, he, theoretically, could not govern. There is
nothing in the new code of regulations to claim, as the
Nazis claim, that the present dispensation will last in-
definitely. If, in two or three years’ time, King Carol
considered that the “Front of National Renaissance”
had outlived its usefulness, or had failed to come up
to expectations, he would probably disband or
reorganise it.
And in what Dictatorship country can one con-
ceive of the Primate of the Church fulfilling the office
of Prime Minister? Yet his Holiness the Patriarch
Miron Cristea is the Premier of Rumania. Moreover,
there is absolute freedom of worship.
Then, too, the new regime does not signify the
triumph of one particular party. Save for the
Patriarch, all present Cabinet Ministers were mem-
bers of various political parties until the change came.
In the official view the National Front is a patriotic
organisation with a national as opposed to a party
political programme.
Whereas the Nazi and Fascist movements were
of humble beginnings, and conquered the high places
by making appeal to the multitude, the Rumanian
resurgence is opposite in character. Initiated by the
King, it was enforced by him and his Ministers. The
masses, who have had this form of national consolida<-
tion thrust upon them, seem to be responding with
placid willingness. More can hardly be expected. Not
for them is the enthusiasm born of victory achieved
after years of marching, drilling, street fighting, im-
passioned oratory.
Will the regime last? Since it is likely to col-
lapse only in circumstances brought about by some
major catastrophe, such as war or revolution, most
Rumanians hope that matters will continue as they
are. Here and there, it is true, voices are heard in sub-
dued protest; but most of those who criticise the new
Rumania affect to forget the corruption of political
systems of the past when, in the name of democracy,
the foulest attacks were made on personal liberty.
Moreover, the policy now in force was adopted in the
face of grave national peril from within.
In the attempted liquidation of the Jewish prob-
lem there are none of the brutal and humiliating
methods applied elsewhere. It remains to be seen how
the new limitations on the activity of Jews will work
out in practice. Those who know Rumania best con-
sider that the decrees look worse on paper than they
will turn out in fact.
It is the domain of foreign policy that most strik-
ingly reflects the divergence between the new Rumania
and the new Germany or the new Italy. It is in the
natural geographic order of things that Rumania
should desire economic co-operation and friendly rela-
tions with those two countries, but Rumania would
violently oppose any “meddling from without.”
The cheapness of German subsidised exports is
partly counteracted by the exchange system of pay-
ment, which does not always work well. It is one
thing to accept German machinery in return for agri-
cultural products. It is quite another to be over-
whelmed with cameras, lenses and bric-a-brac, even
down to millions of those brittle little balls of varied
hue which the German wistfully hangs on his Christ-
mas-tree. Rumania, for political and solid financial
reasons, hopes to increase exports to England. In
the first 11 months of 1938, the United Kingdom
jumped to second place in the export market for
wheat and kindred products. At a time when many
potential dangers lie ahead, Rumania continues to be
a good neighbor to Soviet Russia, and to attribute
great importance to her alliance with Poland. There
is also a genuine desire for better relations with Hun-
gary. Whatever reshuffling of spheres of interest may
occur this year, Rumania does not intend, if she can
possibly avoid it, to be tied to any one camp. Since
Munich, the pivot of her interests has naturally veered
from the Little Entente to the Balkan Entente, and
every effort is being made to cement more firmly her
relations with Italy.
Scares and Business Jitters.
[The suggestion for countering the damaging effect
of war-scares on business put forward by Mr. Robert
Boothby, M.P., in this extract from London “Daily
Telegraph” would be of equal value in Australia, and
might be commended to Mr. Lyons if the Prime
Minister’s statements on foreign affairs were not the
most alarming of all.]
The Nazis claim, with some justification, that
their economic system is better fitted to withstand
the shocks and stresses of the modern era than ours.
They contrast the steadiness, at high levels, of their
industrial activity, their employment figures and their
markets with the violent fluctuations which occur
almost daily in the democratic countries.
And the fact remains that the resources, the capi-
tal and the productive capacity of Germany are all
being used to the full; whereas in Britain and the
United States there is a considerable volume of unem-
ployment and a vast accumulation of private funds
awaiting investment.
We do not want to have our economic activities
regulated, our currency controlled and our institutions
compelled to invest in the German manner. Nor do
we wish to see the press controlled.
But it is time the City and Wall-street realised that,
by keeping funds idle out of sheer funk, they are de-
liberately playing into the hands of the Dictator States,
whose main economic objective- is to keep the indus-
trial activity and the national income of the demo-
cratic countries, together with world commodity prices,
at the lowest possible level. If war comes, cash will be
of no greater value than securities ; and any diminu-
tion of the economic strength of the democratic forces
can only increase the chances of war.
Our markets, which greatly influence our pro-
ductive capacity, are at present dominated to far too
great an extent by fears which are usually exaggerated
and sometimes quite unwarranted. For example, a
climax of folly was reached on January 13 when prices
fell sharply on the strength of a rumor, for which
there was no foundation in fact, that German troops
were massing on the Dutch frontier.
Such incidents suggest that during periods of
international tension the Foreign Office should issue
daily an official communique summarising, with meticu-
lous accuracy, the authentic news from abroad ; and
that the business community should be strongly ad-
vised to ignore all pronouncements of doubtful authen-
ticity, particularly* those “inspired” articles which
appear so frequently in the foreign press, and which
bear the stamp of irresponsibility.
Equities of Political Change.
(From an article by “Scrutator” in London “Sunday
Times.”)
There is no real parallel between the issues at
Munich and those which presented themselves in the
conversations at Rome. The Treaties against which
Germany was in revolt were imposed on her by force,
whereas to the conditions which Signor Mussolini now
dislikes Italy was a consenting party. Britain and
France were agreed on principle at Munich, whereas
Italy has unofficially put forward her demands on
France in a way to which neither she nor we can lend
any countenance.
It makes a difference, too, that, though Italy’s
demands are Mediterranean, Germany is not a Medi-
terranean Power, and that, while both England and
France can abandon interference in the politics of
Central Europe without suffering injury, they have a
direct interest in the Mediterranean, as great as that
of Italy. For these reasons Mr. Chamberlain was
right in rejecting Signor Mussolini’s idea of a foi?r-
Power conference to compose Italy’s sense of griev-
ance.
None the less, the problem of devising an equity
of political change is a real one. The common law
of the status quo is fully developed ; an equity of
political change does not exist. Most of our domestic
legislation is concerned to excise obsolete survivals
from the past and to bring law into accord with
changing conditions and modern realities. There is
nothing analogous in international affairs.
If the League had given half the attention to
pointing out where existing conditions were inequitable
that it gave to preserving the status quo, it might still
have been a flourishing institution. Instead, it identi-
fied change with aggression, forgetting that what is
called aggression may be the only remedy against the
perpetuation of injustice. It produced a cleavage
between the satisfied and the dissatisfied Powers ; the
replete were to 101 l in easy chairs and damn the lean
and hungry for standing up and moving about.
In the absence of anything like an international
equity of change, the method of conference between
interested Powers is the only alternative to war.
Powers which really understand each other’s point of
view are, given the will to peace—and what nation
wants war to-day?—half-way not only to peace but
also to justice. The fault with Germany and Italy is
not in ambition for their countries, which may be a
virtue, but in their extraordinary notion of the way to
satisfy them. But for the quarrel with France and
Italy’s support for the new offensive in Catalonia, the
Rome Conference might have been decisive for the
peace of the Mediterranean. So might Munich but for
the fury of the Jewish persecution. You cannot con-
tinue threats and violence with any hope of obtaining
justice without war.
Some day we may have a new League which will
develop the equities of political change. In the mean-
time, Mr. Chamberlain’s persistence in seeking to
understand and be understood is the only alternative
to war. That the results at Rome have not been spec-
tacular does not detract from the value of the method.
The method of .conference is a process, not a con-
clusion.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Spear Chief is a horse that will have
to be reckoned with this year. He was
taken to Rosehill on Saturday for the
Flying Handicap, and though not re-
garded as a sprinter, and not strung
up, his class told. The Queensland
horse had the rails position, and was
ridden out of the barrier with the whip
so that he might hold it. He dropped
back to fifth, but moved up fast at the
half-mile and had the race won as soon
as he ran to Immaculate and June at the
top of the straight. Immaculate stopped,
but June and Grey Derby —an early
winner for Pike—kept going and filled
the places. Spear Chief was backed from
fives to 7 to 2.
Conditions of the Quality Nursery gave
Esperanto a pull in the weights, and the
handsome chestnut was always at odds-
on. But he was standing flat-footed when
the barrier rose, and though he made a
fast run in the second furlong he was
struggling at the top of the straight and
definitely beaten at the Leger. He re-
turned to the weighing yard a very dis-
tressed colt. “Broken-winded! ” a mem-
ber of his forlorn party muttered, and
it certainly looked like that; but a more
hopeful view was taken at the beginning
of the present week.
El Valor, raced on lease by Rogilla’s
trainer, Les Haigh, won the race easily,
beating Cardinal Puff and the pacemaker,
Valmiki. El Valor was backed from
20 to 1 to 5 to 1. He is by El Cacique-
Polyalla.
Jan Baz is gaining stamina with age
and experience. A previous failure in
mile races, the Heroic-Our Dell gelding
ran out 10 furlongs in the Rosehill
Handicap, and could evidently have gone
on. Leading early, Jan Baz was pulled in
behind Val William and Carinya along
the back. These tactics evidently suited
him ; anyway, he went after Val Wil-
liam when the country moke had a
clear lead at the Leger and galloped
away from him, scoring easily by three-
quarters of a length, Osculum being a
length back third. Jan Baz was at
sevens. Improvement was favorite. He
ran fourth. It was his last race, for he
slipped in his stable that night, broke a
leg and was put out of his misery by a
vet.
Patience was rewarded when Peter
Tait’s colt Aristocrat won the Maiden
Handicap. Aristocrat is Queensland-bred,
Peter is a Queenslander, and he has been
very patient with the son of The Buz-
zard-Rose Mignon, recognising that time
was required. Darby Munro had an
armchair ride on the colt, who was
backed from 2 to 1 to evens. Baveon,
who looked in need of the race, was
second, Cable Boy third, and King’s Park,
a stablemate of Aristocrat, fourth.
With Munro up and only Bst. 71b. in a
Trial Stakes, favoritism for Aladdin was
assured. The Limond gelding started at
7 to 4. Munro bounced him out with a
lead, and, never leaving the rails, he
easily beat Rummage and Limulet.
Limulet finished on well. Fie is a nice-
looking colt, and may turn out a better
racehorse than brother Linklet.
But for looks Limulet can scarcely
be compared with Respirator, who has
grown into the handsomest Windbag in
the business. And his victory in the Car-
lingford Mile was a slashing perform-
ance. Half-way up the straight, River
Namoi (9 to 2) looked a sure winner.
Then Respirator put in his claim, and,
finishing determinedly, the colt got there
by a long head, Linklet being a poor
third. Respirator was backed from fives
to twos. He is to tackle Nuffield in the
V.R.C. St. Leger.
* * * *
On recent running Braidwood Boy
would have taken no end of beating in
the Anniversary Handicap at Randwick ;
but he wasn’t nominated. Now Bradford’s
name is missing from the entries for the
Doncaster. He was one of the favorites
last Easter Saturday, and he has proved
himself a better horse this year: un-
luckily beaten in the Villiers and a good
winner of the Challenge Stakes. Owners
and trainers do baffling things at times.
Ajax has lOst. 21b. in the Newmarket.
Greenline won nine years ago with the
same weight, and by comparison with
Aurie’s Star, Pamelus (each 9st. 81b.) and
King’s Head (9st. 51b.), the champion is
by no means harshly treated. But the
owners are keen on lifting the King’s
Cup, to be run on the same day, and in
that their chestnut can get no more than
9st. 51b. Gold Rod (9st. 41b.), Hamurah
(9st.), Amiable (Bst. 101 b.), Caesar (7st.
81b.), Unishak (7st. 71b.) and Trimmer
(7st. 21b.) are an attractive lot.
Donaster (9st. 41b.) heads the Austra-
lian Cup weights. Manolive has 9st. 31b.
and Spear Chief 9st. 21b. —the Spear Chief
party must now regret having exposed
their nag’s worth at Rosehill. Perth Cup
winners Maikai and Gay Balkan are to
carry Bst. 31b. Respirator (7st. 121 b.) is
rated the best of the three-year-olds en-
gaged. Two good mares, Ortelle’s Star
and Cooranga, are on the Bst. 21b. and
7st. 101 b. marks respectively.
If Ajax doesn’t start, Trimmer and
Manolive look a fair double. Manolive is
just the sort of horse to go to the front
and stay there —a thing done more than
once in the Australian Cup, though never
with 9st. 31b.
* * * *
Who said the age of philanthropy
was dead? The Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) concern, it is written, is trans-
forming itself into a non-proprietary
club. “Payment of any dividend to
shareholders or members” (there are to
be 1000 members) “is prohibited.”
There is a further provision that no por-
tion of the profit, income or property of
the club can be paid or transferred to any
member. If the club is ever dissolved, its
assets must be transferred to some other
club having similar objects.
So there now!
* * * *
“H.A.M.”: Huck Findlay, not Darby
Munro, rode Trimmer when he won at
Randwick (B. 1/2/’39); in fact, Findlay
rode a double, Trimmer and Edible. A
misprint, no doubt; still, Darby gets
so much credit for his horsemanship
and Findlay so little that the matter
should be put right. Especially as Find-
lay is almost old enough to be Darby’s
grandfather.
* * * *
That handsome horse Jocular never
won for H. V. Cooper, though he was
placed many times. Racing for the first
time in E. R. Williams’s colors, the
Queensland-bred stallion carried off the
Flying Welter at Rosebery, Sydney. It
was a six-furlongs affair, and Jocular
carried top weight, 9st. 61b. He was
favorite at 5 to 4, and he justified the
odds by coming away in the straight
from Tickle and Herarde ; but if Herarde
had got away with the others he would
have made things much more interest-
ing. Unlike Jocular, Herarde is a Rand-
wick winner, and he seems to be return-
ing to his best form.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes, who has established a
stud in N.S.W., has hopes that Oro will
sire some good ones for him ; and Oro
may, for he is a fine big horse and is
stoutly bred. But he did a tremendous
amount of racing at an advanced age for
gallopers, and that generally tells against
stallions. It must have done in the case
of David; anyway, that magnificent-
looking horse and great stayer has never
begotten a son or daughter in the same
class, though some good jumpers and
Dark David —successful in Westralia and
now to be given a chance on Melbourne
tracks —derive from him. In England
horses intended for the stud are not kept
racing over long distances at seven years
and upwards. Again and again a Derby
winner has been retired at the end of his
third year. This policy has undoubtedly
contributed to the maintenance of Eng-
land’s supremacy in the bloodstock field.
Come to think of it, Wallace and Malt-
ster, the most successful Australian-bred
sires of the last generation, had short
careers as racehorses (Wallace’s first race
as a four-year-old was his last), and the
same is true of the most successful Aus-
tralian-bred sires of our own time:
Heroic, Windbag and Manfred.
* * * *
Epsom (Vic.) turf fixtures will have to
be held at the neighboring Mentone course
until the Epsom grandstand, recently
destroyed by fire, is rebuilt. Both clubs
were operated by J. L. Reilly during his
lifetime, and they are still under practi-
cally the same management.
Small fields were the order of the day
at Moonee Valley a week previous; but
Mentone, though much farther from the
city, had plenty of runners on Saturday.
The Welter Handicap was run in two divi-
sions, with 11 and a dozen starters respec-
tively.
The Summer Hurdle attracted only five
competitors, but that was the exception.
Against such weak opposition 7 to 4
looked a wonderful price about the 1937
Grand National hero, Triteleia ; but after
setting the pace Harry Freedman’s repre-
sentative developed a bowed tendon and
faded out of the picture.
Exmoor (9 to 2) finished too strongly
for the Geelong-owned Peter Thrice,
second favorite at threes. Exmoor hails
from the Gippsland district and belongs
to members of the Widdis family, for
whom Charles Wheeler won big races 20
years or more ago with Shepherd King
and Patrobas.
Fred Hoysted supplied the favorite for
the Bass Juvenile in Hotch Potch, a
Salmagundi gelding raced in the same
interest as Donaster, winner of the Aus-
tralia Day Cup at Williamstown. Hotch
Potch made his debut at Pakenham on
January 25 and romped home. This
accounted for his being backed down to
5 to 2 in metropolitan company.
Hotch Potch led for several furlongs,
but weakened when Free Leg (Gay
Lothario-Slavonia) joined issue a furlong
from home. Free Leg gamely resisted a
determined challenge from The Trump’s
stablemate Grand Patrol, scoring by a
head. At 7 to 2 the winner was in half
a point better demand than Grand Patrol.
She is in the same stable as Proof, who
was so unlucky at Moonee Valley on
January 28.
Melbourne barristers are fond of rac-
ing. “G. Ornong,” a K.C., has been lucky
as an owner. Comic March, who
squeezed home by half a head from
Bridge Law in the Moorabbin Handicap,
carries the livery of “F. Falcon,” a young
member of the legal fraternity.
This was an acceptable result for, ring-
men, Comic March (March Along-Laugh-
ing Gas) being a 7-to-l shot, while Bridge
Law (equal favorite with Plymouth Hoe)
went out at fours, and the third horse,
Birdplay, at 9 to 2. Birdplay was pipped
for second money by a head. Never
really dangerous, Plymouth Hoe ran
sixth.
His sixth win in a row was recorded
by the Western District horse Royal
Jubilee in the J. L. Reilly Stakes. Bur-
dened with 9st. and conceding 51b. to
the Bagot Handicap winner, Beaustone,
he defeated Bankshaw by half a head
after a splendid tussle. A plunge on Fanci-
fort (5 to 2) enabled sixes to be obtained
about Royal Jubilee.
Coming round the field from a long
way back, Bankshaw actually hit the
front. But for having been obliged to
shift ground in the straight he must have
won. Beaustone repeated his poor Wil-
liamstown form, and R. P. Trihey, realis-
ing that the stallion has gone stale, will
turn him out for a spell.
Magic Circle credited Ned O’Dwyer with
her fifth successive win in the first divi-
sion of the Frankston Welter, for which
she started equal favorite with Spray at
7 to 2. The Simeon’s Fort mare scored
comfortably from Rain Hazard and The
Egotist, yet 'established a new course
record by covering seven furlongs in
lmin. 25fsec.
The Chelsea Handicap went to Rex Felt
owned and trained by Vi n O’Nfeill, who
landed a Melbourne Cup with the sire
Spearfelt. He had a mere half-neck to
spare from Prudence, about whose chance
Jack Holt was mildly confident. Fives
could be had about Rex Felt, the favorite
being Pretend at half those odds. Many
spectators thought that Pretend ran third.
Second division of the Frankston Han-
dicap was won by Red Morn, a 2-to-l
favorite. Minor places were filled by
Buoyancy (on the verge of recovering
best form) and Manetis.
* * * *
South Australians have high hopes of
Grecian Princess as an Australian Cup
proposition if she trains on. One of
Manfred’s best daughters (the dam was
Grecian Queen), she proved herself a
real stayer in the Alderman and Port
Adelaide Cups, both of which she won,
ana, like Manolive, she doesn’t take long
to get up top speed. In the Port Adelaide
Cup the mare —she is a six-year-old—
was soon in a good position, and had
anything been able to tackle her in the
straight she could have cut something off
her time, 3min. 4£sec., though that was
very good for a mile 6 furlongs and 92
yards. Adelaide has sent«some first-class
sprinters to Melbourne these last few
years, and another White Nose would
be welcome. Grecian Princess has
7st. 31b.
* * * *
Balkan Prince, whose younger brother
Gay Balkan won the Perth Cup and has
been taken to Melbourne for the Aus-
tralian Cup, is not done with yet. In
Perth recently he won a six-furlong
handicap with 9st. up. Though he is
rising seven there may still be a good
race in him.
* * * *
Harold Dark and Jack Pick, two mem-
bers of Sydney’s City Tatt.’s Club, struck
it lucky in a recent “consultation.” Dark
is a clerk, and Pick calls the odds. He
is a son of Alf Pick, who with Frank
Walton —both are dead—helped to make
the club prosper in pre-war days.
* * * *
H. E. Tancred, member of a family of
footballers who have played in the big
stuff on both sides of the Tasman, has
bought High Caste, a crack M.L. two-
year-old. Brother George is noted for
his betting plunges on horses trained by
J. T. Jamieson, and Jamieson will train
High Caste at kandwick. The colt was
taken to Melbourne by Bagby, a periodi-
cal visitor, and Bagby is naturally dis-
appointed at losing him. High Caste, a
big bay with plenty of white about him,
is aptly named; he is by imported
Bulandshar from The Begum. The Tan-
creds are interested in meat on the hoof
and on the hooks, being graziers and
carcass butchers in Sydney.
* * * *
It will surprise if Bourbon does not
win a good race in Melbourne. The
Tippler horse, the first of the Sydney
contingent to go south for the autumn
meetings, looks better than when
Catalogue fluked him in the Melbourne
Cup. Bourbon’s mission is the Aus-
tralian Cup, in which he has Bst. 131 b.
(Continued on page 32.)
“T.”: Two boxers who used to be
features on the Sydney landscape are
mentioned in “O. Henry’s” stories. In
“Hygeia at the Solito,” one of the best,
there is a short and apt description of a
one-round fight:
A champion and a would-be faced each
other on the alien side of an international
river. The champion merely smote his
victim, turned his back on him, remark-
ing “I know what I done to dat stiff,’
and extended an arm like a ship’s mast
for his glove to be removed.
The speaker was Fitzsimmons; the
party of the other part was Peter Maher.
Fitz really didn’t talk like that, but 0.
Henry’s” account is near enough. There
is also a reference in the stories to Steve
O’Donnell. Long ago Steve had a job
in the Government printing works in
Sydney. A fine figure of a man, he was
tutored in the art of stoush by Peter
Jackson, who thought the world of him.
So did Corbett when he saw Steve box
in the U.S.A., and the O’Donnell was
a real champion —in the gymnasium. He
was no coward, but was always too
nervous to do himself justice in the ring.
After fights with Maher, Choynski and
other topnotchers, he settled down as a
club instructor, like fellow-Australian
George Dawson. Australian pugs of that
period made influential friends in the
U.S.A. —that is true of even ‘ Grind
till patron after patron weaned of his
eccentric ways —and their friends saw
that they didn’t want for steady jobs.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Brazandt, if
started. Otherwise Hammerhead ;
next, Aureus.
Canterbury Handicap: River
Namoi or Chicola; next, Cherry
Bar.
Ashbury Handicap: River Namoi
or Chicola ; next, Masterpiece.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
C. F. Orr Stakes: Ajax; next,
Manolive.
Apprentices’ Handicap: Barham ;
next, Windlite.
Wyndham Handicap: Prince
Sion ; next, Rhodes Scholar.
Marine Handicap: Plymouth
Hoe ; next, Bridge Law.


walks away with it!
Only the very finest whiskies from Scotland’s most famous
distilleries are good enough for Johnnie Walker. Mellowed
and matured by years in the wood, they are blended with
traditional skill. No wonder Johnnie Walker is the favourite,
and walks away with it!
Born 1820 —Still Going' Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


Vou can depend on
CHAMPIONS
for SAFETY
HI
Many accidents are avoided by
cars that can dart out of danger-
ous situations. Keep your car
alert. Install new Champions at
regular intervals and enjoy the
safety and pleasure of quick ac-
celeration, abundant power and
speed. Champions pay for them-
selves in the fuel they save.
An Empire produci—made inWindsor,Can.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN ” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
«
KING THE ROAD’
BMfrTBRIeS
Under the Whip
Steve Murphy won the Launceston
Cup with Keeping Watch last Wednesday
for Eddie O’Brien, the Melbourne
bookmaker. During Murphy’s absence
in Tasmania two other members of his
Flemington team were successful at
Bendigo, King of Sicily taking the Maiden
Handicap and Roman Temple the Novice
Handicap.
King of Sicily belongs to Jack Hurley,
who has been a prominent fielder in the
Yarra River city for many years. Spear-
point, a stablemate of The Trump,
started favorite at 6 to 4. Demand for
this candidate was so solid that King of
Sicily receded to sixes.
None but the judge could determine
which of four horses was first past the
post in the Maiden Handicap. He de-
cided in favor of King of Sicily by half
a head from King Alfred, with Great Ra
and Delibes dead-heating for third, half
a head farther off.
Murphy’s other winner at Bendigo,
Roman Temple, is by Pantheon from the
Comedy King mare Nyamba, a half
sister to the dam of Gay Serenader, who
performed well on the flat and over
obstacles in the colors of Merson
Cooper, winning, among other races,
an Easter Cup at Williamstown.
Roman Temple, desperately ridden by
Harold Badger, cut down the pacemaker,
Parmentier, and scored by a mere head.
At threes the Pantheon gelding went out
a point better favorite than Parmentier.
Latter is raced by Alan Scott, whose
father won a Doncaster Handicap with
Simeon’s Fort. Through being subject
to bleeding attacks, Parmentier is a risky
betting proposition.
Principal event at Bendigo on Wednes-
day, the Hospital Handicap, resulted in
a great tussle between Vital and Great
Legend. This pair shared favoritism with
Arabian Knight at threes in a field of
six. Velvoir (Foxearth-Bambina), for
whom Sydney patrons of P. B. Quinlan
gave llOOgns. as a yearling, tried to lead
throughout but tired, and Vital beat
Great Legend (fives) by half a neck.
Since his victory in the Kalgoorlie
Cup of 1936 with 9st. 51b. Vital had de-
clined as a galloper, but his display at
Quartzopolis suggests at least a partial
recovery of form.
Sir Grey, who distinguished himself at
the last Kalgoorlie Cup meeting, de-
feated a hot favorite, Lynch Law, in the
Welter Handicap, thus compensating Ted
Temby for Great Legend’s narrow failure
earlier in the afternoon. As a juvenile
Lynch Law was trained by J. T. Jamieson
at Randwick.
Karragan won the Jumpers’ Flat by
half a head from Ming, but Ming was
disqualified through the jockey being
short-weight, and second honors went to
Gold Fox. Only outsider that came to
light, Karragan figured at tens.
Ted Fisher had a winning turn in the
Encourage Mile with Bonvue (Bonne-
ment-Bellevue Hill), who gave Harold
Badger his second success for the day
as jockey. Bonvue was a 3-to-l shot.
The favorite, Jonathan Swift, missed a
place.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Australians Go Under
At Sydney Stadium the American
Walter Woods (list. 71b.), who had won
over Henneberry on a head-bump foul,
had a troubled victory over Jack Car-
roll’s former protege, Jack McNamee
(list. l|lb.). On his showing against
Henneberry Woods should have won it
easily. He is a strong and crafty boxer
who should have been perfectly suited
by the Victorian’s style. As it was,
Jack put his left into the Woods visage
at will over the first couple of rounds.
“Would you mind letting us hit of first? Were so frightfully slow."
The American looked puzzled and
annoyed at his own slowness ; he simply
could not get going.
Other scrappers declare that McNamee
is a very awkward customer to beat.
Moving in sideways in the old Carroll
manner, he looks slow, but somehow
they reckon him hard to get at. Even
so, the former Woods would have got
at him readily enough. Jack did ex-
traordinarily well up to the eighth, win-
ning at least five of the first seven rounds.
Then in the eighth Woods’s right shot
out like a piston-rod and Jack went
within a second of taking the full count.
After that it was an unexciting engage-
ment, interesting only in McNamee’s re-
markable recovery. He saw out the dis-
tance, but only because Woods could
not unlimber.
It turned out that the American had
taken off over a stone in a matter of
days. He was as weak as a kitten, and
told the world that was passing his
corner on its way home that he didn t
know how he dragged through it. Though
he took the next boat back to U.S.A.
he looked better than even his defeat
of Henneberry would indicate. But the
best of ’em can’t fight on a jockey’s
training and have no business to be in
need of it.
Another Australian went under to the
invaders at Sydney Arena, where “King-
fish” Dixon (lOst. 131 b.) toppled Sid
Sloan (lOst. lib.) in the third round of
an engagement booked for 10. Dixon,
a smart cullud boxer who beat Mc-
Laughlin at Leichhardt, should have
been giving away weight instead of hay-
ing nearly a stone advantage. Sloan, in
the too-prevalent Australian manner,
punched lightly. A right clipped on
the jaw sent the local lad down and out.
Main fight this night at the Arena was
as pitiful to witness as it is saddening
to describe. Former world light-
heavyweight champion Bob Olin, tipping
the beam at 13st. Hlb., encountered Gus
Lesnevich (12st. B|lb.), and the whole
story of it is that Olin was once a cham-
pion. He fought with toe and heel flat
on the canvas, with his mouth hanging
open and with his arms swinging tele-
graphed punches from down near his
knees. It would be doubtful if he won a
round, even though, through Lesnevich
taking a breather half-way, one or two
rounds at that stage were even. For
the rest Lesnevich won very easily, scor-
ing at will and going for rounds on end
without stopping a punch.
A West Melbourne Stadium crowd
that included old-timers who could
remember Jim Hall and Dan Creedon
saw two other Australians whipped.
One of them was Max Raynor (12st.)
who was walloped by the Alabama Kid
(12st. 2ylb.). Raynor a year or two ago
gave Henneberry a great tussle, but he
has done little boxing since. He was
down for “nine” in the third round and
couldn’t come up for the eighth.
Wayne Powell (list. 6|lb.), another
coon, stopped Les Brander (list. ll|lb.)
in the tenth round. The Australian was
game, and lack of boxing practice and
conditon did more to settle him than did
the negro’s skill, such as it was. Powell
has done a heap of scrapping for Jimmy
Sharman, whose boxing tents at shows
have brought him a more substantial
income over the years than any Stadium
promoter has pulled in.
After the fights the old-timers mut-
tered that Creedon or Hall could have
beaten the two blacks and the two whites
in the same ring.
At West Melbourne Stadium yet an-
other Australian, and one of the best of
them —Micky Miller —was added to the
list of the defeated when Jackie Wilson
(U.S.A.) knocked out the Australian
bantam and featherweight champion in
the fourth round of their 12-round en-
gagement. A negro, and, like pretty well


INVINCIBLE
since
1906.
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to ICO Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years’
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
Australian
AND
PROUD OF
IT
Australia has every reason to
be proud of Olympic. An
Australian product through
and through, Olympic has
proved it can take the bat-
tering to-day's motoring con-
ditions impose on a tyre.
Every penny of capital be-
hind the Olympic Co. is Aus-
tralian—not a farthing of its
profits goes outside the Com-
monwealth. Moreover, every
Executive is an Australian ...
and proud of it.
Refit with Olympic
AUSTRALIA'S
BEST TYRE
The Choice of 90 % of
Australia’s Racing Drivers
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. CROWN & STANLEY STS.
SYDNEY
Olympic tyres
far from Civilisalion
far from
Medical Aid
Hennessy's Brandy needed no advertising
campaign to take its name over the world.
Great travellers and colonists spread its
fame to the uttermost corners of the
earth. The most essential article of
luggage was to them a supply of
Hennessy's, upon which they knew they
could rely . . . that they could find
relief from disappointment, exhaustion,
dysentery, and fever.
With its flawless reputation of nearly two
centuries Hennessy's is the preferred of
connoisseurs.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles, Half Bottles,
Quarter Bottles, and Eighth Bottles.
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY. LTD.
HARBOTTLE BROWN AND CO. PTY. LTD.
ENHESSY’S
☆ ☆ ☆
BRANDY
all the present American invaders, a
heavy puncher, Wilson put Miller down
for seven in the opening .round. The
Australian made a fair recovery, but suc-
cumbed to an onslaught of powerful hit-
ting to body and jaw. A smashing right
to the ribs as he bounced back off the
ropes made Miller double up and drop
his guard, and two-handed punches to
the chin finished him off.
But the week wasn’t all black —in more
senses than one—for the Australian pug.
At Melbourne’s Exhibition Board Track
Dick Humphries, making a reappear-
ance after a long spell, proved so superior
to Gunboat Jack, another boomed coon,
that the referee applied the closure in
the eleventh round. Dick’s exhibition of
boxing was as fine as he gave against
Janazzo in Sydney. But he came in at
an awkward weight, lOst. 131 b
negro was sylb. lighter—and if he can’t
reduce to lOst. 71b. or build up he will
find it difficult to get satisfactory matches.
——— £
Ins and Outs
Though the Victorians didn’t do much
with the bat at Sydney after Gregory
(76) and Hassett (82) left —“all out”
259 in response to N. S. Wales’s
the farce was soon played out. Fast-
bowler Scott went through the Corn-
stalks again, collecting five for 46 ; it gave
him 12 for 79. Solomon (49) and Barnes
(48) were the only batsmen of any con-
sequence, and the Victorians knocked off
79 required with eight wickets to go.
* * * *
“B.”: Barry Scott has proved himself
an uncommonly good express, but like
the first Scott that Australian cricketers
remember —“H.J.H.” of the 1884 and
1886 Elevens —he is unlikely to stay
long in the game. No professional
man ever does. Hordern, Park, Mailer,
Hartkopf, Nothling they and others,
who were Uni. students, as Barry is, all
quitted early. In any case, there is
nothing in fast-bowling on present-day
wickets to induce a young Australian to
rock ’em in till he bowls his heart out
or goes at the knees.
* * * *
Don Tallon again! When the Vic-
torians and the Queenslanders adjourned
for lunch on Saturday, three presents
were handed to the young man to remind
him that he had dismissed 12 batsmen
in Q. v. N.S.W. at Sydney. The stumper
returned thanks by bagging five of the
seven wickets that fell on Saturday—for
289 —and he didn’t let a bye pass him.
Ellis (3 for 49), Christ (1 for 33) and
Cook (1 for 41) kept the Victorians very
quiet and the crowd growled.. Even Has-
sett (114 n. 0.) was slow. It is to be hoped
that the Melbourne men are not drifting
back to the dreary days of Woodfull and
Mayne. On one occasion in Sydney
Mayne took about six hours to make
106, and when critics on the Hill had
lost their voices they pulled out packs
of cards.
¥ * * *
“Matsu”: According to manager
Jeanes’s report, “each member” of the
last Australian Eleven “signed his auto-
graph at least 7000 times, making a
grand total of about 120,000 signatures.”
The Board of Control has asked
the English authorities to think up a way
of sparing the lads this misery next time.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The new Darlington Life of
J. M. Barrie recalls the fact that the very
amateur cricket-team which he used to
run with Conan Doyle made one glorious
appearance (in 1930) with Macartney and
Mailey included in the side. But on
its first appearance in the field it got out
for a total of 11, and was named “Allah-
akbar” —understood to be Arabic for
“Heaven help us!” Later, the Scotch
novelist’s influence in it being so great,
it became the Allah-akbarries.
Miscellaneous.
Decima Norman was beaten in her last
race in Perth —a handicap—and she was
beaten in her first important race in Syd-
ney as a resident; it was a State cham-
pionship, 100 yards. But the margin was
inches, and the winner, Joyce Walker,
a Sydney tobacco-factory girl, equalled
the world’s record for the distance, llsec.
She is a tall, slim young woman, and
has a better style than Miss Norman,
who hunches her shoulders. But the
Westralienne proved invincible in the 90
yards hurdles, cutting the Australian
record time to 12 l-10sec., and. the broad
jump, 18ft. 2-J-in.
Young D. B. Dunn won two titles —
100 yards (9 3-ssec., equalling the Aus-
tralian record) and broad jump (24ft.
6iin.). He will go to Finland, and so will
Boot, the Maoriland miler, who won the
mile by 30 yards in 4min. 17 l-ssec.
Another Australian record was equalled
—by S. G. Stenner in the 120 yards
hurdles, 14 4-ssec. They all ran on grass
at the Sports Ground.
It looks as if Duncan Gray will repre-
sent Australia in the bikepushing at an-
other Olympiad. He couldn’t be caught
in any of the heats for the N.S.W. 1000
metres, though Steen twice finished within
a length of him.
* * * *
Expectations that Biddulph would im-
prove sufficiently to beat Nakama in the
Australian championships in Melbourne
—there are to be other races in Hobart —
were not borne out. It was the Japanese
from Hawaii who improved. He was
first in the 1650 yards, the 880 yards and
the 110. Biddulph, never threatening
danger, was second in the long-distance
races, and a 17-year-old Victorian, lan
Stewart, was only two yards behind him
at the end of the 110 yards, but Nakama
always seemed to have something in re-
serve. He stopped once during the 1650 to
ask how many laps remained, but still
finished 40 yards ahead of Biddulph in
20min. 26sec. Nakama can’t hold the
titles, so Biddulph is champion at 880
and 1650, and Stewart at 110 yards.
Victorians were supreme at diving.
Ron Masters, who won at the Empire
Games, proved much the best of the
high-divers, and Irene Donnett won
both diving events for her sex. Two
other winners were from N.S.W.:
Cornforth (220 yards backstroke) and
Miss Steele (880).
* * * *
“Butterfly”: A team of swimmers is
to visit South Africa after all; Bid-
dulph can’t manage it, but Ryan, Wilt-
shire and Masters are going. They leave
Sydney on Feb. 18, and will have a final
crack at Nakama in Perth.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide’s best long swim,
sea-water with no feqr of sharks, is from
Henley to Grange, the jetties being 1
mile 300 yards apart. This year’s race
was, as usual, chucked at a long-
marker. Best time was O’Connell’s
27min. 33sec.; the winner, Fielder, a 15-
year schoolboy, was less than two
minutes slower.
¥ * * *
“Kick Starter”: “Bluey” Wilkinson,
the Australian dirt-track rider, has col-
lected every important motor-cycle title
in U.S.A., Britain and Australia except
one —the World Derby. For that the
American J. Milne beat him last year, and
did it again on Saturday when it was raced
for in Sydney. Lamoreaux, another
American, also finished ahead of
“Bluey.”
* * * *
The young Haberfield eight looks like
going through the N.S.W. rowing season
unbeaten. In the N.S.W, championship
race on the Nepean it accounted for the
Pittwater and Police crews easily. The
lightweight fours provided more excite-
ment. Mosman and Balmain raced level
for a mile and a half, and couldn’t be
separated at the finish. They came out
again, and again stuck together till the
last 50 yards; then Balmain forged
ahead to win by half a length. Pearce
made a procession of the sculling; at
the end he was 20 lengths in front of
Turner. v
¥ * * *
H. A. Richardson (San Francisco): I
noticed a Bulletin par. about the inter-
national team-kicking and -passing contest
(I arranged it) to which Stanford Uni-
versity, the University of California (at
Berkeley), the University of California
(at Los Angeles), the University of
Southern California and the Victorian
Football League were parties. It gave
results of the dropkick and punt divi-
sions on the M.C.C. ground on July
16, and said “the Americans would kick
later” (or words to that effect). The truth
is that it was the Australians who delayed
the completion of the contest; the kick-
ing and all passing were completed at this
end by April 22.
The schedule consisted of: (1) Punt;
(2) dropkick ; \3) placekick ; and (4) pass-
ing (throwing)—all four divisions with the
American ball and the \l\oz. Aus-
tralian ball. The Americans lived up to
the agreement; the V.F.L. team competed
only in the dropkick and punt. Failure to
compete in all the three kicking divisions
dropped the Australians to fifth place
in the aggregate, and to a tie for second
in the sectional division. Teams were
limited to three men in each division
(punt, dropkick and placekick). Each
had three kicks with each ball; his
longest kick was recorded, and the aggre-
gate of the three longest kicks formed the
team total. Although I did not receive
any official results from Melbourne I
received the unofficial ones from the
“Sporting Globe”: upon these and official
American results I declared Stanford the
winners in both kicking divisions.
Aggregate, Kicking Division.
Sectional Division.
No. of Kicks, Total
Aus. Amer. Distance.
Team. Ball. Ball. Yds. Ft. In.
Stanford .. ..9 9 1143 0 7* 1
u Li. t sKr}~ 9 5 ™ 7 21 2
Uni. Southern Cal. 9 9 932 0 2 3
Uni California,! 9 9 916 1 7 4
Berkeley J „ „
Australia .. .. 6 6 759 2 0 5
Total
Place. Dropkick. Punt. Points.
Stanford .. 5 4 4 13 1
U.C.L.A. .. 4 3 3 10 l 2
Australia .. 0 5 5 10 J
U.C.B. ..1 2 2 5 4
U.S.C ..2 1 1 4 5
Passing (Throwing), Both Australian and
American Balls.
Total Distance.
No. of Throws. Yds. Ft. In.
U.C.L.A 6 378 0 8 1
Stanford .. .. 6 373 1 4 2
U.S.C. .. -.6 350 2 7 3
U.C.B. .. .. 6 326 1 5 4
The outstanding feature was the kicking
of 21-year-old Bill Paulman, of Stanford ;
his aggregate for six kicks was 400yds.
Biin., averaging 66yds. 2ft. lin. He
placekicked the Australian ball 79yds.
Ift. llin. and the American 75yds.
2ft. lip. I played for Richmond (Vic.) in
1902-03-04, and I never saw a kick any-
thing like that of Paulman’s with the
Australian ball. In the passing (throw-
ing) division Kenny Washington, a young
negro star of the University of Cal. at
Los Angeles, established an American-
Australian record of 64yds. Ift. 6in. with
the Australian ball; and Tony Calvelli, of
Stanford, passed the American ball 75yds.
lft. sin.
I supervised all the passing and kick-
ing at this end, and cannot speak too
highly of the manner in which the four
California schools carried out the agreed-
upon schedule.


t.wm;
o-tu-rv.
ĵj
_ , - AT THE.
ITIVOI.I
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 2 30 <9
12 New Oversea Acts.
“BIG FUN SHOW OF 1939.’
The Talk of Town.
> In the Flesh,
THE VOICE OF SNOW WHITE
(Adriana Caselotti).
O’DONNELL & BLAIR,
the Crazy Builders; and New Stars.
Musical.
SONG-POEMS and SONGS REQUIRED for
early publication. Known or unknown writers
invited submit original MSS. —PARAMOUNT,
LTD., Dept. CD, 9 Denmark Street. London,
W.C.2.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Idiot’s Delight”
The theme of this new play by Robert
Sherwood, which opened to a packed and
enthusiastic house at Melbourne King’s
on Saturday, is war, and war, according
to Sherwood, is the delight of idiots.
Thirty of them have collected, for dif-
ferent reasons, in the cocktail lounge of
the Loda Hotel, which is on a mountain
peak in the continent of Europe in any
imminent year, and the frontiers of three
countries can be seen from the hotel.
The fear of war hangs like a cloud over
some of the characters; to others it’s of
no account.
A German scientist, on the eve of dis-
covering the means of saving life by a
cancer cure, wants to escape to Switzer-
land. A Communist wants to get to
France to organise the workers of the
world to refuse to fight. A young honey-
moon couple from England want to have
their honeymoon in peace, after which
the husband, who is an artist, is going
to do great things. A munitions maker
arrives on a secret mission with his mis-
tress, said to be a descendant of the
Romanoffs. A young American impres-
ario also turns up, touring the capitals
of Europe with six remarkable giggle
girls and what he calls a bubble turn.
Everybody has a passport. The Rus-
sian princess has no country, and her
passport is endorsed by the League of
Nations. She is the least secure. The
munitions maker has the best passport of
them all; he is wanted everywhere.
The military commandant collects the
passports and goes off to visa them. There
is a military aerodrome adjacent to the
hotel, and in the middle of the proceed-
ings eighteen bombers depart for an un-
known destination. Seven of them
return, and the news gets about that first
Italy and France, then England and Ger-
many and presumably the whole world,
are at war. Paris has been laid in ruins,
25,000 kilos of the munitions maker’s
goods having been dropped on it in the
space of an hour.
When the scientist learns his country
is at war, he forgets his cancer cure and
becomes a Nazi, fighting to right the
wrongs inflicted on the Fatherland. He
gets his passport to return to Germany.
The Communist makes an attack on the
commandant and is taken out and shot.
The munitions maker becomes a pariah,
shunned by all, but he gets away with-
out any difficulty, leaving his mistress in
the lurch.
The honeymooning artist, shocked at
the destruction of Paris, wants to return
to England and join up, and the com-
mandant, being a stickler for the strict
letter of the law, allows him to go be-
cause his passport has been visa’d by
Rome and the telegram antedates the
declaration of war. He shakes hands with
the commandant, but his wife refuses to
have any truck with the man of war.
The impresario gets passports for his
giggle girls, and they go off to Switzer-
land, but he deserts them too. He has
discovered that the Russian princess is
a New York guttersnipe with whom he
had a brief love affair in a hotel in
Omaha. The deserted mistress falls into
his arms just as the roar of aeroplanes
is heard. The French are making a
counter-attack. Everybody flees to the
cellar except the impresario and his girl.
He seats himself at the piano, and she
sings while the Hotel Loda tumbles about
their ears.
On this framework Sherwood hangs a
powerful dialogue. The impresario would
have no war because he does not like it;
but neither does anybody else, actually.
Even the munitions maker exempts him-
self from responsibility, passing it on
from the man who makes munitions to
the people who want to buy them: his
ends would be served just as well if the
bombs were dropped into the sea. The
commandant doesn’t like shooting people,
but it is more exciting than handing out
passports all your life, and every human
being likes to make other human beings
feel. Art ought to have been exciting
enough for the artist, but he chucked it
up, first for his girl and then for the war.
Everybody in the play is either as silly
as a rabbit or as nice as pie. There is
no such thing as human malice, but there
is such a thing as human ignorance.
Lina Basquette and Henry Mollison
ran off with the show. She is pretty and
acted admirably. Mollinson was fresh,
natural and unspoiled as the impresario,
Frank Harvey was singularly lifeless as
Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald, the “Sweethearts” at Sydney St. James,
with Herman Bing and Frank Morgan.
the maker of bombs and aeroplanes, but
Frank Bradley filled the part of the scien-
tist obsessed with pursuing cancer germs.
William O’Neal was an amiable com-
mandant, and Lloyd Lamble a convinc-
ing Communist.
Ernest Rolls produced the play. Fol-
lowing on “The Women,” this is two
bull’s-eyes he has scored.
“Listen, Darling”
Judy Garland, Mary Aslor, Walter Pidgeon,
Freddie Bartholomew.
Treated as lightly as it merits and
acted just as lightly and pleasantly, this
M.-G.-M. support at Sydney State could
figure quite satisfactorily -as a main
feature.
Its theme has served in countless other
films —bad ones more often than not —
but here the filmsmiths do a commend-
able job in dishing it up. Miss Astor is
the bewchus but poverty-stricken widow
on the verge of splicing herself to
moneyed rotundity to guarantee her
children a good kick-off in life. The
Garland lass is her daughter, who con-
spires with Bartholomew to kidnap her
parent and cart her around the country-
side in a caravan while she thinks things
over.
Since the obvious solution to their
troubles would be an eligible bachelor
it’s only natural that Mr. Pidgeon will
also be cavorting around the countryside
in his caravan, that the two parties will
collide and that the rest will be plain
sailing.
All very thin, admittedly, but it’s de-
livered at a good pace with several deft
touches, and strengthened with some
light catchy tunefulness and humorous
sidelights, such as Miss Astor’s youngest
offspring attacking a skunk and thereafter
hating himself and being hated and
avoided by everyone in the neighborhood.
Miss Garland is a vigorous and en-
gaging young lass with a streak of pug-
nacity which defeats any attempts to
involve her in sob-stuff. Since her voice
has been filed a bit, her warbling here
is good, and she applies it effectively to
three or four ditties a cut above average
film yawping.
Bartholomew turns in his usual nice
work, and Miss Astor, appropriately
matronly, backs him solidly. Barnett
Parker sprinkles the yarn with comedy,
and is ably assisted in that by Alan Hale,
Gene Lockhart and Charlie Grapewin.
As for Mr. Pidgeon —well, it would be a
downright pleasure to knock the top off
a bottle with him at any time.
“Young Doctor Kildaire ”
Lew Ayres.
Young Doctor Kildaire, the son of a
country doctor, returned home after
graduating and was expected to take
over his father’s practice. Instead, he
disappointed his parents by heading for
a New York hospital, to discover which
branch of the profession most suited him.
His second patient was an attempted
suicide. A few minutes’ conversation
with her convinced him that her mind
was not unbalanced, and he ordered a
nurse to remove the binding sheets. The
patient immediately attempted to dispose
of herself again, was frustrated and
removed to a psychopathic ward.
Kildaire held to his belief, but when
the woman turned out to be a child of
wealth her case was handed over to a
leading psychiatrist, who contended that
she was insane. Kildaire’s convictions
were based on fragments of the woman’s
conversation which he would not divulge,
because, in his opinion, the information
would have been misused to further
aggravate her mental condition. He was
suspended from practising for insubor-
dination, but continued his investigation
and eventually removed the source of
the woman’s worry. He could take no
credit, because that would have involved
revealing what his patient wished to con-
ceal, so the psychiatrist supposed that he
had cured her and Kildaire was to leave
the hospital.
Broadly, that appears to be the story
which M.-G.-M. had in mind when they
made this offering at Sydney State. It
also appears that they had one eye on the
box-office and, instead of developing the
narrative fully along those lines, subordi-
nated it to the usual stock trimmings and
trappings for which film-addicts are sup-
posed to fall most heavily. The result is
a good film, entertaining for what it is,
but disappointing for what it might have
been.
There is, for instance, too much moral-
ising from Kildaire’s parents, who occupy
a greater footage of the film than is neces-
sary. That and superfluous heart-interest
in the shape of Lynne Carver as the li’l
girl from back home occasionally break
up the quiet strength of Ayres’s perform-
ance. Similarly, the strength of the story
is often damaged by too obvious resorts
to fiction and by conventional twists used
to hurry the yarn along to the customary
happy ending.
However, it’s a fair stretch of fiction,
possibly with a few medical discrepancies,
but out of the rut. It gains considerably
from an excellent performance by Lionel
Barrymore in a role that would have
been incredible if played by anyone else.
“Illegal Traffic”
J. Carroll Naish, Robert Preston.
At Sydney Cameo and Civic, where a
bank robbery, a police siren, two moiders
and a dozen pistol shots will set the
youngsters yelling fit to split the ceiling.
The lay of it reads something like the
complicated criminal organisations dealt
with in the “Crime Does Not Pay”
series. Gangsters who rob banks, lift
priceless jools and commit any other such
felonies in Gahd’s Own can, according
to the film, approach the heads of certain
transport concerns and obtain safe but
costly passage across the border.
Accepted method is to swathe them in
bandages, place them in a fake ambu-
lance with a fake doctor and nurse, and
so pass all police barriers to a secret
airport from where they are flown to
their destination.
There are high-powered cars galore
screaming down deserted country roads
with police bikes in hot pursuit, aero-
planes dropping bombs on the cars, a
spectacular bank robbery to begin with,
guns flashing everywhere at the slightest
provocation, and a couple of particularly
nice moiders.
Mr. Naish figures well as boss of the
proceedings. Like Bogart and Ed. G.
Robinson, he fits these gangster roles to
perfection, and is a capable character
actor along with it. Here he is an urbane
Latin obtaining as much enjoyment from
his mutilation of the English language as
he does from disposing of his rivals.
Mr. Preston is the gent, who eventually
settles Mr. Naish’s hash, and Mary
Carlisle the goil who is pleased to see
him do so.
“Give Me a Sailor ”
Martha Raye.
And the lengths that Miss Raye goes
to to get one make this current offering
at Sydney Cameo and Civic an up-
roarious stretch of fallabout comedy.
Miss Raye is a genuine comedienne.
Possibly she hasn’t shown in that light
before, but here, with a film to herself,
she proves that there’s no doubt about
it. She is a clown, and her humor is
not far removed from pathos; she has
the very essence of comedy. She has
several other attributes besides, includ-
ing voice and shape.
What the film is all about doesn’t
matter a jot. Suffice that Miss Raye is
the ugly duckling of the family, while
her sister gads about with all the lads
of the village and is not past lifting
Martha’s clobber to show off her own
lines. Sailor laying for the sister is the
object of Martha’s affections; sailor’s
brother also chasing sister, whereupon
he and Miss Raye conspire to buckle
that romance for their own benefit.
Once the piece is under way it moves
like a snowball, gathering speed as it
goes and collecting the separate small
comedies with which it is liberally
sprinkled, until the whole hotchpotch is
one headlong rush of hilarious damn-
foolery.
Funniest incident is Miss Raye robed
in bathtowels and encased in some facial
beauty-treatment which has dried harder
than concrete. What she does in those
circumstances should account for several
score of vest buttons and any number of
ladies’ whatnots.
When Miss Raye needs a spell there
are Bob Hope and Clarence Kolb to


Uau tisAU tldkk
'WWv WW i*r*W wwwUrWmw
oil Retools m
alike until
you've Med
CAR Rtus.. It's
miles letter!
h
%
CORc^ 1 PETROLS
There is a grade to suit your car
Super Plus
Super Plus is the only
full Ethyl petrol that
also contains benzol —
and offers you excep-
tionally high anti-
knock quality together
with amazing mileage.
p gR
sU
Til* 1
L
m
A
Plus Benzol
Petrol-benzol blends
are sold in other mar-
kets at premium rates
but Plus Benzol is
made available in
Australia at the stan-
dard grade price.
C157/27/SP
CUR
LOOK FOR THE RED.WHITE i BLUE PUMPS
THt COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (.Commonwealth Government and Anglo-iranian Oil
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH,
Co. Ltd.)
HOBART
take over the fun-making. Betty Grable
and Jack Whiting are the other com-
ponents of this rib-buster.
“A Desperate Adventure.”
Ramon Novarro.
Temporarily forsaking its gangsters
and cowpunchers, Sydney Capitol regales
patrons with Mr. Novarro as Parisian
artist of no mean reputation. In the
sanctity of his studio he has painted
an imaginary goil in carefree attitude
and still more carefree attire. Goil turns
up in the flesh, and, being daughter of
prominent Amurrican citizen, she, as
well as father, is naturally hostile
to painting and painter. An anony-
mous buyer complicates matters further
by shipping the picture to N’Yark, so
goil and parent ship aboard the same
boat intending to lift the portrait at
the first opportunity. Mr. Novarro also
on board chasing both goil and painting.
It’s not a bad set-up, and moves pretty
well of its own accord. There’s pilfering
in the ship’s hold in the dark hours of
the dawn, another and more chaste
portrait painted, and much pother
over the two being confused. Room
is also found for a double-barrelled
romance, in which, of course, the couples
are wrongly matched and sorted out in
time for fadeout clinch.
Eric Blore as valet threads his usual
line of humor right through the film, and
makes his customary riotous job of a
telephone conversation. Andrew Tombes
also funny in spots, and Margaret
Tallichet —hailed as a newcomer —quite
easy on the eyes.
Newsreels.
Among local events depicted at Syd-
ney’s newsreel theatrettes are the inter-
state sports meeting of the P.M.G.’s
department, 130 tons of locally-built
tug being launched by lifting and lower-
ing it into the water by crane, and Port
Kembla steelworks resuming production
after the Dalfram pother. There are
some arresting scenes of surfboats being
hurled about by heavy seas, and of
Maoriland’s Franz Josef glacier—a solid
river of ice which flows seawards at 15ft.
per day.
Overseas news discusses the predica-
ment of British railways in face of heavy
opposition from lorries, there is a “lie-
down” strike in London streets, and
mines in Chinese rivers explode under
rifle fire from Japanese soldiers. The
British film of “The Mikado,” which is
booked for Sydney’s Victory theatre,
seems to have had an enthusiastic re-
ception in London.
Tom Mooney’s release is the main
item from America, and there is the
inevitable reference to the Spanish affair.
Scenes shown were taken before
Barcelona fell, and the commentator’s
assertion that the Republicans would
stand firm seems rather absurd in view
of the speed with which the Government
faded when Franco neared the city.
Judging from a “Crime Does Not Pay”
feature, it seems a miracle that any
criminals in Gahd’s Own ever escape the
law. The crook in this case murdered
his victim by placing a bomb under his
car. Police found traces of the gun-
powder used, and by devious and in-
tricate laboratory research eventually
identified the explosive with samples
taken from a suspect’s hair.
A Gaumont-British reel also features
the opening of anew powerhouse in
Perth (W.A.). Begun in 1935 and com-
pleted at a cost of £600,000, the station
was opened from London by the Under-
secretary for the Dominions. The new
installation will burn local coal, pul-
verised and blown into the furnaces, and
will be the first station in Australia to
use steam at 6001 b. per square inch and
at 800 deg. F. Melbourne and Sydney
are expected to follow suit shortly with
similar installations.
Roosevelt as a Funnyman.
Shorts supporting “Sweethearts” at
Sydney St. James include one of President
Roosevelt receiving an honorary degree
at a university and addressing the hallful
of undergraduates.
The President’s performance stresses
the fact that the present world leaders
have a mighty thin helping of humor
among them. Roosevelt is reported by
those who have heard him to have an
exceptionally taking platform manner ;
as for his humor, as here revealed, Mr.
B. S. B. Stevens can be seen in another
current film beating it hollow.
The President reads his speech, the
brand of humor of which runs on the
lines that, though his audience has been
told that he habitually breakfasts on
grilled millionaire, his choice is scrambled
eggs.
He includes a word or two that should
interest those who like to fancy him as
Crusader-in-chief leading the world to
war. Of the various false charges against
himself which he is bent on exorcising
from the minds of his hearers, the one
to which he gives the lie most emphati-
cally is that he is going to lead American
youth “into another bloody war.”
On the funny side, the film suggests
that nobody enjoys the President’s jokes
quite so much as the President. If the
audience enjoys the joke he endorses its
judgment with a light chuckle or two ;
if the joke misses he enjoys it privately,
pausing, seeming to turn it over in his
mind, and chuckling away to himself.
He appears to be good-humored, and
affects no pose of being other than a
human being—an agreeable change from
solemn semi-divinities and psychological
mysteries.
“The Fugitive Sheriff,” at Sydney
Capitol, runs to 5277ft. Two hundred
are devoted to framing Ken Maynard
for a train robbery, 77 to a fadeout clinch
and the remaining 5000 to horses gallop-
ing like blazes all over the landscape
while they and the story get nowhere.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
Opening a show of paintings by Vergil
Lo Schiavo at the Italian Club, Sydney,
Prof. Woodhouse hit the nail on the head
when he said this artist, although he has
studied and painted mostly in Australia,
“inherited the tradition of the Italian
fresco painters.”
Whether in landscape, portraiture, con-
temporary figure studies or compositions
in the manner of the great Italian masters,
Mr. Lo Schiavo is always the fresco
painter, and like so many other modern
Italian painters seems to be fettered
rather than inspired by tradition.
Drawing, color and composition are
good, but there seems to be nothing in
the show that was painted to please the
artist himself, without homage to titanic
ghosts. It is a pity he has nothing to say
for himself, for his style of diction is
charming.
Mrs. Elisabet Delbruck’s show of prints
of the works of European masters, ancient
and modern, has been brought from Mel-
bourne to Sydney, and is on view at
David Jones’s new Market-street store.
Highlights are some rare Rembrandt etch-
ings and some magnificent color repro-
ductions of Holbein and Differ and some
of the English portraitists.
Mrs. Delbruck’s own work, which
covers as wide a range of styles and
mediums as do her thousands of prints,
makes a very interesting panel.
At Macquarie Galleries new ground
is broken with a mixed show of pictures
all at one price—£s ss. Some of the
paintings are quick sketches that scarcely
pull the weight of their price-tag, but
there is some excellent work on view.
Daryl Lindsay’s “Grey Day, Dover,”
Robert Campbell’s genial oils, Roland
Wakelin’s vigorous Harborside impres-
sions, Dora Jarret’s “Old Street,
Quimper,” Albert Collins’s rich water-
colors, and characteristic works by Mary
Edwards, Thea Proctor, Adelaide Perry,
Margaret Coen, Harold Abbot and John
D. Moore, with a fine pencil sketch by
Lloyd Rees, give the show a high average
of quality.
Adelaide
A pleasant and unusual out-of-season
show is at the Society of Arts gallery.
The widespread bushfires in S.A.,
though without the toll of life in other
States, have left a great trail of suffering.
Relief funds are everywhere, and local
artists have given a painting each to make
a collection which is good as a show, and
will later be auctioned.
The variety of talent, from the veteran
John White and the .Hambidge sisters,
down through Heysen and McNally to
the latest aspirants, is remarkable.
Melbourne Charity Concert.
The programme for Melbourne’s first
Bushfire Relief concert at the Town Hall
was long and scrappy, and performers
were too numerous. Consequently
encores were forbidden, and the execu-
tants whom the audience liked made a
fleeting and ghostlike appearance, like
hors d’ceuvres before a non-existent
banquet.
The Melbourne Philharmonics sang the
Grand March from “Tannhauser” and
an excerpt from Dvorak’s “Stabat Mater”
under George English’s tutelage, and the
snack was received with prolonged appro-
bation. George Hancock sang the
“Toreador’s Song,” and Browning Mum-
mery the “Flower Song.” Stella Power
very prettily warbled bravura variations
on a theme by Mozart, and Frederic
Collier intoned the prologue to
“Pagliacci.”
The Spivakovskys, Tossy and Jascha,
got away with most of the enthusiasm
per medium of violin and piano. The
Symphony Orchestra under Joseph Post
played some undistinguished items nicely.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
I
gggggg:
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids. Qualified matron and staff.
Every possible comfort and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surroundings and
delightful atmosphere. Terms on application. Telephone, 123 Springwood; or
ticulars from Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney. ’Phone: B4771.
par
BRAIMDALfR'S
m
sit* v
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEANDAOJSR * CO- Lti. BIBUINOHAJt.ES®
6C.V
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The flagship Canberra gave friends
an opportunity to board pinnaces and
invade its decks before it leaves for
Hobart. Lots of red and white bunting
helped to temper the late-afternoon
breeze, and a further note of comfort
was struck by the buffet tables set with
savories and the right accompaniments.
The Lieutenant-Governor Jordans were
among the 300 guests ; so were Mayor
Nock and his lady. Ostrich-feathers
ruffled on many of the best hats. Pink
were the fronds that circled Mrs. Ellis
Fielding Jones’s head; blue was the
plumage on Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s
brown hat. Consular ladies included
Mrs. Pao, Mrs. Host and Mrs. Waka-
matsu. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, the Bavin
lady, the Bruxners, Mrs. H. J. Feakes and
Mrs. Laidley Dowling were some of the
Admiral’s guests.
Mrs. Elizabet Delbruck, who brings
from Berlin by way of India an interest-
ing collection of examples of art through-
out the ages, is a pleasant-faced lady
with a clear complexion and quite a
mastery of our language. The collection,
which was opened in David Jones’s
Market-street gallery, should prove of
great value to students, and will, no
doubt, be the Mecca of the art classes
of every girls’ school within tram or bus
radius. The works of the early masters
are, of course, all in prints, many of
them reproductions of famed firms of
Dresden and Munich. The engravings and
woodcuts and etchings are the output of
the Government Printing Press in Berlin
—the same press which produces the
paper currency.
Among the original works are many
paintings by Mrs. Delbruck, who has
been painting since she was a young
girl, though for the last fifteen years she
has devoted herself to making her col-
lection known in various parts of the
world. The current show is the 150th
fh her venture.
Sydney Ure Smith opened the exhi-
bition, and a gallery more than half-full
listened to his words with attention.
Among the listeners were the Consul-
General for Germany, the Vice-Consul,
Pastor Lahusen and many other fellow-
countrymen of the artist. An attractive
girl was singer Ruth Gunther. Dr.
Beazley was there ; so were Judge Back-
house and Lute Drummond. The Francis
Anderson couple, Mrs. Claude Plowman
and Gloria Cosgrave came to swell the
praises over the reproductions of Differs,
Holbeins and Rembrandts.
Earl Beauchamp, who died last
November in U.S.A., left an estate valued
at over £140,000. To his three daughters,
Lady Dorothy, Lady Sibell and Lady
Mary, he bequeathed sufficient to give
each an income of £lOOO a year. To
his secretary, David Smyth, he left his
Australian property. It was a friendly
gesture, since David had been with him
for some years, had been a great help
through the trying time after the death
of the Earl’s son, the Hon. Hugh Lygon,
and had seen the alterations to the
house in March-street, Bellevue Hill,
being made practically brick on brick.
Two of the late Earl’s daughters, Lady
Sibell (three or four years ago she was
running a social page in a London paper)
and Lady Mary, have turned to matri-
mony within the last few weeks. Lady
Sibell’s young man is Richard Michael
Rowley, of Moor Farm, Lane End, Bucks.
Sibell seems to have inherited some of
father’s political bent. When her
brother, Lord Elmley, M.P., succeeded
to his father’s peerage, it caused a by-
election m East Norfolk, and immedi-
ately the local Liberal National Associa-
tion approached Lady Sibell to discuss
with her the possibility of her standing
in her brother’s place. Lady Mary
Lygon is engaged to the Russian Prince
Vsevelod, son of the late Prince John of
Russia, who was killed by the Bolshevists
in the last year of the war. The Prince’s
mother is a sister of the late King Alex-
ander of Yugoslavia.
Mrs. Walter Swinson, the Alexander
Gordon lady and Mrs. Fairfax are call-
ing a meeting for to-morrow morning at
11 o’clock in the banquet hall of the Aus-
tralia Hotel. If you decide to be at the
meeting the Martin-place lift will get you
there swiftest. It is felt that the success
of the celebrity concerts over the last
three years was to a great extent due to
the splendid efforts of the ladies’ com-
mittee. At to-morrow’s meeting it is in-
tended to discuss means to brand the
1939 season “excelsior.”
Up in Scott Chambers in Hosking-place
there is a room that receives a procession
of callers all day long. It belongs to
the N.C.W., but it has been given over
to the Women’s Voluntary Services move-
ment. Here from morning till evening
women and girls are busy enrolling, offer-
ing -themselves for various sorts of all-
time and part-time duties in the event of
war. Over 1000 have filled in their cards
to date, and under this scheme first-aid
and air-raid precautions classes are being
started in city and suburb. Last week
Mayoresses on the north side of the
Harbor were getting into their stride, and
Ruby Board addressed meetings called by
the civic ladies of North Sydney and of
Gordon. Janet Merewether, smiling in
this Cruden photogiaph, is joint secretary
with Mrs. J. Farquharson of this Volun-
tary Services movement.
A source of never-ending surprise to
those in charge is the qualifications pos-
sessed by many of the girls. Lots of
them, of course, can drive cars and run
motor-boats. But the young twenties
sometimes come, high-heeled, bare-armed,
and reveal that they have a language or
two in addition to their own, or that they
can draw, or that they have gone through
first-aid and home nursing. Two young
things went up the other day and casu-
ally produced proof that they spoke
French, German and Arabic ; and that
they had been through their first-aid.
Being business girls, they have acquired
these accomplishments in their spare time.
Among other specialists there’s a gradu-
ate in geography (Cambridge), map-
making her particular study. She will
take a class of girls of the Bush Walkers’
Association who are anxious to study
map-reading.
Public Benefactor No. 1, that’s what
Albert Collins is these days with his
never-failing fountain of fun. There’s
the dry sparkle of sophistication and wit,
too, in the jet. “Jo’s” opening of the
“Show of Fives” was up to standard, so
a lot of people who had gone through a
sense of duty to art, but whose minds
were still puzzled over war worries,
market reports, devastation in Chile and
flood and fire nearer home, were warmed
to laughter. This show has but one
price. Every picture in it is five guineas.
“Jo,” talking of the wisdom of making
the price of art fit the pocket of the
ordinary bloke, told a story of an exhi-
bition in the early days of Sydney. One
of the artists concerned said, “Let’s get
an outsider to put a fair value on these
works.” They thereupon called in the
manager of a big grocery business.
The painters told him what they wanted,
and solemnly he did the walls. At the
end they said breathlessly, “Now, what’s
a fair price?” He turned on them a
cold and calculating eye: “Wholesale or
retail?” he queried.
Three lively pictures were projected by
the speaker when he suggested (1) shock
troops of art, or house-to-house can-
vassers of masterpieces ; (2) Id. tax on
art-union tickets, which would supply
the three first prize-holders with a work
by an Australian painter, whether they
had colored almanacs or not; and him-
self arriving for the opening with a gun
—to start off the wild race of buyers
for the pictures on the walls. A flock of
the younger artists came to this show,
among them Dora Jarret and Helen
Stewart. Treania Smith, who helps run
the gallery, too, was another who showed
her wares. Particularly liked Dora’s
“Street Scene in Brittany,” Isabel Mc-
Kenzie’s “Wattle at Castle Hill,” and
Lloyd Rees’s “Lake Wamberal.”
On Friday night to aid the C. J. Den-
nis Memorial Prize Fund—the idea is to
establish a yearly literary prize to keep
green the memory of the author of The
Sentimental Bloke —writers, their friends,
heirs and assigns will dance at the
Feminist Club. For 3s. 6d. you can have
a bright evening, and perhaps glimpse a
celebrity or two. Mrs. Bill Fitz Henry is
putting her usual verve into the organis-
ing.
One of the prettiest girls to clamp a
ring on her finger this year is Jocelyn
Josephson. The gem is a flashing
diamond, set in platinum, and engages
her for matrimonial tryst with Wallace
Anderson. He’s only son of the W. A.
Andersons, of Edgecliff. Jocelyn is the
only daughter of Mrs. M. S. Atwill, of
Point Piper.
While the Oronsay was at the Quay
last week Lady Morris-Jones had a
quarter of an hour’s session with Dorothy
Welding’s camera. This is one of three
faithful results.
Phyllis Gurney is being snowed under
with letters of congratulation on her ap-
pointment as manager of the New
England Motor Co. Up till last week
Phyllis was assistant secretary of Airlines
of Australia, and it is this company
which is forming the new venture. Be-
fore Miss Gurney took her clever ex-
ecutive brain to Airlines she was in
charge of a small tourist office in Martin-
place. This Lindfield girl has a talent
for inspiring confidence in the most
nervous of ’plane travellers, maybe be-
cause she herself is in love with flying.
New England Motors is said to have one
of the largest transport fleets in Aus-
tralia, so Phyllis will have to know the
highways and byways of this continent
as well as she knows its skyways. She
is, by the way, an excellent amateur
photographer. She’s also a descendant of
Lawson the explorer.
To-day a luncheon will be held by the
Society of Women Writers at the Carlton
Hotel at one o’clock. The guest of
honor will be Madame Clemontel, wife
of the French Vice-Consul.
Wollongong went very gala for the
Show week. One of the main attractions
was Sole Bros.’ Circus, which enjoyed a
splendid season, but had had a heroic
struggle to keep the date. In order to
do this the dozen or so wagons, cara-
vans, cars, etc., had to make their way
through the Vic. bushfires and face
weather conditions such as old troupers
with the show had never before heard of.
The task was doubly difficult, for in the
entourage were lions, tigers, leopards,
monkeys, elephants, a score of dogs, two-
score ponies, horses and donkeys, all of
which were conveyed and never per-
mitted to make any of the journey on
foot, as they are all performers. Mrs.
Lindsay (eldest daughter of the late Mrs.
Sole), who directs the enterprise, enter-
tained a group of poor kiddies from the
district at a free show.
The King’s School’s new headmaster,
H. D. Hake, arrived in Sydney last week
with his bride. Up till December, when
the two were wed in Yorkshire, she was
Elizabeth Barton, and her home was
close to the school (now a museum) for
the daughters of clergy immortalised in
Jane Eyre. With her Mrs. Hake brought
her domestic-science diploma from Edin-
burgh College of Domestic Science. Mrs.
Hake also possesses a well-trained
soprano. Mr. Hake comes from Hailey-
bury College, Herts.
Vale Otto Krause —genial man of the
world, Austrian officer with the manner
of Vienna when the Hofburg was in
flower, and husband of Lotte Lehmann!
When they were here in 1937, their world
knew their marriage was an ideal one.
Indeed, in her recently-published auto-
biography, On Wings of Song, Madame
Lehmann pays a tribute to her husband,
for, as she says, “It is not easy to be the
husband of an artist. . . .Indeed it de-
mands of him a great deal of considera-
tion, understanding and forgiveness. And
the artist who can say ‘This is the right
husband for me’ has more reason to be
grateful to her fate than the majority of
women have —1 know it.” Last year
when Major Krause became seriously ill
with lung trouble, Lotte cancelled her
Covent Garden season, and during the
past few months she reduced her Ameri-
can concert engagements to the minimum
in order that she might spend as much
time as possible at the famed Lake
Saranac Sanatorium, where Major Krause
was a patient.
For the next nine months the Sterling
Levis family is going to be lost to
Sydney. Father, mother and Joan went
off in the Ormonde ; and before going
they uncorked sherry at the Forum
for a procession of friends. These
came and went between the hours of
five and seven. Mrs. Levis and Joan,
who have been absolutely steeped to the
eyebrows in farewell parties (something
like seventeen in seven days was Joan’s
bag), were fresh and smiling as daisies.
The hostess’s frock of lobelia blue had
an unusual neckline —a half collar of
white lace flat to the left side. Her
toque was a soft and plumy blackness.
Joan’s cheeks and frock were both rosy.
President of the Feminists, Mrs. P. A.
Cameron, who received an M.B.E. in the
New Year’s Honors, was given two
parties on the one day by enthusiastic
club members in their King-street fast-
ness. Although there were supposed to
be no speeches at the afternoon party,
the inevitable few words had to be
spoken. Mrs. Kenneth Street said them,
and the guest responded, her smile, her
blue frock, her bouquet and her shoulder
spray of flowers (made by Mrs. Soder-
steen) making a vivid whole. . To meet
her evening barrage of congratulations
Mrs. Cameron wore a frock of black
satin scrolled in blue. There was music
for both occasions, the programmes being
arranged by Mrs. G. Perrins.
The Richard Martin pair, formerly of
Quirindi sheep pastures she was
Dorothy Fox, of Bathurst—send greet-
ings from London. “It was a white
Christmas,” she wrote, “with snow and
penetrating cold. Still we enjoyed it —
but the shops, which made great pre-
parations, had rather a disappointing time,
as the streets were so slippery that many
people were afraid to do the usual last-
minute shopping. We go to Bourne-
mouth, then to France. Home again m
N.S.W. towards the end of this year.”
One night recently Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Albert entertained at their home,
Boomerang, naval officers who entered
the R.A.N. College at Geelong at the
same time as their dead elder son, Otto
Albert. The officers and their wives
who were invited were all able to come,
with the exception of two or three who
are at present in England and Comdr.
and Mrs. J. H. Armstrong, who were
unavoidably prevented from being
present. A similar “get together” was
held last year, and the year before, and
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Albert hope that
this will now become an annual function.


%*
&
your oujn
PENGUIN
JumboJ ujorit
qive i|ou
any of mine
vi
k:
01
v
You know what an appetite
elephants have-they want the
lion's share always.
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder he's greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream—it is a delicious, rich
food.
Penguin
1C E - CRE4M
A PRODUCT OF %e, N.S.W.FRESH FOOD l ICE CO LTD.


LONDON
THACKERAY HOTEL
OPPOSITE THE BRITISH MUSEUM GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.I
Centrally situated for sight-seeing, entertainments and business. Hot and cold water,
telephones and free electric heating in all bedrooms. Numerous private bathrooms.
Spacious quiet public roojns.
Bedroom, Bath and Breakfast from 9/6 per night. Luncheon 2/6. Dinner 3/6.
Inclusive Terms and Illustrated Booklet, “LONDON OLD AND NEW,” on application.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO ROBERT POMEROY formerly of Tea Tree
in Tasmania Horse Trainer but whose
present address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a.notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of SYLVIA IDA POMEROY of
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage. In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereto. AND take further notice that
for the purpose aforesaid within 50 days after
the date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart
aforesaid.
DATED this 31st day of January, 1939.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . • Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, • rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millAons of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MlbEh
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN'S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
Melbourne
Chatter
A space of generous proportions which
might originally have been a ballroom
at 144 Gipps-street, East Melbourne, and
is now Dinah Roach’s studio, was the
meeting ground of a party last week.
Some guests arrived by the front door,
whence they just followed their ears;
others, because they were looking fon an
artist’s studio, took the side entrance over
the cobblestones and made their entry
by way of the kitchen, for the moment
the cocktail bar. The party was given
by Mrs. Louis McCubbin, of Adelaide,
in honor of the Bonython lady, who is
on a visit to Melbourne. Among the
guests were the Basil Buller Murphys
and Dr. Deborah’s attractive daughter,
Mrs. A. Wallis Kendall, looking very
young and vivacious and quite unseared
by her responsible life. As Dr. Verna
Hackett she practises as a physician in
Harley-street. Her husband is a surgeon.
She has brought her three young children
with her on a holiday to Australia.
At the party also were the Gulletts,
Mrs. Gullett in a soft shade of apple
green which looked particularly well
against her hair. Colonel and Mrs. Dave
Blake were there, the Colonel with wound
stripes on his finger (explanation —peace-
maker in a dogfight at Victor Harbor).
Up from Ranelagh were Mrs. J. Mc-
Comas and Peggy, who wore a racehorse
brooch of diamente. Beth Campbell
looked seasonable in her leaf-green frock
of lightweight woollen material. Owing
to the sudden drop in temperature many
people brought coats, which were soon
hanging from screens and easels, for Miss
Roach had a fire burning, a luxury bal-
anced by widely-opened windows.
Lady Gowrie, who is “godmother” to
the society v/ith the jawbreaking name
—the Australian Association for Pre-
School Child Development—opened its
first biennial conference in Melbourne
last week, which was a great success
notwithstanding the youth of the move-
ment, not yet a year old. The formal
opening ceremony, to which the general
public and anyone interested were in-
vited, took place in the University Union
theatre. The conference included lec-
tures, meetings and exhibitions at the
University and several luncheons and
dinners. Members dislike the word
“Pre-School” in the cumbersome title of
the A.A.P.S.C.D., but so far they haven’t
had a brainwave for a better one. They
are concerned with the health and en-
vironment of young children before they
come to school age, but the word
“school” jars and reacts with an impres-
sion of work and study rather than well-
being. The association hopes to bring
to more small children the joy of kinder-
gartens and nursery schools. Only 4\
p.c. of our kindergarten-age population
receives such advantages.
“The man who talks about the secret
of healthy is a crank or else is trying to
sell your something. Such words of
wisdom came from the lips of Dr. Kings-
ley Norris at the opening of the
A.A.P.S.C.D. conference held last week
in Melbourne. Dr. Norris in his address
gave some information about slum re-
clamation. He assured his audience that
health is of more value than learning,
and that if the world were healthy it
would be happy and might smile again.
Another speaker on the same platform
was Dr. Anita Miihl, who has a devas-
tating list of letters after her name. Where
a highbrow and highly technical address
might have been expected there came
something easily understood, with inci-
dental stories of psychologists’ experi-
ences. One such tale was of Ink and
Mink, two small black kittens which once
upon a time were given to Dr. Miihl.
Among her acquaintances of that period
were two boys, one nine years old, an
introvert, and his brother, aged eight, an
extrovert. Nine-years-old heard these
terms used and inquired what they meant.
Dr. Miihl explained that an introvert is
shy, too sensitive, often resentful, and
that an extrovert is lively, full of fun, and
gets on well with everybody. She made
no personal references, and although she
did not cite the kittens as examples it
was through them that the boy diagnosed
himself, for Ink was an extrovert with
winning ways, while Mink was jealous,
scratchy, hid under chairs while his
brother was being petted, and showed
peevishness over his food. The boy must
have thought things over for a while, and
then one day he left one parcel addressed
to Mink on Dr. Miihl’s doorstep. It con-
tained a toy mouse, just one mouse. There
was nothing for Ink. The introvert boy
understood and sympathised with the in-
trovert kitten.
In the Broothorn portrait is Nancy
Kellet, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. Kellet, of Ivanhoe, who on a
short visit to her home last week
promised to help Mrs. J. F. Key at the
fruit-cup bar at His Majesty’s to-night.
Mrs. Key and her assistants are hoping
for a warm evening so that the audience
to a man will slake an unquenchable
thirst with iced fruit drink, a tried and
true German recipe made out of fresh
fruit and guaranteed to be cold. Miss
Kellet’s promise of help is, however,
subject to circumstances. Since the
bushfires she has spent nearly all her time
at Yarra Glen and at Taggerty helping
country friends who lost their homes to
move and feed stock and make repairs
to fences. She may still be on this job
of work on the date of the bushfire re-
lief show.
There was not a seat to spare on
Saturday at the King’s for a histrionic
occasion, the opening night in Australia
of Robert Sherwood’s “Idiot’s Delight,”
about which an undercurrent of excite-
ment ran high. The audience arrived
early and disgorged itself into the foyer,
where it stayed, moving little but talking
a lot, in a summer temperature caused
by camera lights, till It was coaxed and
cajoled into its seats by staff and usher-
ettes in their new pale blue uniforms.
The entire play takes place in the
cocktail lounge of an alpine hotel, a
satisfactorily-balanced piece of stage-
setting in pastel green and burgundy with
chromium fittings, a winding staircase
and real swing doors of polished wood.
The blonde cuties, like a bunch of para-
keets, in the dancing troupe chew gum,
flap their eyelashes and show off a
snappy dress-shop lot of new season’s
coats, frock and colors, cheeky turned-up
hats and high heels or snow boots, de-
pending on whether they are going or
coming. Leading lady Lina Basquette,
an alluring brunette, leaves off the rouge
but plasters on the powder, uses raspberry
lipstick and wears three slick creations,
one a silver evening gown with artfully-
puffed sleeves and low decollet age, back
and front. An emerald-green frock has
a little sable corselette. A second day
frock is bright red, swingy as to skirt,
with bands of Persian lamb around the
hem and curling up along the pointed
waistline. It’s more than just a frock.
Its avid color is part of the high-pitched
emotion of the last scene. Bombs are
falling; the world is in flames. Irene
meets annihilation with artificial gaiety,
Harry Van with his own peculiar
quizzical philosophy.
Incidentally the bombs are quite good
peace propaganda. Those in the audi-
ence with “nerves” leap fully three feet
into the air with every crash. The climax
was slightly watered down by the final
curtain, a line-up of the players (includ-
ing the return to life of Quillery, who
wound up as a corpse at the feet of a
firing squad), masses of flowers and some
speeches.
Noticed in the first-night house were
the Albion Walkieys and Lynette, in
shell-pink and ostrich-feathers; Peggy
Fraser, in a lovely white fox cape ; Dr.
and Mrs. Frank Davis, she with flowers
a-bloom in white organdie across her
corsage. Mrs. Sam McKay wore a gown
like moonlight, and Mrs. Lindsay Mildred
one akin to the autumn-leaves already
falling in St. Kilda-road. Sydney visitors
present were the Phillip Bevans, who
recently have been doing a lot of travel-
ling about between Bellevue Hill, Jervis
Bay and Menzies’ in Melbourne.
The committee for the Bushfire Relief
Gala to take place this evening at His
Majesty’s has been busy with books of
tickets, hoping that a full house will
make the function a success. Tickets
are one guinea, 10s. and ss. Everybody
concerned is giving free services, and all
committee members and helpers are buy-
ing seats. Plans went ahead at the meet-
ing in the Town Hall last week when
the Lady Mayoress presided and, after
all business was concluded, asked every-
body to stay a while because tea was
coming. It arrived, a delectable draught
on a warm afternoon, in green and cream
cups.
Among those round the Council
Chamber table or on the outskirts under
the severe gaze of many painted mayors
of the past were Mrs. Wooton, wife of
the Town Clerk, and her daughter
Marjorie, blue spots strewn over her
white coat. Popular friend of so many
charities Marie de Bavay made several
helpful suggestions to the committee.
The Colin Fraser lady, in mist-blue and
pearl eardrops, Catherine Fogarty, under
the wide and drooping brim of a black
hat, and Mrs. Tom Fogarty, with white
dots running races upon her burgundy
frock, were also there. Young matrons
who put over sales talk in the matter of
disposing of tickets were Mrs. Norman
Coles, in cyclamen, with two ostrich-
feather curls on her hat, and Mrs, Max
Moffatt, in white, with a violet veil
swathed over her hat. Also in white was
Peggy Churton, recently returned from
a holiday at Mt. Eliza. Shirley Carroll
was there, looking her usual self and
not the convalescent which she is tech-
nically, having just recovered from the
loss of an appendix.
A lift of useful height to the Lord
Mayor’s Bushfire Fund should result from
the concert in the Town Hall. A com-
pliment to the artists who contributed
and a matter of satisfaction to all those
who gave their services, carriers, the pro-
viders of potplants, and the front of the
house staff, to whom every fresh boiled
shirt is an item which must be balanced
on the weekly budget, was the fact that
very few seats were unoccupied. Pro-
viders of the programme were the Mel-
bourne Sympathy Orchestra * with con-
ductors Joseph Post and George English,
the Melbourne Philharmonic Society,
Tossy and Jascha Spivakovsky, Frederic
Collier, Stella Power, Browning Mum-
mery, Strella Wilson, George Hancock
and Ailsa MacKenzie.
Federal and State vice-regals occu-
pied a block of seats in the gallery.
The audience was an inter-State one,
for many people interested in the
A.A.P.S.C.D. Conference were present.
Among those noticed were Miss
Trevor Jones and Thelma St. John
George, Mrs. Forges MacKenzie in black
with a bandage on her finger (an acci-
dental casualty inflicted by her dog dur-
ing a walk in Fitzroy Gardens) and Helen
Speeding, who lost her grand piano and
all her music when the old family home
was recently burnt down at Ringwood.
Rona Ellinson was present with her
fiance, Dr. Oscar Alpins, a Viennese who
has been in this country only a month.
The romance was a case of love at first
sight.
Jack Cato’s photograph of the Vincent
Wheatleys’ only daughter Pat was taken
a few days before she sailed with her
mother on the first lap of a trip to Eng-
land. Leaving in an earlier steamer than
the Oronsay, which they will eventually
board towards the end of the month in
Fremantle, has given them the opportu-
nity of a. couple of weeks in Westralia,
where they have relatives and numerous
friends. Mrs. Wheatley, John and Pat
were all born in the West, and they lived
there until ten years ago. Since that time
Pat has been at school at Ascham and at
Doone, and has since leaving school de-
veloped an interest in dramatic art. She
hopes that her holiday abroad will last
at least nine months.
Margaret Cochran and Chiqua Edge-
worth are off to foreign parts this weel
in the Remo. Margaret was once abroad
for several years. Both have many
friends in England, and each has a note-
book filled with addresses of pensions in
France, Italy and Germany; but job-
hunting as well as travelling is indicated.
Chiqua is the sort of saleswoman who
can sell ice to an Icelander, and should
do all right if she gets the chance to
prove her ability. Margaret’s hope is her
knack with clothes. One of her uncles
is conversationalist Tommy Cochran.
Lollopy Lodge has a new tenant, Mar-
jorie Morris, who since she has secured
right of home and haven fronting the
cobblestones of Little Park-street (an
ancient portion of South Yarra into which
builder-speculators have not yet pene-
trated) finds herself the envy of some of
her friends. Like many of them she has
looked for months for somewhere to live
(the bed.-sit. idea with comfort or a small
flat, which isn’t as easy as it sounds to
find). There’s something fascinating
about possessing a cottage. The fact that
it is crooked adds to its attractions.
Everything in Lollopy is crooked: its
doors, windows, cupboards and even the
ethics of its spiders, belligerents who are
liable to spin webs overnight. Next door
to Lollopy Lodge is Three Fishes, abode
of architect Miss Turner Shaw. It also
has its personality. The fishes are their
own nameplate, carved out of the wood-
work on the miniature verandah.


“AWATEr
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
j
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the books are
published in London. Prices outside the British
Isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
MACMILLAN’S MODERN
DICTIONARY
12/6.
This new dictionary is handy and com-
prehensive. It contains 1466 pages and
over 140,000 entries. The printed page
is a triumph of arrangement and is
clearly readable.
THE MACMILLAN ENCY-
CLOPEDIA OF MUSIC
AND MUSICIANS
1 Volume, 42/-.
This is the largest and most comprehen-
sive encyclopedia of mus'c ever published
in one volume. It has 2089 pages and over
50,000 references on every conceivable
subject of interest to musicians ’ and
music lovers.
BIRDS AND BEASTS IN
AFRICA
By LORD BADEN-POWELL,
4/6.
Amusing stories and delightful illustra-
tions in colour and line by the author.
“Both text and pictures are rich in his
characteristic hum o u r.” —“Illustrated
London News.”
MACMILLAN’S 3s. 6d.
LIBRARY
New Volumes.
A. G. MACDONELL: Visit to America.
HUGH WALPOLE: A Prayer for My Son.
lAN RANKIN: Goodbye to the Lady.
JOHN OWEN: The Blind for Sacrifice.
A. E. COPPARD: Ninepenny Flute.
E. M. DELAFIELD: Nothing Is Safe.
JAMES HILTON: We Are Not Alone.
H. FITCH: My Mis-spent Youth.
To be obtained from all
booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The next Australian Administrator to
go travelling will be C. L. A. Abbott, of
the Northern Territory. He is to fly to
London in April.
“J.W.”: Tully (N.Q.). set a precedent
which a lot of other towns might have
followed. It named streets after its
Diggers. The townspeople were re-
minded of it the other day when a
member of the local clergy turned up
with a petition to have one Digger name
removed in favor of that of the Rev.
Clancy. The Digger said he didn’t mind,
as Mr. Clancy was a very good reverend,
“ Yairs, mister, Mas a marvel. Wisht I ’ad a few more like er."
particularly to Diggers. Which was just
the sort of stand a Northern Digger could
be expected to take.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Salamaua, which W. M.
Hughes picked as a New Guinea capital
site safe from earthquakes, has come to
light with a tremor which rocked the
ground and moved cars in the streets,
besides sending bottles flying. It lasted
a minute. The clearing of a road to a
place of safety, a work begun after a
tidal wave in April, has, according to
Granny “Herald,” “given the residents
more confidence.”
* * * *
“Gain”: Five years ago The Bulletin
began to advocate the administrative
linking of New Guinea and Papua, with
a capital at Moresby. The only response
consisted of looks of holy horror. Then
Fairbairn, M.P., went north and became
an enthusiast for the plan, which was
attributed to him. Now, the Papuan
press is acclaiming Mr. Harrison, who has
become an Assistant Minister in Can-
berra —“he strikes us as being the best
Minister for the Territories since the
days of Mr. Batchelor”—because of what
it calls “his amalgamation scheme.” Most
Moresby people favor the amalgamation,
though a section is afraid that Chinese
merchants from Rabaul would overrun
the new capital, and that recruiters from
the Sepik, Ramu and other salubrious
spots would overrun the recruiting
grounds. The local journal says it
“would like to reply with the simple word
‘rats,’ but that would be rude.”
* * * *
“Zedo”: Dead in Winton (Q.), at 49,
John Basil Quartermaine. Cloncurry re-
members him before the war as a hard-
riding and very young head stockman
on Coorabulka. Then he and Jack Ken-
nedy got hold of a newfangled horseless
carriage and began to carry freight over
the dusty roads. Just as the horses were
getting used to them, war broke out, and
Quartermaine and Kennedy went to it
as 47th Battalion men. They both came
back to become pillars of the R.S.S.I.L.A.
Kennedy is secretary of the Toowoomba
branch, and for 10 years Quartermaine—
who returned to the carrying business —
had been vice-president of the Winton
branch.
sjc * * *
“Flat Top”: Mackay’s new harbor will
be ready for shipping during next winter ;
its 3000 ft. shelter walls are nearly
finished. There is talk of asking the
King to open the project by radio.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: Can the North defend
itself? Recruiters are preparing to
descend on it this month, but in many
places they can save their breath. When
the matter was raised in the Townsville
R.5.5.1.L.A., Lt.-Col. North, command-
ing the 31st Battalion, remarked that its
strength was such that the northern city’s
recruiting quota would be only 76. The
battalion will fall in and march to the
recruiting hall when Donald Cameron
arrives to-night (Feb. 8) to kick off.
Tully announces that when Townsville
opens its campaign Tully’s rookies will
have their first instructional fall-in. And
when somebody mentioned the formation
of a unit in Longreach (C.Q.), where
every second man is a Digger, a move-
ment was at once started by the brass
band to enlist in a body.
f
“J.E.8.”: Not cosmopolitan, this
Bananaland? A syndicate that won a
prize in what is sometimes mysteriously
called a “certain investment” included
Fong Long, J. Zenovich, S. and D.
Cucuk and an Aussie who gave his
address as Cobba-da-mana.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: It has been an amaz-
ing season for sharks along the northern
N.S.W. and S.Q. coasts. In many places
it has been almost impossible, for days
at a time, to get a snapper or other reef
fish into the boat. Tiger sharks up to
16ft., blue pointers to 14ft. and grey
nurses nearly as big have been caught,
and bigger ones lost or seen. Shark
alarms have been going every day on
the beaches, dozens of surf-skiers have
had the fright of their young lives
through finding themselves escorted by
sinister, sinuous underwater shapes, and
a surfer has had half a square foot of
skin rubbed off by colliding with a 12-
footer when starting a shoot. Yet, in
spite of an unparalleled number of
bathers, there was not a single sharkbite
during the holiday season. The reason
for both happenings was an unusually
large supply of school fish, which
attracted the sharks but kept them from
getting hungry enough to experiment on
bigger game.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: That indefatigable
ex-Queenslander E. G. G. Barton, now
in his 81st year, has produced a sur-
prising scientific film illustrating the
action and causes of ocean tides. Lon-
don Scientific Film Society described it
as “one of the most remarkable diagram-
matic films ever made in England.”
Thirty years and more ago, when he
represented Brisbane in the Qld. Leg.
Ass., Barton’s two pet hobbies were
decimal currency and the theory of tidal
fluxes. A fine mathematician, a trained
civil engineer, master of half-a;-dozen
languages and deeply versed in most
branches of natural science, he possessed
a gift of lucid exposition which made
the most complicated subjects unravel
themselves to the understanding of the
most unscientific mind. Naturally, he
was not a political success.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Where has the wild North
gone—the outback of he-men who rode
into the bar, pulled down the pub about
Bung’s ears, and chased mounted coppers
round tailings dumps with axes? I don’t
know where —but it’s gone. If you don’t
believe it, read the sad story of Leno
Pezzutti, who was convicted and fined
two-ten the other day for —“firing a
cracker in Byrne-street, Mareeba.”
* * * *
“X.T.”: In spite of the recent disaster
at Katherine (N.T.), the trans-Aus-
tralian Air Route is booming so much
that the Civil Aviation Board has de-
cided to spend £20,000 on it. Alice
Springs and Daly Waters are to have
radio plant which will complete the
direction-finding link between Darwin
and Adelaide. Gravel runways are to be
put down at the Alice and Tennant.
There will still be a lot to do after that,
but it is a good start.
# * * *
“Attack Creek”: Tennant’s Creek has
had a new experience—new since it be-
came a township instead of a lonely
O.T. station staring out on unsullied blue
hills: 4\ inches of rain in one down-
pour, followed by a flood. It cut off sup-
plies, and the Tennant ran out of butter.
The first time I was there —nearly 28
years ago—it was suffering from a butter
famine which, according to the best
local authority, had been in existence
since some time before the beginning of
the Permo-Carboniferous era. Inci-
dentally, it is curious to note the relation
of the rainfall to distance from the coast.
Darwin’s average is about 60in. The
Katherine, just over 200 miles inland,
gets a little under 40in.; Daly Waters,
roughly 300. miles, about 25in. The
curve flattens a bit when it leaves
Powell’s Creek —just over 400 miles, just
under 20in. —because there the country
rises over 1000 ft. to the Tennant, which
is about 550 miles from the coast and
gets about 17in.; but it is still a pro-
gressive curve of perfect symmetry as
far as Alice Springs.
* * * *
“Kamerad”: It is 75 years since 20
German families came to the Logan,
south of Brisbane, and it was decided to
celebrate the other day while some of
the originals were still alive. Four, two
aged women and twp aged men, attended
a service in the Bethania Junction
Lutheran Church, along with 400 de-
scendants of their shipmates. Those im-
migrants when they came had no trouble
in getting land —nobody else wanted
the kind of scrub which covered the
Logan district. It has been turned into
some of the richest dairying, potato-and-
corn-raising country in Queensland. The
people, like all the other German groups,
have increased and multiplied, and given
Australia a couple of splendid
generations of native-born farmers —and
a good many Diggers.
* * * *
“Munni”: Brisbane was “startled” the
other day when a British visitor walked
off a ship in kilts and expressed a desire
to see a mosquito. Judging by the ex-
perience of a lot of kilted regiments, the
mosquito will be just as anxious to see
him. The 73rd, a Black Watch bat-
talion, went to India in their kilts in
the eighteenth century, but a very short
time at Culaba (Bombay) sent them
yelling for pants. When they went back
to Perth (Scot.) later, they reverted to
kilts, but, drafted to N. S. Wales, they
were lined up off the Australian coast
and solemnly deprived of their skirts in
favor of trews. The mosquito is one of
the reasons why a lot of whites don’t
take to lava-lavas in the tropics. I once
spent an evening in shorts in a mangrove
swamp. It was one of the most solemn
and blasphemous experiences of a mis-
spent life.


so
UIUI
ttO
fttf it*
o
o
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and .
nerves function well you will be vigorous and '
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN .
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
You can’t
ignore GAM
It is the ONJLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
p,v
vs
Mullam
master
MullarJ RADIO -VALVE?
6 R Y yv H E RJ
SOLD
E V
Milliard (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
63-67 William Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Radio Amateurs and Defence.
A few months ago an “Australian
Signal Corps Reserve” was suggested to
incorporate amateur telegraphists in the
defence scheme. Nothing has since been
heard of the idea. There has been for
many years a reserve of amateur radio-
men in the R.A.A.F.W.R. linked with
the Wireless Institute of Australia, and
this is apparently still functioning, though
not very successfully.
The only known scheme utilising radio
amateurs in N.S.W. is a voluntary coastal
motor-boat organisation. This was con-
ceived by motor-cruiser owners, and the
scheme, submitted to the N.S.W.
Division of W.1.A., is meeting with good
response. This is purely a civilian
organisation in which the amateurs con-
cerned design their own equipment and
pay their own expenses. Apart from
drill in correct methods of handling ser-
vice traffic, a certain amount of nautical
training under men with naval experience
is given. There are a few amateur radio-
men in the C.A.F. and militia, and once
these have acquired routine training their
services as proficient telegraphists are
valuable. To many amateurs, however,
the idea of enlistment is not welcome,
but they would be prepared to give their
services in & civilian reserve capacity.
The recently-inaugurated Civilian
Wireless Reserve in Britain, which was
launched by the R.5.G.8., enrols amateurs
as part of the R.A.F. Reserve. The
Government intends that these people
will ultimately form part of the R.A.F.
Volunteer Reserve. Accepted candidates
are enrolled as civilians. During the
Radio Show at Olympia last year the
Radio Manufacturers’ Association and
the R.S.G.B. placed facilities at the dis-
posal of the Air Ministry, and an appeal
by the Under-Secretary for Air through
the television service brought in many
recruits. Age limits are between 18 and
54.
Candidates must have a reasonably
good knowledge of wireless telegraphy
and the Morse code, and should prefer-
ably hold a P.M.G. experimental license.
Previous experience with the R.A.F. is
not necessary. Disability pensioners, per-
sons in Air Ministry civilian employment,
registered medicoes, medical students,
dental surgeons and students, members
of H.M. forces, police forces, prison
services and fire brigades are not eligible.
Enrolment is for five years, with re-
enrolment for further five-year periods.
Members must undertake to place their
services at the disposal of the Air Coun-
cil in the event of emergency, and must
be prepared to transfer to the appropri-
ate section of the R.A.F.V.R. when called
upon to do so.
Training is the all-important part of
the scheme. It is for the most part
undertaken by members at their homes
on their own equipment, and consists of
exercises broadcast from the Air Minis-
try and the Royal Air Force Electrical
and Wireless School at Cranwell, Lines.
Members whose transmitters are used in
connection with training are allotted
special callsigns. Exercises with aircraft
and marine craft are arranged, and
R.A.F. mobile equipment is periodically
allotted to areas for exercises, lectures
and rallies arranged at various centres.
Training allowances and travelling ex-
penses are paid. Members who possess
P.M.G. transmitting licenses and who
have reached the required standard of
proficiency are paid £2 p.a. as compen-
sation for equipment maintenance, and,
in addition, a free issue of quartz crystals
is made.
The response to the R.A.A.F.W.R. has
been desultory, and personnel has
changed considerably from time to time.
Something on the lines of the British
scheme should be inaugurated. It is time
for responsible officers of the W.I.A.
and the Defence Council to get together
on the question.
D.B.K.
Grid-leak Bias Operation
of High MU Triodes.
Tests have recently been carried out
in the laboratory of Amalgamated Wire-
less Valve Cos. on Radiotron type 686 G
(75) with anew form of self-bias having
several advantages over the older form
using cathode resistor and condenser. It
is effected by connecting the cathode
directly to earth, and increasing the grid
resistor from one megohm to at least
five or 10 megohms as shown in the
diagram.
Although it would appear that the
valve is operating at zero bias, bias is
present due to the contact potential of
the grid, which causes grid current to
flow at approximately 0.75 volt. When a
high value of grid-leak is used, the grid
current flowing produces a negative
voltage on the grid which is sufficient to
allow the valve to excite a 6F6G (42) to
full output without excessive distortion.
Tests carried out on a 686 G gave these
results:
Cathode Bias / Zero Bias — 1 . Zero Bias
5000 Ohms + 25mfd. 5 Megohm Grid-leak. 10 Meg. Grid-leak.
Output. Distortion. Output. Distortion. Output. Distortion.
Input. R.M.S. R.M.S. R.M.S.
•05v 2.7v. 4.5% 3.1v. 4.2% 3.1v. 4.5%
■ lv 5.7v. 3.1% 6.45v. 3.0% 6.5v. 3.0%
•2v 10.2v. 2.8% 12.Ov. 2.6% 12.4v. 2.5%
•3v 16.2v. 2.8% 18.0v. 2.5% 19.0v. 2.6%
•4v 21.8v. 3.3% 23.2v. 2.6% 24.6v. 2.6%
•5v 26.6v. 4.2% 27.0v. 3.8% 28.4v. 3.5%
■6v 29.4v. 5.8% 29.4v. 5.5% 31.0v. 4.8%
Tn each case the plate supply was
250 volts, plate load .25 megonm, and
following grid-leak one megohm.
These tests were also carried out with
grid-leaks of 15 megohms and one
megohm resistance. With 15 megohms
no appreciable improvement was shown
over the figures for 10 megohms, whilst
the distortion with one megohm was too
high to be tolerable.
The scheme appears to have the fol-
lowing advantages over normal self-bias:
(1) The A.C. load resistance on the pre-
ceding valve is increased, being ap-
proximately half the resistance of the
grid-leak, and thus in case of a diode
load allows a higher percentage of modu-
lation to be handled without distortion.
(2) The gain with small inputs is slightly
higher than with cathode bias. (3) The
distortion is slightly less than with
cathode bias. (4) There is a saving of
both bias resistor and by-pass condenser.
(5) There is better uniformity from valve
to valve.
One disadvantage that is immediately
apparent is that delayed A.V.C. is not
possible by ordinary means. This is not
serious, for by returning the diode load
to some negative point delayed A.V.C.
may still be obtained, and at the same
time the need for cathode bias resistors
in the controlled stages is done away
with, furthei simplifying the receiver.
A further disadvantage is that, owing
to the flow of a small amount of grid
current which varies over the input
cycle, the load on the preceding valve
is of a variable nature. This, however,
is not serious when a five-megohm or
10-megohm grid-leak is used, as the
highest load which is likely to precede
a 686 G is 0.5 megohm, and the shunt-
ing effect on this is negligible. From the
tabulated results, it will be seen that it
is preferable to use a 10-megohm grid-
leak. If these are not available com-
mercially, two five-meg. leaks can be
applied in series.
V.C.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
During the early morning the 49-metre
band shows the following stations at
good volume: ZRK, SBO, GSA,
Moscow, DJC, OLR and ZRH. The
last gives an excellent news session at
6.20 a.m., and GSA is heard well during
the news session at 7.15 a.m.
On 31 metres TAP, GSB, Moscow,
Paris, 2RO, DJX, KZRM, GSC, DJA
and DJN all come in. GSB and DJA
can be heard well up to 9.45 a.m. No
Americans have been heard on this band
lately.*
On 25 metres TPA3 is strong during
the news session at 6 a.m., but when
VLR3 opens up interchannel inter-
ference means the end of Paris recep-
tion. On this band WBXK and W2XE
are both good copy, but W1XAL is only
fair. A good station is JZJU, and DJD
and GvSD are readable at good strength
up to 7 a.m. CSW is also good.
On 19 metres W2XAD is the best
morning station, with GSO improving.
W3XAL is far ahead of Daventry now
on 16 metres, and can be heard prac-
tically all morning.
At night reception is excellent on all
bands from 13 to 31 metres, the 25-metre
band including GSE, 2RO, JZJ, Saigon,
COCX and two strong stations, probably
Indian, on 25.5 and 25.6 metres respec-
tively. On 16 metres are to be found
Rome, GSU, GSG, PHI and DJE. A
useful news session is that at 7.15 p.m.
from TPA3 on 25.24 metres. From
Moscow an English news session can be
heard through RNE on Sundays and
Wednesdays. At 6.50 p.m. the Spanish
station EAQ is strong, but inclined to
be noisy.
XGOX has been heard several times
on 19.74 metres. This catch and SBO
(Sweden) on 49.45 metres are the pick
of recent listening, but reception gener-
ally has been marred by severe electrical
storms over this part of Queensland. At
such times the higher frequencies are
useful, static only being evident when
lightning is close —then it is time to earth
everything and switch off.
K. B. G., Thargomindah.
Amateur Chatter.
The 56mc. Super-Gainer (B. 29/6/’3B
and B. 16/11/’3B) gave such excellent
results that it was decided to make
another type, inclusive of an R.F. stage.
It was built, using the new 1851 tele-
vision R.F. pentode. The R.F. stage
was primary-coupled to the 6JBG, with
doublet input to the 1851. This method
of coupling was shown in the five- and
10-metre superhet converter (B.
11/1/ ’39), and has the advantage of
somewhat broad tuning in the 1851. A
few experimenters have encountered dif-
ficulty in “holding down” the 1851, being
troubled with unwanted oscillation. This
appears to be largely due to slipshod
layout. Good inter-stage screening is
necessary, and all by-pass condensers,
which must be of good mica with low
reactance, need to be placed right at
the socket connections to earth. A more
comprehensive receiver is now under
construction, having 1851 T.R.F. stage,
6JBG mixer-oscillator, two 6D6 I.F.
stages at 1600 kc. using the new Tasma
I.F.Ts., 6FBG regenerative second detec-
tor and first audio, 6H6 noise suppressor,
and 42 pentode output to speaker. Pro-
vision is made for plug-in coils to enable
the receiver to take in everything from
five to 10 metres.
“Flexible exciters” may have been of
use a few years ago, but in these con-
gested days they are likely to be a source
of continual trouble both to the user
and others on the bands. “QST” con-
siders this revival of self-excited opera-
tion a retrograde step. Several VKs
are using electron-coupled oscillators,
and there is a tendency to make frequent
changes over in band positions. A near-
by station swishing suddenly across the
dial can quickly end communication be-
tween two stations. The use of “flexible
exciters” is no doubt the reason for the
new regulation in U.S.A. whereby every
station must have an accurately cali-
brated frequency meter, crystal control
of the station notwithsanding.
Of particular use for amateur band
superhets are compact air-tuned padder
condensers small enough to be used with
plug-in coils. Manual band-setting can
then be dispensed with. Illustrated is
a new type of air-padder condenser made
by Sydney Magneto and Electrical Co.,
107 Regent-street. A lj'm. diameter plug-
in coil is shown for purposes of com-
parison. The condensers are made in
two sizes with trolitul insulation and
hex-nut adjustment. The shaft is a tight
fit in the bearing, an essential feature
where plug-in coils are frequently
handled. There is thus little chance of
an initial setting being disturbed.
Stations with three-letter calls, VK2’s
in particular, have been noticed lately
calling CQ no fewer than 70 times and
then signing the station call once only.
Such stations must miss a large number
of contacts. No operator will listen
long to a string of CQs.
W9FM sends word of increased
activity on 112mc. in U.S.A., following
on cross-continental working on 56mc.
Results comparable with those on the
lower frequency are being obtained, but
at present all equipment is necessarily
of the self-excited, super-regenerative
type. Four years ago good results were
obtained on 112mc. in Sydney over short
distances, stations participating then
being VKs 2SA, 2WJ, 2XK, 2CG and
2NO. Average distance covered in
U.S.A. at present is around 40 miles,
but efforts are being made to effect 200-
mile working. Receivers must necessarily
use acorn-type valves for this work.
It is interesting to note that the R.C.A.
uses horizontal polarisation at lOOmc.
for its New York-Philadelphia circuit,
the transmission path being entirely pver
land, in which case there is apparently
no advantage in vertical polarisation.
During December last year the 56mc.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year lu
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (C/.5.A.).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
rffjfcutfetia
FINAL SENTENCE COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes . . £1
Closing Date February 22.
There is no Entrance Charge.
For the Third and Final Sentence Competition
“The Bulletin” is offering £5O, to be awarded
as stated above, for the Best Humorous
Sentence made up of words from the
Aboriginalities pages (pages 20 and 21) in
the current issue (February 8).
How to Compete.
Make up a sentence of not less than 12 and
not more than 20 words, using words from
pages 20 and' 21 of this issue.
Write your sentence on the coupon below in
BLOCK letters, cut out the coupon and post
to reach
Sentence Competition No* 3,”
80x252188, G.P.0. , Sydney ,
not later than February 22.
Rules.
1— Not more than one word from any one line to be used.
2 Each word must come from a later line than the one before
it (not necessarily the next line).
3 Compound, hyphenated and abbreviated words may be
used.
4—The sentence must be one that could conceivably be used
in ordinary conversation. It can be absurd, but gram-
matically it must make sense.
5 No limit to the number of entries, but every entry must be
filled in on a coupon.
6 The prizes will be awarded to the sentences considered
the most amusing, and the Editor’s decision is final.
7 Words may not be taken from the verses or joke blocks.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ety*» * s
eligible to compete. Otherwise this competition is open to all,
free of any entrance charge.
SPECIMEN SENTENCE.
(Which landed £2O in the First Sentence Competition.)
Millions of leghorns excavating a Coolgardie scrapheaf
found two Aboliar coons underneath, arguin like mad.
THIRD SENTENCE COMPETITION.
NAME .
ADDRESS
Sentence.
Results of the Second Sentence Competition, which closes
to-day (February 8), will be announced in next week’s
“Bulletin” (February 15).
band unexpectedly opened in U.S.A.
for DX, at which time short skip was
in evidence on 28mc.
In England, Hilton O’Heffernan,
GSBY, is again active on 56mc. after a
prolonged illness. His was the first G
station to be heard and identified across
the Atlantic on this band. His equip-
ment includes a new superhet with acorns
and two rotatable beams —one being a
Yagi with three reflectors, radiator and
two directors, and the other a two-section
four-element WBJK, which can be tilted
from vertical to horizontal. The WBJK
is especially good, and gives a good 60
miles range on genuine ground wave.
The original rhombic array responsible
for the transatlantic signals is also avail-
able.
Schedules have been kept on 56mc.
during two weeks with ZL4DQ and
VK2PN, still without result. Stations co-
operating in Sydney were VKs 2WJ,
2EM, 2IQ and 2NO. More activity is
sadly needed on 56mc., but those con-
templating opening up on the band will
be well advised to commence with crystal-
controlled transmissions. Receivers now
in use by the established stations are
mainly selective superhets, and a modu-
lated signal from a weak “wobbulated”
carrier is an unrecognisable hash. With
modern valves it is even easier to start
off on C.C. than to build and load up
correctly a bulky concentric tube oscil-
lator. Similarly, a superhet of the Jones
56mc. Super-Gainer type is easier to get
going than many forms of super-
regenerators.
VK2NO.
Radiotips.
“R.H.A.”: Where composition-element
volume controls are used in battery sets
using fixed bias, there is the risk that an
“open” in the control will deprive the
audio stage of bias and send the plate
current up. A simple remedy is shown
in the accompanying diagram, and calls
merely for an inexpensive one-watt resis-
tor of reliable make between o.smeg. and
2meg. value. This will not materially
drop the volume from the set, yet ensures
a path between C negative and grid.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Experimenters using the
type 807 as a straight tetrode crystal oscil-
lator may find difficulty in obtaining good
output owing to the very low internal
capacity between control-grid and plate.
The remedy is simple—a small artificial
capacity of about one micro-microfarad
added externally between these elements.
If the plate voltage is low (no more than
300 volts) a carefully-made condenser of
wire and “spaghetti” sleeving will do.
For a better job and safer working at
higher voltages, two small brass or
aluminium plates iin. square, spaced iin.
apart, on small insulating pillars provide
sufficient feedback. The “plate-connec-
tion-at-top” construction seems to make
this necessary. Receiving-type beam
valves possess enough internal capacity
of their own.
* * * *
“Ex-G”: Whilst the effect of a mottled
finish on an aluminium receiver panel
imparts a businesslike appearance to the
finished product, the roughening of the
surface of an aluminium chassis is not
always desirable. The polished surface
should be retained on the chassis and
where inter-stage screening partitions are
used, particularly for short- and ultra-
short-wave receivers. Reason for this is
because U.H.F. currents travel on the
surface of the metal. Not only does this
shorten the path, but resistance-intro-
ducing dust and dirt will not settle so
easily.
Radio Comment.
“V.C.”: An article by A.W. Valve
Co.’s engineers, “Negative Feedback in
Resistance-coupled Amplifiers,” which
appeared in “Radiotronics” just over a
year ago, has been published in “Wireless
World,” England, for November 17,
1938. It deals with the series feedback
circuit first developed by the Australian
engineers, and very widely used through-
out Australia at the present time. It is
interesting to find that this particular
method has just become known to Eng-
lish radio engineers.
* * * *
“Cluny”: I am left cold by advocacy
of the installation of fresh aerials at least
yearly, on the ground that the wire de-
teriorates out of doors, adversely affecting
reception. Insulation may certainly suffer,
but an aerial would function quite as
well without the insulation; copper is
quite as good a conductor after a century
of use, except for fouling on the
terminals, which is easily cleaned from
time to time. The habit of plaiting the
lead-in to the aerial, instead of making
a soldered joint of the job, may give rise
to trouble. Unless the joint is tight and
weatherproof, verdigris will form.
* * * *
“Norwood”: When installing an A.C.
chassis in a cabinet it is a good plan to
run a couple of additional wires from the
six-volt transformer tapping up to the
top of the cabinet, and connect them to a
permanent pea-lamp socket. When effect-
ing repairs and working inside the
cabinet, the bulb from behind the dial
can be slipped into the top socket, thus
doing away with the need for a torch.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers ivill appear in this column.
On page 146 of Jones 1938 Radio Hand-
book is a receiver diagram in which appears
a “Mallory Cell.” 1 can find no reference
to this in the text. What is the function of
this device ? —748.
The Mallory cell is a l|-volt miniature bat-
tery for grid-biasing purposes, and is not
obtainable in Australia. When building a
receiver specifying such cells, it is quite in
order to use a single pocket-lamp cell for
the purpose. Such cells will last for the
best part of a year, but should be checked
for voltage occasionally and renewed when
they drop below 1 volt.
* ■ * * *
I have been endeavoring to eliminate the
B batteries of a wireless receiver by means of
a genemotor. Range of the receiver is im-
proved, but speech is now slightly distorted,
and a constant hum through the speaker,
resembling that made by the motor, spoils
reception. Input of the genemotor is 50 volts
from a D.C. lighting plant, and high tension
output 240 volts. A variable resistance is in-
cluded to permit regulation to 135 volts as
required by the receiver. Can any improve-
ments be made ? —747.
Introduction of distortion indicates that
biasing on the audio stages needs adjustment
at higher plate voltage. A tapped grid bias
battery of nine volts total would be useful,
but more may be required, dependent upon
the valves used. The noise is apparently due
to commutator hum, and the only way of mini-
mising this is by extra filtering. Make up an
external filter consisting of a 30-henry choke
to carry 60 milliamperes, and two 16mfd.
electrolytic filter condensers. This should
materially reduce the noise. If not, the re-
ceiver is picking up the commutator sparking
directly. Cure for this is to enclose the gene-
motor in a screening box and to use screened
leads to the receiver. A small filter across
the 50-volt input to earth might also help.


(
FIT THE ONLY TYRE
THAT GIVES YOU
SILENCE AS WELL
AS SAFETY AND
RECORD MILEAGE
WORLD’S MASTER TYRE
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDItON_OUNLOP_JJTRES
A Misfire.
“J.F.H.”: I couldi tell by the look of
him as he entered the gate that he was
an agent or salesman of some sort, so
immediately I cut him short.
“I’m sorry,” I said, “but the lady of
the house is not in, and I am not requir-
ing any insurance policies covering life,
fire, burglary or flood ; I have plenty of
shaving cream, soap, hair-oil, razor
blades, bath salts and talc powder; I
have a cellarful of needles, patent
needle-threaders, pins, cotton, wool and
camphor ; I already have a radio, wash-
ing machine, radiator, electric jug,
refrigerator, electric fan and vacuum-
cleaner ; furthermore, I am not in a posi-
tion to subscribe to any benevolent
society, lodge, book club, hospital or
orphanage ; and I don’t want any pianos
tuned. In fact, I don’t wish to buy any-
thing you have to sell or listen to any
proposition you have to make, so I will
be grateful if you will close the gate as
you leave.”
“Is that so?” he blurted out when I
had finished. “Well, I’m representing
Machokus and Macpokus. I’m here for
your furniture and belongings under
the terms of that bill-of-sale you signed,
So if you don’t mind I’ll come in and sit
down until the carriers arrive.”
“
Advance of Science,
“Turoar”: The Post Office is all agog
over a telephone which replies ‘’Engaged”
or “Not at home,” as the case may be.
and further takes a message if required!
This, however, but impinges upon the
fringe of telephonic problems. What is
required is an instrument to say those
things from which a polite person shyly
refrains. I am, therefore, preparing
designs.
My telephone, for instance, will settle
all arguments between the P.M.G. and
subscribers.: It will, on the receiver being
lifted, say in reproachful tones, “You’ve
already spent £6 13s. lOfd. in calls this
quarter, so go easy, old man.”
For the neighbor who comes in to ring
up the new instrument has the following
greeting: “What, you again! The fifth
call this week, and you’ve forgotten your
tuppence every time. Why don't you
get a telephone of your own?”
For office telephones the design pro-
vides for a violent voice to ask the
typist what the devil she means by wasting
the boss’s time talking about spring hats,
and conclude by announcing that she’ll
be docked a shilling on payday.
Finally, I am developing a magic eye
to be used in conjunction with the bull-
like tones of a sergeant-major for public
telephone boxes. At the end of three
minutes the voice will roar, “You er-r-r
ar-r-rh! There’s two [three, four, five
and so on, according to circumstances]
callers waiting for a go after you. You’re
through!” And it will immediately cut
him—or, more particularly, her—off and
empty the same out of the box.
:
“Nakh”:- A Melbourne art student,
having won a minor prize at the annual
Nat. Gallery competitions, decided to
celebrate it by giving a party at his studio,
He ordered in a couple of nine-gallon
kegs, booked up a quartet to dispense
high-class music, and sent out invitations
to 30 or 40 one Saturday evening. Hav-
ing spent the afternoon getting things
ready he went home, had a snack, drank
a couple of beers to refresh himself, and,
lying down on his bed for a few minutes’
rest, fell into deep slumber. When he
awoke the time was 11. He jumped into
a tram and rushed back to the city,
horrified at the thought that he had failed
his guests in the first principles of cour-
tesy. When he arrived at the building
on top of which his studio was situated
he observed half a dozen complete
strangers unloading two fresh kegs from
a motor-car. Not waiting to ask ques-
tions, he started to mount the stairs, but
his progress was checked by a throng
of people totally unknown to him. The
strains of a string quartet playing an
opus by Beethoven floated over their
heads as they stood packed on the stair-
way. When he at length fought his way
into his studio he found it packed with
his friends, his friends’ friends and their
friends, his non-attendance having been
completely forgotten by some and his
existence being unknown to the majority.


Sts
lys
proot.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
; .
2**mi*t **>* —•* ,- ■:• „£V
<i~ if
%S> W. §f 4H/&Hb oi^
, '<■ ■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Australian Mutton Grading.
“Ghanam”: Ross Grant, for years
Commonwealth vet. in London and now
a supervising grader, reports considerable
improvement in grading since the adop-
tion of the first, second and third quality
system.
The new grades are first, second and
third quality and summer lamb ; first and
second quality tegs; first, second and
third wether and/or maiden ewe mutton,
and second and third ewe mutton.
Victoria had greater numbers for the
1937-38 season, but there were big
quality variations. The general average
quality was poor and the rejection per-
centage high. In N.S.W., the average
quality was extremely poor in both sheep
and lambs:
It is difficult in that State, where the
majority of exports is of lambs of wool
types and aged sheep in low condition, to
maintain grading standards at a satisfac-
tory level.
The general standard of carcass dressing
in N.S.W. is labelled as well below Vic-
torian standards, and grading is rendered
difficult since “too extreme an interpre-
tation would mean, at times, a practical
stoppage of export of third quality sheep
and lambs.” All that can be done in
the circumstances is to apply the regula-
tions “with discretion, bearing in mind
that the difficulties for the present are in-
surmountable.”
Queensland exports were limited to
wool types. This year, however, there
have been experiments with crossbred
carcasses. S. Australia had 40,000 fewer
lambs to offer for grading than the pre-
vious year, but a number were exported
through Victoria. Quality was “on the
whole satisfactory,” but “indifferent
dressing at the Adelaide Abbatoirs detri-
mentally affected the appearance of the
season’s output.” At Port Lincoln, dress-
ing was satisfactory. There were few
London complaints about the grading.
W.A. sent considerably more lambs
than in 1936-37, and “general standards
were most satisfactory.” In Tasmania,
uniformity of type and suitable climate
make grading easy. It is the only State
where wool is a secondary consideration
in most districts. Hence “it may be ex-
pected that Tasmanian lambs will estab-
lish a very favorable reputation on the
British market.”
In all other States where the breeds
are suitable, Australians can raise lambs
equal to any imported into the U.K. But
what the dual-purpose system will do
ultimately to some districts in which the
staple objective should be wool remains
to be seen.
There is another difficulty, not men-
tioned by Mr. Grant, which must be
faced in London —our competitors be-
lieve the usefulness of grading depends
on a strict adherence to grades. Hence
the poor comparison in prices of some
Australian mutton and lamb and that
from some competitive countries.
Lowest Since 1933!
“Barcoo”: Continental wool futures
in the last week of lanuary reached the
lowest point since February, 1933. Yet
in France cloth manufacturers are busy,
spinners and combers working at top
output, and Bradford is active.
One Belgian firm, however, reports
that
The daily increasing tension of the
political situation in Europe is depressing
business more and more.
At present prices artificial fibres have
little chance of competing with wool on
a large scale.
“ Heavens, father, is Reggie down there?”
“Well, he Was a few seconds ago”
Settling in the Territory.
“Zedo”: The publication of the Payne
Report has turned the attention of pros-
pective settlers to the N.T. Unoccupied
Crown lands may be taken up at a
minimum of Is. per square mile, plus a
license fee of £l. The catch is-that land
going at a rental of Is. per square mile
is worth just that. '■
N.T. settlers need much more capital
than those settling on some southern
resumption; among other things they
must face heavy freight charges. If they
get 42-year pastoral leases of. better
quality resumption land, which doesn’t
offer too frequently and when it does is
widely advertised, it is quite probable
that artesian water will be obtainable at
300 ft. Each bore, fully equipped, will
cost about £l5OO.
Every lease carries a covenant that the
lessee will stock the land in accordance
with the lease and keep it stocked. In
Sin. rainfall country like that in the driest
type of “sheep” country round the Alice
Springs district (rent 2s. per square mile)
it is practically impossible to “determine
the extent to which the land shall be
stocked within the specified periods of
the lease.”
Five years is allowed to bring stock
up to the minimum requirement under
the lease. It is essential that the proper
number of stock should be carried, and
each three years the occupier must make
a statutory declaration as to numbers.
The requirements range from one to 10
head per square mile in the Gulf and
Barkly regions, from one to eight per
sq. m. along the Victoria River, and
from one to seven around the Alice. If
considering sheep, multiply by five.
Settlers can get advances of up to £6OO
to encourage primary production if they
have capital equal to one-third of the
amount needed. But this is of not much
use to hopefuls who expect to become
graziers.
A few recent immigrants have suc-
ceeded. One took his sheep and family
overland and travelled them like the
wandering tribes of old until country was
found. It took a long time, but he is
doing well. A great deal of N. Queens-
land was settled that way, but N.Q. is
well watered and accessible by com-
parison with the N.T. A much larger
scheme, choice of lands and more
thoroughly organised methods of helping
settlers is needed there.
Tubercle-free Show Cattle.
“Bulago”: When will show societies
make it necessary for show cattle to be
tubercle-free? Under present con-
ditions the tested and certified herd is
not getting a fair spin.
N.S.W. departmental regulations state
that, should cattle from non-tested herds
be present, cattle already tested must be
retested before being returned to the herd.
Otherwise the entire herd must be tested
again. Certificates are valid only for a
year, when the herd has to be retested.
Show societies should make it a rule
that all cattle entered should be certified
tubercle-free. And contagious abortion
should also be tested for. Many leading
herds are certified free from c.a.
The c.a. test is much more complicated
and expensive than for tuber.
Stalls and sheds on showgrounds should
be carefully disinfected each year, and
similar precautions should be carried out
in railway trucks.
Weaning Chiller Calves.
“Ben Jamms”: Some of the popular
methods of weaning calves destined for
export as chilled beef do a lot of harm.
Keeping them yarded for anything up to
a week without food or water, and tail-
ing them out daily, or putting them away
from sight and hearing of the breeders,
for instance, sets them back so much that
it may take six months to overcome.
The best method is to hold the weaners
no longer than one night in the yard,
and then put them with only a fence
between them and their mothers. Being
in sight of their dams, they don’t feel
the distress which the old method of part-
ing caused, and gradually become used
to feeding beyond sight. Use a good
fence with taut wires—three 12-gauge
barbed and a plain top one.
More About W.A. Sub. Clover.
“J. Want”: Something should certainly
be done, and quickly, about producing
strains of W.A. sub., clover suitable for
North Australia. The State’s output of
seed last year was 500 tons, worth
£50,000, or more than four times the
1936 figure.
At Dwalganup, the home of the native
strains, the rainfall is under 30in. It falls
on loam, red and black, and sloping
gravels. Of 3780 acres of the Forrest
estate, 500 is under timber ; the remainder
all under fertilised sub. clover, 500 acres
of it on land taken over only a year ago.
The estate’s fat lambs average 45.61 b.,
out of a paddock in which three ewes
with lambs per acre are carried, and sold
last year for 265. Bd. in paddock. The


1 • \
1328.
He’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work.
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings. Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service—to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
■■tejiß jlf. IM R FLO ORINC
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE: Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pcy., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the present address of
GEORGE HERBERT GREER, who- was
Bookkeeper on Glengyle Station, kindly com-
municate with P. M. STEVENSON, Glengyle
Station, Boulia, Queensland.
5
E
M
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
FROM FACTORY
FresK • Fragran
TOBACCO
AT new low prices/
Smokers!
DO YOU WANT GOOD
VALUE AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! - Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . . • 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . . 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . t • 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . . • 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/ -
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . . • 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . • ••1 ■'
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . • • 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only. . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. . - j/jj
“Skipper,” medium . . • • 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . • • 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. - • 7/°
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . " I, R
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M ” Dark Plug . . . . 6/6
Zig Zags . . • • 5 for 1/*
Postage paid in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Lta.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE-
wool yield was 43,2001 b over 131 b.
per acre. And 75 tons of seed was
harvested, worth an average of £lOO per
ton.
There are three different clover strains
in use —the original Dwalganup, which
begins to flower at the beginning of
August, or earlier where there is early
autumn rain ; Mt. Barker, which follows
six weeks later; and Wenninjup, two
weeks later again. The total seeding
range from the three is eight weeks.
Dwalganup is a deceptive clover. Many
a grower has abandoned it on seeing its
first efforts as a straggling, trailing weed.
Leave it alone and it develops a thick
mat of herbage, and on light, dry soils
is better than any other strain.
Land under timber around Dwalganup
can still be bought for £1 an acre, as
land in other districts suitable for sub.
clover can be. It is not always easy to
prepare, but hard work pays. Eric Far-
leigh’s Rylington Park was cited recently
by Commonwealth Fertilisers as one of
the biggest successes.
Farleigh bought 2300 acres loams,
ironstone, white sand and gravel —in
May, 1924, for £1 p.a., after it had been
turned down as unsuitable for a soldier
settlement. It was ringbarked, suckered
in two consecutive years, given a good
burn and ploughed to 3in., clover seed
following the plough, some of it with a
cover oat crop at the rate of \\ bushels
to the acre. Clover seed, originally put
down at 21b. per acre because of limited
funds, has been sown experimentally as
high as 151 b. per acre. With 61b. to 101 b.
it was found possible to begin carrying
ly to two sheep per acre as soon as the
crop had dried off in the summer of the
first season.
In its original condition the land, like
much unimproved country round it, could
carry from a sheep to 20 acres to one to
six acres on heavier soils. After the
second year where the land has been
heavily seeded Rylington carries three
sheep to the acre. All seed is inoculated,
but that costs little —ss. worth of bacteria
does 1401 b. clover seed.
Seed is put down in April or May with
basic phosphate, and topdressing is
alternate —1501 b. super, per acre one year,,
followed next year by the same quantity
of basic phosphate. There are 1900 acres
of clover on the property. It carries 1500
sheep permanently, including 800 Corrie-
dale ewes. Four hundred acres harvested
for seed returned 108 clean tons worth
£lO,BOO.
The Forrest method of land prepara-
tion differs from Farleigh’s. Forrest does
not plough. He pulls out blackboys,
suckers below ground, ringbarks bigger
timber, leaves the land about three years,
gives it a heavy burn and lets clover seed
follow a spring-tooth cultivator —cost, he
says, £2 15s. per acre, including clearing.
Hints for the Farm.
“O. W. Waireki”: Be sure the two top
bars of the woolpress are free from rust
before baling up, or a red stain may be
left in the wool when they are with-
drawn.
“Gumblegubbin”: Pigs quickly feel
the cold, and should have a dry sleep-
ing pen with plenty of straw, grass or
corn-husks. Suckers particularly need
warmth.
“Yeno Ham”: Early preparation of
land for winter pastures in coastal dis-
tricts ensures a good seedbed, necessary
for a high germination percentage. Buy
seeds of grasses and clovers, as well as
the fertiliser, early for planting in March.
Give sod-bound paspalum pastures atten-
tion early in March if good rain falls.
Use the plough, cultivator or rotary hoe.
Best results follow drastic renovation,
every three years for preference, which
promotes a better rooting and growth.
If white clover is sparse in paspalum
swards sow 21b. to 31b. per acre of a
good, persistent strain. Apply lime and
fertiliser.
“Ghanam”: October lamb competi-
tions judged at Smithfield on January 10
gave H. S. Henley, of Cowra (N.S.W.), a
win in the Downs classes with five South-
down Romney-merino crosses, marked
by the judges as “exceptionally good, idea!
for butchers, well shaped, full fleshed,
with a minimum of waste.” R. B. Mills
and Son, Clifton, Nullawil (Vic.), were
second with Southdown English Leices-
ter comebacks. These were little inferior
to the winners, and one carcass was
chosen for a special block test as the best
in the competition. Another Mills entry
tied with T. Ridgway’s (Fitzroy, S.A.)
Southdown merino-Romney. The
Bulletin was not far wrong when it
began advocating the Southdown as the
ideal lambing ram in suitable districts
five years or so ago. In the Ryeland,
Suffolk and Dorset Horn classes a Suf-
folk-merino entry won —five plain
carcasses from S. Australia. The Meat
Council reports that the W.A. lambs
were not outstanding, but were again
remarkable for their even, useful quality.
“Mookßu”: The dry spell hit the
N. S. Wales coastal areas hard Fnr
December, Northern Rivers dairv return,
were £70,000 less than was expected
North Coast co-op. returns declined for
™™ m .°” th by 30 p ' c - o£ nonT| al—about
2000 tons.
u ‘T en ° , l i ani ” : Six years hence
breeders of dairy cattle in Victoria will
not be able to sell bulls unless the animals
are from tested cows. The Cattle Breed-
ing Act, stipulating that every bull used
in a dairy herd must be the progeny 0 f
a tested cow which has reached a stan-
dard of production to be prescribed
comes into force on January 1, 1945’
The standard will be fixed on the recom-
mendation of officers of the Department
of Agriculture. . Imported bulls are
exempt from the provision which re-
quires a certain standard of production
from the dam, but progeny of imported
bulls must conform. Official herd tests
in other States will be recognised. De-
lay in operation of the Act is due to
a shortage of bulls from tested dams.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
How to distinguish different breeds of wooll
An explanation of thd various crossbreeds anti
any other information ? —52277.
The only successful way to recognise different
wool breeds is to know each breed of sheep.
Crossing is usually carried out with a view to
incorporating the good points of certain breeds
and evolving a dual-purpose type or a sheep
more suitable to the district. You will find
The Bulletin Wool Type Card very useful in
differentiating spinning qualities and types.
Recommend you to read Australasian Sheep and
Wool, by Hawkesworth, Classing the Clip, bv
Cowley, Wool Classing and Shed Management.
by J. J. Hardie.
* * * *
(1) Is there a market for squabs? (2) Size
of enclosure for five pairs ? (3) Size of wire-
netting ? (4) Kind of nest ? (5) Food and quan-
tity per pair ? —52124.
(1) There is not much in squab raising. Prices
are low in relation to cost of plant and breeding
and feeding. Demand is small. (2) Shed, Bft.
x 6ft. with yard 15ft. x Bft. (3) Any small mesh.
(4) Boxes or trays Bin. x Bin. x 4in. deep. (5)
All they will eat of half wheat and half cracked
maize; when rearing young, one-third each
cracked peas, wheat and cracked maize. Keep
a bit of lucerne or clover and plenty of shell
grit in pens.
* * * *
How to construct a private cattle-pit entrance
gate ? Would lengths of 2in. pipe do ? —52142.
The usual practice is to hang a gate of hard-
wood 4in. by lin. battens to a piece of 2in.
piping by means of two iron loops passing from
the top of each end of the gate. Mutton fat oi
other grease will help the gate to swing.


WELL "HERE5 TO'EE
f#
*K
i *
;
I®
mjmm I*
I
mm
* <
R
II *»
:: : «||||flp:
:
m *
: ' *" '
:
ii*i
Ills
ill
- sV'Sjh.'',-
’ ■" * - • • * ?
1 1 llfiill
4#
■W
V, : i
« %
TDOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates tor Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Baehflat, Lesquare, London.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. y 4 y
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Well educated young lady, Q’land, will act
as travelling companion to adult or children
—2303 abr ° ad in return for passage. Refs.
Young man (24), well educated, engaged
y land sheep station as bookkeeper, exp. as
jackeroo on cattle station, studying accountancy,
seeks employment with business house interested
in farm properties. Refs. —2291.
To buy Hewlett’s Fond Adventures and
Black s Macleod of Dare. —2330.
“T^ r l S . ? f t ve rs e beginning with the line
2256 ' C * ° u cko m a wine-barrel room.”—
Information Sought.
To what uses do the aborigines put the
pi tun plant ? —2362.
Known botanically as Duboisia hopwoodi,
it is endemic m Australia. The aborigines of
Centralia masticate its leaves when more or
less powdered and mixed with finely-broken
wigs. The trees are patchy in distribution,
out the blacks travel enormous distances to
procure it, and it has become a valuable com-
modity in tribal barter. The tops and leaves
are gathered in August, when the plant is in
btossom, and hung up to dry, then packed in
netted bags or skins for transport. Sometimes
pituri is chewed in company, a quid being
passed from one to another. It is also smoked;
tor this the leaves are damped, mixed with
pottish prepared from the ashes of plants, and
rolled up in the shape of a cigar. In small
quantities it has a powerful stimulating effect,
assuaging hunger and enabling long journeys
be made without fatigue and with little food,
the blacks use It to excite them before fighting
and to poison emus.
* * * *
(V) When were the old tollhouses at present
standing at South Creek, Windsor, and on the
Western Highway, near Mt. Victoria (N.S.W.),
built? What tolls were collected there? (2)
When was the George Inn at Picton, N.S.W
first licensed as a hotel? (3) When was the
budding now known as the Woodford Academy,
at Woodford, N.S.W., erected, and for what
purpose was it originally used? —2l9l.
0) . The tollhouse at Mount Victoria was
built m 1832. No information is available re-
garding the tollhouse at Windsor. Presumably
road tolls were collected. (2) The George
Inn is reputed to have been built in 1839 by
George Harper, a landholder at Stonequarry
No mformation as to license. (3) The Wood-
lord Academy was erected in the late twenties
ot last century. It was originally a military
station, and after the withdrawal of the mili-
tary forces became a hotel.
* ■* * *
(1) In about what year were chiming clocks
first invented ? (2) Method employed in Bibli-
cal times for telling the time? —2264.
(.]) The exact year is not known, but the
striking attachment is as old as the mechanical
clock. The earliest clocks struck the hours for
calling the monks to their devotions, but were
without hands and dial. According to A. Hay-
der* s Chats on Clocks , the striking mechanism
was used in the twelfth century. (2) By means
of the sundial, which originated in Babylonia
at least as early as 2000 b.c. The sundial is
mentioned in the eighth verse of the 38th
chapter of Isaiah: “Behold, I will bring down
again the shadow of the degrees, which has
gone down in the sundial of Ahaz, ten degrees
backward.” The sundial was followed by the
clepsydra, or Greek water clock, used in Egypt,
Babylonia, China and India several centuries
B.C.
* * * *
In recent Service reply you state that the
w0 .,,‘ metallurgist” has emphasis on the third
syllable. My ‘Abridged Oxford Dictionary”
gives it with the accent on the second syllable.
The last “ Webster” I saw accented the first
syllable only. Would you please explain and
state what authority you place above the
Oxford” ?—2271.
The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary gives
the accent on the first syllable in “metallurgist”
and “metallurgy” but on the third syllable in
metallurgic.” Webster’s New International
Dictionary (second edition) gives a major
accent on the first syllable and a minor accent
on the third in “metallurgist” and “metallurgy”;
minor accent on the first and major accent
on the third in “metallurgic” and “metallurgi-
cal.” The Oxford doesn’t fully explain its
accentuation system, but it is presumed that,
as in Webster, the accent mark governs the
syllable it follows.
♦ ♦ * j|c
What is the correct pronunciation of Mus-
tapha ? —2255.
Webster’s New International Dictionary gives
it as moosta-fa, the “oo” as in “foot,” the
“a’s” as in “ah.”
* * * *
Where, when and how was the Bronze Age
introduced ? —2349.
Intercommunication of races introduced a
knowledge of the malleable properties of copper,
while the spread of commerce distributed tin
from Saxony and Cornwall among the races of
Europe and Asia. Implements and utensils of
cast bronze superseded those of stone, wood
horn or bone. The designs and decorations sug-
gest that this stage of culture was introduced
into Europe from Asia, and it must therefore
be dated for the East far earlier than for the
West, over a period ranging from 5000 b.c. to
2000 b.c. The Bronze Age appears to have
been marked by the cremation of human re-
mains, in place of mere burial in a constricted
position.
* * * *
(1) When was tennis first played, and who
was the originator ? (2) Character of the game ?
(3) How many countries play in the Davis Cup ?
—2Oll. r
It first appeared in Europe in the Middle
Ages, when it was played in open courts in
the parks or ditches of the feudal castles in
France and Italy. The French seem to have
borrowed it from the Italians. The English
took it from the French. A variety of tennis
was played in England in 1874; but the present
laws, court size and scoring were taken up
by the All England Club at Wimbledon in 1877,
and the first championships were played in
that year. (2) See a textbook on the game, such
as Modern Lawn Tennis, 35., from Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Sydney. (3) In 1938 the
countries in the Davis Cup were Germany,
Italy, Ireland, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Bel-
gium, Greece, France, Holland, Great Britain,
Rumania, Norway, India, Poland, Hungary,
Monaco, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Den-
mark, Mexico, Australia, Japan, Canada and
United States.
* * * *
Is Charlie, the character in lon L. Idriess’s
book “Madman’s Island,” still on the island,
and, if so, is he still afflicted? —2273.
In reply, the author furnished the following
note: “Charlie eventually left the island for
Cooktown. After a spell in hospital he rode
away up Cape York Peninsula gold seeking, with
varying success, alternating with spells in Cook-
town Hospital. During fairly recent months
he was brought to hospital for the last time.
At the finish he died as he had lived —didn’t
care a damn.”
* * * *
Names of useful textbooks for the young
writer on writing (1) stage plays, (2) radio
drama and (3) verse? —23oo.
(1) William Archer’s Playmaking (7s. 6d.),
St. John Ervine’s How to Write a Play (55.),
Basil Hogarth’s How to Write Plays (3s. 6d.),
and Mark Swan’s How You Can Write Plays
(10s. 6d.). (2) Val Gielgud’s How to Write
Broadcast Plays (2s. 6d.), Gordon Lea’s Radio
Drama and How to Write It (25.) and
Whitaker C. Wilson’s Writing for Broadcast-
ing (3s. 6d.). (3) F. W. Felkin’s The Craft of
the Poet (3s. 6d.), George J. H. Northcroft’s
How to Write Verse (3s. 6d.), L. A. G.
Strong’s Common Sense About Poetry (2s. 6d.)
and Swann and Sidgwick’s The Making of
Verse (3s. 6d.). Prices given are English retail.
* * * *
(1) If a person, eligible as to age, domicile,
etc., has £2O in the Savings Bank, can that
person receive the old-age pension ? If so,
what amount would be deducted weekly from
the pension? (2) If an old-age pensioner by
care and thrift saves, say, £lO in a year, is the
pension reduced ? —2229.
(1) If the claimant is qualified in every other
respect, the possession of the bank credit of
£2O in itself would have no effect on the pen-
sion claim. (2) No reduction.
* * * „
A few particulars concerning the Bertrand
Stewart Prize ? —2296.
£7O is given annually under the will of the
late Capt. Bertrand Stewart, a London solicitor,
who was killed in the Battle of the Marne in
September, 1914, for the best essay on some
military problem, the study or discussion of
which would tend to increase the efficiency of
the British Army as a fighting force. The
competition is open to those who have served
or are serving as officers or in other ranks or
ratings of the fighting services, including the
navy and Royal Marines, the regular army,
special reserve, territorial army and militia,
the Royal Air Force, the military and
air forces of India, the Dominions and the
colonies. Full particulars are published in the
“Army Quarterly,” 94 Jermyn-street, London,
S.W.I.
* * * *
What are the general scope and scale of prizes
eisteddfod, opening on May 1 ?
There are 57 items in the syllabus, with
prizes valued at over £350. For open choral cham-
pionship first prize is £5O, which it is hoped
may be increased to £lOO before entries close,
second prize £l5. For ladies’ choirs and male
choirs the first prizes are respectively £lO and
£2O. The City of Canberra open school choir
championship carries a handsome challenge
trophy, and similarly the choral contest for
primary schools. Operatic arias for women and
men have prizes of £5 each, and the other
solos £2 each. In the dramatic and elocution-
ary sections first prizes of £2O each are pro-
vided for two one-act plays, £3 prizes for the
elocutionary items, £2 for the character sketches
and Shakspearean recital. A prize of £5 ss. is
offered for original short story and original
poem, and of £2 for essay. A copy of the
syllabus may be obtained from the society,
Box 18, G.P.0., Canberra.
* * * *
What members have represented the follow-
ing electorates in the House of Reps.: (1) South
Sydney, (2) West Sydney and (3) East Sydney ?
—2339.
(1) G. B. Edwards (1901-06), J. C. Watson
(1906-10), Edward Riley (1910-31), J. T. Jen-
nings (1931-34). This division was abolished
consequent upon redistribution of seats in 1934.
(2) W. M. Hughes (1901-19), T. J. Ryan (1919-
21), W. H. Lambert (1921-28), J. A. Beasley
(1928 to date). (3) George Reid (1901-10),
J. E. West (1910-31), E. J. Ward (by-election,
March 7, 1931, to general election same year),
J. J. Clasby (elected, but died before taking
seat), E. J. Ward (by-election, February 6,
1932, to date).
* * * *
Excise collected in Australia for the year
ending June 30, 1938 ?—2340.
Beer £6,893,739, spirits £1,774,678, tobacco
£3,414,513, cigars £6532, cigarettes £2,171,252,
•petrol £681,870, playing cards £10,906, con-
centrated grape must £llOl, cigarette tubes and
papers £468,659, matches £81,510, licenses
£12,629, other excise duty £89,243; total,
£15,606,632.
* * * *
Recipe for peanut butter? —2044.
Place some shelled peanuts in a shallow
baking dish in a moderate oven and bake them
a light brown. Remove, roll out on to a cloth
and fold over, then rub lightly to and fro to
break up the skins; fan or blow the skins away
—they are bitter and give the butter a bad
flavor. Then run the nut meats through a
mincer and finally pulverise with a rolling-pin
or glass jar, making as fine a crushing as pos-
sible. Place in a saucepan, add sufficient olive
oil to keep from burning, salt to taste
and cook to a smooth brown mass. Stirring is
necessary from time to time. Butter may be
used instead of oil, when not so much salt
need be added. Pack into small jars, cover with
greaseproof paper, and cool down before put-
ting on lids. Make small quantities at a time
for home use. There are various methods,
but this is the handiest for the amateur.
* * * *
Military service of T. W. White, M.H.R. for
Balaclava, and until recently Minister for Trade
and Customs? —2355.
Second lieut., Citizen Forces, 1911. Quali-
fied as pilot, Point Cook, 1914. Embarked with
half-flight (first Australian Flying Corps unit),
April 20, 1915, as captain. Attached Royal
Flying Corps in operations in Mesopotamia.
Taken prisoner by Turks near Bagdad, Nov.
13, 1915. Mentioned in dispatches, Jan. 17,
1916. Escaped from Turkey to Russia, August
24, 1918. Awarded D.F.C., June 3, 1919, “in
recognition of gallantry in landing by aeroplane
behind the enemy lines in Mesopotamia, Nov.,
1915, to destroy telegraph wires there.” Men-
tioned in dispatches, Dec. 16, 1919. Returned
to Australia, Jan. 6, 1920. V.D., 1923. Lieut.-
col., March 31, 1926; unattached list, 1932.
* * * *
(1) Imports from Soviet Russia into Aus-
tralia for the year 1937-38? (2) Exports from
Australia to Soviet Russia for the same year?
—2352.
(1) Fish £10,932, flax £3213, dressed furs
£20,390, cosies, cushions and doyleys £206,
hair, fibre and bristles £lB9B, hides and skins
£43,175, oils in bulk £17,357, wood manu-
factures £1226, drugs and chemicals £1096, and
other articles £3515; total, £103,008. (2)
£1,121,262, including wheat £1,109,612 and wool
£10,886.
* * * *
Author of the following phrase: “I expect
to pass through this world but once. Any
good therefore that I can do, or any kindness
that l can show to any fellow-creature, let me
do it now. Let me not defer or neglect it, for
l shall not pass this way again” ? —2356.
Every effort to identify the author of this
much-quoted saying has. failed. It has been
attributed to Stephen Grellet (1773-1855), an
American Quaker of French birth, R. W. Emer-
son, Edward Courtenay (Earl of Devon)—this
being, however, a mistake, due to a partial re-
semblance to the earl’s epitaph—Sir Rowland
Hill, Marcus Aurelius, Miss A. B. Hageman,
Addison, Carlyle and others; and it is also
said that the germ of it is to be found in the
writings of a Chinese philosopher. There seems
to be some authority in favor of Stephen
Grellet being the author, but the passage does
not occur in any of his printed works.
* * * *
Translation of the following quotation in
the preface of a book on world politics'. —
Errat lonye, mea quidem sententia
Qui imperinm credat gravius esse aut stabilius,
Vi quod, fit quam illud quod 'amicitia adjungitur f
—2358.
Quotation is from Terence, and reads: “He is
much in error, in my opinion, who supposes
that authority which is obtained by force is
firmer or more lasting than that which is
acquired by goodwill.”
* * * *
Winners of English Derby from 1928 to 1937,
with names of owners, jockeys and betting?
—2343.
1928, Sir H. Cunliffe-Owen’s Felstead (H.
Wragg), 33 to 1; 1929, W. Barnett’s Trigo
(J. Marshall), 33 to 1; 1930, H.H. Aga Khan’s
Blenheim (H. Wragg), 18 to 1; 1931, J. A.
Dewar’s Cameronian (F. Fox), 7 to 2; 1932
T. Wall’s April the Fifth (F. Lane), 100 to 6;
1933, Lord Derby’s Hyperion (T. Weston),
6to 1; 1934, Maharajah of Rajpipla’s Windsor
Lad (C. Smirke), 15 to 2; 1935, H.H. Aga
Khan’s Bahram (F. Fox), 5 to 4; 1936, H.H.
Aga Khan’s Mahmoud (C. Smirke), 100 to
8; 1937, Mrs. G. B. Miller’s Mid-Day Sun (M.
Beary), 100 to 7.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Bob Olin win the world’s
light-heavyweight championship ? (2) Who de-
feated him for it? (3) What is the light-heavy-
weight limit ? (4) Is Olin a boxer more than
a fighter, and does he carry a knockout
punch ? —2341.
(1) From Maxie Rosenbloom, in 15 rounds,
at New York City on November 16, 1934. (2)
John Henry Lewis, in 15 rounds, at St. Louis,
on October 31, 1935. (3) 12st. 71b. (4) When
Olin began boxing in 1928, he won a big major-
ity of his contests on knockouts. Since late in
1931, however, Olin has won only two of the
50-odd fights he has had on knockouts. He is
now regarded as a careful boxer rather than a
fighter.
Brief Answers.
• H .- p - : , wa s Cardinal Newman who said “It
is almost the definition of a gentleman to sav
he is one who never inflicts pain” KD •
The badge of the Imperial Service Order is
worn by men on the left breast suspended
from a ribbon l|in. wide, consisting of a
stripe of blue between two stripes of crimson
of equal size, and by women on the left
shoulder suspended from a ribbon of the same
color and width fashioned into a bow
W.H.A.: In England a Privy Councillor does
not attend Cabinet meetings unless he is “under
summons,” i.e., a member of the current
Cabinet. Rut on certain formal occasions as
when consent to a marriage has to be given
under the Royal Marriages Act, all Privy Coun-
cillors may attend a meeting of the Privy
Council called for such a purpose whether
members of the Government or not.. VT-
The Ranfurly Shield was given by the Earl of
Ranfurly, then Governor of M.L., in 1902 as
a challenge trophy open to all unions affiliated
to the M.L. Rugby Union. It was won in
1937 by Southland and in 1938 by Otago
F. : Books by William Hatfield are Sheep-
mates, Ginger Murdoch, Desert Saga, Rivet-
Crossing, Black Waterlily, Big Timber, Aus-
tralia Through the Windscreen, and / Discover
Australia R.L.: See the Players, by Maud
Gill (Hutchinson, London; 155.)....P.N.G :
The Sydney-Rabaul air service is con-
ducted under contract to the Commonwealth,
and postal administrations which utilise the
service for the conveyance of airmail corre-
spondence are required to pay the Australian
Post Office the equivalent of 3d. per £oz. for
the conveyance of their mails W.K.: Com-
municate direct with Hugh James, Box 3010NN,
G. Sydney, for information as to where
milch goats are procurable in N. S. Wales. He
is in touch with breeders and should be able
to recommend good milkers A.J.L.: (1) Get
in touch with Live Stock Division, Department
of Agriculture, Melbourne. (2) Veterinary
Therapeutics, by E. Wallace Hoare. will be
found useful... ,J.P.: (1) H. G. Wells’s views
on religion are expounded in his book God, the
Invisible King. (2) The syllabus of the Science
Congress can’t be regarded as implying any
attitude of “Science” towards “Religion.” There
are men of science of all creeds. (3) There
has been no authoritative statement, nor could
there be, as to the relationship between science
and religion. The views of scientific men who
have a definite leaning towards supernatural
religion can be found in the works of Sir Oliver
Lodge, Sir James Jeans and others H.D.:
(1) A mile square is a rectangular area with
four equal sides, each of 1760 yards, containing
640 acres. A square mile is an area of any
shape containing 640 acres. (2) A yard square
is a rectangular area with four equal sides,
each of 3ft., containing 27 square feet. A square
yard is an area of any shape containing 27
square feet... .R.S.: Inscribed stock can be
negotiated only in the name in which it is in-
scribed ; bonds not inscribed are negotiable
by “bearer,” like an open cheque. Bearer
bonds may be converted into inscribed stock
if so wished... .J.D. and C.H.L.: The east-
west (Transcontinental) railway was not financed
on ‘,‘costless credit,” or anything like it. The
only “costless credit” the Commonwealth has
ever been blessed with is represented by the
note issue; when these notes are lent to the
trading banks or Treasuries, those bodies have
to pay interest on them, and from this arises
the Commonwealth Bank’s “profit on note-
issue.” The bank, however, has to restrict the
note-issue to ordinary public demand for cur-
rency, otherwise inflation would take place
A.S.R.: Write Dept, of Labor and Industry,
Sydney; also wool-dealing cos. such as Winch-
combe, Carson and Goldsbrough, Mort
P.C.C.: The holder of a Tasmanian A-grade
electrical wireman’s license may apply for a
N.S.W. license without examination. The
required forms and details may be obtained
from the Electrical Contractors and Electricians’
Licensing Committee of N.S.W., Box 444,
G.P.0., Sydney. Licensing matters in Vic. are
under the jurisdiction of the State Electricity
Commission of Victoria, 22 William-street, Mel-
bourne, whilst in Queensland licensing matters
are under the jurisdiction of the Electrical
Workers’ Board, Smellie’s Building, Edward-
street, Brisbane, 8.15.... W.W.T.: “Cheiro,”
whose correct name was Louis Hamond, was
born in 1866 and died in 1936. He wrote
Confessions: Memoirs of a Modern Seer
(11s. 3d.). A second-hand copy is available
from Angus -and Robertson, Sydney....
K.C.M.: J. C. L. Fitzpatrick’s The Good Old
Days (55.), obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney G.H.: No information avail-
able as to weight at various ages T.W.:
Full details, too lengthy to reprint here, are
set out in the Commonwealth Official Year-
Book, which may be consulted at any public
library M.K.: See latest editions of the
Statesman’s Year-Book, Whitaker’s Almanack
or the Daily Mail Year-800k.... A.M.N.: Get
into touch with the retail firm handling the
product R. 8.: Write Under-Secretary, De-
partment of the Territories, Canberra, A.C.T.
J.F.B.: Write A. E. Smith and Co., 9
Hunter-street, Sydney D.A.: Suggest that
you write Dr. J. J. C. Bradfield, 16 Barrack-
street, Sydney W.G.8.: As a preliminary
step consult H. M. Green’s An Outline of
Australian Literature, Nettie Palmer’s Modern
Australian Literature and Zora Cross’s An In-
troduction to the Study of Australian Litera-
ture V.V.: Get in touch with C. E. Branch,
secretary, N.S.W. Axemen’s Association, 3
Buena Vista, Chester-street, Petersham (N.S.W.).
. ...R.A.D.: No Australian firms are buying
bauxite in quantity as no commercial deposits
are known to exist in Australia. A small pro-
duction of low-grade material has been mined
and used locally. If you have what you believe
to be bauxite, you should verify this by for-
warding a sample to the Department of
Mines in Brisbane for identification. Should
the material prove to be bauxite you should
communicate with O. T. Lempriere, Ltd.,
Bowden-street, Alexandria, N.S.W., Stallman
and Co., 58 Margaret-street, Sydney, and F.
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
AT HOME 20 WEEKS
WITH RHEUMATISM
Wife Feared Husband
Would Never Work Again
When her husband had been at home 20
weeks with rheumatism in his back this woman
began to think he would never work again.
At last, she said to him: “Let’s try Kruschen,”
and the change that took place was, in her
own words, “like a miracle.” Here is her
letter:
“My husband is subject to rheumatism, and
suffered terribly with his back. Some time ago
I had him in the house 20 weeks with it. I
really didn’t think he would ever work again.
We tried all the different kinds of salts you
could mention, but none of them did him any
good. Then I said, ‘Let’s try Kruschen.’
Since then we have proved Kruschen Salts to
be worth its weight in gold. My husband is
back at his job, thanks to Kruschen. The
change it made is like a miracle.” —(Mrs.) B.
Two of the salts in Kruschen are the most
effectual solvents of uric acid crystals known
to science. They swiftly dull the sharp edges of
the painful crystals and convert them into a
harmless solution, which is then expelled through
the natural channels.
A FAVOURITE
THE
No. 150
DEEP-
SEATED
KEMP-
STYEE
SADDLE,
£B'7-
(MOUNTED)
Has combined
flap and skirt
sewn direct
to the seat,
thus giving the narrow-
est possible grip. Kemp
pads.
N.S.W. freight paid for
cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSOM Vti:
39S CEOKCE ST. SYDNEY
K
w
-v
\
TM«r^
GYMPI
A
7*"'
//V
/;C.'^'
P' s
Gympie, where the Bank of New South Wales has been represented
since 1868, is the centre of one of the most prosperous dairying
districts in Queensland. Other important local industries are
banana growing, beef cattle raising and sawmilling.
Gold mining brought Gympie into prominence in its early days,
over £1,000,000 worth of gold being taken from this field during
the five and a half years following its discovery.
For seventy-one years the Bank of New South Wales has been
associated with the development of the Gympie district, which
now supports a population of over 30,000.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALASIA
326C.1939
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge. 12/6
Selected steel, Mack handle I"',”
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle £?',
Superfine steel, ivory handle
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor.
3/6 extra. Fits f and 5 blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STKEE1
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
A.E.A.: A long-lost road B.I.: Too
slight K.D.: Likewise S.G.M.: Prosy.
.7.C.K.: You've been too generous with other
people’s lines....M.McG.: The usual Bridge
poem G.W.0’8.: Can only repeat you’ve
a lot to learn.... J.H.: Thin H. 5.8.:
Pedestrian M.W.: It really doesn’t sound
like Shakspeare... .J.M.O’S.: What’s all that
about? M.J.8.: That gaunt gum has been
standing on the hilltop like a sentinel for
years and years and years... .P.C.C.: Mere de-
scription isn’t enough... .M.G.D.: Nothing
boots it J.A.R.: But it’s not amusing
M.L.McL.: Moralising C.R.K.: Have seen
worse, but there’s not much to it....K.T.:
Weak Vagus: Thanks for the wishes; story
not quite up Z.V.W.: Try it on a women’s
mag P.5.8.C.: Doesn’t carry H.C.:
No RL.C.: Not that one E.M.A.: Too
sweet J.-N.N.: Still misses, though not by
much,...P.L.-S.: Doesn’t carry conviction
G.E.M.: Peter is still galloping homewards....
K.AJ.: Don’t like “The Insect”... .R.W.M.:
You’ve been reading horror magazines....
J.R.K.: Can’t harbor “The Nincompoop”
E. : Bunkum R.R.: It’s not funny
A.E.Y.: Might place it elsewhere W.H.8.:
Not far off A.F.St.B.: Couldn’t last out
12,000 words about “Cupid and Cock-eye
Kerrigan” J.C.D.: You can’t leave us
“corpses lying indiscriminately in the horrible
attitudes in which the creeping death had
found them”... .A.E.8.: None of those....
A.8.C.: Pretty, but not for us... .V.C.D.:
Revise it and try Smoke-0h... .C.M.: Might
be considered elsewhere... .J. 8.: Poor stuff.
.. . .5.C.0.J.: Doesn’t make the grade, but
come again W.C.: Almost illegible....
F. : Should find a home with a flapper
mag. .. .J.J.W.: What will you think of next?
C.T.: Dreadful H.M.: “I have several
other yarns about the same subject.” We have
953,275 about the same subject in the office
morgue C.W.J.G.: Doesn’t make a yarn.
. ...N.G.F.: Touch it up a bit and try a
monthly magazine C.L.S.: They both
wander along without getting anywhere....
F.W.K.: Nothing for “A .Little Matter of Busi-
ness” L.C.K.: We’re out of the market for
ghosts, corpses and thirsty prospectors... .P.T.:
Whatever you’re driving at you’ve missed it.
. ...G.T.N.: “When the Sea Gives Up Its
Dead” the basket claims its own... .H.T.C.:
“Tabitha’s Folly” was frowned upon by the
religious editor 8.R.C.: Your argument for
prohibition sent us out for a couple of long
’uns... .T.W.P.: Resigned to further inflictions.
. ...V.T.N.: Where did you unearth that
curiosity? ... .L.T.8.: Not bad in spots, but it
tails off at the finish... .J.R.A.: Let’s hear from
you when you have something interesting to
say... .C.F.S.: No handout for those swaggies.
B.F.L.: Can’t you think of a yarn?
C. That’s the 24th repentant safecracker
we’ve seen this year... .G.L.E.: Can’t do any-
thing for the lady who swallowed her teeth....
R.F.: “Old Soldiers” fading homewards
J.S.T.: But we won’t pay “Maggie’s” return
fare L.F.8.: Please don’t do that again
8.5. C.: Seen ’em all before 8.D.R.: Can’t
stable “The Favorite”... .N.D.P.: Cut it and
try a daily L.C.R.: For heaven’s sake stop
sending that serial in instalments... .8.H.1.,
D. L.R.L., T.R. and P.S.N.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.T.: Heavy-handed art and an under-
nourished joke... .C. 8.: Beer-swilling umpire
has drunk himself under the scoring-board too
many limes W.M.H.: “Take it or leave
it.” We leave it, thanks... .S.T.F.: Prehistoric
animal may be correct in every detail, but the
supposed human being is fantastic... .W.P.:
That chestnut belongs to the children’s pages.
J.S.: Picture of Billy Hughes offering to
repair Chamberlain’s umbrella now occupying
w.p.b K.C.E.: No use for crumpled gent.
with deformed feet, nor for baby with double-
sized head A.R.8.: Sundowner now tramp-
ing his way back to Wafgett... .1.5.: It may
appear amusing to you, but it looks like a
design for a fowlhouse to u5....N.J.: The lad
shows promise, but he will need two or three
years at an art school K.D..: Impossible to
attempt to draw on that class of absorbent
paper N.N.: Your humour, like your
sketches, is crude and unpolished H.C.:
Badly balanced A.M.L.: Aimless, scratchy
and poorly put together P.H.: Anniversary
sketch arrived too late; anyway, it hadn’t
enough punch E.D.: Done again and made
less crowded it might stand a chance C.F.:
About as amusing as a page of fingerprints.
P.A.: Labored humor and a drawing that
might have been done in a hurry by a ten-year-
old nipper 5.8.: It’s no use turning in
sketches done in faint pencil on colored note-
paper J.8.M.: Didn’t feel inclined to hang
out flags when that arrived N.C.W.: A little
more polish required; also, smarter gags....
T H : If you had told us why the curate turned
a somersault we might have been interested.
“Fi. fa.”: Most Australians who take
an interest in such subjects know that
Reno divorces are invalid outside the
United States. As a matter of cold legal
fact, they are as invalid inside, except
for permanent residents of the State of
Nevada. Four appeals against decrees
granted after the statutory residence of
42 days have been upheld by the Nevada
Supreme Court, more than 60 by other
State Supreme Courts, and three by the
Supreme Court of the U.S.A. Every
Court of last appeal has decided against
successful petitioners whose regular place
of abode has not been the State in which
their decrees were granted. From which
it looks as if American law regarding
divorce is even more ridiculous than our
own. However, the divorce racket
brings a million dahlars every year to
Reno and its 20,000 regular inhabitants,
so why should they worry?
* * * *
Chile, Australasia’s next-door neighbor
on the South Pacific side, which has
suffered the most destructive earthquake
in its history, recently picked a news-
paperman as President —Pedro Aguirre
Cerda, editor of “La Hora” for the last
25 years. This follows an example
Colombia set six months ago in electing
Dr. Eduardo Santos, owner of Bogota’s
“Tiempo.” In North America it is the
other way about; the Presidents turn
journalists.
* * * *
Mitchell Hepburn, now in Australia,
started to earn his living in a bank, and
then, after a short turn in the army,
devoted himself to farming until politics
called him, at the age of 30. At 38 he
became Premier of Ontario. “Mitch” is
something of a dandy, and is keen on
flying.
* * * *
“N.”: That of being Federal capi-
tal is not the only dream of gran-
deur from which Port Augusta (S.A.) has
suffered (B. 28/12/’3B). At one time it
hoped to be the sea end of the canal by
which it was proposed to flood Lake Eyre.
Prof. Gregory squashed that dream by
pointing out that not only would tidal
action be insufficient to carry water to
the below-sea-level area about Lake Eyre,
but the evaporation rate was such that
20 years would see the whole area choked
by deposited salt. Then the Port dreamed
of having huge smelting works to smelt
copper from the Flinders Ranges. The
bottom fell out of copper and out of
that dream, as it did out of the now-
long-defunct ostrich farm which was
going to make the town one of the
richest in Australia.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: As with all new toys, the
escalator and revolving stage threaten to
be overworked by theatricians. In an
endeavor to go one better than the
talkies, producers do their scene-changing
in broad spotlight or twilight. Bedrooms
totter off left, forests totter on right
and actors scuttle out of sight in all
directions. Audiences get their best laugh
of the evening out of the spectacle, but
it shatters the illusion. The new
machinery is a benefit in so far as it dis-
penses with the tedious waits between
scenes, but it stands between the audi-
ence and the glamorous feelings which
are the theatre’s chief asset. A black-out
or lowering the curtain for a few seconds
is an obvious way of getting over the
trouble. Revolving stages and escalators,
by the way, are not new. Thring used
the one when he produced “Collits’ Inn,”
and Bland Holt used the other when he
brightened up a bellowdrama with a rep-
resentation of the Melbourne Cup in
which three horses raced to a brilliant
finish. One night the favorite fell down,
but continued to lead the field, and—still
down —finished two lengths ahead of the
others.


RAILWAY EXCURSIONS
One-day Trip
SYDNEY TO KIAMA
Sunday, February 19.
Adults 5/6
Children, four and under 14 . . 2 9
(Includes reserved seat each way.)
Six hours at Beautiful and Historic Kiama.
Seats may be reserved at Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney, and at Central, Strat'hfield and Rockdale Stations.
\
3?
i-l* H
A
EASTER LAND CRUISE
Leaving Sydney 1 1 p.m., Thursday, April 6,
Returning 7.50 a.m., Tuesday, April 11.
Visiting Taree, Port Macquarie, Bulga Mountains,
Ellenborough Falls, Tuncurry, Maitland, Chichester
Dam and Clarence Town.
Inclusive cost (train and motor journeys,
accommodation, meals and sightseeing),
£8/10/-
Applications close March 9.
Call at or write to Challis House or Sydney Station for
illustrated folder.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways.
(78)
Y
44E^.£Lisi
DOLOMITES
V -z^>
Sa. “\
2?
ifiBrt
m
m
m
%
FLORENCE
PE'Ff^.j.'
M1U»
liPIaaai
The LAND of ART,
SCENIC BEAUTY
and RADIANT
SUNSHINE.
s
As you pass from City
to City the history of
Europe’s most interest-
ing country is revealed. The world s
finest art treasures await your inspection,
and traditional events are re-enacted for
your entertainment.
Special Tourist
Rate of Exchange.
Hotel Coupons at
5 to 18 shillings'
(sterling) per day
absolutely inclu-
sive. Big rebates
in the price of
petrol. 50% to 70%
REDUCTIONS IN RAIL
FARES.
For information and
descriptive booklets
apply to Any Travel
Agency or to:
E.N.I.T., 58 Margaret
Street, SYDNEY
(Australia).
OLD JACK ROBERTSON
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
f [ “"7" HEY don’t breed ’em now. You
/ won’t find their sort in any of
the State Parliaments, or in the
„ Federal one. Parkes, Dailey,
George Dibbs Dick O Connor, old Jack
Robertson—where d you look for men
like ’em to-day? Not in Macquarie-
street anyway ”
So ’the old boy said, and set me think-
ing about the man he mentioned last,
with whom I had had some acquaintance
as a youngster.
Anyone who knew John Robertson,
even when a schoolboy, could never for-
get that ultra-picturesque personality.
The long silvery mane of hair and
straggling white beard framing an
aggressive, hawklike red face, and the
kindly, courageous eyes that looked
through you and diun t know how to
falter or express tear. The harsh, roaring
voice with its curious nasal intonation —
some palate trouble, it was said. The
owner of the voice never cared a straw
what it uttered. Whatever it came into
his mind to utter was uttered loudly and
without compromise to all who might be
within
The shocking things he said!
( „ r . . ■ . ° °, T
Victoria. What the hell do I care
for Victoria? A country to the
south of the Murray inhabited by
savages!” This when he was Premier.
. , a . , a 1
A deputation from somewhere on the
north coast of N.S.W. came to interview
him. It had been promised telegraphic
communication with Sydney, but a year
had gone by and there was not yet a
connecting line with the capital, though
the poCs had been planted. The depu-
tation was grieved and wronged, and
blended a little anger with its sorrow.
Patiently John Robertson allowed
every member of the mission his say.
Then he explained that the P.M.G.’s de-
partment was short of telegraph wire,
A ship was expected daily with a cargo
of it, but until she was signalled at the
Heads nothing could be done. They
would have their line as soon as the wire
was available.
“Oh, but, S’John, you promised twelve
months ago, you know,” began the leader
of the party.
The old man smote his desk with a
heavy fist.
“Damn your eyes!” he shouted.
“D’ye think I’m a spider that I
CM jn telegraph wire out o' my
V, ° J
, ° y '
Robertson lived in an old stone house
in of Watson’s Bay
* Clovelly House. He used to ride out
there along the South Head-road on an
ancient grey mare after the House had
risen, full to the teeth of statesmanship
an( f whisky.
Fifty years ago the ferry to Sydney
was a two-hourly affair, and the pier
a primitive structure without rails. One
morning the Premier came walking along
d reading his newspaper and acknow-
iecjging the respectful greetings of friends
and neighbors waiti for the steamer
„., , . .
walked right over the pters end into
” arl:)or ’
There was a rush of rescuers. To the
general astonishment, the old man dis-
dained their efforts to fish him out, swam
away from the jetty, and emerged, drip-
ping and fierce in the middle of the
beach. There he was met by an ex-
pOStulating leading citizen of Watson’s
T °
c /_. , „, T , „
wailed this
worthy. You shouldn t have done
t h at i”
' , ~ , „ , ~ ~ T „„
the hell shouldn I.
“Oh, S’John, a shark might have got
y°u-”
“Well, I’d a sight sooner a shark
had got me than have you ——
fools sticking your boat-hooks into
my carcass!”
“The veteran who has passed away,”
said Cardinal Moran when Robertson
died, “had not among his compeers, de-
ing his long and eventful public career,
one more remarkable for his whole-
heartedness in the building up and preser-
vation of those rights which he believed
to be so essential to the greatness of
Australia. None more faithfully served
New South Wales than he.
Maybe my friend was right. “They
don’t breed ’em now!”
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Sir Stafford Cripps, whose father,
Lord Parmoor, was a member of the
first Labor Government, has been ex-
pelled from the party for demanding a
Popular Front like those which have
done such wonderful things in France
and Spain. Sir Stafford, a clever lawyer,
is, in politics, a dangerous ass. The com-
bination. unfamiliar in Britain, is com-
mon on the other side of the channel.
* * * *
The lady politician whom Americans
call “Madam” Perkins, though she is a
Miss, is in danger of being impeached.
As Secretary for Labor, she has consti-
tuted herself protector of Bridges, the
Australian-born strike leader, and, in
reply to a House committee’s denuncia-
tion, declared that American law “does
not forbid an alien to lead strikes or
induce fellow-stevedores not to unload.”
An enraged Republican Congressman
shouted that “an alien Communist who
destroys the merchant marine, which is
a segment of our national defence, ought
to be tried for treason and put before
a firing squad” ; and another Republican
introduced an impeachment resolution.
* * * *
London University lost one of its most
valuable Australians when H. H. Wool-
lard died at 49. He hailed from Warrack-
nabeal (Vic.), took an M.D. at Mel-
bourne University when only 23, served
in the war as an A.A.M.C. Lieut.-colonel,
became Assistant Professor of Anatomy
at University College, and returned to
Australia to become Professor of
Anatomy at Adelaide Uni., after win-
ning the Symington Anatomical Research
Prize in 1926. In 1929, he was appointed
a professor at St. Bartholomew’s Med.
School, London, whence he went to Uni-
versity College in 1936.
* * * *
An Australian officer who has made
good in the R.N. is Captain George D.
Moore, recently appointed to command
the Curacoa, the Portsmouth gunnery
and torpedo school cruiser. He is a son
of Dr. J. I. Moore, a former Commis-
sioner for Health in Queensland, and was
educated at Brisbane Grammar. He saw
service in the war years in the Mediter-
ranean, the Atlantic and the North Sea,
being in the cruiser Melbourne from
1916 to 1919. He received his captaincy
in 1935.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The only real
method of interpreting the surrealistic
concept nowadays is to use your fingers,
instead of brushes, to put on the paint.
Salvador Dali relates how he obtained
his first true insight into composition by
balancing two broiled chops on his wife's
shoulders at sunset, observing the move-
ment of the shadows thus produced on
the flesh of the woman he loved. At a
fancy-dress ball given in their honor in
N’Yark, Madame Dali chose a costume
of transparent red paper, with a head-
dress composed of two boiled lobsters
and a doll’s head. Her gifted spouse
wore tights and a glass case on his chest
containing half a brassiere. For his Lon-
don lecture on Art he appeared in a
diving-suit with a jewelled dagger at his
belt, carrying a billiard cue in one hand
and leading two Russian wolf-hounds
with the other. Can’t some of our local
lads of the artistic village get busy and
cheer us up in these depressing days?
* * * *
“J.M.8.”: In B. 18/1/ ’39 “Ente Marid”
refers to Dr. Penck, of the Science
Congress, receiving an hon. degree
in August, 1914. There was a sequel.
A few weeks after the delegates had
departed, a cable mentioned that Dr.
Penck’s luggage had been searched, and
that maps and plans of the Australian
coast had been found, arousing suspicions
that the doctor was carrying them back to
Germany for use in a naval attack. Much
newspaper invective fell on Penck. What
happened to him —whether he was re-
leased or interned in England —was not
divulged. Some years later an officer in
a Victorian Government department
called on me in Adelaide and the name
of Dr. Penck cropped up. The officer
said: “Those maps and plans were not
even asked for by Dr. Penck ; they were
presented to him by our department as
an act of courtesy. I wrote to one of the
Melbourne dailies giving the facts. The
letter was returned to me with a note
from the edtior suggesting that publi-
cation wasn’t expedient.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
For a thoughtful and topical little essay on the promotion of culture—a difficult
question to handle—a Victorian gets this week’s prize of £3 35., together with
A.J.A. rates —2|d. a line.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there is
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Encouraging Culture
A few years ago the Munn report
pointed out that Victoria has the worst
libraries in the world. The reason is
obvious, in country centres anyway. The
essential function of a library is to pro-
mote culture. Culture is the art of living
correctly that is, thoughtful living.
Probably not one in a thousand goes to
a library to obtain knowledge which he
expects never to be of use to him. He
must have some prior inducement, and
in very few country towns is this induce-
ment to be found.
If the committees responsible for the
libraries were sufficiently wideawake they
would create inducements. How? Easily!
Organise debates, composition and speech
competitions among the townsfolk. Have
an O.F.M. movement in each town.
The competitors may not always seek
their information from the shelves of
the town library; too often they would
search in vain. But from whatever source
they received it it would have the same
effect. They would be induced to think
correctly. They would become cultured
citizens, and the library would be ful-
filling its duty.
The method could not help being suc-
cessful, for Australians like nothing better
than an argument or a debate they can
understand. The library committees must
adapt themselves to local conditions and
not follow overseas methods.—M. Brady
(Vic.).
Swan Hill is Mr. Brady’s address,
and he gets the £3 35., plus per line.
Defence “Preparations”
As a member of a keen outback militia
unit, and an ex-A.I.F. man, I have noted
grave deficiencies i.n defence organisation.
Among 150 men there is not a water-
bottle. No rifles have been issued to the
recruits who have enlisted since the be-
ginning of the campaign. It makes one
doubt if there are enough rifles to equip
a large army. We have no reserves of
ammunition ; it would have to be picked
up from near Sydney on the way down.
The subject of uniforms is a tender
one, apart from the fact that no issues
are being made to the new recruits. It
is a rule of warfare that any combatant
captured in war, and not in uniform of
a recognised pattern, can be put up
against a wall and shot. What could the
hundreds of thousands of volunteers do
if a sudden attack were made on us?
The present uniform with its high collar
and tight fit is totally unsuited to our
climate, and field days are a prolonged
torture. A service uniform is supposed
to be ready on the coast. We would
change while the enemy waited for the
completion of our boudoir manoeuvres.
I was a runner in the Great War, but
here in a company and a half of men
there are no runners. There are keen
men with motor-cycles who would jump
at the chance to learn the work, which
should include map-reading and a work-
ing knowledge of signals. It might be
that we have no maps.
There is no doubt that the infantry is
the lord of the battlefield,” but why is
the outback deprived of the pleasure of
having an armored car unit split up
among three or four towns? We could
not all get into it, but we, and the civilians
too, would be filled with pride to have
it in our midst.
During the past three years the only
bayonet training provided by the syllabus
has been of the simplest nature, running
up and down the showground at the high
port. The A.I.F. was justly famed for
its prowess with the cold steel. The
militia should be told of it, and given
practice in bayoneting straw-filled bags,
and put through the spine-tingling charge
across the bayonet course, jumping into
trenches and out, stabbing, and crashing
with the butt.
It is quite certain there would be no
gas used in a possible future war on
our shores, for we have no gas-masks.
On an enemy attacking an effort would
be made to distribute the ones in Syd-
“Come up a coupla inches , mum—me elbow ain't comfortable!"
ney by ’plane, an impossible proceeding
for large bodies of troops urgently needed
in action.
There are many young men of a fine
type who are airminded and are eager
for an opportunity to be trained. Let
the Defence Department send ’planes on
regular tour through the country towns,
a weekly course in four, and there will
be raised an efficient force of air-
fighting champions.
Truly, new blood is needed at the head
of affairs. —X. Runner (N.S.W.).
The “AH Female” Policy
Perhaps “Peter Piper” and “the unfor-
tunate legions” (B. 11/1// ’39) believe
that the all-female policy should be
wholly applied, as it is now in part, to
the milking-yards, cow-paddocks and
pig-pens in our dairying centres, and
that the girls at commercial work or
counter jobs in the cities should ex-
change their office stools for milking-
stools and the harder, rougher country
work that the “legions” will not tackle.
To-day, because of the shortage of
labor in our thriving western Q. dis-
trict (a district where the thermometer
stands for hours each day at over the
century for two and a half months every
year), mothers of young children and
sometimes grandmothers are obliged to
spend hours on milking-stools, turning
separators, feeding calves and pigs. This,
I daresay, “Peter Piper” believes is more
suitable occupation for women than
office and counter work, which, seem-
ingly, he thinks should be placed out
of bounds for women and kept wholly
for the weak-spirited legions.
When “P.P.” butters his bread again
let him remember that it is a good deal
the result of the work of country women
who do not lack the spirit that makes
a nation.—P. (Q.)
Where Lies Danger?
“India Faced with Collapse” and
“Dangers of Increasing Production” are
the headings of a report from London,
published in our daily press, to the effect
that the British High Commissioner in
India predicts India’s financial and eco-
nomic collapse if the policy of increasing
domestic production is pushed to the
lengths contemplated by the governing
bodies.
This is of interest to Australians inas-
much as we also are pursuing a policy of
expanding domestic production.
It should go without saying that every
increase in a country’s ability to provide
from its own resources the goods and
services essential to the physical well-being
of all its citizens strengthens its eco-
nomic position. The people of India,
Australia or any other country are not
endangered by increasing their own
wealth by their own efforts. If there is
a financial collapse followed by further
economic distress the incompetence of
those who are responsible for our finan-
cial system will be the cause —not the in-
dustry of the wealth-producers.—F. J.
Bowen (S.A.).
A Word in Edgeways
Sections such as “The Other Fellow’s
Mind” serve at least one good purpose.
A friend of mine is a regular contributor
to such pages. He is blessed (or cursed)
with a domineering spouse who has the
first and last word in all things ; should
he (poor worm!) volunteer any infor-
mation or advice on anything whatso-
ever, it is totally ignored. And so he
writes, and when he reads some of his
contributions it saves him from the con-
sequences of an “inferiority complex”
and brings to him the confirmation of
one fact his better-half will not recog-
nise—that at least he has a mind of his
own— Henpeck (Tas.).
Beauty in Country Towns
It is interesting to read that Darwin is
at last waking up to the hideousness
of its surroundings and clearing up the
debris of years (and what debris!). There
is a drive of four miles to the Ross
Smith aerodrome, and that is to be
planted with gay tropical trees and exotic
plants to replace the drab, stunted growth
of years.
If only more of our country towns
could be turned into an air-base or
something to wake them up! One goes
back year after year and finds the same
old stunted trees in the main street, un-
even footpaths and unsightly buildings;
the local pub provides a rickety seat
under its verandah for the weary
traveller, and to refresh hot, aching eyes
there are a few stunted aspidistras in
painted tubs.
Thank goodness, many of the newer
settlements are planting lawns and trees
in the main streets. It needs the im-
petus of some new commercial interests,
such as the aerodrome at Darwin, to
awaken some people to the hideousness
of their surroundings. Then they begin
to see themselves as others see them,
and start to tidy up a bit. —M. L. (S.A.).
An Operation Wanted
I venture to say that 75 p.c. of the
men on the land are in difficulties ; as
time goes on their position will get worse.
Landmen are told the only way to meet
the situation is to reduce expenditure.
How can this be done when the cost of
living is continually going up? The
medicine paid in the form of bonuses is
not the correct way to cure the difficulty.
To start with, land is overvalued. Is
cane land worth £4O to £5O per acre if
the public of the Commonwealth has to
pay 245. for a bag of sugar that can be
bought in Maoriland for 125.? The same
applies to every other product from the
land except wool; bonuses are paid to
hold up these overvalued lands.
Financial institutions are greatly to
blame for this overvaluation. If land
prices fall, their margins would dis-
appear ; so, as it is at present, any
poor devil wanting to go on the
land undertakes to give twice its
value to provide this margin, and pay
interest on money borrowed on land that
was never worth it in the first instance.
An operation is necessary to right this
position. It is to revalue the land on the
basis of what the returns would be without
bonuses; remove tariffs from all articles
necessary for the man on the land ; cut
out bounties, which would reduce the cost
of living; and thus get away from a
patchwork system of trying to cure our
troubles which only continues to make
those troubles worse. —N. W. Chapman
(N.S.W.).
Road Accidents
One aspect of road accidents in coun-
try districts that none of the investigators
seems to consider is the fact that country
drivers are unused to the heavy traffic of
holiday periods.
I have been driving cars for 12 years,
but I do not consider myself a safe driver
in traffic. From force of habit, if the
road surface is good, I drive at a fairly
high speed with only the ability of the
car and my own skill as a driver to con-
sider, without giving a thought to what
the other fellow may do, for on country
roads the other fellow is a rarity. Of my
own driving I am quite confident, but
when some other car shoots suddenly out
of nowhere into my path I am generally
flabbergasted. I honestly think that
90 per cent, of country drivers frequently
experience the same sensation, although
they are unwilling to admit it. —H. C. C.
(N.S.W.).
The Childless
There is another side to the birthrate
decline which I have not yet seen touched
on, and to many people it is a most
vital one.
Does anyone notice amongst the many
advertisements for birth-control and also
amongst the clinics, societies, etc., all
for the same purpose, that there is no
clinic to assist the childless couple?
True, there may be some treatments,
but their cost is absolutely prohibitive
to the average couple.
Doctors are not greatly interested in
childless people. Neither is anyone
else except to yell “Why don’t you have
children?” Amongst my limited circle
there are six childless couples who would
be delighted with children.
If there are clinics for handling other
problems, why not one for childless
people?
Many women say they don’t want
children because it’s better to be thought
a gay woman who won’t have children
than a sad one who can’t. Yes, in spite
of civilisation, there is still the scorn
of the biblical age for the “barren
woman.” — One of Them (Q.).
A Gadget to Save Life
Almost every day in Australia an
electrocution case is reported. Every few
years inspectors go over all equipment,
new safety regulations are gazetted, and


from time to time warnings are issued re
the danger that lurks in the careless
handling of electricity, yet the death roll
is still on the increase.
The plain fact is that, whilst electricity
is reticulated to the public at life-killing
voltages, so will deaths always occur
from it—and it can be avoided.
How? Let the current be brought to
the homes (and, where applicable,
factories) at the present high voltages,
but on each meter-board a small step-
down transformer could be placed to
reduce the voltage to a perfectly safe
yet quite adequate current for all pur-
poses.
The huge quantity of transformers
necessary would surely bring their cost
to a very small amount (and, if neces-
sary, rents could be charged as for meters
at present). Governments and councils
have spent hundreds of thousands on far
less worthy objects. Won’t some enter-
prising council give the scheme a go?—
O. W. Harris (Q.).
“Crazy Kites”
The other day I asked a visiting Maori-
land pilot, counted something of a dare-
devil in his own country, whether he had
flown in Australia yet.
“Not me,” he told me emphatically.
“I’ve looked around, but you wouldn’t
get me up in any of those crazy kites
I have seen Australians flying.”
Machines, he went on, were badly
serviced, there was no system of checking
over, and inspection was haphazard.
Flying conditions in Australia were so
good, compared with the choppy winds
and storms of Maoriland, that ground
engineering was taken far too lightly.
I’m no expert to say if he was right
or wrong. But it doesn’t need an expert
to read the long list of air mishaps in
Australia —from disasters of the Kyeema
magnitude to minor forced landings—
and it isn’t only experts who think there
is more wrong than a lack of,air beacons.
—Eb (N.S.W.).
Put Your Town on the Map
Now that air-travel has become a
normal method of transport, everything
possible should be done to safeguard the
lives of air-passengers.
Even in these days of flying blind by
instruments, there are often occasions
when the pilot must descend below the
clouds to ascertain his position. As many
towns look alike from the air there is
always the possibility of a mistake being
made as to the identity of a place. Such
a mistake might easily lead to a tragedy.
The remedy is simple. The name of
each town in twenty-foot letters should
either be painted on a suitable roof or
else outlined in whitewashed stones upon
a cleared patch of ground. The latter
method has already been carried out by
the local schoolchildren in the tiny town-
ship of Strathbogie (Vic.).
The job is. not an expensive one, and
could be easily done in a day if local
airminded citizens organised a working-
bee.
Apart from the name of the town, it
would be an added advantage to have
an arrow pointing out the direction and
distance of the nearest emergency land-
ing-field, and also another pointer show-
ing north. — Paton (Vic.).
“Is It an Australian Navy?”
“Hood’s” article (B. 4/1/’39) regard-
ing appointments and promotion of Aus-
tralian officers was much appreciated in
the R.A.N., but why did he restrict his
remarks to the Executive Branch? While
it has its 11 captains, the large
Engineering Branch has only just got its
second, although many of its senior com-
manders were in charge of enginerooms
in war-time.
The Accountants’ Branch is limited to
one captain. The Medical Branch has
two, although no larger than the active
Instructor and Schoolmaster Branch,
which gets none.
So “the system of slow promotion
which thwarts legitimate ambition” and
should be foreign to Australia is very
much in evidence, and the system itself is
full of vagaries.— Loftus (N.S.W.).
Democracy and the Pinks
So T. Palmer (B. 11/1 /’39) feels
aggrieved because of the similarity
of my name with his. Sorry, but I
remember vaguely at my christening
waving my baby hand in feeble protest
at the name chosen. Young as I was,
I felt somehow that it would cause
trouble one day; however, my objection
was overruled. As a democrat I felt
compelled to submit to majority opinion.
What difference does it make, any-
how? In a world bristling with
tremendous problems affecting untold
millions, I cannot be worried because
my small ego may possibly be confused
with another ego, possibly larger. Why
worry, T. Palmer? In a hundred years’
time even your tombstone will hardly
be recognisable from mine—or any
others. I value this page, not because of
your opinion or mine, but because of the
interchange of opinions. All forms of
democratic policy emerge from the inter-
change of opinion—and I take it that
applies to newspapers. In any case, The
Bulletin has never yet shied from even
hostile opinion.
As for Mr. Chamberlain —of course he
is a Pink! Call him Red, could you?
Oh, no, no! Call him Black? No, it
can’t,be done! Pink, sir, Pink —the color
of the rising sun seen from the mountain-
tops in the early dawn. Never the color
of. the- setting sun; that Red which is
enough to make any decent dingo howl.
Again, I agree that some aspects of
life in Germany certainly do repay close
examination ; I have recently been well
paid for a published article on that par-
ticular subject. It is impossible for
80,000,000 Germans acting in concert not
to develop many aspects of life worthy of
emulation. We in Australia certainly
require a tonic' or two to ginger up oul
political economy—but there is no
occasion for us to swallow everything in
the Aryan chemist’s shop.
However, I may be wrong, I may be
wrong. Let’s agree to differ. May I
sign myself, distinctively, “T” for Tom,
“J” for Joe?—T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
Godsend for Politicians
This shouting and braying about de-
fence is a godsend to the politicians. It
keeps the people from thinking of urgent
national matters.
And the newspapers, with their
columns on the subject, foolishly play the
political game. Talk about Hitler bull-
dozing his people with propaganda!
What are Billy and Joe doing to us?
A truly national Government would
restore national training, put it in the
hands of capable soldiers, and then get
on to the business of developing the
country.
Australia’s best defence is rapid de-
velopment. The sooner her manufactur-
ing industries are doubled, her idle acres
occupied, her transport systems placed
on a national and sensible footing, and
her government simplified, the sooner
will she become a country that needn’t
fear attack. God send us a leader! —•
Old-timer (N.S.W.).
Settling the North
Why don’t we settle Australia’s great
“fertile Northern Territory”? To begin
with, it cannot be as fertile as some
writers would have us believe or it
would have been settled long ago. How-
ever, fertile or not, there are plenty of
young chaps with small capital and good
experience knocking around Queensland
and N.S.W. who would jump at the
chance of a suitable area of country,
ip the Territory or anywhere else, so
long as there was a decent living to be
made, regardless of hard work and dis-
comfort.
But the position at present seems to
be that anyone wishing to find out any-
thing authentic about the grazing possi-
bilities of those parts must go there and
see for himself. The official parties
that take expensive trips to the North
make so many verbose and conflicting
reports that it would need a lawyer to
dig facts out, even if there are any
contained in them. Further, anyone who
has come from there is either embittered
or has land to sell, so that he is equally
unreliable. The conclusion that is
forced on the interested bystander is
that the North is often very much over-
rated. If not, the Government should
make available for settlement areas large
enough to make a reasonable living with-
out requiring too much capital. If this
were done, I for one would roll my
swag and head north, and I am willing
to bet all the Italians in Queensland that
I would not go alone. —H. C. C. (N.S.W.).
Crime of Being Young
“Not Forty’s” article, “Debunking
Youth” (B. 18/1 /’39), is one of the worst
examples of utter drivel that the youth of
this country has ever had forced upon it.
So youth “cannot think for itself,” eh?
“It can’t be educated”? And, “left to
itself, all classes can find nothing better
to do than lounge in the streets, in bil-
liard-rooms or pubs”?
Who, oh, who, is this upstanding
monument of wisdom and intelligence
that dares to criticise the class to which
he himself once belonged? Or perhaps
he never was a youth! Maybe he just
grew up as a little old man with a mind
so deeply embedded in a groove that he
was incapable of using his imagination.
This would explain his failure to appre-
ciate “such absurdities as Tarzan and
Mandrake.”
I suppose this learned scribe has been
to Europe and seen these cruel, intolerant
monstrosities of youth? And come in
contact with the peaceful, brotherly-love
attitude of Europe’s dictators, who evi-
dently belong to that class of society to
which “Not Forty” claims membership?
Of course! He knows! Let a mere
youth remind you, “Not Forty,” that any
man can pull down a mansion, but there
are damned few can build a decent dog-
kennel.
Yes, Hitler has to conscript youth,
because youth is able to think for itself
and realise the uselessness and futility
of all warfare. The time is fast
approaching when “youth will take the
helm,” and the incompetent world leaders
of to-day will be forced to take their
rightful places —lounging in the local
pubs.—M. M. H. (Vic.).
National Fitness
Why not begin in the schools? Gym-
nasiums could be installed in every
secondary school at least.
Some country high schools and col-
leges, such as Armidale College (N.S.W.),
have gyms., so why not all other high
schools? The new gymnasium at Armi-
dale has punching-bags and -balls, vault-
ing-horses, climbing-ropes, parallel-bars
and all the other accessories. If Armidale
can do this, there is no reason why other
schools should not follow the example.—
High-school Boy (N.S.W.).
The Untaught Subjects
I wonder if some of our pedagogues
can tell us why the arts that of all others
raise man above the animals, namely
conversing and constructive thinking, are
never provided for in our schools ; why
the need for such tuition is rarely even
recognised ; why it is imagined that pro-
ficiency may be obtained without any
guidance.
Conversation is a difficult art worth
intense cultivation, while constructive
thinking is the one characteristic of man
that entitles him to style himself a
rational creature. Neither receives any
attention in our schools. G. F. S.
(N.S.W.).
“Split Personality”
I notice that in a recent court case the
defendant called in a medical man in
order to establish that he was suffering
from “split personality.” I can recollect
having had my split personality tied up
with a bit of leather, and it generally
used to stick all right.
However, if this is to be a new line
of defence, I think the Government
ought to have medical witnesses’ fees
included under the National Health In-
surance Act; that is, if it can get its
own case of split personality cured in
time.
Incidentally, I don’t believe when the
time comes that the public would be im-
pressed if the present Government were
to face the electors with this form of
defence. I think it would be more likely
to reach for the strap! —J. N. Rook-
ledge (N.S.W.).
Landmen and Politicians
I’ve been getting a crust out of the
land for close on 40 years now, and my
sympathies are with the many who are
suffering by the imposition of the wheat
bounty. I’ll bet pounds to gooseberries
the bounty won’t make any material
difference to those who are supposed to
be down and out.
Unfortunately, there is a type of so-
called settler that ekes out an existence
at the expense of local tradespeople and
Government funds. They are the product
of the loud-mouthed politician and city
press which grope for applause. The
former can always rely on a cheer from
a section of the audience by referring to
the man on the land. He sheds crocodile
tears when the subject of land-hungry
men and closer settlement is broached,
and it always is during an election cam-
paign. Newspapers, too, print a lot of
tripe at times.
I believe in closer settlement. I think
there is plenty of room to successfully
settle hundreds of the right type of young
men in all the States, but they must have
some capital, experience and nous
enough to know there is no short cut to
affluence. The grey matter under the hat
is a greater factor in succeeding than the
brawn and muscle from the neck down.
The political stunt of giving something
for nothing is doomed to failure.
Let us have a close season for political
experiments in land settlement. Ban the
creation of expensive boards and commis-
sions that only harass the producer and
let us get on with the important job of
making a living. Had this been prac
tised in the past we may not have needed
the Farmers’ Relief Act or Debt Adjust
ment Boards. — Riverina (N.S.W.).
Sending Money Overseas
At the present time there is no con-
venient method of sending small amounts
of money to Maoriland, England, or any
other British country. The money-order
is far too expensive when sending a few
pence or a couple of shillings for a book
newspaper, periodical, or some cheap ad-
vertised article. A simple remedy would
be for the postal departments of the
British countries to issue international
stamps, interchangeable for money of the
country to which they were sent. Another
method would be the issue of a British
postal note with poundage at the same
rate as postal notes for local use. It
certainly seems ridiculous to have to
pay m.-o. rates to send even threepence
to another British country. —W. P T
(N.S.W.).
Tucker and Health
In the welter of discussion about
tucker and health, may I introduce a
few observations?
On and off for some years I have
forgathered with men who have been
responsible for some of the buildings
which have been rising like mushrooms
round and about Sydney, where a lot
of undernourished people are said to
lurk more dead than alive. There is a
good deal of truth in that statement, and
it is not the fault of the country or the
conditions. The standard for builders’
workers has been munificent for some
years now. I have noted, however, that
a very high percentage of carpenters,
plumbers and painters suffer seriously
with gastric disorders, and that before a
job is finished the grounds become a gar-
bage tip with discarded lunches. There
is enough food thrown away to feed 2
Chinese army. In the main, this food
is of good quality, but mostly sand-
wiches filled with the most indigestible
condiments and rubbish, the idea mainly
being to make them up as tasty as pos-
sible. Tasty, no doubt, but damaging 2s
a regular diet.
Many years have elapsed since 1
roamed the paddocks of a large inland
station, and, although my gastronomic
experiences since have been as good as
can be got in a land flowing with the
best, nothing has been so completely
satisfying as the bush tucker. This
consisted of mutton chops grilled over
an open fire, home-made bread or
damper, lettuce and a little fruit such as
an apple ; and, of course, tea. To vary
the meat we had corned brisket (mutton)
without saltpetre. This food is available
to the poorest Australian ; there is none
better for healthy vigor.
Peculiarly enough, I have found that
bricklayers and their henchmen are a
sturdy lot. They at least are a red-
blooded crew, noticeably superior physi-
cally, with the brighter outlook a good
digestion b r i°B s 1 and they drink beer.
Ic would, no doubt, be an improvement,
when you take my menu out into the
bush to judge for yourself, to pack a
couple of bottles. —H. B. May (N.S.W.).
National Insurance
Certainly a decent scheme of national
insurance is an important piece of social
legislation, but the Canberra scheme has
so many faults (unnecessary to point out
here) that its virtues are hard to find.
Although the problem of the large pen-
sions bill is a difficult one, it is by no
means insurmountable, and to attack it
by taking nearly two-thirds of the money
collected for national insurance is a
desperate remedy that must in the long
run do more harm than good. The
money collected will, certainly foot the
pensions bill for a few years, but it will
not improve the birthrate, which is the
real crux of the situation. Rather will
it tend to reduce the birthrate by the
lowering of the standard of living of the
wage-earner. A suggestion regarding a
National Health Insurance Act would be
to make it compulsory for everyone to
join a friendly society. They give medical
and funeral benefits for man, wife and
family for less than half the cost or
the Government scheme. Then a decent
Child Endowment Act would surely help
the birthrate, which would in the future
solve the pensions bill. Of course, the
pensions bill would have to be met lor
some time yet, but if a few of the joy-
rides of the Cabinet Ministers were cut
out and royal commissions were fewer
surely these things would help.—W. F. C
(Vic.).


l\lh
I
sfi
HOSPITAL
fig
-4
v
Nature has decreed an inflexible rule
that the bowels must operate every day.
They are the main channel which Nature has
appointed to carry away what is unnecessary,
and it is impossible to tell how large an amount
of sickness has been caused by constipation or costiveness; in
other words, by not keeping the bowels regular—it is the mam
road to most illnesses; it is the cause of unnatural irritation to
the mucous or lining membrane of the bowels. Having lost their
natural strength they object to doing what is required of them.
Hence the bowels become inflamed, and unless you find a speedy
relief a thousand other complaints are ever ready to drag you
through a miserable and wretched life. Such medicine must be
given as will cleanse the stomach and bowels, and thus help to
restore their natural activity. To accomplish this there is no
compound so valuable as Dr. Morse s INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are purely vegetable and do not gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are also an excellent
medicine for Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Rheumatism,
and Skin Blemishes due to irregularity of the bowels.
Dr. Morses
s)
1
m
They Make You Fee! Brighter
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NOW PACKED
IN TINS
co
2/-
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of Stomach and
Thread worms which infest the intestines.
They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
TH £VVOStD
YOUR 3
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours’
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
Post Free
V'°;
A* 1 rtf
i\© V d v
'
#•
# S
0*
# ss
, • ■ •oo'* 1
<<#
C J$ <>WV
o’
AYV e^
VO
C e a^' 0 °


m
mi
i \
i \
V V
vi-x':
MICKEY MOUSE BATTERY-
OPERATED, This famous little
all-rounder appears for the first
time as a Battery Radio, and its
outstanding efficiency has been
overwhelmingly proved by its
popularity. This powerful 5-valve
Model that gives more than 7-
valve performance is housed in
as smart a bakelite cabinet as you
could wish. It uses the 1.4 v.
Economy Valves, and no accumu-
lator is necessary. Complete
with Batteries and Metal Plug-in
Battery Box £l5/157-
MICKEY MOUSE all-electric sv.
A.C. Broadcast Mantel, in
handsome cabinet,
as shown £l2/19/6
in Ivory, 10/6 extra.
■4
FARM RADIO
AUSTRALIA
ELECTRICAL OR
BATTERY OPERATED
117HETHER you live in town or country, an Astor Radio
** will bring you entertainment second to none. No other
Radio offers such fidelity in tone, on broadcast and dual-wave
bands . . . none other offers such mechanical and acoustic
improvements, beauty of cabinet and moderate prices. Small
wonder the Astor has climbed into the forefront of modern
radio during the past ten years.
The entire N.S.W. country distribution of Astor Radio has
been entrusted to Bloch and Gerber, Ltd., Australia's foremost
Wholesale Distributors of Radio and everything electrical. For
the city and suburbs their co-distributors are Radio Corporation
Pty., Ltd.
PRICE LIST
"MICKEY MOUSE,” sv. A.C. Broadcast Mantel . . £l2/19/6
Ivory 10/6 extra.
ALADDIN” (Presto Tuning), sv. A.C. Dual -wave
Mantel . . £l7/17/-
550 P (Presto Tuning), sv. A.C. Dual -wave Console £24/3/-
ALADDIN” (Presto Tuning), 4v. Vibrator Dual-
,,. n Vf ve Mantel £25/10/-
470 P (Presto Tuning), 4v. Vibrator Dual-wave
Console £3l/10/-
MICKEY MOUSE, !.4v. Economy Valves, sv.
Battery Broadcast Mantel £l5/15/-
500, 1.4 v. Economy Valves, sv. Battery Broadcast
Mantel £lB/18/-
CAR RADIOS 5-valve, 18 Gns.; 6-valve, 23 Gns.
V- V. ■
. •
-
Vi
%
HE
St;
m
■
:
. *
I
: ■ '
ALADDIN. The Batteryless Vibrator Dual-wave Superhet.
Mantel Model featuring Presto Tuning. This exclusive new
feature means that one simple movement of the automatic
dial accurately tunes to the highest pitch of perfection any
one of eleven individual stations. The stations can be pre-
selected according to the district in which the set is operated.
PRICE £25/10/-
ALADDIN MANTEL MODEL, sv. A.C. Dual-wave, with
Presto Tuning . . £l7/17/-
Easy Terms Available.
Bloch & Gerber, Ltd., invite all dealers and radio retailers, whether in the city, metropolitan or country
areas, to ’phone, write or call for details of this profitable range. The vast experience and huge selling
organisation of this long established, favourably known House are solidly behind traders.
Sole N.S.W. Country Distributors and Associated Metropolitan Distributors:
BLOCH & GERBER Ltd.
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
46-48 York Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MA6291 (10 lines).
